The Notre Dame Scholastic
$3.00 THE YEAR 15 CTS. A COPY
FEBRUARY 3	*
1933
PROFESSIONAL DIREC TO R Y
Pl'one 1?®^
| Residence 3-4041
DR. E. S. LUCAS
D entis t
702 J. M. S. Building	South Bend,
Opposite Oliver Hotel	Indiana
Expert Eye	Glasses Properly Fitted ;
Service	at Moderate Prices i
J. BURKE, Inc.
Optometrist and Manufacturing :
Opticians
Established 1900	228 S. Michigan St.
Office Phone 3-3309	Res. Phone 5-1343
DR. B. A. KAMM
Ear, Nose and Throat Suite 526 Shetland Building Jefferson and Michigan tt (10 to 12 m. Hours ■?
)3 to 5 p. m.	South Bend, Indiana
DR. J. M. SINGLER _ DR. E. A. PROBST
D entis ts
Phone 3-1254	405 Associates Building
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective Shoes
Residence Phone 4-6354
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments
432-34 Associates Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.
Dr. E. J. Cain	Dr. H. H. Rogers
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
Phone 4-8251	213 S. Michigan Street
Office 3-6978	Residence 2-6741
DR. LEO J. QUINLAN Dentist	
514 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Ind.
FRANK J. POWERS, M. D.
University Physician
Office at	Hours:
University Infirmary	12:30 p. m. to 4 p. m.
_	(10 to 11:30 a. m.
Hours |2 to 4 p. m.
DR. H. BOYD-SNEE
Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat
716 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Indiana
February 3, 1933
One
Does Your Budget Include This Important Market?
Now comes the new year and a new advertising budget. Probably yours isn’t going to be so large this time—and we can understand why. But before you slash appropriations look around you at the successful companies who continue their contacts with the public.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
And when you have decided upon the correct amount, CAREFULLY select your medium. Now, more than ever, every dollar in your appropriation must pull more than its weight in returns. ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
We ask that you consider the SCHOLASTIC. Space in this . live news weekly contacts a compact market of nearly three thousand students who depend upon South Bend merchants for their needs, and does it so economically that you can’t afford to leave us out of your budget. A call at 3-1121 will bring a representative to your store.
At The University Notre Dame, Indiana
I
Two
The Scholastic
Morrissey Hall
Center of the old “Gold Coast."
February 3, 1933
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	k I	I |
I he Notre Dame Scholastic
scripts may be addressed to .	' ■	.
the scholastic, Pubii- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Qziasi Cras Moriturus.
cations Office, Main Building.	„ _ TT „ _ „ ,oc-
E nt er ed as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917. authorized June 21. 191S.
Edmund A. Stephan
Editor-in-Chief
James S. Kearns...................Managing	Editor
Associate Editors
F. GRANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON WILLIAM DREUX	LLOYD TESKE
LESLIE RADDATZ
News Staff' MITCHELL TACKLEY...........News	Editor
JAMES BYRNE........Assistant News Editor
THOMAS PROCTOR. -.Assistant Netvs Editor EDWARD MANSFIELD RICHARD TOBIN JOSEPH BUCCI	ROBERT	ERVIN
JAMES A. HART	JOHN McELLIGOTT
FRANK KELLEY MICHAEL WIEDL
Desk Editors PATRICK CORCORAN ' JOHN CONLEY ROY SCHOLZ	ROBERT DILLON
Department Editors
TIGHE WOODS...............The Week
ROGER BEIRNE ...........Theatre Talk
ROGER McGOVERN.......College	Parade
RICHARD PREZEBEL........Staff Artist
Sports Staff
FRED MacBETH	ALBERT L. McGUFF
JAMES F. McKEON NICHOLAS CONNOR JOHN CARBINE	HOWARD WALDRON
EDWARD VAN HUISSELING
Features Staff RAY WATERS................Features Editor
LOUIS HRUBY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN WILLIAM KENNEDY -BRYAN DEGNAN PAUL DOYLE	LOUIS GIRAGI
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD
Business Staff JOHN F. STOECKLEY._____Graduate Manager J. ALBERT SMITH........Advertising Manager RAYMOND J. NABER.......Circulation Manager HARRY MCGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON
Volume LXVI.
FEBRUARY 3, 1933
No. 14
SUMMARY
NEWS
Alumni Secretary Armstrong Leaves On -Speaking Tour
In The East............................-...... 5
Dr. Arthur Pillsbury Interviewed by Staff Member.. 5
Walter Donaldson Will Assist in Direction of Notre
Dame Operetta, “The Vagabonds”................ 6
Jack Miles and his Orchestra To Play for Junior
Prom, February 24th.......................     6
Scholastic Boxing Show for Bengal Set for March 3.... 7
University Players Score Hit in “Charley’s Aunt”.. 9
Father Eugene Burke, Winner of Autographed Football at Testimonial Banquet, Donates It to The Lepers of Moiokai.......r..............................10
FEATURES	.
Les Raddatz, 211 Walsh, Is “Man About Campus”..... 8
More • Praise for The Scholastic in “Voice of the
Campus” ...:..............................     9
Importance of Farm Problem to Nation’s Welfare
Brought Out by Walter Johnson...............  16
Historical Display in Library Creates Much Attention....!?
■	SPORTS
Track team to open season tomorrow against strong
Marquette team in Milwaukee...............20
Basketball squad to meet Chicago in first cage game of schools’ history..........................-.........  20
Keoganites pile up huge score in easy victory over Toledo, winning 42 to 14........,.....................21
Interhall basketball leagues to open play Sunday......22
Smooth-working Carnegie quintet bows to Irish when Krause tips in winning basket as gun goes off......23
“Tip-Offs,” Al McGuff’s sport column, to sponsor handball tournament....................................23
Pittsburgh noses out Notre Dame in thrilling finish on
Panthers’ floor...............................    24
Introducing Leo Crowe.....................      ....26
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, February 3.—Scholastic Staff meeting, Editorial Board, 6:30 p. m.; Editorial offices, Ave Maria Building; news, sports, and features staffs, 7:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, Feb. 4.—Track meet, Varsity vs. Marquette, at Milwaukee; Basketball: Varsity vs. Chicago, at Chicago; Movie: “Doctor X;” Last Day for change in registration.
SUNDAY, Feb. 5.—Masses: 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00. a. m., Sacred Heart Church; Irish Club meeting, 10:30 a. m., Law Building.
MONDAY, Feb. 6.—Ticket Sale for Junoir Prom begins.
TUESDAY, Feb. 7.—Patricians meeting, 7:45 p. m., Law Building.
WEDNESDAY, Feb. 8.—Wranglers formal membership banquet at Rose Marie Tea-Room, 7:00 p. m.; Freshman Smoker: Gym, 7:30 p. m.
TRURSDAY, Feb. 9.—Spectators meeting, 8:00 p. m., Law Building; Two pictures to be presented in Washington Hall under auspices of Commerce Forum: “The Nation’s Market Place,” and “The Mechanics of the Nation’s Market Place.”
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
By Tighe Woods
HEN a Notre Dame athlete makes an AllAmerican football team we murmur, “Yes, isn’t it nice,” and let it go at that, but when a Notre Dame journalist makes an All-American literary team, we ought to at least give him a paragraph. Indiana is known as the cradle of basketball and American humor. Once a year Bill Fox, feature writer for the Indianapolis Star, combines Indiana’s two claims to immortality and picks an AllAmerican literary basketball team. Paul Fogarty, a graduate of the school of journalism, was thus honored this year. His teammates include George Ade, Bruce Bairnsfather, Johnny Hen-nessessey, Steve Hannagan, Jonathan Brooks and Glen Long. Fogarty’s songs, “Betty Coed” and “She Loves Me Just the Same,” are two of the most popular novelty numbers ever written.
V
FTER living through the past examinations with a hall full of lawyers, it is the conclusion of THE WEEK that the worst things about semester examinations are the post-mortems. What could afford more pleasure to the eye than to see some beaming neophyte of jurisprudence, flushed with success at a task well done, come tripping lightly from an examination in Contracts. Follow that same barrister-to-be to his room. He greets his companion with zest, aye, with gusto. But they receive his boyish enthusiasm with cold eye and unbending mien. They begin on his first answer, “That can’t be right!” “Here the citation right here in the book.” “Tough, Jack, looks like you missed that one,” and so on down the list. By the time they have tossed the now-chastened, corpus delecti back to his books, he hasn’t faith in the ability to write his own name correctly.
' V
J T has been the custom for a long time for artists to scoff at scientists and for scientists to hold up to scorn anyone who shows a bit of the aesthetic response. Those of us who were wise enough to wait for a less obvious night to do our celebrating, and went to Doctor Pillsbury’s lecture last Monday, saw a truce between the arts
and science. Science furnished the medium, and nature the work of art. A Washington Hall audience which ridicules the acting of George Arliss could hardly be expected to appreciate a wonder of nature, but they came through like little soldiers. When the technicolor “fast”-motion camera unfolded the sheer beauty and delicate grace of the little desert flower, there was an audible gasp from the sentiment-scorning sons of Dillon, Corby, Sorin and Badin et. al.
V
I F the campus seemed a little sad after Tuesday it was because a gallant crew passed from our midst. Tuesday we said good-bye to the rear guard of the class of 1232, the colorful, carefree, picturesque, Point-Fivers. They toiled not, neither did they spin credits, but their names will be by-words in the halls when the maxima cum laude men of 1936 and 1937 are long forgotten. They will be best remembered as the remnants of the most powerful political machine that ever ruled the Notre Dame campus. Triflers, you say ? Yes, perhaps, but even Cardinal Newman insists that, “the end of a liberal education is not mere knowledge.”
V
E don’t know whether to offer congratulations or sympathy to the freshmen entering Notre Dame for the first time this week. They are going to miss half the fun. Nobody will try to sell them any 1928 SCHOLASTICS or 1930 Jugglers as those have all been bought up by their classmates who have preceded them by a semester. But then they are lucky in one way. If the chairman of the Student Activities Committee has to welcome them he will have had about three months to practice his speech instead of three weeks. Just in case he forgets, we’Il put in a word: “Men of the Class of 1936 and a half, welcome to Notre Dame. The radiators in your rooms are paid for and no one is authorized to sell tickets to the nat-atorium. Examinations are only four months away and don’t let anyone from Brownson or Carroll Halls discuss class politics with you.”
February 3, 1933
Five
ARMSTRONG LEAVES ON EASTERN SPEAKING TOUR
Staff Member Interviews ■ Arthur Pillsbury Before Washington Hall Lecture
SULLIVAN SCHOLARSHIPS TO BE ANNOUNCED SOON
Will Visit 32 High Schools, 15 N. D. Clubs.
Secretary James E. Armstrong of the Notre Dame Alumni Association left the University Wednesday for the East where he will deliver lectures in fifteen different cities. He will speak in thirty-two high schools and fifteen of the seventy Notre Dame local alumni clubs of the University.
Mr. Armstrong arrived in Cincinnati yesterday. While in that city he attended the annual meeting of alumni secretaries and magazine editors representing district five of the American Alumni Council. Mr. Armstrong was director of the Middle Western district for three years.
Itinerary
While in Buffalo on February 10 and 11, Armstrong will attend the meeting of the executive committee of the American Alumni Council. He is executive director of the annual convention which is to be held in Chicago next summer in conjunction with the Century of Progress exposition.
The Secretary will visit Dayton, Columbus, Akron, Youngstown, and Cleveland, Ohio; Buffalo, Syracuse, Albany and New York City, New York; Washington, D. C., Philadelphia, and Pittsburgh, Pa. In these cities he will speak to the Notre Dame Alumni associations and to upperclassmen of Catholic and public high schools.
Excerpts Chicago Talk
He addressed the students of St. Philip’s high school in Chicago recently with the following: “Higher education, generally, faces a campaign against hoarding which is much more important than the drive against the hoarders of money . . . If the brains of this generation are buried in the homes and allowed to suffer the non-productive stagnation of so much of our national wealth, then the future holds not only a repetition of our present economic uncertainty, but a moral and intellect chaos as well ...”	' "
“Taking religion out of education has failed . . . The nation, Catholic and Protestant, is turning to the schools which have never wavered in the teaching of the fundamentals of Christian civilization. Having lagged
(Continued on Page 10)
By James Byrne
With the intention of obtaining an interview, this writer entered the side door of Washington Hall last Monday evening, January 30, cautiously made
Dr. Arthur Pillsbury
“I suppose you tvant to know ivho I am.”
his way back-stage, past the guy ropes, and over to the left wing where he introduced himself to Dr. Arthur Pillsbury, scientific photographer and naturalist. The scientist immediately set me at ease with: “I suppose you want to know who I am, where I’m from, and what I’m to lecture about this evening.” “Well,” he continued, “I decided that mechanical engineering was the course best suited to my needs. I enrolled at Leland Stanford University and was graduated from the College of Engineering in 1897. President Hoover was then student manager of the football team.”
Fascinating Study
“Photographing plant and animal life in its various stages of development, though a tedious problem, seemed to me to be a fascinating one. I made a study of flowers, under-sea growths, and microscopic animal life. My object was to make technicolcr motion pictures of buds as they blossomed into beautiful flowers. Mass production in this work was impossible. To film these flowers in the process of blooming required no small amount of patience; experiments had to be tried over and over again until
(Continued on Page 13)
$250 Awards to be Determined Next Week.
Reverend William H. Molony, C.S.C., Director of Scholarships at the University, announces- that the winners of the Sullivan awards will be made known within the next few days. The scholarships are presented to three applicants from the senior, the junior, and the sophomore classes respectively.
Established In 1922
The Roger C. Sullivan Scholarships were established in June, 1922, by a gift of $15,000 from Mrs. Leo Sullivan Cummings, and Mrs. Thomas Sullivan Brennan, of - Chicago, in memory of their father, the late Roger C. Sullivan of Chicago.
The income from this fund provides for three scholarships of two hundred and fifty dollars each, awarded annually to those three applicants who have shown the greatest improvement of scholarship during the year.
Semester Grades Compared
The improvement rate is computed according to the work accomplished by the student applicant during the past scholastic year. The average of the marks attained in the first semester is compared with those of the second semester. For instance: If the class average of a student is 80 the first semester of the year for which he applies, and 90 the second semester his improvement is 50%, one-half of the possible improvement towards 100.
Harvard “Lampoon” Banned
From Mails for Obscenity
Cambridge, Mass.—An issue of the Harvard Lampoon, which is called “Tutors, Just Tutors” as a take-off on Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt’s “Babies, Just Babies,” has been at least temporarily banned from the mails by Cambridge postal officials on the grounds that it is obscene and plagiaristic.
Editors of the Lampoon asserted that in spite of the ban they intended to deliver the issue to every mail subscriber by any means available.
A valet is more important than a secretary.—John Greenhouse, ex-valet to ex-mayor Walker of New York. .
Six
The Scholastic
Donaldson to Assist Cast In “Vagabonds” Tomorrow
SHOW IS MARCH 29
Operetta To Be Enacted by Freshmen With Cassasanta Directing.
When the cast of “The Vagabonds” convenes for rehearsal tomorrow, Walter Donaldson, nationally known song writer and director of musical shows, will be holding the baton.
Donaldson, author of such famous song hits as, “My Buddy,” “Mammy,” “My Blue Heaven,” and “Sundown” will be here to assist Professor Cassasanta direct the University’s first attempt at a musical operetta, “The Vagabonds,” which will be presented in Washington Hall on March 29.
This type of a production, a romantic comic opera for a male cast, is to be tried on the Notre Dame campus for the first time. It is being sponsored by the Freshmen Class. Professor Casasanta, who is to direct and produce this show, expects to make it an annual event, and to incorporate the membership of the cast into a club similar to the University Players.
Written By Arthur Penn
“The Vagabonds” was written by Arthur A. Penn and published by . Witmark and Sons of New York.
Mr. Penn is also the author of such stage successes as, “The Lass of Limerick Town,” “Yokohama Maid,” “Captain Crossbones” and “The Flowers That Bloom in the. Spring.”
The cast for this production includes, John Egan, John Ryan, George Menard, John Tompkins, John Henry, John Nesbit, William Cazaza, Jerry Roach, Vince Phoebus, David Ryan, and Mark Finochario. The chorus will include, King Stephenson, Maurice Quinn, Robert Butler, George Wolf, Richard Sheils and George Wenz.
Professor Cassasanta received a letter from Richard Kountz, director of the educational music department of the M. Whitmark and Sons Company, in which is expressed his best wishes for the success of “The Vagabonds.”
Mr. Kountz stated, “We take this opportunity to wish you all the success in the world in your presenta-
Freshmen Will Hold A Smoker Wednesday Eve in University Gym
' By Robert Ervin
A Freshman Smoker sponsored by the Reverend Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, and directed by the S. A. C., will be held in the Gymnasium, Wednesday, February 8, at 7:30 p. m., in cooperation with Freshman representatives.
The purpose of this Smoker is to get the freshmen better acquainted. Each student attending will wear a card bearing his name and state.
The University Band directed by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta will feature a program of popular selections which all of the frosh may sing. Cards with the words to this music will be distributed to those present.
A good boxing and wrestling show made up of contestants from each hall will be staged. Outstanding vocal and instrumental solos are to be presented. Plans are under way for several novelty numbers including a military drill, a contest for the biggest lie, mythical “bull session,” medical fare, and a tumbling act. Another unusual attraction wlil be a bicycle race around the indoor track. At the conclusion refreshments will be served.
Admission Free .
Admission to this smoker, which is open to freshmen only, will be free.
Freshmen working on the Smoker are as follows: General Chairman— Jack Sweeney, President of the class. Art Cronin of Dillon and Dick Baker of Brownson are directing the boxing and wrestling events. Bob Ervin, Dillon, is in charge of entertainment assisted by Dan Hanrahan, Freshman; Frank McDevitt, Carroll, and Dan McLaughlin, Brownson. Matt McShane will arrange the musical program; his aids are, Ken Laws, Dillon, and Ed Noonan, Carroll.
tion of the show. Such an undertaking has never before been attempted at Notre Dame, I understand. Such a delightful piece of light comedy should find much favor among the students.”
JACK MILES’ ORCHESTRA WILL PLAY FOR PROM
Ticket Sale Begins Monday, And Closes Feb. 21.
Jack Miles and his orchestra, popular among radio fans, have been engaged to play for the 1933 Junior Prom which will be held in the Palais
Joseph Condon
Jack Miles will play.
Royale Ballroom, South Bend, on February 24. Chairman John J. Hoban made the announcement this week to The Scholastic.
Two-thirty permissions have been secured by Chairman Hoban through the office of the Prefect of Discipline.	«*
The opening date of the ticket sale is Monday, February 6. Seventy-five tickets have been allotted to seniors, the number of which will not be augmented, it was announced. The ticket	.
sale will close on February 21.
Chairman Hoban and President Jo-	<
seph Condon of the Junior Class are working on plans for the dinner dance • which will take place in the Oliver Hotel, the night following the Prom. The price, orchestra, and general details will be announced in the next issue of The Scholastic.	«
Baltimore — Compulsory military training in colleges last week received a severe blow from the Baltimore Superior Court. The court denied the University of Maryland the right to expel Ennis H. Coale, a student, because he refused to take military training.
Judge Ulman said he w*ould issue a writ of mandamus to prevent the university from expelling Coale.
February 3, 1933
Seven
ARMSTRONG SQUEEZES OUT ANOTHER “ALUMNUS
Bengal Boxing Matches To be Held March Third
“In Justice to Alumni in Good Standing,” He Says.
Mr. James E. Armstrong, Alumni secretary, ’25, has succeeded in editing one more issue of the Notre Dame Alumnus, the February number which is to be out today. The editor gives three reasons for the publication of this issue: First, “Justice to the alumni who have paid dues which the Association specified would include the alumni magazine”; second, “Credit at the Ave Maria, which they can ill afford, but which we accept in the conviction that some future alumni will not only subscribe to the Alumnus but to the Ave Maria”; third, “Urgent letters from two groups of alumni, those who have paid their dues and those who obviously are sincere but can’t pay their dues, both asking definitely that this ’ one contact with Notre Dame be maintained.”
Only Half Size
As a result of unpaid dues, the current issue of the Alumnus is one half the usual size. Hence, its editor was forced to include only the essential bits of news relative to the happenings at the University, a minimum of Club notes, and one column of athletic news.
Mr. Armstrong says that his editorial is not aimed at those who are absolutely unable to pay their dues nor at those 1500 whose dues are paid. “But,” he says, “I can’t help but estimate another 1500 who are in that class the national administration has labeled ‘hoarders.’ These people, with a conservatism that, if moderate, would certainly find justification in present conditions, carry it beyond that point, and to preserve a fancied individual security are permitting institutions that are essential to their continued well-being to collapse about them.”
The Editor of the Alumnus asks those whose dues are unpaid to give the matter serious consideration and, if possible, prevent the University from suffering an added burden.
Ignace Paderewski, famous Polish statesman and pianist, says that machines destroy culture, and that “crazy” production was the cause of the depression.
Engineers Forego Their Annual Formal; Reason: There is a Depression
Because of economic conditions, the Faculty Dance Committee of the University has ruled out the annual Engineers’ Formal this year. This fact was made known to The Scholastic by William Martersteck, president of the Engineers ’Club.
The dance is an annual function of the Engineers’ Club and is usually held directly following the opening of the second semester.
Last year’s Formal was held at the K. C. Ballroom in South Bend and was considered a success.
. Fifteen Applications Are Considered by Wranglers
Fifteen applicants for membership in the Wranglers, the honorary forensic society of the University, have completed the necessary formalities, and today are awaiting notifications of acceptance or rejection into the organization.
Many applications were received, and last week personal interviews with each student desirous of entering the society were held. The membership committee composed of John Hayes, Hugh Fitzgerald and John ‘ Clancy selected the most suitable applicants when all the interviews had been completed. On Wednesday, after a short business meeting, seven aspirants were called to deliver a short extemporaneous speech. The remainder were heard on Thursday evening.
With the final speech, the society convened and an individual vote was taken to ascertain the acceptability of each applicant. The result has not yet been made public, but the men who have been elected to membership in the society will receive notice of their admittance before the end of the week, President Boyle announced.
Prof. James Harvey Rogers, Sterling Professor of Political Economy at Yale University and author of “America Weighs Her Gold,” asserts that Great Britain will be wise not to rush back on to the gold standard.
OVER 30 ENTRIES
Unusual Prizes Attract Best Pugilistic Talent; Entries
Are Still Open.
March 3, has been set as the definite date of the annual Bengal Bouts, sponsored by The Scholastic in behalf of the University’s mission fund.
Entries for the championship tourney were increased to over 30 with the addition of the names of eight fighters this week. Several boxers have been working out regularly for the past few days in the gymnasium.
Dunn To Supervise
With examinations over it will be binding upon all entrants to begin active training the first part of next week. Len Dunn, boxing director of the show, winner of a University championship in 1931, will visit the training quarters regularly, advise the less experienced entrants in matters of technique, training, etc., and at the same time evaluate the boxers with an eye toward elimination matches.
Bengal Needs Money Badly
With entries still coming in, the enthusiasm shown towards this year’s tournament might be explained in part by the unusual nature of the prizes offered. To the winners of university championships will go sweaters with an ND worked onto a boxing glove background; to the losers, something practical, as opposed to medals—if the boxers themselves so desire.
Entries to the Boxing Show' will be accepted up until ten o’clock, Sunday evening, Feb. 5, at the room of Howard Waldron, Alumni Hall.
The necessity of staging a tournament the equal of last year’s unqualified success is readily seen from an analysis of the Bengal predicament in general and from a letter from one conversant with mission affairs, in particular. (See “Voice of the Campus,” page 9.)
The danger is that the more intelligent the machine, the less intelligent the man.—Ignace Paderetvski.
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
YOUNG SCRIPPER WOULD APPRECIATE SOME HELP
By J. D. Porterfield
Seeing no pictures on the desk, we knew we were on the right track. A word from the roommate assured us we were correct in our assumptions, and so we were in the presence of Leslie Raddatz. Dont’ jump at conclusions though. As has been fully explained, the only reason for the barrenness of Les’ desk is the rapidity with which the objects of esteem is replaced by a successor. Not, indeed, that the gentleman is fickle, but he has the well-upheld reputation of being the most frequently disappointed in love man on campus.
Journalistically' Minded
Having finished with involved and technical explanation, we progress. Leslie Raddatz, 211 Walsh, English major, as the Notre Dame Directory so concisely puts it, is a man of capabilities. At Ignatius High School in Cleveland, Ohio, his present destination a few days hence, he not only played basketball (We w’ould like to see Raddatz in a basketball suit—Ed.) but was also Art Editor of the school paper, and a member of the annual staff. These were auspicious beginnings and he has progressed accordingly. In his sophomore year, Raddatz was Campus Clubs Editor of the Dome; junior year saw him editor in chief of the Dome, and at present, he is Senior Advisory Editor to the same publication. In addition, he is Associate Editor of the Jziggler and The Scholastic. There is some talk of contributions to Scrip, which will make a clean sweep for him, but as yet, these have not materialized.
May Go To Oxford
Les, in his four years here, has made his home in Howard, Morrissey, Howard and Walsh. Like all Seniors, he not only likes Willa Cather, who is his roommate’s pet peeve, but also claims his Senior hall as the best he has lived in, and the best on the campus.
Pursuing his studies in English literature, Les hopes to go to Oxford next year where he can delve deeper into the realm of Shakespeare. Although he is all wrapped up in journalism, Les claims it is all right only as a hobby, or perhaps an avocation. Some people sure indulge their hobbies.
Going from literature to music, • quite a step these days, we found an
individuality in Raddatz’s taste. Although he admits Guy Lombardo has an excellent orchestra, he. prefers Paul Whiteman and Duke Ellington to any of the later musical stars.
Leslie Raddatz
Not that he is fickle . . . .
Touching on radio programs, we found that he extremely dislikes Jack Benny and his program. (Mother, there’s that funny man again.) He is indeed a student of the old school.
Ever since time began, Les has been rooming with Fred MacBeth, Notre Dame’s track captain. They have found the merger agreeable and have kept it intact even through these days of depression.
Tall, studious - looking, a person with a dry sense of humor that makes you wonder why all people don’t tell their jokes that way, a member of that select clientele who are the subject of Keyhole Portraits, the whis-pered-about gentleman who wrent out for track one day and ended up in the infirmary by reason of a misplaced hurdle, in a word, Leslie Raddatz.
Attention Funny Fellow, Dome
Cincinnati—Henceforth talent instead of beauty will rule in putting into the University of Cincinnati year book the pictures of certain co-eds.
Robert Galbraith, editor-in-chief of the year book, said that beauty pages in the book are “too provincial,” and no matter how many tears were shed by campus beauties, the section will be omitted from the 1933 publication.
Instead, he said, the book will feature “activities girls” who have played big parts in student ventures and affairs.
Second Issue Due Sometime in February.
By the Young Scripper
Now that the exams are over, and those of us who are left will be able to stretch our legs and go back to Hook’s again, it is time for us to think about a second number of that well-known publication, S.crip. It seems from the sales of the first number, way back in November, that many of you are pleased with this year’s Notre Dame quarterly. We would hate to lose that patronage, and so we are really very anxious to put out an issue this month that will be better, if possible, than the November one was. But, as usual, we need more material—especially book reviews. You know, book reviews are those little things that go in the back of the book, like the answers in arithmetic text-boks. We need some things like that. Now we can come to our peroration:
How To Do It
If you have been doing any reading lately, write up one of the books you have read and send your copy to the Young Scripper, in 348 Sorin. All we require is that the books be fairly new and never reviewed in Scrip before. It’s easy to write a _ bookreview. All you have to do is to tell whether you liked the book or not, and why. That seems to us like a pretty good proposition. Remember, if your name is in the contributors’ column, you get a free copy, delivered to you personally, with Scrip’s best wishes, by Lefty Douville, our ambassador of good will. And won’t the folks at home be pleased ?
As for the rest of the February number, it is beginning to shape up fairly well. We may even get a story from the Old Scripper, if Juggler affairs go well, and if the meals in the dining hall aren’t too tough. We are sure that you McCabe fans can hardly wait. We’ll give you the exact date of publication next week. See you then!
Dr. Dayton C. Miller, professor at Case School of Applied Science, expects to prove soon whether or not ether, that unknown substance thought for years to fill all space between the planets and stars, really exists.
February 3, 1933
Nine
STAGE “CHARLEY’S ABIT BEFORE PACKED HOUSES
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Kelly Production Applauded At Two Performances.
By Robert Dillon
Hitting the high spots of comedy with the presentation of “Charley’s Aunt” the University Theatre Players kept packed-in audiences well entertained at the two performances
Roger Bierne
Was infamously deceived
given in Washington Hall on the evenings of January 21 and 22.
Dave Powers as “Charley’s Aunt” behaved in an extremely coquettish manner, and despite the masculine stride and cigar-smoking tendencies, received two proposals during the evening. Roger Beirne gave a strikingly natural characterization as Stephen Spettigue, and had the audience on his side continually. Although “infamously deceived” at the end of the play he maintained the legendary English dignity. Tighe Woods as Sir Francis Chesney carried the weight of his years easily, and wasn’t above the motivating force of an occasional whiskey and soda.
Jack Finneran, George Allingham, and Arthur Neumann acted well and effectively in their respective parts. The feminine characters were capably handled by 'Misses F. Theresa Chisholm, and Charlotte Maurer, Dorothy Gustafson, and Mary Jane Tate. Professor Frank K. Kelly of the Department of Speech was in charge of production. The University Theatre orchestra composed of sixteen pieces under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, rendered several popular selections between the acts.
All letters to the Voice of the The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall, be used upon request.
FROSH VS. NEWMAN
Editor of The Scholastic
Dear Editor:
Well, the kids certainly enjoyed the second show last Saturday night. And they sure illustrated the negative of Cardinal Newman’s idea of University; this is how one recognizes a freshman.
The vehemence of the patriotic shrieks of the New Yorkers, and the boos of tKe urbanites was very disheartening to us who never get a chance to cheer publicly for cur small home towns. We have seen New York and we are quite sure it is not as great as the cries of the Gothamites would have us believe, nor as undesirable as the boos of the opposition sounded. .
And then there was that entertaining fellow with the scale, gurgling laugh; I’ll bet he made that same moronic piping when he looked at his exam questions that morning.
Freshmen take joy in believing their’s the worst class in the history of the school, and this year’s group isn’t the least bit individual in that respect. It wasn’t apropos for many of us to give vent to our mirths of adolescence, but had it been and had it sounded like those of this year’s collegiate minims, I know that I for one am glad that we had a certain fellow around here who was “pepper” to the yearlings, and others, too.
Sincerely,
F. Seton Staley.
BENGAL BOUTS
Mr. Edmund A. Stephan, Scholastic Editor, Notre Dame, Ind.
My dear Mr. Stephan:
I just read in the January 13 issue of the Notre Dame Scholastic that you are preparing another Boxing Match in behalf of our missionaries in India.
Allow me to congratulate you on this undertaking. Never more than at the present time do our missionaries need help. Those of us who are engaged in the unpleasant task
Campus must be addressed to the Editor of Names must be signed in full. Initials will
of wooing reluctant dollars out of depleted pockets are powerless to find words expressive of our gratitude. So many vital interests are at stake, the needs are so great, and the difficulties so many, that I struggle in vain for adequate expression of our gratitude.
Allow me to congratulate you also on the clever publicity campaign conducted last March in the issues of The Scholastic that preceded your Boxing Match. Not only were the articles such as to create interest, stimulate curiosity, and get your fine body of students to desire to attend the Boxing Match, but there was a cleverness about it, a certain highborn delicacy of touch, that I could not help admiring. I hope and pray that your efforts along that line will be as successful as those of last year in spite of the hard times.
Am I emphasizing the obvious when I express my admiration for the make-up, content, literary style, of this year’s Scholastic? I was very much interested in reading the words that Fr. O’Donnell spoke to you at the Scholastic meeting. I am also very happy that The Scholastic has now-new editorial headquarters. As a fellow-sinner, I hope that the second part of your year shall be as successful as the first.
Believe me, my dear Mr. Stephan, Yours gratefully in Christ,
(Rev.) John B. Delaunay, C.S.C.
Edtor of the Bengalese
Middies May Be Jobless
Washington, D. C-—So that half of the graduates at the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis won’t have to hunt jobs without college degrees, the House naval committee last week approved a bill which would let the academy confer a degree of bachelor of science.
Because only a few vacancies exist in the Navy, it is estimated that only about half this year’s academy graduating class can take commissions, and the rest will have to go job hunting.
Issues have a way of disappearing after election and never coming up for decision.—Calvin Coolidge. ■
Ten
The Scholastic
COMMERCE FORUM WILL SHOW TWO PICTURES
The Nation’s Market Places Are Subject of Movies.
Two motion pictures will be shown in Washington Hall next Thursday evening, February 9, at eight o’clock under the auspices of the Commerce Forum. An invitation to attend has been extended to all members of the University by the Forum.
“The Nation’s Market Place,” one of the pictures to be shown, is the only motion picture ever taken on the floor of the New York Stock Exr change. It traces the order of a buyer in Tacoma for a certain block of stocks through his local broker, and the order to sell the same stocks filed by a stockholder in New Orleans with his broker.
The manner in which the two orders are brought together on the floor of the Exchange and the various steps of the transaction are shown in detail.
The other film entitled “The Mechanics of the Nation’s Market Place” presents a definite record of the training given to its youthful employees by the New York Stock Company. Participating in the picture are 1500 employes and 1100 members of the Exchange.
Accuse Harvard Lecturer of $750,000 Swindle
Cambridge, Mass. — Dr. Joao F. Normano, for the last two years a visiting lecturer in economics at Harvard College and associate director of the Harvard Bureau of Economci Research in Latin-America, was identified by Dr. Fritz Driesen, a Berlin merchant, last week as Isaak Lewin, former Berlin banker wanted in an alleged $750,000 swindle in Germany in 1928 and 1929.
Dr. Normano, who was arrested recently on request of the German government, denies he is Lewin or that he had any connection with the Berlin swindle. He asserts he is a native of Brazil.
The German government says he is a native of Kiev, Russia, and a citizen of Nicaragua.
Ah! who can tell how hard it is to climb the steep where Fame’s proud temple shines afar?
FATHER BURKE PRESENTS AUTOGRAPHED BALL TO MOLOKAI GROUP.
By Edward J. O’Brien
At the Testimonial Dinner given in honor of the football team on January 16, Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, president of the Unverisity, used as the theme of his address the worldwide enthusiasm toward football in general and toward Notre Dame football in particular. Pointing out as a striking example of this enthusiasm the leper colony of Molokai, Father O’Donnell told how these pitiable derelicts clustered around powerful radio receivers to follow the fortunes of the Notre Dame football team each Saturday during the season.
Vicarious Thrill Helps
Those few hours spent in listening to the games served, in pleasant fashion, as short interludes from the gnawing pain which must have been eating at their bodies. It seems strange that they should be so interested in the activities of fellowhumans with bodies firm and whole— not pain-wracked and slowly rotting . like their own. Why should they be interested in what people like themselves were doing and which they could never do? But they were and are interested, an interest tinged with sadness perhaps, but nevertheless deep interest.
Sent Last Week
Some such thoughts as these may have been in Father Eugene Burke’s mind at the banquet as Father O’Donnell finished speaking. A little later the drawing for the autographed football was announced and, much to his surprise, Father Burke won the ball as Dean McCarthy, who sat beside him, had jokingly predicted he would. After the banquet, Father Burke readily agreed with Father O’Donnell’s suggestion that the ball be sent to the lepers of Molokai. It was sent last week.
ARMSTRONG ON TOUR
(Continued from Page 5)
sorely behind the secular colleges while materialism poured its golden tributes on their accommodaating campuses, the Catholic college now finds itself in the van of educational theory. It is no longer a matter of religion only to attend a Catholic college—It is a matter of common sense and patriotism ...”
FUNNY MEN! “JUGGLER” DEADLINE IS THE 8TH
Editor Wants to Relax—How About Some Help?
By The Old Scripper
Although all reports have not come in as yet, the Old Scripper is pleased to announce that at the pre:ent writing all his staff have come through with flying colors ( which is more than they went into them with). It just goes to show what a beneficial effect a little relaxation will have. And there’s nothing (well, almost nothing), so relaxing as tapping out a little humor for the Old Scripper.
Just Think!
Just think: the more humor you tap out, the more he can relax. And it’s done him a world of good, fellows —you who contributed have a right to be proud. But February is always a tough month for the old boy, and we feel sure that you aren’t going to let him down. Not after helping him to pass his exams. Get your name on the charity list—the dead-line is Wednesday the 8th. Hey, you! no pushin’.
Symphony Orchestra Plans Concert Late in March
The Notre Dame Symphony orchestra under the direction of Professor Richard Seidel is preparing for a popular concert to be given late in • March.
Such popular music as the “Blue Danube Waltz” and the “Merry Wives of Windsor” have been selected. Hitherto the programs have consisted mainly of the heavier classics.
S. A. C. Plans Social And Athletic Events
Plans of a social and athletic nature were formulated by the Students Activities Council at the regular meeting held last Sunday. The council will act as sponsors of the Freshmen smoker.to be held February 8, in the gymnasium.
The members of the council also decided to hold a swimming meet during the month of March. No definite plans regarding this activity were made and a discussion of the affair was postponed until the next meeting.
I
February 3, 1933
Eleven
ARCHITECTURE SCHOOL ISSUES ITS BULLETIN
64 Page Publication Contains Remarkable Designs.
The Bulletin of the Department of Architecture, a 64 page, paper bound publication, made its appearance on campus this week for the first time
Professor Francis Kervick
Head of Architecture School.
in 15 years. It is the third number of its kind published by the University.
Part of the Bulletin is comprised of the regular University announcements and general information, while the rest of it is devoted to a history of the development of the Department of Architecture.
Prize Designs Are Printed
The first courses in architecture at Notre Dame were oifered in 1898, in response to a request of two Spanish students who had come from the Ecole des Beaux Arts, in Paris, and who wished to continue their study of architecture while learning English. In 1930, the Department was admitted to membership in the Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture.
The Bulletin features several outstanding designs by graduates and undergraduates of the Architectural School which have won awards at the Beaux Arts Institute in New York City. Sophomores, juniors and seniors in the Department of Architecture are enrolled in the Beaux Arts Institute of Design and submit
TWO ART LECTURES TO BE GIVEN HERE IN MARCH.
Mr. F. M. Ludevig, a graduate of Ohio State University will give a series of lectures this semester on Art at Washington. Hall. Mr. Ludevig, according to the Reverend J. L. Carrico, C.S.C., has a number of good facts.
Thursday, March 2, he will speak on “Art and Science in Arches and Rivets.” Briefly, the first topic will treat of some noted European Cathedral, and compare it to our American type of building—the skyscraper. It will consider the functional use of line and mass in art composition, and will develop art in the light of past and contemporary science as employed in buildings. On Thursday night, March 23, he will explain the “Lure of Pictorial Art.” This subject will consist in the evaluation of an important European painting or mural decoration in comparison to American production. It will, in the main, stress the Aesthetic value derived from art.
Thursday night, April 6, Mr. Ludevig will give the final lecture on “Art in Everyday Life.” This in general will be a recapitulation of the principles set forth in the first two lectures with special emphasis upon their practical application. The subject matter will be so chosen, as to cut across a large area of the field of art, and each topic is merely to be considered as a sampling of a respective division. He will supplement his lectures with the use of slides.
Mr. Ludevig was the chief architect of the new Josephinum College in Columbus, Ohio.
to a local board, drawings from which the best are selected and sent to the Institute each year.
Among those whose designs have won Institute awards and honorable mention are Joseph Lauber, ’29, Paul Flanagan, ’32, John Brown, ’30, Laurence Moller, ’31, Irwin Finch, ’29, Wilbur McElroy, ’26, and Richard Zimmerly, ’29. Sollitt Competition prizes of §50 each, given by the Ralph Sollitt and Sons Construction Company of Chicago and South Bend, to students for the best design submitted as -a solution to a special architectural problem assigned for the current school year, were awarded to Felix Frank, ’32, and Thomas Galbraith, ’32.
SCHEDULE TWO DEBATES WITH MICHIGAN STATE
First on March 2; Trials Arranged With N. U.
By Tom Proctor
Two debates with Michigan State University have been definitely scheduled by. William Coyne, director of debating, to begin the University of Notre Dame’s forensic activity on the question, “Resolved: that state and local governments should derive at least 50% of their revenue from some source other than a tax on tangible property.”
Debate Northwestern “B” Team
The first of these debates will be held on March 2 at Michigan State, with Notre Dame upholding the affirmative side of the question. Representatives of the Michigan school will come to Notre Dame on March 12 to argue against the negative team. Mr. Coyne has also arranged two trial debates with Northwestern University’s “B” teams for the 23rd of this month. The coach hopes to give all of his squad of twelve men opportunities to take part in trial debates before the opening of the regular season.
Two men to represent Notre Dame in the radio meet with Kent College of Law in Chicago on Saturday, February 11, have not yet been chosen from those who are working on the question of government ownership of hydro-electric power.
Lectures on Advertising
Today in Law Auditorium
According to an announcement by Dean McCarthy of the College of Commerce, Mr. John Glen Sample of the Black, Decker, and Sample Advertising Comany in Chicago will give a lecture on “Radio and Advertising” at 3:15 this afternoon in the Auditorium of the Law Building. To emphasize his salient points, Mr. Sample will use exhibits. The lecture is for the members of the Commerce School, particularly for students interested in the different phases of Advertising.
You know who critics are? The men who have failed in literature and art. —Benjamin Disraeli.
Twelve
The Scholastic
ROTARY CLUB BANQUETS 1932 FOOTBALL SQUAD
Dean McCarthy is Principal Speaker at Local Dinner.
“Hunk” Anderson and thirty members of the 1932 football squad were guests of the South Bend Rotary Club Wednesday noon, January 25, at an annual dinner given in their honor at the Oliver Hotel. A novel feature of this year’s banquet was the plan of having each player attend as the personal guest of one of the Rotarians.
Football and Education
Dean James E. McCarthy, College of Commerce, was introduced by Mr. Bernard Voll, ’17, as the principal speaker. “Notre Dame Not A Football School,” a timely topic, was treated at length by the Dean. “If our football team is the sole reason for our existence, then we are living a daily lie; we are deceiving some twenty-seven hundred young men thirty-six weeks each year—the Commonwealth of Indiana would be acting properly in revoking our charter as an educational institution — the accrediting associations who respect and pass upon our educational qualifications and equipment periodically have been perpetuating an injustice to parents and students when they rank us among the upper flight of educational institutions,” said Dean McCarthy.
High Credentials Necessary
“Prospective students are only admitted to Notre Dame on the presentation of evidence that they have been graduated from an accredited preparatory or- high school,” continued the speaker. “They must have the New York State Regents fifteen point count in entrance subjects for admittance to any of the five colleges of the University. They are not eligible for competition until after their Freshman year; to be eligible thereafter they must be passing in the courses for which they are registered. These regulations are precisely those that are in vogue in the Western Conference,” explained Mr. McCarthy.
“We are supremely happy and sincere in our knowledge that this football team is composed of men on whose very souls has been engraved the image of Notre Dame. They are our'testimonials of what Notre Dame stands for- and represents. Their (Continued on Page 31)
After Dinner Speech Class Holds Annual Banquet
“My Philosophy of Life” was the subject developed by each member of Professor Frank Kelly’s After Dinner Speech class at a banquet held in the Rose-Marie Tea-room, Saturday evening, January 28. This banquet and program climaxing a semester’s work follows a custom of some year’s standing.
Paul Host, captain of the 1932 football team, acted in the capacity of toastmaster and introduced the speakers. Mr. Kelly spoke last and directed his words mainly to the graduating members of the class, stressing the thought that when a man looks back on his undergraduate days at Notre Dame, he realizes that he has found “another mother.”
Paul Host and Jerry Roach handled all of the banquet details.
Italian Club Holds Roman Dinner Jan. 30.
The Italian club held its first Roman dinner of the new year last Monday evening, Jan. 30, at Vumbaco’s restaurant in South Bend. Forty members enjoyed a first class dinner and were entertained with Neapolitan songs and selections furnished by’the management and an impromptu trio composed of Emilio Gervasio, Michael Santulli and Jolin J. Busichio who, by special request also rendered “Please.”
The committee in charge of the occasion was composed of Andrew Maffei, chairman, Leonard Cacciatori and Joseph Costa.
Leacock Can End Depression in Six Days, He Claims
Montreal—Prof. Stephen Leacock, chairman of the department of economics and political science at McGill university and an internationally known humorous writer, said last week that by proper action the present depression could be lifted in six days, cured in six months and its return prevented in six years.
The professor-writer predicted that the world would come to a catastrophic end if steps were not taken soon to lift the depression.
Your depression is much superior to our prosperity in Italy.—Baroness Veszi-Mantica.
THIRTY RECEIVE HOLY CROSS HABIT MONDAY
Names Used in Religious Life Also Given.
Thirty postulants received the habit of the Brothers of Holy Cross at 9:30 Wednesday morning in the Sacred Heart Church. At this ceremony they also received the names they will use in the religious life. The postulants were from Sacred Heart Postulate in Watertown, Wisconsin. They will spend a year in the St. Joseph Novitiate, Notre Dame, in preparation for the profession of temporary vows. Relatives and friends were present in the Church.
Reverend James A. Burns, C.S.C., Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, performed the ceremony. Reverend William R. Connor, C.S.C., secretary of the Board of Trustees of the University of Notre Dame, was master of ceremonies.
Fifteen Take Vows
On Thursday morning fifteen Brothers who had completed their year of preparation at the St. Joseph Novitiate made their temporary prefession of vows. The Brothers did this at a private ceremony at the novitiate. They then go to Dujarie Institute to study at the University of Notre Dame. Father Burns also presided at this ceremony and said Mass at six o’clock. Reverend K. M. Healy, C.S.C., is the master of novices.
The following are the Brothers who received the habit and the names they took:
Names Of Postulants
John Lyons, Glenwood City, Wis., Brother Ewald; Harry Creany, Chicago, Brother Neri; John Kinsman, Philadelphia, Brother Ddolphus; Edwin Derosier, Wakefield, Wis., Brother Candidus; Barius Risley, Evansville, Ind., Brother Howard; Paul Yorke, Bedford, Ohio, Brother Pacificus; William Kelliher, Holyoke, Mass., Brother Cleophas; Leo Junke, Greenville, Pa., Brother Lutger; William Rumrill, Northbridge, Mass., Brother Oswald; John Swiderski, Cicero, Ill., Brother Amandus; Thomas Tobin, Chicago, Brother Hermengild; Richard Bransby, Lancaster, Pa., Brother Elmo; Earl Spielmacher, Grand Rapids, Mich., Brother Rudolph; Arthur Perzynski, Gilman, Minn., -Brother Sixtus; Stanley Olszowka, (Continued on Page 31)
February 3, 1933
Thirteen
INDIA NEWS TELLS OF BROTHER BEDE’S DEATH
Former Brownson Hall Prefect Succumbs in Bengal.
Brothei- Bede, C.S.C., for many years a prefect in Brownson and St. Edward’s Halls, died in Bengal, India, January 14. Since 1926 he had been
Brother Bede, C.S.C.
Lies in Ranikhong.
stationed at Ranikhong, in the diocese of Dacca, which the Holy See has entrusted to the care of the Congregation of Holy Cross. He had charge of the numerous catechumens, converts from the Garo tribe, at Ranikhong and at Mymensingh.
Brother Bede, in 1930, saved his _fellow missionary, Father Christopher Brooks^from a painful death when the lattei\was attacked by a tiger. Brother Bede killed the animal with one shot. The incident received considerable publicity in the Catholic press.
Took Vows In 1909
Born in Tralee, County Kerry, Ireland, on August 24, 1884, Brother Bede was educated at the Academy of the Irish Christian Brothers in his native town, and at Notre Dame. In 1905 he was clothed in the habit of the Brothers of Holy Cross, and made his final vows December 8, 1909.
Besides serving as a prefect, he was for several years assistant superior of the preparatory school for the Brothers, Sacred Heart College, Watertown, Wisconsin. He was' also asssitant to the Master of Novices, Saint Joseph’s Novitiate, at Notre • Dame.
False Alarm Cuts Off University Water Lines
Seven o’clock . Saturday night and no water! Indignant were the Knights of the Bath who had eagerly awaited their weekly wash. This awful inconvenience was caused by a fire alarm for Washington Hall.
Some one walking through the fog of that night, saw the grey mist clinging around the steeple, and thinking it was smoke, called the South Bend Fire Department. The gallant firemen sped up Notre Dame Avenue with a fear in their heart that this alarm might mean another Notre Dame calamity.
Residents along the way, seeing that the engines were headed for the University, hurriedly followed the siren-screaming trucks.
Same Old Story
When the firemen arrived at the Hall they attached their high pressure hose, turned off the University water supply to boost the pressure, and entered the building. They rushed to' the attic and tore up a few planks in their search for the blaze. It was a false' alarm.
The relieved fire fighters nonchalantly carried their axes back to the trucks, folded up their hose, and returned to the engine house. The excitement was soon over. A few hours later “Charley’s Aunt” frolicked on the stage.
Henry Behrman to Join St. Thomas College Faculty
In a recent issue of the Purple and Gray, news publication of St. Thomas College in St. Paul, it was announced that Henry Behrman, who was graduated from Notre Dame last June with a degree in Physical Education, would be added to the staff at St. Thomas next fall.
At the present time Behrman is completing his work here for a Master’s degree in Boy Guidance. He will be in charge of the intra-mural program when he goes north to take over his new position. He will act as assistant to James Masterson, who was head of the Physical Education department here before going to St. Thomas in the fall of 1931.
The more Europe pays the United States, the less likelihood is there of that continent coming near the abyss of war.—Prof. Harold J. ■ Laski of London University.
PILLSBURY INTERVIEWED
BY “SCHOLASTIC” MAN
(Continued from Page 5}
they turned out successfully. I found that certain flowers refused to bloom under the electric light; artificial sunlight had to be substituted. Then again, other flowers would wilt during the process of filming.” “But,” he added, “I have since discovered a more satisfactory method.”
“Tonight, during my lecture,” continued Dr. Pillsbury, “I will show some motion pictures of under-sea life. In making pictures below the surface, I found that at a depth of thirty feet I could remain only fifteen minutes. At a depth of twenty feet, however, it wTas possible for me to remain indefinitely. Twenty-five feet is perhaps the ideal level for photographing coral.”
Laboratory In California
“My work at my laboratory near Berkeley, California, is financed by my lecture tours throughout the country and by the money that I receive for my films. I spend the greater portion of the winter months lecturing and showing these films.” Before I could question him further, someone announced to the naturalist that it was time for him to appear on the stage. Thanking him for his kindness in granting me a few moments of his time, I took my leave.
Lecture Begins
After I was seated in the theatre waiting for the lecture to begin, I tried to connect the two subjects— botany and mechanical engineering. As the theatre was darkened and the picture of a laboratory — Dr. Pillsbury’s laboratory with its ingenious arrangement of tandem microscopes, numerous cameras, and intricate mechanisms — was thrown on the screen, the Doctor’s reason for choosing the mechanical engineering course at Stanford became evident. Since the scientist is a pioneer in his particular field, he must build instruments that are suited to his work. The laboratory in which the naturalist does his work, represents an investment of oyer thirty thousand dollars.
Motion pictures of mitosis, the movement of protoplasm in the cell, budding, and conjugation were shown in addition to the glimpses of animal and plant life as it exists below the surface of the sea.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
“SANTA MARIA” TO BE DISTRIBUTED MONDAY
THEATRE TALK
-----By Roger Beirne
K. C. Publication Will Make Initial Appearance
Fred Becklenberg, editor-in-chief of the Santa Maria, stated definitely late yesterday afternoon that his publication, official organ of the local chap-
Fred Becklenberg
“When they told me zvhat to do 1 went and did it”
ter of the Knights of Columbus, will be distributed Monday evening.
The Santa Maria, formerly an annual, but now to be issued every few months, is five pages in length, well balanced in its makeup, limited almost entirely to Notre Dame news, and topped off by a striking black cover designed by Becvar.
The magazine will be given to all local Knights and will be sent to various councils throughout the United States. Three thousand copies are being printed.
50 Years Ago—They Used
To Celebrate Beforehand
The following item appeared in the South Bend Tribune of Jan. 25, 1883.
“Last evening a large audience assembled in Music hall at Notre Dame to witness the introductory exercises to the semi-annual examinations. These exercises were of a literary and musical character and were given by members of the Euglossian and Orpheonic societies under the direct supervision of B. Anslem, a talented member of the musical faculty of Notre Dame.”
The laughter of the audience at “Charley’s Aunt” was a pleasant reward for the student-actors’ work in the production. The lines are good, sure-fire humor in this play but they could not carry without certain farce continuity. Farce acting is difficult to sustain, and the players, most of them inexperienced in this particular style, did nobly. The disarming familiarity of the campus audience with the production was the inspiration of the needed sustained tone, for unlike most farce productions, there was no tiring of the false interplay. Following the Yeats’ hints at the Irish audience behavior, perhaps there should have been a storming of the stage to discover the versatile Powers for an acclaim.
Sermon List And Directory of Student Masses for Second Semester Announced
The sermon lists and directory of student masses for the second semester has been announced as follows:
Feb. 5.—The Graces of The Eucharist: 6:00-8:00, Fr. Butler; 7:00-9:00, Fr. Irving; 9:00, Fr. Reynolds, celebrant.
Feb. 12.—Frequent Communion: 6:00-8:00, Fr. Fiedler; 7:00-9:00, Fr. Dolan; 9:00, Fr. Murray, celebrant.
Feb. 19.—Preparation and Thanksgiving: 6:00-8:00, Fr. L. L. Ward; 7:00-9:60, Fr. L. Heiser; 9:00 Fr. Fogarty, celebrant.
CAP AND GOWN NOTICE!
President Francis A. Werner of the Senior class announces the members of the cap and gown committee for 1933. Included on the list are Edward Vzyral, Chester Barbeck, Raymond Reuland, Francis Fogarty, and Thomas Behan.
President Werner also stated that a representative will be on the campus to take cap and gown measurements on Feb. 6th and 7th. The measurements will be taken in the Dry Cleaning Department, Badin Hall.
Due admiration for Allingham’s splendid stage presence and unusual pantomine has already been fully given. And in this delayed congratulatory note, may it be said Jack Finneran’s voice still re-echoed through Washington Hall until Jimmy Durante stole his thunder Tuesday evening. Tighe Woods has recovered the regiment this Wednesday and Arthur Neumann may have the thumb-in-the-soup protector for catching his thousand gnd one waiter cues.
To be able to direct a farce one must know how to direct capably, £hen add an ability to out-direct the normal directions. More remarkable farce direction could not have been given by anyone unless it were by Professor Frank Kelly with a little more rehearsal time.
Feb. 26.—Forty Hours (no sermon)—9:00, Fr. C. O’Donnell, celebrant, Fr. Mulcaire and Fr. Carrico.
March 1—Ash Wednesday (Low Mass): 7:00-9:00, Fr. Molony.
March 5.—Holy Orders: 6:00-8:00, Fr. T. Kelly; 7:00-9:00, Fr. E. Burke; 9:00, Fr. Clancy, celebrant.
March 12.—The Graces of Penance: 6:C0-8:00, Fr. Johnson; 7:00-9:00, Fr. Connerton; 9:00 Fr. L. Heiser, celebrant.
March 19.—St. Joseph: 6:00-8:00, Fr. Kenna; 7:00-9:60, Fr. Crumley; 9:00, Fr. J. Heiser, celebrant, Fr. J. McAllister and Fr. Murray.
March 26.—Purpose of Amendment; • 6:00-8:00, Fr. C. McAllister; 7:00-9:00, Fr. Maher; 9:00, Fr. Johnson, celebrant.
April 2—Passion Sunday (no sermon) 6:00-8:00, Fr. Stack; 7:00-9:00, Fr. Norris; 9:00, Fr. L. L. Ward, celebrant.
April 9.—Palm Sunday (no sermon) : To be appointed.
April 16.—Easter Sunday: To be appointed.
April 23.—Extreme Unction: 6:00-(Gontinued on Pape 30)
February 3, 1933
Fifteen
PLAY BY NEIL HURLEY IS BEING PRODUCED
Two Act Drama on Newspaper Life in Production.
A two act play entitled “Scoop,” written by Neil C. Hurley, last year’s editor-in-chief of The Scholastic, for Professor Charles Phillips, as a class
Neil C. Hurley
His play is being produced.
duty, is being produced at the present time in S Creator Illinois by Notre Dame graduates of that district, one of whom is John Ryan ’32, (Music and Drama.)
The short drama, a story of reporter’s life, is receiving enough approval from present audiences to warrant its production in several towns in southern Illinois, and Indiana.
Active Since Graduation
Hurley, employed by the Chicago Tribune during the summer and early fall months as a sports writer, is at present associated with the Independent Pneumatic Tool Company of Chicago.
Another N. D. Dramatist ••
Another Notre Dame graduate who has just entered the field of the theatre is Clinton Watson, ’32, whose work in English ’25 (Technique of the Drama) last year win him honors. Mr. Watson has just been appointed stage director of the Little Theatre of Flint, Mich., and is now engaged on his first production, Ibsen’s ‘Hedda Gobler,” in which a talented Norwegian actress is to appear. Mr. Watson is planning a full spring season of plays for the Flint theatre.
Human nature is slow unless spurred to action.—Gandhi.
BAND AND GLEE CLUB RECORDINGS TO GO ON SALE MONDAY.
The Four selections • recently recorded by the University Band and Glee Club will go on sale in Music Hall next Monday, February 6. Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the music groups, and head of the school, will h&.ve charge of their distribution.
Selections recorded by the organizations are “When the Irish Backs Go Marching By,” and “Notre Dame, Our Mother.” The former selection was recorded twice, one of which features the band with a chorus by the Glee Club, and the other, a singing of the piece by the Glee Club members in four parts.
The alma mater was recorded by the Glee Club on one of the discs, and by the band on another one, with a special solo rendered by John Ryan.
One side of the discs has been left blank for the recording of a message or selection so desired by the purchaser. Special apparatus will be installed in Professor Casasanta’s headquarters for this purpose. The finished product will sell for seventy-five cents.
Under the direction of Professor Casasanta, the University Concert Band will play a special program at the Freshman smoker which will be held in the gymnasium, February 8.
The program to be offered will be a complete change from the usual numbers played during the basketball games. A concert will be given by the bandsters during the recesses of the Pittsburgh game on February 11. The program is scheduled to begin at 7:30, one half hour preceding the beginning of the game.
New Semester Registration Closes Tomorrow
Tomorrow, Saturday, February 4, is the last day for dissatisfied students to stand in line at their respective college windows to make changes in their registration, according to Robert B. Riordan, registrar of the University. Students who do not clear up the matter of registration tomorrow will be unable to do so at any other time. Students registering late will be assessed the usual fee of five dollars.
Mr. Riordan points out that though Notre Dame allowed but one day for registration in classes for the second semester of the present school year,
TWENTY-EIGHT FINISH COURSES HERE MONDAY
Director of Studies Announces Complete List.
A new semester has begun at Notre Dame, and a new life has begun for some of her former students. The list of twenty-eight graduates and the colleges from which they are being graduated at the close of the first semester of the school year 1932-33 has just been released by the Office of the Director of Studies.
List Of Graduates
Following is the list of graduates who will return for degrees on Commencement Day, June 4: College of Arts and Letters, Eugene J. Coyne, James C. Devlin, Brother Thomas Drea, C.S.C., William J. Flynn, Max J. Friedman, Herbert P. Giorgio, Paul A. Host, Paul A. Howe, Edwin S. Kosky, Francis J. Madden, Emerit E. Moore, Samuel J. Roach, Andrew J. Shiebler; College of Commerce, Joseph E. Busher, Francis W. Donalty, Gerald T. Fitzgerald, John A. Grams, Joseph P. Holbach, Bernard J. Kraus, Thomas K. Mahaffey, John A. Ma-tousek, Bernard F. McMahon, Emmet F. Murphy, James W. Power, Frederick B. Snite; College of Engineering, Eugene C. Calhoun, Robert G. Tischler; College of Law, Raymond J. Reardon.
Of these men who have completed their undergraduate days, some have stated their intention of continuing with graduate work in the University; others will leave to enter their respective fields.
the registration progressed smoothly and rapidly. Final and complete figures on registration have not yet been compiled, but the registrar state* that the figure will fall between 2,600 and 2 800, a small, expected decrease from last semester’s registration figure of 2,874.
The Scholastic and Juggler staffs arid the Faculty board of publications offer their sincerest sympathy to Richard Prezebel, whose father died during the past week.
>
The Scholastic
Sixteen	•
Prosperity of Farmer and
Nation are Commensurate
PRODUCERS THANKFUL FOR N.D. MOVIE SURVEY
By Walter Johnson
Fogarty Receives Letters From Hollywood Men.
“But a bold peasantry, its nation’s pride,
When once destroyed, can never be supplied”
This quotation doesn’t fit the problem particularly well, probably because Goldsmith didn’t have us in mind when he wrote it. A point remains, however, in the fact that our farm population of some twenty millions is quite literally facing destruction, economic destruction.
Prices of agricultural products have reached unprecedented low levels, reducing the income of the farmer to a vanishing point, while a steadily deflating currency is increasing the burden of his debts and destroying his property equities. Farm profits have dropped from sixteen billions in 1919 to approximately five billions in 1932; mortgages now total almost twice that amount, the interest on which, in many cases, exceeds annual income.
Foreclosure Problem
Over one and one-half million farms have been vacated during the last three years. The “Farmers’ Holiday” of a few months ago indicated possible results of a growing feeling of resentment, even rebellion, while recently in Iowa and Illinois threats and force have been used to prevent foreclosure, seizure of equities by finance companies holding overdue mortgages. The situation is rapidly approaching a climax—and that—who . knows?
Farmer Once Independent
Causes of the farmers’ present condition reach back almost three decades. Through the first few years of this century agricultural sections of the United States were blessed with what might be termed a “cultural lag.” Separated from urban centers they were free from the highly centralized, interdependent, complicated phases of modern economic life. Each farm preserved its independence, its automonomy; crops were diversified, food and clothes produced at home, while a system of barter exchange provided for the acquisition of manufactured products. Exchange and money; as such, played an unimport
ant part in their life. The farmers were happy, prosperous and selfsufficient.
Then came the war—and, paradoxically, its prosperity for the farm was the beginning of its economic troubles. Europe, unable to produce, depended on the United States for her foodstuffs; demand and prices increased steadily, manpower declined. As a result, farmers began to expand, to specialize in the production of a particular crop, to buy more land, and to replace their hired hand with machines. While the war, with its heavy demand, continued, things were fine—but the Armistice found our farmers facing a rather difficult situation.
Surplus Seat Of Trouble
Equipped and prepared to produce for a* war-time market, they found that market no longer existing; the farmer had over-expanded—and in the years following found himself with an annual surplus. Too, he had assumed extensive obligations at inflated prices for new land and machines, giving as security land mortgages, which became more and more difficult to meet.
This surplus, but a small percentage of the yearly crop, was the main cause of his troubles. Products of industry, controlled in quantity and protected by a tariff, have retained a fairly high price, but agricultural products, thanks to the surplus, must be sold at a much lower world market price. Farmers are unorganized and therefore cannot regulate the sale of their- crops; the individual must sell and sell all of his perishable produce immediately—in a market open to foreigners. Thus he is unable to limit sales to domestic buyers, to benefit from a higher domestic proce offered by our protective tariffs. In a word, . he is basing cost of production on domestic prices, while selling at world prices—it can’t be done at. a profit.
Faced with decreased demand, falling prices, over production, an extensive, oppressive debt, deflated currency and that inevitable surplus, the farmer took his depression in 1920— and still has it! (Remedies will probably follow—in a week or two.)
Francis J. Fogarty, president of the Commerce Forum, has received letters from the leading motion picture producers and distributors in answer to
Francis Fogarty
His survey is a success
the information sent them from the Commerce Survey. The letters thank him for the useful information and assure him that they will certainly be of assistance in their business. Typical of these letters was one received from H: M. Warner, president of Warner Bros. Pictures, Inc. The following is a paragraph from the letter:
Warner Letter
“We want you to know that we greatly appreciate your having sent us this survey and it is our intention to take advantage of the information contained herein, by supplying copies of our Theatre Operating Department and our Studios on the coast, where our pictures are produced.”
The Clothing Survey which the Commerce Forum has also been taking is aboht one-third tabulated. Fogarty says that this survey will probably be tabulated and the information ready for distribution within a week. .
There are approximately 4,283,753 persons in the United States who can neither read nor write, it has been reported by the National Advisory Committee on Illiteracy, set up three years ago by President Hoover.
February 3, 193-
JANUARY “LAWYER” APPEARS ON CAMPUS
Notables Contribute to Second Issue of Publication.
•	Seventeen
Historical Exhibit In N.D.
Library Worthy of Notice
By William Kennedy
By Joseph Bucci
Daniel C. Lencioni’s Lawyer, quarterly publication of the Notre Dame College of Law, was published for the second time this year last Monday.
Contained in the January issue are several feature articles written by notables in the field of law. Attorney Lenn J. Dare of South Bend, author of various Law Review articles, writes on “A Study of Bar Examinations in Indiana.”
Dean Konop Writes
Thomas F. Konop, Dean of the College of Law, contributes an article entitled, “A Great Opportunity for Lawyers,” while Professor William D. Rollison, also of the College of Law, submits his second in a series of contributions on the subject of “Priorities in the Law of Mortgages.”
“Psychiatry and the Law” is presented by Edward F. Streit, a leading lawyer of Aurora, Illinois. Aaron H. Hugenard, former Professor of Law here now practicing in South Bend, is the author of “Dr. Johnson on the Law and Lawyers.”
Other interesing articles are found in “Are You Afraid to go to Court?” by Thomas E. Coughlan and a review of Law club activities by Editor Len-cioni. Professor William M. Cain contributes “Re cent Decisions.” “Notes” are furnished by students F. X. Kopinski, Arthur Duffy, Herbert P. Giorgio and Elmer M. Crane; Book Reviews by John M. Crimmins, Daniel Lencioni and Lee Bidgood.
Bott Addresses Foreign Commerce Club Wednesday
Herbert Bott, instructor in marketing in the College of Commerce, addressed the meeting of the Foreign Commerce club held last Wednesday evening in the Law Building.
Mr. Bott spoke on “Arabia.” He discussed the economic and social conditions of that country and described the types of individuals which make up the population of Arabia, and also presented a very good outline of Mohammedanism.
Over in the file room of the Library the past few weeks has been an unusual exhibit. It has necessarily been limited to the confines of the show-case in the center of the room, but it nevertheless manages to attract innumerable students, and to hold their undivided attention for several minutes.
Rare signatures, manuscripts yellow with age, and famous letters compose the exhibit, which is just a small part of the extensive collection to be found in the archives of the library. Incidentally, these same archives hold the largest collection of papers relating to the history of the Catholic Church in the United States. This particular group is augmented by the Cardenas Papers, well-known as the writings of Bishop Cardenas, of Louisiana.
Papal Bull On Display
Reverend Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s archivist, is having these papers calendered as rapidly as is possible under the rather trying circumstances. However it is a tedious job and progress is slow. Faded letters must be restored to legibility, foreign languages must be translated into English, and a hundred other obstacles continue to spring up at the most unexpected times.
Occupying a prominent place in the exhibit is a Bull of Pope Pius VII,. regarding the appointment of Bishop Fenwick, first Bishop of Cincinnati. It is signed by the famous Cardinal Consalvi who is acknowledged as the greatest statesman ever to serve the papal court, having, among other things, defended the Supreme Pontiff from the attacks of Napoleon.
Famous Letters Shown
There are the autographs of Francis Hopkinson, statesman, musician and author, who signed the Declaration of Independence as a representative from New Jersey; Bishop Neumann of Philadelphia, whose case is now up before the Sacred Council for Beatification; Ven. Joseph Passerat, who succeeded St. Clement Hofbauer as head of the Redemptorist Order; and Pope Pius IX.
Several interesting letters of famous personages are on display. President Fillmore’s acceptance of
the resignation of Thomas Ewing, Secretary of the Interior in 1850, is among these. Letters of the beloved missionary of Notre Dame, Father DeSeilie, whose likeness now hangs within the Log Chapel by the lake, are the only ones of his that are in existence today. Finally, there is a typical note penned by Father Badin, on Dec. 20, 1843, while aboard a steamboat in the Ohio River. Father Badin was the first priest to be ordained in the United States.
An interesting manuscript on view is a petition from the Ottawa Indians of Arbe Croche (Crooked Tree), Michigan, asking President Monroe to appoint a Catholic missionary to live on their reservation and guide their spiritual lives. Each chief of a tribe has his own totem, a sign (usually an animal or a bird) by which he is known. Each chief, therefore, drew his own totem on the petition. It must be seen to be really appreciated.
Professor Hoyer To Be
Adviser To Boy Magazine
Professor Ray Hoyer, head of the Boy Guidance Department, has been asked to serve on the advisory board of a new magazine for boys called The Catholic Boy. This publication made its initial bow in December.
The Catholic Boy is the answer to a constantly growing demand for a boys’ magazine which would contain all of the adventure and romance to be found in secular magazines for boys and at the same time convey the Catholic point of view so important in these days of irreligion. As its name implies, The Catholic Boy is written for Catholic boys and every effort is being made to retain a Catholic atmosphere without too much preaching and moralizing.
In addition to his advisory duties, Professor Hoyer is conducting a column “Some Boys I Have Known.” This feature consists of a short story each month. The question box idea has been incorporated also. The boy readers are invited to present their problems which will be answered direct by letter, either by Mr. Hoyer or by Rev. Francis E. Benz, the editor, depending upon the matter involved.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
COLLEGIATE FIREMEN!
Oklahoma City college football men work their way through college by being on the city fire department.	■
V
“PIPES”
At this same time every year, students start thumbing the pages of the second semester schedules in an attempt to find the so-called “pipe” courses. Every direction you turn you find someone with a suggestion as to an easy course, which incidentally often turns out to be quite the contrary.
Pity the poor senior who has taken all of these suggested courses and now finds himself in the predicament of having no choice in the selection of studies. He now has to take classes that he has put off with the intention of taking them some semester when his schedule is not so crowded.
In the years to come, he will look back and see that there were no real “pipes,” as his grades in these courses will probably show; but not until then will he realize that there “ain’t no such thing.”—University Daily Kansan.
V ■
PAGE “AL” SMITH!
The originator of each week’s worst weep at Creighton University must don a brown derby for seven days. The current wearer of the colored bowler is a law freshman who arose very soberly in the course of a lecture and stated that a certain man was tried and convicted because he was a “manslewer.”
V
TENNYSON WAS WRONG!
According to an alumnus of the University of Washington, in 17 years the practices of coeds have become no more radical. Coeds smoked, drank and “necked” just as freely in 1915 as they do today, he said.
RATHER SPOTTY!
A Purdue coed awoke one morning with all the symptoms of small-pox. By the time the doctor arrived, she was in a state of collapse. The “doc” took one look at her, and then wiped the spots with alcohol. Before going to bed she had taken a shower and while still damp had donned her red polka dot pajamas. Simply a case of rashjudgment was the final report.
V
MORE GREEKS.
George Washington university has a club known as the “Wandering Greeks,” being made up of fraternity men who have transferred from other schools and who belong to a fraternity having no chapter at George Washington.
V
DEFICIENT OR EFFICIENT?
The corruption of election campaigns takes on many novel forms. During an attempt to eliminate plural voting at Louisiana State, the election board resorted to the method of having each voter dab his thumb in a solution of mercuro-chrome at the time of voting. The students got around this by dipping their thumbs into a chemical solution which removed the red stain after voting and thus were able to vote again.
V
THIS YEAR—A TORTOISE!
The firing of a pistol shot, resounded from the steps of University Hall at Northwestern University, marking the opening of the annual beard contest. Last year the contest was won by a hair.
V
NOT A BENE!
Dean Babcock of the University of Illinois admits that he has seen nothing to compare with the advance of Catholic colleges in the last two years, increasing in number from one hundred and thirty-nine to one hundred and fifty-four, and in total enrollment from about sixty thousand to seventy-five thousand.
February 19.
Nineteen
EDITORIALS
TECHNOCRACY
We have intentionally avoided the use of the word “technocracy,” in speaking as well as in writing, because we have never found out exactly what it means. It apparently, though, is no reflection on one’s ability to converse in the economic terminology of the day if he does not know the main tenets of the technocrat. The mainsprings of the movement themselves, including arch-technocrat Howard Scott, are at a loss to tell you concisely and clearly what they want to do and how they are going to do it.
Technocracy is one of those theories, movements, revolutions of economic life which prefaces its own program with the ingenious observation that something is decidedly wrong with our present system and something will have to be effected shortly in the way of remedy. It then proceeds to tell us that our problem is not one of production but rather of distribution, that we have enough capital goods and a surplus amount of consumptive goods, but that we have no workable medium of getting the produce of industry to the mouth of the man on the street. The technocrat crashes into headlines by discovering that there is something out of order in our money exchange, that men are being constantly replaced by machines, that unemployment will grow in leaps if it is not checked by scientific management of industry.
Now the paradoxical part of the whole business is that technocracy has been ballyhooed chiefly because it has said the above things, which have been as evident to Mi- Hoover, Mr. Hoover’s cabinet, and Mr. Hoover’s countrymen, as have been the noses on their respective faces. Nobody in his wildest dreams doubts that there is something wrong with United States industry. No high school boy or- girl in Economics A is unaware of the fact that men are out of work and that something is back-firing in our distributive machinery.
The question might be raised: “Are we doing the technocrat justice when we say that he has contributed nothing but a load of platitudinous remarks in respect to the depression?” We prefer to answer the question by asking what else he has contributed. True he has muttered something about paying men in terms of ergs, or energy units, instead of in dollars. He has used as
a selling point the very hazy argument of arranging things in such a way that men would work only fifteen or twenty hours a week. He has built up a Utopia in which we use razor blades that last fifty years and shoes which we can not wear out in a life time. But—he has never even hinted in an intelligent manner just how these things are to be done.
From what we know about technocracy its fulfillment would involve ripping the Constitution into little bits, making one man another’s equal in all things, and turning our whole country over on its ear.
We like Cardinal Hayes’ observation that “the ■wisdom of raising- the subject of Technocracy at the present time may well be questioned because it has introduced a disturbing element in an already sorely tried world,” but we feel even more attracted to the gentleman who, when speaking of technocracy, advised that we drop the final “c” for a “z.”
V
“JUGGLER” JOKES
Some of the things that are being said about this year’s Juggler by a certain element in the student body are becoming a trifle annoying. We received a letter this week, addressed to the “Voice of the Campus,” with these remarks: “A bunch of us have agreed that the Juggler isn’t even funny ... I, for one, can read article by article without cracking a smile.” We ask this gentleman and all others of the same opinion to consider the following bit of information:
There are only a few ways of editing a humorous magazine. An editor may resort to washroom humor and turn out a Ballyhoo; he may jot down wise-cracks he hears during the month and produce page after page of “He: , She:” jokes; or he may introduce ait work into his book, attempt a more sophisticated, cultural type of wit, and pray that his public has enough sense to know what he is doing. The Juggler is in the latter category. If you don’t think it’s funny, sometime sit down and analyze what you do think is funny—and then figure out how long your own humor would have its appeal. The Juggler editor isn’t trying to tickle people’s toes. He thought, perhaps unjustifiably, that he could appeal to their heads.
Twenty
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
T rack Y ear OpensT omorrow
Nicholson’s Squad Given Little Chance In Meet With Marquette
GAGERS PLAY CHICAGO ON MIDWAY TOMORROW
Metcalfe, Tierney, and Schram Head Strong Hilltopper Squad in First Meet.
By Edward Van Huisseling
Eighteen Notre Dame track men will break camp this afternoon to leave for Milwaukee where they will match Marquette’s thinlies stride for stride in the opening track meet of the current campaign tomorrow.
Coach John P. Nicholson expressed little hope of returning with a victory but he expects his charges to pull a few surprises on the Wisconsin lads. The track men seem to be nominated to do the few unexpected deeds for they have been developing fast. The field men, on the other hand, have not been progressing so rapidly.
Metcalfe Should Win
Marquette will turn a well balanced team on to the track with such names as Metcalfe, Tierney and Schram heading the list. The negro dash sensation is scheduled to take first in the 40-yard sprint but not without a degree of trouble. Metcalfe is as famous for his rather slow start from the blocks as he is for his lightning speed when about fifty yards from the starting post, so he ought to find it rather difficult to gather his full speed sooner than is necessary in the longer dashes.	.
Schram Favored In Vault
Schram is an excellent pole vaulter and should get the decision over the Irish vaulter, Edwards. Fagan and Poredon will have their worries when they scoot over the hurdles with Ravensdale, one of Marquette’s bright spots in the track events.
The two mile jaunt ought to attract special interest. In this event, Eddie King, veteran Blue and Gold middle
distance man, will fight it out with Geissman who ran third in the C. I. C. run of the same distance last spring.
Dilling, Freschi, and Noeckels will carry the burden in the 40-yard
Captain Fred MacBeth Heads Irish 440 Men.
sprint for the Irish. Edwards will be the only pole vaulter to make the trip. Just what these men are capable of, “Nick” does not know. They have been outstanding on some days and rather slow on others. Only competition can tell what they will do.
King, BacBeth, Bowdren, Troy, Shiels, and Young make up a running troupe which is well balanced and consistent. Troy has been doing great work in the half mile run. Captain MacBeth will be entered in the 440 yard run tomorrow, and judging from reecnt workouts his Marquette opponents will have it tough going.
Duke and Bower are carded as the Notre Dame entries in the two mile trot. This is a difficult assignment ill this meet because the boys will not only be running on a board track but (Continued on Page 24)
Will Be First Cage Clash Of Maroons and Irish.
For the first time in the history of the two schools, the Notre Dame and Chicago University basketball teams will clash tomorrow night on the Maroons’ floor.
George Keogan’s charges will be heavy favorites to defeat the Chicago quint that dropped ten of the first 11 games on its schedule.
Homecoming For Irish
The game will be the first appearance in Chicago proper of the Notre Dame squad that includes a host of Windy City boys. Captain Johnny Baldwin will be returning to the scene of his earliest basketball triumphs, accomplished four years ago with the Englewood High school quint when he was named all-tournament forward in the Stagg Interscholastic meet.
Moose Krause and Johnny Jordan of the regulars are both products of Chicago schools. Other native sons on the Irish squad are Al McGuff, Ray Boland, and Gene Holland.
Chicago Starting Lineup
The opening five for Chicago is expected to include Chiz Evans and Tom' Flinn at forwards, co-captain Keith Parsons at center, and Harold Wenger and co-captain Jim Porter at guards. Parsons and Porter are competing in their third season as regulars with the Maroons.
Evans is the high scorer of the Midway five, being rated as an outstanding point getter in the conference. Wegner, a reserve from last season has improved considerably, while Flinn, a sophomore, has added considerably to the offensive effectiveness of the Maroons.
February 3, 1933
Twenty-one
TOLEDO EASY VICTIM FOR IRISH QUINTET
TIP-OFFS _____By Al McGufl_
VARSITY SWAMPS FROSH TRACK SQUAD IN MEET
Keogan Uses Large Squad In 42 to 14 Victory.
•After dropping a hard fought game to Pittsburgh on Jan. 21, the Notre Dame basketball squad stopped at Toledo the following Monday to engage the Toledo university forces on the hardwood.
This game brought together teams from these two schools for the first time in history and leaves the Blue and Gold one up on the newly acquired opponents.
Long Lead At Half .
The final score, which read 42 to 14 with the Irish on the big end, shows clearly the type of contest it was. The local netters rained shots at the basket throughout the game and their accuracy is attested by the final outcome.
The fray was the biggest walkaway the varsity has participated in this year. After the regulars had . been in action for 15 minutes in the first half and had piled up a 23 to 4 lead, Coach Keogan put the second S team into the fracas and left them in for the remainder of the game. However, the absence of Baldwin and company from the fight didn’t seem to brighten Toledo’s hopes in the least because the Irish reserves continued the slaughter and piled up 19 points to a scant 11 for Toledo.
Kraus Leads Scoring
Krause again led the Notre Dame scorers with Voegele copping second honors. “Big Moose” registered five field goals and a free throw during the fifteen minutes he played and Joe hung up two baskets and four free throws.
Beinster was the most effective Ohioan, counting two of the five buckets rung up by his team during the evening.
Notre Dame was more accurate than usual from the free throw line, counting 12 of 18 possible tosses.
The lineups:
Notre Dame (42) Voegele, rf ........... Keating, rf ........... Jordan. If ............
McGuff. If ............
Krause, c .............
Ferris, c .............
Alberts, c ............
Crowe, rg .............
FG FT FTA PF Pts.
2	4	5	1	8
2 12 2 5 0	2	2	0	2
2	0	0	1	4
5	1	2	0	11
0	0	0	4	0
12 2 14
0	0	0	1	0
Old Doc Carlson of Pitt certainly put .the fear of something into his boys on "the free-throw question in their Notre Dame .game. They hit 15 straight and then Smith missed two only to have Cribbs tip the last one in for a basket. Total 17 points on 17 free-throws.
The Pitt fans treated the Irish eagers with the same tactics they did the football team—jeered the team from the time of their arrival until they left. Nice people! Boys don’t miss the return game with them here Feb. 11, it will be a corker.
The stay in Toledo was great. The Alumni there went to the greatest of trouble to make the visit an enjoyable one. Here is what Cantain Baldwin has to say in regard to them: “The people of Toledo certainly made our stay a pleasant one, and on behalf of my teammates and myself I wish to thank them from the bottom of my heart and wish for a furtherance of this union between the two schools.”
Do you know that Krause took six shots and made five baskets in seven minutes in the Toledo game?
The second team played 33 minutes of the Toledo game. Had to rest the regulars you know.
Vince Fehlig should have used his putter on those two short shots he had near the end of the game. But even with a putter the ball has the reputation of lipping the cup. (Quote: Frs. Reynolds and Brennan).
(Continued on Page 24)
Fehlig, rg 		... 2	0	0	1	4
Baldwin, 1g 		... 1	0	0	2	2
Newbold, 1g 		.... 0	2	5	1	2
Totals 				12	18 •	14	42
Toledo (14)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Garner, rf 		.... 0	0	0	3	0
Schmaul, rf 		.... 0	0	0	0	0
Shank, If		.... 1	2	6	2	4
McLaughlin, If ..	.... 0	0	0	0	0
Drake, c 		.... 1	1	4	1	3
Beinster, rg .....	.... 2	0	1	3	4
David, 1g		.... 0	0	1	0	0
Hummell, 1g 			.... 1	1	2	0	3
	—	—	—	—	—
Totals 		.... 5	4	14	9	14
Yearlings Lose, 58-29, In PreExam Workout.
The annual Varsity-Freshman track meet, field on Jan. 21, resulted in the expected overwhelming victory for Nick’s men. The final tabulations showed a 58 to 29 score.
In accomplishing this victory over a choice group of first year men the varsity walked off with seven firsts, eight seconds, and eight thirds. Nockles, King, Bowdren, Troy, La-Frambois, Edwards, and Murphy were responsible for the winning places. Eleven events, were on the program.
This quickly arranged meet was the last competition the Irish will get before they tackle Marquette in Milwaukee tomorrow.
The summary:
60-YD. DASH—Won by Nockeis (V) ; Hul-ler (V). second: Gilfoil (V), third. Time— .06:5.
MILE RUN—Won by King (V) : Young-(V). second: Moran (V). third. Time—4:38.5.
SHOT PUT—Won by Sullivan (F) : Finkel (V). second. Distance—45ft., 5% in.
449-YARD DASH (FIRST HEAT)—Won by Rubly (F) : MacBeth (V), second: Vettel (V). third. Time—.54.
440-YARD DASH (SECOND HEAT)—Won by Bowdren (V) : Davis (V). second: Flynn (V), third. Time—:53.5.
60-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Ma-hern (F) : Fagan (V), second: Borden (V). third. Time—:08.2.
880-YARD RUN—Won by Troy (V) : Duc-cesa (F), second: Van Petten (V). third. Time—2:03.7.
880-YARD RUN—Won by La Frambois (V) : Sluszka (V). second: Hammer (F). third. Time—2:09.
POLE VAULT—Won by Edwards (V) : Maxwell (V), second: Cavendar (V). third. Height—11 ft.. 6 in.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Logan (F) : Gough (F), second: Fisher (V). third. Dis-• tance—20 ft.. 11 in.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Murphy (V) : Krause (F). second; Zieprecht (F). third. Height—6 ft., 2 in.
Interhall Basketball Practice Schedule.
Monday, February 6
Sorin	7:00	p.	m.	Freshman
Corby	8: CO	p.	m.	Brownson
Walsh	9:00	p.	m.	Carroll
Wednesday February 8
Alumni	7:00	p.	m.	Dillon
Badin	8:00	p.	m.	St. Edwards
Lyons	9:00	p.	m.	Off-Campus
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
In The Last Second...
HALL FIVES TO OPEN TITLE RACE SUNDAY
Ed “Moose” Krause
Twelve Gaines to be Played On Opening Day Card.
Who batted in the winning basket against Carnegie Tech Wednesday night just as Timekeeper Martin’s gun ended the game. By his first half scoring spree, Krause was the first of the Irish to reach 100 points this season, beating Joe Voegele to the mark by about 30 seconds.
Twenty-four interhall basketball teams will go into action in the first round of the annual intra-mural cage competition Sunday when the title races open in the two weight divisions of both campus leagues.
As in the past, the lightweight and heavyweight teams of each hall will play parallel schedules, meeting their respective opponents at the same date and time. The lightweight games will be played in the apparatus room while the larger squads clash on the varsity floor.
Seven In Each League
Group I of the campus organization includes Lyons, St. Edwards, Morrissey, Badin, Dillon, Sorin, and Corby. The remaining six residences halls and Off-Campus compose Group II.
Several traditional rivalries will go into action in the first games Sunday. Lyons and St. Ed’s, sophomore halls, will meet in the first morning game. Dillon and Sorin, representing the youth and age of the league meet at 10:30 a. m. Morrissey plays Badin in the remaining game, while Corby draws a bye.
In Group II a strong Howard team, led by Whelan, Sandura, and Pask-wietz of last year’s heavyweight championship Lyons team, meets Walsh in the opening game. Walsh has always produced a strong quintet and the game should be one of the best of the day.
Off-Campus Meets Brownson
Off-Campus, runners-up in the heavyweight league last year, meets Brownson, while Carroll battles Freshman in an intra-class affair. Alumni’s five drew a bye.
Practice sessions for the various teams will continue during the season on the regular schedule.
Sunday’s schedule of games:
Group I: Lyons vs. St. Edwards, 8:30 a. m.; Morrissey vs. Badin, 9:30 a. m.; Dillon vs. Sorin, 10:30 a. m.
Group II: Howard vs. Walsh, 1:30 p. m.; Brownson vs. Off-Campus, 2:30 p. m.; Carroll vs. Freshman, 3:30 p. ,m.
February 3, 1933
Twenty-three
“TIP-OFFS” TO SPONSOR HANDBALL TOURNAMENT
Will Have Both Singles And Doubles Competition.
As announced in his column on page 21 of this Scholastic, Al McGuff, conductor of “Tip-Offs,” will sponsor a University handball tournament in the near future.
McGuff has arranged for trophies to be awarded to the winners of both singles and doubles play. The entries will be divided into two brackets for preliminary play, on the basis of their football competition. Any student who was “in uniform” last fall on a team other than an interhall eleven will be entered in the Football bracket.
The winner of the singles grand championship wlli receive a large loving cup emblematic of the Notre Dame Handball championship.
Complete details of the tourney and the rules to be followed in the matches are as follows:
1.	Trophies:
a.	Singles—Loving Cup (first place); (Handballs (second place).
b.	Doubles — Handball gloves and ball (first place); Handballs (second place).
2.	Entries:
a. All entries must be handed in or mailed as soon as possible either to Scrap Young in the training room, or to Al McGuff, 246 Badin Hall.
3.	Match rules:
a.	All games are to be 21 points.
b.	In the preliminary rounds the matches will be on a basis of two out of three games.
c.	In the semi-final and final rounds the matches will be on a basis of three out of five games.
d.	The winners of the football bracket and of the open bracket will play for the trophies in matches of three out of five games.
e.	The drawings will be posted on a prominent bulletin board together with the time limit for each round. All matches must be completed within the limited time under penalty of disqualification.
f.	A written report of the outcome of each match must be made to Al McGuff as soon as possible after the match.
Krause*s Last-Second
Basket Nips Carnegie
Kenney Launches Plans For Annual Interhall Indoor Track Program
First announcement of plans for the annual interhall indoor track season were made this week by Jack Kenney, senior track manager.
According to Kenney, coaches will be appointed in the near future from the members of the Physical Education department, and a regular schedule of practice periods will be worked out.
It is planned to have the hall candidates work out three evenings a week between 7:00 and 9:30 p. m., for the next few weeks in preparation for the annual series of interhall meets.
In past years the system employed in the intra-mural competition has involved two preliminary meets, in which two groups of halls compete, and a final meet shortly after the second preliminary affair.
Entrants who place first, second, or third in any event in either of the preliminary meets qualify for a place in the finals. The hall championship is decided on a basis of points scored in the final meet.
Kenney indicated that the same program would be followed this year.
Lyons hall won the championship a year ago when Van Petten, Huis-king, and Robinson led the west end squad to a decisive triumph.
Anderson Leaves For East To Attend Rules Meeting
Football Coach Heartly Anderson left yesterday for New York where he will attend the annual gathering of the collegiate football rules advisory committee this week-end.
In addition to Anderson, three other Notre Dame trained coaches are on the advisory board to the rules committee. Elmer Layden, coach of Duquesne and fullback of the Four Horsemen, Harry Stuhldreher, quarterback of the same eleven and now coach of Villa Nova college, and Noble Kizer, of Purdue, are the trio of Irish products on the board.
FINAL SCORE 37-35
Crowd In Uproar at Finish; Tech Rally in Second Half Almost Beats Irish.
By John D. Carbine
The score was tied — Notre Dame 35, Carnegie Tech 35; five Notre Dame men and five Carnegie men fought desperately under the Notre Dame basket for the ball. Jordan captured it, shot and missed. Big Ed Krause recovered the rebound and pushed the ball upward with his huge hand. The final gun went off while the ball was traveling upward toward the basket. It hit the rim, bounced around for a second and finally dropped through the twine to give Notre Dame a 37- to 35 victory over the Pittsburgh Scots.
That is the official version, the Notre Dame version, and George Keo-gan’s version of the proceedings in those last seconds of the hectic game played last Wednesday night in the Notre Dame gymnasium.
Argument On Time
Carnegie’s.supporters have a somewhat different view of those last minute proceedings. They claim that the gun went off as Jordan’s shot hit the backboard and that Krause made his shot after the game had ended. Tech’s team, which had left the floor after the end of the game, was ordered back on the court by Coach Hannum. For fully four minutes, Carnegie’s squad limbered up in the center of the floor while officials, coaches and players harangued. The huge crowd hurried back to the seats to view an alleged overtime. The Notre Dame team did not return to the court, and as the minutes passed, it became quite evident that they had no intention of doing so. Gradually the crowd thinned out arguing one side or the other and the Carnegie squad finally left the floor.
The hectic last minute came as a more or less fitting climax to the desperate final drive by the Scots. With eight minutes to play, Carnegie was trailing 25 to 18. Voegele, at this point, fouled Smith and the Scot (Continued on Page 27)
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
TIP-OFFS
(Continued from Paso 21)
The Irish had at least two loyal fans in the stands at Pitt. Mac (Equipment Room) and the Mrs. were there. Mac’s mother is ill in the Smoky City.
The column wishes to express its regrets to the person who sent a telegram to Pitt asking for the returns of the game as soon as it was complete. The team really tried to get that game for you and they will try to. come through later and make up for it. Your act certainly made the team feel good.
Several female hearts were broken when the team left Toledo. (Hi Charley—Hi Moose).
“Mailbags” Newbold’s fast breaking didn’t get him anything but a headache in the Toledo game. Better luck next week, Jim.
STRATIGQN “South Bend’s Distinctive” Lunch Soda Grill “JUST GOOD FOOD” 114 N. Michigan
□
Noonday Luncheon 25c —dessert and beverage included.
Complete Supper 50c —from soup to dessert.
Sunday Dinners Special —served all day.
Try our. Fish and Spaghetti Supper every Friday evening, 50c.
We bake our own Pastries —the best in town.
Buy a ticket and save money.
“Where Notre Dame Students Meet”.
Open 24 Hours.
This game with Chicago, Saturday night should be old home w’eek for the Irish with all the Chicago talent it has. Krause, Jordan, Bladwin Boland, Holland and little Albert too.
They tell me Butch O’Neil is up there plenty and should hail from there. What’s the attraction Butch —the Fair?
Jim “Kingfish” Leonard is looking for a good opponent in the Bengal Tournament. And when he says good he means one that will be sure to “pull” the hard blows.
Here is a good one for you handball plawers. The column is going to run a handball tournament soon. There will be one bracket for the football men and then one for the other fellows. No, your work will not go in vain as in other years. The' prizes have been arranged and the only thing we. need now is a little publicity and then we are all set. (Read the column elsewhere in The Scholastic about it).
' Any and all suggestions about the Tournament will be taken for consideration.
TRACK YEAR OPENS
(Continued from Page 20)
one which is so small that it necessitates that two milers run thirty-two laps to complete their distance.
The field events will include the shot put, high jump, and pole vault. Vince Murphy, only a sophomore, who consistently clears the bar at over six feet, will be new to varsity competition but not to the art of high jumping. Finkel and Freschi, the latter also a dash man, will put the shot for the local crew.
Clyde Roberts has been spurred on by the rapid healing of his leg injury and although he will not make the trip to Milwaukee, Coach Nicholson expects to enter him in the Purdue meet here next week. When the squad travels to Urbana to meet Illinois Roberts should be able to resume his role of point getter.
Following is the squad which is going to Milwaukee: Dilling, Freschi, Nockels, Gilfoil, MaceBth, Bowdren, Troy, Shiels, King, Moran, Young, Duke, Bower, Fagan, Poredon, Murphy, Edwards, and Finkel.
PANTHERS BEAT IRISH IN THRILLING BATTLE
Pitt Stages Strong Second Half Rally To Win, 39 to 35.
By Howard Waldron
Pittsburgh’s Panthers, showing all the fight and energy of the savage wildcat from whom they get their names, came from behind in the second half to win over the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame by a score of 39-35, in a game at Pittsburgh on January 21.
It was one of the fastest games ever played at Pittsburgh, and its end found both teams exhausted. In fact, some of the contestants were so fatigued that they had to rest before they could make their way to the dressing-rooms.
Stop Ed Krause
Pittsburgh’s win can be attributed to two factors: a better average from the free throw line, and the ability to keep Big Ed Krause under control in the second half. Every team that faces Notre Dame has one main line of strategy—to keep Ed Krause from scoring. In the majority of cases, the teams that defeat Notre Dame have usually accomplished this objective. Pittsburgh joined this class last Saturday night.
During the first half Krause made three field goals and three free throws. The result was that Pittsburgh lagged 21-24 at the half. But, during the second period, they accomplished their aim. Krause was held to three free throws, and Pittsburgh managed to win the ball game.
Thirteen Straight Points
The lead, which changed hands time and again, was Notre Dame’s for most of the first half. Early in the half, the Irish had a lead of 11-3. Then Pitt broke loose. They made nine straight baskets and were out in front 21-11. But Notre Dame was undaunted. They proceeded to rack up thirteen straight points and led at the half 24-21.
The second half was another story. The Panthers returned to the fray with a renewed vigor and staged a brilliant rally to win. The first half was too speedy for Notre Dame, and they were visibly wearied in the second part. “Moose” Krause, who had been the spark-plug of the first half splurge, failed to make a field goal
(Continued on Page 31)
February 3, 1933
Twenty-five
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
SPORTSMANSHIP
The following quotation is taken from the editorial page of the University of San Francisco Foghorn of January 12. By way of explanation, it may be pointed out that the incident referred to was the much-publicized fisticuffs between Joe Kurth, captain of the East team, and Ralph Stone, of the San Francisco Olympic Club, who was playing end for the West eleven in the annual East-West game January 2.
“All America Sportsmanship”
. The last East-West game was the occasion that led to an exchange of blows between two players of the opposing teams . . . Many wondered what the outcome of the event would finally be . . .
“Here was exhibited sportsmanship of the finest kind. It is not easy to admit one is in the wrong, to keep . . . from trying to divide the blame. It is here
that Joe Kurth, All-American tackle from Notre Dame, proved that ... he was an All-American in sportsmanship as well as in other qualifications.
“After the game it was Kurth’s first thought to apologize for the action . . . and although finding Ralph Stone absent, he apologized to the Western team. He made a special point to find Stone and make personal amends . . . the two players are now the best of friends.
“We may remember many things from the game . . . but the most indelible of them all will be the exhibition of sportsmanship displayed after the game. Notre Dame may be proud ... so may all Americans be proud of this All-American.”
SHORTS
Ford Palmer will captain the So. Cal team when they appear here next year . . . maybe the Irish leader will be an end too . . . Cecil Storey, Chi
cago U. fullback hope, has gone to U. S. C. . . . a little shy on scholarship for the Midway school.
BASKETBALL
If George Keogan’s team goes throught its remaining ’ nine games wtihout another setback, the season average will be over .700. That would be a remarkable mark without any qualifications. Considering the quality of the opposition, and the loss of last year’s veterans, it would be a singularly fine record.
Before the opening of the season we pointed out that defeats, several of them, were to be expected. We also predicted that Coach Keogan would produce a fine team, capable of whipping many of the best quintets in the country.
That the Notre Dame mentor has accomplished that is a fine tribute to his effectiveness as a coach. He had to combat inexperience, not so much in the individuals, though it existed there, but in playing together. He has welded a unit that, though it has lost several games, has always been a hard-fighting, reluctant loser, forcing the winning teams to play forty minutes of exceptional basketball to take the decisions.
MAGAZINES	PAPERS
University Cafeteria
and
Soda Grill
Daily Specials
Open 6:30 A. M. to 9:40 P. M.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
SOUTH SHORE LINE Bargain Excursion Sundayl
ROUND TRIP
South Bend to
CHICAGO
One day rate good going on trains leaving South Bend at 6, 6:50, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 a. m. and 12 noon. Tickets good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. the same day.
Week-end Rate
40 ROUND TRIP
South Bend to
CHICAGO
Rate good going Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. Monday night.
See James McGrath, No. 1 Morrissey Hall for Complete Information.
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING Leo Crowe
By John F. Carbine
On one night of December last, a Notre Dame basketball team was down at Lafayette trying, at the expense of Purdue, to mark up its 20th straight victory. Notre Dame had the ball outside, an Irish guard cut for the basket, took a perfect pass from Krause and left his feet for a step shot. At that moment, Parmenter, a Purdue player, hurled himself through the air, his body struck the gold uniformed guard above the knees and the two went to the floor in a heap. Parmenter got up; the Irish guard stayed down. Examination showed his arm to be severely injured and he was removed from the game.
A Basketball Family
That Notre Dame guard was none other than Leo Crowe, carrying on tradition for the Crowe family of Lafayette. Coincidence or not, Notre Dame lost that game—its first defeat in 20 starts. And it lost six out of its next nine games while Leo was recovering from his injury. It was, perhaps, a coincidence.
Leo is by no means the first of the Crowes to play basketball for Notre Dame. Brother Ed, the first of the Crowes, played the court game for the Irish in 1922 and since that date, there has always been a Crowe numbered among the Notre Dame basket-eers. Leo said, modestly enough, that the best are yet to come in the persons of brother Mike and brother Emmett who are at present burning up the court for Lafayette, Indiana, High school. Jim Newbold, Leo’s roommate supplied another bit of Crowe family history, “Leo has a good looking sister,” said Jim. “She’s the only good looking one in the family.”
High School Star
Leo went to Lafayette, Indiana, High school where he starred in football, baseball and basketball, twice being elected captain of basketball— which seems to be another family tradition. Leo came to Notre Dame three years ago and won his monogram in his sophomore year. He has been injured but twice in his athletic career —once at Purdue and he says, that due to constant association with his roommate, he has more or less of a chronic mental trouble.
The decorations of Leo’s room in the Corby sub are, to say the-Ieast,
unique. A large golden star hangs from the ceiling and envelops a light to flood the room with a golden glow. The said golden star belongs, it seems,
Leo Crowe
Carrying on tradition.
to the University, but Leo and Jim are keeping it in storage for the school. Of course they never got permission to guard the star, but that is quite a minor consideration.
“A Dazzling Exhibition”
A large sign blazes forth from the wall. It proclaims a football game between the La Salle (Illinois) Bulldogs and the Notre Dame Reserves who “will furnish a dazzling and. stupifying exhibition of modern football. Signals, 92-64-24, the backs shift to the right and a Notre Dame man is away for a touchdown.” The Notre Dame Reserves were none other than the Saint Ed’s team — the interhall champions of last year on which Leo played.
There were other things on the wall. Some very interesting and original drawings with the caption, “Nature in the raw is seldom mild.” But those can hardly be described' here.
Editor's note: The absence of Staff Artist Dick Prezebel caused us to forego the distinctly pleasant task of presenting Leo Crowe in caricature. We had hoped to do full justice to the bulging elbow bandage and the Croive beard. (Possibly some other time.)
Check these points:
Workmanship Service
Convenience
^And that’s about all you could ask for in your laundry and dry cleaning work.
^At Notre Dame you’ll find superior workmanship. The service is as fast as is consistent with quality. And as for convenience—what could be simpler than the Notre Dame system? Just leave your laundry at the appointed place in your own hall.
^So, we tell you frankly that you are missing a bet if you fail to patronize the
University of Notre Dame
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING DEPARTMENTS
February 3, 1933
Twenty-seven
IRISH BEAT TECH.
(Continued from Page 23)
made his free throw good. A moment later, Jagnow followed with another toss from the charity strip. Coach Hannum now evidently discovered a flaw in the Irish defense and sent Rigg into the game. Rigg made excellent use of this discovery, for twice within 90 seconds, he slid through the Notre Dame defense for step shots to make the score Notre Dame 25, Carnegie 24.
Smith Scores
Smith, a source of trouble to the Irish all night, sneaked along the sidelines for a stepshot to give the Scots a one point lead. Krause was fouled while shooting and made one of his two free throws to tie the score at 26 all. Smith captured the ball under the Carnegie basket and tossed in a pot shot.
At this point, Stentz, the Carnegie center was put out on personals. Crowe made his two free throws to tie the score once again at 28 all. Baskets by Fergus and Voegele neutralized each other, but Krause put the Irish out in front again with a neat shot from the side.
Now the Scots staged a great rally and gained a three point lead with but a minute to play. Krause fouled Fergus and he made one of his two free throws, Smith captured a rebound from the Irish backboard and rushed down the court for a step shot and a double marker. Jagnow made a long shot to shove Carnegie into a 85 to 32 lead.
Game Starts Slowly
With a minute to play, Baldwin sank a beauty from way past the center and Leo Crowe made a free throw to tie the score. On the next tipoff, the play went down into the Notre Dame territory and Krause made his final basket.
Things started in a slow fashion with first one side and then the other assuming the offensive and doing most of the scoring. Carnegie ran up an early nine to five lead when their forwards exhibited a great proficiency in feinting away from Notre Dame guards and dribbling in for easy shots. The Irish came back to assume a commanding lead of 17 to 12 midway in the first half and had run a 23 to 15 lead as the first half ended.
Notre Dame’s passing was ragged but the Irish made the most of their opportunities for baskets. The rough . and tumble play which has character
ized the Notre Dame attack thus far this season was pleasingly absent. O’Kane, a new man in the ranks of the Keoganites, entered the game midway in the second half and looked good at a forward position.
The score:
Notre Dame (37) Voegele, f ...........
Keating f ...........
Jordan, f ...........
O’Kane, f ...........
Krause, c ...........
Baldwin, g ...........
FG FT FTA PF Pts.
3	2	7	3	8
0	0	0	0	0
0	0	0	2	0
0	0	0	0	0
7	3	8	3	17
3	0	0	2	6
Headquarters for OFFICIAL GYM SUPPLIES
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ♦?
Running Pants Athletic Shirts Sweat Shirts Bike Straps
Sweat Sox
Campus Shop (BADIN HALL)
Crowe, g ............. 1	4	a	0	6
Totals .............14	9	20	10	37
Carnegie (35)	FG
Smith, f............. 5
Jagnow. f	.......... 2
Stentz, c	.......... 0
Ewalt. c	.......... 1
Rigg, g ............... 3
Fergus, g	.......... 3
Silverman,	g .........0
FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
1	1	o	11
2	3	0	6
0	0	4	0
0	0	2	2
0	0	•>	6
♦J	4	*>	9
1	3	o	1
Totals ..............14	7	11	17	35
Referee: Bolster (Pittsburgh) : umpire:
Young (III. Wesleyan).
*
ul®>

ILLUSION!
This very old illusion was invented by Indian fakirs. The secret was unearthed in 1849 by the greatmagician, Kobert-Houdin. At that time, ether had just been discovered, and little was known about it. Houdin claimed that he had discovered that this neW anesthetic could make people light as air. To prove it, he caused the subject to rise into the air and float apparently suspended. He passed a hoop around the body to show there were no wires or supports.
It’s fun to be fooled
EXPLANATION:
There are many, many explanations for this old trick. One is that the girl wears a concealed harness, which ends in a socket between her shoulder blades.
This is attached to a piston below the stage. The piston is pushed up from below, causing her to rise in the air. The piston is invisible, because it is covered with mirrors which reflect surrounding draperies, similar to the background. The magician can pass the hoop over her body because it is cut in one place. It can be pulled apart for a second when it passes the piston.
Source: “Modern Magic" by Professor Hoffmann. George Routledge & Sons.
JUST COSTLIER
TOBACCOS
BLEND
Copyright, 1033, 11. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
NO TRICKS
KEPT FRESH IN THE WELDED HUMIDOR PACK
...it’s more fun to KNOW
Another “magic show” is cigarette advertising.
One of its greatest tricks is the illusion that cigarettes can be made miraculously "MILD" through manufacturing methods.
the explanation * All popular cigarettes today are made in modern sanitary factories with up-to-date machinery. All are heat treated—some more intensively than others, because raw, inferior tobaccos require
more intensive treatment than choice, ripe tobaccos.
The real difference comes in the tobaccos that are used. The better the tobacco, the milder it is.
leaf tobacco experts, that Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other popular brand.
This is why Camels are so mild. This is why Camels have given more pleasure to more people than any other cigarette ever made. It’s the secret of Camels’ rich “bouquet” ...their cool flavor...their non-irritating mildness.
All the natural, ripe goodness of Camel’s tobacco is kept fresh for you by the famous air-tight, welded Humidor Pack. Don’t remove it.
Thirty
The Scholastic
SERMON LISTS
(Continued from Page 14)
8:00, Fr. Hamel; 7:00-9:00, Fr. T. Burke; 9:00, Fr. Molony, celebrant.
April 30.—The Christian Home: 6:00-8:00, Fr. Reynolds; 7:00-9:00, Fr. Carroll; 9:00 Fr. E. Burke, celebrant.
May 7.—Birth Control: 6:00-8:00, Fr. L. R. Ward; 7:00-9:00, Fr. Milt-ner; 9:00, Fr. Kenna, celebrant.
May 14.—Mixed Marriage: 6:00-8:C0, Fr. Norris; 7:00-9:00, Fr. Carrico; 9:00, Fr. Haggerty, celebrant.
May 21.—Divorce: 6:00-8:00, Fr. Fogarty; 7:00-9:00, Fr. Murray; 9:00, Fr. Wenninger, celebrant.
May 25.—Ascension (no sermon) : 9:00, Fr. C. O’Donnell, celebrant, Fr. Connerton and Fr. McNamara.
May 28.—Perseverance: 6:00-8:00, Fr. J. Kelley; 7:00-9:00, Fr. Haggerty; 9:00, Fr. C. McAllister, celebrant.
The Mass is the most genuine relic of religious belief left in the world—r Carlyle.
To be an optimist you must have two associations—youth and the idea of ultimate perfection.
KRAUSE PASSES 100; TAKES SCORING LEAD (Including Carnegie Tech Game.) .							
Player	-FG	FT		FTA	PCT	PF	PTS.
Krause, c 		_ 40	30		66	.454	28	110
Voegele, f		_ 36	31		56	.554	30	103
Baldwin, g		_ 26	10		19	.526	25	62
Jordan, f 		_ 19	9		19	.474	15	47
Crowe, g		_ 13	14		23	.609	20	40
Alberts, f		_ 7	3		8	.375	7	17
McGuff, f-g		_ 6	0		1	.000	6	12
Keating, f		_ 4	1		3	.333	2	9
Fehlig, g		_ 2	0		0	.000	1	4
O’Neil, g		__ 2	0		0	.000	0	4
Newbold, g		_ 0	2		5	.400	6	2
Mettler, f-g		__ 1	0		0	.000	1	2
Angsten, f		__ 1	0		0	.000	0	2
Ferris, c-g-f		_ 0	0		0	.000	5	0
Holland, c		__ 0	0		0	.000	1	0
	—	—		—	—				—
Totals		._157	100		200	.500	149	414
Opponents	:		_124	99		176	.563	153	347
*FG—field goals	FT-	—free throws		; FTA-	-free throws attempted;		
PCT—percentage of	free	throws	‘made; PE-		-personal	fouls; PTS—	
total points.							
NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL SCHEDULE, 1932-33
Dec. 9—Notre Dame 41, Albion 20.
Dee. 15—Notre Dame 24, Ill. Wesleyan 12.
Dec. 19—Notre Dame 28, Northwestern 25.
Dec. 23—Purdue 36, Notre Dame 31.
Dec. 28—Ohio State 30, Notre Dame 24.
Dec. 31—Northwestern 33, Notre Dame 29.
Jan. 7—Marquette 35, Notre Dame 32. .
Jan. 9—Notre Dame 36, Mich. State 19.
Jan. 14—Butler at Notre Dame.
Jan. 17—Minnesota at Notre Dame.
Jan. 21—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh. '
Jan. 23—Toledo at Toledo.
Feb. 1—Carnegie Tech at Notre Dame.
Feb.' 4—Chicago at Chicago.
Feb. 11—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame.
Feb. 18—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia.
Feb. 20—Western Reserve at Cleveland.
Feb. 24—Michigan State at Notre Dame.
Mar. 1—Butler at Indianapolis.
Mar. 4—Wabash at Notre Dame.
Mar. 7—Marquette at Milwaukee.
Mar. 11—Minnesota at Minneapolis.
For the second time in white man’s history on this continent, the Rio Grande river at El Paso, Texas, was frozen over recently.
Dr. Maurice Brodie of McGill University reported to the meeting of the American Bacteriologists Society at Ann Arbor, Mich., that considerable immunity to infantile paralysis had been produced in monkeys by inoculating them both with the virus of the disease and serum of human beings convalescing from it.
Bill PIERCE TAKES JOB AT ST. EDWARDS
Veteran Guard to Assist Jack Chevigny at Texas School.
Bill Pierce, two-year monogram winner with the Notre Dame football varsity, this week accepted a position as assistant coach at St. Edward’s
Bill Pierce
More Notre Dame for St. Ed’s.
college in Austin, Texas, where Jack Chevigny recently signed as head coach and Director of athletics. •
Pierce, who is a senior here, will leave soon for the south, where he plans to continue his studies at St. Edwards, taking his degree there in June.
With 1930 Champions
The small, chunky guard won his first monogram with the National . Champions of 1930 when he was a sophomore. That season he played with the shock troops.
Last year and this, injuries dogged his football activities. A year ago he suffered a broken arm just before the Southern California game here. Despite the fact that he did not play in that or the Army game, he was awarded his second monogram at the close of the season. ,
During the recent season, injuries kept him on the bench for the greater part of the year, but he saw some service during the nine game campaign.
The “purest” art in the world is the art of war, for it is of no earthly use.—Bennett. Craiff. .
February 3, 1933
Thirty-one
POSTULANTS RECEIVED
(Continued from Page 12)
Chicago, Brother Ladislaus; James Landers, Indianapolis, Brother Eric; Michael Lenihan, Chicago, Brother Claudius; Frank Stites, Indianapolis, Brother Ralph; Richard Kirley, Doylestown, Wis., Brother Armel; John Collins, Indianapolis, Brother Dacian; William Schwartz, Fort Wayne, Ind., Brother Casper; Michael Tarpey, Indianapolis, Brother Moritz; George Ellis, Portland, Ore., Brother Hugo; Leonard Moriarity, Indianapolis, Brother Crispinian; William Fuller, Indianapolis, Brother Lawrence; Joseph Laschky, Indianapolis, Brother Carl; Joseph Harrell, Dorchester, Mass., Brother Elias; Theodore Amman, Chesaning, Mich., Brother Armand; Bronislaus Newman, Winona, Minn., Brother Poly'-arp; John Burns, Port Huron, Mich., Brother Theodosius.
15 Take Temporary Vows
The fifteen who made their temporary profession of vows are:
Brother Roman Witowski, Gary, Ind., Brother Norman McLaughlin, Peru, Ind., Brother Meinrad Seeard, Merrill, Wis.; Brother Osmund Mittcosbe, Pittsburgh; Brother Avila Dietrich, Waynesburg, Ky.; Brother Pius Cummings, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Brother Lellis Kaveny, Canandaigue, N. Y.; Brother Amatus Morrison, Medford, Mass.; Brother Emmett Strohmeyer, Danby, Wis.; Brother Cesaire Hartzell, Tiffin, Ohio; Brother Emery, Chesaning, Mich.; Brother Quentin Hegarty, Indianapolis; Brother Adalbert Mrowca, Chicago; Brother Marinus Ulman, Decatur, Ind.; Brother Borromeo Malley, Decatur, Ind.
ROTARY GRID BANQUET
(Continued from Page 12)
achievements will be remembered as long as athletic tradition shall exist at Notre Dame; their defeats shall serve to guide us safely from the pitfalls they encountered, and their individual records as gentlemen, students, and athletes shall forever be kept flourishing and growing in that garden of memory that Notre Dame has erected and cared for so tenderly for all of her sons.”
Captain Paul Host and Joe Kurth • expressed their gratitude for the demonstrative reception the team received on returning from the Army game and thanked the residents of South Bend for their hearty support of the team during the entire season.
Technocracy?—They Grade
Exams by Machine Now
Ironwood, Mich. — A device which its inventor says will give teachers more time for scholastic study by doing all their grading of test papers for them, has been shown here by Reynold Johnson, teacher at Luther L. Wright High School.
The machine, called a markometer, grades the papers and then goes on to calculate the per centage standing of each one.
FOUNTAIN
LUNCH
A Double Rich Malted Milk and a Toasted Ham Sandwich.
Toasted Egg Salad Sandwich, served with Hot Chocolate and a dish of Ice Cream.
Home made Soup, Melted Cheese Sandwich, on toast, and Coffee, Milk or Tea.
Brick Oven Baked Beans served with buttered toast and Coffee and Chocolate Cake.
WALGREEN’S
DRUG STORE
With each examination sheet an answer sheet is provided the students. In a certain column the student indicates one of numerous possible answers to questions. Instead of marking wtih a pen or pencil, the student makes a small perforation in the proper place.
The answer sheets are then inserted in the machine. Little beams of light passing through the perforations control electrical impulses which operate the dials.
Delicious
HOT CHOCOLATE
Served with whipped cream I I and wafers
Warm . . . refreshing . . . satisfying. Served piping hot, it certainly “hits the spot” on a cold wintry day. Try it!
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
After College WHAT?
RADIO?
Major Howard Angus, former V. P. of the National Broadcasting Company, says: "Radio offers a wide scope for talent—the technique of program production, merchandising, writing, scientific research, even financing. To succeed, the young man of today must have a thorough training, au alert mind, a clear head.”
REWARDS in radio go to the man with an "alert mind” and a "dear head.” This kind of man, in this business as in college, elects the pipe his favorite smoke. And any college man can tell you his favorite smoking tobacco—Edgeworth.*
This is only natural—for in all tobaccodom there’s no blend like the mixture of fine old hurleys found in Edgeworth. In that difference there’s new smoking satisfaction, new smoking comfort. Like to try before you buy? Write’ for free sample packet. Address Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
*A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in- two forms—Edgeworth Ready - Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. AU sizes—	pocket
package to pound - humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum tins.
On Down The Line
By Fred MacBeth__^___^
MATE, H. C. BOSTWICK’S great thoroughbred, came close to being destroyed when he was foaled ... an attendant discovered that one of his forelegs was short . . . the short legs didn’t bother MATE any more than it did ROLAND LOCKE, NEBRASKA’S FAMOUS SPRINTER . . .. LOCKE HAD ONE LEG SLIGHTLY SHORTER THAN THE OTHER . . . yet he set a WORLD RECORD IN THE 220 . . . WILLIE OGG, WORCESTER (Mass.) PRO. has invented a golf club that is GUARANTEED NOT TO SLICE . . . JOE JACKSON, probably baseball’s greatest natural hitter, runs a barbecue stand just outside GREENSVILLE, S. C.
GAR WOOD, undisputed king of motorboat drivers, never starts a race without his two teddy bear mascots ... he risked his chances against KAYE DON last year by slowing down when he saw the teddy bears were about to fall overboard . . . DETROIT is a tough place for welterweight champions . . . DUNDEE LOST HIS CROWN THERE TO JACKIE FIELDS . . . when FIELDS defended his title there FOR THE FIRST TIME, it passed on to JACK THOMPSON . . . PAUL RUNYAN, winner of the recent $7,500 AGUA CALIENTE golf tournament, used to be a milkman.
GEORGE OWENS, BOSTON BRUINS’ DEFENSEMAN, has a unique contract . . . the former HARVARD. HOCKEY STAR makes out-of- town trips with the club only when his business as a broker permits . . .
Bulletin Board Notice
Students Cruises
Magazine subscription scholarship workers and crew managers write immediately for very best student scholarship offers of: leading publishers. Can be
*	1	.	-X ;
worked there now.' Permanent petitions if. experienced, - also Summer crews for U. S. and foreign territory. For full details write — THE COLLEGIATE SCHOLARSHIP INSTITUTE—219 RepubUc Building, Miami, Fla.
RED JACKSON, who -plays center ice for the NEW YORK AMERICANS, drives a brewery truck in the summer . . . winter book betting on the KENTUCKY DERBY has been unusually brisk this year and LADYSMAN seems to be the favorite ... SIR MALCOLM CAMPBELL, holder of world’s auto speed records, has SPENT HALF A MILLION . DOLLARS in search of speed and a place to test it . . . BILLY ARNOLD, the leading AMERICAN DRIVER, loses from eight to ten pounds during the 500-mile race at INDIANAPOLIS.
THE LATE KID GLEASON WAS THE FIRST PLAYER TO CLIMB INTO THE STANDS AND TAKE A SWING AT A SPECTATOR ... he would have been kept busy had he played hockey with the MONTREAL CANADIENS . . . their home games are featured by near-riots in which the FRENCH - CANADIANS SUPPORTERS TAKE A VERY ACTIVE PART . . . BILL TERRY, manager of the NEW YORK GIANTS, sings tenor in the choir of a MEMPHIS CHURCH during the winter . . . the GIANTS will train in secret this spring . . . JOHNNY WEISMULLER was once a tailor’s assistant . . . JOCK SUTHERLAND, the PITT COACH, used to be a POLICEMAN.
PANTHERS BEAT IRISH
(Continued from Page 24)
and was held to three free tries this second part of the contest.
With two minutes left for play, Pitt led 37-33. But Johnny Baldwin shot a long one for Notre Dame and with a hilf minute left, the score was 37-35. The Irish tried several long shots but they missed their mark, and Pitt recovered the ball. Skippy Hughes dropped in a short shot and the game ended with Pitt on the long end of a 39-35 score.
The lineups:
Notre Dame (35) FG
Voegele, If ..........3
McGuff, If............0
Jordan, rf ...........1
Alberts rf............0
Krause, c ............3
Baldwin, rg ..........5
Crowe, 1g ............0
Newbold, 1g .......   0
Totals ...........12
Pittsburgh (39) FG
Smith, rf ...........4
W. Hughes. If .......4
Cribbs, c ...........3
McCamant.rg..........1
Ochsenhirt, Ig ....... 0.
C. Hughes, 1g____.... 0
Waino, c ............0
FT FTA PF Pts.
2	4	18
0	10	0
0	0	12
0	0	0	0
6	7	1	12
2	3	3	12
11	4	1
0	0	3	0
11	16	13	35
FT FTA PF Pts.
5	7	3	13
3	3	0	11
114	7
0	0	3	2
2	2	2	2
4	4	2	4,
0	0	0	0
Totals............12	15	17	14	39
Referee—Frank Lane, Cincinnati; umpire— Cal Bolster, Pittsburgh.
You’ll go Up-up-up! I
With the Up-Swing
If you give yourself a break by letting others see—that you advertise with the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
TO TELL you that Chesterfield is the only good cigarette ... that the makers of Chesterfield Cigarettes are the only ones who can buy good tobaccos and manufacture cigarettes scientifically ... would be foolish.
For all tobacco is sold in open auctions—where anyone can buy if he will pay the price. Even the machines on which different cigarettes are made are alike.
This much, however, is true: By using the right kinds of Turkish and Domestic tobaccos in just the right proportions ... we make Chesterfield what smokers say it is ... a cigarette that's milder, that tastes better. Just try them.