

Love is a giving thing. 
A perfect Keepsake 
diamond says it all, 
reflecting your love in its brilliance and beauty. 
4 ~~-i And·y~:m can choose with t:::-iii!,~-~•:.,,:Y~'i· confidence because the "'*"'...-,:.· ,;:.: ~,· K_eepsake g_uara:1tee a~sures ,,.,··:%: ~ perfect clarity, fme white ~,,2'·• color and precise · . . Rachel modern cut. There is no finer diamond ring. · 
.Keepsake® 

Box 90, Syracuse, N.Y. 13201 · Please send new 20 pg. booklet, "Planning Your Engagement and Wedding" plus full color folder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer all for only 25k 
Nam,"-------------,---------------
Addre,~----------------------­
City•-------------------------­
State________________ ZiP--'--------­
Find Keepsake Jewelers in the Yellow Pages or dial free 800-243-6000. 
Texas -Instruments· electronic calculator' 
SR-51A 

• 
Performs logarithms, trig"onometrics,tiyperbolics, powers, roots, 

·reciprocals, factorials, linear regression, mean, variance and standard deviation. · 

• 
Features an algebraic keyboard with dual function keys that increase the power of the SR-51 without increasing its size. 

• 
Three user accessible memories permit storage, recall, sum, product operations. · . · 

• 
Preprogrammed to provide 20 often used engineering conversions. 

• 
Random number generator, automatic calculation of permutations, automatic percent and percent difference computation. 

• 
Us.er selected fixed or floating dedmal point: 

• 
Calculates answers to 13 significant digits and uses all 13 digits in subsequent calculations for maximum accuracy. 

• 
Computes and displays answers as large as ::!:9.999999999 x 10"" and as small as ±tx 1o~••. 

•·Automatically 
converts.answers to scientific notation when calculated answer is greater than 101• or less than 10-111• • 

• 
Features bright 14-character display-10-digit mantissa with sign, 2-digit exponent with sign. . .. 

• 
Display provides overflow, underflow, errorindications . 

• 
Ughtweight, fully portable: ... 

• 
Rechargeable batteries or AC operation.· 

• 
Full year warranty. 

• 
AC Adapter/Charger included. 


ONE OF THE . MANY MODELS AVAi LABLE AT 



H~miries Notre· 
Dame -Bookstore 

Illustrations: Tom ·Paulius: Photographs: Ed Brower 10, 11, 20 (2), 27, 30 I Bill Delaney ·28, ·29 -/ ·Courtesy of Noire Dame Art Gallery 6, 7 (2) / T. Paul­ius 3 (2); 13, 24 (2). . _ . . . Cover: Photo~lirie · conversions by Tom . 
Paulius from ~riginal photos by Ed Brower. 


Scholastic 
Volume 117, No. 5, November 7, 1975 Noire Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES 
6 . From Indiana to Creativjty Missy Heard 10 ISIS Student Gallery Richard G. Landry 13 Portrait of Two Ladies: A Tableau Barb 'Frey & Melanie Jorgensen 16 When Notre Dame Was Active Mike Sarahan 22 Midwest Blues: An. American Festival 27 The Secret Players Bill Delaney 28 · The Catholic Sport Brian Doyle & John Delaney 
·29 Runners and Lovers Mike Palmer REGULARS 4 Gallery Anthony Chifari 8 Jottings . · Michelle Quinn .-12 ·. Perspective Gary· Zebrun . 20 In Order of Appearance Judy Robb, Marianne Murphy · 21 Week in Distortion Dan Lombardi 30 Last Word Sally Stanton 
Editor 
Sally Stanton­

Ari Director 
Tom Paulius. . 
.Production· Manager 
Annemarie Sullivan 

Managing Editor 
John· Phelan · 
News Editor 
Bill Grmzenbach · 
Culture Editor 
Robert Baker 
Assistant Art Director 
Kathy McElroy Assistant Production Manager­Steve Slater Sports Editor Bill Delaney Business Manager Kathy Salzer Assistant Business Manager Joanne Toeniskoetter Circulation Manager Kevin Murphy Photography Editor Ed Brower Advisory Board Ronald. Weber, Carl Magel, Ed Sanna, Madonna Kolbenschlag, Bro. Charles . McBride, C.S.C., Richard Conklin 
Staff Thomas J. ·Waldoch, Anne White, Dave Beno, Ron Rundstedt, John Kenward, Dave Dreyer, Leo J. Mulcahey, Mike Sarahan, Chris Meehan, Mike Feord, Mark Hopkins, Bob Gilroy, Rich Nugent, Dan Adler, Richard G. Landry, Paul Starkey, Susan Grace, Dan Lombardi, Rhonda Kornfeld, Barb Frey, Mark Luppino, Gary Harden, Christie Herlihy, Paul Hess,. John Delaney, Judy Robb, Sean Mclinden, J. Peter Delaney, Jim Romanelli, Paul Barickman, Bernie Valenti, Karen Caruso, Jim Ryan, Ed Lecuyer, Cary ·Gerber, Moira Keating, Mary Ann Chambers, John· Bartone, Andee Gotuaco, Randy Cashiola, · Kate Bernard, Mike Palmer, Marianne Murphy, Melanie Jorgensen, Maureen Reynolds, John 'Feeney, M_ark Amenta, Missy Heard, Julie Runkle, Chip Scanlon, Brian Doyle. 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body. 
Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, N .. Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre .· Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are available from Sch?lastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. 
copyright © 1975 Scholastic-/ all rights reserved I none of the contents may be repro­duced without perf!lission., . 

4 

Mexico is not cacti on a desert plain. Nor is it a strip of beach in Acapulco. It is people. That my year there would be captured in photographs such as these was, therefore, virtually inevitable . 
.._· : Anthony, Chifari Junior, American Studies 
' . . . 
_University, of Notre Dame 
i)t~ 
;,fif:J
.,.,._.......,,.. 
~r---::::... 
·.. 



~.·. -~ It 
.·... . . •1 J; . i 


v:~.-.
f '~-' 
. ···~ ; ".·, 


From Indiana to Creativity 
Victor Higgins, whose work is currently on display at the Notre Dame Art Gallery, is one creative figure with whom many students here might identify. He was born in 1884, in Shelbyville, Indiana-in the real Midwest. He was fifth in a large Irish Catholic family of nine. 
The Higgins exhibit, which opened October 26, displiys the major works of this Indiana-born artist who pri­marily worked out of Taos, New Mexico, until his death in 1949. The exhibition, arranged jointly by the Notre Dame Art Gallery and the Indianapolis Museum of Art, is the first retrospection of this American artist's paintings and will run through December 21. 
Higgins had no rigorous early 

training. In fact, it wasn't until he was nine, while playing hooky from school, that he met his first art teacher. This teacher, an itinerant sign painter, supplied Higgins with his first paints, his first art lessons .and the overwhelming desire to at­
tend the Art'Institute of Chicago. 
In 1899, when he was fifteen, Higgins left Indiana to study at the Art Institute of Chicago. He studied there for ten years, working at odd jobs to support himself. He re­ceived his first break in 1910, when. his works attracted the attention of art patron Carter H. Harrison, a former mayor of Chicago. Harrison, then, financed four years of travel and study. in Europe for Higgins. 
During·. this period, he mainly 


.,~Y Missy Heard 

studied the old masters. His paint­
ings were of the European·school­
dimmed colors, academic figures and 
picturesque landscapes. I:Je returned 
to the United States before the out­. break of World War I, somewhat disillusioned with European adven­
tures. 
Harrison again sponsor;ed him on 
another art expedition, this time 
to the new art colony in Taos, New 
Mexico. It was there that Higgins 
met some of the most creative ar­
tists of the time: O'Keeffe, Marin 
and D. H. Lawrence, to name a few. 
He began to work toward~ the de­
velopment of an indigenous Ameri­
can art form. But first, he had to 
abandon the traditional European 
academic style he had developed in 
his foreign travels. 
Another major problem he suf­
fered from at 'first was a tendency 
toward the romantic that seemed to 
affect most of the artists in the 
Southwest. In his First Taos Period, 
he discovered the beauty of the 
American Indian, the colors and the 
unbelievable landscape. Yet most 
of his subjects were from the Taos 
Pueblo,· following the creative tra­
dition set by his fellow artists. The 
paintings of this period, such as the 
Bead Worker and Juanita and the 
Suspicious Cat; were well-received 
by audiences in New York and Chi­
cago. With this style, Higgins won 
nine prizes in competition between 
1915 and 1920. Despite his success 
with his work, he wanted to paint 
for the sake of painting and not 
solely for the purpose of romantic 
illustration. Higgins was interested 
in bringing to his subjects a basic 
simplicity. This search for the basic 
along with briUiant color character­
ized his painting until his death. 
It was in, the 1920's, during what is known as his Second Taos Period, that Higgins turned to land­scapes. At this time he also began two additional series, the still life and the model, many of which are Indians both sleeping and waking. With these subjects, he used pastel colors and a more delicate brush­stroke. 
One of the most unusual compo­sitions created in the 1920's is Hig­gins' Circumferences. It shows us one of his rare departures from his New Mexican environment. It is the representation of a great battlefield between 1914 and 1919, the Mediter­ranean and. Western Europe. How­ever, his perspective is one of an astronaut. We find ourselves look­ing down on a battle·of the sky with nature's shapes, colors and textures fighting against one another. 
The creation o(some of America's finest waterco.lors was achieved by Higgins in the 1930's. They had more life and motion than his ·oils. They were full of brilliant colors and primarily represented the land­scape: But it was during this period that Higgins painted his great­est oil, .Winter Funeral. Though it does represent a funeral in a snowy pasture; it .· is .the storm-choked mounta.ins that ·attract immediate attention. The tops of huge dark mountains .are . obscured by even darker winter clouds; the gigantic aspect ·. of . the· . two-clouds and mountains-dwarfs the tiny funeral in the foothills. 

In the 1940's, during the last years of his life, Higgins. painted the group of small panels called the "Little Gems.'' These measure roughly 10 by. 20 inches and repre­sent small oU landscapes, del.icate in their detail, tiny brushstrokes and jewel-like colors. They are . the achievement of an individual who wheri searching for the comprehen­sion of his · environment finds it and can now paint for the sake of paint­ing. 

Victor Higgins died in August, 1949. It was not until this exhibition, over 25 years after his death, that we have begun to examine his con~ tribution to American art. It seems only fitting that two Indiana mu­seums have initiated this examina­tion_.:.the Art Gallery here until the end of December and following this exhibition, a· two-month showing in Indianapolis~· The· exhibit has al­ready increased national interest in Victor Higgins; several prominent institutions in the Southwest have recently made bids to share it after its presentation in Indiana. Finally, Victor Higgins· is in the national spotlight. 
The art of the Southwest is per­haps the mosf indigenous to the United States. For many famous artists who came to Taos,•this period of their careers was mainly.transi­tory. But for Victor Higgins, it was a lifetime devotion. So; in order to discuss American art, we must first examine the works of Higgins. We may discover that his talent was one of the foremost of all American artists. 


NEVERTHELESS, NOMORE 
_ by Michelle Quinn 

Michelle Quinn, a sophomore and have wine with guests. Best of could melt your insid~s through and psychology and English major from all your work went beyond the through. She satbeside ine. Her· New York, has been writing short , house. To accomplish it, your gift knees, half-bared by the hem of her fiction. for ./our years. She is ·cur-was a sparkly pick. to please colored housedress, touched perpendicular to rently chairwoman of the Sopho-bicycle. This was the first I could iny thigh. Perpendicular -a de­more ~iterary _Festival. call my very own. . Always before, _ lightful word, the worthiest remem­
Meg and I shared the Green Disaster. brance of last spring's ·math. I 
I leaned myeye~ upwarili. to the -I took the·stairwell two steps at turned my head toward her. I stared, window. Aiready,Grandma came to a time till I had approached the final couldn't think of words to say the sill and pronounce~ my name. landing. Grandma's home was on_ what was my mind's speaking.. My toes wound round .the metal, the third level smack even with the · _ Mother kept insisting. childhood pulUng the kickstand to position. tops o{city corner trees. The door would soon behind me be. Enjoy There now, the milk bottles a~ long · was partly open. Grandma didn'f every moment, children, it will long last were silent .. Goodness,. they could appreciate ·the racket of a.fist pouiid-pass. you byand your. moments in start a commotion the moment I ing ·wood. She said if you put -fo _ spending· imagination's reality will jerked pace . the_ slightest. This . . the effort of expelling such energy, : . come to_ pleasant recall. Adulthood morning they clattered ceaselessly · to climb· those damnable stairs, she is a fine, excitinglife but you'll never as I pedalled· tocomplete towning'. _ had no right or inclination to refuse know again the glories of a child's Saturday was errand day in _the _ your company. afternoon. Mother never dwelled 
. house. Everyday was someday; your Grandma knew I'd come. Some-upon such matters. Only, whenever part in.it written beside your name h~w, when~ver the. queer. th~ughts we got it in our. heads to want the on the.insideof the.oblong kitchen · came to me, I'd come by to sit them_ ways of older years, she'd pause in cabinet. Ever since I was so high mit with her. I could figure finding . . tendings and remind us so..I didn't my name went along with the rest. her in the Closet. Caroline's Closet: know childhood could be peeled and In younger, less tall days -it was Admit One! she'd say when Twas left behind, forever. Especially the Charlie's duty to inform me of my · tiny. This, she called the porched forever part. I certainly wouldn't chores. Saturdays.were n~t my own room. It kept her treasures; all of believe it. till lunch had been set out. . them: The Closet stores recipes in a : Grandma took my hands in hers. : I've been· 14 for an entire month woven . holder,·· books in a· cupboard·: · · An older way could be made agree-now. In many homes age is a _ with warbled glass panes, the awe-· able. Many chums were muddling number. In ours though, it is a : some piece of self-done tapestry lay through what they called maturity. position. Fourteen meant you were atop the uppermost shelving. I'd call it a first-rate mess. They almost an adult. (which meant you The chair sighed a sad huff as I could gasp or giggle at the precise weren't ever, ever to wallop the sat. I knew I could let the thoughts · social moment and expect the there-boys even when they did behave ins come now. Her right hand firmly _ tofore muted applause to tumble tolerably). With fourteenship you gripped the pot which warmly let forth for them. Surely, I too had could at holiday time sit at table through thick hot chocolate that dreams of grown-up years. I wanted 
8 

to see Africa, to know unbearable heat, t·o sleep in watch of mosquito regiments, to spy an untimid tribe. I wanted to swim in a full~fledged · · ocean, to submit myself to currents, to spill forward and back in the spray, to search for pearls and sea­shells. Other dreams I had as well. They were closer hopes, I suppose, for they were no lesser. I wanted to wear a soft' blue nightgown to bed and perfume to the movies. I wanted.. ·. to know ifPresbyterians had sex-· tons or meetthe person, whatever · they called him, who rarig the bells from the peak of their church in · early morning. I'd want t!) ring beUs instead of. vacuuming rugs. It must nearly.be time to return home. 
Grandma upped herself and went · . to the wall: I sipped hot chocolate so as not to cry. Turning around, her hand cupped slowly. Clasping the piece she sat again. The harmonica lifted to her lips, she set her hands to plaY:. . _ ; ~<:-.-·_ ;_:_-, _--.:~ 
_ Once, Grandma told me'. the story., It was a· gift from Mr. Daiiiels. Mr. Daniels was. not Grandpapa. Grand­papa was her evermost love, Mr. Daniels was her youngest. Grand­ma says a woman always gives her 
. love to men, though men seldom know it. I remember her saying a woman cherishes a difficult life. Without your asking, it• entails' a • heap of trials with a load of· mis­connections. Too, a man once or again might share your living.· So it was withMr. Daniels.· · · It was war then,.Grandma said. . Mr. Daniels served in a military capacity..Grandma never knew what. sort exactly, only, it kept them far;_ far ap~rt She'd become so wanting 
· 


.for his laughter that she would send him a letter soaked in loneli­ness. She'd rant at the stupidity and wonder at the necessity. She cried even. My Grandma, strong woman, 
·cried. Mr; Daniels got lost. I'm puzzled as. to how ·grown ·men ·can go and lose themselves; but then I • don't try hard, even in social s~udies, to understand the war. For her · birthday he sent the ·harm·onica. He sent it as his sorig. Packaging poor, and Mr. Daniels having made it without ·the proper glues at hand, the harmonica arrived in two sepa­rate pieces. Held jointly an unsettled noise blew through.. 
Grandma 'says she crushed the song. Her harmonica did not wantto function for s'omeone else.-Mr. Daniels meant for her to handle it as gently as Grandma.loved him. To get a pleasant sound; her lips had to uncover where to whisper 
. . ... 
breath. Just mough of her into the open bits of the instrument and the softest, sweetest songs could play. She played Mr. Daniels' song for all the people she came to love: The hard thing, she says, is not·to crush your beloveds. Give to their open-:: ness your gentle living. Then be silent as they play..· 
Grandma's playing ceased. She · placed the harmonica in my lap. I didn't watch her face. Her song was done. I didn't want to know. She hadn't breathed·a word, still !under­stood her telling. I had the instru­ment. My time to handle the gift had come. 
I didn't want to make the strains, to discipline forms, to free the im­.. perfections. The gift now belonged to me.I left then, with the bottles, and 
· the bicycle; and the piece. Lunch would soon be done with. My day had begun. 

For some; the word .conjures up images. of a, tortuouslY. bad ana~ gram describing some ,student or­ganization, or perhaps the name. of an old alumnus-turned-patron-of-the arts. All: diligent students ofthe classics know . otherwise. Bullfinch notes that· the Egyptian ge>ddess of fertility to whom the title refers "is represented in .. statuary with .the veiled_ head, a symbol of mystery,'' On the Notre Dame campus, she is represented by an imposing black­and-white . sign hung on the west. end of the old fieldhouse;. A door to the right leads into a small ante.­room, the ceiling black, the walls black with tan canvas panels.. On the . north wall, . a glass pane set above the lintel of a white door announces, in · black letters, the destination: Isis. The student art gallery. 

Since 1970, the Isis gallery has attempted to serve the University's ·-need for a space devoted to the showing of graduate and under­graduate artwork. It began first as the undertaking of a small group 
10 

of architecture .. students, who con­verted the. once-locker room into a cleaned, painted. area in which to display the different pieces. they had completed· while studying· in Rome in 1969. Afterwards, the space was used occasionally. by members of the · art department . and by, visiting artists who wer:.e contacted .t<10 late to be included in the main gallery's busy schedule of events . . It was not until 1972, however, that _the gallery first· fell under formal manageine!'}~; · in that year, an art student named Chris Gregory assumed responsibil­ity· as the director. of Isis. With funds obtained from .the Cultural Arts Commission, he organized what was to become a . most active and successful season. At times there was an opening for a new show every week. Enthusiasm ran high, not only within the art department, but also among a great number of faculty and students within the Uni­versity as a whole. Gradually, though, interest began to taper off, culminating, in the 1974-75 school year, in what might be termed a dis­
astrous season: the number of ex­
. hibitions was .greatly reduced, gal­lery hours were .,decidedly erratic and publicity for shows ,was. often sparse and inaccurate; . · .. 
Richard• Carey, a graduate art student and teaching assistant who is presently the director . of Isis, su~s up the mlltter suc_cinctly: "Last year. th_e gallery,.completely fell apart.'.' In particular, aside from the problem ·of poor .organization, little of the sorely nee.ded physical improvement of the .working area was actually accomplished and, al­
though advancements.• have . been made. this year, much more needs to be done. For, as a structural unit, the. gallery is somewhat of a· two­headed dragon. 
It is a huge white room, with an old, cracked cement floor painted grey, and white stucco brick walls with brick support pillars. The ceiling is almost rustic in appear­ance; its exposed rafters have been painted· white, as well as the frame of the rather dilapidated skylight. In all, the area has a rugged quality 
SCHOLASTIC 

about it, and it is this very rugged­·ness which is at once a delight and a burden. Certain types of art blend extremely well into the Isis space: large canvases and, as demonstrated in a showing produced earlier this year, ceramic pieces. . But some work simply does not fit: medium­size canvases tend to wallow in the large . space . between pillars,.· and certain geometric designs clash with the pattern produced by the brick walls and sloping roof. . . 
. . 
To counteract this . phenomenon, 

the Isis staff has -set up false walls, 
which at once break up _the large 
room into . a · number of smaller 
areas, and provide a surface upon 
which to hang "problem" work._ Yet 
this one achievement, however suc­
cessful, is by no means comprehen­
sive, and it i~ not an overstatement 
Jo.. say that theI"e are still a great 
number of key..aesthetic difficul~ies 
yet to be overcome. As a result, says 
Carey, "all of our energies have been 
going toward making [the Isis] 
more of a gallery space than just a 
stone wall on which to put things 
up; -we._ want to create a space in 
which artists can actually get a cer­
tain distance from their work." . 
Adding ·. to the difficulties pre­sented· by the sheer physical design of the Isis is the problem of limited financial resources. Until this year the operating .budget of the gallery -consisted of $1,000 allocated by the Cultural Arts Commission. An inde­terminate amount was donated : by the art department through its visit­ing artists program, a cooperative venture in which the art department and, Isis .gallery share in the costs .of producing shows and seminars de­
voted to contemporary art. 
This year, under the direction of 

Chris Mahon, CAC · chairman, the 
budget was raised to approximately 
$2,000 annually. However, this is 
hardly enough money needed to exe­
cute the . required . improvements; 
the cost of. simple maintenance is, 
by itself, demanding.·• Fortunately, 
notes Carey, the staff of the. main 
gallery in O'Shaughnessy Hall has 
been extremely helpful · in lending 
display stands and other •-pieces 
which the Isis would otherwise have 
to build or purchase. 
However, there is another prob­

lem from .which the ·Isis suffers, a 
problem that is far removed from 
finances, but which is just as de­bilitating in character: the lack of faculty and student involvement in the workings of the gallery. At the beginning of the year, only four graduate students and one under­graduate assumed entire responsi­bility for-the difficult, time-consum­ing task._ of interior renovation, as well as the organization and produc­tion of shows. More students have since become involved in the Isis, particularly in response to ·the onset of the first undergraduate · exhibi­tionof the year, which opened No­vember 3, ·But there is· still a notice­able absence 'of ·active involvement on the part of the faculty, who could contribute much simply because of their experience. · . Carey attributes this apathy in part to last year's poor.-organiza­tion and publicity, and in part to the unit system, . a program -_ of )nde­pendent study in which graduate and undergraduate students work es­sentially on their · own, under the guidance of a faculty advisor, with whom they confer on a regular basis. Because of the lack·of .structurally imposed interaction among large numbers of students and faculty, isolation and non-involvement are riaturallY reinforced and perpetu­ated. 
Despite these grave difficulties, it is clear that there are some members of the art department, both students and faculty, who are determined to see that Isis remains a viable force. Fr. James Flanigan, C.S.C., chair­man of the department, notes that the gallery . serves two functions which the main gallery in O'Shaugh­nessy Hall would_ be hard-pressed to fulfill. First, and most obviously, the Isis provides an opportunity for student· artists to show their· work in a distinctly professional setting. In so doing, it allows the staff of the main gallery to devote more atten­tion to.its own. collection. Secondly, and equally ·important, the_ Isis. gal­lery, in the _words of fr. Flanigan, "brings· art in from the outside for our own _art students, _for a short period of time, and a little more in-­formally than the_. main . gallery_ is able to do." In this sense, the Isis serves a vital pedagogical function and is, in a real and undeniable way, irreplaceable. Perhaps Fr. Flanigan describes the situation m_ost pre­cisely when he states, "[without the Isis gallery] ·there would be a vacuum."· 
The Isis gallery is open every weekday during the school year between the hours of 1-3 p.m; Open­ings are from 7:30-9:00 p.m., and the public is always invited. 


Gary ·zebrun, a senior English if our creative resources· have been rnajor from Buffalo, New York, is dulled in disrepair or sharpened the editor of the Juggler. ·He hopes so acutely as to become our most to teach in.a high school next year suicidal weapons: Have our private and then return to graduate school worlds dug us into 'a ditch of unim­·tor aMaster's in Fine Art_s. aginative work or have they dis­persed us into an unharnessable hell . October's issue· of Notre Dame of burning ·fantasies? Are we al­Magazine features the article: "Yes-ways, either through boredom. or 
. terday's Activists: . Still ·Marching intensity, on our way down without to_ a Different Drummer?" Five a rope to climb back up? · · _former .Notre Dame students and And if we are solitary, a desperate one professor recollect earlier en-movement toward · community will cot.inters with the political shadiness not do. Nor can reverting back to of the sixties; marked, as today, by an idealistic activism, as marked the ·a .rhetoric of concealment and con-sixties, satisfy our solitary ·desires. tradiction. Though many political changes were 
·.Today th~: campu~. du lac is quiet. accompiished in the sixties, such as It is at Umes,· in fact, still as death. · . the gradual admissions of our shams The causes of the move from activ-iri Vietnam, the growth of . disillu­ity to non-irivoivement are compli-sionment_ that drifted iri after the _cated and by no means easily pin-age of "Loye and Woodstock" should pointed. Clear explanations may be prevent another flood of chaotic l_ost. For many students the seven-·idealism. And the political reap­ties mean developing a firm intel-pearances of conservatism and cor­lectual _.foundation. Others are· in-ruption, such as anti-busing and terested in _purchasing tickets for Nixon's past regime; · will· guard comfortable careers. -'\nd then, there against our trip back into sixty nos­are students seeking a blend of acii.-talgia. For, the disparity between demi cs and human· experience. Some the real and the hoped for would be people here age into uncertainty; too unbearable this time. Nonethe­others draw up blueprints. These less, because we are human and extremes. of bewilderment and in-sometimes frail, we need in the fallibility at once ·are clashing to seventies something to hold on to, a 
_cause a .general appearance of in-confidence beyond rigid determin­·capacitation on th·e campus in these ism, but, something firmer than the dull, inactive seventies. . confusions of our unacted desires. 
In the separations between unim-And if we are solitary we must aginative 'diehards and earnest· ro-gain confidence, first of all, in our mantics there is one universal simi-private actions. These are the dull larity: today we are alone. Whether seventies, years of public boredom We are at sea or moving in our pri-and 'private anxiety, when many of vate steadfastness does not alter our us move in stupors because we are 
·.basic solitude. As the poet· Rilke not committed to our hearts' ·de­has written, "we 'are solitary." sires·; because, for some, these are 
If Rilk_e is correct, how shall we .. years. both of public and private :confront our solitude? Alone we are . mediocrity; because there are many :as·. easily vulnerable to the prophet people ,who have already given in. to 
of fantastic doom as we are to the the hollowing out of their minds, anesthesiologist of habit. How can hearts and social desires. Whether we preserve and .spark our imagi~ we all join the queues of these al­
.native capabilities in a. solitary ready dull ghosts, or, whether. we .world, a world of opposing· extremes ·create within our solitudes a clearer, -"-compressing itself into _silence more pleasing. confidence in our or . breaking into triviality? · That imaginative capabilities is a choice solitude which kindled Rilke's imagi-we should make· soon. nation is snuffing ours out. It may be .apparent by now that 
· I think we must all ask ourselves I do believe we are solitary and, that in· the beginning, uncertainty ha­rasses us.· But, I cannot agree that uncertainty must destroy our dis­tinctions. Nor should our ·solitary distinctions prevent our interacting with others. To work within one's . solitude is to work~ with uncertainty itself; to remain open to the un­known, to trust our imaginative capabilities, and, at the same time, not to be consumed by them should be the hope of all of us in the severi­ties. Then,· once we gain a private stability through Ol:Jr sharper imagi­native eyes, we may · begin the greater work·of'social interaction. 
But today the campus is too quiet. Sometimes it is still as death. In place of the dullness l have nothing concrete to offer, because; in or_der for a true change to arise, we must seek out, as· Rilke once did, a "cou­rage for the mc:isf strange, ·the most singular and the most· inexplicable that we may encounter." About this I am· reminded of• a . poem by Adrienne:·Rich, "Prospective Immi­grants Please Note": 
·Either you. will · ·go through this door or you will riot . go through. 
If you go through 
there· is always the risk 
·of remembering your name.• 
Things look at you•doubly 
and you must look b_ack 
and let them happen. 
·If you do. not go· through': it is possible to live worthily 
· to maintain your attitudes 
· to hold your position 
· to die bravely 
but· much will blin·d you 
much will evade you, · 
at what cost who knows? 
The door itself . 
makes no promises. 
It is only a· door~ 
SCHOLASTIC 

,Portrait of Two Ladies: 
• ' ! "i ~ ~ 

-,·,-:'.A· Tableau,, 


.. W_ho wears scarves, hoop .earrings, chains and.is always dressed to kill? Who's. ,the _brainy' bookworm that's just a buddy to_all the guys?;If you think you .· can _answer.•these ques­tions correctly, read on .. ,_. 
· One .of-the. first things. a. Notre Dame.-or Saint -Mary's woman is ex~ posed. to, as: she begins.-her'.life in college. is the Jegendary. (if _not yet traditional) rivalry; between: the, fe~ males who live . on this side .of .the road ye~sus_,the 9~es who_;)ive· on that side. Yet the actual quality and ~xtent,of th_~ rivalry is_vague. In an attempt ·to investigate: this question·, a number :of interviews were con­ducted with wo~en_'."at each ~chool. .,._,The _m.ostobvio1,1~ stereotype_ found in tlie, conversations -was one of ap­pearance.• The. des~riptions_ given in the first paragraph are exaggerated but many seemed . to think :not far from. _the truth. ,_The image . oLtl!,e :'SMC .. _chick" flaunting_ excessive jewelry_ ~nd mal:teup .i~ ~rdE!r to w~n !l-Notre Danie ma~ was well~knowi:i !1t either, school. A_ general stereotyp~ of the_ Notre Dame woman, was. a Jittle: harder--.to .dedu~e· thoug~:,r~_qsf a~tributed. a more b9okish ,person­ality . to he,r:-:--she .acte_d intelligent ~yen.it. she;~a~~~t . ., . ,, ._ :i .~ ... -Physical ·traits seemed less con­riected,'.to the Nqtre. Dame -w~m~n than an air: of intellectual snobbery a~d aggressiveness. One Sah1~ ;Mary~~ woman; described t~e typical -Ne>tre Dame coed-as_ '.'.someon~ who is esp~. cially gciod in. ,evE;rythi_rig .and she lets_you.know it.~• .· ., """ .: 
, In relation ,to appearance, t~e stu7 dent~ were a~keq if they c~~W-distin­guish:a Saint Mary's .woman from a Notre Dame,, woman. Most :of. the Notre ·)>.am.e ~student~., !1nd -_ ,about half ~faint Mary's st1:1dents,said they 
· -could tell the two apart though many quaUfled :,this bf adding-;.:that their ~lassificati~ns had never b~n backed by proof'. •.''Oh, m.Y·•·c:;_od,;yes!?,re-· 
NOVEMBE_R 7, 1975 
sponded orie Notre Dame· freshman w.ho pointed to the . dressiness -and 
•~rich· bitch" look of a: Saint Mary's student as a dead-giveaway .. (She was painting her fingernails at the time of. the i~terview.) Some felt there· was a' 'noticeable . difference in the a·ctions of ·Saint . Miry's and Notre_ Dame :woineri in· the .preserice of men-the Notre Dame woman appearing. more; ·comfortable in her home territory. Ail.other Notre Dame stilderit, a sophomore, said she could always' identify someone from' Saint Mary's, ''There's a look in her . eye like she's on the prowl." The ma­
., .. : 

by Barb Frey & Mela.nie J~rgen·sen 
jority, · even while admitting . this "place· the face"-game as· a:' popular pastime; considered their ·choices· as mere speculation. 
On,,: the · subject of: intelligence; women from both schools considered the:average Notre Dame student·to be smarter than the average ·Saint Mary's student. ·A-. freshman from Saint _Mary's commented .that, , '.'it seems -. like · everyone over -there majors in· pre-med."' .Notre .Dame women often felt that their;·classes were more .difficult.than those··at Saint Mary's though. Saint·, Mary's students disagreed.-· ·.They : resented the attitude that they were in college mainly to aehieve an "M.R.S." degree with education being purely acci­dental. Many women interviewed are in professional fields of study with plans to continue their education after graduation from Saint Mary's. 

The reason for the students' choice of schools offered some surprises. Most of the Saint Mary's women said they selected Saint.Mary's because · of its small size and the·fact that it 
is an all-women's institution. They seemed to like the freedom and indi­viduality that .is allowed to develop without. the competition that often occurs in the presence .of men. Many had . family ties with Saint Mary's and . severaL cited an interest in a special program as a reason for their decision. 
Approximately one-third of the girls interviewed at Saint Mary's had applied to Notre Dame. Those who were accepted ·at ND usually chose to attend Saint Mary's because it had a better program · · in their major. The size of .Notre Dame also dis­couraged many of· the Saint Mary's women: the University seemed much_ too large for them to develop the type of personal relationships they wanted. A small Catholic women's college with the advantages• of hav-· ing a large university nearby was the perfect arrangement in the eyes 
of many at Saint Mary•s~'fthe best of both worldst,, as. one woman put ·it. · 
Many Saint Mary's \VOmeristressed the high • academic rating of their colle'ge and feff mariy Notre Dame women. wouldn't find it. ·as ,easy as. 

the road viewed them; · All the stu­dents at Saint Mary's thought the Notre Dame coeds saw them as a possible threat where men are con­'cerned. As one woman put it, "We're seen as invaders in their territory at parties and the library." Most Saint Mary's women felt the Notre Dame coeds believed that all Saint Mary's students wanted to go to Notre Dame but were not intelligent enough to 
they think. As'.6ne Saint-Mary's stu-·_· TThe following classic story which dent said, "Notre Di:une girls seem so is· floating :around the Saint Mary's superior, ,but jf' Notre Dame 'didn't 'ca:~pus seems 'to. typify the Notre take girls, they'd be right:here!'' ·· · ; Dame women's analysis of the Saint 
The · majority .of'' Notre _Dame' ·Mary!s:woman; acco~dirig toseveral women interviewed '.picked. Notre :·:SaintMary's,students:0ANotreDame Dame because· of its gciodacademic 'seilior .was asked to the Senior Bar reputation and because they wanted·. ; • one_ s~hirday night.. In getting ready to go to a coeducational university. she.puton a nice pafr·of jeans, a Many had family connections. with:'. :shfrt,scad, blazer and a pair of hoop Notre Dame, usually a' father,'or {'earrings along with.her.usual array brother in the alumrif-ranks.. Most of. . of jewelry; While there, as· she was .the Notre Dame women interviewed.; taiki~gtci her date, a friend came up had never. considered Saihf Mary's~ . b~hirid hei and r·emarked, · "You're a because of what they considered· its :poor ,imitation of a SMC chick." 

get in_. In truth, some Saint Mary's students did apply to Notre Dame, _but the majority of the student body at Saint Mary's chose that school be­cause of its particular characteristics . and offerings and not because of a 
·~ejection from Notre Dame. 
limited .educational opportunities: They felt' the University offered a more intense and : varied selection of programs.. . 
Each· grou'p of students was ask:ed how they thoughtthe women aciross 

Stories like ithis are not rare and .their effect, '.if taken seriously, can only be _one· of common: bitterness. it is this type ofaction.and attitude which implants. ·me .stereotype at­tributed to. the'' "typical" . Saint 
. Mary's woman. It.is this stereotype, . in turn, that is' ·a foundation for much of the hostility Saint Mary's women hold for those at Notre Dame. The Notre Dame interviewees were a bit shaken by the question, "How do you think Saint Mary's women view you?" Most admitted that they had never thought about that side of the story. A generaf consensus finally developed which included the thought that they were seen as more intellectual. Notre Dame women also predicted that Saint Mary's students see them as ·very competitive and aggressive. · This last generalization arose from the 'notion that."to stay on top" a Notre Dame woman must be able to. beat the best' ( or close to the best) in• the forin of the Notre Dame man. Most-felt-that this pla­tonic rivalry was blown· out of pro­portion, so that too often the Notre Dame woman was pictured as. so­cially sterile. Women·at Notre Dame also sensed that Saint Mary's• womeri'think they put on airs. Notre Dame women are· attributed with a feeling of superi­ority-apparently arising from' the fact that they are at Notre Dame. One Notre Dame sophomore' ·ex­pressed· it in this way: j'I suppose they 'think we believe we· are better than them· because we go here." · Ah~but · for ·the most' pressing topic: the Notre Dame men and how they treat the' women ·from each school. Both Notre Dame and Saint. Mary's women seemed to think that the Notre Dame n1en are interested in Saint Mary's students as dates while Notre Dame women are viewed as buddies arid pals. The feeling was tha( since the men and women at­Notre Dame are with each other on an ·everyday basis that their rela­tionships are often more intellectual than 'ones'the men' might:form ·with the Saint Mary's women. This was bluntly expressed in the words. of a Saint • Mary's . student: "We're the babes, they're the brains." An investigation ··of· the men's actions and conversations· led to a major discrepancy. Notre Dame men· have told Saint Macy's women that they would· just•; as · soon come· over .. to their college ·for ,·companionship, while· conversely felling the Notre Dame women ·. a · similar . tale. They have suggested to the Notre Dame women that they treat Saint Mary's women like their stereotype: · daffy, 
' '. . SCHOLASTIC 

date-oriented and rich. From the in­
terviews it appeared that the Notre 
Dame male has found it more enter­
prising to please both groups of 
women by telling each the other's 
faults, no matter how fictitious. 
Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

students believe the "myth" that a 
feud is going on between them is 
told them by the men they know. 
Because very few women know any 
women from the other school, it is · 
the men that carry many of the im­
ages, stereotypes and hostilities 
which are understood to· exist. 
None of the.women contacted were 

blind to the important role the 
Notre Dame male plays in their re­
lationships, with female students 
living on the opposite campus. Some 
openly expressed their belief that it 
is the Notre Dame men who invoke 
the feud · between the two female 
student bodies. The reason given was 
the male's·· "precious ego" which, 
according to them, loves to be flat­
tered by having several women 
fight to gain his affection. This be­
lief was inferred by one Saint Mary's 
woman when she stated, "The idea 
is implanted that 'they' [ND women] 
are. the enemy." 
Proximity may be the difference 

that decides how a woman is viewed 
by the men at Notre Dame. These 
-differing outlooks do not please many 
of the Saint Mary's or Notre Dame 
women. Most Saint Mary's students 
said they would like to be able to be 
seen. as a friend, too, instead of al-_ 
ways a~ a date. Sometimes; it was 
said, they. feel like pretty objects 
used for exhibition -possessing no 
· mind, intelligence or feelings. In de­
scribing her interactions with Notre 
Dame men, one Saint Mary's student 
said, "It's. just all Social City~Fri­
day and Saturday nights.'' 
Complaints rose from across the 

road too. "I'm sick of being one of 
the guys," stated a Notre Dame 
woman. Most of the women at Notre 
Dame felt good in terms of the close, 
friendly classroom relationships they 
have with many_ men.but expressed 
frustration and disappointment at 
never. being · considered _as a date. 
Notre Dame women explained that 
the average man· never thinks to or _doesn't want to date that friendly, 
smart coed who sits beside him every 
Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Be­
cause of :this, many Notre Dame 
women, sometimes find themselves 
NOVEMBER 7, 1975 
sitting in the dorms on weekends while the Saint Mary's women hop to the parties. 
The interviews represented here cover only a small portion of the opinions of each student body and do not exhaust the range of feeling at either school. It may not be safe to generalize on such a random sam­pling. Yet, a predictable pattern of responses became apparent through­out the interviews. Except for an occasional vicious character or one who was exceptionally indifferent to the whole situation, those who re­sponded came up with quite similar answers. 
There was little seething hatred from either side; the harshest atti­
"WE'RE THE BABES, THEY'RE THE BRAINS." 

tudes. that · could be attributed to either group seemed ·more a defen­sive snobbishness than anytrue hos­tility. Often .the interviewers were made to answer more questions than they could _ask, simply because the women were curious about the other . school's -responses and attitudes. Several .. of those questioned . were hesitant to answer at all,feeling they had insufficient background to ex­press any opinion on the,matter.­
All this leads to a conclusion (or quasi-conclusion). Stereotypes are of­ten drawn out of a -lack of first-hand information.. about . a subject, ·and this seems to be demonstrated in the case at hand. The limited contact be­tween the women from Saint Mary'.s and,those from Notre Dame leaves the images of both totally up to hear­say. Each freshman class inherits the stereotypes and often the bad feel­ings that accompany them. The stu­dents see each other and talk to­gether even less:· Parties ore other social events are the most frequent meeting grounds, and in these cir­cumstances the situation is as often a confrontation as•an introduction. 
Classroom acquaintances seem to have more substance, and clubs or organizations co-sponsored by both schools are helpful in breaking down the communication barrier. ·A Notre Dame coed related an enlightening experience that she had this semester while taking her first course at Saint Mary's. On the first day of class a woman entered who was,-i:o this stu­dent, the personification of the Saint Mary's stereotype. She was wearing a fashionable dress, her hair was piled high and her makeup was overdone. The Notre Dame woman was amazed when a month later she discovered that this .fashion-con­scious woman w~s not from Saint Mary's but from Notre Daine. 
Another woman interviewed at Saint Mary's informed us, that· she was a member of the marching band. She emphasized the ~any.fine friend­ships·she had made with Notre Dame women in the band and stated that it had given her an entirely new per~. spective _on female attitudes at both schools:· · · 
Most of -the \vomen .interviewed from either Sai~t. Mary;s or Notre Dame could find .~o profound basis for a dislike,.of the.women from across the~ road. Compiiments· were bestowed from 'each. side and snide remarks were ·held .at a minimuni. Many times -the women expressed frustration at the situation between the schools, holding t_hat the obvious separatio·n . of trie .two groups of women invited hostility and rivalry. ''I-_ don't know who's jealous . of whom," said one_ Saint. Mary's stu-, dent in .reference to the so-called 
. feud. __ ' And there is a subtle irony in. the existence of this rivalry: 1975 has: been designated -by.the United Nations., as· International :Women's Year. In this era. of the recognition of women's rights and the persistent imagery, of the sisterhood_of all fe­males,· it seems.; signs can still be seen. of, the. age7old ci:mfrontation of woman .against woman over_ man. 

; ·. '. ·, ~ . . .. ·: 
·Notre· ·o·ame: 
', .,.:.· 




W·as 

-A~cfive.. 

: by Mike Sarahan_ 
'This is the second of a two-part series on student activism at Notre
. . . ,. 

Dame. 
'Think you've :sent your ·child to one of two nice, ' quiet Catholic schools to receive an education? . 
1: The; Obsefv~r' pos·ed this question tc> :the'parerits of students ret'i1rningto campus in the fall of 1969. "Well stop a moment and consider this," it told them.. Consider the 1968-69 y·ea.r. Consider Notre Dame and its activists. . . . . . . . . . 
1968-69 wa.s an important year in _the history of. activism at Notre Daine, . the staff · explained. There was the Dow-CIA protest with its three-'day sit-in; ··and there was the pornography conference incident~ 
a. snowball throwing, mace-spray­ing conflict . between students· and police. ' And there ·was . a . general awakening of ·students· to' what was goin on· around the.' Yes, '68-'69 was quite • a year, The Observer mused. It wondered: what will '69­'70 bring? · 
The I answer was nof long in. com~ ing.' Students converged on · South Benci that fall with plans and be~ gari to put them into effect. · 
Iri summer strategy sessions, the student Coalition·.. for · Political Ac~ tion had been formed, and it claimed · Phil· McKenna, student body presi~ 


dent, and Fred Dedrick, student: 
body vice president, among its first 
members. The group anticipated' 
action along a broad front of issues,: 
including ·racism, the presence of 
ROTC on campus and a rnimber' of 
others, and its first substantive ef­
forts were toward · planning the 
Notre Dame observance of the Octo-. 
ber nationwide moratorium · against 
the war.· 
· · The Observer found .·out · exactly 
wha.t kind of year it was to be on 
October 15 for ,the moratorium set 
a . tone · which ·•carried· ·through .the . entire year.· The day brought with it 
· an outpouring' of dissent-and affir­
mation· that far surpassed any• pre­
vious demonstration: ·· 
There was -dissent. The day's ac­
tivities saw an estimated 2000 stu­
. dents· protest the· war by··.parUci­pating in teach-ins and marches .in South Bend and on· campus; At one point . in .• the · afternoon, · students 
marched to. the ROTC · building where crosses were · placed . as a memorial to Notre Dame students, and their· lines stretched. fro"m the main quad to the Rockne gym. There was certainly' dissent.·•·. . 
Bi.if there was affirmation.'a.s well. Brian Mcinerney; ·one of the founders of the Coaiitioii'for Political Action, ex.plained ·' the implications • of the march on the ROTC.building, which he' called ·uie "Silent Peace Walk." According. -to · Mcinerney, the stu­dents ·would wa.lk to the protest carrying · black banners as ·signs . of mourning, but. as they turned from the building at the end of the cere~ moriy, those in the lead would raise bright ·· ba'nners1 ''symbolizing a turning from death towards life." · 
Affirmation was also to be 'found in the central activity of the day­the Resistance Mass held in. front of the library. At the. Offertory of the Mass, . two i professors . and four 
' ', . ' 

. students destroyed their. draft cards. . · self provided one of the most notable The spokesman for the six, James radical· quotes in. the history of Douglass, assistant professor in the Notre Dame activism. He challenged non-violence program, declared:. the University on its role in society 
and called the University "a func~ 
By our actions here today . 

tional digestive · tract fed by ·the 
and by our continuing to spread· 

foundations and tax grants to shit 
the truth of resistance and civil 

out agents to keep the vicious beast 
·. disobedience to. a law of death, 
stalking the world." 
we hope that we can return 

Another participant,. Sister Joanne 
America to the path of life_. .. 

Malone (a visitor to campus and one of the DC9 who poured bloodThe commitment to Hfe is a con­
on the Dow files) indicted the Uni­
sistent theme in the expressions· of 
versity as a center of violence.. She
Notre Dame activism>' . 
said, "The violence is here, like in 
The Observer, in its editorial on 

Father Hesburgh's. office and the
the day's activities, felt the atmo­
Placement Office where decisions
sphere ·.on campus ' was uhdescrib­
are made about who lives and who
able: "It was feeling, pure feeling." 
dies."
But a student, TimO'Mielia, saw the 
These and other. deep-seated re­
significance of the day in more spe­
actions to the war and to the Uni­
cific terms. For him, it was a sign 
versity carried over into the actions
that there was, after aU, something 
of the protestors, making the Dow­
new on campus, and he saw that · 
CIA demonstration the most dis­
"something new" as~an "extraordi­
ruptive of the protests on campus. 
nary hope in the· future of human­
The CIA recruiter . left the campus
kind/' In that one day, he related, 
· after. being frustrated in his efforts
he· had gained a respect for Notre 
· to interview students; the Dow rep­
Dameas more than a place ofugreat 
. resentative was hampered as stu­
· rhetoric." : . . 
. dents blocked entrances to the 
But if. the campus came out of 

Placement Office.. A reported 100
its experience with. the October · 
students · crowded the hallway in
moratorium feeling. uplifted, it was 
front · of. the office, ·. and leadership
quickly brought to its feetand to 
was not apparent.
harsh realities. Notre Dame activism 
Into that confusion stepped
went· to Washington .for the No­
Father James Riehle, the Dean of
vember moratorium, and 12 · mem­
Students,. · and he invoked Fathe~
bers of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's 
Hesburgh's 15-minute rule for the
community were · arrested at the 
first time. Under the terms of. the
Pentagon· where they ·were offering 
rule, students· were· given a · 15-min~ 
. a peace Mass. . . · • · : ·... · 
ute period of meditation in which 
· And back on· campus, . students were preparingfor the return of the Dow-CIA recruiting teams in mid­
.. November. .The Coalition for Po­litical Action . held open meetings, and the key question discussed was whether the protest should be dis­ruptive ·or non~disruptive, ·violent or non-violent. Students demonstrated their militancy by. deciding that, in the event Father Hesburgh's 15­minute rule was . invoked, students .. would not . disperse .and would con·-' front the. Administration directly.. The hypothetical. became the real the following afternoon. · Students gathered at the"Admin­. istration Building for the 1:00 pro~ test.. Aw organizer· of the activists, Tim MacCarry, had spoken of the rally as a "cleansing of the temple," and it was clear that emotions were at a high. pitch. . . That . • afternoon, , MacCarry him-
NOVEMBER :7,, 1975 
to cease and desist what the Uni­versity . viewed as illegitimate dis~ sent. At the end of the time limit, however, the students continued to block· the entranceways, and Riehle began to collect identification· cards in accordance with the Hesburgh plan. 
The University took tentative ac­tion against 10 students, expelling five and suspending the others. These students immediately. became known as the "Notre Dame 10." 
. But the University took other ac­tion as well. It went to court and obtained• an · injunction prohibiting interference with the interviews; This, in effect, ·.handed. control • of discipline .in the matter over to. the St. Joseph County Sheriff and sub­jected offenders of the University's injunction to arrest. · 
Students, however, were defiant in the face of such tactics. About 75 students returned to the Admin­istration Building the next morning intent on stopping the interviews · from taking place. A confrontation between,. police and. students was averted only when the.· recruiting agents chose to leave the . campus to avoid agitating the students fur­th~r.. A relative calm then returned to campus. 
The Dow-CIA . controversy. was not to be settled for another month. The Notre Dame io appealed their suspensions· and ·expulsions,.· charg-_ ing the :qniversity .with complicity in co.rporate crimes. and· stressing their own• moral innocence. 


In a statement issued by the 10 on November 24, their representa­tive Gary Mcinerney .countered the University's claims and established the basis for the defense of. the 10 as follows: 
We were accused of "obstruct­
. ing the life of the University." 
. We did not obstruct that life, but. 
rather affirmed·· the life of a 
Christian University. 
The students steered away from 
solely technical issues and attempted 
to' discuss moral issues throughout 
their appeal. .. 
The Appeals Board hearing. the 
case responded favorably to . the 
students' point· of view because it 
based. its· own. findings not only on 
the technical issues but also on the 
students' moral commitment,·• The 
Board concluded in its judgment of 
the affair that "we can find no rea­
son to doubt (the students') : mo­
tivation, their good faith, their act­
ing in· accordance with the spirit 
of Jesus Christ and with the spirit 
of academic community." · 
The students might seem to have 
been vindicated . in their actions; 
then, ·but the final decision · rested, 
not with the Board, but with Father 
Riehle, making him both the insti­
gator and the ultimate arbiter of the 
charges. So while the Appeals 
Board found the Administration to 
have been negligent in riot taking 
steps to avoid a confrontation, .and 
while it publicly doubted Father 
Riehle's recollection of the events, it 
could only make recommendations, 
and Riehle suspended all 10 for the 
first semester. 
Second-semester activism natu­rally began with a great deal of at­tention directed toward the Place­men.t Bureau and. its dealings with corporations in the aftermath of the Dow-CIA protests. First, •the Stu­dent Life Council, at its February meeting, decided to ban the CIA from recruiting on campus. 
Next, the Coalition for Political Action organized a week's program to make students conscious of cor­porate wrongdoings and to make the Placement Bureau more selec­· · tive in the company that it kept. The action was prompted by the Coali­tion's finding that 17 of· 31 cor­porations scheduled to interview students between February 16 and 
, 18 26 were "guilty. of racial discrim­ination, discrimination against wom­en, conflict of interest in defense contracts or other injustices." 


But after a good beginning, ac­tivism wenf into one of its periodic declines.. Two students tried to stir up opposition to the war with a new organization, but it did not generate much interest. ·And after its Com­plicity Week, the Coalition for Po­litical ·Action was .out .of .the news for several months.· ·The only major controversy on campus until the end of April was. the ·An Tosta! panty raid. 
May l came as something of an explosion of activity-'-and the weeks 
, SCHOLASTIC 


which followed were critical ones 
in the life of the University. 
The revived spirit of the students 

was evident on Friday, May 1. Under 
the direction of a . student, Mike 
Shaughnessy, the campus was to 
celebrate Free City Day. For the 
day, students were encouraged to 
leave the formal education system 
and take · time · to reflect on the 
course of their education, to judge 
it and to discuss reforms with fac­
ulty and students. 
Along more militant lines, the 

Coalition for . Political Action had 
planned a demonstration that after­
noon to present demarids at the 
trustees' meeting. CPA leaders had 
reacted. to the panty raid by exam­
ining the place of men and women 
in the University, and most of their 
demands aimed at limiting "sexism" 
on campus; 
· But what is significant is that the leaders ·intended to ·present their views in person, and trustee meet­ings had never before been open to the general student body. The stu­dents did not meet with the full board,' but after a shouting match with two trustees and ·a room-to­room search of the· Center for Con­·tinuing . Education, 30 students, pounding on· the door of the meet­ing room; forced the board to cut short its session. The students' take­. over; of the CCE. completely eclipsed 
the Free' City Day program. 
With student activism on the rise, 

national· events intervened to give 
Notre Dame· its greatest, but last, 
surge of dissent and moral outrage. 
President Nixon announced the in­
vasion of Cambodia by United 
States• troops· on• April 30, 1970,. and 
the move enflamed campuses across 
the nation. 
NOVEMBER 7, 1975 
On May 4, Kent State was the scene of tragedy · when National Guardsmen shot four students. On the same day, Notre Dame staged a massive rally, but the administra­tion was clearly side~by-side with the students on this campus. Father Hesburgh assumed the leadership role of· the protest, in fact, telling the students and the nation that there comes a time when "moral righteousness is more important than empty victory." 
Newly elected Student Body Presi­dent Dave Krashna took his lead from the Free City·people and called for the cessation of classes. In an emotional address, he urged the stu­dents to . "stop, look and listen and absolutely say stop to the education we're getting at this time." 
A strike was initiated on campus that day, and after a meeting of all the strikers, it was determined that classes would continue • to be boy­cotted until May 15, but students were urged to stay on the campus for that time. . While many other universities closed their · doors to students, fearing unrest, Notre Dame, as a group, was to fake time to· think over. and question and act upon ·the moral and political issues which had again surfaced. 
A new·direction for education was surely at the heart of the strike ac­tivities: Striking students inaugu­rated the "Communiversity," and in its informal classes students, faculty, Administration and persons from the surrounding community joined in• ·posing questions of compelling national ·and personal ,interest and in responding to them. 
But students operated outside the classroom · setting as well in their May '.'education." ·Among the more notable examples are these: Notre Dame was the information head­quarters for a national economic boycott in which, as spokesman Rick Libowitz put it, students would "put a dent into the system respon­sible for this war." And also, a concerted canvassing effort of stu­
• dents produced over 20,000 signa­. tures ·supporting Father Hesburgh's statement on the war. 
Hesburgh himself _looked on all this May activity and was pleased. In a national television . interview he suggested: 
Maybe we. should say "Thank God ·that young Americans have that tender a conscience, and may 
· .. they always keep it." 
But it appears that the strike and the related efforts of May, 1970, were actually the· last flaming of the ac­tivist passions of , students, for the Notre Dame "conscience" was not to speak . so vocally again. 
·Perhaps it was too hard to stay tender, too easy to· harden, but in any case, it was clear when students came back· in the fall of 1970 that times had changed. Old spokesmen were curiously silent, and no. new voice of · the students arose even though the war dragged on. 
And so the· year came and went as if activism had never been a part of the Notre Dame experience. Ob­server columnist · Dave · Lammers gave the 1970-71 year its appro­priate eulogy: 
The year rolls out in considerable quiet, a liquid progress of days and nights, ·signifying nothing, meaning nothing. · 
And so· it • goes. In the major events ofthese years, the years of student activism, stu­
, .dents came face to face with some very basic questions of the human condition. Their answers have had a _significant effect on their own lives. Six members of the Notre Dame community · have discussed these effects in the October issue of 
Notre Dame.Magazine. 
But their answers should also ex­tend. further. They... should affect . those who might still remember the questions. · And those .who are to learn of them. And those who will recall -"the time when Notre Dame was active." 

On a typical Friday morning be­fore ahome football game, the Law Sc:hool lounge is transformed from a haven of quiet chatter to a. teem­ing throng of enthusiastic Notre Dame rooters..It is here that the !'Chief,'' as. he is fondly referred to by ·. those familiar· with _the . almost legendary figure, conducts . his ·tra­ditional . pep . rallies . which ,draw law students, alumni, and_ curious bystanders, .. all · attracted by. the sounds of the. Chief's personalstu­dent band, which features a variety of instruments, ranging ,from kazoo to trumpet.· 
-_Professor John '.'Chief'.' Broderick of .the Notre Dame Law School re­ceived his nickname when he served as an instructor in 'the Naval officer training program at .. Notre Dame during World War II. 
A summa cum laude graduate of Washington and.Lee; where he.was also a member ofPhi. Beta. Kappa, the Chief returned to his native. New· York to earn his law degree from St. John's University in 1935. After spending a few years affiliated with a .New York City firm _and later in his own private practice, Professor Broderick returned to Notre Dame to. teach at·. the. invitation of Dean Manion in-1947... 
·In the pursuit of academic excel­lence, Professor. Broderick has been an innovator from the beginning. of his .teaching career; He was among the first to advocate .awarding ,the degree. of ,juris doctor (the equiv­alent of a ·Ph.D.) to law: school 

· · graduates. However -impressive his intellec;-. tual accomplishments,-the· Chief .has also_ been. an: avid sports . enthusiast since his college days, when -he cap­
tained his college _track team. Pro­. fessor Broderick's love ,of sports, especially · football, led him fo be­come known. as "Notre Dame's number-one fan," with his presence on the sidelines a tradition.in itself.. In a faculty resolution, the Dean .and faculty of the Notre Dame Law School stated, _"John J. Broderick has become an indispensable-part of ·the spirit and climate of: the Notre Dame Law School. .. No one within ·memory has touched so many minds ·and hearts, or endeared himself to 
so many students ___: not only law students, -but students all over the _campus." 
Almost • everyone pursues _some 

hobby or avocation during his 
leisure_ hours. _However, to sustain 
the life processes, something is 
needed to afford us a little income. 
When these two, business and plea­
sure,. coincide, as they have in the _case of Dr. Erhard Winkler of the Earth Science Department,·· a most · -fortunate synthesis is attained. 
Dr. Winkler, a· ge·ology professor, 

enthusiastically recalls in · · thick 
German accent· that his, interest in 
the field of· geology was aroused ·in the . first grade in Vienna. .As . Winkler admits with an impish glint in his eye, "I have a love life--my research!.", He attended the : Uni­versity of Vienna where a professor asked him to conduct field trips (what he terms ·as "geological en­.tertainment") through the sur­rounding countryside...Later· he taught as the equivalent of a T.A. ·at the Vienna Institute .. of Tech­
nology until he came to • America 
and the University of Notre Dame in · 
1948. Here _he. has taught under­graduate geology _and it . is to his students that he gives . most of the credit for inspiration for his book, Stone: Properties, . Durability. in Man's Environment. · _ 
Winkler has just returned from Salt Lake City where the Geological Sodety of America·· presented him with their. _annual Best PubHcations Award. Prior to its release in 1973, Winkler had been working on the book for .10 years and he says. it is now a "scientific. best-seller." Stone weathering has long been a sour_ce of. fascination to I)r. Winkler and some .of. the examples used in :his. bookare from the N.D. _campus. 
In offering suggestions .for . im­proved conservation of stone, Wink­ler reveals no_t . merely a scientific but also a personal concern.: Richard Jahns, Dean ·of the GeologicalDe­partment at . Stanford University, writes of Winkler's book that his in­terest borders on «genuine. personal affection for commercial .stone;" just as he enjoys "the look and feel of a polished granite panel," "he suffers a bit from the sight of a rusty. corroded cornice." 
Spending_ so. much time ~'in the field" has cultivated other outdoor interests . in ·Dr. Winkler :such as sailing, . swimming .and kayaking which he enjoys with his wife and children. Also he can be seen riding his: bike ,("my_ muscle .Mercedes") across campus, but you have tolook fast to catch him because :he pedals with: gusto! ·•: 
"The professor's plans for the fu­ture include _continued research. It will be interesting to note what new fruits his love life--research--:-will yield. ­
SCHOLASTIC 


Recent surveys have shown that the 
average . Notre Dame student's 
S.A.T. scores have slightly increased amidst a definite decline in scores at other colleges. While intelligence levels remained on· the upswing, the nation's so-called number one stu­dent body· has experienced a sharp decline in the famed Notre Dame spirit. In view of·this startling evi0 dence, the following evaluation, the 
N.D.S.T. (Notre Dame Spirit Test) has been compiled to see just how much of. that. fighting Irish blood you possess. 
Notre Dame Spirit Test•. 

Don't look at the test questions until you are told to. do ·so..The rules are self-explanatory. · .Each correct answer is worth five points; a blank space is worth zero points and an incorrect ·answer ,is worth minus five points. Hopefully this will discourage haphazard . guess~ ing, but: since there• are . no wrong answers ·given, all· answers .are cor­rect. (We understand that there are still a few flaws in this test but you· must realize that .no· aptitude test of this sort is perfect.).•· Any,. one caught cheating wiU be forced to serve as tackling dummy for the Irish· football 'team. The test is not timed and you have 3 minutes before· we will be around to collect. them. Good 'luck! Pencils. up . ; ; Begin., 
CHOOSE THE BEST ANSWER: ... 
Every Notre Dame fan knows that: 
·A. ·,There is more ·spirit in-·the 
,stands than on the field. 
B. There are more spectators on the field than in the stands. 

C. Notre· Dame· spirit comes in pints and quarts. ;_ · D. No alcoholic beverages are al­lowed ·in the stadium. 
· E. The concession stands sell ex­. cellent mixers. 
·. . 

2; The fight song was written by . •· , A.. Father. Sorin.. ·:B., Chopin. , C. : Knute Rockne: . 
D. Shea and .Shea;· 
E. · ,Two intoxicated leprechauns. 

NOVEMBER 7, 1975 
3. The Irish Guard 
A. Pulls on sweep plays. 
B. Marches out in front of the band. 
C. Works in the main security ·gate. 
. D. Is a new, brand of antiper~ spirant . sold • at · the book­store. 
4. . ........... runs this University ·.no matter what· ........ : .., .... says., 
A. Father Hesburgh, Father Burtchaell: 
B. The students, Dean·Roemer. 
C. God, the student body. · 
D. Football, .Digger Phelps. 
E. Money, anyone. 


5. Notre Dame's starting quarter­back is 
A. Joe Montana; 
B. • Rick Slager. · 
C. Both of the above . 
D. Neither •of the above.,, 
E. A Devine mystery. 
6..The fighting Irish sco"re ·three touchdowns,. miss one extra · point conversion, • kick one • field goal and make two safeties in the first half and score two touchdowns, two extra point conversions, one on a running play, kick two more field goals in the second half. .The total number of points scored divided by the num­ber of points scored by the offense, multiplied by . Steve · :Niehaus' weight is equal to: (You have five seconds). 
A. 0. 
B. 1.2 X 103• 
C. an imaginary•number. ·· 
D. an Irish dream. 
E. no answer, ·dividing by O is an undefined operation. 
Read the following selection care­fully and answer the following ques­tions: · "Notre Dame has always been ·a coach's dream-a campus without coeds ' or fraternities; with · auto~ matic suspension for. the use of alco­hol; with tight disciplinary, regula­tions that make it almost impossible for an .athlete· to get out of condi­tion; with a religious program. de­signed to produce spiritual health and peace of mind. That's the way Notre Dame was (what it still pretty much is)· and the way Rockne in­tended to keep it. He fought any intrusion that threatened masculine habits and outlook. His basic speech for outside dinner· groups was the wholesome influence of athletics: on a sane American·life and the danger of. our young people softening up." 
7.. This passage would lead· one to 
think that.Knute Rockne was: ; 
A. •the greatest football coach of..,. · · • his time; •· · 
· B. a leftist radical. 
C. a male chauvinist. 
D. amembe~ of campus ministry'. 
E. dean of students.·· 
Your time is. up. ,Pencils down, yes THIS MEANS YOU! Please pass ii 
ll

·your answer sheets in before leav­, ii 
:,

ing. Your scores will be compared to ·those of· a fixed reference group ii of 1948 and the. results will . be ii posted: in the lobby of the Huddle ii 
jl

next July.. 
l 
21 





Midwest Blues: An American Festival 
The ·following interview is ·with Perry Aberli, a graduate student in government and coardinator of the Midwest Blues Festival, 1976. Perry has been coordinator since 1971 and has came to know many of the per­formers personally. 
Scholastic: What about. the history of the festival itself and. some past highlights? This is the fourth Mid­west Blues Festival? Perry: Strictly speaking; this is the fourth. Actually, before there is the Midwest Blues, there •was in 1970 a small two-day festival ·that was. held in Stepan and put. together by 
· Bob Brinkman, Cultural Art ·Com_. missioner for that year. He called up -Dick Wadderman, · who is the blues manager in• the country, at least by reputation among the art­ists in the country. He_ called Dick and told .him he· wanted a two-day festival and gave him a price range and said . could you deliver me . a package? Wadderman put together a two-night festival and it had Fred MacDowell, Otis Rush, J. B.. Hutto, and Jimmy, Dawkins; Hound Dog Taylor, ·and Lightning -Hopkins. Publicity on this festival was· poor; it consisted of sheets of mimeo in­formation on the festival and these were put up in the Huddle, around campus, and maybe four or five hundred people showed up. It was really good, the Lightning Hopkins perf~rmances were filmed. by ~ET and later used in a half-hour docti­
. . 
mentary on Lightning Hopkins _for Public Broadcasting. · 
So I went to Brinkman after that and told him I've·just been to -our festival here and been· to Ann Arbor· for theirs; I've • been into' blues for a while, and that I'd like to· run the festival next 
·year. Bob ended up being Cultural Arts· Commissioner the next year. That year Ann· Arbor decided· not to produce a blues ·festival because they had lost so .much money in 1970; $35,000 due to incredible mis­management and politics. Therewere people like John Sinclair running the festival,· and they tried to make it a kind of politically motivated af­fair and plus the fact •that Goose Creek Rock Festival was held right outside of Detroit that same week­end. So the decision·was made not to hold a festival in 1971. It was really nice from a blues freak point of view, because the only people. that· at­tended were blues freaks. The. rock festival cut into the gate,· so they lost a lot of money that way. By Ann Arbor not having a festival in 1971, I got together with Brinkman, telling him that this was our chance; we can start a festival here, get it· established, and maybe we could ·do it as a regular thing. We went ahead and planned it for three days, and as it turned out, it ~as 

the largest . blues festival in the nation that year. 
Financially, we took a bath, not in the sense that Ann .Arbor did, we lost maybe three to four thousand on it, a ·quite moder­ate figure. For the Student Union we have here at Notre Dame compared to the one at Michigan in Ann Arbor, it becomes quite a large figure; Part of: the loss was because we had the Sunday misplanned, a Sunday afternoon in Stepan Center just didn't wor~ out right, and of course the weather was a factor; it was a heautiful fall day, a strange occurrence for the-South·Bend area, so that cut into the gate. As it turned '· out Friday :night we had Fred MacDowell, Carey Bell, Eddie Taylcir, Homesick James and Howlin' .Wolf. The Saturday night we had· Shirley.· Griffith;· Little Brother · Montgomery, Otis Rush and Muddy Waters. And Sunday we had' Buddy Guy and Junior -Wells and they came out and did an acous­tic set; then . finished up with an electric set with Mann Slipscomb and Little John with Jimmie Rogers. A just really super lineup; with Guy and Wells, and the Wolf and Muddy Waters you have the. three top blues acts in the country, except maybe with the exception of . B.B. King. .. It was just a ·superb show, plus the fact that it was the last per­formance of Fred MacDowell. ­
We've had that happen to us a couple of times, it's sort of ironic; a ·. couple of people will play at Notre Dame , Blues · and that will be the last. time they'll ever play. It :happened · with · · Fred Mac­Dowell in 1971. -He · finished at Notre Dame, and he was sched­uled to play at Wisconsin ·and can­celled. out; he went home and he died in July the year following. That was the . first Midwest . Blues, the year before was . just a blues fes­tival, it didn't even have a name. 
• The next year the emphasis in the Cultural ·Arts Commission was on culture, dance and drama being the highlights of that' year. I had a really hard time explaining to the Commissioner that the ·'.blues is a cultural phenomenon, most cif the Commission tended to regard it as a kind of degenerate rock music and not truly a cultural form at all, so as. a result there was no set blues festival, but we were able to put on four or five· miniconcerts; We did four showsiin Washington Hall, we had : Shirley Griffi~h, Hound Dog Taylor, ·Big Walter _Hortori and Carey Bell, and Houston Stackhouse. 
.They were . all well , received but again .. the blues · festival did lose money. Part of that is the attitude of the people· who generally run Cultural Arts. It's one of that we're riot ·• in this for the sole purpose of making money, and at the same.time the idea that .we can't charge stu­dents too much. · Admission for Shirley Griffith.· was just a dollar, and when you consider that at Ann 
.. SCHOLASTIC 


Arbor they wanted $30 for a three­
day pass for their blues festival. You 
just can't touch anything for that 
price. $1.50 for Hound Dog Taylor, 
why that isn't even the cover you 
could pay to see Hound Dog in a 
club in Chicago. That's part of the 
reason why it lost money. 
The next year we decided we 

would go back to the festival 
format -two nights. We had 
Roosevelt Sykes, Houston Stack­
house came back, this time with 
Joe Willie Wilkins , and the King 
Biscuit Boys. The first time Houston 
came it was alone, the second time 
with the group, the King Biscuit 
Boys, brought up from Helena, 
Arkansas. Hound· Dog Taylor fin­
ished up the set Friday night. On 
Saturday night there was Shirley 
Griffith with Yank Rachel and J. T. 
Brown, Son Seals, and Mighty Joe 
Young and Coco Taylor. That was 
just a really fantastic show. 
Last year· was technically Mid­

west Blues III, we didn't count 
the series of concerts as a fes­
tival. We went back to the one­
night format because the Com­
mission was saving money for 
second semester to bring a big name 
concert right before the CJF, Herbie 
Hancock, so that part of our money 
went to the Hancock concert.. The 
budget for the blues was cut back, 
and the fact that we had as good 
a festival as we did just amazes me. 
Last year we had Fenton Robin­

son, Big Walter Horton and Muddy 
Waters. That .about brings it up to 
date. This year we're going back to 
the two-day format because we 
really believe that if we are to es­
tablish· it here at Notre ·Dame as a 
festival, rather than a concert, it has 
to · be done over a two-day period, 
over ·a: weekend. Hopefully, if it co·n­tiriues, and I hope it does, it will . become more. of a festival. I look for the-. possibility of having the artists coming in on Thursday night, comirig to classes on Friday, talking in Lit classes, Black culture classes, or: even some seminars all Friday afternoon. On ·saturday, it would , be feasible to· have meetings with the artists, maybe in LaFortune, similar to the CJF setup. That might start happening next year, or it 
might not, but ideally that is what we are trying to do. It was tried two years ago with little success, because first of all it didn't have enough publicity. Scholastic: What is the opinion of the blues artists themselves of the situation of the festival? They are coming from the black areas of Chicago, be it the south or west side, or even from Gary to play before an audience that is composed largely of white, middle-class col­lege students. Do the artists exhibit any · apprehensions about making an appearance? Perry: Well, mostly, they really get excited about it. It's a big event for the majority of artists and they en­joy it a lot. They know that they're going to be well received, and they 
c::::::; 
~ 
. Perry Aberli 

tend to enjoy themselves immensely. .People that handle the artists like Bob Kester and Bruce Iglar say that their shows ·here are the best sets that· t.hese people have ever seen them put on. I've had that compli~ ment about the festival many times. , There'~ something about this place that the artists really enjoy arid they get up for doing the festival. I can't explain it because I don't really understand why. I have some tapes· of Hound -Dog Taylor's per­formance 'in 1970, he's· screaming, yelling at the crowd, "I'm back again, I love it here! Notre Dame, I love you!" It's amazing because 
here is · this 65-year-old bluesman saying that he's too skinny to play football but I'm always on your side. We've just had fantastic audiences every festival. · A lot of the artists, Otis Rush and Big Walter in par­ticular, are difficult at times. 
Otis is often too polite, to the point where he· makes you feel uncom­fortable: that's the problem with him, but once he gets into things, when he becomes open and effusive, once· he starts playing, you really can enjoy him. He's mo·ody in the sense that if you ask him if the sound · system· is okay, .or if the mikes are in order, he just says that it's all perfect. Son Seals is easy to get along with, there's never any problems with him. He is very inde­pendent, you just have to·tell him that it's· time to go· on at this time; and . do this long a set. I . generally don't go in there and say, "Well this 
. is a' boogie audience,· if you play a lot of boogie you'll get them really excited." I feel that the artists will play what they want to play. Blind John Davis rve never met, sol don't know how he's going to be to deal with~= I don't think. he should be very difficult. Albert King I've also never met, but I've seen· him a couple of times and a friend of mine went to Chicago and was talking to his manager, and apparently Al­bert's pretty easy to get·along with. Martin, Bogan · and·· .·. Armstrong again I haven't met but my wife has talked with· their manager several times on the phone and they seem to be very likeable people and prac­tically willing to', bend over back­wards to · accommodate you. 
Muddy Waters was kind of aloof in ' a certain way, or character. I can· remember when· he came in· 1971, someone · came running out to me and said that his car is · outside, so I went to the back room. The back room generally resembles· bedlam, kids are running around;· ·guys are screaming at each other, ·bottles are being passed · around, the artists · are playing ·cards, and there doesn't seem to· be much sense to ·what's going on backstage; and Muddy just walked in the door and this great quiet fell over the place. Every-
body sort of walked to him v~ry 
quietly and shook his hand, inquired 
about his health; .it was just after 
his automobile accident. And Muddy 
just .sat down and_ started -playing 
cards,:and:that seemed to be a sig.: 
nal that everything was all right. 
He had• to· be the only artist I ever 
saw the· other artists being.-.-very 
defferential towards. : He. just really 
commanded a respect. The first 
thing he asked me was, -"Where's 
my dressing room?" I said that .this 
is it. He looked at me, and I told 
him there was a divider we could 
pull across the room, but he said, 
"No, don't worry about it." Every7 
thing went back: to_ . normal. .. _ 
That. was the one extreme,._ the 
other extreme was -Jimmie Rogers, 
and Buddy Guy and Junia~. Wells: 
Jimmie was just. as incredibly out­
going in that he practically crushed 
me on stage; he just grabbed me and 
hugged :me;-he's just a huge guy; 
He. had just received probably one 
of the longest standing ovations_ in 
the festival. But Buddy and Junior 
are just crazy, that's about the o_nly 
thing you can say about them. They 
were backstage and had been a.rink­
ing, and they were chasing each 
other ·all·_ around the back room. 
That's just how the.artists are; You 
would expect them to be very, well 
after alL you've heard about the 
blues artists,-· the changes they've 
been through, you'd expect them to 
be rude or aloof or: indifferent to the 
whites that are around at the fes­
tival. But that hasn't been the case, 
they are generally _very friendly. 
. And that's why when we were talk­
ing about Ann Arbor before, I _ob­
jected to Sinclair's injecting politics 
in ·the whole thing because while 
obviously for Sinclair, a blues artist 
would be -a. personwhose political 
plight would be very great in terms 
of exploitation,_ there would be a lot 
of: yiews there. The _bluesmen -are 
probably the most-:I don't want 
to use ':'innocent'! because that makes 
them look like children· and that 

sounds like. a racist statement. But ·· they don't care about. politics_-they 
are apolitical in : a certain sense. 


.--··
:;.. 


, :::;;,7h¥t····\ 
() 
[ 


·~-._~\ ~· 

~ ~ 
.;,·:/#<i:f 4.
·:•<,, ·:··i.­
'\•::· .._.,./ 
-~~-: ,1>,~}\~


--~ . . 
0 --~-~ i fl. \ 

':...' 
:_ rv ,. 
,,i ; ­

: t 
l 
:,y 
. ,., ... 
·s 
-! I 
:'K, 
~ 

The framework in .which they exist are out.and out political protests­and go ·about:ii1eir everyday life is -songs -like "Korea Bl~es'' kind of 
-

one in which• politics doesn't play that big"oLa role, or at least con­sciously it::do~n't:play a C role. So to get up and write Hner notes for an album or• an-.article about the political undercurre~ts within blues music, bY and large, is silly~ There are a c~uple instances in which blues artists have .written songs which aprecursor of the late 'sixties. F:'or­mats like ''they shot my brother. in Korea and now. Uncle Sam wants me." There are a few exceptions like those which tend to prove the rule that politics. doesn't have much to do with blues music. Biuesmen are basically 'an apoiitical group so that to try to: do 'something along . Sin-
SCHOLASTIC 
·-' 

clair's lines is obviously a mistake. Scholastic: How about some back­ground on ·Fenton Robinson; is he on a true parole, or just a tempo­rary reprieve? Perry: It's a true parole; well first of all, the·-background of it: Fenton was · in an -accident about four or five years ago; He was driving down the Dan Ryan Expres·sway after playing at a club;· and as he relates the story,· a trucker passing hirri pushed : his car · on .·-the shoulder, where there was this woman outside her car changing a tire with · no lights or anything on, so :he just wiped her out.-He was charged with involuntary ·m:ans~11ughter and the police also accused him of drunk­enness,·. although a· breath . analyzer test was never, taken~ He appealed it ·and kept·-ori 0appealing it. ·He never told Bruce. about it. (Bruce Iglar runs Alligator -records, and picked up F~nton and ·made his album for him). Fenton· was just too ·paranoid about it and thought that if Bruce knew he had these kinds of hassles; he might not ·go with him on the label. . . · 
-' So; ·two· or "three weeks. after Midwest · Blues ·,last year, · I got a call -from :Bruce and . he "said that Fenton was going to jail; all the appeals had been exhausted; Fenton had received an· order to basically turn ·himself over to the authorities.: He . was 'in the County Jail for a while, then· sent down to Joliet.' On the basis of a letter that'! wrote for Bruce and· I think he got •a· couple of other letters: from·· col~ leges and Bruce's ·own track record with Blues artists, plus the fac(that · since the accident Fenton had · be­come a . practicing Black· Muslim; he doesn't drink, smoke:or even eat 
, meat. His behavior within the prison _was that of a:model prisoner, which nearly cost him his life. He'thought his .life was· in danger, remember that · there:>were prison riots in Joliet in · which he refused to · get involved~ · · Some of ' the inmates started passing the word that Fen­
., ton had informed on the riot and he was getting really paranoid. So it looked like early in the summer that he would not be out until early December, but then in September we found out that he would· be released November 2nd and available for the festival. 
He's · been practicing . while in jail; they let him have a guitar; he's been practicing, so that it's not like he's going to be rusty when he gets· out. This .was the first place, the. first major college appearance he had ever had, and the fact that Bruce . could go to them and say, "Look, I've gotthese people down af Notre· Dame interested in him and they're really willing to give him· a job in November. So it's not like he's · going to hit the streets ·and be unemployed; he's got plenty of jobs lined· up." That,· too· swung some bounces in his favor, so to speak.­Scholastic: The fans could almost look-for enough new • material for an album or two. -· · Perry: I'm pretty sure we· couldi · He also won't have a regular band with him,, since he hasn't been playing; He'll probably: go out to the West side and pick up some ·of-the people that he's played· with in the bars regularly;·which I think will be bet­ter in composition thari the band he brought last year. The band .he brought last· year wasn't bad,' but he had'a nephew or cousin who was playing · electric piano, just doing basic chords and that. It really didn't do much for anybody. It was Fenton alone that held things·· to­gether.'" · 
:,I was ·really impressed with his set last ·year -and l-felt a lot: of other people were. Another thing that we've got going for us; and I'm sure Fenton is going to take ad­vantage of italong with the.chance· to get some exposure: people like Jim ·and-;A.my O'Neill who run Liv­ing Blues' magazine are coming· in for the· festival. Five or six ·other important names from the minor blueslabels in Chicago will be com­ing in ; Bob Kester and his wifoi from Jazz Record" Mart, Bruce Kap­lan from Flying Fish might be com­ing in. There's quite a few people coming in for the festival. Knowing that with Jim and Ainy out there to review the. festival· in ·Living Blues and_ going 'on with the lineup that we've got Friday night, which is pretty _solid, Fenton will make one effort to pretty much blow every­body off the stage, along with the fact that Otis Rush is. the climax 
-for Friday night. (Fenton at one time gigged with Otis as a backup man,· and whenever this sort of. sit­uation occurs, it becomes a headcut­ting scene.) Fenton will come out and ·play as best he can and ·put the screws to Otis to make him look like a fool if he plays a mediocre set and disappoints people; or else force Otis to really work at it. There's an outside possibility, that we can ·convince Fenton·: to .come out:and jam with Otis-to dose Fri~ day night, which would· be dynamic. Scholastic:: Could you explain' some of the styles in this year's festival, and maybe ·-classify :the artists .as either, · 1et's· say, delta·:. blues;· Chi­cago blues or· the like?· Perry: It's going to be hard to say because most of the artists we-have this ·.·year· are -postwar Chicago artists, ·primarily. With the excep-' tion of perhaps Blind· John Davis; and Martin Bogan• and·Armstrong, who ·are twci of' the , most: unique acts that we have ever had· here. You're going to get a lot of what is· known as ·"string-squeezing," with this Albert King style of blues,'With Fenton· ·and· Otis Rush, they ·are obviously working out: of -the back­ground of a·lot of influences. There's . a lot of background that's at .play; you get the : influence of :B.B. · King, although it's not that much, but still present. It's hard to pick out ·the principal country blues· artists 1that are responsible: The' early: Muddy Waters is c~rtainly' playing· a role in the ·type of · blues they: perform. WithC Otis Rush,' Magic Sam played a role; Buddy Guy is certairily in­fluential. -· · With Fenton I ain pressed to find ·some influences, but T-Bone-Walker is a_ very·dominant influence in his • style: Most of the people that you're 
going to hear are creators· of their own style. They might borrow some things at times, but .they're working on their own· style. The curious thing .about Albert and Otis Rush .. is that they are both left~ handed musicians. It isn't that odd, but it seems like it because they're the only two people in the ;world that . do it;· When .they learned to play the guitar· nobody ever told them that you had to restring the guitar to -play it left-handed. As a result they both play the guitar upside down. It's kind of strange because Albert plays backwards, but then again it shows the kind of creativity that he has.. With Mar­tin, Bogan and Armstrong, you have 
a .sort .of holdover. of. music you don't hear anymore in blues. You'll hear it in bluegrass with somebody like Bill Munroe; the. very old tra­ditional type of bluegrass. Basically what they've got isa count~y string band. They grow out. of groups like jug bands from Memphis in the 20's and 30's. Most of the. music they play is a kind of street-corner music. They are not ·really, bluesmen as they are songsters. They make their living. by being musicians and en­hance their• money-making capabili­ties by. making as many diverse kinds of songs as possible. So we'll see them playing traditional blues pieces, and even quick melodies like "Sweet Georgia. Brown." They just play anything and are very enter­taining. Just by watching them you can get really excited; they don't just play music; they put on a show. They overemote. Theyire hams and they love .the limelight. Scholastic: How about a brief run­down; if it is possible, on the blues, including something on.their origin.? Perry: There .isn't any specific area where the blues came from.. All that is known .is that it is a distinct cul­tural form, that it appeared some­time around the turn of the century in ·black America. .Basically, the 

strongest forms: it would be found in Texas, Mississippi, and the Caro­linas, the three main· areas. .Each area generating its own style so to speak. The Texas style could be classified as the light blues, the Lightning Hopkins ·type and people like that with an emphasis on the singing itself. In the Delta, two styles we~e produced, one of which strictly became known as the Delta blues, the kind of blues that Muddy Waters, Hound Dog Taylor produce, the slide guitar style. · Originally they used to use a beefbone, the type that came out of a round steak; later they found that you could break the neck off a ginbottle and throw it into a fire. When the fire burned down, you took it out and the rough edge had been smoothed .down by the flames. That's where the term "bottleneck" comes from. Later a steel tube was used. The .other Mississippi blues : involved an em­phasis on the actual playing of the guitar, a ·. fairly detailed picking pattern, rather .than the sliding, whining type of music you got in the Delta. In the Carolinas. a lot of people would argue that it's the home of the guitar wizards. The emphasis in the Carolinas. was on speed and. technique. If, you listen to some . of the Carolina artists re­corded in the-twenties, and they're playing so damn fast you almost have to checkthespeed on the turn­table. That's just how fast _those guys were.. Just really fine mu­s1c1ans, unbelievable. The other form of the blues that we have is the dassic blues, people Uke Ma Rainey and Bessie Smith. Blues singers like this were popping, .up, playing · with rather sophisticated bands . bes hind them in the twenties. You can't 
· push , too far_ .back because it just becomes cloudy and subject to spec­ulation. _ . Scholastic: .It . could be said that blues then, excepting jazz, is the only true American form of music. 
Perry: You'd almost .have to add bluegrass, although_ bluegrass cer­tainly does have origins in English folk songs. But of course jazz comes out of blues, and rock . comes out of blues alm9st directly, there's no doubt.. You can prove it in the sense that a lot of the songs being done by rock artists are simply re­makes of old blues tunes. But you get after this period, country blues in the South at this time, a lot of the major labels at that.time .would put ads in the papers saying _that w~ will be recording at' such and such. a hotel for this week .. For a long time the major labels would come to the South, so. there's no need f9r mi­gration.. After the Depression a great deal, of artists went to. leave, and one of .the •. things that . people in the blues agree with is if you look at a map of the .South and impose on it an overlay of .. the main rail­ways,. you see that thoselines lead to three major cities. First. of all they lead to Chicago, second to St. Louis, and third, Detroit. And th1at's why those cities have become such great urban centers of blues music. 
. These guys would hop freights and leave the south, and those. are ,the places they . would· end up, The job situation in Chicago during the Depression and in the Second World War promised a lot. St. Louis just happened. to be a hopping-off point. if you . weren't going to Chicago, you got off in St. Louis for a while. Another area that drew a lot: of blues artists during the. Second Wodd War· was Oakland, the bay area ouL in San Francisco in the armainents industry. . 
The Midwest Blues Festival, 1976, happens on November• 14 and _15. Per/ armers . such as Albert King, Blind John· Davis, Fenton Robinson and Otis ·Rush will ·be .· appearing. Both two-day and one-day p~ses are available. 


The Secret Players 
The band was marching out to their practice fiel<J as we came out of Alumni Hall. :The · sound of the fight ·song suddenly surrounded us, and dl'.eams of the glory of standing down_ on the Stadium field before millions of fans :brought chills to twenty.. interhall football players .... 
The lights of Cartier Field were now upon ·us. Adjusting to the arti­ficial lights proved to be a bother to us, forcing us to: squint across the field at our opposition . 
. The: opposition., Howard Hall is just another hall to many, but to me,-it was very special. I lived there for almost three·.. years .with many of those on the other side. I grew up with them..Now I was against them. I. was on • the opposition. , . It was planned• that I would quar­terback the last plays of the game if we ,were . ahead. To get. ahead though, . Alumni. had to score, some­thing that was a nagging problem throughout the season. 
But it didn't take long for Alumni to score. 4,n end around for seventy­~ix yards · gave Alumni first blood in the contest. ·We were ahead and had .the momentum. A strong de­fense and some poor officiating kept Howard in the game, down only by eight at the half.. 
Then_ I started .to -worry. This certainly was not· a romp; Howard had .kept themselves within a few points of beating us. Alumni couldn't afford . .to make .any errors if they wanted to win. · And I wasn't going to play if there was a chance that 
I.could blow the game for Alumni. 
Howard scored. ·.They missed the two~point conversion, and we led by two. My stomach started to tight~ en. I· told our player-coach Frank Driscoll that I didn't think that I should play. His. only comment about that was, "The hell you aren't going to play!"· So I knew that.I'd get my chance. 
· Two minutes remained in the game;· It was still tense, with How~ 
by Bill Delaney 


Fra~k Driscoll consults Bill Delaney (52) . .. 
.• 

ard now mounting a time-consum­entire Howard defense, and nailed to ing ~rive. We·. were. all nervous the ground._ But _I gained five yards. along the sideline. We .had to win. Shades of Tom Parise! 
But then we got the ball! Thirty Walking . back to .the huddle seconds remained before we would amidst · the bewildered cheers of be the victors·. And then I came in. present and ·past hallmates, I felt 
· I .was actually pushed out onto that I had the world at my feet. But the field· by Driscoll. He continually the huddle was something different. said, "Don't fumble the ball! Don't "Where did you go?" was the fumble the ball!" That's all. No thought on everyone's mind when I rah~rah speech;. _Just a· plea to hang joined my teammates. Driscoll was onto the ball. Real encouragement. beyond beli~f. "Just follow us. this 
The huddle was a weird expe­timet was all he said. I quickly rience also. Everyone started talk­ob.eyed. · . ing at once, each reminding me not .Another sweep was called. I cor­to lose the ball. Driscoll decided I'd rectly lined up behind the center run a sweep around right end for this time.. B~t I forgqt.the play. I my first play. If I survived that went back to·that right hole where play, I may have the opportunity of success lay. This time it was dif­doing it again. ferent. 
We broke from the huddle, and I was tackled by Howard Hall. started walking up to the line of Everyone associated .with Howard scrimmage. I found myself lining (even Father Gorski) ·seemed to hit up behind the left guard,. who does me. But I .held onto the ball. Time not .. snap· the ball.· I quickly side-ran~out, and Alumni had won a foot­stepped to the right behind the . ball game. We had beaten Howard. center before anyone was the wiser The ~tatistics were impressive: and started.to call signals; . · two carries for a total of six yards. 
Just then, an interesting thing --.But more important was the fact happened. There was no one over that we had gotten together to play our right· tackle. Sensing that this in a game which meant something may be··a once-in~a-lifetime oppor-• extra. Something aside from Emil, tunity, I got the ball and.headed for or Space Tech. We had come to­the hole.. Five yards and a cloud · gether to have fun. of astroturf later,· I· :was hit by the · · And we all did. . 
The Catholic Sport 
. . 
Although nearly every sport im­
aginable . is included among the 
Olympic. Games, there is only one · 
truly •universal sport. It's . called . 
soccer. It is unmatched as a means. of international competition, and is, in reality, the only sport which can 'claim a bona fide world champion, determined. every four years by the winner of · the World Cup. Each nation enters a ·team in the World Cup in the hopes of returning home with sport's most prestigious award. 
Americans on the whole, however, 
have as much interest in the World 
Cup as they do in the .Pillsbury 
Bake-Off. This position is rapidly 
changing. The game is maturing at 
every level -from youth leagues 
to high school competition to college 
teams· and professional leagues ­
the world's game· is fast becoming 
America's. 
Perhaps symbolic of· America's 
fast-growing ·importance in soccer 
was the decision of Pele, the great~ 
est soccer player ever, to· come out 
of retirement and help boost soccer's 
g·rowth in the United · States.' His 
express purpose in playing· for the 
North American Soccer League's 
New York Cos.mos -was· to· place 
Am'erica on a par with other soccer­
playing nations. and develop Aineri: 
can interest to where ifwould equal 
the rest of the world's. Pele's life, 
especially his.childhood, underscores 
soccer's dominance in the rest of the 
world: -he relates stories·• of his 
schooldays in Brazil when he grew 
up .kicking rolled up rags around 
the· ·streets, ·graduating· to oranges 
and melons, never touching: a. real 
soccer ball until he stepped ori the 
field for· Santos, ·a Brazilian· profes~ 
sional team; at the age of 16. While 
children ii1 America grow up playing 
catch · and throwing footballs, chil­
dren. in ·the rest of the world grow 
up with soccer. 
Soccer's growth. in America has 
affected the college sport: the ca.Ii~ 
ber of teams and players has risen'. 
Colleges now supply the professional 
leagues with players, and the impor­
tance and status of the game on the 


. 

campus have · increased. Soccer in America -was once exclusively the sport of the· ethnic groups, and col­lege soccer was played only by those who had been exposed to it as chil­dren or were from an ethnic group. But today, soccer attracts the typi­cal American athlete.· 
Soccer at Notre Dame has grown so much that it is possible. to have both an ."A" :and a "B" team· with the number of players available, and cuts must be made of the hopefuls. Though riot a varsity sport on the level of football or basketball, soccer as a club sport can be compared with the rugby and'lacrosse· teams ·_ in­dependent, proud · and very com­petitive. ', •· 
Coach Bob Connolly's Irish boat­ers are characteristic of soccer players-energetic, exciting, and ex­ceptional hustlers. Soccer is not a game where a· continuous drive re-
by Brian Doyle & John Delaney 
suits iri a score; but rather the seiz­ing of an opportunity, the outplay­ing of one's opponent, will produce a· goal. Played with a running clock, there are no time-outs. Soccer requires · a player to be durable and disciplined. ·Notre Dame's re­cord maY conjure visions· of a lack of enthusiasm, but they have played well, overshadowed by one-goal de­feats and the high caliber of their competition. 
The Interhall sports program also features soccer, where the quality of play may not be on a par with that of the club team, but where the fervor and, enthusiasm are j·ust as intense. The popularity of the sport is also evident here, as each hall enters a team in both .the fall and the spring · leagues. This year's fall champion, Pangborn· (who defeated Flanner 1-0 in the championship game) shared the spring 'title with Alumni, finishing .. co-champions after going through three overtimes in ·the championship game last April. 
Many reasons have · been deduced tO' explain the sudden• mushrooming of soccer interest, including the catalysis .of good, foreign players participating· in the American• game. A very basic explanation was offered by• Pete Logan of the Notre Dame soccer club. He explained that, "in soccer, skill is much more important . than size or height. Although it doesn't hurt to• be a superman;· the em.phasis falls heavily on a· player's ability to be proficient in a game, not on overpowering the opponent." In other · words; the ·normal player can be good with ·a lot of practice, regardless of physical stature or dimension. 
· Development of interest and· the growing .. commercial success · will boost soccer into a m'ore prominent spot on the American sports scene. It won't be long before John Q. Pub­lic knows the front line of the World Cup champion as well as he knows Bench, Morgan, and Rose. Until then, soccer will continue its snow­balling popularity. 
SCHOLASTIC 

Runners and -Lovers 
Twenty-five of them meet every 

afternoon on the third tee of the 
golf_ course. They _do a few stretch­
ing exercises, trying to alleviate the 
stiffne_ss of the muscles which were 
slightly tightened by, their run early 
that morning. They then depart for 
a training run, usually; about 10 
miles. Often ·if .a :layman were to 
look at a stopwatch.· upon their re­
turn, he -probably would wonder 
whether the _course was covered by 
foot or by racing bicycle. 
__"They" are the Notre Dame cross­
country team, arid these harriers are 
there every day, ,'rain or shine. There 
are no armies of managers, photog~ 
raphers or journalists;. only those 
who are dedicated enough to put in 
the :miles day after day. -. And 90 
miles. a:week is a lot-of dedication. 
Why do 25 ,guys join a sport -like 

cross-country? . With so much _un­
heralded work involved, there must 
be some special motivations. 
"It's a hard one to define," re­

marks senior Jim Hurt, referring to 
his motivation.. He started running 
in high school and has continued 
with an.interest ever since, leading 
to his position as captain of this 
year's team. "It was something ·I 
was decent at," he ·reflects. "I -felt 
some measure .of s_uccess: beating 
kids." Now, he sees a simpler rea­
son for his running: he just likes 
doing it. "I-enjoy doing it:as some­
one else enjoys basketball," he says; 
Jim Reinhart agrees about this 

fondness for the act of running it­
self and speaks for the rest of. the 
team. "We love to run. There are 
very · few -. scholarship guys on-· the 
team. : Most, of ·the guys :are ·out 
'there because they -. enjoy itt · he 
states;-· . . . . .. 
<T_his Jove for · running itself is basically necessary for someone who spends so :much time doing it, as a distance runner does. This is not· to say, however, that every minute of . the· 10-mile run.is part of aglorious experience; there -must . be other motivations to . keep. _him· going through the .tough times, too. _·.. ­

Steve Welch, a freshman who -is 

NOVEMBER 7, 1975 
one of the top runners on the team, sees some of the other reasons for putting in the miles every day. "I run ,because it gives me a goal," he says, "and because it gives some satisfaction." This satisfaction can come when the hard work is • paid off: one runs his fastest time. It may also be simply . being in good physical condition. Reinhart re­marks, ".There is a. satisfaction of being in really good shape; running ten miles in 60 minutes is a great feeling." 
Some of the team members cite a certain camaraderie on the squad. "We. really_ enjoy the fellowship," says Reinhart. Sufferings together help -to strengthen _the alliance, agree several. members. Although this is also true in_ .other . sports, cross-country.: is different. The "group of individuals" composing the harrier team, as opposed to a football or hockey '.'machine," can have. just as much a strong fel~ lowship. 
Others are .in it for additional reasons. Jay Miranda, another top freshman, asserts, "I -run -because I'm basically competitive.'.' He ,is quick, however, to -point out some­thing else. "It's not all hard work 


by Mike Palmer 

like a lot of people think; it's a lot 
of fun," he says. A few mention be­
ing on the team as a good· way to 
meet new friends, or even as a diver­
sion from studies. 
Of the motivations. for running 
cross-country, public acclaim prob­
ably is not one of them. "If you 
wanted publicity, you wouldn't be 
in this sport,''.. says second-year man 
Ed Kistner. This does not seem to 
bother most of the . team, however. ­
It is interesting to note that the 
majority of the team does not run at 
away meets, because of limits im­
posed on visiting · teams . by the 
NCAA. That does· not deter them 
from working hard. As Kistner-puts 
it, "There are 15 guys staying home 
weekends; they. must like it.'' 
Again .this basic love .of running 
is their motivation behind the many 
miles. But, also important is,.what 
Steve Welch spoke, of previously ­
goals. Striving for goals in .running gives . the participant a sense of _focus, similar to many goals in life. Shooting for 10th place or better in a certain race or to break 26 min­utes_ for a five-mile race could be goals; achieving them will make the runner feel that all the -miles were 
worthwhile. 
_ 
-



"I grow old ... I grow old . ··" 
J. Alfred Pru/rock 
-T. S. Eliot 
· I feel my seniorhood weighing heavy on my head these days, a sod­den · clump of catalogues .and half­begun -applications. All the fresh­men in my section are freshly turned 18 · and cari use their own !D's in Michigan: I'm.· legal · iri Indiana and facing 22. (The next landmark after 21, I think, must be 65 and ·senior citizenship.) 
I guess I'm in the market for a rocking chair, or an afghan-blue to match my housedress-or a com­panionable African violet plant. 
Perhaps it's the coming· of pre­registration that has brought this dollop of nostalgia into my life. It was, -after all, not so long ago that I saw my first Form· 50 and tried to puzzle· out all· the attendant red tape.. At that point I· was deluged with possible courses, but I had three years to fill: now I am still deluged, but have only one semester.·· 
It amazes me that the time has gone by so quickly, but then, time has a way of doing that. One of its inherent characteristics is that it passes . .Yet at the moment I feel as tho.ugh I were part of a magic show: I stand on a tablecloth, so~eone gives a quick yank, .and suddenly rm· no. longer standing on a table­cloth. The presence 'or absence of the cloth is all that has· changed in the scenerio. 
But that's not completely true. Things have changed since my first year._ . 
Freshman year was the first year of coeducation and the first year of the. "unmerger.'; I remember getting a little card in the mail a few weeks after I had applied to what Thad thought would be a merged Saint ·Mary's College/University of Notre Dame, asking me to indicate wheth­


by Sally Stanton 

er I wanted my application to be considered by one school or the other, or both. When I visited right before Christmas no one seemed to know quite what would be done with the new Notre Dame women-one of the people I talked to thought they might be put over in Grace or Flan­ner, since the towers would be eas­iest to renovate. 
There were only 350 women that first year-only 125 freshmen. I suppose women in class or on cam­pus were almost as rare as great woolly mammoths in July-and probably provoked a similar re­sponse: fear and amazement. The admissions process had been billed as extremely . selective and the women were labeled· geniuses by all the men-and women. (I think a good number of us women looked to ourselves and knew ·we weren't the geniuses, so figured our application must have · smick by the committee when -someone went out for coffee in the wee hours of the morning.) 
In a residential University organ­ized around the stay hall system, where the hall is the main social and political unit, we entered Badin and Walsh, halls suddenly devoid of residents. We were all so new­rectors, RA's, students. There was no one to initiate ·the freshmen into hall life-in one respect · we were all "freshmen." The tradition had been broken · and we had to start 
· from scratch.· Iri many ways we were indirectly influenced by Saint Mary's. A good portionof the transfer students came from "across the road" ·and though some of those had taken the great majority of their . courses at Notre .. Dame, they still had ties with the other.school. They and their friends had been most caught in the un­merger confusion. · . There seemed· . much concern among the students that year at the 

growing gulf between Notre Dame 
and Saint Mary's. First semester 
the coexcha.nge program · allowing 
students to sign up for courses at 
both schools was suspended, and the 
people who were here before arid 
after say there were· fewer women 
on campus then than the year before 
when Notre Dame was• still an all 
male institutaion. · 
The first class of women here may 
have been a little defensive also. I 
rapidly grew tired of explaining that 
when I said I was going to Notre 
Dame I meant I was going to Notre 
Dame (and not on a football schol­
arship). 
And some people seemed· to think 
the women were here to coeducate 
the University, while· most of~Lus, I 
think, came to go to college. 
It was all a little confusing. Pro­
fessors and male students . would .turn to· a woman in the class for the "woman's view" as though that were necessarily some strange and exotic beast. There was a · degree of self­consciousness that has not totally dispersed yet,· .as . though we were 
watching ourselves to see if ·some­
thing horrible· would happen.•• 
I don't think anything horrible 
has, though women are surely· more 
plentiful on, the quad than woolly 
mammoths. 
The most woeful casualty is riot 
the demise of No_tre Dame's mascu­
linity, but the split in• the relation­
ship between Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's. One· sophomore I talked to 
at the beginning of the year had 
never been over to the other campus. 
.It would be nice if a new relation­
ship could be created, one that did 
not rest on stereotypes and second­
hand information. 
But · perhaps I grow old. And 
ramble on about things of no con­
sequence as old people do .. 
Does anyone know where ·I can 
get an African violet plant cheap? 
Do you have a complaint, comment or -opinion? 
Tell the world! 

Write a letter to Scholastic. 
Address all letters to: Editor Scholastic Magazine. Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Let your friends and family know what's going on at ND. 

Send them a subscription of Scholastic magazine. Only $5.00 per year. 
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 Please send me a subscription to SCHOLASTIC for ...... years at $5.00 a year. I am enclosing $ ....................... . . ................... CASH . ................. CHECK 
Name ............ , ...................................................................... . 
Address ......................................................... ·..................... ­
City State ........................................................ Zip ................... . 

·t ~ ~ . 

. ,·••.' .. 
.JUGGLER 



Notre Da.me's -­
...·: ·_ . •. ,-.. 




-Journ;~,--.-_of 
.~ _. ' .-' .; 

the A;rts 
Juggler is Notre Dame's magazine of the arts. It a semi-annual publication containing ·poems,_piecE · of fiction and drama, photography, _essays, and ri 
·views of.students, faculty and staff.members of tt ~niversity. · · · .. 
.. -., ' 
Juggler·. urges all of you to send your creative , critical writing·s toJhe magazine. The Juggler stt · .win thoughtfully read the manuscripts .and conta the critics and artists soon, after-·..receiving th,
work. . . -. -· .. 
The imagination holds many pleasures and s1 prises for both begiflning and experienced arti~ 
. . 

AROUSE your imaginations; and send the creat ·"Come to ·our Jolly desert. .-resi~ues to the Juggler. :_ .. ·. .·-. c :. _. · .where· even :do/Js go V,ihorfng.. .. 
Mail .. submi~sions . along· ,:with· a. self-address
where cigarette-er1ds ' · ..· · 
. stamped .. envelope · to: Juggler; Lc1Fortune -Cent · . University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, lndil .. . · 46556. Send manuscripts as often-as you'd like.·
.•· become" intima.te friends< . 
staff promises a quick reply to eyeryone .submit!. 
,· . . . .And where it's always. three,-. -.. 
.to the m~gazine. · .. . . .\.: ; . · . . ·· 
. . .....•
in-the -morning/'} · ,__ · .. ':For further. information 1 concerning Juggler;
\· . . W~ H. Auden -7283-626~. "· ..·· ' . .. . 







