SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN
2
A Smash Hit/
PRINTS OF THE PAST 1909
Jan. 1: More than one thousand students — a record enrollment — flocked back to the campus yesterday ending the “spirited” holidays . . . Jan. 31; After walloping Central Y. M. ,C. A. 25 to 8 in their opening basketball game, the varsity dropped a heart-breaking 26 to 10 decision to Michigan Agricultural Monday night. . . Apr. 17: Work was begun Tuesday on Walsh Hall, the new residence building. Expected to cost about 100,000 dollars, officials say that no expense will be spared to make it one of the most complete and up-to-date college structures in America. The rear rooms are to be fitted with stationary wash bowls that give hot and cold running water, while the front rooms are to Oe made up of suites of three rooms for two fellows, consisting of an extra large study-room with a bay window, and a bed-room on either side (a large closet and private bath will be included in the suite.) These rather cramped quarters are explainable by this year’s record enrollment . . . June 5: Beloit stopped the high riding Irish baseball nine Friday by a 4 to 2 score . . . Oct. 2: Last Thursday forenoon in Washington Hall students drank deep of a lecture by Senator Beveridge . . . Nov. 13: Victor’s Royal Venetian Band played to a standing-room-only crowd here Monday night. The Sports Talk originally scheduled for the Monday entertainment was postponed at the last minute till Friday . . . Nov. 27: Notre Dame became Western Champions in football. The honor has never before come to our school and nobody knows quite how to feel. But one thing sure as long as Notre Dame exists, such names as Edwards, Philbrook, Dolan and Coach Longman will be immortal.
PRINTS OF THE PRESENT Da Wize Gy
I em a wize guy—a big wheel;
I nevr study—I dont neel.
All my life I never werry, An so fer I ain’t serry.
On Monday, I’ll get da test,
But me, I’ll sho dat test hoo’s best. So if you’r wize you’ll be like me, And when your graded, you’ll see That you are pozatively sunk Sins all you’ll evr doo is flunk.
Rumunisent, Lyons
In the ND Dictionary
Commerce man—A fellow who spends four years in college learning to “get the business.”
Anny's Real Reason
WITH ME
— ITS NEW
Gambling was the reason they aired For forgetting the traditional game. But we all knew they were really scared Of our Fighting Irish of Notre Dame.
—Thompson, poet laureate of Lyons.
It's a Thought
Now that the West Pointers are deemphasizing football, do you suppose they’d consider replacing Notre Dame with our own St. Mary’s on their ’48 schedule. We’d still be represented, and the game would be on more even terms.
—D. J. the S. P. of Cav.
Start Running, Bub
Last week a visitor walked up to two commerce men and asked them as to the whereabouts of the library. Of course, neither man was any help.
—Just Another A. B.
Swallow This One
I heard the infirmary, in its endeavor to keep up with the medical advances of the outside world, has been going over plans to streamline those all-purpose pink pills.
Len Zaller, Cav.
A CUSTOM-BLENDED TOBACCO
A rich mixture of choice imported and domestic tobaccos hand mixed from a private formula to give a cool, mild and naturally fragrant smoke.
Pocket size, 30c	8 oz. jar, $1.40
16 oz. jar, $2.75
“In the J. M. S. Bldg.”
Specializing in the examination of the eyes
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
3
Du Pont Digest
Items of Interest in the Fields of Chemistry, Engineering, Physics, and Biology
High-Pressure Synthesis Opens New Chemical Fields
A Challenge to Research Men and Engineers
The use of techniques involving pressures up to and abovel,000 atmospheres (15,000 lbs. per sq. in.) has had a tremendous influence on chemical manufacture in the past twenty-five years.
The availability of unlimited quantities of nitrates via ammonia from nitrogen of the air by high pressure synthesis has greatly affected chemical economics as well as agriculture.
The plastics industry, too, has benefited greatly by the reduction in price of urea from about 80p lb. to less than 4c, and methanol (to give formaldehyde) from $1.25 gal. to less than 25c.
High pressure syntheses have also participated in a major way in the development of entirely new products such as nylon and polythene. In fact, starting from coal, air and water, Du Pont now makes over 120 widely used products.
In addition to improving the existing processes of manufacturing ammonia, methanol, higher alcohols, urea and other important chemicals, Du Pont organic and physical chemists, chemical, mechanical and metallurgical engineers have discovered and developed high pressure syntheses for the following: ethylene glycol; hexamethylene diamine; acetic, propionic and hydroxyacetic acids; methyl formate; Ce-, C,o-and Cia- alcohols; and numerous others.
Advantages and Problems
The use of high pressures offers numerous advantages familiar to technical students, such as: (1) forcing an equi— librium in the direction of a volume decrease, (2) overcoming the reversing effect of high temperatures in exothermic reactions, (3) increasing reaction and through-put rates and (4) providing, in some cases, a liquid phase which might not otherwise be present.
The synthesis of urea from carbon dioxide and ammonia is a good illustration of some of these principles:
CO2 + 2NH3 c CO(NH2)2 + H2o
With three moles of reactants and only two of resultants, increase of pressure gives an expected increase in conversion.
A Battery of Hyper Compressors Used to Bring Gases up to 700-900 Atmospheres Pressure in the Ammonia and Methanol Syntheses.
At the same time, the gaseous reactants are forced into the liquid phase to give higher concentrations and again better conversion. The reaction rate and therefore the rate of passage through the reaction chamber are both increased by increasing the temperature under high pressure conditions. There are other equilibrium considerations that affect the industrial production of urea, but they are too lengthy to discuss here.
Along with its advantages, the use of high pressure gives rise to problems that often severely tax the abilities of engineers and chemists. For example, (1) difficulties of design of packing glands, valves, connecting rods, closures, etc., increase rapidly with increased pressure, (2) extraordinary corrosion problems arise in which even stainless steels are attacked and cannot be used, (3) ordinary steels are permeable to hydrogen at higher pressures and temperatures. These are but a few illustrations of the challenge that high pressure studies present to the technical man and particularly to the metallurgical and mechanical engineer.
High pressure synthesis has now become a separate field of industrial chemistry with an apparently limitless future.
Questions College Men ask about working with Du Pont
What kind of a technical organization does Du Pont have?
There are ten manufacturing departments in Du Pont, each operating as a separate organization and each with its own research and engineering staff. In addition, there is a central chemical department and a central engineering department. Consequently there is a wide variety of research and engineering work available to chemists, engineers and other technical specialists. For further information write for the new booklet "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate,” 2521 Nemours Bldg., Wilmington, Delaware.
REg.u. s.pat.off.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
More facts about Du Pont—Listen to “Cavalcade of America,” Mondays, 7 P.M. CST, on NBC
...THROUGH CHEAHSTRT
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS * CO. (INC.) WILMINGTON 9t, DELAWARE
4
LETTERS
S'ir:
You are missing the boat if you don’t run another set of the Veteran Project pictures. See the J. F. Murphy’s again. They just had their baby boy on September 20, 1946 and would make a nice picture. You had them in your first ran, and it did look good to see the change in the apartment. Try it.
Bill Hooley
r ' . >
r.
Thanks to Bill Hooley for a pictureworthy tip, and herewith are photos of the Murphys, before and after.
Editor
BEFORE
AFTER
MORE THAN FURNITURE HAS BEEN ADDED
New Blend! New Taste! New Freshness!
Made by the revolutionary new “903” moisturizing process. Beneficial moisture penetrates every tobacco leaf—gives you a smoother, milder, better smoke! Get new Raleigh “903” Cigarettes today.


TYRONE POWER
7^rnluats
306 Joselin Ave. Cincinnatti 20, Ohio
Jan. 6, 1947 Sir:
I thought you would be interested in the enclosed clipping (of Ratterman receiving a gold watch from Cincinnatti Notre Dame Alumni) from today’s Cincinnati Enquirer in view of the fact that a biographical sketch of Ratterman in the Dec. 6 issue of the Notre Dame Scholastic contained the following state-(Continued on Page 23)
NAME YOUR SPORT . . .
SONNEBORN'S
has what it takes!
121 W. Colfax Avenue	Phone 3-3702
5
Something NEW
in
Notre Dame
CALENDARS
In booklet form, plastic pictures of the campus. Convenient for recording appointments and special dates.
75 cents
at the
BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws Telephone 4-5661
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M. D. M. J. Thornton, M. D.
•
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
COLLEGE PARADE
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS
JUST THINKIN' . . .
For three years we’ve been bewildered, trying- to determine why the St. Mary’s girls kiss like they do . . . found out the other night when we saw them sucking up the spaghetti at Rosie’s . . . practice makes perfect. . . . The next night we made another discovery, the best way to tell a woman’s age is a mistake . . . but so is the average woman. . . . Met a bartender a few days back, a pretty bright old gent . . . says his philosophy in life is “Blessed are they who expect nothing, for they shall not be disappointed” . . . he has something there. . . . Ever spend much time thinking about the mirror of the mind, the face. God gave each one of us, two eyes, nose, mouth, etc. . . . and yet we all differ from each other ... no matter though, be it ever so homely, there’s no face like one’s own* *. . . they say beauty is only a skin game . . . but for woman, it’s the best substitute for brains . . . however, let us not despair . . . we should keep in mind the words of that renowned Irish philosopher, Izzy Weinstein, who has this to say about faces: “So vy vurry da noodle if yuh ken’t be choosing yuh own face? Yuh ken shtill pick yuh noze.”
NEWS AND VIEWS FROM US TO YOUSE ...
Our list of exchanges is growing by leaps and bounds. Oui- latest addition is the Megaphone, a monthly put out by the St. Dismas Club at the California State Prison. We quote from a column by “Gabe” Marcias ... “4 inmates of the Marquette jail are charged with stealing, they had been breaking out of their cells and raiding the prison bakery. ... -In Manhattan, an ex-inmate picked up for carrying a gun, explained to the judge that the crime wave had him worried. ... In Portland, a man coppered for stealing $1,000 from the mails, gave Judge McCulloch his reason: he needed the money to pursue his studies for the ministry. ... In Tacoma, safe-crackers took $450 and left a ticket to the Policeman’s Ball . . .”
The Megaphone, written by men paying their debts to society, is an excellent magazine.. Its editorials are jam-packed with philosophy, and, from our point of view, it is superior to 95 percent of the college publications that come our way.
And from our sisters across-the way comes the St. Mary’s Chimes. A highly intellectual publication, the Chimes is a
quarterly which is supposed to appeal to the St. Mary’s student who has a liking for the literary.
We reprint a poem from the Chimes. Incidentally, it was written by Jim Costin’s offspring, Mina . . .
The Bear
“Beware of the bear.
Are you aware he can tear Out your hair with his bare Hari? He can.”
. . . Mina, better you should be writing nursery rhymes. Or maybe better still, you should take up knitting and leave the writing to Papa Costin.
“I see in the papers that 9 profs and a student were killed in a train wreck.”
“Poor chap.”—Cornell Widow.
From the Rough Rider we print a note about the type of woman that we seemed to run across during the recent holidays: “She’s the type that whispers sweet little nothin’ doin’s in your ear.” ❖
“Do you believe in clubs for women?” “Yes, if kindness fails.”
.—West Point Pointer $
GETTING SEDIMENTAL . . .
The epic we compiled last week couldn’t be complete without a post-script added here. Wheelers and Dealers who had planned on being home hours ahead of everyone by hiring Terry, Chazz Charles, and Flip Corkih to run them home had a sad let-down. The weather back East just wasn’t ordered for flying; one plane was forced down at Cleveland; the Buffalo Club got as far as Detroit; while the “Sacred Cow” that was scheduled to head for Pittsburgh turned out to be merely a bawling calf ’and’ didn’t even get its tail off Mother Earth. Some lads will never learn that speed isn’t everything. Far better to sprawl in the comfortable (?) club car and toast the miles as the Iron S’teed clicks them off.
During the holidays we had the good fortune of watching a fine NYU team in action on the hardwood. True, they ran away with the game, but we wonder what will happen when O’Shea, Brennan, Curran, Kelly, and O’Halloran of South Bend meet up with Irishmen Maher, Kelly, O’Connor, and Regan of the Gotham institution. Despite the presence
(Continued on Page 27)
6
he
^eek
Holiday magazine’s January issue, besides a most gorgeously-colored picture calendar, contains some 30 pages of picturesque propaganda about cornucopian California, from the pens of such men as Carey McWilliams, Don Eddy and John Gunther, the original “Mr. Inside.” Mr. Gunther1 adds more fuel to the feud between the two chest-thumping chanticleers of chauvinism, Californians and Texans, by a comparison between the Golden State and the Lone Star Empire. Longhorns won’t like it but Gunther says “Texas is, in a way, more raucous than California; California is more romantic . . . take the world of culture. Here California compares to Texas as Paris, let us say, to Albania ... In the whole history of Texas, there are not a dozen sculptors, scientists, musicians, whose names can be recalled ... a poet in Texas is as rare as an icicle in the Sahara . .. California has always swarmed with poets, artists, men of science.”
Among other Notre Dame men who were recipients of that old standby, the necktie, for Christmas, was Alumni Hall’s Johnny O’Brien, who received a cravat from Jimmy Phelan, former ND man and present grid coach at St. Mary’s, Moraga? California. The tie, which O’Brien keeps stored in a cool place, is daubed with about six shades of violent red, not unlike a blood-shot eye’s view of the Bikini blast. O’Brien will keep it under wraps until after Groundhog Day for fear of launching a premature thaw.
Notre Dame men who patronize the cafeteria found new steel counters on the steam tables last week. The shiny new metal juts out just far enough into a well-worn groove in the column down by the coffee spout to derail any fastmoving tray that is guided along its old lines by non-observing customers.
Newspapers carried the story last week that Diego Rivera, Mexico’s wall-eyed, pork-fat pinkish muralist, in an interview had as much as pronounced dead his own “art” which he claimed belonged to the period of struggle, now presumably over. We sympathize with comrade Rivera, and suggest a befitting burial
— — By John A. O'Connor for his works as about the only decent suggestion as to what should be done with them.
ND men who tuned in on the U. S. Rubber Co.’s broadcast of the N. Y. Philharmonic last Sunday afternoon had to, like all other listeners in radioland, sweat through a dry rasping address at the intermission time, given by a Harvard professor, who should buy a box of Luden’s. His subject was “Effects of High Pressure.” This plague of speeches by “authorities” or sponsor’s friends is becoming contagious. Musicloving listeners, ears glued to their sets to absorb some of the sweetness of Christy ‘Lynch’s tenor voice on Monday nights have had to hear old Firestone himself get in a few licks; even the little Firestones get to perform for the lucky people. This interruption of musical programs for educational talks by uninteresting, caterwauling “experts” endears few to the sponsor’s product.
Within a short time the movie bigwigs will get together- to vote on Oscars for the best pix and performances of 1946. Since most of the films being plugged (The Yearling, Razor’s Edge, Best Years of Our Lives, Duel in the Sun) probably won’t get around to South Bend until about the second Thursday in next November, Notre Dame men will have to recall a few oldies for consideration. “Cluny Brown,” “The Green Years,” and “Anna and the King of Siam” will probably be up there, and Olivia DeHaviland will no doubt get a little pat on the head for that tear-jerker “To Each His Own.” So, in case a few of our favorites get passed up when the trophies are passed out, here are our suggestions:
Best Actress of Year: Marjorie Main, in “Bad Bascomb.”
Best Actor of Year: Percy Kilbride, in “Well-Groomed Bride.”
Best Scream of Year: by Josephine Hutchinson in “Somewhere in the Night.”
Cutest pin-up of the. Year: Virginia Mayo.
Discovery of the Year: Jane Powell.
Continuous lousy performances by a highly publicized ham: Van Johnson.
WEAR THAT JACKET THAT'S BEEN HANGING IN YOUR CLOSET!
ZIPPERS REPAIRED AMD REPLACED LEATHER OR CLOTH JACKETS
New Zippers installed Collars, Cuffs, Waistbands and Linings Replaced
REWEAVIK6 ALL TYPE DAMAGES
GLOBE RENUR
SERVICE
313 Platt Bldg.. Cor. Wayne A Mick.
South Bend. Ind.
CAMERAS AND PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES
Plenty of , . ROLL FILM
in the five popular sizes
Ault’s photo service in the Cafeteria
Camera Shop Opposite the Courthouse
122 South Main St Phone 3-5041
STORE HOURS Tues.-Sat. — 8 a. m. to 5:30 p. xn-Monday— open till 8:30 P- m.
7
mt noiRE dm schousik
Disce Quasi Semper Viclurus Kive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
ttiiiitimiiitiiitnnntMimniiMH***RiiiR************R**m*m***®**********
John Defant, Editor
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Ted Weber____________________H. Smith Keel
tltltltllllllllllltlll I Hill I nil I IKK llllllll ■ ••HU II llltllllllll llltlllllllHIlt James Clemens__________________——News	Editor
Frank Keenan_________Associate News Editor Joe Cheney ______________Sports	Editor
Joe Wilcox____________________Feature	Editor
Dave Cowdin ___________Photographic	Editor
REWRITE
Bob Stock-----------------------Ed Snyder
Joe Doyle
PHOTO CREDITS
Pictures of the Murphys, on page 5, by Dave Cowdin. Basketball action shots, on pages 14 and 15, also by Dave Cowdin.
COVER:
Original sketch by Don Birren.
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C.
_______________________Faculty Advisor
Tom Gargan, Bob Kopf -----------Circulation
M. E. Varga '___________________Advertising
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420. .Madison Avenue, .New ..York ’ •City — Chicago — Boston-— Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame. Indiana.
tyuMn Uta	.
The Vefs Can Go Hang
The announcement that the long-awaited Veterans’ housing project here at Notre Dame would, at long last, be finished on February 15 has been received with great rejoicing. Veterans who had been living with in-laws, outlaws, and miscellaneous and mercenary landlords since they came to the University following discharge, are now promised, for the umpteenth time, that the project will be completed by a certain date.
Anyone interested in the welfare of Notre Dame’s veterans sincerely hope that this date will indeed see a finished project. Those who have been following the course of the construction, however, are forced to look up the scene with a somewhate more jaundiced eye. When the project was started, after a great deal of conversation and application, on June 13 of last year, those in charge promised that the job would be done by the time that the University opened in September. September dawned, but the project still limped along on two cylinders, far from finished, beset with problems and afflicted, it is feared, by a strange and unaccountable apathy on the part of those concerned.
It is easy to shift the blame from place to place; to form a sort of Tweed ring and point to the other fellow as the miscreant. It is difficult, however, to pin the blame on any one person or group of persons; everyone concerned with the project, each chanting his own version of “George did it,” was at fault in that there was distinct lack of coordination observable throughout.
The Northern Indiana Public Service Co., with singular aplomb, smilingly told the University that the gas would be installed in a month, apparently forgot what it so conveniently remembered such a short time later, i.e., that it was short of manpower, materials, meters, etc., ad nauseam. The project apparently had the lowest-priority in town, since the gas crews were eternally departing to other sections of the city to do other work.
The contractors likewise were in a
bedlam of confusion. They, too, were short of manpower, and again the priority of the project appeared low indeed. Civilian construction was apparent everywhere, but there were not enough men or materials available to finish a veterans housing project.
Finally, the project seems to be drawing to a close. Twenty-seven units were made ready for occupancy this week, which is indeed an encouraging sign. But nobody has given assurance that despite blizzards, floods, or any other acts of God, the project would absolutely be finished. It is perhaps forgiveable to assume a cynical attitude since so often before we have heard the same warbling in the tum-tum trees.
The lackadasical attitude, lack of coordination, and general failure to accomplish much in the building of Notre Dame’s housing project is not an isolated phenomenon, but merely a manifestation of the old game of run-around which veterans all over the country have been getting. The housing situation, as it is commonly called, has become the butt of newspaper cartoons and bar-room jokes; demagogues have been elected on a promise of “doing something to get you boys homes,” but the truth is that few homes within the financial reach of veterans have been built. .
Ever since the war, veterans have been contenting themselves, while housed in cellars and attics, with eating promise pudding and buck-passing pie. If the housing authorities, civic leaders, and others supposed to be in a position to implement the correction of such a situation continue to sit on their expensive sofas and sing “tomorrow, tomorrow, tomorrow,” as they have been doing ever since the war terminated, we can expect the average veteran, homeless now, to be equally homeless ten years from now. If, however, these same men and women assume the sense of responsibility they ought to have, veterans will begin to live decently.—Joe Wilcox
TWO WEEKS VACATION FOR THE SCHOLASTIC
This is the final issue of the semester for the "Scholastic." The first issue for the second semester will appear on February 7.
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 88, NO. 13
JANUARY 17, 1947
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
To Complete Vet Housing Feb-15
Sophs to Hold Ball At Palais Royale
Tux’s ’n tails, dazzling gowns, soft lights and scintillating music will be the backdrops for the 1947 Sophomore Cotillion to be held in the Palais Royale ballroom on Friday evening, February 7th. The 49ers and their guests will not only enjoy themselves at the ball on Friday but will look forward to a fun-filled weekend, including a winter carnival on Saturday afternoon at the lake and the basketball game with Michigan State on Saturday evening.
If there is no snow on Saturday afternoon, co-Chairmen Terence Brennan and Bill Murtaugh have announced that a tea dance will be held instead at the Palais with music being provided by the Notre Dame Cavaliers.
Several well-known bandleaders have been contacted and the committee has announced that the band will be booked within the next few days.
Bids for the dance will go on sale the latter part of January, the price being $6.00 (including tax.) The price of the bid includes the ball, carnival or tea dance and the basketball game. The dance is only open to sophomores, veterans and upperclassmen. Dancing will begin at 9:00 and end at 1:00 a. m. Two o’clock permission will be granted to those attending the dance, and weekend car permissions will be granted to those who submit their request to the Prefect of Discipline’s office.
The Committee has also made arrangements for a block of 125 rooms to be reserved in the Oliver Hotel for out-of-town dates. Also reserved are two hundred and fifty seats for the basketball game Saturday evening, which will go with the first 250 sophomore bids.
A representative of a local clothing store will be in Room 1 of the Law Building to take measurements for tuxedos to be rented next Tuesday at seven o’clock.—Myles Quail
Mediaeval Institute Receives Endowment
A gift of twenty thousand dollars to help defray the expenses of inaugurating the work of the Mediaeval Institute of the University of Notre Dame has been received by the University from the Michael P. Grace Foundation of New York City, it was announced by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C. S. C., President of Notre Dame.
The Mediaeval Institute was established at Notre Dame in September, 1946, under the direction of the Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, former president of the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies at Toronto, Canada.
The Mediaeval Institute is a distinct and independent academic unit of the University of Notre Dame. It is primarily a research institution, devoted in addition to an intensive study of the life and thought of the Middle Ages, to the critical analysis of available sources, the editing of unpublished materials, the publication of scholarly studies, the tracing of currents of thought and movements among races and, in general, whatever may advance our knowledge and understanding of Catholic mediaeval culture.
AAAS Meeting In Boston Hears Dr. Higinbotham Talk
Rev. Robert J. Sheehan, C.S.C., and Dr. Noe Higinbotham, of the Biology Department of Notre Dame, attended the annual meeting of the AAAS in Boston, from December 26th to the 31st.
Dr. Higinbotham presented a paper entitled Some Quantitative Data on the Red Pigment Prodziced by the Fungus, Coccosporium, of which Dr. E. L. Powers is co-author.
Following the Boston meetings Father Sheehan visited the Botany and Zoology Departments of Columbia University and the Biology Department of Fordham University.
27 Additional Units Opened This Week
By ED SNYDER
Barring the thought of a catastrophe, and anything from a strike to an atomic war falls under that title, Notre Dame’s long-delayed and much-awaited veteran’s housing unit should be completed by Feb. 15. So reports F. S. Howard, project engineer of the Federal Housing Authority.
June 13, 1946 was the actual starting date of the project, and wishful-thinkers in the housing authority predicted completion by the time school stalled in the middle of September. However, a few delays cropped up, and Mr. Howard reports that no phase of the work was completed on schedule.
First of all, the buildings themselves had to be hauled in sections by truck from a Prisoner of War Camp at Weingarten, Missouri. The first buildings did not arrive until July 1. After they had been erected, it was necessary to partition off the converted barracks into three units, then partition off the units into two bedrooms, a bath, a kitchen, and living room. The S. N. Neilsen Co. Inc., a general contracting firm out of Chicago which seems to have the curb on government housing in Northern Indiana, was in charge of the project.
After the buildings had been erected and partitioned into units, a little matter of utilities arose. The school took care of water and sewerage. Electricity was handled with ease. However, gas, necessary for cooking and heating, turned into a bottleneck. The Northern Indiana Public Service Co. which had previously stated that one month only would be required for the job, found itself short of meters and manpower. It became necessary to dole out meters like dependency discharges from the service. Added to this were a few emergencies en-
(Continued on Page 21)
9
Vets Club Breaks Silence—What Now?
By Bob Vierhile
Campus veterans who had asked for a change in their Veteran’s Club, got what they had expected: many promises. It was almost like a well-rehearsed wrestling match; the participants mixed it up a little, had a few harsh words, then returned to their respective dressing rooms to have a hearty laugh.
Getting in the first lick, the SCHOOL-ASTIC pinned its “ruptured duck” opponent to the mat last week, demanded more activities, better veteran representation in the high command, and a general reorganization of the club. Campus veterans were quick to approve, agreed that they had been left holding their discharges long enough, wanted some long needed action.
The action that followed was far from being swift-footed, was more of a two-step danced to a familiar' tune. Retorted sauve-mannered, Vet Club president, Joseph Dillon: '‘The Vet Club has not been able to continue the burst of activities that opened the school year for several reasons. First of all, the present size of the club has outstripped all the facilities available to us on the campus, making it almost impossible to hold continual large-scale activities. Secondly, there is only luke-warm interest being shown by campus veterans toward their club. Of the 3,500-odd veterans registered here at Notre Dame, only 1400 have become members of the organization. And, too, many of our planned activities — such as the Illinois student trip, the prompt showing of football movies to the student body, and the proposed memorial service for the football players who died during the war —were pigeonholed by the University administration.”
Although the Vet Club’s record started to get a little scratchy toward the end of the semester, it had not been a complete bust. The club had sponsored a highly and successful mid-semester smoker, had mailed timely, thoughtful spiritual bouquets to the relatives of Notre Dame wai- dead at Christmas, had set up a housing bureau to utilize vacant apartments for Notre Dame’s apartmentless married vets.
At an interview this week, prexy Joe Dillon settled back, scratched his head, announced his plans for next semester. Declared Joe: “If the veteran wants a change in the present administration, he’ll get it. At the next general meet
ing of the club, which will take place immediately after the start of the spring semester, we will hold a formal election, at which time every interested veteran will have his chance to vote, express his ideas, opinions and desires.”
That was right where matters stood. It was now up to the average vet—the so-called forgotten man on the campus —to land the next punch.
Music Dept. Offers Concert on Feb. 5
On Wednesday, February 5, at 8:15, in Washington Hall, the first of a series of Lecture-Recitals, has been announced by Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, Head of the Music Department. Mr. Pedtke explained that the purpose of the series, though primarily one of informal entertainment, was to acquaint students interested in such things, with different types of music literature. .	1
He indicated that we have on the campus, in and out of the music department, many exceptional performers on various types of instruments, and it is his purpose in organizing the present series, to offer to the students enjoyable and profitable entertainment by soloists, instrumental, vocal and mixed ensembles.
The initial concert will be the performance of Beethoven’s Hammer-Kla-vier Sonata, Opus 106. The executant will be Father John D. Gallagher, music instructor at the University. A short explanation will precede the musicmaking and this description will also be given by Father Gallagher.
The reason for the playing of this gigantic composition, regarded by Beethoven as his best work for the piano, is that it serves as a perfect medium, to display the resources of the piano. Since the purpose of the series is to exemplify different musical media, it is thought that the Hammer-Klavier Sonata will best convey the massive and powerful tone building, lively and brusque humor, moving utterances of sorrow and the intricate, climactic interweaving of various melodies.
In the course of the Fortnightly series, Mr. Pedtke promises Arensky’s suite for two pianos, Romance, Waltz and Polonaise, with Father Gallagher and himself at the pianos, a work to be selected later which will feature the oboist Ralph Tharson, a piano and orchestra demonstration by John Witt, the singing of some mediaeval polyphony and finally the performance of some chamber music for strings and wood winds.
VA Opens Insurance Office In Chicago
The decentralization of the insurance section of the Veterans Administration has been completed with the opening of the insurance service in Chicago.
Hereafter all premium payments on National Service Life Insurance policies made by veterans of Indiana, Illinois and Wisconsin should be sent to Insurance Service, Veterans Administration, Branch 7, 615 West Van Buren Street, Chicago 7, Illinois. Veterans in Indianapolis, South Bend and Muncie may make payments in person at the Regional and Sub-Regional Offices.
In addition to making- payments to the Chicago office all inquiries in person or by correspondence, relative to NSLI policies should be sent to Chicago. There is one exception in that disability claims will continue to be filed at the Regional Office.
Premium payments and any transactions regarding U. S. Government Life Insurance (World War 1) will continue to be handled at the central office of the VA in Washington.
Nobel Prize Winner Views Antimalarial Work At ND
Important research in antimalarial drugs now being engaged in at the Notre Dame Chemical Laboratories was described to Dr. Wendell M. Stanley, 1946 Nobel Prize Winner in Chemistry, during his visit to the University of Notre Dame last week.
Dr. Stanley, who is associated with the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research at Princeton, N. J., addressed a meeting here of the St. Joseph Valley Section, American Chemical Society. He was introduced by the Section President, Dr. Patrick A. McCusker, Associate Professor of Chemistry at Notre Dame.
The basic formula for synthetic rubber was discovered in the Notre Dame Chemical Laboratories in 1920 by the late Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., noted chemist, botanist and author. Lewisite gas and other acetylene compounds also were made possible by chemical research at Notre Dame.
The quip of the week at Creighton University was fired in Dr. Lawlor’s botany class. With an eye to the fact that corn will not grow unless it is planted by someone, he asked the question, “What is peculiar about corn?” Dick Palmquist, front row center came back with the sage reply, “It grows in rows.”
10
'Daily Worker' Terms Student 'Red-Baiter'
By Frank Keenan
The Daily Worker, New York’s Communist tabloid, brought fame last week to Notre Dame graduate student Martin McLaughlin, in a paradoxical attempt to deal infamy. McLaughlin, who headed Notre Dame’s four-man delegation to the recent National Student Conference held in Chicago, was dubbed a “red-baiter” for his attack on the leadership of the International Union of Students, which he termed “Communist or consistent followers of Russian leadership.”
(Ed note—Thus was the term “red-baiter” further’ abused by Daily Worker insistence on applying it to all who refuse to follow the Communist party line. And because of this fact the term has grown ‘to be universally understood as defining an active opponent of Communism.)
The reason for the Daily Worker’s tirade was the paper’s support of the proposed unqualified affiliation of the
National Student Organization with the IUS. Such unqualified affiliation was opposed by McLaughlin, whom the tabloid further termed the “leader of the Catholic delegates.” McLaughlin’s opposition bore fi’uit, however, when the panel session adopted his motion “requesting the National Continuations Committee to ascertain under what specific conditions the NSO should affiliate with the IUS.”
(Ed. note — McLaughlin’s attitude was the result of personal experience, gained as a result of witnessing last summer’s World Student Congress in Prague, where the IUS was born and wrapped in red diapers.)
An interesting sidelight of the Conference was an insight into the emphasis placed by older Communists on the activities of youth movements. Through the Conference Daily Worker correspondent, Ruby Cooper gave detailed coverage to the entire meeting, taking voluminous notes on discussions and activities of all the sessions.
Many a woman thinks she bought a gown for a ridiculous price when in reality she bought it for an absurd figure.
St. Mary's to Hold Winter Carnival Sat.
Dartmouth has nothing on Saint Mary’s by the way of Winter Carnivals. This Saturday, January 18, 1947, the sopohomore class of Saint Mary’s College will present its annual Winter Carnival, beginning at 3:30 p. m. and lasting until 10:00 p. m.
Although Dartmouth has a king and queen for their Carnival, they have never had the gracious and lovely Miss Mary Ann Fellinger reigning as Queen of the Carnival, and her fortunate escort, Tom Egan, acting as King. Mary Ann is also general chairman of the Carnival, and is assisted by Joan Thibodeau, chairman of the hostess committee; Pat Moran, entertainment; Sue Wagner, decorations; Joan Midkiff, food; Jeanne Gagon, ice show; Fran O’Donnell, arrangements; Mary Lou O’Connor, bids; Mary Imbs, publicity; Louis Lem-me, queen election; and Mary Jane Merrill, invitations.
Dartmouth’s program for the day might include skiing, but being in South Bend, the terrain being what it is, Saint Mary’s shall not. However, anything else desired by way of spending a perfect day will be available, including ice skating on Lake Marion; an ice show presented by the Ice Rockettes of Saint Mary’s, comparable only to Sonja Henie’s; coronation of the King and Queen, and presentation of their court; supper, dancing and entertainment in Winter Wonderland.
Those fortunate enough to have secured invitations to Saint Mary’s Winter Carnival will long remember a day most enjoyably spent.
By Mary Imbs
Prof. Langford Attends Two Language Conferences
Walter M. Langford, head of the department of modem languages at the University of Notre Dame, attended two conferences in Washington recently.
Professor Langford participated in meetings of the Modem Language Association of Amei-ica and the American Association of Teachers of Spanish & Portuguese. He is president of the Indiana chaptei’ of the latter organization.
* IF I DON'T WATCH OUT, I'M LIABLE TO, TURN INTO A BOOK WORM/'
• ik
Construction of the largest high speed wind tunnel in the world at Danger Field, Texas, was aided materially by processes developed by Prof. Frank N. M. Brown, of Notre Dame.
IL
Engineers Schedule Discussion Programs
A new and i-evolutionaiy program made its debut last Tuesday afternoon in the Engineering Auditorium when the Special Lecture Committee of the Notre Dame branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers sponsored a talk by Mr. E. H. Worcester of the U. S. Rubber Co. Mr. Worcester, the assistant to the Personnel Director of U. S. Rubber, spoke to over 250 early afternoon listeners on the vital subject of LaborManagement Relations.
Directed primarily to Engineering students, the projected series of mid-day lectures represents a new and liberalizing trend in the education of technical men at Notre Dame. Headed by chairman John J. Curtin, the Committee felt that, as a professional man, the Engineering student was missing valuable contact with men familiar with vital economic and political problems. To remedy this situation a program of discussion topics was outlined and presented to the students of the college. Their approval was evidenced by Tuesday’s premiere attendance.
Under the plan now in operation the meetings will be held in the early afternoon, between 12:45 and 2 p.m., when most Engineers have no scheduled classes. The first half hour is devoted to a lecture on such subjects as, “The Current Labor Problem,” “Russia Today,” “The Palestine Question,” “Public Speaking,” and “Commercial Law.” Following the talk a question and discussion period ensues.
Displaying a liberal attitude themselves, the Special Lecture Committee and Professor L. F. Stander, the club’s counselor, have invited faculty members and non-Engineering students to take part in the discussions.
RIGHT OR WRONG?
By Joseph C. Ryan
Without consulting a map can you tell whether these ten statements are right or wrong? To get all ten right you would need a considerable knowledge of the states of the Union, their size, then-position in relation to one another. A score of ten correct is excellent; a score of six is fair; anything under five puts you at the foot of the class. For- correct answers turn to page 19.
. 1. Louisiana lies across the southern border of Arkansas.
Right--- Wrong-------
2.	Missouri covers more square miles than all the New England states
12
together.
Right----- Wrong---------
3.	Only one river borders Kentucky. Right----------- Wrong---------
4.	In size Pennslyvania ranks among the first twenty states.
Right----- Wrong---------
5.	Arizona is directly east of New Mexico.
Right----- Wrong---------
6.	On the southern border of Tennessee are three states: Mississippi, Alabama and Georgia.
Right----- Wrong---------
7.	Only state to touch both the Atlantic Ocean and some of the Great Lakes is New York.
Right----- Wrong---------
8.	In area Ohio ranks among the first nine states.
Right----- Wrong---------
9.	Across the northern border of Arizona is Colorado.
Right----- Wrong---------
10.	On the eastern border of both Washington and Oregon is Idaho.
Right----- Wrong---------
Here are the members of the Press Cub of the University of Notre Dame. It is composed of juniors and seniors in the College of Arts and Letters who are majoring in Journalism and is a professional and social organization for these men. Officers of the club are: President, John F. Regan, of Scranton, Pa., but now residing in South Bend (fifth from left in front row); Secretary, Jerome Colligan, of New York City (seventh from left in front row); Treasurer, Richard Whiting, of Detroit, Mich, (first on left in second row), and Vice-President, John V. Hupf, of Pittsburgh, Pa., who is also now residing in South Bend (sixth from left in third row.) Treasurer Whiting has since withdrawn from school and will be replaced at a forthcoming special election.
Villagers Club to Meet in Engineering Auditorium
The Villagers Club, enjoying- a return to prosperity for the first time since pre-war days, is looking backward at one of the most successful dances in its history, and forward to bigger and better- things, including a banquet for the Notre Dame basketball team and an Easter dance feauring a name band.
President Fred Tansey has called a special meeting .for tonight at 6:45 in the Engineering Auditorium to discuss plans for the club and to give a report on the Christmas dance. Refreshments will be served.
Press Club to Meet
The Notre Dame Press Club will meet tonight at 7:30 in the Journalism room of the library. John V. Hinkle, director of the Department of Public Information, will address the members.
A new president, secretary, and treasurer will be elected at the meeting. The incumbents are January graduates.
20 N. D. Men In "Who's Who"
by Frank Keenan
D?an Clarence Manion
Kev. Matthew
J. Walsh
Kev. Francis Cavanaugh
Kev. Fraccis J. Boland
C. Bar holrmew
Dr. Paul
Who’s Who in America prides itself on the fact that its biographies are the “inquired-about three in ten thousand.” With this ratio in mind the 5,000-odd residents of Notre Dame, Ind. (including students) learned with staid satisfaction last week that twenty of their fellows were included in the current and ponderous 50th anniversary publication of this dean of all reference works.
Admission standards to the tome are rigid. Fifty years of selection experience eliminate all but the best known men and women — “names much in the public eye.”
The twenty from Notre Dame in the public eye were headed by former President, Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, and Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, now head of the University. Deans of five Colleges of the University were included: Baldin-ger of Science, Manion of Law, McCarthy of Commerce, Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh of Arts and Letters, Rev. Philip S. Moore of the Graduate School and head of the department of philosophy. From across velocitous Dixie Highway St. Mary’s College President, Sister’ Mary Madeleva, joined the noteworthy group. Dean Emeritus Froning of the College of Science and Thomas F. Konop of the College of Law were also included. Other men of distinction for the years 1946-47 included: Jose A. Caparo, Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering, Edward G. Mahin, Head of the Department of Metallurgy, Carl C. Wilcox, Head of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Rev. William F. Cunningham, Director of Faculty and Professor of Education, Rev. Michael J. Early, Instructor of Religion, Rev. Matthew A. Schumacher, and Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, Professor of History.
Spotlighted, however, was Notre
Prof. Emeritus Jose Caparo
Dame’s Department of Political Science faculty. Of four permanent members all Ph.D.’s three made the Who’s Who team, a record at the University and probably tops among politics departments throughout the nation. They were:
Absentee (with the Navy) Rev. Francis J. Boland, former head of the department and dean of the A B. school; with a PhD (1924) from Catholic Univ, of America; at Notre Dame since ’24 as teacher of Economics, director of debating, prefect of discipline and professor of political science — interrupted by a spell at St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas, as Vice-President; author (best known for his Catholic Principles of Politics, with J. A. Ryan) and member of the American Political Science Association.
Young (39,) rapid-fire Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, acting head of the department and nationally recognized expert on American government and politics; a Notre Dame class of ’29 graduate, and member of the faculty since, with a Ph.D. from the U. of Kentucky in ’38; married and the father of two children; the enterprising originator and director of the famed Washington Tours and the quadrennial Model Na
tional Political Conventions held on the campus, both of which are scheduled for early post-war revivification; author of A Manual of American Government, A Manual of Political Science Research, and For Americans Only, (with Hoosierpolitico Sam Pettengill in ’44) and former WSBT political commentator.
Ponderous, engrossed Dr. Waldemar Gurian; native of Russia and international authority on that curtained country; studied at Universities of Munich, Breslau and Bonn, with a doctorate from the University of Cologne in ’23 (at the age of 21) ; then edited the German Koelnische Volkszeitung, and later lectured and taught at famed Academy of Politics; came to the United States in 1937 and welcomed at Notre Dame where he is now a fixture; naturalized in ’43, followed last fall by his daughter, an only child; author of Bolshevism, Future of Bolshevism, Hitler and the Christians, and Rise and Decline of Marxism and contributor to numerous magazines of articles on totalitarianism, particularly of the Communist variety; also editor of the weighty, significant Review of Politics.
Bronze Plaque Goes to ND for Wartime Activities
The University of Notre Dame is one of more than 50 educational institutions in the midwest which will be presented with bronze plaques by the navy department for participation in various wartime navy programs, Vice-Admiral George D. Murray, commandant of the Ninth naval district announced Saturday at Great Lakes, Ill.
Notre Dame’s wartime navy program included a naval reserve midshipmen’s training school, V-12 units for both navy and marine corps trainees and a reserve officers’ training corps.
13
1946 NATIONAL CHAMPIONS TENDERED CIVIC TESTIMONIAL MONDAY NIGHT
By JOE CHENEY
With the Notre Dame band, under the direction of H. Lee Hope, playing dinner music, the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley toasted the 1946 National Champions in the east dining hall Monday night. More than a thousand guests were present.
The highlight of the speaking program was the address by the Kev. John J. Cavanaugh, President of the University, who answered some of the recent criticism aimed at college football in general and Notre Dame football in particular. His speech can be found on page 17.
Warren Brown, ex-sports editor of the Chicago Sun, turned in a commendable job as toastmaster. He began by saying, “I think that this is the biggest tribute ever paid to a new father. You really toss a party when a new boy is born in South Bend.”
F. Kenneth Dempsey, mayor of South Bend, congratulated the team and coaches on behalf of the 120,000 people of South Bend. “Something most of you may not know is that when Notre Dame played Army last November, not a soul was on the streets of South Bend. In other words this 1946 team not only won the national championship but it also silenced South Bend for three hours.”
All eyes center on All-American Moose Connor as he prepares to add to the Irish margin over hapless Butler University.
Ralph Young, director af athletics at Michigan State, was the next speaker to pay tribute to the champions. He also said that Michigan State was glad to be back on Notre Dame’s football schedule after an absence of fifteen years. Michigan State Plays Notre Dame beginning in 1948.
After complimenting the team and its coaching staff, Guy Mackey, director of athletics at Purdue, said, ““Purdue University takes pride in Notre Dame since it is also a Hoosier institution. We at Purdue value the long and splendid relations with Notre Dame in competitive sports.”
At this time Warren Brown read telegrams from those people who were invited to the banquet but who, for one reason or another, couldn’t make it. Those who couldn’t make it were: Doug Wilson, Western Conference President; “Bo” McMillen, Indiana coach; Henry Frnka, Tulane coach; Maj. General Taylor, superintendent at West Point, and Tom Hamilton, coach of Navy.
Charles Perrin interrupted the patter parade with impressions of well-known screen and radio stars.
Lynn Waldorf, coach of Northwestern’s Wildcats, received the biggest hand of the visiting speakers. “Why No
tre Dame ever held any defensive practice last season,” said Coach Waldorf, “I’ll never know. After twenty-two years experience as a coach, I can honestly say that Notre Dame had the greatest defensive team that I have ever- seen . . . and its offensive wasn’t bad either! Seriously, I want to pay tribute to a great university, a great team, and a great coaching staff. This team will receive many plaudits in years to come and they are all greatly deserved.”
Howie O’Dell, young head football coach at Yale University, delighted the crowd with a few quick laughs before he told them that “those of you in the audience who have missed playing in competitive sports have missed an awful lot. Football, in particular, is a great game because you have to give a lot before
y< P-c sx H A
B w fr of fl to ai
P* co di A

I wonder if the next big move by leading colleges and universities will be the removal of their basketball teams from places like Madison Square Garden and the Chicago Stadium. There are many pros and cons concerning such a move and after both have been weighed it’s s still a toss up.	j
I
What I am driving at is this: Notrej Dame will play New York University! in Madison Square Garden on Februaryf 24. Ned Irish, basketball promoter at* the garden, usually schedules two games! for the fans but on the 24th there will| be only one. The New York papers have®-been shouting about this new twist andg the answer that they received from Irish|
se th ha va co an te: toi an ra: go no to
c
kic No
was that the cry for tickets was so loud?
qUI in past years that four schools couldn't? possibly be happy with their shake o^ q,< the tickets. So this season Notre Dam^, fol received the same number of tickets that* it did last year, about a thousand. The;. Notre Dame alumni living in and aroundv pja New York City will be lucky if they get? their orders filled. Wonder how mang sit]. tickets NYU received!
.......1.^
Basketball as well as football should^ tea be on a home-and-home basis with theg
14
IRISH LOSE GAME TO PURDUE, 60 TO 56, BOUNCE BACK TO SWAMP SPARTANS
c-f, rs ly st
r! a a
eid
.11 le
le .1-
ti-4.
le. re
you get anything out of it,” He then presented Johnny Lujack and George Connor with certificates and white sweaters with a red All-America on them, awards from Christy Walsh’s AllAmerica team.
Jim Costin, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune, presented George Connor with the “Lineman of the Year” award from the Football Writers Association of America, and All-America awards from the same selectors were awarded to Johnny Lujack, John Mastrangelo, and George Strohmeyer.
Before Frank Leahy, wearing a proud papa smile, told of the new rule changes coming into effect next season, he introduced his assistant coaches Krause, McArdle, Druze, Ziemba, Crimmins, Earley, (Continued on Page 16)
*tlve. PteAA &&X,
JOE CHENEY—Scholastic Sports Editor
1-te m id iy ?e
Si
;yE I csf
season broken up in two parts. After the first half of the basketball season has been played, ten days should be left vacant on the schedule. A tournament could be held in Chicago, New York or any othei- large city and the leading teams could be invited to a round-robin
tournament. At the close of the season another such tournament could be arranged but in a different city. With good organization such a plan would not only be plausible but also profitable to the schools represented.
ll|l"Coach" Cheney Offers Suggestions
zeH
g I If you re mad already, Moose, I’m only kidding. But after watching a few of Notre Dame’s basketball games this sea-1(1?'
gi son and peeking at practice, I’ve been wondering how many points Kevin 3% O’Shea would score if he were playing forward instead of guard. Right now 1 he is the leading scorer on the team, which is really something for a guard 1 < playing under the present system. I’d 'st move Paul Gordon back in O’Shea’s position and use Ratterman and Kelly as IB substitutes for the rest of the first lH team. Then, I would have a second team

(Continued on page 18)
The Purdue field house was jammed to capacity last Saturday night as Eddie Ehlers South Bend’s gift to the Lafayette institution of higher learning, led the Boilermakers to a 60 to 56 victory over Moose Krause’s fighting five.
Ehlers and Lodge led Purdue to an early 17-3 lead which the Irish could never overcome. The closest Notre Dame came to Purdue was 20 to 16 in the first half and 60 to 56 as the final gun ended the game. The second half started out fairly even until Ehlers started hitting the net with his one handed push shots. Purdue pulled away but each time the Irish came fighting back. But with Notre Dame’s first stringers fouling out of the game, Purdue began to extend its lead.
The second stringers put the heat on late in the game but Lodge broke theh‘ hearts by dumping three foul shots in succession to give Purdue a 57 to 50 lead with the time running out.
The victory was Purdue’s fifth in six games, while the defeat was Notre Dame’s second in nine games. The two teams play a return game in the Notre Dame gym on Saturday night, January 25.
Frannie Curran led the Irish with 13 points while Lodge headed the Purdue scorers with 19. Twenty-six fouls were called on Notre Dame and twenty on
Brennan outjumps a Butler forward as, left to right, Hattennan, O'Shea (partially hidden). Barnhorst and Curran look on.
Purdue. The Irish dropped 12 of their 26 tries from the charity strip, while Purdue made 14 of 20. Eddie Ehlers played the whole game for Purdue with four fouls called on him before the first half ended.
Notre Dame’s basketball team scored more points against Michigan State last Tuesday night at East Lansing than had ever before been scored against the Michigan State five when the Irish defeated the Spartans, 74 to 56. A crowd of 11,187, largest to witness a single intercollegiate game in the state of Michigan, saw the contest.
Displaying a new style; Notre Dame jumped to an early lead with Ratterman, Brennan and Kelly hitting the net consistently during the first five minutes of play. At one stage of the game the Irish led by 32 points. The half ended with Notre Dame ahead, 41 to 23.
During the second half both teams scored 33 points. Michigan State opened the second half with a scoring spree engineered by White and Geahan, but Kelly and Brennan went into action to give the Irish the 32-point lead. In the final five minutes, Robert Bobbins, substitute Spartan forward, scored five field goals.
Notre Dame made 8 charity shots of 14 tries, and Michigan State dropped in 12 of 22 tries.
15
IMI<II<IS<
By BOB LEANDER
At six feet three and a half and 195 lbs., this man called “Barney” looms as an obstacle to be reckoned with on the local basketball court. And, indeed, he is. Leo Barnhorst, the versatile type of eager who operates equally well at center or forward, has proven his potential to everyone from Coach Krause to the official scorer. To the latter he is number 21, a persistent thorn in the side to the tune of 89 points. To his coach this average of bettei* than 11 points a game is a secondary matter; of prime importance is his player’s value under the opposition’s basket; or for that matter, anywhere in offensive or defensive territory. After flicking several passes that never seem to arrive, the unwary competition begins to note that for every pass which didn’t connect there have been two points rung up for the home-side—Barnhorst has been indulging in his speciality, picking off passes in no wise intended for his tartarian tenacles. Yet, try as they might the intruders have yet to devise a method capable of halting these pilfering ways of his. Nor have they ever seen the likes of his behind-the-board underhand shot with which he has unnerved several of the visiting firemen this season. Taking all modes of scoring into consideration, Barney has a healthy .321 average going into the Michigan State game. He has sunk 37 field goals in 132 attempts and has counted on exactly half of his thirty free tosses.
In his twenty-two years the man with the golden smile has chalked up many and varied accomplishments. Chronologically they fall into line about this way. Picking up the story in high school, it develops that at Cathedral High in Indianapolis Barney won three letters for basketball and two for baseball activities. He was elected captain of the Cathedral quintet in his senior year, ’41-’42, and at the conclusion of a successful season was placed on both the All-City and All-State squads. Needless to mention, All-State honors in sovereign Indiana are to be held aloft and cherished, for this Hoosier territory, like it or not, stands head and shoulders above the rest of the 47 when it comes to a rabid basketball fandom and polished and proficient eagers, all the way from grammar schools on up.
Entering Notre Dame, Barney earned freshman numerals in ’42-’43. Then, re-

ceiving the nod from Uncle, he joined the Army Air Forces (you remember, “You, Too, Can Wear A Pair of Silver Wings!”) and returned to the campus last semester after handing away 32 months in the interest of AACS. Their interests took him to the Aleutians and kept him there for a span of 26% months. While up there Barney managed to bide his time playing basketball when not engaged as a cryptographer. His
S'hemya Island AAB won the Island Championship and took third in the AllAleutian Tournament played in Adak, Alaska. The highest number of points he has ever scored in a single game came during the Island Championship final when he dazzled not only the opposition but the spectators as well with a total of 32.
As the rules are currently written and interpreted Leo has three more years of varsity competition ahead of him. That fits in very nicely with his commerce course as it will take him just that long to finish his accounting assignment work.
When asked about the new three referee system that was given a trial down here at the Drake game, Barney was all for it, saying that although a few more fouls are called they are all legitimate and a great deal of the guesswork is eliminated from officiating. Regarding floors
and backboards, he believes that Wisconsin’s hardwood ranks high on the list, but that glass backboards should all be ground and put into the coffee of the citizen who thought them up. And the best basketball player he’s seen? This shouldn’t come as too much of a surprise if you’ve taken in any of the games in the Field House this season—his teammate, and next week’s victim, Kevin O’Shea.
Football Dinner
(Continued from Page 15)
and Diller. Marty Brill is on the west coast and was unable to be present. The four new rule changes are: 1) If the point after touchdown is missed, the ball is dead. 2) The offensive team may put the ball in play 20 yards instead of the present 15 yards from the sidelines. 3) Free substituting may be done. 4) There will be only three time out periods allowed per half instead of the present four. Coach Leahy had nothing but high praise for the team and his assistants. “The ingredients which go to make up a winning team,” said Coach Leahy, “are a burning desire by the players to win, the material must be there (and it certainly was there last season), loyalty, and lots of physical conditioning. The players perspired a lot all season and sometimes they even had to bleed to win ball games and I’m proud of every single one of them. But before I go any further, I’d like to pay tribute to the mothers and fathers of these national champions who must be All-American too.”
Ziggy Czarobski, after greeting everyone from “my friends in the audience whom I have met in Sweeney’s to two of Mayor Dempsey’s policemen,” he thanked the “good people of South Bend and the tourists from Mishawaka for the fine dinner in behalf of the football team.”
Warren Brown said that Ziggy deserved some kind of an All-America award because if he couldn’t physically stop an opposing player from breaking through the line, he talked him out of it.
Moose Krause introduced the entire football sqaud which lined up behind the speakers’ table as the annual civil banquet honoring the team and coaches came to a close.
Visiting newspapermen included Ed Burns, Chicago Tribune; Leo Fischer, Chicago Herald American; Bill Fox, Indianapolis News; Ed Hayes, Detroit Times; Jack Clowser, Cie’’ eland Press; Jerry Liska, Associated Press, and Charley Einstein, International News Service. Also on hand was Jim Gallagher of the Chicago Cubs.
16
"Reformers Protest Too Much"
Because Father John H. Murphy, Chairman of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics at Notre Dame, is necessarily absent and because the air is still filled with speculation about the interruption in the Army-Notre Dame series, I wish to make it known that the danger of gamblers getting to the Notre Dame or Army players had nothing to do with the rupture in the relationship. While there is no point to elaborating on the reasons given by General Taylor and me in our joint statement, all members of the Faculty Board and I would like to express publicly that no squad of Notre Dame men has ever better deserved our respect and confidence than this one which you are honoring tonight, We are proud of them as representative Notre Dame men who live decent lives and are as serious about their studies as they are about success in athletics.
Many who have been interested in athletics for years are somewhat wearied of the familiar voices raised again by the so-called reformers. The type of reformers I refer to are those who play with the question of football for public consumption, who seem to say that an indefinable something has to be done in athletics in a way nobody knows how, at a time nobody knows when, in places nobody knows where, to accomplish nobody knows what. I wonder if there are not grounds to suspect that the reformers in at least some quarters protest too much, that their zeal may be an excuse for their own negligence in reforming themselves.
Calls for True Reform
This much can be said frankly, I believe, that true reform in athletics will not be accomplished by the mere publishing of noble, high-sounding codes which are often hypocritically evaded in actual practice. Reform will never be brought about by innuendo and insinuation, by sly and indirect criticism directed, at this or that institution, nor by the constant juxtaposition of two words “winning” and “deemphasis” as if winning had to be de-emphasized rather than the dishonesty and real abuses that are supposed to exist in some quarters connected with football. When we in American sports hold the winner mder suspicion merely because he is a winner, we discredit many of the fine qualities that have made football inspiring — the will to win, extraordinary
By REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH. C.S.C.
President of the University of Notre Dame
Address delivered at the annual testimonial dinner to the ND football team.
school spirit and devotion, heroic observance of training rules, indefatigable application on the part of coaches and players to the details of the game —and we come perilously close to the kind of dismal thinking that stigmatizes with suspicion the man who achieves outstanding success, a kind of thinking which is trying to spread itself over America and to make Communism popular in our economic life by reducing the ambitions and possibilities of all men to mediocre and monotonous average statures.
Cease Criticizing Winner
I once heard a certain gentleman from a large institution where alumni subsidization is notoriously well developed, state blandly that he thought alumni aid to athletes did not constitute an evil. Now it is commonly known that alumni aid to athletes tends to take the control away from an institution and that it is the chief evil in athletics at his institution, if there be an evil in athletics at any institution. I don’t think this kind of hypocrisy will impress anyone, not even those who must sit and listen to it, although, because of circumstances, they are afraid to speak back. Teams that show strength are not, ipso facto, to be suspected of malpractices. When a very strong Illinois team swamped an unbeaten and untied Pacific Coast champion; when strong Michigan scored twice against the great Army and nearly won the game; when Indiana surprisingly beat Illinois; when Navy brought sports’ lovers to their feet by nearly trouncing Anny, there was no reason to flood the country with rumors that these competent and sturdy teams had been formed by unethical practices, that their coaches sent the boys into the games with brass knuckles and stilettos and instructions to play dirty football. No, the condition of the loser is not improved in the estimation of the public by criticizing the winner. The American people who worship a winner so long as he wins honestly according to the rules are not easily misled by such accusations. That is why America, and you yourselves assembled here, are applauding our great group of National Champions tonight. We at
Notre Dame make no apologies about wanting winners. We want our students to go out and win in debates, on the basketball floor, in track, in baseball, and in the much more important battles of life. We shall always want Notre Dame men to play to win so long as there is a Notre Dame. But with even more emphasis, we want Notre Dame men to win cleanly and according to the rules, and because Notre Dame men are reared here on this campus in this spirit and because they exemplify this spirit all over the world, they are the envy of the nation.
I have heard that certain persons ask why great athletes come to Notre Dame. Is it not just as reasonable to ask why they shouldn’t come to Notre Dame? Isn’t it just as reasonable to ask why young boys brought -up -singing -Notre Dame songs and longing for the day that they will enter rhe University are somehow induced to enter other Institutions? Notre Dame is as favorably known throughout America as any other school in the land and there is no mystery about why good boys are here at Notre Dame and why still others will come. In every town of any size in every State of the Union, boys who hear of Notre Dame spirit and the educational advantages here, who listen to Notre Dame games, plan to come when they are old enough, providing they can meet the high academic and disciplinary standards that are held up for athletes and non-athletes who want to enroll at this institution.
Praises Coaching Staff
I have heard that some people wonder about the calibre of our coaching staff. I happen to know our coaching staff fairly well and, man for man, I will put them up for the decency of their lives and cleanliness of their speech, for their ideals and methods in handling boys, for their- sense of fair play, for their support of academic standards, as well as for their ability as coaches, I will put them up with any group of coaches in America. For the sake of coaches themselves, I hate to hear them belittle one another and I think you will search far into the records to find a Notre Dame coach who criticized another institution, another coach, or another squad of players when a Notre Dame team has suffered a loss. Frank Leahy deserves
17
unqualified credit for his coaching record which is just about the most impressive ever made by any coach in this country. Confidentially, and speaking softly among ourselves, much of the distress about Frank Leahy is due to the fact that he is admittedly the most able coach in America. At a football banquet given by the St. Joseph Valley Alumni in 1943, I heard a nationally-known coach say that, for Frank Leahy’s ability to condition his team, for his imagination in devising an effective running and passing game, for his uncommon power to teach fundamentals, for his extraordinary success in holding a team up to a high standard of perfection week after week, Leahy deserves to be ranked along with the peerless Rockne. It is apparently envy that inclines critics to say that Frank Leahy’s success depends upon his choice of material. For two of the best six years he has been a head coach, he had nothing whatever to do with the selection of the material he coached. His first year at Boston College, which was a pretty successful one, and again here in 1941, Frank took up the material that-had been left for him. You will remember that in 1941 Notre Dame was ranked as the National Champion and lost not a single game. That record of 1941 and this one of 1946 are the finest his teams have made in his six-year regime as head coach and Athletic Director at Notre Dame.
Cites Causes of Record
Anyone near to the situation here realizes that the splendid record made this year is due in great measure to the expert coaching provided by Mr. Leahy and by his competent and loyal assistants, Ed Krause, Joe McArdle, John Druze, Walter Ziemba, Marty Brill, Bernie Crimmins, and Bill Earley: it is due also to the outstanding ability and extraordinary application and spirit of as fine a group of young men as has ever been at Notre Dame. A few months ago most of these boys were scattered over the world fighting for their country. Most of them were dreaming during those hard days of the war of coming' back to this happy and hallowed campus. Their devotion to Notre Dame brought them back and while skeptics stood about sagely predicting that the old Notre Dame spirit would be absent from this squad, these boys went out unpretentiously as great squads have done in the past, worked hard day after day, week in and week out, keeping rigid training standards in order to make themselves the best, the National Champions, because they loved Notre Dame and found Notre Dame worth fighting for. This has always been the secret of- success
18
here at this University in all activities. You alumni and friends and we who are happy to give our lives to help Notre Dame on ahead, realize that heroic history of this institution will inspire almost anyone to go all-out to help make Notre Dame the leader of the world. This is the spirit of our laboratories where researches go on in nuclear physics, in electronics, in the study of chemistry and physics, of rubber, in the study of anti-malarial drugs, in the researches that brought about the new germ-free technique in bacteriology, in the researches that have led to new discoveries in metals; this spirit animates our teachers of philosophy and languages, of the social sciences and law, of commerce and engineering in the undergraduate classrooms. It is the spirit that must always characterize all activities of Notre Dame. .
Pledges Notre Dame's Support
To the coaches and members of the squad I say, then, from the depths of my heart, congratulations, God bless you, keep your fine spirit of playing to win in every activity to which you set your heart and hand. To all honest men who are seriously interested in the betterment of athletics I say, count on Notre Dame’s support. We are eager to know of constructive policies and we shall cooperate with them wholeheartedly. If the great educational institutions of this country agree on practical standards for' athletics and decide not to schedule other institutions that will not observe these standards, Notre Dame will go along, proriding the decent corollary of such a policy is put into effect, that no institution observing these standards will be excluded from competition. It must be remembered that the American way tolerates no penalty on success or on winning provided success is achieved according to the principles of fair play. I am in thorough agreement with those'who say that athletes and non-athletes should choose their colleges chiefly because of the academic advantages offered, and I have this addition to make; I think athletes and non-athletes should choose the institution of learning which dares to teach competently not only how to make a living but how to live as responsible members of the American society in ■ relation to their fellowmen and to God. Any program devised and honestly carried out for the good of students, for the good of the institutions themselves, and for intercollegiate athletics in general, will receive Notre Dame’s enthusiastic support. Such a program must be honestly conceived without prejudice to any institution and it must be faithfully carried out by those who subscribe
to it. I think that any man who reflects a moment will understand that Notre Dame has nothing to fear from any program that permits institutions to compete on a fair and even basis, and I think that anyone who examines the history and nature of this University will be convinced that it is conducted by men who are motivated by ideals of intellectual and moral excellence worthy of the confidence that youth and the American people in general have ever placed in this great University that we love.
(Continued from Page 15) made up of speed with Jim O’Halloran and Joe Sobek at the forward spots, Carl Loyd and Heinie Kauffman playing guards, and Johnny Foley jumping center. For replacements on the second team I’d have Johnny Goonen, the fastest man on the squad, and Dick Kluck. When the game started to get rough, George Connor could be injected in either team and Buster Hiller, the headiest man on the squad, would be the ideal man to steady either team. In this way the second team would play more as a unit instead of making the
A PENSIVE KRAUSE . . .
. . . pondering Sport Editor Cheney’s suggestions?
most of their chances to look good individually. This two-team system paid high dividends for the Great Lakes team of the 1942-43 season. Two advantages which would be gained immediately would be greater scoring power and less leg work for O’Shea, whose injured leg slows him down in getting back on the
defense. George Batterman. played better ball last season as a replacement instead of a starter because he’s a good “spot” player. We’re still friends, aren’t we Moose? . . . Huh?
24 Hours Ahead of Time
The Army-Notre Dame story broke ahead of time and nearly caught both schools off guard. Originally, the news was to break on New Year’s Eve between seven and twelve o’clock. But Harry Wismer, down in New Orleans for the Sugar Bowl game, got the tip (from a source which we are not allowed to mention at this time) and scooped the country via the Associated Press. Had the news been released as planned, the two schools, which weren’t engaged in any bowl game on New Year’s Day, would have received more publicity than all the bowl teams put together.
Peelings From The Splinters
Tom Sheehan, Notre Dame’s regular catcher on Jake Kline’s baseball nine, has decided to finish school next semester instead of playing professional baseball. Tom has another year’s eligibility so Jake s backstop worries are over for another year at least . . . Frank Gil-hooley can be found in the field house every afternoon running around the tracK trying to knock off the few pounds which he picked up ‘during Christmas vacation. He hasn't signed any major league baseoall contract as yet but the New fork Giants are on the inside track . . . Johnny IvIcHale will be leaving after this semester to give Hank Greenberg a race for the first base job with the Detroit Tigers. Johnny played with Buffalo of the International League last season where he led the league in home runs. Good luck, Johnny! . . . Quarterbacks and centers started spring practice last Monday. And I thought that -Ji3 baseball season was supposed to be the long one!
On excellent authority we heard that Joe DiMagg-io was offered for Mickey Vernon, league-leading hittei* and first baseman of the Washington Senators. Clark Griffith, owner of the Senators, refused to deal because he already had too many outfielders and he didn’t want to pay DiMaggio $42,500 for this year’s work. Don’t be surprised though if Stan Spence of the Senators ends up in left field for the Yankees with Tommy Henrich moving in to cover- first base! . . . Biggest worry about Babe Ruth is not his neck pains but his heart which has the “King of Swat” swinging at the bad ones. The Babe has gained too much
weight for his height . . . One of the reasons behind Bill Dickey’s leaving the Yankees last year was that he and the players couldnt and didn’t get along. Before the war Bill was everybody’s favorite but he tried to bring the navycaste system into baseball and it didn’t pay off . . . Wonder if the Giants will get out of the cellar this season. All the other teams seem to be building up their ball clubs but the Giants continue to sign free agents discarded from the other clubs . . . Branch Rickey, Dodgerboss, brought Ray Blades to Brooklyn as a coach against the wishes of Lippy Leo. Insiders claim that Blades -will be managing the Dodgers before the first of August as he managed the Cardinals under Rickey and was his fair-haired boy . . . Notre Dame opens the indoortrack season against Purdue in the Notre Dame Field House on February first. The complete track schedule hasn’t been OK’d yet.
Interhall League Starts Play Feb. 3
By JOE DOYLE
Since the end of Christmas vacation most of the interhall basketball teams have been practicing diligently in anticipation of the coming league race which will begin officially on Monday, February 3rd.
A full round of practice games were played the past week but activities will be at a standstill during exams and registration. All campus halls have entered a heavy-weight team an.l as usual the campus will be divided into an eastern and western division. Entries in the Overflow League, comprising club and independent teams, have also been numerous.
In the lightweight division, however, there has been an extreme scarcity of entries. Unless more teams are entered, activities in the 150 lb. section will be limited. Mr. Szekely is anxious to have more entries and urges all halls to organize a lightweight club. More than one team may be entered from each hall. Play in the bantam division will be at 5 P. M.
The interhall relay swimming meet was scheduled for Thursday, January 16. Halls were competing in seven events for the intramural championship. Interest was not too keen about the campus due perhaps to the vacation layoff but more interest is anticipated in the next intramural swim event which will be announced at a later date by Mr. Burdick.
Atomic Power May Run Cities: Burton
Operation of an entire city on atomic power within the next ten years was forecast Monday night by Prof. Milton Burton, of Notre Dame university, former head of the radiation chemistry section of the atomic bomb project at Oak Ridge, Tenn., at a meeting of the Nashville section of the American Chemical society.
“We are not far from the atomic energy power- plant of the future” Prof Burton declared. “There is every expectation that the first power pile will be operating within two years.
“It is reasonable to expect that within the next 10 years we shall have a federally subsidized experiment in which a whole city may operate on atomic energy.”
Such a mnuicipal atomic energy plant, he continued, may be used in the future as the principal unit in the city’s sanitation system, purifying its water supply, sterilizing its waste and producing new products at the same time that it generates power.
This development will be made possible by proper application of the vast amounts of radiation energy produced as a by-product by an atomic energy pile, explained Prof. Burton, who served during the war as chief of the radiation chemistry section of the University of Chicago metallurgical laboratory as well as of the radiation unit at the Monsanto company’s Clinton laboratories at Oak Ridge.
In the atomic piles of the future, he predicted, provision will be made for use of the radiations in new chemical processes. New materials, low-temperature cracking of petroleum oils, and more effective chemical utilization of efficiency employed are among the benefits to be expected, he said.
ANSWERS TO RIGHT OR WRONG QUIZ
on Page 14
1.	Right.
2.	Right. ,
3.	Wrong. The Ohio bounds Kentucky on the north, the Mississippi on the west.
4.	Wrong. Pennsylvania ranks thirty-second.
5.	Wrong. Arizona is west of New-Mexico.
6.	Right.
7.	Right.
8.	Wrong. Ohio ranks tenth.
9.	Wrong. Utah lies north of Arizona.
10.	Right.
19
Clearance Sale
Men’s Furnishings SAVE \\ TO C)
HATS — Values to $10________________________ $5
DRESS SHIRTS — Values to $5_________________ 3.95
ALL WOOL HOSE — Values to 1.25.......       .85
NECKWEAR — Values to 3.50___________________ 1.50
WOOL GLOVES — Values to $2„___________1.25
WHITE INITIAL HANDKIES — Values to 75c______ .50
WOOL SPORT SHIRTS — Values to $10........  6.95
NORFOLK SPORT JACKETS — Values to 18.50_____ 12.95
ALL WOOL SPORT COATS — Values to 26.50... 19.75
GOATSKIN LEATHER COATS — Values to 37.50____ 24.75
ALPACA LINED POPLIN JACKETS — Values to 17.50.... 12.95
M THE <MNEK... MKMI6AN ( WSNIM0N
20
TIME THIEF, ATTENTION
Desperately in need of time, more time, a youthful culprit recently removed a calendar from the office of Student Accounts. Its main charm lay in the fact that with each month a new picture came into view—planes fliyng thru spring skies, spiralling thru summer, silvering against autumn, etc.
The girls ask for the return of the original, if for nothing more than to satiate the wanderlust in their office-locked hearts. So, please. . . .
Prehistoric Artifacts Added to Science Museum
A recent addition to the Science Museum of educational value, is a section devoted to Anthropology; artifacts are arranged in three consecutive stages of culture of pre-historic man in Europe and some from Somaliland, Africa. The appropriate dates of these cultures according to Reverend Raymond Murray’s very interesting volume, Man's Unknown Ancestors, range from 75,000 B. C. to 12,500 B. C.
The display contains a number of specimens from the U. S. and two from Alaska, but the museum desires to procure more from North America and especially artifacts of the Folsom culture first discovered in New Mexico and estimated to be thousands of years old. All contributions with definite locations as to where they were found will be greatly appreciated by the museum.
Vets Housing
(Continued from Page 9) countered in other sections of town, such as breaks in the main line, which required the housing units crew to leave its work and pitch in on other labors.
The contracting situation was all but rosy, too. A strike in Mishawaka halted work for a week in mid-October as the laborers union went out in sympathy with the Mishawaka union. Materials were hard to get and the epidemic of national strikes, crises, etc., did nothing to help the situation.
Finally at the end of October, 24 units
Excellence in glasses is a matter of precision every step of the way — from examination to the final adjustment of the RX to your eyes.
234 S. Mich. St. Ph. 2-4405
were ready for occupancy. On Dec. 11, 27 more were in use. This week, 27 additional units were completed and ready to take in Veterans’ families.
According to Mr. Howard, nine more units will be ready the first of next week, 18 more about Feb. 1, and the remainder of the 117 unit project by Feb. 15.
However, if a gas main ' breaks in South Bend, or if a meter shipment fails
Paris
532 NORTH NILES AVENUE CLEANING	DYEING
Pressing While You Wait
One of Our Specialties Sweaters, cleaned by our experts, keep that "new" look.
Conveniently located at 532 NORTH NILES AVEI Across the Street from the Sunny Italy Cafe	’
DANCING every Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday at the
)P4lfllS I (14IP
k MiCHiANAS MOST PALATIAL BALLROOM
to come, or if some union mogul decides to give his boys a vacation, or congress decides to halt the project for a senatorial investigation, or if the U. S. starts an atomic war with lower Slobbovia, or in fact, if anything happens, the final completion date will probably be in for drastic alterations. At any rate, it looks like a finger-crossing proposition for Mr. and Mrs. Ex-G. I.
21
IL ULB, Arabic Club Organized At ND
By JERRY OLWELL
Recently the University of Notre Dame became the headquarters for another distinguished organization which promises to develop into one of the more influential groups in the collegiate world.
The name of this club is “IL ULB,” which is Arabic for “The Heart.” A society for Syrian-Lebanese college students, its chief purpose is to promote a better understanding and appreciation of Syrian-Lebanese culture among Notre Dame men and college students everywhere. In this the members hope to attain a betterment of student life through the molding of lasting friendship and the engendering of a more cooperative spirit among the students on Our Lady’s Campus and all the campuses throughout the nation.
Members of this select group are direct descendants of the Phoenicians, the great explorers and seafarers of the 4th century. Membership is not exclusively Catholic. The only religious requirement is that members be Christian. At Notre
Dame the club officers are: president, David Skory; vice-president, Paul Abraham; treasurer, Richard Dub; and secretary, Joseph Sargus. There are twenty-one members enrolled at ND, and over three hundred members throughout the United States.
Up to this time sectional clubs have been organized at Princeton. Boston College, California University, Texas U., and Western Reserve. Many other institutions will have chapters in the near future.
At their meetings, usually held in the Law Building, English is the language for the business session, but after the formal meeting is over they have an informal disscussion period at which time they all speak Arabic. Three weeks ago Dr. A. Shamoon, Ambassador to the Court of St. James from Lebanon, was guest of honor at a reception in Michigan City given by the “IL ULB.”
Other prominent people who are advisors to this group include Father Charles Carey, C.S.C., T. Boyer Campbell, professor of history at ND and a prominent authority on near-Eastern affairs; and Msgr. Michael Abraham, pastor of the Sacred Heart Church in Michigan City and well-known lecturer, schol
ar, linguist and authority on nearEastern affairs.
During this coming summer the society intends to hold their first national convention. A location has not yet been decided upon but it is already known that many important matters concem-- ing the Palestine question will be openly discussed.
To Open Student BX In New Quarters Mon.
Large roomy quarters on the ground floor of the main building will house the expanded Student Book Exchange (BX) beginning next Monday afternoon at one p. m.
This non-profit service, set up to make easy and convenient the exchange of used text books and to stop gyp buying and selling by unscrupulous students, will feature a new streamlined system aimed to eliminate long waiting in line.
Sponsored by the Young Christian Students, the service began in 1943 in a tiny main building office which it has now outgrown. The larger quarters will be open for turning books in from Monday until Saturday, and for the sale of books from January 27 until about February 4th. Daily hours will be 1 p. m. to 5 p. m.
Students turning in books next week will be given a certificate for the highest market value of their volumes, such certificates to be redeemed for other books or cash when the new semester begins. A 10% service charge is made to cover* the cost of operating the BX.
After the mid-year rush ends the BX will continue to operate in its present office room 10 of the main building.
Jim Cunningham
Ole Buttermilk Sky The Old Lamplighter The Gal in Calico Rumors Are Flying The Girl That I Marry
Copp's Music Shop
122-24 E. Wayne St.
IATEST TUNES
22
Dean Manion Addresses Catholic Women's League
The United States must become more religious minded if this nation hopes to successfully withstand the evils of totalitarianism, Clarence E. Manion, Dean of the College of Law at the Universtiy of Notre Dame, declared Saturday, January 11, in an address before the League of Catholic Women at the Copley Plaza Hotel in Boston.
“We will go on defending ourselves against Nazism, Fascism, Communism and other forms of Hateisms until our energy and our resources are exhausted,” stressed Dean Manion, “but we will never finally win these wars until we take the offensive.
“Ironically, and in spite of all of our expended blood and treasures,” the Notre Dame educator continued, “Despera-tism is stronger now throughout the world than it was in 1941. Its power will increase and we shall continually become weaker unless and until all Americans are ready humbly to admit that our priceless heritage of personal dignity and liberty based on law is a gift from God, and that to save it we must establish the courageous and militant religious faith of the American founding fathers.”
“Only faith can bring hope, and with hope the confidence that through thoroughly American leadership Christian charity will rule the hearts and hands of all mankind,” he added.
LETTERS
(Continued from Page 5)
merit which I quote “ At St. George’s in Chicago he was all-state in football and basketball, etc.”
To those of us who watched him play so brilliantly for several years, .it was always our impression that he played for St. Xavier in Cincinnati. And it was to the state singles finals in OHIO, not Illinois.
Also, wasn’t his fourth ND monogram in ’44-’45, given him for tennis instead of track?
When I was a cub reporter years ago, I remember my first city editor impressed upon me the necessity for accuracy before everything else so it might be a good idea to impress this upon members of your staff.
I write this with the kindliest of feelings and high regard for Notre Dame,
as Hugh Burns, your trainer and a close friend of mine, will verify.
With kindest regards, I am,
Sincerely yours James C. Keefe ❖
An obeisance to reporter Keefe for catching not one but two errors; a red face for us; and to Scholastic staff writers an admonishing finger.—Editor
Connor Named "Lineman of Year" By Writers
All-American Tackle George Connor was named “college lineman of the year” by the Philadelphia Sports Writers Association.
Connor was chosen first recipient of the award in a poll of 25 head football coaches from every section of the country. He will receive it at the association’s annual banquet Jan. 30.
The voting gave the big Irish tackle 40 points to 31 for runner-up Dick S'cott, navy center. Tennessee Tackle Dick Huffmann was third with 26 points. Burr Baldwin of UCLA and Illinois’ Alex Agase tied for fourth place with 23 points each.
CHOICE OF THE HOUSE Pre-Inventory Sale of Adler Rochester Custom-Made Coats and Topcoats!
FINE COATS AND TOPCOATS 25% to 33 1/3% OFF ON EVERY COAT Fleeces, Rare Wool, Camels’ Hair, Tweeds, etc. — sizes 34-48 FORMER PRICES $45.00 to $100.00
Tailors and Clothiers
North of the Oliver Hotel
PARKER -WINTERROWD, Inc.
115^-11754 North Main Street . . Upstairs
23
FOR —
Guaranteed Repair Work
SEE —
126 N. Michigan St.
Guatemala University Offers Students Summer Courses
Students desiring to go to summer school but at the same time to change their academic scenery are offered the opportunity to do so by the Univer-sidad de San Carlos in Guatemala City. The Universidad offers American graduate and undergraduate students the opportunity to study there from July 3 to August 14 at a tuition cost of $50.
Courses will be offered in such sub-
— and traditionally a good place to meet the gang for delicious
Italian and American Food.
PHONE 3-0678 for Reservations
OUR REPRESENTATIVE WILL PAY
CASH for BOOKS
on WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY, JAN 22-23, 1947 At THE BOOKSTORE, Badin Hall
Bring in all your old textbooks. We buy all books, whether used here or not, and PAY YOU IN CASH.
BARNES AND NOBLE, Inc.
NEW YORK, N. Y.

jects as elementary Spanish, Spanish literature and culture, and Hispano-American history and literature. Living with private families in Guatemala City will be possible, at a cost of probably three dollars a day.
Inquiries should be addressed to:
Dr. Nora B. Thompson
116 Argyle Road
Ardmore, Penn.
Enrollment is limited, and early enrollment is imperative if boat reservations are desired.
Much Activity: Fish Swarm in St. Mary's
By BOB VIERHILE
Fishermen might take note. So might the fish. Last week, St. Mary’s Lake, whose shallow waters had been stilled for three weeks by a silvery, foot-thick layer of ice, was giving up a cold, slimy variety of bluegills at break-neck speed.
Local Izaac Waltonites attributed the successes to the moon, proclaimed religiously that a full moon always brings big catches. Others yelled poppycock to this story, claimed instead that the fish were just hungry. Everybody agreed that the jinx was on down at St. Joseph’s where the only reported catch was one of Rev. Thomas Brennan’s eight-ballish philosophy students who had taken the good padre’s advice to feed the fishes. (He was quickly revived and sent back to his syllogisms.) Nevertheless, beginner and ’veteran alike felt that twitching of the rod and the tug of a hooked fish on faithful St. Mary’s, filling their baskets in record time.
One bewhiskered South Bender crowned himself champion, claimed the record with a catch of twenty, but had no witnesses to prove his story. A bystander, however, attested that he had seen the champ in action, alleged too that he would spit on his hook and would cross himself while breathing a prayer prior to dunking his bait into the icy waters.
Only Notre Dame angler reportedly to have reached the inner circle of high-catch bobber-watchers was likeable, allsport veteran Father Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., who would not issue a sizeable • statement as to his take.
Now, should you care to challenge these finny dumbkopfs, take with you an Indiana state fishing license plus a fishing pennit from Father Steiner, provincial of the Holy Cross Congregation. Incidentally, fish stories beyond the fifth degree are classified as lies, and must be treated as the same. Confessions heard in Dillon Hall chapel, daily 7:30 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.
24
Debaters to Compete In National Tourney
By Gerald Hekker
Leonard Sommer, Speech Department ■ professor, has been chosen to serve on a three man regional committee for the West Point National Tournament. The Army tournament, bringing together the outstanding debaters from all sections of the country, will be held at West Point next semester.
Mr. Sommer was chosen from 200 debate coaches throughout the country to serve on the committee which includes Indiana, Illinois, Ohio, Wisconsin, Michigan, and Upper Michigan. From this section six teams will be selected to compete in the tournament in the east. Notre Dame, along with Northwestern and Wooster College of Ohio have received invitations, and the committee must now choose three more teams.
Besides this tournament, the Notre Dame debaters face an impressive array of debates and tournaments. On a home and home basis, teams from Loyola University of Chicago, Capital University of Columbus, Ohio, Iowa University, Marquette University, Mundelein College, Michigan State University, and Prince
ton University will be encountered. The debaters will also compete in the tournaments at Manchester College of Indiana, St. Thomas College of St. Paul., the National Delta Sigma Rho tournament at the University of Wisconsin, the University of Nebraska tournament at Lincoln, and the National Tau Kappa Alpha tournament in Kalamazoo, Michigan.
The members of the team are Joseph Beckei- (Zahm,) James Beyer (Breen-Phillips,) Martin Carroll Cavanaugh,) Frank Finn (Cavanaugh,) Alfred Fost-ter (Morrissey,) John Gruenenfelder (Off-campus,) Samuel Hazo (Lyons,) Timothy Kelly (Zahm,) J. Klockenkem-per (Zahm,) Vincent Scully (Sorin,) Joseph Soldo (Off-Campus,) Al Sommer (Morrissey,) and Bernard Thomas (Morrisey.)
Gerald Hekker
ND Alumni to Publish "Beginning of Goodness"
“Beginning of Goodness,” a compact, straightforward book of spiritual guidance for the young layman will be published next month by a group of Notre Dame alumni who have formed Fides Publishers of South Bend.
Written by Columba Cary-Elwes, an English monk, this dynamic book is reprinted in the United States at the urging of A. J. Cronin, distinguished author of The Green Years and Keys of the Kingdom, and was originally published in England by Burns, Oates, Ltd.
Included in the Fides line .are two publications by Eugene Geissler^ an instructor in the English department at Notre Dame, written while he was a student here. Militants, is a handbook of specialized Catholic Action, and Training of Lay Leaders is an introduction to the movement and an exposition of the jocist technique. There are over 5000 copies of the latter book in print, and orders for it have been received from every corner of the world.
The Right Answer
The daily news quizzes, which are the delight of the Department of Journalism at the University of Indiana often bring unusual answers. One professor asked his class “What are the Big and Little Inches?” A student answered with, “The Big Inch is what John L. Lewis wants and the Little Inch is what the government is willing to give him.” The prof gave him full credit.
25
SHUTTER-MANIA SWEEPS OVER CAMPUS
IN THE WAKE OF A
By BOB VIERHILE
In its 104-year history the University of Notre Dame has been the scene of many uprisings, scientific discoveries, military trappings and dozens of other epoch-making events. This week, however, it became the victim of a new-startling epidemic—a sort of shutterbug plague.
Students coming back from the holidays brought with them the newest in photographic equipment, probably gifts from Santa who had detoured through the Eastman Kodak factory on his way down from the North Pole. On the first
sunny day last week, the campus looked like the seat of a National Geographic convention. Over-enthusiastic students were to be found hanging from windows, atop trees, on their bellies, on each others shoulders, clicking away at the staid ways and byways of the campus.
"Trib" Inundated
The Chicago Tribune reported it had received so many pictures of the much-photographed Dome that it would not even consider publication unless the picture showed a photographer taking a picture of a photographer taking a picture of a photographer taking a picture of a photographer taking a picture of the same Dome.
Some ex-veterans complained that they couldn’t even get into a normal bull session anymore. You take a walk down the hall, they say, and drop in on a group of the boys chewing the fat and sooner or later the topic mil drift to photography. It seems that all the shutter-happy fiends want to talk about is their Leicas and Kodaks, their range finders and photoflash guns, and not a word about anything else. Why, these days, they grumble, a vehement, voluptuous blonde doesn’t even rate, a whistle unless she’s carrying a Kodak Ektra or better.
Already the campus is staggering under this snap-click fad. A junior, suffering from the blow, has announced his plan of becoming next year’s senior class president, by advocating holidays every time a new movie opens in South Eend, guaranteeing the addition of a darkroom to every hall on the campus, and promising a Shutterbug Committee to be appointed from Student Council members ’ to investigate all double exposures.
Vet Wives Complain
The epidemic has drifted over to the Back-to-the-Barracks area for 'married vets just a stone’s throw from Dogpatch, too. One of the married GI Bill-of-
KODAK CHRISTMAS
Righters lias installed his own home movie studio, much to the vexation of his wife, in a corner of his cramped apartment. He has his own Klieg lights, movable sets and a couple of temperamental actors—his wife and junior. Drop in on him some night and you’ll see Papa sitting in his canvas deck chair, his name stenciled on the back, directing Junior and Mama, co-starring in a super-duper production entitled, “Notre Dame, One Hundred Tears,” or “I Should Have Never Left Home.”
How far this photographic bug will
Glee Club Schedules 4-Day Concert Tour
Sixty members of the Notre Dame Glee Club will leave on Sunday, January 26th, for Joliet, Ill., the start of a four day concert tour. The group, chosen from the 120 in the regular glee club, will return to the campus on Thursday morning, January 30th.
The first concert will be given in Joliet, Ill., on Sunday evening. Immediately after the concert, the club will travel to Rockford, Ill., for a two day stopover. The’ first concert is scheduled for Monday evening, after which the members of the glee club will be guests at a party.
Following a second night in Rockford, the group will start the longest leg of their journey—a hop from Rockford to Appleton, Wisconsin. After a concert in
Dz. Pedtke leads the Glee Club in a practice session.
travel is anyone’s guess. But, if something isn’t done and soon, at that, there won’t be enough sane people around the campus to give a hoot whether we have another football team or not. Only yesterday, two dining hall girls were talking in very peculiar jargon while coming to work on the first Notre Dame bus. “Maizie,” said the short, fat pudgy breadslicer, “I met the cutest fella last night.” “Yeah,” gurgled round, firm, scrambled-egg maker Hilda, “tell me more.” “He had the sweetest Contax . . . f. 3.5, too . . . and you should have seen his new exposure meter . . . Maizie, do you think that after two people are married they should have twin darkrooms?”
You bet Hilda, the exercise will do both of them a world of good.
that city, they will go to Sheboygan, Wisconsin, to spend the night. They will conclude the tour in Sheboygan on Wednesday.
The program for this tour will be the same as that presented to -the students at the concert in Washington Hall in December. An addition to the program will be a comic version of the quartet from Rigoletto. The soloists on the tour will be Pat Sullivan, a veteran holding five oak leaf clusters, Roy O’Neill, a veteran holding the D.F.C., Jack Owen and Tom Devine, former members of the NROTC at Notre Dame, and Nolan Sheehan. The club will be under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music.—Gerard J. Hekker.
.26
Radio Club Issues Plea for Writers
By BOB VIERHUE
Although the Radio Club had merely stuck its toe in the water this semester by producing two weekly radio shows, it decided this week to at least get its feet wet during the spring semester. The plan: to increase the present membership, to take a full plunge with one or two more programs.
Announced Rev. Archibald M. McDowell, C.S.C., club moderator, “Anyone interested in any phase of radio should attend our special membership meeting on the 30th of January, at which time we hope to map plans for at least one and possibly two more programs, depending upon the ideas and talent that we can muster.”	.
There was one loophole in the whole plan. It was the club’s drought of scriptwriters. A radio club without scriptwriters is as inefficient and impotent as a liquor store without liquor. Father McDowell knew it. Last semester the club operated with approximately sixty members, mostly actors and announcers, only a couple of writers. You can imagine the disastrous effect; the fifty-some-odd members twiddled their thumbs, could only listen to the over-manned two regular shows and hope for an occasional fill-in part should one of the regulars become sick or frustrated.
Not so good. But what could be done about it? Father- McDowell slid his hand into his pocket, rubbed his shamrock, hoped to find at least a half-dozen brighteyed scriptwriters at the next meeting, and also a couple of replacements for Bill Boss and Tony Earley, the winning combination on “Meet the Irish,” who were leaving the Dome and WND between semesters with sheepskins in their pockets. Puffing on a big, Havana cigar, while eyeing the future of the club through a pair of thick, rimless glasses, Father McDowell muttered rather critically: “It’s a big order.”
New Bulletins Ready
Free now to all students are copies of the University Bulletins, bulletins of the different Colleges, as well as the supplement to the General Bulletin, available at the Office of Registrar and Office of the Director of Studies. These bulletins contain announcements for the school year of 1946-47.
The General Bulletin's supplement contains the names of all Notre Dame students (available at printing time) and their home addresses.
COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from Page 6) of the Wearers of the Green in the lineup, it took a couple of men called Tannenbaum and Goldstein to subdue the opposition and run away with the honors.
Saturday after Xmas, the U. of Rochester came across with a unique idea. They held a tea dance for all the men from the city and vicinity who were attending colleges other than those in their home-town. It gave old friends a chance to get re-acquainted (as if they couldn’t have done that at a bar) and filled in an idle Saturday afternoon. It was indeed a noble affair.
FINALS . . .
The very sound of the word causes strong men to tremble, break out in a cold sweat. The week of final exams is the time when hell comes to earth, when college students sit on thorns and are steeped to the lips in misery. Finals . . . that’s the Greek word for, “Brother, you’ve had your fun all semester, now it’s my turn to give you the works.”
But there is a group of students on campus who are perfectly happy these days—the graduating seniors. For- them, this coming week is the culmination of four years of labor—these are the men who have worked so hard to graduate— and now they wonder what the hurry was. ’Tis said that a college graduate doesn’t know what to do with his diploma anymore than a June bride knows what to do with a cook book . . . but we disagree. We know that you graduates are going out of Notre Dame to
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
grab the world by the horns . . . and we also know that you’re going to throw. We who remain behind wish you the best of everything, may all your dreams come true.
Bon voyage!- '
Ole Buttermilk Sky The Old Lamplighter The Gal in Calico Rumors Are Flying The Girl That I Marry
Copp’s Music Shop
122-24 E. Wayne St.
IATEST rTUNES
Glasses CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus — E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND
MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street
Evenings by Appointment
27