


\ 
" 
. . 
~ . . ' ~ 
--~--------------------­
' , . 
,.TAIBl.E ©F G©N{T-ENT[S . 
» Faces to Remember by Mike Borgia &Annie Robinson 12 » Meet the Prez by Mike Borgia 14 » Pack it Up. Move it Out. by Jennifer Osterhage 16 » Perfect Strangers by Nick Kolman-Mandie 17 

INews Storie~ of theYear .. . . . by.· Annie Robins.on,jim Rya•.·.", -~nd ~ilee~Vi.arga... . 
08
Get up-to~date on campus happenings . with a review of the top news stories of the 2002 -2003 school year: . · · : J 
i-lome Sweet Home 
•by Jennif!!r Osterhage · . . . 
22-·I

An overview ofyour future home .:... the . ! 

BuildingYour Own Hype
It didn't seem possible that it could be as great as everyone said it would be. For months, anyone who had heard the name "Notre Dame" felt the need to tell me about the majesty ofthe place -i.twas the place ofl~g~ncls, .. and fables, history and myth. It was a university larger than life its2lf. Three years ago, as I stepped onto campus for freshman orientation, the bar had been.set vei.-y high. Those first fow weeks off~red dozens and dozens of choices -different people, different activities, different groups -a thousand roads ofpossibilities, with the correct path seemingly a secret shrouded in mystery. It wasn't just majestic, it wasn't just larger than life; it was overwhelming. Finding the quintessential Notre Dame experience is like searching for a needle in a stack ofidentical needles. A really, really big stack. Ifyou spend · ·to·o m.uch·time looking for it; it will p\iss you•faster than you realize. It's pointless to even try. Eventually I discovered that the right path was whatever path I decided to take. look for Notre Dameisn't just about football, Catholicism, values, family orfriends. 
ISSUE 02 

Thatmay be its backbone, but Notre Dame, at its core, is about opportunity. 
on 

SEP 11 Its about the options open to you, the paths available. Hopefully, Scholastic's guide will help you sort through the stack ofneedles and make sense ofyour new home faster than you can say "Go Irish!" Underneath the myths, below the legends, beside the majesty is one ofthe greatest opportunities ofyour life. The Notre Dame experience isn't about buying into the hype. It's about building your own hype. And, of course, having fun along the way. 


Awkward Self-Promotion 
Of course, one ofthe coolest and hippest places on campus is right here in the basement of South Dining Hall -the offices of Scholastic. You won't find a friendlier group ofpeople on campus, and we're always looking to add new members to the family. Whether you were editor ofyour high school publication or are simply interested in getting involved in student media for the first time, we'd love to hear from you. Lookus up at Activities Night or just swing by and say hello. We aren't as scary as we look. · 

Matt Killen, Editor 
Vol. 1-45, No. 0 I • SUMMER 2003 

SCHOLa5TIC 
Editor in Chief 
Matt Killen 
Managing Editor 
Annie Robinson 
Associate Editor 
· Sean Dudley 
Executive Design Editor . 
Ryan Greenberg 
Assistant Managing Editor Mike Borgia 
News 
Christopher Kelly, editor 
Jim Ryan, assistant 
Eileen Varga, assistant 
Campus Life 
Jennifer Osterhage, editor Nick Kolman-Mandie, assistant Carolyn G. Lafave, assistant 
Sports 
Jimmy Atkinson, editor 
Mike lselin. assistant 
Entertainment Tracy Ev3~s.editor Rya~ Greene, assistant 
·. LeTania Severe,assistant 
Departments Meghan Gowan, editor Elise DeBroeck, assistant 
Design 
Ryan Greenberg Mike Borgia Sean Dudley Matt Killen 
Photography Mike McNary, editor 
'., Phil Hall,assisiant 
Graphic Design 
Christine Graham, editor 
Copy 
Kelly M. Faehnle, chief 
Mo Ertel, assistant 
John Hadley, assistant 
Distribution Mike McNary, man_ager .·, Business Jessie Potish, manager Mary Ursu, manager 
Online 
Jimmy Atkinson, manager 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 
Disce Q11asi Se111per VicttlTIIS Vwe Q11asi Cras Moritr1r,a 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame 
•.. and printed at Ave Marla Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is copyright 2003 University of Notre Dame.All rights reserved. No 
contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of 
•.., the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability \ for unsolicited manuscripts or material.All correspon­',. dence should be sent to Scholost/c magazine, LaFortune L Student Center, Notre Dame, IN -46556.To be published :-'· in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. i' Monday before the issue.That's a negative on cover ':'· stories from Dublin, Ghostrlder.AII letters must include 

the writer's name, address and phone number.All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request 
in certain instances. Schofartic reserves the right to edit 
letters for space. Requests for corrections made more 
than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per year.Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Coples of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy.Advertising rates available on request. 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not 
necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 


2 SCH0LASTICFROM THE.EDITOR 
ADVERTISEMENT 
\ 

Announcing 

--------------7 

Enclosed is the following amount to open a Domer Dollar Account $__ (minimum $50) 
Deposit is by: _Cash _Check 

f:Stii.dejfit/$Jgri1itµfe'/'7' _';'/'! •··•·'?~:,·: .;;.•••,. •·.·•··j 
Please mail to: University of Notre Dame Card Services Office P.O. Box 1043 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7814 Domer Dollars are convenient "electronic funds" ,that allow you campus-wide purchasing power. You can buy just about anything without having to carry cash. Just use your University ID card to make purchases at these lpcations: 
The Hammes Bookstore The Copy Shop The Copy Center, Hesburgh Library Notre Dame Print Services The Morris Inn The OIT Solution Center 
Open a Domer Dollars account online today. Domer Dollars can be used to purchase food and beverages in campus restaurants, including the new Starbucks cafe, Subway, and Sbarro pizzeria. Domer Dollars also can be used to make other campus purchases, such as books or clothing at the Hammes Bookstore. For a complete list of locations that accept Domer Dollars, visit: 
www.nd.edu/~domerdol 
Open a new account today or add more funds to existing accounts at the Domer Dollars Web site. Domer Dollars now can be purchased using your Visa or MasterCard. If you have additional questions about Domer Dollars or would prefer to make a transaction over the telephone, call 574-631-781.4. 

I Learn Your Irish VocabularyI A lexicon of key words you'll want to know when arriving on campus 
CHRISKELLY 

Bengal Bouts: annual student-run box­ing tournament that benefits charity. Bookstore Basketball: the largest 5­on-5 outdoor basketball tournament in the world, held every spring on courts around campus. CoMo: the Coleman-Morse center, which offers study space and free soft drinks. D6, D2/D2000: student parking lots lo­cated near South Quad and North Quad, respectively. DART: the system by which students register for classes. Now on the Internet, it gained the nickname from the days of telephone registration. DeBart: Debartolo Hall; located next to the stadium, it is the most frequently used classroom building on campus. Dogbook: the photo directory of Notre 
· Dame and St. Mary's freshmen; a tradition­al aid for finding blind dates to dances. Grab 'n' Go: take-out dining-hall meals 
.in a paper sack. Just don't take more than five items. The Huddle: a convenience store in LaFortune Student Center. 
lrishLink: online system for accessing 
academic information, such as semester 
grades and available courses. JACC (':Jack"):Joyce Athletic and Convo­
cation Center; home of basketball and hockey 
games as well as other campus events. 

LaFun: LaFortune Student Center; con­
tains ma11y services for students -laun­
dromat, computer cluster, travel agency 
and barbershop -as well as Burger King, 
Subway, Starbucks and Sbarra. Main Building: home of the Golden 
Dome; located on God Quad, it's the 
university's administrative headquarters. 

O'Shag: O'Shaughnessy Hall; home of the 
College ofArts and Letters. 

Parietals: dorm visiting hours that permit 
members ofthe opposite sex to be present 
only during certain times ofthe day. 

Rallyin theAlley: a very large party in the 
"alleys" of Turtle Creek; occurs during the 
first weekend ofthe school year in August 
and on the last day of classes in May. 

Reckers: a 24-hour restaurant located 
behind South Dining Hall. 

ResLife: Office of Residence Life and 
Housing; the most despised compound word on campus, it's where you go ifyou break parietals -or any other rules. The Rock: Knute Rockne Memorial; an old exercise facility on South Quad. Rolfs: modern exercise facility on the east side of campus. Stepan (Center): a hideous geodesic dome building on the north end of campus (not to be confused with Stepan Chemistry Hall). Stonehenge: war memorial fountain at the south end ofNorth Quad; a popular location for many unofficial freshmen orientation activities. SYR: officially called a "theme dance," "Screw Your Roommate" got its name from the legendary ritual of setting up one's roommate with a date from the Dogbook; in danger of extinction due to the new alcohol policy. TouchdownJesus: officially known as the Word of Life Mural, a famous mosaic on the south wall of the Hesburgh Library. 
· Turtle Creek: apartment complex popu­lar among ND seniors; located very close to campus, it's a traditional party haven for freshmen. . 
Ten Questions 
with Smart E. Pants 
Margaret Laracy 
The Class of 2003 Valedictorian 

Margaret Laracy, a psychology major and 

· Catholic studies minor, had a lot on her college plate. The New Jersey native was known as everything from Lewis Hall 'prom queen' at her sophomore formal to a student leader at the Centerfor Social Concerns ... all while she was making the grade with a 3.97 GPA. Scholastic caught up with Margaret to find out the secret to her success. 
Did you always see yourself as a Domer? 

I didn't grow up in a Notre Dame family so itwasn't something I always thought of myself doing, but everything I found out about Notre Dame I really loved. It just seemed like the right place for me. 
When you do have free time, what do you do? 
I like to go out with my friends! I like to go to the bars, to parties ... when I was living on campus, I loved dances. Also on cam­pus, I work at the CSC as a liaison to social concerns commissioners in the dorms, and I also served on the student advisory board for the CSC. I've done other things, like teach English as a second language. 
What is your favorite "brain food" to snack on while studying? 
Wheat Thins and cheese ... haha, yeah! 
Doyou have a songthat helps you get psyched to succeed? 
Bruce Springsteen ... the new album now, 
The Rising. 


-psychology professor 

"That's politically incorrec:t tosay anyone is 'stupid; right? Well, I'm saying it!" · -political science professor 

"Good afternoon, my inferiors." 
-anthropology professor 

"Perhaps Mario and Luigi had a past troubled with drug addiction:' -film professor, on the abundance of mushrooms in the Super Mario Bros. games 

"Why are we doing this?To b.e candid, I don't really know." · -lab professor, regarding a four-hour Jab 
1127 Years Ago • An Ideal Freshman
On September 6, 1876, Scholastic "ventured on giving a little counsel ... to those who begin their college life this year." The freshmen will be "placed in the midst of comrades hailing from all parts of the country ... They have good and bad qualities, both ofwhich may exercise some influence on his conduct in life." Each student should only "endeavor to cultivate the friendship ofsuch as may be distinguished for their virtue and intel­ligence." Like t~e good and bad compan­ions, there are good and bad inclinations: "If he would become an estimable and accomplished man, faithful to the du­ties oflife, he must follow faithfully the promptings of_his good iricliriations and banish at once those of the bad." The administration strongly adheres to this severe philosophy. Now is the time to begin the banishing, so as to ar­rive on campus Rrepared to become "an estimable and accomplished man." 
How has your involvement with service impacted your experience here at Notre Dame? 
It shaped me in a lot of ways. It's really connected me with the community, and to just understand how people live and learning how we're all called to serve and serve each other. It's sort of like being in a relationship with people that live dif­ferent lives. 
Is it hard to balance work, extracurricular activities and time with friends? 
It is hard, but I think you can strike a bal­ance. Even though sometimes I've really been overwhelmed, overall I don't have any regrets about how I spent my four years here. I think that I've been able to do a lot and I think Notre Dame offers people that. 
How do you procrastinate? C'mon ... I know we all do! 
Oh let's see ... Usually just talking. I can get so easily distracted if I am studying somewhere and there are a lot ofpeople there. 
Can you tell meoneofyourmosttreasured ND moments over the past four years? 
That's really hard. I'm going to give two different aspects: getting up early in the morning at Turtle Creek for 'kegs and eggs' (on football weekends) and on the other side, the Notre Dame Encounter retreat. 
-Meghan Gowan 

Whatwill you do nowthatyou are entering the real world? 
Next year I'm going to be doing service. I'm going to be living in a L'Arche com­munity -it>s a living community with mentally handicapped people. I'll be at the Washington, D.C. location. Probably, in another two years, I'll go back to school. 
How can the Class of 2007 make the most oftheir years here? 
I think you just have to take advantage of everything. You shouldn'tlet other oppor­tunities slide for any reason, for academ­ics, for social life. There's so mariy ways to be formed and to learn and grow here -and have fun. 
-Tracy Evans 
SCH0LASTICNOTEBOOK 5 
IJudgment Calls Opinions and observations 

FROSH·O 
If you get tired of constantly repeating your name, dorm and hometown, try making up a new alias each time. 

ALCOHOL POLICY 
The new hard-alcohol policy ban forbids even 21-year-olds to indulge. Those of you who dreamed of acquiring expansive liquor cabinets in your room now that you've left the nest must go elsewhere. 
NEW ROOMMATES 
Sometimes they turn out to be your best friend, other times, your worst enemy. Either way, play nice:They'II be taking your phone messages. 
MEIJER 
From CDs to paper towels, extension cords to throw rugs, this place sells everything you've ever wanted -and more. 
PARIETALS 
Sure, they make gender relations awkward. But you won't have to worry about finding excuses to I.eave a party early, and your roommate can't sexile you from your room for too long. Well, legally at least. 
6 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 


NOTEBOOK 
CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD NOTRE DAME! 

f2flgHt',,$~9ffg':#6~jA1m'~~.t1~t¢'FJ'':! \\;:••J 
The songs you'll need to know for the first home football game. 
Many incoming freshmen have the We will ne'erforget her · luxuryofalready having the Fight And will cheer her ever Song and Alma Mater ingrained Loyal to Notre Dame. 
in their minds since birth. Perhaps your mother was an ·alumna and sung you to -Chorus: _; sleep with the Alma Mater. Or perhaps you Chee1; iheerfo1· Old Notre Dame,",. grew up in the South Bend area and have Wake up the echoes cheering her name, , attended numerous Masses at the Basilica Send a volley cheer on high, or the Grotto. Shake down the thunderfro111-the sky. 
But for most freshmen, the first time What though the odds be great or small they hear such songs will be during their Old Notre Dame will win over all, first pep rally or the opening school-wide While her loyal sons go marching Mass. Here, Scholastic gives you an intro­Onward to victory. duction to the lyrics that, by the time you graduate in 2007, you'll know as well as Notre Dame, Our Mother your own name. (The Alma Mater) 
The Notre Dame Alma Mater is per-The Fight Song . . formed at the end of every football game 
Honored by college football .as "the · at Notre Dame Stadium, win or lose. Itwas · greatest of all college fight songs," the written in 1930 by Joseph J. Casasanta,-a "Notre Dame Victory March" was written .1923 Notre Dame graduate, in honor ofthe · by two Notre Dame graduates-brothers dedication ofNotre Dame Stadium -the · Michael Shea, a priest, and John Shea, a House that Knute Built. The song also is monogram winner in baseball-in 1908. sung at the end of every Mass at the Ba­It was first performed on campus in the silica, proving that, at the university thatis Main Building rotunda on Easter Sunday home to TouchdownJesus and First-down in 1909. Memorize the song now and you'll Moses, itis virtually impossible to separate save yourself some flack from upperclass-religion and football. men come the first home football game. (Hint: You really only need to know the Notre Dame, our Motlm; chorus.) Tende1; strong and true, 
Proudly in the heavens, Rally sons ofNotre Dante: Glea111-s thy Gold and Blue. Sing her glory and sound herfame, Glory's mantle cloaks thee, Raise her Gold and Blue Golden is thy fa111-e, And cheer with voices true: And our heartsforever, Rah, rah! for Notre Dame Praise thee, Notre Dame; We will fight in ev'ry game, And our heartsforever, Strong ofheart and true to her name Love thee, Notre Dame! 
I DomeLights

I COMPILED BY MEGHAN GOWAN Source: Bob Mundy, director of admissions 
You're a very lucky / intelligent / athletic / talented / well-rounded incoming freshman. Seriously. Way back in December there were a whole lot of you. And now just the strongest, wisest and bravest remain. · 
12,095: Number of applicants for 2003-2004 freshman class Compared to: 3,000: Number of Early Action applicants 8,578: Number ofapplicants five years ago for 1998 -1999 freshman class 1,960-1,975: Number of spots available in class 3,587: Number of applicants admitted 5 years ago 1,400: Number of Early Action applicants accepted I,940: Number of students enrolled in 1998 -1999 freshman. class. 
50: Number of additional students accepted to replace students who change 
their mind over the summer I 0: Number of students, on average, who defer enrollment one year 


' . . .... · . ··':'., . .. ' ·xromu.E· T'\'Al\:AE ., ". '• ,:. .··: '.-; -· .. •'
•· f \· • : ; /; El12M.; :.1m1i~10l~1:"HEATRE / ........ ··•· ·• •......-. ·· .· 
·.. ·_.-i":>. ·} ·_. ,.-· yisit<;mrwebp,~geai:ht~://~ww:nl~ch,1/~ftt, _\·., ·__· ._.. ' >-·.' -', '', 
WASHINGTON HALL--Mark Pilkinton, Acting Chair of Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre (FI'T), has annobnced that the annual reception for students inter­ested in film, television, or theatre will be held Wednes­day, August 27, at 6:00 P.M. in Washington Hall. Students interested in any aspect of theatre or film production--acting, directing, scenery, costuming, lighting, management--are encouraged to attend. 
Notre Dame student films are showcased each year at the extremely popular annual film festival. Many FTT student films have won awards at national film festivals, and a collection of the best Notre Dame films is avail­able in national distribution. 
FTT has a terrific relationship with area television stations, and many students have earned internships in a variety of production areas. WNDU, the local NBC affiliate, is owned by Notre Dame and provides television professionals who teach some Notre Dame classes. 
Theatre at Notre Dame is open to all students--majors . and non~majors--who wish to participate. A wide variety of activities is available including: acting, scenic design and construction, costume design and construction, lighting design and execution, marketing, directing and stage management. There are theatre opportunities to fit every schedule and level of talent. 
This season, FTT will present a mainstage season consisting of five plays and many other acting and direct­ing projects. Mainstage productions will be: 
Measure for Measure, Tartuffe, The Glass Menagerie, Romeo and Juliet, and Arms and the Man. 
Measure for Measure and Romeo and Juliet will be performed by ACTORS FROM THE LoNDoN STAGE who will conduct residencies sponsored by the Henkels Lecture Series. All FTT projects will need student involvement. There are positions for all who wish to participate. 
Auditions for the first two plays will be held Wednes­day, August 27, and Thursday, August 28, at 7:00 PM. First year students are encouraged to audition. 
FTT activities are an excellent way to meet new people, make new friends; and.have a great time while involving yourself in the creation of something sped.al dn campus, 
Ifyou cannot attend the reception but wish to be involved or have questions about film, please contact Jill Godmilow at Godmilow.l@nd.edu or Ted Mandell at Mandell. l@nd.edu. If you are interested in theatre please contact Kevin Dreyer at kdreyer@nd.edu. 

ANNIEROBINSON, JIM RYAN AND EILEENVARGA 
University MournsTragic Passing of Student 
Ori. February 12, 2003, South Bend police recovered the body ofmissing Fisher Hall freshman 
Chad Sharon from the St. Joseph River after a construction crew spotted the body partially submerged in the water. An autopsy revealed that Sharon died from drowning and not from foul play, as had been previously suspected. 
Sharon had been missing since the early hours ofDecember 12, 2003, when he left an off-campus party on Corby Street alone and on foot at approximately 2 a.in. The last known contact with Sharon was at approximately 4 a.m. that morning, after Sharon asked an employee at Madi­son Center Hospital for directions to the nearest convenience store. The employee said that Sharon's breath smelled ofalco­hol but said that Sharon did not appear overly intoxicated. 
Fisher Hall staff reported Sharon miss­ing on December 13 after he failed to return to his room. Notre Dame Security Police, along with local and state authori­ties, launched an investigation into his disappearance that included helicopter and dog searches of the St. Joseph River and the surrounding area. University re­wards for information leading to Sharon's safe return reached $25,000, and ten local South Bend companies offered an addi­tional $25,000. NDSP asked for assistance from the FBI in investigating possible con­nections between Sharon's disappearance and recent disappearances of other male college students in the Midwest, though none surfaced. 
After the discovery of their son's body, Steve and Jane Sharon, though saddened by their loss, were thankful for closure to the uncertainty iliey had experienced over the previous two months. They expressed gratitude to the Notre Dame community, 

.,rl , 8 SCHOLASTICNEWS 

SMILING CHAD The University community mourned the loss of freshman Chad Sharon. 
particularly to Sharon's friends in Fisher, who provided kind words and encourage­ment; throughout the search. 
Friends said Sharon.was a high achiever. He had been the Student Body president of his high school in Wisconsin, and he was voted "Most Likely to Succeed" by his class. It had been Sharon's dream to attend Notre Dame, and he earned a full scholarship to the university. Fisher Hall residents recalled Sharon's thought­fulness, love ofcomputers, and perpetual smile, which earned him the nickname "Smiling Chad" within the dorm. 

Several hundred members ofthe Notre Dame community attended a memorial service held for Sharon in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on February 26. . 

Studen·ts Arrested in Local Bar Bust 
Budget Cuts Halt Can,pus Construction 
The university was forced to make across-the-board ,budget cuts f?r the 2003-2004 fiscal year, ·due, m part, to the economic recession and the $200 million decrease in the university's endowment. The cuts were implemented at the request of the Board of Trustees who, during its February meeting, recom­mended that Student Life and Academic department budgets be cut 5 percent and that other department budgets be cut 7 percent. The budget cuts reverse the university's decade-long trend ofincreas­ing expenditui:es 12 percent each year. While layoffs are not specifically man­dated by the new budget, each depart­ment is responsible for adapting to the percentage decreases, and some depart­ments may find it necessary to downsize. University libraries have been forced to decrease expenditures by six percent. Li­brary officials plan to meet the decrease by eliminating subscriptions to journals aside from those most commonly used by students and faculty. They will also be more selective in purchasing books. 
Many plans for construction were halted as a result ofthe economic down­turn. The university was forced to cap the foundation for _a new security build­ing and post office and to delay plans for expansion ofthe law school and construc­tion ofa new on-campus hotel. The uni­versity plans to continue construction of the DeBa:rtolo Center for the Performing Arts, and university officials says they will give the buildings that affect student life first priority for construction. 
Despite the budget cuts and delays in construction, the Board of Trustees raised undergraduate tuition by 6.5 percent to $27,170 for the 2003-2004 school year. The increase well exceeds the university's target increase of only 5 percent per year. . 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 9 

On January 24, 2003, in the first of two large bar raids this past school year, Indiana State Excise Police,busted The Boat Club, a popular student tavern close to campus. Two hundred thirteen Notre 
. ... :~ --. ,-. :-. -: 

Dame and St. Mary's students received "minor in a tavern" citations; a Class C misdemeanor, and some were cited for carrying false identification. The indicted students faced repercussions from both the state and the Office of Residence Life and Housing. Court penalties usually reached $500, but most ofthe minors were able to receive pretrial diversion, which involved pay­ing a lesser fine and doing community service hours.· Similarly, typical fines from Residence Life ran from $150-200, but some students were given the option of service in place of payment. 
The bar was fined $1,000 per offense and faces a possible loss of its liquor license. 
The Boat Club was long thought to be a safe drinking refuge for underage students. Some students were shocked at the sudden raid ofthe bar, while some believed it was long overdue. Wry eu­logies for Boat Club were composed, such as when the student-run website NDToday.com offered commemorative t-shirts sporttng the slogan, "Come sail away with me." 
The end ofthe year saw a resurfacing of the Boat €lub debacle when owner 
-,:·

i!~:;;1: ' ·:.. :'. ' .. <._\:..-~ 
t· :........ 
. ·.,,. 1·-.l·,('. .'.
:.1·

• -:.i. 
• I ,j •

: , -:i ~' 
'.., •• lf, 'I

i\,:l. 
~FRiffl-_'1111.· .. \:}; :')
L··\
·.'i ·. ___ _ 

r·. -_ r... 
t-L--­
. ' 
.. ,. 

HOLLOW SEAS Since it was raided in January 2003, Boat Club, a popular student bar, has had its fate in 
limbo. 

Mike McNeff, brought lawsuits into the St.Joseph County Small Claims Court requesting $3,000 in damages from each underage student who used_ false identification to gain entrance into his establishment. The charge alleges that those cited at the bar caused legal and financial burdens on The Boat Club. It also says that students misrepresented themselves by signing slips of paper that falsely testified to their true ages. Stu­dent government officials held an infor­mational meeting for the students in an attempt to provide them with access to legal advice. ·Hearings for the lawsuits are scheduled for early August. 
On April 25, The Library, another popular bar among students, found itself in trouble with the State Excise Police. Officials cited 7-5 underage students for "minor in a tavern" violations and for presenting false identification. This is the second time the bar was busted, the first being in October 2000 when it was called "Finnegan's" -a name still used by students today. . 
University ExecutiveVice President Resigns
ii li 
After an investigation by the university Board ofTrustees into allegations regarding his behavior, the Rev. Timothy Scully, C.S.C., announced May 2 his resignation from 
the position ofuniversity executive vice president. His resigna­tion is effectiveJune 30. 
Scully will remain a Fellow and Trustee of the university, and will also continue to teach as a tenured political science professor and serve as the chair of the board of the Alliance for Catholic Education. First appointed to the position in May 2000, Scully was widely regarded as a possible successor to current university president Rev. Edward A. "Monk" Malloy, 
c.s.c. 

"It has been an honor and privilege to serve as an officer of the University for the past nine years," Scully said in a state­ment. "My first love has always been teaching, research and pastoral ministry. I'm excited at the prospect ofreturning full time to those pursuits." 
His decision came a few days after the trustees convened on campus to review a report filed by a committee designated to investigate Scully's past behavior. 
On Jan. 16, Scully was involved in a confrontation with a reporter and cameraman from the university-owned television station WNDU (where Scully is a board member), as the pair were covering the Fisher Hall mass for then-missing Notre Dame freshman Chad Sharon. 
The incident prompted· allegations from the cameraman that Scully had accosted them and that his breath smelled of alcohol. The reporter, Bonnie Druker, filed a police report with Notre Dame Security and Police onJan. 17, butlater retracted the complaint after an apology from Scully. 
University spokespeople would not comment if the incident had any influence on Scully's decision. 
While Scully's statement, and university spokesman Matt Starin did not specifi­cally address Scully's reasons 


for resigning, the South Bend 
Tribune quoted unnamed sources in the university administra ­
tion who claimed that several high-ranking officials demanded 
Scully's resignation. The Tribune claims that Malloy threat­. ened to leave the university if Scully did not resign. 
Malloy publicly praised Father Scully's service: "His tenure 
has been marked by his creative thinking, his wise business 
sense and his enduring commitment to the Notre Dame com­
munity." 

As executive vice president, Scully spearheaded the develop­
ment of sever;il campus construction endeavors. Scully also 
played a significant role in increasing the number of Notre 
Dame students studying abroad and in improving facilities 
and resources in many abroad locations. 
A committee of the Board of Trustees will find a successor 
and recommend a candidate for election to the board. . 
Economics Department to Split in Fall 
Inlate.March th.e University. 'sAcademic Council voted to split the Economics Department into two departments with separate faculty and one under­graduate major. The change will be ef­fective July 1. The new departments will be named the Department of Economics and Econometrics and the Department of Economics and Policy Study. The fo­cus of the Department of Economics and Econometrics will be mathematical economics, also known as neoclassical economics. The Department ofEcono­metrics and Policy Study will focus on heterodox economics, a more conceptual field of study. Each department will work as a separate unit, with its own faculty, funding, and standards. Undergraduate students will 
lO SCHOLASTICNEWS 
continue to be offered a single Econom­ics major; however, as a result of the split, graduate students will have to choose a department to specialize in after taking a battery of core economics courses. 
The Department of Economics fared poorly in the last U.S. News and World Report rankings ofeconomic departments nationwide, finishing in the fourth quar­tile. Some suggest that this was due to the department's previous emphasis on het­erodox economics, which some consider to be outdated. The split is intended to allow for the development ofmathemati­cal economists at the University while re­taining the faculty interested in heterodox economics. 
There was some dissent among stu­dents following the announcement ofthe split. Students worried that the heavily mathematical Department of Econom­ics and Econometrics would abandon the study of social justice issues, a staple of the previous Department of Econom­ics; however, Richard Jensen, head of the Former Department of Economics, said that both departments would study social justice issues, simply in different manners. 

Another worry was that the relatively unexpected split would set a precedent for other University departments.There was, however, little dissent among faculty at the University. 
Though some faculty worried that the new department would restrict aca­demic freedom, the proposal for the split passed overwhelmingly in the Academic Council, with 39 members in favor ofthe proposal and only three against it. . 
~~ ---------•,-----C 
r • • , 


Hey Freshmen ' 
Be part ofthe tradition 

Don't forget to buy ''The Shirt'' 2003 
Available at the Boobstore and Lafortune. Thei, cost $15 and proceeds help fund student organizations and chariti,. Show i,our student ID and get a discount. Wear the shirt, support the Irish. "There's a magic in the sound of their name... " 
Back 


MIKEBORGIA

:Faces to Remember 
ANNIEROBINSON 

The Rev. Edward A. "Monk" Malloy currently is serving his third five-year term as president of Notre Dame. He is the university's 16th president, a position that he has held since 1986. He has served as a professor ofTheology since 1974. Malloy is remarkably ac­cessible for a university presi­dent, as he conducts a freshman seminar each semester, resides in Sorin College (an under­graduate residence hall) and even plays an occasional game of basketball with students. He received undergraduate and graduate degrees in English from Notre Dame, a second master's in theology while studying for the priesthood and a doctorate in Christian ethics from Vanderbilt University. He also has received countless awards, including 12 honorary degrees. 
Malloy currently is co-chair of the subcommittee on college drinking of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcohol­ism (a component of the National Institutes ofHealth), and chair ofthe National Commission on Substance Abuse and Sports for the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse. 

The Rev. Mark Poorman now is beginning his fifth year as vice-president of student affairs, a position in which he oversees several programs including Campus Ministry, Student Activities, multicul­tural and international student affairs, Notre Dame Security/ Police and the Office of Resi­dence Life and Housing (Re­sLife). When he accepted the position in April of 1999, he said that his new responsibili­


ties gave him a chance to "serve [the] students," a task which he admits is "at once daunting and exciting." 
Controversy swirled around the student affairs vice president last year when he abruptly announced changes to the alcohol policy, banning in-hall dances and consumption ofhard alcohol on campus. 
Prior to serving as vice-president, Poorman was an as­sociate director of Campus Ministry, rector of Dillon Hall and a priest-in-residence in Grace Hall before that building was converted into offices. Poorman received his bachelor's degree from the University of Illinois and a Master of Di­vinity from Notre Dame. He later earned a doctorate in Christian Ethics from the Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, Cal. 
! 
12 SCHOLASTICNEWS 

The Rev. Theodore M. Hes­burgh served as Notre Dame's 15th president from 1952 to 1987, the longest tenure of any active American university president. As president emeri­tus to the university (the posi­tion that he currently holds), Hesburgh played a pivotal role in developing several ofNotre Dame's academic institutes. 
Perhaps Hesburgh's most distinguished contributions are those he has made to national 


and international public service. He has held 15 presidential appointments involving many of the major social.issues includ­ing civil rights, peaceful uses of atomic energy, campus unrest; treatment ofVietnam offenders, Third World development and immigration reform. Among the recognition that he has received are the Congressional Gold Medal and the Medal of Freedom. 
Despite his many commitments, "Father Ted" still finds time to connect with students, often guest-lecturing in the class­room and presiding over Mass in residence halls. His presence is ubiquitous -the library, center for international studies and the public service program all bear his name.. 
Perhaps no one has caused as much hype on campus over the past two years as head football coach Tyrone Willingham. A veteran of25 seasons ofcoach­ing experience at the profes­sional and collegiate levels, he arrived at Notre Dame in December 2001 following a seven-year tenure as head coach at Stanford University. Many Irish faithful and col­lege football analyists believe that Willingham's coaching 


ability combined with Notre Dame football's recruiting power could soon make for a na­tional championship team. 
Under Willingham, Notre Dame football "returned to glory" last fall, winning its first eight games against such high-profile teams as Michigan and Florida State. Though the team struggled through the second half of the season, Willingham's 2003 recruiting class has been ranked by many among the top in the nation. 
"Ty," as many students call him, was also named Home Depot Coach of the Year for his succes with the team this season. Many Irish football fans also look forward to Willingham's continued use ofa "West-Coast" offense -an offensive scheme that relies on a successful passing game -a vastly different style from predecessor Bob Davie's emphasis on r:rrshing. · · 


If you'd like ,to meet both student and faculty members of the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs and find out more about resources available to gay, lesbian, bisexual, and questioning students on the Notre Dame campus, please join us. 
, 

The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs will host a RECEPTION for interested first-year students: 
Monday, August 25th 1:30-3:30 p.m. in 316 Coleman-Morse Building (3rd Floor Lounge) 
... 

Visit our web site: http://www.nd.edu/~scglsn/. Check under "Current Eventi." 
* * * 
/ I 

The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student also sponsors: 
Coffee & Conversation at the Co-Mo 
Solidarity Sunday 
Community 
NETWORK Sessions 

COMMITTEE.ON 
GAY)\N.D L1iSBIAN 
STUDENT NEEDS 



MIKEBORGIA 

W:en Pat Hallahan and Jeremy 
Lao ran for student-body presi­
ent and vice-president this past winter, they campaigned under the slogan "Students First," promising to benefit stu­dents in all aspects ofcampus life. 
Almost six months after they were elected in a hotly-contested campaign, Hallahan and Lao still hope to stick to their original vision for the Notre Dame student body, despite the thick red tape that often surrounds such positions. \Nhile leading the student body from the second floor of LaFortune (the location of the student government office) is no simple task, the two are prepared for the challenges that lie ahead, holding a combined five years of experience in student government. 
Hallahan is a rising senior from So­rin College who hails from Vineland, 
N.J. He majors in political science and history and served as chief-of-staffun­der former president and vice-president Libby Bishop and Trip Foley. 
Lao is a rising junior from Stanford Hall originally from Cincinnati, Ohio. He is a finance and Chinese double major and has worked in student government since his freshman year. This past year he served as sophomore class president. 
Although Hallahan and Lao have only served in their current positions for under two academic months, they have already faced a significant setback in trying to implement their campaign promises. As one of the central planks of their platform, the two promised to fight for the return of in-hall dances, a long-standing tradition that ended in the spring of2002 when the Office ofStudent Affairs announced that dances could no longer be held inside the dorms. Despite their intentions, a resolution to reinstate in-hall dances failed in the Campus Life Council this past April. 
Hallahan and Lao are still hopeful, however, and plan to continue working on the issue, particularly by addressing a concern from dorm rectors that residence halls do not have adequate space in which to hold the events. 
During the election, Hallahan and Lao named as one of their top priorities raising Notre Dame to No. 1 in US News and World Report's ranking of top service universities. In pursuing this goal, tl1e two hope to increase the number of available service opportunities and support creative channels through which students can more easily find sites and projects which match their interests. 
Particularly important to their service platform is working with the Center for Social Con­cerns (CSC) to tackle the issue ofvan usage for student trans­portation to and from sites. Vans have become increasingly difficult and too expensive for students to use for service projects, says Lao. "We want to show the CSC that there is still significant student interest in using the vans and that we need to create ways to make them more accessible," he adds. 
Hallahan and Lao also hope to devel­op programs to reach out to local high school students. Although they do not yet have definite plans to accomplish this, Lao says they are considering a program which would involve univer­sity band members sharing their musi­cal abilities with local high schoolers. "We want to built ties with the South Bend community and break down the bubble," he says. "We want to make sure that the university is still committed to serving the South Bend community." 
Also important to the new president and vice-presidentis the publishing of Teacher Course Evaluations (TCEs) in which students rate the professor and material for each course. They hope to make the responses available to students, allowing for more informed decisions when reg­istering for courses. "This is something that our peer schools do, so we think it's a fair request and a good idea," explains Lao. They also want to create more networking opportunities for students by developing an alumni-student mentoring program. 

Hallahan and Lao plan to expand the student body's knowledge about world is­sues, specifically by encouraging students 
to get involved in the Church's interna­tional "Call to Solidarity with Africa" conference to be held next year. They hope to arrange for Nigerian students to visit Notre Dame during the American portion of the four-day conference and for Notre Dame students to visit Nigeria when the conference moves to Africa. They also hope to facilitate the creation of new one-credit courses focused around several important world issues. 
Other proposed changes include work­ing with the Student Union Board (SUB) to create better social programming and · attract bigger names for campus entertain­ment, encouraging increased diversity awareness and dialogue through more diversity-focused retreats and lectures, and releasing student government finan­cial records to show students how their money is being spent. 
The two also have some pearls of wis­dom for the incoming freshmen. "Try to lead a well-balanced life -academically, socially, spiritually, physically" says Lao. "Learn as much as you can in college ... find opportunities and take advantage of them ... and don't forget to have fun!" D 


"In the discernment ofGod's call, we are a brotherhood at the service ofthe universal church under the pastoral direction ofthe Pope." 
---Constitutions of Holy Cross, V.51 

Dan Parrish, C.S.C. and Michael Wurtz, C.S.C. 
Ordination Class of 2004 


www.nd.edu/-vocation 


.,.;,,::,, ~;.,... ,,'-,i •;,,-"'·'''. ""' ,,~,,; 
_ _ ,,rr.-·-·~·--~~-~_._. 

..,
.,, 
money o~ transportationis a ptoblem, . hav~ m.any qualityradio st~ti9ns. Get in canvas lawn chairs or bean bag <::hairs are .· touch ':YiFh, you( robmmate to divvy:, upIt's time to begin that d~untin.g task clutch.You· may also w,ant carpe1ior rugs ': , tlie inore expensive items you'.11 shar!!;. • of packing. "Where do·Istart?" you to coverthehardfloor.Roomdittiensions --··.For·t:hose few hotiiights·at the begfo'­ask. Never fear. Whether you're alist:-vary, so it would be wise to wait u:ntHyou •.·.. ning arid end ofthe.school year, you may .maker or a bag-stuffer, Scholastic has the get liereto buyfloor coverings. . . _· , ·• wando.:bring aJan ot twO: ·Aside frq'm. low-down on dorm room necessities.,: · Packa: shower caddytotciteyoursoap and· ,. West· and 'Mod Qliid dorn;is;. mostire. When you arrive on. ca~pus, don;t be shampoo to and from the coni111unitybath--· without afr con4itioning: A fan might discouraged by the looks of your room.. rooms: A robe or large towel and shower .. also come in ha11dfin the winter when 
-~While-they-cmme with0the~standard-desk,-· shoes-(i.e.,-flip-flops),also-arenecessary .. -. -the-heat-is-on-fuffbfasfartd:you're:a:H.tt1.e::._ bed and closet, empty dorm quarters tend As far as laundry goes, you can do it . too toasty. to resemble prison cells. Be sure to bring yourself or use St. Michael's Laundry Each room has a phone complete with plenty of posters, pictures and even Service. Most dorms have coin-operated voicemail, call waiting and three-way Christmas lights to spice up the walls. washers and dryers, but some do not. St. calling. You might want a cordless phone, Most rooms have a single overhead light Michael's is an on-campus laundry ser-· though, for those late-night conversations fixture and fluorescent lights over the vice that will pick up your dirty clothes, when your roommate is trying to sleep. sink, so a floor lamp does wonders. You wash them and return them for a fee. If As far as wardrobe goes, there are a few also will want a desk lamp and maybe you decide to do your own, bring rolls of must-haves'. Don't forget warm clothing one to clip onto your bed for late-night quarters, a laundry basket or bag to haul for the infamous South Bend winter. reading. yourdudstothelaundryroom, detergent, You'll need a warm coat, gloves or mit-

Speaking of sleeping, the beds do not stain remover and a drying rack for cloth-tens and a hat ifyou don't want to freeze. come with linens, so make sure you bring ing you'd rather not shrink. Bring a raincoat, umbrella or poncho for some fun bedding-sheets, blankets, pil-One of the most important decisions rainy walks to class and football games. lows, etc. -whatever will make you feel will be whether to bring a computer. A swimsuit is a must for the mandatory comfortable. Some dorms have beds that Some students prefer to write papers swim test that all freshmen take at the can be bunked while others have modular and e-mails from the comfort of their beginning of the year. Each dorm will furniture, which means you can burikyour rooms, but if you choose not to bring a have a couple dances -both formal and bed on top of your desk and wardrobe. If computer, you can use one in a computer semi-formal-each semester. Pack a fun your dorm does nothave modular furniture cluster on campus, some of which are dress or two or a jacket and tie or suit for and you would like to loft your bed, you open 24 hours. such occasions. can purchase a loft kit at a local hardware As far as entertainment goes, bring Ifyour suitcases are stuffed, or if you store when you arrive. Ifyou do not have a whatever tickles your fancy. Most students forget something, not to worry. Although handymanmovingyouin,storeemployees bring televisions for those much-needed South Bend may not be a buzzing me­oftenwillassembleitforafee. Butifyou're study breaks. Ifyou and your roommate tropolis, it does have plenty of retail really feeling adventurous, you can even try are movie addicts, you may want to bring stores. And if you absolutely must have building your own from scratch. a VCR or DVD player, since rooms have your favorite teddy bear or your bottle-
To make your crib homier, you might no cable.ACDplayerwillgiveyoualittle cap collection, Mom and Dad are just a want to bring a couch or futon. Ifspace, musical variety -South Bend does not phone call and a care package away. . Ii 
j 
16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 




NICKKOLMAN-MANDLE 
Welcome to your dorm· room. Inside you will find a bed, a desk and a roommate. Have a good year! It may be true that at some universities there exist gigantic supercomputers (the kind which fill whole rooms) whose sole purpose is to match incoming freshmen with a roommate of compatible sleeping and study habits, musical taste and neatness factors. Alas, at NotreDame there is no such system. Roommate pairings are randomly selected, and you will not be receiving any sort of personality questionnaire to feed into any supercomputer, as some of your high school friends have. But, fear not. The indiscriminate process ofthe ResLife Office is notwithout its mer­its. For many of you, college will be your first experience living in the same room with another human being. Even for those who currently share rooms with siblings, your dorm situation will be much differ­ent. It is no longer)feasible, for example, to resolve every disagreement with a punch in the arm or relentless teasing. Vlhile tl1e RA one door down has taken the place ofyour parents and is there to help you with your problems, you'll find that banging on the wall and constant finger-pointing will get you nowhere. Rarely, howeve_r, will a situ­ation arise which needs more than a little heart-to:..heart talk. Rooming with a complete stranger is a· unique opportunity. Your freshman year will perhaps be the first time in your life where you are given the resource and reason to adapt to life with another person. Despite Notre Dame's unsystematic approach, you'll find tl1at you are more capable of dealing with a shared room than you think. 'What's more, the amount ofinfluence you currently have on tl1e matter i.s, well, none. Fretting about your future roomie is a waste ofyour 
precious summer time, so don't lose sleep over it. 
The spectrum of roommate relations can be divided into three simple categories. Note: remember that your roommate-to­be is probably reading this same thing right now. You both have the opportunity to make your living situation as comfortable as possible. 
Kindred Spirits 
You may move in on your first day, me·et your roommate and pledge your eternal friendship to him / her within an hour. Or the engagement may take a couple weeks. In either case, count yourself among the lucky ifyou find a best friend in your roommate. You'll both love John Mayer and hate rap. You'll own the same shower sandals, and you'll have more fun playing in the box your Gateway was shipped in than actually using the computer. Within a month, you'll know each other inside and out. 
Vlhile rare, this situation is certainly pos­sible. Always having someone around with whom you enjoy spending time adds to your comfort level, and you'll likely meet people together and share a good number offriends. Beware, though. Don't box yourself in dur­ing freshman orientation weekend. Use itas a chance to meet as many fellow students as possible. Remember to be your own person, and for goodness' sake, don't pass up a chance to play volleyball with your brother-sister donn because you and your roommate are busy battling it out on the X-box. 
I'm OK, You're OK 
Maybe the most common situation for roommates, there is absolutely nothing wrong with notasking your first-year room­mate to be best man or maid-of-honor at your wedding. Your roommate is nice, con­siderate, relatively neat and gives you your space. 'Whatever the personality may be, it's not difficult to live with this person. In this scenario, you'll both make friends of your own, but have pizza and watch a movie together every once in a while. At the very least, you'll have a comrade to join you as you head to the dining hall those first few nights, or to throw a Frisbee on the quad after class. 

You'll get to meet all ofyour roommate's friends, and you can introduce him orher to yours. Failing to achieve communal nirvana in your own room will send you down the hall, to another floor or to another dorm for your best friends. Themore effortyoumake, the more people you meet, the more likely you are to make those life-long friends. 
It Wasn't=Meant to Be 

Sadly, some roommates just don't get along. You may verbally argue on several room-related points, or your roommate could be so inconsiderate that you actu­ally look forward to parietals. 'Whatever the case may be, don't hesitate to ask your RA for advice. The worst rooming situa­tions can warrant room changes, but this scenario 1s rare. 
On the bright side, you will have an es­pecially strong impetus for making friends outside the room, and a good reason to get involved in extracurricular activities. Don't let the person you share a room with taint your overall college experience. 
Chances are, despite your assigned room­mate, your first year at Notre Dame will be among the greatest ofyour life. Take heart in the fact that your future roommate has the same reservations you 1night have about living with someone you've never met. To ensure a good year, be yourself, be consid­erate and, perhaps most important of all, keep your mess confined to yourside ofthe room. . 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 17 




!_11 



. ,.&'~
; ~q11 
. 
.

( ; . 
' 

·,· ' 
,..l.
l l1 11.·.·..· 
-~,. Jj 
,_ ""-~,;.:.-'. 


.. 
, 
D

\I~ 0. 
f''' 
DJ 

~ 
ty\;·: 

, 
.
E 



Welcoine, freshmen. This is the one and only legendary Gipper, your source ofneedlessly dirty but humorous tales over the next four years ofyour life ( or five years, ifyou are one of the lucky few who realize two months into your life here that Miller Lite makes for much more interesting Wednesday nights than studying). As all you lazy legacies may know, the Gipper writes a column in every issue ofScholastic detailing the recent trials and tribulations across campus. The Gipper gladly accepts tips from any willing source, and encourages every rat; leak and roommate-traitor out there to tip early and tip often. I know you Gipplings are being choked by the heavy anticipation offinding out more about Uncle Gipp and your new home, so the Gipp has taken the time to anticipate your important questions: 
Who is the Gipper? 
No one knows. So don't bother trying to find out: 
Can I, as a lowly freshmen, tip the Gipp? 
Yes. Since nothing is more fun than laughing at other people's problems, the Gipp can guarantee that you'll never forget the look on your friend's face the day he opens up this very magazine in the dining hall and realizes allthe chuckles he hears are aimed at him. And you'll remain com­pletely anonymous; the Gipp never reveals a source. Just drop the Gipp an email at · gipper@nd.edu or call the Scholastic of­fice at 1-7569 (you'll learn how to operate our abbreviated phone numbers soon 
enough). 
The Gipper cannot operate without your help, and you'll soon learn that you can­not live without the Gipp's sinister humor, near-clever puns, and disgustingly brutal character assassinations ofthose who were victims of juicy tips. So, you see, you scratch the Gipper's figurative back, and he'll scratch yours. Just one more thing to point out-the Gipp never prints a lie, so try to provide a way for him to verify all your outrageous claims. 
What makesfor a good tip? 
Use this as a litmus test: Ifit's an act or occurrence that you wouldn't want others to learn about ifithappened to you, then it's tip-worthy. The Gipp understands thatwe all have different barometers for humor, so just send it whatever you got and ol' Gipp will sort 'em out. 

Can I real61 drink as much alcohol as I want at ND? 
Absolutely. Drinking beer freely in dorm rooms is as much a part as Notre Dame as football, Jesus and stagnant, smelly air. However, the Gipp needs to make two important points: First, the administra­tion passed new a new policy last school year that outlawed hard liquor on campus. To what degree RAs will actually enforce this rule is still up in the air, so play this one by ear. Second, women's dorms are much more strict when it comes to liquor (and everything else for that matter -so the first time you hear the dorm PW and the word "prison" mentioned in the same sentence, don't laugh. It's not a joke.), so the Gipper encourages all you wild girls to hop over to your nearest men's tavern to pound a few. 

ls there anything to do in South Bend? 'Cuz you know, when I came for my visit lastyem; it lookedpretty ­
Sorry to cut you off, but the Gipp's heard this one many times before. Unfortunately, the ever vigilant South Bend Police and NotreDame Security/Police busted thetwo most popular underage watering holes this past semester. So the future of freshmen bar nights in tl1e 'Bend is presently unclear. The optimistic Gipp always tries to see the beer glass as half-full, so he assumes that a new teenage pub will pop up sooner orlater. As long as there are thirsty spoiled brats willing to blow through Daddy's money, there will always be some pathetic townie willing to get them drunk. 
Will I, um ... you know ... get laid? 

Okay, that's a· tough one. Compared to the average college, the Notre Dame community is about as sexually active as ... well, any institution where people don't have sex. The admi!J.istration will do any­thing and everything in its power to keep you pleasantly celibate. Dorms are under the jurisdiction of infamous and illogical rule ofparietals, which as your dictionary can tell you are "the rules governing the visitation privileges ofmembers ofthe op­posite sex in college residences." At Notre Dame, that means no hanky-panky after midnight on weekdays and 2 a.m. on week­ends. That's right, you'll actually be forced to leave your adversarial gender's halls after a certain hour. I know this might get your hopes down, but fortunately for the Irish men, God provided the gift 0£ ..ah, we'll save the St. Mary's jokes for later. 
Rest assured, this is the only time you'll ever see your Gipp sink to a Q&A format. The next time we meet, we'll be able to up­grade to the more sophisticated medium of gossip. Enjoy the rest ofyourSUillffier, boys and girls, and get ready for a four-year va­cation from reality. Stretch out your livers and say goodbye to your flat stomachs and cable television. And, for the love of God, remember to tip the Gipp. D 
I!. 
I [Ij 
I
I
11 
i:
1ii
I I 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUSWATCH 21 


Everyone knows Notre Dame has a long history of tradition, but few besides alumni and students are familiar with the traditions ofits residence halls. Read on for a brief introduction to some ofthese time-honored events -from the charitable to the bizarre. 

"THE BANNER" The Vermin of Carroll Hall may live all the way across the lake, but that doesn't stop them from showing off their spirit in a big way, and by "big'' we mean 30 feet by 90 feet. 
i 
I 
I 
,,i ! 
week full ofevents centered around dorm pride. Also in the spring, the Whirlwinds also host a Dance­a-thon to raise money for diabe­tes patients. 

Welsh Family: Welsh Fam is home to the Whirlwinds and the women's in­terhall sports champions this past year, who dominated in lacrosse, soccer and basketball, to name a few. The dorm organizes one of the more unique events on campus: the Welsh Family Feud, a game-show style competition that pits dorms against each other, part ofa spirit 
22 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 

Keough: The Kangaroos puton the annual Keough Chariot Race,forwhicheachdormbuildsitsownchariot · to win fame, Ben Hur-style. For their Wh!te Wedding Dance -with themes such as ''Pi­rates''and''Mafia''-themenofKeoughnomi­nate one 'Roo from eachsectionto competefor thetitleofCaptainKeough. Every spring Ke­ough holds AussieFest, a cookout with live music and a volleyball tournament with an Australian twist. 
McGiinn: With a mascot close to the Leprechaun's heart, ·the Shamrocks of McGlinn are best known for their Casino Night, where they host a night of gam­bling and games. Each Shamrock invites up to five friends who can buy raffle tick­ets and place bets with fake money. All proceeds from the event (real money, this time) benefit the Catholic Workers House. 
O'Neill: Built as the first male residence hall on the West Quad in 1996, O'Neill has been home to some of the most ac­tive and rowdy men on campus ever since. Known as "The Angry Mob," the men of O'Neill show their dorm pride marching loudly toward pep rallies and in signature events like the Miss ND pageant. 


Wild Women host the Walsh Wild Week in the fall, involving a se­ries ofcompetitive and not-so-com­petitive events, culminating in a Mr. ND Pageant 
Sorin College: University President Monk Malloy lives in this men's dorm, the oldest residence hall on campus. It became a "college" in the 1960s, when the Otters seceded from the university to protest Notre Dame's stance on the Viet­nam War. Sorin hosts an off-color talent show on one of the first home football weekends each year. 
Walsh: Not to be confused with Welsh Fam, Walsh Hall was named for Notre Dame's sixth president, who is credited with instituting the university's first intercollegiate football team. The 
and the Walsh Hall Fall Frolic. The Frolic is a dance for which the Wild Women dress up as Britney-esque Catholic schoolgirls. 
Lewis: Lewis Hall is the largest wom­en's dorm on campus, and its residents, the Chicks, participate in the SK Chicken Run to kick off their spirit week. Each resident anonymously invites a date to the Chicks' signature dance, the Lewis Crush, which polishes off the week of dorm activities. The lucky gentlemen have their names published in the cam­pus newspaper and show up at the dance hoping to be claimed by a hot Chick. ­
wraps). Their De­cade Dance each February is always good for a laugh, as Zahmbies and their dates dress up in throwback outfits. Zahm is also home to the 
Cavanaugh: The women of Cavanaugh have an annual Father-Daughter Weekend in the spring, during which dads become dates for a dance at the College Football Hall of F~me. Co-hosts of the Winter Carnival, the "Chaos" work with Zahm to bring a petting zoo and other kid stuff to campus. Each winter, they also put on a spiritweekleadingup to their Snow Ball, an annual formal dance held in LaFortune. 
Zahm: The most infamous dorm on campus, Zahm transforms its incoming freshmen into loyal, mischievous Zahm­bies. Before the first pep rally each year, the men of Zahm perform the Torquema­da (a cerem~ny mysteriously kept under weekly Spanish 
Mass. 
Keenan: Connected to Stanford Hall by the beautiful Chapel of the Holy Cross, the Keenan Knights distinguish themselves with their signature event, the wildly successful Keenan Revue. A sell­out crowd attends this collection oforigi­nal student comedy every February. The Knights have been awarded Men's Hall of the Year and Hall of the Year two out of the last three years, and took home two interhall sports championships last year. 
Stanford Hall: The 2001-2002 men's inter-hall sports champions, the men of Stanford live directly across the quad from North Dining Hall. The Grif­fins were once known as the Studs, but 

St.\ Edward's: St. Ed's is the oldest building now used as a dorm, although it didn't become a residence hall until 1929. The Steds hold an annual event called Founders Day, which includes a SK run that has raised money for many charitable causes, including the post-9/11 run raising funds for New York firefight­ers and their families. The dorm is also home to the St. Ed's Players, who put on a play each year at Washington Hall. , 
Carroll: Overlooking St. Mary's Lake from the west edge of campus, Carroll Hall offers quite possibly the best view ofall the residence halls. Located far from the rest of campus, the Vermin enjoy a close-knit environment, as Carroll has the fewest residents of any dorm. "A Carroll Christ­mas," featuring a tree-lighting ceremony and performances by university choirs, is the hall's signature event. Carroll kicks off spring finals week with Fusic, a day offood and live music.The Vermin also have won the Fisher Regatta four years running. 
I 
changed their masc~t in tribute to former rector the Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. Ii Every spring they host the Benefit Bash, a late-night event including concerts and food, with proceeds supporting an orphanage in Chile. 
Farley Hall: Farley Hall, home to the "Finest" women on campus, has been a women's dorm since ND went coed in 1972. Farley plans on welcom­ing its residents back in the fall with a Welcome Home BBQ on the Quad. Pop Farley week, which culminates with a dance, is perhaps the best-known event of the Finest, who decorate their hallways to correspond with the dorm theme. Farley has a secondary mascot, the dorm dog, Farley, a cute little Pekingese who barks at boys after parietals. 
Breen-Phillips Hall: The Babes of BP raise money each year for diabetes patients with their Meal Auction. Stu­dents or faculty members bid to eat with campus celebrities who have volunteered for the event. In the winter, Breen-Phil­lips provides relief from the cold with its Beach Week. 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 23 




holders in both interhall football and basketball. 
Knott: Known for their perhaps overly enthusi­astic support of the ND women's 
the Juggernauts 
Siegfried: The Ramblers ofSiegfried Hall compete annually against Knott in the Flanner Cup, a week's worth of events including tug-o-war matches, arm wrestling and relay races. The week culminates with a dance co-sponsored by the two men's dorms. Siegfried also sponsors the annual Rambler Scrambler, a putt-putt tournament on the quad. The ever-athletic Ramblers also are the title-

easily are spot­ted in their orange and black attire. Each spring, they hold Knott on the Knoll, an afternoon of free food and entertainment from campus bands. 
Pasquerilla West: Nicknamed PW or P-Dub, this dorm is home to the Purple Weasels. The women of PW take pride in their strong athletic tradition, winning the interhall softball championship and taking second place in womens' first an-
Rally satirizes life 
atND and includes 
keynote speakers, · 
ND cheerleaders 
and Dillon's hon­orary freshman, . the Teen Wolf. 
Fisher: You'll 
know Fisher Hall· the · 
Alumni: Conveniently located at the intersection of God Quad and South Quad and known to its residents as "The Center of the Universe," Alumni Hall is home to the Dawgs. Each spring, the Dawgs host the Wake, an event steeped in tradition and shrouded in mystery. This past year, Alumni Hall captured 6 interhall sports championships, including the beloved Dawg hockey team, whose games feature costume themes and songs. Alumni Hall's biggest rival is its immediate neighbor, Dillon, and this fall, the rivalry will be re-ignited with Rivals Week, during which Alumni and Dillon will compete in different sports. 
Dillon: The largest dorm on campus, housing over 350 of the most desirable men at ND, Dillon was voted Hall_ of the Century. Its signature events are the Dillon Pep Rally, which is hosted before the :first football game, and Opening Day, a weeklong event to celebrate the start of the baseball season. The annual Pep 
24 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 

by gigantic 
green 'F' on the front of the building. Every spring, Fisher hosts the Fisher Regatta, a campus-wide boat race on St. Mary's Lake. Each fall the Green Wave hosts a 50-hour roof-sit where the RAs and students from around campus take turns sitting on Fisher's roof for charity. As the brave souls do their sitting, Fisher has events for the weekend, and make fun ofthe residents stuck outside on the roof. 
Plus, Joe Montana lived there. 

Pangborn: Pangborn Hall sits on the far west end of South Quad. It hosts Phoxy Facts (a trivia contest) and a 3-on-3 
volleyball tournament in the spring. Next 
year, ifall goes as planned, Pangborn will 
incorporate the spring events into a doi_:m 
spirit week along with a new event, the 
Phox Carnival. 

Lyons: Easily recognized by its fa­
mous arch overlooking St. Mary's Lake, 
this women's dorm sponsors the Mara 
Fox Fun Run every fall, in honor of a 
freshman resident killed by a drunk 
nual interhall basketball this year. Next 
fall, an old rivalry will be rekindled with 
the Who's the Better Pasquerilla? contest 
which will be held annually. It is a week 
of activities, such as an ice cream eating 
contest, with PE that will culminate in a Mod Quad Dance. In the spring, Queen Week, an intradorm event, fosters inter­
section competitions and ends in a dance, 
where one girl from the winning section is crowned Queen. -Pasquerilla East: PE is the home ofthe Pyros and the Pasqu~rilla East Musical 
Company (a.k.a. Pemco), which stages a 
complete musical every February. This 
troupe's .history includes productions of 
Godspell, Guys and Dolls, Damn Yankees, 
and Into the Woods. This year's play will be West Side Story. PE is also proud to be the defending female interhall football champion. 
driver in 1993. Money raised from the event goes to a student scholarship fund. The Lyonites host a.beach-themed dance each fall, complete with grass skirts and Hawaiian shirts. 
Morrissey Manor: Lastyear, Morrissey began a new tradition known as Manor Unplugged, which showcases the musical talents ofits residents. TheManor hopes to move the eve]J.t onto the quad, expanding it to include a campus_;wide golf tournament. The men ofMorrissey also plan to show off their brute strength in traditional Gaelic contests this fall.· 
Howard: The ladies of Howard put on a marshmallow roast to celebrate the :first snowfall ofthe school year (arguably the only time that the arrival of snow is welcomed). Room decorations are a big deal for the Ducks, as they compete · against each other in an annual Parade of Rooms. Every fall they host the Howard Ho-down, a semiformal dance to kick off the school year. 
Badin: The home of the Bullfrogs is the second-oldest dorm at Notre Dame. In the spring, the women of Badin host a campus-wide karaoke and dance competi­tion, the Badin Spring Breakdown. Con­testants are judged on accuracy, style and performance. Their scores from the :first round qualify them for a chance to spin the karaoke "Wheel ofDeath" to compete for gift certificates at local restaurants. 
~­



This annual-Notre Dame event will provide you the first opportunity to meet with representatives from ... 
-

* 
200+ Student Clubs/Organizations * Academic Clubs 

* 
25+ Loc~l Service Agencies · * Club Sports Teams 

* 
RecSports * Cultural Clubs 

* 
Center for Social Concerns * Service/Social Action Clubs 

* 
Student Union Board * Special Interest Clubs 

* 
Student Government 



Over 3,000 students attended last year! Don't be left out! 
/ . 

FOR MORE INFORMATION, CHECK OUT ACTIVITIES NIGHT ON-LINE AT: 
w w w . n d . e d u / -s a o / a n. / 

Horse Sho:w-"Asfo6iation

IA:LbtjLE_TJ_iJJ 
throughout the year. 

Notre Dame.pffers a If steer-wrestling, wide variety of athletic goat-tying and bull-rid­opportunities even if ing are more your style, you aren't a varsity ath-then you might 'want to'·,; lete. Playing interhall check out the Rodeo sports can be an exciting Club. Students formed way to compete for your ..·the club to educate oth­dorm, or you can join ., ers about rodeo, giving 
a. club team and travel them _the opportunity to around the country. work toward competing 
Students addicted to in a particular event. speed can join the Cy-For those who would cling Club, which does r~ther play in water mountain bike racing in than on dry land, Notre the fall and road racing Dame has a few excel-in the spring, or the Ski lent aquarian "clubbing"·· Club, which competes· opportunities. The · in both giant slalom and Notre Dame Sail­slalom events in Michi-·ing Club, which prac­gan, Wisconsin and tices on St.Joe Lake on Canada. campus and at a nearby 
Ifyou get your kicks lake in Michigan, races from heights rather throughout the Midwest than speed, check out and the nation. The the Climbing Club. It men's water polo team sponsors rock-climb-is consistently one of ing trips to places like the top performers in the Red River Gorge in the Midwest. Its offi-Kentucky, and it pro-cial season is in the fall. vides all the necessary Team members travel to gear and training for places such as Florida participants of all levels for their more relaxed ·· of experience.. -spring season. 
The field hockey The women's -water team was started two polo team, drawing · years ago. It offers both women from both Notre men and women of all · Dame and St. Mary's, skill levels a chance to has won the Regional participate. The team Midwest Championship practices four days three of the last four a week in the spring years, and placed fifth at and fall and competes Club Nationals in 2000. against other club teams Frozen water is good, in the area. too. The Figure Skat-· 
If you a~e a horse-ing Club started up in lover, Notre Dame has 1999 and was recognized several equestrian clubs. as the athletic club of The equestrian team the year for 2001-2002. takes weekly lessons at The teamskates against stables located about 15 varsity and club teafus, minutes from campus. and they have competed Riders of all levels are at two national cham­welcome to join, and do pionships, achieving not need to own a horse. -.eigh,th place i_n ?P,Q-9 and The team participates in seventh in 2002: The competitions sponsored women's clul> hockey by the Intercollegiate team willplay around 
26 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
30 games this year, their first year in existence. 
The 73 -year-old Bengal Bouts boxing tournament offer an op­portunity for men with varying levels of experi­ence to compete to raise money for Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. Ifyou are into box­ing and happen to be female, check out the 
Women's Boxing Club, 
a recently formed group. 
The Women's Run­ning Club was named the 2000-2001 athletic club of the year. They compete in road races in the area, roughly 10 per year, and sponsor two big events: the Aloha Run and _the Relay for Life, on,-campus races that raise money for charity. 
Ifyou like running around in bare feet and leaping through the air, the Ultimate Frisbee Club couldbe for you. The team competes at tournaments nation­wide. 

Or you might want to try the Gymnastics Club, which welcomes athletes of many ex­perience levels. Iii the spring semester, the team travels competes against other gymnastic clubs throughout the country.,Jn spring 2003, the club won the gym­nastics national champi­onship. 
On a more local scale, the Notre Dame Porn Squad is a group of 14 women from Notre Dame and St. Mary's, dedicated to. enhanc­ing the spirit of Notre Dame through the per­formance of dance rou-, tines. The Pqm S_quad· performs at pep· rallies, basketball halftimes and campus-,wide and dorm functions s~ch as the Notre Dame Activities Night and the Dillon Hall Pep Rally. 
IAcAD.EJ~U~c] 
Academic clubs offer a · wide range of activities 
in fields rangip.g, from 
anthropology to engi­
neering. 

The Marketing Club 
provides the oppor­
tunity for marketing 
majors to interact with 
each other and_ profes­
sors through., social, 
spiritual, educational 
and service-oriented 
events, including guest 
speakers, career days, 
educational trips and 
barbecues. 

The Entrepreneur 
Club is· an active group 
of individuals who plan 
to start or have already 
started their own busi­
nesses; Throughout the 
year, the "E-.Club" trav­
els to national confer­
ences, sponsors campus 
speakers, guarantees 
internships and job 
opportunities for clu:b 
members, and prepares 
member;~ to write busi­
ness plahs and compete 
in competitions. 
One of the largest 
student organizations 
at Notre Dame, the 
Student International 
Business Council 
(SIBC) is the only one of-its kind in the nation. Open to all majors, the SIBC is dedicated to providing students with real-world professional experience and inter­national development. Every summer; the SIBC sends dozens of students around the world on' 
international summer 

internships and teaching 
positions. 
The pre-vet club of 
Notre Dame offers an 

opportunity for any stu­
dent to learn about and 
interact with animals. It 
also provides a fun a11d. 
supportive forum and 
source of information 
for students interested 

in attending veteranary 
school. 
If working with 
humans is more your 
style, the Pre-Dental 
Club at ND is a pre­

med style club designed 
to give those students 
considering dentistry a 

more in-depth view into 
the profession. They 

bring guest lecturers to 
campus, including local 
dental professionals and 
admissions representa­
tives from a number of 

different dental schools. 
Club members are also 
provided-with the op­

portunity to shadow lo­
cal dentists in the South 
Bend area. 
Like the Pre-Dental 
.Club, the Pre-Physi­

cal Therapy Club is an 
academic club that seeks 
to give support and 
guidance to students 
who want to attend a 

graduate school physical 
therapy program. 

The Society of Wom­
en Engineers works to 
foster a sense of com­
munity among women 

in engineering through 
social activities, career 

aid, service and academ­
ic support·. 

The Computer Appli­cations Honor Society 
serves as the honor soci­
ety for Arts and Let­
ters students who have 
Computer.Applications 
(CAPP) as a second ·major. 
Many majors also have their own clubs. The 
~nthropology Club, 
for example, aims to establish connections between the students and faculty within the department. These clubs generally are open to everyone, but students within the major are especially encouraged to join. 
l~E_,I.._h:LJSJ/· 1··._ c:] 
Although the universi­ty has an essentially ho­mogenous ethnic body, there are a mi.mber of student organizations dedicated to expanding awareness a~d support of other cultures. 
One of the largest ethnic clubs on campus is La Alianza, which formed five years ago when several other groups merged. It edu­cates students through programs th:'!_t include Hispanic Heritage Month Celebrations and the Latino Formal. 
The Korean Student Association (KSA) plans to reach out to a broader spectrum of people on campus this year and provide more opportunities for expo­sure to the Korean cul­ture. The Asian Ameri­can Association (AAA) of Notre Dame proudly celebrates Asian Ameri­can heritage through fellowship, service, and events that showcase the unique values of various Asian cultures. They hope through their efforts to positively reflect the essence of being Asian American. 
Na Pua Kai Ewalu, also known as the 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 27 
Hawaii Club, works to share the culture of Hawaii through various social and educational activities, including a luau each spring. Open to all students, the club also acts as a support system for students from Hawaii, especially for incoming freshmen, who 
are 5,000 miles away from home. 
There are a variety of other ethnic/ Ian­guage clubs, including the Russian, Italian and German clubs. The Russian Club.sponsors museum trips, ethnic dinners, movies and other events. The Ital­ian Club's activities in-elude regular opportu­nities to eat and practice speaking Italian, cook­ing classes, monthly movie nights, trips to Chicago's Italian neigh­borhood and two sports tournaments each year. Next year, they have been specially invited to four evenings at the Lyric Opera in Chicago. The German Club's two yearly highlights are Ok"domer" fest and a trip to Chicago's famed Christkindlmarkt. 
Perhaps the most in­teresting ethnic club is the Texas Club, which boasts 500 Texan stu­dents. The club orga­nizes dances, rides to and from the Lone Star State and an alumni network. 

~iJ~i~\~; 
The Juggling Club is a group of students who get together for a couple of hours every 
28 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
few weeks to juggle. 
Nuff said. 
In September, the 
S_wing Club will start 
a· series of "East Coast" 
swing dancing lessons. 
The club currently has 
about 50 to 75 members 
who come weekly for 
two hours of lessons and 
dance time. The class 
is geared toward begin­
ning dancers, but they 
do have student instruc­
tors who work privately 
to challenge and teach 
intermediate and ad­
vanced dancers. 
The Dome Yearbook 
is always looking for 
writers and photog-­
raphers to help with 
spreads. The time com­
mitment is very flexible 
and although experience 
helps, it is not neces­
sary. 
Those interested in 
public service should 
look into the College 
Democrats and College 
Republicans, who hope 
to raise political aware­
ness and partiofpation 
among university stu­
dents. This fall the Col­
lege Democrats will be 
working on a campaign 
for the U.S. Congress 
and organizing a voter 
registration drive. 
Notre Dame has a few 
martial arts clubs. The 
Aikido Club practices 
Aikikai-style Aikido, a 
vigorous, noncompeti­
tive martial art suitable 
for people of all ages 
and ideal for those in­
terested in self-defense 
and conflict resolu­
tion. The Notre Dame 
Martial Arts Institute . (NDMAI) teaches the 
.unique techniques and applications of Vee Jitsu Ryu Jujitsu and Chung Do Kwan Tae Kwon Do. Students who begin as freshmen can reach the rank of black belt in both arts by the end of their junior year. 

ND's World Tae Kwon Do Club is a recreational club that provides the opportuni­ty for anyone to learn an ancient Korean martial art that teaches-power, strength, flexibility, and athleticism. Taught by seventh-degree black belt Master Soon Pil Hong, a veteran coach of numerous Olympic athletes, the students of Tae Kwon Do learn sparring techniques and self-defense tactics such as joint locks and the manipulation of pres­sure points. 
The university bands include the marching band, several concert bands, jazz bands, and brass and percussion ensembles. Tryo-uts for the bands are open to all students, undergraduate and graduate, who are enrolled at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, St. Mary's College and Holy Cross College. 
If you've been bitten by the performing bug but don't play an instru­ment, there are a num­ber of acting and sing­ing groups on campus. The Farley Players, the St. Ed's Hall Play­ers, and the Pasquerilla East Musical Company 
(PEMCo) are a few of thegroupsthatputon student productions each year. Harmonia is a newly established female a cappella group with about 15 members from the ND commu­nity, which hopes to re­cord a CD in the spring. Notre Dame's all-male choir, the Glee Club has a strong fraternal atmosphere and focuses on vocal technique and style. The group per­forms on campus and travels extensively in the US and abroad. 
The Chess Club meets biweekly to in­crease student interest in chess while providing challenging games for players of all strengths. They also teach chess to younger children in the South Bend community and form a four-member team to travel to compe­titians. 
ls~EJ½:~ 'l_C~EJ 
Students looking to 
volunteer in the South 
Bend community have · 
many options. 
Members of Circle K 
completed more than 
7,000 hours of com­
munity service in the 
Greater South Bend 
area this year. The club 
offers around 20 proj­
ects covering a wide 
range of interests, from 
playing with animals at 
the Humane Society to 
working at the Juvenile 
Justice Center. This is 
the kind of club to join 
if you can't decide what 
kind of service you wal).t 
to do. 
The nationally re­
nowned South Bend 
Center for the Homeless 
always welcomes student 
assistants, and Food-
share is a Notre Dame 
service club that deliv­
ers leftover dining.-hall 
food to the center and 
other homeless shelters 
in South Bend. 
SuperSibs matches 
ND students who have 
disabled siblings with 
children from the South 
~ 
Bend area who also have a disabled brother or sister. Club members provide friendship and support for the children based on their own ex­periences. 
A campus chapter of the international Best Buddies organiza­tion pairs Notre Dame students with a develop­mentally disabled adult from the South Bend community to establish a one-on-one friend­ship. 
Students involved in the Logan Recreation Club have the oppor­tunity to form friend­ships with individuals who have developmental disabilities by sponsor­ing _and participating in weekly activities like bowling, Saturday recre­ation and dancing. 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program 
provides volunteer tu­
tors to local schools 
and community centers with children in need 
of academic assistance. 
Campus Girl Scouts' 
goal is to bridge the gap between participat­ing as a girl scout and volunteering as ahroop leader. They host activi­ties for local troops as well as perform their own service activities. 
·On campus, C.A.R.E. (Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination) is a student-awareness group aimed to prevent rape and help those affected by rape and sexual assault to deal with the overwhelm­ing consequences. They sponsor a Sexual Assault Awareness Week in the fall and host speakers and other events during Sexual Assault Aware­

ness Month, in April. 
The ND/SMC Peace Coalition is sponsored by the Center for So­cial Concerns and was started by a group of students critical of the War on Terrorism. The 
World Hunger Coali­tion is dedicated to rais­ing awareness of hunger issues and raising money to support hunger relief efforts worldwide. The WHC annually raises about $20,000 for dona­tions to hunger organi­zations throughout the world with the Lunch Fast, in which students sign up to give up one meal a week from their meal plans. 
A health-related orga­nization is the First Aid Services Team. The team serves as the first level of the emergency 
.medical system for 
events and athletics on 
campus. Team members 
hold Red Cross certifi­
cations in standard first 
aid and CPR for the 
professional rescuer. 
The Community Al­liance to Serve His­panics works with local community centers and offers a number of op­portunities for students to serve as translators and English-language instructors to the His­panic community. 
..······-· . ------i
I 

RE LLGLQ_US_. 
The group Iron Sharpens Iron is an interdenominational, student-led Bible study that seeks to foster solid Christian relation­ships and to challenge and encourage students to grow in their faith through fellowship, praise and worship, 
Biblical teaching and 
prayer. 

Campus Fellowship of the Holy Spirit is an ecumenical Chris­tian group similarly dedicated to building up faith and friendship through weekly meet­ings, small groups and parties. The Knights of Columbus is a Catholic men's organization fo­cused on service to the community and loyalty to the Church. At Notre Dame, they are dedi-" cated to the principles of the nationwide Order through many activities, the most notable being their Steak Sales, which raise $40,000 annually for charity. 
The Baptist Coll_e­giate Ministry (BCM) is an organization open to all Christian tradi­tions that focuses on fellowship, faith-shar­ing and Christian living. They hold weekly Bible study meetings, church visits, retreats, shared meals and other activi­ties. 
For Muslim students seeking fellowship, support and prayer op­portunities, the Notre Dame United Muslim Association (NDUMA) helps them to continue on their faith journey. 
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart also has a number of ministries open to new members. Their choirs include the Folk Choir, the Liturgical Choir and the Women's Liturgi­cal Choir. If you would like to be in a choir but sing like Scuttle from The Little Mermaid, you can join the Handbell Choir. Also, the Basilica 
is always looking for new readers, Eucharistic ministers, and acolytes ('altar servers), so if you are interested, keep an eye open for announce-. ments about training. 
l~:bJ 
Addicted to student government? You can continue to get your fix in college. 
Notre Dame's Student Union consists ofseveral groups. The Office ofthe President is a group that represents the student body to the university adminis­tration, and a:lso provides direct services to students. 
The Student Sen­ate, consisting of one senator from each dorm, also serves as a voice for students. The Judicial Council provides peer advocates to students fac­ing disciplinary hearings. 
The Stude!):t Union Board (SUB) plans cam­pus-wide events, includ­ing movies and concerts. Each class has a council that also plans events. Freshmen can get in­volved in student govern­ment by running for their class council in the fall, joining the staffs of the Office of the President, SUB or one of the Sen­ate's policy committees. 
FlipSide is a student-run group whose purpose is to program weekly events on Fridays and Saturdays that do not involve alcohol, such as dances, bowling, ice-skating, mini-golf and trips to Chicago. The events are open to all stu­dents and hope to provide alternatives to drinking on campus. . 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 29 



So:und Hke somettiin·~ y·ou want to
do at ND? 
·;:~T-c·~"'',~~~ 

--~then join the 
PRCGRE:SS1VE STUDENT ALLWANCE! 
Stop; by our booth at Student Activities Nmght cu1d iind out how yo·u, can .get i,nvolved.. · 

C~····•·.-·­
i;:. 15:."' 11' ·i=i" ll: . i;:-I;!• i!! . -­
SOCIAL. 
CONCERNS 

WE.LCOME TO TI-IE CENTER FOR SOClAL CONCERNS1 
Tt:m:,11gh C0'.'.1MLiNln' SER','KE, B;,N . ~-0:-.l E.E.UlNrnG, 
mu:ll llE',1,-IU:F:E /l.G"no;s; mi.;: .SIJCL',L C:liliu'-IGI::, Nr.Tlre• 
D,.mi:-\, Cstf:i3R. ro:;: S.;:11:.: ...1. {'.nN.;::1!3NS erxoum_g15 
®1) ('i"iih(a •~i•li11J;,;•~ i:'01Wl11iJ1'1I~• 11) ():r':irR ~'!)Oi.•J: .f!i1(1 fl{:f 
(rfL It~• ,~.~ll(o:S <=1 :J)i!.fl<)c' (it"f~jl1ftl[,:1), Mlifl'i ·l!dcililll:lll!uf 11111pc;rtunlibr~ mc., 11v,1llrilill r.hroogh, 
Llm CSC, so:-h as.: 

. Numl!roU!' Si:1;:!1:JJt~Efon,. ~-m'iJ:1: amll ~«l.il t\r;Uc,n -Grc•.1.m . Work w;JJ1 L=J C.ommr,mt~~&!:,."iii A1:1ro:lr-5 • . One-Credit Sor1n] Ca:a-.i:re: &mtnrB (Ninil'!.ul!J & fo.Y:W..,'!w,.J.l)y . Til!reL-OrtdlL C:iur= iJ'<'i!l.'oni!,'h· & 1n(~'ll,1Uffi.1DIJ v Pe.m: ;,n,:t J~uc-=: i?r-:i.sraw.mlng , 
Tlh!!r,-~ are-iiPJJITf '!-1-ay~ for _you. to bec·ome tn.,.,:,J.,.-ed lro ;~0f:),'j(:!1 SER'l.'l(':£-te.oi;RNU~r;. mr.J .)i.>:'.J!C::!!• i)f•J-1)(,:JIJNl'flt." s,,:;,.,, Pir,n Y(:~f ,,( Nott•~ D-1)jlfK•~ 
.Enr.c:,::J En .i Flr.-t Y,v.i;:r .Cc,n:iJJC<1ldc,Jt oour~,; -;;1;;11. ii C-0rt1muri.11.:i,•-]fa::;;,d: L1,;;mlr,noo1.·1f>'.:<-.:·rnl 
•~•.•\pj,l,ll ""' Jllftii::IJ:,,)f(I ht;, P;,U, \'11ir,1ec-<:a.-S.,prhni! fi.eaJ, Sc,r:.iul Cc.11L'<'ra;i; Scmi11m! ·,~:.•,1h:.:.=·11L....:t· 13'1ruugh. ec·f;:, afilhu {D S.:.mh B,,-ut. c1:i1111mu,I1::iy n8,:11,:J1:iii --!"Fii!ix;m_~ l1 .m~rrr.1.l-~t" ofOfllJ (1-f tlhi, (71/li;t :ro CSC-rzt',l.<l•,>:I r-lmh•••l t:H•1.1tz;! 
. '.folk 1•,iti!J:,,:111r P."'ld·,tll:;'-' lh-Iu'~ :So,;:wl. Ci:•i1i::i:•tns: C,:,,11~·•f;i~:;,,:,;t,;:~ f:x mor,;:, 1111.•.re. rJ1u:i1 rnfom1mki11! 
1: Vd $1T r~mrP; ~.{~/r:::;:i:g;n i: lsF::o-:::-,:~}'1,'•\~~/.(){~: ii[,,fl-={';:,;::}(t:.; G-is\?:Jt-.j f~. . t::n r;i ,, r::o:~AJ,/ 
I .
i: & Srolf' le'( 'fHf;; csc TASl-:e AT}\,:;;1,i'•Jtf'J[:'.,.~, H:c,::11rti',, :;Sr;::JTEJ',':'.r:t::1:t :11::~1 
l•VE LOOK FOli'.Vt'.iJ.RD TO l'OUR ARRIVAL TO CAMPUS l.JV Aucu:rF! 
"C,,.LL1fto(l, U!:. .,;L)L 'rO Air.'ft.OHI POR A r,JOHE'. .J:i;j!?.'f .llNo 'Hl;i-!AHE'. WO!iil.O.,. 
·~·Rrw1 'l!Ji! CSC:-; J'l.,fJ~~.1;11 St;rti:mmr
\ 


Artificial advice for superficial problems 
Dear Diotima, I feel ready to separate from my family and my many high school friends, but I 
-ca~not fathom how I will be able to fully flourish without the companionship of my Persian cat Maxi. Maxi and I have been best buds ever since I was five years old and rescued her limp body from the rain _gutter behind the Osco and nursed her back to health. When I come _home from school Maxi perks me up with her smiling cat face. She sits on my lap while I do homework, and even curls up next to my face while I sleep so that I won't have bad dreams. My home is over an hour and a half away in Gary, IN. Diotima, how can I keep a connection to thirteen­year-old Maxi when I live on the Notre Dame campus? 
~~ 
-Maxi Misser 
Dear Maxi Misser, · 
Every incoming freshman faces some sort of separation anxiety. Many have a hard time saying goodbye to a high school sweetheart, a favorite grandmother or, perhaps, a tender sibling. You are not unique simp~y because your attachment is t9 _an elqerly cat. I suggest that you find unique ways to spend quality time with Maxi before you leave, in case she dies while you are away at school. Take her on walks around the block or invite her to join you in the shower. You might even want to braid her fur and take a lock or two with you to school. When you move into your dorm, you can create a small altar near your desk with cat fur, several pictures, and a favorite toy or two. Wear a large button of Maxi's pro­file on your shirt during "Frosh O" with the friendly instruction,· "Ask me about Maxi." Within a few days, conversation about Maxi and a newfound affection for the local squirrels will surely to melt your sorrow away. 
Dear Diotima, 
I have lived in Ness City, Kan­sas for my whole life. The last time I left was when I was seven and drove with my family a few hours to my Great Aunt Jayja:y's funeral in Wichita. Last week, I found out from the Office of Residence Life and Housing that my new room­mate is from New York City. I have learned alot about what they call "The City" from watching the boob tube. I know that city-dwell­ers are real sophisticated, order takeout in the middle of the night, and some are in gangs. As a country mouse from Ness City, how do you suggest I broaden my horizons so that I can converse comfort­ably with my new roomie Andrew, while establishing boundaries to protect my small town purity? 
()9 ,JEv9=:f? 
:-Confused in Kansas 
Dear Confused in Kansas, 
To begin, I would like to make a sweep­ing generalization: College is a time of corruption, and few graduate unscathed by sin. That said, this summer is a fan­

. tastic time to become more cosmopolitan while fortifying your innocence. Buy New York City guidebooks from your local independently owned bookstore. Learn about the multi-cultural popula­tion, delis and Central Park. Watch a few of the milder episodes of "Sex and the City," and then go immediately to confession. Once you arrive on campus, place, in a prominent location in your dorm, a large statue of Dominic Savio, the patron saint of j_:uvenile delinquents. Refer to St. Savio as your "third room­mate." When Andrew swears, does not observe his Sunday obligation, orwanders in drunk and sweaty, sternly rebuke him, point to the statue, and say "tisk tisk blas­phemer -what do you think Dominic, our third roommate, would have to say about your behavior?." To induce further psychological disturbance, whenever he enters the room, mumble, "get behind me Satan," under your breath. IfAndrew does not react positively to your correc­tive instruction, feel justified in lighting prayer candles near his books, bed, or other flammable possessions. . 
Dear Diotima was written by Meghan Gowan. This is the first and last thne the cohtmn hasappeared in print. It is intendedto induce a small amount oflaughterto calm the common case ofinco1lling freshman an.r:iet;y. 
Submit an 800-word essay for Week in Distortion. E-mail us at scholast@nd.edu. SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 31 

i ': . 
JIMMYATKINSON AND MIKEISELIN 

The hiring of Tyrone Willingham as head coach brought hopes of a "Re­turn to Glory" for the Notre Dame football program. And he delivered just that. A 10-3 finish and ten weeks in the Top Ten did much to return the golden luster to the helmets that the team so proudly wears. With wins over Maryland and Purdue, the 2-0 Irish then hosted the tenth-ranked Michigan Wolverines. The game was char­acterized bysloppyplayfrombothsqua.ds, as each team committed four turnovers. Notre Dame, however, got the upper hand when freshman defensive endJasonTuckwas held by a Michigan lineman in the Wolverines endzone. Thepenalty resulted ina safety be­ing awarded to Notre Dame, which turned out to be enough for a 2-point winning margin, 25-23. Senior cornerback Shane Walton intercepted a pass on Michigan's last minute drive to send the student sec­tion rushing from the stands down to the field in celebration. The Michigan State game the following week proved to be even more heart-stopping than the Michigan game. With sophomore quarterback Carlyle Holiday out with a 
Willin-gharn Turns ND Football Around 
' 

separated shoulder, itappeared certain that Michigan State would defeat Notre :Dame for an unprecedented sixth stra1ght season. Butwith 1:15 remaining, backup sophomore quarterback Pat Dillingham found senior flanker Arnaz Battle ona seemingly harmless shortroute over the middle. Battle; however, broke free and scampered 60 yards downfield for the game-winning touchdown, 21-17. 
On the last Saturday of October, the Irish (7-0) faced their biggest challenge of the season thus far and completely outmatched the 2002 ACC Champion Florida State Seminoles. The Irish scored a touchdown on their very first play from scrimmage· and never .looked· back, win­ning 34-24 to move to the No; 4 spot in the country. 
The following week against Boston Col­lege, however, the National Championship talks died when Notre Dame was humbled,· 14-7. Championships are won in November and the Irish peaked in October. An8-0start and talks ofa National Championship, how-. ever,_brought back much ofthe Notre Dame football prestigein Willingham'sfirstseason, one not to be forgotten. D 

MIRACLE MAKER Arnaz Battle takes Dillingham's pass into the end zone for a key victory against Michigan State. 

Basketball Makes it to S\A/eet Sixteen 
The men's basketball team had an out­standing season this year. It started off the first week of December with what might have been the most impressive week of college basketball by a single team all season. The Irish first beat thirteenth­ranked Marquette at home, then traveled to the MCI Center in Washington, D.C. for the BB&T Classic. They beat ninth­ranked Maryland in the first game of the tournament and followed that victory with a win over second-ranked Texas. This single week ofbasketball propelled the Irish from the swarms ofunranked teams to the tenth­ranked team in the country, making it the third-biggest single-week jump in the polls 
32 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
in college basketball history. 

Notre Dame continued to play solid basketball and on February 9 it met the Pittsburgh Panthers in a close game. With 32 seconds left Pittsburgh senior Brandon Knighthithis only shot ofthe game, a three­pointer to put the Panthers up by a point. It was clutch time for the Irish. With seconds remaining in regulation Thomas passed off to freshman Torin Francis, who was cutting down the lane. Francis hit a lay-up with 0.6 seconds to win the game 66-64. Moments later the entire student section was on the court congratulating its team on a well de­served victory. 
The Irish carried this success into the 
big dance where they earned a No. 5 seed in the West Region. In the opening round . game, Thomas got a small piece ofa lay-up attempted by a University of Wisconsin­Milwaukee player that would have ended the season for the Irish. Then in the second round the Irish stepped up their defensive intensity and marched past No. 4-seeded Illinois, 68-60. This gave Notre Dame its first Sweet Sixteen appearance since 1987. Unfortunately that is as far as the Irish would go this year, as they lost to the Ari­zona Wildcats in the Sweet Sixteen, but this year's men's basketball season still remains one of the most memorable in recent his­tory. D 
\, 


Baseball in 

Track Record Smashed 
0 n \ 
February 8, 2003 Notre Dame senior Luke Watson 
was the star of one of the most incredible mile races in NCAA history. On that day the Loftus Center on the Notre Dame camp~s was the site of the Meyo Invitational track meet. The mile race had been shaping up to be a good one, but nobody would have ever guessed that it would be this good. The pace was lightning fast from the gun and didn't slow down for just less than four minutes later. 
Watson won the race with a time of 3: 57:83, the fastest mile time in the entire world this year at that point in the year and a new Notre Dame record. Not only did Watson finish in less than four minutes, but so did four other competi­tors. All four of the other racers finished faster than anyone in the world had, but not faster than Watson. . 


ELEMENTARYWatson smashes the record. 

Fencing: Nat'I Champs·
After finish1ng either second or third in the nation for every year since 1995, the Notre Dame co-ed fencing team finally was able to defeat Penn State to claim the program's sixth NCAA Championship, their first since 1994. Notre Dame en­tered the championship with the top­ranked men's team and the third-ranked women's team. After Saturday's events, the Irish were in the lead, but the top four teams, including St. John's, Ohio State and Penn State, were separated by only four points. 
The men's round-robin matches on Sunday morning increased the Irish lead to four points over SJU, six over PSU and ten over OSU. Sophomore Michal Sobieraj finished first in the men's epee and senior Ozren Debic finished fourth in the men's foil. In the women's round­robin bouts, sophomores Andrea Ament and Alicja Kryczalo finished third and fourth in the foil, respectively, to help lead the Irish to a 182-179 victory over defending champion Penn State. D 

World Series 
Trailing 3-2 in the bottom of the ninth inning, the Irish were on the verge ofelimination from their sec­ond appearance in the College World Se­ries. But a one-out triple by Steve Stanley started an unforgettable rally for Notre Dame. With Stanley on base, Steve Soll­man then singled up the middle to drive in one run and tie the game at three. Brian Stavisky then belted a 1-2 pitch over the. right field wall to win the game, 5-3. "I knew I hit it hard," Stavisky said. "When it went up into the stands itwas the best feeling I've ever had on a baseball field." For the first time ever, the Irish reached the 50-win mark and still remained alive in the College World Series. . 
Women's 
B-ball Excels 

The Notre Dame women did not have their best regular season in recent years, but they made up for it when tournament time rolled around. The Irish earned cmly an eleven seed and were underdogs from the get-go. They faced sixth-seeded Arizona in the first round and outlasted them 59-47. This set the Irish up for a second round battle against third-ranked Kansas State. The Irish again defied the odds, beating KSU in its own arena, 59-53, to advance to the Sweet Sixteen. . 
Cross-Country Finishes Third 
The third-place fi. nish for the women's cross country team is the highest in the program's 
fifteen-year history. Freshman Molly Huddle ran to a sixth-place finish, just 12 seconds off the winning pace, and earned All-American honors. Sopho­more Lauren King placed 19th and also earned All-American honors. 
Head coach Tim Connelly is pleased about his team's performance and notes that with such a young squad, "The fu­ture is very exciting. We had only one senior in our top five today. The future looks great." Senior Jennifer Handley finished 52nd while freshmen Loryn King and Stephanie Madia finished 56th and 58th, respectively, to round out the top five finishers. . 

(~h~ ~<>JPl'i ·•~~-~I 
iJ; Wome~'s Te~is Wins BigEast t1 . Championship fi 
I ~~~~-~-,, ~-~~.• 
:~-----,-"·.· ... _ ._/ii.-< .?O ., ~<-C ·~-lfl S?ftball Wins S~cond_ Straight'•J B1~ East ~hamp1onsh1p __ 
.·.· ·' ··:·· ,_. :,.·

,-----'-~~--·-···-----'-··• -~> -7 1 Women's Golf Wins Inaugural !IBig East Championship [ ! L___. ·.· -, • <> <---.>> . > . J 
SCH0LASTICSPORTS 33 


Is there 
anything 
. to do aro,und here( 
KARAZUARO AND RYANGREENE 

Welcome to South Bend, the city that sleeps. A lot. If you're looking for a lively, ex­
citing town to paint red, don't hold your breath. But while the surrounding area is hardly a wealth ofentertaining possibili­ties, campus life can more than make up for any such shortcomings. Here's a handy guide of what to do on those otherwise dull weekends. 
SCREEN AND STAGE dents are showcas.ed for three nights 
•NDcinema at the Snite, courtesy of NDcinema. 
You can catch the cream of Holly­Consider this your chance to check wood, independent and international _out the films before they hit the indie films in the Hesburgh Library audito­film-festival circuit. This must-see rium every Thursday night. Recent films event promises controversy, art and have included Apocalypse Now: Redux, Best even afew laughs. in Show and Bowling For Columbine, and •Theatre each feature is preceded by a short stu­From classical tragedy to lowbrow dent film. Formerly known as Cinema at comedy, Notre Dame's got it all. Wash­the Snite, this new project is sponsored ington Hall hosts many performances by the Department of Film, Television during the year, including recent works and Theatre. Admission is free. byMainstage productions (run directly 
• SUB Movies by the Dept of Film, Television and 
The Student Union Board shows 3-Theatre), including Shakespeare's dollar movies every Thursday, Friday Twelfth Night. Next year they will and Saturday nights. While it also shows -present Moliere's Tartuffe and Ten­older, second-run films, it tends to focus nessee William's The Glass Menagerie. on larger Hollywood hits, like Spider­Notre Dame also hosts a variety of Man, Sweet Home Alabama and Jackass. other shows via student'-run groups 
• Student Film Festival including The Not-So-Royal Shake­
Every January, the films made by speare Company, Student Players and Notre Dame's film-production stu-St. Edward's Hall Players. 
34 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
LIVE MUSIC AND MEDIA 
• AcoustiCafe 
Every Thursday night at LaFortune Student Center, the Student Union Board hosts an open-mic night for student solo musicians and campus bands. Whether you've got a hankering for some John Mayer and Norah Jones covers or you just want to check out the original music produced by campus talent, this event is · free for everyone. Ifyou're interested in performing yourself, SUB has open sign-ups each week. · ­
•An Tosta! 
Yet another SUB-sponsored event, An Tosta! is Gaelic for "The Festival." In years past, this springtime celebration has involved all kinds of events to help blow off school stress before the onslaught of finals. Favorite aspects of An Tosta! include blow-up Sumo-wrestling suits, velcro walls and those bouncy things that you used to jump on at carnivals as a 
\__ 


ROCKIN' THE DOME Live music is available on campus in many forms, from nationally-recognized acts like Everclear (le~) to campus bands such as those featured 
at Nazz, a music competition held every spring. 
kid. Live music is also featured. 
• Concerts 
Not a heck of a lotof bands pass through South Bend, but you can count on Notre Dame to line up a show on campus every now and then. Recent performers have included Everclear, Guster, Glave, G. Love & The Special Sauce, and Better Than Ezra. Great bands should continue to invade campus on August 30 with the year's kickoff eyent, Student Activities' "The Show." Also keep your eye out for concerts at the JACC, courtesy of local radio stations. Past years' offering have included John M~llencamp, Toby Keith and U2. · 
° Collegiate Jazz Festival 
This competition between college jazz bands from all over the country draws a lot of attention from jazz enthusiasts na­tionwide, including Branford Marsalis, who made an appearance at the festival a few years back. 
•NAZZ 
No one seems quite sure what the name means or where it came from, but this SUB­sponsored battle of the Bands takes place on campus every spring. The contest features both solo guitarist and group competitions. Crowd appeal is among the judging criteria, so fans and friends flock to the event to sup­port their favorite talents. •WVFI 
The Voice of the Fighting Irish, WVFI, can be accessed-from the Internet at wvfi.nd.edu. The student-run radio station features a wide range of music, from indie-to oldies to mainstream. 
•WSND 
Coming to you straight from the radio tower in O'Shaughnessy Hall, WSND, at 
88.9 FM, plays classical music by day and varied student programming by night. 
•NDTV 
The newest addition to student-run media, Notre Dame Television runs a 30-minute, bi-weekly news-magazine program, highlighting campus news, sports, entertainment events, and more. Catch it every other Thursday on AT&T local access cable channel 3. 
ARTS AND LITERATURE 
• Sophomore Literary Festival 
For one week each February, a commit­tee ofsophomores hosts nightly readings from notable writers, with one night set aside for student writers to read their 

~:a~u;:J~~~:i::::1~;;;!r~~e;::~ ~~;~ l'.b~;;~~ftf:~;itit;J;~;i1il?;
~~:r:~;~!=;::t~t::~: l~!~a~!~!BtlJ:::::f 
• The Visiting Writers Series i times-and lh_e ·worst-of times; but· a little 
The Creative Writing Program, a t creativitycangoalo11gway.'-Itcansavealot graduate program at Notre Dame, also !oflnoriey, t()0; -._.. ... __ ---.-. -._ -.··•· _.· -j hosts a number ofwriters throughout the l :,qfFourseifallelseJails an'd yonfind ; year. These readings don't tend to get a iyourselfspendingyour]:i'ridaynightsstar­
-1' 

great deal of press, so look around the i in:g aUhe ,vall,ycn1 cah always apply fora hallwaysofO'Shaughnessyforposters, or Ii?? at.Sc.holqstic. > • _•_-_._--·_· ._.• --D :j 
check out the English department's cal­endar of events at www.nd.edu/ ~english/ calendar.html. 
• Snite Museum 
The Snite is open Tuesday through Sunday, and admission is free. It tends to be one of Notre Dame's less-traveled treasures, though many students and pro­fessors attend the 9pening of the spring exhibit where the MFA and BFA students showcase their work. 
. l
I_. DJ.Y. i 
f '@~0,U«;f~~tfJJcil>~s fuil,you',,egi,-i 
l.•.W.~·t?ihave. ?? mx?llfself. ,1'hough.·.t1us.list··•.•l 1mayseem~xtens1ve,1t'salmostguaranteed··.Ltliatj911're go,# to Jiitc1 fe:o/gray f11d,dis-· .malS~rurday~veningshere inSoµt:h B.end. ··.· Butyo~'U sopn:fni1.(>UtJ:hatN,otre l)arne, ·• isn'tsq rnuch afi6ut tht!: tliliigs you do ,as it. iis;_ab9utthe pf!9pley~11 m~et: "vVhen your 
c.;_;c.----~-··' .. --' -·-· > ~--·-J 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 35 
by Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C 

We_lcome Home 

· 

It is an honor to be among the first to welcome you to the University ofNotre Dame. On be­half of all of us who serve here, we look forward to your arrival and hope that you will soon feel comfortable calling this place home. I am blessed to have experienced life at this Univer­sity from a variety of vantage points -as a resident assistant, assistant rector and rector; as a graduate student and as a faculty member in the Theology Department; as a seminarian and as a priest; and in various administrative roles, including my current responsibilities as Vice President for StudentAffairs. One of the few experiences I haven't had here is the one on which you are about to embark: that of a first­year student at Notre Dame. That said, I have lived in undergraduate residence halls for most of the last twenty-five years, and I'm presently a proud resident of section 4A in Keough Hall. I hope you'll indulge me a bit as I offer a few nuggets of wisdom, such as they are, that I've picked up along the way. .. As a s_tudent, approximately twenty hours of yq'!}r day will be spent outside of class:-Witlioui:'cfetract­ing from the many opportunities for intellectual engagement at Notre Dame, you will soon realize that much of your education -and perhaps some of the most important lessons you learn -willhappen outside of the classroom. We offer 283 student clubs a~d organizations.· You can take 'classes in SCUBA 
_________,..__________ diving, jazz dance and Tae You'll make life-long friends here,. ·Kwon Do. You can play people who will be attendants in water polo, lacrosse and your wedding and godparents to broomball. You can tutor 
vour children. 
, 
Fr. Mark Poorman is in hisfifth year as Vice President ofStudent Affairs, overseeing of­fices like Campus Min­.istry, Student Activi­ties, multicultural and international student affairs, Notre Dame Security Police and the Office ofResidence Life and Housing. 

children, work with home­less adults and teach CCD. The possibilities are endless. While I hope youwilltake advantage of the myriad opportunities to enrich your life, I have two words for you: Choose wisely. In order to earn a place in Notre Dame's class of2007, you already have demonstrated that you are among the brightest, the most talented, the most creative and the most capable ofimpressive accomplishment and high achievement. Injoining a community of 10,000 students who share these same qualities,itbecomes alltoo easyto perceive a"normal" day's schedule as one that includes three club meet­ings, a team practice, a study group gathering, a choir rehearsal and a retreat planning meeting, all before closingthe daybywritinga philosophypaperwhich is due early the next morning. Although such an ambi­tious agenda may result in a lengthy-ifnot meaty . -resume, itis neither a healthy nor pleasant way to spend the next four years. I want to encourage you to 
concentrate on the quality of your experiences, rather than the quantity. Inthe end, you will gain far more · satisfaction from meaningful involvement in two or 
· 

three activities than from trying to experience every single opportunity that Notre Dame will offer you. 
The university's mission statement says that "resi­dential life endeavors to dev.elop that sense ofcom­munity that prepares students for subsequent leader­ship in building a society that is at once more human and more divine." The residential experience is one of the distinctive features at Notre Dame. Ten years after graduation, when you run into a fellow alum, the first question asked will be, "What hall were you in?" You'll make life-long friends here, people who will be attendants in your wedding and godparents to your children. These bonds are built on a founda­tion of shared worship at hall Masses, of common panic over the first chemistry final, ofconversations lastingwell int<? the night about everything from the meaning of life to which SYR gift is most likely to makeyour date realize thatyoµ'.re the one with whom he or she was meant to be. The relationships forged with a sophomore from California who lives down the hall, with a rector '¥ho· offers guidance, with a friend w:ho shares your interest in salsa dancing, will shape your experience at Notre Dame. Remain open to the possibility that first impressions are notalways best impressions. Expect to meet people who think differently, act differently and pray differently than you might. Take a c;hance on inviting some of those people out for coffee or to the dining hall. 
I'm sure you're receiving all kinds of advice from your counselors, your older siblings and your parents on how to make the most of college. I, too, will offer a few simple pleasures around here that I hope you try before you graduate: · · 
• 
Play on a Bookstore Basketball team. 

• 
Order Papa John's breadsticks at 2:00 a.m. 

• 
Light a candle and pray at the Grotto . 

• 
Walk around the lakes. 

• 
Ask a faculty member to lunch. 

• 
Scream yourself hoarse -at a football game. 

• 
Go on a retreat. 

• 
Check the view from the library's 12th floor. 


Thenextfouryearswill besomeof themostmemo­rable of your life. You are aboutto begin an incredible journey; the options are endless, so choose wiselyand favor quality over quantitywhen it comes to activities and experiencl!:5. Iinviteyouto enjoythe rich possibili­ties that await. Welcome to Notre Dame! . 
36 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 


Shop South Bend's Newest Collegiate Apparel Store 

the campus store off campus 
www.universityoutfittersusa.com 
. 

. 
e tit l4NOJnDr ...~ CL-,:-.
• HoUDwAY ,-,~ ...,.... ad@as --.---
Qualtybland l'IC1ill8 merchandise ata reasonable pdcel 
localed "'Marlln'sSUptilidketPlcna atStale Road.28and R>l1W\OOd ... 1/2 n ftan, cm,lf)UII 
~UNIVERSITY OUTFIITERS"' 

PRESENT THIS COUPON 
FOR 10% OFF 
THE RETAIL PRICE OF ANY ONE ITEM 

CURRENT STUDENT LD. MUST BB PRESENTED WITH PURCHASE EXPIRES 9-30-03 









