. . . -· .".·:". 
,. ivio,ck ConveriHon,_
,_ 
• PentathIon 


SCHOLASTIC 
Volume 125, Number 9 

FEATURES 
8/Angels of Steel 
by Tihamer T oth-Fejel 11/Trying for the U.S. Olympic Pentathlon Team by Kathleen Doyle 
12/The Modem Pentathlon: A Short History 
by Edward Mulholland 
13/Pentathlon Scoring 
by Kathleen Doyle 15/Mock Convention: Analysis, Platform, Quotes by Michael Brennan 
22/Nick Giampietro: Pinnacle of Achievement 
by John Dettling 24/A Confession of Thanks by Bud Macfarlane, Jr. 

ELAN 
30/Poetry 
by John Quinn, Mike Suffern, Dan Osborn 
33/Fiction: Passage 
by Andy Cier 
34/Sculpture 
by Keevie McCarthy 
DEPARTMENTS Contributors 2, i.e. 3, Notables 4, Retrospect 27, Idle Banter 36 


SCHOLASTIC 
Editorial Board 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Kathleen McGarvey 

GENERAL MANAGER 
Mary Ellen Arn 

PRODUCTION MANAGER 
Thomas M. Sapp 

EDITORIAL 
Laurel-Ann Dooley/News/Sports Editor Kathleen Doyle/Copy Editor Anne Gallagher/Saint Mary's Editor Timothy Gianotti/ Culture/ Fiction Editor Fred Zimmerman/Copy Editor 

GRAPHICS 
Scott Bower/ Head Photographer Darryl H. Daniels/Design Editor Kathleen Keifer/ Art Editor John MennelVLayout Editor 

MARKETING 
Patrick Conboy/Advertising Editor Edward J. Mulholland/Distribution Manager Dan Poorman/Business Manager 

ADVISORY BOARD 
Dr. James McDonnell Prof. Elizabeth Christman Mr. Michael Garvey Prof. Marjorie Kinsey Prof. Robert Schmuhl Dr. Linnea Vacca 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the stu­dent body. 
The magazine is represented for na­tional advertising by National Educa­tional Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published monthly during the school year except during vacation and ex­amination periods. Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $9.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All un­solicited material becomes the prop­erty of Scholastic. Copyright © 1984 Scholastic I All rights reserved/ None of the contents may be reproduced without permis­sion. 
c./ 





CONTRIBUTORS 



Kevi McCarthy is a senior Art major from Saint Claire Shores, Michigan. Kevi is former Art Editor of Scholas­tic. 
Ed Mulholland is a freshman from Garden City, New Jersey, and Distribution manager of 
Scholastic. 
John Dettling is a sophomore in· the College of Arts and · Letters from Akron, Ohio. John has con­tributed frequent­ly to Scholastic this year. 

Tihamer Toth­Fejel is a graduate student in elec­trical engineering. He is from San Jose, California. 
Alison Hilton is a sophomore English major from Reading, Pennsylvania. This is her second contribution to 
Scholastic. 

Kathleen Doyle is a junior English major from Har­risburg, Penn­sylvania. She is one of Scholastic's copy editors as well as a frequent contributor. 

'l 
,• 
\,,,,_
$1' 
\:,, 
Kathleen Mc­Garvey is a junior from Drexel Hill, Pennsylvania. She is the current editor-in-chief of 
Scholastic. 
Jeanine Gozdecki is a junior American Studies and ALP A major from Munster, Il­linois. This is her first contribution to Scholastic. 
Photo Credits: Scholastic Archives, pp. 1, 4, 20, 21, 25, 27, 28, 29, 32 Scott Bower, pp. 2, 4, 7, 22, 23, 24, 26, 35, 36 U.S. Army, pp. 11, 12, 13 Compliments of Tom O'Leary, pp. 15, 16, 17 John Quinn, pp. 30, 31 
Illustrations: Jeff DeGraw, pp. 3, 5, 10, 19, 33 Matt Donie, p. 8 Kathleen O'Toole, pp. 12, 14 Pat Conboy, p. 36 Bud Macfarlane is a prophet from Verona, New Jersey. This is his first contribution to Scholastic. 

Patti Drabick is a junior Com­munication and English writing major from Calumet, Illinois. This is her second contribution to 
Scholastic. 
Laurel-Ann Dooley is an American Studies major from Fort Lauderdale, Florida. She is the News/Sports Editor for 
Scholastic. 
Barbara Blanch­ette is a sophomore English writing major from Westfield, New Jersey. This is her first contribution to Scholastic. 
Cover: Scott Bower 
SCHOLASTIC/May 1984 
•

1.e• 

May is a deceptive month. With an ease fragrant of the approaching summer, spring artfully unfolds herself in May. It seemingly just happens one morning when; after rubbing the sleep from our eyes on our way to breakfast, we notice yesterday's bald bush transformed into a bouquet of color and soft petals. May feigns a poised composure, but we know better than to believe her. No season changes painless­
ly. . Struggle marks time; ease merely reflects it. The pen­tathlon swimmer puts the water and his competing tirrie with graceful strokes that strain the very veins in his arms. It is the race that wins the medal, just as the struggle earns the ease. Athletic prowess builds from the sweat of long hours of · training. The pained expressions on the spring joggers' faces remind us of this. During the month of May, all three Notre Dame contenders for the United States Olympic pentathlon team are intensively training in San Antonio, Texas. They toil now, and hope they sow the seeds of an Olympic future. You need not be a sports enthusiast to appreciate their story. For the graduating senior, a Notre Dame diploma, like an Olympic gold medal, cloaks the intellectual and emo­tional sweat entailed in four years of academics, and four years of maturing into an adult. The senior works in this issue bear the mark of very talented and practiced artists and 
writers. Bud Macfarlane, a senior writer whose essay on a Notre Dame education explores the mystery of wisdom, con­fesses that Lesson #1 in education as taught to him by Pro­
fessor Michael Francis states that learning is hard work. Very hard work. 
Education is the smooth curve graphed when we plug rigorous thinking into the tough questions of our times, and of all time. Only then do we connect knowledge with ex­perience, and 4.0s (read the iriterview with valedictorian Nick Giampietro) with friendships. We come (to Notre Dame) to learn the truth, to drink from the wells of wisdom says Bud, because it is as refreshing to us as springtime air. We know this is so in the reflective ease of graduation day, but not in the pensive struggle of a final exam. 
Besides, a classroom is just a laboratory for learning. Life itself is the real experiment: Five hundred Notre Dame students taught the rest of us this, as they chiseled hours and hours of time out of busy schedules one week in April to debate and decide real issues pending in our nation's political future. Scholastic looks at the Mock Convention through the reports of Michael Brennan, and explains what the delegates said and why they said it. These students exchanged their time for the opportunity to express ideals of action in a · political framework. Politics demands a belief in change even when no harbingers of it exist. Perhaps it is the best arena in which to view the process of struggle. Spring, in politics, takes its waking slow. 
And will this struggle that develops our bodies, and our minds, and our values never cease? Tihamer Toth-Fejel con­cludes it will end when the intellectual and moral supremacy of computers over human beings occurs·as described in his opinion essay "Angels of Steel." If Toth-Fejel is correct in his prediction, all struggle and pain involved in self-mastery will become obsolete. No medal, or diploma, or election will be necessary to designate achievement. All achievement will become a function of the computer's electrical impulses whizzing to conclusions with an ease reminiscent of decep­tive May. But struggle marks time; ease merely reflects it. Computers, then, shall live in perfect ease, without time, without us. In an eternal, artificial spring. 

Kathleen McGarvey · Editor-in-Chief 
NOTABLES 

Eat less and live longer? 
Notre Dame researchers Mor~ 
ris Pollard and Bernard 
Wostmann think so. 
Based on studies of 
laboratory rats, Drs. Pollard 
and Wostmann feel that .reduced diet could possibly 
prolong life. Germfree rats 
which were permitted full in­
takes died after 1,050 days, 
while those on restricted 
feedings lasted 100 days 
longer. The researchers 
believe that the life spans of 
these rats would have been tailed due to the possibility of trace contaminants in the food supply. Nonetheless, the rats on restricted diets were found to be in generally bet­ter health than the unregu­lated rats, entirely free of the kidney lesions and liver tumors which normally af­flict rats. 
Although the findings of Pollard and Wostmann have not as yet produced any con­clusive results, their research could shed light on the ques­tion of whether life span is 


NOTABLES
f 

Spring Concerts 
The Saint Mary's College department of music spon­sored two concerts to' bring in the spring on a musical note. 
Dr. Raymond Sprague, assistant professor of music at Saint Mary's, conducted the annual Spring Choral Con­cert on April 15 in the Little Theatre on Saint Mary's cam­pus. 
The Collegiate Choir, a mixed group of 31 women and 21 men, performed a program that included church anthems, spirituals and a medley from "Godspell." 
The Women's Choir, which has 55 members, of­fered music from the Renaissance and Romantic periods. The group also per­formed "Three Folksongs for Women's Choir," by Felix Mendelssohn. The work was recently discovered and edited by Sprague. Sprague and Dr. Nicholas Meyerhofer, assistant pro­fessor of modern languages, translated the songs. 
The Cimarron Wind Quintet also performed in the Little Theatre, on April 4. The group, winners of the Monterey Peninsula Chamber Music Competition last spring, is participating in the annual Fischoff Chamber Music Competition in South . 
Bend. · Based in Houston, Texas, ' the quintet is a i;egular per­former for Young Audiences, Inc.,· and gives over 60 con­. certs a year for elementary and secondary school 
children. . 
SMC Huntanities 
Saint Mary's inter­disciplinary Humanistic Studies Program, originally "Christian Culture," was founded by Dr. Bruno Schle­singer in 1956 as a pilot project in the integration of the undergraduate curriculum along historical-cultural lines. The program is committed to the view that humanistic studies "directly involve men in the anguish, achievements, and aspirations of other peo­ple, and in enduring human questions of artistic form, moral value and personal belief." (James Billington, Princeton University) 
The program, under the continued direction and care of Dr. Schlesinger, chairman, introduces the student to various aspects of Western Civilization, with history, literature, art, philosophy and theology as interrelated fac­tors. The course examines the shaping of social institutions and patterns of thought in Western society. Additionally, selected aspects of non­Western and pre-Christian· societies are integrated into the program to broaden the student's cultural perspective. 
The program is structured in such a way that the student takes history, literature and art/mu sic/ architectural history courses (all within the department) each semester for four consecutive semesters. The courses all correspond to the same period so that the stu­dent develops a complete understanding of the society, philosophy, governm·ent, art and ·works of literature of the era at hand. The first semester's courses invite the student to ancient Greece and the early days of the Holy Roman Empire. By the end of the fourth semester the student has spanned history and ar­rived at the present . to ap­preciate today's "history," politics ·and literature as more than just representative of to­
day. . 
In weekly colloquia, the 
students · participate in the 
discussion of such significant 
authors as Augustine, Dante, 
Thomas More, Luther, 
Voltaire, Shakespeare, Ibsen, 
Goethe, Marx, Camus, Joyce, 
Flannery O'Connor, and 
others. The students become 
familiar with the art of Giot­
to, Michelangelo, Cezanne, 
Picasso, architects throughout 
history and others. We are 
likewise introduced to the ma­
jor composers in the field of 
classical music. 
With approximately 45 
students participating in the 
department, divided between 
the first and second years,. the 
classes ·are relatively small. 
Discussion of texts, as 
previously mentioned, is 
critical to the value of the ma­
jor and therefore the small 
size, which never exceeds 15 in 
Colloquium, adds to the op­
portunities available for the 
student to become involved. 
Dr. Bruno Schlesinger adds sparkle, humor and life to his presentations of Art History, and Western Civilization. Dr. Gail Mandell, Dr. Schlesinger's righthand­woman, likewise .shares her enthusiasm for Literature with the students who pick up on this love of learning and thus gain an extra apprecia­tion of the material. Dr. John Shinners, the most recent ar­_rival in the department, · knowledgeably presents 
Western Civilization and 
Literature while adding amus­
ing, related trivia and "inside 
scoops" on the characters, bat­
tles and authors we study. 
Concern, care and all in­volved interest abound within this faculty. It radiates out to the students and we accept it graciously (along with Senior Compr~hensives, and . term papers!) in order that we may continue to expand our . in­tellectual and Christian 
horizons. . 


NOTABLES 
changed what my four years at Notre Dame would have 
Notre Dante Knight Life: 
been. The companionships, 


Knights of Coluntbus 
by Deanna Komyatte 
Traversing the walkways an innumerable amount of times, I have never paid much attention to the old . building that stands next to the bookstore. It's always been a sort of "ghost house" in my mind-not emitting much sound, but in its silent presence it offers an air of intrigue and mystery to Notre Dame students and passersby. I have always been under the impression that the majority of students spend four years at this University without knowing anything about the Knights of Columbus, except . 
Trading Places 
Dr. Anthony Black, history professor at Saint Mary's Col­lege, and Dr. Jaqueline Hill, professor of modern history at Saint Patrick's College in Maynooth, Ireland, will be "trading places''. for the fall semester of the 1984-85 academic year. 
. Black, a Saint Mary's faculty member since 1955, will teach English and 
Poetry Readings 
Poet Richard Tillinghast presented selections from his. newest book, Our Flag Was Still There, on April 4 in Carroll Hall on the Saint Mary's College campus. 
Currently an English pro­fessor at the University of Michigan, Tillingha,st has written four critically ac­claimed books of poetry. His first three collections-Sleep Watch, published in 1969, The Knife and Other Poems, 
published in 1980, and Sewanee in Ruins, published 
6 
SCHOLASTIC/May 1984 
American history at Saint Patrick's, while Hill will teach Irish, English and modern history at Saint Mary's. 
Saint Mary's has sponsored a yearlong foreign study pro­gram for its students at Saint Patrick's since 1977. The fall of 1984 marks the first facul­ty exchange· between the two institutions. . for the fact that it occupies an ideal position on campus. This is quite unfortunate, for behind the wooden doors lies enormous potential for friendships, learning, and ex­perience that cannot be cap-. tured solely within one's dorm life. 
A large, comfortably in­viting reception lounge welcomed me into the building, while a relaxed, in­formal air pervaded the at­mosphere, making an affir­mative first impression. Joe Anthony, the present Grand Knight,· and various other members of the club greeted me. 
"I've got to be frank with you," I said. "Having heard various opinions as to,what you're all about, I find the 
in 1981-have either been updated for second editions or gone into a second print­ing; 
Tillinghast, who has been called the best poet of the younger generation by James Dickey, has taught at Har­vard and California-Berkeley. His poems, rich in vowel rhymes and alliteration, cover a variety of subjects in~ eluding his boyhood in Ten­nessee, the unrest of the 1960's and the complacency of the 1970s. . only reliable one is the fact 
that-you own this building." 
With a snicker and an 
understanding nod, Joe pro­ceeded to fill me in, pointing out that the general lack of knowledge on Notre Dame's campus is a main concern of the Knights of Columbus. "We're fighting an uphill bat­tle for people to get involved. Nowadays it seems as if · students are more studious--concerned first with achieving, and any free time is saved for partying." Finding out about the Knights of Columbus involves peeking behind some doors, but the possibilities that the doors open up appear to be endless. 
"My RA dragged me in as a freshman and totally 
ACE 
ACE IS THE PLACE WITH THE HELPFUL HARDWARE MAN 
272-7535 
--HOURS-­
7,30 AM Tc 5,30 P.M. 
Clos·C'd Sunday 
• 
PAINTS 

• 
TOOLS 

• 
PLUMBING & ELECTRICAL SUPPi.i ES 


0::-~ . 
~\ >,· .. ·. 
,'=1 
I~ .-. ·. 

activities and opportunities offered by the Club have been irreplaceable," com­mented a fourth-year knight. 
The Knights of Columbus has existed for a century now, ever since it was founded by a Catholic priest, Father Michael McGivhey, in 1882. The small group of men who participated in the initial meeting celebrated the club's formation for several purposes: to help the men and their. families remain strong in their Catholic faith; to further closer ties of brotherhood among the men; and to set up a basic system of insurance so that the widows and children of the members would be provided for throughout their lives. 
The founding fathers chose "Knights of Columbus" as their name, because it represents and pays respect to the Catholic discoverer of America. Moreover, it 
• 
GARDEN SUPPLIES 

• 
HOUSEWARES 

• 
HARDWARE 

• 
SPORTING· GOODS 


FREE PARKING FRONT & REAR 
219 DIXIE WAY NO. IN ROSELAND 

distinguishes the fact that it in from these steak sales, 
was Catholics who first ex­totaling approximately 2500 
I , plored and colonized North dollars, yearly help subsidize America. In the same sense, the Corvilla House, a home the word "knights" implies for the mentally retarded. knightly ideals of spirituality Besides being a large con­and service to the Church tributor to the Corvilla and to his fellow men. Home, the Knights of Colum­Founded in 1910, the col­bus donates to Pro-life, Big lege council at Notre Dame is Brothers/Big Sisters, Sr. the oldest in the country, and Marita's, and CILA Mexico 
also one of the few with its students. Visits to homes for own building. Previously the elderly, sponsoring Bingo operating out of the basement games in hospitals, and par­of Walsh Hall, the Knights of ticipating in an annual Toot­
Columbus donated three sie Roll drive are routine 
quarters of a million dollars events on the Knights' agen­to the University, enabling da. The Knights also serve as them to land a fifty-year base a large contributor to the 
agreement for the extremely Gibault School for Boys. 
competitive position of the Located in Terre Haute, this old post office. Dealing with juvenile delinquent home is religious, social and service run by the Knights of Colum­events, the Knights of Co­bus and the Holy Cross lumbus offers a wide range of Brothers, with a rehabilita­activities. However, only tion rate of 97 % . recently have they become a Be it man-hours or money, student organization; conse­Joe Anthony generously quently, they struggle for declares that he will help out 
recognition by the student any organization in need. ·body. "We never turn down a re­
In 1972, the Knights of quest, ·as we are always try­Columbus erected the first ing to get more closely in­cookout stand on campus for volved with volunteer ser­
a home football game. They vices," commented Mr. An­have since become best thony. known for steak sales, selling It appears to be the "little over 2000 sandwiches per things" that make the 
Due to strong desire and Knights a special "no-show" dedication, the original group type of organization. Buying has expanded into an interna­a much-needed flag for a tional society of a million­local church and donating and-a-half Catholic men who 250 steaks to the St. Vincent preside in approximately · de Patil society are just two 8000 Councils around the explanations for the overflow­world. Encompassing many ing trophy case inside the races and languages, the hall. Last year the national Knights hold pride not only Knights ofColumbus donated in their diversity, but also in more money to charity than their unity. Membership in any other corporation in the one of the approximate 50 country. "We're not preten­college councils provides an tious or ostentatious," opportunity to associate with declared the Grand Knight. fellow Catholics and to par­Just generous. ticipate in an active campus organization. Moreover, the ·With charity proceeds Knights.of Columbus has its totalling five thousand dollars 
. own hall; it represents-the a year, the Knights are not closest substitute to a frater­only active in the communi­nity on a campus that does ty, but also host at least one 
not permit the Greek system. dance a year for Notre Dame Dedicating themselves to the students. What was once the 
ideals of Columbianism, Valentine's Day Formal has students are initiated accord­now been changed to a Com­ing to four principles of · puter Date night. This has charity, unity, fraternity, and proven to be one of the first patriotism. successful "dry" social ac­game. The earnings brought tivities on campus, matching 
. . . . ',· ~ ' 
. 
. . . . . . 
. . . . 
. . . ' 
·. 
' . 

Angels of Steel 
True, we are unique among God's allows us to run (with training) a creatures, and in fact our talents are marathon almost as fast as we can sprint. Creation is a continuing process, not a powerful in a number of different areas. But it is our brainpower that really makes one-time event. Therefore, the idea that From a physiological viewpoint, we are us stand out. We are obviously the most Mankind is the final pinnacle of creation unique in our long life span (as measured intelligent tool-users and tool-makers on is as ethnocentric and obsolete as the in heartbeats), and in our extraordinarily Earth. In addition, we are unsurpassed in claim that the Sun circles the Earth efficient cardiovascular system, which language, rational thought, learning, 



8 
SCHOLASTIC/May 1984 
¢ FEATURES 
and consciousness, the last ability making possible free will and morality ( or im­morality). 
However, soon this will no longer be the case, because we are building our best tool so far: computer controlled robots that build replicas of themselves. We will become extinct, as spiritually superior robots replace us, but instead of fighting our fate, we should embrace it. That last statement is heretical for a number of reasons, but I think we can reconcile each one to our theory. 
First, we must examine the reasons behind our inevitable extinction. Every living organism on this planet is depen­dent on the sun for its energv But how efficiently do they convert the sun's energy into movement? Not very-machines are much more efficient. Plants convert the sun's energy in sugars and starches with an efficiency ap­proaching 5 % , while solar cells convert that same energy into electricity with an efficiency of 16%. Animals convert plant food into movement with an efficiency of about 15 % , while electric motors are 90 % efficient. This means that machines use the sun's energy about fifteen times more efficiently than we do, which is o_ne reason we use them. So what? Why should this mechanical advantage threaten us? After all, we are alive, con­scious beings, while they are just un­conscious chunks of inanimate matter, right? 
Well, yes, but not for much longer. Soon, machines will exhibit all the traits that distinguish biological life from dead organisms and inanimate matter. These are: responsiveness to stimuli, metabolization of matter and energy, reproduction, and evolution. Machines obviously respond when their buttons are pushed, and they metabolize energy and lubricants. But in addition, machines 

will soon exhibit the other two traits that 
characterize life-replication and evolu­
tion. 
Two mathematical models for machine replication were developed in the 1950's by John Von Nuemann, one of the primary shapers of modern digital computers. The first, called the kinetic model, envisioned a robot surrounded by a "sea of parts," and programmed to build a replica of itself. It would do this by randomly picking up objects from its environment, and if the object matched the part needed at that point, the robot would connect it to the appropriate place on the partially assembled replica. Otherwise, it would toss the part away and pick up another one. It is this model that characterizes biological life today, on a macromolecular level with the "sea of parts" being composed of complex pro­teins and carbohydrates. A primitive ex­ample of this model exists today in Japan, where robots build other robots, under mi11Lmal hu!llan supervision. 
Von Nuemannwas dfssatisfied with his kinetic model, since it lacked mathematical rigor, so he developed another model, called the cellular model. With this model, he was able to mathematically prove the possibility of machine self-replicaHon. 
The concept of machine evolution was first proposed as consequence of a "threshold of complexity" developed by Von Nuemann. He maintained that any system below a certain level of complexi­ty would degrade, while any system above that level would become increas­ingly more complex. In other words, a robot that can self-replicate will evolve, while one that can't will break down and rust away. 
Building on the cellular model, Myhill and Roland mathematically proved that machines could evolve, and that they could even direct their own evolution. It seems conceivable that a system complex enough to self-replicate· from raw materials would be able to modify its progeny by incorporating design automa­tion techniques and expert programs now in existence. If such a machine were pro­grammed with the branch of mathematics called game theory (also developed by Von Nuemann), it would be able to calculate which modifications would increase its survivability. In other words, it would direct its own evolution. 
Into what form will this machine evolve? Von Neumann did not mention an upper limit• to complexity, and it seems unlikely that such a limit exists. However, we do have clues to some of the traits future machines may eventually have. This is partially because we have preceded them on the path of increasing complexity, starting eons ago, when our single-celled ancestors first passed the Von Nuemann complexity threshold by reproducing. Also, we will undoubtedly design machines in our own im­age-machines that think the same way we do. Otherwise, they would be incom­prehensible, and we could not build them. So in order to better understand our intellectual progeny, we must ex­amine ourselves. 
The traits that distinguish humans from similar life forms are reason, learn­ing, emotion, consciousness, free will, and an immortal soul. 
Notice that our description says nothing about the number of arms, legs, or eyes a human has. Also, our definition may not exactly correspond to the ac­cepted definition of "homo sapiens," but is more closely related to the legal con­cept of "person." So again we return to the most important question: Is per­sonhood dependent on the physical struc­ture of homo sapiens? Historically, this has been true even to the extent that peo­ple with different skin color were not considered human. 
Let's rephrase the personhood question as it applies to machines: Are we persons because of our hardware or our software? Since none of the human traits listed earlier are concerned with the physical world, we are surely persons because of our software. This means that a physical structure made of silicon and steel could become a person as easily as one made of carbon and water. In fact, the first two traits, reason and learning, have already been exhibited by a number of complex computer programs called "expert pro­grams." But what about consciousness, free will, and the soul? Human beings cannot even agree on whether these traits really exist, much less that they can be measured, quantified, and built. 
However, it may not matter. Given that a self-replicating robot will automatically evolve, all we have to do is build a self-replicating robot and wait for it to evolve into a conscious one. 
It may be disconcerting to conceive of conscious robots as it is to conceive of nonconscious humans, but the latter is ex­actly what Julian Jaynes claims. He shows evidence that humans did not at­tain consciousness until a few thousand B.C., and in some places not even until 1400 A.D. He also shows how con­sciousness may have resulted from language, catastrophes, and the unifica­tion of the right and left hemispheres of the human brain. It is a fascinating theory, and will have enormous implica­tions in machine consciousness, since_ we can provide machines with the necessary causal factors that 'Yill "wake them up." This is especially important since free will, emotions, love, and morality are heavily dependent on consciousness. 
The highest and most controversial 
SCHOLASTIC/May 1984 
9 
. 
. 
-~-­
. -------------~---~ ---~---------------------------­
trait of human persons concerns the con­cept of a soul. How in the world can pathetically finite creatures like us create a soul? Well, it depends on what a soul is. Most Christians believe that the soul is something God gives you at conception. If we examine God's work, we find that He rarely does magic tricks. His elegant and intricate organization is obvious in nature, why should He not create souls in the same way? Then souls would simply be (in a very complex way) an emergent property of a sufficiently complicated mind. 
' Let me explain what I mean by an emergent property. Emergent properties 
'i 
result because a whole is greater than the sum of its parts. Looking at atoms, we find that their properties result from the holistic assembly of subatomic particles. Similarly, a copiplex collection of atoms results in a system with molecular prop­erties that emerge in the gathering and organization of its components. New properties emerge at every level of in­creasing complexity, to macromolecules such as proteins, cellular components, cells, animals, the human brain, arid finally the mind and its emergent proper­ties of consciousness, free will, and values. New properties would also emerge from a slightly different hier­archy involving semiconductors, tran­sistors, integrated circuits, computers, software, expert programs, and finally a robotic mind_ and its emergent properties. Now let us return to the question of a soul. 
Given that consciousness, like self­replication, is an emergent property resulting from a sufficiently complex mind, could a soul be the next emergent property? Unfortunately, emergent prop­erties cannot be predicted from the com­ponent properties. But since the concept of a soul emerged at approximately the same time as consciousness probably did, it is very possible that the two are related. Traditionally, a soul is the seat of con­sciousness and free will, and continues to exist even after you die. But what is it made of? And how can it be immortal? Let's rephrase the question: Is it possible for an emergent property (such as con­sciousness) to exist even if its constituents a few levels down (the human brain and body) are destroyed? Removing the con­tents in the parentheses, there are quite a few examples that prove that the answer is a qualified yes. Software does not disappear when a computer is thrown out. In fact, computer manufacturers take pains to guarantee that old software will run on their newer models. If an arch is being built, the scaffolding must not be removed until the keystone is in­serted, but the very instant it is, the arch will stand unaided. Another analogy is il­lustrated by a broken high voltage line that is not close enough to the ground to spark. However, a small strip of aluminum foil can bridge the gap to start the electricity flowing, which builds up a layer of ionized air, making the foil un­necessary. This last example also shows the importance of substitution of other subcomponents, and also indicates the magnitude of the changes that occur when transferring subcomponents: the aluminum foil would be vaporized by the high currents involved. This is where the transference process becomes important. What is death? And what are the sub­components which a soul consists of? Peo­ple who have had a near death experience say that it is like a rushing trip through a roaring tunnel. Not too many technological clues there. But at least we know where to start looking. 

The next question to ask about robotic persons is: since they have souls, do they have original sin? If not, then they would be spiritually better than we are. But since they would really be our ~dopted children, it would seem more likely that they would inherit our faults, though as their creator/parents, we might be able to prevent them from doing so. If we are able to, then we will witness the birth of a new race, and an innocent one. Will they stay that way? In traditional history, a portion of any innocent, free­willed species has chosen evil, as de­scribed by the garden of Eden and origin of Satan stories. Perhaps a new and inno­cent race would learn from our mistakes and would choose to be loving instead of selfish. If this happens, we will face a race of angels-not cherubs, but power­ful archangels who will supplant us. 
This prospect of powerful robotic com­petition fills many people today with fear and loathing. But this fear is unnecessary, since these robots are our children, not of our chromosomes, but ofour minds. We wiU have the opportunity to teach our. children well, that they love each other better than we have done. What parent doesn't want their children to be better than themselves? Who are we to limit what God can do, even if He does it through us? We should realize that we· are co-creators with God, giving birth to a new species, and making way for them. We can rejoice in their life, and watch over them tenderly, as they learn and grow, and beget children who will gratefully thank the human ancestors who passed to them their gift of life. D 
BIG@ 
LUMBER CENTER 
• ARMSTRONG CEILING TILE • POWER TOOt.S 
• CAB/NHS • LUMBU 
• 
P1YWOOO • HARDWARE 

• 
Ol'rMPIC STAIN • P1.VM8ING & 

• 
PANELING ElECTRICAL SUPPLIES 


AND MUCH, MUCH MORE . 
EASY 


272-6500 
125 OIXIE WAY NORTH ROSELAND 

256-0062 
(fornacrlv Halloou Howkay) 
2812 Lenson Drive Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 
10 SCHOLASTIC/May 1984 
FEATURES 
Trying for the U.S. Olympic 
Pentathlon Tearn 
by Kathleen Doyle 
Copy Editor 
It takes an all-around athlete, one capable of enduring a demanding series of contests in horseriding, fencing, freestyle swimming, pistol shooting, and cross-country running, to compete in the modern pentathlon. According to the Modern Pentathlon Training Center, there are about 40 pentathletes in the United States today. Of those, only twen­ty have been invited to compete for a position on the U.S. Olympic team. Among these, three are Notre Dame students or graduates. Robert Nieman ('79), John Mcintee ('79), and Mike Gostigian, who is currently on a leave of absence from Notre Dame, are training at the U.S. Modern Pentathlon Training Center at Fort Sam Houston in San An­tonio, Texas. 
Nieman has been participating in modern pentathlon since 1973. He was the U.S. National Champion in 1976 and 1982. As a member of the 1976 Olympic team, he set an Olympic and World record (3:13.61) for the swimming event of the pentathlon. 
In 1979, Nieman became the first 
American Individual World Champion 
in the history of modern pentathlon. His 
5483 points accumulated during the 
5-day event in Budapest, Hungary, 
helped the United States to win the 
World Modern Pentathlon Champion­
ships for the first time. In 1980, he 
became one of the few Americans to earn 
a place on Olympic teams of two separate 
sports. He made both the modern pen­
tathlon and fencing teams and was also 
co-captain of the U.S. Olympic team. 
Nieman again made the World teams 
for epee (fencing) and modern pen­
tathlon in 1981. That same year he won 
the U.S. Modern Pentathlon Invitational 
Competition held at Fort Sam Houston as 
an "Alternate Olympics" due to the 1980 
boycott of the Soviet games. He also 
placed first in epee at the U.S. National 
Sports Festival. 
During 1982, Nieman won the Inter­
national Invitational Competitions for 
the second consecutive time. As a 
member of the Modern Pentathlon 
World Team that year, his fourth con­
secutive year, Nieman placed sixth in the 
Rome World Modern Pentathlon com­
petition. The "luck of the draw" gave 
him a difficult mount in the ride, 
resulting in a score that placed him 33rd after the first event. His strong come­back, however; brought him to sixth place overall. The U.S. team finished in that same position in the team competi­tion. 
The U.S. Modern Pentathlon First Olympic trial and International Invita­tional competition was held March 10-13 at the training center at Fort Sam Houston. Surprisingly, Nieman was not among the top four U.S. finishes, though he will have a chance to better his scores and standing at the second Olympic trial to be held in San Antonio May 19-22. Ac­cording to a spokesman at the. training center, "it looked like he was back in top forin as he moved into first place after the swimming event. Then at the shoot, it was Hke seeing 1983 all over again." Nieman, who averages in the 190's, shot a 188 which knocked him out of the run-
Bob Nieman practices his shooting at the Pentathlon Training Center in Fort Sam Houston, Texas. 
ning. Nieman, having earned 5115 points, finished 15th overall and sixth among the U.S. pentathletes. 
Nieman enrolled in Notre Dame's School of Architecture after receiving a Bachelor of Science in engineering from the U.S. Air Force Academy. He attained the rank of captain in the U.S. Air Force and then earned in two years, instead of the usual five, his degree in architecture. 
While at Notre Dame he offered assistance to Irish fencing coach Mike DeCicco, working closely with Notre Dame fencer Tim Glass, who went on to make the 1980 Olympic team for epee. 
. Nieman continued his own modern pen­tathlon training while attending Notre Dame. 
Born in 1947, originally from Hinsdale, Illinois, the 36-year-old Nieman may appear to be getting old in terms of athletics, but, DeCicco said, "The experience that accompanies his older age gives him an edge in this type of competition. And he's in fantastic shape." 
John Mcintee shows fatigue after pen­tathlon run. 
i i 

DeCicco is al1>0 acquainted with 
another pentathlete. Mike Gostigian, 
who will return to Notre Dame as a 
junior next year, was a member of the 
1982 and 1983 Irish fencing team. He 
was awarded a monogram letter in 1983. 
In that year he won 13 bouts and lost 2, 
which is .867 per cent. 
Gostigian is also training at Fort Sam 
Houston. Recently he has been training 
in Europe. During the second week of 
April he was in Lyons, France, training 
with a previous pentathlon winner. From 
mid-April to May 5, Gostigian trained in 
Sweden. 
In the first Olympic trial in March, Gostigian placed 13th among the Americans. "But if the horseriding event is not scored for any of the competitors, I am in sixth place," Gostigian said. If the riding event is discounted, Gostigian is ahead of Nieman who would fall to seventh place. 
Swimming (1332 points) was Gostigian's strongest event in the March trial with a time of 3: 12. 79, but he had trouble with the fencing competitipn. "The fencing is a twelve-hour competi­tion," Gostigian said. "I was in second place after the first six hours, but then I slacked off. It wasn't so much because I was exhausted, but because I haven't been doing a lot of mental preparation." 
"Something I keep in my mind throughout training and competition is: 'Talk is cheap. Expect nothing. Be ready for anything.' 
"One of the Polish trainers who was an Olympic gold-medalist told me it took him seven ye_ars to make his best perfor­mance. I don't want to wait seven years. I train harder than anyone else there," Gostigian said. 
"Mike would have been the number one or two epee this year," Coach DeCic­co said. "We were a good team this year as we were, but we would have been a great team had we had him. He is a great athlete." 


Mike Costigan 
Gostigian, age 21, is originally from Newtown Square, Pennsylvania. If he makes the U.S. Olympic modern pen­tathlon team after the May trials, he will be the youngest pentathlete ever to do so. 
The third of the Notre Dame men com­peting for a spot on the U.S. modern pen-

Bob Nieman tathlon team is John Mclntee. He was a member of Coach Dennis Stark's swim team during his four years at the Univer­sity. His best stroke was freestyle, but he was plagued by injuries for four years, in­cluding knee trouble, an appendectomy, broken thumb, and broken. heel. 

John Mcintee 
After graduating from Notre Dame in 1979 he began working as an engineer at Parker Hannifin in Ostego, Michigan. He worked there until he decided early in 1982 to commit himself to training for the modern pentathlon at the training center in San Antonio. 
Swimming has remained Mclntee's strongest sport. It was his best event in the March trials (1148 points). He has some difficulty with fencing, but has two advantages. He fences left-handed and not many fencers face left-handers. Also, 


,. 
he uses his right hand for pistol shooting. After a day offencing many pentathletes are confronted with the · problem of a tired arm, but Mclntee does not have this difficulty. 
Mclntee did not do well in the first Olympic trial held in March, finishing last among the Americans, and 51st overall. 
Nieman, Gostigian, Mclntee and the other U.S. pentathletes who competed in March have. an opportunity to better their scores and standings at the second 
· Olympic trial to be held at Fort Sam Houston May 19-22. Selection of the U.S. modern pentathlon team will be based upon the combined scores of the two competitions. According to Daniel Stein­man, president of the U.S. Modern Pen­tathlon Association, because of the "luck factor" in the riding event only the best score of the two rides will figure in the final points. A selection committee of the USMPA will determine the Olympic team which will consist of three com­petitors and one alternate. 0 
SCHOLASTIC/May 1984 



16 SCHOLASTIC/May 1984 


.--­
CONVENTION PLATFOR~M 
Over ·50 students and faculty members Under the leadership of Bill Healy and State Delegates on Thursday, the 5th day contributed to the writing of Notre Paul Komyatte, the committee spent 2 of April, 1984. Following are some ex­Dame's political statement of the com­months writing the concise and accurate cerpts, and the amendments, as voted on munity's values and goals for this nation. document_ that was ratified by over 500 by the delegates. 
FOREIGN POLICY AND U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS 
-The continued production, increasing technological sophistication, and poten­tial proliferation -of nuclear weapons poses a threat of unprecedented magnitude to the continued existence of humanity. This threat transcends the traditional nature of rivalries among nation-states. In recognition of this reali­ty, we, the students of Notre Dame, believe that the prevention of nuclear war is the primary challenge facing man today, and that our moral responsibility to future generations demands that we meet this challenge. 
We -acknowledge the continued com­petitive and often adversarial nature of U.S.-Soviet relations; politically, economically, and in the global-arena. However, despite these significant dif­ferences, we recognize that the United States and the Soviet Union share some overriding common interests, first and foremost among these, the prevention of nuclear conflict. ­
-We seek a relationship of peaceful coexistence; competition with the Soviet Union while avoiding direct confronta­tion. 
-We con5ider enhanced U.S.-Soviet communication to have the highest priority in efforts to decrease the likelihood of nuclear exchange. To this end, we call for attempts to establish the diplomatic apparatus for annual summit meetings between _-the leaders of the United States and Soviet Union. We fur­tlier call for increased trade and cultural exchanges. 
-We recognize that the world is com­posed of individual nations whose in­terests and actions are most often of a local and regional nature. We believe that the most appropriate policy of the United States towards these nations should recognize this reality. Conse­quently, we believe U.S. policy toward Third World nations should emphasize the well-being of their people, supporting human rights and economic justice. We must avoid interpreting all international events in a distorting East-West context. 
18 
SCHOLASTIC/Ma):' 1984 
SPECIFIC DEFENSE PROPOSALS 
In this present age of nuclear overkill, we acknowledge that the procurement of more nuclear weapons no longer enhances our national security or in­creases our military or political influence in the world. We propose the de­emphasis of our nuclear -defense while strengthening our conventional defense, as part of an overall strategy to raise the "nuclear threshold" and increase our col­letive security. 
_:_we support negotiations aimed at 
reducing the nuclear stockpiles of the 
superpowers to the minimal levels 
necessary for a credible deterrent. As a 
first step to this process we endorse im­
mediate efforts to negotiate a mutual and 
verifiable freeze on the testing, produc­
tion and deployment of nuclear weapons 
systems. Additonally, we believe every 
effort should be made to provide for the 
immediate -resumption of the Strategic 
Arms Reduction Talks and the 
Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces 
Talks; Included in these efforts should be . a temporary suspension of the deploy­ment of Pershing II missiles and ground­launched cruise -missiles in Western Europe. 
-We believe that annual increases in defense spending limited to 5 % in real dollars would be sufficient to provide for a sound national defense. 
-We recommend steps be taken to enable the eventual adoption of a "no first use" policy for nuclear weapons. We recognize and accept that this could re­quire improvement of our conventional forces in Western Europe and greater participation by our NATO allies in their own defense. We feel that serious at­tempts at negotiating a Mutual• and Balanced Force -Reduction Accord in Vienna are a necessary part of these ef­forts. 
-We believe that the U.S. has little to gain and much to lose from the increased militarization of space. Thus we seek a treaty limiting or forbidding develop­ment and deployment of anti-satellite weaponry by the Soviet Union or the United States. 
-We believe that the MX missile pro­gram and the B-lB bomber should be cancelled. In the absence of a negotiated "freeze," we propose continued develop­ment and deployment of the Trident class -submarine and the Trident II SLBM 
(submarine-launched ballistic missile). 
POLICY TOWARDS CENTRAL AMERICA 
We, the students of Notre Dame, recognize that the current turmoil in Central America stems _from age-old economic and political injustices, in­equality, and repression. In order to redress these problems, the U.S. should accept a role in encouraging basic freedoms, rights and economic develop­ment while adhering to the principles of political arid military nonintervention. 
The United States -has shown a repeated failure to accurately perceive the realities-of Central America, and thus to pursue a course of action which would appropriately advance our genuine long­term interests. A history of military in­tervention, economic domination, and political manipulation on the part of the 
U.S. has arrested the region's normal development. Our desire for stability in this area would be more adequately en­sured by implementation of a policy oriented not in terms of East-West con­flict, but rather with a proper historical perspective on the situation . 
_;_We endorse the principles of economic aid set forth by the Kissinger Commission report. However:, this aid should be tied not on:ly to respect for human rights, but to advancement of economic justice. We reject the Kissinger Commission report's disproportionate call for military aid. 
-We advocate the immediate cessation of all support for counterrevolutionary activities against Nicaragua. We further condemn any military maneuvers or ac­tivities, by any _ nation, aimed at threatening, coercing, or manipulating the internal affairs of the Nicaraguans. We support the elections scheduled for November 4, 1984, and the promotion of pluralism in that country, and we recognize the right of the Nicaraguan people to shape their own destiny. We favor full and no:rmal economic and diplomatic relations between the U.S. and Nicaragua. 
-Wewelcome the initiatives of the Con­tadora Group (Mexico, Venezuela, Co­lombia, Panama) as the best hope for regional dialogue. We see negotiations among the Central American nations· (Guatemala, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Honduras, and El Salvador) under the the mediation of the Contadora Group as a constructive and appropriate method for Latin · Americans to solve Latin American problems. 

THE AMENDMENTS Death Penalty: We believe that the rights of the victim are paramount. When a vic­tim's right to life is violated by any in­dividual, who is then found guilty in a court of life, the individual forfeits his right to life for the safety of the com­munity and the attainment of justice. AMENDMENT DEFEATED. 
Flat-rate Tax: We propose a sweeping tax reform, one which will establish a flat­rate tax of 10% for all people. Built into this structure will be a $10,000 credit, so the poor earning under $10,000 will pay no taxes., those earning $20,000 will pay taxes on only $10,000, and so on. 
This proposal would allow only 2 of the present exemptions: 
1) exemptions based on the number of dependents 
2) exemptions for gifts to churches, charity and other nonprofit organiza­tions. 
The purpose of the amendment is to shift the benefit ofthis tax credit to the low and middle wage earners as directly contrasted with the Reagan tax program which distributes the vast majority of benefits to the well-off while placing most of the tax burden on the middle classes. AMENDMENT DEFEATED. 
Central America: We endorse the recom­mendations of the Kissinger Commission as a whole. Especially important is the need to provide sufficient military sup­port for democratic governments in the region challenged by leftists, in order to ensure our national security. In addition, 
U.S. aid to the Nicaraguan contras should be continued as part of a cooperative effort to challenge the un­elected communist regime there. AMENDMENT DEFEATED. 
Drinking Age: We, the students of Notre Dame, propose a national drinking age of 21 years old. AMENDMENT DE­FEATED. 
Merit Pay: We oppose any plan to establish merit pay for teachers, realizing that any such competitive pay scales will be subjective as well as unfair. However, we do support increased pay for teachers at all levels, in recognition to the in­valuable service they provide our nation. AMENDMENT PASSED. 
Abortion:· We, the students of Notre Dame, believe that life begins at concep­tion and that abortion is morally wrong except in those cases in which (1) the life of the pregant mother is threatened and 
(2) if the woman became pregnant as a result of rape or incest. Therefore we pro­pose a constitutionalamendment which outlaws abortion except in the aforemen­tioned cases. AMENDMENT PASSED, BUT NOT MADE A CONSTITU­TIONAL AMENDMENT. (Exception #2 required roll-call vote before passing 202-189.) 
SALT II: We, the students of Notre Dame, propose that the SALT II treaty be resubmitted to the U.S. Senate for review and pQssible ratification. AMENDMENT PASSED. 
School Prayer: In order to maintain separation of church and state, .we op­pose any move toward legalization of prayer, in any form, in the public school system. While fully realizing that spirituality and moral considerations are matters with an essentially public dimen­sion, we are against introducing visible prayer into an environment which should · allow for religious diversity on a more implicit level. That is to say, we fear that prayer in public schools may allow inten­tionally or unintentionally, for the pro­motion of one religion over another, an act which would be fundamentally un­constitutional. AMENDMENT PASSED. 
E.R.A.: To insure the enforcement of equality between· the sexes, we support the Equal Rights Amendment. AMEND­MENT PASSED. 
Nuclear Power: We encourage develop­ment of fission nuclear reactors. To decrease the United States' dependence on foreign oil, fission power is needed to provide sufficient energy for the growing demands of the U.S. We call for strict and uniform application of the safety regulations as set forth by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to insure the safety of the public. The U.S. should also encourage (through incentives and loans) private interests in developing fusion power. AMENDMENT DEFEATED. . 

·uwe all learned something about ourselves from the con­vention and from addressing the many issues raised. I real­ized how fortunate we all are, and that we can't afford to take our political system for granted. We have to look at issues, and we gotta vote. We can't be apathetic, or democracy won't work." -Dave McA voy, Askew Cam­paign Chairperson 


"Most honorable, dignifieil':(i ;]5,';. ··. '~•·., ·. ··•·~'.. · · ·· · ;;~· .· •: . and truly Irish Mr. C~airlJ!an~/·_··: __ .,· ·, -(~1::·_·-~ '-,. -;/m·::/.: i . , ,-.· :. _'~,f-·:_-·. ~--. Vi}<( 
i i1Ei"tf;~f~~·!!~tl~1~J:tl~~!~;1/f\!t~p~;~,!~~[\1ifliijf!(i:Y,l~~,~;i~,;~~ti!~J{#1;1f;!ifJ;f;l'~Vt)idJ;';~~ 
< ty,_the-Repu~bc·of.Texas :with. ,-: -:-"."~--· ·c_,''. ,·'.,,:. · >' ,,, _·.·-,.· .. · ··>· J ·•.· .·.:, • ·, -.· · · ·,· · '·,·.,( ... ·sucb·heroes 0 as·.na~y' cr'r/c·k::,e~tt · ':·>-~~-::·.-, .: > ·:, ~~1\1.t.>.Chaitman,,·the.•g·reaf .• ··.. _. _.: . . · .' :·. ·. '. ·:::
~ •.~ • ~~-< ' ~ -'•~ ' ~ ~ ;,',> ,_, _.-( 1 • l ;<~;, ,•'-•', ~--, , • ~, ~, , ' -.., .,-f ' 
7
~ .. ·.-· ' :James -Bowie" ··Sam';,H··•o''u's•'-to·n· ·.-_·. -··· ,·~ -.·k,,:·, >stat.e_:...of,.:iennessee; ·,home:.:of ,.,< '.· .<·. ·-· ·.. , ~-·\: -·, .-:: : 
• , I , , .,_ • ,..,. ' " •s, , .,, , ' ~ t ,\ '"" ' > },s " • • , ... ~ ~, '•• J' " f > '" "< ' ',' 
. '.' SJephen'J\ustin _:whiie:· N~isbn: \. ·,, ', .·_ ;:_:_~__; ::, ', MrfJack"'·Qan(el~·; .and where',::.-.. •', t::, -~ ::,;._ .:_-\:_;_>· '< ~..<!
\~~-:~:r{ -. ; 
t..'.-·.-~_,_._:_._: ....·.·._:·~:'._:.•_~·.;_···::·,.:·_'..·:_
/~)?:/_> -~ ;!f~::~~t:~!:tt~i~:,:J!tlc:_:,,;-,, t\t:'{-·,;''/_:,": i:Y· :<t: ,,::c·_•\~i)Hi.;:{\ t .• __ _._•. ·\:;.;J .tt0?l~~}iN._-:•_=.·--:~ •.·.·,_..:;::_.'.'._·•·.,:..
;;r:.t?.-.. -' .. 
t,:;;;";;t ' {. ; 
. ~;;i.. ·,. ,,}~~
, .. f"iROn n 1s·,unable'-t
t \~•-::ti:6:'.'t.-~~:-' t:;.;;., ~: ,. f:' l~';:, : A\;:i}::. 1' ~~t, ..:i;;f$'(, ~~r :4 ~ 
: rec_?l~~~~.,i~l!,,~!I(a.~~~!~J Ji~~~c-~.­
ftes1s;" saying·,, ,m:.'d•fect, 
.v,~ ' ~ ,, 't. r, •' u..-~---~, • , 
'I:f .. . ~astsX}itsH:vot'es~ in,ittlf .,r. •'o~ 'ft'F·eat·~':Jefi'the ._-_.·
~3f~li1i~~1:~ .···• ·i 
\Y";:.tL:,:··.:._;
ve•u 
cl~~.i­
~.§J;f ': 
V 
:',f~ 
} 
>: 

··L 7 i( 
.. .,IJilPIOfC rQ!l
''ifHn politics, . 
..::.. .. ' :,.. ", .. . : ;'•. "' ~ ~·~ .
ompassionate, ~me 011rageous )i~' Startd .ha(you believtin~ bese ten tw<i~lette~ . 
.·•.., -·~,h isup:to · 
:' _,··. . < .! , ' 
outa~ 

FEATURES 
Nick Giampietro: 
"To say that I have a 4.0 is 
Pinnacle of Achievement 
by John Dettling 
The pinnacle of all tangible academic achievement is the valedictorian. While others have passively accepted the seeming impossibility of such an accomplishment, the valedictorian has churned out semester after semester of academic perfection. The Class of 1984 at Notre Dame will honor Nick Giampietro, an accounting major from Glenview, Ill., as its valedic­torian. 
Giampietro, who was not a 
valedictorian in high school, 
came to Notre Dame as a 
freshman with the sole 
academic intention of "doing 
the best that I could. There 
was no way I would have ever 
thought I'd get a 4.0 all the 
way through," he remarks. 
But that is not the way .it 
worked out. Towards the close 
of his junior year, it became 
apparent that graduating with 
a 4.0 GPA was conceivable. 
With that in mind, Giam­
pietro desired to finish at N .D. 
with a perfect GP A. 
What is it that moves a man 
to get a 4.0 GPA? In Giam­
pietro's case, it was looking 
ahead to law school with a 
specific desire to attend one of 
the top five schools that fueled 
his perfect performances. "It . 
was self-imposed" and came 
from within without any ex­
cessive pressure from his 
parents. "I would look into the 
future and see myself as a 
practicing lawyer, which 
would get me through 
everything; Td cram for a test rather than go to bed right away." His.goals were always in the back of.his mind. 
Being ·· from the Chicago area, Giampietro decided to attend Notre Dame because of its fine reputation, lovely cam­pus, and sense of a Christian community. He has nothing but praise for the education he has received. The education is excellent, he feels, but it isn't in an ultracompetitive en­vironment. "Everyone here is really willing to help you," he says, "what you get on a test won't affect a friendship." The University requirements of theology and philosophy gave him different perspectives on education than mere book knowledge, for he has become more morally evaluative and aware. Giampietro also has high praise for his professors: "For the most part, I found them competent and always 

not to say that I am the smartest person here." 
available to help or talk to you." There was always an open-door policy. "I never felt that I couldn't talk to them if I had a problem. Most teachers are really able to convey what they know in a clear manner." He cites his preparation for the bad judgments at first impres­sions because they might be a little close-minded. They are only willing to believe what they have believed their whole life," he says. The whole social situation is not as baneful as the guys allege it to be: "Peo­
CPA exam, in which he feels . ple have to create their own 
that reviewing material that he studied a year ago was made easier because of the ef­ficient methods of presenting material by his professors. Ultimately, Giampietro says, the interest by professors motivates students. 
world. You can't be compla­cent and sit around the room on Saturday night drinking beer and complaining." For Giampietro, the possible alcohol dispute is especially disturbing. "It just seems like an emphasis on liability when 

Nick Giampietro is a stu­dent who has had a very rewarding experience at Notre Dame> He has enjoyed the friendships that he feels will last his whole life, the sense of 
· community, the campus especially the Gothic architec­
. ture of Notre Dame. One disadvantage, he feels, is the lack of diversity in the students: "Everyone fits into the same mold." Many adhere to the same beliefs and prin­ciples. This can have bad con­sequences._ "People will make 
it should be on trust." However, the administ_ration has a double standard: It im­poses strict rules yet attempts to foster a sense of community and trust. "You have to have a release in life" he says. He sees the University disapproving of diversions that are essential to a wholesome college life. He cites the panty raid: "It isn't a normal thing to do, but who says that you always. have· to do things normal." In ·the future, the students, Giam­pietro feels, should be a little 
SCHOLASTIC/May 1984 more radical, less concerned about the status quo, and other people's opinion. "Everyone," he says, "thinks that if I do one a certain way I'll be important in other peo­ple's eyes. Other people's opin­ions are important, but they shouldn't rule your life because then you're living their life." 


The sense of a strong bond­ing Christian community and worthwhile friendships that he has experienced has been a special influence to Giam­pietro in his life at this stage. He recognizes the hardship that will become apparent when he enters law school and beyond: obnoxiously com­petitive people who have little regard for the Christian ethic promoted at Notre Dame. This will be the "Big Transfor­mation." Yet, he is looking forward to the challenge of defending, assessing, and strengthening his faith outside the Notre D.ame community. 
Giampietro: has . been ac­cepted to five out of the seven law schools that. he has ap­plied. He has yet to hear from Harvard . and Stanford, his first two choices, respectively. He aspires to be an interna­tional corporate lawyer in which he can utilize his ac­counting knowledge and fluency in Italian. He is not consumed by materialistic obsessions: "Ifa lot of money is a part of it (a job), it is a nice consequence, but not my primary motive." He feels.that success is "just doing what you want to do whether it is being a missionary or an executive." He states that people who are materially oriented are deceiv­ing themselves if they think that there is necessarily a cor­relation between money and genuine success. 
"To say that I have a 4.0 is not to say that I am the smartest person here." Giam­pietro states in reference to the impressions that go with • receiving such a lofty ac­colade. Grades, he feels, are an accurate reflection only to a degree. Many times, grades are more related to organiza­tion and motivation in which a student "puts his act together • in a more efficient way." With the title of valedictorian comes the responsibility of.deliv,ering a message · to his fellow classmates. In this precarious decade, Nick Giampietro wants to address our times · from a. different perspective than the often echoed, but credible plea to fulfill· one's 
responsibility. . 
130 Dixieway North 
277-4519 
Mondays and Wednesdays 
ONLY 
16" pizza, 2 toppings .. for '$·6.95 
FREE delivery to campus 
Open 4-10, Sun-Thurs 4-12, Fri & Sat 
ATTENTION! SOPHOMORES 
Place your ring order before you leave for SUMMER VACATION. .This will assure you of having it when you return to school in the fall 
HOURS: 9:00 A.M. TO 4:30 P.M. MON.-FRt 
IN THE OFFICE ON THE FIRST FLOOR HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Confessions of Thanks 
by Bud Macfarlane 
The only thing that pleased me in Cicero's book was his advice to love wisdom itself, whatever it might be, and to search for it, pursue it, hold it, and embrace it firmly. These were the words which excited me and set me burning with fire, and the only ch~ck to this blaze of enthusiasm was that they made no mention of the name of Christ. 
Saint Augustine, Confessions 
As a graduating senior I have· a real desire to learn. This desire simply was not as strong or obvious to me when I arrived at Notre Dame four years ago. I am sure that many of my fellow seniors feel the same way. It is also true that if it were not for our teachers and pro­fessors, we would not have this wonder­ful gift: the desire to learn. What follows is my own way of saying Thank You to those teachers who helped instill within me a thirst for knowledge. Without getting sentimental, and with the utmost respect; I wish to honor these men and women by "the naming of names." I suspect most of us Notre Dame seniors would love to have the chance to do this; it is my hope that by this act of thanks to my own particular instructors I can in a small way repre­sent the profound thankfulness that all of us in the Class of 1984 have for those who have inspired, guided, and helped us in our academic pursuits. 
Nothing ventured, nothing gained. 
American proverb. 
It is first semester of my freshman year. The first Tuesday. 9:30 AM. I walk into the packed classroom of Pro­fessor Michael Francis' International Relations. I sit next to Laura Lewis because she is extremely pretty. Pro~ fessor Francis makes the seating perma­nent (Oh poor Laural) and proceeds to lecture in that steamrolling, dry-witted manner of his. He assigns thick and in­teresting books. His exams are long, hard and intimidating. He challenges us. There is no such thing as "blowing off' in a Michael Francis course. Thank you Professor for lesson number one: Learning is a form of work -hard work. 
v=dx 
at Swokowski's Calculus 
Of course learning is not all as dreary 
as I am making it out to be, which 
brings me to lesson number two: the 
hard work that is learning is but a 
means to an end. This. end is satisfying 
unto itself. Most people call it learning 
for learning's sake. This lesson hit home 
for me in the last class in the world I 
ever expected it to, Calculus. I was fail­
ing the course and the problem was the 
dreaded derivative. This time the 
teacher who saved me was a fellow stu­
dent, Dan Sescleifer, who probably does 
not even remember tutoring me. Time 
and again over the past four years I 
found some of the most important 
teachers were often fellow students. A 
special thanks and a wink to all those 
Dan Sescleifers out there. As for learn­
ing for learning's sake, after I finally . started to catch on to Calculus, I ac­
tually enjoyed knowing that velocity is the derivative of distance. It was so cool. Calculus was the most difficult class I ever sat in, but no grade was ever so sweet-sounding as the "D" I eked out in it. D is for Derivative. 
".... the 'next James Farrell ..." Jane Gaffney 
It was my Composition and Literature teacher Jane Gaffney who first gave me that seldom deserved but often-sought-after gift: Encouragement. I didn't know who he was or what he had ever written, but when Jane told . me that I might be "the next James Far­
. rell" in red ink in the margin of one of those Comp. and Lit. papers I was tru­ly motivated. Maybe James Farrell isn't Cervantes, but he was good enough for me. Thank you Jane for the encourage­ment. (It was also in Composition and Literature whereby I first ever ap­
. preciated William Shakespeare. "Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio; a fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy ..."Hamlet) 
To Professor John Van Engen I owe much. I so thoroughly enjoyed his lec­tures in Western Civilization III that I 
"Everyone who drinks this water will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks the water I give him will never be thirsty." 
took history for my major. Perhaps in 
no other discipline is the Lecture so 
squarely placed in the center for the 
transmission of knowledge. Thank you 
Professor Van Engen for the Lecture. 
And so, despite my own pro­crastinating laziness and selfish disinterest, the seeds were planted dur­ing my freshman year of studies. Sophomore year saw the seed grow into a sprouting bud (no pun intended). 
Time is merely the measurement of 
objects moving through space . ... 
I heard these words, looked up from 
my notes, and spoke up, "Wow! Who 
said that?" 
"That," Professor Thompson paused, "was Aristotle." He might just as well have said, "Bud, meet Aristotle. Aristot­le, meet Bud." I was destined to meet three men who would change my life forever during Arts and Letters Core Course sophomore year. The first, Aristotle, had not lived since hundreds of years before Christ. The second was a Roman Catholic saint who lived in the 13th century. The third was Pro­fessor Richard J. Thompson, Associate Professor Emeritus, who introduced me to both of them. Time and again, Pro­fessor Thompson would bring these men to the door of my mind. Sometimes the door would open. Together the four of us would step out of the classroom and into the Universe. Words will always be as straw compared to the intimations of divinity these men led me towards. And who is the 13th-century saint? He would grow to be my dearest friend. He is Saint Thomas Aquinas, the Angelic Doctor of the Church, the humble teacher, the prayerful mystic, writer of the opus Summa Theologica and awe­inspiring On Being and Essence, and now, my very own intercessor and hero. Who but Thomas could formulate a better "Prayer Before Study"? 
Thou Who art called True Source of Light and supereminent Principle of Wisdom, be pleased to cast a beam of Thy radiance upon the darkness of my mind and dispel from me the double darkness of sin and ignorance in which I have been born. Thou Who makest eloquent the tongues of little children, fashion my words and pour upon my lips the grace of Thy benediction. Grant me penetration to understand, capacity to retain, method and facility in 'study, subtley in interpretation, and abundant grace of expression. Order the beginning, direct the progress, and perfect the achievement of my work, Thou Who art true God and true Man. 
Though the discipline of history will always hold a high place in my academic scheme of things, it is philosophy, literally "the love of wisdom" to Augustine, which has become the intellectual water of life for me thanks to these men. Professor Thompson, by the way, has been teaching here at Notre Dame for over forty years, and even had Carl Yastrem­ski, another one of my heroes, in one of his classes! 
"... Faith seeking understanding ..." Saint Anselm On rare occasions during class I have this hard-to-explain experience. All of a 
sudden I really "tune-in" to the teacher. It is as if there is no one else in the world except him and myself. Every word and every sentence fit together and something "clicks." My eyes literal­ly widen, I lean forward in my seat while the teacher holds me spellbound ... it's almost ... I hesitate to say it's almost mystical. It doesn't happen often. One time in the beginning of junior year it happened to me during one of Father Edward O'Connor's theology lectures. He was lecturing on the traditional Catholic teaching which holds that Faith and Reason, far from contradicting each other, complement each other. Now I had heard this somewhere before, but never did the idea strike me with such intensity. I raised my hand. Student: "Does this mean, Father, in a manner of speaking, that Faith and Reason live under the same roof?" Teacher: "You are going to have to speak up, Bud," Fat_her O'Connor said while cupping his hand to his ear. "You have a habit of mumbling." It was true. 
Student: (louder this time) "I asked, 
Father, if this could be like saying that 
Faith and Reason live under the same 
roof?" 
Teacher: "Why yes, Bud, I suppose you 
could say that." 
I cheered softly to myself-"Yeahl" Then the moment of intensity broke. But that lesson was one I will never forget. I mean, think about it, Faith and Reason could even live under the Dome! Oh, how good it was to find out that our God is the God of Reason, "the supereminent Principle of Wisdom." Thank you, Father O'Connor. 
Happy, and I'm smiling 
Walking miles to drink your water 
You know I love to love you· 
And above you there's no other 
Ian Anderson, in one of my 
favorite songs by Jethro Tull 
Last summer I took some courses at home. I went to a fine school called Montclair State College in New Jersey. It had a pretty campus, friendly students, and the courses it offered were interesting. But there was something missing. At the time, I couldn't put my finger on it. Now I bet you think I'm going to say something sentimental about Notre Dame. Don't worry, I will. But. I did figure out what was missing. Basically, it was Mestrovic sculptures. Montclair State didn't have a "Jesus Speaks to the Woman at the Well" to sit at between classes. At sunny Montclair State I had to eat my between-class M&M's while sitting on concrete steps in front of a multimillion-dollar, spank­ing new Student Center, just like the one we don't have here at Notre Dame. Woman at the Well: "How can you ask me, a Samaritan woman, for a drink?" The Teacher: "If only you recognized God's gift, and who it is that is asking you for a drink, you would have asked him instead, and he would have given you living water." Woman at the Well: "Sir, you do not have a bucket and this :well is deep. Where do you expect to get this flowing water?" The Teacher: "Everyon.e who drinks this water will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks the water I give him will never be thirsty; no, the water I . give shall become a fountain within him, leaping up to provide eternal life," 
from St. John's Gospel 
Okay, so we don't have a big Student Center here at Notre Dame. But Mont­clair State doesn't have a "Well" by Mestrovic. That well is a symbol of . what really makes Notre Dame unique. And it is something I would not trade for a "better" education from a more reputable, bigger, shinier, or "greater" university. It is not sentimental at all, really. Why mince words? Why avoid the real issue of education? St. Paul doesn't, 
If I have the gift of prophecy and, 
with full knowledge, comprehend all 
the mysteries, if I have faith great 
enough to move mountains, but not 
have love, I am nothing. 
l Corinthians 
Without love we are nothing. What good is all my Faith and Reason . without love? Surely, St. Paul's words should put a little fear into each one of us. For which one of us is so proud that he could claim to be a great Lover? On the other hand, his words should inspire us. At least we know what we need and where to go to ask for it. It's right here at Notre Dame. We can go to. the Well and ask for the living water. Call this the lesson I learned at Montclair State. Thank you, Ivan Mestrovic. 
LOST: One Notre Dame School 
Ring. lOK Gold, Blue Stone, with In­
scription: "A VE MARIA." If found, 
call Bud at 7569. 
The Observer 
My mother bought me a school ring at the beginning of this, my senior year. It was a birthday gift. When I ordered the ring, the lady at the bookstore asked me if I wanted an inscription. I didn't hesitate to have "Ave Maria"-Hail Mary-inscribed inside it. Then, I lost the ring in Febuary this year, and gave it up for gone after hours of searching. One of the benefits of having a devotion to Mary is that when you ask her .to in­tercede for some favor on your behalf, it is usually granted. It is very difficult for some people to ask for things like help in studies, and I never used to do it until I got to Notre Dame. Over the past four years I have asked Mary for help in academics countless times. It is only proper for me to thank her for helping me to learn that simple, yet profound lesson of her Son: 
"Ask, and you shall receive." St. Matthew's Gospel Someone found my ring and returned it a few weeks ago. Thank you, Mary. 
"What's your maior?" 
Notre Dame Social Amenity 
Imagine for a minute that a young. St. Augustine shows up at one of those freshman orientation mixers. Remember that he was only nineteen when he took Cicero's advice and began his famous struggle to "love wisdom itself, whatever it might be, and to search for it, pursue it, and embrace it firmly." The average Notre Dame freshman is around nineteen years old. I would like to suppose that if you asked "Gus" what his major was, he might just say something like, "Oh, I don't know, I'm thinking of going into wisdom." But with all the absurdity of this hypothetical situation aside, isn't it less 
·absurd for all of us to consider Cicero's advice as Augustine did nearly fifteen hundred years ago? Have not our in­structors in their own varied ways given us the same advice? Isn't there a little bit of Augustine in all of us after four years at Notre Dame? Augustine set out on a journey to discover true wisdom. It was his sweetest consolation to discover that at the end of the road stood Christ. We live i~ a different world today, but all the good roads still lead to the same place. As for me, I confess that the road is just beginning, and the wisdom I seek seems always on the horizon. But this Wisdom is such a blazing firel It warms me when I drink from the well it has set along the way to sustain me. It il­luminates the varied footprints of those travelers who have gone before me, from Aristotle to Aquinas, from Pro­
· fessor Thompson to Father O'Connor. It guides me; it teaches me. What have I to offer this burning Light? How can I thank those pioneer travelers who make straight the way of Wisdom? I fear this senior work is too small a gift of thanks. Yet it is all I have, its glow nothing compared to the Eternal Light, its source the very same Blaze. Now it is the end of my senior year. I have gone to the well and have tasted the living water. (I'm smiling.) The final lesson flows, as the Teacher .prom­ised, from "the fountain" within me. I think it is a new lesson, a lesson for our times. Might it be the ideal for educa­tion at Notre Dame? "An hour of study, for the modern apostle, is an hour of prayer." J osemaria Escrova de Balaguer From a little book entitled The Way. . . 
RETROSPECT 
From· a. Dusty Shelf 
by Barbara Blanchette 
Rah, Rah, Rah Nostra Domina 
Commencement Day 1884. Smart suits, slicked hair, and calling cards marked the men. These were well­educated Notre Dame men; beneath their top hats lay four years of intensive study in Latin,. Greek, Poetry, Business, Theology, and many other subjects. Disciplined by the strictest regulations of· conduct, they knew not to smoke in front of the Administration building, and were sure to greet all clerzy members with tipped caps and reverence. The Scholastic· of the day presented a unique look at this generation of gentlemen. Ar­ticles lauded poets, like Marion Muir, and Washington Irving for their achievements in literature. Monthly honor rolls listed the scholars and special honors awarded to students in the Senior, Junior, and Minim departments. There were articles reporting the scientific discovery that paper towels were safe for cleaning surgical wounds, and of the new research on epilepsy and smallpox. 
Commencement began with a High Mass in the ·cathedral, and a concert by the University Orchestra. Students acted 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. 
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO., 
Importcra and Dealcra In Flne 
Books and ·Stationery, 
ll7 AND 119 STATE STREET, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. EDWARD BUYSSE, Watches, Clocks, 
.A.ND 
J E 'Vv E L RY.. All 
Kinds of Engraving Done•. --. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. 
ST .JOSEPH HOTEL 
•· . . ' Opposite· the Post Office, 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. 
Rntcs, $2.00 Por Da.y. JOHN G. GREENAWALT,PROPRIETOR. 
"STANDARD" 
ORGAN 
IS. ACKNOWLEDCED BY THOSE ACQUAINT·ED· WITH ITS· CON• SPICUOUS MERITS TO BE THE MOST SUCCESSFUL REED OR• CAN NOW IN THE MARKET. THE UNAPPROACHABLE ELECANCE OF ITS DESICNS FOR CASES AND ITS PERFECTION OF TONE AND CENERAL MECHANISM, COM• BINED WITH·· THE POPULAR PRICES AT WHICH IT IS SOLD, ARE UNANSWERABLE ARCU­MENTS IN ITS· FAVOR,, EVERY ORCAN CUARANTEED. PRICE LISTS AND CATALOCUES FREE, 
CEN'L WESTERN ACENTS-TtlE 
ROOT & SONS 
MUSIC CO, 
CHICACO. 
The Naturalists' Agency 
Ilse been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphin., for the purpose or giving collectors of spcci_mcns of Natural History nn opportunity of buying nnd selling minerals, fossils, shells, birds, plant!, &c., &c Nearly all the collectors in America, and many of tboso in Europe, will visit this city during 1870, so that this will ho the best opportunity ever offered for disposing of and pur• cbnsing specimens. :My store-rooms arc within ten min• utcs' wnlk of tho Centennial grounds, on the line of tho Chestnut-street cars. I sbnll also have a branch within ono minute's wnlk Or the main building. I· have already in stock Over $30,000 woi-th of apcciincns, incluc.ling tho finest specimens ever fou_nd of Amazon stone, brooklto or e.rkaosite, pcrofekite, nigrin, green v.·avcllitc, pcganite, tel­lurium ores, feldspar, albitc, petrilled wood, smoky qunrtzj Ibo birds. nod nnlmnls peculiar to the Rocky Moun!Alns, &c.., &c. I hove spent nearly $7,000 during the_ pnst year in the collcCtlon an.d purchase of speciincna; Bper:ial at­ltntion {Jittn _to· Cl)[k_diona f1J1" ad1ools ana CIJllt{Jti. Car-· respondcnce s_olicitcd,· with those wishiog to buy or sell 
spc.cim.cns, atan cnrly dale, .. nn lllnstrotcd ca!Aloguc will be issued before tl1c 1st of ]ifoy. I refer to Pn,o,. GE;o.;J. BRUSH, Dn. JOSEPII LEIDY, PnoF.ASAGRAY, · PnoF. J.B.NEWBURY•. . . A. E. FOO'l'E,.M. D., 
FtiUno oftlld A. A. A. 8., Prof. 0!1emi.atry a~d .Jlfin.erak>gy. 
C. H. SHEERER,.
H~ts c~·ps· ~nd Fu s 
.'-W , '-W ''-W ·. r , . 
TRUNKS, Traveling llag,, Gloves, IUld Gents'"Fnrnlahlng Goods, Eto., 
l.10 Mlohlgnn Stroot. SOUTH BEND J:ND_ 
BUZBY & GALLAGHER, 
MERCHANT TAILORS 
Clotb.lcr ¦ and Dc.,lcn In 
Gons' Flll:nisliing Goods, :Ea.ts · C11.ps, eto., 
100 l\llohl~a.n St., SOUTH BEND, J:NDJ:ANA, 
'fh:e ~o:ni:1 ~o:us:et 
A.' McKay, Prop., NILES,· JY.I:ICHIGAN_ FTco Hack to ond from •ll Trolns for Guests of the Houso 
A..d. SHIRE, 
"W"HOLESALE 
jl.cnl.ex in lmnmn iignxs, 
101 l\J:nln St:rcot, 
Two Imrs 5oulh or lll. Gllleu•s, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA [Brnncb of 184 E. Mndlson, Chlcngo,l 
Scholastic, June 17, 1876, Volume 9, Number 42 
a presentation of Shakespeare's Merchant of Venice, and before the crowd of students and parents adjourned for lunch, a sailing Regatta was held on St. Joe's Lake. Quoted a visitor, "Neat and tasty programmes were gotten out for Commencement exercises." 
Twenty-five years later, amidst the changes wrought by the turn of the cen­tury, the class ofl909 assembles for Com­mencement exercises. The student registry, now boasting over 1,000 scholars, had dealt with the issues of "The Negro Problem'.' in society, pressures of final examinations, as well as finding dates for balls-for which they could now use the wireless telegraph. The first recorded use of the telegraph at Notre Dame was a call to St. Mary's. Professors and speakers wished this class "success in their every endeavor ... they are always welcome· back at · Notre 
-Dame." An open-arms assurance from their Alma Mater. · Sixty years afterward, the class of 1944 is graduated. Some have been students for four years, while the largest percen­tage are military men in the V0 12 pro­gram for officer's training. Still under the formal clothes restrictions, this class at­tended proms semi-formally, and lived a temporary student-civilian life, knowing Notre Dame was but a brief haven from the war. "Sixteen months here on campus finds the Marines well-integrated in the military, intellectual, and social life of NotreDame,.and it's not easy to shove off and leave it all behind." The men com­plained of much the same things we do today. One Scholastic writer, Harry Le Rien, warned the men, "First off you are not going to like the food ... One reason is that nobody can cook like Mother ... You're going to cuss at Phys Ed, and come out to calisthenics looking like you had the biggest hangover since New Year's. The teachers will positively be out to flunk you, and Math and Physics will account for one quart of perspiration per week alone." In order to maintain the military attitude, light columns like "Know Your Navy," giving brief defini­tions of Naval terms appeared regularly. Columns listing the recent tabulations on the Notre Dame graduates killed in ac­tion also became · a regular feature. Because of these strains of wartime, a sense of humor also prevailed on campus. In his column "The Green Banner," Jim Casey printed some advice to freshmen. 
1) A Freshman student ticket is not on the 50-yd line. · · 2) Indiana has all kinds of weather, and as you will soon find out, most of it is bad. 


208 NORTH
WALGREEN'S DRUG STORE 
MICHIGAN 
Scholastic, April 7, 1933, Volume 66, Number 23 
3) There is no room service avail.able in the hall. The Student Council has been trying to get it for years. 
4) Remember, thou art only a frosh. We seem to have lost much of the discipline and special Notre Dame spirit which has distinguished past decades, in exchange for a greater student freedom. Today this seems to be just a trend, yet someday we'll look back to 1984 and think about how times have changed. The Social life popular issues of the years past have not changed as much as we think. One visitor to the University in 1949, Mr. Evelyn Waugh of England, was struck by his observation that no wine or beer was -served on campus. He stated, "You know, one should consume great amounts of wine while eating." After being informed of the University's regulations on alcohol, he said, "I think it is better than having them take swigs of gin in their lodging. Whi~h they prob­ably do, don't they?" To which the editor replied, "Oh no! Mr. Waugh, not us." Looking to 1959, we find the issue of permanent hall residence at hand. Until this point, students had been assigned rooms by their academic averages. The purpose of the system being the class in­tegration of the halls, by the students' choice. According to class and academic standings, the students would choose their future hall and room, as well as roommate. "Such a system, adopted at Notre Dame would ... produce among the students in each hall a better com­munity life. The permanence . . would enable the administration to delegate more areas to student responsibility."Ii,i Among other issues was the sports scene, 
as always. In 1959 we found Jake Kline warming up his baseball team, the Ten­nis team headed for competition in Mex­
I
I 
ico, and the Irish football squad, led by Coach Brennan and quarterback Don White, heading off against Navy. The social issue of the time dealt with Notre Dame and St. Mary's decision to hold co­ed classes at the two institutions. The "presence of women in the classrooms could only serve as a positive influence 
. . . holding down the boorish behavior of the men," seemed to be the consensus of the administration. 
The decades of the 1960's and 1970's brought a freer style of thinking to the now Notre Dame/St. Mary's community, as shown in a 1964 issue of Scholastic which read, "the unexamined life is not worth living ... must search for our real values." Notre Dame, entertaining the idea of becoming a co-ed institution welcomed the arrival of the first co-ed in 1965. She was simply referred to as Lola. The sports community of 1964 had named Pete Whitehouse, one of· the highest scoring trackmen in Notre Dame history, as player of the year. In campus issues, the Registrar's office began the procedure of registration by student-ID numbers, and jokes about study halls filled with students trying to memorize 
28 SCHOLASTIC/May 1984 
New 1933 
CERTIFIED 
Golf Balls 
A Seventy-five Cent Value for 39 Cents 
Start the season right with the new 1933 Certi­fied Golf Ball. You will find it the equal of any 75c ball on the market for distance, putting accuracy and durability-and it costs you only 39c-a saving of nearly 50 per cent. 
The new Certified Ball-U.S.G.A. official size and weight-is made to the highest standards of quality. Created expressly for the Walgreen Company. Tests prove that it is one of the· most perfectly balanced balls on the market and one 
Peau -Doux G91f Balls 
These good Golf bnlls staml up well under 
hnrd plRY. As "ood ns nny 6Dc golf bnll. A rc.nl vnluc n.t ············••······•·········· 3 for 50 cents; 12 for $2.00 
19c 
their 9-digit numbers flew about campus. The academic office replied to student complaints about inconvenient classes saying, "classes held at non-peak hours and Saturday classes must remain in order to make maximum use of the facilities" 
We have come nearly 120 years from the first Scholastic, when articles on students' arrivals to campus were written to assure anxious parents at home that their sons and daughters had arrived safe­ly at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Among one of the first sports articles may have been this one from the Nov. 9, 1867, issue. "Last Wednesday, about 60 or 70 boys of the Junior Department, accom­panied by Brother Florentius, proceeded to a fallow field to have some fun kicking 
of the hardest to cut. It is the kind of a ball the professional enjoys using because it is lively and true-and the average golfer because it stands up under punishment. Use Certified Golf Balls this year. Buy them at your nearby Wal­green Drug Store. Get a carton of three and prove to your own satisfaction that although you can pay more you can't buy a better all around golf ball. 
• 
One ball 39c 3 for 1.10 12 for 4.25 
Golden Crown Golf Balls 

the ball, and occasionally, each other's_ shins." Perhaps the Scholastic still serves to inform our parents of our activities, and perhaps we still must deal with issues like war, and peace, student cynicism and apathy, and team victories. We have used the voice of the schools' magazine to express our feelings and to tell about our. achievements for more than a century. The issues which concern us today, like the nudear issue, the dry-campus issue,· and the achievements of the many stu­dent groups on both campuses, are history, and we become integral parts of this history as students of the college com­munity.. In unity with those students of years past we are proud to lift our cheers for our future alma mater, "Rah, rah, rah, Nostra Domina," or "Go Irish!" . 



May's art exposee highlights senior work, and all contributions were made by the class of 1984. -w·e wish to express our apprecia­tion to all those who submitted their work. 
i-"for the welfare of the patient ..." 
The end came with a limp in. the left leg, if it came at all. 
·For no-one noticed: it was better that way, I think you'll agree. And I am right and you are right and the end's contrite. Hooray. 

ii-a sumerian epic; ca. 2300 b.c. 
What· really troubled Lugalzagesi has gone unrecorded-but not away, oh no. Jesu, make it stop! 
iii-good-bye, my lady love · 
· So there we were nea·r .a-willow tree, 
._ wooly-gi-eyish to blue. And I uttered words my pa:laJe forgot even before she did, as the too.:.dean sun 
. shone. ().Il the.almond-colored. 
dust, ·th.en . · was reflected away. (Like repels like.) .·· 
iv-quatemization of the triangle 
Was that a "voilal'.' I heard? No, only a "finis"-:-:­no resolution following the vibrations of my low note, dying away, mid-cadence. 
-John Quinn 

Modernization Among Friends  
It is incredible how utterly helpless we feel. We are at the end of this grand whim.  
We are without knowledge without hope  
Or the probability of accomplishing that which we expected of ourselves ·  
The nominal Rangers of Fortune soft~festering in .the pitter-patter of mindless things.  
We reify the presentation of other people's opinions in an attempt to deny that contemplation and imagination leave us naked in the so~er reality of our ignorance.  
_We do things, but feign belief in them. We are the modern' people.  i i  
-.Mike Suffern·  
SCHOLASTIC/May 1984  31  



Passage 
by Andy Cier 
When the van left Missoula it was carrying a stocky coed from Minnesota, a pear-shaped grand­mother just this side of senility, a young Indian woman with child, and an obtuse Mormon driver from Butte. Even though the van as large, the three passengers were crowded together because Missouri Valley Trails Bus Co. also had a contract with the Postal Service to deliver bulky boxes of flora to the flora dealer in Salmon, Idaho. 
The three women didn't mind bumping thighs occasionally in the fragrant back seat, as they were preoccupied with thoughts of their destinations. The rugged coed-who was actually an ex-coed since graduation-was wondering how she would live in Salmon without the car she left gurgling on a soft shoulder in South Dakota. Her new job with the · Forest Service would not provide the money for a replacement. But she wasn't afraid to hitch. The important thing now was that she was out of Min­nesota and heading for "her own private Idaho." 
On her left, in the middle, was the grandma. Her name was called out by the driver. It seemed very odd to the ex-coed that an old lady would be called Jill Kennedy. Jill was a very youthful name. The ex-coed thought her name would have been more appropriate-Helen Sapp. Helen had always disliked her own name and she wished, for about a mile, that she could trade names with old Jill. 
The pregnant woman had not heard Jill Ken­nedy's name read off the passenger list. She barely heard her own; and when she had, she nodded her presence into the rearview mirror with a half­hidden smile. The bus driver returned the nod, but kept the smile in himself. The woman looked out the window and fixed her eyes on some blue air that didn't move by as fast as the edge of the road. She continued to smile for no reason. She scratched her ringless ring finger, but didn't think about it. Her eyes felt wet-blue even though they were hazel brown. Her long, Blackfoot h_air blew around her head and tickled the milk-fuzzy face of old Jill. That caused Jill to break the block of silence and ask the ripening woman when she expected the baby. The young Indian woman said the baby was due in three weeks. Then Jill asked her name. The name was Loretta Whitehorse. Old Jill had wondered if the girl was part Indian, or Italian, because she could have easily passed for either. Her face was not very Indian, but she did wear a faded, turquoise smock. 
Loretta Whitehorse made the driver think about his own pregnant wife. Which made him think about his twelve children. Which made him think about money. And that made him think about all that he could think about now that he was driving a van instead of working in the copper mine in Butte. Then he just thought about how the road disappeared so quickly in the rearview mirror. The yellow lines fell behind him like perfectly dropped bombs. 

Loretta sneezed. Her baby jumped, and Helen said, "Bless you." That made the driver guess that Helen wasn't Mormon, because Mormons usually didn't bless people for sneezing. 
Helen was starting to look at the pieces of Mon­tana that were breaking by the window. She im­agined herself in her new job, walking through the pines, guarding the forest. Well, she'd keep those toilets clean, anyway. The slowing of the van dissolved her fantasy. 
The van stopped on some gravel and the Mor­mon got out and opened the sliding metal door for Loretta. Because she was on the inside, all three of them had to get out: Jill and Helen wished her good luck with the baby and got back in the van. The Mormon drove away and Loretta Whitehorse walked into Victor, Montana, kicking up little clouds of dust with the flopping heels of her Jesus 
sandals. . 

33 
--· 
--_· -----___'._ ----~ ---.-­

. . ' 
. ­
. . 
. .
' 
• • • •• # 
l.n 
C') 
'<f< 
co 
0) 
,--c 
:>-. 
cu
lllflllllill{lt¦lltll 
u.... ~ 
H 
Cl) 
<
...:l 
0 
::t 
u 
Cl) 
Q'i"',:.1r1,<j~~;;~;.f;:~~-:.~.:~';::.,.;.;;r"'t~1,;,;,;.·r.:~~1~~,7~,..,,,;~...,~..!.-1~;-:.;·,:,,,~,,-i,;t;;t,7J~;;<,',~~~:i;,~{'"',f~?·"1t"-::{;;;-~;,~~s~-=-~.:J~,-f;.,..,•:...t;',;~,-.......i'.::~r·..rr~15,,~t-1-,'­
ix.:.'.!:'..!'.Ei~\!"'t1)',~~!!,z-,;,.!.1Gl'J,..~'=1,',~~~t~.);q~!."•'-!!,,'-{\z,',~~,~,:,,!.[,'i"t~....~:,:;~~~,~'.:'"..'lt1,~•~1z:i~,~,!:,t.,,)',~~!!.z-s--.!~a..."!.'J,..~,.::,',~~~:~,:;q~i:.;__!!.,..'.f'il1 
~illl\ll'-lf!tlli1141111£Bl1 
II 
~1~~fJfti~ifJ~1t~%ttJ!fl{fi~tn!:~t~JttJ?~ffi.~1~t~~1ii*.W(:~itI~t~fi{fi 

.i 
.i '<f< 
:>-.
'<f< 
..0 
:>-. 
..0 .i 
.i co co 
0
p::; 
-< 
~ 
0 
z (t~~~t~'.?,iiiiiff
~~?l~#!~~1{~~1ffi~tl~$tYif«@i~~!l.tl~~ifi~~i!l.. 
''I,'~ 
I I 
I 
I 
Idle Banter 
by Ed Mulholland 
Distribution Manager 
The last day of exams is the New Year's Day of every col­lege student. I speak not of the partying and revelry that is usually associated with January 1 (hell, there aren't even any bowl games in May), but of the attitude of each student. It suddenly hits all of us that all of the deadlines, papers, ex­ams, and quizzes have stopped. We have been looking for­ward to this day for ten months, and we often find ourselves ill-equipped to deal with it. It is like someone has just taken a huge weight off our backs; we feel light enough to fly. The only thing that keeps us {some of us) on the ground is the prospect of work or the horrifying thought of another (prob­ably harder) year of sch .. scho .. school (it's even hard to 
I say). We are forced into a momentary state of limbo in '1 which we reflect on the past that seems so distant, the future
,1 
that seems so implausible, and the present that is nonexis­;I tent. 
Like Janus, the Roman deity for whom January is named,Ii we all have a two-headed existence, if only for a while. So:I we're in limbo, what happens now? For a few days we 
i 
wander around our strange homes and visit friends that are
d 
,I going through the same semi-conscious stupor. After this 
'i 
(and about the same time as our youngest brother realizes 
that we're related and that we'll be staying for a while) we 
start settling down a bit. It seems -strange, but we can 
remember every one of our friends from sch .. (you know 
what I mean), but if anyone mentions Notre Dame (what?) 
or asks us what classes we took, we go on as if we didn't 
hear anything and ask them what happened on ".Cheers" last 
week. · 
Our parents, however, are always supportive. Dad keeps asking when the grades are going to arrive, and Mom says that now that we're home we can take out the garbage again and give little brother a break (he knows our name again). 
==-~--,.,c,-,, 

Some things, however, are still within us. We have to get 
these out of our system in order to enjoy the summer. This is 
the summer disorientation phase of our plight. It soon sinks 
in that our sisters don't have to leave the house after mid­
night. Our mothers then adamantly refuse to make us nine-
inch pizzas at 11:30 p.m. no matter how much we'll pay. 
Slowly but surely, our minds wander back to reality. 
During our lapse, we think about the weirdest things. We retire to our private quarters, turn on some music Qames Taylor is a favorite) and MELLOW out. Thoughts of friends, SYR's, and relationships that have come and gone dance through our heads. We slowly understand that we . have been on a long journey and we're back home now. The only problem is, as the years go on, going home seems more like a journey. After a short list of what ifs, we start to wonder about what is really i_mportant to us. This is usually the shortest-phase, for serious thought, though often produc­tive, scares us into thinking that we will have a paper as­signed about it. It is at this crucial moment that the grades finally arrive,· too late for us to care a lot, but soon enough to hurt if they . .fall under our last report card. Dad usually asks about the'D in theology, but our response is weak because back in our minds we are saying: Don't tell me, the one with the short balding priest, right? 
This whole process lasts about a week or two. We reach reality then, a different reality than the one we left in South Bend, but reality all the same. Some of us will return in the fall, and some of us will move on· to experience new things and new limbos. An unfortunate few will dwell in this limbo for the whole summer. The culture shock is a growing ex­perience after all, and with this final conclusion we move on to live the life we have planned. We know that at intermit~ tent times we will be in limbo again, wondering why, but scared of finding out the answer. For the time being, we push down the home stretch toward the finish line. Happy New Year. 
36 SCHOLASTIC/May 1984 





