
IF YOU WANT TO GET INVOLVED IN CAMPUS LIFE, MAKE PLANS TO ATTEND... 

TUESDAY, AUGUST 31 7:00 P.M. -9:00 P.M. 
JOYCE (ENTER FIELDHOUSE 

WHERE ELSE CAN YOU FIND... 
* 
200+ Student Clubs and Organizations! 

* 
Over 800 leadership and involvement opportunities waiting for YOU! 

* 
Club sports ranging from Gymnastics to Rodeo! 

* 
Representatives from 40+ volunteer/community service agencies! 

* 
Voices of Faith -The 1999 Club of the Year! 

* 
Performance exhibitions from student groups! 

* 
2,000 of your fellow classmates! 

* 
Information on how to start your own student organization! 



SPONSORED BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES, RECSPORTS & CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL 
A z N E 

The Freshman 15 


No matter how excited you are to leave home for the first time and begin your new life, working and playing on your own, you probably have some lingering questions about what to expect at Notre Dame. Scholastic offers 15 tips to help make the transition smoother. 
by Bridget Bradburn 
Packing 101 e 
While stuffing yourfamilytrucksterfull to the brim with everything you own, check out Scholastic's recommendations for important items you won't want to forget. by Kristin A/worth 
How to Do South Bend 
Answering the eternal question, "What is there to do in a mid­sized Indiana town?" this guide compiles some great ways to make the best of Michiana' s varied resources. by Aaron Nolan 
A Different World by Jared Marx  7  
Late Edition by Tina Zurcher  8  
Meet the Family by Michelle Crouch, Lauren  
Winterfield and Tina Zurcher  11  
Perfect Strangers by Allison Fashek  13  
The Big 10 by Christopher Hamilton  20  
A Party You Can't Refuse by Kara Zuaro ·  24  
Setting the Stage by Kathleen Corte  26  
Departments  


From the Editor ND Notebook Campus Watch Week in Distortion Final Word  2 5 19 27 28  
NOTRE  DAME•SUMMER  l  9 9 9  


a::'.
,0 
I-­
0 
UJ UJ 
I 
I­
~ 
0 
a::'. 
LL 
i 
l 
I
1....__ 
I I 
I 
Now's the time 
Ilove asking questions, which is gener­ally how I find out all sorts of things I never wanted to know. By the time I was 18, I should have learned this. But I was well into my first week of freshman year and glowing with the wisdom of new indepen­dence, so it didn't occur to me to keep my mouth shut. I could have talked about the weather, or may be football. Instead, I wanted to learn about the person sitting next to me, so I started with the only piece of informa­tion I knew about him. "How does it feel to be a junior?" He didn't even hesitate. "Ihate it. Itmeans that next year I'm going to be a senior." At the time, I figured he was just a negative person. But when I went into my junior year, people asked me the same thing-and I realized that I, too, was clinging for dear life to my time here. This August, I will be a senior. Truth be told, I'm terrified. Our parents told us all about it: The best years of your life, enjoy it while you can, · how time flies. But they also told us about the Tooth Fairy and Santa Claus, so we're used to not believing them. That's why it's so scary to realize what they said about college is true. As you sit on that last suitcase and curse the fates for making your green sweater so horrendously bulky, consider the journey you're about to begin. It's one of the best rides in the action park, but it's also one of the shortest.You '11 feel the wind race across your skin and you '11 open your mouth and scream for the adventure of it all. Just don't close your eyes, or you '11 wind up a senior who can't believe most ofher college years are over. 

When you get here, you'11 do what all crazy freshmen do. Whether you love it or hate it, these will be the first of countless memories you'll absorb. You'll find the best view on campus -never go by without stopping to admire it. You'11 study hard, play harder and make some of the best friends you've ever known. At 4 a.m., you '11 get this insane urge to do cartwheels along South Quad. Do it, and savor the moment. 
Notre Dame isn't perfect. You are not coming to heaven. Things here will disillu­sion you, challenge your beliefs and force you to reevaluate what you have always held constant. Through it all, you will grow to love this place and appreciate it for the impact it will have on your life and your identity. You will see the Dome not as a symbol of some far-off ideal, but as the reality of your own experience. 
So take the time to love it here, and remember you have a chance at a top-qual­ity education. Not facts, not theories, but individual growth. Dance in the rain by the lake, make a late-night run for chips and salsa with people you don't even know, make a spectacle of yourself in the dining hall for the pure fun of it. 
This is your world for a precious four years. Take advantage of it. Welcome to college, where everything is 
new. You're not bound to anything, so take a chance, start over, and see where you go. Along the way, you may run across me. I'll be making snow angels, or talking to ducks or perched atop the stairs at Bond Hall. Stop and say hi. But don't ask me how it feels to be a senior. Ifyou're curious, ask me instead how it feels to be a student at Notre Dame. I love it. It means I'll aly.,ays belong here. 


Who we are 
Scholastic Magazine is a biweekly cam­pus publication for Notre Dame stu­dents. It's among the oldest collegiate pub­lications in the nation. We cover everything on campus: news, sports, campus life and entertainment. And we even throw in a humor section, too. We're a student-produced magazine, and that means we need your help. First, as readers. Never, .and I do mean never, enter the dining hall on Thursday night ( every other week) without picking up an issue of Scholastic. Read it cover to cover (yes, there will be pop quizzes). And second, we need you to join our staff. Writers, photog­raphers, artists and page designers -we welcome them all. And it's not unusual for freshmen to take over as assistant editors, so hunt us down if you're interested in getting involved. We're in the basement of South · Dining Hall, and we're always looking for new staffers. We're fun. We promise. 
~d-
Edho, in Chief ~ 


2 
SCHOLASTIC SUMMER 1999 
MAGAZINE 


presents 

Coming Events 
A WEEK-LONG SERIES OF FIRESIDE CHATS .A WEEK OF  
AROUND THE THEME OF THE 3RD MILLENNIUM: PSYCHIC EVENTS:  
Technologically Historically · Humanistically Spiritually Globally  .An Astrologer AYogi AShaman AGypsy AHealer  

A PANEL DISCUSSION ON DISABILITY AWARENESS 
December 1, 1999 

MONTHLY "FIRESIDES AT FIVE" . STORYTELLER ABOUT THE HOLOCAUST 
4 
SCHOLASTIC 

SUMMER· 1999
MAGAZINE 

GUIDE WORDS 

Learn Your Irish 
A lexicon ofkey words you'll need to know 
The Digs 'Brare/Hesburgh: the 14-story library on the east end of campus, not the man. Al­though the man (Fr. Ted Hesburgh, presi­dent ofthe university from 1952-1987) does have his office in the library. D6/D2/D2000: student parking lots Grape: Grape Rd., a mile or so east of cam­

. pus, where pretty much eve,ything is located, including restaurants, bookstores, the mall, clothing stores and supermarkets Huddle: food court with a BK, pizza shop and convenience store in LaFortune Meijer: superstore along Grape road. If God made it, you can find it here. JACC (pronounced "Jack"): the Joyce Cen­ter, location of the basketball arena, hockey arena and large all-purpose space The Rock: not the movie, but the Rockne Memorial. A solid workout center at the far end of South Quad LaFun: LaFortune Student Center O'Shag: O'Shaughnessy Hall, College of Arts and Letters building • OIT: Office of Information Technologies, located in the CCMB by the library. These are the people you call when your computer crashes the day before a paper's due. God Quad: where Main Building (the Dome), the Basilica, LaFun and Sorin and Walsh Halls are located. It's in the center of campus. North Quad: mostly residential, tree-filled quad on the north side of campus South Quad: the largest quad, it stretches from the Rock to O 'Shag Mod Quad: location of Knott, Siegfried, and Pasquerilla East and West West Quad: actually located south ofSouth Quad, West Quad features Welsh Family, Keough, O'Neill and McGlinn Halls . North: Nortli Din~ng Hall South: South Dining Hall Stepan & Stepan: Stepan Center is on the far north comer ofcam.pus (the strange geo­desic-dome building) while Stepan Chemis­try Building is attached to the science hall, just north of O'Shag. Stonehenge: the war-memorial fountain at the south end of North Quad . Touchdown Jesus: mosaic on the library which blesses the football team 
SUMMER 1999 
Wild Weekends Sweatbox: freshman party, 200 people stacked in a quad with an inch ofbeer on the floor Natty Light: the unbearable frosh drink (hardly of choice) . Hookup: the undefinable random guy/girl fun time, preferably at a sweatbox . HTH: hometown honey -if you're stuck with one of these, you can't do the above SYR: Screw Your Roommate dance (not literally), asemi-formal . Dogbook: photo directory you page through to find dates for dances 
Late Night With ... Anyone? Quarter Dogs: culinary high point at the Huddle after midnight -hot dogs for a quarter . Parietals: the time when members of the opposite sex must leave the dormitories. It's midnight during the week and 2 a.m. on weekends. Pumpkin Time/Witching Hour: when members of the opposite sex must leave your dorm room because of parietals Reckers: the 24-hour godsend ofan eatery behind South Dining Hall 
Famous People The Gipp: Scholastic's own mystery man about campus (be careful if you decide to secretly urinate around the lakes late at night-he'll find out about it), named for 
the renowned George Gipp 
SMC Chicks (pronounced "Smick"): Saint 
Mary's students 
Domer: that's what you are -get used to it fast Monk: Fr. Edward A. Malloy, CSC, our president 
Upperclass Lingo.Only Patty 0: the former vice president of stu­dent affairs (we'll miss you!) Bridget's: hallowed site of the ultimate freshman bar in years gone by, busted and closed in 1997 Scoping: checking out members of the oppo­site sex, generally an upperclass male activity focusing on freshman girls in the dining halls 
-TinaZurcher,JaredMarxandKimBlackwell 
Q&A 


10uestions with 


1999 Valedictorian 
Somebody has to be at the top. This year, Jennifer Ehren, a chemical e'!girieering ma­jorfrom Madison, Wis.,found herselfat the top ofhei· class. So just what exactly does it take to become a valedictorian at one ofthe nation's most prestigious universities? 
Was it always a goal of yours to be valedictorian? No. I wasn't high school.valedictorian, so I had no intentions coming to this university 
ofbeing valedictorian. Grades don't matter 
to me. The goal ofmy whole college career wasn't to get straight As, it was to learn as much as I could. 
What are your plans for after graduation? 
I am doing the ACE [Alliance for Catholic Education] service program, I will be at Notre Dame taking education classes this summer and during the scho?l year I will be in Biloxi, Miss., teaching science and math. 
With a chemical engineering major, how 
did you decide to become involved in ACE? 
I really wanted to do service after gradua­tion, and I really wanted to do teaching as my service. It's a good program because it intertwines faith, community living and teaching. Also, you earn a masters ofeduca­tion. 
What is the best place on campus for a little quiet down-time? The Grotto. It's so peaceful there. You re­ally feel calm and there's serenity all over. 
What is the longest time you've . gone without sleeping? I never pulled an an.:.nighter. I guess the littlest sleep I got in one day was one hour. 
continued on next page -. 
SCHOLASTIC 5 
MAGAZINE 

z! 
0 
z 
0 
-I 
m 
0:, 
0 0 
i\ 
~ 
0 
0 
dl 
w 
0 ~ 
z 
0 
z 
Q&A 
continued from previous page 
What is the besttradition at Notre Dame? 
Dorm Masses are great because of the com­
munity you have with your dorm. They're 
really geared toward college students. The 
dances are just fun and bring out the com­
munity again. 
What will you miss most about college after graduation? 
The people. I just think some of the most phenomenal people I'll ever meet are here. · It's going to be hard to go away fr~m that. 
What was the best class you took at Notre• Dame? 
Religion and Autobiography with Father Dunne. I just loved it.I held onto every word he said. 
What was the biggest question on your mind· before freshman year? · I wanted to know what I was going to do for the rest of my life. But I still don't know that. You never get life figured out. 
Who has the best pizza in South Bend? ;Bruno's has the best crust! But Jlike Pizza Hut, too. -Kathleen Corte 

SANCTIONED GRAFFITI 



Fun and Games 
Orientation weehend is full ofit -fun, that is 
When you arrive on campus late this summer, a gang of T-shirt clad . upperclassmen will immediately descend on your car. They will surround you, seize your belongings and hustle you to a bare room. Scary as this may be, it should not alarm you. Those strangers emp­tying your trunk constitute the Freshman Orientation Staff, and they will be your first contacts at Notre Dame. For nearly all freshmen, being away from home in unfamiliar surroundings is a fright­ening prospect. Fortunately, the activities during freshman orientation offer informal ways to meet the people in your dorm and around campus. Most of the activities are enjoyable, although some will make you feel like you are back in junior high. As g<>ofy as they may be, though, these activi­ties ease the transition from home life to that of Notre Dame. Here are so~e of the events to look forward to: Ice Cream Socials: Usually held in front of the sponsoring dorm, they challenge fresh­men to make friends while stuffing their faces with melting, sugary goodness. 
Mixers: Typically, the dorms from each quad get together, hire a DJ and give fresh­men a chance to dance and mingle in the summer air. 
Tie Exchanges: Every guy from the par­ticipating dorm places his tie in a box. The ties go over to a girl's dorm, where ·each girl picks out one to · wear. When the dorms meet, each guy tries to find the girl wearing his tie -and hopes that she Hkes him as much as she likes.his tas.te in clothing. 
Graffiti Dance: The biggest event dur­ing freshman orientation -all the· fresh­men gather, carrying markers and wearing white T-shirts. During the dance, ifyou see someone who interests you, ask if you cah sign each other's shirts. It's a good idea to bring two different markers to use when people ask if they can. sign your shirt: one color for those you want to remember and the other for the ones you would rather forget. · -Jim Pastore 


Announcing 

The latest in student convenience -Domer Dollars can be used at the Hammes Bookstore. With a simple swipe of your university ID-card, you can us~ your Domer Dollars to purchase not only textbooks, but great Notre Dame sportswear, gift and insignia merchandise, religious items and general books. 
Domer Dollars can be us·ed at ali Food Service locations accepting points.' Do you have friends or family visiting? Why not treat them to a meal using your Domer Dollars? 
SCHOLASTIC
6 

MAGAZINE 
1 1rniis££f,+J';~:;;J11u;t.ei•rst1i:¼~b$~;&,1.a,tiaM I 
I Socialt'SecilimyJ}jQfil8er}jl}ij;;.Niliniiberl
I . 1 115".-'· _ ·r~acr,-·,, · .. <:--.-~
"'ClGa _:... · · ress;~~;::.~:;;r,,>t.~:-,tJ~;,·.,,{~:~¢~lli:)¼,:--J,~.,·<: ,-w:'-~-~
1 ­

I!R-e;r;~afaenN@ctatessc,}i~i\j,;,ii\f:4W'f1'{fJ
I . 
I fr-t•·· ..*· -1··n1-,:·• .. ·.·''tro··· ··n,··•,···0-··•,:--;;t/J·'.l
tliO.Ca s,t::T10ne{1NUn)ue1;'.,Lfk"r};fo2/,·(,\:;j
I . . 
ltHbmetRfu?ffet'Nu'.mberr'''.':.h'>l''."::i I 
. , Enclosed is the foll011Ving amount fo open 
a Domer Dollar Account ' 
I 

$.I (minimum $50) 
l Deposit is by:
I. _Cash _Check _Money. Order 
I rc-·t"'i;::,p'·"···'tls··r1,.·-)-'J.t"'! r·""'"·¼1~1·"· ·1':·~"->tNl
~a: c.a1,;,1SA ,,,... t8 na u_re:J~1-'.,~~'t?~Df};:i.1,a stl
. I . . I 
Please mail to: University of Notre Dame 
1. 

Dining Access and Card.Services Office· 
I 

P.O. Box 1043 I Notre Dame, IN 46556 
I 
SUMMER 1999
I 



ADifferent World 
As Student Body President Micah Murphy and Vice President Mike Palumbo will tell you, college politics are vastly different from high school 
BY JARED MARx or anyone whose high school student 
government spent more time planning 

dances than listening to students' con­cerns, you'11 discover a difference when you get to college. 
When the subject of joining the Big Ten invaded campus last year, the student body was nearly unanimous in its objection. In response, the Student Senate passed a reso­lution calling for Notre Dame to remain independent, and this resolution was con­sidered by Notre Dame's administration and ultimately the board of directors in London. Notre Dame decided not to join the Big Ten. 
This year, Notre Dame's student govern­ment will be headed up by a president and vice president who want to maintain the level ofresponsiveness seen in the Big Ten issue. Without further ado, meet this year's president and vice president, Micah Murphy and Michael Palumbo. 
Micah Murphy, the student body presi­dent, is from Wheaton, Il~. As a freshman, he was elected Keough Hall's freshman class representative and then freshman class vice president. But a collapsed lung at the beginning ofhis second semester kept him in the hospital aiid away from Notre Dame for the rest of the year. In his sophomore year, he says, "I was basically miser­able. I had missed the elections and wasn't involved with anything. I just went to class and stud­ied." But in his junior year, he was elected Keough Hall president, and then he cam­paigned for and . won the student body presidency for his senior year. Origi­nally slated to run with last year's vice-president Andrea Selak, he joined up-with Michael Palumbo after both of their running mates left the election. 
·Palumbo, for his part, transferred-into Notre Dame 
F
SUMMER 1999 
his sophomore year. Although he says he was basically uninvolved for his first se­mester here, during his second semester he was asked to join the elections committee, which is charged with making sure elec­tions are fair and impartial. Through that, he says, he got to know a lot of the candidates, and was eventually appointed Student Sen­ate Secretary. That position helped him to "get to know a lot of the issues and the structures involved with student govern­ment." He notes that he first met"Murphy while bowling with the Executive Council, a group of students closely invo_lved with Student Government. 
Both Murphy and Palumbo were involved with student government in high school, but previous experience is certainly not a pre­requisite. Murphy says that the biggest dif­ference between high school and Notre Dame student government is that now it's more "real." Palumbo adds that Notre Dame stu­dent government has a much more national perspective. He relates that the recent issue of sweatshop labor· in the production of apparel was something that was dealt with at other schools before Notre 
·Murphy 
M 

Dame had to address it. Murphy notes, "We also have to be aware ofwhat other schools are doing. Notre Dame is a leading institu­tion. People are watching to see what we do." 
Since the beginning oftheir term in April, Murphy and Palumbo have already begun the implementation of their platform. They cite the development ofa newer, more-user­friendly du Lac (the infamous book of rules and regulations on campus) for next year, as well as an expansion of where Flex Points (electronic money that you can access through your student ID) are accepted. For the future, they expect even more expansion of places where Flex Points can be used, including new Flex-accepting vending ma­chines. They also have plans for standardiz­ing parietals ( equally infamous rules about when girls must be out of guys dorms and vice-versa) in all dorms, and changing some parietal times for special occasions and foot­ball weekends. 
Considering the aura ofa presidency, one might fear a touch of elitism among those involved in student government from the beginning of their college careers. But if Murphy and Palumbo prove anything, it's that you can get involved at any time. Addi­tionally, Palumbo notes that student senate meetings are open to all stu­dents, and that every organization _and club on campus always seems to be looking for more involvement. He says that people shouldn't ever feellike they "missed theirturn" to 
be involved. 
As for advice to fresh­
men, Palumbo encour­
ages everyone to 
"dream, because 
when you're here, 
you can do anything 
you want." Murphy, 
on the other hand, of­
fers more practical 
advice: "Just because 
th,e· YoCream in the 
gdininghallhasnofat, 
~ doesn'tmeanitwon't 
CD 
Ill make you fat." D 
r-
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

z 
m 
~ 
(/) 
j 
n

n 


by Tino Zurcher 


The Big Ten 
After half a year of an­ticipation while Notre Dame debated joining the BigTen,thede-Q
cision to remain independent was announced in Febru­ary. During the interim period, campus debate raged in the publications, the dining halls and even the classrooms over what the best choice for the university's future would be. 


Membership in the Big 
Ten· would have affected Notre Dame not just ath­letically but academically 
as well. Besides changing its athletic conference to the Big Ten from the Big East, Notre Dame would have become a member of the CIC (Committee for Institutional Cooperation), which facilitates coopera­tive academic research among member universi­ties. The debate focused around whether or not Notre Dame's fundamen­tal identity would be com­promised by joining the conference. 
After a process of infor-~ "' 
mation sharing, adminis-!!! 
0 

trators decided that Notre 1§ Dame would not be com-(!)SLAM DUNK. Freshman star Troy 
of Notre Dame as Catho­lic, private and indepen­dent" would be "a match for an association of uni­versities ~ even a splen­did association of great universities -that are uniformly secular, pre­dominantly state institu­tions and with a long heri­tage ofconference affilia­tion.'' Ultimately, preserv­ing Notre Dame's unique character motivated the decision against joining the conference. 
Dining I f 


mprovemen S 

Notre Dame greatly improved the dining situ­ation on South Quad to give students a welcome surprise in the fall. It opened Reckers, a 24­hour social space com­plete with food, on the south end of campus at the beginning of this school year. The restau­rant is named after Clem­ent Reckers, the first stu­dent to enroll at the uni­versity. It fulfilled the con­stant need for an all-night place to study arid social­ize while also staving off the munchies. 
Although Reckers was 
patible with the Big Ten. Murphy and the men's basketball . a big hit with the students Father Malloy stated that team; who compete in the Big East, from its opening, it ap­
. would have had a new lineup of 
they had ;,o c~ns1d_er teams to face had the university peared in the news sev­whetherthe core 1dent1ty decided to join the Big Ten. eral tiines this year under 
SCHOLASTIC
8 
MAGAZINE 
questionable circumstances. One ofthe prob­
lems was with students who came in late at 
night under the influence and behaved inap­
propriately. Another issue was finding 
ei10ugh·people to work all the shifts at odd 
hours. 
The addition of Reckers was paired with 
a renovation of South Dining Hall. It was 
under construction all last spring, so a mass 
exodus of students from the south end of 
campus to the north end would occur during 
dinner hours. After its completion in time 
for the reopening in the fall, the students 
tended to move the other way. 
Those on North quad weren't complain­
ing, though. A Burger King opened in 
Lafortune Student Center last August 
Though it has more limited hours than 
Reckers -it closes at midnight -it offers 
a refreshing change from quarter dogs, the 
ultra-cheap, late-night fare available at the 
Huddle Mart. 


Sweatshop Investigation 
When it was discovered that sweatshops 
might be used to produce Notre Dame ap­parel, the university. took steps to investi­gate its producers' manufacturing processes. · It wanted to ensure that its 1997 · Code of Conduct, which set out guidelines for its 
licensees, was being followed. 
The university became a charter univer­
sity member of the Fair Labor Association, 
a monitoring extension of the Apparel In­
dustry Partnership. To further monitor the 
producers' activities, Notre Dame hired an 
independent accounting firm, Price­
waterhouse Coopers, to conduct random 
inspections of manufacturing sites. A cam­
pus task force, including members of the 
student body as well as experts, was created 
to study the issues related to sweatshops. 
Notre Dame was the first university to 
create a required Code of Conduct . and 
SUMMER 1999 


among the first to investigate its licensees to such a degree. However, students staged a sit-in outside the office of Bill Hoye, the university's spokesman on the sweatshop issue, and held several rallies on the issue. 

Power Plant Explosion 
In April an explosion occurred at Notre Dame's power plant located on the north end of campus. Two people were injured in the blast: Paul Kempf, the director of utili­ties at Notre Dame, and Jami Thibodeaux, an on-call security officer. 
The explosion took place in the cooling tower structure adjacent to the north side of the power plant. A fire broke out in the building, causing an electrical transformer to overheat and explode. An area around the lake and behind the power plant was blocked for a time to facilitate investigation of the fire's cause, which is still unknown. 
The campus did not lose power at any time, nor was the operation of the power plant affected. Since the fire and explosion happened in the cooling tower, however, the air conditioning capacity on campus was adversely affected. Many of the build­ings will remain without air conditioning well into the 1999-2000 school year. Six of the nine cooling units were lost, and more than a million dollars may be needed for repairs. 

Riots 
Just before finals time, a massive power outage in the area shut down the campus for about 45 minutes shortly after midnight. The lights went off in most campus build­ings, computers across campus shut down, and electronic door locks on dorms stopped work­ing. 
Frustrated stu­

0 dents descended upon the quads, some ofthem lighting bon­fires, while others watched and took pictures· or even videotaped the events. Couches and lofts taken down for the year's end fueled the fires, with some reaching as large as 11 feet ·. 
f-

across. Police cars drove (f­on campus to scatter the 5­crowds while fire trucks ~ arrived to extinguish fires. a:
00 

for underage consumption. 
The "riots" -considered small-scale since no one was hurt and they were so short-lived-stirred heated debate on cam­pus. Some people viewed them as memo­ries, the most exciting thing to happen to them at Notre Dame. Others saw them as mindless destruction, endangering the stu­dents and vandalizing university property. Most administrators were concerned with the student body's thoughtlessness in the mob mentality that arose. Some were disap­pointed that fires de­prived needy people of furniture: items students could have donated to the poor at the end of the year were instead torched. 

Eck Center 
The Eck Center, a $21.5 million com­plex housing the new 
Hammes G) • 
Bookstore, the Visitor's 
~~Un~: A:s:~iati~hn~ ff 3·.·: 
was opened in the GO SOUTH, YOUNG MAN. After more than a year of construction, spring. Franklin c. the Eck Center opened on the south side of campus with a new Eck, a 1944 Notre bookstore and visitors' center. 
Dame graduate and· the chairman and chief executive officer of Advanced Drainage Systems, underwrote the cost of the center as a gift to the university. 
. Eck has underwritten several other cam­pus landmarks. He funded Notre Dame's Eck Tennis Pavilion in 1987 and Frank Eck Baseball Stadium in 1994. On the academic side, he established an endowed collection in chemical engineering in the Hesburgh Library. 
Two buildings comprise the center: the 65,130 square-foot bookstore and a 26,435 square-foot facility housing the Alumni As­sociation and the Visitor's Center. The book­store is one of the largest such stores in higher education. Its size and streamlined design should channel the immense traffic during football weekends much more easily than the old bookstore did. It includes a 
cafe, leather wingback chairs, wood finishings and even a piano, making the bookstore an easy comparison to Barnes and Noble or Borders. 
The style ofthe buildings is a return to the older style of on-campus architecture. The Eck Center was constructed in the tradi­tional Gothic style seen in the older dorms 
and classroom buildings at Notre Dame. 


Flex 14 
The 1998-99 school year was the inaugural year for what was, atleast for the students, a revo­lution in eating at Notre Dame. For the first time, students were given the choice of the regular 21­meals-a-week dining hall plan or a new 14­meals-a-week plan with 20,000 bonus flex points a semester, the equiva­
, 

. . . . · POWER STRUGGLE. Durmg a campus-wide power outage, students flooded the 
Some citations were given quad, and many started bonfires with old couches and lofts. lent of $200. The points 
9

SUMMER 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 



,,,_-------------------------------------------'-------------­


can be used to charge food at several ,-­campus outlets, including the restau­rants in the Huddle and Reckers. To access the points, students used their ID cards to charge purchases. 


Food sales soared at places on cam­pus where those on the new plan could "flex it." Students could be seen taking their dates "out to eat" at Reckers rather than going off-cam­pus. Candy consumption in the Huddle quadrupled, and the new Burger King became a campus break­fast standard. 
Non-Discrimination Inclusion Debate 


The decision on whether to in­clude sexual orientation in Notre Dame '·s non-discrimination clause has been an ongoing debate. Cur­rently, the · university does not list sexual ori-
A 
entation in the clause, V 
although it is addressed ci 


[II FIGHT FOR YOUR RIGHTS. Despite protests on t:: in the Spirit of Inclusion, a non-le­campus, the Board of Fellows voted not to add a non­gally binding statement in the stu-discrimination clause to du Lac, the campus rule book. 
.I 
dent rule book. It condemns harass­ment of gay and lesbian members of the university and states that univer­sity policy prohibits such actions. It expresses a desire to create an environ­ment ofmutual respect, hospitality and wannth where all members will feel welcomed and valued. 
After the Academic Council voted in favor of creating"a non-discrimina­tion clause including sexual orienta­tion, the decision was referred to the Board ofFellows by Father Malloy. In December, the Board voted unani­mously to retain the current status of the clause. However, their vote was kept private until it was presented to the Board of Trustees in February, where its decision was confirmed. 
The Board of Fellows say they de­cided to keep the Spirit of Inclusion rather than change the clause in order to preserve the Catholic character of Notre Dame. The Fellows did not be­lieve that civil courts should be able to interpret and apply Catholic teaching in regard to Notre Dame's affairs in the case of a lawsuit based on a clause protecting homosexuals. 0 

WASHINGTON HALL--Donald Crafton, Chairman of 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre, (FfT) has 
announced that the annual reception for students inter­
ested in film, television or theatre will be held Wednes­
day, August 25, at 6:00 P.M. in Washington Hall. 
Students interested in any aspect of acting, directing, 
scenery, costuming, lighting, management, or who are 
considering film, television and theatre as a major are 
encouraged to attend. 

Notre Dame student films are showcased each year at. the extremely popular annual film festival. Many FfT student films have won awards at national film festivals, and a collection of the best Notre Dame films will soon be available in national distribution. 
FIT has a terrific relationship with area television· 
stations, and many students have earned internships in a 
variety of production areas: WNDU, the local NBC 
affiliate, is owned by Notre Dame and provides television 
professionals who teach some Notre Dame classes. 
Theatre at Notre Dame is open to all students--majors . and non~majors--who wish to participate. A wide variety 
of activities is available including: acting, scenic design 
and constuction, costume design and construction, lighting design and execution, marketing, directing and stage management. There are theatre opportunities to fit every schedule and levei of talent. 
This season, FTT will present a mainstage season consisting of four plays and many other acting and directing projects. Mainstage productions will be: 
Hedda Gabler The Water Engine All's Well That Ends Well The Love ofthe Nightingale 
All's Well That Ends Well will be performed by ACTORS FROM THE LONDON STAGE who will conduct a two-week residency sponsored by the Henkels Visiting Lecture Series. All FIT projects will need student involvement. There are positions for all who wish to participate. 
Auditions for the first two plays will be held Wednes­day, August 25, and Thursday, August 26, at 7:00 PM. 
FfT activities are an excellent way to meet new people, make new friends, and have a great time while involving 
· yourself in the creation .of something special on campus. 

If you cannot attend the reception, but wish to be involved or have questions about film, please call Jill Godmilow at (219) 631-7167 or Ted Mandell at (219) 631­6953. If you are interested in opportunities in theatre please call Richard E. Donnelly at (219) 631-5958. 
I 

10 SCHOLASTIC SUMMER 1999 
MAGAZINE 



z 
m 
~ 
(/) 
The key players in the Notre Dame game 
BY MICHELLE CROUCH, 
LAUREN WINTERFIELD 
AND TINA ZURCHER 
r. Edward A. "Monk" Malloy, CSC, ii the 16th president of the univer­sity and bas pheld this position since 1986. Monk is more accessible than most university presidents, as he teaches a fresh­man seminar every year and lives in Sorin Hall, behind which · . he shoots . hoops 
F 


Mon.k 
with guys from the. 
Mall.QlT:~:;N~:r:u~:~ 

.·· 'J and Vanderbilt be­fore accepting a teaching post in the No.tre Dame Department of Theology in 1974, which he still holds. 
Monk is active in public service; .chairing ACE (American Council on Education) and Campus Compact, among other organiza­tions. In the past he has served as founding director of the Points of Light Foundation and as a member of the National Advisory Council on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. Currently, Monk acts as co-chair of the subcommittee on college drinking of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, a component of the National Institutes of Health. 
Monk has also written niany articles and several books. His fourth book, on major issues in higher education today, will be published i.n the fall of 1999. · 
No one knows.much yet about Fr. Mark · Poorman, whowillsucceedPattyO'Haraas In this position, Poorman will be respon­
sible for areas including campus ministry, residence life, stu­dent activities, Notre 


Poor 

M~ 
Dame security /po­lice and alcohol and drug education'. Stu­dents caught break­ing parietals and drinking in the halls will likely get to know him very well. 
Poorman is currently ail associate profes-: sor of theology who has directed the university's Master of Divinity program since 1992. He teaches undergraduate and graduate courses in Christian ethics, as well . _as pastoral skills courses for students pursus ing ordained and professional lay ministry. Since August of iast year, Poorman served as executive assistant to Monk Malloy. 
Other posts he held in~ elude associate director of campus ministry, rector of Dillon Hall and priest in residence in Grace Hall. 
. With all this student con­tact under his belt, Poorman should be able to deal with ResLife viola­tions quite well. 
Coming into his third year as head coach of the · football team, Coach Bob Davie is experienced and 
ready to lead the 1999team into battle. After a solid 
. . .... si,,1}1,rj~&i:~: '~;
· performance in the past 
MONK SHOT. Father Malloy, the president of the university, 
two years with 14 victo­
joins in the bookstore basketball competition each spring. His 
regular-season games and two consecutive 
postseason bowl invitations, Davie is point­
ing Notre Dame football in the right direc­
tion. 
In 1998, Notre Dame won all its home games for the first time since


Coach 
1989 and fin­
ished 22nd in the 

Davie 
AP poll. Hopes 

are high that the trend will hold for the next 
season, when the Irish will face a tough pool 
of opponents. The schedule for the fall in­
cludes Kansas, Michigan, Oklahoma, Ari­
zona State and Tennessee. 
The team will have a far different, far younger face this year. A new offensive coordinator, Kevin Rogers, has been ap­pointed. Plus, Notre Dame's career rushing leader Autry Denson and four offensive line 
vice president of Student Affairs on July 1.  ries in the team's last 16  team is regular.ly ranked among the top 32 teams.  
SUMMER 1999  SCHOLASTIC  11  
MAGAZINE  

wYOUR SYLLABUS FOR 
LL. 
(/) 
::J 
a..
I 
I, 
~ 
<(
I 
u 
.. 

Packing 101 
A crash course on the basics you will need for your first year 
Lists. They consumed every open inch ofmy desk, dresser, mirror and even my car dashboard the summer before I left for college. Unfortunately, when the time came to transport all of my belongings, I found that everything on those lists would take up two cars and about three dorm rooms. It is tempting to bring all of your earthly possessions to college, but most dorm rooms are downright tiny, and you have to take into consideration the fact that you'll be sharing that room with at least one other person. Here are some ·packing tips and a little common sense as you prepare to make the great migratiQn from home to college. 
14 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

BY I<RJSTIN ALWORTH 
41 •
J?'1n, -~ _
~~.ni t1JlX'e, 

Figuring out how to arrange furniture in a dorm room usually requires a magician. Many stu­dents make extra space in their rooms by constructing lofts, elevated beds that leave open space underneath. Lofts can be a pain to construct, but the added space can make the trouble of assembly worthwhile. Loft kits can be purchased relatively inexpen­sively at stores like Lowe's. The university regulates what kind ofloft you can have in your room, and the regulations vary from dorm to dorm, so you need to look into your dorm's rules before constructing one. All dorm rooms come equipped with beds, desks and a wardrobe or dresser to store your clothes, but most students bring extra furniture. Couches, bean-bags and futons are popular, since they are a. lot more comfortable than sitting on the floor. Carpeting is anothernecessity in the dorms, unless you want to live with hard tile floors through the year. You'll prob­
programs without making an expensive 
investment. 
There are numerous computer clusters 
with both Macintoshes and PCs on cam­
pus, some of which are open 24 hours a 
day. The cluster computers have on-line 
access and CD-ROMs. However, if you 
plan to use the cluster computers during 
especially busy times of the year like mid­
terms and finals, expect to wait in line. 
Most students bring or rent a refrigera­
tor, which is useful for those beverages and late-night snacks. A hot-pot is a nice addition_too, since it can make everything . from hot chocolate for cold winter days to ·macaroni and cheese for more creative· chefs. Also, fans are crucial during the first few w~eks of school if you are living in an 
older dorm without air conditioning. 
A 
little bit ofdecorating can personalize a dorm room and make it inviting. The overhead lights in most rooms are di.m and will make 
ably want to wait to buy carpet until you have measured your room, since 

D~_corative
dorm rooms come in all shapes and 
sizes. · 

Electronics are an important source of entertainment in dorm rooms. It is a good idea to bring a stereo because some students find South Bend radio lacking. A TV and a VCR are nice additions to a dorm ·~ _ '.·. . roo.m .even though£lll Q. ~k. . . ~­~ ~_,' ~r .olf)j =JJ 
· 
Touches 
the room look like a cellar, so pack some lamps. A desk lamp is a must, and floor lamps can brighten a room tremendously. Free-:standing halogen lights are also very popular, though some other schools have 
banned them as fire hazards. Posters and 
P.ictu~es, whe_thertheyareofyourfav_or-

IA_~.,r rte m.USIC group. or a Monet pnnt, **..Ji:: -~ ~ add character to a room and help cable isn't avail-muffle echoes. Creative touches able. But all dorms have TV lounges with likeChristmaslightsandplantsalso cable so you can still catch your favorite jazz up a room. 
SUMMER 1999 


7\ part from furnishings, there r-i.are many miscellaneous items that you will need for dormitory living. Since you will have to trek down the hall to take a shower, a robe and a shower caddy are important items. Many students wearflip­flops in the showers because they are not always the cleanest place to put your bare feet. 
As far as bedding is con­cerned, you will need to bring sheets, towels and blankets as none of these is provided by the university. Some dorms have extra long beds, so you may want to wait to hear from your rector before you pur­chase a new sheet set. 
A laundry bag or basket, a 

and lots of quarters are neces­sary if you plan on doing 
oddS and 
-_znds 
your own 

laundry. For students who have yet to conquer the washing machine, St. Michael's Laundry provides an on-campus service that will pick up your laundry each week, wash it and fold it for you if you opt to pay for their semester-long service. St. Michael's also has a dry cleaning service available to all. 
You will need to bring hangers for your clothes. Crates and other organizers are also useful for increasing storage space in your room and can be a good place to stash heavy winter clothes during the off-season. An alarm clock, preferably aloud _one, is also necessary to wake yoJJ up for those dreaded 
8:30 classes. South Bend has plenty ofdiscount stores, such as Meijer, ifyou forget something. The Student Union Board (SUB) also sponsors a "Fall Mall" at Stepan Center, where they sell and rent various items at reduced prices. 
There is really no need to agonize about forgetting something as you prepare yourown list ofthings to bring.Your friends will probably loan you that obscure tool or reference book_ on the one occasion you really need it. And your parents are only a phone call and a care package away. D 

SCHOLASTIC 15. 
MAGAZINE 

SUMMER 1999 
i: 
Ii 
"Ii 
I w ii LL 
.....I
ii,.
! V)
! 
::J 
0... 
~ 
<( 
u Our survival guide will answer all ofyour questions about life as a Domer except how to fit Friends, ER and a 10-page paper into one night 

BY BRIDGET BRADBURN 
Vou've packed your entire life into six boxes and a couple ofsuitcases. You've heard all the advice from your well­meaning parents and all-knowing older friends and siblings. But no matter how prepared and eager you may be to start your college experience, questions about daily life at Notre Dame undoubtedly still linger. You are not alone. Fortunately, Scholastic has compiled a list of the answers you will need to survive your first year at Notre Dame. 
1. .s!tatting Out 

Freshman Orientation will be one ofthe most hectic weekends you'11 spend at Notre Dame. From the graffiti dance, where you meet other freshmen by signing their shirts, to scavenger hunts and cookouts, to moving in and saying goodbye to your parents, there is little time for homesickness. It may seem overwhelming, but try to make the most of these opportunities to meet new people. 
2. Btaving the r1ernenti: 

The weather in South Bend is notoriously unpredictable. Freshman Orientation week­end. is typically hot and humid, so you'11 want to bring some summer clothes -but you won't need them for long! The first snow can come as early as October, and the campus usually doesn't thaw out until March. Also, even if it's bright and sunny when you go into class, it's entirely likely that it will be pouring rain when you come out, so never forget your umbrella.It's use­ful even though the wind always blows it. inside out. 
g_ l=ood fot Thought 

Aftersettling into yourroom, you'11 prob­ably have worked up an appetite. North and 
16 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

South both make valiant attempts to offer a variety of culinary delights. Although the choices are sometimes less than appealing, remember that you can always fall back on the vast array ofcereals. You can find alter­natives to the standard dining hall fare in LaFun, which has several small restaurants (including Burger King) and a convenience store known as the Huddle Mart. Still an­other option is Reckers, the 24-hour coffee shop/general hangout on campus. If you're still hungry after all this, some dorms have food sales during prime study hours to help you out. 
4. Dining Out 

Inevitably, you will get tired of dining hall food and make your way to local restau­rants. South Bend and Mishawaka have plenty to offer. Macri's Deli is an affordable sandwich spot, in addition to TGIFriday's, Chili's, Olive Garden and Outback Steakhouse, which are close to campus. South Bend also has a few nicer restaurants, includingTheLanding, TheEmporium, The Wharf and Tippecanoe Place. Of course, if you just want to order in, rest assured that the Papa John's guys love ND students ­they're here all the time. And for some eatery-quality pizza, try Rocco's orBruno's, both traditional hangouts for Domers. 
5. Weekend ri:ca~ei: 

Weekends offer the perfect opportunity for students to escape from the ubiquitous tedium of schoolwork. In the fall, bus trips to away football games offer students the chance to visit other college towns. Once the football season is over, many students travel to Chicago and to Michigan City, an outlet shopping location, via the relatively affordable South Shore Railroad. In Febru­ary, the freshman class usually sponsors a class trip to Chicago, a great opportunity to bond with friends and make new ones as well. 
S. .s!ho~~lng Atound 

University Park Mall is close by, and a city bus runs from campus to the mall every half-hour during the day for the low fare of $1.50 round-trip. The 24-hour Meijer store on Grape is a favorite shopping place, offer­ing everything from frozen pizza bites to TVs. On campus, there is · a convenience store in LaFun. The bookstore has a limited amount of drugstore products, as well as various school supplies and anything you c~uld everpossibly want plastered with the ND logo. 
7. Hitting the Booki: 

You ~on'tneedanybooks on the first day ofclass, so it's bestto wait until your profes­sors give you a class syllabus with a list of 
· needed books and course packets. Before you go to the bookstore, check any lists posted in your dorm to see ifused books are for sale by upperclassmen -but remember to make sure they 'rethe right editions. When you do brave the bookstore, be prepared to wait in long lines and spend (unfortunately) most ofyour summer money in that one trip. However, the bookstore does sell some used books. 
~. Dollat .s!eni:e 

Ifit sounds like you will be spending a lot of money in the first few weeks of school, don't worry, -the spending will slow down. For the money left over, there is a branch of Key Bank in LaFun and a branch of the Notre DameFederal Credit Union (NDFCU) just behind campus, which offer students savings and checking options. And for those instant-cash needs, there are several A TMs on campus: in the basement ofLaFun and at Gate 10 ofthe JACC (serving Key Bank), at 
SUMMER 1999 

the bookstore (NDFCU) and in the base­mentofthelibrary (serving 1st Source Bank). 
9. Getting Wlted 

One way to save money and keep in close contact with family and friends is to use your ND e-mail account. If you don't have a computer here, just go to a computer cluster and a consultant will help you open your account free ofcharge. Ifyou did bring a computer, you can take it to the Office of Information Tech­nologies at the beginning of the year to get help install­ing ResNet, the campus network (with Netscape and Eudora, an e-mail program). The only thing you'll need to buy, if you don't have it, is an ethernet card and cable -but then you'11 be set to be an e-mail ad­dict and Internet junkie in your dorm room. 
10. Getting Involved 
There are other ways to amuse yourself on campus than visiting your favorite website 20 times a day. Watch fqr signs in the first few weeks of school advertising various f ND activities and the annual Activities NightintheJACC. Al­most every single or­ganization on campus will have a table and sign-up sheets (and sometimes candy) at Activities Night, so sign up for all that in-terest you. 
1!. A ~ound Mind in a ~ound Body 
For those who are concerned about keep­ing in shape (and almost everyone here seems to be), there are many exercise op­tions. Rolfs Sports Recreation Center, on the east end of campus, is a fairly new structure. In addition to an indoor track, basketball courts and weight room, Rolfs offers a roller-hockey rink, ping-pong and pool tables and a fitness-counseling center. The Rock offers a pool, a weight room and racquetball and basketball courts. There is an indoor track in both Loftus Sports Center 
SUMMER 1999 
and the JACC. Rolfs Aquatic Center holds an Olympic-size pool with a diving well. Finally, there are tennis courts and two golf courses on campus. For those looking for organized exercise, the RecSports depart­ment offers various activities. 
12. The Balancing Act 

It's good to get involved and stay fit, but remember that there will always be home­
~ 
.... 

work and projects to do. It can be difficult to manage all ofyour activities, but First Year of Studies provides several services espe­cially for freshmen to help them learn to balance the demands on their time. FYS offers free tutoring, time management and paper-writing classes and an advising pro­gram to assist freshmen in picking classes and a major. 
12. Taking the Night Off Central to social life at Notre Dame are hall dances. Informal dances here are known as SYRs (Screw Your Roommates) and are held in the dorms, while formals are usually held off-campus. Each dorm typically has one SYR and one formal each semester. It is traditional to bring your date a small gift, which can be anything from flowers or chocolates to plucked rubber chickens or squirt guns. For men, typical SYR attire consists of khaki pants, a tie and a blazer. For women, a short, semi-formal dress is the SYRnorm. 

14. lighti: Out 
Ifyouhaven'theard the term "parietals" yet, learn it. Parietals are the visita­tion hours at Notre Dame. Students must be out of the opposite sex's dorms by midnight on weekdays and by 2 a.m. on week­ends. However, there are 24-hour lounges in all of the dorms, so coed study­ing and socializing don't have to end at these hours. Fair warning: the conse­quences for violations can be severe. It is not a good idea to test these rules. 
15. The Joyi: of Cornmunal living 

No student escapes get­ting sick. As a preventa­tive measure, free flu shots are offered during the year. But the comqination of little sleep, lack ofexercise, un­balanced meals, stress, bad weather and close contact with other students can lead to many colds and flus. The 
infirmary has doctors and nurses on staff, as well as a pharmacy. But unless you are seriously ill, it is a better idea to keep your own supply ofmedication, stay in bed when you get sick and call home ifyou need a little extra attention. 
There is no experience common to every single Notre Dame freshman. Everyone's first days involve a great deal ofexploration and trial and error. But the more questions that can be answered before arriving on campus, the more excited you can be about embarking upon your first year at Notre Dame. D 
Kimberly Blachvell contributed to this sto,y. 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


zmeat-Buildings 
w 1nted To Buy 
=oR HOMES & 2FLTS

~ ldition. S & SW City. w 8 847-673-7097 
(./) 
1­G::: 'acant
oTOperty_ 
<( 
3334 
:ant Pro 
burban 
rREAM 
. ACRES f sale in County, . i(lage of ~am. 450 ontage on,
,e. Utm s near·site. 
34-offi research. 

01. l'-'\!)~11 IUly ! / / .:>--:J,!. I -:::>L½VV 
www.shetland.com 
II · ·--BATAVIA . 111 
.000 sf warehse. 10% Office 
• ed storage. 4 Docks 
fD. 32 ft dear. -879~3100 
or .Rent 
Central 

401 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 
FALL MALL • 1999 • 
____________;___--'-_____.:____ 
Decorating Your Room?! Couches, chairs, carpets, refrigerators, posters, and• 
Ilse 

For ~l.e 

other.dorm room necessities!· 
All in great conditidn! 
Location: Stepan Center 
_Friday, August 20· .9am-8pm 
.Saturday, August 21 l0am-8pm 
Sunday, August · llarn-5pm 

'99. ·-Rare--ii'tet-irrH 
$795K. Call owner: row 414'"427-0785 
Wisconsin 

N.E. WIS LAKEI 
$27,900 
.. ROERS PUBUI 
rivate wooded near the.he · ofet Natio ·ew 180·at re< aily . .L 8-768! 
loonlal< 
'TBUYLA 
.til you've ·calied .F E updated list 0 · consin's finest . r:fronts, isolate 
.·Aban 
~~ 
Call. 
dail 
lake 

ge, plus river · Pond proper. ·of the line w still high an 
r:e lo:w. ~n. r; ! 8-~ ·Da,ry~eatty.800-:S2
-n.•n"':Wislakes. 
in 

EWATERFI 
HOTSHEE 
ned Waterfr, s, ·Rivers & ta ral and riort r a FREE t.1S1 ~-9 Daily. 1 eatty. 800-22 
· .wislak¢s. 

:R lBA Sc It unfurn. 
ow in kite, Cburitry­7(}_, 4~-4602 
br, 2ba, dbl lot. $27,500,. Ml. 616-63,~ 
3412 
tment Prop~ .__ .· 
10'0 SF FORSALE* :qrmer BarifB:ui_l'djng-. .ot Available..·Gr.eat 
nstitutional Use~:· 
't.. x246 For Info 
COOLER BUILDING* ~ulton Market Multi­Windows Dock. Call 82 For More liifo'i . 
· 1 w·. HUBBARD* 
1!! 3 flat Frame :! ise on Dbl Lot t{u~;ieDid '.' As-ls". Call . 
18 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
SUMMER 1999 


TIP THE 0 IP P. 0 I PP ER. I @ N D. ED_U Now for the tour... 

Attention, Gipplings ! (Thatmearis you.) Even if you read nothing else in this rag we like to call Scholastic, then do take the time to read this page because the Gipp knows how you feel. You're sick and tired of everyone telling you about all the joys ofNotre Dame. You've probably toured the campus by now. Maybe more than once. You've seen the Grotto up close and the Dome from afar, through an army of con­struction workers and a shield offences and scaffolding. You've been in a dorm, and maybe you've even caught a football game. You think you know it all. Ah, but you are wrong. Don't sweat it, though. Just sit back and take a deep breath while the Gipp takes you on your own, personal, guided tour of the underbelly of Notre Dame. 
Hello, Mu Name Is... 
Before the tour begins, the Gipp would 

like to introduce the Gipp, your very own 
invisible tour guide. See, the Gipp was 
brought up with the notion that good chil­
dren are "seen and not heard." In an extreme 
case of backlash, the Gipp now writes a 
biweekly column to make sure everybody 
on campus hears about all the things the 
administration wishes could just be swept 
under the rug, and nobody ever sees him at 
all. But other than that, he's just like you. 
You will meet a lot offriends at school­

but none will be as reliable as the good old 
Gipp. Your computer may provide you with 
hours of e-mail pleasure, your roommate 
may take you to a couple of decent parties, 
and the dining hall will quench your thirst 
SUMMER 1999 
with unlimited quantities ofblue Powerade. However, computers go haywire, roommates snore, and the dining hall serves a suspi­cious dish called "Toad in the Hole." Not one ofthese so-called friends will ever match the unconditional love of the Gipp. 
As best bud in the whole wide world, the Gipp reminds you that you can tell_ him anything. Your tips are what make his col­umn shine, so pass along any rumors you've 

heard, strange happenings you've witnessed or anything else you consider Gipp-worthy. You can reach the Gipp by e-mail (gipper.l@nd.edu) or by phone (1-7569). The Gipp is more than willing to print the things that you'd get in trouble for mention­ing aloud, so save your own sweet behind and tip the Gipp. 
One thing you probably won't be ready for when you get out to school is the weather. When the Gipp was a wee freshman, he didn't know it was possible for the skies to remain gray for so damed long. The Gipp would call friends and relatives in other parts of the country, asking them to look up at the sky and let him know if the sun still existed. The Gipp advises all freshmen to start complaining to the folks as early as September 1 -that way, the care packages of hot chocolate and homemade cookies will already have arrived by the time the cold weather sets in. 
Another thing you need to know about is the evil of Freshman Orientation: The Gipp believes that spending too much time shak­ing hands, introducing yourself, declaring your home town and mentioning your major can actually cause a major identity crisis. The Gipp warns you that by the end of orientation, your name, your home and your career plan no longer make sense. That's when the upperclassmen of your dorm can mold you into the kind of person that fits in with their lifestyle. All the Gipp can say is, don't give in. Don't become weird just because you 're from Zahm. Be weird be­cause you're weird already. The Gipp likes to make fun of dorm reputations, but the Gipp himself never fell prey to them. When people ask the Gipp to introduce himself, he tells a different name every time. That way, he never loses sight of who he really is or makes himself susceptible to changing iden­tity. 
Another peculiar part oflife here at Notre Dame is the existence of single-sex dorms and parietals. The basic idea is that boys and girls can't b_e in the same dorm rooms after midnight on weeknights and after 2:00 a.m. on weekends, for fear that after-hours-to­getherness might promote non-Catholic be­havior. The Gipp wonders ifthe people who made this rule assume that nobody can get their groove on earlier in the evening. 
Some Parting Words 

Now thatthe Gipp has hit on the basics, he would like to close with a bit of free verse: 
Tortilla chip, bean dip. 
Ego trip. 
Smart as a whip. 
Cow chip, unzip. 
Don't bite your lip ­
Tip the Gipp. 
Thank you. The Gipp looks forward to 
hearing from you in the fall.  0  
SCHOLASTIC  19  
MAGAZINE  






b y C h r i s t o p h e r H a m-i I t o n 
1. g)ethronins the Champs
After a tumultuous summer, ply could nothang with the more tal­
marred by an embarrassing age ented and explosive Wolverines. And 
. discrimination lawsuit, the after the first half, with Notre Dame Fighting Irish football program seem-trailing 13-6, it appeared as if the crit­ingly limped into its season-opener ics were right. But.Notre Dame came against defending _natio_nal champion out of the tunnel for the second half a Michigan. Besides Notre Dame's off-re~energized team, as the Irish offense the-field woes, beforethecontestmany -had their way with the highly touted analysts contended that the Irish sim-. Michigan . defense,.· scoring 30 unan­
20 SCHOLASTIC SUMMER 1999 
· MAGAZINE 


swered points. Seniors Jarious Jackson and Autry Denson had memorable performances in the 36-20 rout that marked the return of Notre Dame Football. 
2. A..cforce filo 'Be ~cftoned" <Witr, 

Once the laughing stock of the ultra­competitive CCHA conference, today Notre Dame finds itself as one ofthe conference's · elite teams. Head hockey coach Dave Poulin has orchestrated this dramatic turnaround in the program in only four years: the Irish were a dismal 9-23-4 in his first season, while going 19-14-5 last year. Notre Dame spent much of the season in the top 10, but a four-game losing streak late in the season knocked the Irish out of the top 10 for good. Although the Irish failed to make the NCAA Tournament iast year, they can take pride in posting their first-ever winning record in the CCHA. Notre Dame also established a definite home-ice advantage, going 12-3-3 in the Joyce Center. · 
3. A..q)own Year 

•It's not often that a women's soccer team goes 21-3-1 and then proceeds to call the season a huge disappointment. That is, un­less the. team expects to win the national championship every year as Notre Dame does. Notre Dame's season ended in a 2-1 loss against Portland, who denied the Irish their sixth consecutive trip to the Final Four. Notre Dame is quite fortunate to have only lost three players to graduation. But, more significantly, they lose head coach Chris Petrucelli, who developed Notre Dame into the national powerhouse it is today. Former Baylor head coach Randy Waldrumreplaces Petrucelli, who will now coach at the Uni­versity ofTexas. The Irish hope for a seam­less transition this year and once again are gunning for the national title. 
4. <Home g:ierd" A._d"vanta9e 

For the first time since the 1989 season, the Irish went unbeaten at Notre Dame Sta­dium in 1998. Notre Dame's perfect home record last year, which included victories over Michigan, Purdue, Stanford, Army, Baylor and LSU, did not come easily as the irish had to rally from behind in three ofthe contests. With wins over Boston College, Navy and West Virginia to close out the 1997 season, Notre Dame currently enjoys a nine-game winning streak on its home turf. The Irish will be hard-pressed to dupli­cate an umblemished home record this sea­son, as they play seven games in Notre Dame Stadium and two are against oppo­nents who beat them 'last year -Michigan State and Southern Cal. But it is interesting to note that the last time Notre Dame went 7­0 at home occurred in 1988, theyearoftheir last media-recognized national champion­ship. 
5. %w c:Bfood" 

After another disappointing season oflrish basketball, which saw Notre Dame post a 14-16 record, head coach John MacLeod resigned. On March 30, the university named Matt Doherty the program's 16th head bas­ketball coach. Doherty, who spent the past seven seasons as an assistant coach u._nder Roy Williams at Kansas, made a name for himself as a top-notch recruiter after play­ing an instrumental part in luriµg the likes of Jacque Vaughn, Raef LaFrentz and Paul Pierce. During his college days, Doherty was a three-year starter at North Carolina, playing alongside Michael Jordan. While asking him to duplicate the national cham­pionship he had at North Carolina during 
SUMMER 1999 
r 

the '81-'82 season in South Bend is too much to ask now, a winning record is not. The Irish return a core of talented, young players.and welcome three high-profile re­cruits. Doherty's first priority will be getting the Irish back into postseason play, where the Irish have been absent for the past two years. Thoughts of an NCAA Tournament berth may have to be put on hold. But since the Irish haven't been to the Big Dance since 1990, most of the Irish faithful can wait. 
6. %t So Sweet 
The Notre Dame Women's Basketball team, which has been extremely successful oflate, endured a disappointing finish to last year's otherwise strong performance. The Irish, who concluded the season at 26-5, lost to LSU in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. While simply making the NCAA Tournament is rewarding enough for some teams, this does not apply to Notre Dame. In the past two years, Notre Dame has found itself in the Final Four and Sweet 
16. And after being ranked in the top Wfor a majority of the season, not to advance further in the tournament was a big disap­pointment for head coach Muffet McGraw and her troops. But the Irish promise to be · better this upcoming year. And since they return center Ruth Riley ,who led the nation in field goal percentage from defeat, as Notre Dame bowed to the Yellow Jackets 35-28. Notre Dame's recent bowl game troubles continued, with the Irish not winning a postseason game since 1993. 
s: % CJ3ia cfen 
In a landmark decision that will affect the face of Notre Dame varsity athletics for many years to come, the university agreed not to pursue membership in the Big Ten Conference last February. The decision, which was handed down by Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, means that Notre Dame will remain independent in football and a part of the Big East Conference for most other sports. The decision also had ramifi­cations outside of athletics. By not joining the Big Ten, Notre Dame also refused ad­mission into the Committee for Institutional Cooperation (CIC), a highly regarded aca­demic consortium that consists of all the schools in the Big Ten and the University of• Chicago and University of Illinois-Chicago. While an overwhelming majority of students and alumni opposed membership in the Big 'fen, a number offaculty desired to join the conference for the sole purpose of becoming a part of the CIC. The faculty believed that being associated with the CIC would provide a much-needed boost to the demic aspirations," said university Presi­dent Edward Malloy. 
9. Sl,)erfection 
The Notre Dame Softball team became the first squad in Big East Conference his­tory to go undefeated in both regular season and tournament championship play, post­ing a remarkable 19-0 ledger. The Big East Championship was a first for the Irish, who won the title after beating Seton Hall in the championship game. As she was all season long, sophomore pitcher Jennifer Sharron proved invaluable to the Irish during the conference tournament, picking up all three wins and going an impressive five for nine (.565) at the plate. The Irish were also included in the NCAA Tournament field for only the fourth time in their history. 
IO.<{)ersatUity fi\\Eltters 
As all freshmen will soon learn, the Book­storeBasketball Tournament completely cap­tivates the campus at the end of March and throughout ApriL The tournament usually features nearly 600 teams, with each team consisting offive players. Ithas been cited by the Guinness Book of World Records as being the largest five-on-five outdoor bass ketball tournament in the world. Students, along with anyone who works at the univer­
sity, are allow~d to play. Past 

last season; as well as two 
participants include new head bas~ other starters and a tal­-_ketball coach Matt Doherty, uni­ented supporting cast, it versity President Father Malloy would be hard to disagree and Lou Holtz. One of the great­with them. est aspects of_ the tournament is ""that teams loaded with varsity 
7. Goina Out CWitFt a . athletes· don't always dominate G\¼imper · the t_ournament as expected. 
A~ter jumping out to a Sometimes, teams that lack any 9-1 record and a top 10 big names make some noise. Take, ranking, it appeared as if · for example, the team Versatility . Notre Dame was headed . This team, which was comprised to a lucrative· BCS bowl · of five friends from the same game. But this scenario dorm, continually shocked nay­
'. 
! ; '' was thrown in doubt after . sayers by knocking off five con­quarterback Jari~us Jack­secutive ranked opponents en son sustained "The Injury" route to making an appearance in at the conclusion of the · the championship game. 

LSU game, knocking him· out of the season finale at USC. In a down­right ugly game, the Trojans bested the Irish 10~0, and dashed any hopes of playing in a major bowl game. Jackson, sporting a · kneebrace, would return for the Gator Bowl 
· against Georgia Tech, but it was obvious he had not fully recbvered from his injury. Not even the green jerseys could save the Irish 
22 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
university's graduate programs and research reputation. In the end, Notre Dame decided a move to the Big Ten Conference was not in its best interests; "As a Catholic univer­sity with a national constituency, we be­lieve indepenclence continues to be our best way forward, not just in athletics but, first and foremost, in fulfillment of our aca­
Versatility's Cinderella run ended in the tide game when they were bested by Malicious Prosecution, a team made up of law students. Unbelievably enough, not one player in the final game was a varsity ath­lete. This not only speaks highly of the overall athleticism present on campus, but of the importance of team chemistry in this grueling tournament. ­
SUMMER 1999 


Ilf)llr '11() l)f) Sf)(J'J11I lll~NI) 
A few hidden spots ofthe town you'll call home 
BY AARON NOLAN 
,,,hose of us who have attended this 
university long enough realize that 
South Bend is neither the spring 

break capital that is Daytona Beach nor the cultural mecca that is London or Paris. One might say that besides the occasional mon­ster truckrally orWWFevent, the entertain­ment potential of this city is virtually nil. The fact of the matter, however, is that beneath the daily hustle and bustle of this . 
•small midwestem city lies · a latent party town. Theonly problem is trying to pick and choose from the best in South Bend night life. So we at Schplastic have assembled this list ofthings to do inSouth Bend for you to get a better idea of the unlimited possi­bilities the Greater Michiana area has to offer the next time you go out for a night ( or day) on the town. · 
Try the College Football Hall of Fame. This place can keep you occupied for the whole day, so make sure you plan ahead. There are hundreds of things to 
COFFEE BREAK. Lula's coffee shop, within walking distance of campus, is a great place to take a 
see and do here, including the 360 break from the books. degree theater, where you 'II feel like you are a part of the game. Check out the Hall of Champi­ons, where you can view displays of the inductees and interactive kiosks. Maybe the Training Cen­ter is more your style. You can .., test your agility, practice passing at targets and hit tackling dum­mies and blocking sleds -just about everything except suit up for a game. "Going to the Hall of Fame really gave me a chance to look back on the rich tradition of the sport," says recent graduate John McCarthy. All told, the Hall is a· great place to soak up some sports history with a couple of fellow football fans. (111 S. St. Joseph Street) Ifyou find yourself in the mood for a good caffeine buzz, pay Lula's Cafe a visit. It's practi­cally right on campus and is a more laid-back alternative to the 
SUMMER 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
23 
MAGAZINE 

bar scene. Lula's is a carbon copy ofFriends hangout Central Perk-but don't expectto find Monica and Chandler hogging all the couch space. Instead, a jolly constituency of latte-guzzling Darners can be found there playing checkers, reading poetry or just engaging in friendly banter. This is a great place to unwind after a long week ofclasses, and the coffee isn'tbad, either. ( 1631 Edison Road) 
When life at college gets you down, the St. Joseph's County Public Li­brary is the perf~ct place to kick back. It sounds crazy, but it's amazing what a nice, quiet library can do to calm a student's frazzled nerves. Sit back in one of the library's 57 Barca-Loungers and· leisurely read the newspaper or magazine of your choice. It's a silent and carefree refuge away from the pres­sures of school. (304 S. Main Street) 
The Morris Civic Auditorium is a de­cent place to catch touring Broadway shows and concerts, and has just undergone sev­eral renovations. Try one of South Bend's numerous charming fringe theaters such as the Wagon Wheel Theater, Dunes Sum­mer Theater or the Canterbury instead. These theaters offer the mostforyourmoney: a good view, comfortable seating and qual­ity musicals, comedies and dramas. Since 1995, these theaters have presented A Cho­rusLine,JesusChristSuperstar, Our Town, Guys and Dolls and many others. Overall, they're more entertaining and economical than trekking out to Chicago. 
Relax at the Golden Gate Spa in Michi­gan City whenever the pressures of classes and exams make you feel like one big knot of stress. Let any one of the spa's "profes­sional American and Oriental masseuses" rub their way to a healthier you. This den of delicate digits will have you moaning for more. (1304 Franklin Street) 
With luck, this list has given you an idea of what Michiana really has to offer. The good news is, this is only a small taste ofthe cultural smorgasbord that is South Bend. D 
m 
z 
-I 
m 
;;;o 
~ 
z 
$ 
m 
z 
-I 

1­
z 
w 


~ 
z 
~ 
~ 
w 
1­
z 
w 
.o -~_,~·
'.'ii.\,,·,,1,1.·..·.·.· 
:,, y;,j{ ,·­
11­
. ..·.-'.: 
W&' 
. . 'l'Jt,~#
··" .--<ii§.~ 

How to turn an Irish party into an Italian wedding 
BY KARA ZUAROI,t's Friday night. You're squeezingl through bodies in an insanely crowded ·; dorm room, trying to make your way to a garbage can filled with ice and Natty Light, a beverage for which you hope to acquire a taste, since it seems to be a favorite out here at school. On the way to the alcohol supply, you keep getting knocked into by these girls who don't realize that they should tone down their dance moves when there are approximately 17 people in their two-foot radius, and this smelly guy yells into your ear, "Hey, aren't you in my Spanish class?" Actually, you're taking French. If you've been to one "freshman party," you've been to them all. This is not to say that these social gatherings aren't fun ­they're just repetitive. So if you want to throw a party that will be remembered, try something new. Have a theme party. The possibilities are endless -here are just a few ideas to get you started. 
Tacky Tourist Party: 
Bring back visions ofsummer under gray Indiana skies ... Ingredients: 
All you have to do to instantly change your dorm room into an island is crank up your heat really high, and buy some fruity beverages -like cranberry juice, pine­apple juice and Capri Sun. Then all you need are some tacky decorations, drink or~ naments and plastic leis from your local party store. 
Musical selection: 
This kind of shindig calls for a mix tape that includes plenty of Beach Boys tunes, 
24 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

from "Surfin' USA" to "Kokomo," as well as more danceable beach-related songs, like Will Smith's "Miami." For those who are too lazy to put together a beach mix, Drew's Famous Party Music puts out a ready-made mix tape or CD that includes many tropical favorites, such as Don Ho's "Tiny Bubbles," the Ha­

waii Five-O theme song, Blondie's "The Tide Is High" and Barry Manilow's classic, "Copacabana." 
Dress code: 

Hawaiian shirts and flip flops are proper attire for the event.But those who really want to have a good time· will. show up in grass skirts and coconut bras. Plus, since you've got the tourist vibe going, this is a good time to bring your camera and take pic­tures ofall yournew friends, without seem­ing especially nerdy or annoying. 
How to get the ladies to stick around: Three words: fancy fruit drinks. Invest in some of those nifty little paper umbrellas. Try to find some island-inspired cups to drink from. Slice up a pineapple and pur­chase some colorful tooth­picks so your guests can eat fruit on mini-skewers. If you' re the Martha Stewart type, make a wa­termelon boat. The fact of · the matter is, pretty girls like pretty drinks, and no­body needs to drink lite beer every night of every weekend. So put at least a small portion ofyour allot­ted beer money aside, and treat your friends to some­thing a little bit sweeter than Natty. How to attract the fellas: 
Tell them it's actually a "Tacky Tourists Get Lei­ed" party. They will think that you said, "Tacky Tour­ists Get Laid," but they will be wrong. Then make sure you have plenty of those plastic leis on hand, and whenever anyone enters the room, all you have to ask is, "Ready to get lei~ed?" When they nod eagerly, you can smile and award them with one of your leis. Oh, you are such a 
SUMMER 1999 

. -' -~ . --, . . ' . . ;' ' ' 
. .
' 


~flQh°iftli ·an!! 
Show gChoir 
trickster. The fooled fellows might get a little angry, but they'll stick around. Boys like juice and little umbrellas, too, you know. 
Big '80s Extravaganza: 

Everybody cut footloose ... 
Ingredients: 
Mainly, you just need a bunch ofkids who are willing and eager to wear silly neon­colored clothes and to dance like maniacs. And you might want to keep a TV running in the background with· all your favorite '80s flicks. 
Musical selection: 
You will just need enough '80s tunes to keep the party going for a few hours. Ifyou don't have your own music, raid the CD selection of a local '80s freak, who will be more than happy to lend you some music­as long as you help them do their hair up Flock-of-Seagulls style. Dress code: 
You have a lot of versatility here -the '80s were rich with fashion icons -from punk rockers to scary junior high girls who teased their bangs five inches high and wore Keds and slouch socks under their pegged jeans. Watch a few '80s movies to get some ideas, and head to your local thrift store before you get to school if you haven't got any '80s-worthy threads in your wardrobe. 
How to get the ladies to stick around: 
Molly Ringwald movies. And plenty of them. 
How to attractthefellas: 
If you want boys to come to your '80s party, all you've got to do is invite the right boys. For instance, if you think a particular guy is going to be self-conscious about doing his make-up like the guy from The Cure, you might want to keep him off your list. It sounds mean, but there really are boys out there who will say, '"80s party?! Can I wear my white cut-off jeans shorts and go as George Michael in the Wham! years?" And those are the kind of young men you should be inviting. 
Italian Wedding: 

People seem to make a big deal about Italians out here. Go figure ... Ingredients: 
Food is a big part of this party, so buy a few pizzas. There are a few Italian bakeries in town, so you should be able to score some canolis for the event, as well. Then get some ring pops and actually have a fake wedding. Kind of like the fake weddings that were held in the playground during recess in grade school. And just to make things louder, and thereby more authentically Italian, have some movies rolling in the background. Some personal favorites -A Bronx Tale, Married to the Mob and, of course, The Godfather trilogy. 
Musical selection: 
Frank Sinatra, Tony Bennett, Dean Mar­tin, the Big Night soundtrack and some traditional wedding reception music should create the desired mood. 
Dress code: 
The guys can dress up like old-school gangsters, and as for the girls, the key words are "black," "gaudy" and "animal print." Big hair, Lee press-on nails and red lipstick · will add to the look. Check out some of the aforementioned movies for further fashion inspiration. How to get the ladies to stick around: 
If girls follow the dress code, they can't leave. The leopard-print mini-skirts, helmet hair and claw-like fingernails will prevent them from showing up at any non-theme party. So once they're in the get-up, it's your party or no party at all. 
How to attract the fellas: 
Most guys will jump at any opportunity to wear a fedora and act mafioso. Just don't invite too many guys -or your food will disappear before the girls even get there. 0 
25

SUMMER· 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


fl r 
z 
w 
i~ 
z 

Opportunity abounds for those who wish to explore 
~ 
the magical world oftheater 
~ 
w 
r 
BY KATHLEEN CORTE

z 
cene One: Freshman Orientation weekend. Students moving in, meeting room­
w 
mates, donning white T-shirts for the Graffiti Dance. Anyone could get lost in the hustle and bustle of activities. "I was homesick until I went to the first meeting," Siiri Scott remembers. 
The first meeting for a play, that is. For Scott, who auended Saint Mary's and is now a visiting professor at Notre Dame, becoming involved in theater not only offered her a creative outlet, but also helped her meet new people. "When I left [the meeting], I had friends," Scott says, "many of whom are still my friends now." 
"We encourage freshmen to get involved," says Tom Barkes, building manager of Washington Hall, where most performances are held. "In theater, you can do everything._ You can getinvolved as an actor. You can get involved building scenery. You can do stage management. You can plug in at any point that you want." 
Students can become involved in Mainstage productions, the four plays held each year at Washington Hall. One ofthe plays is normally performed by a visiting theater company, but students are encouraged to audition for parts in the other three shows. 
Freshmen have a unique opportunity to act and direct in the First Year Plays, three one­act plays performed each spring. "It's giving all first-year students a creative outlet," says 
cf 

R. Bret Ruiz, the operating director ofthe plays. Ruiz sends an e-mail to freshmen in the fall, looking for directors. Once chosen; the three directors consult with Ruiz in choosing their plays and then hold auditions to find actors. Ruiz stresses the fact that the students are in charge of the production. "Once I let them go with it, it's their baby," he says. 
Other acting groups on campus include the St. Ed's Players, the Pasquerilla East Music 
and Theater Company (which will be performing Grease this coming year) and the Not­So-Royal Shakespeare Company. These groups also hold perfor­mances throughout the year and offer opportunities for students to ­become involved. 
While Notre Dame has ma­jors in Film, Television and The­ater, participation in plays is not limited to majoring students. "Any and all people are absolutely wel­come," Barkes states. 
'.'I recommend trying to get in­volved as soon as possible," adds Michael Cochran, who partici­pated in last year's First Year Plays. "It's fun and it gives you the opportunity to meet alot of people. You get to know people really well." 
All that and a chance to bein the. spotlight, tcio. 0 
PLAYING IT UP. Kevin Carrigan, and Alicia Scheidler as Brick and Big Mama took part in last fall's Main Stage production of "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof." 




Standin' at the Edge ofTomorrow 
Don't expect to live the life ofZack and Slater 
when you move in 
BY KARA ZUARO t stil.I shocks me that Saved By the. Bell: 
The College Years only lasted one sea­
son on prime time. The theme songwas 

catchy, the characters were refreshing! y one­
dimensional, and the studio audience gener­
ated the most enthusiastic hoots and hollers 
that I've ever heard. After a year at Notre 
Dame, I realize how well that show pre­
pared me for my college experience. Sure, 
there were a few slightly unrealistic aspects 
ofZack and Kelly's California U, but on the 
whole, it was a lot more realistic than you 
might think. 
First of all, the Saved by the Bell (SBTB) 

gang is kind oflike a family. Out here, folks 
take the family idea pretty seriously. Con­
trary to what some ofyo_u skeptics are think­
ing, the Notre Dame family is not just some 
advertising ploy. It does exist, and like any 
other family, it's a little bit dysfunctional. 
Sure, you've got some positive points: the 
grandma-like lunch ladies in the dining hall 
who remember your name ( or at least read it 
off your ID card before they swipe it). And 
you've got a rector or rectress in each dorm 
to serve as a parental authority figure. The 
problems set in when you get into the Big 
Brother and Sister assignments. At some 
point you will be assigned a Big Sibling 
from your brother or sister dorm. These Big 
Siblings do not want to counsel you. They 
want to see ifyou 're cute enough to take to 
their next SYR. Do you want to know how 
many giggly girls I've heard declare, "I'm 
going to adance with my Big Brother this 
weekend"? I didn't think so. 
On SBTB, the gang is disappointed when 

they find out that there's no drinking al­
lowed in their dorm. Here, a lot of kids are 
disappointed when they find out about our 
alcohol restrictions. I don't know what the 
deal with that is because I've only got a 
couple of girls in rriy section who are over 
21, but every Saturday and Sunday mom-
I 
SUMMER 1999 
ing, there is this mysterious mountain of empty Budweiser and Rolling Rock cases sitting atop our section recycling bin. Of course, I know now that these empty boxes are just the special gifts we get from the Beer Fairy for being so good all week. Sometimes the Beer Fairy sends other bless­ings, too, such as bestowing my roommate with the power ofsong. On some weekends, she stumbles into the room in the wee hours of the morning and starts rapping the Fresh Prince of Bel Air theme song. Of course, like all fairies, the Beer Fairy has a mischie­vous side. Sometimes she makes people sprawl across the floors of strange rooms with their heads in puke-filled wastepaper baskets. It's a good thing you 're reading this because they never really warn you about the Beer Fairy on SBTB. 
Now, there are a few aspects oflife under the Dome that don't fit in with the SBTB life-style. For one thing, at California U, nobody's parents ever come to visit. Here, somebody's parents are always snooping around. Keep in mind that your parents might not come back, or worse yet, cut your cash supply, if you scare them by letting them in on your deviant college ways. Just the other day I was walking to class behind a pair ofparents who were apparently a little shaken up. 
"Well," said the dad, with a touch ofworry in his voice, "Brian seems very comfortable after his first year here." 
"He was always such a good boy," added the apprehensive mom. 
"Seems well adjusted," de­clared Dad. "Got some friends. Comfortable with his surround­ings. Grades are good." 
"But, honey," said mom m a hushed voice, stopping short and turning to face her husband, "When did he start collecting shot glasses?" 
Silly parents. I took it upon myself to inform them that not everyone who collects shot glasses uses them for drinking. Be­sides, Natty Light is much cheaper than hard liquor, and it comes in cans. 
Kids might develop a few bad habits that range from spending too much time build­ing beer-can pyramids to spending too much time at the library. But other than that, most kids don't change too much. Again,just like SBTB: Zack is always the fun guy, Slater is always the womanizing jock, Kelly is al­ways the bimbo-next-door, and Screech is always the geek. College doesn't change them. Of course, you may find yourself expanding your horizons a bit once you get settled in here. Most of this has to do with dating. Say you like the Beastie Boys but there's a cutie in your philosophy class who's way into country. Before you know it, you '11 find yourself at a Brooks and Dunn concert. Or perhaps you 're strictly into ac­tion movies, but if that dreamboat from the dining hall asks you to see When Harry Met Sally, you'll manage to sit through it, I'm sure. 
Whatever the case, you've just got to remember to hang in there, develop a safe and healthy relationship with the Beer Fairy, and when the going gets tough, just hum along to the lyrics of my all-time favorite TV theme song: 'Tm standin' at the edge of tomorrow, today." 0 
SCHOLASTIC 
27 
MAGAZINE 

~ 
m 
m 
7\ 
z 
0 
(./) 
-I 
0 
iiO -I 
0 
z 
i I :1 ! 
-. . ''-, ' ----­
·------~ -~--~~-­
T 

--' 
<( 
z 
LL 
.\ 
I' •I II
:I
Ii 
t; 
i 
11 
I!
;1
ii 
:l 
A NeW Home 
It is my great privilege to offer you, the newest members of the Notre Dame community, a word of welcome. I will join you as a "first-year stu­dent" of sorts, because I was just named vice presi­dent for Student Affairs, and I have a lot to learn. As such, I share. some of the same feelings of anticipa­tion, excitement and possible nervousness that you might feel as you prepare to arrive on campus in August. I thought it ironic that this regular feature of Scholastic is entitled the "Final Word." It is, in fact, my "first word" to you as new students and my first words in this new position. As vice president for Student Affairs, I am respon­sible for 11 university departments supporting stu­dent life outside the classroom. Additionally, I overs see the 27 undergraduate residence halls. I embrace these challenges and opportunities because I view life outside the classroom as essential to the Notre Dame mission to foster not only intellectual growth, but spiritual, moral and social growth as well. Notre Dame strives to educate the whole person, and The hall community that you much of that teaching and learning takes place 
join as ci first-year student will in the residence hall communities.
most likely become your 
Over the years, I have · witnessed a phenom­

home for the next four years. 
enon that I believe is 
·Fr.Mark Poorman is the vice president of Student Affairs and former executive assistant to Monk . Malloy 

unique to Notre Dame. When alumni meet, their first question to each other is, "Which year did you graduate?" Their second question, without fail, is, "Where did you live?" I believe this speaks volumes about the role of resi­dence hall life in the experience of students at Notre Dame. You will soon receive the name of your residence hall as well as the name or names of your new roommates. The hall community that you join as a first-year student will most likely become your home for the next four years. You join a rich tradition of residential life at Notre Dame. The first building on our campus combined classrooms with living quarters for students, faculty and staff. In the early 1880s, Notre Dame became the first Catholic univer­sity to offer residential halls with private rooms when Sorin Hall was built. The newest additions to our residential history are the four West Quad halls of McGlinn, O'Neill, Keough and Welsh Family. 
by F< MarkPoonnan, csc 

I have witnessed the vibrancy of hall life first as a rector of Dillon Hall, and later as priest in residence for six years in Grace Hall. When Grace and Flanner towers were converted to administrative office build­ings two years ago, I moved to the newly built Keough Hall. It has been amazing to watch Keough build a new hall community from the ground up. I am astounded at how quickly Keough residents have formed new traditions and a unique hall identity. The success of this new community is a testament to the strength of the Notre Dame students. In living side­by-side with students for over a decade, I am continu­ally amazed at their commitment to the academic rigor of the university, but also their desire to engage fully in life outside the classroom. 
When you arrive on campus, you will be greeted by upperclass students from your hall, including the resident assistants, your assistant rector and rector. You will quickly discover the richness of hall life. Each hall has an active hall government structure that includes commissioners to plan social, intellectual and service activities. Additionally, students gather for daily and Sunday Eucharist in the hall. I have witnessed the spirit ofa hall embodied in the celebra­tion of an interhall sports championship as well as when the community has gathered to support a fellow student in the face of the loss of a family member. The hall also provides you with an opportunity to live among and form friendships with people from all over the country and the world. 
Life at Notre Dame takes place within a unique context-that ofa Catholic university. The Catholic nature of the university permeates all aspects of life under the Dome. At Notre Dame, you will find the resources to deepen your faith through intellectual inquiry. Campus Ministry, the Center for Social Concerns and your residence hall will provide many other opportunities for faith formation. At Notre Dame, we worship together and pray as individuals. 
As a community, we draw strength from the unique gifts that you bring to share at Notre Dame. We strive to be a community that welcomes all people and provides support for the success of all. My hope for you is that you will leave Notre Dame with an integrated education of the mind, heart and soul. 
Please know of my prayers and best wishes as you prepare to join our community. I look forward to greet­ing you personally when you arrive in August. 
28 SCHOLASTIC SUMMER 1999 
MAGAZINE 


uf~~ 


laahdaae llllllnaaliull DIISll 
VISIT US FOR THE BEST PRICES ON UNIQUE NOTRE DAME APPAREL 
lrlah lxp1111 
WANT TO A VOID THE LONG LINES AT THE BOOKSTORE? 
VISIT US DURING ALL HOME FOOTBALL GAME WEEKENDS FOR ALL OF YOUR NOTRE DAME SOUVENIR NEEDS 
¦.D. 
IIISS 
THIS U.P.S. DEPOT LOCATED IN THE BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE CAN ACCOMMODATE ALL OF YOUR SHIPPING NEEDS! 


Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly!····· 
LaFortune Student Center
\ 

Quality 
COPIES 
Uni·versity of Notre Dame 
Quickly! 
Phone (219) 631-COPY • Fax (219) 631-FAX1 Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 

flC I 
II 

Quickly! 
Quality 
The Copy Shop on the lower level of the
COPIES 
Quickly!
I 

LaFortune,Student Center is Notre Dame's 
Qua!ity 
COPIES · student copy center. The Copy Shop offers a 
Quickly! 
wide selection of products and services. 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
High Speed Copies Color Cl)pies/Printing
Quality 
COPIES.,
Quickly!, 
Fax Service Binding Re,umes 
Quality 
COPIES 
Desk Top Publishing Course Packets 
Quickly! 
Printing Thesis & Dissertation Copying
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Overhead Transparenc,ies School Supplies 
Quality 
COPIES 
Laminating Carbonless Forms Diskettes
Quickly! 
. Quality And a Whole Lot More! 
, COPIES . Quickly! 
Quality /; COPIES 
Quickly! 


· Quality  . Quality  Quality  Quality .  Quality  Quality  Quality  Quality  Quality  Quality  Quali  
COPIES  COPIES  COPIES  COPIES  COPIES  COPIES  COPIES  COPIES  COPIES  COPIES  COPII  
Quickly!  Quickly!  Quickly!  Quickly!  Quickly!  Quickly! .Quickly!  Quickly!  Quickly!  Quickly!  Quick  

Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 


Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 

Quality ! \ 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 


Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality. 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
· 





