Hickey-Freeman ... Society Brand ... Burberry ... “GGG”... Alpagora ... British-R ... Dobbs
THE man who thinks, the man who looks ahead, wisely invests in clothes of good quality. The Gilbert’s label is his guarantee of quality that means years of wearing pleasure. These days we don’t always have what every man wants in pattern or color, but it’s surprising how many men find something they like ... at Gilbert’s.
GILBERT'S
813-817 S., Michigan St.
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN
2
A letter printed in last week’s SCHOLASTIC bemoaned the passing of the flaming Notre Dame spirit. This week, SCHOLASTIC staff members Gerard Hekker and Paid Abraham rush to typewriter to proclaim that the Irish spirit is not moribund, but still vibrantly alive.
—Editor
Dear Mr. Old Timer,
You have returned to Notre Dame after aiding in the winning of a very costly conflict. But that is behind you and many of you, are very willing to forget it!
But tell me, Mr. Old Timer, why are you so perturbed at what happened at the Veterans’ Smoker? I think you were too ready and willing to find something wrong. Maybe, because you were away so long, you thought there would be some changes.
There were many factors that would fall to their favor. At the time the Glee Club was singing, the vast assemblage was enjoying ice cream, cake, and coffee. I think some credit should go to the Glee Club for trying to sing over the din. And I’m sure if one person had made a motion to stand all would have followed suit.
Mr. Old Timer, I think you were too quick to criticize. The spirit that is synonymous with Notre Dame is still here and I don’t think it is very dormant. There are many things coming up this semester that will require that Notre Dame Spirit. Is that spirit of the Fighting Irish lacking?
Sincerely,
Two of the Youngsters
PLACEMENT
Students interested in associating themselves after graduation with any of the firms listed below may obtain further information from the Placement Counselor, 115 Main Building. ’
Boeing Aircraft ________.Seattle
Consolidated Vultee Aircraft, Texas Douglas Aircraft ____California
McDonald Aircraft _____St. Louis Naval Research Lab_______Washington Trae. (Air Conditioning)_Wis. Sylvania (Elec. Products) _N. Y. 'U.S. Rubber (Sales)_____Chicago Lybrand, Ross (Acc'ts.)__Cleveland , Standard Oil Develm't....New jersey Standard Oil Development, Engi-
neers & Accountants)N. J.
General Motors Clearance, (Engineers, Accts, Sales)___Chicago
AWARD
FOR SERVICE
A sleeping village in the path of a rag-t ing flood ... at her stvitchboard an operator makes call after call to alert the community and summon aid. She leaves only tvhen rising waters reach the board and the building itself becomes flooded.
For this and similar acts of public service, more than 1,200 telephone men and women have received the Bell System’s most coveted award—the Theodore N. Vail Medal.
Service to the public has long been a tradition in the Bell System. The thought "service first”—day by day as well as in emergencies— has helped give this nation the best communications service in the world.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
3
Notre
By ED CASO and JOE PIEDMONT
THE EPIC
There was a young fellow from Wheeling Endowed with such delicate feeling,
When he read on the door
“Don’t spit on the floor,”
He jumped up and spit on the ceiling.
JOKE DEPT.
When the flood was over and Noah had freed all the animals, he returned to the ark to make sure all had left. He found two snakes in the corner, and they were crying. They told him of their sorrow.
“You told us to go forth and multiply upon the earth, and we are adders.”
(Sorry, Freshie, we only tell them— we don’t explain them!)
*
Father to son: “It’s none of your business how I first met your mother, but I can tell you one thing — it certainly cured me of whistling.”
Patrons of Rosie’s might have noticed on the wall a sheet of paper on which was printed in bold characters:
The umbrella in the stand below belongs to the heavyweight champion boxer of the world. He is coming right back.
Five minutes later the umbrella and paper had disappeared. In their place was this notice:
Umbrella now in possession of the champion marathon runner of the world. He is not coming back.
Sweet Young Thing: We’ve been waiting for a long time for that mother of mine.
Young Man: Hours, I should say.
S.Y.T.: Oh, Jack, this is so sudden!
CAMPUS QUIP
Vince Scully gave out with the following definition: A soph is like a kerosene lamp . . . not very bright, smokes often, goes out at night, and is usually turned down.
♦
The other night Frank Mancino gave his seat to a woman on the bus and she promptly fainted. When she recovered, she thanked him . . . and then Frank fainted!
♦
“So you met your girl at a dance; wasn’t that romantic?”
“No, it was embarrassing. I thought she was home writing letters.”
4
A man who had just arrived from Denmark frequently saw in the windows of stores the word “Bargain.” He asked what the word meant and was told that “bargain” means “good buy.”
So, for days, when bidding farewell in English, he bowed, smiled, and said, “Bargain.”
4
ADAM FOOL REPORTS:
How should I know, 1946
Dear Men (and in some cases, I use the term loosely) :
The big event of last week came when I received my letter sweater. The Athletic Board was at first undecided whether to give me a “P” (for Prisoner) or the regular ND, because I played over sixty minutes for the hop-scotch team.
Now maybe you illiterates don’t know the derivation of the word “Hop-Scotch.” Well, a certain enterprising lad who frequented “George’s” used to hop from one table to another, staying only long enough to guzzle a coke (heh! heh!’) and then bounce off without paying the check. Finally one day the boys got tired of it, and one in his best Mrs. Nussbaum accent said, “Abie, you’re so Scotch!” So, Hop-scotch.
Bob Olcese—ye olde jazz—was telling me about some of the famous men in his business. There was “Dizzy” Gillespie, “T-Bone” Walker, “Shots Shinigan,” “Pig-Meat” Somebody or other, and “Ding Dong” Williams (of Collier’s fame). Whatever became of Christian names anyway? “Do you dig me, Jack?” Bob didn’t mention him but there’s always “Horse-snoot” Toscanini and his Radio City Cats.
Nuff of this prattle. I’m off to take another look at the new cashier at the Colfax. Till I hear from you, I remain,
Agent 3CQT193ZT6SY or ADF.
❖
“Riches,” said the teacher, “take unto themselves wings and fly away. Now what kind of riches did the writer mean?”
He stared around the class, but only blank looks met his gaze.
“Surely someone can answer that question. You, John,” said the teacher, “what kind of riches did the writer mean?”
John hesitated a moment, then said: “Ostriches, sir.”
Maa, Go.
tMaU 6^ fame
Arrow
SHIRTS - TIES
Van Heusen
SHIRTS - TIES
Fashion Park Worsted-Tex
Knit-Tex
Alpacuna
Season Skipper Stanwood Shradmoor
SUITS - COATS
McGregor
SPORTSWEAR
B. V. D.
UNDERWEAR
Faultless
PAJAMAS
Windbreaker
JACKETS
Sportsman
TOILETRIES
Dame Veterans .. .
•
Here are Four Services for You . . . . PCM our Compliments
Wallet Size Holder
With replicas of your ribbons in full color. Just drop in and ask for one.
Overseas Stripes
Each stripe represents 6 months overseas service. We have them with 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 stripes.
Fits Under the Discharge Button
Discharge Service Buttons
Bring your discharge papers . . . in person. The government requires this.
Miniature Reproduction of Your Discharge Papers
Both Sides — Sealed in Plastic 24 Hour Service
Wallet size, sealed in plastic — exact copy of both sides of your discharge. No charge — no obligation — 24 hour service. Your papers never leave South Bend.
ON THE COUiEK... ttKHIOMI 4 MSMIftIDII
5
^he SNotre Qiame Scholastic
Disce Quasi S ember Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
College Parade
By THOMAS M. HIGGINS
JOHN DEFANT, Editor
JACK HUMMEL -PAUL WEYRAUCH GEORGE COLLINS
Managing Editor
Sports Editor
• Navy Editor
COLUMNISTS
THOMAS M. HIGGINS -	-	- The College Parade
SAM SMITH ----- Th© Crow's Nest BILL-BRAUN, FRANK McCARTHY .	. The Green Banner
ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	-	.	- Soph Soap
PHOTOGRAPHY
JIM FERSTEL
FRANK CACCIAPAGLIA
AL KUNTZ
CHRISTY WALSH
CONTRIBUTORS
JOHNNY WALKER BILLY SLAVICK JOE RENINGER GERARD HEKKER PAUL ABRAHAM MICHAEL GREENE BILL PFAFF
DAVE WARNER JACK SULLIVAN RAY CHAMBERLAND PETER PESOLI BILL LEAVEY JAMES JOHN JOE CHEYNEY
♦
REV. C. J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C. ARTHUR COUGHLAN -	-
M. E. VARGA -	-	-
- Faculty Advisor - Circulation Manager ■	-	- Advertising
(Cover by Frank Cacciapaglia)
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles— San Francisco. THE SCHOHASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Admin-' istration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Echoing what Father O’Donnell said in his speech of last week, the Boston University News prints the following comment:
“The Russian elections are over and each candidate for G'-'dce was successful. No other nation can make that statement.”
Reminiscent of the old registration days at Notre Dame is this reprint from the Southern Cal Daily Trojan:
“A clerk looked up at a white-haired student and exclaimed, ‘My, but you’re too old to be going to college.’ The student looked up and replied, ‘I wasn’t when I first got in this line.’ ”
Not that we have anything against St. Mary’s girls, but we just wish to dedicate this quip to those fellows who cherish pictures of something extraordinary from “the Rock.”
“Is this a picture of your fiancee?” “Yes.”
“She must be very rich.”—Annapolis Log
At Utah State, the housing shortage grew so bad that the pastor of St. Thomas’ Catholic Church in Logan converted the recreation room of his rectory into a dorm for six students from the college. The most notable feature of this act is that not one of the students is a Catholic. Five are Mormons and one is a Baptist.
The Colorado Mines Oredigger says that the difference between gin and castor oil is that one is a talkie and the other a movie.
Under The Absent Minded Professor Department could be placed the story of the Spanish teacher at the University of Kansas who picked up a cigarette from his desk and proceeded to conjugate on the blackboard with it.
Blue eyes gaze at mine—Vexation
Soft hands clasped in mine—Palpitation
Fair hair brushing mine—Expectation Red lips close to mine—Temptation Footstep—Excl amation.
Whisper not this to Hassett & Co., but when Baylor’s basketball team won the Southwest Conference championship, businessmen gave members of the team suits, hats, and diamond-studded basketballs.
Now that golf season has finally arrived, we can fling you this item ripped from the Auburn Plainsman:
“Don’t shoot that birdie; it might be somebody’s par.”
When it was announced at Purdue that veterans would be exempted from compulsory Phy-Ed, the Exponent, on taking a poll of the student body, reported that one vet answered, “It sure is great, but it will certainly be a long semester without those showers.”	‘
To return to an old Pre-Vacation feature, we offer you The Worst Joke of the Week Department. This item is culled from the New Rochelle Tatler.
Frank: When you proposed to her, I suppose she said, “This is so sudden?”
Ernest: “No, she was honest and said, “This suspense has been terrible!”
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 87, NO. 2
MARCH 29, 1946
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA
To Announce Laetare Medalist Sunday
18.000 N. D. Alumni
To Meet April 29
One hundred Notre Dame alumni clubs throughout the United States and in various foreign countries, composed of over 18,000 members will observe the 23rd annual Universal Notre Dame Night on Monday, April 29, honoring the memory of more than 300 Notre Dame alumni and former students who died in World War II, it was announced by James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary.
World War II changed the complexion of many of these clubs, particularly the newer clubs, in which half to three-fourths of the members were serving in the armed forces. But offsetting this loss of activity was the creation of Notre Dame Clubs in Puerto Rico, Italy, the Aleutians, the Southwest Pacific, the . Panama Canal and other war theaters. The observance this year of Universal Notre Dame Night will mark the first step in the revival of the world network of Notre Dame Clubs.
Clubs in Mexico, Havana, Manila, Paris, Bengal, South America and other’ foreign centers are beginning to resume activity with the removal of war stress and the return of members or their release from captivity.
One of the largest single clubs is itself scattered in its membership, but intensely interested and loyal—composed of the 750 nuns who have received degrees from the Notre Dame Summer School.
Largest single alumni club is the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, numbering more than 2,000 Notre Dame men.
Graduating Seniors
June graduating seniors will meet in the Law Building auditorium Monday evening, April 1, at 7:30 o’clock. Class officers will be elected and plans for the Senior Ball discussed.
Juniors Name Prom
Committee Chairmen
The members of the Junior Class set May 3 as the date of the Junioi- Prom at a meeting Monday evening. Joe O’Toole, who was elected chairman of the prom last semester, acted as chairman of the meeting and announced his committee chairmen.
O’Toole named William McConnick co-chairman. The rest of his chairmen are: Bids, Richard Ungashick; Publicity, Robert Mulcahy; Decorations, Willowby Marshall; Music, Elmer Matthews; Arrangements, John Galoway; and Saturday Tea Dance chairman, Fred Hein-ritz.
There were many men chosen by the chairmen to fill out their respective committees. Any Junior wishing to toss his talents into making this- year’s Junior Prom a huge success may contact any chairman that he particularly desires to work with. It is a big undertaking for these men and they will welcome anyone who will give his time in making this dance a memorable affair.
A few “name” bands have been contacted and the selection will be announced in the next issue. Of course the price of the bids will be determined by the selection of the band. The Prom will be held in the Rockne Memorial. Order your bids now.—Joe Cheney
Vocational Lecture Series Next Week
Monday, April 1st, Department of Modern Languages
Thursday, April 4th
Departments of Economics and Sociology.
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, will officially name the 1946 recipient of the Laetare Medal on Laetare or Rose Sunday, March 31st. The Medalist will be the 63rd American Catholic to receive the medal which has been awarded since 1883 by the University of Notre Dame.
Among the representative Catholics who have received the Laetare Medal, which recalls to mind the Golden Rose of Rome, were the following: Maurice Francis Egan, author and diplomat, 1910; Joseph Scott, lawyer, 1918; Charles D. Maginnis, architect, 1924; Albert Francis Zahm, scientist, 1925; John McCormack, artist, 1933; Richard Reid, lawyer and journalist, 1936; and William Thomas Walsh, author, 1941.
“The Laetare Medal has been worn only by men and women whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, ilhts-trated the ideals of the Church, and enriched the heritage of humanity”
This excerpt from the citation accompanying the Laetare Medal when it was presented to Major-General William Stark Rosecrans in 1896, is the criterion for those who choose the recipient of the Laetare Medal awarded each year by the University of Notre Dame to an outstanding member of the Catholic Laity of America. Presented by the University annually since 1883, sixtytwo American men and women have been thus honored with the American counterpart of the papal “Golden Rose.” Men and women in the fields of arts, sciences, literature, law, and medicine, whose lives are patterns of Catholic zeal and achievement in their respective fields, have worn the Laetare Medal.
Origin of the Laetare Medal
In 1883, Notre Dame was a comparatively small college for men, a nucleus of Catholic higher education since developed in America. One evening at an informal faculty gathering when the conversation turned to religion and educators, much was said about the outstanding work of Catholics in the field.
(Continued on page 34)
7
Dr. Roscoe Pound to Lecture at N.D.
Haffert, Author and Lecturer,
to Speak at Adams High Sunday
Dr. Roscoe Pound, Dean-Emeritus of the Harvard Law School, will return to the campus of the University of Notre Dame to deliver a series of lectures on May 10, 11, 17 and 18, it was announced by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame.
General topic of Dean Pound’s lecture series will be “The Forms of Law.” The first lecture will be entitled, “Sources and Forms of Law;” the second, “The Traditional Element,” the third, “The Imperial Element;” and the fourth “Codification.”
Deem Roscoe Pound
Each of the lectures will be held at 8 p.m. in the auditorium of the Law Building on the Notre Dame campus. Members of the South Bend bar association will be special guests of the University at the lectures. Dean Clarence E. Manion of the College of Law will preside.
Dean Pound, who was dean of the Harvard Law School from 1916 to 1936, has been engaged by the Chinese Government to go to China this summer to assist the Chinese authorities in the codification of their legal system. He will leave for China shortly after he completes his series of lectures at Notre Dame.
The Harvard educator, author of several widely-known books on legal subjects, will be making his fifth appearance as special lecturer on the Notre Dame campus. He delivered his first lecture series here in January, 1942, and has lectured at the University annually since.
John Mathias Haffert, Lay Director of the Scapular Militia (official militant lay organization of the Scapular Confraternity in the United States) and managing editor of The Scapular Magazine will lecture on the scapular at the John Adams High School, Sunday, March 31, at 4:00 p.m.
He was born on August 23, 1915, in Sea Isle City, N.J., son of a newspaper publisher. At the age of 14 he left home to become a Carmelite. Eight years later, as the result of what seems to have been a vision to a saintly Carmelite lay Brother, having been sent back into the world he began the strange life that has been described in his latest book, an autobiography titled From a Morning Prayer. In July, 1944, Father Hyacinth Blocker, O. F. M., in a feature article about Mr. Haffert in Saint Anthony’s Messenger described the beginning of the lecture work (which followed the appearance of the first book almost at once) thus:
“Surprisingly, he made an interesting and persuasive speaker. His first talk was before a group of college girls and his second to a critical audience of priests and students in a Redemptorist house of studies — two tough assignments even for a veteran lecturer. But he weathered the ordeal. Requests poured
John Mathias Haffert
in from other clerical and lay groups and soon the young man had his own Chautauqua circuit, and he was spreading the Scapular apostolate, although not exactly in the manner he had imagined when he was a Carmelite seminarian.”
His reputation has been growing steadily so that he has gradually organized his work at the national headquarters of the Scapular Militia, in New York City, to be free to lecture.
Most people know him because of his first book, Mary in Her Scapular Promise, which reached the top of the list of Catholic best-sellers only four months after publication, now in its 25,000th impression.
“And so,” writes Father Blocker, “the young man who couldn’t become a Carmelite priest, who returned to the world, has made millions of American Catholics Mary-conscious. He has helped to save only the Lord knows how many souls. His parish is not a dozen or so city blocks but reaches from the Atlantic to the Pacific. His pulpit is not confined to one church but embraces the whole ' country. ‘It is for you,’ a little lay Brother (who probably had a vision) said, ‘to write and to do the work. It is for me to pray.’ And somewhere in a far-off foreign mission, isolated by half the world, that Brother today is praying.”
8
AND SO IT CAME ABOUT
By MATTHEW ROMANO
r
K. of C. Commemorate Founder’s Week With Communion-Breakfast
It was a mid-winter afternoon in Holyoke, Mass., and the church deacons were standing in the darkened doorway of the Second Congregational Church staring in astonishment at a priest sitting at the organ playing with a maestro’s skill. They were amazed because the clergyman was wearing a Roman collar. Suddenly, they became enchanted by the melodious strains which echoed and re-echoed through the rafters. It was a victory march. Looking further, they perceived four men sitting in one of the pews apparently overcome by the toe-tapping tune. Standing by the organ was a well-known figure to all of them. A Professor’ Hammond, who, unaware of their presence, was thumping the top of the organ in perfect unison with the music. One of the deacons looked again at the organist and then enlightened the others somewhat by whispering:
“Why that’s Mike Shea. An old high school chum of mine. I wonder what he’s doing here?”
Yes, that was Mike Shea, Father Michael J. Shea to be precise. Father and his brother John, one of the men sitting in the pews, were Notre Dame alumni. The latter had been an agile shortstop in his college days and had entered politics upon graduating. Mike chose what he always wanted and became a priest. On being ordained, Father Shea became an organist at St. Patrick’s Cathedral in New York City. In his free time he studied under the capable Prof. Hammond, recognized as one of the best organists in the East.
It was during a vacation in Holyoke, Mass., that Father met the Professor on the street and proceeded to tell him about a song his brother and he had composed. John had written the words. The professor, very interested in the young priest, invited him to come to the Second Congregational Church that afternoon, spicing his offer by adding that a new organ had recently been installed. They agreed to meet at five o’clock. Father went home and related the incident to his brother. John, delighted, invited himself and three friends for the great debut.
The music had stopped and the deacons moved toward the organist, one with his hand outstretched. The former high school mates greeted each other and then introductions were made all around.
“By the way,” remarked one of the church group, “That was a fine tune you were playing. What was it?”
Speaking on the rising tide of anticlericalism in the world, the Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C., addressed the Knights of Columbus of the Notre Dame council at the Communion-breakfast held last Sunday to commemorate the opening of the order’s Founders Week. Stressing the fact that the Pope is the pivotal force representing the Catholic faith, Father Laskowski added that the first and most violent attacks against the Church have • centered upon the Pope throughout history, and so it is today when the organized forces of certain political power under a veneel- of religion are seeking to destroy all religion.
Realizing that peace can be attained only through a protection of the rights of the vanquished as well as those of the-victors, he pointed out the truth that a just arbitration between quarreling nations can best be had through a reliance upon the vicar of Christ since he is the pastor of all of the faithful.
Another feature of the breakfast which followed the celebration of Mass
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C., addresses the Knights of Columbus at their Communion-breakfast. Left to right Leonard Aull, Father Laskowski. Bob Sullivan, and Rev. Francis P. Goodall	—Photo by Cacciapaglia.
“Oh, that was just something my brother and I put together,” replied the Fathei- modestly.
“Just something he says,” interrupted the other Shea. “Why that’s going to be Notre Dame’s number one song in a year or so.”
in the chapel of Walsh Hall was the address • given by the Rev. Francis P. Goodall, C.S.C., chaplain of the university knights. Tracing the development of the Knights of Columbus since its founding in 1882, Father Goodall pointed out that charity is the keynote of the order and that it is an exemplification of true Catholicity. He went on to explain the threefold objectives which the knighthood seeks to carry out, namely, practical Catholic living, the advancement of Catholic education, and charity to one’s neighbor.
Introducing the speakers and serving as toastmaster for the occasion was Leonard J. Aull, Commerce sophomore from Muscatine, Iowa. He also called upon Robert E. Sullivan, grand knight of the Notre Dame council who, in turn, presented visiting dignitaries from nearby councils. These included the grand knights from South Bend and Mishawaka as well as the faithful navigator of the Father Nieuwland General Assembly who serves this district.
Father Shea had to sit down and once again play the eventful melody. As the composer’s hands moved artfully over the keyboard, neither he nor anyone else could have known that this song, the Notre Dame “Victory March,” was to become a tradition.
9
N. D. Faculty Staffs Industrial Institute
Eight members of the faculty of the University of Notre Dame have been selected to staff the Industrial Relations Institute which opened this month and will continue into May under sponsorship of the Toledo Council of Catholic Men.
The TCCM institute will include five sessions for labor and an equal number for management, and five or as many more as are needed, which may be attended by labor, management and the public. .	.	,
While industrial relations institutes have been held in other cities of the nation, the men’s council program is the first to offer separate sessions for management and labor, followed by a third for the public, labor and management combined.
All sessions however, will be open to the public.
“This institute is intended solely to provide information to educate,” declared Dr. Joseph A. Muenzer, chairman of the council’s Social Action Committee which is arranging the program.
“The program is designed to offset as much as possible irresponsible tendencies now manifesting themselves in current employer-employe unrest to emphasize the duties and needs of wise leadership and active rank-and-file participation by Christian workers in labor organizations, to give workers an appreciation of managerial problems and to acquaint management with the problems of workers,” the chairman explained.
“The institute is based on the fact that our future prosperity and social welfare are linked with the creation and maintenance of peaceful and intelligent labor-management relations,” the Toledo ordinary said.
The Labor sessions will be held on five consecutive Tuesdays, the first of which started March 19. The management sessions will be held on five consecutive Thursdays. The labor-management-public sessions, which primarily will be discussion meetings, will open April 30.
Serving as co-ordinator for the program will be the Rev. Francis P. Goodall, C.S.C., director of alumni relations at Notre Dame and a native of Toledo.
The Notre Dame faculty members who will conduct the labor sessions and their topics are:
Dr. Maron Abell, assistant professor of history, spoke last Tuesday on “The Labor Movement in the United States.”
The Rev. Edward A. Keller, C.S.C., assistant professor of conomics and di-
(Continued on page 29)
Tommy Sex+on Has Theme
Song in "Victory March"
Seventeen-year-old Tommy Sexton of Toledo, Ohio, is one of Notre Dame’s most ardent fans. He would be on the campus now tussling with Freshman English and math if it weren’t that for the time being he has to stay in bed. In August, 1944, he was stricken with polio and had to submit to the iron lung until January of this year. Tommy’s right leg is incapable of any muscular action. Responding to treatment, he is just at the point where he can move the fingers of his left hand. His mother has to write the cheery letters he sends out to scores of friends.
When Tommy first fell sick, the technique of handling patients in the iron lung was new and sometimes he had to go through some harrowing experiences. Once the mechanism failed and the hospital superintendent operated the handpump for hours to help Tommy pull through. He himself says that he was as blue as ink but there is a twinkle in his eye as he talks. He is proud of the progress he is making and gives credit to God and the many prayers that are being said for him. His family may risit him only once a week at the Home for Crippled Children, but he doesn’t mind as long as the therapy is getting him closer to the time when he’ll be on the Notre Dame campus.
Tommy Sexton smiles cheerfully from his bed in a Toledo hospital.
He quickens with interest whenever anyone mentions Notre Dame. During those first agonizing days in the iron lung he lived only for the N.D. football broadcasts. His mother wrote to the Athletic Department in 1944 and asked for a picture of the team. Since then he has started an album of pictures of the individual players and of clippings which he keeps near his bed and is most happy when visitors go over the album with him.
A regular- reader of the Scholastic, Tommy recently sent us a letter which shows the pluck he’s made of. “The Notre Dame Victory March,” his mom wrote for him, “is my theme song since December 29th, the last time I rested in the iron lung.”
“Everyone calls me ‘Fighting Irish’ and it’s a good name, as I have had a long, hard fight since August 1944 to cross that goal line.
“It was the combination of the ‘Fighting Irish Spirit’ and the prayers of everyone that helped me over the first score.”
The Scholastic assures Tommy that he has a school full of rooters. If you want to drop Tommy a line, you’ll reach him at 2627 Meadowood Drive, Toledo, Ohio.
10
This is Our Country
An address by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University of Notre Dame, at a General Convocation of Students in the Navy Drill Hall on Friday morning, March 22, 1946
“As many of you know, and as the new students will soon learn, Notre Dame is a firm believer in tradition, and it is traditional for the president of the University to address the student-body at least once a. year. But I have something more than tradition in mind this morning. First of all, to the old students among you, I want to say, “It’s good to see you back.” And for those of you who are at Our Lady’s School for the first time, I have a warm welcome too. My sincere wish is that your years under’ the Golden Dome will be happy and fruitful ones.
“In a family such as ours there can be no favorites. Still, I think you will understand when I say that Notre Dame’s warmest welcome this morning must go to her sons who left school to join the armed forces, and who have now come back as veterans to the campus they love so dearly. To you, I say, “Welcome home.” As I told you so often in my letters, you have never been out of our thoughts and prayers. And may I add here that I deeply appreciate the hundreds of letters that I received from you. They illustrate the bond that exists between the Notre Dame man and his Alma Mater. With us, out of sight does not mean out of mind. Hence, I think it very fitting for us to pay tribute to our 304 valiant sons who will never return to this campus. 1 ask, therefore, that all of you bow your heads in a minute of silent prayer for those brave young men who made the supreme sacrifice for our beloved country.
“We are now beginning our first peacetime semester, and as you are well aware, Notre Dame is bursting at the seams because of the large enrollment. I shall not dwell upon the inconveniences of getting under way, because you know all about them. You have spent a lot of time standing in line. You are familiar with the congestion in the dining halls, the residence halls, and the classrooms. These difficulties will be ironed out in time. Meanwhile, I want to commend you on the spirit in which you have co-operated with administration and faculty in a difficult time.
“I know that co-operation will continue to the mutual benefit of' all. Should you wish to make suggestions, make them, by all means. The University not only receives, but welcomes,
suggestions when they are made through the proper channels. Your proper channel is the Student Council, which has the confidence of the University. It was established many years ago “for the furtherance of co-operation between the students and the officers of administration to the end that the interests of both students and the University may be promoted.” The Student Council is the only group that can speak officially for the students. The administration recognizes no other. Therefore, any observations, suggestions, or recommendations that you care to make should be made to this body through its-moderator, the Prefect of Discipline, who will present them to Notre Dame’s highest governing body, the University Council.
Father J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C.
“And by way of strong parenthesis, I wish to commend the Student Council on the excell ent.manner in which it conducted the recent drive for the relief of the children of the war-stricken countries of Europe. Also, my gratitude to the students generally for their very generous response. The words of the Master come to mind: “As long.as you did it to one of these, the least of my brethren, you did it unto Me.” God will reward you for your kindness.
“With these preliminaries out of the way, for the next few minutes I am going to indulge in some plain speaking. What I have to say is not a matter of academic theory, but of practical conditions, and, to use the vernacular, I feel that you should know what the score is. You should be made aware of a dangerous trend in the United States that threatens everything we fought for in World War II.
“The fact is that the war was only part of a world revolution. The revolu
tion is still going on. We won the war. Whether or not we shall win the revolution remains to be seen. We might as well be realistic. We might as well admit that although the world is well rid of one kind of totalitarianism, it is still beset by another vicious ideology that has the same depraved disregard, the same callous contempt for the sacredness and dignity of the human personality that the Nazis and Fascists had. The ideology that 1 refer to is Communism.
“I know that sometimes it is a little too easy to over-simplify issues that concern human beings and their relationships one to another, whether as nations or as individuals. I am not a professional “viewer-with-alarm.” Yet I see, as many others do, the formation of a world pattern that is completely at odds with the only principles upon which a just and lasting peace may be built. We have seen the pattern before. The battle line is drawn. The opposing philosophies are arrayed against each other now just as they were when Hitler’s Nazi forces first struck at western civilization. The one difference is that our enemy has changed its name.
“On the one side are those who believe in the American—and Christian— philosophy. They shape their lives by it in the light of the life to come. They recognize God the Creator; they accept the natural law which has its source in God the Supreme Lawgiver; they recognize natural rights of persons flowing from that law; and, finally, they acknowledge the inherent dignity and integrity of the human person because of these God-given rights. For my part, I must conclude that our part in World War II will have been the most tragic mistake in our history if we compromise the faith of our fathers.
“On the other side is the philosophy of materialism—or Communism, scientism, atheism, or secularism; call it what you will. The ideology is the same, and it is wrong, because it sees man as no more than an animal coming into the world without God or basic morality, existing for a while, and then returning to the nothingness whence it came. It builds a bleak world of totalitarianism in which man exists for the state, and not the state for man as man’s agent for the protection of God’s gifts of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. This is the world of “state-ism”—of Communist Russia, Nazi Germany, and Fascist Italy.
“The danger of Communism to Amer-(Continued on page 23)
.11
DEPARTMENT OF POLITICAL SCIENCE
By Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, Acting Head, Department of Political Science
The choice of a major subject by a student is of such importance that the serious individual will leave no source of information untapped so that he can act wisely. In the consideration of such major subject, two angles of the situation must be noted. First, there is the point of the facilities offered here on the campus in a proposed field of study, and, second, there is the very important point of what he can do with the major subject following graduation. Just which doors of opportunity will open to the college graduate will depend, naturally, to no mean extent on the man’s major sequence. He xvill need to be ready when he is asked “What can you do?”
Under the term “facilities” can, it seems, logically be included the matter of the Department’s staff. In the Department of Political Science all of the full-time members hold the Ph.D. degree, which, in itself, would seem to presume adequate preparation for the work at hand. Moreover, all of the staff members have been promoted by the University to the rank of full professor. Each man is the author of books which have carried his name beyond the bounds of the campus. As an incidental convenience to student majors, all of the staff members have offices on the same floor of Science Hall. '
Further on the matter of staff, the policy of the Department is to have each member specialize in one or two of the six divisions of the general field of Political Science, Political Theory, American Government and Public Law, International Law and Relations, Comparative’ Government, Political Parties and Public Opinion, and Public Administration. The advantage of such specialization is obvious. It is hoped in the years immediately ahead to extend this policy of specialization so that in the foreseeable future each staff member will confine his intensive efforts to no more than one division, making for obvious expertness.
Apart from faculty, the most import-ant item in the way of Political Science facilities is available library materials. The University Library is a United States Government depository for government publications and documentary materials as well as for publications of the Carnegie Institute of Washington. Obviously, such materials are especially useful for. the Political Science major. The Notre Dame Law School Library is
12
likewise available for use by those registered in the Department. In the field of periodicals, the Department’s facilities have been expanding fast.
As to the use of the major in Political Science after graduation, it must be admitted that “Poli. Sci.” is primarily cultural along with other departments in the College of Arts and Leters. This broad approach of the Arts curriculum is further explained in this Department by the fact that certain courses in other departments, notably History, Economics, Sociology, and Law, are recognized for Political Science credit to a limit of six semester hours.
One of the outstanding fields open to a major is government service, local, state, or federal. Various graduate schools of Public Administration throughout the country indicate preference for Political Science majors. In local and state government, the City Managers’ Association through its official publication, Public Management, maintains a personnel service. Federal civil service positions open to college graduates include, among others, those of Civil Service Examiner and Junior Professional Assistant. While beginning salaries are not high, such positions offer an opportunity for the man without experience at least to enter the federal service and progress upward. The Department of Political Science presents a special curriculum in Public Administration.
Possibly the greatest opportunity for college men desiring to enter federal service lies in the United States Foreign Service of the Department of State. Within the past year, three men from the University have received such appointments. Starting salaries and promotional arrangements are reasonable. The Department of Political Science offers a special curriculum for those wishing to prepare themselves for the Foreign Service examination, which examination, incidentally, is one of the “roughest” in federal service.
Probably the use to which a Political • Science major is most often put is that of pre-law training. Past and present deans of the Notre Dame College of Law have indicated that Political Science is one of the very best backgrounds for Law. The Department’s courses in International Law and Admiralty Law are eligible for credit in the Notre Dame . College of Law.
Vets' Club Sponsors Dr. Gurion Lecture
“What is the Russian situation today?” “Must the United States go to war with Russia?” These and interrelated questions will be discussed by Dr. Waldemar Gurian, Professor of the Department of Politics and famed political writer and observer. The lecture and question-discussion will take place in Washington Hall on Tuesday, April 2, at 7:30 p.m., under the sponsorship of the Veterans’ Club.
Dr. Gurian was born Feb. 13, 1902 in St. Petersburg, Russia. He attended the University of Munich, University of Breslau, and received his Doctor of Philosophy degree at the University of Cologne in 1923. He then became an associate professor of Political Science at the University of Bonn. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in October 1937.
Dr. Gurian is author of such well-known works as: Bolshevism, Theory and Practice; Future of Bolshevism; Hitler and the Christians; and Rise and Decline of Marxism. Dr. Gurian is also a contributor to many distinguished periodicals such as: The Thomist, American Historical Association, and Foreign Affairs and America. Dr. Gurian is also the editor of The Review of Politics, a Notre Dame publication.
All students are cordially invited to attend.
Speaking of backgrounds, a man considering entering certain fields of journalism, would do well to consider Political Science at least to the extent of taking certain electives in the Department.
The obvious field of teaching that is open to majors in Political Science need only be mentioned. In the realm of college teaching the American Political Association maintains a personnel service as does the American Association of University Professors through the medium of the Association’s Bulletin.
For those desiring further information concerning facilities and opportunities in Political Science, the departmental office is in Room 212, Science Hall, where every effort will be made to give a frank, full appraisal of the individual situation.
Let's Get Acquainted ...
By RAY CHAMBERLAND
(This is the first of a series in which we ivill introduce the lovely girls behind the scenes.)
The Athletic Office contributes greatly to the success of this new column by having in its employ, a lovely little brunette with great big eyes and a fine Ipana smile, (Miss) Mary Spaulding.
Mary is the able assistant to Snub Pollard, Coach Leahy’s secretary. She stepped into this position upon the resignation of Helen Wolf, whose husband has just returned from over seas.
In her Bobby Sox days Mary attended St. Joseph’s Academy and John Adams High School, graduating from the latter in the spring of ’44.
After slaving away at a secretarial course for four long years Mary could see no reason why she should not be “That cute little lass behind the keyboard.” So being a true daughter of South Bend the most logical place to look was . . . NO! Not Walgreen’s, but Notre Dame. Her first job here was in that lovely hall of learning, the library! Father McAvoy became her immediate superior. She held this position from August, ’45 to January, 46, at that time moving over to the other side of the campus where the fellows who lug the pigskin could gaze upon her. But these men of iron were soon to be disappointed because on the third finger of her “Rinso White” left hand she sports a rock the size of a half dollar which is R..O: Lindsey’s way of saying, and I quote,' “Stay loose.” Bob is a son of Kilgore, Texasj and will be discharged from the navy in
Mary Spaulding
Economic Round Table Represents N. D. at International Relations Conference
Five members of the Economic Round Table, a student organization, attended the Fifteenth Mid-West International Relations Club Regional Conference at Wisconsin State Teachers’ College, Oshkosh, Wisconsin, on March 8th and 9th. One hundred and eighty-three delegates from the states of Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, and Michigan assembled to discuss the task of establishing a permanent peace and to study the resources at hand to be used in securing that peace.
The conference, an annual affair, is sponsored by the Carnegie Endowment for Peace; which promotes peace-seeking activities on a college level in over seven hundred I.R.C. (International Relations Club) groups throughout the nation. Mrs. Clarence Englund of Chicago represented the Endowment at the conference. Mrs. Englund addressed the general assembly stressing for deepei- un' derstanding among peoples and governments. She also pointed out the value of discussion conferences and club programs as an aid toward enlightened public opinion.
Comprising the 1946 Notre Dame delegation were Patrick Nolan, Round Table President, Frank Funk, Secretary-Treasurer, William McGah, Carl Karey, N. R. O.T.C., and Charles Bartlett. Since 1942 Notre Dame has not attended the I.R.C. yearly conference because of the wartime pace of the scholastic schedule and high percentage of service personnel.
Three major discussion topics held the interest of the participants at the two day meeting. Charles Bartlett led the sessions in Round Table I entitled, “Using Material Resources for Peace.” During the meeting of Round Table I five papers were refid by various college representatives introducing questions related to the economic roots of World War II and the possibility of avoiding wars by sharing natural resources.
Pat Nolan delivered a paper entitled “How Can Science be Utilized to Serve the Interests of Peace Rathei- than of
June. One year hence he will be the recipient of a sheep skin from this University.
Mary has great interest in ice skating and horseback riding. “My pet peeve,” says Mary, “is that wild cousin of mine from Texas, George Stroh-meyer.”
Mary is the sister of Dottie Sheridan, former secretary to Hugh Devore, and whose husband is none other than Benny Sheridan, star halfback for the Irish in ’39.	‘
War?” He cautioned his listeners not to look to science for a panacea for the ills of a troubled world. Since science and the products of science are ethically neutral, he said, their use for peace rather than for war lies in a revision of spirit on the political plane toward goodwill and understanding among nations.
“The Government of Occupied Territories,” Round Table II, numbered William McGah among those in the discussion devoted to consideration of Allied Nations’ policies in occupied countries. A substitute for the League - mandate system was discussed, with the end in view that these war-torn countries may be restored to dignity in a balanced and equitable world community.
Carl Karey and Fred Funk exchanged views with other delegates in Round Table III which analyzed the machinery necessary to effect “World Organization and Peace.” The United Nations Organization was described and criticized as a workable instrument for the preservation of peace. The position of sovereign states confronted by atomic-power weapons was outlined by Milwaukee and Marquette speakers. Mary Catherine Manning of Nazareth College spoke to the third session on “Spiritual Forces for Peace.” The true understanding of man as a moral, rational person and the realization of his dignity and destiny were offered as fundamental points for thinking along the lines of an international peace of a durable character.
At 11:00 a.m. on March 9th, Carl Karey was interviewed over radio station WOSH, Oshkosh, regarding his opinion of world government. Carl stated that world government, in the full sense of the term, at the present time is all too radical a concept and if implemented in the forseeable future would prove to be a failure. We have in the UNO, Carl said, a project which can succeed! if supported wholeheartedly and unselfishly by the nations subscribing to the . charter.
During the business meeting officers were elected to preside at the Sixteenth Mid-West I.R.C. Conference to be held in 1947 at Butler University, Indianapolis, Indiana. Patrick Nolan, President of the Notre Dame Economic Round Table was chosen to be Vice-President of the Butler conference. ■
The retiring President, William Sperling of Oshkosh, closed the meeting after the assembly had voiced its appreciation to the Wisconsin State Teachers’ I.R.C. Club for the generous hospitality shown to the delegates.
13
Knute Rockne—Father
A tall granite marker rises from the flat Kansas landscape near Bazaar. This lonely monument stands on the spot where Knute Rockne met his death in an airplane crash fifteen years ago this March 31st. Is this cold grey shaft standing alone on the broad plains of Kansas all that remains of the memory of Notre Dame’s most famous son? Surely not, for inscribed on every heart of Notre Dame’s true sons and all her countless friends is the spirit of Rockne.
Here on the campus of Notre Dame are two memorials to Rockne which are a result of that spirit. One, the Rockne Memorial fieldhouse which was one of Knute’s fondest dreams. He always desired a building in which the whole student body could participate in sport even though they were not varsity material. He well realized that a small percentage of Notre Dame students make up the varsity teams. At the “Rock” a student, whether dub or pro, can enjoy his favorite sports. The other memorial is the St. Olaf altar in Dillon Hall chapel. This small liturgical altar, surmounted by a statue of St. Olaf in matched marbles, reposes in a niche in the northern wall of the chapel and was dedicated by the Rockne family and the students of the University. But, what of the man to whom are dedicated these works of play and prayer?
Knute Kenneth Rockne was born at Voss, Norway, on March 4, 1888, the son of a carriage maker. The Columbian Exposition at Chicago in 1893 prompted Lewis Rockne to travel to the United States and exhibit his handiwork. The elder Rockne remained in America and later sent for his family to join him in Chicago. Knute received his primary education in the Brentano grammar school of Chicago’s Logan Square district and later attended Northwest Division High School. After graduation family finances prohibited Knute from enrolling directly in college. To this end he worked five years in the Chicago Post Office. Rockne originally intended to enroll at the University of Illinois but two friends, John Devine and John Plant both athletes of note, persuaded him to come with them to Notre Dame. And this he did in 1911, participating in track and football and majoring in chemistry. Knute graduated in 1914, magna cum laude, with an average of 92.5. Rockne always required good scholarship from his players as he was a firm believer in the statement that it takes both brains and brawn to make a good football player. Shortly after his
By JOHNNY WALKER
graduation he married Miss Bonnie Skiles. Foui- children were born to them.
With the close of World War I Knute was appointed head football coach of Notre Dame and later director of athletics, positions which he held until his untimely death. His ability as football coach so overshadowed his other activities that few people were aware that Rockne successfully coached track from 1916 to 1926. By the early nineteen twenties Rockne’s success was rising like a rocket. At the height of his career he could have gone to any school in the land and been glady received. But he chose our Lady’s School, his alma mater. When asked by a radio commentator what school he would like to join should he ever leave Notre Dame, Rockne replied in his characteristic fashion, “Sing Sing—the alumni never come back.” His answer was no doubt prompted by a great percentage of the alumni endeavoring to secure seats on the 50 yard line. In the twenties under the masterful guidance of Rockne, success after success was scored by the Notre Dame football teams. The greatest backfield in history came to fame under his tutelage. “The Four Horsemen,” they were called by Grantland Rice. In 1924 and again in 1930 Notre Dame captured the national championship in football.
Then came that fatal March day. A
farmer, tilling the Kansas soil, paused in his work to watch a great airliner pass overhead. It disappeared into a cloud and shortly thereafter the farmer stood transfixed while the plane hurtled into the ground followed by a fluttering wing. All the nation mourned his passing. Kings and statesmen, newsboys and simple folk bowed their heads and offered their condolences. At Notre Dame the shock was profound, the gloom unbroken.
Rockne’s conversion to Catholicism is an outstanding example of the profound effect a good Catholic life can have on a person outside the Faith. Knute relates the story of an event which took place in a distant city hotel at which he and the team were residing. He had risen early one morning and had come down into the lobby. Knute seated himself in a chair which faced the door of the hotel. Soon he noticed his players in little groups of two or three leaving the hotel. This procedure went on for minutes, when Rockne approached one of the boys and asked his destination. The lad answered that he was going to attend Mass. All this had a profound effect upon Rockne. Shortly thereafter he began taking instructions, so he could as he put it, “Join my boys at the Communion Rail.”
Thus they laid him to rest in a ceme-(Continued on page 29)
14
KNUTE ROCKNE AND NOTRE DAME
The life of Knute Rockne was intimately interwoven into the fiber of Notre Dame. From the time he caught football's first forward pass against Army in 1913 to rock the sports world until his death in 1931, Rockne WAS Notre Dame to the Irish's legion of subway alumni. No other coach so gripped the imagination of football enthusiasts as did Rockne in the twenties. To a generation of players and spectators he symbolized the flaming spirit of Notre Dame. The "luck of the Irish" became a national byword, but Rockne, who for two decades saw students troop to Communion en masse on football Saturdays, did not attribute Notre Dame's gridiron suc
cesses to luck. When asked how he could turn out such teams year after year, Rockne pointed to the Prefect of Religion and said, "That's my assistant. He keeps these fellows fit."
Rockne's death stunned the nation. When news of his death was flashed over the radio. South Bend's telephone exchanges became so choked with calls that the automatic systems became entirely useless and no calls could be completed. Only on one other occasion did such a telephone breakdown occur—the death of Roosevelt.
Pictured above are scenes of Rockne's funeral. Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame.
preached at the funeral service and Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., presided.
Formal opening of the Rockne Memorial (left), in the center, Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame.
Right, the Rockne family at the dedication of Rockne's bust in the foyer of the Memorial.
15
The Knute Rockne Memorial—a living tribute to a great man. Hundreds of students and faculty members daily use the "Rocks" many sports facilities—gym, swimming pool, handball courts, light and heavy apparatus rooms, and a sun lamp for a midwinter tan.
A foursome in the middle of a hot handball game. Left to right. lack Easey, Louis Dudak, Ed Foley, and Bill Eaton.
16
A section of the swimming pool. Stands line both sides of the pool, suitable for all types of swimming events.
—Photo by Christy Walsh
SCHOLASTIC photographer Christy Walsh snaps the shutter on Tex Porter going over the horizontal bar in a front vault from a front rest—in the ”ap" room.
Gil Burdick of the Phy Ed Department instructs a group of swimming novices in the beginners' pool.
—Photo by Christy Walsh
17
Assistant Coaches Play Vital Role in Turning Out Winning Combinations
EY PETER L. PESOLI
Splinters from,
BY PAUL WEYRAUCH.
In football, those behind-the-scene men referred to simply as the “assistant coaches” determine to a large extent whether a team becomes a winning combination or just an uncoordinated aggregation of individual players. If you don’t believe it, ask Gil Bouley, last year’s regular tackle for the Cleveland Rams (and who, incidentally, made football history in the East at Boston College).
While home between semesters your reporter happened to come across Bouley, accompanied by Notre Dame’s own Pat Filley, in the town’s local emporium. Pat is located at Cornell as an assistant to boss man McKeever, whereas Gil is working for his degree “high above Cayuga’s waters”—that is, when he isn’t playing for the league-winning Rams (at $10,000 a season).
Well, the conversation which ensued was, of course, about football (which is as it should be), with particular emphasis on the ND monogram winners returning from the service. Filley and yours truly were throwing names at him like Lu jack, Mello, Kelly, Livingston, and Cowhig without receiving any apparent reaction on Mr. Bouley’s part. But when we mentioned the return of Joseph Andrew McArdle, Gil let out a warhoop that caused the workers of a nearby factory to knock off for the day.
"Pity the Poor Army"
“McArdle? Back?” he roared. Then, after he had calmed down, he murmured to himself, “Poor Anny! Poor Navy!”
When we asked him what brought on that particular outburst he replied, “McArdle is undoubtedly one of the best line coaches in football. What a taskmaster! He doesn’t tell you how to throw a block but instead throws one at you himself. He doesn’t hesitate to rough you up, either; that way you aren’t surprised when Saturday rolls around with its share of unorthodox playing. He’s certainly a driver — was affectionately known as Capt. Bligh. Oh, Brother! PoorArmy and poor Navy!”
We figured that to be quite a glowing tribute from one of the best linesmen in the country, so proceeded to find out more about this fabulous line coach, McArdle. He was born in 1911 in the state of Massachusetts. Both his parents were born in Ireland. In high school little Joe made quite a name for himself and, consequently, entered Fordham in 1931. Although weighing only 170 lbs. at his peak, McArdle played as a regular for
18
three years dt the guard slot under head coach Jim Crowley and line coach Frank Leahy.
In 1939 when Frank Leahy became head coach of Boston College, he brought McArdle along with him as coach of centers and guards. They were still together when Leahy took the reins here at ND in ’41. April of ’42 saw McArdle answering the call to arms. He spent 10 months in the Pacific as well as nine months on the famous carrier Wasp. At present you can rest assured that he’s making plans to field a forward wall for the Irish that will all but push Army’s line right out of the Yankee Stadium.
Matisi Toughest
Another returning line coach "who arrived on the scene back in ’41 with Leahy is none other than John Francis Druze. One of the original “seven blocks of granite,” Druze captained the 1937 Fordham team (won 7, tied 1) from his end position. He learned the finer points of being a wingman from Hughie Devore, line coach at that time. He played 180 minutes against Pitt for three years and rated Tony Matisi as his toughest opponent. As a coach, Druze has turned out two all-American ends, Gene Good-reault of B.C. and Bob Dove of ND. Came April of ’42 and Druze also departed for the Navy, serving as a Lieutenant on escort carriers with 18 months sea duty to his credit.
Also returning to the fold is Edward Walter (Moose) Krause, former Notre Dame football and basketball player as well as coach. He came to ND from Chicago in 1930 and was with the shock troops for the first game. He started, however, against Northwestern and had a field day. Consequently, he played with the first team until he graduated in ’34. He then became a line coach for a while at Holy Cross under Joe Shee-ketski (a ND teammate) after which he i eturned to the campus to assist Leahy in ’42. He also coached basketball for half a season before entering the Marines in February, ’44. He served as an intelligence officer for 14 months in the Solomons with a Marine Bombardment Squadron.
And lastly we have a newcomer- to the . coaching staff but no newcomer, however, at Notre Dame—Bernard Anthony Crimmins. Arriving here in ’38, Bernie proceeded to win three football monograms, all at different positions, as well as earning three for baseball. His first
Dusting Out the Corners
It becomes harder each week even to mention the word basketball because the season is definitely over, but there are still a few particles of news lying in the corners, so just to be neat we’ll clean them up. For instance, The Sporting News recently blossomed forth with its 1945-46 Basketball All-America with Leo Klier planted on the second team. Now when you consider that the first team had two centers listed as forwards we might as well consider Leo as a first team forward since he really played forward and guard, a little. Even the first team guard position were not occupied , by full time guard performers. Max I Morris, Northwestern center and George Mikan, DePaul center, were listed as forwards, Bob Kurland, Oklahoma Ag- • gie center, was rightfully named center, and Sid Tananbaum, N.Y.U. guard, was correctly placed at a guard spot. John I Dillon, Noi-th Carolina forward, was ( named as the othei- first team guard. Klier, Gray of Harvard, Kok of Arkansas, Black of Kansas, and Wilkinson of Iowa, comprised the second team........... George Ratterman, versatile Irish ath- ' lete, was named on the All-Madison , Square Garden team for the second successive year. Billy Hassett and Vince Boryla received honorable mention on the Sporting News combine.
Fighting Irish in the News	j
1941 quarterback, Harry Wright, has I been named football coach and physical I education director at Aquinas Institute r in Rochester, N. Y. . . . Frank Dancewicz | has hit the Boston Yanks for a football | and a pair of shoes so that he can get an early start on practice. Frank hopes ♦ to be good for 10 or 15 years of pro ball.
. . . Athletic Director Frank Leahy will ♦
year he ran from the right half position. As a junior he was groomed as Milt Piepul’s understudy at fullback and played j the whole Army and Navy game when Milt was injured. In his senior year he was shifted to running guard by newcomer Frank Leahy. This strategy paid dividends and Bernie was named on several all-American teams that year. He en- I tered the Navy in October of ’42 and spent 18 months in the South Pacific, earning the Silver Star and Presidential Citation along with other decorations.
.the Press Box
I—Scholastic Sports Editor
200 Candidates Turn Out for Baseball;
Nine Monogram Men Insure Team Punch
BY DAVE WARNER
be a guest instructor at the Utah State Agricultural College summer school for coaches June 10-14. . . . Harry Jacunski, assistant coach to Hugh Devore last fall, has signed as an assistant coach at Har-* vard. As everyone knows by now, Hugh has taken over the reins at St. Bonaven-‘ ture.
*	A Broader Program
While there are probably good reasons for not doing so, it seems that Notre Dame could promote a much broader athletic program on an intercollegiate basis during the winter. Under the present system only basketball and indoor | track give the boys a chance for intercollegiate activity. At that,. basketball affords only a small group of boys the chance to play on a varsity team, while " track does not provide for many more. All Big Nine schools and other major independent midwestern schools have I other winter sports to keep the boys A busy. Wrestling, boxing, and swimming are the prominent attractions for the athletes. The institution of all or some of these sports into the Notre Dame inter, collegiate athletic program would pro' vide the opportunity of varsity competi-i tion for a much larger number of the students. The talent is here, though na-r turally it would take a few seasons to get the sport established. Wrestling as a professional sport is a fake and fizzle, but on an intercollegiate basisit has proven to be not only a fine sport ’ from the physical development angle but : also as an interesting fan sport. There’s I plenty of beef going to waste in the var-| ious halls during the winter months and ! we don’t mean the dining hall. The Bengal Bouts have proven conclusively year * after year that Notre Dame could send out an excellent team of boxers against * other colleges. Boxing particularly would draw crowds. Professional boxing in South Bend or even in Chicago is practically nil, which should be a further in-j centive for the colleges. The University of Wisconsin has annually ranked among the nation’s best in college boxing. The Badger boxing teams draw thousands of fans to the Madison field house for the matches. Notre Dame’s proposed new I field house would also afford accommodations for a more extensive athletic program. The Rockne pool has felt the splash of many outstanding swimmers from the ranks of the students. A varsi-
Baseball practice got under way at Notre Dame, and for the first few days thereafter ancient Cartier Field resembled a combination of the New York Yankees, the St. Louis Cardinals and a Roger Hornsby Baseball School all working out simultaneously. Attired in many different varieties of warm-up outfits over 200 candidates busied themselves in batting, pepper games, fly shagging, pitching, jogging, and otherwise just getting the feel of the diamond again. Coach Jake Kline, now starting his 13th season as Notre Dame baseball coach, soon put an end to this massive turnout. In an effort to determine exactly what material he has on hand Kline has been working with his squad in shifts. As we went to press nobody was offically cut. The veteran diamond mentor was greatly impressed with the 200 plus turnout commenting. “Baseball is still one of the most popular games at Notre Dame, and the fact that so many boys are trying out is a tribute to a truly American game.”
Plenty of Punch
A glance at the squad list reveals that Kline has plenty of punch on the credit side of the ledger. Nine monogram winners reported for the opening drills. They are: the squad’s leading pitcher, Jack “Kewpie” Barrett; infielder George Schneider, Billy Hassett, Tom Martin; and outfielders Frank Gilhooley and Neil Kelly all from last spring. Kelly is ineligible for participation this spring. This sextet is bolstered by the return of ty in this sport would certainly arouse increased interest among all students in swimming. That alone should make such an undertaking worthwhile.
Can't Read the Numbers
While making suggestions and what not, it would be nice if the scoreboard on Cartier Field for baseball would be moved into the range of the human eye. At present, the small scoreboard is placed so far from the bleachers that it is practically impossible to read the numerals. A sign on top of the Hoffman Hotel downtown would be about as readable. It would be a simpler maneuver to bring the board in closer. In fact, just give us a shovel and a hammer and the job is as good as done.
While strolling through the Associated Press sports room in New York recently, one of our spies caught the name of Billy Hassett on the first team AP AllAmerican. It better be true!
ex-service lettermen Tom Sheehan, heavy-hitting captain of the 1944 team and rated one of the best catchers in collegiate baseball, outfielder Jack Mayo, and infielder Frank Ciszcon.
Then there is the nucleus of last summer’s nine who will all be making strong bids for a starting berth—Bill Dioguardi behind the plate; that fast-stepping Yonkers, N. Y., trio, Don Grieve, Dick Smul-len and Pete Koblosh; “old man” Kenny Cave, hot corner guardian and the only married man on the squad; outfielders Dick Kluck and Frank Parise; and twirl-ers John Hillbricht and Joe Gehring. Moundsmen Bill Albert, who was also on the squad last spring, and basketball star Johnny Dee are back again displaying their baseball wares.
Promising Prospects
Of the newcomers, the most promising prospects so far seem to be Jim Pressley and Tom Coccitto, catchers; Chuck Lill and Walt Mahanah, pitchers; Ray Petrzelka and Tom Clementi; first base; and Etore Cordasco and Steve Kozlik, second base. Footballers Stan Krivik, Elmer Raba, and Jim McGurk are also working out but they cannot be termed candidates as spring football practice starts in mid-April.
As yet there has been no official release of a schedule. A tentative one has been drawn up and includes many Big Ten opponents and ten home games, and it now awaits only the approval of the University Board of Athletics. '
Coach Jake Kline
19
Fifty Students in Training for
Bengal Bouts under Napolitano
Martin Sodetz, Jim Jacobs, Tom De La Vergne, Ward Driscoll, Lou Kuper, Jim Meyers, Bob Kane, Everhart Schleck, Mike Yerbernet, Jr., Don Winter, Tom
By CHRISTY WALSH
Flying bats in a recent Hollywood product proved no more difficult to count, or for that matter follow, than the group now in training for the Bengal Bouts. However, an official tabulation, courtesy of Professor Dominic G. Napolitano, of the Department of Physical Education, sets the figure at fifty aspirants.
Even though fifty men are now participating in the present program, Coach Napolitano emphasizes the fact that there is still plenty of room for scrappers in all classes, particularly in the Heavy and Light.
In these, the 15th Annual University Boxing Championships, the contenders will again be trained and coached by a figure affectionately referred to as “Nappy.” Reliving again the past, Nappy recounted in a recent interview his beginning at Notre Dame, way, way back in 1932. Ten years were spent working as an instructor, which included prepping the Bengal Bouters.
The Navy outbid the University Fathers in 1942, and Nappy was assigned to Iowa Pre-Flight as Instructor of Boxing. With the greatest of pride in his voice, Nappy will recount to you how in 1945 his boys laced Wisconsin, twice the same year as a matter of fact. This feat scored Iowa Pre-Flight as the first aggregation to defeat the Badgers on their home canvas in fourteen years. Shades of N. D. home basketball. As a
point of record, to keep the “family” circle happy, it should be added that Nappy’s boys at Iowa broke a fifty-one match winning streak for these same Badgers.
The sun, rising one morn last year, found our well-liked Coach “Seeing the World” Uncle Sam style, on board the Carrier Ticonderoga. This does not conclude our story, for Coach Napolitano’s release from the Navy and return to Notre Dame, is ^only the beginning of another chapter for him—and those under his tutorage, may we add.
Some students when asked their hobby will frankly retort, “sack time” nothing else, nothing but. Well may these same gentlemen start groping for their marble slabs; that should be their reaction to the Bengal training schedule as just released.
Reporting at three in the afternoon, “trainees” will follow this schedule:
1.	Road-work, once around the lake.
2.	Mat exercise, 10 minutes.
3.	Rope jumping, 10 minutes.
4.	Bag punching, 10 minutes.
5.	Sparring, 20 minutes.
6.	Instruction, 30 minutes.
Is there anyone so rash as to believe that amongst the men of Walsh Hall, there are any so brazen as to put their jugs down and show the students from Alumni they do engage in other sports?
Father Holderith
Rareille, Jim Quinn, Bob Meunier, Joe Kelley, Ray Bagucki, Harry Peters, Joe Flood, Bob Kasinski, and Ed Lund.
The schedule is as follows:
April 27		Open Date
May	4	Wisconsin	at Madison
May	11	Purdue	at Lafayette
May	13	Michigan	at Notre Dame
May	18	Northwestern	at Notre Dame
May	24	Indiana Inter-Collegiate Tournament Terre Haute, Ind.
May	25	Minnesota	at Minnesota
May	31	Mich. State and Wayne Univ. .	at East Lansing
June	1	Detroit	at Detroit
June	24	National Inter-Collegiate Tournament
Golf Team Set for Big Season
Again under the able coaching of Father Holderith, the Golf Team is off to another successful season. With the opening of the Golf course on March 20th, forty-one candidates, including twenty-three World War II veterans, reported to Father Holderith in his headquarters at the Golf Shop, eager to start the elimination matches which will decide the first three teams by April 24th.
Included in the forty-one candidates are five returning Monogram men: Tom Kennedy, this year’s Captain; Jim Bes-enfelder, who was a member of the 1944 National Championship Team before he joined the service; Paul Porter; Art Mosher; and Tom Dore, who had just returned to school this semester after having served a hitch in the Navy.
Returning this year is Dick Whitney, a former Captain in the Air Corps, who
played under Father Holderith’s supervision in 1941 and 1942. Dick never reached the Varsity before he left for the Air corps. “Not because of his inability though,” explained Father Holderith, “It was because of the then effective ruling which banned Freshmen from participating in Varsity spoils. Now that he is back, I think he can bolster the team considerably.”
Other candidates whom Father Holderith considers fine prospects are: George Stuhr, Long Island, N. Y.; Tom Connolly, Wis.; Jack Quinn, N. J.; and Joe Totten, Pittsburgh.
Also among those who reported Wednesday were Tom Wilson, Jim Mahar, Wm. Breen, Jim Needy, Bob Poobst, Lenny Kaizmarski, Jack Butler, Phil Blum, Joe Sardy, Frank McGinty, Ray Bushig, Bob Doumand, Paul Quigley,
Announce Bengal
Committee Heads
John Powers, Committee Chairman, this week announced the names of the men on the working committee for the Bengal Bouts. Publicity is to be handled by Christy Walsh, tickets by Dick Miller, concessions are in charge of George Kenard, posters will be distributed by John Trave, program is under the direction of Frank Grimaldi, advertising arranged by Bob Lewis, and arrangements by Frank Kowalski.
The committee is working up what they term a “live-wire” intermission act. It should prove to be quite a surprise to Bengal goers.
Possibly to brighten the outlook for* some canvased Bengaleser, the University band will be in attendance—in full array.
20
Netmen Open Season Against Navy Apr. 29
BY BILLY SLAVICK
Tennis racquets came out of their cases all over the nation last week, and the sight from the windows of Breen-Phillips proves that the Notre Dame campus is no exception. Some EO candidates, including 10 monogram winners, the largest number of lettermen on hand in the history of Notre Dame tennis, an-
Coach Langford
swered Coach Walter Langford’s call to practice last Thursday.
The netmen open the season against Navy at Annapolis, April 29, followed by eight May matches, including four at Notre Dame.
But even 10 lettermen can be a none too bright picture, points, out Coach Langford as he calls attention to the lack of a single outstanding player of the Jimmy Evert or Dan Canale order, or a Big Four similar to the top men who carried Notre Dame to an undefeated season in 1944 and dropped only a lone match to Michigan in 1945.
While Langford claims no really outstanding star on the* squad, he places Capt. Bill Tully on par with the best of past No. 1 men. Along with Tully, George Ratterman, Joe Brown, Dick Fountain, and Ralph Baiocchi are back from the ’45 lettermen list. Ed Caparo, Jim Quinn, and Tyke Hartmann, ’43, monogram winners, are on the scene, with Artie Hoffman from ’42 and Harry Erd from ’41.
Coach Langford sees the return of two and three name players to some of the schools on the Notre Dame schedule as trouble-making, but the Irish netters won’t be a push-over for anybody. Even Langford cedes only a very few possible losses this year.
The most promising non-monogram candidates so far are John Moorhead, Jack Franz, Bud Seghers, Jack Rodgers, and Phil Lyons. The squad will be worked down to 15 or 20 men in the next few weeks, with the remainder going over to the interhall program, which should be at its strongest since 1942 due to the large number of tennis players among the returning veterans.
All-Americans Hassett and Boryla
Receive "True" Magazine Trophies
Eleven of the nation’s best college basketball players, including Billy Hassett and Vince Boryla of Notre Dame, were royally treated in New York at the first All-American Basketball dinner sponsored by True magazine, March 22. The city was literally turned over to the young men for the week-end and needless to say, they took full advantage.
The magazine entertained the first, second, and third teams of their 1948 All-American selections picked by hundreds of sports writers and radio announcers throughout the country. However, four men were missing: Leo Klier, first team selection from Notre Dame, had to stay on the campus so as to be a]ble to make the trip to New York this week for the East-West basketball game; Milo Komenich, second team choice at center from Wyoming; and Bob “Foothills” Kurland, first team guard from Oklahoma Aggies, were still playing basketball elsewhere; and the Navy would not permit Max Morris, second team forward of Northwestern to take leave from school. Those in attendance besides Hassett and Boryla were Sailors (Wyoming), Mikan (DePaul), Ives (Iowa), Goldsmith (Long Island), Boykoff (St. John’s), Hall (Marshall), Black (Kansas), Tannebaum (New York), and Parkinson (Kentucky).
The group was accorded a banquet at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel Friday evening—with all the trimmings. Hassett
Window display of Max Adler, paying tribute to the Notre Dame basketball team
and Klier received large trophies- as first team All-Americans and Boryla received . a smaller trophy as a second team selection, Jimmy Walker, ex-mayor of New York City, presented the trophies and also spoke to the stars. Adolph Rupp, renowned coach of the Kentucky quintet, also spoke. An additional entertainment, Max Baer and Maxie Rosenbloom, both former boxing greats, put on the show which they are presenting at a prominent New York club. The two Slapsie Maxies kept the entire audience laughing. The banquet was attended by approximately 400 guests including all of the coaches in New York at that time for a coaches’ meeting and many-sports writers.
When the boys first ai-rived in New York City they were escorted from 42nd Street to the City Hall where the City Council greeted and presented them with keys to the city. Mayor O’Dwyer was absent from the city at the time. The AllAmericans appeared on eight different radio programs including those of Arthur Godfrey, Don Dunphy, Bert Lee, and Shorty McGlynn’s Sports Parade on a national hookup. The boys were accommodated at the Barkley Hotel and entertained at any place desired on Saturday night. Some of them, still bubbling over with basketball enthusiasm, attended the national tournament at the Madison Square Garden while others took in stage shows and, of course, a few of the prominent night spots.
21
By JIM CLEMENS
Bill O'Neil
Snoqualmie Falls, Washington, a small mill town nestled in the heart of the great Northwest timberland and situated some 28 miles east of Seattle, has two claims to fame, in that it is the home town of both the glamorous movie star, Ella Raines, and the captain of this year’s Fighting Irish track team—"William Edward O’Neil
Bill, as he is better known to the ardent followers of Notre Dame’s cinder artists, first saw the light of day in the little town of Everett, Wash., on Dec. 23, 1925, but four years later his father, prompted by business interests, moved the family to Snoqualmie Falls, which has been home to them ever since.
After grade school, Bill put in a year of high school in the old home town, and for the following three years matriculated at Gonzaga High School in Spokane, Wash., where he first began his athletic career. While at Gonzaga, Bill earned five monograms, two in track—when he competed in the hurdles and ran on the mile relay team—and one each in football, baseball and basketball, making a clean sweep in his senior year when he won no fewer than four letters. Curiously enough, his greatest athletic thrill at Gonzaga came not while he was burning up the cinder track, but rather on the gridiron when in the last game of his high school career against Lewis & Clark, with only five minutes left to play, he scored the winning touchdown on the old Statue of Liberty play, thus earning for his team a well merited 7 to 6 victory.
Bill entered Notre Dame in the summer semester of 1943 because “it’s the best Catholic School in the country,” and decided to confine his athletic activities strictly to the cinder path, where he has been the mainstay of Coach Elvin “Doc” Handy’s hurdlers for the past two seasons and the one currently in progress. Twice a monogram winner, Bill has contributed many a valuable point to the Irish total score, and last June was rewarded for his steady, dependable work by being elected to the captaincy of this year’s Notre Dame track squad.
While he doesn’t hold any records, Bill has turned in the very commendable times of :07.1 seconds for the 60 yard low hurdles and :07.7 seconds for the 60 yard high hurdles, both made indoors last year when he garnered two firsts
against Purdue and Iowa Pre-Flight in a triangular meet held in the Notre Dame fieldhouse. Oddly enough, his best recorded times outdoors, while good enough to win in almost any other meet, netted him exactly nothing as he skimmed the 120 yard highs in :15.2 seconds and the 220 yard lows in :24.8 seconds in the National Collegiate championships held in Milwaukee, Wis., last June. In addition to his hurdling, Bill was the “fifth man” on last year’s crack mile relay team, and in running the second heat for the Irish in the famed Drake Relays turned in a very neat :-51.3 quarter mile.
Naturally quiet and unassuming, Bill maintains his greatest athletic thrill here at Notre Dame, thus far, was running in the Chicago Relays last March when he competed against Earl Dugger, then and now the National A.A.U. high and low hurdles champion. “I didn’t even place,” recalled Bill with a smile, “but what a thrill it was competing against a champion like Dugger.”
A little family history reveals that Bill is the third of four children, all boys. Gene, the oldest, is now a senior at Wisconsin, having put in three years at Stanford before he enlisted in the Army Air Corps, in which he served as a B-24 Navigator. Next' in seniority is Fred, who had two years at the University of Washington before going in the Navy, where he is a Signalman 1/c pulling shore duty on the Island of Ulithi, some
where in the vast Pacific. The youngest of the boys, John, is currently in grade school, and according to Bill, “the brightest star in the O’Neil household.” Bill is also very proud of the fact that his Dad once played high school football with Gus Dorais when they were teammates back in Chippewa Falls, Wis., in 1909.
Among his extra-curricular activities at Notre Dame, Bill lists the Commerce Forum and Knights of Columbus as his clubs, while he has more than a passing interest in reading good literature and listening to the best in swing classics on the phonograph.
Of his love life, Bill was the essence of diplomacy, and after seeing the pictures of certain young lovelies gracing his room in 316 Walsh, one can understand why. Among his most prized possessions, however, is a telegram from the aforementioned movie queen, Ella Raines, congratulating him on receiving the captaincy of the Notre Dame track team.
A second semester senior, Bill expects to graduate from the College of Commerce in June with a B.S. in Business Administration. From there, he intends to go into the lumber business in Washington, that is if he doesn’t have to pull a hitch in Uncle Sam’s Army first for he is currently 1AB in the draft.
Standing 5' 11" tall and weighing 168 lbs., Bill has the ideal build for a hurdler, and like so many Irish track stars before him, he attributes all his success to the coaching and expert handling of his mentor, “Doc” Handy. With the outdoor season just around the corner and the Irish captain about to compete in his last campaign, we want to wish continued success and good luck to Bill O’Neil, true Notre Dame man in every sense of the word.	.
BENGAL BOUTS
April 29th thru May 2nd Finals, Thursday, May Sth
Sunday morning, March 31st, 11:30 A.M., there will be a meeting of ALL Bengal workers in the K. of C. office in the basement of Walsh Hall.
Those interested in entering the Bengal Bouts may still do so by reporting to the Boxing room under the north stand of the Fieldhouse between the hours of 3 and 5, Monday thru Friday. All contestants must procure a slip of eligibility from Dr. McMeel at the Infirmary. It is advisable to avoid delay.
22
THIS IS OUR COUNTRY (Continued from page II) ica is real; it is imminent. True, the Communists in the United States are relatively few in number, but what they lack in numbers they make up in organization. They have a power and an influence far greater than their numerical strength would indicate.
“They are astute, tough-minded propagandists with access to all channels of communication, and amazingly quick and deft at twisting or coloring news so that it will advance the interests of the movement. Of course, one of the most notable examples of the success of Communist propaganda is the picture that has been built up of General Francisco Franco. The Franco regime has not been without fault, it is true; but its unforgivable sin seems to be that it beat the Communists in Spain to a standstill.* Perhaps you read with interest, as I did, a comment in a recent issue of “Columbia” by Richard Pattee, who wrote: “. . . it ought to be borne in mind . . . that in this chorus of condemnation, we are curiously inconsistent in denouncing the sins of Franco and his Spain, while we remain charitably silent about the conduct of Sweden, which for years allowed German troop movements across her territory to enslave Norway. We show a strange understanding of the Swedish predicament and a complete refusal to apply the same logic to Spain.”
“One- more illustration of Communist tactics comes to mind. Recently the Russian newspaper Pravda made another of its characteristic charges against the Vatican. As usual, Osserva-tore Romano’s reply was as devastating as an atomic bomb. Undiscouraged, the Communists merely began sniping from another quarter. Now it appears that the thirty-two new cardinals named by the Holy Father will spread “reactionary” policies throughout the world. “Reactionary,” of course, is a generic term for everything Stalin doesn’t like, such as Cardinal Spellman’s forthright pronouncements whenever Christian principles are attacked, or Cardinal Griffin’s outspoken opposition to the Yalta agreements regarding Poland. And here I am reminded of Hilaire Belloc’s classic essay on the subject, written in 1939: ‘This war will have been won or lost insofar as Poland is resurrected. The test of victory is Poland.’ All the world knows what has actually happened to this great country. To use very strong language, it has been raped by Russia, but, please God, the underground of Poland, as well as her sons and daugh-
* For an excellent treatment of Spain in World War II, the reader’s attention is directed to Dr. Carlton Hayes' very engaging book, Wartime Mission to Spain. Macmillan 1945.
ters all over the world will fight to the bitter end for their country's resurrection.
“The Communists plan a world revolution. They know exactly what they want, and they will ride any bandwagon —or subway, for that matter—that will take them closer to their goal. They even give aid to the nations they hope eventually to overthrow—temporary aid, that is—if they feel they are advancing the .ultimate cause. For example:
“Until 1940, when a federal law required the registration of alien-affiliated organizations, American Communists got their orders directly from the Comintern in Moscow. Did the Communists register when the law was passed? Not they. Piously, they severed their Moscow connections, and a little later Stalin ostensibly dissolved the Communist Internationale itself. Had Uncle Joe re-form'ed? Not a bit of it, as we shall see. He was at war then and needed all the help he could get from non-Com-munist nations. He wasn’t offending anybody at the moment. He gave up the form, but retained the substance of the Internationale—and he did get help— as we well know. Meanwhile, the Communists in the United States were models of patriotic propriety as they helped to win the war. But when the Soviet was no longer in danger, the motive for cooperation was gone too. With it, the American Communist policy of sweetness and light disappeared completely.
“Now note the next act in the drama: On July 28, a little more than two months after VE-Day, delegates of the American Communist movement officially and unanimously washed theii’ hands of the Communist Political Association, which had been the instrument of their patriotic fervor during the war. Earl Browder, who had been its leader, was deposed and cast into exterior darkness. Who replaced him? None other than William Z. Foster, who had been the most consistent and vociferous opponent of co-operation. At the July meeting the Communists also outlined their postwar program. They determined to take advantage of economic disturbances, and to revive their penetration into important positions in the American labor movement as well as their agitation among the Negroes and the unemployed. Finally, they will intensify their efforts to establish Russia in the American mind as the modern economic and political Utopia.
“This preview of the Communist aims that I have given you is a matter of public record.* How do you like the prospect? Is the war over, or is it mere
* Read Stanley High’s very engaging article in the Saturday Evening Post, December 1. 1945 for further appreciation of the Communist strategy.
ly entering a different phase? It seems to me that at last we have a real Second Front, but the front is here at home. And the enemy is fully as dangerous as the ones we have just defeated on the battlefields. The objective is the same. Communism would destroy the American —and Christian—philosophy upon which our unique institutions are based. It would destroy the dignity that God gave man.
“Now lest you think my indictment is too strong, let me quote for you briefly certain excerpts from a recent address by Doctor Cronin, assistant director of the Social Action Department of the National Catholic Welfare Conference:
“Communists -have infiltrated deeply into the Federal. Government departments . . . and have penetrated influential Federal posts where the policies of the departments are shaped” . . . Outlining his view of the reputed Russian aggression program, Doctor Cronin charged its aims were’: “to destroy the British Empire; to overrun Continental Europe, including France, where communism already is strong, and Spain to Gibraltar; and to infiltrate in South America. He expressed the belief that it was the Russian program which was the basis for the proposal of the Anglo-American alliance by Winston Churchill in his recent address ... A strong stand by government now, Doctor Cronin stated, might force Russia to change its plans and thus to safeguard Christian civilization in Europe. Best informed opinion is that the Soviet has not made its plans irrevocably but simply is exploiting an appeasement policy by her allies. Firm action now, through diplomatic and economic pressure, might save us from the terrors of another war. Now is the time to stop aggression. Tomorrow may be too late.”
“Communism is the negation of everything we stand for as Americans and Christians, and we would be incredibly stupid to believe that there can be any compromise with it. Communism is a philosophy of anti-God. We must fight it as vigorously as it fights us. We must be as intense, as consistent, as zealous in spreading American and Christian principles as Communism is in trying to destroy them. We must root out a philosophy that threatens civilization based upon the fact of God’s creation of the individual human soul.
We strive for peace, and yet there is no peace, and there can be no peace in a world that has forgotten God and the moral law. I say “the world,” and sadly I include the United States because our nation cannot be exculpated. We would do well not to point an accusing finger at any other country because we have been equally remiss—more so, if it be
23
true that to whom much is given much is expected in return. With a thoroughness and an enthusiasm worthy of a better purpose too many of us have put God out of our schools, out of our government, out of our homes, and out of our hearts. Too many are content with mere lip service to the Christian principles that to our Founding Fathers were not only a way of life, but the only why of life.
“Now I know that it is easy enough to say, ‘Things are in a bad way. There’s grave danger ahead.’ What you and I want to know is, “What can we do about it?”
“The answer is: Counter attack. The , best defense is a good offense based on a sound idea of what we are ‘for’ as an alternative to what we are ‘against.’ In this connection may I remind you that the average neo-pagan is much more forceful in explaining the aims of his particular misbegotten ideology than many of us are in explaining the philosophy by which we live? When truth is attacked, too many of us are willing to stand smugly by, secure in the knowledge that ‘Truth is mighty and shall prevail’—to which a cynic might add, ‘Small thanks to us.’ Truth can prevail a great deal sooner, and it will not be attacked with impunity, if it is militantly protected by those whom the truth keeps free.
“You Notre Dame men with the veterans as leaders, can, if you will, begin an active campaign against any and every influence that threatens a government built upon the truth that man is endowed by his Creator with certain unalienable rights. First, study these movements with a view to negating them. Secondly, map a plan of action locally, and then move into the national sphere, through your organization, and also as individuals when you leave the University to begin your life’s work elsewhere. Thirdly, be positive rather than negative. That is, I repeat, know what you are ‘for’ as well as what you are ‘against.’
“Leadership is expected of all Notre Dame men. Many persons, it is true, have a strange notion of leadership, and as a result define the term too narrowly. We are not all expected to be leaders in the somewhat theatrical sense in which the word is commonly used—nor should we try to be. But each of us can, and as a duty should, make the most of the talents and opportunities that, by God’s grace, are ours as we go about our daily tasks.
“There is a reason that leadership is expected of Notre Dame men. I said at the outset that Notre Dame is a firm believer in tradition. The educational tradition upon which this school was
24
founded more than one hundred years ago bridges twenty centuries. It began when the Apostles first went forth to teach all nations. It includes the founding of the great European universities of the thirteenth century which saw the rise of the Schoolmen and the development of Scholasticism. The heritage was brought across the sea by the missionary teachers who'transplanted Old World culture—Catholic culture—to the Western Hemisphere. Born to this tradition, Notre Dame remembers that knowledge of God is the beginning of wisdom.
“Accordingly, enter into the spiritual program of the campus as real soldiers of Christ. A golden opportunity awaits you. Take advantage of daily Mass and frequent Holy Communion in order that you may prepare yourselves not only for the spiritual combat that confronts all of us, but also for any other challenge that may await you in the years ahead. Notre Dame men stood out as heroes during the recent war, because they had girded themselves for the supreme test of the zero hour. Notre Dame men should likewise be heroes in peace by leading God-fearing lives, supported and strengthened by God’s grace and sacraments. For if God is with you, no man can defeat you. Such is the tradition of the true Notre Dame man.
FAMOUS PHOTOGRAPHY...FAMOUS ADDRESS
PLEASE PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS	!
“That tradition is now yours, and as the years pass you will grow to know it better and to love it more and more. But it is not enough merely to knozv. You must be articulate as well, because you cannot intelligently defend what you are unable to define. Much of what is evil in the world is there because vast numbers of people do not know the basic truths you know and take for granted. Part of your task, therefore, is to see that what you know becomes more and more widely known to others.
“By right thinking and acting—that is, by word and example—you can become co-partners in a crusade to bring the world back to the Christian principles it has so tragically abandoned. We dare not ignore the challenge when so much is at stake. This is the time for action that is positive rather than negative in combating a movement that would destroy the family, the home, the church, and our country itself. The philosophy of anti-God is the enemy from within. But with faith in God, and God in government, we can rout any man-made ideology that would first weaken and then destroy our American heritage. For America is our country to have and to hold. And eternal vigilance, as always, is still the price of liberty.”
Veterans—
Your Hours Are Limited
There have been many “latrine gripes” coming from the veterans here on the campus concerning the number of hours that .they are carrying. Most of them are asking, “Why can’t I carry a few extra hours for the next two or* three semesters and graduate that much sooner?” “I want to get married but it looks as if my girl will find herself someone else before I can find a job to support both of us. . . . I’ll be here for at least three years . . . maybe longer since I have Mr.------for English!”
Well fellows, here’s the straight stuff from the front C.O., himself. There happens to be a universal academic “AR” which knocks down our arguments of taking more hours than we are now taking. I guess it has its points but since time changes everything, maybe it should be amended too. A student is supposed to work two hours outside of class on each subject. Therefore, if a man is carrying 18 hours, he has a 54-hour week, which is considered enough for any man. If the University did allow a student to carry more hours than that, the student might lose all credit fox- that particular semester in which he sought his degree. The board might decide that the student was not eligible for his degree and turn it down on this one basic point.
Before the war came along and changed many of our plans, it was usu ally accepted that a student would carry as many hours as there were weeks in the semester. This system proved sound and just. But today we are wondering why something can’t be done to satisfy the many vets returning to the campuses all ovex- these United States. In time maybe something will be done, but in the meantime, many young fellows will have left school, not because of bad marks or disciplinary measures, but because no one went to bat for them to see what measures could be taken to hasten their graduating day.—Joe Cheney
Men . . .
The Notre Dome Scapular Medal $1.95 with chain
The Notre Dame BOOKSTORE BADIN HALL
Brother Gives Tolk
Brother Edmund Hunt of the Departments of Classics and History gave a talk to the members of the Bookmen's Club on Tuesday evening. This talk was a continuation of one given last semester on the origin and development of satire. The connection between ancient satire and romance was made, and a survey given of the extant Greco-Roman prose fiction and its influence on the modern novel.
“Spring Rain’7
Charles of the Ritz
She’ll be floating on a cloud when you present her with “Spring Rain,” as sweet as a rain kissed flower petal.
Beribboned parasol bottle . . .
2.00
I
Cosmetics . . .Main Floor
25
Q^een,
BILL BRAUN and FRANK McCARTHY
I met some people back in the United States who still think that the Notre Dame students go to classes in football uniforms . . . from the looks of things, Blanchard and Davis will think that the whole ND student body hit them in the opening play of the Army game . . . speaking of the Army, has any one noticed how calmly the ex GI’s are taking to the mile long chow lines? . - • one poor fellow started out at the end of the breakfast line and arrived at the steam table just in time for lunch ... as the enrollment goes upward to the 4,000 mark there is talk of making the closets in Walsh Hall into singles . . . last week a civilian student spent a whole morning looking for the rector in a room marked “Head” . . .
Now that there is talk of elections in the air again, the members of the Jerry Wayno club are plotting a second term . . . their slogan is “Mananna Bananna” . . . literally translated this means that Notre Dame needs representation in the UNO . . . you know . . . economics lecture for the week . . . climb a flight and save ten dollars . . . the voucher system at the St. Mary’s Sunday Minuet Club... has proved nothing so far . . -§the samegirls still cling to the wainscoting waiting for the semester to end . . . many of the new students are wondering what sort of permission is needed to “just go and look in the windows” . . . raratonga glasses might help ... as soon as the novelty wears off they will be begging us to accept season passes to their diluted tea parties....
The Saturday afternoon section of the Intra-Murder baseball league started the season as Bruno Opella sent Stan Hellend deep into the Badin grand stands for a foul tip. . . . Bill Jann played three innings of bang-up ball and wound up the day by doing the same . . . now that Harry Erd is married and has ceased receiving scented envelopes in the morning mail the bad men of Badin are formulating a plan to make John Fead take the plunge . . . any excuse for another party ... the mid-semester holidays were good to Pat Martin and Gib Sperl . . . they learned the real WATCHword for happiness . .. the fourth floor of St. Ed’s is so high that the fellows don’t receive letters unless they are marked air mail. . . . Jim Molidor is really tied down . . . he’s engaged, campused and cramming for a degree. . . .
Quotation of the week . . . “Leo Wesley is the nicest fellow I know” ... Al Galla, con man of the week, is holding a gigantic meeting of all his clients in the phone booth of St. Ed’s hall this Friday afternoon . . . come early and get good seats. . . Al would like to locate some new Elks for his next production . . . maybe with spring coming early this year the W.S.C. will install a course in Horizontal Engineering . . . Mario San-tarosa seen in John Trave’s overcoat . . . hose nose in smoes clothes . . . Carl Raymore can face prosperity with a smile . . . his lowest paid employee makes two dollars an hour . . . “Paymore with Raymore.” . . .
Back to football again. . . . Paul Puk-ish has just succeeded in getting the coffee and donut concession for all home games in the 1946 season . . . the hamburgher concession will be operated on a cooperative basis . . . Ray “Milland” Chamberland thought he had really lost his weekend when he returned to his new room in Lyons Hall . . . traces of last semester’s binge were still present. . . . definition of the lost weekend . . . only one Mass Check by Saturday . . . things are looking up . . . the producers down at WSBT have arranged a special 15-minute program for Notre Dame students . . . Harry Nicodemus will read passages from the Student Manual between request selections by the ND band. . . . Phil Lupi will emcee. . . .
The freshmen got a big kick out of Tom McCafferty giving directions at the main gate during registration period at the beginning of the semester . . . Tom
LATEST ITUNES
Swgtl mdSwmi^
AT
COPP'S MUSIC SHOP
122-24 E. Wayne St.
got a big kick out of the freshmen too . . . talking pictures are back again at Washington Hall every Saturday . . . there is a possibility that the Huddle may sponsor a track team in the intramural races this season . . . Phil “Gun-der” Supple will captain the outfit and give the management a good run for its money . . . not that he isn’t giving them one now from behind the counter. . . . What lucky student won a pair of Nylons at the Ina Ray Hutton dance? . . .
Don't make a last minute dash for an EASTER GREETING CARD you have forgotten ...
LOOK FOR IT AT .
LCWEP’T
128 N. Michigan St.
JEWELRY GIFTS
for All Occasions
Purchases Gift Wrapped Free of Charge
Leading Credit Jewelers
BLOCK BROS.
Comer Michigan and Washington
Est.
1900
228 South Michigan Street Evenings by Appointment
W. G. Bogardus—E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
Glasses CORRECTLY Fitted J. BURKE
26
N. D. Debate Teams
Meet 3 Opponents
Last Feb. 23, the affirmative and negative teams of Notre Dame journeyed to North Manchester, Ind., to the Manchester College Annual Debate Tournament, sponsored by the Tau Kappa Alpha. Once again the topic discussed was free trade. On the affirmative team of Notre Dame were Frank Finn, first affirmative speaker, and Sam Hazo, second affirmative speaker. On Notre Dame’s negative team were James Reedy, first negative speaker, and Dick Cullen, second negative speaker. Notre Dame placed second in the tournament, winning, out of eight debates, eight first places in speaking ability.
During the semester vacation, on Feb. 28, James Reedy and James Burns, accompanied by Mr. Leonard Sommers, coach of the Notre Dame team and faculty member of the Department of Speech, were the guests of the Buffalo Foreign Trade Association in the Chinese Room of the Statler Hotel in Buffalo, N. Y. Before an audience of 400, Mr. Reedy and Mr. Burns represented Notre Dame in a debate with Canisius College of that city on the topic before all colleges this year, free trade. Notre Dame chose the negative side of the question. In a close 164 to 162 decision Canisius won the discussion. The entire program lasted one hour and a half.
Last Friday evening, in Washington Hall, the affirmative team of Notre Dame debated the negative team of Loyola University of Chicago. Representing Notre Dame were Frank Finn, first affirmative speaker, and Sam Hazo, second affirmative speaker. Despite the inclement weather, more than 100 turned out for the event. Notre Dame won the debate by a decision of 40 to 13. Simul
According to the latest bulletin, students can get sick only during sick call ... is that the reason that Ralph Baioc-chi has been getting half rate messages from one of the pseudo-medics on the campus . . . art is one thing, and Jack Swain directing a remodeling job of the fine arts department is . ... well just a bit colorful. ... It was only a toothless old comb but they couldn’t part with it . . . J. L. O’Conor and Ed Fisher still worrying about losing their hair* * . . . George Tansey worrying about exams . . . Jack Sweeney and his brother Joe had a big reunion on the campus this Monday night . . . Hello Jack. . . . Hello.
• • •
In closing I’d like to say a welcome back to all the returnees . . . and to the freshmen . . . stick around a while . . . your round trip ticket is good for ninety days . . . you’ll really like it here. . . .
taneously, James Burns and Dick Cullen were debating the affirmative team of Loyola in Room 327 of the Main Building.
The schedule for the Notre Dame team for the next few weeks reads as follows: April 3, Marquette University, There; April 5, Mundelein College for Women, 7:30, Washington Hall; April 6, Western Reserve, 8:00, Law Building; April 8, Marquette University, 7:30, Washington Hall.	■
In meeting Marquette, the Notre Dame team will debate Joseph Schwartz and Alvin Goodspeed, both former students of Mr. Sommer, the coach of the Notre Dame teams at present. This debate promises to be one of the best of the season. Watch your bulletin boards!
—Frank Finn
Economic Hound Table
Applications for .membership in the Economic Round Table Club are being accepted by Fred Funk, Room 245, Alumni Hall.
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc.
a new arrival of SPRING WOOLENS — moderately priced -— Custom tailored.
115% N. Main Street (upstairs) Phone 3-6318 for appointment
BREEN ORATORY CONTEST
Date of Preliminaries—Apr. 11-12, Main Bldg., Room 327, 4:15 p.m.
Date of Finals—Apr. 15, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Eligibility of Contestants—Open to any student who has not yet completed his eighth semester.
Time Allotment—8 to 10 minutes.
Length of Oration—Approximately 1,000 words.
Percent of Quotation—10 percent
ORATION MUST BE ORIGINAL
Prize—Breen Medal in, Oratory.
All entries are to be submitted to Mr. Leonard Sommer, 213 Sorin Hall.	’
Minnesota University has the largest veteran enrollment of any college in the country with 5,500 vets going to school there. It is followed, in order, by New
27

of the more popular dumps, “Well you see honey, we are actually the same as officers; the only difference actually is
only to find their names, or to hope not to find them as the case and political affiliations may be. However, the form letter distributed with each gratis copy last week resulted in at least a fifty percent drop in subscribers. Those of you who were fortunate enough not to receive one of these missives may find one in the northeast refuse can on the fourth deck. . . .
MORRISSEY MOANINGS
The soap chips market jumped 6% points last week as the men of the navy unit began to roll up their pant-legs, dug out long-lost swabs and then went to work on the telephone numbers and ordnance notes that had accumulated on the bulkheads since the middies’ last spring cleaning. Groans, gripes, and even more heated complaints (of all things!) were the talk of the day as bunks, shoes, desks, and lockers were gently removed to the passageways and the water began splashing into the buckets (you never call them pails, my seamanship instructor tells me). . . . The water flowed like beer on V-J day and just as indiscriminately. Oscar Birdbrain had to anchor his corner of Morrissey Hall down to keep from ending up in the lake a la Palooka. . . . As things like these usually end up, the extra duty squad was assigned to cover the spots accidentally missed. Things were going fine until one enterprising engineering student decided to use the principles of placer mining on the dirtier spots by utilizing the fire hose. The spirit of comradeship was high though, and the band played By the River Jordan as the office of the OOD and his staff swept by in review on skiffs fashioned from ordnance books which are so dry that they would even hold up Stan Sweeder’s girl Frances. (All 250 pounds of her.)
OVERHEARD AT CHOW FORMATION
Lieut. Anderson : “Will the sailor
who sneaked out after bed check last night to meet a girl in the cemetery, step forward . . . Company . . . Halt!”
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
“But they never flunk first-classmen!” or
“But I thought the mid-semesters counted only three per-cent!”
❖
RO'S ARE TALKING ABOUT:
Chuck O’Grady’s boast that his uncle occupied the chair of applied electricity at one of our public institutions. . . . But E. O. Miller claims that it was the electric chair at Sing Sing.
That burst of song heard in the chow hall was, “Praise the Lord, I’m Getting Malnutrition.”
Greenberg’s remarks overheard in one
that hat insignia.
The belief that RO’s are notoriously known as lady killers. They ought to be. . . . They starve them to death. . . .
That sentence that drifted in on the wind from the direction of the parking lot Sunday night at 2359, “You wait right here honey, I’ll log in and be right back.”
POET'S CORNERED
Brother Rosie quite distrait, Fell into the fire grate;
Who would have thought that Brother Rosie
Could make the room so nice and cozy?”
IS THERE A SCOTCHMAN IN
THE CROWD????
“I say,” called the bus driver to the passenger behind, “Is there a mackintosh back there big enough to keep three ladies warm?”
“No,” came an eager voice from the rear, “but there’s a MacDonald back here willing to try.”
RAMBLING
One frantic mother was afraid hei’ little Billy was in an insane asylum when she received her first letter from N. D. He wrote, “They serve soup to nuts.”
The plan to offer subscriptions to the Scholastic to the men of the navy unit for one buck cash was a good idea and assured the Crow’s Nest that at least some people would read the column if
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Coin
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Boston Club
Bill Carey was elected president of the Boston Club at a meeting held last week. Other Officers elected were Bill Sullivan, vice president; Joe Fraught, secretary; and Bob Lynch, treasurer.
AMERICA’S MOST FAMOUS STAR OF

SCREEN AND RADIO
WSM, COW ANO MH10W, MY
America's FaroriU movie end
radio singing star's judgment command* respect, for few men ore his equal at o pipe connois-ieuf. Take ting'* tip-smoke an evtr-fre*h »ojting MASTfKftAFT yourself; discover how easy on the draw H h, how it* selected pore-processed briar insures meh low coolness. For day-in, day-out enjoyment—there's no other pipe quite like it*
Popular $2.50 Standard $3.50 Oa luxe $5.00 Custom Mode $7.50 Hand Mode $10.00
man knows thorn's a pipa shdpa thafs croatod ospociaUy for him.
•mall aval face larva full faca lang lean face
• I
Muare-jaw face leaf eval face
The Huddle
28
Hinkel to Present
Third Aquinas Talk
The Aquinas Library and Book Shop is presenting during the Lenten Season the Aquias Lecture Series in the Oliver Hotel in South Bend.
On Monday, April 1st, at 8:15 p.m., John V. Hinkel, publicity director of the University, will speak on “Theresa Neumann and Padre Pio.” Mr. Hinkel graduated from Notre Dame in 1929 and was employed by the New York Times and other papers until 1940, when, as a reserve officer, he was inducted into the army. Serving in Europe for a long period, he talked with Theresa Neumann and Padre Pio to gather much of the material for this lecture.
Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C., will deliver a talk on “Poetry and Peace,” on Sunday, April 7th, at 4 p.m. Recognized nationally as a poet of rare ability and as a college administrator of exceptional accomplishment, Sister Madeleva, the president of St. Mary’s College since 1934, received her Ph.D. from the University of California in 1925. She was a student at the University of Oxford, England, in 1933-34. Sister Madeleva has written numerous volumes of poetry and contributed articles to many magazines.
Rev. James M. Keller, M.M., will speak on Sunday, April 14th, at 8:15 p.m. on “You and the World.” Father Keller, of the Maryknoll Order, is best known to the country at large as the co-author of the recent best seller, “Men of Maryknoll.” The same substance and charm which are so evident in this book are also evident in Father Keller’s frequent lectures, in his magazine writings, and in his radio addresses. His latest magazine article is “You Can Be a Christopher,” in the Catholic World for January, 1946. His South Bend lecture will embody the theme of this significant writing.
Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., spoke March 10th on “Catholic English Versions of the New Testament.” Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., delivered a lecture last Sunday on “The Anatomy of Happiness.” Both of these well-known Notre Dame priests were acclaimed by the many people who attended their lectures.
Season tickets, at §2.40 each, entitle the purchaser to a year’s membership in the Aquinas Library, 110 E. LaSalle Ave., South Bend. Tickets can be procured at the library.—Joe Cheney
N. D. Faculty Staffs
(Continued from page 10)
rector of the Bureau of Economic Research, “National Wealth and National Income”—March 26.
Dr. Clarence E. Manion, dean of the
Collge of Law, “The American Government”—April 2.
The Rev. Bernard L. McAvoy, C.S.C., associate professor of philosophy, “Communism in Its Political and Economic Aspects—April 9.
The Rev. Mark Fitzgerald, C.S.C., assistant professor of economics, “The Church and the Social Order”—April 16.
The Management session leaders and their topics follow:
James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commrce, “American Business Should Tell Its Story”—March 21.
Dr. Aaron Abell, “The Labor Movement in the United States”—March 28.
C. J. Fagan, associate professor of economics, “Industrial Relations”— April 4.
John Sheehan, head of the department of economics, “Economic Facts and Fallacies”—April 11.
The Rev. Mark Fitzgerald, “The Church and the Social Order”—April 25.
stood for. Truly he was more than a good father of his children. Surely we may add, Knute Rockne — Father of Notre Dame’s sons.
Knute Rockne—Father
(Continued from page 14)
tery near South Bend. Each yeai- at the anniversary of his death a group of the Monogram Club comes to pay homage and lay a wreath at his grave. The plot of ground is surmounted with a small monument bearing the simple inscription, “Knute Rockne — Father.” Indeed does this simple phrase express far more eloquently than all the grandiose language possible the ideals which Rockne
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
50Uthnseh0R[
29
Our New Men’s Shop
Is Ready for Easter
A setting worthy of our Quality Brands . . . we feel that our resplendent Spring merchandise never looked better than it does today in the well-appointed surroundings — ready for your convenient selection . . . Come, visit us!
STREET FLOOR

Vets Get Bonus
It is not our purpose to add to the masterstrokes of ambiguity produced by G.I. legislators—hence we hasten to assert that the bonus of which we are to speak pertains not to monetary reimbursement but to spiritual welfare, not to the wallet but to the soul.
This spiritual bonus, sponsored by a group of Catholic Action Veterans, will take the form of a G.I. Retreat with conferences and informal discussions on topics of fundamental importance. Prospects for a success of the Retreat have been enhanced by the selection of the following priests as Retreat Masters; Fathers Murray, Bradley, and Hesburgh, who will alternate on Retreat Conferences and hear confessions, have had extensive experience with servicemen during the war; Fathers Craddick and Sim-onitsch will conduct Holy Hour Services. The informal discussions will be lead by the Catholic Action Veterans of Badin Hall.
Due to limited facilities the number of retreatants must be limited to 200, thus making it necessary to conduct three Retreats on successive week-ends. The first Retreat, for the veterans of Lyons, Howard, and Badin haals, will be made on March 30-31. The Catholic Action Veterans will canvas these halls prior to the Retreat.
G. I. Retreat
Saturday:
8:00 p. m.—Informal Discussion (Cavanaugh Reading Room). Subject: Why come back to College?
8:45—Retreat Conference in Cavanaugh Chapel. Subject: The One Real Task. To Save Your Soul.
9:30—Rosary in common at the Grotto, Litany of B.V.M., Hymn.
9:45—Confessions in Main Church: 4 ex-chaplain confessors.
Sunday:
7:30—Recitative Mass and Short Talk on B.V.M.—Cavanaugh Chapel. Breakfast as usual, in dining hall.
9:30—Retreat Conference in Cavanaugh Chapel. Subject: The True Spirit of Notre Dame.
10:00—Discussion of conference in Cavanaugh Reading Room.
11:00—Holy Hour and short talk on Holy Eucharist.
12:00 Dinner as usual.
1:00—Closing Conference. Subject: Comradeship on Campus, Resume of points covered in retreat and discussion.
1:30—Outdoor way of cross. Renewal of Baptismal vows at Calvary.
Finis
30
N.D.-Developed Apparatus Protected
Personnel in Biological War Project
BOOKS
A germ-free apparatus, developed by bacteriologists at the University and designed to protect laboratory personnel in problems of studying epidemic diseases, made possible the United States Navy’s vastly important but little known biological warfare project on the West Coast during World War II.
Naval officials this week permitted additional details of the apparatus to be announced to the general public. Previously, all information concerning the apparatus had been a closely-guarded secret.
According to naval officials, principal credit for developing the apparatus goes to James A. Reyniers, Research Professor of Bacteriology and Director of the Laboratories of Bacteriology at the University. Professor Reyniers, serving as a naval officer during the war, was one of the many leading scientists engaged in research for the Navy.
Every possible measure was taken to protect the personnel of the group working on the West Coast project. An important device for such protection was an extensive modification of the apparatus devised for germ-free studies by Professor Reyniers and his associates — Philip C. Trexler, Associate Research Professor of Bacteriology and Robert F. Ervin, Assistant Research Professor of Bacteriology—at Notre Dame. Professor Reyniers aided with the Navy project and added his own apparatus.
Problems of studying epidemic diseases makes it absolutely necessary to
March 31 Deadline to File Applications for K. of C. Show
Biggest question circulating about the campus seems to center about the ways and means to cop one or all of the sixty dollars worth of prize money being offered for the winners in the coming Knights of Columbus Vaudeville show. The three prizes of thirty, twenty, and ten dollars -will be given to the individuals or groups who for ten short minutes of activity are best able to please the judges of the final round. Every student of the university is eligible, but applications have to be in this week.
Any attraction suitable for stage presentation will be accepted for the preliminary contest which will be staged on the first and second of April. In addi
protect laboratory personnel. Many skilled scientific research people, according to record, have lost their lives in the investigation of Parrot Fever, Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever, Typhus, etc., in laboratories. Modification of the Notre Dame apparatus was responsible, it is believed by Navy officials, for the remarkable record of not a single infection among laboratory personnel in the Navy project.
Professor Reyniers, who developed the Notre Dame germ-free apparatus, has been a member of the faculty since 1931 and Director of the Laboratories of Bacteriology at the University since 1937. He has specialized in micrurgical and germ-free techniques and in the prevention of air-borne cross infection in hospitals, etc.
Most of the work carried on by the Navy project, which was disguised behind an announced project for preventing and controlling air-borne infections, still remains a secret. It has been revealed, however, that as a result of the secret, considerable knowledge has been gained in mass defense against possible employment by hostile forces by a certain disease, which is highly fatal. The name of the disease has been withheld by the War Department, but it is described as “centuries old and one of the greatest of killers.” Elsewhere in the War Department report are references to air-borne diseases.
Summing up the 33 months of hard (Continued on page 32)
tion to receiving the cold cash as a reward for their efforts, the winners will also have a chance to exercise their abilities over the airways through the facilities of one of the local radio stations.
Applications can be filed in any of the following places: the council chambers in Walsh Hall, 304 Alumni, 111 Sorin, or 321 Badin. The deadline is Sunday noon, March 31st but place those entries early and avoid the rush. Ten minutes for thirty dollars adds up to three dollars per minute, which, as Socrates once said, “ain’t hay.” •
The finals for the vaudeville show will be staged in Washington Hall on the eleventh and twelfth of April and the contestants acclaimed as the winners will receive their awards thereafter' with no deductions being made for income or any other form of tax.
For your reading enjoyment:
The Street
Star of the Unborn Wasteland The Turquoise The Bulwark Before the Sun Goes Down The Autobiography of
William Allen White The Ciano Diaries Journey Through Chaos
NEWS CENTER • CIGAR STORE
127 W. Washington Street "In the J. M. S. Building"
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS • GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661 702 J. M.S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND. IND.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-12S4	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
S2S SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
-•
TELEPHONE 3-426S
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
523 -62» SHERLAND BLDG. . SOUTH BEND. IND.
•
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
4OE-4O8 TOWER BUILDING PHONE S-2S74
31
Article by Father O'Brien Appears in March Issue of 'Reader's Digest'
By PETER I. PESOLI
Many of the faculty members here at Notre Dame have distinguished themselves outside these Ivory Walls in fields other than education. Even though the task of enlightening the helpless students outwardly appears to be a 24 hour a day proposition, our instructors, nevertheless, manage to find time to gain eminence in literature and science.
The Reverend John A. O’Brien, professor of Religion, is one of those who has just recently received public acclaim with a timely article appearing in the current issue of the Readers’ Digest. The article, “God’s Eager Fool,” is the story of Albert Schweitzer, a great Protestant who dedicated his life to doctoring the negro savages of Africa. It all started, Fr. O’Brien explains in his article, when Schweitzer came across a magazine article that stated, “While we are preaching to these natives about religion they are suffering and dying before our eyes.- . . .” Then and there he decided to dedicate the rest of his life atoning for the injustices committed by the whites of all nations as they exploited these negroes. During the past 40 years, Dr. Schweitzer and his wife, through herculean efforts, have fought a winning battle agaist the disease and death found in the African jungles. Although forced to discontinue their work during the first World War, the Schweitzers managed to survive World War II by receiving financial aid and medical supplies from friendly organizations here in the United States. Father O’Brien ends the article on the note that Dr. Albert Schweitzer is one of those “who are fools for Christ’s sake . . . yielding up the comforts of life to serve their fellow man.”
Father O’Brien is no newcomer to the literary world. In fact, the extreme opposite is the case, for since 1921 when his first work, Silent Reading, appeared, he has written approximately 15 books in addition to over 100 pamphlets. His most widely acclaimed book is Faith of Millions, published in 1938 and since translated into Spanish, French, Hungarian and Malayapam—the language of Southern India. It has consistently been a best seller for the last five years, more than 200,000 copies being sold. A new edition is being prepared for Great Britain and Ireland with a foreword by Cardinal MacRory of Ireland. The book which Father O’Brien favors above all his others is Evolution and Religion, a pioneer treatment of the harmonization between the established facts of evolu
tion and Christian philosophy. The subject was the cause of much controversy at the time and required a great deal of initial research and special thought.
His most recent works have taken the . form of short one-act plays for radio presentation, some of which have already been broadcast over WHAM in Rochester, N.Y. He is also working on another book, Truths men Live by, which will be published by the Macmillan Co. this May.
So if one of these spring days a short, bespectacled priest with a radiant smile greets you on campus with a cheerful hello, in all probability it will be Notre Dame’s literary giant, Rev. John A. O’Brien.
Fr. Goodall Attends Personnel Conference
The University was represented by the Rev. Francis P. Goodall, C.S.C., at the Regional Conference of the Council of Guidance and Personnel Associations held March 21-23 at the Hotel Sinton, Cincinnati, Ohio.
In connection with this visit Father Goodall showed the technicolor talkie depicting campus scenes to Notre Dame alumni and friends assembled at the Cincinnati Club. He also outlined for them the plans for alumni club organization now being presented to Notre Dame clubs throughout the nation. -
. Germ-Free Apparatus (Continued from Page 31) and dangerous work on biological warfare, the Navy reports that:
1. Considerable knowledge has been gained in mass defense against possible enemy employment of a certain disease, which is highly fatal. 2. Laboratory and . field data have been gathered which demonstrate that a man-made epidemic as an instrument of war is a likely possibility. 3. A protective suit, with self-contained oxygen supply, has been devised for the use of workers in any prospective rescue or decontamination operation. 4. Conclusive information has been obtained which would be of great value not only for the protection from bacterial attack but for control of communicable air-borne diseases among a peacetime population. 5. Apparatus was devel-.oped, in which the Laboratories of Bacteriology at Notre Dame were highly instrumental, to safeguard the health of personnel, and which made the entire Navy project possible.
32
Veterans1 Mascot
"Peter" is a Lady
Peter is a lady—a small tan and black Schnauzer brought back from Germany by Sam Lucariello and adopted by the Notre Dame Veterans’ Club as their mascot.
Sam found her in Berlin and bought her from a German fraii for two packs of cigarettes. Pete and Sam lived at Onkel Tom Hutte (German slang for Uncle Tom’s Cabin) for five months until Uncle Samuel decided it was time for Lucariello to come home. He decided that Peter was going with him, so he packed her in a box, bought her a ticket for fifty-four bucks plus ten per cent insurance and sent her on the way. When she got to Bemus Point, Sam was there to meet her. She was so happy to see him she has hardly parted from him since. Although, Sam says it cost him $81.00 to get his dog home.
A member of the ,38th Infantry regiment of the Second Division, Corporal Lucariello is possessor of the Purple Heart, Combat Infantry Badge, Good Conduct Medal, Victory Ribbon, American Theater Ribbon and ETO Ribbon with two campaign stars. He was wounded April 3 in Germany and spent con
siderable time at the 91st General Hospital in Paris before joining the U. S. Group Control Council, which in time became the military government for U.S. forces in Berlin.
Sam brought Peter to Notre Dame, hoping that he could keep her. For awhile the outlook was pretty dark, but when the Veterans’ Club decided they needed a mascot, quite suddenly, be it noted, Pete was in at Notre Dame.
It is even rumored that she may receive a Ph.D. in Canine Canny, after four years, of course.—Jim Larnck
Wranglers Welcome
Back Old Members
Notre Dame’s most distinguished forensic club, The Wranglers, held its first meeting of the Spring Term last Wednesday in the Law Building, welcoming back into their ranks three members who have returned to the campus after serving in the armed forces during the war. The “pre-war” Wranglers just returned are Joe Rudd, Jim Newman and Bernie O’Hara.
Jim Greene, Commerce student from Newfoundland, delivered the first paper of the term. He spoke on the importance of the Study of Classical Lan
guages,” and strongly advocated a greater accent on the presentation of Latin and Greek in our educational system. He said the languages should not only be more widely taught, but much attention is due the manner in which they are presented, the slip-shod methods of most teachers today being more a slur than a spreading of the beauty of the classics. Modern languages, Greene said, do not provide the “mental gymnastics” • the classics do since the students learn them mostly by sound.
Much disagreement was expressed-.by the members in the discussion following the talk. Mathematics were presented ‘ as a better field in which to learn “mental gymnastics” and the extent to which the speaker expected students to pursue the classics was declared impractical.
Bookmen to Interview
Prospective Members
Interviews for the Bookmen’s Club will be held in the near future. Those interested should drop a card to The Bookmen’s Club, Box 37, Local.
Former members who have recently returned to the campus and desireito renew their membership, are also requested to inform the Club.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCACOLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
33
Forum President
Presents Paper
The Commerce Forum held its first meeting of the semester Wednesday evening with William Carbine, President of the Forum; as principal speaker. Bill, a Commerce senior who hails from .Rutland, Vermont, presented a stirring paper on Atomic energy and the consequences of its use. An interesting and active discussion followed the President’s talk.
One of the projects which the members hope to undertake is a field trip to Chicago in the near future. The trip, which was an outstanding feature of the Forum in pre-war days, is designed to acquaint the students with some of the points of commercial interest in Chicago. A membership committee was also appointed and a social to welcome new members into the Forum was planned for April tenth.
Professor Edmund A. Smith, assistant dean of the Commerce School, who was unanimously re-elected faculty advisor to the Forum, served as moderator.
Cincinnati Club Meets
At the Cincinnati Club’s first meeting of the semester, Ed Mersman, the Treasurer, reported success for the gala dance which was held in Cincinnati between semesters. Charles Heringer, the club’s president, presented an outline of this semester’s activities and policies which include, among other things, student alumni relations.
Laetare Medalist
(Continued from page 7) Professor James Edwards, brilliant young professor, said:
“Men and women who have added lustre to the name of American Catholic, by their talent and virtues, deserve good-will and encouragement. It is my opinion that our university might well take some definite action in that regard — take the initiative, as it were, in acknowledgment of what is done for faith, morals, education and good citizenship.” Soon after, Professor Edwards’ suggestion was favorably received and adopted at a meeting with Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder of Notre Dame, and Rev. Thos. E. Walsh, C.S.C., then president of the University. At that time it was intended that the medal should be presented on Laetare Sunday. However, it soon became evident that this plan was impractical. Now the recipient is announced at that time and the presentation takes place at a later and more convenient date.
Golden Rose
The Laetare Medal, like the papal Golden Rose, is a symbol of loyalty to Catholic ideals. Bestowal of the papal rose, a custom which as far as the records show, antedates the middle of the 11th century, has always taken place on Laetare Sunday. Originally it was given, not to individuals, but to churches, governments or cities conspicuous for their Catholic spirit and loyalty to the Holy See. When the papacy moved to Avignon, it became the custom to give it to
the most worthy prince of the court. This was later modified to include Catholic kings, queens, princes, princesses, renowned generals, or other distinguished personages.
The design of the Laetare Medal takes its cue from the simple golden rose first bestowed by the papacy. The medal consists of a solid gold disc hung from a gold bar and bears the inscription “Laetare Medal.” Inscribed in a border around the disc are the words, “Magna est veritas et praevalebit” (Truth is mighty and will prevail). The center design of the medal is fashioned according to the profession of the recipient.
Choice of Medalist
The choice of the Laetare Medal is made by the University of Notre Dame Committee of Award, which is headed by the president of the University. Ten members of the faculty selected by the president make up the committee. A committee on nominations which meets twice a year, examines names submitted during the year and makes recommendations concerning them to the Committee of Award.
The Committee of Award meets three times to discuss' and finally select the Laetare Medalist. At the first meeting names held over from the previous year are read and considered and new names are added to this permanent list. At this time a vote is taken to select names for investigation and consideration.
Before the second meeting, furthei* information concerning the eligibility of the names on the list is secured. A thorough discussion is held at this session and a vote taken to narrow the list of candidates to three.
If satisfactory information is now at hand on the three names selected, an approach is made to sources capable of giving a full and unbiased report, particularly on the Catholicity of the candidates. All information is held in strict confidence. At the last meeting all three names are again discussed, and the final vote taken.
Since its foundation in 1883, the University has recognized 48 men and 14 women with this honor. Authors, editors, statesmen, military men, dramatists, scientists, physicians, artists, educators, and lawyers are included in the roster of Laetare Medalists. The University of Notre Dame has shown it recognizes the need of Catholic leadership among the laity. That this leadership can be found is evidenced by the list of outstanding Catholic laymen who have merited one of the highest honors bestowed on Catholic laity — The Laetare Medal. It is a leadership necessary in the chaotic world of today: Leadership based on faith and a will to further Catholic ideals.
34
Dean McCarthy Lashes at Enemies of Free
Business Enterprise
Advertising must spearhead the counterattack by American businessmen on the enemies of American free enterprise, Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce, asserted last week at the annual luncheon of the Adcraft Club of Detroit, one of the nation’s foremost advertising clubs.
Striking out at the enemies of American business, Dean McCarthy charged that “dishonest, scheming, obstinate and misinformed special pleaders” are using every unscrupulous means to try to “establish the premise that our kind of industrial progress is opposed to the public interest; that our business corporations, management executives, and owners of business are united in some gigantic, sinister conspiracy to enslave the American workman.” Their goal, he added, is to make all Americans “creatures of a totalitarian state.”
The leftist propagandists are now charging:
“1. That organized business has declared economic war on the rest of the United States.
“2. That the only safe way for organized business to retain the vast privileges it now employs is to destroy the unions.
“3. And Philip Murray of the C.I.O. says: ‘The evil conspiracy among American big business has been unmasked. American industry, fattened with war profits through special tax rebates under laws written at its behest, has deliberately set out to destroy labor unions, to provoke strikes and economic chaos, and hijack the American people through uncontrolled profits and inflation.’
“We must tell our people that government has no proper place in the areas of wage setting.
“That ‘fact-finding,’ as it is currently practiced, is a patterned move towards a partisan, politically wise objective.
“That the ‘right’ of any group of organized workers to strike against the common interest, in blocking off the source of light, heat, food, power, transportation and communications, does not exist.
“That industries ability to pay increased wages, is wholly dependent upon labor’s ability and willingness to produce. That labor monopolies are as opposed to the common interest as are the international cartels that organized labor opposes so vigorously.
“We must tell our people that a strike by organized labor is not directed against the corporate employer, but against the consumer.”
How about your own little “sphere of influence?”
That’s the region containing your shirt, collar, tie, and handkerchief. Your mirror will show how much it influences your entire appearance.
To make that inner circle a winner, do this:
Wear an Arrow Shirt. It has a collar that sets and slopes perfectly. (Also the Mitoga form-fit body.)
Wear an Arrow Tie. It knots wonderfully, thanks to a special lining.
Wear an Arrow Handkerchief. It matches, and has die quality of staying fresh.
At your Arrow dealer’s.
PS. If your Arrow dealer hasn’t the one you want, try him again.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
If s Adler's for ARROWS
M INI (OENEK... MKIUMN ( MSMMMDN
35
36