Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturns.
Vol. XVI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 14, 1883.
No. 31.
[For the Scholastic.]
The Prisoner of State.
BY MARION MUIR.
Sharply a golden sunbeam falls Across the green mould of the M alls, Then creeps the sun below the mist 'Chat clings about yon sullen crest; Between the stagnant pools and skies White clouds of droning insects rise; Along the plain a laborer
Winds homeward with his leaping cur;
The very fox that prowls the wood Mav choose his den and guard its brood. But I—
Sweet days, forever gone, When all was bright I looked upon! Oh, for one hour to feel abroad The west wind, like the breath of God.' The sunlight thrilling nerve and brain, The cool, crisp touch of mountain rain. And they whose spirits, bold as mine, Flamed in the cause we thought divine, Where are they now? Some, happiest far. Are dwellers in an unknown star.
Some, •whose young glances flashed as proud As sun-shafts through a thunder cloud, In manly beauty bright as morn, Strong as Manoah’s son unshorn.
To-day lift arms and eyes like death, In the close dungeon’s festering breath.
Happy is he .who ’mid the slain Dies, racked with thirst, on battle-plain. Ay, even the madman, •who forgets, To him whose soul of vigor frets For the lost life of active hours, The agony of wasted powers Wearing the bodv with its strain, As motion drags this felon chain.
Darker it grows: without my door No passing footstep strikes the floor. Strangelv sepulchral grows the gloom, More than one prison was a tomb.
. This world with me is all at Avar, And hell so near and heaven so far, That I have thought no.life could bring. Lie where it might, a deeper sting.
Oh, Liberty! like those old gods That steeped in blood their temple sods, With the red tide of faithful veins. On broken hearts and dreadful pains, Thy spirit rears her noble fanes!
Thoug-hts on Hawthorne.
(Concluded.)
Hawthorne’s last complete romance is known in England as “ The Transformation,” in America as “ The Marble Faim.” The scene is laid in Rome
among English-speaking people of the present time. The theme developed is the consequences of a sin—the transformation it wrought in his nature—upon a joyless, sinless, faun-like youth. In this romance there is Hawthorne’s usual absence of a human background; of all Rome, we see but the four persons needful for the story. There is Kenyon, prejudiced, narrow-minded, fond of talking; but pure and chivalrous. Hilda, a New England girl, of puritv immaculate—Hawthorne’s most beautiful conception. Miriam, a strange, impulsive character, warped perhaps, by misfortune, but inclining to the good; she is of a noble Italian family, though with both English and Jewish blood. Connected by a chain of circumstantial evidence with a terrible crime, she has changed her home, and, settling in Rome as an artist, meets her three friends.
Of the group, the most interesting to me is Miriam, though the central figure is Donatello. He is a Eutrurian rustic, of the noble family of Monte Beni, who. is so free from the shadow of sin and misfortune that he reminds one of the classical
faun, the graceful link between man and nature. This happy youth is led to crime through his passionate love for Miriam.
One night the four, when in the catacombs, lose sight of Miriam and, shortly after, find her talking to some stranger, evidently a half-crazed penitent. From that night, he continually dogs her footsteps and becomes known in Rome as “ Miriam’s Model.”
He is a fellow half-crazed by crime and remorse, who, himself guiltv, knows the terrible evidence sur-rounding the innocent Miriam; he had struggled to avoid her, but, unexpectedly meeting her again, he will not leave her, nor can she force him. This -constant persecution weighs heavily upon her.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
She is becoming gloomy and desperate. Donatello, from the first moment he sees the stranger, hates him'with the greatest intensity, for he alone realizes something of how Miriam is made to sufler. The faun is slowly entering the shadow of sorrow: he is soon to enter the sorrow of sin.
One night, a number of artists and sculptors yisit the Coliseum: among them our four friends. From the Coliseum they go to the Tarpcian Rock, but as it grows late, all leave for home, except Miriam and Donatello. Both have suffered much during’ the last four months, and both to-night are impressed with past and impending gloom. As they stand together talking, as they-think alone, Miriam’s Model advances from a deep niche where he has been standing. Miriam sinks instinctively upon her knees. Donatello seizes her persecutor and holds him for a moment over the precipice: a quick glance passes between himself and Miriam and then the deed is done.
"The door of the little court-vard had swung upon it< hinges and partly closed itself. Hilda was quietlv opening it. when she was startled midway by the noise of a struggle beginning and ending all in one breathless instant. Along ©	©	^5	©
with it. or closely succeeding it. wa« a loud, fearful cry, which quivered upward through the air and sank quivering downward to the earth. Then a silence. Poor Hilda had looked into the court-yard and saw the whole quick passage of a deed which took but that little time to engrave itself into eternal adamant.’’
The chapter succeeding the murder, describing the scene between Miriam and Donatello, is written with transcendant power. Their first feeling is that of union between themselves and isolation from the remaining world. The voice of their companions singing in the distance, sounds strange and unfamiliar. The sudden crisis has given to Donatello a certain energy and intelligence. The faun has been transformed into a main In a moment, too, the half contemptuous affection of Miriam for the thoughtless boy is changed into passionate love for the man. At first, they are in a frenzied rap-■ turc- For several hours they wander, in their 44 solemn madness” through the streets of Rome: treading past the site of Pompey’s forum; claiming kindred with the shades of Cassar’s murderers. But on the morrow they begin to realize the punishment their sin is inflicting on them. Terrible is the cost of Donatello’s transformation.
His intrinsic naturalness, his joyous freedom from all suflering and sin, are lost. Intelligence and thoughtfulness he has gained, but he cannot use his-new gifts, can hardly realize that he possesses them. He is no longer a faun: he is not vet a fully developed man. His passionate love is crushed by the weight’of his crime; he has nothing to sustain him. Poor Miriam perceives this, to her terrible pain, and tries to infuse consolation into his troubled soul; but all in vain. She was now but a reminder to him of his crime; over her shoulder he can but see the face of the murdered man. Feeling this, she bids him farewell, and tells him to go to his old country seat among the Apennines. Here, a month or so later, he is found by Kenyon, thoughtful and gloomy, but so far recovered from his first shock as to try to do penance for his sin. The
faun nature has vanished, but instead is developing a more intellectual being, a definite and nobler individuality. A wonderful process is going forward in his mind; dormant faculties arc developed : great thoughts unfold themselves. His crime and consequent agony have given him a breathing soul. After a few months, when his new being is. as it I were, more firmly established, when he has emerged from the stupor succeeding the- great shock, Iris love for Miriam returns. But Donatello’s life is to be one of gloom and of atonement. He gives himself up to justice, and is thrown into prison for the remainder of his life. Poor Miriam! her punishment, too, is terrible! Her long suflering makes i the death of her persecutor such a great relief, her own part in the tragedy was so excusable, that she । cannot feel the remorse of Donatello. But she ' is destined to sufler in other wavs. The bonds be! tween herself and her two dearest friends arc sud-. dcnly snapped in twain. Through her, Donatello i has come to the knowledge of sorrow and sin; : through her, as she soon discovers, Hilda has been i made to sufler. Both would cease to know her | and love her if they could.
i The last scene between herself and Hilda is one ! of the finest passages that ever Hawthorne wrote, i Notwithstanding her previous resolution, the day ; after the murder, when Miriam enters Hilda’s । room, she impulsiveh' opens her arms to embrace ! its young mistress. But one glance of sorrow and I reproach makes her stand still; places a great j moral gulf between them. The scene between । the two is finely described. Both are deeply I moved. Acknowledging her participation in «the i crime of the night before, Miriam says:	■
■ -When a human being has chosen a friend out of all i the world, it is onlv some faithlessness between themselves ! rendering true intercourse, impossible that can justify either friend in severing the bond. ’ Have I deceived you? Then cast me oft’! Have I wronged you personally? Then forgive me if you can. But have 1 sinned against God and man. and deeply sinned? Then be more my
। friend than ever, for I need you more.”
! And Hilda’s answer is as true as it is charactcr-I istic. She is a motherless girl, in a strange city, with onlv her pure instinct to guide her. Were she an angel, her place would be at Miriam’s side: as it is. her first great duty is to bring back the white robe her Father gave her untarnished lo His throne. There is a touch of nature in the scene that gives it its greatest value. As Miriam turns to go, she says that the concealment of the crime she had so lately witnessed is a terrible
i task for a pure young girl; and Hilda, realizing this in all its force, despite all she had said, turns to. Miriam for advice. But foi this the scene would lose much of its interest and beauty. An ordinary artist would have spoiled the effect by making Hilda rank with the conventional and intensely ridiculous heroines of the Sunday-school literature. Hawthorne, on the contrary, by exciting our sympathy for her grief and her little inconsistency, makes us admire her pure aspirations for the good. After this interview, Hilda never again beholds her friend. Miriam stays
. secretly at Monte Beni, and is afterwards united
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
48.>
to Donatello. United, but only for the three days of carnival, for Donatello gives himself up to justice, and, separated from him, her after life is one of sorrow.
The third person upon whom fell the consequences of Donatello’s crime, was the innocent Hilda. Not so much her sorrow for Miriam’s misfortune as the oppressive weight of her terrible secret was pressing her down. She was alone in Rome and in the midst of the terrible summer. Her old delight in art had left her, her worship of the old masters was turning into skepticism. To one like herself who had never sinned, the possession of such a secret was terrible agony. Life and hope seemed to leave her; she was slowlv going mad. One day, when among its many shrines, her admiration for the great, cathedral becomes tinged with a sympathy with the wonderful faith it represents. She sees the beauty and the adaptability to human wants contained in the doctrine of saintly mediation. And then, oppressed with her great secret, she realizes the “infinite convenience” of the confessional. Then, wandering around the church, she perceives there are confessionals for every nationality—“ there was access to the Divine Grace for every Christian soul; there was an ear for what the overburdened heart might have to murmur,‘speak in what native tongue it would.” Coming to one confessional on which was inscribed Pko Anglica Lingua, she throws herself down in the penitent’s place and tells her dreadful secret. The description of the confession, and her great relief when it is over, are wonderfully described; and through it all the pure simplicity of Hilda’s character impresses itself upon the reader. She is a beautiful creation; and one can but regret her marriage to Kenyon.
We have spoken but little of this fourth character, though he takes a prominent place in the story. There is nothing to give us an interest in him. He has no characteristics. Corresponding in vagueness of outline to Coverdale, he is not as interesting: and k	'	o • _
yet his personality is insisted on by the author. The other three characters, barring for the moment their individuality, are symbols, are placed in certain relations which, were they more poorly drawn, would still leave them interesting. But Kenyon is an outsider, corresponding in a manner to the chorus in a Greek play. He is a fellow to talk, but all he says seems to be either uncalled for or else to be full of narrow prejudice, tn the first part of j the story he dcscourscs upon Roman scenery and' morality. The author makes a cardinal mistake in putting these reflections into the mouth of one of the characters. Every dialogue should help to develop traits in some of the characters or to bring on the crisis of the story. In the second part of the romance, he speaks in opposition to Hilda against Catholicity; but in a way not complimentary to the intelligence of the cultivated people of New England. He corresponds again to Holgrave, but again he is more vague than Hol-grave, with not the same apology of a subordinate position in the tale. Miriam is a very successful creation, however improbable her adventures, and,
f as the reader has noticed, is akin to both Hester i Prynne and Zenobia.
Donatello is rather too vague and too unreal. ; Mr. Lathrop* says that he belongs to the same I class of creations as Ariel and Caliban. Haw-j thorne himself rather declined to classify him, but ! left him to the kind imagination of the reader. If I a man was to be represented, some Italian youth, a I little more susceptible to the touch, could have been taken with soul as unstained and heart as joyous as Donatello. If he be what Mr. Lathrop claims for him, it can with justice be observed that the whole storv should have been made to dwell more in the unreal. It is this half reality that constitutes one of the blemishes of the “ Marble Faun.”
Throughout the work, the reader feels that the author is attempting too much. To lay the scene in Rome was in itself a bold thing to do; the numerous descriptions given in order to secure a lo-I cal coloring, is in itself a confession of weakness, j The working out of the theme leads the author I unexpected!v to the terrible proposition that sin is good, a proposition he denies and combats: but the one thing the story teaches, if there be a lesson taught. The story itself, the mere development of the plot, is vague and irresolute. The last quarter given over to Hilda’s abduction, Miriam’s first reappearance in Rome, etc., are almost | childish in their unintelligibility and lack of point, even if explained. The delineation of Hilda and the uniform beauty of the style are the chief beauties of the work. The latter is marvellous, and cannot, of course, be adequately described; among many others, equally happy, we gave a quotation in our first paper describing the “ Umbrian V alley.” The storv, though not his best, is still essentially the work of Hawthorne; the moral problems discussed, the materials from which the' story is formed, its many threads of delicate symbolism, its weirdness, the peculiar charm that is in'and through it all, make it his. And in criticising the “Marble Faun,” however harshly, it must be remembered that, though the author accomplished . not all he wished, he aimed very high, and even in his failure, is still successful.
During the last few years of his life, Hawthorne wrote only with the greatest difficulty. At his death were found the fragments of four works, all with a general relation to each other. “The Dolliver Romance” is but one charming chapter; “The Ancestral Footstep” but a number of extracts from the middle of a work. “ Dr. Grimshawe’s Secret,” considerably nearer a complete story, but lacking much, however genuine we may believe it to be. The fourth fragment “ Septimus Felton,” or the “ Elixir of Life,” we will briefly consider. The scene is laid in New England at the commencement of the Revolutionary War. Septimus is a young student, living a life of solitude and thought He had often been impressed with the insufficient length of life, and
* Geo. Parsons Lathrop, to whom the world is indebted for a meagre biography of our author, was son-in-law of the latter.	, ,
484
THE NOTRE DAME, SCHOLASTIC.
longed for earthly immortality. Brooding; oyer this natural desire, he soon comes to believe that he himself Avill never die. The consciousness of the soul that it cannot be annihilated is easily perverted • into this belief of earthly immortality. But, notwithstanding- his mere irrational belief, he seeks for some material means to prevent the possibility of death. The remedy that occurs most naturally to his mind, is the famous elixir of life, so arduously sought for by the philosophers and alchemists of the jMiddle Ages. By a peculiar chain of events, a recipe comes to him for this same elixir. After laboring- several years, he discovers the plants used in making the elixir and the rules of life laid down for its partaker. The rules of life, if followed, would but change the mor-tai man into an indestructible machine. His long-preparation of the elixir, his supposed success, the death of Sibyl Dacy, and the consequent departure of Septimus, make up the story. Of the characters introduced, little can be said. Dr. Port-soaken is chiefly interesting as a prototype of Dr. Grimshawe, and as corresponding also to Grand Sir Dolliver. Sibyl Dacy, as her name would indicate, is a little mystical. Her general purpose corresponds to that of Roger Chillings-worth in “ The Scarlet Letter," but she is better, artistically and morally considered. Rosa Garfield is simply womanly good sense. We forbear to criticize an unrevised work, even of so great a master. Some of the arguments for earthly immortality are ingenious, and appealing directly to our reason. This, however, is not the only line of thought pointed out. Speaking of the engagement between Septimus and Rosa Garfield, the author says: “ Nothing is more sure than that, if we suffer people to be drawn into too close proximity with people, if we overestimate the degree of our own proper tendency towards them, or theirs towards us, a reaction is sure to follow.” The work is written in admirable style. Had the author lived, he would have cut it down to a mere sketch ; for he had already transferred much of it to “ Dr.
Grimshawe’s Secret.”	•
I do not consider it necessary to pause here and generalize on Hawthorne as a novelist; having given so much attention to his novels one by one, I will now say a few words about the author himself and the influence of his life and belief upon his works, His reading, while very young, consisted of his. own‘selection, and prominently mentioned is “Bunyan’s Pilgrim Progress,” “ The Fairy Queen,” and the “Newgate Calender.” We would also judge from his works that he had read much of or from the old alchemists.; After graduating with Longfellow and Franklin Pierce, at Bowdoin, he returned home, with the intention of devoting-himself to literature. Fof a score.of years he suffered humiliations,: torment. and disappointment. AHis mode.; of life, during part of this.time, would make one. scriousl}’ doubt: tHe sanity of the whdle.Hawthorne family^. He; himself did not - stir abroad except;: at’.night ;> = his .meals wefeiCarfied' toS hisklooL and ?for weeks he would not see a human being. f-Ic walked the town,
however, every night, and thus observed much-He himself, I think, it was, who remarked that ' he was a “lay figure on the stage of life.” After j his year at Brook Farm, he was married, and ! rented the old Manse, whence issued the famous j “ Mosses.” It is not surprising that-many of these i tales seem morbid in their gloom. In them i is noticed his constant thinking ton .the subject of sin and its consequences to men. By some he was pronounced a pessimist, but, as I already remarked, this is a very hasty conclusion. A descendant of the stern fanatical Puritans, he had within him the puritanic sense of sin. It was in him, but not oppressing him. It could not affect his life, but he was quick to perceive and utilize its artistic power. The prevalence of allegory in these tales is imputed mainlv to the influence of Bunvan, but we doubt ! if he had much to do with it. For Hawthorne everything was a symbol, and the natural expression of symbolism is allegory. There are some wonderfully fine things in the “Mosses” and the “Twice Told Talcs”; but they are nearly all tinged with a morbidness to many disagreeable and some of the allegories, as such, arc far from perfect. The “Wedding Knell” and “Roger Malvin’s Burial” j are both overshadowed by almost repulsive gloom, j But it must be borne in mind that these tales were j noticed bv the London Athenccuin and read in : - -
i England shortly after their publication. They are < thoughtful, picturesque anti interesting. Among the best of his short pieces are, “ The Snow Image,” “The Great Stone Face,” “Goodman
। Brown,” “ The Birthmark,” “ The Christmas Ban! quet,” “ Rappacinni’s Daughter,” “Dr. Heidcg-f ger’s Experiment,” and “ The Bosom Serpent.” i It is rather remarkable how many people, since i 1843 to the present time, have tried to show an j evil tendency in Hawthorne’s works; and yet we have never seen expressed what is the real ground for -accusation. Hawthorne seems to look upon sin not, indeed, as something forbidden by i God, but as something.bad in itself. This is the I	3	e -	,	©	•
reason that in “ The Scarlet Letter ” the great moral preached is: “Betrue! be true!” This is the reason that in “ The Marble Faun ” he comes to serious difficulty. Hawthorne, as I remember, belonged to no church .and seldom attended any services. From his works we.would gather a tendency towards, if not actual belief in, Catholicism. In “The Scarlet Letter” we find the guilty minister doing penance, by scourging, for his sin; an idea abhorrent to the Protestant mind of our day. In Blithedale wc noted th'e. horror he expressed for suicide, an action which from questionable charitv few Protestants will stigmatize. In “Septimus” he speaks of the ministry in away which would sound odd from a Protestant contemporary, infused as it is with' the Catholic spirit. ’ From “ The Marble Faun,” however, we gather our strongest
• evidence. In. previous papers we quoted on this point; But one word more. True it is,that some vile things1 are said in the, book of the Catholic Church, .but always through'the mouth of one character, the narrow-minded Kenyon.. When the author speaks directly it is iii terms of the highest praise.
THE NOTRE DA A.
? SCHOLASTIC.	-.485

The intercession of the saints and the confessional are spoken of sympathizinglv, if not with eulogy. Indeed, if we are to take Hawthorne’s own words, we must .believe that only his disrespect for many of the clergy prevented his acknowledging the divine origin that the Church claims as peculiar to herself. We quote from “The Marble Faun”: “It was impossible to doubt that multitudes of people found their spiritual advantage in it, who would find none at all in our own formless mode of worship: which, so fai as the sympathy of prayerful souls is concerned, can be enjoyed only at stated and too unfrequent periods. . Buthere, whenever the hunger for divine nutriment came upon the soul, it could on the instant be appeased. At one or another altar the incense was forever ascending I The Mass always being performed, and carrying upwards with it the 1 devotion of such as had not words for prayer, and yet the worshipper had his individual petition to offer. his own heart’s secret to whisper below his breath: there were divine auditors always ready to receive it from his lips. And what encouraged him still more, these auditors had not always been divine, but kept within their heavenly memories the tender humility of a human experience. Now a saint in heaven, but once a man on earth. . . . To do it justice, Catholicism is such a miracle of fitness that it is difficult to consider it a contrivance of mere man.”
We know no fitter place than this to close. The day is coming when one will have, what now is lacking, suitable aids to help him in the study of America’s greatest genius. Hawthorne, the man, has been crumbling into dust these Twenty years, but the author has scarcely yet begun to live. A beautiful and original genius, his memory should coexist with the life of the great country he loved and helped to magnify.
T. E. Steele, ’84.
The Wish.	.
WIT.LIAM II. ARNOLD, ’S3.
A lovely Rose, in a garden.fair. Reigned queen among the many .flowers, Her damask cheek of fairest hue
Was wet with drops of pearly dew. .
A lovely Rose of fairest hue.
Her cheeks all wet with pearly dew, .
- Sighed for a crystal garment new To make her seem more fair. .	’	■
An elfin king, of Northland cold, Longed in his arms the Rose to fold. A bride, this elfin warrior bold .
-	Had sought for everywhere. ’	’
They met, and loved, on an autumn .day, And he bore his bride to the North awav,. And their hearts were light and free and gay,
if ■	Nor thought of care had they.
I	But the fair Rose chilled in his cold embrace,
‘ And a pallor overspread her face:
Her beauty faded and her grace, ■
'• In the Northland far away.	J
.	She sighed for her home in the;garden fair,
i; .	. For a breath of the gentle summer air; , A. . •
.	. And her heart was sad, and filled with care,
And she longed for death to come.
When the morning came the Rose was dead: A : ; . " Frozen it lay in its marriage-bed; :	.
’Twas clothed in crystal from' foot to head— A; . ?	’
Its wish had been its doom.	A\ \ /
Golden Words.
George D. Prentice, in addressing- an assembly .	.
of .young men, said: : “To a. young man awav	J .
from home, friendless and forlorn in a great city.	,
the hours of peril are those between sunset and bed-" time, for the moon and the stars see more evil in a A-single hour than the sun in a whole day’s circuit: The poet’s vision of evening are all composed of _ 1.; tender and soothing images. It brings the wan- -y : derer to his home, the child to his mother’s arms, AA the ox to his stall, and the weary.laborer-to his rest. .	~ -
But to the gentle-hearted vouth who is thrown ,	.
upon the rocks of the pitiless city and stands home- / '? less amid a thousand homes, the approach of even- „	. .
ing brings with it an aching sense of loneliness and '	.
desolation which comes down upon the spirit dike / ; darkness upon the earth. In this mood his best . . • impulse becomes a snare to him and he is led : . astray because he is social, affectionate, sympathetic, . •and warm-hearted. If there be a voung .man thus ’	.
circumstanced within the sound of my voice, let .	. '
me say to him that books are the friends of the . friendless, and that a library is a home to the home- _ less. A taste for reading will always carry you ‘	/
to converse with men who will influence you with AA A their wisdom and charm you by their* witAwho'A	- =
will soothe you when fretted, counsel you when, .	..
perplexed," and sympathize with you at all times:” '.	: .
Art, Music, and Literature- C- - .
—R. Barrett Browning,.the son of the poet,-has . . .. ? A* taken a studio in Paris, and has been working there A . .2 A/a at sculpture for some time past, under the guidance - A. of M. Auguste Rodin. .	, -	. ..t-AtA
' —Theodore Thomas, with an orchestra.of sixty AA : .-performers and several solo artists, will begin, on ;	.
April 26, a concert tour which will- include thirty ; A .. cities, from Baltimore to San Francisco, and will A A, ’ -l----last till July	. A ' ^A	J-A
—The final group designed by.Larkin G;Mead- Aj/.A for the Lincoln monument, at Springfield, is nearly .	- ~ ' A
finished. Thc.figures of which it is composed:are A ...A heroic in size. The scene represented is supposed	. A A:
to have occurred on one of the battlefields .of the	. - y Alate war. The group is about ten and a half feet	, A?I
high, and weighs 5,500 pounds. It has "required.	A. A A;’
about a year to do the work, and the entire cost	-. . ^A 1
will be about $200,000.	*	A ./ A /A A
v -—Ah interesting discovery has been made in the \	\ yAA
course of the excavations in the’Forum. In re- AA'aa moving the causeway passing across;the area:in . ,'AaAO front of the Arch of Septimus Severus, .the fe-A ; .AA?y mains of .an ancient and.forgotten;.church, now. . -/JAAA recognized as. that of Santa Maria in Foro,.have A’AAs been found beneath the roadl . The church, which L A.
486
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
is of small size, was constructed within the western porticos of the Basilica Julia and on the ancient level.	.
—Wong Chin Foo, the editor of The. Chinese American, will publish, in a short time, his English translation of the greatest historical Chinese drama. “ Fan Ton,” or “The Royal Slave,” ranks in Chinese literature as Homer’s “ Iliad ” and “ Odyssey ” do in Greek, and Shakspeare’s historical plays do in English literature. It was written twelve hundred years ago, by Rung Ming, a direct descendant of Confucius. Since that time the play has steadily held its place on the Eastern stage.
—A literary treasure of singular appositeness, says the London Athenceiim, has turned up in the form of a preface, written by Thackeray for the second edition of his, “ Irish Sketch Book,” but suppressed by the publishers as being too outspoken. In it Thackeray strongly supports, not merely the disestablishment of the Established Church, which, he says, “ will no more grow’ in Ireland than a palm tree in St. Paul’s churchyard,” but even the repeal of the Union. The paper is said to be written in Thackeray’s most vivacious and characteristic style, and will soon be published in the Centnrv magazine.	'
when an iron wire or rod is magnetized it suffers a slight increase in length, with a compensating decrease in cross-section. The inventor claims “ the construction of a telephonic receiving instrument consisting of a magnetic wire attached to a . sonorous disc or plate, and wound with a primary coil connected to local battery, and with a secondarv coil connected to the telephonic line wire, as described.” Knowledge anticipates very-satisfactory results from the new instrument, which, even in its crude form, it says, reproduces sounds with remarkable clearness.
—The following calculation as to the total number of existing botanical species has been made by Dr. Muller, of Geneva. We have at present in our books about 130,000 species, and if we suppose that 30,000 (in round numbers) belong-to countries like Europe and North America, where there are hardly any species but some cryptogams to be discovered, the remainder, or 100,000, representing exotic plants, more or less tropical and southern, we may double the latter for new species, giving 200,000 for these less known regions, and, altogether, 230,000 for the whole globe, with the exception of countries still quite unknown botanically. Adding only 20,000 species for the latter, we reach a minimum sum of 250,000 of plants.—ylw. Nat.
Scientific Notes.
—Mount Hitna is in eruption, pouring out from the central crater a stream of lava. Vesuvius is in its usual passive state. The column of smoke con- . stantlv ascends, and every now’ and then at night there is a brilliant light.
—Nickel is proposed to be a substitute for bronze in coinage in France. It is also suggested that the new’ coins shall be octagonal instead of round, so that the people may not mistake them for silver in the hurry of business.	’
—It is said that the engravers and watch-makers of Germany harden their tools in sealing-wax. The tool is heated to whiteness and plunged into the wax, withdrawn after an instant and plunged in again, the process being repeated until the steel is too cold to enter the wax. The steel is said to become, after this process, almost as hard as the diamond, and when touched with a little oil or turpentine the tools are excellent for engraving, and also for piercing the hardest metals.
—A patent device has been gotten up for illuminating altars, by the Rev. F. Kittell, of St. Paul’s Cathedral, Pittsburg. It is in the shape of a candelabrum, and can contain fifteen candles or more.. By an ingenious contrivance the candles can be placed at any angle, or in a horizontal position, they, at the same time, being perfectly erect. There are six different positions in which the lights can" be placed. The pedestal can be lengthened or shortened at will. Stars, crosses, squares, angles, arid quadrangles can be. formed at quick notice.
—Knozvledge describes the receiver of a new telephone, which is. based upon the principle that
College Gossip.
—President White, of Purdue University, has resigned.
—The average weight of Harvard’s Freshman crew is 163 pounds.
—Boxing and fencing are occupying prominent attention at Columbia.
—The Earl of Kimberley has been re elected President of University College, London.
—The “Ajax” of Sophocles has been produced at Cambridge with great “ splendor of scenery and costume.” .
—Thomas G. Appleton has given five thousand dollars for the endowment of the Women’s Annex at Harvard College.	'
—They say we have a Freshman who is so short that when he is sick he doesn’t know whether he has headache or corns.—PhilosoRhian Review.
—The trustees of Cornell University recently authorized the establishment of a course in electrical engineering on the opening of the new physical and chemical laboratories in September next.
—Out of 38,054 alumni from fifty-eight colleges and universities, since 1825, 3,577, or 9 per cent., are recorded as physicians; 9,991, or 21 per ' cent., as clergymen; and 6,165, or 19 per cent., as lawyers. . .	. U	.	.
—William H. Wheeler, the Professor of History at Yale College, who was incapacitated last winter by. injury to the spine, caused by a fall on the ice,'again takes his position, but in a very enfeebled condition. -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Honorable Frederick Billings, of Woodstock, O f	J
who purchased the Library of the late George P. Marsh for fifteen thousand dollars and presented it to the University of Vermont, has now given that institution seventy-five thousand dollars for. a Library building.—Home. Journal.
THE WAIL OF THE JUNIORS.
The substance and material Of planets, stars, ethereal. Rotations, too, sidereal, -Perplex the wearied mind. Refraction, eccentricity. The coloures, ellipticity. Are not with great simplicity Nor perfect ease defined.
The study of hygrometers, Of tangent galvanometers, Quadrantal electrometers, Poles, magnets, Leyden jars. Potential electroscopes, Voltaic piles and spectroscopes, Conductors, rheometroscopes. The Juniors' pleasure mars.
His life is rendered hideous;
He thinks the world perfidious: Thoughts gloomy, dark, insidious. Course through this maddened brain. A rash and wild proclivity.
The day of his nativity To curse, and burst captivity He scarcely can restrain.
— 'Talc Record.
Exchanges.
—The Boston College Stylus for March—the second number—more than fulfils the promises held forth by its predecessor. “ Ambition ” and “ The Annunciation,” from ’84 and ’85, are fair metrical productions. The essays on “ Charles Lamb,” “Originality,” and “The Root of All Evil ” are creditable.
—We congratulate the new editorial board of the Racine College Mercury on the great improvement in the paper since it came into their hands. J. H. K.’s lines on “ Racine Revisited,” and Tycho’s “A Victim,” are a good example of the diversity of matter that can be brought into harmonious unity in the columns of a college paper. The editors would do well to keep “ Tycho” in jollv good humor and get all they can from his pen. -
—The University Monthly, University of New Brunswick, begins its second year with the March number. The Monthly first appeared, we are told, in ’67, but with the ninth number ended its career. Several attempts to resuscitate the defunct college paper failed of success, until a year ago, when it revived and grew strong under the business management of Mr. Cliff. The Monthly is now ably edited, and the salutatorian of the 2d Volume tells its readers it has come to stay. “Ye Truie and Faithfulle Historic of ye Squattycke Trippe” is well written, and contains some good descriptive passages and anecdotes. An editorial item in the current number begins in this wise:
i	“ We have often wondered why some knowledge of the
I Bible is not requisite for a degree at our University- A_<ie- = i gree is a certificate of some learning and culture, and we I firmly believe should not be conferred withoutat least a fair { knowledge of that Book on which is founded the faith of • every Christian denomination. As matters stand at pres- • i ent, a man may become a B. A.—and we are confident that I many do—knowing comparatively nothing of the Bible or i its contents.’’
I	...
I A graduate who knows “ comparatively nothing of the Bible or its contents ” is to be pitied. The writer errs in the statement that “ the faith of every Christian denomination is founded on the Bible.” There is one Christian denomination— (more properly religion') numbering more than all the other denominations put together—that-existed before anv of the books of the New Testament were written, and it is to this denomination
i that the whole Christian world to-dav is. indebted ! for the selection, fiom among many of apparently I equal authenticitv, of the books now found in the 1 Bible.	'	-
i	_
|	—The College Message, of Cape Girardeau,
j Mo., one of the best edited, if not the best printed, of our college exchanges, recentlv criticized the articles of The Vanderbilt Observer in a not verv complimentarv way, saying, “ We found them so stiff and tough that we were unable to swallow or
■O
stuff them down.” The criticism seems to have had the effect of stirring up the Vanderbilt scribes: the April number of their paper is as spicy and _ digestible as a choice Chesapeake bivalve on the ■ half shell, with just enough lemon squeezed over
it to give it flavor. The editors want it clearly understood that their paper is the product of the students and not of the Faculty. There are some ill-natured “ cusses ” who hate to see a good article in another college paper than their own, and who immediatelv begin to sling mud at it. They will assert that it is cribbed from a cyclopedia, is written bv a member of the Faculty, or doesn’t contain original thought (as if there was anything new under the sun ). The charge has been made against the Scholastic, although the articles in our paper are rarely seen by members of the Faculty, and then only when the student chooses to show.his production. The articles on “America’s Aristocracy,” “The Mormons,” “The Literary Pirate,” and “Magna Charta and Trial by Jury,” in the April number of the Observer, reflect credit upon their writers. The writer of the article onThe Mormons” has evidently not read the symposium . on Mormonism in the North American Reviertv, or he could not imagine that the agents of Beelzebub find shelter under the clause of the Constitution which states that “Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.” The beastly 'polygamy of the Mormons is no more of a religious tenet, nor claims tolerance as such, than Freeman’s idea that he should murder his children to send them to heaven out of harm’s way. Mormonism finds its shelter in the corruption of those whose business it is to see that the laws are put in force.	.	.
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
MMWESCHOm
Notre Dame, April 14, 1883.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct
Students should take it: parents should take it; and, above all,	■
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.jO -per Annum. Postpaid.
Address - EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff.
Geo. E. Clarke, ’S3. Albert F. Zahm, ’83. •T. Ewing Steele, ’84.
Wm. H. Arnold, ’S3. J u
R. M. Anderson, ’83.
J. Larkin (Law),’S3.
— Indications promise that there will be an unusually large Law Class at Notre Dame next year. All necessary facilities for acquiring a thorough and practical knowledge of the law will be afforded to students in that course. Instruction will be imparted by means of carefully prepared lectures and actual practice in moot courts. From this time forward persons who expect to enter the Law Class should signify their purpose.	-
—A cable despatch to,the daily papers of Sunday last, announced the death of Louis Veuillot, the distinguished editor-in-chief of the Univers (Paris). M. Veuillot was born in 1813, and at the early age of nineteen entered upon that journalistic career in which he earned for himself a w.orld-wide reputation. For more than forty years he directed the Univers^ and during all that time he proved himself an able defender of the rights and doctrines of the Church against .the attacks of an in-?fidel press and Government. Besides his famous editorial writings, he was the author of many books, /poems, pious tales, controversial works, essays and biographies. His was.'an active and laborious life—a life zealously; devoted to ’the . chusfe’ of religionL^and -we may hope 'that he now enjoys the reward of his labors. -
;	—The “Fourth Annual Report of the Diocesan
i School Board of the Diocese of Fort Wayne,” Hves an encouraging account of the great advance made in the cause of Catholic education throughout this comparatively new Diocese since the establishment of the Board, some four years ago. The number of schools is 62; increased number of schools in four years, 9; total number of pupils enrolled in 55 schools, 6,718; total average’ daily attendance, 5,270; increase of enrollment in four years, 3,098; total number of teachers, 155; number of volumes in libraries reported from 36 schools, 8,222; number of first Communions in one year, 1,210; number confirmed in one year, 1,395. In its address to Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger, the Diocesan School Board pays him the following merited compliment:
“We cannot close without-expressing our admiration for your great zeal in this laborious duty towards your Diocese. Neither the personal inconvenience in working with the School Board, nor the great expense you must have incurred in carrying on the work, deterred you in your most laudable undertaking. We only hope that you may live to see some of the fruits of your labors; to see all is impossible, as they will appear in full only in eternity.”
The following remarks of the School Board in regard to text-books may be deemed worthy of notice:
“ On mature deliberation, based on the experience of three years’ close attention to the wants of our schools, the Board deems it prudent to reconsider its former suggestions in regard to the policy of enforcing a uniform set of text-books throughout the schools. It is thought best, without binding the Diocese to any particular series, to suggest, with your approbation, such books as may be considered good, exclude what may be regarded inferior or injurious, and then leave pastors and teachers free to make their own selection. This course is thought to be more in harmony with the spirit of personal enterprise and energy which the managers of our schools should cultivate, while at the same time it allows the publishing houses of the country a free opportunity to ofter their best productions to the schools of our Diocese.”
Wealthy Catholics are appealed to for a liberal support of their parish schools, with a view towards lightening as much as possible the burden -of the poor who have large families of school age, but are unable to pay tuition fees. The very full and encouraging report for the year just passed should urge all who take the least interest in Catholic education, to push on the-good work so happily begun.
The Occultation of Saturn.
The occultation of a star is an event of-frequent occurrence. Most of the stars, however, ’ whose light is thus intercepted from us by the intervention of the lunar disc, are of such 'feeble lustre that they vanish in the superior brilliancy of the moon’s rays long; before the actual occultation takes place. When a large planet, like Saturn, is the victim, the case is different. Popular attention is drawn to the'extraordinary spectacle of “ a‘star ■ dropping into the moon,” ■ as wehave heard fit •described. The fact is- that the: moon’s real 'eastward motion is much more Tapid'than. that of; the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	489
planet, although far less rapid than the apparent westward motion of the whole celestial sphere. As viewed from Notre Dame, the occultation began at 6 minutes 58 seconds past 8, on the evening of the ninth of April. The immersion of a fixed star is instantaneous, since none of the fixed stars, not even the brightest, subtend a sensible angle as viewed from the earth. But in the case of Saturn the obscuration was quite gradual, and afforded a very interesting telescopic view, as the dark edge of the moon, illumined only by “ earth-light,” advanced upon the brilliant rings and disc of the planet. In 53 seconds Saturn was completely hidden from sight, and did not reappear until 52 minutes 57 seconds after 8, on the bright edge between thecentreof the crescent and the south cusp. At 53 minutes 50 seconds past 8 the emersion was complete; but both the moon and planet were by this time low in the heavens, and the reappearance was not seen by many who witnessed what seemed to them the en-gulphment of a star in the moon.
Charles A. Tinley,
Secretary.
The Academy.
The 6th regular meeting of St. Thomas Aquinas Academy was held Thursday evening, April 5th, and presided over by Rev. Di rector Fitte, assisted by Prof. McSweeny. Among the visitors were Rev. President Walsh, Rev. Father Stoffel, Rev. Father O’Brien, and Prof. Hoyne, who came to encourage the young gentlemen, and show the in-terest they take in attending debates upon the most important questions of Philosophy. Although at former meetings the debaters evinced careful preparation and remarkable skill in argumentation, yet those who took part in the exercises on this occasion deserve special praise.
The question proposed was, perhaps, the most difficult in Psychology, “ The origin of ideas,” and the thesis defended was thus set forth: “The Aristotelian system, as explained by the schoolmen, accounts for rational ideas in the most satisfactory manner.” Mr. Neal Ewing, who had been appointed to defend the thesis, accomplished his task so well as to receive the applause, and even the admiration, of the whole audience. In vain did Messrs. G. E. Clarke and T. E. Steele bring against the Scholastic system their most forcible objections, taken from the systems of “ Innate ideas ” and “ On-tologism.” The defender answered all difficulties in a calm, correct and cogent manner; using felici-. tously and advantageously concise syllogisms.
Prof. Hoyne complimented the disputants, earnestly exhorting the members to go on in the way upon which they had entered, for the further development of their moral and intellectual faculties. After a few remarks presented by Prof. McSweeny, whose greatest delight is to take a prominent part in such metaphysical questions, the meeting adjourned, Rev. Father O’Brien and Prof.
Hoyne having "been previously elected honorary members.
The following is a short synopsis of the defender’s thesis: After clearlv defining the “ point,” Mr. Ewing proceeded to refute the systems of “Scnsism,” “Innate ideas,” and “Ontol-ogism.” He then presented and defended his own theory—“ The most satisfactory way of. explaining’ the origin of rational ideas is the system of Aristotle, as developed by St. Thomas.” The first argument in favor of this system is, —in what we perceive through the senses, the necessary ideas of being’, cause, etc., have a real objective existence, though environed by individual characteristics, from which the power of abstraction, communicated by a divine influence, is sufficient to free them. Another argument is that this system excells all others, inasmuch as it conforms to experience and man’s nature, and avoids all the extremes of scnsism and rationalism.. It was shown, incidentally, where the errors of these extreme theories lie, and how the “ golden mean,” chosen by the schoolmen, escapes the pitfalls of either side. The assistance afforded by concrete examples in order to grasp abstract notions was noticed as a proof of conformity with experience. After another argument, refuting the other systems by short and concise objections, the defender gave the following syllogism as a resume: That system which is most simple in itself, most in conformity with human nature, and supported by the majority of the best philosophers, should be admitted. Now, such is the system of Aristotle, as explained by St. Thomas; therefore this system should be preferred to any other. In conclusion, it was remarked that, as we see material objects by the light of the sun, so we rise to rational ideas, both by means of the senses and the divine light of the Sun of Justice “that enlighten-eth every man that cometh into the world.”
Personal.
—Mrs. M. Heneberry, of Peoria, III., and Mrs. Wm. T- Hynes, of Chicago, were welcome visitors at Notre Dame on Sunday. Mrs. Heneberry was accompanied by two of her daughters, who are pupils at St. Mary’s.
—A. Richmond (Prep. ’82) holds a prominent position in the National Bank at Lima, Ohio. He has kindly donated to the Cabinet of Curios a col- -lection of portraits of the Presidents of the. United . ' States, for which he has the thanks of the. Director.
—An “ old-timer,” Mr. Thomas. Harley, Dowagiac, Mich., paid us a visit on Tuesday last. Since his sojourn here in 1S67—’8, Mr. Harley ■ passed several years in England, the native coun- . try of his parents. He is now in business in New < .. 7; York City..	..." . - RE EH
—Mr. Simon Zahm, brother of Rev. Father
Zahm, C. S. C., of the Facuity, and Albert Zahm, r ‘; of the Class of ’83, died .at his home in Hunting-ton; Ind., last Sunday. The deceased, some.years •
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ago, entered the Novitiate at Notre Dame, with * o *	.	f
the intention of fitting himself for the priesthood. | but ill health forced him to relinquish his purpose. He was a young man of uncommon ability, and, had not disease fastened itself upon him, he would have distinguished himself in any sphere of life he . should enter. It is a consolation to the afflicted relatives to know that their son and brother had well prepared himself to meet his God; and they may be confident that he is now happy in the abode of Eternal Peace!	’
. —Last Monday morning, Rev. T. McNamara. C. S. C-, was raised to the sacred dignity of the priesthood by Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger. Father McNamara was for a number of years one of the bright students of Notre Dame, and graduated with the Class of ’79. Since that time, he has been engaged in professorial duties in the University and fitting himself for the sacred ministry. During his student life he was for a time editor-in-chief of the Scholastic, and this fact naturally increases the pleasure with which we offer our congratulations upon his elevation. It is our wish, as it is that of his numerous friends at Notre Dame, that he may have a long and useful life in the pursuit of his sacred calling. Father McNamara will i sing his first Mass to-morrow (Sunday) at his j home, near Detroit.	;
—The following notice of the late Major David Power Conyngham, LL. D., editor of the New York Tablet, who died Sunday, April 1st, is condensed from the Irish American. Father Fitz-harris, of ’70, conducted the funeral services:
“The deceased, who was well known as a soldier,author and journalist, was a near relative of the late Charles J. Kickham, the Irish Nationalist poet and political martyr. He had been for some years past editor of the New York j Tablet. Major Conyngham was born in 1833, at Killenaule, I Countv Tipperary. He early developed a taste for literature, and was a frequent contributor to the Irish press and - periodicals. In the early part of 1S63 he came to America, and having obtained a position as War Correspondent of the New York Herald, he was assigned to the Second Army Corps, then still in front of Fredericksburg. Va. Here he attached himself to Meagher’s 1 Irish Brigade,’ on the staff ot which he served as a Volunteer Aid, during his stay with the Army of the Potomac. On the organization of the South Western Army, under Sherman, Major Conyngham was dispatched as correspondent to that force, with which he participated in the celebrated march ‘ From Atlanta to the Sea.’ At the battle of Resaca he was wounded, and in a subsequent engagement had a horse killed under him. For his services at Resaca, in carrying dispatches under fire from General Schofield to General Judah, he was congratulated on the field by the former, and received a letter of thanks from General Judah. When peace was restored, he published an account of the war in two books, ‘ Sherman’s March Through the South,’ and the 1 History, of the Irish Brigade and its Campaigns.’ 4, He subsequently published the‘Lives of the Irish Saintsand Martyrs,’ for which Pope Pius IX sent him a letter of thanks, and the Universit}’ of Notre Dame, in Indiana, conferred on him the degree of LL. D. He also, in conjunction with the late Richard Walters, and: others, started the Sunday Democrat, which he edited until leaving for a prolonged visit to Ireland. ; The funeral of Major Conyngham took place on Tuesday morning, at 10 o’clock, from his late residence, and was attended by. a large number of sympathizing friends. The remains-were, conveyed to St. Joseph’s Church, where a Solemn.Mass ofReq idem was celebrated, Rev.Rather Fitzliarris being celebrant, Rev. Father Smith, deacon, and. Rev. Father Hayes, subdeacon?.. In .pronounc
ing the final absolution, Kev. Father Fitzliarris delivered a brief but impressive discourse, in which an eloquent panegyric was pronounced’on the life and labors of the deceased. May he rest in peace I ”
. Local Items.
—Ulyuu iiu~.a.
—Navigation is opened.
—He’s getting aesthetic.	•
—Are you a hydropot or an acpiabib?
—“Say, Prof., was that “ Tug Wilson?”
—“Is Peck’s Bad Boy Peck’s Sun (son)?”
—The list for Elocution will appear next week.
—Anxious Inquirer.—No, we have not turned infidel.	.
—Spring has come! we have seen a flock of velocipedes.	.
—Ascension Thursday is the day appointed for the First-Communion.
—Now, ye Boat Clubs, read carefulIv the second item in these columns.
—Our friend John says the “pets” make more noise at recreation than the “ Darlings.”
—MacDonald, of South Bend, has a fine collection of “photos” in the Students’ Office.
—Competitions next week in Modern Languages, Fine Arts and Special Branches.
—The lonely straw hat was out, this week, ornamenting the noble head of our Chinaman.
—Father L’Etourneau is making many improvements in the grounds around the Novitiate.
—There are signs of a military revival among the Juniors. Let it revive! bovs—on with the drill!	'	'
—To-morrow, the Feast of the Patronage of St. Joseph, Alissa Regia will be sung. Vespers, p. 138. •	"	•	.
—The Professor of History has ordered a fine collection of historical maps for the use of his classes..
—“ Why is the Senior 1st Grammar Class in a flourishing condition ? “ Because it has an Orchard.”	.
—The boys had a half-holiday on Monday, thanks to Bishop Dwenger, and the newly ordained Father McNamara.
—There are indications that the Reading-rooms have been, to a great extent, deserted during these pleasant days.	’ •
—Dr. J. Cassidy,’66,.has made a very interesting contribution to the department of Mineralogy and Geology.
—The rooms in the.College,have been re-numbered. No; 5 is in the same place. , Boys, don’t make a mistake! ~	.
. ^Honi spilqui maly spense. ..N'l'AXpome of our alleged rart critics , please fmcLout what that means and bring it home? ?	.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
491
—Thursday was the feast-day of the honored Director of the choir, and the esteemed foreman of the printing-office.
—President Walsh has had several fine bronzes
of literary and artistic celebrities placed in the niches in the Rotunda.
— The Curator of the Museum is indebted to - M. J. Hagenbarth, for a valuable collection of ores from Idaho,-Ter.
—The botanists went out on their first excursion last Monday. We hope the “Sec.” will favor us with reports of these expeditions.	.
—While excavating the hillside at the Novitiate, the winter quarters of a large snake family were invaded. Result: six dead reptiles.
—The Philopatrians will not burn Bertrand this time. They are preparing two new dramas with which to astonish the denizens of this locality.
—The birds do not seem more bright and happy than the seventy-nine Minims or “Young Princes of Notre Dame” as Father General calls them.
—The Orpheonics arc busily engaged in practising selections from “ Tam O’Shanter,” the music being composed by the Director of the Society.
—A Word to the Wise:—Ye “eds.”smoke. If you want a “ puff,” sec that something better than a T. D. makes its appearance in the sanctum.
—Scene in the rotunda.—Sedate Senior: “ Is that statue Clay? ” Smart Junior:. “ Of course, it is—with a little bronze on the outside: be careful and not bust it.”
—The distinguished elocutionist, Prof. Carlisle,9 of Detroit, is expected to visit the College during the coming week, when he will give one of his choice entertainments.
—Foot-races are now in favor with the Seniors; but last Wednesday all the students, and many of the Faculty, joined in the sport. H. Noble, rumor says, made the best record.
—As this is the season for snake stories, our friend John comes to the front with a yarn concerning the time when he killed fifty-nine (59) reptiles “ at one lick.” Next!
—Dates for the next three entertainments have been assigned as follows: Euglossians, April 25th; Philopatrians, May 9th; St. Cecilians, June 6th. Classical dramas will be produced on these occa-soins.
—The Denver Nevis, referring to the lecture of Fathcr Zahm on “ Colorado,” terms it “ a flattering tribute to the grand resources of the commonwealth from one of the most learned and truthful of its guests.”
—There was recently displayed in the Senior reading-rooms a painting representing a contest between modern gladiators. It occasioned no small amount of enthusiasm, and those who failed to see it lost .a treat which many would have regretted. .	: ,
—A knotty—we were going to pun, but we remain—problem has at length been solved. - Plans
have been perfected and will soon be carried out for the conversion of that “ blooming ” solitary, edifice, in the Juniors’ Campus,° into a “ things
of beauty.
[	—Our dramatic associations are determined to
I make this the great Shakspearian year. The Thespians “made home” with “Julius. Caesar.” Now the Euglossiansare “at the bat” with “Macbeth” and the St. Cecilians are “on deck” with “Henry IV.”	; ’ A7
—At the 14th regular meeting of-the Columbian Dramatic Association, held March 28, Messrs. Witwer, Austin, Monoghan and T. Lally were admitted to membership. The time was employed in rehearsing “Macbeth,” which is to be produced in two weeks.	.
—Very Rev. Father General sent princes a beautiful letter .from New York, just before he sailed on the Ainerique. Such tokens of affection are not lost on the Minims. They only, make them wish more ardently for the. speedy return of their beloved patron.	.
—Master Willie McPhee, of the Minim department, who leads the second acolytes at High Mass and Vespers, is the happy possessor of a. handsome cassock, mantelleta and cincture, the gift and work of his mother. The cassock and mantelleta are of white merino with red lining and bordering and buttons to match, and the cincture is of red silk.	.	'
—While on a visit to the Laboratory, the other: day, we were shown a novel design of an electric lamp, made by the Vanderpoel Electric Light. Co., Chicago. So far as experimented with, it promises to prove invaluable for lectures .and lantern exhibitions. We think its ornamental appearance, at least, would justify a trial in the Rotunda, upon occasions of any entertainment.	' . .
—Encouraged by the actions of some of their fellows, the “dudes” will form a society in the near future. A number of them will visit Chicago, if necessary, to familiarize themselves with the workings of the body in that city. When.the society is formed, none but “society men” will be eligible. Visiting “ Dudes” will be at once recogT nized, and always, or—, well received. .	/ -
—The 1st regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association . took place April 2d. Master J. Devine was admitted to membership. Vocal selections were given by L. Gibert, E. Wile, and D. O’Connor. Selections were read by C. Cavaroc, W. Hanavin, J. Hibbeler, J. Hagerty,. R. Foster, F. Fishel; J. Rhodus, R. Devereux, E. Wile, W. Henry, A. Schillo,'. H. Brewster, and H. Metz.	.	■	..
—There arrived last Thursday for the Museum . a fine large specimen of the shells "bf the Tri-dacua- Squamosa.' One of our young aspirants to scientific fame, upon beholding the specimen re-' marked: “ Down in Tennessee, where I live, wey eat those yere. things on the half-shell for supper. . We can catch bigger ones than that in the river; near our house.” The crowd surrounding, .pre-;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
served a solemn and decorous silence, and after a i short interval, slowly and sadly dispersed.	I
—Work on the Dome progresses apace. Walls I of immense thickness—the extension of the Ro- 1 tunda—are going' up underneath the roof. In a । few davs these will he seen emerging into the ; outer air, and the masons’ work will be visible far i and wide. Bros. Raphael and Francis Joseph । have built an engine for hauling up the material: [ the engine is now set, and, apparently, ready for | work. The machine is a tiny bit of furniture, j but when steam is up is said to be at least capable of j outworking the equine quadruped and the cavalier | now doing duty.	-
—If I Were a King: A Drama in four acts. By Professor Lyons. This is one of the dramas that have hitherto been sought in vain bv the managers of schools. It is written for male person-ators. It is well constructed, not as a reading, but as an acting play. From the beginning to the end it will hold the interest of an audience: and the i young actors can follow the stage directions without fear of tumbling against one another or making a ridiculous fiasco. Professor Lyons, with great skill, has arranged his “ stage business ” very carefully.—N. X Freeman's yournaj.
—The eighth number of the Scholastic An- . nual, edited by Professor J.-A. Lyons, of the University of Notre Dame, Ind., has been issued for the year 1883. The editor hails the eighth issue as an omen of success, because “eight, the cube of duality where number is solidified pri-mordially, is the Pythagorean index of the combination of multitude with security.” Nevertheless, we are glad to know that the little publication is ’ increasing in popularity. Its astrological predictions for 1882, it is claimed, were verified in a remarkable manner.— Chicago Evening yournal.
—Several apparatus for the department of Physics and Chemistry have been received lately. We may mention among many others a large and fine, focusing electric lamp and parabolic reflector from the Vanderpoel Electric Light Co., Chicago; some special machines from Ritch & Sons, Boston, and a large condensing pump and copper cylinder for calcium light illumination, from the McIntosh Galvanic Belt Co.. Chicago. It is the intention of the,Professor of Physics to give a lecture at no distant date, in which these instru-. ments will be used, when a more detailed account will be given.	.
—Work on the park fronting the “Palace” is being, prosecuted, with great energy and vigor. In.regard to the laying out of the walks, icsthetic minds did not-agree.as to .whether the “line of beaut}7 ” or straight lines should be followed. From what we can learn, we are led to infer that a compromise has been effected, and harmony restored between all parties. However this may be, the walks will be skirtcd-L-we think. that’s the wordjAvith rare trees and shrubbery: Ori this account: we have apprehensions that it will be a great resort for.our local “dudes” in.their customary promenades. .	' . ~	: ■
—Prof. J. A. Lyons, of Notrc’Damc University, was in the citv yesterday afternoon for the first time since the injuries he received by the powder explosion on the 21st February last. The cordiality with which he was greeted on every hand, showed in what great esteem he is held by his many friends here. During his stay in the infirmary he was in receipt of letters of sympathy from every part of the country, and was constantly besieged with visitors. The Professor says he did not know he had so many friends before. All of these will be glad to know that his injuries will leave no scars.—South-Ecnd Tribune.
—The twenty-fourth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association took place April 4th. Essays were read bv D. ’Caylor, R. Reach, W. Mugg and W. Kahman. Criticisms on the previous meeting were given bv H. Bush and J. Smith. A lively debate thert took place on British and American authors. Principle debaters, E. Dillon, C. Porter, W. Jeannot and R. Reach. A vote of thanks was tendered to Prof. Edwards and the Senior Orchestra for favors received. Public readers for the ensuing week arc, A. Browne. H. Bush, M. O’Connor, H. Foote, H. Dunn, C. Porter, M. Dolan and W. Schott.
—The celebrated discussion as to the superiority of raw oysters over sour pickles was settled on Monday, the 9th inst., bv a game of ball The “Raw Oysters” were captained by J. T. Carroll, and the “ Sour Pickles” by F. Monoghan. The game was noted during the first part for heavy batting and loose fielding. But during the latter part the players redeemed themselves. Great enthusiasm prevailed both among players and spectators. Three umpires were exhausted, the last surviving until the end of game. The players were frequently compelled to withdraw, like the umpires, their places being filled after great, difficulty from the spectators. Victory crowned the efforts of the “Sour Pickles,” much to the disgust of the “Raw Oysters.” Pickles and oysters don’t agree. The end is not yet. Score, fifteen to eleven.	■
—The Rt. Rev. Bishop of Fort,Wayne was an honored visitor to the College last Saturday evening. Sunday morning he dedicated St. Hedwige’s (Polish) Church in South Bend, and administered the Sacrament of Confirmation to upwards of 400 persons. In the afternoon the same Sacrament was administered in St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, and Assumption Church, Lowell, his Lordship preaching on both occasions. On Monday morning, he celebrated Mass, in the Church of the Sacred Heart, and ■ ordained Rev. T. McNamara. The. students assisted at the Mass and witnessed the solemn and impressive ceremonies which will long be remembered particularly by those who took part in them. Bishop Dwenger took his departure yon ; Monday for Fort Wayne'. He will leave New; York for Europe on the 28th, and we take advantage of. the present opportunity to wish himbon voyage and a happy return. ‘
THE NOTRE DAATE SCHOLASTIC.
493
Roll of Honor. ’
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Ashford, Anderson, Bowers, Brady, Burns, J. Burke, V. Burke, Browne, Buchanan, Cleary, Clarke, A. Coghlin, W. Coghlin, Celia, Campbell, Clements, Chelini, Crawford, Claffey, Cole, Donohue, Drover, Eisenhauer, Fitzgerald, T. Fenlon. Fleming’, Fairell. Fenton, Freeman, Gray, Grever, Golonski, Gooley, Grout, Galarnean. Harris, Kleiber, Kane, Keller, Kolars, Koehler, Kuhn. Kelly, Kaufman, Earkin. T. Lallv. Mollov. W. J.McCarthy, W.H. McCarthy. Me ver, Monoghan, McErlaine, Marlett, Mullen, S. Murdock, C. Murdock. Magoflin, Morse, T. McNamara, J. McNamara, Morris, Martin. Noble, Neeson. Noonan. Newman. Ott. O’Dea, Orchard, O'Connor, O’Neill, Otis, O’Reilly, O'Brien, Porter, Pour. Parrott, Pillars. Peters, Rogers, Stull, Scholfield,Spencer C. Smith. Solon, Saviers. G. Smith, Terrazas. Twohig, Whalen, Wheatly, Yrisairi, Zahm, Ziihnle. Zurbuch.
J CNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Arnold, Brice. Browne, Berthelet. Bacon, Bush, Brewster. Braunsdorf, Curtis, Cassilly, Cavaroc. Cain, Darling, W. Dennis, Danielson, Dolan, Dorenberg. Dillon, Dunn, J. Devine. Eisenhauer, M. Foote, H. Foote, Fehr, Fishel. Foster, Gibert. Grothaus. Gerlach, Hagerty, Hermann. Halligan, J. Henry, W. Henry, J. Hetz, W. Hetz, Hornadav, llibbelcr.. Hannavin, Holbrook. Howard, Hess, Johnson. Jeannot. Kahmann. Kerndt, Kengel. Keegan, J. Kelly. Sb. Kelly. Mug. Murphy. Mulkern. McGordon, [. McDonnell, McGill, McCawley. Mason, Metz, Nester, D. O’Connor, J. A’. O’Donnell, Porter, Lefllngwell, Rothschild. J. Ryan. Reach, Rhodus, Schott. Schillo, Smith, .Shannon, Schaeffer, Stark, Subert. Seegers. Taylor, Talbot, Violette, Wagoner, Wilkinson. Wright. Wallace, Weber, Waixel, Warren. Yrisarri. Zeigler, R. Dvine.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Anglin, Adams, Beall, Bunker, Chaves, Colwell, Cummings. G. Costigan, E. Costigan, Coad, Dirksmeyer, Devereux, W. Devine, A. Devine, Delaplane, Dungan, Fix, Hopkins, Harris. Hynes, Johnson, A. Kelly. Krause. Kellner. Kane, I?uther, Landenwich. B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, McNaughton, McGordon, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, McGuire, McPhee, F. Mullen, A. Mullen, Morrison. Moss, Masi. Metz, Noonan, Nester, F. Otis. B. Otis, W. Prindi-ville. D. Prindiville, Quinlin, Rebori. Roberts, Spencer, Stange, Smith, Stewart. Schmitz, Studebaker, F. Stamm, G. Stamm, Schmauss. Schicker. Thomas. C. Tomlinson, W. Walsh, E. Walsh, Welch, Wright.
Class Honors.
| In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
. Messrs. A. Browne, Dickerson. W. Coghlin, C. Porter, Kolars, Donahoe, Otis, Johnston, Quinn, Solon, Conway, Zahm, Mollov, Arnold, Fleming, O’Neill, Larkin, Farrell, • Gray, Ewing, Steele, McIntyre, E. Yrisarri^ Burns, W. J.
McCarthy. Kuhn, C. Murdock, F. Gallagher, W. O’Connor, Anderson, E. Fenlon, T.'Fenlon, J. Heffernan, Cleary, 11. Porter, W. H. McCarthy, G. Clarke. Mathers, H. Smith.
,	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Spencer, Cain, McPhee, Delaplane, Masi, Colwell, Bunker, Beall, Whitney, Anglin, D. Prindiville, Luther, Landenwich, Coad, F. Mullen, Dirksmeyer, C. Lindsey, Huestis, Noonan. Dungan, W. .Tomlinson. E. Costigan, Lare, E. McGrath, Quinlin, Johnson, J. J. McGrath, G. Costigan, W. Prindiville, Moss, Stange, Morrison, Harris, F. Otis, W. Walsh, Papin, Rebori. •.	.
;■ Saint JFlary's Academy.
I _______________________________________' ■
i	.	.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
;	—Which flat, the single or the double, in music <
1 has most strength? The si/iyle flat—because	'	.
it raises up the double flatted note, without assist- . ance. The double sharp had better look out, or
i the single sharp mar absorb its brilliancy. '	. .	’
i	—Among the many visitors during the week	v
! were: Mrs. Hencberry, Peoria, Ill.; Mrs. Don- ' ! nelly, Michigan City, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. Nay- .
। lor, Chicago, Ill.: Ml Raphael Becerra, of. Vera . Crux. Mexico; Mr. and Mrs. Comerford, Morris, . Ill.; F. M. Madison, M. D., Burlington, Iowa; ,Ly- :	.
. man Hunt, Buffalo, N. Y. - -	_ .	.
I	—Tuesday, being the transferred Feast of St.
1 Joseph, Patron of the Universal Church, the altars
> every where were decorated with beautiful flowers,	/. ;
I and brilliant with lights. Low Mass was said. ’ j Hymns of praise alone woke the peaceful silence.
| It seemed as though the saint’s own quiet spirit of	-
j adoration and communion with Jesus reigned dur-j ing the celebration of the Holy Mystery of the ' | Altar.	’
i	—The Rt.Rev. Bishop of Fort Wayne, notwith-
i standing the many duties which demand his atten- ' | tion, ere leaving for Europe, paid us a flying visit, .	.
; and promised to remember all in a special manner . .	.
' when in Rome, Loreto, and Lourdes. Moreover, he intends to ask, and bring us, the special blessing of our Holy Father. The day being very fine, he .	'
i gave a general recreation, that every one might j O	O	*	-	O	w	„	.
< enjoy the sunshine.	.	;
•	—The Festival of the Annunciation, being one ■	'
■ rich in Indulgences for those visiting the original ;
Santa Casa in Italy, our own Chapel of Loreto, . -i equally privileged, was also on that day visited by ’	’
! the.devout clients of Mary. . Thanksgiving for the ' [ Incarnation of our Divine Redeemer is the devo- .
I tion appropriate to the Annunciation., Although . -
I absent for a while, our venerated Father General	.
I was duly remembered at his favorite shrine. His .	. . ?
> vovage and intentions were placed under the pro-j tection of Our Lad}' of Loreto. Benediction of . i the Blessed Sacrament was given in the Convent \ E i Chapel.	.	,, J
:	—The heartfelt condolence of teachers and pu- <
j pils is extended to the family and relatives ofc Miss ; a'.
Mary Comerford, who, after a very brief illness, :
-	expired at about	nine p. m.,. Sunday, the 8th inst;	-	.	/	Y
After Mass, on	Monday morning, Rev.:,Father	,	/
I	Shortis alluded	to the admirable, and complete	/	~
j	preparation with	which ,God. had: favored the dear	'	.	.	'	-
। departed. Every Christian; consolation was . af- A forded. The heavenly resignation with which.the	' j
bereaved parents accepted their deep affliction, \ . “indicated,” said the .Rev. speaker, “the sterling J .. ' J faith of olden times.” The deceased.had won the A* y hearts of all by her amiable dispositions and her '-YyC’y pious and . edifying manners, The.summonsjto ' l depart fell on the Feast bf the Good Shepherd, > ■
494
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
who came, as one remarked, “ to take the dear lamb to her safe eternal fold.” Reep tiescat bi pace !
—The graduates, ever grateful to their venerated teacher of Mental Philosophy, Rev. Father I Shortis, C. S. C., took the happy recurrence of 1 the Feast of St. Richard to present him an ad- । dress in poetry, read by one of the class, Miss Maude ! Wilev. Mondav evening, after the “Points” { were given, in the Juniors’ study-hall, Marion Mor- > gan, in the name of the Juniors and Minims, spoke ’ the following few words of congratulation.	I
Our Kind Father Shortis:	. i
Pennit us, on the eve of this welcome Feast of St. j Richard, this year so beautifully entwined with the transferred Feasts of the Blessed Virgin and St. Joseph, to wish vou a very happy feast, and many happy returns of the same. Besides, dear Father, we must beg you to pardon us all the pain we have caused you, and once more we will strive to do better, and ask to be regarded as your grate- • fully devoted children,
’	•	“The Thoughtless Juniors.’’
The Sign of the Cross.
During eighteen centuries, the Church has lived in the Sign of the Cross. She begins, continues ’and finishes everything by this Sign of salvation. By it, she takes possession and blesses all whatever that is destined for her service—fire, water, salt,. bread, wine, linen, sacred vessels,—everything be-lon<ring to her children, their dwellings, fields, flocks, even the inventions of their industries, etc., etc. But we must admire particularly her conduct regarding mankind. What is this being who comes weeping into life, crawling like a worm, subject to the same infirmities as the offspring of animals, and for a long time incapable of supplying its subsistence? Great ones of the earth, be not too proud! a glance backward or before, will teach you that you are this being. For this being is man—a worm of the earth at his cradle, and the food of worms in his tomb. This being, so confounded in his first years with the weakest animal, a mere dust, still, he is the image of God the King of creation, and is not obliged to degrade himself. God touches his forehead, and imprints there a divine Sign which ennobles him. This sign, is the Sign of the Cross. The first mark the Church makes on a man at his entrance into the world, is the Sign of the Cross; the last, when he is buried, is still the Sign of the Cross. In the interval which separates the cradle and the tomb, how often the Sign of the Cross is made upon man! By it he becomes a child of God in baptism. In confir-matioh it makes him a strong and perfect Christian. When he is nourished with the Bread of Angels, above him is made the Sign of the Cross; in penance; he recovers divine life, with The Sign of the Cross; in Extreme Unction, he is fortified for the last combat, with the Sign of the Cross; in Holy Orders and matrimony, he is associated to the paternity of , God : Himself, with the Sign of the Cross." Behold,, the Church, in the .person of the priest, during the august Sacrifice
makes forty-eight times the Sign of the Cross; so much importance does she attach to this Sign of our salvation. Saint Edith, daughter of Edgar, king of England, had from her infanev this O '	O	O ___ *
Sign in her heart. This little princess, one of the beautiful flowers of virginity which ornamented that former Island of Saints, did nothing without making this Sign on her head and breast. Having built a church in honor of St. Denis, she begged St. Dunstan, Archbishop of Canterbury, to consecrate it. He did this willingly, and he was struck to sec that during his many conversations with the saint she made so often, like the early Christians, this Sign with her thumb on her forehead.
Dying soon after, at the age of twenty-three, the saint appeared to him and said: “You will raise my body from the tomb where they laid it, and you will find it incorrupt, except the eyes, the feet, and hands, of which I made a bad use in the levity of youth.”	.
He did as she desired, and found her eyes, feet and hands had gone to dust, but the thumb with which she was accustomed to make the Sign of the Cross was exempted from corruption, as well as the rest of her body. Thus Almighty God showed by this miracle how He honors this Sign of faith and practice of His children. Let us purify, b}r the Sign of the Cross, those members which are too often marked with the sign of the beast, and may it produce on us the same effects as on the saints. Jesus, save us bv Thy Sign!— Translated from the Feitille ddOr.
Boll Of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, COR-'RECT DEPORTMENT. AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
Par Excellence—Misses Adderly, Barlow. Beal. C. Babcock, Crawford, Chirhart, Castleman, Dillon, Dunn. Dan- ’ forth, Durphy, Dolan, Eldridge, Feehan, Gove, C. Ginz, Heckard, Harrigan, M. Hawkins, Halter, Harris, Johnson, Keenan. King, Kirkham, Kearns, Lancaster, Munger, Madole. Murphy, McCarten, McKenna, Mooney, Maginn, Neu, O’Connell, Quinlan, A. Ryan, V. Reilly, Sullivan, E. Slattery, T. Slattery, Sawyer, Schmidt, Stacker!, Steinman, Schaefer. Taylor, Todd, Van Patten, Wiley. 2d Tablet— Misses M. Campbell, L. English, Hunt, Reiser, Shickcv, Spotwood, Wallace.,
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Chaves, Dignan. M. Dillon, E. Donnelly, T. Haney, Johnston, Naylor, Richmond. Shephard. 2d. Tablet—Misses Best, Brown, Fritchman, Hawkins, Otis, Schmidt, Spengler. Van Horn.
• MINIM DEPARTAIENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Burtis, Chapin,JM. Duccy, f. English, Lindsey. Morley, McKcnnon, M. Otis. Prescott, Paul, Schmauss.	'
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
.	. -	HONORABLY MENTIONED. .
. Advanced Course—Miss Laura Fendrich.
Graduating , Glass—Misses M. Campbell, Sullivan,
Wiley; ■■1 ■-	.
ist Class—Miss J. Reilly.	.	.
£2D Division—Miss M. Beal.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
495
2D Class—Misses Barlow, C. Donnelly, Gove, M. A. Ryan.
2D Div.—Misses M. English, Fenlon. Hunt. Kirkham. Keenan, Neu. L. Wallace.	'
3d Class—Misses Fox, Leydon. Shephard. Unger.
2D Div.—Misses Crawford, A. Dillon, Durphv, Ginz, Shickey. Van Patten.	’
4T11 Class—Misses Adderly, M. Dillon, Lancaster.
Mohl. Morgan. E. Slattery, Todd. Walsh. '
2D Div.—Misses M. Duccy, L. English, Evarts, Fehr, Feehan, Gavan. M. 1 leneberry, Halter, Laffer, Leach, Pick, Ramsey. Schmauss, Van Horn.
5’rn Class—Misses A. Babcock, Dolan. C.« Ducev, Grist, Hibbcn. Munger, Malbctuf, Murphy. V. Reillv, Ar. H. Ryan. Snowhook, E. Wallace.
2D Div.—Misses Chirhart, Call, Clarke. Coogan, [. Diif-lield, A. Duffield. Hamilton. M. Hawkins. Fisk, Lucas,-Morrison, Moshier. McCauley, '1'. Slattery, J. Spengler, Tavlor. Williams.
6tii Class—Misses Chaves, Danforth, Dunn. B. English, Johnston, Keifer. McKenna, Myers, Nevins. M. Schmidt, jr.. M. Schmidt. Sr.
’ 2D Div.—Misses Black, Barry, Gallagher, Harris, L. Ileneberry, Martha Hawkins. Hetz, Johnson, Legnard. Mary Otis. O’Connell. Richmond, AT. Rodgers, Reiser.
7TH Class—Misses Browne. Bowman. C. Babcock, A. English, Eldridge. Fritchman. Harrigan. M. King. Kearns. M. Mooney. McGinn. Quinlan. C. Sawyer, L. Spotwood, Schaefer. Classed—Miss Castleman.	’
8th Class—Misses D. Best, J. English.
9T11 Class—Misses Campau. M. Duccy, Prescott.
ioth Class—Misses Lindsey. Morley. Naylor, Martha Otis. Robinson, A. Schmauss.
HARI*.
4T11- Class—Miss M. Dillon.
5'rn Class—Miss Leach, M. Ducey.
6th Class—Miss Neu.
GDI TAR.
6th Class—Miss C. Ducey.
VIOLIN.
Miss M. Hawkins.
Theoretical classes are making good progress.
Aktemus Ward used to say “Why care for i Grammar if vou arc only good.'” But it must be I said, without casting any imputations upon her { goodness, that Mrs.Rvan, of Philadelphia, attaches great importance to a grammatical use of her native tongue, and it is evident that she has brought up i her familv to use the right words in the right way. I The other dav she heard some one open the win- ! dow in the second story of her dwelling, and going | to the stairway, she asked who was there. The ! answer came back: “It is me, mother.” Now, ] Mrs. Rvan knew that no son of hers could be so ■ ungrammatical as to say “it is me,” and she ran out and called for help. The intruder, indeed, was not her son, but an ungrammatical sneak thief, who was frightened away by the neighbors who came to her relief. The incident, notwithstanding Ward’s express preference for goodness, shows the importance of Grammar. It is to be hoped that the account of Mrs. Ryan’s adventure will meet the eves of members of Congress.—Ex. . ' .
Artificiality is not art; but how often arc these mistaken for each other in our day-! ,All art must rest on nature; for though the younger and more aspiring sister strives towards a more intellectual sphere, her very foundations are rooted in her predecessor. Can art exist independent of nature—a world without a divinity? Yet how often is God forgotten!—Mendelssohn.
St. Mary’s Academy,
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
-	-VXD SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE.
Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
- In the Academy th^ course is thorough tn the Preparatory. Academic ami Classical tn ades.
. Tne ins itution possesses a complete set of eheiwcal and philosophical »pp;in<tus choice and extensive h«-rtiar;nms of native and foreign plants, anil a library of some thousands of volumes .
Xo evra ehatges tor German or French, as these languages enter into the h gitlar course nf academic stu-pus
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the be.<t Musical Conservatories »f Europe-is under chaig- of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It eompri-es a la>ge Music Tlall. tv <1 twcntv-eighr separate rooms f-w harp-«. pianos, and organs. A th«»rougn course for graduation in theory and inact ice.	”
Esthetics anil Composition—A larce Musical Library in French Reiman. Ei-glish. and Italian Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Voeal Culture. Chotus Singing and Haimony
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE
s modelled on the great. Art ^chrolsof Kumpe, drawing and paining from life and rhe antique. A choice Library of rhe Fine Arts in Eng’ish, French. Herman. Italian, ami Spanish is connected with |. the School of Design Graduating pupils who have passed rredit-! »bly through the. Academieor Glassica’ course receive the Graduat-
ing Gold Medal of the Department.
• itadnating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or it- the Art De-partnieut.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
Fub particulars of three DepartmenLi given in Catalogue, for which adrin-ss	”	.
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Maky’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ina.
E DWARD L. -WI LSON’S
PERSONAL!-V PHOTOGRAPHED VIEWS OF -
THE ORIENT,
EGYPT, ARABIA aw PALESTINE
For the Magic Lantern, . For the Graphoscope, For the Stereoscope,
For Archieologists. Architects. Geologists. Bible Students, Antiquarians. Artists, and all lovers of the beautiful.
This Grand Collection is Unique.
Made During the First Half of 1SS2.
A FULL CATALOGUE SENT FREE. . T	,	u
Also my own views of Naples. Pompeii. Herculaneum;
Rome, Paris, and London.
Stereoscopic Size, ----- $3.60 Per Dozen.
8x10 inches,. -	-	-	-	- $9.oo.Per Dozen-
Careful selections made personally.
EDWARD L. WILSON- '
Publisher of Photographic Books.
912 and 914 CHESTNUT STREET, PHILAD’A. (Second Floor.)	.
496
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The University affords every facility lor acquiring a thorough knowledge of CLASSICS. "	LAW,
MATHEMATICS,	. MEDICINE.
SCIENCE.	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more thorough business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.
' THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has alwavs received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty ot the Institution.
In all the courses the best systems of teaching are adopted and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C., '	Notre Dame P. O-, Indiana.
FOR TUITION PURPOSES. THE DENVER Scientific Museum
CAN FURNISH A FULL EINK OF Skeletons, Skulls, Skins of Native and Foreign Birds and Animals.
MOUNTED SUBJECTS and ALCOHOL PREPARATIONS ALWAYS ON HAND.
Choice, Well Crystallized Minerals a Specialty.
Taxidermist and Dermoplastic Work
DONE IN A SUPERIOR STYLE.
Orders promptly attended to. The best Preservative for Zoological Specimens for sale.
Address
RUDOLPH BORCHERDT,
•cl-83	DENVER, COL.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Monday, Jan. i, 1883, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.25 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.00 p.m.	,
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo. 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.55 a.m.
9.10 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a.m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m
12.20 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.: Buffalo 3-55 a.m.
6.21 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.28 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.35 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.05 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2^32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m.
Chicago, 5.50 a.m.
5.07 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.55 a.m.
Chicago, 8.00 a.m.	.
8.05 a.m Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte, 9.07 a.m. Chesterton, 9.57 a.m; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
1.30 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.30 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.15 p.m.; Chicago, 4.40 p.m.
4.35 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22; p.m.; Chicago, 7.40 p.m.	.
F. C- RAFF, Ticket Agt.; South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
A. G- AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. PJ-WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
IOHN NEWELL, Gen’l M’ger, Cleveland.