Volume 73
May 10, 1940
Number 25
THE MOST REV. John Commencement J. Cantwell, D.D., archSpeakers Named bishop of Los Angeles, will deliver the Baccalaureate Sermon at the 96th Commencement Exercises on June second, the Rev. President J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., announced today. Hon. M. L. Duplessis, former premier and present leader of the opposition in the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Quebec, Canada, wall deliver the Commencement address.
(See page 5) ❖
CHAS. E. DILLON, Dillon Leads Butler, Pa., a tall, shy Seniors in ’41 philosophy major, was elected president of the Class of 1941, on Tuesday, as approximately 1500 students went to the polls to choose their class officers for next year.	(See page 5)
❖
THE REV. JOHN Publications J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Banquet, Wed. vice-president of the
University, and chairman of the Board of Publications, will announce next year’s editors of campus publications at the annual Publications Banquet, which will take place in the dining halls next Wednesday evening. Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the department of journalism, will be the guest of honor.	(See page 6)
❖
NOTRE DAME and Klinemen Make the United States Naval Eastern Trip Academy will renew a 27-year-old baseball rivalry today when the Irish and the Midshipmen meet at Annapolis.
(See page 12)
The deadline nears — Editor Tom Carty puts final touches on the 1940 Dome. (See page 6)	■
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CONTENTS NOTED
Mt. St. Mary’s College, -	Emmitsburg, Maryland,
April 30, 1940.
Editor Notke Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dear Sir:
Like Y’r ob’t ser’t, L. Elizabeth Wilson, I have perused your slick (Pulp indeed, Miss Wilson!) and noted a correspondence between one Gallagher and the nine old men commonly referred to as Willmann. I have since forgotten what Gallagher’s complaint was, and having associated with your collegiate-parade marshal for some years, I figured it wasn’t worth while looking up what he said. If it was any good, he’s said it before, or he’ll say it again. But the spectacle of a fellow-male beset by two women — and in a leap year at that — moves me to extend a helping hand, to withdraw the veil from his cloistered youth, and to refurbish a tarnished character. As much as I can.
Miss Wilson may be correct in calling our mutual acquaintance John Betz Albert Willmann. In my day, he referred to himself invariably as John Albert Betz Willman, in that order, except in Hughesville and Montgomery, Pa., where he was widely and favorably known as “Humpty” Logan, and looked upon as mighty white indeed.
It may be well that your columnar lead-off man is tending toward a not-unpleasant embonpoint. Strict truth might even force the admission that the whole thing has turned into a rout. But in his youth, one would have been hard put to it to find a more lissom and agile youth. For two semesters of his highschool life, he was entrusted with the high duty of ringing the bell that terminated classes; and so adept was his footwork, so precise his timing, that he was called on only once in Virgil, as I remember, and then only because he slipped on a wet track and failed to reach the bell in time.
As for stealing bases — I can, if necessary, produce witnesses of unimpeachable integrity to prove that every time he went to a baseball game, he returned with enough balls to support his sandlot aggregation for two games and a practice. Many an umpire in the Eastern League has collapsed, white and shaken, after having his pockets picked by the fleeting wraith that was Willmann.
Finally, Willmann admits no peers in the matters of slyness, rascality and sneaking. He blazed the trail for the Man who comes around.
Helpfully,
(Signed) Jim Connell.
Dri n k

Delicious and
Refreshin
Coca-Cola has the charm of purity. Its clean, exhilarating taste never loses the freshness of appeal thatfirstdelightedyou. And it brings a refreshed feeling that completely satisfies.
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyer Avenue
The Notre Dame Scholastic
3
COLLEGE PARADE b, jack wiumann
Peachie (Sniffing): “No. Let’s walk it off.”—The Dodo.
♦
And The Ball Is Over
At least, ours is over. It went over with plenty of room to spare as it cleared the bar in ambidextrous fashion. Most of the dash events were won by seniors—the men who were first to check in and out the wraps. There was some broad jumping on the dance floor until the music chairman put a blushingly modest bee in Mr. Clinton’s ear. From then on we heard fewer of Larry’s arrogant Studies and more “pretty” music —from way back when they had such in their portfolio. However, most of the dancers stuck out the evening’s marathon, and were rewarded with a last lap run in the romantic shadows of a synthetic moon and the lights streaming in from the foyer. It was the nite of nights for us, but to Clinton’s boys it was just another stop. Next night—Ohio State.
Measure For Measure
These May weekends are just as big on other campuses, even if some of the more orthodox cannot greet their imports with swirls of snow. Auburn’s Senior Ball was sent rolling by Jackson Teagarden’s music.... Carnegie Tech is thumping the publicity drums to awaken interest in Glenn Miller for the Tartan Tersichoreal — and that should be the easiest job in the world.... Double-barreled rhythm by Ben Pollack was shot into the feet of dancers at Minnesota’s Senior Prom.... For the Cakewalk at Kansas it was Will Osborne.
Across The Table
I passed.
She looked
And smiled.
I was abashed
And then
She laughed
Out loud
And said,
“You silly boy, you’re holding your cards backwards.”—Old Maid
Whom Do We Thank?
Often do stray pieces of literature and letters drop into our groping hands as we sieve the Parade, but on our desk is a new volume. For some light browsing drop around to read the week’s best seller—“Polish Acts of Atrocity against the German Minority in Poland.” It was taken out of the German Library of Information and we take it for granted that they employ no NY A workers.
And More Humor
Up Minnesota way they have those nebulous things called sororities — and listed among the many is a journalism sisterhood—Theta Sigma Phi. A letter was recently addressed to that group and in glowing terms was set forth a sparkling’opportunity “You will all want to take advantage of this offer NOW!” In all probability the girls might have succumbed to such virile sales approach, if the product had been something other than a very special briar pipe. Lip-stick stains are glamorous on cigarettes, but a pipe is too much protection even in state schools.
Now He Said Something
Robert Maynard Hutchins has many things to say and once out of the realm of college athletics his ideas are not only good, but interesting. He is now quoted as saying, “The noise made by the alumni is in inverse proportion to the amount they contribute.
At Any Tea Dance
Goober (returning from the punch bowl) : “Shall we sit this one out?”
“He still thinks he was left out of the elections back in ’40.”
From Marquette To M.C.
M. C.’s are people like Don McNeill, who graduated from Marquette’s journalism department and found that drifting into radio is much cuter than starving. Maybe you’ve heard this man McNeill—he puts out some good stuff over the NBC waves, and as guest writer in the Tribune’s journalism anniversary edition he wrote of a profession in radio:
“There are very few jobs to be had in radio, but I found that by announcing, writing a radio column, doing radio engineering on the side, keeping the boss in dates and sweeping out the studio, I -was able to earn $13.50 a week in no time. Inside of three years I had worked myself up to $15 a week, was handling my own programs, paying for a car, and the boss was getting his own dates.”
❖
It's A Girl's World
“The Week” recorded many facetious reasons and excuses for attending or not the affair of last week-end, but during that week-end we met one date who found that her Junior College studies would not permit her to attend. So what to do? She quit school.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE WEEK By FRANK WEMHOFF
CAMPUS OPINION
Top of the Week
A senior with money. . . .
In the wake of the Ball
Joe Ryan drove to the Ball in a Bantam . . . What a fool Oscar Blow’s girl was . . . .she lets her gums get flabby . . . just like the girl in the advertisement . . . what a girl for old Oscar . . . she stuck her hat on crooked . . . the more crooked it was the better she liked it . . - and nobody can say she had never heard of pink tooth brush . . . she even went into a drug store and tried to buy one.
Famous last words
I know, I was young once myself. . . .
Perty pertry
If oo love me, tay toe;
If oo don’t love me, tay toe.
If oo love me and don’ wanna tay toe, tweeze my hand’,
But don’ teep me tanding on dese told teps all night.
Things we'll never live to see
The bull throwing the professor for fifty minutes. . . .
♦
A lucky strike
The Luckies people recently sent monogrammed cigarette cases to all campus club presidents ... a couple of moochers applied also . . . Dick Dunn, president of the Religion club, and Jack Clark, president of the Poetry club . . . theirs’was Luckie’s gift, and boner. . . .
Quiz of the week
Q. Why is oxygen taken up by aviators? A. 1. The air is full of cloud dust up there.
2.	Good old oxy, she’s a great kid.
3.	Roomie takes his up in liquid form.
4.	To give the clouds the air.
♦
Dear Emily
. We have just heard that one of our sedate seniors forgot himself at the Oliver Hotel Sunday noon. ... He tucked his napkin up around his chin. What we are wondering is this: Did his embarrassed date do right to save a situation that might have become awkward by asking him, “Shave or haircut, Bill?”
Now it can be told
It was during spring football practice and one of the freshman managers was getting a heavy workout hauling blocking dummies under the watchful gaze of boss Jackie Ryan. . . . Finally, the poor freshman, down to his last muscle, came up and told Jackie, “I can’t continue on this job. It gives me a guilty conscience. I can’t help but think that I’m keeping some big strong mule out of a job.”
Exercise in speech
Say, “Mr. McCarthy, that’s our dean” three times fast and run for the door. . . .
It happened here
We heard a number of stories about the atrocities that are committed on the food in the dining hall, but this week they sort of gilded the lily ... we are not quite sure how true this one is but there has always been more than smoke to the standard dining hall yarns . . . this one happened last Friday morning after the eggs had been thrown around on the plates . .. one student took a quick peek at his egg and immediately went to the head table and asked if he was expected to eat that egg . . . the answer was “Absolutely, if you like eggs” . . . the student hesitated for a minute and then asked, “The beak, too?” . . .
❖
Bottom of the Week
Wait until you’re a senior so you can take your Ball date to the faculty lounge and laugh at the dining-haliers. . . .
Question of the Week: If Hitler were to offer to make peace today, provided Germany could keep Poland, do you think England should accept?
Zahm — Dorwin Palmer: “England couldn’t possibly stop now and let Hitler keep what he has, because Germany would have too strong a foothold in Europe. If England had gone to the aid of Czechoslovakia and Finland as she promised, Germany would have been stopped long before this. It’s too late now, however, since Hitler realizes his power and will stop at nothing to gain control of Europe.”
Cavanaugh — Bob Nennow: “I think Hitler should be allowed to keep Poland because it really was his before the World War. England, in the first place, is really the cause of the war. She let Hitler gain strong positions in several small countries without offering resistance. Secondly, Germany’s people are expanding and need more territory. I do think, however, that Norway and Sweden should be surrendered by Germany.”
Breen-Phillips — Eddie Dore: “If Hitler should offer again to make peace if Germany could keep Poland, I think England should accept. If England had accepted Hitler’s terms when he first offered them, there would be peace at the present time. As it is, however, the war is still on and Hitler is gradually getting the territory he wants anyway.”
Brownson — Joe Tracy: “It is very obvious that Hitler is not a man of his word. The fact that he wasn’t satisfied with Poland illustrates this. The world, then, can’t take him at his word because of his past actions. If Hitler were to make such an offer and England were to accept, what assurance is there that he would stop at this? England, because of this, should refuse any such proposal made by Germany.”
Morrissey — Fred de Sloovere: “England is admittedly on the decline as a world power and Germany is a lot stronger. A lot of territory that Hitler is taking is actually Germany’s by rights. Part of Poland and Czechoslovakia belonged to Germany before they were taken away in the World War. As things stand now, England isn’t doing so well against the Germans anyway. Although I don’t think England’s proud nature would allow her to accept any such terms from Hitler, I think she should.”—Ray Donovan
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z188
Volume 73
May 10, 1940
Number 25
THREE WEEKS AWAY — AND LIFE BEGINS FOR ’40
University Will Award 600 Degrees at 96th Annual Commencement, June 2
Archbishop Cantwell and
M.	L. Duplessis, Speakers
The Most Rev. John J. Cantwell, D.D., archbishop of Los Angeles, Calif., will deliver the Baccalaureate sermon at the 96th Commencement Exercises on June 2, Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, announced today. Hon. M. L. Duplessis, former premier and present leader of the opposition in the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Quebec, Canada, will deliver the Commencement address. More than 600 seniors will receive diplomas.
Alumni of the class of every fifth year beginning with graduates of 1890, will be on the campus for the annual meeting and banquet, during Commencement weekend. Most Rev. John F. O’llara, C.S.C., D.D., auxiliary bishop of the Army and Navy; Raymond J. Kelly, ’15, National Commander of the American Legion; Lewis J. Murphy, ’26, National
Commander of the Disabled Veterans of the World War; and Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., will speak at the Alumni banquet.
The banquet program will be based on the real meaning of the slogan on the Memorial Door of Sacred Heart church, “For God, for Country, and for Notre Dame.” Clarence E. “Pat” Manion, of the University Law School, will serve as toastmaster. Following the banquet the Alumni will be entertained by the University Band, and a Glee Club concert in Washington Hall.
Seniors received their first taste of Alumni life last evening at the annual Senior-Alumni banquet in the University Dining Halls. Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Bernard J. Voll, former president of the Alumni Association, and Harold Boisvert, senior class president were principal speakers. The object of this banquet is to acquaint seniors with the mutual relationships and benefits of the Alumni Association.
Charles Dillon Elected
1941 Class President
Charles E. Dillon, Butler, Pa., a tall, shy philosophy major with a genial smile, was elected president of the Class of 1941 on Tuesday, as approximately 1,500 students went to the polls to choose their respective class officers for next year.
Although the voting for all senior offices was close, the Dillon political faction scored a grand slam when the entire ticket was voted into office. Dillon received 275 votes with 259 for his opponent, William E. Cotter, New Rochelle, N. Y. Charles J. Farrell, Okmulgee, Okla., won the vice-presidency with 297 votes as compared with the 236 votes of John O’Brien, Swissvale, Pa. William A. Moulder, Evanston, HL, received 274 votes to become treasurer, over the 254 votes of Thomas C. Vincent, New Canaan, Conn. A seven-vote majority spelled victory for the fourth man on the Dillon ticket as Joseph J. Barr, Wood River, HL, defeated John Mortell, 268 to 261 for the coveted position of treasurer.
In the junior class elections, Eugene J. Schumaker, Milwaukee, Wis., was elected president over Stanley V. Litiz-zette, Helper, Utah, 238 to 226. The vice-presidency went to Robert W. Hargraves, Evansville, Ind., over Thomas E. Reilly, Rockaway Beach, L.I., N; Y., by a count of 316 to 147. The 225 votes of Peter V. Moulder, Evanston, HL, were just 13 votes short of New York City’s Matthew A. Byrne’s 238 ballot in the race for secretary. Gerald J. Killigrew, Hobart, Ind., garnered 180 “ayes” from the present sophomore class to defeat three other competitors, Bob O’Hara, Chicago, HL, 137 votes; Bob Kehoe, Rochester, N. Y., 82 votes; Howard Petchell, St. Paul, Minn., 62 votes.
The political power of Brownson Hall demonstrated itself in the Freshman elections as two Brownson boys, Ambrose F. Dudley, Philadelphia, Pa., and Robert H. Owens, Kansas City, Mo., won the positions of president and treasurer, respectively. Opposing Dudley’s 281 votes were the 195 votes of John McHale, Detroit, Mich. Owens defeated his opponent, Samuel McQuaid, Manhas-. set, N. Y., 272 to 201. The vice-presi
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
dency went to Thomas S. Miller, Wilmington, Del., over Owen A. McGoldrick, Jr., of Philadelphia, Pa., 262 to 214. Charles J. Butler, Chicago, Ill., bunched 277 votes to take the position of secretary over the 200 votes of Paul M. Malloy, of Tulsa, Okla.
1940-41 Editors To Bow
At Publications Banquet
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice president of the University and chairman of the board of publications, will announce next year’s editors of campus publications at the annual pub-
Dr. John M. Cooney
lications banquet, which will take place in the University Dining Halls next Wednesday evening.
Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the department of journalism, as guest of honor will speak. In accordance with custom the annual Dome awards to four seniors outstanding in extra-curricular activities will be announced by the Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., faculty advisor for the Dome. Father Carey will also distribute Dome keys.
The Rev. Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., faculty advisor for the Scholastic, will present Scholastic keys to junior and senior members of the Scholastic staff.
The recipients of prizes for the best contributions in poetry and prose to Scrip will be announced by the Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C.
Guests will include members of the board of publications, as well as editors and staffs of all campus periodicals.
.Hollywood Comes Here
Tuesday To Film Scenes
Lights! Action! Camera! — and it isn’t just another Camera Club meeting. It’s the producer, director, cast, and camera crew of “The Life of Rockne” transforming Notre Dame’s campus into a giant sound stage. According to a recent announcement from the Warner Bros, studio, this Hollywood migration leaves Sunday and will set up the mighty kleigs on our quadrangle Tuesday.
Included in the filmland entourage will be Actors Pat O’Brien and Donald Crisp, Director Lloyd Bacon, Producer Robert Fellows, and a full camera crew. It is expected that Mrs. O’Brien will accompany her husband and that they will arrive here a few days early in order to rest and sight-see before the actual shooting starts.
Some of the seniors will participate in a graduation preview since a commencement reproduction will be filmed during the week’s scene-shooting. Other student screen debuts will be made in a reproduction of Rockne’s funeral Mass in Sacred Heart Church. The Moreau Seminary choir will also be used for this scene. Sorin will be the favored residence hall for the picture since it was here that Rockne lived as a freshman. The script calls for the usual comfortloving porch-sitters to authenticate the atmosphere; with this balmy May weather they shouldn’t have much trouble in filming this scene. It is during this sequence that Rock meets Gus Dorais, his actual roommate, teammate and friend, and present coach at Detroit University.
Donald Crisp is portraying “Father Callahan.” This character really represents the late University president, Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. It is probably a reproduction of Rockne’s meeting with “Father Callahan” that will be done here next week.—Ed Butler
Dedicate 1940 Issue Of
Dome To Bishop O'Hara
The 1940 issue of the Dome will be dedicated to the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., former president of the University and present chaplain of the Army and Navy. A large oil painting of Bishop O’Hara, to be used in the dedication section, has been done by Prof. Stanley Sessler of the Art Department.
Pictures of the Senior Ball were rushed to the engraver last Friday night so that the Dome will be ready for distribution on May 18. Editor Tom Carty went to Hammond Tuesday morning, put
his final okay on the work, and the forms were locked at noon.
There will be a few books completed and ready for inspection next Wednesday evening at the Publications Banquet.
The first section of the 320-page yearbook will be on stippled paper, and the pictures will be printed in green duotone ink. The titles of the seven sections are: The Seasons on the Campus (scenic section), Men of Notre Dame (faculty section), Her Loyal Sons (class section), Activities, The Fighting Irish (athletics), Organizations, and The Juggler (humor).
Fr. Gallagher Will Talk
Before Realists Monday
Rev. Ralph A. Gallagher, S.J., head of the Department of Sociology, Loyola University, Chicago, will be the principal speaker at the Realists’ banquet on Monday evening, at 6:30 o’clock (campus time), to be held at the Rose-Marie tea-room in South Bend.
Father Gallagher will address the group on “The Young Delinquent.” He is nationally known in the field of criminology, and has had experience with this problem in New York, Ohio, Missouri, and Illinois. He was chairman of the Crime and Delinquency Division of the National Catholic Charities Conference held in Denver last August, and since its founding has acted as executive secretary of the American Catholic Sociological Society.
Tickets for the banquet are available at one dollar from a committee consisting of Frank Schmied, 347 Sorin Hall; Jack Dunlap, Off-Campus; Tom Rogan, 175 Dillon Hall; and the general chairman, Dan Dahill, 381 Dillon Hall.
Rev. Ralph A. Gallagher, S.J.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
7
'Pure American Music'
Absurd Idea—Spalding
Letter Tells of Life at Notre Dame In 1843
Albert Spalding, great American violinist, had just concluded the first part of his concert at the Notre Dame Fieldhouse last Friday night. At the intermission, I went backstage, pushed through the door, and ushered myself to the side of Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C. Father Holderith introduced me as the “Editor of The Scholastic,” and although Mr. Spalding was quite surprised to find such a young editor, he continued looking through huge piles of sheet music.
The first question on my pad dealt with the movement toward pure American music. I asked Mr. Spalding just what he thought of the idea. “There can be no such thing as a ‘pure American music,” he replied. “Except for the Indians, we all are a conglomeration of nationalities, whose forefathers have carried the songs of their homeland to America with them. Therefore, an unadulterated American music is impossible and the idea is absurd.”
Members of the South Bend Symphony orchestra surged through the door to shake hands with Mr. Spalding, seeking an autograph or a glimpse of his violins, and congratulate him on his excellent playing. He was very congenial though it was warm and he had only a few minutes more of interimssion. I grabbed a chair as I asked him the next question.
“Do you think Americans are reaching any distinctiveness in making violins or do we still have to depend on European makers ?
Mr. Spalding appeared very much interested. “The making of violins is today a trade, whereas it formerly was an art.” He continued: “It flourished under the Church and in the royal families of Europe. Kings employed a skilled worker to fashion their violins. These men handed down this art of making good violins to their sons. For 150 to 200 years this art flourished. A good violin would cost twenty pounds, a huge sum in those days. Then, because of the great demand for the violins, they were made with speed, but not always with accuracy. That deft touch of the ‘master’ was lost. You might say that the ‘Ford’ violin was' conceived. Violins then sold for one pound instead of twenty, and violin-making degenerated into a trade. Until it again becomes an art, there will be no more violins of the Stradivarius type.”
Samuel Byerly, South Bend Resident, Wrote
About Father Sorin to Friend in Maryland
What was life like at the University of Notre Dame du Lac in November, 1843, a year after Father Sorin’s arrival? Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., archivist of the University Library, has uncovered the answer in a hitherto un
Notre Dame’s First — The Log Chapel and the Mission House
published letter which he discovered at Mount St. Mary’s College in Emmitsburg, Md. The letter was written by Mr. Samuel Byerly, of South Bend, to the Rev. John McCaffrey, then president of Mount St. Mary’s College.
Samuel Byerly was bora in Staffordshire, England, in 1796. He was a relative of the great English pottery manufacturer, Josiah Wedgewood. Byerly received a very limited education and as a young man served as dispatch carrier in the Napoleonic wars. At the end of the wars he settled down in Trieste, married a Tyrolese girl, and became a partner in a large commercial house. In 1832 Samuel Byerly came to the United States. His executive ability attracted the attention of Howell & Aspinwall, then one of the largest mercantile and shipping firms in the United States. In 1843, at the age of fifty, Mr. Byerly retired from business and came West in search of a home. He settled in South Bend, and in November, 1843, he wrote the following description of Notre Dame to Father John McCaffrey:
South Bend, St. Joseph’s, Indiana 6 November, 1843
Reverend and Dear Sir,
I owe you an apology for not writing to you from New York on the subject of my sons. Until within a fortnight of our removal to this place, it was uncertain whether I should be able to send them back to the mountain, in consequence of my expectations of getting into some safe business in New York. Finding
the solid branches of trade overstocked to transactions of a gambling character, I feel truly thankful in having had the opportunity of removing to this beautiful and healthy place, where both my family and that of Capt.' Woodworth
have the prospect of honest independence, at the same time enjoying the excellent Catholic instruction afforded by the priests of the Holy Cross and the Brothers of St. Joseph, now beginning to flourish at St. Mary’s of the Lake, about a mile and a half from this place. If I contrast these plans, with the prospects I had in New York, of being obliged to seek for my sons situation in commercial pursuits, in which the inactivity of trade would have left them many hours of idleness, I cannot be suf- • ficiently grateful, much as I had wished to' have allowed my sons to finish their studies under your good care.
The main building of the college of St. Mary’s of the Lake, four stones in brick, 72 feet by 36, is now being roofed. Father Sorin is assisted by two other priests and a minorite, who will soon be ordained priest of the Holy Cross. The Brothers, Novices and postulants number about 60. The 4 Sisters of the Seven Dolours have several postulants, and are hourly expecting additional sisters from France, on their way from New York. The approaching session of the legislature of this State will probably give the institution a charter for a University and a Manual Labour College, with which are to be connected a hospital and an orphan asylum. The means, slender as they seem, have always come timely and providentially. The saintlike character of Fr. Sorin and his associates affords every hope of success. Among the Brothers, there are already many men of education and ability.
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
RADIO CLUB’S LITTLE THEATRE — LAST TIME NEXT TUESDAY
Fr. Sorin is desirous of receiving copies of the regulations of Mount St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s, Emmitsburg. If not inconvenient, you will greatly oblige him and me by forwarding such particulars as you may think useful. If I can be made useful to you here, in any way, I trust you will command my humble services. With respectful remembrances to your Rev’d. Brother, Rev’d Mr. McCloskey, and the many other members of your institution, to whom I am so much indebted for their attentions to my sons, I am, Reverend and Dear Sir,
Your respectful and devoted Servant Samuel Byerly
Rev’d John McCaffrey
President, Mount St. Mary’s College, Emmitsburg
Samuel Byerly continued to be a generous and enthusiastic supporter of Father Sorin during the early years of the University. He died on March 10, 1870 and his remains were deposited in the cemetery at Notre Dame. Today a descendant of Samuel Byerly, his granddaughter, is still living in South Bend.
—John Considine
Radio Club Presents
Visual Program, Tuesday
Tuesday evening at 7.:30 in the auditorium of the Engineering Building the Radio Club climaxes and concludes its year’s activities with a visual broadcast. In full view of the audience within the hall, members will present a 45-minute
review of the club’s work during the year for WSBT-WFAM listeners.
Two years ago Norb Aleksis and Phil McHugh staged a similar show and nine hundred students who packed Washington Hall that evening proclaimed it an outstanding success. This year’s show promises to- be every bit as good. On the program are numbers by Cavanaugh Hall’s Reggie Flynn, whose electric guitar added much to the “Little Jamboree” shows; solos by Tony Donadio and Bill Scully, and a quartet singing “Over to St. Mary’s,” the hit song of last year’s Monogram Absurdities. Vernon Witkowski has gathered his Radio Stage company together to repeat their version of Edgar Allan Poe’s “Tell-Tale Heart,” part of the Poe “double-header” earlier in the year.
Doomed Trolley Jumps
Tracks In Final Fling
There’s life in the old gal yet! The Notre Dame Ave. trolley, as if to prove that she is still fit for duty and raring to go, ran off the tracks and knocked down the pole beyond the tracks last Saturday afternoon at the University entrance. Buses will replace the trolleys beginning in June.
Failure of the air brakes to work was the cause of the accident. According to onlookers the car was not going fast, and seemed to be slowing for a normal stop. There was little damage to the car itself, and the rear wheels stayed on the tracks. A new pole has replaced the broken one.
Birth Control Blamed
For White Race Decline
Dr. Alejandro E. Bunge, South American engineer, economist and statistician, finished the last of a series of six lectures yesterday and left the University to take part in the Pan-American Scientific Congress, to be held in Washington, May 10 to 18, as an official delegate from the government of Argentina.
Dr. Bunge was on the campus from May 1, presenting his lectures in the auditorium of the Engineering Building. The topic of his first two lectures was “The Splendor and Decline of the White Race,” while the last four dealt with “A New Argentina.” Ordinarily both topics would occupy six lectures each, but due to an accident and his subsequent late arrival at the University, Dr. Bunge was forced to condense his material.
While speaking of the white race Dr. Bunge stated that the prime factor in the decline of Caucasian supremacy was birth control. “There has been an implacable and deadening decline in the birth rate for the last 30 years,” he said. “The best fitted and most favored people are not even maintaining their number. The reproduction of the species has been taken up by the destitutes and the physically unfit. Consequently, at the same time as the number of superior individuals diminishes, that of the least fitted increases.” The speaker maintained that the only means possible of stopping this decline would be the world-wide acceptance of Christian family standards.
This was the second visit that Dr. Bunge paid to the University of Notre Dame. Eighteen years ago he made his first appearance, presenting a series of four lectures.
He has enjoyed an illustrious public career, besides his lecturing and the writing of numerous books and pamphlets on economic questions.
In 1914 he was also chosen a member of the academic council and president of the teaching staff of the University of Buenos Aires. In 1915 he was'entrusted with the organization of the National Department of Labor Statistics, by the president of his country, and later performed a similar service in the Province of Tucucan, in Argentina.
He has served such posts as director-general of the national census, chairman of the Commission on Budget, and director of the Central Bank in his native country. He is also the member of the board of directors of many commercial and industrial companies.
The Pan-American Scientific Congress marks the third Pan-American Congress
The Notre Dame Scholastic
that Dr. Bunge has attended. In 1922 he was technical delegate to the Second Pan-American Financial Conference, and to the Fifth in 1925.
Wealth and Rent of Argentina, published in 1916, was the title of the first of Dr. Bunge’s books. This book was on the same subject as one recently published by the Bureau of Economic Research of the University of Notre Dame entitled “A Story of the Physical Assets, Sometimes Called Wealth, of the United States — 1922-1933.” Commenting on the Notre Dame work, Dr. Bunge said that it was the best of its kind that has been written.
Besides these activities Dr. Bunge has published since 1918 the Economic Review of Argentina, a magazine which he founded.
When speaking on “A New Argentina” Dr. Bunge stated that that country has been enjoying a great increase in population and industry. He said that three-fourths of the population is engaged in industry, commerce and transportation, while the remaining onefourth is agrarian. Formerly, according to Dr. Bunge, there were more foreign-born males than native-born; but, he added, “those who enter Argentina from abroad now represent about one-fourth of those who die annually.”
He cited the urban development of the country as a further indication of its progress. “The growth of cities is, as you know, a modem phenomenon common to all civilized countries. But Argentina has surpassed them all in its present tendencies and proportion, with the exceptions of Holland and Great Britain.”
The speaker concluded by saying “the industrial development of Argentina has taken place under the influence of Great Britain and France, and of the super-nationalistic policy of the great powers to attain a larger and larger autarchy. The periods of greatest industrial development of Argentina were from 1914 and from 1931 to the present day. This new war is giving rise to a new industrial development in my country.
“The technical skill and the capital of many countries, especially of the United States in these recent years, have had a part in this development.
“The development of industry, with the sole purpose of gradually capturing the internal market which earlier was supplied from abroad, has made Argentina one of the few countries which has had no unemployment since 1929.”
—Don Heltzel
C.Y.O. DANCE
The South Bend Deanery C.Y.O. dance will be held at the Palais Royale on May 10, instead of at the Indiana Club, as previously announced.
400 Couples Attended "Biggest" Senior Ball
Chairman Walt Wuebbold has announced that over 400 couples attended the Senior Ball last Friday evening. This is thought to be the largest crowd ever at a Notre Dame Senior Ball. All money left over after expenses have been paid will be given to charity.
Although the senior ball is a week old, there are still many stories and memories floating around the senior halls. Traditionally it is the biggest school dance of the year, the one event that climaxes the social life of the graduating Notre Dame student. Each year seems to bring into existence some new custom; last year saw the first senior ball in the Rockne Memorial, and this year seniors had the honor of inaugurating the formal candle-light dinner in the dining hall before the dance.
This candle-light dinner was a very successful event from the social viewpoint. The west dining hall, decorated beautifully with flowers, candles, and drapes of blue and gold, was filled to capacity. A string orchestra provided dinner music for the guests. Some of the boys were a little fearful of what might result from mixing lobsters and cokes, but as yet no casualties have been reported.
At the Ball Larry Clinton furnished the music which seemed to satisfy everyone. About three minutes before the band was scheduled to make a radio broadcast, however, Clinton dragged a microphone across the bandstand breaking six footlights on the way. Jerry Flynn, student announcer, remained calm and collected, though, and acted as commentator during the time the ball was on the air. Observers report more photographers at the ball this year than at any previous one. Flash bulbs were popping throughout the evening, but both amateur and professional picture takers were judicious.
Many interesting things occur in connection with a senior ball — too many to repeat in any one story. Perhaps the saddest story of the ball, however, was of the fellow whose car broke down at the state line when he was bringing his guest from Niles to the dance. He checked into his hall at 3:30 Saturday morning. Automobiles of the arriving ball-goers were parked by white-jacketed juniors who braved the chill night air to make the ball still more of a success for the Class of ’40.
Sullivan Attacks SEC
Before Wranglers Group
A vehement attack on the restricting power of the Securities and Exchange Commission on private investments was delivered before the Wranglers Wednesday evening by Dan Sullivan, varsity senior debater from New York City. He portrayed the plight of American citizens holding billions in savings eager to be placed at the disposal of business and industry.
“The excessive and restrictive regulation imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission has erected a barrier which slows down the flow of private savings into the channels of commerce,” the speaker pointed out. “The SEC’s attack has been particularly vigorous against the light and power industry and against small business.
“The threat of disintegration which the Commission holds over the head of public utility systems has discouraged utility management from planning new construction. It has likewise discouraged prospective investors.
“The philosophy with which the SEC seems to be imbued — that private enterprise can be made completely safe for the investor — is an erroneous one. There must always be an element of risk involved in investment, and to this risk is apportioned profit.”
After electing officers for the following year, the Wranglers made plans to hold their final banquet of the term.
10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
William C. Fay, Editor-in-Chief
William C. McGowan, News Editor
Frank Wemhoff, Literary Editor
Bernard Longo Art Editor
Mpmhpr of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Adress manuscripts to Editor, 259 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
The Movies Have Landed
THE DOWNTOWN theatres declared war upon Nazi Germany last weekend. The Palace presented “Seige,” a lengthy newsreel which emphasized the horrors of the occupation of Warsaw. Buildings burned, bombs fell—invariably upon churches and hospitals. What may have been the body of a woman lay in a potato field. The commentator explained she was one of six machine-gunned by Nazi aviators. In the grand finale little children and tearful women grubbed the same potato field, risking death from the skies to dig life from the earth.
The Colfax newsreel, so said the commentator, presented positive proof that German planes bombed unfortified Norwegian towns. Very likely they did. Possibly, too, other planes machine-gunned Polish women — although the pictures could have been faked quite easily. But true or not, the pictures aroused audible anti-German comment from the audience which seemed to forget that brutality follows all armies into all wars. The whole business smelled strongly of now discredited Belgian atrocity stories which prepared American public opinion for the first World War.
The Granada gave out with “The Lion Has Wings,” a patriotic strip of celluloid, foggy with cheerio’s, and overrun with lissom, pink-cheeked English lads. They rode to death in the skies with a Godsaveengland smile on their lips—and the audience loved them everyone. Naturally Nazi flyers were the vil-
Donald Foskett, Managing Editor
James Newland, Sports Editor
John Patterson Promotion
Bev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
lains—and what heel-clicking swine they were. You knew at a glance they intended to blast every maternity hospital within bomb-sight.
Merle Oberon’s name on the marquee was bait to draw the audience inside the theatre. Miss Oberon is an English actress who won fame, and considerable fortune, in American pictures.
Curiously enough, only one week before, a similar audience had cheered Ronald Colman as he shot down savages in “The Light That Failed,” an excellent picture. Were the savages Fuzzi-Wuzzi’s or Riffs?—the English have civilized so many backward peoples.
It would seem that war is glorious when Ronald Colman pulls the trigger, but revolting when a German-looking English extra snarls behind a machinegun.
“The Lion Has Wings” audience really should have accorded an equal professional courtesy to both belligerents. Many had driven to the theatre in automobiles which burned Texas gasoline— Texas once belonged to Mexico.'Few ever had seen a real live Indian face to face— Indians once inhabited what is now the United States.
Perhaps the Hays office, a sometimes sedulous guardian of public morality, should establish a censorship of public credulity. War atrocities are not peculiar to any one army or any one people. And death remains personal, private, and quite permanent.
—William C. Fay
Crack-Pot Education
THE AMERICAN Committee for Democracy and Intellectual Freedom is up in arms again! The cause, as usual, is freedom or liberty or something of the sort. We can’t say just what it is, because apparently the gentlemen don’t know quite what they mean themselves. Yes, it’s “freedom”—all decked out in a new suit of clothes and still with no place in particular to go. If we are to judge from a recent issue of the Committee’s news pamphlet, the minutemen from West 121st Street have lost temporarily the scent in the Manning chase and now are fast pursuing a couple of gentlemen named Coudert and McLaughlin.
Now Mr. Coudert and Mr. McLaughlin are two members of the New York State Legislature who introduced a bill authorizing religious instruction in the public schools of that state, on school time. Governor Lehman signed the bill, and in no time at all the intellectual freedomists were up and doing. Condemning the bill as one of the many “attacks on public education,” they sent a letter to the governor urging him to veto the bill. And that letter is in itself about as neat a case as anyone could wish to have against those who support it.
This masterpiece of contradiction and confusion begins by offering the testimony of the much-abused first amendment to the Constitution, which, it maintains, guarantees to everyone “the right to worship or not worship God, as he chooses.” That is just a little ridiculous. Laws are promulgated in spirit as well as in letter. Historical testimony and common sense indicate beyond reasonable doubt that the spirit of the Bill of Rights is a spirit of religion, regardless of how grotesquely wishful thinkers may twist its actual terminology. It is significant that the Constitutional Convention always asked Divine guidance before asserting “the right not to worship.” Consistent in its inconsistencies, the communication claims the support of one Roger Williams in defending the “tradition” of irreligion. Well, we studied history, too, and in a public school at that. And we were always taught that Roger Williams sought freedom of religion, not of irreligion. We refer skeptics to Williams’ own writings.
These and other equally warped deductions convince us that the remedy for the intellectual freedomists is less freedom and more intellect.
i	—Donald A. Foskett
The Notre Dame Scholastic
11
A Diamond Anniversary
byo Edmund Butler	■
During the past few months, the Notre Dame mail pouches have been suffering the hand-shaking weight of an anniversary. The congratulations are going to the editors and staff of The Ave Maria magazine, which is celebrating its diamond jubilee. Members of the Church Hierarchy from all parts of the continent are sending commendations and best wishes to this first Catholic home weekly.
This anniversary will be constructively celebrated by the “Ave” itself, for the journal will probably have a new home within a few months. Plans are being drawn up to erect a new building adjacent to the power-house, overlooking St. Joseph’s lake. This building will probably also supply new offices and editorial rooms for the Scholastic and Dome.
The Ave Maria, which is edited and published in the long, low, L-shaped structure directly behind the Administration Building, was established in 1865 by the University’s founder, Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C. With the purpose of promoting the cause of religion by spreading devotion to the Blessed Virgin, this weekly journal has advanced through rocky years into the fore ranks of Catholic periodicals. For three-quarters of a century its far-reaching editorial influence has fought the Church’s battles against every threatening force, from the “Know-Nothings” to the present war.
Its first issues contained solely Marian articles, together with accounts of miraculous cures at Lourdes, a weekly letter from “Arthur” in Rome, and a young reader’s section. The “Ave” gradually diversified its contents, eliminated its advertising section, added news columns, and established a regular clique of writers. Among these contributors were “Ireland’s Keats,” Aubrey De Vere, the famed blockade runner, Father John Bannister Tabb, and Maurice Francis Egan, Anna T. Sadlier, Christian Reid, and Nugent Robinson.
The present Ave Maria represent’s a wide range of prominent Catholic writers. Rev. Dr. James Magner, Dr. John J. O’Connor, Monica Selwin-Tait, Christopher Hollis, and Arnold Lunn are just
a few of the literary figures currently contributing to the Holy Cross Fathers’ expanding publication. Its format has been modernized along present - day trends and attractive new sections have styled its pages. News of Church and State, editorial on current problems, an editor’s page, a book review section, and a page of factual oddities are enhancing additions to the new “Ave.”
But one cannot discuss The Ave Maria’s history without recalling the thin little editor-priest with the white Vandyke beard and the pert pince-nez glasses — the man who truly raised the magazine to successful maturity — Rev. Daniel Hudson, C.S.C. Father Hudson worked tirelessly, not only in the interests of his readers, but for his contributors as well. His correspondence with “Ave” friends probably far exceeded that credited to the “stick-waving Teddy.” He not only recognized a worthwhile literary effort, but encouraged and nursed that effort into admirable achievement.
His profound interest in the struggling pen-pusher and his charming modesty of personality may be recognized in a letter to a contributor, dated Dec. 4, 1885. Contrary to our all-too-mechanical age of acceptance and rejection slips, Father Hudson tells his novice that “. . . ‘Dangerous Tendencies’ is already in type for next week’s ‘Ave.’ Your argumentation seemed to me a little loose in places, and I could not understand your paragraphing. You will find things somewhat changed, but I hope for the better, also that you will not take offense at my work. I tried to do it very carefully, going over the article several times.” And it should be remembered, in considering Father Hudson’s vast correspondence, that his period was devoid of dictation, shorthand and typewriter. His letters were written in a small familiar scrawl, modestly absent of any backhand squareness or flowing flourishes.
At the outbreak of the first World War, Father Hudson conducted a vigorous unrelenting campaign against American participation. Today another fighting “Ave” editor is employing the same literary fire to squelch sympathizing with
the current “cause.” Today the present editor, Rev. Patrick Carroll, C.S.C., is attacking un - American agitators and pleading for a remembrance of the fruitlessness of our last war episode. He is asking now for what Father Hudson vainly asked for in 1914 — a resort to reason before emotion in the inevitable face of seasoned propaganda.
Father Carroll is genial and fiery, witty and contemplative — in other words, he is very Irish. His ever-fresh memories of “the old sod” have found their way into numerous novels. His Michaeleen, Mastery of Tess, and Patch, are all stories of the home-loving Irish — their joys and their sorrows and the supernatural light that is ever near them. Last summer Father Carroll returned to his old home and gathered numerous twilight impressions of the old days for his “Ave” readers. In many ways, the present editor resembles the considerate Father Hudson. Although the editor’s office now receives as many as fifty manuscripts in a day, Father Carroll still finds time to drop a few lines of encouraging criticism to hopeful writers. Everyday, regardless of weather or season, he leaves his room in the midafternoon and walks until dusk, swinging a shillelagh along the familiar paths of St. Joseph River.
The success The Ave Maria has attained during these past seventy-five years is difficult to estimate, for, in the words of Rev. James Walsh, Superior General of the Maryknoll Society: “Only God can count all the seed sown and the good effected in these seventy-five years of vigorous journalism on the part of The Ave Maria. It is an accumulation that must mount to the skies.”
For its future success the well-wishers of The Ave Maria join their thoughts with those of Pope Leo XIII, when, in a second papal approbation and blessing, he wished “. . . with all my heart to see The Ave Maria more than ever prosperous and extending its influence over the country. Now that every land is deluged with wicked papers, can we ever sufficiently encourage the religious and sound press? Certainly The Ave Maria deserves encouragement. May God bless it.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame Nine Battles Navy Today, Then Army, Purdue and Ohio State
SIXTEEN TEAMS VIE F(
Hunthausen, Ellis Will Carry Irish Mound Hopes
Notre Dame and the United States
Naval Academy wfll renew a 27-year-old baseball rivalry that is no less prominent
than the gridiron history of the two in
stitutions today when the Irish and the Midshipmen meet at Annapolis. Then Saturday and continuing throughout the week, the Klinemen will finish their present tour with engagements at West Point, Purdue and Ohio State.
Today’s encounter in the Maryland naval center will be the sixth meeting of Notre Dame and Navy on the baseball diamond. Undertaking relations in this sport in 1913, the two institutions maintained rigid competition until the outbreak of the war caused a cessation of this type of hostility. In 1929 the two clubs met again but relations ceased again in 1931. Notre Dame holds the advantage in past performances, having won three out of the five games. Rex Ellis and Norv Hunthausen will carry the Irish pitching hopes.
However, the 1940 edition of Midshipmen baseball ap
pears to be capable of a handy win over the Irish, having shackled North Carolina and Washington and Lee earlier in the season and losing only to Fordham’s strong squad.
When Captain “Chet” Sullivan leads his mates onto the diamond this afternoon, Notre Dame’s coach, Jake Kline will no doubt be reminiscing over certain events of the year 1914. For it was that year that a famous Notre Dame baseball squad came East to do battle with the squads of Navy, Army, Pennsylvania, Catholic U., and Fordham. Names on the Irish roster included: Clarence “Jake” Kline, Mal Elward, Purdue’s football coach; Frank Carmody, now with the Pittsburgh Pirates; Wilbur Gray, of the Chicago White Sox; and others which included Capt. Herb Kelly and Joe Kenny.
Tomorrow, the Irish will meet Army, for the first time on a diamond since
1914, thus continuing in baseball the rivalry that has become so well-known on the football field. Army has had a rather hectic year to date, having lost to Penn State, Lafayette, Duke, and winning only against the boys from Harvard.
Wednesday at Lafayette, Purdue’s
Boilermakers will welcome the Klinemen
in the second encounter of the two teams
Baseball Captain Chet Sullivan
this season. A week ago Purdue, assisted by an Irish error, broke a tie in extra innings, 3-2 and discounting magnificent pitching by Notre Dame’s Rex Ellis in the first nine innings. Boilermaker pitchers, Don Blanken and Roy Bailer, will be on hand to attempt to tame the slamming bats of George Sobek and Chet Sullivan. The Purdue captain, Felix Mackiewicz, who was responsible for two of Purdue’s runs last week will attempt to complete the baseball spectre that will face Jake Kline’s tutorial brood.
Friday and Saturday, the Irish squad will be in Columbus for a brace of games with Ohio State. The Buckeyes have a slightly better game average than Notre Dame, having defeated Kentucky thoroughly twice, and shared a twin-bill with Illinois and trampled Ohio Wesleyan. Notre Dame has the game count having won eight of the 12 encounters with the Buckeyes.—Tom Powers
Softballers attention! Saturday afternoon the Youngstown club will face the Kokomo All-Stars in the first game of the Scholastic sponsored Campus Club Softball tournament. Time—one o’clock; place—Freshman field (where Coach Bill Cerney’s freshman basebailers cavort in the spring). At the same time the Repet-to’s will meet Detroit’s White Bombers on the Badin bog turf. The schedule follows :
Tomorrow
Youngstown vs. All - Stars, Freshman Field, 1 p.m.
Repetto’s vs. Detroit, Badin Bog, 1 p.m.
Sunday
Cleveland vs. Law, Freshman Field, 1 p.m.
Italian vs. Old Dominion, Badin Bog, 1 p.m.
Monday
Propeller vs. Memphis, Badin Bog, 3:15 p.m.
St. Louis vs. Buffalo, Freshman Field, 3:15 p.m.
Tuesday
Radio vs. Pittsburgh, Badin Bog, 3:15 p.m.
West Virginia vs. Indianapolis, Freshman Field, 3:15 p.m.
TRACKMEN MEET MICHK
Concluding the home outdoor season, the 1940 edition of Notre Dame’s track squad will entertain Michigan State beginning at 2 o’clock (CST) Saturday at Cartier field.
Captain Ted Leonas, hitting his stride in the triangular meet with Wisconsin and Northwestern here last weekend, will ; lead the Irish in an effort to cop the first ( meet of the outdoor season. He tied with Northwestern’s J. Smith at 6 feet 4 inches last week.
Cliff Brosey, 235-pound right tackle in football who doubles as a weightman for Coach Bill Mahoney, unlimbers his right arm in the discus and shot put. In the shot last week, he tossed the weight, 49 feet 10% inches — his best outdoor record.
The Irish enter the meet tomorrow with the background of 18 outdoor victories in 25 meets against Michigan State and have already marked up a triumph indoors this season. Recent meets have demonstrated, however, that the duel with the Spartans is usually
The Notre Dame Scholastic
OR SOFTBALL CROWN
INTRODUCING By PETE SHEEHAN
Winning teams will be notified by mail of time and place of quarter-final contests.
Rules and Regulations—Sixteen teams, representing the same number of campus clubs, have entered the tournament and will play in the first round. The games will be seven innings in length, will start within a half hour of the listed starting । time. Any team that fails to arrive upon I the scene of combat by that time will automatically forfeit victory to its opponent.
Each team must be represented by a non-playing manager who is to collaborate with his opposition’s manager in keeping score, seeing that the umpire gets a line-up before the game starts. Ten man teams, including a roving fielder, are to play.
The umpires will be supplied (and equipped with defense mechanism) by the Scholastic. Decisions of the arbiters are final!
Entered in the contest in this, the first year, are such notorious softballers as the St. Louis club, the Cleveland club, and the Italian club. Jim McGoldrick, Lou Zontini, Clyde Archer, and Johnny O’Brien are among the football stars who will add slugging power to their respective ball teams.—John Patterson
GAN STATE TOMORROW
close. State won 65% to 63% in 1932 and 67-64 the next year.
After a few Irish triumphs, the Spartans won, 66% to 64% in 1937 and 7061 in 1939.
ji Whether or not George Schiewe, sopho-ft more hurdler and sprinter, will be in 5 uniform for the test is not yet certain, r He sustained a pulled leg muscle in the Drake Relays and missed the triangular meet last week.
Dave Reidy, recovering from illness, displayed some of his old style in winning the 220-yard low hurdles last week and second in the high hurdles. He is expected to return again to the winning ways Saturday.
One of the highlights of the meet will be the relay in which the crack Irish quartet of Ken Collins, Hank Halpin, Ray Roy, who ran a :49.4 quarter mile to win last week, and either Schiewe or Bob Lawrence will compete for the Irish in an effort to smash existing school marks for the one-mile event. .
—Bill Scanlan
All high school stars have a natural desire to make good when they leave for college and they are always thrilled when they come back home wearing their coveted monogram. But if the folks in Grand Forks, North Dakota, weren’t blessed with good memories Ken Collins would be forced to leave his monogram sweater in his trunk, because whenever a North Dakotan sees an “ND” he im
mediately associates it with a small teachers college in the state. However, since Kenny’s prep school achievements will not be forgotten in that section for some time he can easily be identified as one of the Fighting Irish.
At Central High he was a three sports star. In football he was a spot player. Because of his lack of weight and his lightning speed the coach would send him in to skirt the ends when a touchdown was needed and the records will show that his mentor was seldom disappointed.
He spent two years on the varsity basketball team where his speed helped him become a high scoring sensation. However, track was his favorite sport and he led his team in points for three consecutive years. He ran both the 100 and 220 yard dashes and cracked the state record in the former even when he finished in ten seconds flat in his final performance as a scholastic runner.
He came to Notre Dame and immedi
ately became famous as a member of the Freshman Hall relay team which stole the show in the ’37 interhall track meet. During his sophomore' year he just missed a monogram but last year he was used in the relays and the unusual success of the relay teams is a fair indication of Kenny’s ability. At Drake, last year, he finished the first leg of the mile relay in 48.9—his fastest time to date— thus giving his mates a lead which they never relinquished. He also runs the 880 yard dash for the two mile relay team.
This year he has been a consistent performer on the relay teams and is expected to better his time in the quarter mile before the season closes.
Like many other athletes, Collins had ambitions of becoming a musician but after a year of tooting the French horn in the high school band he believed that he’d better save his wind for running.
He rooms with Mike Kelly in St. Ed’s and, after three years with the Indianapolis Irishman, Kenny claims that Mike is the best roommate on the campus. He gives no specific reasons for this bit of praise but after seeing him escort a young lady from the Hoosier capital to the Senior Ball we are inclined to believe that he wants to re
main on friendly terms with Mike so that he can accompany him home weekends.
Kenny and Jon DeMots, who won a basketball letter in ’37, are the only North Dakota athletes to ever win a major monogram at Notre Dame. A brother Bill, was a football star at North Dakota University.
He does not intend to give up road work when he hangs up his spiked shoes but expects to go in business with his father as a road construction contractor in Minnesota. The last three summers he has worked at every possible job his Dad could find in order that he might have a thorough knowledge of the business.
Statistics: Kenneth Joseph Collins. Born at Lakota, North Dakota, April 29, 1917. He now resides in Grand Forks. Height, 5 ft. 11 ins.; Weight 145 pounds. Ken is majoring in business administration.
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Most Complete Record Department in Michiana
From Classic to Swinjr — a complete selection of Columbia Albums and Musical Masterpieces ....
Columbia Recordings, 50c
Not Yet—vocal by Bonnie Baker in her inimitable way
Where Do I Go From You?—vocal by Orrin Tucker
Singing Hills—Eddie Howard singing with band under Lou Adrian
Where Was I?—Eddie Howard with band under Lou Adrian
Tiger Rag—with Gene Krupa
Sierra Sue—vocal by Howard du Lany
Vocalion Recordings, 35c
fParadiddle—the excellent drum of Cozy
-j Cole with Cab Calloway’s band [Pickin’ the Cabbage—same drum
I Can't Get Started—with Ginny Sims , vocal
' My Phantasy—also with Ginny Sims and
. Kyser
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESSBOX By FRANK AUBREY
Back on the eastern seaboard there is a town over which the smoke of war hangs. In the bloody glow of burning fires amid the dark and aged streets the inhabitants scurry in and out of the hundreds of rabbit - warrens. Crowds swarm on the street corners — every man shouting and gesturing, with the light of battle in his eye. Bar-room, hotels, and restaurants are bursting with the teeming thousands. Great banners hang on the fronts of the news-offices announcing the latest reports from the front. Before them the anxious people wait and wait, shifting from one foot to the other during the tense moments when a tabulation is being posted. Over it all the swirl of smoke from the fires. Upon this once quiet and peaceful town a tre-mondous excitement has settled, — for the Dodgers are winning. After twenty years of hopeful waiting, expecting every year to see their heroes conquer, — only to have their hopes dashed, — the wail of the Flatbush faithful has at last been heeded.
As Leo Durocher’s men-of destiny left for the west after winning their opening eight games, the bonfires were already being kindled. The smoke-shops were becoming the Mecca of thousands of Brooklynites who came to kneel at the McPhailian shrine. Every night as the returns come in from the West amalgamated Flatbush bends close to its radios, turns its eyes to the western skies to watch for the final figures on the street scoreboards, and then, and only then, turns its thoughts to food. Men meeting each other on the streets no longer mumble a “bowd’oo.” Instead it’s “howd’ they do?” Or the answer readily volunteered is — “Won! Casey,” or “Hamlin. A seven hitter.” Or on that greatest of all days — when no one slept in Brooklyn that following night, but stayed to talk and babble with almost
hysterical joy, “Carleton. NO HITS, NO RUNS!!”
Nothing like this has ever happened to the Daffiness boys before. Had any one gone so far as to predict this aweinspiring oag-dash of the Dodgers, he would have been gently manuevered toward a straight jacket. True, last year the Dodgers had managed to entrench themselves in the exalted heights of third place and hang on grimly. But how, nobody knew. The Dodgers had but one .300 hitter — Cookie Lavegetto, who just managed to hit that figure. Their team batting average was just a point
REMEMBER MOTHER'S DAY (MAY 12)
You can wire Flowers
SOUTH BEND FLORAL
114 South Michigan St.
NOTRE DAME MEN!
FOR THE HAIRCUT THAT “Satisfies”
Cyr's Barber Shop
100-102 S. Main Across from Court House
[Let There Be Love—Al Donohue and । orchestra
^Imagination—Al Donohue and orchestra
CUSTOM TAILORED TO MEASURE . . . .
RODINS
132 N. Michigan Phone 4-1184
Needles and Record Accessories
Open Tues., Thors, and Sat. Evenings
Individually styled and tailored to YOUR measure . . . selection of over four hundred patterns . . . imported materials ... in shetlands, tweeds,	$ J r
worsteds, flannels and gabardines.................. i	D
PARKER-WINTERROWD (Upstairs Shop)
115^4 - 117^ N. Main Street
The Notre Dame Scholastic
15
bettei- than the punchless Bees. Their outfield resembled a proving ground for the Three-I League what with a daily shuffling of in - and - outers. Certainly there was nothing in the ’39 Dodgers that suggested unlimited potentialities for 1940.
As the reports of daily Brooklyn successes hearken back to the home town, new names are grabbing the headlines. Young Charlie Gilbert and Joe Vosmik, outfielders, — “Pewee” Reese and Pete Coscarart, infielders, Tex Carleton, a pitcher, and a young catcher named Herman Franks have all been spotlighted. But standing out beyond all
other phenomenal events is the fact that the Dodgers have been doing it by team play. Every day one of the stalwarts rises to the occasion and bats in the winning run or holds the enemy at bay with air-tight hurling. To emphasize this “team-play” recall last Sunday’s game when Durocher all but cleared the Dodger bench in beating the Cards.
Now that the pack has been aroused and is in full cry, nothing short of a pennant will satisfy the thirsting ambitions of the gang that will crowd into Ebbets Field this summer. Right now “the Boys” are topping the league. But as the feller said, “It’s not so hard to
get to the top; the trick is to stay there.” We can just see that bleacher crowd in August should some of the Dodgers’ inherited traits start popping out. Let Durocher and his boys stop hitting and start muffing, and the hot smoke of the victory fires will be replaced by the steam of unadulterated epithets flung by the grandstand cowboys. Let Carleton take his shower too soon but twice in a row, and he’ll be “nothin’ ball” Carleton, and not “no-hit” Carleton. Yes, let anything happen to this Brooklyn escapade and the Flatbush faithful will contemplate joyously the scalp of one Leo Durocher hanging up in their collective living rooms.
But for the present, dinners will be hasty and suppers long delayed in the borough across from Manhattan; appetites and house-wives will go unheeded; the streets will be congested with bands, parades, bonfires, ticker tape, empty beer cans, box-scores, and the overflow from the barbershops and bars — all because the baseball fan, species Brooklyn-ese, has finally got something to cheer about. How long it will last — nobody knows. Except maybe — Yehudi.
Because there’s something about a Manhattan Shirt that gives a man new life and sparkle and enriches everything he wears. Something in its modern streamline tailoring, the correct fit of the body, the precise perfection of the collar, the score of workman-like details. Try a Manhattan for real shirt smartness.
If any Manhattan Shirt ever shrinks below the indicated size, we will give yon a new shirt. Tested and approved by the American Institute of Laundering.
MANHATTAN SHIRTS and PAJAMAS
Are Exclusive in South Bend
at
SAM'L SPIRO and CO.
Official Headquarters for Manhattan Products
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic
May 12th'is
MOTHER'S DAY...
Of course you don't want to let this day go by without some word to your Mother from you. The Bookstore — right on the campus — has many suggestions in every price range for your gift to Mother.
Wall Plaques (Spiritual Bouquet enclosed with each)
25c and 50c
Cards — 5c and up
Religious articles, pens and ’ pencils, stationery, Notre
Dame souvenirs.
N.	D. BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall
In the Gallery of shoe Firsts
MANSFIELDS
FIRST IN STYLE, as your eye will tell you.
FIRST IN WEAR, as months will prove.
FIRST IN VALUE, measured against any other shoe at
Selby Shoes
130 W. Washington St.
Michigan Tennis Squad
Holds Edge Over Irish
An improved Notre Dame tennis squad, paced by Dan Canale, will battle an improved rival here tomorrow, when Michigan’s Wolverines, one of the better Big Ten net teams, will attempt to repeat a white-wash shellacking given the Irish last year at Michigan.
Captain Bill Fay and company, after easily rolling over Indiana University’s racquet wielders last Saturday, 9 to 0, will try for their fourth victory of the season, as against one defeat, when the two teams hook up tomorrow. Michigan’s powerful team, on the other hand, will reign slight favorites since handing Chicago’s Big Ten champions their first defeat in three years last week.
Said Coach Walter M. Langford: “While they would have beaten us at our best last year, the actual score does not represent accurately their superiority. Their star, Jim Tobin, is lost for the remainder of the season with a bad knee, but Sam Durst took over the number one spot and has been doing a good job. We’re stronger with Dan Canale, who rates a good chance of winning. In the remaining spots, we are going to have a battle.”	•
The perfect singles record of Canale and the improved play of Fritz Nagel, seeing action in his first meet, were the highlights of last week’s victory over Indiana.
The postponed match with Northwestern, which had promised the finest tennis opposition of the year, has been cancelled.
Results of the Indiana meet follow:
Singles: Canale (ND) defeated Wood, 6-0, 6-3; Fay (ND) defeated Blankartz, 6-2, 6-2; Joyce (ND) defeated Chiddister, 6-4, 6-3; Walsh (ND) defeated Ratchford, 6-2, 4-6, 6-3: Bowler (ND) defeated Feigner, 6-4, 6-3; Nagel (ND) defeated Haynie, 6-0, 6-4.
Doubles: Canale-Joyce defeated Blankartz-Chiddister, 6-3, 6-3; Fay-Heckler (ND) defeated Wood-Ratchford, 6-3, 6-2; Walsh-Nagel (ND) defeated Feighner-Haynie, 6-1, 8-6.
Golden Gophers Guests Of Golf Squad Tomorrow
“This week we have practiced several hours on our putting, which has been the worst in three years,” the Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., coach of the golf team, said in summing up the activities of the Irish golfers.
“If our putting improves with favorable weather, we will give Minnesota and Michigan State interesting matches when we meet them tomorrow here, and Monday, there respectively.
“Both opponents have very good teams, Michigan having defeated North
western 16% to 1%. Northwestern has the same team that gave the Irish their third straight beating last Friday, 16% to 10%.”
On the Minnesota sextet are Nield Cumquist, student president of the Inter-collegiates for 1940, Billy Cooper, a sophomore, who is champion of the Gopher state.
“Last Thursday we played Marquette in a snow storm and with the thermometer down to almost freezing,” Father Holderith said. “Friday it was a little warmer, but that was still unreasonable weather for golf. It was just as bad for both teams.”
The summary of the Northwestern match follows:
Wolfey (76) and Bland (79), Northwestern, defeated Donahue (78) and Neild (76); Notre Dame, 2 to 1.
O’Neil and Haskell, Northwestern, defeated Wilson and Wolf, Notre Dame, 3 to 0. (No cards turned in).
Hagen (78) and Schaller (78), Notre Dame, defeated Fannon (77) and Barrett (81), Northwestern, 2% to %.
Neild (75) Notre Dame, defeated Wolfey (80), Northwestern, 2^ to %.
Donohue (79), Notre Dame and Bland (79), Northwestern, tied 1% to 1%.
Fannon (80), Northwestern, defeated Hagen (82), Notre Dame, 2% to %.	.
Haskell (80), Northwestern, defeated) Schaller (82), Notre Dame, 2% to %.
Wilson (78), Notre Dame, and O’Neill (79), Northwestern, tied, 1% to 1%.	1
Barrett (78), Northwestern, defeated (Schreiber (79), Notre Dame, 3 to 0.	'
।
I—i—R
COME
DOWN C. O. D.
and look over our large, complete selection of all that's new in
PALM BEACH
suits
slacks
formal jackets
Just take a cab and we will pay on arrival for any Notre Dame student — from school to GILBERT'S store. All other accessories to complete your outfit for any hour of the day — or night.
7ffS MODERN
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
"Ninotchka," Garbo Hit, Tomorrow's Screen Fare
Garbo laughs — and you’ll join in the merriment that her current picture, “Ninotchka,” will offer on the Washington Hall screen tomorrow night. You’d better quicken your stride for that postsupper dash because this is the best comedy that has hit the campus this year. With the assistance of Melvyn Douglas, Ina Claire, three mad Russians, and a director named Lubitsch, the lonely Swede does a burlesque on Trotsky’s old camping ground that calls for a cushioned aisle to roll in.
Comrades Iranoff, Boulyanoff, and Kapolsky are three Russians agents that come to Paris to sell the confiscated
An Oxford
Education for s2
Arrow oxford cloth is ■AM. distinguished by a basket weave effect on a rough heavy fabric. It’s the most durable of all shirtings.
Gordon Dover is the name of Arrow’s famous oxford shirt with the roll front, button-down soft collar. The points on this
collar are so buttoned to effect an outward roll at the tie knot. A great favorite for wear with tweeds and sports clothing. Make sure it’s an Arrow — they’re Sanforized - Shrunk with fabric shrinkage less than 1%. In white or colors, $2 up.
ARROW SHIRTS
crown jewels. But the gay clubs on the Rue de la Paix are discovered to be more appealing than the daily parades on Main Street in Leningrad. Ina Claire (she of the old regime) engages her oh-so-suave lawyer, Melvyn Douglas, to prevent the sale. Douglas finds the job easy until Envoy Extraordinaire Garbo-vitch takes things over. From then on it’s just a grand hilarious satire that even sneaks in a little romance without-spoiling a thing.
Garbo is easy to take — even pleasing to take — in this one. Douglas still rivals William Powell in nonchalant cigarette-lighting, and Ina Claire has too much of a “legit” reputation to argue. But the real honors go to those three bewhiskered comrades that learn that capitalistic caviar isn’t so bad after all.
The dialogue is choked with laughs and even that rare movie element known as a plot is there.—Ed Butler
Engineers Will Enjoy
Annual Picnic, May 18
On Saturday, May 18th, the Engineer’s Club of the University will drop slide rules and books in favor of baseball bats, swimming togs, and refreshments, when they head for the open country to celebrate their annual picnic at the Terrace Gardens, near Edwardsburg, Mich.	'
Bob DeMoss, chairman of the picnic, announced that only those engineers attending the affair will have permission to cut classes Saturday morning. Members of the club will be charged fifty cents, while those engineers who wish to attend but who are not members will pay one dollar which will include membership to the club and a day of enjoyment with their fellow engineers.
Busses will await the picnickers at the circle, and the plans call for a prompt exit from the University at 9 a.m. Bill Hennessey is in charge of the refreshments, while Jerry Hickey, arrangements chairman, and Tom Talty, ticket chairman, are completing the plans for a carefree day.
At Arrow Headquarters!
ARROW OXFORD
Whites and Fancies
For wear with Tweeds and Sports Clothing
Sanforized-Shrunk — Mitoga-Fit — Famous Arrow Collars
Max ADLER
Michigan at Washington
18
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Cronin Taikis On "Mental
Hygiene And Community"
John J. Cronin, member of the faculty of the Department of Social Work at the University, spoke April 30th, on “Mental Hygiene and the Community,” at the convention of the LaPorte County Federation of Clubs held at Michigan City, Ind. Dr. C. L. Williams, superintendent of Logansport State Hospital, was the other speaker on the program and spoke on “The Institutionalized Mental Sufferer.”
Mr. Cronin said that the new concept of mental hygiene aims at something more than the prevention of mental disorders. The recent development in mental hygiene has emphasized saner, happier, and more cooperative personalities. He emphasized that the greatest need for the advancement of mental health today is for a more enlightened, more understanding, and less fearful attitude on the part of the public toward mental disorders. Mental diseases are not really more mysterious than such diseases as pneumonia or heart disease.
It was pointed out that in the United States today approximately 58% of all hospital beds are filled by the mentally ill. According to reliable figures a young man of fifteen years has about one chance in twenty of entering a mental
WRITES SMOOTHLY AND LASTS
Such a boast is hard to believe—but it's true. College students everywhere are selecting Sanford's newly developed Penit ink for best results in writing class assignments . . . They need and buy an ink which is sure-flowing, troublefree and permits easy writing.
THE TESTED INK FOR EVERY PEN
hospital as a patient at some time during his life, and one chance in ten of being economically disabled due to a less serious mental disturbance. These are serious statistics demonstrating an imperative need for mental hygiene clinics in the local communities so that cases of mental disease can be detected early and treated by trained psychiatrists. Mr. Cronin reviewed the history of the mental hygiene clinics in Indiana since their inception in September, 1938. Clinics have already been established in Columbus, Bloomington, Richmond, Gary, South Bend, LaPorte, Marion, Peru, and Crawfordsville.
T. J. Carney To Address Commerce Students
Mr. T. J. Camey, president of Sears Roebuck and Company, will address students of the College of Commerce at a special lecture in the auditorium of the Law Building next Tuesday, May 14th, at 10:00 o’clock. Mr. Carney plans to discuss the merchandising problems and practices of his mammoth organization. Later he will be the University’s guest at luncheon with Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president, as host. Juniors and seniors in the College of Commerce will attend, and others are free to do so.
Next time you purchase ink, give Sanford's a try. It will solve your writing problems with ease. Remember! Don’t just write it—Penit!
2-oz. bottle, 5c; 4-oz. economy bottle with chamois skin I>enwiper, 25c.
SANFORD'S
In Our Brand New RECORD DEPARTMENT at the OFFICE ENGINEERS, Inc.
116 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
B10598—Woodpecker’s Song Bet’s All Sing Together
— Glenn Miller — 35c
B10594—On the Isle of May Gotta Get Home
— Blue Barron — 35c
B10614—I Walk With Music
With the Wind and the Rain in
Your Hair — Bob Chester — 35c
B2954 —Woodpecker
In An Old Butch Garden
— Russ Morgan — 35c
B10612—Tuxedo Junction
Banny Boy— Glenn Miller — 35c
B7875 —Nightmare Non-Stop Flight
— Artie Shaw — 35c
New Low Prices on Victor Albums
CLASSICS:
Symphony No. 8 in B Minor-Schubert (“Unfinished”) — Bruno Walter conducting the Vienna Philharmonic Symphony Orchestra Only $3.25
The Nutcracker Suite (Tschaikowsky) —London Philharmonic conducted by Eugene Goossens	Only $3.25
Les preludes (Liszt) Symphonic Tone Poems—Eugene Ormandy conducting the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra
Only $4.50
SINGLE RECORB CLASSICS:
36283—Serenade—“Eine Kleine Nacht-musik” (Mozart) — John Barbirolli’s Chamber Orchestra $1.00
2046 —I Bream of Jeanie With the Light Brown Hair and Music When Soft Voices Bie—Wenner-berg Chorus of the Augustana Choir (34 male voices) $1.50
26569—Believe Me If All Those Endearing Young Charms and Shannon River—John McCormack, tenor 75c
Special for One Week
An R.C.A. Electric Player for $4.95. Reg. $9.50 value. It plays all sizes of records through your radio. This is the lowest price ever offered for a similar player. Only
$4.95
THE OFFICE ENGINEERS, Inc.
116 South Michigan Street 1 South Bend, Indiana
The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
N. D. Represented At General Motors Dinner
Eev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, Gerald K. Donovan, chairman of the Student Council, and Burley C. Johnston represented the University at a dinner given by Alfred P. Sloan, Jr., chairman of General Motors, at the New York
South Shore Trains Now Leave South Bend
30 MIN. pah?Jrhe
from 7:30 A. M. to 11:30 P. M.
The two earliest morning trains leave at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. '
IMPORTANT:
DEPARTURES FROM CHICAGO REMAIN UNCHANGED
Daylight Saving Time
All South Shore trains to and from Chicago are operating on Daylight Saving Time.
NEW LOW RATE TO CHICAGO
SOUTH BEND
For complete information phone ' Ticket Agent 3-3111
World’s Fair last Monday. “Opportunities for Youth in Building the World of Tomorrow,” was the theme of the dinner. A question and answer forum was conducted by Clifton Fadiman and participated in by the delegates. Eighty educational institutions were represented at the dinner. Questions submitted by the students were discussed extemporaneously by Dr. Karl T. Compton, president of Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Dr. Ernest Martin Hopkins, president of Dartmouth College; General Hugh S. Johnson; and Charles F. Kettering, vicepresident of General Motors in charge of research.
Local Sleuth Finds Out
Where White Meat Goes
So you want to know where all the white meat goes! Well, it seems that the Dining Hall holds about fifteen banquets a year (in addition to its three daily ones), and chicken is one of the favorite foods.
The largest banquets held during the past school year were the Football Banquet, at which 1,000 people listened to Elmer’s stories; the K. of C. and Alumni Banquets, at which about 700 Knights and Old Grads put on the feed-bag; and the Senior Banquet. In addition to these, 33 large and small dinners were given by various campus groups.
The number of waiters working nights varied with the size of the crowd, one “hasher” working for each table of twelve. The most waiters used at one time were the 95 who served at the Football Banquet.
Menus are not repeated except by request, but chicken and steak form the main course of all banquets, being about equal in popularity with the diners.
Twenty - four Communion breakfasts •were also held by various campus clubs. At these about 1,100 students varied their sweet rolls and jam (or have you been to Sunday breakfast?) with bacon and eggs. Fifteen Smokers at which over a thousand Men of Notre Dame gulped ice cream, gobbled cup cakes, and smokes rounded out the program.
The busiest season on the banquet circuit is the entire second semester, with the month of May being the busiest month, due to Commencement Exercises, the Ball, and the banquets that mark the end of the year’s activities for several organizations.
No outside groups are solicited for banquets, according to Mr. Connolly, though several South Bend groups have availed themselves of the Dining Hall facilities in the past. And then the
genial manager leaned back in his chair and demanded to know why “The Week” hadn’t mentioned him in a derogatory way last week.—Jim O’Donohoe
DENTISTRY as a Career
•: Dentistry offers an opportunity in the field of health service for men of
•; abilityand determination.
y Advanced standards have cut down dental school
i attendance by 44% in .= recent years.
The Marquette University Dental School is one of the * 18 dental schools of the x United States whose diplo-•s mas are recognized in al) of > the states.
The close relationship of the Dental and Medical Schools s at Marquette University is an advantage to students.
‘ Entrance requirements: Two years in a recognized College of Liberal Arts with satis-■■ factory credits in biology, chemistry, and physics.
For complete information ,r concerning opportunities in : dentistry, write to the Secretary, Marquette University Dental School, Milwaukee, ■: Wisconsin.
MARQUETTE
UNIVERSITY
, Milwaukee
"It’s
NOTRE DAME
Headquarters"
For Finest Quality
•	Steaks — Chops
•	Fried Chicken
•	Spaghetti Dinners
•	Resh Lake Fish
HOWELL'S CAFE
Sandwiches Sodas Sundaes
20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Hunn Band Will Switch to Society Swing Style
Karl Hunn and his swingsters will become a society band. The genial maestro said the new band would play this summer in the Lang Thompson style and will probably have a string section. It will include two trumpets, one trombone, two fiddles, three tenor saxes, a singing guitar, piano, drums, and bass. However there will be no change in the band until after the end of the school year.
The Hunn men have engagements until the end of the schoolyear and expect to do resort work in the summer. The band has made no definite engagements as yet, but have contacted the various resorts.
Karl regretted that he will lose four of his men at the end of the school year: Tony Schmied, Tom Delia, Bob Richardson, and Bob Henegan. Their positions will be filled with new men, although there will be the same number of men in the new band as in the old.
In reviewing the history of the band Karl recalled its founding in 1937 as
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
SUCCESSOR TO ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St.
South Bend, Ind.
“The Modernaires.” During the summer of 1938 they played at Virginia Beach, and in 1939 Karl took command of the band under his name. He paid enthusiastic tribute to every member of the band.
Karl, modest concerning his own position in the band, is first tenor and does all the band’s arranging. A week ago he was honored when his original composition, a modern symphonic tone poem, was played in Washington Hall in connection with Music Week.
—John Considine
Wilbur Helm To Discuss
Culture And Business
“A Business Man Looks at Culture,” is the title of the lecture to be given in Washington Hall next Tuesday evening at 8 o’clock, by Mr. Wilbur Helm. Mr. Helm’s qualifications as a lecturer are listed as follows: “Interpreter and Upholder of the American Way,” and “A Propagandist for the Right.” He is also an economist, business consultant, investment adviser, educator, civic leader, and has been a popular lecturer in Chicago for many years.
Sponsler Speaks Monday
Before Commerce Forum
The most significant banquet in the history of the Commerce Forum will be held in the air-conditioned Bronzewood Room of the LaSalle Hotel next Monday night at six o’clock (campus time). Over 150 members are expected to fill the hall to capacity. Mr. G. L. Sponsler, treasurer of the A. C. Allyn Co., of Chicago, will be the featured speaker of the evening.
The A. C. Allyn Company occupies a prominent position in national finance and is one of the largest stock, bond, and underwriting companies in the United States. Although Mr. Sponsler has not divulged the subject of his talk, it is expected that it will pertain to some interesting aspect of finance. Forum Director Anthony F. Potenziani, who will introduce Mr. Sponsler, said that Station WSBT might broadcast Mr. Sponsler’s talk, though no definite arrangements had been made as yet.
Toastmaster John B. Morgan will introduce Dean James E. McCarthy, Professor LeClair Eells, and Forum President Herbert Connolly. The officers for next year will be announced and prizes awarded for outstanding ability in scholarship. President Connolly also will give out prizes to the winners of the golf tournament.
Banquet guests will be the Rev. James A. Fogarty, C.S.C., Forum chaplain, and I
Professors B. B. Finnan, J. Dincolo, R. P. Kent, H. J. Bott, F. J. Calkins, J. D. Watson, H. F. Klingman, C. F. Chizek, S. R. Price, A. E. Davis, W. C. Bender, and E. J. Payton. The financial editors of the Chicago Tribune and South Bend Tribune also indicated that they would probably be present. The admission to members is 30 cents, and to nonmembers, $1.25. The menu will include: fruit cocktail, sirloin steak, potatoes, salad, and dessert.—Comvay McDevitt
When did you last change your HAT-I-TW?
THE PEANUT
. . . many years and scores of soakings have withered this “Old Faithful” to a shadow of its former smart self.
Change Now to a Smart9 New LEE Water-Bloc* Hat
THE PADDOCK
. . . suits any mood . . . wear it brim up-pinched in front ef» and low on the forehead D
THE FRANK H. LEE CO.
358 Fifth Ave., New York
t*Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
21
Managers—A History of
Men Behind the Scenes
What would Notre Dame be without the Golden Dome? And how could Notre Dame sports activities get along without the aid of the student managers organization? They are the “men behind the scene,” the veritable Jack Arm-.strongs and supermen who keep football and basketball, track and baseball functioning smoothly and efficiently. Here is the story on our wonder boys.
Managers are called out early in their freshman year, two weeks after school opens. Generally, 50 to 60 boys “go out” for the different manager jobs. During the fall football scrimmages, the freshman manager must lug out all the football helmets, dummies, sweaters, and other equipment. He must keep his eyes on the 30 odd footballs and see that souvenir-minded students and spectators do not get away with any. When the afternoon’s scrimmages are over, he must go dodging through the players gathering the colored sweaters and returning them to the locker rooms.
A manager’s assignments change every two weeks, which gives him a variety of duties to perform. He is given the following assignments: varsity locker room duty, care of the visiting team, care of equipment, officials, and work in the personnel office. He signs in and signs out every day he works and some-
Ellsworth's for Smart MOTHER'S DAY GIFTS
Choose from our large selections of fine accessories, perfumes, lingerie!
FILMS
DEVELOPED and PRINTED
Film	Reprints
6 or 8	3c
Exposure	Each
Cash With Order
AULT
122 S. Main St. Phone 3-0140
Open until noon Sunday
times, his assignments require him to work as much as 15 hours weekly.
After football season freshman managers stay right on for basketball and indoor track. In these sports, as in football, their assignments change every two weeks. They usher during the basketball season. In the indoor track season, they have charge of hurdles, starts and pits. They make the programs and score the meets.
With the advent of spring football, our gallant managers are out lugging the dummies, helmets, and sweaters once more. Before Easter vacation, the freshman manager receives his reward for his year of effort: numerals, which are presented to him at the Managers’ banquet. At this same time, the appointments for next year’s senior managers are announced. These are elected by the eight retiring seniors. There are eight Junior managers and the sophomore managers are cut down to eight. The freshmen managers eliminate themselves by failure in studies, lack of time or interest, and by the time of spring practice, there are about 20 or 25 left.
Four or five freshman managers are chosen to return to the campus early in their sophomore year, to get things set up for the opening of practice on the official date when the coaches appear. These lucky fellows, chosen according to merit, are allowed to accompany the “B” team on any trips it may make.
The manager who reaches his senior year must indeed be “good.” He has been taking orders for three long years and now he comes to the stage where he can give the orders, and he does give them and plenty of them. TUe senior football managers are entitled to belong to the Monogram club.—John Poivers
Rockne Memorial News
Sixteen Notre Dame students will take an instructor’s examination in life saving next week—Monday through Friday —at the Rockne Memorial. This will be the last officially organized affair of the year.
Thomas Costello of the Red Cross will be in charge of the examination. The group undergoing the tests are senior life savers who have completed a month of instruction.
An instructor’s certificate entitles the holder to conduct senior and junior life saving courses.	’
Sam Bozick defeated William Cleary last week in the finals of' the largest handball tournament—71 contestants— ever held at the Memorial.
Bozick defeated handballers O’Connor, Donoghue, Ed Cleary and Piedmont to gain the final round. William Cleary’s victims were Paterno, Meyer, Kotte, and Borgman.—John E. Lewis
First Frosh Dance To
Be Held Next Friday
Comes Spring and Freshmen will dance. This year for the first time they do it officially at the Indiana Club, next Friday evening. Karl Hunn and cohorts will play from 8:30 o’closk till 11:30, C.S.T. Tickets were on sale yesterday and today in the Dining Hall basement. They are traded, exchanged, or sold for one dollar ($1.00).
The Rev. James Trahey, C.S.C., pre- i feet of discipline, gave permission for the dance, which was proposed by the Freshman class officers, Tony Maloney, George Dreier, Gail Fitch and Walt McNamara. Louis Kurtz of Zahm is chairman of the committee on tickets. The dance will be limited to 300 couples.
QUICK ENERGY for a QUICK COMEBACK
22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
. We must cram into this little space some mention of the joyous events that crowd the next few weeks. Sunday, and the week that follows, we celebrate the birthday of Holy Mother Church. “Behold I am with you,” is the reassuring watchword we should often repeat as against the clamor of the evil forces of the world. The happy coincidence of Pentecost and Mother’s Day should deepen the significance of both, and the loyalty their mutual relations imply.
The following Sunday the feat of the Holy Trinity brings to an end the Paschal season. Though in our prayers we often invoke the saints, the Blessed Mother and the different Persons of the Blessed Trinity we always must have in mind that all blessings ultimately come from the Trinity. The Doctors of the Church call this mystery “the substance of the New Testament” because it is the fountain and source of all other mysteries.
Corpus Christi, the feast instituted to give special external honor to Christ in the Blessed Sacrament, comes the Thursday after Trinity. Its particular characteristic is the public procession. Its importance this year is unique. First, the consciousness that we are free thus to honor the King of Kings; secondly, that we should feel it a duty to do so. “Whosoever shall confess me before men, him shall the Son of man confess before the angels of God.” (Luke 11:8)
Mass Calendar: May 12-18
Each day of the Octave of Pentecost has its own Mass. The Sequence, or hymn, recited after the Gospel is a summary of the effects of the Holy Ghost. In the Canon the Communicantes and Hane Igitur are proper to the feast. Wednesday, Friday and Saturday are the summer Ember Days, the offering of the first fruits of the new season. The second prayer on Wednesday is of St. John Baptist de La Salle, founder of the Brothers of the Christian Schools; Thursday, St. Uvaldus, Confessor; Friday, St. Paschal Bayion, Confessor, a special patron of the Blessed Sacrament; Saturday St. Venantius, Martyr. Wednesday, there is one extra Collect and Lesson; on Saturday there are five for the ordinations that take place on that day.
“YOU REALLY OUGHT TO SEE ’EM” You don’t know what you’re missing if you haven’t seen 194O’s crop of colorful, new
PALM BEACH SLACKS
Their fit and drape is unsurpassed...They wash or clean readily...Wrinkles roll out overnight. Ask your favorite clothier to tell you about their unique tailoring features (the double belt loop, for instance). $5.00.
• Goodall Slack Sets (Goodall shirt and Palm Beach slacks), $7.95. Sports coats, $11.75. Suits, $16.75. Formats, $18.50. Goodall Company, Cincinnati.
BYRON NELSON, U. S. OPEN CHAMPION AND OTHER SPORTSMEN CHOOSE PALM BEACH SLACKS
- *	e* i c - c i
.Palm P^ccch
Always look for this label
The Notre Dame Scholastic
23
"Rosies" And Spaghetti
A Friday Night "Must"
Hop on the Notre Dame street car, get off at the second turn of the tracks, walk down the alley, look to your right, and you will see a sign inscribed “Sunny Italy Cafe.” To Notre Dame students the cafe is known as “Rosie’s.”
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 434 Associates - South Bend Office Phone 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
9HERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-8t8® SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
(Prs. (Probst and Singler
DENTISTS
405 Associates - South Bend Phone 3-1254
1------------------------------------------------------------------------1,
!	SOUTH BEND	I
I X-RAY LABORATORY ■
■	S25 SHERLAND BUILDING	■
■ L. e. FISHER.	M. J. THORNTON. I
| M.D.	M.D.	|
ose
DENTISTS
430 SHERLAND BUILDING TELEPHONE 3-4269
Each Friday evening of the school year, anywhere from 100 to 500 Fighting Irish go to Rosie’s to eat Italian spaghetti. Some go to Rosie’s for a change of menu; some go just to be sociable. Everybody eats spaghetti.
On Friday at Rosie’s the spaghetti is covered with tomato sause, no meat balls, no meat sauce. Fish-day is recognized by the chef, and non-Notre Darner’s who want meat must specifically state their wish.
The parade through the front door begins at about 4:30 o’clock in the afternoon. By 5:30 o’clock a steady stream of customers is going in and out. This continues until at least 8 o’clock when the last few fork-twirlers are slurping long streamsrs of spaghetti happily.
Most of the customers sit down to a regular plate of steaming spaghetti; the lusty eaters can easily do away with what is called and order and a half. This over-sized portion is brought in on a serving dish to be eaten right from that dish.
Rosie’s has been the Friday night retreat for Notre Dame men for ten years. Now it can be classed as a tradition. Whether’ it is the lure of twirling spaghetti, the unavoidable aroma of the accompanying cheese, or just an unquenchable passion for the dish that keeps them waiting for tables, we’ll probably never know, but — from all appearances — Rosie’s will go on forever.—John Patterson
Gold Is Where You Find
It As Dome Leaf Peels
A short time ago The Scholastic carried a story by a former Notre Dame man who had struck gold in Georgia. Since that time a number of Notre Dame men have been gathering real gold right here on the campus. As real as the gold on the dome, anyway, or shall we say as the gold that comes off the dome.
Look carefully on the ground near the Main Building and you may spot pieces of gold from Notre Dame’s famous dome lying about. As the gold leaf loosens on the dome, that notorious Indiana wind rips it off. The pieces are only about as big as your little finger nail and extremely thin but they will make nice souvenirs to send home to the folks— and be sure to keep off the grass while you prospect.
RODINS
Most Complete Record Department in Michiana
You won't believe it without seeing them — see them and hear them in onr Record Department now — at these unbelievable prices . . .
(Tristan und Isolde
jlsoldens, Liebestold—Act 3—Wagner 75c
(Chopin's Polonaise (E Flat Minor)
j Paderewski piano solo	31.00
Victor Recordings, 75c
After hearing LARRY CLINTON in person. Seniors, yon will enjoy these memorable recordings ....
{Missouri Scrambler
Study in Modernism
(Toselli's Serenade {My Silent Mood
(Johnson Rag
{Down Home Rag
And from TOMMY DORSEY, we have
(Imagination—Frank Sinatra vocal
{Charming Little Faker—vocal by Pied Pipers
Bluebird Recordings, 35c
Brand new GLENN -MILLER release:
Shake Down the Stars—Ray Eberle singing
Boog It—Marion Hutton singing
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG.. SOUTH BENO
SCRIP
Scrip, student literary quarterly, will appear on the campus next Thursday, May 23. The last issue of The Scholastic will appear Friday, May 24.
RODINS
132 N. Michigan Phone 4-1184
Needles and Record Accessories
Open Tues.. Thurs. and Sat. Evenings