
SSTUDENT GAZINE 
STRIKE UP 

THE BAND 

Squeeze Review 
Red Smith Revisited 

Conservative View: Women's liberation 
ffe\l(LijM~~ ~~~~Ofd Cl(Lij~~~ COM~[D)V ~~ow 




SATURDAY, DECEMBER 8TH 
9:30 to 10:45 PM 


FREE NACHOS-N-CHEESE DURING THE SHOW! 

COVER Cover Artwork by Vivienne Padilla 
6 
Minorities: Challenges in Changing Times Minority students, faculty and administrators seek a stronger 
voice as Notre Dame enters the '90s by Steffanie Keller 
9 
Kenneth Durgans Represents Minority Interests The Office of Minority Student Affairs attempts to clarify and 
reduce the effects of racism at Notre Dame Interview 

FEATURES 

OPINION 

Wrong Rights? · 
Saint Mary's student responds to lectures on the women's movement by Phyllis Schlafly and Elanor Smeal by Devon Marcuson 
16 


SPORTS 
1 

Simply Red 

Two essays relating to Notre Dame written by the legendary sports 
journalist Walter W. Smith. 

~c:H61~Jµ(;~ p~$li~h6d Wel!klt~[Otigh()lll the: ic:h~i ~i:i};~26ptij11tlri~6xal!liriati6~/ajia;i~' 'a";'ijijs at the universily 1\i~i~i:i~ro~.l'l"cire. riahie, IN,•. 46556llrid P.?Picd at'fhe J>aix:rsI ~~'.•~W°?fd, Il'f 46542: 'fh~s~bs<:ription ·~~ is$20'.(}Q/year an<i,§g~L.. . ,: ''. iiyailable al $1.00/cop{;;iiii ?Pinions expressed.in Scholastic a~ UJ.?.~e ()f ~.~..aut!J.()·TS·•··!ill4•1;?it()J:S,~!1d <i()llQt!l~~~iirily.represe11\t1Je.?pi.~on.s.. of.the.en.t~.ew~?e~·•gci.~..·.···•···•·ofSchol~stic.9r.of th~ lJ~y~pi~yof!'lotre Dame.its .adniuustration,f~9µIty.9r stll<le11ts; Ii<li!P1 ···•·•·· . . .. .. .,, .... presentt!Ji <)Pini?fl 9f the rnajority ofthe ~1-eplltiy.e editorial board. Ivfanusciript,s ~~ ,-v~lpome. All Ullsoµci~ material~





iiiii~irl f,f~1!if,~~~~l1i,~l,!f~ll]i4,,,~,,[~ill~;~Jf . .. 
. 
. Policy Guidelines 
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. 
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copy-fitting, grammatical or . spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space limitations, Scholastic cannot print all letters received. 
Address al correspondence to: 

The Editor Scholastic LaFortune Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

. .·••>.<•:;;:., 
·:The Main Laundromat· 


<< · 1:1~~r~aw~ritr~~t'~\!' 
•••:; /(1 oMJNUTl=S'FROM 'QJ\MPlJSJ 
·;· \•·.. ""'2sgcJ3::;z·;
·.17:.$p .a.. h"l:......•.9:00 p.n,, ..:7·.• 
rx..:7'.WA§8~ ) ··· ••·.···.·.. :'. ::;:: 
, ':··,·.. ·::':· ... .,,:··:

{.. :·§~kE,~•a§f :••··•··. 
v::::,crues8~t·' , .. \PREE> 
< ...·...... ·•·.···. y: :ilJrdp:.off 
··. ay ,, :J . 
1
'.:~; 


Sff#tfi.:~~:~}: •· 
.1flitti,i 


On Other Campuses 
The Staet Of Highir Edukashun 

EDITED BY CHRIS FILLIO 
Once again a pioneering school, nineteen students showed up for the first meeting of Harvard's newest social club, the Society of Nerds and Geeks (SONG), in October. The College Press Service reports that the club aims to "encourage the outside world to take more notice of nerds and geeks, and to recog­nize our value," said club organizer Jeremy Kahn. The club has discussed events such as B.Y.O.B. (bring your own books) parties, movies like "Revenge of the Nerds" and "Real Genius," matching members with "learning partners," and an "all-geek dance where only non-dance music will be played." Sounds like any other dance on this campus. 
A petty thief at the University of Miami broke into the Sigma Chi fraternity house earlier this month for the second time in less than a year. And for the second time, he was captured by resident fraternity brothers. A front page story in The Miami Hurricane revealed that George Ellis, a non-student, was caught and arrested for the second time in as many attempts at the house. Because of a recent rash of thefts in the house, house brothers set a booby trap consisting ofstring tied to a bicycle in the house and an alarm switch. Sure enough, the trap worked and the brothers cornered the pesky Ellis ~ he tried. to hide in the first floor common room. "The funny thing is," com­mented one resident, "that he was wearing· a University of Miami sweatshirt I'm sure he stole itfrom another house." 
Whatis the current state of higher education in the United States? Judge for yourself based on these college newspaper headlines: "Education Summitt Ignors Major Campus Issues," Le Prova­cateur, Assumption College. "Students Igonorance Suggested In Survey," the Daily News, Ball State University. "O'Donovan's Parade Rained On; Georgetown's Third Century Delayed," the Georgetown Voice, Georgetown University. "Literacy Fought On Local And National Level," The Torch, Roosevelt University. "Faculty Forums Are Planned For Studiying Chaos At Univer­sity," the Official Bulletin, North Carolina State. 
But of course America's student body is well-educated. Just look at the books they've been reading on campus, based on a compilation by The Chronicle ofHigher Education: 
1. The Night of the Mary Kay Commandos (Berke Breathed). 
· 2. Trevayne (Robert Ludlum). 
3. 
The Cardinal of the Kremlin (Tom Clancy). 

4. 
Clear and Present Danger (Tom Clancy).· 


5. 
The Calvin and Hobbes Lazy Sunday Book (Bill Watterson) .. 

6. 
All I Really Need to KnowI Learned in Kindergarten (Robert Fulghum). 

7. 
The Prehistory of the Far Side (Gary Larson). 

8. 
Yukon Ho! (Bill Watterson). 


9. 
A Brief History of Time (Stephen W. Hawking). 

10. 
Breathing Lessons (Anne Tyler). · · 


Note the abundance of intellectual, thought-provoking texts. 

Week in Distortion/Tim Rogers 





Cheer, Cheer, For No More Home Games 
Employing his newly-developed Gentle Offense, wherein players sincerely apologize to the other team for gaining more than two yards on any one play, Lou led the Irish to a kindhearted 59-6 victory over the S.M.U. Mustangs, the latter having recently returned from being put to pasture by the N.C.A.A. Football No-no Police (the same guys who make sure the wave always goes to the right.) Of the game, for an S.M.U. ticket. I hope to be one myself in a couple years. Without alumni, we wouldn't have that renowned Notre Dame Family that hands out jobs to seniors who otherwise wouldn't get one because they go out and pour beer on themselves instead of study. Without alumni, we wouldn't have impressive new buildings that are carefully designed to look old and academic. Without them, I could buy a pen at the bookstore on a visiting Notre Dame. Here is a list of the 
TOP TEN THINGS ALUMNI SAY ON FOOTBALL WEEK-ENDS: (From the home office in Seguin, Texas, home of the world's largest pecan.) 
10. What's your major? Interesting. Wanna beer? 
9. You know they use real gold in that paint. 
8. Cheer, cheer for Old Notre Dam\:, etc.
Lou had this to say, "I'm glad to walk 
7. Okay. Now everyone say CHEESE! 
outofhere with one in the 'W' column. 

6. Hi. I lived in this very exact room These kids have an explosive team and 
twenty-three years ago. 
I knew I couldn't breath easy until we 5. What year are you? Great. Would you like a beer?
had that SO-point cushion. We got 
4. BELCH.
lucky." 
3. We didn't used to let no girls go here. 

As the final minutes of the game 2. Can you tell me how to get to the bookstore?
ended, so too did a special time ofyear 
1. I need two. 
here at Notre Dame. This special sea­
son has passed and we'll have to wait 

until next year for it's return. I think I So I don't regret that our home foot­
can speak for myself when I say, ball season has ended. Everyone who 
Ticket supply/demand problems are gone-for now 
isn't embarrassed to be a member of "Good." 

Now don't get me wrong. I'm all for cherished family and hotdogs and all that stuff, but football weekends give me a real pain in the butt (and liver sometimes). For one thing, green-clad alumni carrying white bags from the bookstore pop up all over campus like drowning earthworms in heavy rainfall. Driven by instincts slightly stronger than those of migratory water fowl, alumni find their way to the bookstore and congre­gate at the entrance. Squirming and writhing in a thick mass of seething humanity, they brood over their purchases and, with charge cards flashing, work themselves into a ritual­istic shopping frenzy matched in caliber by only the best voodoo rites (i.e. headless chrckens galore). It's not a pretty sight. 
Lest you misunderstand me completely, let me make something clear. I love Notre Dame alumni, especially the rich ones who pay $50 weekend. 
Well, you don't need a diploma to figure out when the bookstore gets crowded and, with some common sense, we could solve the whole problem. The sensible way to avoid the crowds and confusion would be to move the bookstore each week-end. We should make the bookstore mobile. For each home football game, the bookstore could relocate to a new site and only students would be informed where it went. One week it could set up shop in Washington Hall, the next week, Tyson's office. By keeping its loca­tion confidential amongst ourselves, we could have a bookstore free ofpesky alumni. I could buy a pen anytime I pleased. 
Besides dressing their families like models from the Hammes Bookstore "On the Cam­pus" Catalogue, alumni do something else to vex me. They all say the same things when 

the student body can come over to my room, 
and we'll throw marshmallows at each other. 
Who needs a football game as an excuse to 
have fun? We can even invite someone to 
write a Viewpoint article about how imma­
ture we all act. 
I feel thankful that I'm aware how ridicu­
lous our alumni act. I'm also glad that I have 
had this opportunity to help you keep from 
embarrassing yourself after you graduate. 
Ten years from now, when you see me at a 
football game, don't be afraid to come up and 
say, ''Tim, I just want to thank you for show­
ing me how silly most alumni look. You 
saved me from a life of ridicule." You 
shouldn't have trouble finding me. I'll be the 
one wearing green plaid pants and a button 
that plays the fight song. Tim Rogers is a second-year misogynist who is delighted to call Fisher Hall "structurally sound." 

Scholastic 



Music/Dave Holsinger 
ff


fflj; ,~l 
_ ~.;.:i.1·ll'rrmTrTmf •. Jj.ii

J l11 


Consistency. What else can you say about a band that's kept the same basic sound for ten years without becoming completely stagnant? Somehow Squeeze is still cranking out the melodic pop that's made them famous, and it sounds as good and fresh as their first efforts. In concert, Squeeze comes across as a band of talented, creative, and most of all, experi­enced musicians. Overall, the show was a great display of the solid musicianship and good songwriting that has kept Squeeze alive as a band for the past ten years. The opening band, Katrina and the Waves, provided an interesting contrast to Squeeze's live show. While the Waves' popular singles such as "Walking on Sunshine" have led most listeners to stereotype them as just another dorky, happy band having no intrin­sic musical value, their live show was a stark contrast to this obviously mistaken image. From the opening, the Waves depended on loud guitar and bass lines, plenty offeedback, and solid drumming to get across a bluesier, rougher sound. One of their new songs, "Keep Runnin' to Me," with its ringing guitar line reminiscent ofU2, was an exceptional display ofthe good songs this band is actual! y capable ofwriting. Their live show was energetic and full of feeling, and lead singer Katrina Iaskenitch managed to keep the crowd revved up, de­spite being restricted to a stool because of a broken leg. Squeeze kept the crowd going with a show that was varied and original, but that none­theless kept many of their older songs virtu­

ally untouched by any new innovations, like 
changes in instrumentation or style. Some of 
their older songs, in particular "Black Coffee 
in Bed," gave them a chance to play around 
with some jazz-like improvisation while still 
keeping true to the original spirit of the 
songs. Jools Holland's piano was always a 
highlight ofthese jams, and it's a big plus for 
the band to have him along on this tour. 
"Is That Love" and "Pulling Mussels from 
the Shell," on the other hand, were done so 
true to the originals that they sounded like 
Squeeze doing covers of their own songs. 
Other older tracks, especially "G.oodbye 
Girl," were changed in feel but not in content 
"Goodbye Girl" didn't feature any of the 
extended improvisations which some of the 
other tunes did, but at the same time it wasn't 
a straight cover; it was altered by subtle 
mutations in tempo and style that only a band 
as experienced and talented as Squeeze 
could pull off. 
Squeeze's cuts from their new album, Frank, meshed in perfectly with their older material culled mostly from Singles -45' s and Under and Babylon and On. The song "Love Circles" with rhythm guitarist and co­songwriter Chris Difford taking over the vocal chores was an excellent example of · how Squeeze has managed to explore new ground while still keeping the same basic sound. "Love Circles" had a chiming guitar hook which is generally not a melodic device used by Squeeze, but it still fit in very well with their tight vocal harmonies and catchy 
lyrics. 
Other new cuts, like "Is It Love," were 
1.(IJ f[IJI I[[IJ 
' 
1-11111im11111111111~~1~rn1]
11
illl I1 . ~ _lr 
..-111,ll.,..­


more along the lines of older Squeeze songs, yet still fresh and original. The only bad point about "Is It Love" was the feeble audience participation at the end -Glenn Tilbrook just couldn't manage to get anyone really excited about sounding like the huge choir featured on that particular track on the album. Nonetheless, Squeeze did a great job with their new songs. 
The group also put together an interesting medley of"Cool for Cats" and "Take Me I'm Yours," not even pausing between the two tunes but instead segueing straight from one into the other. Lead guitarist Glenn Tilbrook added an exceptional solo to "Take Me I'm Yours,"proving his talent not only as a vocal­ist but also as a guitarist. 
The last number, "Tempted," was an obvi­ous closer to the show, but what else could you want them to end with? This perennial favorite has been the way for Squeeze to send the crowd home happy ever since it was first released. It is ironic that this song, probably their most widely known and one of their best, was not written by. the gifted pair of Difford and Tilbrook, but instead by Paul Carrack, who joined the band as a guest member for East Side Story. 
Even so, Difford and Tilbrook's song­writing and playing has remained impressive even after the band's extended hiatus from recording. Babylon and On got the ball rolling again, and hopefully Frank will con­tinue the momentum. The Frank tour is a testament to this band's skill and endurance as a musical entity. II 
News 





Minorities: Challenges 
•


ID Changing · Times 
Minority students,faculty, and administrators seek a stronger voice as Notre Dame enters the 90s 

T 
BY STEFFANIE KELLER 

he University of Notre Dame is 
renowned for many things, among 
them academics, athletics and strong Catholic traditions. Cultural diver­sity, however, would currently be quite far down on the list of Notre Dame's attributes according to some students and administra­tors. 
Derek Gandy, an African-American and 1986 Notre Dame graduate, is working with both the Admissions Office and the Office of Minority Student Affairs to try to change that situation. "The perception is that Notre Dame is a white male Catholic school, that it is not a place for minorities," Gandy said. "That is tough in a lot ofareas when it comes to recruiting minority students to attend Notre Dame. That is why it's important that we get students and alumni to participate and get the word out that Notre Dame can be a place for minority students." 
The university has been trying to "get the word out" in a variety of ways. In February, 1988, Father Edward Malloy, C.S.C., presi­dent of the University of Notre Dame, an­nounced a comprehensive plan to increase minorities on the campus. The plan included recommendations for faculty hirings, endow­ment and admissions, the area in which Gandy is most involved. 
A goal was set to increase the percentage of minority students in the freshman class to 15 percent by 1992. That goal was accom­plished two years early, with 16 percent of this year's freshman class consisting of mi­norities. "We have a very good plan," said Gandy. "It's not perfect, but we are very pleased with the progress we have made. We are very excited about it and we expect to see the trend continue." 
Gandy, who was referred to his job by a fellow Notre Dame graduate, Marty Rodgers, who had been active in minority affairs, cited a number of reasons for the increase Among them is an increase in the applicant pool. "There has been a real increase in our total applicant pool, which means an increase in the num berofminority applicants as well," he said. "There are more qualified minorities applying for the spaces and we are happy to see the spaces filled." 
"Credit really should be given to our di­rector, Kevin Rooney, who is very committed to this plan," Gandy said. "There is a real trickle-down theory at work. Father Malloy has expressed his commitment, that is fil­tered down through Kevin Rooney and support is received from all levels of the university." Gapdy also works closely with students and alumni to recruit potential minorities to Notre Dame. "Our counselors can't be everywhere, so we really count on 


Scholastic 


', • ' .,.• • .,,, l ', • ..._ ' • • • 

News 

the contact of students and alumni to spread the word." 
From the admissions level, Gandy said he sees the biggest difficulty in getting minorities to attend Notre Dame in the lack of available financial aid. "Our peer institutions offer very competitive packages and we must begin to meet that," said Gandy. We have the minori­ties in our applicant pool, but we need the there are 100 black students paired with fac­ulty or staff members and that the program turned away an additional 200 faculty members who wanted to be involved. 
"We hope to extend the program next year to include Hispanics and Native Americans as well as black students and get those people that we turned away in­volved," she said. She hoped that the 
money to get them here." 
enough role models for minority students," said 
Two additional Gandy. sources of financial aid for minorities were An increase in the 
announced this year. A number of minority,fac­$100,000 gift from ulty members was an­Notre Dame alumnus J. other goal of Malloy's Robb Brady and his wife plan and, according to Rose was announced in Associate Provost Fa­May and will be used to ther Oliver Williams, establish a scholarship the original goal has fund for deserving black been met. "Our original students. Father Malloy goal was the immediate announced in Septem­hiring of fourteen new 
ber that an additional minority faculty mem­$150,000 will be pro­bers over the four col­vided for minority stu­leges and the law dent aid from income 
school," said Williams, generated by the who was appointed to 
university's licensing implement the plan. program. "For the most part, we Ian Johanson have reached that goal." The number of mi:. The positions were pri­
Admissions counselor Derek Gandy feels that Notre nority students coming Dame can be a place for minority students. marily targeted for 
grated backgrounds, some not, and often pro­fessors expect less of them simply because they are a minority," he said. "That is non­sense. These are well-educated individuals who expect less of a student simply because of the color of his skin. It is a shame that minorities are told that they have to struggle just to be average." Gandy also said he felt that the Jack of minority faculty members provided an obstacle for minority students. "There just aren't 
to Notre Dame i.s on the rise, but the environment with which they are greeted on arrival is sometimes a bit ofa shock, both academically and socially, according to Gandy. To help alleviate this problem, the Office of Minority Student Affairs has estab­lished a faculty mentor program for this year's freshman class. Sophomore Sherri Barker has been very active in establishing that organiza­tion. 
"We wanted to provide the incoming stu­dents with afacultyorstaffmemberwho could help to advise them on their adjustment here," Barker said. "This year, we sent out a univer­sity-wide mailing to faculty and staff members asking for their participation and the response was overwhelming." Barker said that this year mentor program will provide the basis for relationships that will extend over the student's four years at Notre Dame. Barker said that the majority of the response to the program has been positive in its first year. "A number of students have come to me who are very happy with the mentors," she said. "They are receiving advice on aca­demics and career paths. Some are even having dinner at the houses of the faculty members that are acting as their mentors. It seems to be a very positive experience." 
Gandy said that he saw many difficulties in the adjustment ofminority students to the academic environment at Notre Dame. "Minorities come here, some from inte­
blacks, Hispanics and Native American Indians. However, be­cause the pool of such candidates in some fields is quite small, Asian-Americans and women were included in some ofthe hiring in areas where there is a significant need of mi­norities. 
"We are continuing to recruit additional minority faculty members," said Williams. "It is a difficult process, however, because there is a relatively small pool ofminorities in academics right now and we are competing with other institutions to attract the most qualified candidates." 
A recent endowment by the Coca-Cola foundation should aid in providing for addi-


News 


tional minority representation among the faculty. The university recently received a $1 million grant to establish a minority fac­ulty development program. The grant will fund University efforts to increase minority representation on its faculty, to establish faculty exchange agreements with traditional black colleges, to facilitate graduate educa­tion for minorities and to provide research opportunities for minority undergraduates. 
''This generous grant from the Coca-Cola Company is especially gratifying because it will enable Notre Dame to address both our immediate and long-term needs for more minority faculty members," Malloy had said of the gift. "Increased minority representa­tion in the academy is, and ought to be, a para­mount national concern, and the programs we undertake with this grant will provide support and encouragement to minorities at every stage of preparation for careers in teaching and research." 
"We have a way to go 1n our graduate schools," Williams said. "We have to in­crease the numbers of qualified minorities in our graduate programs, which is very qiffi­cult because of the smaller numbers of mi­nodties applying for graduate school. If we work harder in that area, we will have a potentially larger pool of candidates for fac­ulty positions in later years." 
Williams said that minorities are no less successful academically at Notre Dame than other students. "The failure rate for minority students is essentially zero," he said. "There are only a few each year, the same as the majority students. The problem is not with minorities failing out of Notre Dame. The problem as I see it is the comfort index." 
A factor that both Gandy and Williams cited in that "comfort index" was residence hall life. According to Evelyn Reinebold, Director of Housing, incoming minority stu­dents are not intentionally placed together within dorms. "We do the freshman room assignments by random computer selection," said Reinebold. "All we have is the student's name and social securitynumber."There was a recent case in which four minority students were placed together in a quad which was questioned, but Reinebold said that placement was also computer selected. 
"We are having the man who set up our computer sys­tem look into how that happened," Reinebold said. "It was a very unusual case." She also said that there was not a significantly larger number of minority students requesting room changes. "We do not keep statistics on that, but I would say minority students are no more likely to make roommate changes than other students." 
"As a student here, I had the same roommate for four years and he happened to . be white," Gandy said. "That was not a problem. What I needed was a black rector or administrator to talk to. I never really had a black role model here at Notre Dame." 
There are no minorities currently serving as rectors in any of the residence halls and only three in the position of assistant rector, according to statistics provided by the Office of Student Affairs. In addition, there is a relatively small number of minority students in the position of resident assistant. "There needs to be a commitment to attracting more minorities to work in the halls," said Gandy. "The burden should not be placed on the stu­dents, but rather there should be residence hall staff who could provide advice and expe­rience." 
"I think that I can speak for the senior staff (of the Office of Student Affairs) in saying that we would certainly encourage minority students and graduate students to apply for the positions available," said Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice president of Student Affairs and a former rector of Farley Hall. "We would welcome that in the halls and we hope that it will happen as the number of minority students at the university in­creases." 


"Notre Dame is a large institution and large institutions. tend to progress very slowly," Williams said. "Things are pro­gressing, but they have to keep moving for­ward. We have to focus on placing more mi­norities in administrative positions as well. We have a smattering right now, but I would like to see a more representative number." 
"The biggest problem that we have to overcome is the latent racism within our 
8 

Scholastic 




News 
community," said Williams. "By and large, the majority ofour students has been raised in a largely white society. There are ingrained ways of thinking that we tend not recognize as racist. We need to confront these attitudes on a day to day level in a genye way." 
"It is difficult for minority students to come to this all white school where you are constantly under a microscope," Gandy said. "Black male students are constantly asked if they are athletes, questions are asked like 'How do you get your hair to stay like that.' People make comments like 'I'm not preju­diced. One of my best friends is black."' 
It is a matter of ignorance," he said. "Everything is just too white here. The racism is not blatant or overt, but it is there. We need to address this problem of ignorance. " 
Gandy said that he thinks a course should be offered for all students on the African­American experience. Notre Dame cur­rently offers a concentration in black stud­that certain books had been added to the Arts and Letters core course last year in conjunc­tion with the Year of Cultural Diversity and he hoped that the books would remain in the curriculum. 


"We have a terrific opportunity here at Notre Dame to listen to intelligent minorities and begin to see the world from their point of view," Williams said. "We pride ourselves on being a family. To truly be a family, we must listen to our minority students. There is no way to overcome the attitudes without communication." 
"Ifl could give one simple message to our community, it would be 'Wake Up, Notre Dame,"' said Gandy. "We can definitely do things better. It's not enough just to say it, we have to do it. Let's get it done. Notre Dame is not just a white school, it is all of our school." II 
~COPY-RITE ~.®. "Full Service Printing" . 119 DixieWay North (US 33) South Bend, IN 46637 • QUICK PRINTING • COPIER SERVICE For ALL Your Printing Needs Call: • LAYOUT & DESIGN • 'IYPESETTING 277..4459  

December 7, 1989 . 9 
' ' ~ -.
ii , --• 
.. . --~-----~---~------~--..~~-­
News 




Kenneth Durgans Represents·.Minority Interests 
Racism at Notre Dame is a complex issue. The Office ofMinority Student Affairs attempts to clarify and reduce its effects. 

BY DERIK WELDON 
Enrollment ofminority students is increasing and a drive is in progress to recruit more minority faculty members to Notre Dame. While these twofacts show the university moving into the multicultural America of the 1990'son a positive note, current minority students, at times, still feel the sting of racism on this campus. Kenneth Durgans, Director ofMinority Student Affairs, is aware that minorities at Notre Dame face a c.onsiderable challenge at a predominantly white university. A native of Springfield, Ohio, Durgans attended public high school in nearby Yellow Springs befo~e entering Balwin-Wallace College, where he earned BA' sin political science and history. In preparation for future work with college students, Durgans received masters degrees in college student personnel from Kent State University and in counselingfrom the University ofDayton. He is currently on his doctorate in college student personnel at Western Michigan University. 
What are your responsibilities as Director of Minority Student Affairs? · ·· Probably the most important responsibility would be advising differ­ent minority groups or organizations. Administratively, I act as a liaison between faculty, staff and students, helping various compo­nents of the university attempt to understand the needs of minority students through workshops and programming of various types. We (in the Office of Minority Student Affairs) are here for the students­that is the bottom line. 
What brought you to Notre Dame? 

It was not something I planned, it just sort of happened. I had a great interest in working with minority students. People did things for me that were important in my life an~ I wanted to make a contribution back. So, when I was looking and interviewing this position was available and I met with the students an~ I felt good about what I thought I heard them say. They wanted someone to be involved with them. I was working at Wittenberg University at the time, and it was time to move. 
The subject of racism is one which you deal with on a daily basis in your office. Are there any experiences of racism from your childhood, adolescence, or college days which stick out promi­nently in your mind? Do these experiences add fire to your work as Director of Minority Student Affairs? The answer to the second part is yes. My experiences have everything to do with why Iam doing what I am doing. Probably the most blatant experience would be something that a lot ofpeople overlook and that is just being excluded from educational materials, curriculum, as a people, in history-either not emphasized or looked at like its some kind of secondary subject matter that is to be only studied as a specialty. Mostly the exclusion, being excluded from history, would be the thing that is the fuel or the motivating factor behind me pursuing what I do. 
Racism is a difficult issue to confront whether it be found on a college campus or in a large nation. In generalized terms, how would you define racism? Racism as I see it would, most importantly, be having the power to enforce your will on others. So in the context of America I would say (racism is) categorizing people by stereotypes or some type of belief system and acting on those whether they are true or false. Another 
10 
Scholastic 
.. 


News 

component of it would be the oppression component. That is to destroy people's historical memory by not including them in educa­tional things or by not giving credit where credit is due for contribu­tions to the society. 
Does racism have a different definition at Notre Dame? I don't think it changes. I can't separate Notre Dame from America or the world a_,,s we know H. So no, l don't really separate the two. 
Who should ultimately define racism and decide whether given 
this issue changed after the forum? I guess it's mixed because I just don't see enough follow through or follow up in different areas which tells me that we should have gone from there to another residence hall or some place else to keep it going. While I think it served some positive, I don't think it is even close to what it could be. What I learn from these things is that there is a large ignorance level, and I don't say this in any derogatory manner, among white students about even their own country's history. There is a defensiveness that stops people from understand­ing what ·is actually being said because of the prior conditioning of 

p::-----~-:--:--1:=:::::=:iiiiiiiiiii!r---:-~--~"}3~~----guilt that is associated with the slavery question. I 
think we could break down some barriers with a continuance of these kind of forums. 
Why are non-minority individuals often reluctant 
or unwilling to deal with this issue? 
It really goes along with guilt If you look at the 
slavery question, we really haven't dealt with that as 
a country. We kind of said it was over and then we 
tried to forget it, but for 400 years there were people 
in bondage. It's been just a little over 100 years since 
the Emancipation Proclamation, and in that time they 
were expected to make up for 400 years. I just think 
that there is some guilt associated with it, but you 
cannot progress unless you deal with yourself and 
America hasn't done that. If people were better 
briefed about each other, then questions wouldn't be 
so hard.· 

What are the most common forms ofracism seen 
Kenneth Durgans, Director of Minority Student Affairs, recog­nizes the importance of cultural identity for minorities. 
acts or situations are racist or not? Should it be the responsibility of the minority group alone, the majority group alone, or a combination of the two? I would probably say in the context of reality it would have to be the group that is beirig oppressed or having the acts acted upon them. In many cases, racism exists and is institutionalized. Therefore people don't have to think about it to be racist, but those who are feeling it always know, when they are conscious of themselves in this way. There are also some minority individuals who don't know what racism is either, even though they feel it every day. So its a matter of consciousness. Somebody calls you a nigger-that's easy. But when they deny you something-that's different. 
Recently, you were one of two speakers at a St. Edward's Hall Forum which confronted the question, "Does racism exist at Notre Dame?" After this session, do you feel that the question has been answered? · There was no question whether racism exists at Notre Dame. I think that was kind of a topic to get people to the discussion. 
Have your feelings about student knowledge of and interest in 

Derik Weldon on the Notre Dame campus'? 
Exclusion. I think that I've talked to more students 
about being in classes where minority contributions are not talked about or recognized. I think that the other one would be the fact that many people think that minorities come here all on affirmative action programs and therefore are not qualified. The belief that they (minority students) have to prove themselves more so than other students, to me that's a lot of pressure. 

How does your office deal with these problems? 
I am a firm believer in emphasizing that a person find out who they are culturally. The more I learned ab.out myself, where I came from as a people, my heritage, the more confident and secure a person I became. I learned something from that. 
Is Notre Dame a more intimidating college environment for a minority student to enter than that found at other colleges or universities? 
I guess in the context of the places I've worked, I would say no. I would say that there is a difference between private and state .. (At Notre Dame) I think probably that the major difference would be the Catholic influence. I don't think that that's so much a transition-it's more just the atmosphere. More than the conservative, Catholic influence would be the attitudes and expectations of their fellow 



News 

students, who, in the case of many of the European students, have never met or seen a black person besides on TV. 
What are some solutions to this problem which your office is working on? · We focus more on the students themselves, and again, as I said before, dealing with an understanding of self really to be used as the main solution. It (understanding self) operis up the doors to allow you to be able to deal with the rest of it For me tobe able todealwith some of the pains and bitterness that I had, I had to understand me, and understand why these things were happening, where they were going, 
and how they were still happen­ing. In that proc­ess, I was able to clarify and seethe direction I needed to go. So we fo­cus a lot on cul­tural program­ming. We will have speakers, do rap sessions, have trips. On the ad­ministrative hand, I would fo­cus on doing workshops with RA' s and other people in leader­ship capacities so that they know what the needs of the students are. 

How much sup­port do you receive from the Notre Dame administration? 
Actually, a lot Father Malloy is very committed to seeing this happen, and I have noticed since I've been here a major change in re­sources and attitudes. Father Tyson, who is my superior, and Sister Jean Lenz, John Goldrick, and some of the people in student services have also been very supportive ofwhat we do here. The problem area to me right now would be the attitudes ofstudents, and I think in some respects, faculW also. We might need to address some issues with regard to reeducating faculty with regard to research done in many of their disciplinys that they have not kept up with, 
In what activities do minority students _need to become more involved and visible at Notre Dame? 
Minority students are involved in all kinds of activities on campus, whether it be, for example, student senate or hall council. We cer­tainly have more students involved than when I got here. I think that the participation has increased-and that has been good. 

Ultimately, racism is seen and felt in day-to-day encounter~ between individuals. In what ways can minority students im~ prove their situation? What can non-minority students do on a daily basis to lessen the feeling of racism felt by minority stu­dents? 
It's kind of the same answer because we have the tendency to make things more difficult than they need be. I think that the first thing is real education, education in the sense of cultural education and historical perspective. Without these at the foundation for any kind of communication,. then it won't-be real. Among all students, education needs to be diversified. We have to understand the histo­ries of all the people that are here, their real his­tories. How can we say that Columbus discovered Amer­ica when there were already Indi­ans here? We have to be able to deal with these kinds of things because in statements of this type, what you do is say that the Indi­ans didn't exist We must under­stand each other and each other's culture. When I say understand, I do not mean change. I'm not an assimilationist. We don't have to 
assimilate the cultures-all we have to do is respect them. 
What do~ the future hold for minority groups on this campus? Is recent awareness of and interest in this issue leading Notre Dame toward solutions to the racism problem or are we just scratching the surface? 
I think both; it's a little hazy right now. What we do here is also af­fected by what happens out in general society. The students we deal with are bringing the values ofsociety here. First, we need to see that we have to be preparing students to change general society. A lot of people have felt that that is an idealistic approach. I think that it is the only approach that anyone can have any confidence in working. But yet, right now we are just at the surface. As far as future projections, I see some positiveness, but in situations like this-20 or less years on predominantly white campuses-we have some years of consis­tency to go through before we can speak about something real hap­pening. The key is education, but not education that we have been used to. Minority students must understand who they are. 
Scholastic 

Features 


h
ar
~ 

i 
on to I• tory
.I 
CJ 
The Band ofthe Fighting Irish carries on a century-old tradition on and offthe field 
Marching Band is in its 144th year ofservice directing this group of over 240 students
BY PATRICK MURPHY 

to the university. The band performed at the from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College and It'salmost as old as the unive.rsity itelf. 
first football game with Michigan in 1887 Holy Cross Junior College. Ofthe members It was around long before the legends and has played for every home game since. in the band, less than three percent are music This year marks the band's 102nd football majors. All the academic areas ofthe univer­
of Rockne and Leahy ever coached a sity are represented. Each class is also repre­
game offootball. It is the nation's oldest con­season. sented almost equally, with the number of
tinuously-existing collge marching band. In his third year as director of bands, Luther Snavely, Jr., and his associate James students from the junior class being slightly 
Formed in 1845,just three years after the 
ForSnavely, each new season be­gins in the spring when the admis­sions office releases a list of the stu­dents who were admitted to Notre Dame and SMC.. These accepted students are then mailed question­naires in order to see ifthey are inter­ested in playing in the band. If these incoming freshmen respond they are then incorporated into the "band buddy" program. In this program re­turning band members are matched with incoming freshmen who share the same instrument or major, and then correspond with them through­out the summer. 
On August 24 band camp begins with the returning members per­forming at freshman orientation. The rest of the week is spent with in­coming students interacting with the 
13
December 7, 1989 




Features 
seasoned members in prepa­ration for auditions. On Au­gust 30 marching band audi­tions are held and a list of those people who made the band is then posted. Competi­tion for positions is rather tight and each year around fifty students are cut from the band. Snavely said that he would like to take more stu­dents than the allotted num­ber, but added that this would be impossible because of the limited number of stadium seats allotted for band mem­bers. 
After the final cuts are made and the unit is complete, preparation begins for the first 

The hike step trot onto the field is an old band tradition. 

game. The band practices for an hour and a half each weekday. From 4:30 . 
March; and Notre Dame, Our Mother ring "[The band] is worth the while for me. Being 
p.m. to 6:00 p.m. on Monday, Tuesday and from green field, filtering in each open win­in the band helps me manage my time better," Friday and 6:30 p.m. till 8:00 p.m. on Wed­dow and echoing across campus. 
Massaro said. He also went on to say that nesday and Thursday the band can be heard With "football-like" practices every day, 
being in the band is a way to gain friendships rehearsing for football games. It sounds as if one would think it difficult for band members 
and called the different sections of the band the university is playing its own radio when to find time to study or interact socially. 
"fraternities". such traditional favorites as Down the Line; Senior Paul Massaro, the trumpet section Each year the band takes one overnight
Hike; Notre Dame; The Notre Dame Victory leader, disagrees with this misconception. trip to an away game. This year it went to the Michigan game, spent Friday night at the pep rally, and departed after the win on Saturday. When the band does travel, senior Julie Mc­Carthy, band president and clarinet section leader, is extremely busy. It is her responsibility to assign duties to the rest of the band so the trip will proceed smoothly. Each officer is assigned to a bus and other members get as~ signed to specific crews. "Being in the band is a unique oppurtunity to be able to interact with many students," said Mc­Carthy, "and travel e~pe­riences are a lot of fun." 

Whereas trips to other stadiums give Notre Dame's opponents the 
Scholastic 


Features 

chance to hear .our band, nothing could be moi:e trad.ition-packed than home football gaines. For the band, one of these traditional weekends begins on Friday when fans flock tohC¥ itpractice. That night the band per­forlTls :at the pep rally before. the crowd p;i~kecfinto St~pan Center. On Saturday · momirig it practices at 8:00 a.m. in final preparation for the game. Alumnralways ertjoy watching the band perform on the steps of the Administration Building, an hour and a half before kick-off. 
After the concert, the band goes through a rigorous inspection where band alumni try of the band, the Irish Guard. Captained by senior Craig Brummel, this elite marching unit towers over eight feet tall in their tradi­tional black shakos clearing the path for the band in a true military manner. Once inside the tunnel leading into the stadium, the band descends onto the field in their traditional hike step trot for the pre game show. The Guard has used this step for every home game since 1946. Thedramaofthismoment was summed up byJulie McCarthy, who ex­plained, "the roar of the crowd as we exit through the tunnel on game days makes it all worth it." Once inside, the tradition does not 

end. 
The band interacts with the students in a most interesting display as they strike up the 1812 Overture and the students move their arms in similar fashion to that guy on airport runways who parks the planes, all the while chanting "Lou, Lou!" Said Snavely, "In 1979 it [the 1812 Overture] was part of the halftime show, kids seemed to respond to it and it be­came a tradition." Once Holtz arrived at Notre Dame, the cheer took on its present form. 
At halftime the band provides the visiting team with apples and in­forms them ofthe recep­tion after the game: If the Irish win, the Irish Guard dances the tradi­tional Victory Clog on the field. This schedule holds true throughout the season. If Notre Dame is invited to a bowl game, the band goes along as well. This year the band will spend the band is divided into three varsity bands. The blue, gold and green bands each consist of sixty-five to seventy players and alternate between rallies and games. Auditions for the 


Notre Dame concert band are held about the same time. The concert band's main event is a major spring tour during spring break which will take its members to a number of major cities culminating in New Orleans. Theconcert band al so ends its tour with aper­formance in the Joyce ACC on March 20. Their last duty is to perform with the choir during graduation week. A number of other bands are assembled after the football sea­son. These include a brass ensemble, a woodwind ensemble arid two jazz bands. This year Notre Dame will again host the Collegiate Jazz Festival, which brings jazz bands in from all over the country. 
During the spring, just about the time Snavely starts all over again with the letters to incoming freshmen, the Notre Dame band holds its spring awards banquet During this banquet, numerous awards are presented for outstanding leadership, performance and academics. The band also has a series of awards that students can earn through ex­tended membership. The most coveted of these awards is the Band Blanket, given to a band member who participates in all the bands for four full years. Out of fifty seniors last year, only two claimed this prize. 
If you missed the band during football seasonthis year, you can look forward to next 
The band marching from Washington Hall to the stadium. an all-expense-paid year, orcatch one ofthe smaller bands around to uphold the tradition in which they once week in Miami for the Orange Bowl. (And campus. After 144 years, you can count on participated. From there it's a march to the yes, it is too late to join the band this year.) · the University of Notre Dame Marching stadium led by the most recognized symbol When basketball season comes upon us Band returning next fall. ¦ 



Opinion 





Wrong Rights? 
Saint Mary's student responds to lectures on the women's movement by Phyllis Schlafly and Elanor Smeal 
BY DEVON MARCUSON 

The opininons expressed in this article do not necessarily reflect the opinions ofScholastic or its staff. Responses are welcome.
The week ofNovember 13 through 19 was "Gender Issues Week" on cam­pus. In order to familiarize student 
with women's rights issues, two politically prominent women with opposing viewpoints lectured on separate evenings. Phyllis Sch­lafly, the first ofthe two speakers, is a conser­vative activist. Her accomplishments include receiving an undergraduate degree from Harvard and a law degree from Washington University.· She is the mother ofsix children. She was a leading lobbyist in the successful · battle against the Equal Rights Amendment, had written three books, presently writes a 
news column and is a radio commentator. 
Eleanor Smeal spoke on the changing 
roles of men and women from a feminist's 
standpoint. She was the president of the 
National Organization for Women from 1977 
to 1980. She presently writes and speaks 
about feminist's concerns. She is married. 
Because Schl~y and Smeal lectured on 
separate occasions, those who are not famil­
iar with what each of the women stand for 
could have been easily influenc~ by the 
audience's attitudes on these evenings. At 
Schlafly's lecture, the crowd laughed and 
snickered, while at Smeal's lecture the audi­
ence was cordial and attentive. This may 
have distorted an ambivalent person's inter­
pretation of what was actually said. 

In fact, several articles which were printed in the Observer demonstrate that Schlafly was seriously misinterpreted. For example, the headline of the article of the· front page proclaimed that "Schlafly Justi­fies Traditional Roles for Most Women." As Michael Sheliga pointed out in an opinion piece on November 27, this does not even resemble Schlafly's true message. Schlafly sees no need to "justify" traditional women's roles. Moreover, this understanding influ­enced the interpretations ofthose who did not attend the lecture. This was made clear by several Viewpoint pieces expressing "pro­found disagreement" with Schlafly based on misinterpreted quotes from this article. 
When women's liberationists enter the political arena to promote legislation and liti­gation in pursuit of their goals, their specific demands are based of the following prin­ciples: 
1) Women's liberationists demand that a "gender-free rule be applied to every federal and state law, bureaucratic regulation, edu­cation institution and expenditure of public funds. Based on their belief that there is no real difference between men and women (except for sex organs), they demand that men and women have equal treatment in all cases. Furthermore, Smeal and other women's liberationists demand that the courts do not treat or separate the sexes dif­ferently no matter how reasonable it may be or how much it is desired by either sex. This is the way race differences are presently treated. 
Schlafly and other conservatives reject the "gender-free" approach. They notice many differences between men and women besides their sex organs, and believe that 

U.S. citizens are entitled to have laws, regu­lations and schools that reflect these differ­ences and allow for reasonable treatment and separation.of activities that reasonable men and women want. Conservatives reject the argument that sex discrimination should be treated the same as race discrimination. They contend that there is a much greater differ­ence between a man and a woman than there is between a black and a white, and that it is nonsense to adopt a bureaucratic attitude that pretends that these differences do not exist. ' 
2) Women's liberation legislative goals seek a mandate of equality at the expense of justice. Conservatives argue that equality ' cannot always be equated with justice, and can sometimes be unjust. 
3)Women's liberationists demand that 

women be given the benefit of reverse dis­
crimination. Reverse discrimination is based 
on the theory of group rights, and that "re­
verse discrimination" (also called "preferen­
tial treatment," "remedial action" or "af­
firmative action") should be imposed in 
order to compensate for alleged past dis­
crimination against other women. This is 
synonymous with the notion of "quotas." 
Conservatives believe that imposing 

quotas violates the principle of equal oppor­
tunity for all. They support equal opportu­
nity for both sexes, as well as all faiths and 
races. They reject theories of reverse dis­
crimination and group rights. For example, it 
does no good fora women who was discrimi­
. nated against 25 years ago to know that an unqualified woman today receives preferen­tial treatment over a man. 
4) Women liberationists push for the federalization of uniformity on all aspects of life. They demand that government regula­tions enforce a gender-free uniformity in all schools and colleges. 
Conservatives, on the other hand, do not accept the idea that Washington, D.C. is the fountainhead ofall wisdom and professional skill. They argue that the government can do a fairer job of regulating our schools and colleges than local officials. Conservatives support the principle of leaving all control and discretion on the hand oflocal school and college officials and their elected boards. 
5) Women's liberationists push their proposals on the premise that everything must be neutral regarding the institution of 



16 
Scholastic 



Opinion 
the family and alternate lifestyles; for ex­

ample, that homosexuals should be allowed 
to adopt children and teach in schools, and 
that illegitimate babies and abortions be 
funded by public money. 
Conservatives believe that such propos­

als are immoral and illogical. They believe 
that our educational institutions have not 

only the right, but the moral obligation to set 
minimum standards of conduct at the local 
level. Schlafly and other conservatives be­
lieve that schools and colleges have no right 
to use public money to promote conduct that 
is offensive to the religious and moral values 
of parents and taxpayers. 
If and when women's liberationists 

achieve their goals, society would change in 
many ways. It would become the duty ofthe 
government to provide day-care centers to 
relieve mothers of their unfair and unequal 
burden. Laura Andersen, a Saint Mary's 
junior, agrees that government should pro­
vide day-care because "In many cases, a 
mother is forced to work because of the high 
cost of living in America. Thus, it should 
fund day -care; the woman should not be 
responsible." 
Conservatives feel that the women's movement has and will seriously affect mar­riage as both a social and economic institu­tion in America. They feel that many states will adopt a wildly permissive approach that would degrade the homemaker role and sup­port economic development requiring , women to seek careers. ~ara Boyle, a sopho­more, notices this happening today. "It has gotten to the point where a woman is almost an outcast ifshe chooses to be a housewife." 
Thus, not only would divorce become 

more common, divorced women will sink 
further into poverty. Schlafly pointed out in 
her lecture that divorce lowers a woman's 
income by 73 percent, while it increases a 
man's by 42 percent. Women's liberation 
legislation would cause this gap to become 
even wider, since fathers would no longer be 
required to pay alimony or child support. 
Moreover, if the women's liberation 

movement achieves it goals, quota systems 
will be imposed on all colleges and firms. 
Kathy Panos, a senior Women's Studies 
minor at Saint Mary's explains, "imposing 
quota systems would be beneficial because it 
might provoke women to pursue careers that they were previously intimidated by. There would be more role models in formerly male dominated areas that women could look up to." 
. Maureen Lowery, a sophomore govern­ment major feels that quota systems are unconstitutional. She explains, "although in some cases women may be discriminated against, it is against the law. Imposing quotas would eventually discriminate against men who are more qualified than women." 
Campus life would change if women's liberationists achieve their goals. Everything from sports to glee clubs would have to becoll!e co-ed, regardless of legal customs and wishes. It would also abolish fraternities and sororities.· 
Mike Keverling, a freshman glee club member imagines how he would feel if his club became co-ed. "I would definite!, be against it. A certain atmosphere exists that would be destroyed. The function of the glee club would be lost. There are co-ed choirs now with a completely different sound." 
Federal law would require homosexuals be allowed to teach in all schools. Anthony Black, professor of history at Saint Mary's believes that this could be harmful. Hepoints out that homosexual are not bad people, but that they should not teach because try as a teacher may, "it is almost impossible not to impose his or her views onto students, Chil­dren are extremely impressionable and should be able to choose what kind of life" style is best for them." He also adds, "This issue becomes more debatable the older the students are." 
Panos disagrees. "If you are afraid of children learning 'immoral' practices from their homosexual teachers, you are produc­ing robots. Part of education is learning to critically examine all sides of an issue and making your own judgment." 
On the other hand, many of the things many people believe will occur of women's liberationists achieve their goals actually will not. Many people have supported the women's movement in the mistaken belief that it will bring "equal pay for equal work". However, the Equal Employment Act of 1972 already prohibits all sex discrimination in hiring pay and promotion. 
However, Smeal pointed out in her lec­ture that traditionally female-dominated ca­reers such as teaching and nursing are deval­ued, and that some garbage men make more money than women in these professions. She suggests the possibility of assigning values based on a job's worth, so that men and women receive equal pay for equally valu­able activities. Jen Walk, a Saint Mary's sophomore, supports this idea, saying, "I think wages should reflect how people's acquired skills, knowledge, and responsibil­ity. Nursesgo through vigorous training and are responsible for people's Iives. A garbage man does not." 
Schlafly contended in her lecture that women will never be paid what they think they are worth. The same is true, she said, for men. Most men and women believe that they are underpaid. She points out that unfair discrimination· exists in all walks of life, despite laws against it. "We have laws against murder, but murder still takes place," Schlafly noted. She also explained that "no job is worth more than another ... ifa woman wishes to receive as much money as a gar­bage man, then she should become a garbage man." 
Somepeople support the women's move­ment with the mistaken belief that it will bring them equality education. However, the truth is that there is nothing it can do to add to the Education Amendment of 1972 and other laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex. 
In short, the attitudes the audience ex­pressed at these lectures manifested strong disapproval of the conservative viewpoint, and yet the reasoning behind this non-accep­tance was based on misinterpretations of what was actually said. 
It seems logical for one to say he or she favors a change in government policy in order to achieve equal rights for the sexes. However, the goals which women's libera­tionists wish to achieve ultimately violate the rights ofothers. Moreover, they will not end discrimination against women. · 
Laws cannot change attitudes. A strong woman isone who will notletother's opinion of her influence her opinion of herself. She speaks out when she knows the truth. A strong woman faces her particular set of problems notas society'splotagainst her, but as a challenge to her character and capabili­ties. II 
17



Sports 



I II 
Editor's Note: 

Walter W. "Red" Smith enrolled at Notre Dame in the Fall of1923 with hopes of being just like his boyhood hero, Vince Engel, who came to the university a few years earlier as an aspiring journalist. Little did he know at the time that he would soon over­shadow his idol's accomplishments and become the greatest sportswriter who ever graced the planet. 
Although he died in 1982, Smith's work will forever stand as the standard by which all others are judged. His essays have dealt with a large number of subjects-baseball, fishing, basketball, boxing and tennis to name a few-but we have chosen two in particular that deal specifically with the Notre Dame experience. We thank Random House, Inc. for allowing us to reprint his workfor all to enjoy once more. 
THE GUY WHO STARTED IT ALL (1947) 
Notre Dame, IN­The guy who started the fight thirty­four years ago is around here today to see it finished. He is a big, twin­kling old free-style cusser with a plainsman's fa,ce, weathered to a bright terra-cotta shade, under a cattleman's soft gray hat. His name is Jesse Harper, and it was he who united Notre Dame and Army in the holy bonds of football, which will be put asunder here day after tomorrow. Jesse Harper is, as he has been for a good many years, a cattle baron operating out of a ranch in southwestern Kansas. In 1913 he was coach of a lot of guys named Knute Rockne and Gus Dorias and Ray Eichenlaub and Fred Gushurst here at Notre Dame. There've been some towering yams spun about the origin of the series with the Army, but the way Harper told it today was just simple enough to be the real story. 
"I wrote 'em a letter," he said. 

Notre Dame wasn't al together unknown in football in 1913. In Midwestern football that is. The Irish had been playing since 1887 and had beaten some tolerably celebrated opponents, including Michigan. But their fame hadn't reached the East. 
"In those days," Harper recalled, "we usually gotto work on the next fall's schedule alongaboutFebruary. We wanted an Eastern game, so I wrote a letter to Army and they happened to have an open date and took us on. Why did I pick Army? I don't know. It was a good game and good games weren't easy to get. Maybe it's true, as the old stories go, that Army was looking for a Midwestern opponent that wouldn't be too tough when they got my letter. But as far as I know, my letter was all there was to it." 
It is revealing no secret to report that Army took a brief lead of 13 to 7 and did not score again while Eichenlaub's furious plunges and Dorais' forward passes to Rockne and Gushurst were bringing five touchdowns and a Notre Dame victory, 35 to 
13. Throwing to receivers "as far as thirty­five yards away," Dorais worked the new­fangled pass successfully thirteen times in seventeen attempts for gains of 243 yards. 
"After the game," Harper said, "I went to see Charley Daly, the Army coach, and Major Graves, and off in a corner I saw an officer who really was giving his wife hell. Being a married man, I sidled over to get an 
Courtesy Random House, Inc. 

earful. Well, he was telling her, well, you've been hollering about why we don't play some decent opposition. Now, dammit, are you satisfied? · 
"That winter I ran into a fellow from Annapolis who climbed all over me. 'We expected to beat Army,' he told me, 'but they came along with that forward pass you showed 'em and blew our brains out.' " 
Harper sat in today's press conference. It must have been a rewarding experience for him to see three dozen newspaper men from all over the nation solemnly scribbling notes as Moose Krause, Frank Leahy's assistant, and Jack Lavelle, the king-size scout, dropped pearls of wisdom on the thick rug of the lounge in Rockne Memorial Field House. 
In Harper's day, a Notre Dame-Anny game stirred somewhat less journalistic commotion. When he took the 1913 team to · New York the players grabbed eagerly for newspapers to see their names immortalized in headlines. They had to comb the columns before Dorais found an obscure paragraph in the Times. 
"The Notre Dame football team," the lead said, "which has come all the way from South Bend, Illinois-" 
Dorais crumpled the paper in his hands. "Why, the fatheads! They don't even know what state we're from!" 
There was, of course, no admission charge for the spectators who lined the un­fenced field on the plains of West Point. Notre Dame's guarantee was a thousand dollars and, Harper said with justifiable pride, the trip produced a net profit ofeighty­three dollars. By 1919 expenses were some­what higher. The earliest Anny game ex­
18 
Scholastic 

l• 
. . 
--~­

....::...~ ~.,. _.:__:,_'.:~.::._c'r-;_,_,,_>',;;;~:: _t;""_~::..~~::_-::!"'J:_,-~~-\~t,;1 ;"if">.'''-~:!''••~•'•-,.,.,.,, ,~•,1 

Sports 

pense account still preserved here shows the following items in Rockne's hand for the West Point game of November 8, 1919: 
"Receipts, $1,000. Railroad, $1.381.35; meals,$184; ferry, $6.90; tips to porters, $6; tips to waiters $12 (this was first written as $6 then changed to $ 12); trip to Chicago to get shoes, $10.58; transfer of trunks, $3. Total expense, $1,603.83. Loss $603.83." 
It is worthy of note that Rock drew an advance of $1,600 from the treasurer and reported expenses of $3.83 more than that, even as a touring sportswriter of 1947. 
RUM+ VODKA+IRISH =FIGHT(l977) 
Notre Dame, IN-
card on the breakfast table recom­
mended a Fighting Irish cocktail. 

Perhaps "recommended" is the wrong word. The card merely announced that the confection was available at $2.50 (souvenir glass $1.75). "I'd like orange juice," a guest said, "pancakes, crisp bacon and coffee. But first, what is a Fighting Irish cocktail?" "All right," the waitress said. "One shot of rum, one shot of vodka, half a shot of Galliano, about this much orange juice and some green food coloring." There was respectful silence. Then: "Thank God it's Sunday and you can't serve me one." "I've never tasted one," the waitress said, "but anybody I ever served one never asked for another." 
This was in the Holiday Inn about three furlongs from the campus on the road to Niles, Michigan. Six days a week the Fight­ing Irish and other refreshments are available here in Gipper's Lounge, a shrine dedicated to the memory of George Gipp, the patron saint of football and eight-ball pool at Notre Dame. Walls of the lounge are covered with photographic blowups of football plays and players. Three dominate the decor: behind · the bar stands the Gipper himself, half again larger than life, wearing the soft leather head­gear and canvas pants favored by All-Amer­ica halfbacks around 1920; at his right is a huge head shot ofFrank Leahy, the late, great coach; at Gipp' s left, Harry S tuhldreher, Jim Crowley, Elmer Layden and Don Miller sit astride four plow horses. The riders wear football regalia with cowled woolen wind­breakers, and each has a football tucked under an arm. 
A 
With the possible exception of Knute Rockne's twisted smile, which appears on the wall ofa corridor just outside, this eques­trian study must be the most readily recog­nized photo ever made around here. George Strickler, who traveled with the 1924 team as undergraduate press agent, dragooned the spavined steeds from a nearby farm and posed the picture on returning from the Army game in New York where Grantland Rice had written the story that immortalized the back­field as the Four Horsemen of Notre Dame. On a campus where a five-dollar bill repre­sented wealth, Strickler sold hundreds of 8­by-11 prints at one dollar each. 
Photographic evidence notwithstand­ing, football played no special part in campus affairs or discussions this weekend. Reunion '77 was on, bringing together classes spaced five years apart from 1972 clear back to 1927 and beyond, each group identified by base­ball caps of a certain color. 
Wherever the eye turned it lighted on a cluster ofgold caps covering skulls that were sent out of here stuffed with learning fifty years ago, for something like 125 of the 400­odd members of the class of '27 made their way back. They came prepared for the dis­covery that their friends had aged faster than they did in the last half-century, and some­times they were pleasantly surprised. 
Little Eddie Broderick of Morristown, New Jersey, has retired from the bench yet he is the same blithe spirit who enlivened Pat Manion 'slaw classes. Time has not dimmed the laughter in Joe Dunn, though the waist­line has expanded a trifle since he quit Brain­erd, Minnesota, for the good life in Scottsdale, Arizona. The terra-cotta coiffure of Red Edwards, quarterback and co-captain in 1926, has not changed, and big John McManmon, the ag student from Lowell, Massachusetts, who played tackle in front of Red, still discourses with scholarship on the useful properties of manure. 
It seemed improbable that the Soviet Union, Communist China, or even Southern California could muster a more presentable clutch of septuagenarians than the class of '27. Considering that the clammy hand of Prohibition was on the land when these men were undergraduates, their appearance lent support to their youthful belief that barbed­wire gin, needled beer and white whisky warm from the still would make a man live long and do good deeds. 
There was little talk of frivolous nature. John Harwood, now a Nashville architect, had attended a morning mass yesterday in memory of227 deceased classmates and had doubts about returning for the reunion mass at 5:30 P.M. "IfI went to church twice in one day,"hesaid, "God mightthinkiwaspushy." 
Pat Cohen of Taunton, Massachusetts, said that after a fifty-year trial he had decided to settle permanently in South Bend and had bought property for that purpose. 
"Property, Pat? Where?" 
"In the Jewish cemetery." 
Regarding the unlined face ofJoe Breig, . an old crock remembered how that face had looked one evening in the spring of 1924. On the first Saturday in May-the day Black Gold won the Kentucky Derby-the Ku Klux Klan attempted to hold astate convention in South Bend. With deplorable disregard for the right of peaceable assembly, two thousand stu­dents intervened, even employing force in some instances to separate delegates from their bedsheet hoods. 
A night or two later, word reached the campus that a fiery cross was burning down­town. Maybe fifty students caught a trolley car to the scene, the rest following on foot. The trolley delivered the first group into an ambush manned by thugs with blackjacks and brass knuckles along with some cops. When reinforcements arrived on foot, Joe Breig' s glasses were broken, his right ear was partly detached from a bloody head, and nightsticks had raised welts across his back. 
Yesterday, though, he was telling of postgraduate days on the Vandergrift News in his native Vandergrift, Pennsylvania. When he covered city council, members tried to delay newsworthy business until after he had left their meetings, but he was young and could wait them out if they stalled until 4:00 
A.M. One day a committee waited on him at the paper to protest th~t day's headline, which reported that council had ignored an issue of civic importance. He explained that he had written the story because it was the truth. The councilmen argued. Joe was firm. The council president slammed Joe's desk with a fist 
"Dammit, Joe!" he said. "We didn't ignore it. We didn't bring it up!" ¦ 
19 







Sports 

k COMPILED BY JIM KUSER


Badger Showdown, Dec. 28-29, in Milwaukee. 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team 
lost a tough battle to defending national cham­pion Tennessee last Sunday, 77-54, before a The Notre Dame women's swim team re­crowd of 2,764 at the Joyce Center. Sopho­turned from the third annual National Catholic 
more center MARGARET NOWLIN led the Collegiate Swimming and Diving Champion­Irish with ten points and 15 rebounds, while ships at Fordham University after recording a KAREN ROBINSON and LISA KUHNS commendable third-place finish last weekend. each scored nine in a losing cause. Freshman TANYA WILLIAMS won the 
The Irish travel to Milwaukee, WI this Sat­meet's Most Outstanding Swimmer Award by urday to take on Marquette in the team's first setting meet records in the 200-and 400-yard Midwest Collegiate Conference game of the individual relays as well as the 200-yard fly. season. Her time in the 200-yard fly qualifies her for the 
NCAAs. 

Riding a four game winning streak, the Irish (10-2-0) face Ferris State (2-11-3) this week­end in a home-and-home series. Ferris State The Irish men's swim team also competed in leads the eight-year-old series 5-2-1. the National Catholic Swimming and Diving 
Outstanding performances from freshmen Championships last weekend, turning in a suc­defensemen ERIC GREGOIRE and DAN cessful performance. 19 out of 19 swimmers "ANIMAL" SA WYER paced the Irish in their scored in the meet as the men edged out Villa­two-game sweep of Mankato itate last week­nova by a score of 680-678 to take first place. end, 5-0 and 5-3. Goalie LANCE MADSON Leading the men was freshman sensation recorded the shutout in the first game, while JOHN GODFREY, who placed second in the MIKE CURRY and DA YID BANKOSKE 
each scored goals in the 5-3 win. This weekend will serve as a final tune-up for the Irish before they travel to the Bank One 
The Irish women extended their fall record to 5-0with 15-1 winsoverNorthCarolinaandAir 

:•·· \:i :J?El\lIALE·•.••·•X>••·•••· i~:c;e~k!~~;:h~:~~~~~:~~~t~~ ·:iATHLETEiOFf·.. : and junior LYNN KADRI each went unde­
···· •··, /fHE~~g:J 
fe;::in~~:e:a~e::~0o~~a~~~h note was 
th



;,&~~;,,..•n&ii~~i~i, 

~:::~:~:n ::::~:~:i:a:~:~g:ec~;; 'iBaifeda, a Senio{frori{~ciipoctf, ~j.J'~: . against Duke and Columbia at University Park, .cord.~/,fiv~ ~ictod~.·~t thff Ev~~t~ll PA on January 19. 
... Toiirnameiit'tol~d tlie WC>Inirrf.s foncini 11---,--,---.,,,,..,----,----------1 ,tt!runtQ 1s~Jyic1?riesoverl'fortbG~olin~ /• :r•-MEr-FS:FENGING 

1-----------"-'""----"--------"---"--"-'---'----'----'-=-I 
The Irish men defeated Illinois, North Caro­lina, and Air Force at the Evanston Tournament 

<·•• <FHE\WE t 

:f::,\i~~i kift.~i~{ 



11,~riifi~i( 
to raise their fall record to 7-0. Freshman foilist NOEL YOUNG was superb in winning seven individual bouts. 
Revenge was sweet for the Irish in defeating Illinois, as th_e Fighting Illini ended Notre Dame's 98-match winning streak in 1988. The Irish are presently enjoying a 29-match winning 
streak.­
spectable seventh-place finish last weekend at the Las Vegas Invitational Tournament. The Irish were led by PAT BOYD, who took second place after dropping a 9-8 decision to Townsend Saunders of Arizona State, the nation's top­ranked wrestler in the 142-lb. division. 
The Irish open their home schedule this week by hosting Illinois State on December 10. The Irish are currently ranked 16th in the national collegiate wrestling polls. 
Individually, Boyd and ANDY RADEN­BAUGH are each ranked among the nation's top 12 wrestlers in their respective weight classes. Boyd ranks third in the 142-lb. divi­sion, behind only Arizona State's Saunders and Joe Raymonds of Oklahoma. Radenbaugh ranks eighth in the country-in the 118-lb weight 
class. 
20 

Scholastic 



MOVIES
SPECIAL 
c' 



EXHIBITIONS
"Mystic Pizza," Annenberg Audito­p.m.at the Center for Social Concerns. 
El Salvador lunch: 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 

rium. 7:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m., Admis­Donation $3. 
sion $2. 

SPECIAL 

"Rare Bindings for Rare Books" 
UNICEF card and gift sale. 9:30 a.m. ­
UNICEF card and gift sale. 9:30 a.m.­

Department of Special Collections. 
4:30 p.m., Hesburgh Library. 
4:30 p.m., Hesburgh Library. 

Hesburgh Memorial Library Opening Reception, "New Faces Show," First Year Graduate Students. 5:00 p.m., 

LECTURES 

"University of Notre Dame Press" 
Snite Museum of Art. 
East Concourse "Oxidation -Reduction Reactions of 
Hesburgh Memorial Library 
S.M.C. Madrigal Dinner, 7:00 p.m., 
Sulfur -Containing Radicals and Con­

Regina Hall, North Lounge. 
tributions to Building a ScaleofReduc­tion Potentials:" Prof. David Arm­

"New Faces Show" strong, Radiation Laboratory, N.D. 
1st Year Graduate Students Conference Theatre, Radiation Lab, 
Isis Gallery 
December 8 through December 224:00 p.m. Sponsored by the Radiation 

SPECIAL
Laboratory. 

Graduate Records Examination. 7:00 a.m., Engineering Auditorium. 
"Opposition. and Dissent during the Video Presentation, "One Woman's 
Spanish Conquest of America" Voice: A Reflection by Teresa Kane, 
S.M.C. Madrigal Dinner. 7:00 p.m., Regina 
West Concourse RSM," followed by a prayer service on 
Hall, North Lounge. 
Hesburgh Memorial Library women's role in the church. 7:00p.m. in the multi-purpose room, Center for So­

SPORTS 

"New Faculty Publications" mittee on Notre Dame's Position on the cial Concerns. Sponsored by the Com­
Women's Swimming. ND vs. Saint Mary's, 
Second Floor Ordination of Women. 
2:00 p.m., Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Hesburgh Memorial Library Hockey. N.D. vs. Ferris State. 7:30 p.m., J.A.C.C. 
"David Hayes: Sculptures, Mar­quettes and Gouachclt 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Snite Museum of Art 111rough December 31 
Friends of the Snite Museum of Art 
SPECIAL 
Christmas Benefit "A Dickens of a 

Sunday Afternoon Tours, 2:00 p.m., Snite 
"Arctic Exploration'' Christmas," 6:30 p.m. $75 per person. 
Museum of Art Fitzpatrick Hall Concourse For more information, call 239-5516. 
Engineering Library 

SPORTS 

Wrestling. N.D. vs. Illinois State. 2:00p.m.,
S.M.C. Madrigal Dinner. 7:00 p.m., 

J.A.C.C. Arena.
Regina Hall, North Lounge. 
21

Editorial 






An Attack on Education 
Many students come to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's after twelve years of "education" which, in all honesty, often means more than a decade of memorization. In their first seminar class, some may be shocked to find they actually have to think, to analyze or to integratre some foreign author's work into their own lives. This, in essence, is what true education is all about-preparation for the real world. Both schools pride themselves, in part, on the liberal education their students must undergo in order to graduate. From English to engineering, students are taught to think for themselves... or so the universities claim. For some reason, however, they are trying to shelter the students from the real world. The administrations often refuse to release any formal information in connection with incidents involving suicides,·ctrugs ·and rapes (including those that occur in dorm rooms). The primary exception to this rule is when facts have been falsely represented and the incident has been widely publicized by credible sources. In this instance, the administrations will respond only so far as is necessary to free themselves from any blame. Why the schools maintain such policies is not alltogether clear. From a journalistic standpoint, they _are interfering with the public's right to know. It would seem that the universities are trying to hide something, possibly in hopes that, by ignoring the issue, it will "go away." It takes little thought to realize that these · problems do not just fade into the woodwork, but rather fester. How can the administrations, in good conscience, not feel a responsibility to let the student body know the frequency of rape on campus so that students can avoid situations conducive to sexual assault? In light of the educational nature of these institutions, they have undermined their very purpose. The administrations have effectively prevented the students from dealing with the problems of society as they impact the community. This not only prevents students from facing reality on a first-hand basis, but also impedes their growth and understanding of issues confronting leaders of the world today. Students know suicides occur and that drug use on campus is an issue. They have a right to know about these problems. Administrators have been telling us we will be future world leaders since we first arrived on campus. The administration, much to its chagrin, has been correct in its contention that leaders-in-the-making populate the campuses. Being responsible to this claim, it would seem that the universities should be interested in training these leaders to be the best educated citizens they can during the four years spent here. However, their logical diverges at this point. Regretfully, one is forced to conclude that issues such as media hype and university reputation must be the source of the restrictions of information. Granted, the universities can claim that such occurences are rare on campus as a result of top-notch security forces or Catholic atmosphere. This may be true to some extent, but, once again, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are part of the real world whether the administrations would like to admit it or not. A simple bit ofcommon sense attests to the obvious understatement of the figures the universities release. · The universities' concerns for their images are legitimate claims in certain cases. The risks, however, far outweigh the inconsequential damage to reputations. Only a warped sense of the value of human life would deny people the right to know where the dangers of rape are high. Only a confused mind would deny future leaders the right to information on issues they may someday face on a daily basis in their careers. Their . 
-Scholastic · 
. . 
22 

Scholastic 

. • , . . • l , • -• , • . . • , . -. 
Final Word 




Winning, Losing, and Everything 
The imperfection of the quest for perfection 
BY CHRIS FILUO 


. --­

, . .....:..........______ _ 



********************************************** WEDNESDAY 4th Cross the Border 9:00pm -2:00am THURSDAY 5th Club Cup Nite 9:00pm -2:00am 
FRIDAY 6th -LUNCH 12:00 -2:00 Pizza, Burgers, Subs, and More! -NITE 9:00pm -2:00am TNT Dynamite 
SATURDAY 7th -Baseball Nite 9:00am -2:00am MISFITS IN DISGUISE Comedy lmprov Company 9:30 -10:45 FREE Nachos-n-Cheese during Show 
NEXT WEEK: Open Wednesday .-!-A_e_~_NJ=L==u====:=i, 
& Thursday· ONLY! 

********************************************** 
24 
Scholastic 


.. 



© {'fBCf

Bi M41t 

G"POfftJ '"'G 

FORBIDDEN WORDS 0~ THE 1990, 
A-LIST AUTO SHADE U "BY "BOOME'R UTMAN 
"BIT-AMA')(.. 
"BlCOAST AL 
"BIG CHILL 
GENE'RATION 
"BIM"BO 
"BOCMBO')(.. 
CALIFO'RNIA 'RAISINS CA'REE'RIST CASSINGLE CELE"BUTANTE 
CELLULITE 
CHIC CHILL OUT 
CLAYMATION COCOONING D'RAMEDY 

D'RUG KINGPIN 
D'RY "BEE'R DUDE 
DWEE"B 
ECLECTIC 

ELECTIOF"UNK EVIL EM\>l'RE FO')(..Y 
GET WITH THE \>'ROG'RAM 
GLITZ 
GO FO'R IT 

GO'R"BY G-S\>OT G'RA\>HIC NOVEL HA\>\>ENIN' HEADUNGE'R HIGH CONCEPT HOME"BOY 
CODEPENDENCY HY\>E'RTE')(..T CONCEPTUAL 

HY\>E'R ANYTHING C'ROISSANDWICH ILLIN' CY"BE'R\>UNK 
INFOTAINMENT 
DANCE'RCIZE INTE'RFACE 
DEF JAZZE'RCIZE 

DICEY JUST SAY NO 

D.I.N.K. 
LIFESTYLE 
LIFESTILES OF THE 'RICH AND FAMOUS 
LIPOSUCTION LITE "BEE'I< LOTTO MAKE MY DAY 
MALE "BONDING 
METALHEAD MINDSET 
MINIMALISM 
MINIMALL 
MINISTO'RAGE 
MO,.....,..,Y TIACK 
NED-GEO \>ETE'R \>AN 
SYND'ROME 
\>ICTIONA'RY POLITICALLY CO'R'RECT 
\>OSTMODE'RN \>OST?UNK 
\>OWE'R "B'REAKFAST \>OWE'R LUNCH QUALITI TIME 'RAD 
'RAM"BO 'READ MY LIPS 'REAGANITE 'REFUSENIK 

SU'R'ROUNDSOUND SWATCH SYNTH\>O\> 
TELEVANGELIST T.G.I.F". 
A THOUSAND \>DINTS OF LIGHT 
TOF"UTTI 
TIANCE CHANNELING 
TIIVIAL \>U'RSUIT 
TU"BULA'R 
ULTIA 
ANYTHING 
VE'RNACULA'R VIDIOT 
WACK 
WACKO 
WACKY 
WANNA"BE 
WILDING 
Wl'RED 
WO'RKAHOLIC 
wuss 
YUPPIE 
ZIP IT 
ANYTHING 
IN HELL 
ANYTHING 
IS HELL 
ANYTHING 
F"'ROM HELL 

NED ANYTHING 'RO"BO ANYTHING 'ROCK OF TH€
NE'RD 
90'S NETWO'RKING 
'ROCKTO"BE'R NEW AGE 
'ROCKUMENTA'RY NEW WAVE 
SHOP TIL NEW ANYTHING YOU D'RO\> SIGNIFICANT

NINJA 
OTHE'R NUTIASWEET 
SOUND "BITE OUTIAGEOUS 
SPIN CONTIOL \>ALIMONY 
S\>OKESMODEL PASSIVE­
SU"BTE')(..T
AGG'RESSIVE SU"BVE'RSIVE 

KINDE'R, GENTLE'R \>EACEKEE\>E'R Dl'RTI DANCING NATION MISSILE 
SU\>E'RSTA'R 

DON'T WO'R'RY, LIFE'S A "BEACH PEOPLE METE'R SU\>E'R ANYTHING "BE HA\>\>Y 
:r
,. 
"I G\ 
" ~ 
,. 
i. 
a, 




Ticket Price: $7.00 
includes... bus and tickets to 
.·... 





Museum of Science Art Institute Field Museum of and Industry of Chicago Natural History 
p 1 us... 1ots ofti me to shop & sightsee! 
Bus leaves MaihCircle at 9:30 am 
Returns at 9:30 p.m. 
Ticket Sales: Lafortune .1 nform at i on Desk 1 : Oo -4: o o Nov. 2 9 -D e c. 9 







