
Paid Advertisement 
EL E NEW ERS! 

Scholastic 
Notre Dame's Studerit Magazine August 21, 1987 
News 
5/Newsnotes 6/Survival of the Homeless 
Sports Departments 
13/A Fresh Direction 4/Week in Distortion: 
Life at Notre Dame 
10/Coming Distractions: 


Upcoming Events 
17 /Music: Settin' the record straight 
18/Final Word: New Beginnings 
Scholastic is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at Notre Dame, IN 46656 and 
printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 466542. The subscription rate is $2O.OO/year and back issues are available at $LOO/copy. The 
opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board 
of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of 
the editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Scholastic is represented nation­ally by CASS Communications, Inc. 0 1987 Scholastic magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. 



Editorial 
Address Unknown 


s the fall semester begins, 109 freshmen will be without permanent rooms. Assigned to study lounges in Flanner, Grace and both Pasquerillas, these incoming freshmen will suffer many problems because of their tem­
porary status. The lack of privacy and the cramped quarters are inconveniences that hinder the students' adjustment to college. The homeless students also present extraordinary difficulties to hall staffs and their residents. Rectors and Resident Assistants must deal with the freshmen overflow without the proper facili­ties or time allotments. Permanent hall residents must confront the restriction of their living space and the ensuing overcrowding. 
But these are not new problems. As early as 1972, over-subscription has been a recurring nightmare for each new class of freshmen. The Towers and the Pasquerillas have become a convenient rug under which to hide the overflow. The administration has not found a way to resolve the problem, and with the secrecy sur­rounding the overcrowding perpetuated by the Office of Student Residences, it is difficult to ascertain what some possible solutions would be. 
The administration does, however, have a couple of obvious solutions. Upperclassmen could lose their four-year housing guarantee. Under that system, the fundamental residentiality of the campus would be shat­tered. Or the University could make certain that it does not admit more students than it can house by making more conservative picks from the admissions waiting list. Financially, Notre Dame cannot benefit from empty rooms. 
We recognize the delicacy of this situation. Whatever the administration acting through Residences does, there are negative consequences. The only satisfactory solution is in the form of additional dormitories and financial planning that does not break down when a few rooms are not filled. 
In the spring of 1987, University President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy established a residentiality task force to examine all aspects of residence life. Freshmen suffering 'the injustice of adjustment to college life from ·make-shift rooms should head the task force's priority list. By a close examination of the problem through Malloy's task force, a solution must be found. 
Scholastic 
Scholastic 
Vol. 129 August 21, 1987 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurns Vive Quasi Cras Moriturns 
Founded 1867 
Editor: Kathleen McKernan 
Managing Editor: Mark Dillon 
Business Manager: Cathy Coffey 
Editorial Staff 
Sports: Marty Burns Departments: Mike Farnan Student Life: Sara Harty News: Steffanie Keller Copy Chief: Bob White 
Production 
Graphics Art Manager: Patricia Brienza Photo Manager: Allan Lim Systems Manager: Lawrence Pravacek Production Manager: Amy Weber 
Business 
Administration and Circulation: Matthew Bradley Controller: John Harper Advertising Manager: Dave Marcantuono 
Special Orientation Issue Produced By: 
Jill Coakley Cathy Coffey Mark Dillon Hannes Hacker Steffanie Keller .Kathleen McKernan Bob White 
Scholastic 




L 



tlEREMIAH SWEENEY 
i 
·I 
·1 
I 
For Reservations, Call 277-6368 

Monday thru Saturday Lunch 11am-4pm 6402 Grape Road Dinner 5pm-11pm Across from 
University Park MallSunday 12pm-9pm 
on Grape Road 


Scholastic Announces Letters Policy 
Letters to Scholastic must be tyred and include the writer's name, address and phone number. 
.University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. 
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spel­ling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space limitations, Scho­lastic cannot print all letters received. 
Letters should be limited to fewer than 250 words. Address all 
Students. Get smart and save $$$ on your class books. All used texts 25% off; all new texts 10% off. 
·Over 30,000 titles in stock. 
3-5 day shipping time on text orders. Pandora's Books, 808 Howard at N.D. Ave., 233-2342 
Open 7 days/week 10-5:30 
.pandotG171 book, 
correspondence to: 
The Editor 
Scholastic LaFortune Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Serving American Cuisine 
August 21, 1987 

Week in Distortion/John Coyle Life at NotreDame= The Truth m11st beTolcl 



ou're  nervous!  
You're  excited!  
You're  here!  No  

more boring class trips to see exhibit upon exhibit of In­

dian artifacts. No more curfews. No more parents to nag you everyday. But then again, you're· no longer a big fish in a little pond. No more · homccooked meals. No more parents to hold your hand :when things aren't so great. 
So the big question on your mind is what to expect now that you are a student at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame du Lac. By now you've probably had it_ up to the old kazoo with all those well-intentioned but all too sugary words of advice found in the freshman literature, the "make the most of your four years" and "learn to budget your time" junk. And somehow .Mom and Dad's departing tidbits of advice don't cut it as they drive down Notre Dame Ave. with their brand spanking new University of Notre Dame sticker on the family wagon. "Have fun, but don't forget that you're. here to study;" says Dad in his sternest voice. "Don't be afraid to call. We love you," Mom manages to say between the tears and blowing the schnozz in the Kleenex. 
Well, I'm going to try to give you a rough idea of what to expect your first few months in Domerville. 
First off, get used to the fol­lowing dumb questions: "Where are you from?" "What dorm do 

you live in?" and the fan's favor­
ite "What's your major?" After 
aw,hilc, you'll graduate to the big 
leagues where there are only two 
questions: "Where are you going 
for break?" and the subsequent, 
"How was your break?" 
Moving on to the ND version 

of the Dating Game -SYR's. And as on t. v., there are winners and losers. Sometimes you win and sometimes you get drunk and · ditch your date. But they are 
always interesting and they do give us the opportunity to make a play for that someone special. A little advice: call your dates early, and unless you bear a resemblance to Vanna White or Tom Selleck (depending on your gender, of course), don't put your picture in the Dogbook. Oops, it's a little late for that ·one I guess. Sorry! 
Hard to believe, I know, but things do get a little slow in Indi­ana once in awhile. A small group of Gloomy Guses have banded together to complain in order to entertain themselves. Their topics run the gamut from head coaches to dining hall entrees. Sports-"Loser Lou" "Heave Holtz." ND males ­"They're all socially demented." 
ND females -"There aren't any." Ethanol -"It smells worse than New Jersey." The Peace Memorial (alias Stonehenge II) ­"Butt ugly." Hungarian Noodlebake "Low grade­dogfood." 
But for the most part, every­one loves it here. You get to call some of your professors by their first names. "Hey, Howie," you'll say, "why did I fail my calculus test?" Pretty neat, huh? Hanging out in a 12xl2 room drinking Old Milwaukees, listen­ing to worn-out Springsteen tunes .. will soon seem natural to you, and you might even come to enjoy it. And it will come as a shock for you young Fightin' Irish studs to discover how many leQpard-bikini-underwe ar­wearing Saint Mary's girls named Desiree and Lola there are "look­ing for a good time" as you walk back to your dorm with a few Panty Raid, shall we say, souvenirs. 
Well, it's about time to bring this slightly off-centered view of campus life to a merciful close. Notice that there was no mention of studying or going to classes. No need to spoil the best four years of your life, right? Ill 
Scholastic 




no 

Compiled by Jill Coakley 
A New Look for North 
Notre· Dame continues to receive her face-lift as reconstruction work begins on North Dining Hall. Although the dining hall will be closed during summers, --William Hickey, director of University Food Services, said it will be in operation for the fall and _spring semesters. · Sections of the dining hall, however, may be closed separately. This two-year expan­sion project will provide accom­modations for the additional patrons at North Dining Hall when Siegfried and Knott Halls open in the fall of 1988. 
M 6451 Q tMi&§Wid§9ii.AAikffS5 
August 21, 1987 
And Introducing ... 
The Class of 1991 is breaking . records. The approx.irnnte'ly I820 
already class of.: st_udcnts 

includes.· I 1~0-men and. (?70 
women; ':.the highest amount · of 
women evC:r accepted in a single 
class. The cla_ss also has IO percent 
minority students, another all time· 
high for Notre Dame. The average. 
freshman received an SAT score in 
the low~ 1200s and was r_ankcd in 
the top 6 percent of his or her 
class. "Academically, it's another 
very good class," said Kevin Roo­
ney; director of admissions.-"The 
biggest diffcrcnce is the high 
i4&i& iMiM 4#-45 
++ 

number of women and minorities. , I'm very happy about this class." 
Artful Additions 
The University of Notre Dame now possess the largest North American collection of art work by the late Ivan Mcstrovic. The 
,University recently acquired nearly 300 pieces of the artist's work from the estate of his wifc, Olga. Two of the most notable new pieces arc a 1917 bronze statue of the Virgin and Child and a 1940s plaster self-portrait. The pre­World War 11 pieces fill the miss­ing links in the University's col­lection. Only the Mcstrovic collec­tions in the artist's former homes in Split· and Zagreb, Croatia, can compare. Mestrovic spent several years living on tlie Notre Dame campus, dividing his time between teaching and his art. 
Non-Profit Athletics 
University of Notre Dame President Father Edward "Monk" Malfoy recently announced to the South. Bend Tribune that Notre Dame athletics would nbt produce a profit for the Un.iversity this . year. Costs to train, equip and pro­
vide medical care for athletes arc ." ri;ing while revenues from tclcv­.)sed football and basketball games are declining, Malloy said. Also, Notre Dame has only five home games during the 1987 season. The gate receipts for two of these games, Navy and the University of ,Southern California, wiII be split 50-50 rather than the normal 80­
20. According to the Tribune arti­_cle, all sports programs will be affccted by the loss in football and basketball r.evcnuc since these two sports subsidize the others. 
HF ; 



i&M&U-S-3 UAW# 44SIEWS51\it\W5?SM M%&ett ¼FMi@iit@tfh@#S&EiSb &j es we 
u 

82 men and 27 women are forced to live in study lounges due to a lack of on-campus housing 

By Steffaniae Keller 


'' ue to a shortage of . on-campus housing, you have been placed in tem­porary housing. Your campus address will be a study lounge in ... " While most Notre Dame stu­dents searched their mailboxes this summer for postcards and news from far-away friends, a large number of freshmen received this not so pleasant news of life at Notre Dame. Eighty-two men and 
27 women will be calling study 
lounges  in  Grace,  Flanner,  
Pasquerilla  East  and  Pasquerilla  
West home this fall.  
"The first students  were  noti­ 

fied that they would be in study lounges in July. As soon as we find out they are going to be out of the study lounges, we inform them," said Jennifer Gooley, on-campus housing clerk itt Notre Dame. "Some students who were origi­nally assigned to study lounges have already received permanent housing." 
Which freshmen will be placed in temporary housing is deter­
mined by the date of confirma­tion, not the date of acceptance, said Gooley. "Some people don't understand the difference between acceptance and confirmation. Some parents hold onto the confir­mation card forever and ever. They think 'He was accepted in March. It doesn't matter if I don't send this in until April'. But it is going to make a big difference."­Freshmen are assigned numbers according to their date of confir­mation and are then placed in per­manent housing as it 
Evelyn Reinebold, director of student residences, was on vaca­tion and unavailable for comment. 
Gooley, who has been employed in the Office of Student Residences for only one year, said she was unsure of the reason behind the number of freshmen without permanent housing. "It has something to do with the number of upperclassmen being able to remain on campus, and the amount of freshmen accepted by admissions," she said. "Some­where in there the balance is off." 
Dr. Emil Hofman, dean of the freshman year of studies, said that he does not believe the problem is the number of freshmen accepted. "The problem isn't that the fresh­men class is oversubscribed. Absolutely not," said Hofman. "The first reason people seem to want to give for the freshmen liv­ing in temporary housing is that too many freshmen were admitted. There is an economic fact of life that so many tuitions are needed to keep the University solvent -we need so many students, we need so many tuitions. Besides that we want to give the opportunity for a Notre Dame education to as many students as we can reasonably do so," he said. 
Hofman said he believes that the proper number of students are coming into Notre Dame for the conditions that are available. 
Scholastic 


Kevin Rooney, the director of admissions said he agrees with Hofman. "The number of fresh­men we enroll is determined by an enrollment projection committee, which decides the number of freshmen. This year, we were aim­ing around 1820 (the figure was the same for the class of 1990) and then we fill the remaining enroll­ment with transfers," said Rooney. 
"The big question with housing is what to do with seniors. Most schools have a lottery for seniors and reserve enough places for freshmen. Notre Dame tries to accommodate freshmen and seniors at the same time," said Rooney. "Th·e fault here is that Notre Dame tries to be generous to everyone. We have more people who want to be on campus than we do rooms available." 
The placement of freshmen in temporary housing poses a number of additional problems for fresh­men and hall staff alike, said Brother· Michael Smith, rector of Flanner Hall. Flanner is the tem­porary home for approximately 50 freshmen. "I think it's an injustice to the guys who have to live in the study lounges. They were never meant to be lived in. There's no soundproofing in those rooms at all. They are meant for study and that's it," Smith said. 
"I also think it's an injustice to the guys that live in the hall. They are losing out on ten study rooms in the building," said Smith. "And it's an injustice to the R.A.s (resident assistants) who have to deal with it, and it's an injustice to the hall staff. We (Flanner and Grace) are already the largest halls on campus; we already bring in the most freshmen and then we're given 50 more freshmen on top of that. Last year, I had 210 freshmen living here," he said. 
"Living in a study lounge was an inconvenience," said Pat McClanahan, a sophomore who spent his first semester in a Flanner study lounge before find­
ing permanent housing in Keenan. 
"We didn't have places for all of 
our clothes. There was only one 
desk when we got there so we had 
to get desks from other places." 
"You couldn't study in there because it was like a social lounge. People were used to coming in there to study so they just came in whenever they wanted," McClanahan said." Another big problem was the noise. We could hear the guys upstairs and down­stairs all the time because the study lounges aren't insulated like a regular dorm room. The noise travelled a lot. Also, living in the tower we could hear the elevator all the time." 
McClanahan said that the living in temporary housing contributed to academic problems his first semester. "I definitely think that I would have done better academi­cally first semester if I had been in a regular dorm room. I would have had more time to myself, and it would have been a lot easier to study in the room without all the noise," he said. "My roommates and I all did rather poorly first semester, except for one guy. I think the highest GPA was a 2.4." 
Julianne Collinge, a resident assistant in Pasquerilla East who has three freshmen in temporary hou~ing in her section will be spe­cially tuned to the problems they may have. Collinge lived in a study lounge for a brief time her freshman year. "It was a little harder being a freshman in a study lounge, mainly because you knew it was temporary," said Collinge. "Meeting people was just fine. The uncertainty was really the hardest thing. 
Mail was another problem for McClanahan. "When we lived in the study lounge, we always got our mail late. After we moved, letters that were mailed to our old address were even later," he said. "I got a Christmas card in March that had been sent to Flanner." 
An even bigger problem than late mail for McClanahan was the move into another dorm second semester."We had to make new friends. It was like starting school all over again," said McClanahan. 
Hofman said that this is the biggest problem his office sees with the freshmen in temporary housing. "The biggest problem comes when they are told they must leave the temporary hous­ing," said Hofman. That problem is severe at times. They don't want to leave their roommates and the friends that they have made." 
John Tyler, assistant rector of Grace Hall, said that there can be positive aspects to the situation. "The number of people they get to know expands exponentially. You get to know some guys in the dorm, and then you move to another dorm but you still have those connections back in Grace. When their study lounge room­mates move, they have access to getting to know a wider and wider range of people." 
"The freshmen in the study lounges are considered part of the floor," said Tyler. "At the begin­ning of freshmen orientation, RAs give a talk to all the freshmen on their floor. Freshmen in study lounges are included in that. They are a part of that floor. They are members of the dorm. They get involved with section athletic events, section social events, dorm social events, dorm extracurricular events. For all intents and pur­poses, they are members of the dorm until they move out," Tyler said. 
Sister Annette "Jo" Giarrante, rectress of Pasquerilla West, said that they will be treating freshmen in study lounges in the same manner other freshmen are treated. "We sent the s~me packet to the freshmen living in study lounges that we sent to the fresh­men who have regular rooms so that they wouldn't feel left out." 
August 21, 1987 7 

Currently, l 3 women are living in five of PWs six study lounge, but Giarrante said that she is unsure whether efforts to make them feel at home at Notre Dame will be successful. 
beginning," Hofman said. "I abso­lutely would. It's so very impor­tant for their adjustment to the University. I understand why we have the arrangement that we do ­

"I think that no matter how much you try to make somebody belong, they know that this is tem­porary," said Giarrante. "They'll know that any day they can get moved." 
"Being in a study lounge is dif­ficult for freshmen because they'll begin to feel like they belong to the section and to the people that they live with. There will be some bonding that occurs immediately," Giarrante said. "The sad thing is that they're going to get tugged right out of that when there's an opening, and chances are that many of them will not remain in this dorm. They'll have to adjust once again to a new dorm, new roommates, a new section, a new staff." 
"What I find sad about it is that it happens to freshmen. It would be one thing if it was upperclass­men. I think that for freshmen the first month of their adjustment here is crucial and to think know that might be tampered with hav­ing to pack up and move again is my concern," said Giarrante. Dean Hofman, whose oldest son was in temporary housing when he entered Notre Dame, said he agrees with this point of view. 
"My bottom line would be that I would like all freshmen to go into permanent housing at the very we're trying to avoid restricting housing for upperclassmen. In no way would I want to give anyone the impression that I approve of the situation as it exists now. Absolutely not. I don't approve, but I understand." 
The problem of freshmen in temporary housing is a "no-easy­answer question," said Rooney. "The whole problem is that so many people want to be on campus and for good reason." Smith said he has a potential solution. 
"My suggestion would be to . place all the overflow in the Morris Inn. The towers are too convenient," Smith said. "It's just a convenient place to pour in all these extra freshmen. Instead of taking care of the solution, . they just don't bother with the solution. It seems like all the people that have the power to do something about the situation don't have to live with it. (Father) Jerry (Lardner, Grace Hall rector) and I 
live with the situation, but we have no authority over it" 
Giarrante, who is a member of University President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy's task force on residentiality, said she hopes the task force may have some answers when they give their report March 15. "I think this should be an issue that is brought up on the task force on residen­tiality. There needs to be a discus­sion about whether upperclassmen are 'eating' the beds of the fresh­men because they aren't moving off campus." 
"What are we going to do if most upperclassmen stay in the dorms? What are we going to do with the percentage of freshmen that's standard that we accept every year?" said Giarrante. "This problem will reoccur if we don't look at it closely. I'm not saying upperclassmen should move off campus, I'ni saying if they bank on so many moving off campus, it really causes a problem when that doesn't happen." 
Right now, the respective hall staffs are doing the best they can in dealing with the overloads. Smith said he's been told some freshmen may be living in Flanner study lounges all year, both semes­ters. Tyler said Grace is also prepared for a lengthy stay. "We're preparing to have them stay a while," said Tyler. "We expect the last ones to leave quite a few months down the road." 
Tyler said that a request has 

been made for an additional assis­
tant rector to deal exclusively with 
the freshmen in study lounges. "It 
would make not only the staffs 
responsibilities a little easier but 
also make it easier for the fresh­
men that live in the study 
lounges," said Tyler. "In addition 
to their R.A.s, there would be one 
person that is specifically desig­
nated to look after them." 
As for the freshmen, 109 fresh­

men who will be living in study 
lounges until they receive that 
longed for, or in some cases 
dreaded, phone call telling them 
they have a permanent home at 
Notre Dame, they will be doing 
their best to make a place for 
themselves under the dome. "They 
really do amazingly well," said 
Smith. "Like all college students, 
they seem to survive about any­
thing."ii 
Scholastic 




WEL 
ACK! 
N.D. & s.M.CD s-TuDENTS & STAFF! YOU'RE PROBABLY WELL-RESTED 
AFTER YOUR SUMMER BREAKa 
WHY NOT STAY WELL-RESTED WITH A WATERBED FROM WATERBEDS, WATERBEDS, WATERBEDS! 


COMPLETE 

WATERBEDS 
FROM 
$12995 

*VISA *MASTERCARD *AMERICAN 
EXPRESS 
90 DAYS SAME AS CASH AVAILABLE TO QUALIFIED BUYERS. 





FREE MATTRESS PAD!* 
*With Bed Purchase and Valid Student I.D. 

SPECIALLY PRICED SHEETS & COMFORTERS! 

50968 U.S. 31 (N) 
DISCOUNT WAREHOUSE 

South Bend Downtown 
OUTLET · 

Next to•Eagles Supermarket Mishawaka 
2211 N. Main St. 

272-7943 256-5586 
Mishawaka 

HURRY! SPECIAL PRICES AND OFFER 
Cornero\~:!~4:rcKinlcy 


ENDS SEPT. 5TH OR WHILE QUANTITIES LAST! 
g

August 21.. 1987 
Coming Distractions Aug. 21-Sept. 10 


I::: 
FRIDAY 
ORIENTATION: 
All events today are open only to those freshmen arriving early and their parents 
Breakfast South Dining Hall 7 to 8:30 a.m. 
Campus Tours Main Circle 9, 10 and 11 a.m. 1, 2, 3, 4 p.m. 
Lunch South Dining Hall 12 to 1 p.m. 
Dinner South Dining Hall 
5:30 to 6:80 p.m. 
"Ferris Bueller's Day Off" North Quad Bp.m. Free 
Simon Says North Quad 10 p.m. 
Ice Cream Social Front of Administration Building 
10:80 p.m. 
Quad Party South Quad 11 p.m. 
EXAMINATIONS: 
Mathematics Cushing Hall 9 a.m. 
Languages Cushing 
10:30 a.m. 
English Cushing Hall 
1:30 p.m. 
American History Modern European History Economics Cushing Hall 3p.m. 
SATURDAY 
Breakfast ­

Freshmen South Dining Hair 7 to 8:80 p.m. 
Hall Meetings Assigned Halls 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Lunch ­

Freshmen South Dining Hall 12 to 1 p.m. 
Campus Tours Main Gate 1, 2, 3 and 4 p.m. 
Dinner ­Freshmen South Dining Hall 
5:30 to 6:30 p.m. 
Welcome and Introductory Ceremony -Fresh~en and their parents 
Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center 
7:30 p.m. 

Hall Meetings ­
Freshmen Assigned Halla 9p.m. 
Parent Orientation Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center 9p.m. 
SUNDAY 

Breakfast -Students South Dining Hall 7 to 8:15 a.m. 
Introduction to Academic Program ­Freshmen 
Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center 
8:30 a.m. 

Continental Breakfast ­
Parents of Freshmen Monogram Room Joyce Athletic and 
Convocation Center 
9:80 to 10:80 a.m. 
General Guidance Sessions ­Freshmen Assigned Advisors 
9:80 a.m. 

Welcome M1111s -Freshmen Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center 11 a.m. 
Picnic Lunch Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center 12 to 12:45 p.m. 
Introduction to Student Activities: Marching Band Glee Club Student _Government 
Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center 
12:45 to 1:45 p.m. 
Foreign Study Programs Introductory Meeting ­Freshmen 
Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center 2p.m. 
ROTC Presentation Monogram Room Joyce Athletic and 
Convocation Center 2 p.m. 

Open House Center for Social Concerns 2 to 4:80 p.m. 
Informal Mixers ­Freshmen Residence Halla 
3:80 to 5 p.m. 
Advisory Meetings ­Freshmen with Special Difficulties 

Freshmen Year Of Studies Office 2 to 4 p.m. 
Dinner -Students Both Dining Halla Open 5 to 6:30 p.m. 

Orientation for Freshmen 
Women W1111hington Hall 7p.m. 
Musical Chairs and Tie 
Dance Stepan Center 9 p.m. 
MONDAY 
Enrollment Stepan Center 
8:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
Alcohol Awareness Program Washington Hall 
10:30 a.m. and 6:30 p.m. 
TUESDAY 
Classes Start 8 a.m. 
SPECIAL EVENTS 
Sophomore Class Picnic Holy Cross Field Aug.2.( at 5 p.m. Free 
Class of 1990 Nite Freshmen Welcome Theodore's Aug.25 at 8 p.m. Free 
Ice Cream Social Fieldhouse Mall Aug. 26 at 8 p.m. 
•~Show Off Your 
Summer Tan" Sophomore Splash Bash Rockne Pool Aug. 27 at 7 p.m. 
Hawaiian Luai Stepan Courts Aug. 28 
Sophomore trip to 
the Dunes Main Circle Aug. 30 at 12:80 p.m. 
$2 
Sophomore Dorm Night Repective Dorms Sept. 5 


Compiled By Catherine Coffey 



J 
FRIDAY 
Check-In 
8 a.m. 
Breakfast 
Dining Hall 
8:15 to 9 a.m. 
Orientation Interview O'Laughlin Auditorium 9 to 11:15 a::m. 
Academic Information 
Sessions Carroll Auditorium 9 and 10 a.m. 
Coffee Break/Campus Tours Haggar Parlor/Terrace 9 and 10 a.m. 
Lunch 
Dining Hall 
11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
Day Student/Transfer 
Luncheon 
Stapleton Lounge 
Le Mana Hall 
11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. 
Freshmen Pre-Registration Briefing 
B.A. and undecided 141 Regina Hall 
B.B.A. 
143 Regina Hall 
B.S. 
148 Regina Hall 
12:30 p.m. 
Day Student Orientation Day Student Lounge 
Madeleva Hall 
1:30 p.m. 
Ireland Program Meeting 
Little Theatre 
Moreau Hall 
1:30 p.m. 
Library Touni 
Circulation Desk 
Cushwa-Leighton Library 
1:30 p.m. 
Social Survival Session 303 Haggar College Center 
1:30 p.m. 

Rome Program Meeting Little Theatre Moreau Hall 3 to 4:30 p.m. 
All Other Abroad Programs Regina Hall 3 and 3:45 p.m. 
History of Saint Mary's Carroll Auditorium 12:30, 3 and 3:45 p.m. 
Dinner Dining Hall 

4:30 to 6:15 p.m. 
President's Welcome and 
Reception Angela Athletic Facility 7p.m. 
SATURDAY 
Breakfast Dining Hall 
8:15 to 9 a.m. 

Freshmen Pre-Registration Briefing 
B.A. and undecided 141 and 1(3 Regina 
B.B.A. 

148 Regina 9 and 10:30 a.m. 
Lunch Dining Hall 11:S0 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
College Open House Angela Athletic Facility 1 to 2:30 p.m. 
Financial Aid Briefing Little Theatre Moreau Hall 2 to 3 p.m. 
Student Support Services MONDAY O'Laughlin Auditorium 3 to 4 p.m. 
Breakfast Dining Hall

Reception for Presidential 8 to 9:30 a.m.
Scholars Haggar College Center Terrace 
Registration for Freshmen 5 to 6 p.m. 
and Survival Leaders Lower !eve Le Mans HallBeach Party '87 8:30 to 10:30 a.m.

Library Green 6 to 8 p.m. Schedule Changes 121 Le Mans Hall 
8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.

SUNDAY 
Lunch Dining Hall 

11:30 a.m. to 1:15 p.m. Breakfast 
Catch the SpiritDining Hall 
Chapel8:15 to 9 a.m. 

Holy Cross 1, 2 and 3 p.m. Opening of School 
International StudentLiturgy OrientationAngela Athletic Activity Stapleton Lounge9:30 a.m. 

Le Mans Hall 4 p.m. Brunch 
Dinner Dining Hall 
Dining Halla 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
4:45 to 6 p.m. 

Survival Group Meetings Regina Hall 
TUESDAY

1 and 3 p.m. 
Survival Leader Skits Residence Hall Meetings Carroll Auditorium Respective Halls 
4:15 p.m. 7 to 8 p.m. 
. . , ... ' 
TICKETS TO THE EVENTS LISTED ONTHE FOLLOWING p AGE MAY BE PURCHASED THROUGH: . . 
. . . . .. . .. :· ...., ... .. ·,···.·. 
. '.:.·.Jam C~~cert i:.i,nEi: F?t;i,} · complete:concert information·· 
(312) 666:.S667: . . .

Ticketron: (312) T.IC-KETS ... 
·.. ,.. .· "" 

Hot Tix Booth:half-prictii<· ' Theat~t' Tix: (il.2) 853Jsbs . ''day.of performance'' tickets tci theater, concerts. 
· ·. sporting events>and cithE!r attractions (312) 977-1755 

August 21, 1987 
11 



CONCERTS: 
The Cult 
Guns 'N' Roses Aragon Ballroom 1106 W. Lawrence August 22 at 8 p.tn. 
Frankie Valli and 
Martha Reeves Coveleski Regional Stadium 501 South Street Sept. 10 at 7:30 p.m. 
Sugar Blue Kingston Mines 2548 N. Halstead August 21 at 9:30 p.m. 
Big Daddy Kinsey and the 
Kinsey Report Blues Band B.L.U.E.S. 2519 N. Halstead August 21 and 22 at 8:30 p.m. 
Overkill Testament Medusa's 
Die Warzau Synfony Medusa's 3257 N. Sheffield August 29 at 12:30 a.m. 

Suicidal Tendencies w/Excel Riviera Night Club 4750 N. Broadway Sept. 4 at 7:30 p.m. 
Jazz Fest w/Maynard 
Ferguson Riviera Night Club 4746 North Racine 
"Beehive" Briar Street Theatre 3133 North Halstead Rd. Aug. 21 to Sept. 10 
"Miss Margarida's Way" Igloo, The Theatrical Group 3829 N. Broadway Aug. 21 to Aug. 29 at 8 p.m. $7-10 
"Pump Boys and Dinettes" Apollo Theatre 2540 N. Lincoln 

3257 N. Sheffield August 23 at 7:30 p.m.The Slugs w/State of Emergency Cubby Bear Peter, Paul & Mary 1059 West Addison Chicago Theatre August 22 175 N. State Street August 28 and 29 at 7:30 p.m. Whispers w/Stephanie Mills Uncle Jon's Band New Regal Theatre Biddy Mulligan's 1645 E. 79th 7644 N. Sheridan August 21 at 8 and 11:30 p.m. Aug. 29 at 8 p.m.  Sept. 5 at 9 p.m. THEATER: "The Last of the Red Hot Lovera" Old Orchard Country Club Theatre 700 Rand Road Mt. Prospect Aug. 21 to Sept 10  Aug. 21 to Sept. 10 at 7:30 p.m. $20.50 and $25.50 "Burn This" The Royal-George Theatre 1641 N. Halstead Sept. 9 to Oct. 4 at 8 p.m. "The Runner Stumbles" Bailiwick Theatre 3212 N. Broadway Aug. 21 to Sept. 10 at 7:30 p.m. $12  
Michiana  
CONCERTS: SCOTTSDALE "Snow White" John Cafferty & The 1 and 3 p.m. Beaver Brown Band "The Lost Boys"Holiday Star Theatre 5:45, 7:45 and 9:45 p.m. 1-66 and U.S. 30 "Can't But Me Love" Merrillville 1:30, 3:30, 6:30, 7:30 August 28 at 7:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. FILMS: UNIVERSITY PARK WEST This listing is effective from "Care Bears Adventure" Aug. 21 through Aug. 27 1:30 and 4':15 p.m. "Full Metal Jacket" 5, 7:15 and 9:45 p.m.100 CENTER "North Shore" "Adventures in Babysitting" 1:46, 3:45, 6:46, 7:46 1:30, S:SO, 6:SO, 7:SO and 9:45 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. "Monster Squad" "Roxanne" 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30 1, S, 6, 7 and 9 p.m. and 9:30 p.m.  FORUM "Masters of the Universe" 1, 3, 6, 7 and 9 p.m. "The Living Daylights" 1:30, 4:20, 7 and 9:35 p.m. UNIVERSITY PARK EAST "Summer School" 1:30, 5:30 and 9:30 p.m. "No Way Out" 2, 4':30, 7 and 9:30 p.m. "Beverly Hills Cop II" 1:30, 3:30, 6:30, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. "Back to the Beach" 1:45, 8:46, 6:46, 7:46 and 9:45 p.m. "Snow White" 1:46 and 3:46 p.m. "Robocop" 6:45, 7:46 and 9:46 p.m. ''Untouchables" 3:40 and 7:40 p.m.  TOWN AND COUNTRY "Dragnet" 2:15, 4':46, 7:16 and 9:40 "La Bamba" 2, 4:30, 7 and 9:30 p.m. "Stakeout" 2:10, 4:40, 7:10 and 9:40 p.m. READY "Follow That Bird" 2 and 6:30 p.m. "Adventures in Babysitting" 3:30 and 7:20 p.m. "Robocop" 9:30 p.m. "Secret of My Success" 2:10, 4:30, 7 and 9:20 p.m. "Roxanne" 2:30, 4:40, 7:10 and 9:40 p.m.  

12  Scholastic  
.". > .­- ·­ ,,  -.,  -. -~-----.::-_..  -.­ ~ : . r-­-<\ .-:·:;.-CJ_}-'  ..·-,~ ~/-.  -----~  .-~ ~ -_-~------...  .•  -:~~ ?·'/.-\{~ '':<>''?~}::~~  ..  ..  
.  - . .  


N 
By Kathleen McKernan 
ew athletic director Dick Rosenthal is no 

stranger to Notre Dame or collegiate athletics. As a 
student-athlete at the Notre Dame of the early 50s, hoop-shooting "Rosie" earned a finance degree and All-America honors. After graduation, Rosenthal played two seasons in the NBA, furthered his education with an MBA and returned to his college town to work for a local bank. 
But now, 25 years after becom­ing the chief executive officer of that bank, now called St. Joseph Bancorporation, and less than two months after resigning from that position, the 54-year-old Rosenthal is doing what he calls 
•Lrepotting himself" in some fami­liar soil. The move has raised questions among some Irish fol­lowers who think it strange that the powers that be chose someone who is so inexperienced in athletic administration. And with such a close proximity between Rosenthal's resignation from the bank and the pursuit of Gene Cor­rigan by the Atlantic Coast 
August 21, 1987 
13 




Conference, some have suggested that the sequence of events was not coincidental. Rosenthal has said otherwise. 
"I can assure you with every­thing I have in me that any deci­sion to leave the bank was first and foremost predicated on the recognition that I'd been the chief executive of that institution for almost 26 years," he said,"and I believe there's value in changing chief executives periodically. 
"I had not the slightest inkling that Notre Dame would be looking for an athletic director. Indeed, when I found out about it, my first_ reaction was to try to con­vince Gene Corrigan that he ought to stay here." 
Rosenthal may not have been directly involved in athletic administration, but he does have impressive credits and contacts within the Notre Dame commun­ity. He, at one time, was president 
of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. And although he admits he is short of experience in negotiating television contracts, finance is his field. "The job is an administrative post," he said, "and I've spent niy ­entire working career in adminis­tration. It's true that the facts, the specifics, the techniques of sports administration are new and dif­
f erent. I'm not experienced in terms of negotiating television contracts, but there are other peo­ple in this office who are very experienced." 
"This would be a terrifying job," said Rosenthal, "if this department were not blest with experienced professionals. I think I can adapt readily to the job because of those people, and hope­fully, I'll be a quick learner." 

Former athletic director Gene Corrigan also had praise for his associates, Roger Valdiserri, Brian Boulac and Joseph O'Brien. He told the South Bend Tribune before he left that "I've never worked with so many self­starters." 
Executive Vice President Father William Beauchamp, who praised Rosenthal's community record in addition to his experi­ence in business and personnel management, told the Associated Press, "Bottom line, I was looking for somebody I could work with comfortably as well." 
As Rosenthal takes his place at the right hand of Beauchamp and assumes one of the most coveted athletic director positions in colle­giate athletics, he inherits many of the problems and pressures of predessor Corrigan. One concern, the primary reason for Corrigan's departure to the ACC, is distance from family. Unlike Corrigan who returns to the southeast to be closer to family, Rosenthal's fam­ily is already close at hand. Four of his eight children, who range in age from 17-30, have graduated from Notre Dame. Yet another daughter is currently enrolled as a junior. 
With a vision shaped in Notre Dame's past and a personal and professional involvement in its 
future, Dick "Rosie" Rosenthal becomes the University's guardian of athletic tradition. 
f Irish Head Football Coach Lou Holtz had Sparky Anderson's auda­city with pre-season pred­ictions, Notre Dame fans 

would have an idea of his expecta­tions for the season. He'd have some new freshman who would be the greatest thing since Paul Hor­nung. And he'd guarantee an Irish presence in a major Bowl. 
But Holtz is a little more cau­tious. He'd rather downplay the potential in his group of freshman 
14_ 
than publicly be wrong. In his annual preseason press conference, Holtz was confident but brief with regard to his freshmen prospects. 
"I was impressed with the freshmen," he said, "but once again they are freshmen and they are in shorts and you really can't tell a whole lot about them." And then he threw in a witticism: "Ifs hard for me to evaluate (talent) in shorts. If I could evaluate in shorts, . . . I'd be a basketball coach." 
Holtz also commented on the 

100th year of Notre Dame football 
and the relative value of that 
anniversary and team play. "When 
the other team is 3rd-and-2 on our 
nine, we sure won't be saying, 
'Gee, this is our 100th year of -football."' 
Amidst conservative evalua­tions of his new class, he reported the loss of freshman lineman Brian Shannon, who suffered a broken leg in a summer exhibition game. Holtz also snuck in the athletic 
Scholastic 

----~-~ -•
.".> -.. •". '" -. -_ ----_-. -·:' ., :·=-:--."_ ··:;<·, -'--:~.-_,_ -'":·,:..·,.t~ ---_·,,:. ,.o-. ·:,,,"t:c-:·--:~~.,,_,.)"~:/-:~:y":~J----­
<:-,,.,1 
• 


Wi W&Al&t&h § MG EH MH&tMMSN 

<Jo SOPHOMORE 



inelegibility of Mike Stone­gery, Cedric Figaro, and Jim breaker, who missed summer Dadiosis. school in order to have ear sur-Flanker Tim Brown has been 
a a Mi Id J!I %$ W U UC S CU 
\J\I E' L C O IVl t-
Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Picnic on Holy Cross Field Thousands of Hot Dogs and Hamburgers 
5:00-7:00 p.m. 

Class of 1990 Nite.at Theodore's Enjoy the Opening Night of Theodore's New Season and Go for the Giveaways Frosh Welcome Begins at 8 p.m. 
Join Your Fellow Classmates at the Fieldhouse Mall for an Ice Cream Social and Jam to a WVFI Live Broadcast 
Music Begins at 3 p.m. 
Thursday 

Friday Saturday 
11V 1€.. l: \Z 
Show Off Your Summer Tan at the Sophomore Splash Bash -Complete with Contests and Prizes. 
The Action Commences at 7 p.m. at the Rockne Pool 
Do the Hula at the Hawaiian luau 
a:t Stepan Center Tonight 
Catch Some Rays at the Dunes Sign-up at any of the above events or at the Sophomore Class Office in LaFortune 
Buses Leave at 12:30 and return at. 5 and 7 p.m. The cost is $2. 
dominating Notre Dame's share of the magazine market as he enters his senior year as one of the pre­season leading candidates for the Reisman Trophy. When Holtz spelled out the Irish priorities, the trophy hype barely approached a distant second. "If we were going to push Tim Brown for the Reis­man, we'd use him on defense as well. Tim Brown will be the first one to tell you that winning is the most important thing for Notre Dame." And Holtz extends the team success concept to his highly-touted freshman class. 
"Our freshman football players were highly regarded coming in, and the most important thing that we have to get across to them is that they are no longer recruits ­they are members of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame football team." 
J S__,U All• U 
,._ a u one came i a : u ,, a c r u 
August 21, 1987 
15 


COME JOIN US 
BE A PART OF THE 120 YEAR TRADITION . 

We'll See You At Activities Night Look For Our Booth · ND -Sept. 1 SMC -Sept. 2 
F ..... ...... ....... -....~~.....--..~7
~~~ ~ ~ 
Advertisement . 
THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION-BOARD 


t WELCOMES t t 
THE t 

t t 
SUB ... look to us for activities under the Dome 

. t t 
' 

t ...movies, concerts, trips, dances, parties, lectures, entertainment, services . . . & 
~~ ..... ~.___...~ ......... ~~~~~~-.rma,.~__,,J 
16 Scholastic 
Music/Tim Adams 
Settin' the Facts Straight 

knu w it's a little early in the year to be making 
enemies, and it might 
not be fair to warp you 
freshman this early on, 
but I've definitely come 

to the conclusion that Notre Dame is a pretty lame campus. 
No, the academics are fine and you can still build a strong reli­gious and moral character, if that's what you're into. But some people, myself included, need a little bit more than schoolwork and religion to remain sane and happy folks. My personal placebo is music ­cool music, stuff that fills in gaps in my life, helps me cope with whatever problems I might have and sometimes just makes me feel good. And from the standpoint of musical entertainment, this is one place where Notre Dame fails. 
In my three years here, this campus has been subjected to a pretty lousy selection of "musical entertainment" consisting of true powerhouses like "weird" Al Yan.: kovic, wimp baladeer Henry Lee Summer, the Suburbs (twice), Timbuk 3, arena hacks Berlin, and let's not forget the Tommy Shaw fiasco of three years ago. With the exception of Timbuk 3, all of the above acts are critical washouts ­people whose death would be an improvement i1_1 the musical world as a whole. And who can listen to Timbuk 3 without falling asleep? 
All is not terrible at ND, how­ever. I have been fortunate to wit­ness some prettygood shows here, though these have been few and far between. Three years ago, the Bangles played Stepan Center to a crowd of approximately 300 and most of those people were South Bend high school students. Where were all the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students? Out getting drunk, perhaps? But at least that crowd was an improvement over the 100 or so who witnessed a good set by Joe "King" Carrasco at Stepan the week before. 
Other noteworthy performances at Notre Dame over the past three years have been done by Die Kreuzen, Dallol, Get Smart!, and even John Cougar Mellencamp. Only Mellencamp's show (at the ACC) could be considered "well­attended." My point is that even when the folks over at the Student Union Board stumble upon some­thing decent, nobody makes the effort to attend. 
Exactly why this is; I don't rightly know. But part of the problem lies in the preconceptions this campus has as to what consti­tues good music. If it ain't U2 or Huey, forget it. Conservatism holds many students back from being truly experimental in buying new tunes for their box. This year on campus the really "rad" stu­dents probably will be playing a lot of the Cure, U2, New Order, Crowded House, Smiths, Husker Du, Cult, Mission UK, etc., etc., ad nauseum. Too bad all those groups, almost without fail, are two to three years past their prime and several of them suck to begin with. 
The impact, or more specifi­cally the lack of impact, that our radio station WVFI has had is also to blame. Last year the station received lots of bucks for a com­plete overhaul, allowing the campus to finally hear what was touted all along as a "progressive" alternative. When the station returned to the airwaves, the campus was greeted with the thril­ling news that practically every DJ was playing the same Eurodisco garbage over and over. I mean, how progressive can a station be if the DJs' musical knowledge doesn't go past what the college music journals tell them to play? Several excellent records sat unplayed in the racks all year because the DJs were afraid to try something new. Don't expect this to change this year. 
Really, all this doesn't person­ally upset me as much as I'm mak­ing it sound. I'll still go about my own business reading fanzines and scanning record stores for albums and singles that I think might be interesting. And I'll continue writ­ing this column and disc jockeying on WVFI, regardless of what my fellow students are listening to. But, in the end, I think the campus would be a hell of a lot better off if people just tried something dif­ferent, and this applies to the higher-ups at WVFI and the Musi­cal Entertainment Committee, as well as to all you plain, ordinary students. 
Maybe the reason why many people praise the lifestyle at large public universities like the University of Wisconsin at Madison or the University of Illi­nois isn't because they drink more beer than we do; maybe it's because their atmosphere is one that is truly open-minded. I mean, if you don't try new and different hings in college, will you ever try them? II 
August 21, 1987 
17 


Final Word 



ew Beginnings 
BY FATHER EDWARD MALLOY 

am genuinely excited as we begin another school year together. This is my first year as president of the University, and I feel a special affinity with those sm­dents and faculty who have 
· joined the Notre Dame family for this first time. In one sense, Notre Dame is a large and com­plex institution -we have over one hundred buildings, 9,400 total students, 900 faculty members and 1,200 staff and administrative employees. The campus spreads out ·over 1,700 acres and we are the second most popular tourist attraction in the state of Indiana 
But there is another side to Notre Dame -it's soul if you will. This is constituted by the network of friendships formed, by the dedication of gifted minds to the search for truth, by the vitality of the worship throughout the year, and by the deep loyalty of its graduates who return so readily for visits. This is the Notre Dame of hallowed professors, beloved rectors and secretaries who care. Each of us is a part of this reality for better or for worse. It is a sacred trust which we all bear a responsibility 
to preserve. 
I will surely be feeling my way in the months ahead. Don't be surprised to discover some stupid mistakes or some seeming insensitivities. I and all of us in the administration will endeavor to stay in touch and to foster a spirit of open communication. Community is always a difficult achievement and it requires cooperation from all participants. 

·Particularly to those of you who are students, I would like to offer a few words of encourage­ment and advice: 
¦Keep struggling to find a healthy balance between study and leisure, culture and recrea­tion. Education is a serious endeavor. It requires self­discipline and drive. Indeed mil­lions throughout the world envy your opportunity. Take full advantage of the resources here ­the concerts and plays, the Snite, the lectures and symposia, the games and clubs and student government. At the same time, there is a legitimate place for fun and celebration, for music and dance, for bull sessions and quiet walks around the lake. 
l!IGet to know and ·be known by the faculty and the head staff in the dorms. The passage from adolescence to young adulthood is full of challenges of all kinds. Sometimes one's life goals are unclear; relationships flourish and then wane. Friends get sick and relatives die. Your journey is unique in its own way but others have faced similar challenges and might even have a bit of wisdom to pass on. Take the initiative and say hello or stop by for a chat. The seemingly calloused prof or rector might turn out to be a lifelong friend. 
IIIDon't settle for a childlike faith or leave religious commit­ment at the periphery of one's consciousness and concern. The dorm chapel, Sacred Heart Church, the Grotto -these sites of devotiop. and prayer provide the opportunity for regular parti­cipation with the community of faith. This is an essential com­ponent of Christian discipleship. But there is more too it than that. A Catholic university is an ideal place to ponder the Scriptures, to become familiar with the doc­trine and practices of the Church, and to confront the per­plexing questions of contem­porary life. Furthermore, the Center for Social Concerns offers social service projects of all kinds. Whether you make an· Urban Plunge, tutor a grade schooler, visit the elderly, or spend a prolonged period in the Third World, you will be cul­tivating a heightened sense of responsibility for the quality of life of your neighbor in need. 

fi!Finally, take a few risks. The biblical author assigns to the young the challenge of dreaming new worlds. Do not settle for the givenness of things. Imagine and work for a better universe and (I might add) an improved Notre Dame. Do not be a prisoner of your major or your career plans · or even your parents' expecta­tions. You have come here to learn how to think more clearly, how to clarify your values, and how to make a difference. There is no better time to begin than this year. 
I hope that I can come to know many of you personally this year. Together we can build a greater Notre Dame. II 

Live the Tradition Together 



ubscribe 
to 


chola tic 
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE 
-·--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Please send years of Scholastic to: 
Name 

Address ______________________ 
City State Zip
-------------'---------­Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x __ years = $___ 
-

i 19 Scholastic ­





SC+\OOC \S \-tELL 
OR THIS IS ,HE. Fl'2.ST SEMe.STER O"F -:n-\e Rt.ST OF ~OV'2.. [....l Fe 
BAS\C RULES 



~urr mrr At.lY K~wl-EoGe IN~t>IJWMTI,Y AS~o~se.o 
\N Cr.,AS.~ OOR1..le,THE.. 
ll)Ea:. 1MTH. 812A1N ­
QAMP,C,1~<?, DE.&AUCM.E.R.l;j 
o.:i -n{t \J'ec\::.END. 









~QAT£Q~l~ ~ So~ORlT':1? 
A~'T 'i\-\E~ Al.-t-JUST REAc.Tior.l~~ X!:.NOPHOS!C ENCl.AVE.S OF • S ti PE.'? ~\C\AL.l C.OtJ F012Ml ~'t" . Ltttl.-E StJoBs? 
01-l M~ (',,o00lllt'>>, tJO II G,oto,l& (',,2.EE.~ IS FU.J i ;, 1,s: JUST LI'!:€ SllMME~­C.~P, o>JL-':l w111-1 Beee, 
17RUC,S, PAR"l"IES, PRAollet, PAOVl..ll-JG, AIJC' I-IA'"l-1,JG. TRlle, ,He ATMO~Pt-\EQe I!. A Q\T A>Jn-f>JiEU.-cctVAL1 
8\ff !At-10 &U~S A Hoot" (1)\J.E.,.) lj OU'~ ~1116 up tOtTI-\ '1ou~ WN lei.iv? 
IF ~OU Fl~ D ~OOQS9,F ~LA111~G fOo.;BAt,L. I~ "TH'e-STVVSN"t" 1.-00NG,E, fv\0P-c T\-\AN OrJCt, 
SE.El:=-coutJs-;;t..1t-lG IN\N\E.01ei.1"6t,.,, 
20 Scholastic 









DOMINO'S PIZZA 
WELCOMES YOU TO NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
ASK FOR YOUR FREE GIFT WHEN YOU PLACE YOUR ORDER r---------------------------T------------------------------,---------------------------~
I
DINNER FOR FOUR 
$10.99 +tax 
One 16" pizza with two items plus four cokes for only $10.99 
SAVE $2.07 

Offer Good Every Day 
Expires JJ/27/87 

THINK THICK ON THURSDAYS 
$6.00 +tax 
One 12" pizza 
with extra cheese, 
pepperoni and 
extra thick crust 
for only 
$6.00 + tax 
SAVE 

Offer Good on Thursdays Only Expires 9/27/87 
: SUNDAY 
I 

: DOUBLE HEADER 


$9.87 
+tax 
Two 12" 
pepperoni pizzas 
for only 
$9.87 + tax 
SAVE $3.53 
I I I I I 
Offer Good on Sundays Only I 1 
I Expires 9/27/87 I 
I 




~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
NOW HIRING FOR 
CALL US 

ALL POSITIONS 


-2151 
So. Bend Avenue Store Hours 
DOMINOS PIZZA
SU'.N.-THUR. 
4:30 
p.m. -1 a.m. 30 min. delivery guarantee DELIVERS FREE SAT.-SUN. or $3.00 off your order 

4:30 
p.m. -2 a.m. 




CARPET RE 
N 
T SALE 



EVERY CARPET REMNANT IN STOCK 
Over 500 Remnants To Choose From 
Prior Sales Excluded Sale Ends 9-20-87 


OUR 33RD YEAR 


L· 

-~-t-1 
On Grape Road-­

4119 GRAPE ROAD, MISHA\VAKA PHONE:.277-9711 Just 2 Miles South Of Mall 



