THE NEW DOBBS
NAVAL OFFICER’S CAP
10% LIGHTER TO WEAR 100% EASIER TO CHANGE

T)EGULATION in every respect, yet revolutionary in a great many respects. So easy to change covers that you can almost do it blindfolded. Dobbs quality, styling
and workmanship, of course. Sea-Master is a tremendous
REMOVABLE GROMMET
Exclusive feature for quick changing of covers
Check the exclusive features and you’ll know why the improvement over any other naval cap made.
EXCLUSIVE FEATURES
GUIDE HOOK
For easy insertion of grommet
"SELF-STARTER"
centering pin to determine exact point for placing cover
ME MODEM
GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. Michigan St.
iri [Sovihl -fiend TAXI FREE to The Modern Gilbert’s
2
189159
3
EDITORIAL
Re-Organization
By Pvt. Ralph Abell
This issue is the first issue of the New Scholastic. Thanks are hereby given to Captain Finney, Lieutenant (jg) Collins and Father Carey for their help in forming the new magazine. In order to get things straight from the start, we want to say that this paper is a coalition of the old Scholastic and the much talked of but never published sendee men’s paper, the Mariner.
This is the 76th year in which the Scholastic has been published as a general news interest publication of happenings and events at Notre Dame.--This is the first time that the organization and staff of the paper had to be reorganized to meet'new requirements. Last semester the magazine was said to lack interest for the service men on the campus. We trust that this will not happen again because the present staff is composed of three civilians, two marines, and two seamen. We will publish news and events which are of interest to all groups on this campus. However, we cannot succeed unless we receive the cooperation of everyone. If you have a news story, a humorous anecdote, or just a desire to write, contact one of the Scholastic members and he will take care of you. Remember, it is your paper and it is up to you to see that the paper reaches the heights it did before. It is the service-men’s duty to see to it that this base publishes the best paper in all the V-12 units. Let’s go, gang. Get behind us and we will do it.
Protect Your Home From Tuberculosis
BUY AND USE CHRISTMAS SEALS
^he ^Votre Q)ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing' at special rate of postage. Section 1103. October 3. 1917. Authorized June 25, 191S.	’
THE STAFF
F. J. Pequigney_________________________Editor-in-Chief
Ralph Abell..________________________Associate Editor
Thomas Seedorff._____________________Associate Editor
Editorial Staff
Robert O'Toole__________________________Managing Editor
Harry Berliner____________________Asst. Managing Editor
Harry LeBien__________________________________.The Week
Bill Waddington..........................     Splinters
Frank Keenan	 Al Lesmez		 Daniel Meaney Thomas J. Payne James Burke Ronald Lange	News Staff Joe Plante John Frampton John Keleher R. L. Marske Vernon Mikkelson			....Editor 				Campus Thomas G. Fry Al Wagner Bill Dotson Bill Russell
Al Broten		 H. F. Ziegler James Paris Leo Wren	.	Features Leonard Hogan John Knutson Sam Miller			  ....Editor Art Wagner Ed Madden Harry Tanner
Bill Carey			 Paul E. Brennan . James H. Howard	Sports Staff Thomas A. Hynes Wm. J. Whalan				Editor David Scheider Arthur Nissen
Charles Renaud •	Staff Photographers Al Schaefer '	Joe Haller	
-	Circulation
John Matmiller Don Cole Howard Joyce Tom Hynes Reverend Charles M. Carey, C.S.C.......__________Faculty Adviser
. Member of Catholic. School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest.. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.,' 420 Madison Avenue, New York City-—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published forty tinies during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all, manuscript to the-Editor, 305 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg.,- Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
4
, The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing	■
at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 80
NOVEMBER 19. 1943
NO. I

Capt. J. R. Barry Succeeds Capt. H. P. Burnett as Commandant of Naval Training School
Impressive Ceremony Marks Change of Commands
By Frank Keenan
With the words “Captain Burnett, I relieve you of your command,” Capt. J. Richard Barry, of Washington, D. C., succeeded Capt. Henry P. Burnett as commandant of the United States Naval Training School here at the University of Notre Dame. The change of command 1 took place at a brief, but impressive and rigidly formal ceremony, held in the drill hall on Saturday, Oct. 23.
In accordance with strict Navy tradition the ceremonies were conducted in the presence of the hundreds of V-12
Navy and Marine trainees, the N.R.O.T. C., the Midshipmen and the officers and men making up the ship’s company. Standing at stiff attention, the assemblage saw Capt. Burnett step to the rostrum and heard him read the formal orders from the Chief of Naval Personnel, changing his command and ordering him to report for active duty. Following . Capt. Burnett, Capt. Barry stepped to the fore and read his official orders, which gave him command of one of the Navy’s most important officer training schools.
The change of command brought about the departure from Notre Dame of a man, who, in the relatively short space of two years, had earned the respect-and admiration of all Notre Dame, the ad
ministration, faculty, and students, as well as the thousands of officers and future officers who have come under his command. In September, -1941, Capt. Henry P. Burnett arrived to take command of a new Naval R.O.T.C. unit, the first in the University’s 100 year history. At certain intervals since that time his command has been enlarged, until at the time of his' transfer it included more than 3,000 midshipmen, members of the N.R.O.T.C., apprentice seamen and Marine Corps privates training at Notre Dame. And it is this large and important U. S. Naval Training School, functioning smoothly and turning out thousands of capable Navy officers yearly, the command of which Capt. Burnett turned over to Capt. J. Richard Barry.
Capt. Barry, bom in Washington 56 years ago, the son of a newspaper man, David S. Barry, was graduated from the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis as a member of the class of 1909.
(Continued on Page 29)
Captain I. Richard Barry. U. S. N., new commandant, and his predecessor. Captain Henry P. Burnett, U. S. N.
5
215 Get Degrees at 100th Commencement
BY DAVE SCHEIDER
A line of 215 men filed from the main building to the Sacred Heart Church for baccalaureate services. To some of the onlookers the streamlined wartime commencement was only slightly reminiscent of peace time ceremonies. The seniors, however, whether’ gowned or uniformed —enjoyed the same thrill of the 99 previous classes, but these men face a grimmer task than most of their predecessors.
Bishop O'Connor Speaks
Keynoting his sermon with a reminder that ‘‘the war will pass and we must be ready for the future," Most Rev. Win. P. O'Connor, D.D., bishop of Superior, Wis., spoke at a solemn pontifical mass Friday morning, Sept. 29. 1943, to the graduating seniors. “To prepare for the future
we must plan and plot now,” said Bishop O'Connor, “for a return to a peaceful and Christian life."
Celebrant of Notre Dame’s 100th commencement Mass was the Most Rev. John F. Noll. D.D.. bishop of Ft. Wayne, Ind., assisted by Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C., and with Rev. Wm. Maloughney, C.S.C. and Rev. Charles Carey, C S.C.. serving
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C.. Gov. Harry F. Kelly, Bishop O'Connor,
and Leo T. Crowley
as deacons of honor. Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C. was deacon of the Mass and Rev. Leo Gorman. C S.C., master of ceremonies. Music of the Mass was sung by the choir of Moreau Seminary. Following the Mass the American flag, presented by the class, was blessed by Rev.
Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame.
Honorary Degrees Conferred
In the afternoon, the graduates and faculty members marched in procession from the Main Building to Washington Hall for the conferring of degrees. Following the awarding of 215 bachelor degrees, one doctor of philosophy degree and 40 master degrees, the commencement address was delivered by Governor Harry F. Kelly of Michigan, a Notre Dame alumnus.of the Class of 1917. Also awarded at the exercises were honorary doctorates of laws to Bishop O’Connor, Governor Kelly and Leo T. Crowley, United States Foreign Economic Administrator, as well as an honorary doctorate conferred in absentia on Admiral Chester IV. Nimitz, commander in chief of the United States Pacific Fleet.
As a special feature of the centenary commencement, a letter from Pope Pius XII was read. The letter from His Holiness echoes the original scope of this historic commencement, originally planned as a fitting climax to a gala centenary celebration. War has modified its intended scope severely however, and the last formal commencement for the duration was. only symbolic of the planned celebration. Many will remember the stop made by the Pope at Notre Dame when he visited this country as Cardinal Pacelliin 193G.
6
New Trainees Enter the University as 440
Men are Transferred Out of V-12 Program
Enjoy "For Two Pianos," ..
a Honeywell-Bauer duet
By Leland James and Frank Gleeson
The corridors of Dillon Hall will this semester cater to a new group of V-12 Navy trainees, who today are about to complete their second week of studies in the officers’ training program.
Included among the total of 483 new navy students are 196 “salts” who have been transferred from active duty with the navy at sea or at shore stations. Seventeen men have transferred from active assignments with the coast guard.
From high schools, colleges, and other civilian activities came the remainder of new students. The majority of these men will receive the entire course, of V-12 training; whereas a few men are transfers from V-5 and will continue under V-12 until aviation quotas are reopened.
The marine detachment of V-12 students, housed in Zahm and Cavanaugh Halls, welcomed 12 new men at the beginning of this semester. This strengthens their total to 459; navy seamen in the program number 1155.
At the completion of the past semester, it was announced by V-12 navy and marine authorities that 440 men were transferred out of the program. This total includes men who completed their courses successfully and were sent to pre-midshipmen or medical schools.
Of the number of transfers, 187 were bilged, which is less than ten percent of the original size of the unit. According to Capt. J. W. Finney of the marine detachment, the causes for failures were undoubtedly based on the fact that the men were unable to make the proper personal adjustment to their new surroundings.
Men “bilged” included 87 seamen and 100 marines. Of this group 10 seamen and 20 marines were classified as seniors. Navy failures were immediately transferred to the naval training station at Great Lakes for boot training; whereas the marines received orders to report to San Diego for the same reason.
Of the remaining 149 seamen transferred at the end of the semester here, four were returned to V-5 training at naval flight preparatory schools. The seniors who passed and were “pre-meds” were sent to base hospitals to assume duties until they enter medical school.
A few of the passing seniors went to supply school at Wellesley College. The more promising of the remaining went to midshipmen schools, whereas some were sent to pre-midshipmen school at Norfolk, Va. These men will receive further training before being assigned to midshipmen school. ,
Fourteen seniors of the 204 marines
transferred were sent to V-5 flight preparatory school at DePauw University at Greencastle, Ind.
The 90 oldest passing seniors in the marine corps were sent to Parris Island. There they will receive seven weeks of boot training and will be assigned to an officer candidate company. If they do not show up favorably they, will be transferred to other duty. If they meet with requirements, they will go to Quantico, Va., for ten weeks of Reserve Officers’ Candidate School.
The men now beginning their courses may continue at Notre Dame for periods varying from one to eight semesters. The longest course is available to those men taking a basic course and who plan to transfer to engineering in succeeding semesters.
New trainees who have already had one or more years of college credits have been assigned to advanced courses in the various colleges on the campus. Of the transfers from active duty, 58 have been placed in advanced sections.
“Fleet” men have come to Notre Dame, in many cases, only after they had been the subjects of selection methods set up on board ships and at stations after the program was announced this spring.
Commanding officers of the ships and stations required successful passing of mental and physical examinations before men were separated from duty. Many of the new trainees have been received into the program after they have given up ratings as high as chief petty officer.
❖	CAMPUS HOURS	❖
❖	Office of Director of Studies — 9-11 ❖ ❖	a.m., 2-4 p.m., Sat.—mornings only. ❖
❖	Prefect of Discipline — 9-11 a.m., 2-4 ❖ ❖ p.m.	❖
❖	Library—Weekdays 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.. ❖ *Z* Sat. 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.. Sun. 10-12 •> a.m.	❖
❖	Post Office—Weekdays 7:30 a.m. to ❖ ❖	5:30 p.m.. Sat. 7:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. ❖
❖	Rockne—Weekdays 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., ❖
7:15 to 9:30 p.m.. Sat. 8 a.m. to 5
❖	p.m.. Sun. 10 to 12 a.m.	❖
❖	V-12 Office—8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. ❖ ❖ "Caf"—7 a.m. to 9:40 p.m. (except ❖ ❖	2-3 daily).	.	❖
•	t* Huddle—Weekdays 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 ❖ ❖	p.m.. Sat. 8:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m., ❖
<	t* Sun. 4:00 to 8:00 pun.	❖
•	t* Small Stores—Mon.-Wed.-Fri. 8:30 to ❖
11 a.m., 12:30 to 3 p.m.
❖ Bookstore—Weekdays, 8:30 to 5:30. ❖ ❖ Sat. 8:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.	❖
Attended by a small but enthusiastic audience, the Recital For Two Pianos, presented by Miss Eugenia Honeywell and Mr. Harold
Bauer, was done in the best Concert Hall style. Miss Honeywell and Mr. Bauer collaborated splendidly and proved to all who attended that good music can
be enjoyed without an orchestral background.
The program was opened with the playing of the “Star-Spangled Banner,” followed by the first selection, “Prelude and Fugue in C Minor” by Bach. Other selections were the “Sonata in D Major,” in three parts, by Mozart; “Andante Varie” and “Rondo Brillante” by Schubert, and others. The melody in the compositions was taken by Miss Honeywell, with Mr. Bauer handling the harmony superbly. .
The acoustics in Washington Hall received the vibrant chords amazingly well, and sent them back to the audience as full toned as when they left the piano. The recital was enjoyed by all, though some expressed their disappointment at not hearing a little Boogie Woogie. The concert closed at 9:30 and the audience, composed mainly of student and faculty, with a few townspeople, was well pleased with the performance.
Miss Honeywell and- Mr; Bauer are well known in the music world, though Miss Honeywell retains her position as an amateur by donating all her proceeds to various charities. She is publisher of a chain of newspapers, and obT serves regular hours in the office of Nixon Newspapers, Inc., at Wabash, Ind.	.
Mr. Bauer began his career as a violinist. It was Ignace Paderewski, for whom Bauer played second piano, whoh encouraged him to study piano seriously. Throughout his career, Bauer has been the close associate of the world’s finest composers and conductors. He was presented the French Legion of Honor by the London Philharmonic on the recommendation of noted French
composers.
Miss Honeywell and Mr. Bauer have been touring Indiana since Nov. 6, Notre Dame being their last appearance in this series.
7
Voll and O'Shaughnessy Elected to Board of Lay Trustees; Semi-Annual Meeting Held
BY FRANK KEENAN
Two more o_tstanding names were added to the already impressive list of Notre Dame’s Board of Lay Trustees last Saturday. At the close of Friday’s semi-annual meeting of the board, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, announced that I. A. O’Shaughnessy, nationally known philanthropist and oilman from St. Paul, Minn., and Bernard J. Voll, outstanding South Bend bv.siness and civic leader, had been elected to fill vacancies existing on the board.
The addition of Mr. O’Shaughnessy brings to the Board of Lay Trustees one of the most prominent Catholic laymen in the country. Besides being a knight of the Holy Sepulchre, the St. Paul business man is also a papal Chamberlain of cape and sword.
During the Eucharistic Congress held at St. Paul in 1940, he acted as chamberlain to Dennis Cardinal Dougherty, the papal delegate.
Mr. O’Shaughnessy’s best known philanthropic work was his donation of $100,000 to the University for the establishment of the O’Shaughnessy Fine Arts foundation, in the College of Arts and Letters. The gift was made in December, 1942.
President of the Globe Oil Company, Mr. O’Shaughnessy has been active in the oil business for many years. Currently he is serving on the Petroleum Industry War Council.
Mr. Bernard J. Voll
Mr. I. A. O'Shaughnessy
Mr. Bernard J. Voll of South Bend, for years a prominent figure among midwestern businessmen, is a former Notre Dame student. He received his bachelor of philosophy degree in 1917, and continued his education at Harvard University, where he was awarded a degree of bachelor of laws in 1922. Since that time he has made rapid strides in an increasingly successful business career. At present he holds several important executive positions: president and general manager of the Sibley Machine and Foundry Corp, in South Bend; a director of the First Bank and Trust Co. of South Bend; and a director of the Chicago South Shore and South Bend Railroad Co. Mr. Voll has also been an active member of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, and was its president in 193536.	’
The Board of Lay Trustees is charged with the investment of the University’s endowment funds. At full strength it consists of 24 members, 12 alumni and 12 non-alunmi. The addition of Mr. O’Shaughnessy and Mr. Voll leaves but one vacancy, which was caused by the death of Frank E. Hering, of South Bend, this fall.
Other nationally known figures who compose the trustees’ group include Postmaster General Frank C. Walker; Joseph P. Kennedy, Cape Cod, Mass., former ambassador to England; Charles T. Fisher, Detroit, Mich., industrialist;
William C. Potter and John Moody, New York City banker and investment authority, respectively; Walter Duncan, a Lasalle, Ind., business man; John H. Neeson, director of Public Works, Philadelphia, Pa.; William J. Corbett, Edward J. Doyle and Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago business leaders; C. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wis., business man; Constantine McGuire, Washington economist; John C. Tully, Chicago business man, and Terrence B. Cosgrove, Los Angeles, Calif.; John P. Murphy, Cleveland, Ohio, and Grattan Stanford, New York City, all prominent attorneys.
Mr. Kanaley is president of the board, Mr. Reilly vice-president and Mr. McCanna, treasurer.
202 New Civilian Freshmen
Enroll at the University
Replacing the members of the Civilian Corps (a non-military organization) who graduated last semester, 202 new freshmen entered the University this semester to raise the number of undergraduates to 730.
The highest enrollments were in the ‘ College of Engineering, with the College of Science second.
The majority of this civilian group consists of boys who have received 2-A deferments for periods of six months each, at which time their records are reviewed, and another possible six month deferment granted. They are preparing / for their careers in the armed forces by choosing, for the most part, technical studies. Still another important group is the 17 year olds.
Already, with the semester just beginning, Brother Pat has lost ten of his	,
freshmen to the draft. It is interesting	-1
to note, as Lt. Collins pointed out, that these civilians are the ones that will be _ carrying guns while the military on campus will continue to enjoy the technical studies on their way to their officer berths.
Health Cross Sale
Saturday the St. Joseph County Anti- • Tuberculosis league will sell Health Crosses at the Notre Dame vs. Seahawks football game. Funds are collected by the teams of South Bend high school pupils. The league, affiliated with the Indiana Tuberculosis Association, helps finance the Milk Fund and other activities of the Association. At the Georgia Tech game, there were sold $625.19 worth of Health Crosses; the Illinois game netted $338.72 for the Milk Fund.
8
Gludowatz Still Undefeated;
Students Pick N.D. to Win
By Jim Regan
Here are thi^ week's forecasts:
Lt. Comm. A. R. Pierson Replaces Lt. Comm.
W. S. Howell as V-12 Executive Officer
BY SEAMAN TOM SEEDORFF
Bob Gludowatz, the amazing sophomore, who has picked the scores of the Notre Dame football games each week with almost unbelievable skill, has extended his streak to six games. His predictions of the Navy and Army games nearly hit the actual scores on the nose. Gludowatz selected the Irish to whip Navy by a 35 to 0 score and Army by a 34 to 6 count. - The actual scores of these games were 33 to 6 and 26 to 0, respectively.
Continuing the poll of a representative group of students as to the outcome of each Saturday’s game, the Scholastic this week publishes the opinions of eight students, including that of Gludowatz. Listed below are the scores of this year’s games together with the score which Gludowatz predicted in order to give this week’s “experts” something to shoot at:
	PREDIC-	ACTUAL
OPPONENT	TION	SCORE
Pittsburgh 			34-0	41-0
Georgia Tech ..		34-7	55-13
Wisconsin 			55-0	50-0
Michigan			34-19	35-12
Illinois 	—-		47-6	47-0
Navy 			35-0	33-6
Army			34-6	26-0
Bob Gludowatz,	sophomore, Detroit,	
Mich.: “The Seahawks will come around sporting five or six ex-All-Americans as they generally do. However, they’ll be no match for Notre Dame’s present All-Americans. Iowa will be the sixth undefeated team to be knocked off by the Irish this fall because they’ll be on the nothing end of a 33 to 0 score.”
Midshipman Spencer Burroughs of Sacramento, Calif.: “Iowa Preflight scores nation’s number 1 upset by defeating Notre Dame by two touchdowns as Maznicki runs wild.”
James McGraw, freshman, Chicago, HL: “Notre Dame will defeat the Seahawks by three touchdowns, plus.”
F. Hugh Ward, NROTC, Rockford, HL: “Probably the toughest yet, we will win by one -touchdown, possibly 20-14."
Jack MacKenzie, senior, Marine, Chicago, Ill.: “Notre Dame from start to finish. This year’s team will go undefeated, and long be remembered by all v*ho met it. Notre Dame will win, I believe, by five or six touchdowns, at least.”
Midshipman James Brown of Sterling, Ill.: “Notre Dame will meet its first de-
For the second time in a month, the Naval Training School here on the campus is losing one of its best liked and most respected officers. On October 25th, Lieut. Commander A. R. Pierson arrived at Notre Dame to replace Lieut. Commander W. S. Howell as Executive Officer of the Navy V-12 Unit.
Commander Howell
Commander Howell, who was graduated from the Naval Academy at Annapolis in 1933, was assigned first to the light cruiser U.S.S. Trenton, on which he served until after his promotion to the rank of lieutenant junior grade in 1936. In 1938, he was assigned to the destroyer U.S.S. Dorset, remaining for two years until being transferred to the heavy cruiser Louisville in 1940. In 1941, Commander Howell was assigned to Notre Dame as a member of the staff of the N.R.O.T.C. Unit here, and was promoted at that time to the rank of lieutenant. In October 1942, he was pro
feat against the more experienced Seahawk professionals. Predicted score: Iowa Seahawks 27, Notre Dame 13.”
Jim Hayes, V-12, of Vancouver, Wash.: “Notre Dame having its best team in years, if not the best in the school’s history, having gone eight games without being defeated will go on to win its last two games. This game with the Preflight should be very good but I don’t think Iowa is in the same class as Notre Dame. The score I predict: 35 to 6 in favor of the Irish.”
Norbert W. Doyle, freshman, Forest Hills, Long Island: “I can’t see any good reason, any reason that hasn’t been used in every other game this year why Notre Dame shouldn’t win. Pre-flight is unbeaten and comparatively untested. Notre Dame is unbeaten and has met the acid test. I’ll say we’re best until proven different. Score: Notre Dame 33 to 12.”
moted again, this time to the rank of lieutenant commander. When the V-12 Unit was formed at Notre Dame in July of this year, Commander Howell became its Executive Officer, and combined this post with that of Executive Officer of the N.R.O.T.Q Unit. In August, he was relieved of his post on the staff of the N.R.O.T.C. Unit by Commander H. B. Butcher, and now, having been relieved of his duties with the V-12 by Commander Pierson, is awaiting further orders. The Naval students at Notre Dame are proud to have been associated with Commander* Howell, and are, to a man, sorry to see him leave his duties here.
Commander Pierson, who was graduated from the Naval Academy in 1923, and commissioned an ensign, was first assigned to the battleship U.S.S. West Virginia. on which he served until resigning from the Navy in 1924. He remained in the Naval Reserve until 1932 at which time he resigned his commission. In 1941, immediately following Pearl Harbor, Commander Pierson reentered the Navy as a lieutenant commander and was assigned as Executive Officer of the N.R.O.T.C. Unit at Duke University in April 1942. Relieved at Duke on June 1, 1943, he was assigned as Commanding Officer to set up the V-12 Unit at Franklin and Marshall College in Lancaster, Pa., and from there proceeded to Notre Dame on October 25th to assume his new duties as Executive Officer of the nation’s largest V-12 Unit.
Commander Pierson is married and has two daughters who are freshmen at Duke University, as well as a two-months-old son. He has made* his home in Atlanta, Ga., since 1924, and during the time of his detachment from the Navy, had a very sucessful business career in that city.

❖
❖	NOTICE	♦
❖ ------------------ ♦
All credit slips not cashed by Fri- ♦ ❖ day. Nov. 19, will be cashed on Mon- * day, Nov. 22, from 2-5 pan. at the * ❖ Book - Exchange in Room 10. Main ♦ ❖ Building. Monday is the last day BX ♦ ❖ will be open until the end of this * ❖ semester.	♦
❖	♦

9
Servicemen Get $50 a Month; But Bonds, Insurance, Laundry Soon Reduce Salary
BY ALTON BROTEN
It’s a happy day on the Notre Dame campus when a sailor or marine gets his monthly pay—that is, for a few hours, and then he finds himself squared off against his big enemy—debt.
Although the “fifty bucks” may look large at first, and it usually doesn’t, the payee soon discovers the many outlets he has for his salary. As a result, the tangible results of the memorable occasion are soon out of reach.
Cutting a large gash into his budget is a healthy allotment for war bonds, which in most cases totals $18.75. Of course, both the seaman and the private are well aware of the benefits they will receive from these bonds.
The next big item on the serviceman’s financial calendar is the $6.50 he must set aside for his government insurance. That leaves him with approximately half of the amount he started out with.
With these expenses accounted for, the gleaming eyes of the laundry man show up to remind the student that he now has about five dollars to pay for the pleasure of wearing clean clothing. To augment this sum is a favorable amount thrown in for dry cleaning and tailoring.
From this point on, the trainee’s money is his own—except for miscellaneous contributions to various organizations and drives. The remainder goes for movies, bus transportation, refreshment, smokes, candy, and romantic activities.
Navy V-12 men receive their pay on the fifth day of each month in the form
of a government check cashable at any bank. These checks are distributed at noon according to companies.
The American Trust Company in South Bend maintains a special service for the navy by remaining open from 3:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. for the purpose of cashing these checks. The navy provides shore patrol units at the bank during the paying period. The bus lines also cooperate by running additional buses to transport the “paid” students to town.
Special permission is granted to all V-12 students to go to South Bend in order to cash their checks during the afternoon period. Permission is not granted for hours other than these.
The marines, on the other hand, receive their pay in . cash. They are ordinarily not paid on the same date on which the navy pays its enlisted personnel.
According to Lt. (jg) J. J. Collins, there is a possibility that the navy men may soon receive cash for their services also.	*
❖ FINAL VICTORY DANCE ❖
•X* The place— the Indiana Club; the ♦♦♦ *1* time—8:30-11:30 p.m.; Saturday eve- ❖ ❖ ning; the band—Marty Ross and Or- ❖ •X» chestra; the occasion—FINAL VIC- ❖ ❖ TORY DANCE OF 1943 SEASON; ❖ •X* sponsored by A.S.M.E.; and—SI.10!!! •X*
List Officers in Charge of Navy-Marine V-12 Program
In charge of V-12 navy trainees are Capt. J. Richard Barry, commanding officer; Lt. Comdr. A. R. Pearson, executive officer; Lt. S. L. Beatty, course officer; Lt. P. L. Blansett; Lt. (jg) J. J. Collins, first lieutenant; and Ensign S. L. Brewbaker, physical education director.
Capt. John W. Finney is the officer in charge of the marine detachment.
Fifteen chief petty officers have been retained on the campus in various ca- j pacifies in the V-12 program. “CPO’s” in charge of seaman companies have selected their new company officers as follows for this semester:
Company A: F. M. McCahey, commander; H. L. Birx, clerk; W. C. Glidden, first platoon leader; H. Beatty, sec-
. ond platoon leader; M. Sorff, first platoon mail clerk; R. O’Connor, second platoon mail clerk.
Company B: R. W. Hall, commander;
C. E. Johnson, clerk; G. S. Murphy, first platoon leader; M. F. Gan, second platoon ' leader; F. R. Freeman, first platoon mail clerk; P. C. Murphy, second platoon mail clerk.
Company C: J. O. Swamer, commander; A. J. Kerper, clerk; J. W. Church, first platoon leader; H. S. Campbell, second platoon leader; S. L. Buchstaber, first platoon mail clerk; R. E. Christo- i phel, second platoon mail clerk.
Company D: R. C. Bosler, commander;
F. A. Dragoun, clerk; R. Fanning-, first platoon leader; F. J. Heimlich, second platoon leader; J. McLaughlin, first platoon mail clerk; C. Drewniany, second * platoon mail clerk.
Company E: D. C. Mathes, commander; A. C. Leake, clerk; AV. J. Finn, first platoon leader; J. E. Masterson, second platoon leader; J. Cooper, first platoon mail clerk; D. Marjna, second platoon , mail clerk.	z
Company F: H. F. Strom, commander; O. C. Von Allmen, clerk; L. W. Soden, first platoon leader; D. J. Hess, second platoon leader; R. M. Leliaert, first platoon mail clerk; G. F. Persons,! second platoon mail clerk!
Company G: H. J. Bartley, commander; J. F._ Krueger, clerk; B. G. Stewart, first platoon' leader; R. H. Neely, second platoon leader; D. McCarthy first platoon mail ’clerkR. Mickols, second platoon mail clerk. ;	.	.
Company H: R. W. Eeamy, commander; L. C. Rohrs, clerk; AV. H. Viet, first
10
platoon leader; J. R. Hansen, second platoon leader; A. 0. Gerleich, first platoon mail clerk; B. S. Fedricksen, second platoon mail clerk.
Final Football Rally in Fieldhouse at 7:30 Tonite
BY BILL THOMPSON
Company I: F. A. Rogers, commander; J. A. Cejka, clerk; C. F. Fitchey, first platoon leader; P. H. Devries, second platoon leader; C. AV. Gish, first platoon mail clerk; J. E. Senyczko, second pla-
<- toon mail clerk.
Company J: R. Hogue, commander; N. Digby, clerk; J. Cassidy, first platoon leader; M. Connair, second platoon leader; G. Barsa, second platoon mail clerk.
Company K: C. S. Mudge, commander;
$ G. M. Kaier, clerk; J. H. Flanagan, first platoon leader; F. Beckman, second platoon leader; Klein, first platoon mail clerk; Feltes, second platoon mail clerk.
“Rally men of Notre Dame,” for there is gonna be a big time in the old gym tonight! Tomorrow the Irish steamroller makes its last home appearance of the present campaign, so tonight the students and trainees will cheer the fighting men who have so gallantly defended the grid glory of old Notre Dame.
In brief, we of N.D. are going to stage a monster rally tonight, Friday, in an effort to express our thanks and approval for the great Irish team. We want to cheer it on to its ninth victory, the next to the last, against the Seahawks tomorrow.
The band will form behind Washing
ton Hall about 7:15 and march through the campus in order to let the students know that all is about to begin. Proceedings in the old gym will start promptly at 7:30. There will be band music, pep talks, yells, and everything needed to make a spirited rally. Probable speakers will include such noted men as Jim Costin, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune and Father Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, and one of the team’s most ardent fans. Captain Pat Filley will share honors with one of the coaches in an informal pep talk.
Remember then, when you hear the band, join the march to the Field House to “cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame.”
Servicemen to Contribute
to United War Chest Drive
The United War Chest Drive on the campus promised to meet with outstanding success following the memorandum this week from Capt. J. Richard Barry to the men of his command urging them to participate wholeheartedly in this drive.
According to the navy commanding officer, “it is hoped that personnel attached to this command contribute at least fifty cents to the subject organization. Executive officers of the U. S. Naval Reserve Midshipmen’s School, the Naval R.O.T.C., and the Navy V-12 unit will arrange for collections from the personnel of their unit. Collections will be completed by November 30.”
Another Big Rally Tonight!
The purpose of the drive, according to the memorandum, is “to support thirty-eight international, national and local services or agencies which must depend on voluntary contributions for their support, and which -\Vbuld ordinarily conduct a separate campaign.” * -
Included among the local organizations which will receive benefits from this campaign are the service men’s center, the Y.M.C.A., seventeen community funds service agencies, the St. Joseph County Chapter of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, and the St. Joseph County Society for Crippled Children.
In summing1 up his communication, Capt."Barry stated, “We can’t all fight at present—we won’t.alLsuffer at present, but in order, to bring cheer or al-K leviate suffering, throughout the world, we can all give at present.” -
Marine Student Officers
Appointed for Semester
Following is the official list of student officers in the Marine unit here at Notre Dame.	. .
Regimental Staff: Pvt. Waters, regimental commander; Pvt. Martin, aide; Pvt. Dackins, aide.
Battalion Staff: Pvt. Brown, Battalion Commander; Pvt. McKenzie, Battalion Sub-Commander; Pvt. Mansfield, Battalion Adjutant; Pvt. Landau, Battalion Sergeant Major; Pvt. Mathwig, Supernumerary.
Company A: Company Commander, Keith AV. Nelson;. First Sgt. Reed; Platoon Leaders: First Platoon, Robert 0. Tarver; Second Platoon, George AVeinrich; Platoon Sgts: First Platoon, Jack Strubbe; Second Platoon, Pvt. Paul AVuttke.
Company B: Company Commander, Jerome P. Cuningham; First Sgt., Donald Hollar; Platoon Leaders: First Platoon, Bruce Butler; Second Platoon, Robert Kolp; Platoon Sgts.: First Platoon, Joseph F. Melek; Second Platoon, Charles Din-.
Company C: Company Commander, Bruno P. Opela; Fint Sgt., Charles Hansen; Platoon Leaders: First Platoon Sigismund P. Czarobski; Second Platoon, Patrick J. Filley;' Platoon Sgts.: First Platoon, Robert C. McCarthy; Second Platoon, Guenter To-blick.
■ Company D: Company Commander, Robert A. McDonnell; First Sgt.: Benjamin D. Venning; Platoon Leaders: First’Platoon, James A. March; Second Platoon, Mac P. Wenskunas; Platoon Sgts.: First Platoon. Gerald G. McLaughlin; Second Platoon, Delmar R.
Meyers.	‘	-
II
Many Dignitaries Are Guests of President at the Wildcat-lrish Game in Evanston
SOCIETY NOTES
In an exclusive interview with the Scholastic’s correspondent in the Palmer House at Chicago last Saturday, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, broke a long standing-tradition and released for publication the names of his guests at the Northwestern game.
Postmaster General Frank C. Walker
Among- the distinguished guests in the president’s box were Postmaster General and Mrs. Frank Walker, of Washington, D. C.; Rear Admiral John Downes, Commandant of the Ninth Naval District, who was accompanied by his daughter and his aide; and several eminent clergymen. Also present were members of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University, including Mr. Byron V. Kanaley, of Chicago,
V-12 Company Officers to be "Commissioned"
Officers, both past and present, of companies in the Navy V-12 unit on the campus will soon receive “commissions” as officers in the regiment of the Navy V-12 Unit at Notre Dame.
The certificates of appointment, according to Lt. (j.g.) J. J- Collins, first lieutenant of the navy program, will be filled out, signed, and presented to the student for acceptance within the next two weeks.
All men who are currently serving as company officers or who have served in any of these capacities in the past, are eligible for “commissions.”
president of the Board; Mr. Peter C. Reilly, of Indianapolis, vice president of the Board; Mr. Terence Cosgrove, of Los Angeles; and Mr. John Neeson, of Philadelphia. The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, was also a member of the party.
Other distinguished personages who viewed the game included Archbishop Francis J. Spellman of New York; Mayor Edward J. Kelly of Chicago; Most Rev. John Davis, newly consecrated Bishop of Puerto Rico; Mr. and Mrs. Elmer Layden; Mayor Jesse I. Pavey of South Bend; Commander J. E. Malcomsen of the Great Lakes Naval Training Station; Mr. Franklyn B. Snyder, president of Northwestern University; and several officers from the Naval Training schools at Notre Dame and Northwestern.
—Seaman Tom Seedorff
Archbishop Spellman
These certificates will bear the signature of Capt. J. Richard Barry, USN, commanding officer, and also must be signed by the student, who thus acepts “the appointment and understands its obligation.”
It: is provided in the certificates that the “commissioned” man is “carefully and diligently to discharge the duties” of his office by “doing and performing all manner of things thereunto belonging.” .
.All members of the naval unit are charged and required to be obedient to the orders of the company officers.
Ye Oide Shinee Parlore of 337 Dillon deserves honorable mention! In the words of Zimmerman, “I only spent half an hour on that shoe!” Gunnion and Zimmerman do produce enviable shines—but they work for them! Wonder what their price is?
We wonder who the industrious individuals were who erected the monument (of snow) alongside the Regimental Rooster—could it be that Company “G” feels that the rooster was not enough recognition? Or, was it done by some one who wished to preserve evidence that there was snow—not having seen any before?
What the well-dressed (?) Submarine Sailor (?) will wear—exquisite, captivating, luscious “Pongee Pajamas!” Ooo la, la—Mathers, the Admiral striker, was seen last Sunday night sporting a brand new pair of pongee pajamas. The latest creation from—well, somewhere!
The “Bitter Battle” is on. Who will win her hand, John Toole or Cass Regent, Whose hand? Why the hand of the “Rock’s” Queen (St. Mary’s, for those of you who don’t know what the “Rock” is) Helen Schindler. It seems that Mr. Toole early last semester “beat Mr. Regent’s time” and early in this semester Mr. Regent is retaliating very fervently and strongly—much to the worried mind of this Toole fellow. It appears that Toole is really fretting about the whole affair. Mr. Regent, however, does not spend his time worrying, he acts— but fast. We have learned that Regent intends to fight to the bitter end. Fair warning, Toole.
Noble undertaking of the week is the “No Profanity Parlor—.” We understand (from reliable sources) that Room 209 Dillon, occupied by none other than R. B. Lightbody, O. A. Henson, R. F. Schaub, and D. J. Scheider (Co. A), have inaugurated a system for the elimination of profanity and the enlargement of their speaking vocabulary. Their rules are that for each profane word used a sum of five cents shall be placed in the “Kitty”; also, a nickel shall be deposited for each misuse or' negligence to use nautical terms. Each statement they make should be made in the most cultured language of the day. A noble un-. dertaking indeed! Don’t be too surprised to see any one of these “salts” making-conversation with one of their “shipmates” with an open dictionary in one hand, and a Blue Jacket’s Manual in the other!	*
I
<4
12
4
College Parade
BY ROBERT
Co-op coeds at the University of Minnesota who have birthdays in August, September, and October, were feted at a “Sadie Hawkins” dinner recently. According to the Minnesota Daily, plans for the dinner included decoration of the room to resemble a Dogpatch cabin. We have our Dogpatch but we lack the coeds with birthdays in any month.
“Please say you’ll be mine forever,” he murmured in her ear softly. “I may not be on the football team like Creighton Miller, and I won’t have as much money to spend on you as Miller, but I love you more than any girl I have ever’ known.”
“And I love you too, dear,” she whispered, “but where is this Miller fellow?”
i	A number of college papers report
activities of dramatic groups on their :	campuses. In	a school this size a dra;	matic group	with an active schedule
j	should be a great success. Washington
i	Hall may not	be the best theater in the
:	world, but it	always manages to pro-
< vide an enthusiastic audience.
The Student Life, a weekly at Utah State Agricultural College, printed this one:
Lady: “I want some grapes for my sick husband. Do you know if any poison has been sprayed on them?”
Clerk: “No ma’am, you have to get that at the drug store.”
According to the Ohio State Lantern, students living on the campus of the Columbus school lather their bread with butter at every meal. It seems that the university owns a dairy and provides students’ dining rooms at no cost in red points.
Spring has Sprung
Fall has Fell
Winter is here
And it’s cold — as- usual.
—Latineer
A bright V-12 at the. University of Kansas has come out with a theory for the purpose of the lace-up part of bell bottom britches. When drowning in the briny deep, one pulls the string, which operates an emergency ripcord, and
H. O'TOOLE
swims away unhindered. We reserve comment.
He asked for burning kisses.
She said in accents cruel, “I may be a red-hot mama, But I’m nobody’s fuel.”
An advertisement in the Daily Northwestern reads:
Students — let us take care of your themes, theses, term papers and reports. All work done at a flat rate of 1/5 of a cent a word. For further information call University 6173 and ask for Frank.”
Numerous students called to get the particulars on this much-needed service, then stuttered and stammered when it turned out that Franklyn Bliss Snyder, president of the university, was the ‘Frank’ to whom the ad referred. It seems that a freshman who had won some advertising space in the paper couldn’t think of any other way to use it.
Here’s a real moron story we saw in the Tatter, publication of the College of New Rochelle, N. Y.: When the moron was questioned on his statement that a horse has thirteen legs, he dogmatically answered, “There are two in • front, two in back, two on each side, and one in each corner.”
Questioner: “Where’s the thirteenth?” ■
Moron.- “Oh, I threw that one in so you’d get a kick out of it.”
It has been a long time now since the civilians have had a real blow-out in the way of a dance.. Most colleges are now planning their holiday dances. Let’s hope that some organization or person gets the ball rolling here at Notre Dame.
This one appeared in the Greyhound, . student paper at Loyola College, Baltimore :
; Bystander: “Look - at that youngster ; the one with the cropped hair, the cigarette, and the trousers. One can hardly tell if that’s a boy or a girl.” ;
War Worker: “It’s a girl. She’s my daughter.”	. .
Bystander: “Forgive me, old man. I wouldn’t have been so: outspoken if I , knew that you were her father.”
War Worker: “I’m not; I’m her mother.”
Three More N.D. Men Die
Sadly, Notre Dame added thiee more gold stars to its list, as last week’s mail brought the news of the death of three members of the class of ’43. This brings to 68 the number of gold stars on Notre Dame’s service flag. The last three to be reported dead are Corp. Joseph William Reynolds, Lt. John Cox, and Aviation Cadet Archie C. Strang.
Bill Reynolds
Corp. Bill Reynolds, a graduate of Notre Dame in 1943, of Asheville, N. C., was fatally injured during night maneuvers near McCain Field, Miss., during the month of October. Reynolds was sports editor of the Scholastic in 194142.	.
Lt. John Cox, ex-’43, of New Haven, Conn., a bomber pilot was killed in action in the North European area Oct. 22.
Aviator Cadet Archie C. Strang, Jr., was killed in a crash near the Naval Training Station, Hutchinson, Kans., in October. Cadet Strang, ex.-’43, made his home in Anaconda, Mont. He entered the Navy Air Corps in November, 1942 and received his pre-flight training in Missoula. He was then assigned to Hutchinson Field for his primary flight training.
—Jim Regan
Regent, Bjorek Named
Officers of A.S.M.E.
Officers for the winter semester, 1943-44, were installed Tuesday evening by the local chapter of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. Cass Rejent, a Navy V-12 trainee, was named president of the society while Matthew Bjorek was elected vice-president. James Gormely and Gerald Put-num were chosen as secretary and. treasurer respectively.
All Mechanical Engineers interested are urged to attend the next ASME meeting, scheduled for December 1, at which time new members will be admitted.
At present plans are under way for a series of lectures to be given during the semester by various professors in. the College of Engineering.
13
By Al Lesmez
If anyone wants to argue on the scenic merits of tranquil Forest Hills, he is asked to contact senior Anthony F. Earley, the staunchest rooter for anything that Long Island has sent to the University. Tony, as he is known to his fellow R.O.T.C. buddies, is famous for his long arguments in favor of this favorite spot.
Tony was horn February 20th, 1923, in Brooklyn, N. Y., but moved to Forest Hills, L. I., at a rather early age. He attended Xavier Military Academy in Manhattan, where he played on the golf team, was president of his class for four years, won two trophies for his elocution efforts, and was Captain of the Color Company in his senior year.
In September ’41, Tony entered Notre Dame, just in time to join the embryo R.O.T.C. group here, and to be made a Platoon Leader.
Tony has been a cheerleader for the past three years, having won the position of head cheerleader this semester.
As helper to Bill Boss on his campus Sportscast consists of interviews with enough to head this program now. His Spirtscast consists of interviews with current sports figures, local news and sport releases, and usually a big story
V-12 Trainees Put $25,000 in Bonds Each Month
The 1,718 V-12 trainees on the campus are putting over $25,000 every month into War Bonds. These figures were included in a report made to the Navy’s Departments’ Co-ordinator for War Bonds, and released by Lt. Commander W. S. Howell, executive officer of the V-12 program here.
Of 1,777 trainees enrolled in the program, which includes 219 members of the Naval ROTC unit, 96% are buying bonds, according, to the report for. the first semester ending Oct. 27, 1943. The
The Marines are donating 25 86% of their pay to victory, in the concrete form of $8,456.25 every month. This, is the monthly dollar value of $25,643.75	work of 623 of.the 654 men of the Ma-
amounts to 28.87% of the trainees’ total	rines.;	'
pay- '	;	.
e	. 96.08% . of the., 219, members of the
Of the three.groups, on the campus, the Naval. ROTC Unit buy. $2,356.25 worth Seamen, Marines, and the. NROTC, the of War; Bonds monthly. This total, boys in bell-bottoms and jumpers are amounts to 21.52% of their pay.: -
on a national sports figure. It is aired from the campus WSBT studios in the Engineering Building every Tuesday at 4:15 p.m.
Another of Tony’s sports activities, beside being a half miler on the freshman track team, was spotting for Bill Stern on all his Notre Dame football broadcasts. His spotter"s chores consist of making it easy for the broadcaster to tell who is the man in motion, the man carrying the ball, and who makes the tackles.
One point in particular which Tony was sure I noted was the fact that he has been very lucky, so far, as to roommates. First he roomed with big' Jim Mello, and now with joking Jack Zilly.
“Lover” Tony saddened when he told me that this last semester vacation cost him an argument with his girl, and as a result, he is becoming a confirmed bachelor. But Jack Zilly winked at me, and although I was not sure what he meant, I suspected that “confirmed” was being used in the lightest sense of the word.
Earley plans to go into naval aviation after graduation, or, if he cannot meet the requirements, will enter the fleet. After the war he would like to study law at Harvard, or go into radio work where he can use his English major degree, and at the same time, do work which is his hobby today.
We are all proud of a true Notre Dame man. Except for the fact that he quarrelled with his girl, he represents our idea of “the most likely to succeed.”
lending the greatest amount of their monthly pay checks to Uncle Sam, besides obviously contributing the most ample amount in dollars and cents. Of . 904 seamen trainees enrolled in the program here, 883, or 97.12% are buying bonds—and buying them to the tune of $14,831.25 per month. This, as a moment of rapid calculation will prove, totals 31142% of their total pay.	.
SERVICE MEN'S CENTER
Each week finds the South Bend Service Men’s Center offering more and more activities for the men and women in the armed forces. The Center now provides a room rental service for trainees’ guests, a series of Saturday evening and Sunday afternoon dances, a well equipped music room and, through the assistance of the Red Cross, free lunches on Saturday evenings, and a clothes’ mending service.
Realizing the problems of service men in finding places for their guests, the Center has compiled a list of homes which will rent rooms for their guests. Not being- a financial enterprise, the Center offers rooms at $1.00, $1.50, and $2.00. A man may get a room by contacting the Center before 7 p.m. on the day of occupancy.
A series of Symphonic Hours has been organized for Saturdays from 5 to 7 p.m., and Sundays from 11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. The Center has a number of albums including Strauss Waltzes, and some of Schubert, Tschaikowski, and Beethoven. These records are supplemented by selections of popular and classical music from private collections. Any record a man desires to hear will, if possible, be obtained, on the following Saturday, by the woman in charge.
Tea dances are organized for the service men’s entertainment. There is a dance on Saturday evenings and a tea dance on Sunday afternoons. Although a man may bring his own date to the Saturday night dance, a number of girls from South Bend have been selected to-entertain at the Center.
Newest of the. Red Cross-sponsored activities is. a clothing repair and. mending service. Men may send or bring their clothing to the Center to be repaired or to have, buttons, sewed on by ladies of : the Red Cross who do this work on Mondays and Tuesdays. On Saturday evenings, the Red Cross serve free lunches.
.	♦♦♦	A A A A A A
*	IMPORTANT	❖
To all staff members—	*>
V who attended organization meetings v and whose names do not appear in v the masthead on page 4: Report to ❖ v the editorial offices on Sunday and ❖ v Monday evenings for . assignments ♦♦♦ ❖ and appointments to staff depart- ❖ 4 ments.	<»
r *	—The - Editor ❖
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ **» ♦>
14
Marine Murmurs
I
K
By Private Knoc-E. Toil
On the ominous morning of Nov. 6, when the fate of the marines “going south for the winter” was made known, and hellos and goodbyes were said almost in the same breath, a general shuffling of cards took place and four companies evolved. Company D, sole marine occupant of Zahm Hall, has strongly insinuated that it is the best company on the campus this semester for the simple reason that its members are comprised of the former best three companies and Julie Rykovich. But as Company Commander McDonald puts it.
“They’re nothing’ but a bunch of birds about six ranks lower than a yardbird.”
It appears that the canine population of Notre Dame is definitely 100% marine. The dogs have a definite aversion to NCO’s attired in blue. One animal, commonly referred to as “Shooter,” takes particular delight in telling off every one she sees, except marines, in none but the worst dog language. Could this be due to the fact that she can be found loafing around Pvt. Martin’s room almost any afternoon?
Notice the two privates trailing out into space in the second squad of the first platoon of Company D? The reason is “Jumbo” Yonakor, who takes more darn room to march in than any other three men.
Anyone venturing near the vicinity of room 235 Zahm is apt to find himself puffing on a cigar and listening, to a proud father telling him his eight-day old son is a “chip off the old block.”	.
The proud father is Pvt. George Path, USMCR. Mrs. Path gave birth to a six pound eleven ounce boy on Nov. 11.
Capt. J. W. Finney of! the marine detachment gave: George a three-day shore leave as soon as he heard the news, and George started home to St. Paul, Minn.
On the trip, he recalls, he must have walked the length of the train about 20 times before it reached its destination. Take it from George, “Having a baby is no easy job.”
Pvt. A. L. Vodicka, Jr.,, is the other, father telling how his. eight-day old son was born on Oct. 8. The baby weighed seven pounds and four ounces at birth, but now A.' L. Vodicka III could be a first string guard on any football team in the country if one can find time to listen to the proud papa.	.
•	"Hymn-of Challenge—"
From the halls o£ Zahm and Cavanaugh. We’re' a wonderful sight to see.
We're the guys they-call the “Leathernecks,” Four-hundred and seventy.	.	-
And if the “swahbies" or the “middies" Ever care to take us on.
They will always find us waiting In Cavanaugh and Zahm.
Note: If anyone wants to make an issue of this go see Pvt. Jim Kress—he wrote the blame thing.
Ever hear of bedbugs? According to the boys at Parris Island the bumps on their shaven heads are not of knowledge —they’re just plain bedbug bites. Speaking of heads, two greats in the football world now at P. I., Pvts. Bertelli and Abrams, were placed on “head detail” immediately upon arrival. Must be quite an honor. Many of the fellows that left for boot camp were notorious as “big operators” in these parts. What with none of the opposite sex out there for miles and miles they might be even sighing now—“Ah! for one of the hags of Saint Mary’s.”	.
Hear the latest scuttlebutt—four days ■ off for Christmas. Also, the raincoats for this detachment are finally under construction. No kidding, we ought to ' have them by next summer. P.S.: If any of you marines are grumbling about cold wet feet—FORGET IT!
La Raza Club Meets; Plans
Soccer Game With Culver
Last Thursday, La Raza Club of Notre Dame, the Latin American club of the campus, held its first meeting of the semester. An unusually large number of members attended, and plans were outlined to make this club one of the most active on campus.
The club’s new officers presided for the first time. They are: Lorenzo Roma-gosa, Panama City, president; . Luis Flores, Arequipa, Peru, vice-president; Jose Cardenas, Panama City, secretary; Eduardo Ochoa, Guadalajara, Mexico, Treasurer; and Roberto de Romana, Arequipa, Peru, sub-secretary. Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., is the faculty adviser.	\
The club has organized a soccer team which -is under the direction of Larry Romagosa. A soccer meet has been scheduled with the varsity of Culver Military Academy on Nov. 23. The members of the team are practicing, daily, and are confident of a win, but Captain Romagosa knows that it will be a tough match, and is not quite as optimistic as the rest.
La Raza club is glad to announce that the first round of their chess meet is almost over, with matches featuring . Richard Burns, Roberto de Romana, > John. Elliot and Joseph Wohlrab the only ones left before someone wins the prize. As soon as this first round.is completed, the second round will begin, new prizes -being offered.1 The meet is open to any-, one. The only restriction is that no one
INTRODUCING
By Al Lesmez
. Johnny Lujack
One of the most brilliant stars of last year’s freshman football team, and this year’s big punch in replacing Angelo Bertelli, is John Lujack. •
. “Lu,” as all his many, friends call him, was born in Corinelsville, Pa., on Jan. 4, 1925. He attended Connellsville High, where, aside from carrying his regular
Paul Limont
studies, he managed to win nine monograms. He won three each in football, frack and basketball, placing as guard on the second all-state basketball team, ■ and as a member of the third all-state
football selection. The high jump and pole vault took up the rest of his time, culminating with a six-foot effort in the high jump for second place in the annual . state meet.	•
John entered Notre Dame last September. During many afternoons he could be found in the field adjoining
. (Continued on page 31)
who has won in the first round is eligible for the second round.
Along educational and intellectual lines, the Club announces that its Panel Group, consisting of several boys who visit neighboring universities to give talks on the problems of their respective countries, as vrell as other topics of interest on the Latin nations,' has presented its first Panel Discussion at St-Francis College. This discussion consisted of such talks on inter-Americari affairs as: “The Two Americas in a World at War,” “The Sinarquista Movement in Mexico,” “Education in Latin America,” and “The Inter - American Highway.”—Al Lesmez	,
15
A
Pope Pius XII Honors Notre Dame

His Holiness sent the following message to the University on the occasion of its Centenary; the letter was read at the I OOth Commencement. The Pontiff, as Cardinal Pacelli, received an honorary Litt. D. on the Notre Dame campus, October 25, 1936.
To Our Beloved Sons
J. Hugh O'Donnell .
President, and the
Directors, Faculty, Alumni and Students of Notre Dame University
TTTE ARE unwilling that the Centenary of Notre ’ ’ Dame University should pass without Our having some part, even from afar off. in that happy commemoration. We recall with especial pleasure at this time the bonds of esteem and affection that link Us to your great institution and We cordially rejoice with you as One Who has personally moved among you and received the University’s devoted homage.
Our sojourn on the beautiful campus of Notre Dame, brief though it was of necessity, amply served to demonstrate to Us, with a clarity that surpassed all verbal description, the progress that has been made during the past century. The quiet beauty, the simple grandeur, the spiritual tranquillity of the University and its surroundings all bespoke a spirit of sacrifice and loving devotion to the cause of Catholic education on the part of the venerated founders and their esteemed successors. We were impressed first of all. perhaps, by the very size of the University, with its campus of some seventeen hundred acres, its forty-five modern buildings and its student body of more than three thousand two hundred young men drawn from the forty eight States and the American territories, as well' as from several foreign countries. These are indeed, indications of an extraordinary physical growth, made necessary by the scientific and
spiritual expansion of the University. In fact. We like to think of them rather as an external expression of the “Spirit of Notre Dame”, that indefinable, yet very real and wholesome spiritual atmosphere which hovers over your campus and which is spread to the corners of the earth by your alumni, whose training has prepared them to serve as edifying examples of the virility and real value of truly Christian education. It is a spirit which gives meaning to the life and direction to the education of thousands of young men, a spirit which imbues the students of Notre Dame with a happy, purposeful concept of life, of man’s dependence on his Creator and of his active membership in the Mystical Body of Christ. We gladly avail Ourselves of this occasion to renew Our commendation of that “Spirit of Notre Dame” and pray that it may enjoy an ever more universal and fruitful expansion.
It must have been a similar spirit of devotion to duty and of self-sacrificing collaboration that inspired the venerated Edward Sorin .and his devoted and energetic associates. Brothers Marie, Gatian, Patrick, William, Basil, Peter and Francis, as they began their labors in the cause of Catholic education on the beautiful shores of St. Mary’s Lake on that memorable day in November 1842. Poor in material assets, but rich in strength and confidence born of Divine Faith, these brave men. had accepted from Celestine de la Hailandiere, Bishop of Vincennes, his generous offer of the site at Ste. Marie des Lacs, with a promise that they would establish there a college and a novitiate. The fact that in little more than one year a chapel, mission house and college building had been erected and the charter of the “University of Notre Dame du Lac” obtained from the State of Indiana,
16
bears eloquent testimony to the intelligent and devoted work of those founders of the University.
The early history of the University, however, was not without its periods of trial and tribulation, and Father Sorin’s courageous group, together with the beloved Sisters of the Holy Cross, who were even then lending such noble and selfless assistance, were often faced with problems that demanded stout hearts and an abiding faith in Divine Providence. First among these was the disastrous epidemic of cholera and malarial fever to which one-third of the faculty succumbed. The tragic effects of this deadly blow were still being felt when some years later, in 1879. a devastating fire destroyed most of the buildings which had been erected on the campus during the first thirty-five years of toil and sacrifice. Undaunted. Father Sorin surveyed the smoldering ruins and, gathering his Religious about him. declared: “I am not discouraged. Even if it were all gone, I would not lose hope. We will begin at once. Our Blessed Mother to Whom we have given everything will not
Cardinal Pacelli, now Pope Pius XII, praying in Sacred Heart Church
desert us!” Was this not perhaps the.first public enunciation of the true “Spirit of Notre Dame”, the spirit of quiet and determined confidence in Almighty God and in His Blessed Mother, the spirit that is so beautifully symbolized in the statue of Our Lady which today dominates the campus as a sign of her protection and a reminder of the power of her heavenly intercession?
The zealous men who have been charged with the direction of the University throughout its long and glorious history have eminently merited the international renown that has crowned their efforts, for . they have established a University that is worthy of the name—and an institution of higher learning in which the training of the student is not limited to the cultivation of the intellect alone. They based the educational program of the University on the long and valuable experience of the Church, which teaches that the training of youth must not be confined within those narrow limits but, in providing for the development of the entire man. must prepare the student to play his part, intelligently and honestly, in this earthly prelude to that fuller life promised by Our Divine Master. That this program has met with success is demonstrated by the outstanding results which have been achieved and by the fact that Notre Dame alumni, as they take their place in the various walks of life, continue to do honor to their three loves—God, Country and Notre Dame.
It must, indeed, be a source of profound satisfaction to the beloved Religious of the Congregation of Holy' Cross to know that the spiritual training afforded the students at the University bears ample fruit as those young men go forth to spread in the outside world, by their example and wholesome enthusiasm, their devotion to . the. Blessed Sacrament and to Mary Immaculate. There is a great measure of recompensing comfort to be derived from the knowledge that in so many instances those men, although beset with worldly cares and often surrounded by a materialistic indifference to spiritual values, continue the praiseworthy practices of their student days—that of frequent or daily Communion and of regular visits to the Blessed Sacrament, the J generous rallying to the aid of a friend in need of comfort, financial help or personal assistance, and the
17
habit of prayerfully seeking the enlightenment and direction of Almighty God and His Blessed Mother in all life’s trials and problems. While extending Our cordial congratulations to the Religious of Holy Cross and to their associates on the Faculty of Notre Dame University who have so successfully instilled in the hearts of their students the love of these fundamental Christian practices, We would, add a word of special praise for the Daily Religious Bulletin, which has proved so effective an instrument in the furtherance of this apostolate on and off the campus. Nor would we have this occasion pass without some mention of the physical education system of the University. Based primarily on the principle of “a sound mind in a sound body” and confined always to its proper place in the curriculum, to the exclusion of the prevalent over-emphasis on physical culture, it had done much, through the exemplary conduct and competitive integrity of the University’s representatives, to dispel from the minds of American youth any notion that fidelity to one’s religious practices is inconsonant with the best in American manhood.
It is also very noteworthy that their University preparation does not leave the sons of Notre Dame wanting in loyal patriotism. The annals of American history record the willing service and sacrifice rendered at all times by the priests, brothers and students of the University and today the students and alumni have engraved in their hearts the glorious tradition of Notre Dame—a truly Catholic tradition of enthusiastic and patriotic devotion and service to their country.
If We have given particular attention and especial commendation to the spiritual and moral aspects of the educational system at your great University,. We have not intended thereby to minimize or pass over
its magnificent intellectual training and achievements, but rather have desired to lay emphasis on the importance of those basic elements in Christian education which serve so admirably to sustain and fortify the intellectual superstructure. We. have seen with Our own eyes the facilities provided for the intellect-tual advancement of the students in the six distinct branches of the University, and the international renown gained by Notre Dame professors and alumni gives ample proof of the thoroughness of their scientific and practical preparation. The honor roll of the University’s scholars is long and impressive and We gladly record here Our paternal appreciation of their inestimable contribution to human knowledge and to the advancement of scientific research. Their names are immemorably inscribed in the Golden Book of Notre Dame, to serve as symbols of splendid achievement in all fields of scientific endeavor and of the proud record of the great body of your alumni, who, on leaving the hallowed halls of Notre Dame, unostentatiously but effectively render very noteworthy service to God and country.
It is Our. sincere and confident prayer on this joyous occasion that She whose name your University so proudly bears may continue to guide the destinies of the Institution to ever, greater achievements for God, Country and Notre Dame, arid that her benevolent intercession may. obtain for the University and for her beloved children there a bounteous measure . of heavenly blessing. .
As an earnest of that celestial favor and in testi-mony of Our paternal affection, We impart to you from Our Heart Our; special Apostolic Benediction.
Given at St.-Peter’s, in Rome, the second day of April,: nineteen hundred-:and. forty three, the fifth year, of Our Pontificate. : - L \ r/ .	'
Pius PP XII •
18.
Irish Face Seahawks Tomorrow
50,000 Fans Expected as Undefeated Team Makes Last Home Appearance

BY BILL CAREY
In late October, 1942, the national gridiron spotlight glared upon the campus of the twin lakes and the Notre Dame-Iowa Pre-Flight football game. Bernie Bierman’s Seahawks had been nationally touted as one of the strongest aggregations ever to pull on jerseys in the same locker room. All-Americans and Professional, standouts were the rule rather than the exception on that squad.
On successive Saturdays they had overcome Kansas, Northwestern, Minnesota, and Michigan, and were heavily favored to crush a Notre Dame eleven that had tied Wisconsin, lost to Georgia Tech, and beaten under-par Stanford. Newspapers, public opinion,, even the majority of Notre Dame’s most loyal supporters conceded defeat. The high flying cadets were the best in the land — out of the collegiate class, and simply too powerful for an Irish team just perfecting a new formation. Flesh and blood, however, fought the battle, not newspaper clippings. Notre Dame spirit, the hungry fury of a cornered underdog, flared in a run-away 28-0. triumph for the green and gold. The spirit of the Seahawks shattered, they floundered aimlessly. through the rest of their schedule.
Jim White
Sports Editor, Notre Dame "Scholastic'
Ziggy Czarobski	.
One year later the face in the mirror has changed. Today, Notre Dame holds an undisputed strangle hold - on the football world, and has been hailed, as the strongest Irish representative in history. Tomorrow, this club that hovers on the brink of immortality will be tested by the number two unit in-the. country — the team that' Notre Dame toppled from the pinnacle last year. A.
near capacity crowd of 50,000 will ;flock	Darner Jim Mello at West Warwick
to the stadium to learn if-lightning can	. ,	(Continued on-page 27) ‘
possibly strike twice. ■ , z ' J	”
The 1943 Seahawk eleven will not take; the field with the* spotty records of the ' Irish twelve months back.. Rather,/ they . are undefeated,. untied, and unextended in eight games. * While overwhelming Illinois; Ohio State, Towa State; Iowa, Missouri, Fort Riley, Marquette, and Camp. Grant, they. have tallied 232 ‘ points. Coached/ by offensively-minded Lt. Don Faurot, .ex-Missouri mentor, the Seahawks have; averaged more.than
325 yards a ’.contest - oh the ground alone. Admittedly,:their list.of conquests is not nearlyj'so impressive as . that of Leahy’s lads, ‘ but " crafty Faurot has never, fielded his strongest unit.
He has split up; his ^starting lineup and . sprinkled/it with-Air/'Cadets who ‘ did.not;measufe: in ability td-.the batch
■ ■
of All-Americans and ex-pro.stars/sit/// ting , on the bench. He has maintained / this, policy all season long with but one objective in’ view —- the afternoon of / November 20th and Notre Dame. A flock of Pre-flight scouts, have followed v. the Ramblers all over the nation, and have reported closely on every major/ ND game. .	.	.	//:/
Iowa Squad Ready for Game ;	.
Publicity releases emanating from Iowa City , in the past week have pic- . tured the Seahawks as mortally crippled by the impending departure of seven standouts and an injury to Maz-nicki. All of the "impending” transfers-were members of the “cadet club,” the . group of students in actual aviation / training. Only one of these, Guard Bob • Hook, has been a starter. Four of the others reserve’s reserves. Other injured
. members, Duke Curran, former Iowa . left halfback, and Nick Kerosiotis, ex-. > Chicago Bear guard, will be in playingcondition for the tilt twenty-fourhours/:
.hence..’ \	■' '
It has been learned from good.author//." ity that.: Frank Maznicki, . Seahawk// sparkplug this year, will definitely see /• plenty of action. The Monk played . on :
the same high school club , as Notre;
Pat Riley

Irish Continue on Victory March; lllini, Navy, Army, and Wildcat Elevens
The 1943 edition of the Notre Dame
Fighting Irish continued their domination of the National Gridiron scene when i t completely over powered four touted foes in the crucial tests of mid-season.
The first team i n history to be a unanimous choice of the
scribes as the mightiest in the land, Frank Leahy’s lads have won plaudits from all corners. Enthusiastic followers of pigskin games have gone so far as to call this green and gold team the best in Notre Dame history. Others, even more extreme, have called it the most powerful ever assembled. The past four contests seem to substantiate this. Iowa and Great Lakes alone stand in the way.
N.D., 47; Illinois, 0
On Saturday, Oct. 23, the Notre Dame eleven piled up 47 points on a green lllini squad. The boys from Champaign never stopped fighting but Miller, Mello, and Palladino rambled through their line almost at will. McGovern, last year the nation's leading scorer, and scatterback Ray Bray were unable to gain against the Irish forward wall and were again stopped when they turned on the speed to outflank the ends. A passing attack almost succeeded for one score but aside from that Illinois never threatened. Notre Dame sewed up the verdict in four minutes when Angelo Bertelli tossed a 35-yard pass to Julie Rykovich. For the next 55 minutes it was a parade of touchdowns with Rykovich scoring again followed by two tallies by Bob Palladino, and one each by Miller, Earley, and Lujack. It was Bertelli’s last home appearance and in the final minutes the crowd gave him a rousing send-off when he left the game after completing five out of seven passes. The longest run of the day was a 51 yard sprint by Palladino.
N.D., 33; Navy, 6. -
Before 86,000 fans, one of the largest crowds of the current football season, Notre Dame defended their claim as the nation’s top team when they defeated the U. S. Naval Academy at Municipal Stadium in Cleveland. The game was quite a fight all the way with the Navy for- ; ward wall living up to Their reputation 20	•	- '
as one of the best in the country. Stopped on the ground in the first half, Notre Dame took to the air via Bertelli’s arm and struck twice to a 13-6 half-time lead. Navy picked up their marker on a toss by Hal Hamberg to Bill Barron. Hamberg threw 38 passes for the Middies and hit for but eight completions. The Irish rolled up 20 points in the second half and claimed the victory by a 33-6 margin. Bertelli’s last game saw him complete four out of nine passes, three for touchdowns, to Rykovich, Miller, and Yonakor, and score another himself.
N.D., 26; Army, 0
Notre Dame displayed their offensive power before 78,000 people at Yankee Stadium, when they rolled up 26 points on the United States Military Academy. The much vaunted Cadet backs failed consistently to gain against Notre Dame and were unable to threaten to score at any time. Johnny Lujack, replacing Bertelli, passed successfully to John Yon-
Angelo Bertelli
akor for the first Irish touchdown. The Cadet line held for the remainder of the half and it was not until tackle Jini AVhite stole the ball from Glenn Davis ' in the third period that the game was -decided. It proved to be the turning, point
. of the contest as three plays later Lu-■ j^k dipped to Yonakor a second time. Earley and Lujack scored the remaining touchdowns. -	. .	. -	:
.	—Joe Fahey
N.D., 25; Northwestern, 6
In stepping up the eighth rung on the ladder to a national championship, the crashing Irish football machine last week completely crushed a game Northwestern eleven, 25-6.
In the process of adding a Wildcat skin to their already overcrowded trophy room, the Irish chalked up 20 first downs, gained 302 yards on the ground alone and effectively subdued a pre-game publicized Otto Graham. Otto carried the ball ten times for but nine yards and completed but three passes out of eight attempts, two in the closing minutes. It was not until the second half, however, that a determined and fighting Northwestern eleven finally collapsed under the Irish attack.
The purple and white of Evanston held the mighty Irish to a lone six points in the first half. A crowd of 49,124 sat amazed as Northwestern stopped the Notre Dame machine and even managed to bring about a 57 yard drive of its own, only to lose the ball on a fumble on the Irish 17 yard line.
If comparisons are any comfort the lads and lassies of Evanston should be well comforted. Holding the Green and Gold to its lowest winning margin of the season Northwestern earned the respect and admiration of all present. The vast superiority of Coach Leahy’s boys became evident, however, as the first ardor of enthusiasm wore away and the effect of greater skill and a more balanced team began to show. The last half was a complete runaway for Notre Dame, the only flaw being a fluke touchdown which accounted for the Purple’s lone six points. A quick thinking Northwestern end broke through to snatch the ball from a confused Notre Dame backfield and was across the goal line before any one realized what had happened.
The peerless galaxy of Notre Dame backfield stars again proved their worth as Creighton Miller, Bob Kelly, Julius Rykpvich, Jim Mello, Vic Kulbitski fed of course by Johnny Lujack broke away repeatedly for long gains. Bob Kelly, in playing- his first collegiate game for Notre “ Dame before an enthusiastic hometown Chicago crowd scored two of the markers,, one on a pass from Lujack. Rykovich and 'Miller accounted for the - other, twin touchdowns, the one extra point- occurring as Lujack, his kick blocked, picked, up the bouncing ball and ran over the goal, standing up.
.	—Seaman Harry LeBien
Pressbox Splinters
Minnesota over Wisconsin
Army over Brown
Great Lakes over Marquette
Dartmouth over Princeton
Colgate over Columbia
BY BILL WADDINGTON
Notre Dame’s final victory over a collegiate eleven, also the eighth consecutive, soared the point total to 312 for a 34-point average per game. . . . But Bainbridge Naval in Maryland has amassed a total of 313 in seven games for a 44.7 par. ... It looks as though somebody is intent on beating the Irish high scoring com
binations. . . . However, it’s very unlikely that any other team in the country will lay claim to the title that ND has cornered in its octet of contests to date. . . . First of all, any other claimant will have to get at least one sportswriter to plug them in the sportswriter’s poll. . . . All the experts can’t be
wrong.
Otto Graham, Northwestern’s idol of the sports field, will be one of the first athletes ever to participate in both the all-star football and basketball games, the latter to be played in December. . . . The familiar sound of “T.A.” was again used with renewed fervor last week as Otto was spilled before he could get rid of the pigskin. Yes, it certainly was a tough assignment for Otto the musician. . . . The team that will meet the College All-Stars in a forthcoming cage event is called the “Washington Bears” but in reality it is the negro assemblage formerly called and nationally knowns as the “Rens” or Renaissance. . . . Just as Angelo Ber-telli was nicked with the title “Springfield Rifle,” so too is John Lujack doomed for a similar fate, and don’t be surprised if it turns out to be the “Connellsville Cannon.” . . . Furthermore, when everybody was wondering whether or not Lujack could fill Bert’s shoes, little did they know that John actually wore Bertelli’s sabots in the Array game, and fill them he did! . . . Ralph Bassey, substitute in the Ulini backfield, originally enrolled at the Illinois institution in order to play hockey as he had plenty of preliminary in Massachusetts. . . .
Bill Stem, NBC’s ace sports announcer who has covered almost all of the Irish contests this season, will be on
hand to take care of Saturday’s encounter but as a sideline feature he will broadcast his 9:30 Friday evening sportscast from the campus studios of Notre Dame. . . . Don’t miss it, if you’re still up. . . . The newest touch football player to make the local headlines via Badin Bog activity is Leo “Football Shoes” Ouillette. . . . He attributes his success to a Bertelli-like arm and long gripping cleats. ... If we beat the Seahawks tomorrow, and figures say we should, this writer can already hear them saying, “Well, we had injuries and transfers during the past week.” . . . The most travelled man week-end is undoubtedly Fa»gjsBerald McMahon. . . . The ardent sjmHKp’iest took in the ND-Northwesten|||ame, followed by the Ice Follies';-’^ activity got him to the^ LeoSeLaSalle tussle and the Ranger-Blackhawk hockey tilt that evening. . . . Quite the traveler, and in less that 48 hours too!
Watching Mike Smith swing those big arms and legs around on the cage court each afternoon makes us wonder whether or not he’ll be able to duplicate the Faught shot from the center circle. . . . The DePauw basketeers will be included on the Irish schedule for this season but the Greencastle lads also have scheduled the world-famed Harlem Globe Trotters and New York Celtics. . . . Grandstand Echoes in the Purdue Exponent had hopes of a post-season game with ND but the loss of the Boilermaker’s key players, who were obtained from Illinois in the first place, put a damper on the aspirations. . ... The taking of still , or moving pictures at Big Ten conference games is prohibited. . . . AU of the scribes near the U of Minnesota finally predicted victory for the Gophers after several weeks of riding the bumps. ... It looks like the optimistic outlook paid off. . . . Ray Eliot, the Illini’s head mentor, says that his boys always take a pencil and piece of paper to their games so that they can get the autographs of the name players that they face. ...
Predictions for tomorrow:
Notre Dame over . Iowa Seahawks Northwestern over Illinois
Purdue over Indiana -	.
Michigan over Ohio State .
Iowa over Nebraska
Notre Dame Wins National Servicemen’s X-Country Title
Led by the popular C.P.O. of the Midshipmen's School Tom Quinn, the Notre Dame Naval Training Station Cross-country team swept through to a National Servicemen’s Championship. The Irish chalked up but 35 markers against 39 by a highly touted squad of from Iowa Pre-flight, 56 by the Bluejackets from Great Lakes and a Navy Pier team that ran out of the money. Forty runners sprang from the line at the start of the three and three-quarter mile grind at Waveland golf course, .Chicago.
One of the greatest college milers of the country a few years back, Tom Quinn has been stationed at Notre ' Dame as a chief specialist and track coach of the Middies. In* excellent condition and displaying the form that won him national prominence as a distance runner*, the native of New Jersey finished ahead of Lt. Lou Gregory, leader of the Iowa Seahawk thinlies. The winning time was 19:27.2. Gregory, the pre-race favorite has long been one of the country’s ranking marathoners and consistent contender for the countrywide macadam title. Sophomore Frank Martin, a V-12 trainee, and Indiana state champion himself, finished a strong third. Other Notre Dame pointwinners were Seaman Hyman Kunzler, in seventh place; Midshipman Doyle Howard, ninth; and Seaman Roger DeWolf, fifteenth.
Coach Elvin “Doc” Handy was forced to break up his state champs because of the stipulation that .the team be an allservice one. Reliable civilian point winners had to run in a sideline race open to non-servicemen. The Notre Dame cause, however, was augmented by the addition of Champion Tom Quinn and four of his Midshipmen pupils.
Freshman Shines in Senior Novice Race
A new star on the Irish track horizon, Freshman John Lyons from Brownson Hall, was featured in the most exciting duel of the day. Young Lyons, a civilian from New York, plodded down the home stretch stride for stride with Barton Anson of the Wheaton Fleet Feats only to lose out in the final three yards. Mike Kiley, Gordon Forester, H. R. Bird and Mike Grady were other* finishers for the Gold- and Blue-clad hill-and-dalers.
South Bend's Quality Store since 1913.
QUALITY AND PRICES ESTABLISHED BY NAVY DEPARTMENT

USNAVY OVERCOATS
FOR COMMISSIONED OFFICERS
This beaver-finish cloth is a pliant and durable wool fleece, 30-ounce, 2-ply Kersey. It meets all government specifications as to wool stock, yarn, weight, dye, shrinkage, finish, and tensile strength. And in fashion, fit, and general appearance, there is not an officer in the Navy who would not be proud to wear it. At $50, it is a tribute to the Navy's efforts to make available the finest for its officers at the lowest possible price!

MAX ADLER
ON THE CORNER . . . Michigan at Washington
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — dust across from downtown bus terminal.
I
I Seanawks Seek to Revenge Notre Dame
BY HAROLD SCHRADER, Y/2c, U.S.N.R.
Editor, the "Spindrift," U.S. Navy Pre-Flight School, Iowa City, la.
The battered hulls of eight foes lay astern of the Navy Seahawks this week as Lt. Don Faurot, the Pre-Flight coach, sounded “General Quarters” and swung his helm toward a collision course with mighty, unbeaten Notre Dame in the nation’s No. 1 game of the year.
► The game in South Bend Saturday afternoon will mean much more than a climax to the Pre-Flight School’s second successful season. To the Seahawks it is the game which every Pre-Flight player, coach, officer, cadet and sailor has been looking forward to since their unde-L feated season opened eight victories ago.
To them it means a chance to beat Notre Dame, always a magic name wherever football language is spoken, and this year probably more powerful than ever before. They know the task won’t , be easy and they realize that eight other k teams this season have come up against the Irish with the same upset their burning, but vain, purpose.
i There is the revenge motive, too. The :	Seahawks feel there is a score to settle
from the 1942 season. Last year the Bierman-coached Pre-Flights had rolled merrily over Kansas, Northwestern, Min-[ nesota and Michigan on successive weekends and sailed into Notre Dame with victory No. 5 in view.
Upset Last Year
It’s a matter of history how the Irish dumped the Seahawks and their aspiration for a national championship by leaving them on the cold end of a 28-0 score. Although the Seahawks won three more games after that defeat, they never fully recovered their dignity and lost two more games—to Ohio State and Missouri.
This season two of the Seahawks’ 1942 defeats have been avenged. Ohio State was punished, 28-13, at Columbus Sept. 25, and Missouri paid by absorbing a 21-6 licking in Kansas City Oct. 16. The Notre Dame account, then, is the only “bill outstanding” on the Pre-Flight , ledger, and there will be no effort left .unexpended in the effort to settle the debt.
While opposing coaches look at the Seahawk football roster and moan at the array of famous names there, it is interesting to note that the bulk of the Pre-Flight squad is composed of cadets who have seen only a year or two of
college competition, and some whose only experience was high school football.
The team is bolstered, however, by several officers who were stars in college and later played professional football. Chief among these are: Ensign Dick Todd, Texas A. & M. All-American and Washington Redskin halfback; Ensign Vince Banonis, All-American center at Detroit and last year a mainstay of the Chicago Cardinals; and Ensign Art Guepe, shifty quarterback who rated several All-American choices while at Marquette.	’
Seahawk Stars
Among the cadets who stand out are: Frank Maznicki, former Boston College and Chicago Bear halfback; Nick Kera-siotis, former Little All-America guard for St. Ambrose; Ted (Duke) Curran speedy halfback from Iowa U.; Bud Higgins, Minnesota midget; Jimmy Smith, last year’s captain at Illinois; and Wilfred Kramer, tough right tackle who played the first half of , this season with Marquette.
There are three enlisted men on the squad: Aviation Metalsmith Bus Mertes, former Iowa U. fullback; Athletic Specialist Wally Nowacki, a former Detroit U. lineman; and Storekeeper Bud Flanders, a sailor who never played football before the 1943 season opened.
Don’t get the idea from that list that Coach Don Faurot hasn’t twice as many headaches per week as any other coach in the business. Every time a battalion of aviation cadets leaves the Pre-Flight School—at two week intervals—Lt. Faurot sees several of his players shove off for Navy flight training. The same week another battalion of “boots” arrives to begin three months of strenuous military, athletic and academic training. But when one considers how much time it takes to acquaint a new player with a different style of play and new football formations, the new men are of little value during their first few weeks with the Seahawks.
So while other coaches bemoan the loss of their stars, Lt. Faurot can say that of the cadets who started practice with his team three months ago, not one is still listed on the squad roster for Saturday’s game. Notre Dame may have lost its Bertelli, but the Seahawks have lost a couple dozen players since September,
in addition to having the task of breaking in new men into old combinations.
Partially solving this problem is the simplicity of the Seahawks’ offensive formations. Faurot employs the same simple “T” formations that brought him such enviable results with Missouri’s Tigers. New men learn the simple “T” in much less time than more complicated systems.
The Notre Dame Seahawk game this year'will be a “home-coming” for one Seahawk player and two members of the coaching staff. Guard George Tobin played with the Irish last year and will have recovered from a cold sufficiently this week to see action against his -alma mater. Backfield Coach Larry (Moon) Mullins and Assistant Coach Thomas Hearndon both are Notre Dame graduates and former stars.
Spirits High
Never before—not even in the hey-day of success in the 1942 season—has spirit at the Pre-Flight School reached such a crescendo as it did here this week. From the station’s skipper—Capt. D. C. Hanrahan—to the latest batch of cadet “boots,” the talk for the last month has been centered around the Nov. 20 game at South Bend. Capt. Hanrahan, the Seahawks’ most avid fan, has decided to take the school’s 45-piece Navy band to the game, giving the game all the earmarks of pre-war style. A squad of about three teams—35 players—is expected to make the trip to the battle.
While Seahawk rooters were loud and lavish in their predictions that their team holds the best chance of upsetting the Fighting Irish this season, the coaching staff was much more conservative. Coach Faurot, remembering how Pittsburgh, Georgia Tech, Michigan, Wisconsin, Illinois, Navy, Army and last week Northwestern fell before the Irish, is highly skeptical of his team’s chances to come through and thus lay possible claim to a national championship.
But win, lose or draw, the Seahawks will be out for blood in a fashion which will make their previous success this season look anemic by comparison. There is too much at stake, too much revenge to be sought, to bet that Coach Frank Leahy’s Irish won’t get the toughest test of its season Saturday when the Seahawk task force docks in South Bend.
23
GREETINGS
The various named individuals above, herewith present for your edification, mystification, and utter horror the latest version of that hardy perennial, THE WEEK. If any of your liquid minds happen to alight upon some printable thought, bring the product of your inspiration to us. As the Admiral usually spends his free afternoons pouring wet cement into other people’s radiators, your best bet would be to come to the Scholastic offices, being careful not to let the orang-outang out as you go.
These silly formalities being over with, we proceed, remembering Cy Bilgewater's appropriate thought, “Don’t think it ain’t been, ’cause it ain’t been.”
HOPE
Proving that the “Rock” never gives up hope, two over-anxious young inmates outdid each other last week in attempting to convince Jackie Cooper to escort them to the weekly Sweet Briar corn husking coffee clutch. Admiral Scroggins, the poor man’s Hedda Hopper, reports that Seaman Cooper politely informed them that his mother told him never to go out with strangers. The Admiral could be wrong.
LOVE
As Slagsy McScuppers, ‘09, once remarked, “People in glass houses should not take baths in the afternoons.” This noble sentiment of Slaggy, however, is only a passing remark in a long, long train of sarcastic, mocking epithets applied to northern Indiana weather.
The above observation from the doubtful intellect of Mr. McScupper is mild compared to some of the highly colored and richly expressed comments of today. At six in the morning members of the . V-12 seem especially inclined to express themselves concerning the elements. The cleverest of these are incompatible with the rules of local censorship, however. The weather, contrary to widespread opinion, is not as contrary as one might imagine. The lowest mean temperature in recorded history was a minus 22° on January 2.5th, 1897; the highest a mere 108° on July 14th, 1936.
24
CHARITY
Special order No. 3U.
Subject: Mess Hall.
1)	In the interest of seeing that all trainees get the proper amount of rationed food as well as an adequate amount of total food, the following procedure shall be used by all trainees.
2)	Upon reaching the hash bar he will receive a standard portion of all dishes. Finding these insufficient and unpalatable, he will proceed in an officer-like manner to dazzle one of the youthful exponents of femininity across the bar into slipping him some of the extra protein. By proper timing and hasty withdrawal of the hand before the spatula descends, he may also obtain additional moo juice.
3)	In case extraordinary conditions prevail with “Ziggy” and “Boris the Terrible” lurking in the background, the trainee will deposit his tray upon the nearest scrap pile and retreat to Rosie’s. There he will be served steak and the nectar of the gods (the traditional accompanying curse of the aforementioned establishment).
UNQUOTABLE QUOTES
“My left hand was too rough to milk the cow. So I’d better try the udder.”
“. . . Mother sat there with her head in her hands. We pleaded with her to put it back, but with no success.”
“It is rumored that, throwing caution to the winds and risking a softening up of the entire V-12 program, all calisthenics on Christmas Day will be postponed to the afternoon.
“We heard the new ‘pajama musters’ have been unanimously pronounced a social success.”
“. . . After spending some time at Notre Dame, some of us receive certain special marks, and are selected for matriculation at Great Lakes University for further study that will probably lead to a special degree—namely the third.”
“The Sunday evening weenies are all right in their place, but it just hasn’t been dug yet.”
LATEST ORDERS
Calisthenics have just been discontinued. Steak and chicken twice a week.
Leaves three nights a week, and no more marching to muster. . . . Well, that was fun, now let’s play something ’ else.	A
PROFOUND THOUGHT
The Hermit’s Den at the Service Men’s Center is much more popular on Sundays than on Saturdays, due to the fact that Old Man River is not present with his whisk broom and outstretched palm. Hats off to the overawed freshman who kicked in with fifty hard-earned cents.
A BELATED WELCOME TO ,
The Freshmen. In this Columnist’s opinion, a finer education cannot be had anywhere else in the country. Don’t let the weather here at Notre Dame get you down, even though it rains only 300 days out of the year. You’ll be used to it by the time you’re a Senior. ... If you’re not drafted.. You say you’ll be eighteen next month? T.A.l! Nice to have known you. A year ago you might have followed in the footsteps of the wiser Smooth-Shoes about the Campus and joined the E.R.C. But you weren’t here then? Well, my boy, they’re not here now. However, take a peek at the J‘ various uniforms about the Quad, and select your outfit—because if you don’t, a board composed of your friends (?) and neighbors will. No, you don’t have to be a college student to join the Waves, but you still can’t get in. No, that’s one branch I haven’t tried yet.
ON SUNDAY AFTERNOON ’
St. Mary’s is still a good place to visit, if nothing better is in the offing, or if you’re broke. Scads of Navy and Marine personnel float over to give the ‘Pixie beyond the Dixie’ a whirl, but it a is rumored that the civilians are either too young or too old — or disinterested. The favorite dance at these Sunday p.m. shindigs is the Two-Step — two steps and some Glunk cuts in. And speaking .of Glunks, don’t fret, Frosh, you’ll have a lot of good times at the 4 “Rock” Sooooo, put on a shirt and tie, and get over there before the open season on quail expires.
SO LONG AS
We are speaking of St. Mary’s, let us further contaminate the column and re-port that a number of the little charmers were seen in Chicago over the past week-end; five in particular. They couldn’t be missed’’! And speaking of missing things, we offer a parting shot to the V-12 from our Bureau of Information, namely — The building with the ship atop is not the School of Navigation.
CUSTOM-TAILORED Naud
When you purchase your Officer's Uniforms you will select a tailor in whom you have confidence. You will expect smart style, correct fit and service under all conditions of wear. You will also require delivery in ample time with a guarantee of satisfaction, whether your assignment be salt or fresh water. This quality, service and guarantee you’ll expect at reasonable cost.
Ed. V. Price & Co. — "largest tailors in the world of good made-to-order clothes"—meet all service requirements. Our uniforms are worn by officers in all parts of the world, on land, on sea, and in the air.
Our trademark, also is as familiar a sight today as it has been for fifty years. It guarantees to you absolute satisfaction NO MATTER WHERE. YOUR STATION;
Our Uniforms are fine in style, quality and fit.
Ye Jolly Little Tailor
Our prices are moderate because we tailor and sell direct to you.
That we do render satisfaction is evidenced by the fact that a gratifying percentage of the last class graduating from Notre Dame was uniformed by Ed. V. Price & Co., without a single disappointment.
We suggest that you drop into our store this next week-end, or Ship's Tailor, 155 Morrissey Hall, week days. An inspection of our Uniforms will convince you.
I 17 West LaSalle St., South Bend, Indiana
(Opposite the Hoffmann Hotel)	Phone 4-0220
General office and shops: 327 W. Van Buren St.. Chicago Ship's Tailor. 155 Morrissey Hall
Officially Appointed Ship's Tailor for U. S. N. R. Notre Dame Midshipmen School
25
NROTC Plans Interhall and Intercollegiate Basketball
By Jack Houghteling
N.R.O.T.C. basketball for the 194344 season will be conducted on three different bases. Continuing its football policy of intercollegiate competition, the basketball team will attempt to schedule games with what schools, service teams and independents that it can. These games will have to be played on Saturday nights as that is the only free evening for outside competition.
The N.R.O.T.C. varsity will also compete in the campus interhall league and has definite aims on the league crown. Last year the squad split a twelve-game campus schedule with six wins and six losses. However, hopes are high of greatly improving this record.
The third level of play will be The Deck basketball league sponsored by the Unit Athletic Association. Play is scheduled to begin in about two weeks and each squad will play a 12-game card. Paul Heimann, Don Hummer, Gene Moore, and Bud Gotta will captain the first, second, third, and fourth decks in that order. Members of the N.R.O.T.C. varsity will be ineligible for play in the Deck league, so little is known as yet just how the teams will rate.
A squad of about 25 players has been working out three times a week for positions on the varsity team. Eight members of last year’s heavyweight quintet are back for more competition. Forward Al Wade, star of last season, will be among the returning players. Three other forwards, Frank Beaudine, Chuck Merrill, and Walt LaBerge, have returned and should wage a hot battle for a starting post. John Zwicker and
Al Bohn, both rugged at 6' 2", will be the principal contenders for the center job. Gene Moore and Jack Houghteling are the only two returning guards but should receive able assistance from the lightweight team’s guards.
Six members of last season’s lightweight team are also bidding for positions on the varsity. Harry “Red” Gilligan, 6' 1", Tony Early, 6' 2", and Frank Culhane are a trio of lanky forwards v. ho have moved up for competition on the big team. Three guards, Paul Hurd, Hank Frailey, and Mark Cronin will supplement the two guards left from the 1942-43 heavyweight squad.
Basketball Prospects Look Dim Two Weeks Before Initial Contest; All Lettermen Lost
Practice for- this year’s Irish cage team began two weeks ago. With the first game only 14 days away, the boys are battling for the starting five positions.	'
Last year the Irish basketeers were rated by hardwood experts as the second ranking team in the country. They were topped only by the Big-Ten record breakers of Illinois.
Last year’s juniors have gone to war. The E.R.C. beckoned and the lads joined up. Before they left, an impressive record had been hung up. They won 20 out of 22 games, losing only to Kentucky and Great Lakes. The Irish avenged one of these defeats by taking the long end of the score with the Blue Jackets on their home floor. Bob Faught, Frank Curran, and Tom Brennan would have been the nucleus of another team this year, but left at the end of the last semester for
Charley Butler, Captain. '42
Several or the others have shown promise of ability although they did not play on last season’s teams. Buck Madden, 6' 212" center, Vince Laurita, for- 2 ward, and Hank Slamin, guard, are outstanding in this group.
A definite off-station schedule has not been arranged but several invitations and challenges have been received. The Chicago West Suburban high school t conference has invited the unit to play several teams in the conference and if the arrangements can be made the invitation will be accepted. It is also hoped that teams in the South Bend area will be open for games.
All-American Bob Rensberger
1 u
midshipmen’s school. Despite this handicap, the chances of a good team looked favorable until mid-semester graduation and transfers took place. The great Andy Phillip of Illinois left for Marine training at Parris Island accompanied by A Ray Kuffel and high scoring Al Scat of Marquette, and Ray Capollan of Wyoming. All-American Bob Rensberger and Captain Charley Butler were graduated. Thus we see that Coach Krause is faced with quite a problem in his first full year as head coach. He has 40 men reporting „ daily for practice. This squad must soon be cut to 20 in order to give the Moose a smaller group upon which to center his tutorship. On this squad are two reserves from the team of last year, Leo Klier and Bernie Rutledge. Ted Furman,. John Kelly, Frank Gilhooley and Mike x Smith of the 1942 freshman eagers are also available for practice.
26
4
|	IRISH FACE SEAHAWKS
I	(Continued from page 19)
1
R. I., and even today is the rough full-| back’s athletic ideal. This chunky, 185-I pounder was one of Frank Leahy’s pu-Ipils on his 1940 National Champions at
Boston College. A member of one of the finest backfields of modern football, Maz was the leading major college scorer ■ in the land. He and his mates Char-|	ley O’Rourke, Hank Toczlowski, and
■	3Mike Holovak all received widespread
All-American mention. A postgraduate student in the fold of George Halas’ Chicago Bears, the Monk was voted the outstanding freshman find of ’42 in the moneyed circuit, second only to Bill Dudley of Virginia. He has explosive speed, a deceptive change of pace, and the power to run over tacklers as easily 1 as around them. He also dangles an automatic pendulum foot in the conversion and field goal department.
Others to answer Faurot’s starting call will be Dick Todd, Sammy Baugh’s aerial partner in crime for the Washington Redskins, now the claws of the Hawk’s stratosphere arm; Vince Ba-nonis, an All-American for Detroit University and more recently of the Chicago Cardinals; Nick Kerosiotis of the Bears; Dick Kieppe of Michigan State; Jimmy Smith of Illinois; Perry Schwartz and Bob Timmons of the cash loop; Bus Mertes of Iowa; Bob Carlson; John Brennan of Michigan, and a raft of familiar names.
Notre Dame Offense to Explode
The Notre Dame offensive powder keg that has shattered every collegiate de-„ fense thrown against it, will light its shortest fuse against the Faurotmen. Should the Irish blast the Hawks from the heavens of the undefeated with a load of T-shot, they will stand alone on hallowed ground.
The Irish, held to a veritable standstill in the first half at Evanston last Saturday, should bounce back with a vengeance. The famed Seven Steel Ramrods of Notre Dame found themselves outcharged by a Northwestern unit that definitely played for keeps. Irish spirit , and unleashed T-power and deception flamed into white heat in the last half, and turned the contest into a rout. Statistically, as usual, the Leahymen were far superior.
The overall versatility of backfield talent on the Notre Dame bench should be able to more than match the indi-(Continued on page 30)
THIS Signal Corps lineman and his comrades are building and keeping open the telephone lines that help to coordinate attack and defense in every battle zone. Not only on land, but also at sea and in the air, telephone and radio equipment made by Western Electric is helping to bring Victor)' closer.
This Company—for 61 years the manufacturer for the Bell Telephone System—is today a vast arsenal of military communications equipment. College graduates—men and women of varied training—are helping to speed this vital war production.
Buy War Bonds regularly—from notv till Victory!
< Western Electric
IN PEACE...SOURCE OF SUPPLY FOR THE SELL SYSTEM.
IN WAR...ARSENAL OF COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.
27
News Sheets Publicize the "Irish" All Over the World
Notre Dame’s many alumni and former students who are today serving with Uncle Sam’s forces in the far corners of the world are probably receiving just as up-to-date news on the exploits of the Fighting Irish as followers in nearby communities.
This fact was brought to light this week by many of the new students in the navy and marine V-12 units who have just returned from duties with the fleet and navy shore bases and who have seen first hand the activities of navy and marine “journalists.”
A far cry from modern city and college newspapers are these mimeographed “Gazettes” and news sheets which are popping up throughout the war theaters. However, they are filling a great need in keeping American boys posted as to news on the home front.
Starting from a meager existence, these publications have built up a large reading public among ship and shore station personnel. Since radios are not available to most of them, the enlisted men must depend upon releases in these “sheets.”
The majority of space is devoted to trans-radio press news of sports and national local news. By this method the scores of football games are, in many cases, available to the men on the morning after the games have been played.
The “Rock Record” prepared and published by the marine Force Signal company at one main base in the Pacific, has found itself very welcome, according to the ex-fleet men on the campus. In addition to being distributed among shore based marines and sailors, extra copies are printed and delivered to ships which might enter the harbor from time to time.
In the Southwest Pacific the navy publishes its “Sopac Press” for the benefit of its enlisted men and officers. Most of the larger navy and merchant marine vessels also publish their own mimeographed newspapers.
—Seaman Alton Brbten .
All that is behind-those men—the history of the Marine Corps—is in that column, too: the old battles, long forgotten, that secured our nation... scores of skirmishes far off.... landings and sieges. The tradition of things endured and things accomplished such as regiments hand down forever — all these things comprise the history of the Marine Corps. There is also that abstract thing called patriotism which one never hears a Marine mention until he is put on guard duty in the “streets of Heaven.”
There is the history of the textbooks— that which tells us that our oldest branch of the service was begun on Nov. 10, 1775, a date previous to the Declaration of Independence itself. Therefore, Nov. 10, 1943, the United States Marines celebrated their 168th birthday. In accordance with Marine regulation, Capt. Finney read the Marine Corps Manual 1-55 to the Notre Dame Marine Detachment.
The manual says that on the birthday of the marine corps, the members of the corps should “.... call to mind the glories of its past.... Since the Battle of Trenton, marines have won foremost honors in War.... This high name of distinction and soldiery repute we who are marines today, have received from those who preceded us in the corps. With it we also received from them the eternal spirit which has animated our Corps from generation to generation... So long as this spirit continues to flourish, marines will be found equal to every situation. ...” The men on Bougainville probably didn’t hear these words last Wednesday, but from their actions, we know these words are inscribed in their hearts
From Down-Town South Bend To Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information. call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N, Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
and that they had a birthday party with different guests than the marines at Notre Dame.
Nine Veterans Stationed
With Marine Detachment
The marine detachment this semester boasts nine new men in its V-12 unit who have seen active duty with the corps.
Heading the list is Pvt. Louis Scott, whose experiences include serving as a member of a seven-man scouting patrol on Guadalcanal early in the war.
While on a patrol, this group of marines was suddenly surrounded by the Japs. The scouts immediately set up their machine gun and “sprayed the trees, for* the snipers.”
However, the Japs seriously outnumbered the group. When Scott had only one buddy remaining, they decided to “run for it.” They got through to their own detachment.	. '
. Scott was wounded in the forearm by a .25 calibre bullet. For his actions, he was awarded the Purple Heart.
Pvt. Joseph Melek was the first sergeant of an anti-aircraft group of the Second Defense battalion somewhere in the Southwest Pacific.
Line corporal aboard a navy transport was the job Robert McCarthy held. During his two .years at sea, he has touched most of the important ports in the Southwest Pacific. His ship was two days out of Honolulu on December 7, 1941.	.
Another Marine Corps veteran is Guenter Tobleck, who has seen duty
1
A
Marines Recall Glories of Corps on 168th Birthday
There were columns of Marines on Guadalcanal who marched or crept along for days without shaving. There was no noon, inspection, no dress uniform.
There is nothing particularly glorious about sweaty, fellows, laden with killing tools, going along to battle. And yet— such a column represents a great deal more than the 28,000 or so individuals mustered into a division.
28
with the marines in the far Pacific. John Biley was a private, first class, in the paymaster division, attached to the fleet out of San Diego. Linus Popadowski and Donald Wiebel were stationed at marine bases in the States.
—Pvt. John Knutson
Comm. Burleigh Addresses
South Bend Rotary Club
In a recent address to the South Bend Rotary Club at the Oliver Hotel, Lieut. Commander W. P. Burleigh of the naval training school here at Notre Dame, expressed his belief that the Navy is ready and anxious to meet the enemy in combat.
Lieut. Commdr. Burleigh pointed out that the readiness and strength of our naval forces can be seen by the fact that Japan, our greatest adversary on the high seas, hesitates to test her navy in combat with the United States forces. He also pointed out that scarcely two years ago the world doubted our ability to do what we have done in the past few months. The “amazing growth and increase in power on the part of the United States fleet” has “no parallel in history,” Commander Burleigh reviewed. “It has been impossible for the Axis to compete with us in shipbuilding.”
In his closing remarks, Lieut. Commdr. Burleigh stated his belief that the Navy is not only anxious to meet the enemy but can do so and acquit itself most successfully. “With certainty we can promise the American people . . . that the job will be finished to your complete satisfaction.”
John Hickey Awarded Trophy
At the recent wartime commencement, it was announced by President J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., that the Byron V. Kanaley trophy, emblematic of proficiency in scholarship and varsity athletics, had been awarded to John P. Hickey. The son of Mr. and Mrs-. Thomas L. Hickey of 1004 E. St; Vincent St., South Bend, he is the last of five brothers to attend the University.
Jack was a baseball monogram winner as regular first baseman last spring, and he was a squad member for two seasons under. Coach “Jake” Kline. In the classroom he boasted a 95.85 average for seven semesters that made him the recipient of a degree Summa cum Laude; an outstanding scholastic distinction in itself.	-
Hickey was a member of the Navy V-12 program and now awaits his orders that will send him to Midshipmen’s school and a future ensign’s commission.
CAPTAINS BARRY AND BURNETT (Continued from Page 5)
Since that time he has served aboard a variety of ships, ranging from a gunboat to a battleship, and for the last three years has been chief of the Naval mission to Colombia, South America.
Upon his graduation from Annapolis Capt. Barry was assigned to the battleship Missouri. After that came destroyer service and assignment to the Navy’s first dreadnaught, the Michigan, before a tour of duty on a gunboat during the Mexican disturbance. .	.
World War I found Capt. Barry on duty at an Asiatic station in command of a gunboat, the Pampanga, a former Spanish vessel raised from the floor of Manila bay after the war of 1898.
The battleship North Dakota was his next assignment. That was at the close of the war of 1917-18. He served with the Navy Department in Washington before being given command of the destroyer, Reno, and then came an assignment as seamanship instructor at Annapolis. After three years he was at sea again serving as chief of staff of the commander of the training squadron of the Atlantic fleet. .
Three more years of navy department duty in Washington and a year in the Navy War College, from which he was graduated in 1934, plus another tour of shore duty as executive officer of the naval training station in Newport, R. I., came before he was ordered to the cruiser Trenton as its executive officer. He became captain of the Trenton in 1938 while it was flagship of the European squadron of the Atlantic fleet. Capt. Barry was in command of . the Trenton when the war started. After eight months in European waters with the fire of war all around, he returned with the Trenton to the United States and proceeded to join the fleet at Pearl Harbor. In 1940,
IN THE ARMED FORCES?
SAFEGUARD YOUR MONEY
There’s one sure way to safeguard your travel cash, and that is with AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES. You not only have - spendable money, but in addition SAFE MONEY, for if lost or stolen, their value is refunded in full.	-	■
Issued in denominations of $10, $20, $50 and $100. Cost 75c for each $100. Minimum cost of 40c for $10 to $50. For sale at banks and Railway Express Offices.
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES
however, he‘was sent to Colombia to head the U. S. Naval mission to that country, where he remained until ordered to Notre Dame.
Captain and Mrs. Barry will reside at 1120 East Jefferson Blvd. Their daughter, wife of Lieut. Commander William M. Stevens, a navy bomber pilot, and grandchildren, Richard Barry and Bettina Ann, will live with them. Lieut. Comdr. Stevens was graduated from the Naval Academy in 1937.
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
•
N. D. Jewelry
, • ~ ’ ■■
Ladies’ Miniature : Notre Dame Rings Ready for Christmas
. • ■ ■■ "
Order.Now!
■ / • -
Official Navy Stationery Toilet Articles . Supplies
29
SERVICE MEN
You are always
at the Navy Canteen
Make the Navy Canteen Your Club
Regulation Haberdashery Candy Cigarettes Coca-Cola Gum Cigars
Zero Deck of the Dining Hall
Irish Team is State Champ in Cross Country Meet
The Notre Dame cross-country team clinched the state championship meet for the first time in Irish track history on Saturday, Oct. 31. The contest, open to all Indiana colleges, was held at Purdue University, East Lafayette, Ind. The day was marred by rain and sleet, however, so only Notre Dame, Purdue, and Indiana entered teams. Led home by Frank Martin, the Notre Dame team racked up but 31 points as compared to 33 for Purdue and 55 for Indiana. Martin took the four mile run in good time, running 21:03. John Lyons, a freshman ran third, Kunzler fifth and Kiley twelfth. Coach Handy was well pleased with the efforts of his boys this season and prepared to enter them in the National Servicemen’s Cross-Country meet at Chicago.
—Joe Fahey
IRISH FACE SEAHAWKS (Continued from page 27) vidual brilliance of some of the publicized sailors. Creighton Miller, the Man-O-War of Midwestern football, should race on to further triumphs. Backfield mates Johnny Lujack, Jim Mello, and Julie Rykovich — still springing from the crackling T — have yet to be harnessed. Up in the front trenches, Captain Pat Filley will lead his buddies, Paul Limont, John Yonakor, Jim White, Ziggy Czarobski, John Perko, and Herb Coleman, against the veteran Seahawk frontier.
Reserve guard Joe Signaigo, with a broken nose, was the only casualty last week. His slot will be ably filled by versatile Gasper- Urban, a Sophomore Ma-mine from Lynn, Mass. Gas was a tackle as a Frosh, and in this campaign has seen action as an end and guard.
Fighting Irish Cannot be Denied
Expect to watch a revitalized Seahawk team take the field tomorrow with many new names in the starting lineup. For this game several of the officers from the Iowa City Training Station will shed their stripes and romp around for sixty minutes in familiar togs. Don Faurot will deal every ace in his stacked deck in an attempt to hit the headlines as the coach of the year — the coach to outwit Frank Leahy.. His team with a biting memory of ’42 still burning bright in their minds, cry for reevnge.
The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, however, two games shy of the greatest, record in history, will not bow in defeat. They have already come too far along the victory trail. They cannot be denied.
PANTS SHIRTS N. D. BLANKETS
Sonneborn's Sport Shop 121 West Colfax Avenue South Bend, Ind.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
IT IS NOT TOO LATE—MEET THE GANG AT THE
SUNNY ITALY
for
ITALIAN STYLE SPAGHETTI
Under Management of
Josie and Jim
Sunny Italy Cafe 601 N. Niles Avenue Phone 3-0678
30
Campus Centenary Publications
Notre Dame—100 Years $4.00
Collected Poems of
Charles L. O’Donnell $2.50
. . . at the Bookstore
Buy WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Notre Dame HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES CANDY
TOBACCO
PIPES
INTRODUCING
(Continued from page 15
Breen-Phillips practicing his kicking and passing with his Breen-Phillips roommate, Ray Dooney, present ace back for Wisconsin.
. Lu jack and Bertelli were worked into the same backfield for the early season; Johnny replacing Creighton Miller and Bertelli, and therefore his number 32 has seen a lot of action this season.
John is a sophomore in AB and is here with the V-12. He clings staunchly to his contention that Glenn Miller is still the best band going. He likes to spend his spare time collecting autographs and photos of athletes.
Lujack is a Zahm navy man and pals around with one of football’s best ends . — another of Zahm’s navy men, none other than:
PAUL LIMONT
It was not a hard job to find 190 pounds, 6 feet, 2 inches on the second floor of Zahm, especially when it was in the form of husky, good-looking Paul Limont.
Paul was born on March 5, 1923 in St. Paul, Minn. After living there for seven years, the family moved to Great Neck, Long Island for five years, later 'to New Orleans, ending up finally in Hyannis, Mass.
While at New Orleans, Limont attended Jesuit High where he tried football as center, tail-back, and end. He had the natural speed and the agility to make an outstanding end, and therefore, he went on to win the all-state end honors, along with the all-prep title. Proof of his speed is his track-time in the 100 yard dash, and in the 220: 10 seconds flat and 22.3 seconds respectively.
Paul had an appointment to West Point but somehow Notre Dame held a special attraction for him and he declined his appointment. He is now a Junior in AB, and looks forward to a successful future in aviation while in the navy. After the war he plans to go into Journalism.	’
Paul comes from an athletic family. His father was a monogram man on the Boston College baseball team; his 13-year old sister is a speedster in swimming, having won many medals in the dashes; his younger brother, “Chubby” is a student here at N. D. and is promising basketball material. .
Paul’s hobby is sailing, but he’ll trade oif occasionally for a recording or two by Stan Kenton, or a few small doses of semi-classical music.< Paul confesses that his liking of semi-classical music comes from the fact that both his mother and uncle have been members of the famous Boston Opera Company.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometritsts and Mfg. Opticians
228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . .TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS Sl.OO.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
Telephone 3-1269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
- LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S. CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.	South Bend. Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-40S Tower Building
Phone 3-25674
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bld.. South Bend. Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS ' 503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher. M.D.	M. J. Thornton, M.D.
31
Copyright 1945, Liggett & Mrrss Tobacco Co.

HAT CANT
6*®?} th* S
th#5

DO
WITHOUT
When you smoke CHESTERFIELDS you getting the best tobaccos that mon but that’s not all. ? . the world’s baccos, yes... but the blend — C Combination— that’s-the thing
That’s why yourCheste Better-Tasting...th
w you re con buy —
t^igarette to*
erfields’ Right
are Milder and ey always SATISFY.