JOB WITH A FUTURE—
Varied experiences in a Du Pont chemical plant fit young engineers for higher responsibility
As was pointed out in the last issue of the Digest, Du Pont’s many product lines afford men interested in production supervision experience in a wide variety of operations.
For a better idea of what the work involves, let’s consider a specific case —the production of "Mycoban” sodium and calcium propionates, inhibitors used by bakeries to extend the mold-free life of bread and other baked goods.
Many of the problems encountered in the manufacture of "Mycoban” are similar to those arising in the manufacture of any Du Pont chemical. There is the same continuing effort to improve quality, while cut
. PMcms Control Engineer W. L. Morgan {at left), B.S. in Ch., West Virginia Wesleyan '37, observes packing characteristics of "Mycoban” powder as it comes from the loading hopper.
ting costs through the better use of equipment, instrument controls and raw materials.
The supervisor works hand in hand with the plant technical section toward these goals. He also keeps himself informed on technological and economic trends affecting production and sales, finds explanations for out-of-line costs, and prepares plans and estimates for increasing production.
Such work obviously calls for a sound technical background. In addition, however, considerable administrative ability is needed. A supervisor must be able to supervise. His duties include keeping people under him informed about long-range
Production Supervisor Robert B. McCue {at right), B.S. in Ch. E., West Virginia '38, and plant laboratory shift-leader J. P. Quarles, B.S. in Ch. E., Lehigh ’38, discuss analysis of a product sample.
changes in company policy and assuming responsibility for their safety and morale.
Theunusualproblemsencountered in "Mycoban” production are largely due to the seasonal nature of its sales. Its greatest use is in the hot, humid months, or from late spring to early fall. For this reason:
1.	Production and warehouse inventories of "Mycoban” must be carefully balanced against sales forecasts. The supervisor gathers necessary background information for this operation.
2.	Production needs, including manpower, equipment and materials, must likewise be planned to meet sales forecasts.
3.	Maintenance, including a yearly hydrostatic test of the plant, must be scheduled with the plant maintenance supervisor for the minimum interference with peak-season production. Emergency maintenance must be kept down by carefully planned preventive maintenance.
As you can see, production supervisors have a broad field of activity at Du Pont. The experience gained in this job will prepare an ambitious man for advancement to positions of still higher responsibility.
YOU’LL WANT to read "Chemical Engineers at Du Pont.” Explains opportunities in research, development, production, sales, administration and management. For copy, write: 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Del.
BZTTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING .. ..THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Listen to "Cavalcade of America,” Tuesday Nights on NBC—See It Every Other Wednesday on NBC TV
-the only leading King-Size cigarette made an exclusively different way to avoid the main cause of irritation!
NOW! PHILIP MORRIS is available in the new KING-SIZE and the famous Regular Size.
Remember, you’ll feel better when you
change to PHILIP MORRIS. In case after case, coughs due to smoking disappear ... parched throat clears up . . . that stale, “smoked-out” feeling vanishes.
Yes, KING-SIZE er REGULAR
Wu feel better smoking PHILIP MORRIS
9 PBIUP MORRIS
Take qour choice but make qom choice MUPMMK WfrfflE or REGUIAR.1
Feb. 20, 1953
A secure future, exceptional opportunities for advancement, and an excellent starting salary await you at Fairchild, if you are one of the men we are looking for. We have openings right now for qualified engineers and designers in all phases of aircraft engineering; we need top-notch men to help us in our long-range military program: turning out the famous C-119 Flying Boxcars and other projects for the U. S. Air Force.
Fairchild provides paid vacations and liberal health and life insurance coverage. We work a 5-day, 40-hour week as a base. Premium is paid when longer work week is scheduled.
_ CT EHCIME MD AIRPLANE CORPORATION
FAI RCHILD ^i^tDaniion
HAGERSTOWN, MARYLAND
Prepare for an Executive Career in RETAILING—in just One Year!
From New York to New Zealand, college graduates converge on “The Retailing Center” to train for an exciting, rewarding career—in just one year! Retailers need you—and look to our graduate school—for future advertising managers, buyers, merchandise managers, fashion executives, store managers, personnel administrators, researchers. Prominent retailers send their sons and daughters to the N. Y. U. School of Retailing to help carry on the family business successfully. Our one-year Master’s Degree program includes courses in all branches of retail-store management, under well-known specialists, plus 10 full weeks of supervised executive training, with pay, in leading New York stores, plus valuable store and market contacts.
For details, write for BULLETIN CJ
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY	SCHOOL OF RETAILING
100 Washington Square East,	New York 3, New York
iom» UNDH AUTHORITY OF THS COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
Flowers For Editorial
Editor:
I read your very pertinent and penetrating editorial in last week’s Scholastic, “Ignorant, Communist, or Atheist?’’, with a great deal of interest.
As a member of a 10-man delegation representing the Economic Round Table and the University of Notre Dame, I had just returned from the Midwest Convention of International Relations Clubs held at Nazareth College, Kalamazoo, Mich., Feb. 12 and 13.
In one of the Round Table discussions during the convention, such ideas as “the primary conflict in the world today is not between Christian ideology and that of Communism because there are a lot of people who do not believe in God and still are not Communists,” or “Communism is not all evil because Social Justice can be exercised to its highest degree in a Communistic society,” or another time, “we have no right to try to spread Christianity among the peoples of the world because religion is a personal thing,” were presented openly and supported very strongly-
It was at this time that my gratitude for my Catholic training reached a new high. I was especially proud to be from Notre Dame, because through the individual efforts of our whole delegation we tried to impart to them the Catholic viewpoint. While we may not have changed their opinions, I can assure you that they left the convention knowing that we disagreed with them.
I hope you will continue to give us such timely and valuable editorials.
John F. Corrigan 310 Dillon Hall
P. S.: An interesting footnote is that only two delegates from a non-Catholic school arose to agree with us in principle, and, by coincidence, they both were from Michigan State.
The Father Sorin Story
Editor:
Like the missing likeness of Father Sorin, I thank you for the publicity. But I must confess I do not deserve the credit you have given me.
To keep the record straight: the South Bend Tribune carried four stories on the vacationing statue. I wrote only one of these. The others were produced by former Scholastic Editor John J. Powers. None of the stories was bylined.
Incidentally, the Scholastic deserves (Continued on page 33)
4
The Scholastic
prove by word, thought, or deed, that he is the seediest man on campus, beyond any shadow of doubt. Undisputed claim to this year’s crown goes to the person who cried, “How about a little Dixieland?” at the concert last Saturday.
By Mort Luby
The prize? Why, a packet of pansy seeds for your flower box, of course.
Top of The Week
Our “at home” basketball games . . .
■
They Were There
All sorts of people came to Joe Jasinski’s jazz concert at the Palais. There was the local talent from South Bend’s higher institutions of learning (Riley, Washington, Central, etc.) replete in their duck tail haircuts, suedes, and what we must assume as the ultimate in pegged trousers. Then there were several ladies fair from across the Dixie, who showed that they were utterly void of inhibition by occasionally peeping “go, go, go,” in very soft, lady-like voices. There were even some Notre Dame boys there.
Although the natty musicians will get no fashion awards, everybody thought they made some real reet noise. But as we sat there, sopping up the dulcet tenor saxophone rendering of “Body and Soul,” “I’m in the Mood for Love” and other soulful items, we began to wonder if the Mardi Gras committee hadn't got their bands a little mixed up.
Perhaps it would have really been better to have had Thomas Dorsey and his wiggly blonde vocalist at the jazz concert, and the smoothies from Toledo for the dance. This thought occurred to us as we recalled the jabbing, buffeting and general abuse heaped upon us by 500 couples as the sentimental gentlemen went ripping through an unsentimental “Opus 1” and sundry other uptempo Dorsey opera.
■
It Might Be Our Typewriter
Not very long ago, Red Smith, whose column appears in the Chicago SunTimes, compared the odor of a halfdecayed specimen of a rather fishy “missing-link” to the stench emitted by all copyreaders. From the general tone of Mr. Smith’s column, one is led to believe that copyreaders are warped, uncultured people whose final end is the frustration of all boy-journalists.
Last week, in a short essay on the merits of a jazz addict’s apparel, we tried to say that the desired effect of pegged pants was to make the trousers look like a pair of inverted wig-wams. But some capricious copyreader or linotype operator changed our “w’s” to “k’s” so that our teepees were suddenly converted into “kig-kams.” Whatever that might be.
A Polar Expedition
Perhaps you’re wondering why old man winter waited till this late in the season to frown upon Northern Indiana. The answer, as Mr. Holmes would say, is quite elementary. Winter was simply waiting for the NIT to inflate its fare before making its grand, full blown entrance.
The coupling of these two disasters can dramatize your whole existence if you care to take it in that light, and exercise your imagination. While you’re waiting for the bus, in several chilling feet of snow, just pretend you’re Admiral Byrd, waiting for your dog sled to come and whisk you off to some nice warm igloo, like the Stratigon. Mush!
■
We Point with Pride
And while we’re on the subject of the jazz concert, it is with great pleasure, humility, gratitude, and admiration, that the Week makes its annual award for “Seed of the Year.” This year, as in yesteryears, -the awe-inspiring presentation goes to the undergraduate who can
Bottom of The Week
... in the Chicago Stadium.
YOU CAN RIDE
TO TOWN FOR
as low as
13c
in an
Indiana Cab
New flat rate—65c
from Circle to Michigan and Colfax. (Up to five per cab)
can 3-9333
INDIANA CAB CO.
----------------International Studies--------------------------------
The Foreign Policy of the British
Labour Government: 1945-1951
By M. A. Fitzsimons. A weakened Britain’s adjustments to the harsh realities of the postwar world, in which she was a power with world interests but no longer a world power, are graphically described in this delineation of the Labour Party’s foreign policy aspirations and performance. Against this background the volume analyzes the ambiguity in Britain’s espousal of European Union, the differing American and British policies toward China, and Britain’s successes and failures in coming to terms with Asian nationalism.	$3.25 |
Previously published INTERNATIONAL STUDIES of the Committee on International Relations of the University of Notre Dame:
BOLSHEVISM: AN INTRODUCTION TO SOVIET COMMUNISM*, by Waldemar Gurian. $3.25. “Prof. Gurian performs the remarkable deed of saying everything an educated man ought to know about Bolshevism.”—Annals of the Academy of Political and Social Sciences.
CHRISTIAN DEMOCRACY IN ITALY AND FRANCE*, by Mario Einaudi and Francois Goguel. $4.00. "... another magnificent contribution of the Notre Dame International Studies publications.”—Social Order.
EUROPE BETWEEN DEMOCRACY AND ANARCHY, by F. A. Hennens. $4.00. “The tragic effects of Proportional Representation between 1918 and 1950 is the main theme of this excellent and important volume . . . written by a leading authority on P. R.”—Current History.
* “America” lists both titles among the five best “Global Front” books published during the second half of 1952.
University of Notre Dame Press • Notre Dame, Indiana
Feb. 20, 1953
FEBRUARY 20
FIELDHOUSE (7:30 p.m.)—Jim Harrington will try to beat 14 feet and the Irish fleetfeet try to beat vaunted Michigan in a dual indoor track-and-field meet.
COLFAX (through March 3)—Martin & Lewis are back, this time in The Stooge (A-l), a real good tickler. Jerry, naturally, plays the title role.
GRANADA (only two more days)—Even .if you’ve given up movies for Lent you might rationalize seeing Never Take No for an Answer, which gets our personal vote for the best pic in a slew of seasons. An English movie filmed in Assisi and Rome, it’s about an Italian orphan and his attempts to take his ailing donkey to the Shrine of St. Francis. Humorous, touching, and excellent in every way. With it, for a real bargain, is the mature and witty comedy, The Fourposter (A-2), with Rex Harrison and Lili Palmer.
FEBRUARY 21
WASHINGTON HALL (10:30 a.m.)—While the rest of the student body devotes this holiday morn to the sack, the Class of ’53 will parade down the Main Building front steps, hear some speeches, present a flag, and look pretty in their togas and mortar boards.	.
WASHINGTON (again) HALL (1:30, 3:25, 6:40, 8:35)—Marilyn Monroe, appropriately cast as a “woman of the streets,” makes her Wash. Hall debut in O. Henry's Full House. But don’t let that stop you from seeing the excellent—and free—movie.
FIELDHOUSE (8 p.m.)—The Irish eagers meet Northwestern’s Wildcats again-
PALACE (7:15 and 9:30)—Funnyman Bob Hope brings his all-star revue to town for a one-night stand. Reserved seats $1.20—and up.
FEBRUARY 22
GRANADA (four days)—Maureen O’Hara is the Redhead From Wyoming (A-2). The pic ends with a long and gory battle. The co-pic is jam-packed with Injuns: Navajo, a documentary about the western tribe
STATE (three days)—More Indians, in Apache Drums. With it is a tale about a Prince Who Was a Thief. Why we don’t know.
RIVER PARK (three days)—Esther Williams swims through the part of Annette Kellerman in Million Dollar Mermaid (A-l), a lavish film good for quenching thirst. Co-pic is Girl of the Limberlost, after the book of the same title, which we somehow never read.
FEBRUARY 25
AVON (one week)—City Beneath the Sea, with Robert Ryan and Mala Powers, is supposed to be a good yarn, but we’ll admit we’re not sure.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
HEALTH
I SPOT |
SHOES
For
Men Women Children
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
Italian Home Cooking
Five Minutes from the Campus
’ PIZZA ‘ SPAGHETTI
Every day but Sunday
* CHICKEN a la cacciatore
Saturday Only
You’re always welcome at .. .
ROCCO'S
537 N. St. Louis On the Bus Line.
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS Welcome to
128 W. WASHINGTON
FRANKIE LANE
made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes.
Spaghetti	Ravioli
Chicken	Steaks
The new tradition at Notre Dame is . . .
RESTAURANT 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
The Scholastic
Vol. 94 February 20, 1953 No. 15
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
ROBERT G. FINNEY Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO ...................News FRED C. ECKART ...........Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE ..........Features
JOHN F. SAND ................... ....Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass’t. Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY ..............Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN ................  Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Tom Bennet, Tom Bosse, Bill Burnett, Dick Callaghan, Irv Carrig, Joe Casser-ella, Bill Copeland, Doug Cole, Pat DiPasquali, Frank Donlon, Carroll Dowden, Fred Eckart, Paul Fullmer, James Gallagher, Bob Gorman, Dick Hairsine, Tom Hartzell, Joe Leaser, Karl Martersteck, Bill Moore, Henry O’Bryan, Jim O’Shea, Dick Rupp, Jerry Shea, Dave Schlaak, Ray Schlitzer, Peter Sturtebant, Mike Ward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Warren Ashbaugh, Lou Bourjaily, Tom Caplet, John Cywin-iski. Bob Ettlebrick, Bob Frolicher, Jack Healy, Jack Kirby, Bob O’Malley, Don Swiegowski, Walt Touhy, Tom Welly.
FEATURES: Dan - Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike Long, Matt Malison, John Slavick.
No Sermon This Year
The beginning of Lent is the time when the editorial pages of all Catholic publications blossom out in long, strong sermons about the value of doing penance, of positive acts of prayer and adoration, and a reassessment of spiritual life. There have been few editorials of a religious nature in the Scholastic this year because of two main reasons, and these two reasons also explain why we are skipping the Lenten sermon.
In the first place, there is just nothing controversial about religion. This is written seriously, not jokingly. For there should be no need to tell Catholic university students who have been receiving religious training all their lives at home and in school that thev will be serving their own interests by going to Mass and Communion every day during Lent. There should be no need to convince a person to say the Rosary or do penance when he has listened to the gospels every Sunday for almost twenty years and has studied them in University religion classes. If such a person does not realize these things it is hardly possible that an “appeal to the heart” by one of his fellow students via the editorial column will convince him.
Secondly, how does an editorial writer become qualified to lecture his religious equals or betters? He can tell his readers that Lent is a time for giving spiritual problems top billing, but what would that mean if the writer later passed up a short period of adoration before the Blessed Sacrament in order to study for a little quiz. It would be a case of the nearsighted leading the nearsighted. Therefore, we feel in no position to cast the first stone and will not usurp the prerogative of much more qualified spiritual leaders.
This is no attempt to pass off the above statements as fact — they are only opinions and, judging from a quick glance at the editorial columns of other Catholic university publications, only a minority opinion or possibly even unique. But we must call ’em the way we see ’em.
So — no sermon this year. The gospels, the Sunday sermons, the Religious Bulletin, and your own mind can tell you, if you will listen, what you should do to get the greatest value from the Lenten season. The Scholastic will limit itself to one suggestion for the motto-conscious. If you are looking for a guide to action, you can do no better than to use the words of Christ: “What doth it profit a man if he gain the whole world and suffer the loss of his own soul?”
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeCrick, Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, ADVERTISING ASSISTANT: Jerry Baier. CIRCULATION: Don Doland.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame, Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Nbtre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: The ASME’s are caught in the act of luring customers to their money-making machine, one of the many that graced the Drill Hall for the three nights of the Mardi Gras carnival. The highlights of the pre-Lenten festival begin on page 17.
—Photo by Ed Turner
Progress in Washington Hall
The University Theatre has always been noted for good, or at least passable, productions, but this year the campus thespians have been downright astonishing.
The first big step up the ladder of progress came in November when the Theatre presented The Cocktail Party by T. S. Eliot, the first production of this play by a non-professional group in this country. And, although at times Eliot seemed to be over the heads of both audience and actors, it was a very creditable performance.
Now the Theatre is preparing to chalk up another “first” in presenting Evelyn Waugh’s Vile Bodies, which will be on the boards March 5-8. The stage adaptation of Waugh’s famous novel was done by none other than John D. Tumpane, director of the Theatre, and Rev. John J. Walsh, S.J., director of Marquette’s University Theatre.
We’ll be watching this one with interest, and wondering what they’ll do next. If Vile Bodies is a success it looks like the only thing left for the Theatre is to start from scratch and write its own play, and we wouldn’t be surprised if they did.
Feb. 20, 1953
7
CAMPUS WHEEL ASKS:
“How’s your underwear mileage?"
“I do a tot of rolling around," says Axle J. Inner-tube, a big wheel on the campus, "and let me tell you, it’s a lot more comfortable going over curbs when you’re wearing Jockey brand Underwear. That’s not just my opinion, either...I’m spokes—man for plenty of other wheels, too!”
Yes.college men choose Jockey comfort/
You don’t have to be a B.M.O.C. to appreciate the solid comfort of Jockey brand Underwear. Tailored-to-fit Jockey gives you snug-fitting, easy-sitting relaxation... because...
13 separate contoured pieces are carefully crafted into one smooth-fitting garment.
Newly-developed heat resistant rubber in waistband outlasts other leading brands.
all underwear gives you coverage but
c/ocAecA
MAND Mr P ! w gives you full comfort!
Made only by
Kenosha, Wticoniin
Jockey Shorts
Nobelt® strip rubber in leg openings eliminates sag or bind around the legs.
Unique Jockey front opening never gaps.
Jockey Contoured Shirts
GILBERTS
Has the Largest Selection of
COOPERS
JOCKEY
UNDERWEAR
of all styles in
South Bend
Shorts .... $1.20 up
T-Shirt....$1.25 Sleeveless
Undershirt s . $L00
Your best buy in underwear is Coopers from
813-817 S. Michigan St. Open Every Evening till 9
5
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Big Festival Take Helps Center Program
MIKE LAUGHLIN AND DATE PURCHASE CARNIVAL MONEY To Win or Not to Win?
Procession Opens Annual Senior Exercises
Approximately 900 seniors will don tassles and trains tomorrow when they make their Washington Day appearance in graduate garb for the first and last time before Class Day Exercises in June.
The 104th annual Washington Day Exercises will get underway tomorrow at 10:15 when the seniors start their yearly procession to Washington Hall from the Main Building via the front steps.
Traditionally this is the first time the seniors will have the privilege to use the steps.
Highlighting the program, which is mandatory for all seniors graduating in June, will be an address given by Class Orator, Al DeCrane, a Speech and Radio major in Arts and Letters. Topic of DeCrane’s address will be, “The Role of the Christian Person in a Mass Society.”
Another traditional ceremony will be the presentation of the American flag to the University by the members of the Senior class. The new flag, which is annually presented on Washington’s Birthday, will be blessed after the Bacca-
(Continued on page 33)
Uniondale, N. Y., Man, Zahm Frosh Win Cars
Mr. John Schmidt of Uniondale, N. Y., walked away with the first prize Mercury Monterey Tuesday night to climax five days of mad, merry Mardi Gras festivities which grossed approximately $6400 in booth returns alone.
Robert McKenty, Jr., a Freshman resident of Zahm Hall who had no car license and didn’t know- how to drive, won the student prize — a 1953 Chevrolet convertible.
The second-prize television set went to Mr. Walter F. Pollock, Wellsburg, W. Va. The student salesman prize for second place, a radio, went to Mr. Richard Harvey, Off-Campus. ■
Commenting on the booth receipts after tabulations had been completed early Wednesday morning, University president Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., said, “This is a pretty good indication that the ball is rolling faster now. to gather funds for completion of our Student Center.”
Estimated cost of renovating the Old Science Hall for this purpose has been placed “between $120,000 and $130,000,” Father Hesburgh disclosed Tuesday night. “We hope to realize $10,000 from the Mardi Gras alone,” he said, “because it has been a tremendous success.”
The Washington - Maryland - Virginia Clubs booth topped the Carnival proceeds list with a total of $1,049. The Commerce Forum group placed second with returns amounting to $950.
The Detroit Club won first prize of $25 for the best decorated booth and most original display. The Hawaiian and Villagers Clubs placed second and third, respectively.
Brian Kelly was general chairman and Jim Noonan acted as chairman of the Festival. Other committee chairmen included: Gerry Boehling, booths; John Dasek, head architect; Joe Doorley, supply; Kevin Begley, finance; Joe Madigan, treasurer.
Feb. 20, 1953
ND Student Musical Tryouts Open Sunday; Cast of 50 to Enact College Football Farce
Tryouts for the Notre Dame student musical, Brute Farce, will be held in Washington Hall Sunday and Monday at 4 and 7 p. m. each day. Male roles for the show will be filled from the Notre Dame student body. Any ladies from the South Bend area may try out for the female roles.
' Since 1951, the presentation of an original student musical has been an annual occurrence at Notre Dame.
Walter Swift, who has appeared in several University Theatre productions, has written the script for this year’s show. The music is by Geary Becker, lyrics are by Bobert Rossiter, and orchestral arrangement is being handled by Pat Tobin.
Swift will take charge of production direction while Tobin and Becker will handle musical direction. Mr. John Turn-pane, Director of the University Theatre, will supervise the entire musical.
The story which winds around a cast of approximately 50 characters, deals with four gangsters who invade Peabody U-, a small university, and kidnap the entire football team. This bizarre maneuver is part of a scheme to keep the favored P. U- team from winning a game in which the hoodlums have a financial stake.
The principal male roles are those of the gangsters—Pig, Pug, Slim, and Doc; the football team’s captain, Tom, who supplies the love interest; and Homer Hatch, a precocious and obnoxious busy body. Main female roles include: Alice, the team captain’s girl
WALTER SWIFT
The Brutal and the Farcical
friend; Dionella, Homer’s would-be girl friend; Miss Isabelle Blum, the president’s secretary; Kate, an acid-tongued co-ed; and Tillie Bundy, the gangster’s mother. Other members of the cast include a complete football team, a group of students, and several interesting members of the school’s personnel. Altogether the cast numbers close to fifty.
Rehearsals for the show will not begin until March 11. The early casting will allow the musical directors enough time, before rehearsals begin, to arrange the songs for those cast in the roles.
Yale Prof Announces Paris Summer Studies
Theodore Andersson, director of Yale University’s Master of Arts in Teaching Program, announced recently that applications now are being received from prospective students for the Yale-Reid Hall Summer Session in Paris, France.
The foreign study program is under joint direction of Mr. Andersson, associate professor of French at Yale, and Miss Dorothy F. Leet, president of Reid Hall.
The six-week session begins July 6 and will end Aug. 15. It is open to qualified men and women students recommended by their college or university who have two years of college French or its equivalent.
Students accepted will leave New York in mid-June and be conducted on a tour of Normandy, Mont St. Michel, and the chateaux of the Loire Valley before beginning their studies in Paris.
At mid-session another tour will be taken through Fontainebleau, Bourges, Vazelay and other points, and at the end of the course, the group -will be given three weeks to travel on their own before returning to this country.
The Yale session in Paris was established three years ago and offers courses in Intermediate and Advanced French, Contemporary French Literature, French Art, and French and International Politics from the Treaty of Versailles to the present. Students are expected to complete one or two of these courses and academic credit will be granted for the course work.
For further information and application blanks, students must apply before April 1 to Mr. Andersson, Hall of Graduate Studies, Yale University, New Ha- -ven, Conn.
Red Profs Unwanted, College Poll Reveals
A resounding “no” was the answei’ of college students around the country to the question of whether “avowed Communist party members should be allowed on college faculties.”
The question was presented by the Associated Collegiate Press in its Poll of Student Opinion.
The ACP is a national organization expressly concerned with the review and criticism of college magazines and news periodicals.
Results of the recent survey showed 85 per cent of the students polled were definitely against confirmed Reds teaching in U. S. colleges.
While nine per cent said “yes” they qualified their statements. Four per cent had no opinion, and two per cent gave differing replies.
The question drew sharp criticism. Said a sophomore in Law at Phoenix College, Ariz., “No, they should be shot down like dogs.”
A coed at Trinity College, D. C., declared, “It would be like permitting gangsters to teach high school boys; corrupt ideals would be instilled in their minds. . . .”
A second topic, however, brought about more varied opinions. “That former members of the Communist party should be allowed on college faculties” drew split criticisms. “Yes” was the reply of 45 per cent, and “no” was the answer of 39 per cent of the students.
Nine per cent had no opinions, while seven per cent had various other views.
Regarding the same question, 60 per cent of the graduate students favored college teaching jobs for former Communists.
ND Student Sculptors Display Works at Library This Month
Students of sculpture at Notre Dame are showing their work in a special exhibition at the University Library this month. Included in the display are woodcarvings, terra cottas, majolicas, plasters, and wire forms.
There is considerable variety of subjects, ranging from liturgical bas-reliefs for stations of the Cross, to such functional ware as ash trays.
Notre Dame student sculptors come from a number of departments—Art, Architecture, Business Administration, Music, Philosophy, Sociology, Science, and the General Program.
The classes in sculpture are under the direction of Father Anthony Lauck, C.S.C.
10
The Scholastic
5th Annual Marriage Institute Begins March 3: Semi-Weekly Sessions Offer Noted Experts
Notre Dame seniors and graduate students who are contemplating matrimony will soon have an opportunity to acquaint themselves more thoroughly with that state in life when the Marriage Institute begins its annual sessions Mar. 3.
Introduced five years ago to help prepare future husbands for their prospective responsibilities, the program will offer eight sessions and will run until March 26.
Presented annually by the Department of Religion, the series will be held in the Engineering Auditorium twice weekly for four weeks at 7:30 p. m. Besides seniors and graduate students, only married students will be allowed at the sessions.
Noted authorities on the various aspects of marriage, from secular- and religious ranks, will appear on the program. Family leaders and professional men will combine their first hand experiences with the studied and proven concepts of several religious authorities of Notre Dame in lectures and •‘town hall” style discussions.
The proposed hour and one half sessions will also incorporate question-answer periods following each session. Questions from the floor will be answered by the speakers.
The program announced by its chairman, Rev. Robei-t J. Lochner, C.S.C., will open on March 3 with lectures by Dr. John J. Kane and Rev. Albert L. Schlitzer, C.S.C., on the topics, “The Family as the Basis of Social Living” and “Marriage as a Means of Strength-
Irish Club Elects Officers; Banquet, Dance Top Plans
Richard Hicks, president of Lyons hall and a native of North Hollywood, Calif., was elected prexy of the Irish Club for the coming semester.
Clyde Brennan from Rochester, N. Y., was elected to the vice-president’s post. Bill Walsh, Sophomore class president from Gilman, Ill., was elected Secretary; and Jim Duffy, Dayton, Ohio, got the treasurer’s position.
The new officers have already begun plans for several new programs for the ensuing semester. Included on the agenda are the annual St. Patrick’s Day Banquet on March 15; a club smoker; the first annual Lad and Lassie dance with the girls from St. Mary’s; and movies direct from Ireland featuring Irish history and customs.
ening and Increasing the Life of Grace.” Originally scheduled to open the first session, Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will deliver- his lecture at the third session on March 10. The original speakers for the third session will open the Institute in the first session.
Speakers for the various sessions are as follows: Second session, John H. Sheehan and Rev. Francis D. Nealy, O.P.; third session, Fr. Hesburgh; fourth session, Dr. Herbert Ratner, M.D.; fifth session, Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C.; sixth session, Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady and a panel of Mr. and Mrs. William R. Dooley and Mr. and Mrs. James E. Armstrong; seventh session, Rev. James P. Smyth; and eighth session, Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., and Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Crowley.
Tickets, which will be sold for the entire series, will go on sale March 25 for three days at the Dining Hall. The Blue Circle will handle the sale of tickets. After the series begins, tickets may be obtained before each session at the Engineering Auditorium.
Tile Council of America Test Open to Student Architects
A national design competition open to architectural students at the University of Notre Dame has just been announced by the Tile Council of America, in cooperation with the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design.
The contest calls for the design of a tropical resort hotel. Special attention is to be given in the plan to the use of clay tile, a material which is not damaged by moisture, insect or heat conditions and which is therefore practical in any climate.
Edward D. Stone, architect for the Hotel El Panama in Panama City and the Hotel San Salvador, Central America, prepared the problem.
Students competing through Notre Dame will be eligible for both a local prize of $25 and the national award of $100. The contest closes April 10 and will be judged May 2.
The Beaux-Arts Institute of Design is an educational organization for the encouragement of high standards in the study of architectural design and allied arts throughout the United States. Additional information on the contest can be obtained by writing the Institute at 115 East 40th Street, New York 16, N. Y.
THE LATE FR. JOHN RYAN, C.S.C. “Something to Encourage the Boys”
Father Ryan Trophy Boosts Bengal Losers
This year’s Bengal Bouts will have a new feature designed to give every boxer a chance to win a trophy. Besides the familiar “Sportsmanship” award, there is now a new trophy to be given this year to the outstanding boxer in the preliminary bouts who doesn’t reach the semi-finals or finals.
Named the “Father Ryan Trophy for the Outstanding Boxer- in the Preliminaries,” this award was presented to the committee by an anonymous donor who is a friend of the University and the late Rev. John M. Ryan, C.S.C. Father Ryan, known around the campus as “Tuffy” Ryan, was one of the most popular priests at the University for many years. He was the rector of several halls, and made himself known for “rough-housing” with the students, and playing such tricks as dumping late-risers out of bed. Father Ryan died. on Dec. 6, 1950.
The donor of the trophy said, in presenting the award, “Father Ryan was a great friend of the students and would want something to encourage the boys on to greater success.”
Because this trophy will be given to the man who makes' the best showing without reaching the semi-finals, it will give every boxer a chance to receive a trophy, even though he may not be a class champion.
The donor hopes that such an award will be an incentive to all boxers to train better and give a better performance.	=
Feb. 20, 1953

CLAIR TRINKLEY, TOM HAMILTON
First Come, First Served
Senior Ball Ducats
Go on Sale March 18
Six hundred tickets for the Senior Ball will go on sale Wednesday and Thursday, March 18 and 19, Ticket Chairman Tom Hamilton announced today.
Three locations — the Dining Hall, Dillon, and Walsh lobbies—will be used for the sale both days during the noon and evening meals, or as long as the supply lasts.
Price of the bids, which will be distributed upon payment, is $9 per couple. Seniors must pay in full immediately, either by cash or check. No bids will be reserved.
The formal dance will be held May 8 in the Drill Hall, from 10 p. m. to 2 a. m.
Students who find themselves penniless at ticket-sales time can borrow enough to cover the bid and other expenses from the Student Loan Fund now in operation. There is no interest or charge of any kind for this service, and all loans must be repaid within 30 days.
Applications for a loan may be made to Jim Hutchinson, 283 Dillon.
Hotel reservations may also be made at the time of ticket sales, though no payment is required at that time, Hotel Chairman Clair Trinkley disclosed.
Approximately 40 rooms — singles, doubles, and triples—will be available for seniors’ guests in the Morris Inn, while 125 rooms have been reserved at the Oliver Hotel downtown. Lists of private residences with available rooms will also be furnished.
Eoom rates per person at the Morris
12
Arguing Irish Shatter Tournament Foes In Successful March Through Southland
Notre Dame’s debaters have continued to make this one of the most successful years in team history by winning three of the past four tournaments they’ve entered, and capturing second place in the other one.
Last weekend Chuck Doherty, Bill Hank, Don Dowden and Bill Fagan took first place in the Azalea Debate Tournament held at Spring Hill College in Mobile, Alabama. The affirmative team of Hank and Doherty was named as best in their division, while the Dowden-Fagan duo was named the second best negative team. The team beat out Auburn for the first place trophy by compiling an impressive 384 speaking points in the process of winning 10 of their 12 debates.
Hank also took home a best-speaking medal and appeared over regional NBC radio and television broadcasts on the topic of Fair Employment Practices Commissions.
Professor Leonard Sommer, director of forensics, stated, “This is the third consecutive year we have brought home a trophy of some kind from Spring Hill. The team is to be complimented for their excellent record.”
Last weekend another Irish team travelled to Northwestern University at Evanston, Illinois to participate in a one-day tourney there. Seventy-eight leading colleges of the country were represented, and the Notre Dame team captured first place in the Frosh-Soph tourney.
Freshmen Gerry Meyer and Tom James were undefeated in four rounds while Peter Loedding and Sophomore Carl Gunderson dropped one decision.
Between semesters, the Doherty-Hank combination tied for first place at the Miami tournament held in Coral Gables, Florida. On the basis of points they were awarded second place. '
Among the eight teams they defeated were Annapolis, Texas, Wake Forest and Georgia. West Point handed them their only defeat of the tourney. The negative Fagan-Meyer duo came in second in their division.
At the same time another of Prof.
Inn are $8 for a single, $5.50 for a double, and $4.67 for a triple. Eates at the Oliver approximate $5 per night.
Tickets will also be available for the Senior Ball Communion Breakfast May 10 at the Morris Inn. Price is $3 pei-couple.
Tux rental, flowers, and car reservations will be handled after Easter.
Sommer’s teams was winning the Purdue Novice Tournament. The younger members of the team tied for first place with Case Institute of Cleveland, Ohio. Peter Loedding, Freshman engineering student, was named outstanding speaker of the meet. Two other Irish speakers, Tom Bosse and Eonald Stearns, were right behind him.
Last week in an exhibition debate held in the Law auditorium, Carl Gunderson and Don Dowden defeated University of California. California is currently touring the United States on a speaking tour. The judge, Mr. J. Maple, coach of debate at South Bend Central stated, “There are three possible ways I could judge this debate; Notre Dame would win whichever way I judged.”
This Friday a trip is scheduled to Kalamazoo College in Kalamazoo, Michigan, and the following week trips are scheduled to both Boston, Massachusetts, and the elimination rounds for the national championships which will be held at Michigan State College.
English Department Series Shows 'Great Expectations'
Great Expectations, the first of several movies to be sponsored by the Department of English this semester, was shown in Washington Hall yesterday afternoon and again in the evening.
Other films that are in the process of being booked are: The Titian, Wuth-ering Heights, Murder in the Cathedral, and Henry V.
The rest of the movies will likewise be shown in Washington Hall at 3:30, 6:30, and 8:40 on the dates to be announced in the future. Instead of distributing the tickets through the English classes as was the practice last semester, the subscription fee of 25c will be collected at the door.
ASCE Sponsors Discussion
For Engineers Wednesday	|
The Student Chapter of the Ameri-	1
I can Society of Civil Engineers will spon- | sor a discussion and exhibit on “Drain- 1 age Problems Confronting the Civil Engineer” Wednesday at 7:30 p. m. in Eoom 309, Engineering Building.
Speaker for the evening will be Mr. C. D. Beerup of Armco Drainage and Metal Products, Inc.	j
Freshmen and sophomore civil engi-	I
neers are especially invited to attend	I
and become acquainted with the func-	I
tions of the Chapter.	|
The Scholastic	1
Braden Rostrum Head At Arbitration Session
Mr. J. Noble Braden has been selected to be the keynote speaker at the Regional Conference on Arbitration in Labor-Management Relations to be held here on February 27. Mr. Braden is the executive vice-president of the American Arbitration Association.
Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., conference chairman, also announced last Tuesday that more than 200 representatives of labor, management, education, and the legal profession have registered for the conference. Fr. Joyce will welcome to the campus those attending and John H. Sheehan, head of the Department of Economics, will preside over- the opening session.
The Honorable Curtis G. Shake, former Chief Justice of the Indiana Supreme
MR. J. NOBLE BRADEN
Keynoter for Arbiters
Court, will discuss the provisions for the arbitration process in federal and state legislation.
“Arbitration Procedures and Techniques” will be the subject discussed by Mr. Joseph S. Murphy, formerly panel director- on the American Arbitration Association. John J. Broderick, assistant Dean of Law at Notre Dame, will preside over this discussion.
A panel of nine experts, headed by Mr. Peter M. Kelliher, Chicago arbitrator, will discuss how an arbitrator should be selected and the scope of his jurisdiction during the morning session. Highlighting the afternoon agenda will be a practice arbitration hearing of an actual industrial dispute. John Day Larkin will be one of the three participating arbitrators. Mr. Larkin is vice-president of the National Academy of Arbitrators and a public member and vice-chairman of the Sixth Regional Wai-Labor Board during World War II.
Junior Class, Administration Schedule First Parents-Son Day; to Show Daily Campus Life
Plans for Notre Dame’s first Parents-Son Day program, to be held Saturday, April 18, were announced today by Thomas W. Carroll of the University’s Department of Public Relations.
A joint project of the Junior Class and the University administration, the program is designed to “better acquaint students’ parents with the everyday life their sons lead on campus,” Carroll said.
The one-day affair, which will be centered in the Morris Inn, will begin with general registration in the lobby of the Inn.
The Blue Circle Honorary Society will
March 9 Deadline Set For
Draft Exam Applications
All eligible students who intend to take the Selective Service College Qualification Test in 1953 should file applications at once for the April 23 administration, Selective Service National Headquarters advised recently.
An application and a bulletin of information may be obtained at any Selective Service local board. Following instructions in the bulletin, the student should fill out his application immediately and mail it in the special envelope provided. Applications must be postmarked no later than midnight, March 9, 1953.
Results will be reported to the Student’s Selective Service local board of jurisdiction for use in considering his deferment as a student, according to Educational Testing Service, which prepares and administers the College Qualification Test.
ND Site of Admission Test For Law Seniors Tomorrow
The University of Notre Dame has been designated as a testing center for the nationwide administration of the Law School Admission Test tomorrow and on April 25, Mr. Edward R. Quinn, Head of the Department of Guidance announced today.
Notre Dame seniors who have registered to take the Law School Admission Test tomorrow will be officially announced from the traditional Washington Day exercises which are also being held at that time.
Information about the test may be obtained from the Department of Guidance.
conduct morning tours through the classrooms while classes are in session, and will schedule additional optional tours through other- points of interest—including LOBUND laboratories and the Library.	'
Luncheon will coincide with the “everyday life” theme, too, since plans are being made to have the parents eat with their sons—cafeteria style—in one of the University’s Dining Halls.
The after-noon entertainment schedule will offer several events for parent-son participation: the golf course will be opened to men; receptions in the College of Science, Arts and Letters, Engineering, Commerce, and Law will be held, with the respective deans attending; continuous showings of the Dumont television movies of life at Notre Dame, and the “1952 Football Highlights” films in the Engineering Auditorium.
A president’s dinner with Father Hes-burgh is scheduled in the Faculty Dining Hall at 6 o’clock that evening.
Nominal cost of the Parents-Son Day will be 81 per person at the luncheon* and $2 for the dinner.
All rooms in the Morris Inn have been reserved for parents desiring to stay there either Friday or Saturday night.
Tentative plans are also being made by Junioi- Class officers Jim Richards and Joe Springer to hold a Communion breakfast in the Morris Inn after Sunday’s 9 o’clock Mass, which is to be reserved in part for students and parents who remain on campus Saturday night.
FR. HESBURGH, RICHARDS, SPRINGER To Acquaint Dads with Campus Life
Feb. 20, 1953
WANTED
One set of jail keys (any jail).
Contact Joe Hubner, property manager, Vile Bodies.
Name Dance Officers For '53 'Frosh Frolic'
Plans for the 1953 edition of the “Frosh Frolic” have begun with the selection of the dance chairmen and committees by Freshman Class President Mike Van Huffel.
Nick Mavigliano has been named as head chairman, while Dave Granger has been voted business manager.
Managing the ticket committee will be Mike Kiley and decorations will be handled by Bob Morsches. Arrangements for hotel rooms will be made by chairman Tom Caplet and the refreshment committee will be headed by Walt Peeney. Bob Hilger has been selected to handle publicity.
The annual Freshman dance will be held April 17 at the Rockne Memorial. Other definite arrangements that have been made are week-end car permissions and special rates at local hotels for the dance goers.
A Conununion Breakfast will be held on Sunday, April 19, as part of the weekend schedule. Ticket sales of 500 bids will begin in the middle of next month.
No, No, Winthrop. . . That isn’t the way to thrust!
One>Third of Students Select Wrong Course According to Testing and Guidance Dept.
More than one-third of the students entering college today are selecting the wrong course of study due to an over
estimation of their own aptitudes and abilities or because of parental influence, according to Edward R. Quinn, director of the department of testing and guidance at the University of Notre Dame.
“We find this particularly true of students planning to enter the colleges of engineering and science,” Quinn explained, “since many freshmen mistake an interest in mechanical tinkering foi’ engineering aptitude and because of the glamour presently associated with the science and engineering professions by students, parents, and high school teachers.”
Notre Dame’s testing department administers a battery of group tests to all incoming freshmen for purposes of placement and guidance. The results of the tests, indicating the potentialities and capacities of the student, are reported to the heads of the academic departments.
“When a student is clearly not adapted to the course he has chosen, we bring the results of the tests to his attention, but make no specific recommendation until he has tried the work for at
least a semester,” Quinn indicated. It is then up to the student to decide if he should change his course.
Individual testing and counseling in both the educational and vocational fields occupy the University’s three professional counselors throughout the school year. Any student in doubt about his college course or about his field of work after graduation receives ten to twelve hours of careful counseling and selective testing designed to measure his interests, aptitudes, personality and his achievement in the field of highest interest.
The results are sometimes surprising. One World Wai- II veteran in the College of Science complained to the testing department of his inability to get along in his course although he admitted he was failing to apply himself. Testing indicated that the student had a definite aptitude for art, and conversations with the counselor revealed that he was spending more time on his hobby of painting than on his college course. Consequently, he switched to a Fine Arts course. He graduated “magna cum laude” from that department and later studied art at one of the finest schools in France.
The Notre Dame department of testing and guidance was established in 1945 to cooperate with the Veterans’ Administration in classifying the post-World War II influx of college students. Since then, the department has become an integral part of the University and has increased its services to the student each year. In addition to helping students select the right course and the right job, the testing department employs flash meters and reading-rate accelerators to increase the reading and studying ability of students. In a year’s time one student increased his reading rate from 250 to 1,100 words a minute with 80 per cent comprehension.
The testing department also administers the national law school admission test, the Atomic Energy Commission school admission tests, and the college aptitude test for the Naval ROTC.
Semi-annually the testing department serves as a center for the Selective Service college tests. Since May, 1951, Notre Dame students have ranked in the top 30 per cent of-the hundreds of thousands of college men of draft age taking the tests. Many from Notre Dame received grades placing them in the top 3 per cent,of all those tested.
14
The Scholastic
Plan March 5 Concert Fr. Joyce Proclaims ND Video Baptism in *53; By Juilliard Quartet Educational, Public Service Schedule Planned
The nationally famous Juilliard String Quartet will appear at Washington Hall at 8 p. m. on March 5 for a concert sponsored by the Concert and Lecture Series Board.
The Quartet, from the Juilliard School of Music, New York City, has appeared at Notre Dame a number of times in recent years. The main reason for their periodical return may be attributed to the fact that Notre Dame early recognized their talent and sponsored performances at the University.
Rev. James E. Norton, vice-president in Charge of Student Affairs, and a mem-per of the Concert and Lecture Series Board, said, “They like to come back here, and we’re glad to have them.”
Familiar faces to many on campus, the foui' musicians are the original members of the group which appeared initially at the University. They are Robert Mann and Robert Koff, violinists; Raphael Hillyer, viola; and Arthur Winograd, cello. They record exclusively for Columbia Records, Inc.
The sponsoring organization is a new student-faculty group which has as its aim the selection of high-class campus entertainment. Strictly confining itself to student entertainment, the advisory committee does not present educational lectures, which are handled by the various departments, though" both groups cooperate to avoid conflicts.
THE JUILLIARD STRING QUARTET
“They’re Happy to Come Back”
Notre Dame’s entrance into commercial television will be launched within the year, according to Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of Notre Dame, who announced the plans of this venture last week in an exclusive interview.
Since no very-high-frequency channels, oi- VHF outlets, have been alloted to the South Bend area, Notre Dame has applied for ultra-high-frequency channel 46. The Michiana Telecasting Corp., of which Notre Dame is the sole stockholder, is one of three applicants for the remaining commercial UHF channel assigned to South Bend.
An outlay of nearly a half million dollars will be needed to build and equip the studios.
The Federal Communications Commission has recently released over fifty UHF outlets throughout the country to augment the limited number of VHF channels now sparsely distributed over the country.
Adding the future appearance of the Juilliard String Quartet to past presentations, such as Love’s Labours Lost, by the Catholic University Players Incorporated, and the noted pianist Alexander Tcherepnin increases the list of cultural programs in Washington Hall.
None of the VHF channels have been assigned to this area. WSBT-TV was the first commercial UHF outlet opened in the United States and will soon be given network status.
Even though an educational channel was assigned to the South Bend area, Fr. Joyce explained that it would be financially impossible for the University to support the project. Therefore the commercial channel has been applied for to provide superior entertainment for the South Bend area in addition to providing revenue for the University.
“In this manner, Michiana Telecasting Corporation will be able to remain financially solvent while providing the best in educational and public service programming for the community,” Fr. Joyce added.
Since WSBT-TV will occupy one network outlet in this area, Notre Dame fully expects to have a full network schedule to offer the public.
For the present, the studios of the Michiana Telecasting Corp., will be located on campus in a building to be renovated in the near future. Studios may be re-located in downtown South Bend if operations require added facilities, Fr. Joyce stated.
“Our purpose in applying for a commercial channel is essentially financial, the University Executive Vice-President stated, “but we expect sound television production to be constructive to both our students and the people of the area.”
Continuing, Fr. Joyce pointed out that “although the station will be commercial, the emphasis will be on educational and public service programs. We will stress drama, music, art, and any other cultural project that presents itself.”
The television classes, initiated this semester by the Department of Journalism, will probably be switched to the television studios, where the students may get first-hand experience in the new medium. Although experienced television management will operate the station, both Notre Dame faculty and students will be encouraged to participate in the activities of the enterprise.
“Contrary to public opinion, however, this station will not change the Notre Dame status one iota on the‘telecasting of our football games,” Fr. Joyce emphasized. “Since the telecasting of a football game entails the facilities of an entire network, individual operation will have no effect on the situation as a whole. The NCAA has again banned unlimited TV coverage and. Notre Dame will be forced to comply with these regulations.”
Feb. 20, 1953
Twisting Tumblers Are Touching All Angles Trying to Get Gym Routine in Varsity League
BY LARRY BREHL
A revitalized Notre Dame Gymnastics Club has compiled a two and one record in meets held since the opening of the current semester. Two more meets are slated for this schoolyear; these with Western Illinois, March 21, and a tri-meet against Navy Pier and Kansas State on March 28. Several exhibition matches are in the planning stage.
Only three years ago. in 1950, did a gymnastic club reappear in the Irish sports list.
During the “30’s” the stuntmen had a strong and victorious team, but gymnastics happened to be suspended as a sport during the last war.
Victory did not come to the tumblers until the opening meet this season—the first win since the war.
Tutoring the flying, twisting, rolling, swinging, and contorting men is Ray Runkle, a former gymnast at Penn State and assistant gymnastic coach at II-• linois State. Currently a member of the Department of Physical Education, Runkle voluntarily coaches the club members.
This more successful gymnastics club started the season with four men
—it now counts 50 members. Most of the group are freshmen and sophomores.
With more men bouncing, and bouncing higher, the club has quarters troubles. They need larger workout rooms with higher ceilings; the present location in the Rock has become too small for the tumblers.
Equipment sufficient to set up a complete gym, except a set of rings, belongs to the club. A new Nissen trampoline—one of those canvas and springs contraptions which supplies the bouncers with bounce—will be purchased with a $400 donation received from M. C. Pontis of Boston, Mass., last week.
Though a campus club, but hoping to become a varsity organization, the gymnastics group works out daily from 4 to 6 p. m., and early Saturday mornings. These rigorous practice sessions include stunts from forward mat rolls to twisting somersaults on the trampoline.
Two of the team’s “old-timers” on the team have worked up specialties: Neil Vasconcellos, club president and leading point scorer in the meets, concentrates on tumbling, while Ernie DuPraw
handles the parallel bar work. DuPraw has developed a half twisting somersault on the parallel bars.
Based on training, and more training besides, plus the help of safety belts for novices and oldsters alike, tumbling reportedly becomes relatively easy as coordination, strength, and flexibility are acquired. But, the tumblers say, the stunts are not much less difficult than they seem to spectators.
Only a week from now the freshmen on the team will compete with American Turner Juniors in anticipation of and in preparation for future varsity activities.
Varsity competition includes attendance at meets with other universities and performances in the exhibitions. At present the varsity squad consists of Seniors Neil Vasconcellos, Dick O’Leary, and Ernie DuPraw; Junior Dave Engels; and Sophomores Dan and Marb Healy, and Reggie Grimm.
President Vasconcellos was injured— breaking two toes—in a meet at Navy Pier last Saturday, which the Irish dropped, 51-45. He is expected to compete against Western Illinois.
Last Monday and Tuesday the club gave two nightly shows at the Mardi Gras. After progressing from belly bounces to the more difficult kidies and flivises, the stuntmen went through regular competition routines.
VASCONCELLOS IN BACK FLIP
Later, Two Broken Toes
Open First Ticket Sales For 'Vile Bodies' Monday
Tickets for Vile Bodies, March 5-8 production of the University Theatre, will go on sale Monday according to Business Manager Les Zaczek. Sales will be conducted in the lobby of the Dining Hall during the noon and evening meals.
A general admission of 75 cents and a student price of 50 cents will be charged for the three evening and one matinee performances of this first American staging of Evelyn Waugh’s novel of the same name.
John D. Tumpane, director of the University Theatre, announced the completion of the cast with the filling of the vacant roles of Father Rothschild and Archie Schwert. Rothschild, a Jesuit partial to the wearing of false beards and the running of governments, will be portrayed by Jack Wilcox; and William Santoro will fill the part of Archie Schwert, a Texas playboy with a tendency to use other people’s money for throwing parties. Wilcox was previously seen in the University production of Shakespeare’s Comedy of Errors.
16
The Scholastic
HOOPLA!
HOOPLA!
FT
Photos by BILL
DeCRICK
and ED TURNER
UPPER RIGHT: A packed Palais Royale got the Mardi Gras off to its traditional flying start as Tommy Dorsey provided the music. Not many of the 500-odd couples sat this one out. ABOVE: Three of those balloons contained cigarettes redeemable in prizes, and this small-scale treasure hunt was the highlight of the Ball. RIGHT: The Sentimental Gentleman’s vocalist Lynn Roberts is shown lending a helping hand during a Latin number.
In an atmosphere filled with balloons, noise-makers and Tommy Dorsey’s smooth music, the Mardi Gras dance touched off a carnival weekend that this year was bigger and better than ever.
After- the last strain of maestro Dorsey’s music faded, carnival-goers caught their breath, then departed—taking with them memories of a wonderful evening.
The carnival
brought them back to
try their luck along the mid-way. If they had none, there was the jazz concert, a Sunday afternoon dance, and always the possibility of winning a new Mercury.
And if they tried, they might have imagined themselves in New Orleans.
Jazz, whatever it is, met with student approval.
Enthusiasm was not confined to spectat’ went all out in attracting customer!
It wasn't hard to develop an interest in the games—especially
if your luck held out.
To win or not to win? Mary Ann Weitz po‘, inspects the 2nd prize, a TV set. In any
1
The Met Club in action—for a price.
e exhibit more than a little enthusiasm lay in the Drill Hall during the festivities.

the various booths
—and their confederate currency.
s. The workers in
The
to its many state-wide visitors.
leis and baby orchids (for ladies only)
The Syrian-Lebanese Club, (they called themselves camel herders, or something) boasted costumes.
Hawaiian Club, with a booth looking like, we’d imagine, a tiny Oahu, offered
ders the question while Jack Donoghue case, the Mercury would be accepted.

The Mediaeval Institute’s books and manuscripts are hundreds of years old.
IN MBDUEMM
Text by ROBERT HAINE Photos by BOB HUDDLESTON
The micro-reader enlarges old manuscripts that are now preserved on micro-film.
On the third floor of the University Library, in a room musty with old books, a dozen scholars are grappling with an unusual problem. They are devising ways to prove that much of the good in mediaeval life can be used in modern Christian living.
These scholars are concerned with the world’s growing neglect of its spiritual and intellectual heritage—the Christian cultural capital that has shaped western civilization through the ages: a culture which is still, consciously or unconsciously, the vital factor in the day-to-day living of millions of people. Re-investing this dwindling capital is the primary aim of Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute.
Scholars Are Required
Scholars in various fields are required for the sort of study and research the Institute proposes to do. Theologians, philosophers and historians are needed. Experts in Roman law and mediaeval law, liturgical studies, specialists in mediaeval Latin and early vernacular languages and literatures must be there. Authorities on mediaeval art and archaeology, mediaeval science and medicine, mediaeval Jewish, Arabian and Byzantine cultures—all are needed to accomplish the task the Mediaeval Institute has undertaken since its official organization in 1946.
The idea for the Mediaeval Institute occurred in 1933 when the Reverend Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., conceived the possibility of establishing an institute of mediaeval studies at Notre Dame. In that year special courses in mediaeval studies were offered in the Graduate School, and a series of publications in mediaeval studies was begun.
In the Spring of 1946, the President of Notre Dame, the Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., established the Mediaeval Institute and the Reverend Gerald B. Phelan, who had been president of the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies, Toronto, became Director of the Institute at Notre Dame.
Fully Established in 1952
Then in the Fall of 1952, the Mediaeval Institute became a special center of study and research within the Graduate School and the Reverend A. L. Gabriel, Canon of Premontre, was made its Director, with the Reverend Joseph N. Garvin, C.S.C., as Assistant Director. Placed on the staff, to teach courses that deal with the Middle Ages, were Fathers Paul Beichner, C.S.C., Casimir Golebiew-sky, Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., Peter O’Reilly, Henri Pouillon, O.S.B., and Professors William Bennet, Anton-Hermann Chroust, James Corbett, Elie
The Scholastic
fi
c
i
I
I I
I
Denissoff, Mortimer Donovan, and William Miller.
Supplying these scholars and their students with the tools for their job is not easy. Much of the material needed for the study of the Middle Ages exists only in manuscripts that are expensive and difficult to obtain. However, this material can be available to scholars and students in photostat and micro-film reproduction. Consequently, not only will micro-film and photostats be used, but reproductions of miniatures, the available old and new editions of sources, constantly supplemented, will build up the resources of the Mediaeval Library.
The Institute’s Task
Using these materials, the Institute staff will perform a threefold task:
1.	Editing and publishing previously unprinted mediaeval works and preparing new editions of works already in print.
2.	Preparing and publishing critical studies in articles or books.
3.	Training young scholars in the methods of scientific historical study of the Middle Ages so that they, in turn, may carry on their own personal investigations and train others in mediaeval scholarship.
Students will be admitted to the Institute to work under the direction of the members of the staff, and upon completion of their studies, they will receive the degrees of Master or Doctor of Mediaeval Studies. Graduate students in other departments may follow courses offered in the Institute, but only graduate students with the proper qualifications will be accepted.
Strengthening Christian Culture
Students admitted to the field receive a broad training in the whole range of mediaeval studies. Students can, however, choose as a major field one or another branch of the Institute, e.g., theology, philosophy, history, or the languages. When a student’s training is completed, he will be fitted to accept a position on the staff of any institution of learning in the country.
Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute aims to become not only the center of mediaeval scholarship in the United States, but also a center from which highly trained scholars will go out to promote the traditional Christian culture of the western world.
That small room in the University Library, with this aim in mind, seems to be in line with the destiny of Notre Dame from the days when the courage, vision and daring of its founder, Father Sorin, first envisaged the establishment of a great center of Catholic learning and culture in this country.
Graduate student Bernard Gendreau utilizes the Institute's library facilities.
The Institute staff will edit and publish previously unprinted mediaeval works and prepare new editions of works that are already in print.
■ Feb. 20, 1953
.f
I” I
The EYES Have It
By spending 20 hours in front of a machine in the basement of the Main Building, a Notre Dame student may double his reading life. In pepping up his reading speed he draws a bonus in bet-ter grades, less eye ache, and more recreation time.
Notre Dame’s reading program is operated under the Department of Guidance and Testing. According to Mr. Richard D. Willemin, reading counsellor, it is open to all students for the nominal fee of ten dollars. Included in this fee are 20 lessons, designed to increase the rate of reading as well as comprehension, and a two week orientation program before actual practice to bring to the student an understanding of the proper reading techniques. The student must first learn the nature of phrase reading, and how to read for thoughts, or ideas.
Key Words Are Important
The student’s biggest fault is attempting to translate each individual word, rather than groups of words. Picking out key words and eliminating insignificant ones help the student to read faster, retaining the meaning conveyed in the reading matter.
.How many times do you have to look at one line of print before you reach the end? You may find yourself making five, or more, fixations per line. This is because you are probably going through the drudgery of stumbling over every word.
Through the use of a little machine called a tachistoscope, your eyes are
You Said Hello and Your Chances Go.
BY LOUIS BOURJAILY
trained to move along quickly, yet smoothly. The tachistoscope looks like a picture viewer; in the back of the machine are placed a group of flash cards with a certain number of digits on them, usually foui- or five. Your job is to record these numbers as they flash in front of your eyes at l/100th of a second. It sounds difficult, but four or five digits come easily. The going gets rough when you have to remember six, seven, or eight digits, and finally, whole phrases.
This procedure enables the student to cover a wider area at a glance, thereby
Although the Department o£ Testing and Guidance occupies only a small room in the Main Building, it has, in its two years of operation, aided over 150 students in its reading program. At present, 62 students are taking the full-time program, while others who have already taken the course are permitted to use the facilities for practice or review. Usually there are more applicants than can be handled since the course is very inexpensive and convenient to campus students.
reducing his number of fixations per line to three, or four. As he reads over* a sentence, only the important words will stick—the unimportant ones are skipped over, yet, the full meaning is retained.
Reading Rates Increase
The next process is to speed up the student’s rate of reading. He chooses a book from the department’s library, usually a light novel. He then places the book in a scanning machine, called an accelerator. The machine is set at a certain speed, and a plastic shutter moves slowly down the page. The student cannot reread what he has already read, because the slide covers up the print as it descends. If he finds himself reading comfortably at this speed, the machine is stepped up, forcing his eyes to move faster. At the end of twenty les
sons, the student can read possibly 1,000 or more words per minute. To the average student, who reads at the rate of approximately 334 words a minute this might seem impossible; imagine, a slide careening down a printed page at 1,000 words a minute. Of course, in normal reading you don’t have anything to force your eyes to move this quickly, but you should be able to cut your reading time in half.
One commerce student, in 33 lessons, jumped his reading speed from 300 to 1,580 words a minute. Of course, this was done on the scanning machine, and the complete gain will not be carried over into everyday reading. Perhaps his normal reading time today is 600 words per minute—still twice as fast as it was.
Comprehension Is Tested
How much can you comprehend reading five or six hundred words a minute? The student is given other reading matter, off the machine, as a carry over from constant practice on the accelerator, usually about 1,300 words long. His reading speed is timed; then he is given a list of questions, the answers to which are graded. The scores show the progress made in both speed and comprehension.
Sometimes a student will find that he has not done as well as in a preceding lesson. But this usually doesn’t discourage him. Those who are keenly interested in bettering their reading skill, and in improving their studies will find that consistent effort pays large dividends.
MASS SCHEDULE
Monday, Feb. 23—Monday After the First Sunday of Lent. Feast of St. Peter Damien.
Tuesday, Feb. 24—Feast of St. Mathias, Apostle.
Wednesday, Feb. 25 — Ember Wednesday of Lent.
Thursday, Feb. 26 — Thursday After the First Sunday of Lent.
Friday, Feb. 27—Ember Friday of Lent. Feast of St. Gabriel of the Sorrowful Virgin.
Saturday, Feb. 28—Ember Saturday of Lent.
22
The Scholastic

Srad SNotes
Although lacking the tension and general concern which highlighted the November 4 voting, the election of officers for the Graduate School Council was entered into by some at least who looked for an increasing unity between the various departments. The chemists have borne the brunt of leadership in the past and it appears they will continue to do so; at least until such time as the up to now disinterested social scientists vacate their lofty towers and “live it up a little.”
Those elected were Lou Gluntz, president; Art Raymond, secretary; and Jim Sturm, treasurer. Representatives elected were Bob Majewski from science, Ivan de Huszovszky from social science and Bob Wray from arts.
Following the taking of their loyalty pledge and promising to give up all General Motors stock the above named officers informed Father Norton, Vice President in charge of Student Affairs, that the graduate students had voted against sending any official representative to the Student Senate. Close co-operation has been promised, however, and contact with undergraduate doings will be maintained.
The first function under the new administration was a highly successful Valentine’s Day dance held in the vet rec hall last Saturday, attended by fifty amorous couples. A special bouquet should go to Lou Gluntz, oui- new president, for the fine management of the affair and to the numerous volunteers— the chemists again predominant—who helped with the preparation of the event, including the decoration of the hall, and a life and death battle for the possession of tables with the “Mardi-Gras invaders” from next door. Thanks also to Jane Furlong who chaperoned the St. Mary’s girls for the night. What discipline! Jack Neumayr’s pretty blond date even had to switch to Coke. Not that we are complaining, for fun was had by all, but to whom it may concern: could we get some new records for the next dance? Sivanee River is okay, but there are some ultra-progessives among us who like 20th century music.
Last night the Graduate Student Association’s reception for foreign students was held in the Rockne Memorial Lounge. The event was sponsored by the Committee on International Relations.
Bob Wray	•
Ivan de Huszovszky
... In the Capitals of the World
England: When Turkish professor Mahesch Helai appeared on the Oxford University campus to speak on opium, they had a packed house.
When he dwelt for an hour on the joys of opium smoking and wound up by recommending opium for mass consumption, he had a fascinated audience.
But when Professor Helai turned out to be not a professor but an Oxford student in the theater group, he had a great deal of explaining to do. And so did many British and American newspapers which had acclaimed his talk as a new note in academic research. . . .
Iran: When the Law school at Teheran University admitted only 250 out of 1,500 applicants, law students went on a protest strike. Other students joined them. After several days of the strike, the law school gave in, upped its acceptance quota from 250 to 800. . . .
Syria: With a population of about four million, this country has one state university -with a 2,400 enrollment, and an engineering college with an enrollment of 86. The state University of Damascus is located in former military barracks which the French abandoned in 1943. . . .
. . .
Gotta Cut Down on the Calories and Get Into Shape -Again.
East Germany: Stalin’s newest book, Economic Problems of Socialism in the USSR, has been made required reading for all students at East Berlin University. The University senate says it expects students to make themselves well acquainted with this work. . . .
England: Sheffield University’s announced beer drinking competition, which promised to be the start of a hallowed tradition, was somewhat abridged last month when several temperance unions shouted in protest. Lemonade will be used instead. . . .
Nicaragua: Universidad National de Leon has been shut down by the Nicaraguan government. A local newspaper, smuggled into the United States, says the university was closed by Nicaraguan President Tachio Somoza “for no real reason other than to quiet down students who have been demonstrating against other actions of Somoza’s government.”
The Leon university was the last open university in the country. The other two universities had been shut down for similar reasons in 1945 and 1950. . . .
Didn’t know the Scholastic had foreign correspondents, did you?
—Bob Finney
Feb. 20. 1953
Marterie First Prize In Collegiate Contest
On Feb. 1, Down Beat, the country’s top popular music magazine, inaugurated a nationwide college contest to stimulate interest in dancing at the college level.
First prize in the contest will be the Ralph Marterie orchestra—to be awarded to the school obtaining the most points in the contest period, which ends April 30, 1953.
The band will be available to the winning school for an entire day at no cost and will play at any function (s) desired — dance, concert, or both. The school may use the band on any date during the balance of 1953. Second prize will be a complete record library for the school. Third prize will be an auditoriumtype television set.
The student obtaining the most points in the contest, whether he is in the winning school or not, wins a S150 world band Hallicrafters portable radio. The student obtaining the most points in the winning school, along with a companion of his own choice, will be a guest of Marterie at dinner.
Points in the contest will be earned by obtaining subscriptions to Dozen Beat. Schools with registration of 10,-000 or more will receive one point for each one-year subscription. Schools with enrollments between 7,500 and 10,000 will receive three points; schools with 5,000 to 7,500 five points; schools with 3,000 to 5,000, seven points; schools with 1,000 to 3,000, nine points, and schools under 1,000 enrollment, 11 points for each one-year subscription.
The contest is open to all schools and universities. Any schools whose representatives have not yet been contacted can enter the contest by sending a letter signifying such an intention to DOJFA7 BEAT, 2001 Calumet Avenue, Chicago 16, Ill.
Dan: "My brother-in-law just joined the army. That means the war in Korea can’t last very long. He’s never held a job longer than two weeks.”
•
They dragged a man down to jail and took him before the desk sergeant.
“What am I here for?” he asked. “For drinking,” the sergeant replied. “Good! When do we start?”
•
Ann: “Just think, the Spaniards went 300 miles on a galleon.”
Ed: “Aw, you can’t believe all you read about those foreign cars.”
•
He: “Whisper those three little words that will make me walk on air.”
She: “Go hang yourself.”
REV. CHESTER A. SOLETA, C.S.C. Succeeds Father Ward
Fr. Soleta Appointed Dept, of English Head
The Reverend Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., has been appointed acting head of the department of English at the University of Notre Dame, it was announced recently by the Reverend Theodore -M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University President. Father Soleta succeeds the late Reverend Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., "who headed the department for more than fifteen years.
Father Soleta is a specialist in critical theory and in English literature of the Romantic period, particularly the work of William Wordsworth. He joined the Notre Dame faculty after receiving his doctorate at Yale University in 1946.
A native of South Bend, Father Soleta entered Holy Cross Seminary on the Notre Dame campus in 1929. He was graduated from Notre Dame in 1938 and during the next four years took theological studies at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C. He was ordained a priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross on June 24, 1942 in Sacred Heart Church on the campus.
Dave: “What’s the name of the book you’re writing?”
Jerry: “ ‘What Twenty Million Women Want’.”
Dave: “Did you spell my name right?”
A boy’s voice changes at adolescence, a girl’s when she answers the telephone.
•
Sign on the door: “Dear Roomy: If I’m studying when you come back, please wake me up.”
WHDIi Mike Chatter
Last week I mentioned that we are trying this semester to bring the station closer to the students. Again, as in the past, we are concentrating on “personalities.” Right now, we have four disc jockeys scheduled “across the board” that we hope you’ll know as well by the end.of the semester as you did Chazz and Jack last year. Besides these, of course, there are the girls from across the highway, but they need no introduction.
Continuing this semester is the Al Wood show from 12:30 to 1:30. He has already been drawing a lot of comment —some good and some bad—but comment anyway, and that is what we are looking for.
Another show that we had last semester, but have just found a single man to feature it every day, is the “Daily Express” at 4:30. The conductor of that train now is Dave Pfaff, who is also1 our program director. Dave comes tn WNDU after four year’s experience with a CBS station, WRBL, Columbus, Ga. That makes him one of the five or six staff members with any appreciable professional experience, and he sounds like it. He has just taken another afternoon show, and turned it into something that is quite enjoyable.
Our night-time feature now is the Tom Cassidy show from 7:30 to 8:30-Tom did a show similar to this one on a commercial station in Peoria, HL, and he is doing a terrific job with this show. An hour-long disc-jockey program every night of the week is a tough job in any man’s book, but he has made it sound like fun, which, after all, is just how things should be. I haven’t heard one adverse criticism about his program. He is easy and relaxed, and appears to know his music. He is able to keep the show moving at a nice pace.
Our last daily DJ is the new program called the Zulu Warrior. He has been on at 5:30 for the past couple of weeks, but has turned out so well that we are moving to 5:15, starting on Monday, so that you can hear him before you take off for chow. I’m devoting the whole column to him and his show next week, so I’ll just leave it up to you to catch his show next week and see what I mean.
All in all, it looks to us like we can give you some good listening these long lenten days while you refrain from hitting the downtown spots. Why not give us a listen and let us know what 'you think of it?
—Bryan Coughlin
24
The Scholastic
NU, De Paul, Close Irish Cage Season
DICK ROSENTHAL DUNKS ONE DESPITE ENTIRE MSC TEAM Jordanmen Solve Spartan Stall To Win 14th, 72-64.
Irish Thinclads Meet Strong Michigan Squad Tonight in Second Fieldhouse Engagement
Tonight in the Notre Dame fieldhouse the Notre Dame track squad entertains the Michigan Wolverines, a powerhouse on the Big Ten track scene. This meet marks the third outing of the season for the Irish thinclads. They defeated Purdue in the home opener, and then they competed with some 24 other schools in the 31st annual Michigan State relays.
At East Lansing the Irish gained two first places, two thirds, and two fourths, as Kansas State, the eventual champion, Michigan, and Illinois dominated the scene. In the 240 yard shuttle hurdle relay the ND team composed of Ed Powell, John Campagnone, Jim Baker, and Harvey Newquist captured first place with a time of .30. The other victory for the Wilsonmen was in the pole
vault as Jim Harrington tied for first place with a vault of 13’4”.
Notre Dame’s distance medley relay team cornered a fourth place in their event, and in the two mile relay the Irish finished third. Captain Harvey Newquist took third place in the 75 yard low hurdles, and Joe Springer was in a three-way tie for fourth place in the pole vault.
Coach Alex Wilson is extremely pessimistic about the outcome of tonight’s encounter, because of the evident strength of the Michigan squad. In the State relays last Saturday the Wolverines captured three firsts and won points in twelve events. Don Canham is beginning his fifth season at the Ann Arbor school and has a veteran squad (Continued on page 28)
Face 'Cats Tomorrow
Night in Return Clash
BY BILL NOONAN
The men of Johnny Jordan wind up the 1952-53 regular season this week facing Northwestern tomorrow and DePaul Wednesday on the friendly fieldhouse hardwood. It’ll be the second meeting for the Irish with both foes.
In certain respects this is a make or break week for the ND eagers. A victory over both opponents would not only establish one of the university’s best basketball records but might possibly send the Irish on their way to an NCAA tournament bid.
Northwestern has a poor, but in a way deceptive record. In the first 16 games the Wildcats have chalked up only five in the win column, but have lost a couple of real heartbreakers to topnotch teams. Their victories have come over Butler, 90-72; Minnesota, 71-65; Michigan, 84-57; Ohio State, 82-73; and Purdue, 84-65. Indiana and Minnesota, both Big Ten powers, had close calls against NU recently. The Hoosiers survived a second half Northwestern surge
FRANK PETRANCEK Hit 26 In Last ND Tilt
Feb. 20, 1953
25
to Man out, 88-84; Minnesota edged the Wildcats, 72-69 in the last 18 seconds.
On many occasions however, the Purple has suffered terrific lacings, the most notable being the 83-58 rout by highly rated Illinois. At present the Wildcats are wallowing in seventh place in the Big Ten standings. Still they could be dangerous tomorrow night, especially if the Irish are looking ahead to the crucial DePaul battle on Wednesday.
Deliefield Leads Cats
Northwestern is led by forward and captain Larry Deliefield and Larry Kurka, a guard. Both players have an 11 point average for the first 14 games. The man to watch, however, might be 6’8” Frank Petrancik, the hefty NU pivotman, who cashed in with 26 markers against the Irish in the first meeting. Thus far this year, though, Petrancik has had a tough time holding down his job. Hal Grant, two inches shorter than Petrancik has been a key man in his team’s attack and may see considerable action tomorrow night if Petrancik is off. John Biever and Don Blaha round out the first five at guard and forward respectively. Both are seasoned veterans.
The game Wednesday night is the big one of the season for the Notre Darners. Coach Jordan and his boys still wince every time the score of the first DePaul game is mentioned. In that affair, Coach Ray Meyer’s club annihilated the Irish at Chicago Stadium, 83-56. An NCAA bid could easily rest on the result of
BILL SCHYMAN
Looks for Second Win Over Irish
JIM LAMKIN DePaul’s Little Demon
Wednesday’s game, between the archChicago area rivals.
Since defeating Notre Dame, DePaul has been having a hard time of it, dropping rather convincing decisions to both Temple and Duquesne. The Blue Demons’ biggest claims to fame are their double defeat of powerful LaSalle and a Chicago Stadium victory over Hank Iba’s Oklahoma Aggies. Overall the Chicago club has a 16-won, six-lost record, a great many of their victories coming over small schools. Besides Temple and Duquesne, Oklahoma A&M, Manhattan, St. Louis (82-75), and Bradley (9176) have taken the measure of DePaul this season. The Demons get another crack at Bradley tomorrow in the Stadium.
The DePaul scoring punch comes mainly from two sharp-shooting guards, captain Ron Feireisal and Jim Lamkin. These two have been the sparkplugs of the Demon offense throughout the season and it was they who broke the back of the Irish in the first encounter. Otherwise, the team seems to be an ordinary one. Russ Johnson has steadily improved at the center position and has taken up the slack several times this season. The veteran Bill Schyman, has been a steady operator and must be rated the most serious threat outside of the aforementioned guards. Frank Blum and Dan Lecos divide the remaining forward slot. Though not proficient scorers, Blum and Lecos are good floor players and defensive standouts.
With the help of their home court ND hopes to do a little better on this revenge mission than they did last week against St. Louis.
Playing their best basketball of the
season, the Irish stopped a classy Louisville five in the fieldhouse on Feb. 11, 73-62. The game was nip and tuck for three periods, but the Jordanmen pulled ahead to stay in the final ten minutes. “Gootch” Lewinski led the ND attack with 22 points, followed by the remainder' of the “big four,” Rosenthal, Bertrand and Stephens. They scored all but two of the team’s points.
Last Saturday night in Chicago, the Irish blew a last quarter nine point lead to fall before St. Louis for the second time this season. The score was 78-77. Once again it was captain Lewinski who paced the attack as his hook shot was true for 20 markers. Joe Bertrand followed with 17; Stephens with 10 and Dick Rosenthal, breaking a two year jinx with 15 points. Jim Gibbons only played a little over a minute because of a flu attack. The deadly Dick Boudhka’s 24 points was high for the sizzling Bil-likens who hit on almost 44 per cent of their shots.
Irish Top Louisville, Spartans
Monday, Notre Dame returned home and solved the deliberate style of Michigan State, 72-63. The score was only 24-21 Notre Dame at the end of the first half, but when the Spartans fell farther behind, they had to come out of their stalling tactics, and they were no match for the Irish thereafter. Junior Stephens played great ball, hitting for 22 points and doing his usual terrific job on the boards. Lewinski was second with 18; Rosenthal, 14 and Bertrand, 10. Gibbons was again out of action because of the lingering flu bug, but Bill and Tom Sullivan did a capable job filling in.
Turk Gains Second Win In Handball Tournament
The Interhall Handball Tournament lengthened into the third round last week, with Don Turk, who is the odds-on choice to sweep the Tournament, picking up his second straight victory.
Turk has one more round to go, plus the quarter and semi-finals before he can prove the experts are correct, in the finals March 6. The fourth round begins February 23, the quarter finals February 27, and the semi-finals March 2.
Jack Shannon was the only one to stop Turk last year in the Tournament —that was in the finals. Mr. Szekely, the Physical Education faculty member in charge, thinks that the man who has the best chance of halting Turk is Joe Durkin. These two are expected to meet in the finals. Two others who could possibly cause upsets are Bill Aheme and Jerry Smith.
26
The Scholastic
Old Pro Vic RoNez, Conqueror of Joe Brown, Returns From Navy to Fight in Bengal Bouts
BY BRYAN COUGHLIN
One of the best, if not the best, fighters to appear- in the Bengal Bouts in recent years returns to the famous campus championships this year. After a two year stint in the Navy, Victor “Vic” Roblez comes back to try again for the 147 pound title that he won over Joe Brown in 1949.
Seniors will remember this popular-fighter who beat Joe Brown two years in a row, 1949 and 1950, for both the 147 and 160-pound class championships. Many big things in boxing were predicted for him then, and most of them have come true. He has fought in every type of amateur boxing that most people in the amateur ring hope for, and has made his mark in all of them.
Vic Roblez is a 25-year-old senior from Bingham Canyon, Utah, who started his boxing career while still a sophomore in Bingham High School. The high school didn’t have organized boxing in its athletic program, so Vic tried AAU boxing. In both his sophomore and junior years he walked away with AAU trophies, both times with “Regional Champion” inscribed thereon. However, when he won these championships he was too young to go on to the national competition.
In his senior year- in high school, he fought in the Golden Gloves tournament. In typical. Roblez style, he took the regional crown. However, going on to the national contest would have taken too much time away from classes. His principal told him he’d better- bypass them if he wanted to graduate.
Navy Liked His Fighting
Immediately after he graduated from high school in 1946, he went on a two-year tour, courtesy of the U. S. Navy. During his stay in the service, he spent most of his time boxing. He was stationed in China for this period and won two championships there, one sectional and one regional title with the Navy. However, when he went on for the AllPacific competition, he was beaten by one of his own teammates.
After he was released from the Navy in 1948, Vic came to Notre Dame. Naturally, the following Spring found him in the Bengal Bouts. He won easily overall comers until he reached the finals. In a fight that has become legendary at Notre Dame, Vic Roblez took the 147-pound title by beating the now famous Joe Brown, who was also a fresh
man at that time, before thousands of screaming fans.
In 1950, the expected competition in the 147-pound class just didn’t turn out. Everyone fighting in that class lacked experience. So Vic Roblez decided to
VIC ROBLEZ
147-Lbs. of Dynamite Returns
fight one class up that year. It turned out that Joe Brown was also fighting with the 160 pounders that year, and everyone knew what would happen. Sure enough, it was Brown and Roblez in the ring on the night of the finals, in a battle that the whole campus had been looking forward to all semester. And, sure enough, Roblez walked away with the trophy.
It was beginning to look like no one else was going to have a chance in the 160-pound class for two more years, but North Korea invaded its Southern neighbor that June and Roblez was called back into the Navy from the Reserves that summer. He was put on regular duty for a while but soon wound up in Japan. There his pay records got confused, so he decided to put his boxing ability to work again. He reentered Navy competition for Ships Service tickets.
As expected, Roblez won his bout. But he looked so good, that the Athletic Officer informed him, if he’d continue to fight for the rest of the bouts that season, he (the Athletic Officer) would see to it that Roblez would be sent wherever he wanted. Roblez stayed, and by his request was sent back to the
States after the bouts in Japan were over. •
Back at the Naval station at Norfolk, Va., Roblez fought in the 147-pound class for the Amphibious Force team. He won eight of ten bouts at Norfolk, but by this time he was almost due for a discharge. Because his discharge was so near, he was prevented from entering the All-Navy tournament. He was discharged in 1952, and came back to Notre Dame in September to resume his education.
147-Pound Class Old Favorite
This year, Roblez is back in the Bengal Bouts, and it won’t be long before everyone on the campus knows just where he is. It is still too early to tell just what crown he’ll be aiming for. He is looking for the best competition. But he can still fight in his old favorite, the 147-pound class, where he has always been fighting, except for that one year in the Bengals. He can easily get down to the 147weight limit. In fact, he is right around there now.
Roblez doesn’t look much like a boxer when you see him out of the ring. He is rather tall for his weight class. He is lean and has a nice long reach. He is soft spoken and very friendly. He , strikes a person as having a lot of intelligence. But in the ring, his intelligence is in his fists, and his friendliness is somewhat hard to see. There is nothing soft about the way those blows of his land. As a matter of fact, he seems rather forceful. If you want to see a complete change in a person, see Roblez in the ring—but then you will see him—in this year’s Bengal Bouts.
Interhall Qualifying Round Goes On; Riddled by Forfeits
Progress in the qualifying round of the interhall basketball tournament has not yet reached the half-way mark. The round-robin, which opened Feb. 9, and will continue until Feb. 27 will provide ten teams for the ensuing championship tournament.
The finals will be played in the fieldhouse the first week in March.
Tournament director Ernest Szekely announced that the drawings for the finals, which will be an elimination tourney, will be held Feb. 28.
Because most of the qualifying round is yet to be played definite trends establishing favored teams have not been indicated. However, the Badin and Zahm teams, of the afternoon league, are the only double winners as of Feb. 13. This does not indicate predominance, however, since many of the teams have played only one. game and the tournament has been riddled with forfeits.	.
Feb. 20, 1953
By Sack Sand
Fencers Boast Leading Percentage
Unknown to the student body of the university is the fact that a record of 17 consecutive victories by the Notre Dame fencing squad of the late thirties is now being jeopardized by the present swordsmen who have ng of 11 straight triumphs. Seven of these wins have come from the blades of this season’s aggregation, while the remaining four were taken at the finish of the 1952 campaign.
Percentage-wise the Irish duelers possess another- unpublicized fact — that they, since the resumption of fencing in 1947, have led all Notre Dame athletic teams with a phenomenal record of 55 wins and nine losses, for a percentage of .859. Included among these 55 victories are the seven gained so far this season. The Irish fencers had their best year in 1950, going through a 10-match season undefeated and finishing sixth in the NCAA finals, the highest place ever earned by a midwestern school in that tournament. Last year the Irish won nine, lost two and finished 11th in the NCAA meet.
Led by Captain John Mooney, who has won 16 and lost three in the foil division, Coach Walter Langford’s unbeaten fencers must get by two stumbling blocks — Wisconsin and Illinois — in order to eclipse the old fencing mark of 17. The Illini over the past couple of years have proven themselves the toughest opponent on the slate, since the Irish have not beaten them since 1950. ND’s major problem at present though, is getting by their next six opponents before they meet Illinois on March 21 in the final match of the season.
Much of the credit for this year’s fine performance is
due to Brian Duff, who has more than ably assisted Langford in tutoring the newcomers. In a recent off-the-record conversation with Rod Duff, brother of Brian, we found out that in the Michigan State meet last week Dick Berry, the Spartans’ epee champ and “fencer of the year” last season, was behind 2-1 in all three of his matches, but managed to finish strong an each to gain 3-2 decisions over Rod, John McGinn and Dave McBride.
Demons Have Produced a Devil of a Series
Next Wednesday evening Ray Meyer’s DePaul outfit eases into their favorite fieldhouse for the Irish finale. The word is out that each player will be equipped with a pair of earmuffs and a set of shock absorbers. The Irish on the other hand have their eye on the 83-56 slaughtering they received in quiet Chicago Stadium, not to mention a possible NCAA tournament bid. Incidentally the 83 points tallied by the Blue Demons on January 31 set a series record for the most points scored by one team in a single game. The previous mark of 80 was held by the Irish when they annihilated the Demons, 80-45, in the friendly fieldhouse on February 17, 1947. Oddly enough, eleven nights later in quiet Chicago Stadium, DePaul won the return match, 61-50.
The largest point spread of the series was recorded in the very first game played in 1912 when Notre Dame won 58-11. . . . Wouldn’t the Irish like to duplicate that score next Wednesday? . . . And we imagine that basketball arenas today would like to duplicate the crowd of 22,622 that jammed Chicago Stadium on February 28, 1946 to watch DePaul defeat the Irish, 63-47. (There was a guy named George Mikan present at the time). The crowd incidentally was the largest ever to see a college basketball game in America.
Irish Thinclads
(Continued from page 25)
on hand. Van Bruner, a hurdler, is the leading performer for the squad. His qualifying time of :09.3 in the 75 yard high hurdles in the State relays was the fastest recorded, and his winning performance in the finals of this event was clocked at :09.2. He also finished in second place in the 75 yard low hurdles.
Fr.itz Nilsson won the shotput in the Relays with a toss of 53’ % ”. Last year he competed for Sweden in the Olympics, and his teammate shotputter Roy Pella, miler John Ross, and 440 man Jack Carroll competed for Canada. The two-mile relay team of George Lynch, John Ross, Geoffrey Dooley and Ray Christiansen finished ahead of all others with a time of 7:44.4.
Other Wolverines who figure to place in their various events are Bob Hall in the two mile, Dave Stinson in the 60 yard dash, Dave Hessler in the 440, Miler George Jayne, and Bob Evans in the high jump.
Still other entries are: 60 yard dash; John Valostigara, Ross Coates, and Terry Nulf; high hurdles; James Love, and Junior Stiestra; low hurdles; James Love, and Al Rankin; 440; Grant Scruggs, and Joe LaRue; 880; Ray Christiansen, and Robert Cutting; mile; John Maule, Al Lubina, and George Lynch; two mile; George Lynch, and Bob Guise; relays; Grant Scruggs, Billy Barton, Dan Heckman, and Jack Carroll; high jump; Dave Heinzman and Howard Liverance; broad jump; Bill Michaels, Junior Stielstra, Carl Newman, and Dave Stinson; shotput; George Hammond; and pole vault; Rog Maugh, Ted Kress, and Bob Cutting.
Several changes have been made in the Irish squad for the Michigan meet. Bill Richardson will compete in the mile run, and George Helfenstein will see action in the two mile event. Two new names will be added to the entrants in both the high and low hurdles. John Campagnone and Jim Baker will compete in both these events.
After the Michigan meet the Irish entertain the Spartans of Michigan State on Tuesday, February 24, also in the Notre Dame fieldhouse. State’s distance medley relay team topped all other- entries with a time of 10:8.1 in the relays. Jim Kepford, anchor man of the relay team, put on a sensational sprint to give the Spartans a one foot victory over Illinois. Bill Brooman also gained a first place for the Spartans in the high jump with a leap of 6 ft. 3^4 in. In all the Spartans won points in thirteen events.—Erwin Alfonsus
28
The Scholastic
The Rockne of Notre Dame Basketball
By TOM WELLY
To the average fan, athletics at Notre Dame signifies year in, year out national football supremacy. The names of Rockne, Gipp, Layden, Lujack, and Leahy are unquestionably included in the vocabulary of the nation’s fandom. Nevertheless, football is not alone at Notre Dame when it comes to famous names and equally famous teams. This year’s Fighting Irish basketball squad is typical of the many fine teams which have represented Notre Dame on the hardwood courts of the country. However, until the advent of one man, the basketball fortunes of Notre Dame were at an alltime low.
In his undergraduate days at the University of Minnesota, George E. Keogan had aspired to being a dentist. He followed the field of dentistry but after a few years he realized that he liked coaching basketball better. Giving up his earlier profession, he devoted his entire time to his duties as coach at Valparaiso, Indiana, where his teams won 51 games and lost 5. Following a three year tenure at La Crosse, Wisconsin and St. Thomas of Minnesota, he brought his talents to Notre Dame in 1923.
When Keogan arrived upon the scene he was faced with instigating a reno-
JOHNNY JORDAN
Present Coach In His Prime
GEORGE KEOGAN
Producer of ND Cage Greats
vation of Irish basketball which was at the time , in the doldrums. The previous six Notre Dame teams had won only 32 out of 96 games. Keogan’s presence was the impetus the Irish eagers needed and they established an all-time record of 327 wins and 96 losses over a 20 year period.	•
His two best seasons came back-to-back in 1925-26 and 1926-27 when the Irish recorded 19-1 marks on both occasions. In 1931-32 Keogan’s eagers rolled up an 18-2 record, while the three-year span between 1935 and ’38 netted him 62 victories and eight losses. In his last season of 1942-’43, in which he died before its completion, Keogan coached his squad to 18 wins as against two defeats.
George Keogan could best be described as a coaches’ coach. The Irish mentor produced Ray Meyer of DePaul, George Ireland of Chicago’s Loyola, and Johnny Jordan the present ND head coach. “Moose” Krause, Notre Dame’s genial athletic director also starred under Keogan. Keogan’s teams had always been tabbed as amazingly adaptable and capable of playing any type of offense or defense. Such a versatile training in their undergraduate days easily could be the major contribution to the success of the former Irish stars.
The high point of Keogan’s record is the two national championships which his teams captured in 1936-37 and 193738. Featured on these teams were two unanimous all-Americans which made up the greatest contribution of basketball athletes ever to represent the Irish. Johnny Moir and Paul Nowack were modern scorers in a decade when high scoring was a rarity. On the whole there was little to choose from between those two great stars. Neither would have been nearly so effective without the other. Together they formed an invincible combination — one that brought the nation’s eyes to ND basketball.
From his initial day at the helm of the Irish basketeers to his death in 1943, George Keogan remained at Notre Dame as head basketball coach. Throughout his twenty years at Notre Dame he had succeeded in raising the hopes of Irish fans to reality, as his teams brought basketball from the depths to the heights of the athletic world. As a tutor of coaches and a molder of stars, Keogan had no peer in his profession. Last Tuesday, February 17, marked the tenth anniversary of the death of George E. Keogan — Notre Dame’s contribution to the basketball coaching greats of all-time.
ED (MOOSE) KRAUSE Former Star In Keogan Cast
Feb. 20, 1953 i
Fr. O'Brien to Open Aquinas Lenten Series
The eighth annual Aquinas Lenten lecture series will be opened by Rev. John A. O’Brien, Ph.D., at 8:15 p. m. Sunday in the Progress Club. Father O’Brien’s topic will be “The Citadel of America, the Christian Home.”
Running for five consecutive Sundays and ending on March 22, the lectures are sponsored by the Aquinas Library and Book Shop.
Father O’Brien is a research professor at the University and author of Truths Men Live By.
The second subject, “The Christian and the Art of Reading,” will be delivered on March 1 by Otto Bird, Ph.D., who is director of liberal Education at Notre Dame. Dr. Bird helped edit the index of Great Books of the Western World.
On March 8, Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., will speak on “The History of Catholicism in the South Bend Region.” As head of ND’s history department, Father McAvoy is co-author of History of the United States, a college textbook, and also author of The Catholic Church in Indiana, 1789-1843.
Rev. Philip L. Hanley, O.P., a former Army chaplain and a contributor to several religious periodicals, will be fourth in the series on March 15. He will lecture on “Religion and Maturity.”
Stephen D. Kertesz, J.D., former First Secretary of the Hungarian Legation in Bucharest and a native of Hungary, will conclude the lectures on March 22 with a talk entitled, “How Stalin Conquered His Satellite Empire.”
The board of directors for the library and book shop has announced the following appointments for the year: Program chairman, Willis D. Nutting; tickets, Mrs. J- Merlin Guthrie and Mrs. F. C. Goraczewski; arrangements, Prof. James A. McCarthy; and finance, Mrs. John H. Sheehan.
Three New Staff Members Assigned to ND Army ROTC
Three new staff men were recently added to the Army ROTC detachment at Notre Dame. From Korea and South Carolina comes Major Walter C. Lowry, Field Artillery. A graduate of West Point, Major Lowery will be executive officer in addition to teaching advanced course students.
Also from Korea is Lt. Richard W. Ellison, Infantry, a graduate of Norwich, who will be an instructor. The third man is Sergeant First Class Robert E. Miller from the Ohio district, who has been assigned to supply.
30
SERVER INSTRUCTIONS
Class instruction in the method of serving Mass is being given in the Log Chapel from 7:10 to 8 p.m., every Thursday during the semester. The classes are sponsored by the Third Order of Saint Francis, and will be conducted by student instructors.
Hughes Laboratories Offer Cooperative Science Grant
Hughes Research and Development Laboratories of Culver City, Calif., are renewing for 1953 their Cooperative Plan for Master of Science Degrees initiated last year. The plan makes it possible for outstanding graduates to obtain M. S. Degrees while employed in industry and making significant contributions to important military work.
Eligible are June 1953 college graduates and members of the armed services being honorably discharged prior to September, 1953, and holding degrees in electrical engineering, physics or mechanical engineering.
The published announcement of the Hughes plan states that “those chosen to participate in this plan will be from the upper portion of their graduating classes and will have evidenced outstanding ability.” Applicants must also be United States citizens eligible for appropriate security clearances.
Under- the plan, successful candidates will spend half of their time in advanced study to complete their Masters’ Degree either at the University of California, or the University of Southern California.
During the school year the individual’s remaining half time will be spent working in the Hughes Research and Development Laboratories in Southern California. During the summers of 1953 and 1954 beneficiaries of the cooperative plan will be employed full time in the Laboratories with advancement on the same basis as for full-time engineering staff members, and eligible for regular employee benefits, according to details of the Hughes plan.
Approximately 100 cooperative awards will be given if sufficient candidates present themselves, the Hughes announcement stated.
Those interested should write immediately for application forms to Committee for Graduate Study, Hughes Research and Development Laboratories, Culver City, Los Angeles County, California. Final date for submitting completed applications is February 28, 1953.
Marine Corps Begins OC Courses March 12
The Marine Corps has announced that the first of its 1953 officer candidate courses will begin March 12. Current expansion of the Corps’ officer strength required the early establishment of such a program, Washington headquarters said.
The program has been approved by the Department of the Army as being in the best interests of the Armed Forces and the national security. Major Army commanders and PMST’s have been notified of the requirements of the program.
The Marines’ announcement indicated that a “substantial” number of ROTC graduates will be appointed to the grade of second lieutenant in their regular corps under this program.
To be eligible, an applicant must complete ROTC instruction and the necessary academic requirements for a bachelor’s degree between November 1, 1952 and April 23, 1953.
Once commissioned, the second lieutenants start a five-month Special Basic Course at the Marine Corps Schools, Quantico, Va. After completing basic school, over half of the new officers will be assigned to specialist training at one of the Marine Corps’ 16 specialist schools. Schools in engineering, naval gunfire, tank, supply, motor transport, communications and naval flight training are being utilized to the fullest extent.
Army ROTC graduates interested in the Marine officer program are advised to contact their PMST for further information on application procedures.
New Civil Service Exams Announced For Draftsmen
The United States Civil Service Commission has announced a new examination for Engineering Draftsman and Statistical Draftsman for filling positions in various Federal agencies in Washington, D. C., and vicinity.
Salaries range from $2,750 to $5,940 a year.
Appropriate experience or education is required. No written test will be given, but applicants must furnish a sample of their work. Full information and application forms may be obtained from the U. S. Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D. C., and from most first and second-class post offices.
Applications will be accepted by the U. S. Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D. C., until further notice.
The Scholastic
Placement News
A combination of twenty two companies and corporations will be on the Notre Dame campus to interview job applicants next week.
■
Monday
A representative of Edward Valves, Inc., and Rockwell Manufacturing Co. will be on campus to interview B. S. mechanical and metallurgical engineers interested in tool and research engineering and product design. The representative will also interview industrial engineers.
The National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics will be looking for B. S. aeronautical, chemical, mechanical, civil and electrical engineers for aeronautical research.
Interviews originally set for February 12 by the Container Corporation of America will also be held on Monday, February 23.
Bendix Products Division, Bendix Aviation Corp, of South Bend will be searching foi' mechanical and electrical engineers and metallurgists.
■
Tuesday
The Commonwealth Associates Inc. of Jackson, Mich., will interview B. S. and M. S. civil, electrical, and mechanical engineers.
B. S., M. S., and Ph.D. electrical, mechanical engineers and physicists for production, research, and development will be interviewed by Capehart-Farns-worth Corporation of Fort Wayne, Ind.
The Standard Oil Company (Indiana) will be scouting for B. S. and M. S. chemical engineers, also M. S. and Ph.D. chemists.
Professor Dincolo will arrange interviews in the Commerce Building for Haskins & Sells, Certified Public Accountants.
General Electric Company will hold a group meeting of interviews on Monday, at 4 p. m. in Room 22 of the Engineering Building. On Wednesday, as well as Tuesday, a representative will interview B. S. and M. S. electrical engineers, mechanical engineers and physicists.
■
Wednesday
A man from S. D. Leidersdorf & Company will look for accounting majors.
Again Wednesday, the General Electric Company will seek A. B. graduates who are interested in writing and advertising.
A group meeting at 3:30 p. m. on Tuesday, February 24, in the Audio-Visual Center will be held with individual
interviews scheduled for the following day.
Also on Wednesday, Victor Chemical Works will look for B. S. chemists and chemical engineers for research, Ph.D. chemists for inorganic research, and B. S. electrical and mechanical engineers for design and maintenance.
■
Thursday
The Chemstrand Corporation will interview B. S. and M. S. chemical, mechanical, and electrical engineers and B. S., M. S., and Ph.D. chemists; General Electric will also interview B. S. and M. S. chemical and metallurgical engineers and chemists for their chem-met program.
The O’Brien Corporation will interview A. B. and Commerce men for sales, accounting, and other job opportunities.
The Bell Aircraft Corporation will seek aeronautical, electrical and mechanical engineers and applied mathematicians and physicists for work in their Buffalo-Niagara Falls plant on Thursday and Friday; General Motors Corporation will seek mechanical, electrical, chemical and metallurgical engineers and also accounting majors on Thursday and Friday.
■
Friday
Closing the week, the Babcock & Wilcox Company will send a representative to scout mechanical and electrical engineers while Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery will interview accounting majors.
AFME Essay Contest Offers $2,000 Trip
American Friends of the Middle East announces its second annual essay contest open to candidates for graduate degrees in one of the following fields— History, Journalism, Sociology, Theology, .Law, International Law and International Relations. .	■
A §2,000 travel fellowship to Middle Eastern countries including Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Israel, Turkey and Egypt will be awarded for the three most original and informative essays of not more than 5,000 nor less than 3,000 words on “the Significance of the Muslim World for' Our Time.” This theme may be developed along lines suggested by the candidate’s own field of study.
Cash awards of §100, §50, and §25 will be given for the essays ranking 4th, 5th, and 6th places. Four honorable mention winners will receive §10 in books on the Middle East.
The panel of judges will be comprised of experts on the Middle East, coming from both that area of the world and the United States.	,
Application blanks may be obtained from AFME’s Director of Student Affairs, at the association’s national headquarters, 139 East 57th Street, New York City. Essays must be postmarked not later than March 31, 1953.
Feb. 20, 1953
Student Body Boasts 90 Campus Clubs; Chicago, Met Groups Pace Memberships
Americans have the reputation of being great joiners and the students at Notre Dame are no exception. More than half of the student body of 5,100 are members of the 90 clubs and student organizations on the campus.
Although fraternities have never been part of the Notre Dame scene, outlets for every type of extra-curricular activity can be found among the student groups. Each club is registered with the University’s Student Senate which coordinates the activities of all campus organizations. The Blue Circle, a campus honor society, is the driving force behind many public-spirited campus-wide campaigns such as Notre Dame’s record-breaking blood donor effort.
Seventeen social organizations, nine academic groups, and forty-seven hometown clubs make up the bulk of the list. Their interests range from the Glider Club to the Academy of Political Science and from the Chess Club to the Notre Dame Gymnasts. Membership in the Generation Club is open to students whose fathers or grandfathers studied at Notre Dame.
Believed to be the oldest organization on the campus is the Wranglers, a serious discussion group with a long waiting list of prospective members. The Chicago Club is the largest campus organization with more than 500 members from the Windy City.
The Academy of Political Science is best known for its sponsorship of Notre Dame’s mock political convention and the straw ballot which accurately forecast the 1’esult of the national election last November. Typical of other-campus groups with academic interests are the Bookmen, literary discussion society; the Aesculapians, composed of pre-medical students; the Economic Bound Table; and the Accounting, Metallurgy and Geology Clubs.
Many of the foreign countries and most of the states and large cities which Notre Dame students cal] home are represented by their own geographical clubs. Students from Hawaii, the Philippines and Latin America have active groups on the campus. The ten students who make up the Arizona Club have as their motto, “To boost Notre Dame in Arizona and Arizona at Notre Dame.” One of the largest hometown groups is the Metropolitan Club numbering among its membership several hundred students from
New York City and vicinity.
Five national scientific and engineering societies also have active chapters on the Notre Dame campus, including the American Chemical Society, the American Institute of Electrical Engineering and the Institute of Aeronautical Science. These groups bring to the campus distinguished speakers whose lectures supplement the students’ classroom and laboratory work.
The student looking for healthful exercise can join organizations devoted to boxing, wrestling, gymnastics, intramural bowling and other non-varsity sports. The annual Bengal Bouts produce a campus champion in each weight division.
The campus Knights of Columbus council heads the list of several groups with both fraternal and religious activities. Others are the Young Christian Students, the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine and the National Federation of Catholic College Students.
In the close-knit life of the world’s largest men’s boarding school, these and other campus organizations provide Notre Dame students with a varied extra-curricular life and develop leadership for future service to the community, state, and nation.
Fencers Cop Three; Duel Hoosiers Next
Notre Danie’s fencers are flying through their schedule with an unblemished record, boasting a fine 7-0 mark at the halfway point in the season. Coach Walter Langford and his able assistant, Brian Duff, are optimistic about the last seven meets since their inexperienced team has so far exceeded expectations.
Last weekend was a busy and successful one for the Irish fencers. At East Lansing on Friday, Michigan State was put down, 17-10. Notre Dame copped the foil, 8-1, and the sabre, 5-4, but dropped the epee 4-5. Capt. Jack Mooney stole the show as he swept three matches in the foil without a defeat.
Saturday Coach Langford took his boys to Detroit for meets with Detroit and Wayne Universities. The Irish had no trouble with Detroit, winning 21-6. Notre Dame swept the foil 9-0, won the sabre 8-1, but again lost the epee, 4-5. Jerry Brainerd and Dick Hull showed
great form in the foil division, with three victories each. Gerry Finney was outstanding with the sabre as he chalked up three wins.
Wayne gave the Irish an interesting day’s work before bowing, 16-11. In one of their toughest meets to date, Notre Dame lost the foil 4-5 but finished strong to take the sabre 5-4 and the epee 7-2. Rod Duff came up with an excellent performance in the epee to save the day.
Including four victories at the tailend of last season, Notre Dame’s fencers now have an undefeated string of eleven wins. Coach Langford hopes to take a clean record into the last and toughest meet of the season against Illinois.
Tomorrow the fencers meet Indiana here and will be favored to make it eight straight.
NROTC Midshipmen Will Vie For Annapolis Appointments
Three midshipmen selected from among Freshmen contract students in the NROTC will take a competitive exam for appointments to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. The exam will be given on March 26, 1943.
The program will be conducted under the auspices of Captain Luongo, U.S.N., and the Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of the University.

PACIFIC MOTOR SALES
39 So. LaSalle Street, Chicago, III.
STUDENTS! EARN EXTRA MONEY!
Students who want to earn a commission selling the MMOSA SYSTEM on the campus, contact us.
DR RW TURBOW \OPTOMETRIST ----OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring In The Pieces”
----EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel	4-5777
32
The Scholastic
ND Wrestlers Whip Chicago; Take on Sailors Tomorrow
Tomorrow the Irish Wrestling Club travels to Great Lakes Naval Training Station for theii- third and final scheduled meet of the year. The Lakes’ team is rated one of the best in the west and is even considered better than the Big Ten class.
Last week the Notre Dame grapplers downed the University of Chicago in the Notre Dame fieldhouse, 19-11. In their only other meet thus far the Irish fell before a powerful Wheaton club, 12-17.
The Irish lost the opening 123-lb. match because of a forfeit. Sophomore Bob Gordon of Notre Dame got Coach Fallon’s forces moving, decisioning George Stabbs in the 130-lb. class. In the 137-lb. division it was a battle of captains, Dick Anton of the Irish against Al Bates of Chicago with Bates gaining the edge in a close match 5-2.
Irish freshman John Hummer disposed of his opponent in 49 seconds of the second period, to gain victory in the 147-lb. class. In the 157-lb. Joe Belfiore, ND decisioned Richards, 14-2. Harold Ladas of the Windy City won Chicago’s third match of the day decisioning Bill Stanley .in the 167-lb. berth. Ed Sarna of the Irish won a decision over Stuart Zimmerman in the 177-lb. division.
In the heavyweight division Joe Mar-guet, Notre Dame, pinned Bill Griffith in one minute and 52 seconds of the first
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
Feb. 20—TRACK—Michigan at Notre Dame
Feb. 21 —BASKETBALL — Northwestern at Notre Dame
Feb. 21—FENCING—Indiana at Notre Dame
Feb. 24—TRACK — Michigan State at Notre Dame
Feb. 25—BASKETBALL — DePaul at Notre Dame
period, for the best time of the match.
The Irish are now aiming at the possibility of changing the club into a recognized Notre Dame team.
Washington Day
(Continued from page 9)
laureate Mass on Commencement Day in June, and will replace the present flag during the Commencement Exercises.
Kerwin Fulton, a student in the College of Commerce and president of the Senior class, will make the presentation. The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of Notre Dame, will make the acceptance on behalf of the University.
Summa cum laude graduate Ernie Bartell, a student in the College of Commerce and holder of the highest
scholastic average in the Senior dass, will preside over the ceremonies as chairman.
All seniors, except ROTC students who will wear their respective uniforms, will be attired in caps and gowns.
Letters
(Continued from page 4)
congratulations on its discovery that the statue has been missing for two months.
James Carroll
We stand corrected, but wish to point out that most of the information in the Tribune articles was gathered bg Scholastic news editor Pat Carrico. —Editor
•
More of Dan Collins?
Editor:	’
Oh Happy Day! With the Feb. 19, 1953 issue of the Scholastic, we have at last witnessed the exposing of the notables on the campus (via the “Once Over Lightly” column).
I believe that in honor of Dan Collins (two pictures on page 15, name mentioned 7 times on' page 22) every unlucky Friday the 13 should be proclaimed “Dan Collins Day.”
I hope you will use the influence of your great magazine to bring this about.
Thank you very much.
Al Gazoortz
499 Walsh Hall (Actual name withheld by request.)
CLOTHIERS	TAILORS
Uniform Excellence
In Uniforms for Navy, Air Force, Marines and Army. Our garments have been approved by the uniform board of the Marine Corps, Naval Air Material Command and USAF. Certificate No. A2I I, etc.
We invite all future graduates who are interested in securing their requirements for June Commissioning to drop in and inspect our garments and prices.
Parker-Winterrowd, Inc.
115V2-117V2 No. Main St.
Upstairs	’

Feb. 20, 1953
33
By Paul Zalecki
' Last week’s Scholastic presented some •of the highlights of Louis Bromfield’s recent article, The Shame of Our Colleges. As the title indicates, Mr. Bromfield definitely is unhappy about the current state of American education.
In addition to the illustrations for the article, illustrations of today’s carefree, frivolous college campus, the first paragraph also suggests that the author has little respect for today’s graduate. “Many of our college graduates— perhaps a majority—cannot think at all: they can only emote. Some of them •cannot speak grammatical English and even more could not possibly write a full-page letter without half a dozen misspellings or grammatical mistakes.”
■
Prodigal Collegian
Up to this point in the article, there does not seem to be very much in it that is unusual. It appears to be just another in an eternal series of popular journalistic harangues against the prodigal collegian. It looks like something which will make good reading for the hue and cry.
From this brief introduction it is also possible to criticize his remarks as unfair. The defense could run something like this. Most of our college graduates —surely the majority—can think very well: they can even think originally. They can speak good English and can dictate a full-page letter that some secretary will type free of misspellings and grammatical mistakes.
This first impression of the article— which unfortunately might be lasting— is a little misleading. The author soon clarifies his point. “This tragic general ignorance, which you can verify easily enough for yourself, grows from three ugly seeds: our failure to discipline our children, our tolerance of downright subversion in the schools, and our emphasis on the college degree rather than the college education.”
The author here projects his criticism to the American people and their materialistic outlook to which the colleges have surrendered. He also shows little sympathy for the disciples of John Dewey and their “progressive education.” “The very designation,” he writes, “implies one of the greatest of human errors, singularly prevalent in our dis
turbed era—that mere change is of necessity related to progress.” Rather than produce progress, this kind of education has led to a “lack of discipline in all its forms,” and consequently “has reduced much of our education to uninspired formlessness at a trade-school level.”
■
Ammerican Culture and Life
Such statements against the faith in progress run counter to the spirit of our times. It is not merely the college student who is being criticized; it is nearly everyone. In the midst of his acrid words against Deweyism, Bromfield includes a revealing phrase: “the irresponsibility and anarchy of the American home.” They account for much of what is wrong with today’s education. Later he speaks most unkindly of the “unbalanced” college professor isolated from society and life, and his profusion of subtle subversive propaganda.
For all his disconcerting comments, Bromfield is no mere iconoclast. It is difficult to disagree with much that he says. It is true, as he states, that many who are in college do not belong there, that numerous students only want a college diploma, and that there are professors with degrees and titles representing nothing more than a capacity for cramming facts.
On the other hand, it is very easy to find many exceptions to his remarks, to see that they possibly apply to just a minority. It can scarcely be said of the Catholic grade schools, for instance, that their nuns have been conspicuously guilty of a lack of discipline. Neither can it be stated that all the results of American education have been disastrous. Even if people cannot write well, they at least can write. There are many qualifications necessary in evaluating Bromfield’s statements.
Faith in Progress
Fundamentally his article attacks the underlying aspects of American life and culture: “increasing materialism . . . false sense of values . . . the mediocrity and bleakness of too many American homes . . . ‘short cuts’ which have afflicted our education as they have afflicted our government and our eco
nomic life . . . the pedagogic dry rot which has been eliminating the human and humanist element from our thought.”
In view of such strong phrases, it is not too difficult to see why Bromfield has little to offer in the way of a solution. If there is any hint of how to eliminate the evils in American education, it is to be found in the implications of their causes. If the basic attitudes of Americans are responsible for undisciplined education and for a hollow emphasis upon college degrees, then these causes must be eliminated.
After all, the student himself has little control over how he is disciplined, what he is taught, and even what he comes to accept as important or secondary in life. He is conditioned throughout by his parents, his teachers, and his associations. What is wrong with our colleges cannot be attributed to the student. Rather, as Bromfield comments, we seem to have the wrong kind of education. We have it because it is what the people want.
Regardless of what the author set out to do, his account of The Shame of Our College's ends up as the shame of American culture.
^ADVEHTURE^^
EUROPE—60 Days 4/7S (all-expense ind. steamer) Bicycle, Faitboot, Ski, Motor, Rail. Other tours to Latin America, West, Orient and Around the World.
=Special Groups
France, Germany, Spain, Scandi-navla—ART, DANCE, MUSIC. Study Tours? Yes! College credit available on most, but still a wonderful experience in an atmosphere of camaraderie. Mexico —45 Days
^TRAVEL---------------------~
informally, off the beaten track, with SITA. Congenial groups with See More similar interests. 150 col-leges represented on 1952 ---------• tours.
Your Travel Agent or SMnts International Trawl Association
545 FIFTH AVE., NEW YMK 17* MU 2-5544
34
The Scholastic
ENGINEERS OF ’53... THIS DESK IS

RESERVED
YOU DON'T NEED A DEGREE IN
AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING TO QUALIFY
Expanding and Diversified long range programs at Bell Aircraft have opened exceptional opportunities in all fields of engineering with this leading pioneer in the research and development of Guided Missiles, Rocket Motors, Supersonic Aircraft, and Airborne Electronic Equipment.
Bell is looking for the right men to work with leading engineers in these fields while enjoying advantages of high salaries, advancement, educational plans and other benefits. This is your opportunity to get in on the ground floor today for the engineering advances of tomorrow. Be sure to make an appointment with our representatives ro ger the complete facts.
PHOMS
Wm. R. Dooley
FOR APPOINTMENT
275
Pioneers in the development of the first U.S. Jet Fighter, first Aircraft to exceed the speed of sound, first Aircraft to vary wing sweepback in flight, first Commercially-licensed Helicopter.
UG5ETT £ MYtK$ TOBACCO CO
CONTAINS TOBACCOS OF BETTER QUALITY AND HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY OTHER KING-SIZE CIGARETTE
is Best
years
you
Hiltons
se® htm
"column.
-And First to Present this Scientific Evidence on Effects of Smoking
A MEDICAL SPECIALIST is making regular bi-monthly examinations of a group of people from various walks of life. 45 percent of this group have smoked Chesterfield for an average of over ten years.
After eight months, the medical specialist reports that he observed_
no adverse effects on the nose, throat and sinuses of the group from smoking Chesterfield.
CHESTERFIELD—FIRST and only premium quality cigarette available in both regular and king-size.
for YOU!
c,9arette I
j ,h, can speak
°ne I 'T 'f’S ,h* °nly
and I
recommend ,ryom^The
Qnd howl
on TV’s **r
KING-SIZE
LIGGETT 4 MYERS TOBACCO CO
Buy CHESTERFIELDS^S/Zofez-
Copvngh: '9*'*. Ljggett A: Myers Tobacco Co.