Lifetime0 Pen
This white
dot identifies
ONLY genuine
Lifetime9
pen.
wet running
this engine in your
Sheaffer’s.the
The ONLY genuine Lifetime0 guarantee is Sheaffer’s; do not be deceived! Other pens may be guaranteed against defect, but Sheaffer’s Lifetime0 is guaranteed against everything excepting loss for your lifetime. Sheaffer’s■ Lifetime0 pens from $7; Sheaffer’s Lifetime0 14-karat solid gold-band Autograph pens suitable for duplicate of your actual signature (serving for identification) from $12.75. Autograph pencils from $9. Other Sheaffer pens from $3.
JUST touch this point to paper—it’s like a self-starter for your thoughts, with the smooth, free power to flash them into words. It takes 26 operations for each Lifetime0 point. And it costs three times as much to apply the specially pure iridium Sheaffer’s way—in one solid, piece, so that no scratchy gold pockets can possibly form on the writing surface.
your
SAFETY SKRIP. SKRIP FILLED. 50c to $10. Carry non Iralrablc Safety Skrip in
class —
protects clothes, linens, furniture-keeps fluid fresh, making all pens write better.
Back of the point Sheaffer’s streamline Balance0 chassis conforms itself restfully to your hand—assures relaxed writing ease for your finders no matter how long the theme. If you like your freedom, you’ll choose a Sheaffer and enjoy it always through the White Dot Lifetime0 guarantee.
A survey made by a disinterested organization shows Sheaffer first in fountain pen sales in 73 of the 119 leading American colleges having a registration of* 1700 or more. Documents on this investigation available to anyone. .
SHEAFFER’S
PENS'PENCILSDESKSETSSKRIP X
W. A. SHEAFFER PEN COMPANY • FORT MADISON,IOWA, U.S.A.
October 2, 1931
One
When you go into Chicago to see the Northwestern game, October 10, you’ll want to make the trip on the South Shore Line. Soldier Field is only a few steps from the 12th street station . . . Chicago’s loop hotels and theaters only a few steps from the Van Buren and Randolph street stations.
There’s a train every hour, on the hour, leaving South Bend and leaving Chicago. Dining cars are carried at meal time. Ten trains carry parlor cars.
Special low rates are in effect for the game. The week-end rate, good leaving South Bend after noon Friday, returning up to midnight Sunday, is $4.25. Saturday only, round-trip rate, $3.65.
Tickets on sale at Book Store. Chas. Woods, University Representative, Room 222 Lyons Hall. South Shore Line Station, Michigan and LaSalle. Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE AND SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
$4.25 Round-trip to Chicago
Week-end rate Friday noon to Sunday midnight.
$3.65 Round-trip to Chicago
Saturday only.
October 2,1931
Tico
The Men Behind The Blue And Gold Guns
(Left to right) Jesse Harper, “Hunk” Anderson, Jack Chevigny, and Tom Yarr.

October 2, 1931
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	I g	fl fl g ■ Entered as second-class
lished weekly at the Univers- I RA fl^J^fFA I ■ ■*M A iCn^lACrl^ matter at Notre Dame, In-ity of Notre Dame. Manu- ■ ■ ■ w* I 1 Wl V	wVllvlQUkIV diana. Acceptance for mailscripts may be addressed to — .	„	. ~	... . rr- r\ - ri	ing at special rate of postage.
THE SCHOLASTIC, Publi- DlSCC QlldSl kempCT VlClUTUS VIVO Quasi Gras Monturus Section 1103, October 3.1917. cations Office, Main Building.	„	authorized June 25, 1913.
NEIL C. HURLEY....................................Editor-in-Chief
HENRY B. ASMAN.........................Managing	Editor
Associate Editors
WILLIAM W. CORR JAMES CARMODY MYRON CRAWFORD LESLIE RADDATZ
News Staff
EDMUND STEPHAN..............News	Editor
F. GRANGER WEIL____Assistant Neivs Editor WALTER KENNEDY JOSEPH DEGNAN LARRY DUNDA ’
Department Editors PAUL J. HALLINAN............The Week
JOHN PICK................College Parade
LOUIS E. BRENNAN.........Book Reviews
JOHN CONLEY..............Campus Clubs
WALTER JOHNSON...........Features Editor
JOHN RYAN.............Music	and Drama
Sports Staff
EDMUND MORIARTY..........Sports Editor
JAMES KEARNS IRVING B. HALPER JAMES McFEELEY, Jr. JOSEPH KURTH GEORGE BELTING T. EDWARD CAREY CLEVE GAREY
Desk Editors
WILLIAM BLIND	LLOYD TESKE
J. DON SULLIVAN WILLIAM FLYNN
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN............Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J. NABER, Ass’t. Circulation Mgr. JOHN P, HESS ROBERT FITZSIMMONS DANIEL E. BRENNAN JOSEPH SIMON J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY' McGOWAN FRED BAUER, JR Advertising Manager JOHN F. STOECKLEY... .Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
OCTOBER 2, 1931.
Number 2.
UNIVERSITY ANNOUNCEMENTS
TO THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT BODY:
The student football trip for 1931 will be to the Northwestern game in Chicago on October 10.
Those attending the game are to leave South Bend on Saturday morning, and must leave Chicago not later than the midnight train after the game.
The rector of a hall in which a student resides must receive directly from parents full authorization for this trip.
Automobile journeys are unconditionally forbidden.
Students will be held strictly accountable for the occupant of the seat assigned to them. Any exchange of tickets *will be penalized by immediate dismissal.
Students whose homes are in Chicago and vicinity may leave for the week-end after* their last class on Friday, under the usual conditions governing week-ends,
A student whose home is not in Chicago may leave the University not earlier than Saturday and may spend the week-end with friends or relatives, at their written invitation, only when proper authorization is received from home.
In no case will students be permitted to stay in hotels unaccompanied by parents, nor will permissions be extended beyond midnight of Sunday, October 11.
Students of Dillon and Alumni halls are to have permissions directed respectively to the Reverend Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C., and the Reverend Raymond Clancy, C.S.C.
Rev. R. M. Murch, C.S.C.,
Prefect of Discipline.
TO THE BOSTON CLUB MEMBERS:
There will be a meeting of the Boston club on Friday at 6:30 p. m. in the basement of W alsh hall. All those from Greater Boston, or those within a radius of sixty miles are urged to attend. Th presence of freshmen is especially desired.
Leo Schiavone,
.	. President.
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE ORCHESTRA:
Rehearsals will be held on Tuesdays and Fridays at 6:30 in Washington hall. All instruments are needed, but especially violins, violas, cellos, and
bassos. Send home for your* instrument.
Joseph Casasanta,
.	-	Director.
TO THE SCHOLASTIC STAFF:
There will be a meeting on Friday evening for all staff members and candidates at 7:00 o’clock in Room 228 of the Main building. Attendance is compulsory. The regular editorial meeting will take place at 6:30.
Neil C. Hurley,
.	' Editor-in-chief.
TO THE, MEMBERS OF THE
PRESIDENTS’ COUNCIL:
There will be a meeting on Monday evening at 6:30 o’clock in the north basement of the library. Attendance of all club president’s is obligatory, as several important matters will come up for discussion.
All presidents of authorized campus organizations are ex officio members of the council. It is necessary, therefore, that a large gathering be present at this meeting on Monday.
Charles Hitzelberger,
President.
Four
October 2, 1931
♦ THE WEEK ♦
The game at a glance
HIS is the open season for the elucidation of football. Instead of amiably leaving the game in. such a position that only coaches and reporters can gather what’s going on, some people feel divinely ordained to simplify it.
A Chicago Tribune writer says that the simplification process begins like an article called “Einstein Made Easy.” “We understand blocking,” he writes, “the speed of light, the fact that Mr. Einstein is indebted to previous investigators and the penalties for forward passes that are incomplete. Beyond that the groping begins.”
But why grope? The field is 100 yards long and there’s the kick-off and the band is playing “Down the Line” and that fellow with the girl in the blue hat isn’t paying the slightest attention to Mr. Jaskwhich’s signals. The game’s the thing. Why spoil things for yourself and friends by being a side-line strategist?
Shadows
OME enter their teens hand in hand with Louisa M. Alcott, leave them arm in arm with G. B. Shaw”: thus , reads a recent report of the American Library Association. The veneer of sophistication which is required of most college students demands that they soon take up Maugham, Lewis and Huxley.
One author who fits in well at any age is Willa Cather. Gentle, detailed, smacking of reality yet tinged with ideality, her works are read by many, and please most of them. “Shadows on the Rock,” her 1931 opus, is a simple story telling, as one critic said, how Papa Auclair and his daughter, Cecile, do not go to France after all.
Yet the University library has five copies, all of them out. It will be a month before the list which is awaiting each copy can be satisfied, and by that time, a score m’ore will probably have decided that New France may be as fascinating as the Southwest of “Death Comes For the Archbishop.” Miss Cather’s artistry makes it so.
Real vigilance
ELIC of an older, cruder day, the lake ducking power of the Blue Circle is fast being shorn of its prestige. Replacing it is a healthier, saner'scope of activity,—vigilance of a sort that is making the Students’ Activities Council more than a by-word.
“Howdy, Men!” was said at a time when the newcomers felt the warmth of welcome; not a week later. Information booths were informative. The bulletins, even the “duty-bound” type, were at least pleasant to read. The Jugglers’ dance band finds that the S. A. C. is ready to use it for football dances. Campus Wit Perone is selected to handle pep meetings: a notable choice. The grid-graph will be free.
The “A” in S. A. C. may really mean “activity,”— after all these years.
Emperor eugene?
VEN Maurice Solinski, that intrepid harbinger of masculine style would hesitate to dictate fashion to that body of youths referred to as “Men of Notre Dame.” The unsheathed primitiveness of the campus, that unreasonable disdain of knickers, the slowly-dying passion for corduroys,—these things would probably keep Maurice south of the Coquillard cemetery.
But his predictions are wafted on here by the press. The “Bolero” hat is to appear in the United States next spring. It is flat-crowned, broad-brimmed, Spanish and “Eugenie” in tone. It sounds as though it would take up an enormous amount of space. Washington hall of a Saturday night will present a nice problem.
Northwestern freshmen must wear Eugenie hats for a while. A South Bend millinery store carries a sign, “Welcome, Notre Dame.” Did Nanovic’s “Fashion” Juggler of two years ago precipitate a revolution in Notre Dame sartorial thought?
JOIN-UP
ADED Seniors who have never basked in the glare of the headlines enjoy enormously the sight of their name in print. This motive sends club presidents, catching the prestige of an office late in their campus careers, to the downtown printeries for club stationery. Across the sheets will run their names and those of their colleagues in office.
If you come from Greater New York, Lesser Chicago, Omaha, Rhode Island or Puget Sound, your membership is being earnestly sought by those arch-promoters, the club presidents and treasurers. Some one has to help pay for all that stationery.
When a club serves as something more than an expense account for its officers, it occasionally justifies its existence. Presidents’ President Hitzelberger (who made last year’s Dome in a unique manner) may “hold tight the reins”; freshmen members may pay their dues religiously; in the final analysis, it’s up to the forty or so presidents to make.’31-’32 a memorable year in dub activity. ■
I [OROLOGIOGRAPHIA
*	■ ARD to decipher but fascinating are the two tablets
high, on the nearby sides of Alumni and Dillon halls. Dillon’s is marked A.M., with the digits, 4 to 11, inscribed As the termini of diagonal parallel lines. Alumni’s, directly opposite, is P. M. and has the figures 1-8 in the same arrangement.
Gnomonists will explain: the result is not a class schedule or a football diagram, but a sun-dial. When the “Gnomon,” a bronze triangular piece, has been erected and adjusted, the residents of the hall will have only to glance at Hie time-piece, set their clocks and be off to class or to meals.
On December 24, April 15, June 15, and September 1, clock-time and dial-time will be identical. At other times it varies, in November being nearly 16 minutes off. Will the alibi that the sun-dial was slow be sufficient when you come to class after the prescribed quarter of an hour?
October 2, 1931
Five
FOOTBALL SEASON OPENS
COTILLION COMMITTEE Play Indiana at Bloomington Saturday;
CHAIRMEW ARE CHOSEN	Twentieth Consecutive Victory Is Goal
Dance To Be Held on Nov. 7 At Palais Royale.
Preliminary plans for the Sophomore Cotillion were given impetus Monday night when Laurence A. Li-calzi of Chicago, general chairman of the event, announced the respective appointments of committee chairmen.
They are as follows: Tickets, J. Albert Smith of Indianapolis; Publicity, Bryan J. Degnan of West Lebanon, N. H.; Music, Thomas Dwyer of Mt. Vernon, N. Y.; Programs, John Tingley of Norwich, Conn.; Arrangements, August Petrillo of Mount Vernon, N. Y. and Edward Butler of Worcester, Mass., co-chairmen; Invitations, Edward Fisher of Utica; Reception, John Hayes of New York City; Floor, Arthur Doerfler of New York City; and Decorations, James Dunningan of New York City.
It was definitely decided last week that the Cotillion will be held on the evening of November 7, which is the week-end of the Pennsylvania game. In all probability the scene of the dance will be the Palais Royale.
At present the vortex of attention is concentrated on the mode of decoration and the choice of an orchestra. The latter will soon be decided and the choice will be announced shortly.
The various sub-committees are being organized by the respective chairmen. On Monday all committees will be selected and organized. In respect to size the committees will follow the precedent of former years.
Several disquieting campus rumors concerning the scene of the dance as well as unique suggestions in favor of certain orchestras are not being considered according to John Ffrench, president of the Sophomore class, referring to a story printed, in. the Scholastic last week which stated that certain influential students were in favor of holding the affair in the dining hall.*
\
I
Glee Club to Sing On Oct. 9th Over National Hook-up
The Notre Dame Glee club, directed by Joseph Casasanta, music director of the University, will present its first program of the year in
Joseph Casasanta
Who is to direct the Glee Club
connection with the Armour and Company hour over a national network of stations, Friday, Oct. 9.
Twenty-five men will comprise the broadcasting group, which will sing “Go You Northwestern,” “When Irish Backs Go Marching By,” and the Notre Dame “Victory March.”
On the night preceding the Notre Dame-Army football game last fall, the Notre Dame club had a similar place on the Armour hour.
The complete program for this year’s broadcast, which will include other features besides the Notre Dame Glee club, will be announced at a later date.
Indiana Is Expected to Give N. D. Stiff Battle in First Game of Season.
By James S. Kearns
It’s almost post time. Before the shadows stretch their length across Indiana Stadium tomorrow afternoon another Fighting Irish football team will have launched its season. Civil war in Hoosierdom is to be the opening number. Notre Dame versus Indiana.
Followers of the Blue and Gold are hoping for a lot, but many of them have their fingers crossed. The chances aren’t too sure. In fact it seems that the spirit is one of defiant hope rather than of confidence. There is some reason.
Indiana is anything but the orthodox “push-over” for an opening game. Facing a new era in gridiron annals, the Cream and Crimson fired their opening salvo last Saturday. It was a direct hit. Ohio University, undefeated in nineteen previous starts, fell before a smooth running Hoosier attack, and crashed in vain against a staunch defense. A blocked punt gave the Buckeye conference champs a touchdown that almost upset Indiana’s well earned lead. The final score was 7 to 6.
Players of hunches will find a lot to worry about in tomorrow’s battle. Notre Dame, like Ohio U., is after its twentieth win. Indiana has won its last two games by 7 to 6. Purdue went down by that count in the season’s final last November. Winning streaks and scores may find another parallel.
Notre Dame, on the other hand, did not look ready for high class competition last Saturday. The offense was expected to function in passably smooth style. It was mighty ragged ' in spots. As a consequence much time this week had to be given over to polishing the Blue and Gold attack. It had been thought that the (Continued in Sports Section)
October 2, 1931
Six
“BEAT NOTRE DAME" IS CRY ON INDIANA CAMPUS AS DATE FOR CRID CLASH NEARS
PRESIDENTS’ COUNCIL OUTLINES ACTIVITIES
Hoosiers Expect Big Crowd For Battle Saturday; Entertain 5,000 Boy Scouts
Special to the Notre Dame Scholastic
Bloomington, Ind. Oct. 1—Student enthusiasm here over Saturday’s game with Notre Dame is at the highest point in the history of the rivalry between the two schools. For the past several days the campus has been dotted with pep signs to “Beat Notre Dame” and “Break the 25 year Record,” and in effect to do just that, Coach Hayes has been holding secret practices and driving his Scrappin’ Hoosiers hard.
This will be the 18th time in 33 years that Notre Dame has played Indiana, and although the Fighting Irish were victorious on 13 occasions the Crimson eleven is not to be cowed into submission. They have let it be known that they are out to take dire revenge and consider this an excellent opportunity.
Coach E. C. Hayes, although he has had but a little more than two weeks to acquaint himself with his material, says that “it looks like a pretty even game. This is Indiana’s biggest chance in years.” Members of the team also have expressed their confidence.
Efforts are also being made to ac-
New Faculty Member to Teach French and German
Dr. Paul J. Menge has resigned his professorship in French and German at Marshall college, Huntington, W. Va., to accept a similar position at the University of Notre Dame, after having taught in the summer course here.
Before going to Marshall College, Dr. Menge had been director of the department of modern languages at St. Xavier’s university in Cincinnati, Ohio. Previous to that, he had taught German and French in Germany.
Dr. Menge has travelled and studied in Europe and obtained his A.B. and A.M. degrees at the University of
commodate the record crowd that is expected to fill the Memorial Stadium here for Saturday’s encounter. The managers of the local hotels report an unusually large number of reservations have been pouring in from all parts of the state and from adjoining states, while the local chapters of the sororities and fraternities have indicated their inclination to take care of as many visitors as possible.
In addition to the many people who will come down to see the game, the University will also play host to some 5,000 Boy Scouts at the fifth annual Boy Scout day events here Saturday. For the entertainment of this huge contingent a circus will be held tomorrow night. Twenty-three troops of the White River council will take part in the circus.
After parading through the downtown district on Saturday morning, the Scouts will enter the Memorial stadium behind the University’s famous marching band. Between the halves the band will form at the end of the field to spell Coach E. C. Hayes’ name, the traditional “I. U.” monogram and “Notre Dame” in honor of the visitors.
Bonn in Germany. He completed the work on his Ph.D. degree at the University of Heidelberg. He received this degree for his study of the development of the French language and the publication of a thesis treating and publishing for the first time an old French poem of the twelfth century in about 1,500 verses. The poem was taken from a time-yellowed manuscript discovered in an old feudel castle.
Dr. Menge has taught for many years in Germany. He was also a professor of German and French to American officers during the occupation of the Rhineland.
Hitzelberger Presides At First Meeting of the Year.
The Presidents’ Council, an organization composed of the presidents of the_sixty-five clubs of the University, held its first meeting of the year last Sunday morning at ten-thirty o’clock in the south basement of the library. The council, which has not been overly active since its institution two years ago, mapped out a program which may bring the club considerable recognition during the current school term.
President Charles Hitzelberger, Utica Club head, presided at the meeting which was attended by approximately forty leaders of Notre Dame clubs. Hitzelberger stresses the fact that because of its personnel the council should be the most efficient and influential organization on the campus. Such a thing might be realized, he thought, only if the group, by a year of more than ordinary activity, familiarizes the student body with the purposes and intentions of the Council.
According to present plans every campus club will be re-chartered shortly by the Council for a nominal fee which will be announced soon. An executive committee whose purpose it is to effect some satisfactory financial agreement between the President’s Council and the various campus clubs was appointed by the chairman. The committee includes Philip Conboy, Leo Schiavone, Gerald Wilson, Edwin Kosky, John Groves, James Simmons, and James Yoch. A publicity committee was also appointed on which are Arthur Himbert, chairman, Louis Brennan and Edmund Stephan.
Robert Kuhn was elected secretary of the Council by a close vote over John Finneran, Anthony Diaz and Edmund Sargus, the other candidates for the office.
Plans for a banquet were discussed as was the advisability of adopting some form of charm, such as was used last year, for the various club presidents. The Council will meet again Monday evening, October 5, at six-thirty in the south room of the library basement. /
October 2, 1931
Seven
THRONG GREETS TEAM IN INDIANAPOLIS DEPOT
Players’ Autographs Sought on Journey South.
By Henry B. Asman
Special Dispatch From a Staff Correspondent.
Indianapolis^ Ind., Oct. 2 — The Notre Dame varsity football team, accompanied by Coaches “Hunk” Anderson and Jack Chevigny, and Athletic Director Jesse Harper, stopped over here for a short while at noon today en route to Martinsville, Indiane, where they will spend the night. Several hundred fans who had learned of the team’s arrival at that hour were on hand to give the Fighting Irish a great ovation as they stepped from the car to change trains.
Senior Coach Anderson plans to take his charges to the resort town of Martinsville this afternoon where he will put them through a light workout to remove the kinks from the relatively short but exceedingly tiresome trip from South Bend. The squad, forty-six strong, will move over to Bloomington tomorrow.
Passengers on the train gave the players but a few spare moments during the four-hour journey so persistent were they in their demands for autographs and other attentions from the gridders. Slips of paper, timetables, magazines—anything available was utilized to get the old “John Henry” of Schwartz, Koken, Captain Yarr, and others of their teammates.
The crowd here at the spacious Union Station was not long in singling out their favorites and calling to them. Marchy Schwartz, Tommy Yarr and Paul Host seemed to have more than their share of fans.
The entire squad was in excellent spirits throughout the trip and, if anything, seemed anxious to tear into the spirited and even confident Hoosier team. Seeming to have taken to heart the severe “panning” given them by newspapers all over the country during the past week, the Blue and Gold gridders talked almost constantly of tomorrow’s game and what is going “to happen to Indiana” in it.
The reported “lack of spirit” on the Notre Dame squad was entirely missing today on the eve of the opening struggle of the year. The boys are determined to start the season off right and at the same time run their string of victories to twenty.
KO ENTHUSIASM OF STUDENT BODY
PEPS VARSITY FOR SATURDAY’S BATTLE
Determination Rather Than Over-Confidence Is Key-Note of Pep Meet Talks
By Granger Weil
Herbert P. Giorgio, president of the Student Activities Council, opened the pep meeting last night in a gymnasium crowded with cheering students. But it was the keynote struck by the first speaker that set the students into fits of wild enthusiasm.
“Be prepared not only for the best but for- the worst,” said Clarence “Pat” Manion, instructor of the University and friend of Rockne. He was introduced amid tempestuous applause. “If you carry on as Rockne would have had it, Rock and Notre Dame will have won again.” Mr. Manion warned against the tendency toward an inferiority complex that might darken the spirit of the school, and expressed his confidence in the Notre Dame coaching staff. “The best,” he said, “now living in the United States of America; there is no more capable director of football than ‘Hunk’ Anderson.”
“No man can live forever, but his influence may live for a long, long time,” continued Mr. Manion,” and when the end of the season comes the team will be crowned with glory, not
Sullivan Returns After Season With Sox
“The conquering hero returns!”
The above might well be the theme in evidence about the campus sometime next week when William Sullivan, Jr., resumes residence in Walsh hall, after spending a most enviable and thoroughly profitable vacation.
“Billy,” as he is more popularly known, graduated from the College of Arts and Letters in June, and, after the commencement exercises, signed a year’s contract with the Chicago White Sox. Upon reporting to the Club in Washington he was immediately inserted into the line-up, playing right field and batting, in the “clean-up” position. Later, however,
because they have won, but because they have fought the good fight with thousands of Notre Dame men behind them.”
At the conclusion of this talk Giorgio asked that the students remain quiet for a period of five minutes in honor of Rockne. The gymnasium was darkened and curtains of blue and gold erected on the balcony overlooking the gym parted, and lights were directed on a pastel of Knute Rockne. As the curtains were drawn, back a chorus hidden somewhere back of them sang softly “Carry On For Rockne.”
Silence continued some moments after the song had been ended, and when brilliance again flooded the building the gymnasium became a cheering mass.
The usual songs and cheers were given with gusto and there was no doubt about the Notre Dame spirit last evening.
The meeting, presided over- by Giorgio, was arranged by John Perone and other members of the S. A. C.
he was shifted to third base to fill the vacancy occasioned by the trading of the veteran, Willie Kamm, and maintained that station throughout the remainder of the season.
Billy is registered as a junior in the College of Law. He will be remembered as the hard-hitting first baseman on Coach George Keogan’s Blue and Gold outfit during the past two seasons. As it will also be recalled, he was chosen as one of the eleven men representing the United States on College Humor’s all-American baseball cruise to the Carribean.
He is the son of the veteran catcher and old-time playing manager of the White Sox. '
Eight
October 2, 1931
COMMITTEES ORGANIZED FOR FIELD HOUSE FUND
Meetings Held In Majority of Sixteen National Divisions.
Rapid progress in the organizing of local committees which will be in charge of the fund-raising activities in their respective districts has been made during the past two weeks in connection with plans for the Rockne Memorial Field House Campaign, A. R. Erskine, general chairman, announced today.
Meetings for the purpose of building up organizations of local committees have been held in several cities and towns throughout the country, Mr. Erskine reports. Chairmen of the sixteen divisions of the country have been named and the divisional chairmen, in turn, are now engaged in selecting chairmen who will be in charge of the districts of the major divisions.
Thursday night, October 1, a meeting of district chairmen in the division comprising Michigan will be held in Detroit, with Charles Dorais, divisional chairman for Michigan, and director of athletics at Detroit University, presiding..
A conference of district chairmen in the Division comprising Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware and District of Columbia, of which John H. Neeson, of Philadelphia, Pa., is chairman, is called for Monday night, October 5, in Harrisburg, Pa. Clarence^ Oyerend, of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa., Louis_A. Young, former director of athletics at Pennsylvania University, Dr. Jarnes A. Flynn,^of Washington, D. C., and DrTX^W.jO’Malley of Wilkes-Barre, Pa., have accepted appointments as district chairmen in this division and are expected to attend the Harrisburg meeting.
District chairmen in the division comprising Ohio will hold their first meeting in Columbus on Tuesday night, October 6, with Dan R. Shouv-lin, of Springfield, Ohio, chairman of the Ohio Division, in charge.
During the past week, Mr. Erskine reported, district chairmen in the division consisting of Illinois, Wisconsin, Iowa, and Minnesota have held meetings in Milwaukee, Wis., Green Bay, Wis., Duluth, Minn., and St. Paul, .Minn. James H. Brennan of Chicago, is chairman of this division.
ALUMNI HALL IS FINISHED
Juniors Will Move Into New Quarters Next Tuesday.
The Reverend Raymond M. Murch, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, announced this week that in all probability the juniors now living off campus will move into Alumni hall next week. Tuesday afternoon is the time set for the transfer.
The rooms in the hall are finished, but the hall chapel will not be ready for some time because of the many intricate details. While the ordinary room in Alumni is similar to that of Morrissey and Lyons, many of the rooms are much more elaborate. There are many doubles and singles with baths. The floors in the rooms and in the corridors are of a composition tile. A new modern convenience, a slot for old razor blades, will be greatly appreciated by students who are perplexed about their disposal. Electric elevators and laundry slides are also new features. The Reverend Raymond Clancy, C.S.C., will be rector of Alumni hall.
Though definite plans have not yet been made, Ralph Sollitt, South Bend contractor in charge of the work, said last week that Dillon hall will probably be habitable by October 17. After that time some 400 students will be living off-campus.
Armstrong Edits Alumni Year Book
James E. Armstrong, University alumni secretary and chairman of the fifth annual convention of the National Catholic Alumni Federation, this week released the Federation’s year book for 1931.
This book is a collection of the papers read at the convention, including “Lay Retreats and the Catholic Alumni,” by T. P. Galvin, Notre Dame ’15, and “Publicity as a University Asset,” by P. R. Martin, Notre Dame ’09. Among the other articles, “The Catholic Alumni and Catholic Action,” by the Reverend T. C. Powers, C.M., vice-president of De Paul university, should be of interest to all Catholic college men.
The Reverend William Lonegran, S J-., of the editorial staff of America, ably defines the Catholic position toward the New Humanism in “The New Humanism and Catholic Alumni.” Tracing its early history and contrasting its ultimate intent with
S. A. C. MEETS, BUT THEN, OF COURSE, NOTHING IS DONE
The Student Activities Council in their meeting Sunday did absolutely nothing, according to Herbert P. Giorgio, president. This was the meeting during which it was expected that plans would be made for the pep meeting held Thursday night, but possibly because of the lack of time, or for some other reason, there were no plans formulated, or at least announced. Giorgio, in an interview with a Scholastic reporter, said, “We did nothing.”
N, U. Dance Tickets on Sale
The Notre Dame Club of Chicago announces a formal dance-to be held in the Balloon and Gold rooms of the Congress hotel on the evening of the Northwestern game, October 10. Bands for the occasion will be those of Orloff King and Bernie Cummins. Special sections of the two rooms will be reserved for alumni and students. Tickets are priced at $3.50 and may . be purchased on the campus from Tighe Woods in Corby hall and from Len Gentili in Sorin. No tickets will be sold at the dance proper.
that of Christian philosophy, Father Lonegran explains the cause of its rennaisance. “The chaos and futility of naturalism,” he asserts, “required a purgative. It came with the humanists. But humanism, too, is sadly inadequate and the work of the Catholic alumnus consists in recognizing his supernatural dignity and living up to it.”
In the foreword, Editor Armstrong states the purpose of the Alumni Federation: “The fifth convention of the National Catholic Alumni Federation was held in Chicago this year to introduce, for the first time, the ideals and aims of the organization to the middle and far West Catholic schools at closer range.” Formerly the organization’s conventions have been held in an eastern city.
Summaries of former conventions, the constitution and by-laws of the Federation are also included in the bulletin.
October 2, 1931
Nine
INDIANA DIVISION OF MEMORIAL GROUP TO MEET SATURDAY
The Rockne memorial fund committee of Indiana, which is known as division No. 1, will meet at Bloomington, Indiana, this Saturday at the Knights of Columbus prior to the Notre Dame, Indiana, game, to discuss plans for the campaign now in progress. The meeting is scheduled to get under way at 10:30, and will continue until luncheon.
Tim Galvin, who is general chairman of the district, will be in charge of the meeting, and will address the members of the various sections throughout the state. Only district chairmen, and the chairmen of the large city committees, will be in attendance.
Club Will Honor Harper
A testimonial dinner will be held for Jesse C. Harper, athletic director of the University of Notre Dame, by the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, at the headquarters of the Midland club, Thursday night. This will be Mr. Harper’s first appearance before that club. It is expected that he will speak to a large gathering of members.
Rockne Biographies Included in Library List
Two new biographies of the late Knute Rockne have been added to the University library. A supplement to the list published last week in the Scholastic is announced by the librarian. The complete list includes many new writings of eminent authors.
Biography — Rockne, by Warren Brown; Rockne, Ideal of American Football, by Robert Harron; Living Authors, by Tante Dilly (reference room).
History—America Moves West, by Robert Edgar Riegel; A History of the Argentine Republic, by Frederick Alexander Kirkpatrick.
Music—The Story of Our National Ballads, by C. A. Browne.
Economic History—Stability of Employment, by Julia Emily Johnson; The Problem of Unemployment, by Paul Howard Douglass.
Science—The Physical Basis of Personality, by Charles Rupert Stockard; Modern Science, by John Arthur Thomson; Science and First Principles, by Filmer Stuart C. Northrup;
RADDATZ MEETS STAFF
Photography Contract Again Awarded New York Concern.
Twenty candidates for the Dome staff of 1931 responded to the call of Editor Leslie Raddatz last Monday evening in a meeting held in the Publications’ office. Minor appointments to the sports staff were announced at the meeting by Edmund Stephan, sports editor. They were as follows: football, William Doeux; basketball, James_Muhn; baseball, Fred Becklen-berg; indoor and outdoor track, Fred MacBeth; tennis, Edmund Moriarty; golf, George Beaudin.
Editor Raddatz stated that sittings for Dome pictures will probably begin on October 12. The White studios of New York are again official photographers. Seniors and juniors will be asked to notify Paul Hallinan, in charge of photography, what free hours they have during the week and will accordingly be given satisfactory appointments. Pictures of campus clubs, formerly taken in the gymnasium by local photographers, will be handled by White’s in the basement of Walsh hall.
The Sage of the Desert, by Frances Bonker; The Dynamic Universe, by James McKaye.
Education—Human Learning, by Edward Lee Thorndike.
Journalism—Journalistic Vocations, by Charles Elkins Rogers.
Physics — Critique of Physics, by Lancelot Law Whyte.
Chemistry — National Defense, by Kirby Page.
Fiction — Modem American and British Short Stories, by Leonard Brown; The Twenty-five Finest Short Stories, by Edward Joseph Harrington O’Brien; The High Road, by Keon.
Poetry — New Rhyming Dictionary and Poets’ Handbook, by Burger Johnson; Old Pastures, by Padraic Colum.
Literature—A Literary History of American People, by Charles Angoff; Our American Humorists, by Thomas Lansing Masson; Advanced Problems of the Fiction Writer, by John Galli-shaw.
Drama—The Last Mile, by John Wexley.
ROLAND HAYES TO SING IN SOOTH BEND TONITE
Noted Negro Tenor Is One of Best Artists on the Stage.
By John Ryan
Roland Hayes, Negro tenor, now on his eighth concert tour of America, will appear tonight at the high school auditorium. Since his discovery by American audiences in 1920, he has gradually gained popularity to the point where he now is recognized as one of the best artists appearing on the concert stage. Critics have acclaimed his talents throughout Europe, as well as in all sections of our own country.
The story of Roland Hayes is another of those in which we hear of the lad who, once given the opportunity, rises beyond the expectations of the friends to whose beneficence he is indebted. From the little church in Georgia where he first sang, Hayes went to Fisk University, where he sang with the Fisk Jubilee singers— the organization that gave a concert in Washington Hall last year.
While travelling with this group, he was discovered by a teacher in Boston; the result of this training has been applauded by the musical critics of Paris, London, and Oxford University on the European side, while in this country his eight tours have probably exceeded in popularity the work of any other recital artist of the same period. Twenty-four recitals in Boston during the past eight years, together with concerts in thirty-nine states, is the enviable record of Ronald Hayes.
Tickets are on sale at Elbel’s. The prices range from one to two dollars.
Villagers Meet October 5
The Villagers Club announces a meeting to be held on Monday evening, October 5th, at the Joan Tea Shoppe, 428 N. Main Street, South Bend. The feature of the meeting will be a short address by the Reverend Leo Heiser, C.S.C., Off-Campus Director. Election of a man to fill the position of treasurer of the club, and discussion of plans for a dance will also be included in the evening’s business.	/
Ten
October 2, 1931
PERSONNEL OF BAND NAMED BY CASASANTA
Phillips Is President, McFeely Publicity Manager.
Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the University band, early this week announced the personnel of the organization for the coming year. The list includes many of last year’s members and a number of newcomers. Henry Tholen will again act as drum major.
The officers this year for the band are Virgilius Phillips, president, and James McFeely, publicity manager.
The following men reported for uniforms last Friday.
DRUM MAJOR—Henry Tholen.	'
TRUMPET—W. E. Short, James Freeman, T. W. Flynn, Walter J. Duprey, John F. Gill, Paul Sartarette, August Von Boecklin, Claire Schill, Jerome Gelding, Martin Moran, Albert Brasseur, Charles Wright, J. E. Marhoefer, Virgil Miller, Jerome Schubert, William E. Reynolds, Clarence Hess, Jim Berns, Percy Rose-vear, Hugh McNarney, George Orr, Joseph Washko, Earl Peters, Claire White, Paul Guamiere, Urban Daly.
PICCOLO — John Hemming, Joe Burns.
OBOE —William C. Reilly, Alan Feeney, Carl Vogelheim.
TROMBONE—Ed. Wykoff, Vincent McCleery, Joseph C. Evans, Cy Rapier, Fred Weniger, William J. O’Donnell, Ted Halpin, Ted Carville, Terrill Austin, John Jauch, Virgilius Phillips.
BARITONE — Francis Walsh, Joe De Paul, John Fetzer.
TENOR SAX — Frank Treweiler, Robert Deemer, Joe Churchman, Bob Waterson.
CLARINET—Paul Dougher, Simon Locher, James Morrison, Jerome Boyle, Harold Pohlmeyer, Russell Gramer, Frances Cooney, Jim McFeely.
DRUMS—Paul Semper, Christopher Reilly, William T. Hall, Ed. Fitzmaurice, Fred McLaughlin, William Robinson, William D. Waltz, Joe Novak.
SOUSAPHONE — Vern Trakowski, Edwin Lechtenberg, Emmet Murphy, George Bryan.
E. FLAT ALTO SAX—Bob Filson, J. A. Sharbach, L. J. Fisher, Leonard Kenkel. .
ALTO —A. S. Ripley, Ronald V. Bugni, Noble Harbaugh. '
Coming Events
FRIDAY, Oct. 2—Scholastic staff meetings: editorial board, Publications’ office, 6:30 p. m.; news and sports staffs, 222 Main building, 7:00 p. m.—Mission services, Sacred Heart church, 7:30 p. m.—La-Miss club meeting, Walsh hall, 630 p. m. —Boston club meeting, Walsh hall, 6:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, Oct. 3—Mission services, Sacred Heart church, 6:30 a. m.—Football, Notre Dame vs. Indiana at Bloomington.—Notre Dame “B” vs. Indiana “B”, Notre Dame stadium, 2:00 p. m.—Movie, “Five and Ten,” with Marion Davies, Washington hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, Oct. 4 — Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.—Wranglers’ meeting, Law building, 10:30 a. m.—Opening of the interhall football season, 9:30 a. m.
MONDAY, Oct. 5—Presidents’ Council meeting, north basement of the Library, 6:30 p. m.—New Jersey club meeting, Brownson “rec,” 7:45 p. m.
TUESDAY, Oct. 6—Press club meeting, Journalism room of the Library, 7:00 p. m.—Blue Circle meeting, north basement of the Library, 6:30 p. m.—Physical Education club meeting, Brownson “rec,” 7:30 p. m.—Pittsburgh club meeting, Carroll “rec,” 7:45 p. m.
Wednesday, Oct. 7—Utica club meeting, Walsh hall, 7:45 p. m.
THURSDAY, Oct. 8 — Spectators’ meeting, Library, 8:00 p. m.
JACK WERNER TO HEAD ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
John -F. Werner was elected president of the Notre Dame Academy of Science at the first regular meeting held Wednesday evening, September 30. The meeting was the sixtieth of the organization to be held.
Thirty-five, members were present at the meeting. The following members were also elected to hold offices during the coming year: vice-president, Myron E. Crawford; secretary, Roy J. Catizone; executive committee, John J. Papera, Henry B. Asman, and William T. Sullivan.
PRESS MEETING IS HELD
New Committees Are Selected And Active Plans Made.
The Press club held its first meeting of the year last Friday evening at 7:00 o’clock in the Journalism room of the Library.
The newly drawn constitution and by-laws were accepted and permanently adopted by the members.
A membership committee was appointed by President Himbert. The committee is composed of Kermit Escudier, chairman, Fran Oelerich, and Charles Spangenberg. William Flynn was appointed chairman of the Pin committee. The juniors elected Jim Bourk, Fred Becklenburg, and Fred Curran to assist him.
Plans were formulated to make the Press club one of the most active • campus organizations. Smokers are to be held in the near future with such newspaper men as Warren Brown, Arch Ward, and Westbrook Pegler as potential guests. Members must have paid their dues before they will be admitted to any of these informal banquets.
The purpose of the Club is to promote a more fraternal spirit among the students interested in the Fourth Estate. Although principally a club for journalists, those men electing courses or interested in journalism may gain admittance by applying to the membership committee.
The officers of the club are Art Himbert, president; Edmund Britz, Chicago, Ill., vice-president; William Corr, New York City, secretarytreasurer; and William Gorman of Whiting, Ind., editor.
Postpone Council Meeting
Members of the recently appointed executive committee of the President’s Council met last Tuesday evening in Walsh hall with President Hitzel-berger acting as chairman. Plans for rechartering campus clubs were fur-k ther discussed, and a program was outlined to create a spirit of rivalry between the various campus organizations. The next meeting of the council which was originally scheduled for Sunday morning has been postponed until Monday evening, October 5, at 6:30 p. m. in the north basement of the library.
<
October 2, 1931
Eleven
ROCKNE LIFE STORY OUT
Chapters By Mrs. Rockne and Fr= Cavanaugh Included.
The Notre Dame Edition, a limited de luxe issue of the Autobiography of Knute Kenneth Rockne, which is being distributed by the Book Shop in South Bend, is now available.
Before the airplane crash last April, Rockne had completed the story of his life to the year 1930. It is a narrative of 49,000 words written in his own vigorous style, and covering his eventful life from the early struggles until the brilliant successes which came to him as coach here.
In addition to Rockne’s own story, the volume contains a chapter by Mrs. Rockne and a foreword and concluding chapter by the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., who was president of Notre Dame when Rockne began his football career. Father Cavanaugh’s contribution covers the closing months of Rockne’s life and includes an eloquent tribute to the coach.
This DeLuxe Edition has been prepared especially to serve as a memorial volume. It is printed on special paper, is bound in blue and stamped in gold. On the jacket is a reproduction of the now famous bust of Rockne by the sculptor, Christian Petersen.
Each volume of the edition carries the facsimile signature of Rockne with the personal autographs of Mrs. Rockne and Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. The printing is limited to 2,400 copies.
Grains Struck By Auto
Returning from the stadium late Monday afternoon, John A. Grams, senior manager, was struck by an automobile on Eddy Road at the south end of Cartier field. He was immediately rushed to St. Joseph’s hospital by Charles Weiss, associate manager, where it was revealed that bones in his nose were broken and that his face suffered slight scratches.
Grams was kept in the hospital under observation until Wednesday morning when he was released. At the time of the accident Grams was in company with several of his underclassmen assistants.
Question : “Do you, think that freshmen should be allowed eleven o’clock lights?”
Arthur Lavery, Howard hall, junior: “Yes, I do. They have as much or more need for them than the upperclassmen because in their first year they are engaged in building the foundation for the remainder of their college career.”
John H. Cahill, Howard hall,, junior: “They should have eleven o’clock lights because they have nearly as much work to do as upperclassmen. Concentration is needed in the freshman year and more time is a requisite for this. Conditions for study are much different than those when attending high school.”
William P. Hughes, Lyons hall, sophomore: “I personally think that two hours and a half at night is enough time for study and that the daytime is' a better time for a student to do his work. Also as it is necessary for them to accustom themselves to rising earlier than they had previously been used to, I believe that ten o’clock lights are sufficient for first year men.”
Francis X. Fallon, Badin hall, junior: “Yes, they should have eleven o’clock lights. When freshmen first go away to college, they have not enough ability to concentrate sufficiently. If they study slowly and have more time, their work will be done much better and more effectively.”
John P. Lynch, Howard hall, junior: “I 'think freshmen should have eleven o’clock lights because of the fact that they did not have any such particular limit of time in which to do their work at home during their previous days in school. Those taking such courses as engineering and the like and those having much laboratory work to do in the afternoon, perhaps, and who have other work to do during the evening, really need the extra hour that eleven o’clock lights would give them.”
COOLEY JOINS STAFF OF SOCIOLOGY SCHOOL
Formerly Probation Director In New York City Courts.
The staff of the department of Sociology has been augmented this year with the addition of Edwin J. Cooley as an instructor in Criminology and Social Pathology. The announcement was made this week by the Reverend Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C. head of the department.
Mr. Cooley, who was for fifteen years professor of Criminology at Fordham University, and lecturer at the New York School of Social Work is assisting in the development here of a training school for Probation Parole workers.
He was also director of the Scientific Probation Experiment in the Court of General Sessions, New York City, which had two year’s duration and was given unlimited resources. He then served for five years as Chief Probation Officer of the court in carrying the experimental work over into public service.
He is a member of the Advisory Council to the Wickersham Crime commission. In addition to serving as a member of Governor Roosevelt’s commission which reorganized the parole work of New York state, he drafted its report. He is ex-president of the National Probation Association, and secretary of the Crime Prevention Commission of New York City which set up the Crime Prevention Bureau in the police department.
He was expert consultant for ten years for New York state’s Civil Service Commission in Probation, Parole, and Juvenile Court Examinations. He is included on the roster of the American Association of Social Workers, the National Conference of Social Work, the American Prison association, and the National Probation association. He is also a former president of the Social Workers club of New York and president of the Catholic Social Workers club of the same city.
Mr. Cooley has written “Probation and Delinquency” and “New Goals in Probation,” besides a bevy of brochures, pamphlets, and magazine articles upon the subjects of crime and criminals, probation, parole, court procedure, administration of justice, prisons, predictability in criminal courts, juvenile delinquency and psychiatry.
Tivelve
October 2,1931
MUSIC AND DRAMA
By John E. Ryan
3,162 STUDENTS AT N. D.
Slight Decrease Announced In Enrollment.
The Chicago Civic Shakespeare Society, scheduled to open its season on October 19, is now in rehearsal. The repertory includes “Hamlet,” “The Merchant of Venice,” and “Julius Caesar.” A special feature of the “Caesar” will be the mob scene, in. which the entire company will take part. Instead of augmenting the company by supers, as has been the custom, the scene this season will be played by all the stars and the other featured members of the cast.
In this scene will appear Miss Helen Menken as a woman of eighty years. William Faversham, Whitford Kane, Viola Roache, Edith Campbell and France Bendtsen are also included in this new feature.
The Chicago Symphony orchestra will give its first concert of the season on Thursday night, October 15. The season should be of special interest, because of the fact that soloists will appear more frequently than in years past. Prominent among the soloists will be Egon Petri, Dutch pianist, of whom it is said that he was the first foreign artist to be invited to play in Russia under the soviet. Adolph Busch, German violinist, and head of the Vienna conservatory will be heard, as will Rosette Anday, who is said to have the most beautiful contralto voice on the concert stage today.
That Chicago will have something in the way of music for the long winter afternoons, is assured by the manner in which Miss Bertha Ott has gone out about leasing theatres. She has leased the Studebaker, the Playhouse, and the Civic theatre, and will also present concerts at the Civic Opera house, Orchestra hall, and Kimball hall. The concert busi-
Glee Club Is Reorganized by Casasanta
More than two hundred students have turned out for the Notre Dame Glee club, according to Joseph J. Casasanta, club director. From this number, 75 will be chosen for the club’s permanent membership.
This final personnel will not be
ness is the only one we have found so far to rival the publishers of textbooks.
Miss Ott has a list of eighty-five commitments, while some artists will make more than one appearance. John McCormack will be at the Civic Opera house on Sunday, October 18.
Chester Erskin tripped up last week on Broadway, and found from personal experience what one poet meant when he spoke of “those who damn with faint praise.” Erskin, who has been on Broadway for but a short time, has been referred to as Eugene O’Neill’s co-savior of the American stage, but that reputation was not much helped, apparently, by either of the plays which he has produced of late. “Subway Express” was one of his early successes.
The opportunity to hear Roland Hayes will be available to the student body on October 2, when he will appear at the High School Auditorium in South Bend. The fact that Hayes has drawn unusually large gate receipts as well as innumerable testaments from critics, is an incentive to students to take advantage of this opportunity.
“The Spirit of Notre Dame” will invade the Palace theatre on the night of October 7, not in the form of a gate-crashing but right there on the screen itself. Frank Carideo is said to take his part with remarkable skill. The Palace is ready for a great night with one showing, and that, ladies and gentlemen, at eight-fifteen! Patrons are asked not to worry about being on time: after all, if you have a new topcoat or if you escort a new creation by Pbiret, you won’t care about seeing the picture, anyway.
made public until the second week of October. Until that time the regular rehearsals will be held daily at 12:30 o’clock in the Music Hall. At the first official meeting of the year, held last Friday, William D. Waltz was chosen president of the Glee club for the ensuing year.
Efforts of the University to limit enrollment were slightly effective this year according to official figures of the registration for 1921-32. A decrease of ten is realized under last year’s total of 3172.
More students were rejected this year, however, than at any other time in the history of the school. Approximately 1,350 applications from .prospective freshmen and transfers were handled. Of this number only 1,000 students were accepted. Some of the curtailment is due to new regulations regarding scholastic quality. A general rule to accept only those in the upper two thirds of high school classes is responsible for many being rejected.
Registration in the respective colleges for the year of 1931-32 is as follows: Arts and Letters, 1295; Commerce, 914; Engineering, 458; Science, 270; Law, 147; and graduate students, 51. The College of Science suffered the largest decrease, losing 30 students.
Figures from last year evince a student representation from private schools numbering 358; whereas the number of public schools represented was 801.
Of the states represented Illinois led with 562 students. Other leading states were: Indiana, 496: New York, 468; Ohio, 257; Michigan, 189, Pennsylvania, 187; Wisconsin, 158; New Jersey, 134. The number of students from foreign countries was 62.
Phillips* Serial in Ave Maria
Among the features now running in the Ave Maria, to which a number of Notre Dame writers are frequent contributors, is a serial story by Professor Charles Phillips of the depart--ment of English. Professor Phillips’ story, entitled “Second Fiddle,” is a novel of modern American life with a musical theme and setting, the two chief characters being musicians. The story, which began in the Ave Maria, September 19, narrates a dramatic narrative of the conflict of two men who are not only rivals in art but • in love.
October 2, 1931
Thirteen
ENGINEERS ARE TO MEET
A Man About the Campus»»Jphn A. Grams
Vice-President and Treasurer To Be Elected.
The Engineers’ club of the University will hold its first meeting of the year Thursday evening, October 6, at 7:30 p. m., in the auditorium of the Law building. An election will take place in order to fill the now vacant offices of vice-president and treasurer.
Raymond Pfeiffer, president of the organization, stated that it is important that all freshmen engineers attend this meeting as initiation plans will be discussed. Announcement of the date of the initiation will be made in a later issue of the Scholastic.
Committees for the occasion have been announced as follows:
Initiation committee: chairman, Larry Fisher; vice-chairman, Joe Nugent; Ed de Bartalo, Paul Flanagan, Regis McNamara, Joe McDonald, William Lyons, Nathan Altman, Dennison Mohler, Remi Renier, Francis O’Conner, John Perone, Al White, Joe Strebinger, John Simko, Frank Murray, Hugh McNarney, William Cass, Hugh Ball, John Scanlan, Leo Freitas, James Yoch and John Hamilton.
Refreshment committee: chairman, Hugh McNarney, John Perone, Cliff Hyland, James Carideo, and John -Barry.
Entertainment committee: chairman, Gerald Linn, Gerald Hodges, Noble Harbaugh, Frank Felix and Art Loesch.
News-Talks committee: chairman, Gregory Franzwa, Don Ryan, Eugene Connelly and Francis O’Conner.
Presentation of Papers committee: chairman, James Higgins, Don Killian, John Bleeg, Len Blommaert, and Al Consolati.
Speakers’ committee: chairman, James Chadwick, Ed Riley, Eugene Calhoun, Carl Meyer, and Louis' Rohlof.
Door committee: chairman, Jack Lambert, Ray Boyce, Don Rodgers, Joe Toussant, James Trotter, and James Malcolm.
All chairmen, must get in touch with President Pfeiffer as soon as possible.
By Walter Johnson
“The Making of a Manager”; or, “From Blacking Boots to Buying Them” might well be the heading of this piece. At least, since that record of two year’s occupancy established by his brother August, the one objective of John Gram’s career through three terms at Notre Dame has been the Senior Managership of Football.
As basketball manager at Central High School, La Crosse, Wisconsin, John began his campaign. Such minor distinctions as a football monogram and presidency of the local debating society were but a second consideration. He was a man with a goal, and the road to its achievement had just begun.
Started in 1928
The first bulletin in 1928 brought him to the gym, and before his initial week at Notre Dame was over John’s second stride had been taken; he was a freshman manager. Days and weeks of work, and hard work, followed; not glamorous assignments which entailed associating with the “big shots,” but rather menial duties such as carrying water buckets and cleaning football shoes were his lot. Basketball, baseball and track followed, all taking their share of attention and time; days in Brownson with their accompanying discomforts were hardly noticed.
That the year had not been in vain was indicated when John returned next fall wearing his blue and gold numerals, one of the lucky fifteen who had survived. While making just as many demands on time, work of the sophomore manager is infinitely more enjoyable; he supervises squads of freshmen in work done by himself the year before, holds a more important post and makes several trips with the teams in preparation for bigger things to come.
Managed “B” Teams
With his retention on the staff for the third year our hero’s chances began to look more than good; complete charge of some sport was assured and there still remained a chance at that coveted football post. Experience gained in managing “B” team trips stands the candidates in good stead; John kept his charges in good spirits as they played second squads around the country from Michigan to
Florida. It looked as if the family tradition of the Grams was to be carried on.
The final achievement of his ambition last spring brought with it satisfaction and a thrill of accomplishment marred only by the subsequent death of Knute Rockne under whom he had worked and who, just the week before, had made that momentous announcement. Thus, in his final year, we find John Grams, Football Manager, Senior Manager of Athletics, Member of the Blue Circle, President of the Notre Dame Ushers’ Club and potential member of the Monogram Club. Not bad for a youngster, what?
‘ It’s Work, Work, Work
For the benefit of those who look with an air of bored amusement on the manager, let’s consider the work involved in an hypothetical varsity football trip, say to New York. First, train and bus arrangements must be made at South Bend, baggage cared for, equipment checked, and the team started safely on its way. Moanwhile correspondence has reserved quarters at the Westchester Country Club in Rye, New York, special menus have been sent on and prepared, and provisions for light practice made. The day of the game brings another transfer, this time to New York City, more busses, hotels, meals and a theatre party are to be provided for. Finally a suitable return trip and reception at Notre Dame must be assured. This, for a group of fifty, at the expense of almost six thousand dollars, is no mean task, and though many of the routine duties are cared for by assistants, the greater part of the preparations and all the responsibility rest on the capable shoulders of the Senior Manager.
Well Worth While
Afraid that I might have presented too dark a picture of the managerial organization John wishes to speak directly: “Perhaps the strongest argument I could present in favor of the profession would be to say — and truthfully—that had I been cut from the squad after my freshman year I should still have considered the time well spent and the returns in associations and business experience worth much more than the effort they cost.”
Fourteen
October 2, 1931
GEORGE GETZ APPOINTED CHAIRMAN WUT issue is due OF ROCKNE MEMORIAL COMMITTEE 0B FlmENTH
Location And Plans of Field House are Presented By Albert R. Erskine
Several New Artists Working For Prized Positions.
It was announced this week that George F. Getz, prominent Chicago business man, has agreed to act as chairman of the committees on special gifts in the campaign for the Rockne Memorial Field House. Mr. Getz, it was explained, will assume charge of efforts to secure subscriptions from contributors of means for the Fund.
During the World War, Mr. Getz was in charge of general relief w’ork as an associate director of the American Red Cross in France. Last year he headed the committee in charge of raising funds for the emergency relief in Chicago. He is associated with several leading business enterprises in Chicago and New York.
It was also made known that Alfred E. Smith, Owen D. Young, and Admiral Richard Byrd are sponsoring plans for the campaign, the executive committee of which includes Will Rogers, E. N. Hurley, John D. Hertz, Robert C. Graham, Frank E. Hering and James J. Phelan.
A. R. Erskine of South Bend, general chairman of the committee in charge, announced that local chair-
Collins Announces
Committeees to serve Notre Dame council, No. 1477, Knights of Columbus, for the coming year, were announced by Grand Knight James Collins at a meeting of the council last Monday in their chambers in Walsh hall.
They are: House committee, John Cahill, chairman, Frank Donalty, Joseph Kennedy, Charles Bolger, Peter Connelly, Gerald Conway, Frank Madden, Warren Schwartes, Frank Miller,, Frank Honercamp, and Cyril Theisen.
Building fund committee, Prof. William Benitz, chairman, Prof. Edward Maurus, Prof. Raymond Hoyer, Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., Prof. Louis Buckley.
Membership committee, Granger Weil, chairman, Donald Lusardi, Rich
men, who will direct the fund-raising activities in sixteen divisions of the country, are now being selected. Mr. Erskine also made known certain features of the Memorial Building, which is expected to result in it being one of the most beautiful structures in the country.
It will be built on the old Cartier Field, and will occupy a four- foot terrace close to the Notre Dame Stadium. Rugged in outline, and strong in mass, the building has been designed in a modification of the English Gothic.
On the first floor will be a Memorial Foyer and Trophy Hall; the Monogram Club room, which will contain mementoes of the Monogram Club and of Rockne; offices of the Athletic Association; twenty-two handball and squash courts; and rooms for wrestling, boxing, and other forms of indoor sports.
The second floor will contain four standard size basketball courts, an apparatus gymnasium, a corrective exercise gymnasium, and medical examination rooms. A large swimming pool will be located in a wing.
K. of C. Committes
ard Conley, Frank Consolati, Stanley Czapalski, Paul Belden, Charles Fiss, Harry Hart, Frank Kelly, Maurice Mulrey, and Arthur Cavender.
Lapsations committee, John J. Walsh, chairman, Leonard Donaghue, Paul Flanagan, William Dea, Irwin Crotty, John Jaeger, Frank Messina, Eugene Bernhardt, and Joseph Nugent.
Y Sick Committee, Vincent Ponic, chairman, Francis Marley, Charles Nash, Harold Saone, and John Doran.
Athletic committee, Charlse Hitzel-berger, chairman, Patrick Crowley, Ralph Caletri, Edward Mahoney, Ronald Bugni, William Murphy, and William Sheils.
Publicity committee, August Von Boecklin, chairman, Robert Hilger, Dominic Lizzardo, George Murphy, and Vincent Cinquina.
The artists, and more particularly Joseph Lopker, seem to dominate the Autumn Juggler, which is rapidly rounding into shape in Editor Robert Gorman’s room, 117 Sorin hall. The “Autumn” girl appears twice, once on the cover, in one of Lopker’s best creations, and the other as the frontispiece, an unusual study in femininity by the same artist.
A portrait of the late coach, Knute Rockne, is the most striking that has ever appeared in the Juggler. It surpasses, in the opinion of most critics, McElroy’s “Rockne” of three years ago. Lopker in his characterization of the great coach has given the students an impressive picture.
Art Becvar and Frank Conboy, the only two members of Lopker’s artstaff, contribute heavily to the illustrations in this Juggler. Several new men, including Dick Prezebel and Henry Boulaurier are fighting for the October Juggler art prize, while several are in the running for the award given for the best written work.
The deadline for contributions of both written and art material was Thursday. The number will appear on October 15.
Chesterton Greets N. D.
During the past summer spent in Europe, Mr. Stephen H. Ronay, assistant professor in the department-of English, visited at the home of G. K. Chesterton in Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire. The celebrated English author, who gave a six-weeks’ course of lectures here last spring, spoke feelingly of his Notre Dame days and sent greetings to all his friends at the. University. The Chesterton home, “Top Meadow,” is a part of the former estate of Edmund Burke. ’
Professor Ronay attended the summer school at Oxford and toured Ireland and Scotland, as well as visiting-the continent, during his three months” stay abroad.
October 2, 1931
Fifteen
AMERICAN COLLEGES NEGLECT MARKETING
FATHER CARRICO ADDRESSES FRESHMEN AT CONVOCATION IN WASHINGTON HALL
Less Than One Percent of Time Devoted To Marketing.
Written specially for the Scholastic.
Less than one percent of all instruction given by American colleges and universities is devoted to subjects designed to prepare the future business executive to deal with problems of marketing and advertising, according to a survey just completed by the Bureau of Research and Education of ) the Advertising Federation of America and made public by Alfred T. Falk, director- of the Bureau.
On the whole, the student’s alma mater does a good job in general business training but falls far short of giving sufficient instruction in the fundamental subjects in modern com-• modify distribution and sales. Only thirty-seven collegiate institutions in the United States adequately cover these subjects.
The fundamental subjects, according to the survey’s report, are advertising, marketing, salesmanship, retailing and wholesaling, foreign trade and transportation. These are cited in the report as being necessary in the training of the business leader of today, because of the swing of executive problems away from production to the field of marketing.
Even the “Big Ten” of American colleges—those with the greatest student registration—fail to give commodity distribution the curriculum attention it deserves. Of the total of 25,460,000 student-semester-hours of instruction given in 633 institutions of higher learning covered in the survey, less than one percent of the time is given to commodity distribution problem study. This total compares with less than five percent of total curriculum time given to business training generally.
Accounting for the institutions according to the geographical regions in which they are located, the survey reveals that colleges in the northeastern area—Connecticut, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and Vermont—devote on an ' average 1.01 percent of their instruction time to distribution subjects. Schools in the western and central regions of the United . States devote ’ .97 percent of their curriculum time to those topics. In the south, the figure is only .79 percent.
Talks to New Men on the Topic of “Studies”; Is Received Appreciatively
At the Freshman Convocation held yesterday in Washington hall, the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C. director of studies, spoke.
Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C.
Who Addressed the Convocation
He addressed the freshmen on the topic of “Studies.” He explained to his audience how, when, and why to study. His answer to the last rhetorical question was sincerely appreciated by the gathering.
Father Carrico exhorted the first year men to learn some little bit each ‘day in order to stimulate interest in
Grand Knight Appoints Santa Maria Editors
Paul J. Hallinan, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters and editor of the 1931 Dome, has been appointed editor of the Santa Maria, publication of Notre Dame council 1477, Knights of Columbus. The appointment by Grand Knight James Collins was made at a meeting of the council Monday in their Walsh hall chambers. Hallinan is also managing editor of the Juggler and author of The Week, a feature of the Scholastic, of which he has been a member of the staff since his entrance to the University. He has been a knight of the Notre Dame council for three years.
Included on the staff of the Santa
the exhilarating process of education. “Set a mark for yourselves and shoot at it” was the gist of a large part of his address.
He gave examples from the actions of football players to illustrate his talk. He compared the daily work to practice and the examination to the big game. He told the men that they couldn’t hope to succeed in the final test unless they worked continually.
Small groups gathered outside the hall after the meeting and discussed the talk appreciatively.
A large gathering was present at this meeting. It was the second convocation of the year for the newcomers to the campus. Last week the Reverend Raymond Murch, C.S.C. prefect of discipline, addressed the group.
Although no definite announcement has been made as yet, it is probable that prominent members of the faculty will address the members of the class of 1935. The plan of convocations was inaugurated during the past year when the freshmen gathered each week to listen to the talks. Last year the convocations were begun late and so very few were held.
Maria as associate editors are Joseph S. Petritz, publicity director of the Notre Dame athletic office for the past two years, and for three years the editor of the Football Review, and Neil C. Hurley, editor of the Scholastic. Raymond Nabor as business manager, and Charles Quigley as circulation manager, have been appointed by Grand Knight Collins to handle the business department of the K. of C. publication^
A change in the form of the Santa Maria is anticipated, although there have been no definite plans made. The publication has been issued during the past years usually twice a semester.
Sixteen
October 2, 19-31
Even The S. A. C. Has
Their Traditions, It Seems
By Tighe Woods	V'
“A committee of students was appointed and empowered to act in'several emergencies when otherwise no student action could have been taken. The members of the committee in the face of misunderstandings and numerous inconveniences, essayed the task of creating an efficient centralized control over undergraduate affairs.”—Taken from the Dome of 1920. And there you have the official notice of the beginning of that ever present, ever vigilant, august body known as the Student Activities Council.
If that formal little quotation contained all the life and animation that went into the formation of the S.A.C. it would probably have died long ago and assumed a dignified but buried existence among the dusty files of yellow paged Scholastics and cloth bound minutes of the St. Cecilia Literary Society. That was not the case, however. A member of that first humble body, who has asked that his name be omitted on account of Alumni dues, happened to be on the campus for the Memorial Game, and he gave us the real story.
“It was one of those awful nights in December about midway between the last game and Christmas vacation. A few of the boys were in Rog Kiley’s room and a good old fashioned griping party was in session. The two topics that were turning the air blue were, the inability to gripe to the faculty without getting called down, and the inability to centralize campus privileges. (The term ‘racket’ meant, “a little bat covered with catgut” in those days!)
Suggestions ranging from a few lake parties to the publishing of a secret newspaper were offered by different members of the group until finally Norm Barry suggested ‘an organized body of campus big shots’ to act as a connecting link between student body and the faculty. The suggestion was at first laughed down on the grounds that the faculty had never done anything like that before. Barry persisted, however, and finally a committee of seniors with big ‘drags’ were appointed to see the Prefect of Discipline^ Father Burke. Father Burke was so astonished at
the request that he granted the Council a year’s trial before he realized the Pandora’s Box he had opened.”
The first meeting was a nightmare. Fifty of the representative members of the student body came together to draw up a constitution, and there were fifty different suggestions, a hundred and twenty-five articles at the first draft, and fifty candidates for office. After two weeks of thrashing, oratory and brute force a workable constitution was submitted for the faculty approval, and it was adopted with a few minor changes.
After the year of grace allowed by Father Burke had passed, the young Council decided on a campaign of advertising, and they made the student body sales-conscious by doing things. They used Notre Dame foqtball tactics, and accomplished things on sheer nerve and surprise. They obtained four new tennis courts, and to add to the University expenditures they obtained water in the halls after ten o’clock at night. The faculty was just about ready to apply the brakes to this headlong locomotive when the chairman walked into the offices of the Indiana Electric Company and handed over a check for eight hundred unpaid street car fares! Then the faculty, the townspeople, and the students themselves began to wonder.
By 1923 the S.A.C. was just as im- * portant around Notre Dame as the dome and this lusty youth that had outgrown its swaddling clothes had to be dressed in a more dignified manner., The powers once more met in good old Tammany fashion, and a new constitution was born.
Your present chairman is Herbert Giorgio. He assumes an office that is rich in the traditions of the democracy, sportsmanship, and determination that has made Notre Dame well,— Notre Dame! You will gripe from your freshman year to your last year in law school,—you would miss something deeply Notre Dame if you didn’t, but if you ever have a real grievance, bring it to your Councilman and you will see that they do more than just greet incoming freshmen and sit for Dome photographs.
GREATER ACTIVITY FOR K OF C. IS URGED BY FR. REYNOLDS
Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., chaplain of Notre Dame council, No-1477, Knights of Columbus, addressed the council Monday in their Walsh hall chambers at the first regular meeting to be held this semester. Father Reynolds urged greater activity of the council, and predicted that this would be one of its best years. Reverend Thomas Kelly, C.S.C., a trustee of the council, also spoke, and promised his support and that of the other trustees.
A financial statement by the Financial Secretary, Eli Abraham, completed the business of the meeting.
Entertainment was furnished by John Perone, a campus comedian, and his assistant, Fran Oelerich.
Grand Knight James Collins and Lecturer John S. Wittliff, who were recently installed, conducted the meeting.
A' meeting of the officers of the council with District Deputy Louis Buckley, past Grand Knight of Notre Dame council, was held Tuesday in the Knights of Columbus office in the Main building. Plans for the council were discussed and advice concerning-its functions given by Buckley.
Grad Gets Parole Position
William H. Dore of Tiffin, Ohio, has been appointed secretary of the Ohio State Parole Board. Mr. Dore was graduated from the Notre Dame School of Law in June 1930.
The newly appointed secretary has. been employed in the legal department of the Central Union Trust company, and is a nephew of Frank H. Dore, prominent Democratic attorney of Tiffin. He attended, the Heidelberg college, previous to his coming to Notre Dame.
‘Scholastic’ Writers at Indiana
Several members of the Scholastic’s sport staff will be on hand to report the Indiana game. With representatives in the press box the Scholastic will furnish the student, body with first hand information concerning the opening contest of the year. Edmund L. Moriarty, this year’s sports editor, will give his account of the game. Joseph Kurth and James McFeely, both members of the staff, will take note of the interestingsidelights of the game.
October 2, 1931
Seventeen
PROF. MANION TALKS ON MODERN BUSINESS TO ELECTROTYPERS
Using the subject, “The Business Trend,” Professor Clarence E. Manion, a member of the faculty of the College of Law at Notre Dame, addressed the International Association of Employing Electrotypers at the annual convention held in Cleveland on September 23.
Dean Thomas F. Konop, announces that plans are being made for a meeting of the Law club in the near future. E. J. England, a student of law, is president of the club.
The lectures in the law school are directed under the auspices of the law club.
Survey Results Announced
Partial results of the University of Notre Dame Alumni religious survey, conducted last spring by the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., prefect of religion, were announced recently in a religious bulletin published by Father O’Hara.
Concerning the sacramental practices of Notre Dame graduates who were daily communicants during their years at Notre Dame, figures show that Holy Communion is now received at least once a week by fifty-four per cent of the former daily communicants, twenty-nine per cent of the former weeklies, and nine per cent of the former monthly communicants.
Eighty-five per cent of those who received daily at school, seventyseven per cent of those who received weekly, sixty per cent of those who received monthly, and sixteen per cent of those who received Holy Communion less often than once a month now receive at least once a month.
Jugglers Hold Tryouts
The personnel of the “Jugglers” the University orchestra, though not fully selected, will be announced in next week’s Scholastic. Rehearsals and tryouts have been held throughout the past week.
J. J. Casasanta, director of the organization, stated that the orchestra will play for all the footabll dances ■this Fall.
The Saga of Albert; or
Cleaning Up The Campus
■	By Edward J. O’Brien
You know Albert; everybody does. Right! That stooped little old gentleman you’ve seen about the campus stabbing stray bits of paper, apple cores, and leaves. A broom handle with a nail protuding from the end is Albert’s weapon. Gifted with deadly aim, the result of years of practice, he allows no piece of refuse to escape him. Hobbling after a piece of paper flipped along by the wind, the old man jabs his stick toward the ground and the elusive scrap is snapped into a burlap sack hanging from his neck. Mumbling, Albert works steadily and fast, stumping along, jabbing.
Believe it or not, Albert has a history—not an extremely unusual history, just Albert’s history. He is a friendly old chap, and he readily talks about himself although a five-cent cigar may make him expand his story a bit. The expansion is quite amusing and is worth the cigar. Anyhow, Albert Gowgas is his name and not Albert A. Albert as he seems to have been christened around the campus. He was born in Austria seventy-three years ago on a farm. Twenty-six years later Albert came to America. Farming in New York and Massachusetts must have been too tame for him. Lumbering in Northern Michigan satisfied his craving for action. “Son-of-a-Bicycle,” he grunts, “the lumber camp now be a brickyard!” And Albert hates brickyards.
How he chose South Bend, I don’t know; he didn’t say. Just happened here. Dropped in, looked around, and liked the place. . That was twenty-
Prominent Scribes Write Features for “Review99
Joseph S. Petritz, editor of the Football Reviezv, which will be issued shortly after the close of the football season, announced his staff for the publication this week. It includes several nationally known sport writers, and most' of the journalistic luminaries of the campus. Others will be named later.
Grantland Rice and J. P. McEvoy, the latter a humorist of nation-wide fame, have signified their intention of contributing articles. Paul D. Hoffman, vice-president of the Studebaker
nine years ago. He had tried railroading in Grand Rapids and Detroit. Now Notre Dame attracted him. He didn’t always poke a stick at rubbish. No sir; at one time he had worked, himself up to the position of janitorin-chief. St. Edward’s Hall was his headquarters. The minims demanded all of Al’s attention. Railroading, with wages at the high peak of a dollar and a quarter a day, was all right, but here he was somebody. But Albert got too old. A cataract formed over his left eye. The eye is gone now because Albert skived the hospital just as there was a chance for saving his sight. Then be broke his right leg. Poor bone-setting and neglect resulted in Albert’s being a cripple. The skin became inflamed occasionally but his confidence in doctors having degenerated, a slit with a pen knife satisfies him.
So they gave Albert a stick with a nail in it, a burlap sack, a tiny room in the hot-house behind the Main. Building and he became a sharpshooter against scraps of paper. But he can’t be a sharpshooter much longer either. The old man knows that and he has haunting visions of the county poor farm where he realizes he can no longer enjoy even the little independence left to him now. I’m inclined to believe that Albert need not worry about ending his days in a poor farm. Something tells me the old “Son-of-a-bicycle” will be at Notre Dame until he dies. Then he’ll be buried somewhere and forgotten, ’cause he’s merely Albert.
Corporation, will also write a feature.
Warren Brown and Arch Ward, Chicago sport editors, and Jack Elder and Lawrence Perry will write features for the review, and the Alumni section will be taken care of by James Armstrong, alumni secretary.
Men on the campus who will contribute articles include the editor of the Scholastic, Neil Hurley; the Juggler editor, Robert Gorman; and the director of school publicity, John Kiener. Joe Kurth, Paul Host and Walter Kennedy are also on the staff.
Eighteen
October 2, 1931
♦ THE	♦
“Howdy, boy!” “What’s the word?” For each such hail A blatant bird!
QUICK WINKS
Badin’s park’s fresh haircut . . . the absence of a certain professor’s white suit . . . the size bf Tom Yarr’s mail . . . the endless cracks at Stump Cronin about a “five-year plan” . . . the crowds fighting to get into the Museum in Science . . . the freshman who thought Carroll was a laundry . . .
HEY! HEY!
And now for the choicest bit of news since our laundress got caught in the wringer. “Would you like to join our girls’ band?” That’s the heading of a splendid bit of publicity issued to a certain group of young things. They’re organizing a fifty-piece band, and it’s to be a concert and parade band. Can you imagine seeing a long line of gleaming brass marching along the Niles road, with fifes rattling and the drums blaring in unison? How proud the members of such a group, and in only three lessons, my dear! Listen further. “Each member will secure a complete and thorough band training that will be invaluable to them in the future.” What a comfort it will be to have a wife who can sit down at any time and tear off “The Stars and Stripes.” Wont’ it be splendid to wake up in the morning to the strains of a stirring march a la tuba? The idea, we suppose, is that if Blanche Calloway can do it, why can’t you? Anyway, good luck, girls, and remember that a little alum on the lips is always an aid to the aspiring young cornetist.
Where’s the new name for this page—and where are the contribs? If we don’t get any we’ll stop writing this column and turn it over to Joe McCabe or some other witty guy. Let’s have a little verse—not serious stuff. If you men are going to be as dead all year, we’ll sell ourselves to Scrip and go in for morbidness. Save us from a fate worse than death.
Wink: How about the junior who was assigned to the Hoffman hotel, while they completed Alumni hall, and then given the boot, when it was discovered that he had a radio in his room without a ninety average?
—Peter Pan.
With many an honest man walking the campus these days in fear and trembling lest they come under the severe scrutiny of “The Stool Pigeon,” we wish to say that even we, Armbo the conductor, have no idea as to who the erstwhile scandal-moungrel is. It’s a contrib, pals, and it comes unsigned each Monday morn.
New names sugested for the column: “The Arsenal”—suggested by “Rhambo”. “Melting Pot”—this from Hopeless Hobo. “The Searchlight”—and it’s from “Oke”.
“BIRDIE WHISPERS”
All the Netvs That’s Not Fit to Print
Casmir Dyniewicz will be the chairman of the Senior Ball for the class of ’32 . . . Who says the Scholastic isn’t first with the news? . . .
Greetings seems to be the popular sport these days . . . The gels returning across the cinder paths after the game Saturday must have got the impression we still had a “hello week” around here . . .
What a racket . . . the Presidents’ Club wants each member to collect a dime from every member of his own club for the expenses of the Presidents’ Club . . . Better to look to the organization that conceived the club if there are any expenses.
Heard in Brownson rec last Eriday evening . . . “Aw, that Birdie Whispers aint nothin’. In Noo Yawk we got a guy that writes better stuff than that. Sure, Walter Winchell. The senior Met clubbers ought to take some of the snootiness out of their frosh ... by dropping some of their own . . . The sophomores will have to get going fast .if they want to have their Cotillion this fall . . .
President Gleason announces that the first official meeting of the South Bend Inn Sunday Evening Dining and Dancing Club, better known as the Wolves, will be this Sunday, and triple cuts will be given all those absent.
In the near future the cafeteria will have on sale Notre Dame stickers with the new seal . . . It’s different from the old one . . . LaBome is our choice .for the annual Notre Dame surprise ...
We wonder how Joe Kennedy is going to occupy himself when all the flies go ’way . . . Tighe Woods is conducting the Campus Prattle column of the Juggler for the coming year . . . And Bud Groves says he’ll have to pay to get in the Chicago Club’s Northwestern dance . . .
The world premier at the Palace will cost from eight to twelve bits . . . and just before the biggest week-end of the year ... If this is the world’s premier what was the show in Washington hall . . . Are we going to have to listen to the Studebaker band play the Maine Stein Song at our games this year ... or have they got a new song? . . .
Johnny Perone has come up in the world—he wears a suit on the campus now ... A professor walked up to Julie Acers the other day and with a big smile said: “Glad to see you back, Clarence.” They don’t call him Julie any more . . . Nordy Hoffman actually raised his hand (and not in salute) at the frosh who nodded and .“Hi bud-ed” him ... Ed Krause spreads marmalade on his bacon sandwiches . . . Joe McCabe spent his first Sunday across the way and.says he had the girls in stitches with readings from Scrip ... A new mag in the caf, How to Watch Football. At Notre Dame, of all-the places!
. —The Stool Pigeon.
Lemmonier says: Tell those lndians to put the dice away, or they’ll have to leave the room!	—Armbo.
October 2, 1931
Nineteen
EDITOR’/ PAGE
THE PRESIDENTS9 COUNCIL
An ambitious expansion program has been prepared for the Presidents’ Council by its equally ambitious president, which if carried out would in effect place that organization within the white glare of the campus spot-light.
Yet the Scholastic, although ever anxious to see activity of any sort within the clubs on the campus, pauses before endorsing the new undertaking. For it would seem that this suddenly active organization is motivating itself just a bit beyond its own sphere of activity.
It is a well known and admitted fact that campus clubs at Notre Dame, referring particularly to the city groups, have for many years been relegated to a pitiful position in student opinion. The spark of life breathes only during the Christmas vacation, when a few zealous spirits conduct the annual Yuletide dance.
This leaves us to believe that before Mr. Hitzelberger, the capable leader of the band of presidents, seeks other worlds to conquer, he might well wash the dirty linen that exists in his own kingdom.
Round table discussions between the leaders of various campus clubs, plans for better unification, and ideas for better group spirit would be more within the scope of the Presidents’ Council than would seeking to maintain scholarship funds, the conducting of a Presidents’ dance, and the awarding of medals for interhall sports.
Another plan that is being discussed by the Council is the collection of dues from each individual club in order to foster expensive activities of the organization, such as the printing of stationery, etc. for the officers, and special pins for the individual presidents.
The Council here at Notre Dame is a potentially great organization. But first it will have to be an active organization along proper lines, seeking to bring about a better feeling among the clubs and searching for better activities, while the presidents gather twice a month and trade ideas and suggestions—that is the sole purpose of a presidents’ club.
WHY MINOR SPORTS?
Successful members of the golf, tennis and other minor sports teams are rewarded at the end of the season with a tiny felt monogram. The golf team may have been among the best in the country; the tennis team may have had a good season; but year after year the little letters are ultimately handed to the athlete.
Is it not just as difficult to win a golf match as it is to put the shot a few inches farther than the nearest opponent? This seems probable; yet in spite of this fact, the hard working golfer is made inferior to the shot-putter, who sometimes.with little or no practice, happens to land his shot a short distance ahead of a rival from some small school.
The purpose of athletics, as we have always understood it, is to furnish healthful recreation and competition between the students of different schools. We do not deny that there should be some differentiation between the various branches of sports; obviously athletes in some sports work harder than do those in others. But we do not believe that the difference is so large as to cause such a difference in the size of monograms awarded to the participants.
An insult added to injury is the fact that a minor monogram does make the owner eligible for membership in the Monogram club. In the final analysis, we believe that the minor athlete feels, and justly so, that he has been cheated and that his hard work has meant very little.
SCHOLASTICS NET TOURNEY
The opening round of the Scholastic’s tennis tournament is scheduled for tomorrow afternoon. It will mark the opening of one of the Scholastic’s constructive moves in the field of intra-mural sport.
The entry of the largest number in the history of tennis meets at Notre Dame should be ample assurance that the student body has felt the need of such an event. Capably managed and with the full cooperation of the competitors, this fall net meet might easily be established as an annual sports feature.
Twenty
October 2, 1931
< OI I r< l PARADE
UP GO THE STANDARDS
In keeping with present tendencies, the graduate departments of some of our best barber colleges are tightening their courses.
Behold the rules:
1.	If a student, at the beginning of the semester, can show that he is capable of leaving half the whiskers and getting a four bit tip, he shall receive credit in Shaving 101a without being required to take the course.
2.	After he has had twenty hours of literature, he must pass an examination to show that he has reasonable reading knowledge of Racing Form, Police Gazette, Grit, and Elks’ Magazine. If he is unable to pass this test he shall repeat this course without credit.
3.	He is required to shave two faces each week—one in class and one for homework. If, on any of these jobs, he pulls a “styptic blunder,” that is, applying the styptic at the wrong time, or not applying it at the right time, he shall flunk that shave.
4.	If, in hair cutting class 203b, he picks up. his clippers wrongly, the Committee on Grasping the Shears Correctly will be notified. Also, if in shaving class, he drops the razor on the floor, the Committee on Dropping the Razor on the Floor will be notified. This reciprocity among the departments is calculated to give the student a pain in the neck.
CHAPEAUX POUR LES HOMMES!
Empress Eugenie hats have been prescribed for all the male freshmen students at the University of Kansas.
INTO THE LAKE
At the University of Denver six students were suspended when they attended class in swimming suits.
FC
Students at the University of Maryland are fined three dollars for every class they cut.
A PSYCHOLOGICAL CASE
A prospective freshman at the University of Michigan was expelled recently when it was discovered that he had forged his entrance credentials.
TOLERANCE
“The Cal Aggie” says it doesn’t mind having a freshman define a log scale as an insect or a forest litter as young trees, but when it comes to calling a logarithm the song of a lumberman it is going too far.
MORE INTELLECTUALS
A survey at Reed College indicated that college students in general follow the sport page and the comic strip with more interest than the affairs of the nation, state, or city.
DEGRADATION
Tea dances have become very popular at the University of Michigan. The male students at the university are separated into two groups— those who tea-dance and those who don’t. Several skirmishes have taken place between the two factions.
GONE ARE THE RED LIGHTS
The Chief of Police of Cedar Rapids, where Coe College is located, recently complained that the town’s red lanterns are disappearing too fast. Twenty-five hundred were installed last year and not a one is left.
REALLY
The Bruin coeds’ football team is to wear gold satin pants and bright sweaters.—Professor Randolph Altrochi, head of the Italian research department of the University of California, says that there has been but slight change in football in the past 400 years.
October 2, 1931
Tiventy-one
CAMPUX CLUEJ
BISONS
The BUFFALO club held its first meeting of the year Monday evening in the basement of the library. Plans were discussed for the present semester the most important of which were the preparations for the annual Christmas dance.	•
During the summer a scholarship fund was started by the organization, and at present it is the only club on the campus maintaining such a fund.
Two summer dances were also given by the club, and they were said to be—social successes.
MUSCLE-MEN
At a meeting of the PHYSICAL EDUCATION held last week, announcements were made concerning the coming year. Plans were discussed for activities to be held at frequent intervals throughout the year, the first of which will probably take the form of an outing on Founder’s Day.
RAZA-RAZA
Although the ranks of the LA RAZA club have been thinned to some degree by the depression in Mexico, Tony Diaz intends to rally his forces soon for the first get together.
OVER THERE
We are waiting for some intellectual to come along and pick up the reins of the FRENCH club relinquished by Reverend Conrad Hoffman who is no longer with us. Comment allez vous, bon matin, and cherchez la femme, are some of the campus expressions that seem to have disappeared with the disbanding of the frenchies.
LASSO AND SPURS
“Boys you sure air welcome”—with this and similar phrases peculiar to the men from the lone star state, “Tex” Simmons greeted the new members of the TEXAS club last Friday evening in the Architecture building.
SPAGHETTI
Hungering for some real spaghetti we make a request that the ITALIAN club formally organize before too long, and open the program with a Roman dinner.
HOB-NAILS
The first meeting of the ENGINEERS club of the University will be held on Tuesday evening, October 6, in the auditorium of the Law building. Business includes the election of new officers to fill the places left vacant due to graduation last spring. All freshman engineers are invited to attend.
READERS
- There is a new club struggling to get a foothold in campus activities. This new member travels under the name BOOKMAN. All who desire to join should present themselves at a certain room in Corby hall.
MEETS
President Mike Crawford announces a meeting of the CLEVELAND club sometime during the week. The exact date will be named later.
GOPHERS
The MINNESOTA club will meet Sunday morning in the Architectural building at 10:00 a. m. The ai-range-ments being made by the Alumni club concerning the trip to the Northwestern game will be discussed.
All students from the state are invited to attend, and a special invitation is issued to the freshmen.
LITTLE EGYPT
Students from Southern Illinois assembled in the basement of the library last Wednesday evening for the purpose of forming a“ LITTLE EGYPT” club.
DRUGGISTS
The PHARMACY club met Tuesday evening in Chemistry hall.
Business transacted at the meeting included the election of a vice-president. Emil Jane is the new sub-leader.
HOOSIERS
The INDIANAPOLIS club got together Tuesday evening last, to thrash out the important business gathered throughout the summer months of inactivity. The roster of this group has been swelled due to the large number of incoming frosh. The summer .dance was a success socially and financially.
NEW JOISEY
This space is reserved for Ray Geiger’s contribution 'about the meeting of the NEW JERSEY club for next Monday evening.
EXPOSTULATORS
■ There was a mix-up last Tuesday evening and as a result two WRANGLER meetings were held. Half the membership arrived at 6:30, with the senior delegation putting in their appearance around the stroke of 9:00.
QUACK! QUACK! QUAKERS!	*
The PHILADELPHIA club will hold its first meeting of the year next Monday night in Walsh hall. All freshmen living within fifty miles of the city are welcome.
Twenty-two
October 2, 1931
♦ SPCKTS ♦
64 Enter Scholastic Net Tourney
Bracket Is Filled As Early Call For Participants Gets Immediate Start
LIFELESS VARSITY WINS OVER RESERVES, 25-0
Results of Tournament Will Aid In Deciding Personnel of Next Year’s Varsity.
By Edmund L. Moriarty
The Scholastic fall tennis tournament will swing into the first round tomorrow, with sixty-four entrants marked on the scorer’s sheet. The full bracket, according to U.S.L.T.A. rules, was completed just fifty-eight hours after the notice appeared in last week’s issue. The number is also the largest amount to attempt competitive play on the courts here at school in the history of the University.	•
Joseph Borda, aiding the Scholastic in the present tournament, and captain of the University tennis team, reports that the turn-out will give the varsity squad next spring an attractive list of candidates from which to choose the Notre Dame representatives.
Sixteen teams are entered in the doubles competition. Play in this branch will not open up until Monday, when the thirty-two players will begin striving for the medals offered by the Scholastic to winners in all branches.	-
Through the courtesy of the South Bend Park Commission, Leeper, Howard and Coquillard Parks have been reserved for tournament play, and as these courts are only available during certain hours, it is absolutely necessary that all entrants report for the matches on time.
Contestants should bear in mind the following instructions. Report at the park in plenty of time, so that your match can be started without
any undue delay. Then report to the Scholastic man stationed at the court before the match is begun and at its completion, so as to furnish him with the necessary information regarding the outcome of the match. His word shall be final in the event of any disputes, regarding opponents, starting times etc. The winner shall be decided by the best two out of three sets, until the finals, when five set matches will be in order. Balls for the preliminary matches must be furnished by the players. The Scholastic will furnish them for the semifinal and final matches.
Entrants reporting to the courts later than fifteen minutes after the time that their match is scheduled, will be automatically defaulted. In case that both persons fail to report in this time, there will be a double default.
All play will be governed accord-
(Continued on Page 33)
PROBABLE LINE-UPS		
INDIANA	POS.	NOTRE DAME
Lyons	L.E.	Kosky
Rascher	L.T.	Culver
McDonald	L.G.	Harriss
Beeson	C.	Yarr (C)
Zeller	R.G.	Hoffman
Anglemeyer	R.T.	Kurth
Hansen	R.E.	Mahoney
V. Dauer	Q.B.	Murphy
Opasik	L.H.B.	Schwartz
Baer	R.H.B.	Sheeketski
Jones	F.B.	Banas
Referee—Madigson		(Mich.)
Umpire—Haines (Yale)	•		
Field Judge—Hackett (Army)		
Head Linesman—Groves (Ill.)		
Memorial Crowd Unimpressed By Listless Exhibition.
By Edward T. Carey
Playing before 12,000 eager fans who contributed upwards of $30,000 to the Rockne Memorial Field House fund through he medium of gate receipts for the privilege of a preview of the 1931 Notre Dame football team, the Fighting Irish regulars defeated the reserves, 25-0, in a slow an listless contest in the Notre Dame stadium last Saturday.
The varsity, with only four regular linemen and two regular backs in the starting line-up, scored on a fifty yard march the first time they had possession of the ball, Koken plunging over. A fumble by the reserve quarter a few minutes later was recovered by the varsity on the reserves’ five-yard line, and Sheeketski circled left end for another touchdown. Jaskwich place-kicked the only extra point made during the game.
Soon after the start of the second half Laborne, sophomore third string left half made his appearance and then things started to happen. Despite his brilliant play, however, no score was made until the fourth quarter. A beautiful pass, Koken to Host, put the ball on the ten. Laborne was run wide on an end run but dove along the sidelines to the two-yard stripe. A fumble gave the ball to the reserves, but a short punt by Acers again gave the varsity possession on the seventeen. Two plunges by Melin-kovich gained a first down, and Laborne crashed tackle for the score.
With but a few minutes to play, a brilliant run by Cronin put the ball inposition for Melinkovich to plunge for the final touchdown.
October 2, 1931
Twenty-three
They’ll Stop The Hoosier Advance Tomorrow
A quartet of fighting tackles—(left to right) George Kozak, Joseph Kurth, Allen Culver, and Edward Krause.
Large Squad Makes Trip to Bloomington For Game With Indiana
Forty-six regulars comprised the squad that left this morning for Bloomington where Notre Dame will meet Indiana tomorrow. The squal left the Pennsylvania station this morning at 8 o’clock. A few of the students who did not have classes gave the team a sendoff. The pep meeting last night was the final outburst of student enthusiasm prior to the game.
The squad will be accompanied by a reporter from the Scholastic on its
trip to Indianapolis. The members of the squad were:
Left ends: Kosky, Host, Bice, Gil-dea.	•
Left tackles: Culver, Krause, Mc-
Namara. ■
Left guards: Harriss, Greeney, Pi-vamik.
Centers: Yarr, Gorman, Rodgers, Alexander.
Right guards: Hoffman, Pierce, Wunsch, Schrinker.
Right .tackles: Kurth, Kozak, Barstow.
Right ends: Mahoney, DeVore, Canale, Rascher.
Quarterbacks: Murphy Jaskwich, Vejar, Foley, McGuff, Boland, Christman.
Left halfbacks: Schwartz, Koken, LaBome, Connolly.
Right halfbacks: Sheeketski, Bran-cheau, Cronin, Leahy, Milheim.
Fullbacks: Banas, Melinkovich, Leonard, Vettel, Hagan.	.
Twenty-four
October 2, 1931
Interhall League Opens Sunday
John Fredericks to be Coach In Charge; Anthony Wirry to Supervise Managers
Rectors Select Team Coaches; Physical Education Men To Officiate.
John Fredericks, faculty advisor in charge of interhall athletics, announced this week that Livingston’s, a South Bend clothier, will award a gold football charm to each member of the winning interhall football team. Starting Sunday, every hall on the campus with the exception of Sorin will initiate gridiron play that will continue until the last week in November.
Anthony Wirry, student manager in charge of interhall athletics, reports that uniforms were given out to over 200 men who will play on the various teams. Wirry also added that the managers are better equipped this year than ever before to, supply sufficient first aid kits and water buckets for every game.
Rectors Pick Coaches
The coaches this year were selected by the rectors of the individual halls and all through the past week teams have been working out on Brownson and Minims field. Men who were stars in prep school and who weren’t quite good enough for the varsity, together with those who have never played football will make up the rosters of the fourteen teams.
Mr. John Scannell, head of the department of physical education, will furnish the referees, umpires, headlinesmen, and whatever other officials are needed. The officials will be physical education students who are well versed in the rules of the game. Last year this same department furnished the officials and the games were handled in a commendable manner.	'
Consists of Two Divisions
As in years past there will be two ' divisions in the football league. In Group I will be found Lyons, winner •of this group last year, Sophomore, Morrissey, Dillon, St. Edward’s, Badin, and Corby; while Howard, Brownson, Carroll, and Walsh, who won the championship last year, Off-Campus, Freshman, and Alumni will
fight it out for the Group II crown.
Games are to be played every Sunday morning and afternoon until the end of the season. It will be remembered that the attendance last year at the championship fray included the student body almost in its entirety and 1,000 or more football fans from South Bend.
Opening Tilt Sunday
Sunday brings together some teams which should show plenty of action for starting games. In Group I, two sophomore teams, Lyons and St. Edward’s, tangle at 9:00 o’clock on Minims field, in back of Sophomore hall. Morrissey and Badin oppose each other on Brownson field at the same time, and on Cartier field No. 1 will be Sophomore and Corby.
Howard plays Walsh in the only morning game in Group II, on Cartier field No. 2. Brownson meets Off-Campus on Cartier No. 1 at 2:30, and Carroll, at the same time, meets Freshman on Brownson field. Dillon in Group I and Alumni in Group II drew byes.
Busy Year Planned
John Fredericks, interhall head, said after} that of last year with lightweight and heavyweight divisions. There will be two preliminary meets and one big ceptions. That means there will be basketball, track, handball, swimming, and squash, in the indoor season. Baseball and golf will make up the program for the closing part of the school year. There is a possibility that there will be a cross country meet this fall. Track Coach John Nicholson is quite anxious to hold one in hopes that he will find some good cross country material.
The basketball league will be copied after last year with lightweight and heavyweight divisions. . There will be two preliminary meets and one big final event in both track and swimming. Class numerals will be given to those who equal the required times in track and swimming. The golf season will find two groups, the winners fighting it out for the title. Baseball will be conducted in the same -manner.	.
Jaskwich Kicks A La Carideo In
Charity Game
Jaskwich Kicks A La Carideo In Charity Game
By James McFeely Jr.
Jaskwich’s punt in last Saturday’s game traveled 75 yards through the air with a splendid spiral motion. Hope he can get such distance often in the approaching season. Paul Host looks like a sure bet if he can get his hands on many of those passes.
The reserves were over-anxious, continually over the line in their hurry to get to the varsity ball carrier. The chap in the center with the Sharkey-like movement seemed all set to clout someone.
Again Will Rogers’ counterpart ■ served as an official. The referee ' seemed to get more action than did most of the players. “Listless” is the word which may be used to describe the meanderings of the green clad varsity.
The public address system seemed a bit gulpy throughout the afternoon. The announcer hit the peak when he announced: “Mike Koken kicked out of bounds.” .
Indiana, under a new and optimistic football coach, is all set to hang the second scalp on the belt next Saturday afternoon. They won last Saturday from Ohio university, and the latter hadn’t been beaten in 19 games. How many games have we won in a row? Well, we’re-going to play Indiana this week.
Jack Elder, down from Chicago for the practice last Saturday, was recalling the day when he pitched his last high school game as the star twirler . for Lebanon high way down in Kentucky. Pitted against him was none other than Derringer, one of the mainstays on the St. Louis Cardinals when they won the National league, flag again this season. Jack’s team won, 10 to 0, but they didn’t hit the Cardinal star because he was . too wild .'. . and walked.too many.
October 2, 1931	Twenty-five
Fierce Line Play Has Its
Thrills—And Plenty Too
Down on the chalk-marked field two elevens face each other. There comes to our ears the sharp staccato peal of the quarterback’s voice as he barks out the signal. The lines charge on the snap of the ball. Sounds of thudding bodies waft up to the ears of the thousands of spectators. Into the huge pile of massed players plunges the fullback. The referee dives into the pile, the mass of humanity disentangles, and the twenty-two men walk to their places and line up.
As the spectator sits in his or her seat, wrapped in a blanket and munching some peanuts, little does he or she realize what courses through the minds of the defensive linemen as they are lined up waiting for their opponent’s play to develop.
Let us, for a moment, place ourselves in the place of an end, a tackle, a guard, or a center. In front of us is lined up the opposing team. We hear the clarion voice of the offensive quarterback. It rings in our ears.
We try to catch a familiar number— trying, perhaps by chance, to catch a number repeated that had been a successful end run some plays before. Our attentiveness goes for naught.
We edge closer to the neutral zone— the No Man’s Land of Football—a distance from end to end of the ball. We behold the opposing backfield shifting to our right. We widen in order to put the opponent at greater disadvantage. We try to catch a man “pointing”—indicating where the play is going. We watch his eyes and his feet for that “give-away.”
Our nerves are tense. We wait for the ball to snap. We won’t allow the offensive lineman to gain an advantage by getting to our bodies with a snappier charge. Suddenly the ball snaps back. Straight into the line we charge. We feel the shock of bodies against ours as the opposing linemen seek to get contact against us. We brush them aside and continue our course straight into the offensive backfield.
Our limbs are free for the moment. We behold the left halfback starting wide, as if he were going on an end run. We let him go for the end to pick up. The fullback strides close behind his heels. -	.
Our vision catches the right halfback with the ball in his arms. He follows closely behind his well-formed interference. From the corner of our eye we see the offensive guard pull out from his position in the line. He runs low, his dangling arms almost touching the ground.
Close by his side runs the quarterback. He, too, runs low as if seeking all the advantage in pitting his smaller body against that of the bigger tackle. Two bodies crash into ours. The impact is too great. We cannot stand up under the combined thrust.
We try to recover by throwing ourselves into the interference. Luckily our bodies pile up the interference. It gives the defensive guard a chance to get at the ball-carrier. We hear the impact of his body and the disappointing grunt of the halfback as he is brought to the ground.
The referee jumps into the scattered pile and grabs the ball. The players jump, line up, and wait for the next play.
Better Vision and More Comfort Thru Better Glasses
“All Sizes, AD Colors and All Styles”
High Quality Corduroys $2.85
Glasses
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
LEMONTREE
Optometrists
222% So. Mich. St.	102 W. Wash. St.
Old established Optometrists who merit your confidence.
Field Shoes
for
Cinder Path
GIL-BRO’S
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately
Formerly U. S. Army Store 330 South Michigan Street
Twenty-six
October 2, 1931
GOLFERS PREPARING FOR BURKE TROPHY
All Students Eligible To Participate In Competition.
If perchance you noticed during the past week that the golf course was unusually crowded, then for your information let us state that the majority of these golfers were trying to shoot the course in the required 90, so that they might be able to compete in the tournament for the William J. Burke trophy.
This tournament is held every year and is open to all students of the University. The dates set for this year’s contest have been officially announced as October 4 and 13. On Sunday, October 4, the contestants will play 36 holes at medal play. The final 36 holes will be completed on
October 13, Founders’ day.	.
The rules governing the contest are few and easily understood. They follow :
1)	All students of the University
are eligible to enter this competition.
2)	Each contestant must deposit at the club house a qualifying score of 90 or lower for the 18 holes before 6:00 p. m. Friday, October 2.
3)	There will be no entry fee for this tournament.
4)	The rules of play will be the course regulations as found on the back of the score card.
Besides being awarded the Willliam J. Burke trophy the winner will also receive certain golf clubs now on display in the club house. In a sense this may be considered as the first call for candidates for the varsity golf team, as the spring rating of the squad will be determined by the finishing of the eligible candidates.
ANDERSON AND CHEVIGNY PICK RESERVE SQUAD FOR OPENING TILT
While the varsity team is playing in Bloomington, Indiana tomorrow in their annual fray, the reserves will battle Indiana “B” team at the stadium.
From among the reserves forty
men were chosen to comprise the squad which is to represent Notre Dame here at home. It is expected that many of the students will be in attendance at the stadium. Coach Chevigny announced the members of the squad today:
Left ends: Beirne, Bolger, McCarthy.
Left tackles: Leding, Collins, Kiel-tyka.
Left guards: Chapman, Whelan, Weidner.
Centers: Robinson, Halpin, Ryan, Witucki.
Right guards: Kavanaugh, Lynch, Mueller, Steinberg.
Right tackles: Cousino, Flynn, Kennedy.
Right ends: Franklin, Reuland, Rohrs.
Quarterbacks: Dixon, McCabe, Streb, Dehooghe, Curry.
Left halfbacks: Acers, Schumacher, Levins, Fischer.
Right halfbacks: Dilling, Johnson, Tobin, McKeever.
Fullbacks: Blake, Bosco, Nicholas, Coyne.
MAGAZINES	PAPERS
UNIVERSITY CAFETERIA
and
SODA GRILL
DAILY SPECIALS
Open 6:30 a. m. to 9:40 p. m.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
Hello Men!
Smith’s Cafeteria /11 E. Jefferson Blvd.
Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry
October 2, 1931
Tiventy-seven
FOOTBALL SEASON OPENS
(Continued from Page 5)
time might be used in preparing a defense for the new modified Warner system that E. C. Hayes, Pat Page’s successor, has introduced at the down-state school.
The much-touted Notre Dame line will meet with some stiff opposition from such men as Rascher and Mc
INDIANA CABS Thirty-five cents from down town to the University
We realize that the above is a fair charge—fair to both student and ourselves, yet we had to fight to maintain it.
In return we believe the students appreciate our stand and that we deserve their cooperation.
And re; i ember—
“Every Cab Insured"
INDIANA CABS
Green—Trimmed in Cream
Donald, Angelmeyer and Zeller at the guard and tackle posts. .The entire opposing line is reported as fast and big. Coach Anderson’s’ line should be able to handle its share, however.
Prospects for a balanced backfield aren’t quite so bright. Nick Lukats, injured a fortnight back, is still off duty. The quarterback post has been the scene of a hard fight; the first two men should be in shape. The half-backs are settled. Schwartz, Koken, Sheeketski, Cronin, Bran-
N, D. RECORD POINTS TO VICTORY
A glimpse at the record books show Notre Dame to be far ahead of her downstate rivals in games won. Close scores indicate the rivalry between the teams.
Year	Notre Dame Indiana
1893 _____________5	11
1899 ____________17	0
1900 _____________0	6
1901_____________18	5
1902 11	5
1905 _____________5	22
1906 _______L____0	12
1907 _____________0	0
1908 ____________11	0
1919_____________16	3
1920 ____________13	10
1921_____________28	7
1922 ____________27	0
1926 ____________26	0
1927 ____________19	6
1929 ____________14	0
1930 ____________27	0
cheau, and Laborne are a fine sextet to choose from. Banas is slated for the job at full. The problem now is to find a combination that will click.
Both sides will have much at stake in the game. Indiana is fighting with new enthusiasm to regain a place in the gridiron spotlight. They are straining to take advantage of this greatest opportunity against Notre Dame in the last twelve years. Notre Dame too, wants this victory. Backed by nineteen straight wins, two na-_ tional championships, and the spirit of Rockne, a flying start would be a great help in the ‘.‘carry on” campaign.
Coaches Anderson and Chevigny and the rest of their staff will leave South Bend at 8:30 tomorrow morning. They are scheduled to arrive with their squad of thirty-six in Bloomington at 1:00 p. m. Immediately after the game a special train will take the Notre Dame gridders to Chicago where they will stay over night. The return to Notre Dame will be made Sunday.
Be a Newspaper Correspondent
Any intelligent person may earn money corresponding for newspapers; all or spare time; experience unnecessary; no canvassing; send for particulars. Hea-cock, 548 Dun Building, Buffalo, N. Y.
Twenty-eight
October 2, 1931
Splinters From The Press Box
By Edmund L. Moriarty
It seems that the boys are going to be saving their clippings this year, and display them to their opponents in an effort to awe them into submission. One would certainly be led to believe this if last Saturday’s game is any criterion of what is to follow. Seldom has a Notre Dame team shown a more lackadaisical spirit, completely lacking in gusto, and playing in a most slip-shod manner.
TO FILL IT
YOU WIND IT
Th* None u filled or cMpticd ty merely turning ths knurled end of the barrel —like yo* wind • watch. Leakproof. Smooth, easy action.
\\ SYMETRIK
Th* new Conklin line Is eamzingly modern. New shapes. New color beauty. Pena $2.75 to SB; pencils $1 to $4.50.
JuST stick the Nozac’s nose into the ink bottle, twist its tail and the “pen that winds like a watch" is loaded with more words than man ever before wrote with a fountain pen. There is no rubber sac in the Nozac. Thus the ink capacity is 35% more than other pens of the same size. Visible ink section or all-opaque barrel as desired. With the visible ink Nozac you can always tell at a glance when it's time to replenish the chirographic juice. Step into your most up-to-date supply store and see this ultra-modern writing machine. It doesn't cost much—$6 and $10 for the pens—two thrilling models. Pencils to match $3.50 and $5.00.
THE CONKLIN PEN COMPANY
TOLEDO, OHO Chicago	San Francisco
DEALERS, stock and show the pens that sdL Write for catalog.
UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANT££D
Saturday’s exhibition narrowly approached a burlesque, and were it not for the individual efforts of some few men, it would have reached that stage. Stars of last year seemed to be playing on their reputations.
Notre Dame should win rather handily, but the game will provide a real test, and will prove to all whether or not the famous Notre Dame spirit is still existent.
Perhaps the poor showing in Saturday’s game may be attributed to the fact that it was a practice game and that nothing important hinged on the outcome. Perhaps the real thing will crop out at Bloomington tomorrow, and the old time fierceness and aggressiveness will again characterize Notre Dame play. We hope so.
OUR CONFERENCE FRIENDS
Northwestern, Michigan and Purdue look to be the outstanding contenders for the Big Ten flag this year. All have veteran teams with the admixture of fine “frosh” material. The regrettable thing about the whole situation is that neither of these teams play each other. What a race it would be if they did!
GUESSER’S CLUB
The season is open once more to the would-be forecasters of results, and as we are joining the band for the first time, please be considerate, and bear in mind that it was all meant in good clean fun.
Notre Dame is a cinch to win at Bloomington. In the Big Ten, Michigan, Illinois, Purdue and Wisconsin should all run up large scores against their opponents, while Minnesota should also have an easy time with the Oklahoma Aggies. Northwestern will engage a Tartar in Nebraska but will win handily. Iowa is in for a beating from Pittsburgh, as the lads from the “Smoky City” have a fine club this year.
OTHER GUESSES
NOTRE DAME 20, INDIANA 0 Illinois 24, St. Louis 0 -Pittsburgh 20, Iowa 0	*
Michigan 44, Mt. Pleasant Teachers 0 Michigan 25, Ypsilanti Normal 0 Minnesota 13, Oklahoma Aggies 6 Northwestern 19, Nebraska 7 Ohio State 27, Cincinnati 0 Purdue 35, Coe 6 Purdue 24, Western,Reserve 0 Wisconsin 34, Bradley 0
' Alabama 45, Mississippi 0 St. Marys 14, California 6 Carnegie Tech 20, W. and J. 0 Detroit 24, Kalamazoo 13 Drake 46, Simpson 13 Army 55, Knox 0, Georgetown 7, Western Maryland 0 Georgia Tech 25, South Carolina 0 Harvard 27, Bates 14 Michigan State 60, Cornell 0 Navy 20, William and Mary 0 Southern California 26, Oregon State 6 Pennsylvania 37, Swarthmore 0 Princeton 17, Amherst 0
Yale 42, Maine 0
October 2, 1931
Ttventy-nine
“B” TEAM HAS 6 GAMES ON TOUGH SCHEDULE
Game With Indiana Reserves Saturday to Open Season.
With an active campaign planned for this year’s “B” team, the coaches and squad look forward to a fair season. Games will be held in various parts of the country and the schedule will be nearly as extensive as that of the varsity.
They will open the season with the Indiana university “B” team the same afternoon that the varsities clash at Bloomington. With the Hoosier varsity being rated as unusually strong this year, the “B” team should afford plenty of opposition.
October 17th will find the “Hamburgers” cavorting on three foreign grids, dividing their attentions between the varsity elevens of Ypsilanti and Kalamazoo and the Reserves from Northwestern.
An intersectional game with the University of Buffalo varsity will provide the opposition on November 7. Buffalo, on its past performances, may be regarded as a test of the ability of the Reserves. A return engagement with the Northwestern “B” team will be played on November 14th.
The “B” team which has graduated many men to the varsity looks forward to a fair season this autumn. Their usefulness is augmented by the
INTERHALL FOOTBALL
Group 1
Lyons vs. St. Edward’s at Minims field, 9:00 a. m.
Morirssey vs. Badin at Brownson field, 9:00 a. m.
Sophomore vs. Corby at Car-tier field No. 1, 9:00 a. m.
Dillon, bye.
Group 2
Howard vs. Walsh at Cartier field No. 2, 9:00 a. m.
Brownson vs. Off-Campus, at Cartier field No. 1, 2:30 p. m.
Carroll vs. Freshman at Brownson field, 2:30 p. m.
Alumni, bye.
All postponed games must be played on Tuesday following the day scheduled, at 4:00 p. m.
fact that they drilled in the tactics of the teams which the regulars must face during the season and give the varsity the first taste of the opponent’s formations.
HARRIERS IN TRAINING
Nicholson Changes Mind About Season’s Prospects.
Twenty of Coach Nicholson’s crosscountry men are gradually beating themselves into condition, hoping to emerge successfully as they tackle one of the team’s most difficult schedules. Early morning jogs about the two lakes and late afternoon journeys through the few hills in this region have hardened and limbered the stiffness from the ‘long distance”
CLICQUOT has it!
IT’S that smoother, richer mellower flavor that makes Clicquot Club the fair-haired favorite of many a campus party. It blends well with any company because it is a perfect blend itself.
thatEXTRAsometning ..
Clicquot Club GINGER ALES - golden - dec Qkree favorite flavors on any Campus
muscles. The real training has now begun.
“It’s rather early to make any safe predictions,” said Coach Nicholson, “but judging from the fine running of Alex Wilson and Gene Howery we ought to have a fairly successful season.”
Ewing, King, Bowers and Young have also taken the lead in the daily workouts, and give promise of representing the Irish this fall. Howery is at his best at the three mile and four mile distances and ranks with the nation’s leaders.
The season opens October 17, at Evanston, with a tough assignment— a quadrangular meet with Northwestern, Wisconsin, and Illinois. This meet ought to be one of the classics of the fall since it brings together the best talent the middle west can offer.
Thirty
October 2, 1931
NOWREADY!
Limited, DeLuxe Edition Autobiography of
Knute K. Rockne
Every Notre Dame man should have this most intimate and personal remembrance of Knute Rockne—the story cf his eventful life from his own picturesque and vigorous pen.
Across these pages flash again those heroes of the gridiron, who under the leadership of their coach, riveted the eyes of a nation on Notre Dame. A fascinating narrative of 49,000 words by Rockne—with additional chapters by Mrs. Rockne and the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Profusely illustrated, with much exclusive ma-eterial, handsomely bound in blue and gold, with jacket and slip cover box—a truly deluxe volume. Edition strictly limited to 2,400 numbered copies. Published and distributed exclusively by The Book Shop. To avoid disappointment, order your copy noio.
THE BOOK SHOP
130 No. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
THE BOOK SHOP,
130 No. Michigan St.. South Bend, Ind.
Gentlemen:
Kindly reserve for me...........copies, numbered and
autographed, of the Limited DeLuxe Edition of the Autobiography of Knute Kenneth Rockne, at $5.00 the copy.
Name ......................................
A Street—
Your Street—
Any Street!
SCENE”
A United Artist masterpiece with
Estelle Taylor
Sylvia Sidney
Birth, life, drama, death racing around the clock of fate! Time that ticks its way to tragedy!
William Collier, Jr.

KING VIDOR’S
Production of
“STREET
Starting Saturday
Thru Tuesday
Address ....................................................
City .......................................................
(If you live outside of South Bend, the book will be sent postage prepaid. You may pay the postman on delivery of the book ( ) ; or remit by check or money order with this coupon ( ).
COLFAX
October 2, 1931
Thirty-one
Enter ‘Scholastic* Net Tourney
(Continued from Page 22)
ing to the rules set forth by the United States Lawn Tennis Association.
Pairings for later round matches, and starting times, will be announced through bulletins which will appear at vantage points about the campus, and on the Off-Campus bulletin board.
There are a few names that have been included in the pairings, that have not as yet paid their entry fee. This matter must be attended to before the match can be played, or the defunct entrant will be disqualified. The fee should be paid to the Scholastic man in charge at the courts.
FIRST ROUND PAIRING AND STARTING TIMES
Dick Reeves vs. Leslie Jandoli (Coquillard, 1:00) ; Donald Brice vs. Arnold Hackenbruck (Coquillard, 1:00) ; Bob Tibb vs. Ed. Powers (Coquillard, 2:00) ; Bud Mueller vs. M. Puter-baugh (Coquillard, 2:00) ; Bob Shank vs. William Daviscourt (Coquillard, 3:00) ; William Hils vs. Louis Chreist (Coquillard. 3:00) : George Como vs. John Clancy (Coquillard. 4:00) ; Joseph Askew vs. Bob Flick (Coquillard, 4:00).
Seton Staley vs. Dick Kelley (Howard, 1:00) ; Tony Anzlovar vs. Maurice Olsen (Howard, 1:00) ; Lawrence Smith vs. Tom Duffy (Howard, 2:00) ; John Matousek vs. Jackson Gandour (Howard. 2:00) ; Frank Fallon vs. Tom Strick (Howard, 3:00) ; Carl Link vs. Ed. Bahan (Howard, 3:00) ; Ed. Seward vs. Tom Meade (Howard, 4:00) ; John Cummings vs. John O’Henlon (Howard. 4:00).
Carl Meyer vs. John Honingei- (Leeper,
A2
1:00) ; Norbert Hart vs. Bill Bernbrock (Leeper, 1:00) ; Joe Hoffman vs. Don Rutherford (Leeper, 2:00) ; Art Cline vs. Homer Bandy (Leeper, 2:00) ; Al Albo vs. Tom Connor (Leeper, 3:00) ; Bill Slater vs. J. Ducey (Leeper, 3:00) ; Robert Forbes vs. George Shields (Leeper, 4:00) ; Leo O’Neil vs. Leslie Perks (Leeper, 4:00).
Charles Nunneman vs. J. H. Argus (Co-
quillard, 1:00) : Bill Schraeder vs. William Farerll (Coquillard, 3:00) : Bob Fulton vs. Ed. Dolan (Howard. 1:00) ; John Gill vs. Robert Halpin (Howard. 1:00) ; Robert Hartman vs. James Carrico (Coquillard. 2:00) : Tom Dailey vs. John Clark (Coquillard, 2:00) ; Frank Bringardner vs. Dick Waffle (Howard. Sunday, 1:00) ; Ed. Melchione vs. Frank Shapero (Howard, 1:00).
Recommended by the English Department o UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
WEBSTER’S COLLEGIATE
The Best Abridged Dictionary because it is based upon
Webster’s New International-
The “Supreme Authority.” Here is a ’ companion for your hours of reading and study that will prove its real value every . time you consult it. A wealth of ready L information on words, persons, places, is I instantly yours. 106,000 words and n phrases with definitions, etymologies, pronunciations, and use in its 1,256 pages. 1,700 illustrations. Includes dictionaries of biography and geography and other features.
3ee It At Your College Bookstore or Write for Information to the publishers. Free HK1 specimen pages if you name this paper. J Efift G. & C. Merriam Co.	J a
HR Springfield, Mass.
SUN.—MON.—TUES.—WED.
ANN HARDING
with LESLIE HOWARD in
DEVOTION”
RKO PATHE PICTURE
Devotion was all the law would allow her to give him . . . Love was out of the question!
Today Through Saturday “SMART WOMAN” Edward Everett Horton Robert Ames - Mary Astor
RESERVED SEATS NOW ON! WORLD PREMIER “Spirit of Notre Dame” 50% OF RECEIPTS TO ROCKNE MEMORIAL FUND
8:00 P. M. NEXT WEDNESDAY, OCT. 7
R. K.O. PALACE
Thirty-two
\/ October 2, 1931
We know why men smoke PIPES
WOMEN don’t smoke pipes.
They’re not the style for women. But pipes are the style for men,
and more than that, a pipe and good tobacco gives a man greater smoking pleasure than tobacco in any other form.
In 42 out of 54 American colleges and universities
A pipe is not for girls
Edgeworth is the favorite pipe tobacco. Cool slow-burning hurleys give this fine tobacco exactly the character
A pipe is a real man’s smoke
to Larus & Bro. (
Richmond, Va., a
that college men like best of all.
Try a tin of Edgeworth yourself! Youcanbuy Edgeworth wherever good tobacco is sold. Or if you prefer, you can get a special sample packet free: write >., 105 S. 22d St., d ask for it.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old burieys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive	__
and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —Edgeworth ReadyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes, 154 pocket package to ^1.50
On Down the Line
. . . Each of the Big Three has a ■ pretty fair halfback with which to start the season . . . there’s ALBIE BOOTH at Yale . . . BARRY WOOD at Harvard . . . and a lad named JACK JAMES at Princeton who is likely to do better than either of these other men if given half a chance . . . JAMES can “run with a ball” as JIM THORPE used to say . . . YALE started out with 87 men, Princeton with 85 and Harvard with 80 . . . Yale looks very tough . . . We wonder what BENNY FRIEDMAN could do with that throwing arm of BARRY WOOD . . .
. Alabama used the Notre Dame style of play for the first time Saturday and defeated Howard College, 42 to 6 . . . The father of BEN CHAPMAN, Yankee base stealing star, was also a professional player ... CHUCK BROSHOUS, former U. of Kansas flash, is now at West Point . . . RICHARD A. GLENDON, “OLD DICK” to thousands of crew racing enthusiasts, has resigned as head coach of the Navy oarsmen and passed from the sport he has been a leader of for thirty years ...
♦
. . . JIM MOONEY, the rookie pitcher from Bridgeport who won six straight games for the Giants recently, is a pretty chesty chap . . . wears his hat on the side of his head, and they don’t come too tough for him . . . last winter he taught school and, coached a girl’s basketball team . . . but when he made good with the Giants he wrote home and resigned both jobs . . . said he’d rather go hunting and fishing anyway ...
♦
. . . GEORGE LADY is the name of a 200-pound halfback who has enrolled at the U. of Southern California, and he has blond curls ... It requires 13 officials to regulate a championship tennis match . . . The Georgetown squad took its early conditioning at Rehoboth Beach, Del. . . . COLRICK and LEAHY, former Notre Dame men helped to condition the boys ...
Optometrists	Opticians
ROGERS
Dr. E. S. Cain Dr. H. H. Rogers
212 South Michigan Street
0. A. Clark Restaurant 104-106 N. Michigan St.
V ’
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House
V
Catering to NotreDameMen for over thirty years t .
V
For a real man’s meal drop in any time
V
We Have No Key
Vresto. Change /
and this Pocket Pen becomes a Tapered Desk Pen all you need is tins attachable taper
GIVEN FREE
with every Parker Duofold Pen Purchased before Nov. t6tl.
Saves you i 5 to $ IO
The Parker Duofold is like two pens for the price of one. Attaching a tapered pen-end converts this Pocket Pen into a Desk Set Pen—removing the taper restores it to a Pocket Pen.
Thus, ifyou getaParker PocketPen, all you need to have a complete Desk Set is a Parker ball-and-socket Desk Base to hold the Pen, at $2.50 and upward. You need not buy a special desk pen. Thus Parker Duofold’s doubleduty feature saves you $5 to $10.
Ttventy-five thousand Parker dealers throughout the United States are now demonstrating this, and giving away five hundred thousand pen tapers, so that Parker Pen buyers can have two pens in one. This gift offer ends Nov. 15—sooner if all free tapers are gone.
But until that time, every purchaser of a Parker Duofold Pen will receive a pen taper free, whether he buys a Desk Baseornot! There’s a Parker dealer near your college. Stop in and see this demonstration before this offer expires.
Special to Parker Pen Owners: Dealers will also give you the Taper FREE, so you can convert the pen you have, if you get a Parker Desk Base. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wis.
"RirLer Siuofold PEN GUARANTEED FOR LIFE v «5 * $7 v
Other Parker Pens, $2.75 to $3.50; Pencils to match them all, $2 to $5
Desk Base—without pen—but including taper, $2.50 and up
An eminent scientist writes the head chemist in our Research Department:
“Chesterfield Cigarettes are just as pure as the water you drink
LIBRARY, NOTRE DAME, IND
HE WATER YOU DRINK is tested from time to time by expert chemists to make sure that it is free from all injurious substances—that it is pure.
■ So it is in the manufacture of Chesterfield cigarettes. Expert chemists test all the materials that are used in any way in Chesterfield's manufacture, to make sure that everything that goes into Chesterfield is just right
THE LEAF TOBACCO IS PURE. Long steel ovens—drying machines of the most modem type—scientifically “dry” and clean and purify the natural tobacco leaves by exact high-temperature treatment
Then the shreds of cut tobacco, as you see theminyour Chesterfield,are againheated, cleaned and purified. From these pure tobaccos the cigarettes are made, and only the . purest paper—the best that can be made—is used for Chesterfield.
Cigarettes used to be made in an old-fashioned way, by hand. Now, no hand but yours touches Chesterfield—another purity safeguard.
Chesterfields are made and packed in clean, sanitary factories where even the air is changed every four and one-half minutes— . purity again.
ALL THIS CARE is taken to give you Chesterfields as nearly perfectascigarettes can be made. Delivered in a moisture-proof, sealed package, they reach you just as good,	*
just as pure as when they leave die factory. . Good... they’ve got to be good—they’re just as pure as the water you drink!


