lotre Dame Scholastic.
DIsce quasi semper vlctTirus; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XV.	' NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 18,1882.	Number 23.
To Ralph Waldo Emerson.
BY ROBERT U. JOHNSON.
(A recent number of the “Century Magazine” contained the following Spirited poem from the pen of the associate editor. Although we do not share our friend's admiration for the Sage of Concord, we admire his tribute to him:)	,
Poet of every soul that grieves
O’er death untimely; -whose high plaint -Lights up the farthest Dark, and leaves
A bow across the heavens bent.
Dead in an upper room doth lie A nation’s darling; can it be Thy ear too faintly hears the cry The West wind utters to the sea ?
Thy Concord prnan may have caught
Glow from that elder Garfield’s name:
What fitter aureole could be sought
For such a son than such a flame! •
Bard of the Human: since we yearn For that one manly heart in vain, Forgive the reverent eyes that turn Toward the low stream in Concord plain.
Warned by the favoring touch of Death, Thy Nunc Dimittis thou hast sung;
No more the thunder’s stormy breath Shall sweep the lyre with lightnings strung.
And yet, for him, remains—unsigned, Unspoken—all thy noble praise,
When (port more worth the cruise!) thou find His sail beyond the final haze.
But us ?......0 Seer, to whose gift
•	Looms large the Future’s better part,
What other prophet voice shall lift
This burden from the people’s heart ?
Free Trade vs. Protection.
Rejoinder on the Affirmative.
BY WILLIAM H. ARNOLD.
I shall not complain that my misguided friend in his elaborate refutation (?) of my free-trade theories has purposely misquoted and deduced improper conclusions from my arguments—that he wilfully ignored numerous incou-trovertible arguments with which my theory is supported, the cause being too patent for one, even of his seeming narrow “ comprehension,” not to understand. There is a little proverb which I remember to have heard in bygone days which says “ people who live in glass houses should not throw stones.” It occurred to me that possibly my friend had lost sight of this little precept of common sense, while he so readily charges that my arguments are but assertions and inventions of my own imagination. He ac
cuses me of dealing more with assertions than facts. I, not forgetting the before mentioned proverb, deem it unnecessary even for the benefit of the most ignorant to return his compliment. He kindly reduces my arguments to five headings and with equal kindness to himself carefully excludes thrice that number equally as important, but, which, by reason of their being unimpeachable he considers it wiser to ignore than to attempt to answer, and I agree with him perfectly there. He objects to the numerous counts in my indictment against Protection when, in his opinion, if the unprogressive result of protection could be proven it would be sufficient. I heartily admit that any one of the numer- -ous charges against his pet theory, with its co-injustices of the barbarous ages, would sufflce to consign it to oblivion.
“PROTECTION” IS UNPROGRESSIVE.
Perhaps Mr. Orrick’s difficulty lies in comprehending the meaning of the word unprogressive as I used it—if so, will he kindly let me dispel the clouds of darkness from his understanding? Unprogressive, in the sense in which I use it, means that which is the opposite of progressive. A measure is progressive which aims at perfection—not perfection in the narrow sense of the word, but in its broad religious sense. Anything is progressive which aims at truth, at justice, at brotherly charity—I consider that measure unprogressive which robs Peter to enrich Paul, which is based on false premises to attain a desired conclusion, such a one which by fallacious argument and sophistry says a man is better off who gets $2 a day and has to pay half of it for his board, than he who gets $1.50 a day and pays 50 cents for the same board. That measure which creates false and fictitious values is unprogressive so far as truth and j ustice are concerned. That measure is unprogressive which tells England, France or Germany that they shall not trade their merchandise here unless they pay a stipend for the benefit of our own manufacturers of the same kind. That measure is unprogressive which limits and prevents the interchange of the productions of nations and climes, and this is the object of protective tariff or else it conld afford no “ protection.” That measure is unprogressive which strives to defeat the ways of Providence, for as many ' things which are necessary for our welfare and temporal happiness are obtained, grow, and can be produced only in certain regions, it is evidently the will of Providence that the navigable waters should be used for the interchange of these conditions, and “protective” tariff, by keeping out, creating a scarcity, or raising prices, certainly erects a Chinese wall—high in proportion to restrictions—to exclude our citizens from the enjoyment of those blessings with which the God of nature desires we should be blessed. That measure is unprogressive which subjects the freeman to the thrall of slavery, for as the master restrains the slave from a large portion of the fruits of his toil, so protective tariff denies the free citizen the right to employ the product of his labor for his own advantage— prevents his trading with a citizen of another country, and also compels him to pay to the American manufacturer an immense bounty, equal, in each case, to excess in cost of a home-made article over the foreign without the duty, for which bounty there is no compensation ' made to the consumer. That measure is. unprogressive which obstructs commerce—for commerce is the principal means of keeping us posted in regard to the discoveries, inventions, etc., hence the progress, of other parts of the world; and I may add that since plainly there could be no civilization if there was no freedom of commercial ex
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
change, that country in which exchange is freest civilization should be farthest advanced, and moreover in that land in which there is least freedom of exchange civilization should have made the minimum of progress. That measure, finally, is unprogressive which, after taking its name from the pirates of Tariffa retains in a mitigated form their practices, since it takes without giving an equivalent in return, and with no authority save that of might and force:—which compels the honest citizen and the visiting foreigner to submit without redress to numerous acts of tyranny and rude insolence from rough customhouse officers; which compels all to submit to a category of interrogations and the suspension of personal liberty; which compels all who enter our country to pay a fine, in the shape of high duties on everything dutiable in excess of ten dollars’ worth of dutiable goods and wearing apparel not in actual use; which compels all to declare what foreign bought property they have with them, calls upon all to swear to their “declarations,” and prescribes that afterwards every parcel of baggage shall be rummaged through, that every person, however innocent, whether man or woman, who is suspected may be arrested, incarcerated, stripped naked, and searched; which permits the customhouse officer, if anything subject to duty is found concealed that the passenger should have “ declared ” to summarily convict the passenger of smuggling, to confiscate the discovered articles, and thus cause vexatious lawsuits. But the passenger asks, “ Is it possible that I am not allowed to spend abroad my earnings, the fruits of my whole life of hard labor, for those things I may desire, no matter how inferior the same home-made articles may be; no matter how much more costly than the foreign; no matter if we don’t produce the articles at any cost? ” “ Yes,” the protectionist answers, “you must buy everything at home; and if we don’t produce what you want, you must wait until we can.” Do you think, kind sirs, that the workings of our custom house under a protective tariff exhibit progress in the sense of what is just and right? Will you pot rather agree with me that our “ protective ” tariff system shows the very antithesis of progress, even at the very threshold of the “ land of the free,” where, if in any place, the rights of person and property should be sacred and inviolable.
EXPORTS AND IMPORTS DEPEND UPON EACH OTHER
Mr. Orrick rashly asserts, and thus proves to his own satisfaction, that imports and exports are not mutually dependent upon each other—that the amount of goods which one man buys does not depend upon the amount of money or goods he has with which to pay for them. Let us see how far the history of our own country will bear him out.
IMPORT AND EXPORT TRADE OF THE UNITED STATES.				
Year.	Imports	Exports	Excess of	Excess of
	in millions,	in millions.	Imports.	Exports.
1850	$178.1	$136.9	412	
1851	216.2	196.6	19.6	
1852	212.9	192.3	.	20.6	
1853	267.9	213.4	545	
1854	304.5	253.3	51.2	
1855	261.4	246.7	14.7	
1856	314.6	310.5	4.1	
1857	360.8	338.9	21.9	
1858	282.6	293.7		11.1
1859	338.7	335.8	2.9	
I860*	362.1	373.1		11.0
1870	462.3	420.5	41.8	
1871	541.4	512.8	28.6	
1872	640.3	501.2	139.1	
1873	663.6	578 9	84.7	
1874	595.8	629.1		23.3
1875	553.9	583.1		29.2
1876	476.6	575.6		99.0
1877	492.0	6328		140.8
1878	466.8	707.7		240.9
1879	466.0	•715.8		249.8
1880	760.9	841.5		80.6
* Although the decade from 1860 to ’70 fully Illustrates our theory, I omit it because on account of the unnatural condition of trade a consequence of the late war, some one might be unwilling to accept this decade as a criterion.
It will be observed in the above table, taken from the U. S. Treasury statistics as given in Spofford's American Almanac f for 1881, that every year up to 1874, the year succeeding the panic, in which the imports increased the exports increased, and every year in which the imports declined there is a noted decrease in exports. If space permitted I could produce the figures to show that there is not an instance in the history cf our country, trade being healthy, when the rise and fall of exports and imports was other than what I have stated, the rise of one necessitating the rise of the other.
It requires but common-sense reasoning to show that an exportation of goods must result in an importation of goods by way of exchange. The commerce of nations is not simply an exchange of goods for money. Money is but a means of exchange only good for what it will buy, and the man who lives in the North is richer in the possession of cotton from the South to supply him with clothes than in the possession of the purchase money without the cotton. Does true wealth consist in gold or what gold will buy ? Of what use is a mine of gold to a starving man without bread ? So with goods; is it not better to have a supply of all the necessaries of life than to have a surfeit of one ? And this wide dissemination of necessaries is what “protection” prevents, else,as I have shown, there would be no “ protection.”
Foreigners cannot always give money in exchange for our goods. If they cannot sell or exchange their goods for ours, how in the world can they buy our goods ? The figures below, from Spofford’s Almanac, show the domestic exports of 1879 to consist of $698,340,790 in merchandise and but $17,555,035 in coin and bullion. In return for this, what did we get? All money? Ohno! Why, all the United States’ currency in the country is not enough to pay for our importation during one year. The same book says the exports consisted of $445,777,775 in merchandise and but $20,296,000 in coin and bullion- Will not the schoolboy’s logic.draw the conclusion that, this being true,—and who will challenge the figures of the U. S. Treasury Department ?—the exportation of goods must depend upon the amount of goods imported in exchange.
But Mr. Orrick says that our exports have been “ every year increasing in much greater proportion than our imports.” If so, then it is enough to have ruined our country ; if facts could be made out as he thinks them to be, they would show us to have been paying annually a bounty to importers increasing “ in much greater proportion ” than the imported goods we have received. Happily, there are no official statistics in existence showing such a wonderful amount of expensive generosity on the part of our ciuntry and people. I have carefully examined the whole export and import history of our country, and I give you the result of my investigationsNow, in all the long period of 69 years, from 1790 to 1858 inclusive, there are but 7 instances of increase of exports over imports, and these are found only in years when our trade was in an abnormal condition, namely in 1813, the year after the beginning of our second war with Great Britain; 1840, commercial disasters following the breaking up of the United States Bank; 1843, the Dorr Rebellion, which threatened all the disasters of civil war; 1847, the year after the beginning of the Mexican War; 1858, Slavery agitation, which culminated in the war of '61. The only other cases of increase of exports over imports prior to 1874 are in 1860-’62, the year before and the year after the commencement of the greatest civil war the world ever saw. Now, since in all our history up to 1874, there are only seven cases—those which I have named—of the increase of exports over imports, and these cases are found in years when the country was convulsed by wars and commercial troubles, does not analogy and common sense justify the conclusion that the increase of exports over imports since 1874 resulted from the great panic of 1873 and its effect upon the entire commercial world ?
But, notwithstanding, our entire history will not warrant
t Mr. Spofford has been for years the Librarian of the Congressional Library, by far the largest in America, and there can be no doubt as to the genuineness of the statistics produced in the Almanac which he issues annually.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	345
the conclusion that an increase of exports over imports attend prosperity, but the contrary, that an increase of exports over imports have always followed the disastrous years; or, in other words, since it is plain that after each business crash, or other occurrence which has made our foreign customers fearful, we have paid an increased amount of exports for the same amount of imports—if, notwithstanding all these facts,—and what can be more convincing than facts?—should anyone ask me to tell him why it is that after the panic of 1873 our exports have been greater than imports, I would answer the question by putting a few suggestive queries: Did it ever occur to my questioning friend that foreigners, principally British, were largely the owners, not only of our immense national debt contracted during the war, but also a good part of our stock in railroads, telegraph lines, mines, and many of our other industries ? Did it ever occur to him that the payment of interest on our national debt, and the payment of interest and dividends to foreign owners of our industrial stock, would have a tendency at any time to increase exports over imports? Did it ever occur to him that one decennial decrease of our national debt by more than five hundred and eighty-two millions has had something to do with this increase of our exports over imports? Did it ever occur to him that since the financial panic of ’73,—and if space permitted I could show that this dreadful disaster was due entirely to the inflated nominal values caused by “ protection,”—foreigners, principally British, have become fearful of the solldity-of American ventures, and have been steadily withdrawing their capital from our country ? Did it ever occur to him that it is not possible for us to pay these debts in United States currency, as, according to the Treasury report for 1880, there were but $735 millions of United States currency outstanding, and, besides, this is scattered all over the world, and a large portion of it has been destroyed and converted by the jeweller into other objects; that we pay our foreign debts by sending into foreign countries such of our productions as can be sold there; that these productions are sold and converted into the currency of the foreign country; and that, finally, we pay our foreign debtors in their own currency? This is the working of the gigantic system of commerce and intercourse between nation and nation, between the citizen of the one and the citizen of the other. No doubt these facts and figures have produced great revolutions in the minds of our protectionists; however, I will not stop to exult in their conversion, but merely return thanks that so much good has been donefor the cause of free trade, which, I sincerely believe, will be for the benefit of cur country and the welfare of all the people.
ANOTHER COMMON SENSE BEASON WHY IMPORTS AND EXPORTS MUTUALLY DEPEND UPON EACH OTHER.
I proved conclusively in my last argument, by many examples, and, besides, we all know from our constant experience, that, no matter how high the duty on the foreign article may be, the manufacturer at home of the same will always put his goods up to almost the same price as the foreign goods, after the duty has been added. It is evident that this exorbitant price is not only -extorted from our home consumers, but must—at least for those articles the price of which the producer has power to regulate—be paid by foreigners if they would purchase our goods. But, of course, the same kind of goods can be procured very much cheaper in other countries,—where, loo, there will be less obstruction to trade,—so high tariff has the effect of preventing the exportation of our goods to foreign lands. Consequently, in the same proportion our imports will be limited; for they are, in fact, the price paid for our exported goods—and I will show further on that our exports have consisted principally of unprotected and natural productions—and certainly foreigners will not be so foolish as to pay us with importations for what they have not exported from our country.
In this connection, likewise, to correct our protectionist’s wrong impressions regarding imports and exports and the state of trade in Great Britain, I quote from the London Daily Telegraph the following summary of a portion of the speech of Sir John Lubbock, M. P., for London University, delivered before the Lewisham and Lee Liberal Club:
“ There was, he observed, something very attractive about It [the Fair Trade doctrine] as there was about everything which is fair, bnt he was afraid they would see, aa has been said, the cloven hoof of protection peeping out under the smooth frock of fair trade. Comparing our position in 1842— when we had protection—with 1880, under free trade, he thought from the figures there could be little doubt as to the advantages derived from the latter policy. The population in 1842 was 26,500,000 and was now 35,000,000, being an increase of 35 per cent. Incomes derived from lands, trades, and professions had increased from £250,000,000 to £582,000,000 or 130 per cent. If they took the savings banks deposits aa an indication of the property held by the working classes, they found in 1812 the amount was £24,000 000, and in 1880 £223,000,000— an increase of 350 per cent. He had now two cases of decrease. Paupers had decreased from 200,000, to 111,000, and criminals from 340 000 to 54,600. Then to compare our country to America,which enjoyed great advantages bnt had a protectionist policy, in 1840 the exports of domestic produce in America were £1 Ils. Id per head, and in the United Kingdom £1 18a-9d.—a few shillings difference. Last year the exports in the United States were £3 6s. Id., while in the United Kingdom they were £6 9s 5d. per head. Therefore our exports had increased enormously more than those of America. Our imports were £1118s. 7d, and those of the United States £213s. 3d. That conclusively showed how much we were indebted to the policy of free trade. [Cheers.] But their opponents made a most singular statement. They said: “When you talk about exports, that is just what we complain of. We don’t export enough. If we had fair trade we should export a great deal more.” But they did not export for the fun of the thing. They imported what they wanted, and what was exported was what they had to pay. It was rather an original notion that the more you have to pay for a thing the better you are off. Canning had written:
In matters of commerce the fault of the Dutch Was giving too little and asking too much.
The fair trader had reversed all that—they would have them give a great deal too much in what they export Would they apply the principle in private life ? Did they ever hear of anybody being any better off by giving a great deal more than necessary for what he wished to buy? On the contrary, the more they got in comparison with what they exported, the richer would they become; and it was our foreign investments and the proceeds of our carrying- trade which accounted for the difference between exports and imports.”
How great must be Great Britain’s income for doing the carrying trade of the world! What an immense amount the monied men of Great Britain must receive from their investments in India, Africa, the Suez canal, etc., in Australia, in Canada, in our own country, in railroads, mines, and other enterprises, in a word, all over the world,—and thus Great Britain becomes wealthier and wealthier under Free Trade.
In considering Mr. Orrick’s second point, I shall be brief, because it is, from the nature of his argument, not necessary to go very deep into it. He says: Compare England with the United States anent crowded cities, and retires from the comparison greatly relieved by the effect of his powerful demonstration. He fails, however, to note the fact that the greater part of agricultural England is owned by landlords very few in number and not at all disposed to sell, while in the United States vast tracts of fertile lands lie waiting for occupants. He says we should not think of comparing Great Britain with the United States as regards crowded cities. It may be well to examine the reason why. The area of Great Britain and Ireland is 121,230 square miles, and her population 31,-628,338—allowing to each square mile of territory 268 persons. The United States cover 3,603,884 square miles, and have 50,152,866 inhabitants, thus allowing a square mile of territory to every 14 people. Is it a wonder why England cannot be compared with the United States in the matter of crowded cities ?
Oh no, my friend; try again. Possess yourself of all the facts before making an assertion, and then state them fairly. We do not argue this matter for the sake of pastime, but from the force of sincere conviction. We had hoped to draw from our Protective friends an able reply to our arguments, and regret that we have been disappointed.
The dirt and poverty of England are not greater than in any other country; they are simply embraced in a smaller area, and as such perhaps more noticeable than ill the United States, where they are spread over a larger tef» ritory.
346
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
It iseasilyunderstood why the people of Great Britain engage in manufactories rather than in agricultural pursuits. Tn addition to the scarcity of land to cultivate, England, produces more cast or pig iron or steel than the United States. The mineral coal produced in England in 1879 from 11,900, square miles of coal-fields was 133,808,000 tons (2,240 lbs.), while the United States from 192,000 square miles of coal-beds produced only 59,808,398 tons. This shows that England’s resources are rather mineral than agricultural, a state of affairs certainly due to no preference of the inhabitants. But even aside from this, the average yield of wheat per acre in Great Britain alone in 1813, was 29.9 bushels, while in the United States the yield was but 13.5 bushels per acre—thus proving the industry of the people of Great Britain in that branch.
It is scarcely necessary that I should again show how “ protection ” tends to keep our cities crowded to the neglect of the soil, wherein lies our wealth, and this crowding of cities is to the great detriment of morals and promotion of crime. This fact was clearly proven in my last argument, and it is plain that Mr. Orrick was blind to the proofs because he desired to bring forward his giant argument, which I have just noticed. However, silence might be construed as weakness, and therefore I will again show, but this time briefly, and by proving a single proposition, that “ protection ” tends to crowd the cities.
My proposition is this, that “ protection ” discriminates against the farmer to enrich the manufacturer—or, more plainly, that
PROTECTION FOSTERS THE PROTECTED MANUFACTURER
WITH A BOUNTY EXTORTED FROM THE FARMER, who receives no compensation. The farmers are the majority of our people, and they are entirely unprotected; it is not possible to protect the farmer, for the price of his wheat is regulated by the world’s demand for wheat, and the consequent price of wheat given at Liverpool, the great wheat market of the world. An example will illustrate the farmer’s position. A harness-maker may pay $75 bounty for cloth to the cloth-maker, and the cloth-maker $75 bounty on harness to the harness-maker, but when the farmer wants cloth and harness he must pay $75 bounty to the harness-maker and $75 to the cloth-maker. The consequence is that although these two protected manufacturers are “ up-stakes ” as to each other, the farmer is out $150, and both harness-maker and cloth-maker have each gained $75 from the farmer. Now this example illustrates exactly the working of “ protection.” The farmer pays the bounties and gets nothing in return. His table is to be furnished, and he must pay 85 per cent, for his ricepudding, 53 to 70 per cent, for molasses and sugar; 103 per cent, for vinegar; for spices in a custard, from 52 to 142 per cent.; then, besides, his stove, meatllic utensils, dishes, salt cellars, knives, forks, nickel-plated spoons, table cloth and wooden table have been taxed,—and finally, the druggets on which the table stands has cost him 103 per cent. His family must have clothes, and the tax on calicoes and other cotton goods is 55 to 63 per cent., on spoolthread 76 per cent., on flannels from 64 to 95 per cent., on hosiery 55 to 85 per cent., on woolen goods from seventy to 120 per cent.; his children go to school, and he pays 56 per cent, on pens, 54 per cent, on pencils, a tax on slate because there are quarries in Vermont, a tax on books and paper on account of the monopoly of wood pulp. The farmer, returning sweaty and dusty from the harvest field, desires to cleanse himself, and there is a duty on soap, and 115 per cent, on starch ; he sends his grain to the mill to be ground, and the miller charges an extra toll because of the duty on bolting cloth, leather belting and metallic machinery. Some one gets sick, and medicines cost from 62 to 221 per cent.; the doctor must be paid a larger fee because he also lives under the tariff laws; should the sick one die, there is even a tax on the varnish and nails of the coffin, on the materials of the hearse which bears the corpse to the graveyard, and finally a tax on the pick and spade used to dig the grave. The farmer has a light, and the tax on oil is from 72 to 127 per cent.; this last tax and that on coal gas are the most consistent on the list, because “ protection ” cannot lite in the light,—it can only flourish in the darkness of ignorance. And so I might go on enumerating i ipdeflnitely the taxes which the farmer must pay on I
everything he uses, while he gets only the natural prices for his grain, hay, vegetables, poultry, cattle, etc. But to show the flagrant injustice of the protective system, let me add that while it makes the tax so enormous on all the necessaries of life I have just enumerated, the duty on the aristocrat’s diamonds is only 10 per cent., and 35 per cent, on laces for his lady. This is the principle which runs through the protective system. These burdensome taxes press so heavily upon the farmer that in case of failure of crops he is forced to sell his farm and take refuge in the city.
We scarcely comprehend how much more we have to pay as railroad fare, on account of the duty on steel and iron rails. It has been estimated that we pay every year, on account of this duty, on an average three thousand dollars per mile for each of the 84 million miles of track in the United States. These figures will not surprise us if we consider the facts in regard to steel rails. They cost in 1879 in England $24 per ton, $3 per ton for transportation ; the duty on steel rails was and is $28 per ton, and the price charged by our manufacturers $55 per ton for their steel rails. But how many steel-rail industries are there in the United States? There are eleven companies who make steel rails; these companies are united into an association whose object is to prevent competition. They boast a joint production of one million tons of steel rails annually. The bounty allowed on each ton is $28—hence we are taxed to the amount of 28 millions yearly for the benefit of eleven monoplies of steel rails.
But is even the U. S. Government benefited by this duty ? We shall see to what extent. Comparing the amount of duty received in 1879 at the custom-houses with the quantity of each-named commodity consumed in the United States, and the increase of price over the price before the duty was iifiposed, we find that for each dollar which the Government receives the manufacturer of steel rails gets a “ bounty ” of $192, the manufacturer of pig-iron a “ bounty ” of $26, the manufacturer of cotton goods $10, the manufacturer of woolens $5, and so we might continue on through the whole list of fifteen hundred articles.
But, says the protectionist, do you not see that under a “ protective tariff ” our national debt has been reduced since the war by almost eight hundred millions ? Yes, sir, we do; but do you not see that we pay far more than this amount every year for the support of these “protected” manufactories ? Why, the tax paid by our people to foster our manufactories is a larger amount than our taxes for the running of our local, State and National Governments together. But what benefit do we derive from the reduction of our national debt; what difference does it make to our people whether or no we have a national debt, if anyhow, a protectionist congress will force us to pay the same heavy taxes —the same high prices, in consequence of duties, which we have been paying all along for the sake of wiping out the national debt?
But, sirs, the unprotected voters number more than six millions, the protected voters are not two millions, and by the application of common mathematics to this problem it can be easily demonstrated that this state of things cannot last long. Let us consider well the above facts, and let us profit by the following advice so beautifully given by Henry Ward Beecher, the friend of the oppressed, in an eloquent free-trade speech before the Brooklyn Revenue Reform Club: “ Let not our courage fail. The odds against us seem greater than they are. But we have with us truth, and behind it the whole force of the Gospel of Christ. They are invincible who have the truth and whose patience and courage are worthy of the truth.” (conclusion next week.)
Art, Music, and Literature.
—Mr. Gladstone calls Cardinal Newman “ the most fascinating writer of this age.”
—The woiks of M. Vereschagin, a Russian painter, are the artistic sepsation of the hour in Paris.
—It is said that Reuben R. Springer, of Cincinnati, talks !> of endowing the College of Music with $1,000,000.
it P-Louis H. Frechette, the Canadian poet, is a robust and
4
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
347
vigorous man of thirty, with an intelligent and spirited face.
—In most of the larger towns of Germany art classes have been established for mechanics, and are largely attended.
—A volume of the unpublished letters of Mendelssohn has appeared in Paris. The translation is by A. A. Rolland.
—The selection of Gounod to compose the march which is to be played at Prince Leopold’s marriage is said to have caused great exasperation among the English composers.
—Mr. Frost Johnson’s new life-size portrait of Cardinal McCloskey reflects great credit on the artist, and is pronounced au excellent likeness. It will be placed on exhibition.
—Several of the novels of Fernan Caballero (Cecilia Bohn de Faber) have been translated into French and German, and some years since an excellent English version of “ Gaviota ” appeared. This was the author’s first composition. She died in 1877. It is said that Queen Isabella frequently visited her up to the day of her death.
—The publisher of The Monograph, favorably known as a maker of indexes for current periodical literature, has issued a convenient “ Manual of Misused Words,” which is not so large as to appear formidable, and yet is big enough and good enough to improve the English of those who use it.
—A well known antiquary has discovered in an Athenian monastery papyrus which is believed to be a MS. of the Iliad, written about the year 308 B. C. The writer was an Athenian named Theophrastus. Andronikus, the nephew of the last Byzantine Emperor, Constantine Pa-laeologus, took it with him to Mount Athos when he went there to end his days.
—The Royal Library of Brussels has recently made a valuable purchase in the shape of two proof portraits of Rubens,' engraved by P. Pontius under the guidance of the great master, and first published in 1680. These two proofs were pulled before Rubens so altered the plate as to completely change the appearance of the likeness. These engravings may be fairly considered as the truest portraits extant of the great Flemish painter.
—“ La Foi et ses Victoires,” is the title of a new work from the pen of M. L’abbe Baunard, the author of several popular books, among others, the “ Life of St. John the Apostle,” which has been translated into English. “ La Foi et ses Victoires,” recounts the conversions of Donoso Cortes, Count Sehouvaloff and General de Lamori-cifire. This work is especially valuable on account of the light it throws on questions of the present day. It is the first volume of a series.
—A new violin genius has suddenly appeared in Italy— a little girl, whose name is Tua. Her father, a very poor man, scraped a little money together to buy a violin for himself. When the little girl was 3 years old she taught herself, and played in such an incredible style on the violin that the father immediately undertook to produce her as a prodigy. When she was 7 she arrived in Paris. There she was brought to Massart, who was so struck with her precocious talent that he at once offered to take her into the Conservatoire. To this the father objected. But the sensation which the child created was such *that a subscription was opened to secure the parents’ existence during the time of her apprenticeship. She has now left the Conservatoire, a phenomenon.—N. Y. Sun.
—An early number of the Century Magazine will contain as a frontispiece the Ouless portrait of His Eminence Cardinal Newman, said to be the best likeness extant. It is now being engraved by Cole, after the etching of the French artist Paul Rajon. Mr. C. Kegan Paul, the well-known London publisher, will contribute an accompanying article, the spirit of which may be inferred from these words of the writer: “With the affectionate sympathy of a pupil for a master whom he cannot follow, with genuine admiration for the subtlest intellect, the largest heart, the most unselfish life, I know, I try to give my readers some faint portraiture of John Henry Newman, Cardinal of St George.” The article will contain some original matter, heretofore unpublished, fron; His Eminence’s own pen.	......
College Gossip.
—Bowdoin is to have a permanent library fund of $20,-000.
—Harvard’s boating last year cost her over $4,000; Yale’s cost her $4,433,52.—Nassau Lit.
—Yale holds the foot-ball, base-ball and boating championships of American colleges.—Rambler.
—Why is every Boston boy sure to make a noise in the world? Because he is a little hubbub in himself.—Oe-cident.
—An American took the first prize in mathematics not long since at the University of Heidelberg, Germany.— Chronicle.
—Scene in the law school: Professor: “Is this an action in asumpsit?” Student: “No, sir. It is an action in chancery.”
—On the Sth inst. the Academy of Mount Allison, Sackville, N. B., was destroyed by fire. It Is said that the damage will amount to 28,000.
—Some ot our western exchanges are so heavy that we use them for paper weights.—Harvard, Herald.
Wait till the western men see this.
—Prof. Swift, of the Warner Astronomical, Observatory, Rochester, N. Y., has been awarded the Lelande astronomy prize, by the French Academy of Sciences.
—Professor Russell, of Cornell, has been requested to resign on account of his loose religious views.—Several Ex's.
That was about six months ago. Hasn’t he resigned yet ?
—Anthyme Bernard, one of the oldest teachers of mathematics and the languages in New York, died last week. He was born 70 years ago at Havre, where his father was a college professor. He has lived in New York forty years.
—It was a sensible parent who told the Dean of Harvard College, on learning that his son was not fulfilling the purposes of his residence at college, “ I don’t believe in spending two thousand dollars on a two-dollar boy.” There are a good many two-dollar boys in college.—Pilot.
—Of the Boylston prizes at Harvard college, three were taken by George L. Kittredge, of Boston, the aggregate being $250. They were for a Greek translation and for dissertations on “Thomas Carlyle as a historian” and “Democracy in the Greek and in the<Modern State Compared."
—The London Sportsman, commenting on the American criticisms on the Henley Stewards barring American crews from the regatta, says: “We have spoken of the pranks of the Henley Stewards until we are positively tired, and, for the time being, shall wash our hands ofthem as irreclaimable.”
—A story is told of a member of a certain theological seminary who was so sensitive to any suspicion of plagiarism that he never allowed himself to make the slightest quotation without giving an authority. On one occasion be commenced grace at breakfast thus: “Lord, we thank Thee that we have awakened from the sleep which a writer in the Edinburgh Review has called ‘ the image of death.’ ”
—Sir Erasmus Wilson brought over the companion obe-isk to our own, which forms so unsightly a feature of the Thames embankment. He has now given $50,000 to the University of Aberdeen, first, be informs its Senate, because his father had been trained there, and secondly, because he himself had received from it the honorary degree of LL.D.—W. Y. Sun.
—One of the pupils of St. Joseph’s College, Buffalo, JL Y. was drowned lately—having broken through the ice while skating. Brother Idrastan, of the College, who was near by, made heroic endeavors to save the drowning boy, and at the risk of his own life. The good Brother jumped into the water after him, but was soon so benumbed with cold that he could not clutch a rope that was thrown him-He grasped it with his teeth, however, and was thus pulled out of the water, breaking some of his teeth in his deathly grip on the rope. The drowned boy’s name Is Thoa. Burns.- Two other boys, John Ryan and John Clark, pq, pils of th? college, had a n^row escape.
848
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, February 18, 1883.
have no doubt that it will be the meansof bringing to the surface a great deal of artistic talent We have seen a copy of their first efforts, representing an alleged interview between His Satanic Majesty and a noted contemporary statesman. The fertility of imagination evinced in inventing uncomplimentary attitudes for H. S. M. is aa creditable to the young artists as it was amusing to us.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:	-
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
AU the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 91.60 per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indian*.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer • favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usuaUy, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the SCHOLASTIC always will be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—Our indefatigable friend and co-laborer, the exchange editor, who is never happier than when' up to his eyes in work, has given a decided “ boom ” to the study of phonography. Shorthand, spelling-reform, etc., count no more enthusiastic champion than he, and we are glad to notice that his zeal is winning commendation even in the outside world.
—There are at present seven classes of German taught in the College. This proves that the authorities fully realize the growing importance of a knowledge of this language throughout the Great West and Northwest. The courses of French are not so numerously attended, but under the energetic direction of Rev. Father Fitte the students are making rapid progress.
—In our present issue we give the first instalment of Mr. W. H. Arnold’s rejoinder to Mr. E. Orrick, on Free Trade, the subject of a recent interesting debate. Mr. Arnold’s article will repay careful perusal. His arguments are solid and well presented; indeed his composition does him much credit in every particular. We hope to have room for the conclusion next week.
—A. new course of drawing has been opened in the Minim department under the direction of Brother Albert The JittJs fellows seem to take great interest in it, and we
—The presentation of “ New Arts,” last Saturday evening, was highly creditable to all the participants. We doubt if the piece has ever been better rendered. It was evident that the different parts had been wisely distributed and that careful attention was bestowed upon each, not only by Prof. Edwards, who had charge of the entertainment, but by the actors themselves.
Previous to the performance, Master Echlin, of the Junior department, stepped forward, and read an appropriate address to Very Rev. Father Sorin, to whom the entertain, ment was complimentary. Then followed two addresses from the Minim department. We hazard the remark sn passant that this part of the performance was overdone: the addresses are generally too long or too many.
The purpose of “New.Arts” cannot be too highly praised, and we feel sure that all who have read the piece, or seen it acted, will agree with us that it is calculated to promote polite manners and otherwise qualify young men for appearing to advantage in society.
Nothing was neglected to make the entertainment a success. The Rotunda was tastefully furnished and decorated for the occasion, and presented a fine appearance. The music, under the direction of Prof. Paul, was an enjoyable feature. In consideration of the fact that the greater number of the audience could not see those who took part in the performance, or hear their voices, there was close attention throughout. The Rotunda will do well enough for a lecture or reading, but is evidently ill suited for a play of any kind. It surprises us to learn that all are not convinced of this.
In the closing remarks, Very Rev. Father Sorin, the author of the drama, expressed himself well pleased with the manner in which it had been performed, and praised the actors for the spirit in which they had entered into their different parts. The audience then retired to the dining room,' to put in practice some of the useful lessons which had been given them. Floreant “ New Arts.”
To thb Editor of The Sun.—Sir: I read in to-dayrs Sun that students of Princeton College have been indicted for malicious mischief. I am glad of it, and hope they will be properly punished. For the life of me, I cannot see what pleasure students take in destroying property, or what devilish spiritprompts them to perpetrate cruel practical jokes on their fellow-students. I have been a student In two different Catholic colleges, although I am a Protestant, and I fail to recall one incident wherein a student ever played a cruel joke on his classmates. Hazing was never permitted, and I often heard these students wonder what kind of a fiend gets into boys at Yale and Princeton, that leads them to act as barbarians instead of gentlemen and Christians. I also studied in two universities, which, though not sectarian, were governed by a Protestant faculty. Hazing was so common there that many of the students left in disgust—myself among the rest Can you account for the difference in the conduct of students in Catholic colleges $n$ those in Protestant pr non-sectarianooea ?
............ J. N.
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
349
The barbarism that puzzles the correspondent of Ths Sun is probably owing to the fact that the principle of authority is omitted in the training at those colleges. Prof. Faust, in his article on Count Joseph de Maistre in Ths Catholic Quarterly for January, says that “ among the earli. eat lessons taught in the domestic life of Catholic Europe, in which the ancient faith moulds and guides the conscience, is that of obedience. The discipline of the home, while, in some of its aspects, it may appear austere to Amer ican eyes accustomed to latitudinarian views of training, is of an hereditary and established character. Parental authority is recognized as delegated from God, and, if need be, it is asserted as dogmatically as any power divinely committed to men. As obedience is the foundation of all true happiness, the habits it engenders, stronger than law itself, become not only fixed, but the sources from which springs all real usefulness in the mental and moral world/’ It was in this school that the two De Maistres, and Chateaubriand, and Montalembert, and Ozanam and Perreyve were educated—in which the training of the heart went hand in hand with that of the mental faculties, and in which they acquired the principles of Christian gentlemen with the erudition of brilliant savants. These were learned giants, brilliant orators, captivating writers, but they had ever and always that principle of authority im* printed in their hearts that enabled them to curb the grosser animal instincts.	'
—The American Catholic Quarterly Review for January has been on our table for some time, but the inore we read of it the greater we felt our inability to give it a suitable notice in the limited time at our disposal. Although the Quarterly is not yet out of its seventh year, the number before us would do honor to its centennial anniversary, which we hope it will live to see. There are two articles in this number of the Review to which we desire to call special attention, viz., “ Count Joseph de Maistre,” by A. J. Faust, A. M., Ph. D., and “ Galileo Galilei and the Copernican System,” by the Right Rev. Dr. Lynch. “ Count Joseph de Maistre,” is a most scholarly paper, and, apart from the interest created by the spirited sketch it gives of one who was great among the great of his day, the classical style of the writing adds to the attraction of the article. The periodical sketches hitherto given of Count de Maistre show that he has been greatly misunderstood, and one is the more pleased that such a graceful writer and appreciative critic as Dr. Faust has taken the subject in hand. Our sympathies do not go out to De Maistre, the advocate of monarchical rule, as they do towards such bright stars in the republican firmament as Montalembert and Ozanam, but none the less do we admire the lofty genius and grand traits of De Maistre’s character.
“Galileo Galilei and the Copernican System,” by the Rt. Rev. P. N. Lynch, D. D., is one of the most exhaustive articles we have seen on the subject, and one which we warmly commend for perusal. None but a wilfully ignorant person would now have the temerity to support the old and hackneyed charges of Galileo’s persecution, imprisonment and torture by the Inquisition. If the editor of the Popular Science Monthly reads Dr. Lynch’s paper he will probably see what a silly figure he cut in publishing that “ document from the Vatican Library” (?) which detailed so minutely the process of torture to which Its writer would have us believe Galileo had been subjected.
The exposure and refutation of this calumny naturally suggest the questions, Who propagated it! For what purpose ? And how could it be possible that it was so generally believed?
The other papers in the Review—several of them at least —are of equal merit with those we have mentioned, but as the object of these remarks was to call particular attention to two that seemed to us of unusual interest, we pass the others by. We venture the suggestion that The American Catholic Quarterly would be excellent reading for the dining-rooms.
—We find in The Catholic Columbian a cordial tribute to the memory of an old student of Notre Dame, from which we make a brief extract. Referring to a notice of the late Mr. Edward Creighton (who founded and handsomely endowed a college in Nebraska) Rev. Father Clarke, the editor of the Columbian, says:
“ Since writing it, we have been favored with a notice of Mr. Edward C. McShane, a nephew of Mr. Creighton and a son of our devoted friend, Mr. Thomas McShane, who has recently removed from Perry County to Omaha, where all the members of the family now reside. We take the notice of Edward McShane from an Omaha paper of March, 1880, the date of his lamented death. Surely it must be consoling to our readers to see what at least some of our young men have come to.
“Edward C. McShane was bom in Clarke County, Ohio, near Springfield, on the 24th of March 1844, and was therefore at the time of his death nearly thirty-six years of age. His parents, Thomas and Alice McShane, are still living, the former being 76 and the latter 68 years of age. When he was only two years old, the family removed to Perry County, Ohio, where the subject of our notice spent his boyhood till he attained his majority, receiving a good common school education. In 1866 he went to South Bend, Ind., where he spent a year in the famous Catholic University of Notre Dame, showing himself in his collegiate studies to be the possessor of much more than average abilities, and winning high encomiums for his manliness and integrity. From College Mr. McShane came directly to Omaha to begin life in the far West, arriving in our city in August, 1867. In November of the same year, he went to Wyoming, in the interest of the late Edward Creighton, his uncle, and took charge of the varied interests of Mr. Creighton in that territory. The administration and executive ability displayed in his business conduct there was very noticeable. He was the discoverer of coal at Carbon, and operated the mines for his uncle at that point for eighteen months, when he returned to Omaha in June, 1870, and has since lived in our city.
“Mr. McShane early won a high rank among our leading younger citizens, and his abilities were honored by many marks of public confidence. In 1871 he was elected Treasurer of Douglas County, relieving Mr. W. J. Hahn, and filling his term of office with remarkable ability and faithfulness. In 1875 he was elected to the City Council from the First ward, and the second year he served as President of that body. At the time of the death of his uncle he withdrew from public life and joined himself to his uncle, John A. Creighton, Esq., in the management, in a clerical capacity, of the large estate of Edward Creighton, a position which he was most competent to fill, from his intimate acquaintance with the late
350	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Mr. Creighton’s affairs. This position he was filling most acceptably at the time he was stricken with his last and fatal illness.
“ At his death he was one of the Directors of the Omaha and Northern Nebraska Railroad, and also Director of the Nail Works, and Vice-President of the Board of Trade-He was also one of the leading spirits of the Omaha Sportsmen’s Club, of which for a long time he had been an enthusiastic and active member.
“ On the 28th of December, 1871, Mr. McShane was married to Miss Agnes Maginn, of Burlington, Iowa, who survives him. He leaves three little daughters, the oldest seven and the youngest two and a half years of age. His mother and father, as before stated, are still living.
“ Mr. McShane was a man of positive convictions. His charitable impulses are well known. He devoted a great deal of time and attention to the college established by his uncle, and would, if he had lived, have materially aided in its advancement. He was a kind and loving husband and father, and fondly devoted to his domestic ties. As a citizen nothing can be saidof him but that which tends to his highest praise. He was deeply interested in all that pertained to local and State improvements, and bore the highest reputation for sterling honesty and strict integrity in all his transactions. As County Treasurer, he filled his term with marked ability, and only retired from the office when a change of political parties necessitated bis relinquishment of the position. His successors bear high testimony to his administrative and executive abilities. He perfected a sys* tern of financial management in the Treasurer’s office which is still carried on.
“ Mr. McShane leaves many warm friends among our best citizens, and his death is universally regretted as removing a bright, strong, energetic and honest man from the midst of our community.
The editor of the Columbian adds:	-
“ He died March 7,1880. The editor of this paper was a class-mate of his.”
Personal.	,
—John Eisenhauer, ’79, is in the real estate business at Huntington, Ind.
—We are informed that S. Burritt Hinsdale (Commercial), ’67, is in business in New York, and that at a recent meeting of the New York City Law Stenographers’ Association he was elected Secretary.
—James Norfleet, of '79, is studying law at Tarboro, N. C. Mr. Norfleet is remembered by many at Notre Dame as a model student and a thorough gentleman. We are glad to know that he is doing well.
—Dr. Hoffman, of North Liberty, Ind.; Mr. George A-Hartie, of Avilla; Mr. and Mrs. H. S. Stanfield of South Bend; and M. H. Thompson of Elgin, Ill., who has a son in the college, were among the visitors this week.
—J. B. McGrath ’80 is at the Seminaire de Sulpice, Paris. A letter has lately been received from him, in which he desires to be kindly remembered to all his friends and old-time associates. “J. B.” should be addressed Mons. L’Abbe McGrath.
—W. Ad. Hardenbergh (Widdicombe), ’79 is the “ credit man ” of Messrs. P. R. L. Hardenbergh Co., of St. Paul. He is well qualified for the important position he holds, having had a long experience “on the road,” We can assure Ad. that he is still affectionately remembered at Notre Dame, and we thank him for his recent kind letter.
—John B. Berteling, ’80, has been heard from. He expects to be here for the commencement. We judge from the tone of his letter that he is ready to hold a controversy wjtb any one not already convinced of Cincinnati’s stu
periority over all other cities of the West. Mr. Berteling sends kind remembrances to all friends and companions. *
—Henry L. Rose, ’81, is studying dentistry in Cincinnati. He expects to receive the degree of D.D. S. in ’83. We have had the pleasure of reading a recent letter from him which proves that he is far from forgetting Notre Danie. Henry is not particularly enchanted with the Queen City of the West, as it is called. De gustibus, we thought; having just read Mr. Berteling’s letter, in which Cincinnati is lauded to the skies.
Local Items.	'
—“ Now you ask me what I know not.”
—The Juniors have a new billiard table.
—Ben is convalescent, and his chum rejoicetb.
—“ Don’t put butter in your vest pocket.” Eh, Franz ?
—There was recreation from 4.30 on Saturday, in honor of “ New Arts.”	.
—Monthly Bulletins for the month of January were sent off last Monday.	.
—The number of entries is 415, and the current has' not been arrested.	'
—Prof. Paul, we hear, is preparing several new choruses for the Mignon Club.	'
—Our aquatic men will soon be able to remove their boats from winter quarters.
—The Sophomores are agitating the question of purchasing a distinctive class badge.	.
—A closely contested game of baseball took place on the 13th inst. between picked nines.
—Several exciting games of racket and handball were played by the Juniors during the week.
—Rev. P. P. Cooney’s address to the South Bend branch of the Land League has been postponed.
—The postmaster had need of extra help this week on account of the recurrence of Valentine’s Day.
—The “ Blues ” and “ Reds ” were out in full force last Wednesday; the campus had the appearance of a Mayday.
—Prof. Lyons did not go to Chicago last Thursday. We saw him during the day, and he looked “ lost, strayed, or stolen.”
—Harry Porter, Neal Ewing, Ed Fishel, and Frank Mc-Phillips were awarded perfect bulletins for the month of January.	’
—The tallest Senior measures six feet four inches; the smallest, five feet two. The tallest Junior, five feet ten; the shortest, five feet.	•
—The orchestra has been busy rehearsing of late, and a rich musical treat is anticipated on Monday night, when
“ Falsely Accused ” will be played.	’
—“Falsely Accused,” is the name they give it this year. There’s nothing new under the sun, though there are some things newer than others.	-	'
—The genial chaplain of St. Mary’s Academy was among the callers at our office this week. We were glad to see him in such excellent health.	..
' —Portraits of Longfellow, Emerson, Bryant, Lowell, Whittier, John Boyle O'Reilly, Maurice F. Egan, Saxe, and George H. Miles have been ordered for the readingroom. .	■	.
— The two courses of philosophy have been consolidated, and Rev. Father Steil will in future fill the chair, vice Rev. J. A. O’Connell, who has been appointed to fill . the chair of moral theology.
—Rev. Father Cooney is now resident chaplain at St. Joseph’s Farm. He expresses himself well pleased with the change, and expects that his health will be greatly improved by the invigorating air of the prairie.
—Work on the eastern wing is progressing steadily. With the addition of the wings, the College will be a stately pile. We trust that the completion of the dome, which will crown the work, will not be long delayed.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
351
—Messrs. D. Corry, W. Cooper, W. Vander Heyden, M. Thompson, C. Garret, and A. Myers have become members
*	of the Mignon Club. Prof. Unsworth will lecture before the Club at an early day. Subject, “ Art and its Indu, ences.”
—The young gentlemen who took part in “New Arts ” desire to return their thanks to Brother William, Messrs. Grever, Wheatley, Huntsman, Start, and J. B. O’Reilly, for the assistance they rendered in decorating the Rotunda, Saturday night.
—Another of the gold medals for Christian Doctrine has ' been given since our last issue. The generous donor insists that his name shall not be published in the Scholastic; however, we are at liberty to state that he is a clergyman of the diocese of Fort Wayne.
*	—Class notes for the second session were read for the
first time on Wednesday evening, in the Juniors’ refectory.
’ The great majority of the boys are evidently determined to employ their time to the best advantage, and the notes were, as a natural consequence, very good.
—“A Visit to Bois d’Haine,” by Miss Frances Howe, is being read in the Junior refectory. The Professor of Elocution says that he forbids his pupils to yell. Our friend John remarks sarcastically that the prohibition ought to extend to other places besides the dining halls.
—The members of the Indianapolis delegation are inclined to believe that the wretch who sent them those valentines has no charity in his heart and no music in his soul. “Ueawye,” especially, was “ badly broken up ” by the satirical allusions to his little pet weaknesses and “ wan-ities.”
—A Solemn Mass of Requiem was celebrated on Thursday morning for the repose of the soul of Mister Louis O’Donnell, who died at Notre Dame about a year ago. Master O’Donnell will be remembered by all the Juniors of ’80~’81 as a young gentleman of the brightest promise r and the most amiable disposition.
—Rev. Father Shea took his deparlure for the Black Hills last Monday. His numerous friends at the College turned out en, masse to wish him good-bye and to express their regret at his leaving. Father Shea will join Rev. Father Gleason, formerly a member of the Faculty, but for three years past a missionary in Dakota.
—Receiving and sending valentines made things lively during the early part of the week. Valentines, as a rule, are simply silly, but occasionally they teach a very useful lesson, neatly and affectively. Our friend John, however, who had several of his sore spots roughly prodded, protests that he can see no sense in the institution.
—Miss Buckle’s “ Fairy Land of Science,” which is now reading in one of the refectories, is pronounced by all to be a most interesting and instructive work, though not too profound or abstruse to destroy the appetite or impair digestion. It is a work which will well repay a more leisurely perusal on the part of our younger students.
—The following are the officers of the Lemonnier Boat Club for the present session: Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, Director; Rev. John M. Toohey, President; W. H. Arnold, Commodore; W. B. McGorrisk, Treasurer; E. W. McGor-risk, Recording Secretary; T. F. Clarke. Corresponding Secretary; Captains, F. E. Kuhn and W. J. McEniry.
—Invitations have been sent out, as usual, to the exhibition in honor of Washington’s Birthday. It is not strictly rubrical, we believe, to anticipate festivals, but as the 22d of February falls on Ash-Wednesday this year, it has been found necessary to do so. A combination of Washington’s Birthday and Mardi Gras ought to make the day enjoyable enough to suit the most exacting.
—The Scholastic Annual for 1882 is in its seventh issue and it is fully equal to its predecessors in admirable mechanical and literary arrangements. It contains a variety of useful information. Poetry, tales, topography and biography are the principal features in its literary department, and are very interesting. It is published by J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Indiana.— The Harp.	’
—Rev. J. A. O’Connell has been unanimously elected an honorary member of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic
Association. So great was the enthusiasm that prevailed among the youthful electors during the balloting, that a stampede from the Society Hall to the Presbytery, to inform the Rev. gentleman of his election, took place before the President could find time to appoint a committee for that purpose.
—A large audience assembled in the Opera House, South Bend, on the evening of the 10th inst. to hear a lecture by the Rev. A. B. Oechtering, of Mishawaka, on the assassination of President Garfield and the social and political situation of the country. Rev. Father Oechtering is an earnest speaker, and has the faculty of making his subject deeply interesting to everyone. We are not surprised that his lecture was listened to with the deepest interest.
—The prophets are unanimous in predicting that the weather we have enjoyed for the past week or more is much too fine to last. Our astrologer especially, who feels a little disappointed over the non-verification of his oracular utterances about the ground-hog, seems determined at all hazards that March shall not only come in like a lion, but also play the king of the forest during his whole career. The attempts of our genial friend to explain away his words six weeks hence, will be ingenious and interesting.
—A meeting of the Philodemics was held on the 9th inst. for the purpose of electing the officers for the ensuing session. Prof. Stace occupied the chair. The election resulted as follows: Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, Director: Prof. A. J. Stace, President; W. H. Arnold, VicePresident, T. F. Clarke, Recording Secretary; M. T. Burns, Corresponding Secretary; E. W. McGorrisk, Treasurer; M. Healy, Historian; R. M. Anderson, 1st Censor; Jas. Solon, 2d Censor. At this meeting Messrs. M. Donahue, T. Flynn, W. Thompson, F. Gallagher, and W. Cleary were elected members.
—An enterprising young fellow of the Junior department, with the view of purchasing an organ or piano—or perhaps both—sent to the Estey Organ Co. of N. Y. for a catalogue. Well, as the story goes, when they received his order—fora catalogue—thinking he must be a heavy purchaser, it was sent without delay to their Chicago agent, and he, having an associate in South Bend, remailed it to him. The South Bend man came up to the College, posthaste, and made inquiries for T. C.R. Tommy was in hot water for about ten minutes. It is not likely that he will send for any more catalogues.
—The 23d regular meeting of the St. Cecilian Philoma-thean Society took place on the 15th inst. Masters G. Castanedo, and J. Heffernan gave criticisms on previous meetings, and essays were then read by A. M. Coghlin, H. P. Mahon, W. McCarthy, C. Murdock and C. Rose. W. Johnson and G. J. Rhodius delivered declamations. Master C. Echlin personated four characters in a little drama to the delight of the audience. The public readers appointed for the ensuing wiek were Messrs. N. Ewing, H. Porter, J. Courtney, D. Taylor, L. F. Florman, F. F. Johnson, W. Coghlin, C. Porter, G. Rhodius, C. Echlin, M. Foote, and A. M. Coghlin. Mr. W. Start was unanimously elected as a member of the society at this meeting.
—An association which is by no means unknown to fame, but which, nevertheless, does not receive its proper share of newspaper notoriety, is the Muggletonian Brotherhood in the Jr. department. Quite a lively contest took place during the past week among the “ Mungies,” as they are familiarly termed. The Society, it will be remembered, is a small but very select one, and a ring—an ingenious though . not extremely costly piece of workmanship—had been promised to the member whose record during the week should be the best. When the proper time to balance the accounts had come, it was found that the names of Fred Ryan and Geo. Tourtillotte led all the rest. The precious trinket was then drawn for by the two young gentlemen, Master Tourtillotte winning the prize.	.
—At the 16th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association, held on Feb. 19th, an election of officers for the second session took place, with the following result: Rev. J. A. O’Connell, Promoter; Ryan Devereux, General Critic; D. A. O’Connor, 1st Vice-President; W. R. Berthelet, 2d Vice-President; D. L. McCawley, Recording Secretary; E, P- Nash, Corresponding Secretary;
352
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
J. H. Dwenger, Treasurer; J. J. McGrath, Librarian; J. F. Neater, Marshal; M.E. Devitt, 1st Censor; P. E. Campau, 3d Censor; R. V. Papin, 3d Censor; Donn Piatt, Sergeant-at-Anns. The Director and Pesident remain the same as last session. When the results of the election had been announced, the President and several of the members made speeches, after which the meeting adjourned.
—We are indebted to Prof. J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame University, Ind., for a copy of his Scholastic Annual for 1882,—an excellent little publication in which are garnered some of the choicest articles which appeared last year in the Notre Dame Scholastic. The chapter of astrological predictions is calculated to put some confiding people in very good humor with the New Year; particularly the following, anent Irish affairs:
“Jupiter leaves the sign of Taurus on the first of May, and passes between the constellations Taurus and Orion. Orion (properly O’Ryan) represents the Irish Land League, now engaged in attacking Taurus (John Bull) with a shillelah, as may be seen on consnlting a celestial globe. The influence of Jupiter will be pacificatory, and all will end happily.”—Catholic Union.
—The 20th regular meeting of the St Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held on Monday, the 13th inst. J. F. Kahman was unanimously elected a member. Master A Richmond was chosen 2d Vice-President and B. Baca Corresponding Secretary. The programme of the evening was then carried out, consisting chiefly of songs and declamations. Those that appeared to advantage were G. Buchanan, G. Tourtillotte, H. Snee, H. G. Foote, G. Des-cbamp, F. Lund, M. E. Murphy, W. Hanivan, J. Powell, Fred Fishel, E. G. Tappan, M. J. Wilbur, E. J. Wile, E. A. Howard, J. Devine, A Campau, B. Baca, L Gibert, W. M. Graham, J. Livingston, E. F. Bailey, H. S. Brewster and C. Devoto. W. J. Muhlke closed the exercises with a German speech which was received with rounds of applause.
—The following note speaks for itself:
Laramie City, Wyo., Feb. 8,1882.
President Notbe Dame,
Rev. Dear Sir:—Mr. E. Kelly, of the Firm of Enright & Kelly, Chicago, passed here the last month, and, noticing a fine large specimen of a petrifaction I had, wished to buy it, to present it to the Museum of your Institution. Now, being an admter of your University as an educational establishment, I wish to make the donation myself. I hope' the petrifaction will be acceptable. It was found in “ Bates’ Hole,” Wyoming. I have prepaid the express charges. Please acknowledge the receipt of box, and oblige
Your obedient servant, Jno. W. Connob.
The Rev. President, it is needless to say, returns his best thanks to Mr. Connor for the truly fine specimen sent, as also to Mr. Kelly for his thoughtful kindness in the matter.
—A. meeting of the Senior Archconfraternity was held last Sunday evening, for the purpose of reorganizing. Rev. T. E. Walsh presided. After the minutes of the previous meeting had been read and adopted, the Rev. Director declared the election of officers to be in order. Mr. Michael Healy, on motion of W. B. McGorrisk, was unanimously elected President. W. B. McGorrisk and G. E. Clarke were nominated for Vice-President, but both declined in favor of W. H. Arnold, who was elected to the office by acclamation. Mr. T. Cavanaugh was the choice of the majority for Recording Secretary. M. T. Burns was elected Corresponding Secretary. A number of members very generously refused to run against the successful candidate. Mr. Fred Kuhn was elected to fill the position of Treasurer. Owing to the lateness of the hour, the election of other officers was deferred till the next Tegular meeting. After a few remarks by the Rev. Director, the meeting adjourned. To the zealous efforts of Rev. Father Walsh is due the flourishing condition of the Confraternity and the increase of membership. The S > ciety would doubtless be further honored and encouraged if other of the Fathers and membersof the Faculty could find timeto be present at their meetings. Those who have been regular attendants in the past have the thanks of the Archconfratennty and are cordially invited to continue their visits,
—The Actives and Mutuals played a game of baseball last Monday. Considering that it was the first of the season, it was a very fine game. "Tt lasted two hours and a half. The score was 16 to 13 in favor of the Mutuals. The umpire called game after the first half of the ninth inning on account of darkness. If the Actives had had time to play the last inning the result might have been different. Master French took the place of umpire and Messrs. F. Fishel and Rosenheim acted as scorers. The following table will farther explain the game:
ACTIVES.
r
o.
MUTUALS.
R.
O.
L. Gibert, 3d b. T. Hurley, P .. J. Neeson, 2d b. J. Ruppe, 1st b. A Campau, 88. E. Baily, L. F.. M. Foote, C. F J. Courtney, C. B. Zekind, R. F
Total.........
4
3
2
1 1 0 0
1
4 2 4'
3
I 4
I
J. Guthrie, P........ J. Whelan, C......... W. Warrens, L. F.....
J. Gallagher, 1st b.... C. Kolars, C. F...... W. Dolan, R. F....... W. Coghlin, S3....... C. Murdock, 3d b .... E. Orchard, 2d b.....
Total................
2
1
2 2
2 3
1 0
4 5
3
5
3
4
6
16 36
13 30.
—On Saturday evening, at half past four, Very Rev. Father General’s drama of “ The New Arts ” was rendered by a select company, in the Rotunda. For some hours previous a number of' persons had been .busy carpeting and decorating the Rotunda and corridors; green-house plants adorned the niches and every suitable nook and corner, so that before the play was begun the place had been transformed into a fairy bower. The play of “ The New Arts” is without a plot, simple, and almost undra-matic. It has for its principal object the conveying in a quaint, striking and sometimes humorous manner, some lessons in politeness that everybody—even in the reputedly polite world—is not acquainted with, and the con -trasting of the different characters is, apart from the instruction conveyed, the chief attraction of the play. The following was the cast of characters on Saturday evening:
Mr. John Smith...............................C.	A. Tinley
Prof. Wright................................G. E. Clarke
Cant Jones.................................J. P. O’Neill
Judge Fairbanks...............................M.	T. Healy
Mr. Roberts..................................H. C. Morse
Mr. Spring........................................R. Bell
Mr. Parker .....................................H. Noble
Master William ]	( R. Devereux
“	Chester	|	J.	Livingston
“ Richard ).........College Boys,.......-I D. O’Connor “	Arthur	|.......| S. Murdock
“	George	J	[J.	Courtney
[D. Taylor I J. Grever
Country Boys.
| M. Foote
“ . Robert J	( Richmond
Vocal Duet by L. F. Florman and C. C. Eehlin; Bass Solo by G. Tracey. Instrumental music by Prof Paul.
Henry Louis Conrad Thomas
Boll of Honor.
The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. Anderson, J. C. Armijo, H. Akin, W. B. Berry, W. H. Bailey, F. M. Barron, E. C. Bryant, J. F. Browne, F. M. Bell, R. Becerra, T. Cullen, D. Corry, 8. G. Clements, M. J. Carroll, E. V. Chelini, J. J. Conway, G. Clarke, W. 8. Cleary, N. Commerford, J. Delaney, J. P. Delaney, J. Donegan, J. Drury, A Dehner, M. E. Donohue E. J. Eager, F. Ewing, B. Eaton, R. Fitzgerrell, W. Flannery, E. J. Fenlon, T. P. Fenlon, J. Farrell, R. E. Flemming, T. F. Flynn, J. Falvey, M. Falvey, C. L. Fishburne, C. Garnett, W. E. Grout, F. W. Gallagher, A J. Golonski, F. H.
!
I j
i?HE KOTRE DAMli SCHOtASTid;	&£
Grever, T. D. Healy, M. F. Healy, M. Henoch. W. Johnson, F. Kinsella, F. E. Kuhn, J. Kindel, A. Kuntemann, G. M. Kerndt, M. Livingston, J. C. Larkin, G. Metz, W. McCarthy, P. McGinnis, J. A. McIntyre, W. McDevitt, H. W. Morse, E. McGorrisk, W. McEniry, T. H. Maloney, E. B. Mason, G. E. McErlain, W. McGorrisk, J. Nash, H. Noble, J. B. O’Reilly, J. P. O’Neill, T. O’Rourke, E. C. Orrick, E. A. Otis, A. J. Peery, F. Paquette, C. L. Pierson, 8. Pillars, J. P. Peifer, E. J. Ryan, W. E. Ruger, L. Steiger, W. Schofield, J. Solon, W. E. Smita, E. E. Smith, C. A. Smith, H. Steis, C. D. Saviera, C. A. Tinley, W. Thompson, G» Tracy, C. B. Van Dozen, W. Vander Heyden, M. C. Van Loon, F. Wheatly, F. 8. Weber, J. A. White, J. A. Walsh, E. D. Yrisarri, J. B. Zettler, A. F. M. Thompson, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. H. Archer, A. Browne, W. Bacon, Ed Bailey, W. Barron, G. B. Buchanan, A. J. Campau, Michael Dolan, H. F. Devitt, A. M. Chirhart, C. Devoto. J. A. Drendel, T. M. Danielson, W. Dare, C. C. Echlin, N. H. Ewing, Ed Fishel, Fred Fishel, W. E. Freyermuth; R. French, L. F. Florman, M. L. Foote, H. G. Foote, G. Friedman, L. G. Gibert, H. E. Gilbert, M. 8. Goolev, E. B. Gerlach, E. F. Gall, A. A. Gall, J. W. Guthrie, P. G. Hoffman, H. N. Hess, H. D. Hibbeler. T. J. Hurley, W. F. Hanivan. J. L. Heffernan, J. Halligan, W. E. Jeannot, C. C. Kolars. O. Kempf, J. J. Kahman, H. A. Kitz, J. Livineston, J. T. McGordon, H. M. Metz. J. 8. McGrath, F. X. McPhillips, C. M. Murdock, 3. T. Murdock, M. E. Murphy, W. P. Mahon, J. H. Meyer, A. Miller, J. E. Orchard, B. B. Osborn, J. P. O’Donell, C. F. Porter, S. L. Peery, D G. Quill, A. L. Richmond, C. F. Rose, G. J. Rhodius, J. C. Ruppe, F. Ryon, D. C. Smith, H. C. Snee, G. H. Schaefer, E. J. Schmitt, G. 8. Smeeth, J. W- Start, E. G. Tappan, D. G. Taylor, G. E. Tourtillotte, A. Taggart, T. William’, W. J. Wilbur, W. Warren, E. J. Wile, R. J. Yrisarri, C. Ziegler, J. M. Powell.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C.	D. Brandom, J. S. Beall, P. E. Campau, J. 8. Chaves, T. E. Curran, J. P. Devereux. W. P. Devine, M. E. Devitt, A. Devine, H. C. Dirksmeyer, C. O. Davison, T. Ellis, J. A. Frain, G. G. Gibson, L. P. Graham, H. Hynes, J. H. Hopkins, P.-P. Johnson, J. A. Kelly, A. J. Kelly, J. T. Kelly, J. J. McGrath E. McGrath, C. H. McGordon, D. L. McCawley, W. J. Miller, W. M. Masi, C. Metz, E. P. Nash, F. P. Nester, D. A. O’Connor, F. I. Otis, A. J. Otis, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, B. B. Powell, R. V. Papin, C. Quinlan, A. P. Roberts, J. L. Rose, V. A. Rebori, O. Sommer, W. J. Stange, E. A. Thomas, J. Tong, D. J. Vosburgh, W. Welch, W. Walsh F. 8. Whitney L. J. Young.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D.	A. Piatt, D. A. O’Connor, P. P. Johnson, W. T. Berthelet, D. L. McCawley, C. H. McGordon, J. F. Nester, F. P. Nester, R. V. Papin, F. I. Otis. W. J. Miller E. P. Nash, Ryan Devereux, J. P. Devereux, J. H, Dwenger, J. P. Frain, A. Devine, J. J. McGrath, C. Metz, W. Walsh, J. L. Rose, P. Campau, C. Campau, G. G. Gibson, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, E. A. Thomas, B. B. Powell, E. 8. Chirhart, J. 8. Beall, F. 8. Whitney, J. T. Kelly, W. J. Stange, V. A. Rebori, C. D. Brandom, H. C. Dirksmeyer, F. J. Coad, W. M. Masi, A. B. Hewitt. J. T. Kelly A. J. Otis, J. McGrath. E. McGrath, L. P. Graham, T. E. Curran, A. P. Roberts, C. Quinlan, E. Adams, H. Hynes.
—The first blow in the American Revolution was struck by an Irishman, General John Sullivan, a lawyer of Durham, N. H. To him, Chief Justice Peter Livius wrote in 1777: “You were the first man in active rebellion, and drew with you the province you live in. You will be one of the first sacrifices to the justice and resentment of government; Your family will be ruined and you must die with ignominy.” It was the capture of Fort William and Mary, in Portsmouth harbor to which the threat of the Chief Justice referred, and it was with the definite intention of capturing the fort and of carrying away its powder and cannon, in anticipation of the pending war, that John Sullivan and his men sailed from Durham on a bitter cold night of December (13'.h), 1774, four months before the battle of Lexington, and six months before that of Bunker Hili.”
One Mile West of Notre Dame Unwerrity.
—By an oversight the name of Mias Nellie Thompson was omitted from the Class Honors last week, her avenge being 100. Miss Martha Beal’s name should have appeared in the French Class Honors. .
—At the reading of the points in the Senior department, on Sunday evening, a beautiful large steel engraving, sub. ject St. Augustine and St. Monica, was presented by Very Rev. Father General, in thanks for the pleasure he badv experienced during the semi-annual examination, to be voted to the most studious pupil. The picture was much admired, and with one accord the name of the worthy young lady was proclaimed; Miss Sarah Walsh modestly stepped forward amid the applause of her school companions and received this beautiful prize from the hands of Very Rev Father General.
—On Monday, in honor of the anniversary of Very. Rev. Father General’s birthday, his young friends the Juniors and Minims read the second number of The Lily of the Valley. Very Rev. Father Genera], Very Rev. Father Scanlan, of Utah, and the Rev. Chaplain of St. Mary’s Father Shortis, kindly honored the little readers by their presence.
Motto.—“ The lilies of the Valley speak
Of hearts all pure, of souls all meek.”
Edited by Catharine Lancaster, Marie Paquette, Maiy Dillon, Marion Morgan, and Mary Chirhart. Contents: I, Editorial; H, The Flower of the Holy Childhood; m, A New Version of the Cinderella Slipper; IV, Control of the Juniors; V, Authority; VI, A Remarkable Journey, from Richmond to Otis; VH, Very Rev. Father Scanlan; VIII; Roller Skates; IX, The Holidays;' X, Grapes and their Uses; XI, The Algebra Examination in the Third Senior Class; XH, The Little Burglar; XHI, A Great Mistaker; XIV, The Mother’s Claim to Honor.
After the reading of the paper, at the request of Very Rev. Father General, Father Scanlan made a valuable little speech, to impress upon the pupils a lively sense of the advantages they are enjoying. The contributors to the Lily of the Valley were Clara Ginz and Catherine Lancaster, of the Third Senior Class; Mary Chirhart, Mary Paquette, Mary Dillon, and Marion Morgan, of the Second Preparatory Class, and little Lilly Robinson and Sarah Campau, of the First Junior Class.
(Selections from “Rosa Mystica” and “St. Mary’s Chimes,” monthly MS. papers edited by the young ladies of the Senior Department.)
[From the Lily of the Valley.]
The Flower of the Holy Childhood.
TO FATHER, ON HIS SIXTY EIGHTH BIRTHDAY.
I.	.
The month of the Holy Childhood	-
Glideth softly away,
But it leaves on its golden threshold A beautiful, beautiful day.
n.
’Tia the Feast of the Purification, The feast of the lights and the doves, And this, in its turn, brings another, That eaeh of your children loves.	.
in.	■
A morn, like a fragrant lily,	.
At the porch of the Temple-door,
In the midst of the doves and tapers. ' And the white beams hovering o’er.
• IV.
• It Is your birthday, dear Father,	'
§54
$HE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
An outgrowth divine, as it were, Of the infinite offering of Mary, Of the homage your life pays to her.
Acadia, and the Acadians.
The scene of Longfellow’s beautiful poem, Evangeline, which, by his genius, has been clothed with a world-wide interest, was a French Catholic settlement.
The narrative opens when Acadia embraced the present Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and a part of Maine. It was ceded to the community in 1604. They were unjustly charged by the English with exciting the hostilities of the natives against them, but in fact they merited the name by which they were known, “ The neutral French.”
Three times they were conquered, and three times restored by treaty.
Having lost Acadia, they built Cape Breton and Louisburg. In 1755 the Governor and Council determined to disperse them; accordingly eighteen thousand of these harmless inhabitants were turned from their homes, only to meet insult and persecution.
Longfellow vividly portrays these heart-rending scenes of misery and desolation. More than this, he leaves to posterity a.valuable inheritance in the lovely embodiment of womanly virtue which forms the nucleus of the poem which introduced him to fame.
Beautiful Evangeline I Well may the prince of American poets linger in delight upon your gentle charms. Well may we love to contemplate the thoughtful, quiet face, so fair and yet so unconscious of its loveliness; to read there of devotedness to home, father, mother, friends, which in the history we find so sweetly mingled and intensified by religion. ,	' ‘
Modest, pious, loving and constant, we have in this one personation, the ideal of a household angel—a true woman, replete with every virtue.
Of one thing, however, we feel assured. The great author could not have portrayed such loveliness had he not beheld it in real life. And where did he find it? We have been told by one who appeared to be certain of the fact that the poet’s wife was a descendant of the Acadian exiles. ' Dispersed from their happy homes in the cold North, by the cruel English edict, these banished Acadians went forth, not only to bear their quiet home virtues with them to the places where they might find shelter, but, wounded to the heart’s core by the arrogance of a tyrannical power, they likewise carried with them a noble spirit of true independence and resistance to wrong, which played its own grand part in the establishment of American liberty.
Who, upon reflection, can doubt this ? The parti-colored lake-like waves of the Potomac smiled upon these wanderers, and invited them to build sweet homes upon its banks.
On either side, the blooming lands of the colonies and territories wooed them to rest. On the southern shores of Lake Ontario and the Biver St. Lawrence, the most sublime scenery, the most fertile soil, enticed the steps of the travellers. The Hudson, the Mohawk, the St. Clare, the Ohio, the Wabash, and above all the Mississippi, whispered sweet promises of future homes and unmolested peace, and new Acadias were founded everywhere.
But not to the people, so much as to the spirit which actuated their lives, and made them strong in their adversity, do we give the praise. Of simple, unpretending habits, with all their love of home and domestic quiet,
their love of God was greater. No act of revenge, no un Christian retaliation is ever recorded against them. For their faith they were banished, for their faith they kept their hands untarnished by the blood of-their fellow-men. " To suffer wrong, rather than to do wrong,” was their motto.
To cherish the touching amenities of life, and to trust in God in the midst of human vicissitudes, was their highest ambition. Eternity alone will reveal the gracious and holy agency of this band of Catholic exiles, if not directly, yet through their descendants, in confirming the strength of our institutions, and in averting the disasters threatening the youthful Republic. s
Let it be our humble part to contribute a fresh spray to the wreath of laurel earned by our national poet in the delineation of the lives and virtues of the noble Acadian armers in their homes and in their exile.
The Exile’s Prayer.
The autumn leaves were falling fast, From stem, and branch and bough, The weary farmer ceased his work, And turned aside his plow;
The village maidens homeward hied, With woven garlands bright, Some of tinted autumn leaves, Some of jasmine white.
“ To-morrow brings the natal day Of Mary, our loved Queen, We’ll crown her brow with jasmine white And leaves of brightest green, We’ll ask her to be Erin’s Queen, The Tighter of her wrongs,
Then Mary’s wondrous power shall be The theme of exiles’ songs.”
While thns they speak in simple words, One maiden steals apart,
And hastening to our Lady’s shrine, She offers there her heart,
Her sorrows, tears, her very life, Her exile here below,
As sacrifice for native land To expiate her woe.
“ Plater Inviolata: take	'
This wreath of jasmine white
In token of our virgins who Now follow with delight
The spotless Lamb; with heavenly joy ■Their canticle o’erflows,
Their beautiful example us The way to heaven shows.
Regina Afartyrum, this crown Of antnmn leaves so red,
I offer thee in memory of Dear Ireland’s martyred dead.
I beg thee, Mother, bless the land Baptized in blood anew”— ' While thus the exiled maiden prayed Her voice more earnest grew—
“ Oh, Mother! what is Ireland’s crime, Or what her childrens’ fault, That thus they perish year by year
By famine and assault ?
Her sons in exile from their^home, The land of saints and song,
For loving faith and country?— Just Heaven, judge the wrong I
Oh, cruel, harsh injustice Of Ireland’s haughty foe I
Are the.cause of bitter anguish,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	^55
Unutterable woe.
For many Irish mothers weep, And with their ’bated breath, Pray that the sufferings of their babes May quickly end in death.
Tell me, dearest holy Mother,	.
Is slavery Erin’s doom,	_
Must her loyal sons lie buried
In oblivion’s silent tomb T Oh, no!—thy presence ’mongst us
In the little Church at Knock, ' Is a pledge of thy protection o’er ■	■ St. Patrick’s faithful flock.
Yes, we hail thy glorious mission, -	- -A prophecy that soon
We’ll hear o’er Ireland’s hill and dales
The song of freedom’s boon;
Our native harp, take up the strain And fling it to the breeze, Our gorgeous ‘ sunburst’ wave aloft
In triumph o'er the seas.”	S. T. W.
St. Mart’s Academy.	•
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses A. Cavenor. C. Claffey, E. Galen, S. Hanbury, 8. Walsh, M. Clarke, A. Dillon, Feehan, Beal, M. Campbell, Chrischellis, Fendrick, R. Fishburne, Heneberry, Lancaster, A. Nash, Ave Price, A. Rasehe, Simms, Shickey, H. Van Patten, L. Van Patten, Black, Call, Coryell, Hackett, Keenan, Leydon, McCoy, Owens, Margaret Price, Mary Price, V. Reilly, A. Richardson, M. Richardson, Rulison, Thompson, Chirhart, Wagner, Davenport, Fenlon, Fleming, Behler, Mulligan, L. English, M. H. Ryan, Reutlinger, Adderly, Clifford, Mulvey, B. English Northrop, Eldridge, Ives, M. Watson. 2d Tablet—Misses L. Fox, Wiley, Bland,. Barlow, C. Campbell, Glennon, McKenna, J. Reilly, Maude Price, Vander Heyden, Wall, Butts, M. Fishburne, Legnard, Mowry, N. McGordon, K. Rosing, Todd, Waters, Thomann, Williams, Castanedo, H. Hicks, N. Hicks, Smith. .
. JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses C. Ginz, C. Lancaster, H. Ramsey, J. Spangler, Semmes, Clarke, Chirhart, Considine, Coogan, Dillon, L. Heneberry, G. O’Neill, F. Robertson, Mosher, Ewing, Hib-bins, Krick, J. McGrath, Condron, Coyne, Chaves, Richmond, Schmitt, Mary Otis, Charles. 2d Tablet—Misses M. Ducey, Eager, M. Casey, M. Fisk, M. Morgan, A. Martin, Patterson, Paquette, Wright, Rogers, Hackett, Best.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses Rigney, Sawyer, J. English, Martha Otis, S. Campau, Castanedo, Barry, Burtis, Agnes English, J. McGrath, McKenna.
THE SCHOOL OF DRAWING, PAINTING, AND SCULPTURE.
DRAWING.
Promoted to the 2d Div., 1st Class—Misses A. Rasehe, L. Lancaster, L. Fox, C. Lancaster, 8. Papin, L. French.
Second Class, Average 95, Promoted to 1st Div.—Misses E. Thompson, A. Waters, B. Legnard, C. Campbell, E. Vander Heyden, H. Van Patten, L. Fendrick.
Second Drv., Average 94—Misses M. Casey. C. Wall.
Promoted to this Div.—Misses M. Wiley, C. Donnelly, Ave Price, M. Beal, Margaret Price, Mary Price, A. Rulison, E. Hackett, A. Watson, V. Reilly. N. Hicks, E. Galen, N. McGor-don, L. English, 8. McKenna, A. Nash, H. Nash, J. Owens, J. Spangler, P. Ewing, M. Wilkins, M. Garrity, M. Richardson, Mary Casey, H. Davenport.
3d Class, Average 95—Misses G. O’Neill,'M. A. Ryan, A. Martin, J. Krick, K. Mulligan, M. H. Ryan, B. English.
2d Div., Average 90—Misses C. Fenlon, M. Morgan, J. Bar-l>w, A. Gavan, M. Fishburne, C. Richmond, C. Harrigan, M. Otero, L. Williams, M. Watson, A English.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class, Average 95—Misses M. A. Ryan, A. Martin, M. H. Ryan. .
Promoted to this Class—Misses A. Rulison, E. Hackett, A. Watson, V. Reilly, H. Hicks, E. Galen, N. McGordon.
3d Class, Average 95—Misses L. English, 8. McKenna, A Nash, H. Nash, J. Owens, J. Spangler, P. Ewing, M. Wilkins, M. Garrity, H. Davenport.	• ■
PORCELAIN PAINTING.	.
HONORABLY MENTIONED
Misses A. Rasehe, E. Thompson; C.1 Campbell.-
SCULPTURE.
Misses Ai Rasehe, E. Vander Heyden, V. Reilly, L. Fendrick.
GENERAL DRAWING.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT—Average 90.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT—Average 85.
St. Mary’s Academy,
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
,	- AND SCHOOL OF	.
DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE. (Notre Dame P. O., Indiana,) Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
Tn the Academy the course is thorough in the Preparatory, Academic. and Classical grades.	.
Tne institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive heroariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes. .
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter -into the regular course of academic studies.
* THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a large Music Hall, and twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, and organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.	•
Esthetics and Composition.—A large Musical Library in French, German, English, and Italian. Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Harmony.
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE. ■ i	.	.
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe, drawing and painting from life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in English, French, German. Italian, and Spanish is connected with the School of Design. Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art Department.
Miss De La Barre, from Paris, a sculptress and artist of acknowledged superiority, has been engaged for three years as an addition to the regular corps of teachers in the School of Painting and Sculpture.	.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
8t. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
Crowned With Stars,
An Exquisite Volume of Poems in Honor of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Queen of Heaven,
BY
Eleanor C. Donnelly.
Published to Aid in Placing on the Dbme of the New University of Notre Dame, Indiana, a Colossal Statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Crowned with Twelve Stars.
Price, .... gilt, $1.25; plain, $1.00. Address STUDENTS’ OFFICE,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
EDWARD BUYSSE, DIALER IN Watches, Clocks,
All Kinds of Engraving Done
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
350	Kotruii DAmH SCHOLASTIC.
Mali
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Can, Day Can, Smoking Cara, Palace Reclining Chair Can and Pullman Palace Sleeping Can, run through direct, with* ont change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
Ao extra charge for Matrix thejtxttt MMajCMr Mom Cartix thrieorU.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Can of any Clan between CHICAGO and KAN SAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUI8.CHICAGO and PEORIA ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
The Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Ne braska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the Worth and, South, and, to and, from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any eonpoa Ticket Oflce in the United States and Canada, or to
James Chablton, J. C. McMuixm, General Passenger and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Manager.
10 Dearborn at, near cor. of Adams, Chicago.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 16, 1870.
	•MaB	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	♦Night Expresa.
Lv. Chicago - * * “ Mich.City* “ Niles	 “ Kalaniasoo-“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 95 “ 10 45 “ 19 33 p.m 8 45 “ 8 48 “	9 00 a. m 1118 “ 19 15 p.m 140 “ 4 05 “ 8 80 “	4 00 pan 8 85 “ 8 06 “ 9 50 “	515 p.m. 740 “ 900 “ 1098 “ 1950 a.m 885 “	910pm 1180“ 1948am 998“ 500 “ 800 “
	•Man	•Day Express.	•Jackson Express.	+ Pacific Express	^Even’g Express
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamaroo*-“ Niles “ Mich.City-- Ar. Chicago —	7 00a.m 10 90 “ 115 p.m 3 05 “ 4 80 “ 6 50 “	9 35am 19 15 p.m 9 87 “ 4 07 “ 590 * 7 40 “	5 55 p.m 4 50 a. m 6 60 “ 8 08 “ 10 85 “	960 p.m. 19 45 a.m. 948 “ 415 “ 580 “ 8 00 “	810 p.m 115 “ 188 a.m 880 » 455 “ 730 “
Niles and South Bend Division*
•GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 Am. 6 80 p.m. “ N.Dame—8 69 “	838 “
Ar.Niles— 9 95 “	716 “
•GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles— 705 a.m. 415 p.m. “ N. Dame—740 “	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend-7 45 “	4 66 “
•Sunday excepted. tDally. tSaturday and Sunday excepted.
O.	W. Ruggles,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. A T. A., Chicago, Hl. Gen'l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Bxuon, Agent, South Bead, Ind.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 7, 1881, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.32 Am., Chicago and St Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.30 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.05 pm.
11.23 un. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
9.27 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 Am.; Cleveland, 7.05 Am.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m.
12.38 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 Am.
6.35 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a.m.; Buffalo, 7 25 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 Am., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m ; Chicago, 6.10 Am.
4.48 Am. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.45 a.m., Chicago, 8.20 Am.
7.40 Am., Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte, 8.44 Am, ’ Chesterton, 9.40 a.m.; Chicago, 11.30 Am.
1.17 p.m, Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte 2.15 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p.m.; Chicago, 5.00 p.m.
4.26 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.18; Chesterton, 6.07 p.m.; Chicago, 8 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt, South. Bend.
- J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt, Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
P.	P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup’t., Cleveland.
