
SCHOLASTIC

Vol. 82
July 21, 1944
No. 2
V-J2 To Be Reduced 40 Percent
Seventh Wartime Graduation Held
Golf Team Wins N.C.A.A. Title
ck^M^F,


^he SVotre ^ame Scholastic
The College Parade
By EMMETT HASSETT
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
We’ve heard a lot about cuts. We’ve discussed them on many occasions, but the following quotation from the Plainsman sheds a new light on the subject:
“Absenteeism is being condemned when it occurs on the labor front. It is just as bad when it occurs in colleges, for the college student is being unfair to himself, his teachers, and those who are footing the bills of college. If he is to waste away his college years, he might as well be on the assembly line in some factory. Those who go directly from high school to work do not expect to skip classes, for they know that their jobs depend on steady attendance in shop or office. Young men and women who think they have sufficient intelligence for higher education could well show a comparable sense of responsibility.”
This thought could well be considered even by the incoming freshmen.____it seems to be good advice.
As the new term gets under way, we see signs all over the campus about the coming Lawyer Ball.... as we contemplated this and looked through the exchanges at the same time, we ran across this little item from the Plainsman; “The Social Calendar for the present quarter, as drawn up by the Cabinet, was remarkable in that there were scheduled only two formals for the entire summer.
Gee, what a tough life those guys and gals must lead.
In a recent quotation, Professor Endicott, director of the Northwestern University Placement service, said; “Employers look first for the ability to work cooperatively with people, the knack of meeting and talking to people easily.” The Brown and White of Lehigh University follows this up with.... “Where better than in debate and dramatics can you find cooperative fellowship offered in a university? Where better can you meet people than in your social meetings? Where better can you enjoy your fellow musicians than with the university band, and the glee club? This is an invitation to go, you men. You can’t do it by staying on the shelf. Let’s go!”
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ, Editor-in-Chiel
JOE THORNTON	AL BROTEN
Associate Editor, Marines Associate Editor, Navy
EDITORIAL STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN BILL WADDINGTON DICK MURPHY BOB O’TOOLE
Managing Editor Sports Editor
Circulation Promotion
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -LIEUT. J. J. COLLINS JIM CASEY -JIM REGAN EMMETT HASSETT ROBERT RIORDAN PETE BROWN HARRY LE BIEN
Observations Know Your Navy The Green Banner Introducing The College Parade Man About the Campus Pressbox Splinters The Periscope
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER	CHARLES RENAUD	TOM WHITE
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY. C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
eep up on Notre Dame News — subscribe to the SCHOLASTIC
' for yourself or for your friends in service $ 1.00 for July - October semester
Name_______________________________________________________________________
Address____________________________________________________________
A SCHOLASTIC representative will call on you soon—or you may Clip Blank and Mail to Publications Office—Notre Dame. Indiana
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 82
JULY 21, 1944
NO. 2
V-12 Program to Be Reduced November 1
Midshipman Hop Planned
40 Per Cent Cut Will Enable Start of Reconversion Here.
Tomorrow night, for the first time in many months, Midshipmen from the V-7 program at Notre Dame will invade the local drill hall for the first of a series of hops. Their guests will include a large number of girls from South Bend, Ca-dettes from the Service Men’s Center, and the neighboring acquaintances. Bud Simpson and his orchestra will provide music for the occasion.
Civilians Number 700
One of the largest civilian war time registrations of the freshman class, enrolled this semester at the University of Notre Dame, according to figures released this week from the office of the Rev. James W. Connerton, registrar of the University. Three hundred and fiftyseven freshmen reported to Notre Dame this week for the coming semester.
Exclusive of 1,850 Navy students and 1,450 Midshipmen, civilian students now approximate a total of 700. One hundred and ninety-three students are enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters, 169 in Engineering, 147 in Science, 135 in Commerce, nine in Architecture, 21 in Law and 26 are working for graduate degrees.
♦	♦♦ *8* «£♦ ♦♦♦	*♦* *♦* *♦* •••
❖	REMEMBER A PAL	❖
❖	Each new semester finds less of ❖ the "old friends" around. Many have •>
❖ been shipped out; many have been ❖ drafted. Don't forget that they like to ❖ ❖ hear about campus life, about the ❖ ❖ gang still remaining, about the many ❖ ❖ things that happen during the se- ❖ ❖ mester. Do your bit for an old pal by ❖ & sending him your issue of the SCHO- ❖ £♦ LASTIC as soon as you finish read- ❖ •> ing it. Perhaps some day soon you ❖ will want someone to be sending $ £• you a copy each week.—The Editor. $
$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $
An increase in enrollment of civilian students under 18, and those being discharged by the armed forces, was foreseen this week by the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, president of the University following the navy’s announcement that the number of V-12 trainees at Notre Dame would be cut 40 per cent November 1. The naval reserve midshipmen’s school is not affected by this V-12 reduction.
There will be 40 per cent less
A statement issued at the University said it was understood by the administration that the next semester assignment of V-12 trainees will be 1,107 compared with 1,850 at present. The cutback in the V-12 assignment, the statement said, will in no way affect the V-7 school. This navy cutback is nationwide.
Starts Reconversion
The reduction in the number of V-12 trainees will release Zahm and Cavanaugh halls, according to Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C. S. C., and enable the University to begin a two-fold reconversion program offering additional facilities to civilian students and meeting the demands of men returning from service.
For the past year and one half, the University’s special committee on post
war problems has been studying the rehabilitation program for returning servicemen, with special reference to academic and residential facilities as they can be integrated, Father O’Donnell said.
“This new program shows the thoughtfulness that we have always found characteristic of the navy,” said Father O’Donnell. “In commending the University on its gracious and effective cooperation since Pearl Harbor, the bureau of navy personnell points out that the nationwide reduction in the V-12 program naturally affects the larger quotas because of the navy’s desire to help the smaller colleges continue for the duration.
“News of the reduction,” said Father O’Donnell, “will be welcomed by boys under 18 now in the last semester of high school who planned to enter Notre Dame but whom we could not have accommodated while our facilities were so severely taxed”.
Commerce Forum is Again in Full Swing
Again, this semester, the Commerce Forum, one of the better known organizations on campus, began another extensive program. The first regular meeting was held on Tuesday evening, July 18, in the Commerce Building. In charge of the initial meeting were the two copresidents, Tony Bristol and Dick Murphy. Other officers for this term are: vice-president, Buzz Hassett; program chairman, Mike Garry; and publicity director, Tom McCaughey.
Previous to the meeting interviews for new members were held under the direction of Buzz Hassett. Many vacancies due to graduation and transfer were available. The quota was chosen from those who show promise to add to the intellectual and social prestige of the club.
3
Father Brennan Addresses Graduates; 140 Receive Degrees at 7th Wartime Graduation
Convocation of the faculty of the University of Notre Dame for the conferring of degrees took place in Washington Hall, on the University campus, Friday evening, June 23, at eight o’clock, when degrees w ere conferred on 140 seniors and on nine graduate students.
Addressing the graduates was the Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S C., profess
Father Brennan sor of philosophy and noted authority on Dante. Father Brennan described the
three R’s of education as follows: Reason by which we think clearly; responsibility that comes from a recognition of person understood in the fullness of its meaning; and resourcefulness that comes from good habits of ■ intellect and will. Father Brennan asked for a return to
education with God as its touchstone, with the realization of the importance of the human will and intellect, and the concept of man’s immortality and spirituality. The denial of these three ideals of man’s true dignity and worth has harmed education he charged.
“This truncated notion of man hrs done ill in education,” he stated. “It has brought us the sophisticate. It has decreased the member of the learned. It has made common the false notion that some men are common, whereas every man is an aristocrat because he is a person. It has done so much harm that I could not begin to tell you a small part of it. Education needs today, and will ever need if it is to be the virile and beneficial and lasting thing that it ought to be, a full measure of honest realism. And by honest realism I mean a frank recognition of things as they are, God, and the universe, and man.
“Without God in education, we may have keenness but not thoroughness, quickness but not accuracy, consistency but not truth. And these, add up to so many contradictions. Keenly unthorough, swiftly inaccurate, consistently false. What concepts! What ideals!”
Joseph Hoban Mumane of Chicago, Ill., who received the degree of bachelor of science in commerce, gave the valedictory.	.	-
Reverend Hugh O’Donnell, president, in his farewell address to the class,
praised their optimism in the face of the times, their faith in the eternal as against the world “in which every man's hand is raised against his brother because he has forgotten God,” and the consequent idea that “changing times should bring changing standards.” Earlier in the day, Father O’Donnell celebrated Mass in Sacred Heart Church for the graduates. The Mass was followed by the traditional farewell visit to the church with the Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C., conducting the ceremonies.
Among those who received degrees were twenty-two ensigns who left Notre Dame for active duty in the Navy, last February. They received degrees of bachelor of naval science—the first of such degrees ever conferred by the University.
John F. Lynch, member of the Marine Detachment of the V-12 Unit at Notre Dame, and of Green Bay, Wis., was awarded two speech prizes—the Breen Medal, and the $100 Cavanaugh-Goodrich Award.
The occasion marked the seventh wartime graduation ceremnoy. :
Knights Plan Picnic -
At a regular meeting of the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus, held last Friday evening in the auditorium of the Law Building, plans were made for the picnic, Sunday, July 30. Arrangement were placed under the guidance of Dick Murphy and Ben Mammina. Final selection of the site will be announced at a meeting to be held on July 28. Details of transportation will also be announced at that time.
The desire of local Knights to remember fellow members of the Notre Dame Council in the armed forces resolved itself in the decision to have a corporeate Mass and Communion service weekly, on Saturday morning, in Walsh Hall Chapel, since Walsh Hall has always been headquarters for local Knights.
A membership campaign, it was announced, will soon be launched on the campus. Committees were appointed to solicit and interview respective members.
Grand Knight Cotter made known the new office location of the financial secretary, Ernest Howard. Mr. Howard will henceforth be available in the new wing of offices located in Brownson Hall, after July 21.
The next meeting was set for July 28.
Student Council Meets
The Student Activities Council held its first meeting of the semester on Monday night, and elected Harold Berliner president for the semester. Other officers elected were: Robert O’Toole, vice-president; Robert Riordan, secretary; and Richard Sadowski, treasurer. In accordance with an amendment passed last semester, these officers will hold office for only one semester.
Eighteen organizations were represented at this meeting. Plans were laid for activities for the semester with particular consideration of plans for the football season.
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., faculty moderator, talked on the importance of the council at present, and impressed the members with the importance of their duties and responsibilities to the student body.
Members for the semester are: Rich- ' ard Ames, Bookmen; Harold Berliner, Catholic Action; William Bodden, Law Club; Anthony Bristol, Commerce Forum; Onofrio Cannavo, Breen-Phillips.
Jose Cardenas, La Raza; Jim Casey, Scholastic; Joseph De Lia, Saint Edward’s; Joseph Emond, Band; Emmett Hassett, Radio Club.
William Meier, A. S. M. E.; Robert O’Toole, Sorin; F. J. Pequigney, Wranglers; Earle Pye, Mass Club; Robert Riordan, N.F.C.C.S.
Richard M. Sadowski, K. of C.; Bernard J. Slater, Glee Club; Robert Warrick, Carroll.
Navy Officers Promoted
As of 1 July, the following officers were promoted to the rank of lieutenant, senior grade: P. T. Sprinz, R. E. Huff, W. H. Raleigh, A. E. Coryn, and J. J. Collins
A new disbursing officer, Lieut, (jg) E. J. Bealle, was assigned to Notre Dame, replacing Lieut, (jg) V. E. Mac-Hale.
Another new officer at Notre Dame is Lieut. R. C. Smither.
❖ SEAMAN AND MARINES:	❖
❖	"94 out of every 100 U. S. Navy ❖
❖ men hold National Life Insurance." ❖ 4*	How About You??	❖
4* Get your $10,000 piece of paper ❖ ❖ NOW.	❖
Dean Manion Speaks on "Catholic Hour";
Warns Against Pagan-Political Thought
Navy News Flashes...
Yeo 2/c Robert M. Chandlee married Miss Francis Fry, of South Bend Friday, July 14 in St. Paul’s Church. The ceremony took place at 4:30.
The seventh and eighth addresses, in a series of ten addresses, under the general title: “The Catholic Layman and Modern Problems,” delivered on “The Catholic Hour” program, and aired by the National Broadcasting Co., in cooperation with the National Council of Catholic Men, were delivered on July 9, and 16, by Dr. Clarence Manion, dean of the College of Law, at Notre Dame.
In his opening address, Dr. Manion established the fact that the Founding Fathers, in drawing up the “Declaration
Dr. Clarence Manion
of Independence,” “were determined that there should be no mistake about their intentions, and indeed there can be none.” “This is the land that the Lord hath made,” he added. “This is God’s country.” He then went on to emphasize that unquestioned and unchanged was the paragraph in which the authors of the document dedicated “the new American government to the accomplishment of God’s will in creation.” He showed how the “Declaration” stressed with uncompromising finality such things as the universal Fatherhood of God, the equality of men before their Creator, the unalienable character of the God-given rights of man, and the perpetual function of the man-powered government as the protector and conservator of these rights.
In his second address, Dr. Manion showed how such a foundation is at the present hour adjudged by many unsound thinkers to be inadequate and contradictory, thus leaving the American people mute and bewildered. He urged a return
to the source of American liberties, if the Constitution is to achieve its purpose and realize its blessings.
“God is the source of all the rights which the roads of American law and government are designed to protect. Without God, there would be no rights and consequently no roads. Without God, government would not be confined to certain designated paths. Without God, government could go where it pleased. No citizen would have any rights or immunities that a godless government, would be obliged to respect. Under such a godless government, every man’s life would be lived at the mercy of the State. Personal Liberty would disappear.... Without the Supreme Omnipotence of God, the State would be the all-powerful master of mankind.... On the other hand, with God-given rights, Government drops from master to servant. The area of its activity shrinks to certain narrow lines of action in certain well-defined areas. Thus, the existence and power of God is the ultimate difference between freedom and slavery, between liberty and tyranny, between the deadly swamp fever of despotism and the healthy climate of American constitutionalism.”
Warning against the new tendency of an all-powerful State in a world of pagan-political thought that would liquidate God, Dean Manion repudiated the assertion of the false prophets that such government is the natural progression of American Democracy, for the very good reason that “God’s authority can be suprseded by no power on earth,” as George Mason of Virginia once wrote in regard to the Virginia “Bill of Rights.”
“Only under God,“ reminded Mr. Manion, “may this nation have a new birth of freedom; and without God, it will certainly perish from the earth.”
Liberty Ship Named for
Angus McDonald. '00
The S’. S’. Angus McDonald, 10,500-ton Liberty ship, named for the late president of the Southern Pacific lines and a lay trustee of the University of Notre Dame, will be launched Tuesday at the Todd Houston Shipbuilding corporation, Houston, Texas. Mrs. Angus McDonald, sponsor, will be assisted by Miss Kathleen O’Connor, of the Southern Pacific Lines of Houston.
The ship, named in tribute to Mr. Mc-
Fred Early was discharged from V-12 school July 10 and re-inlisted July 11 in the U. S. Navy and is now at Annapolis—U. S. Naval Academy.
John Lujack headed here in next middie class of specialists. Will not be allowed to play football.
Donald, member of the class of 1900 at Notre Dame, received its title at the recommendation of Postmaster General Frank Walker, also a lay trustee of the University, to the maritime commission. Mr. McDonald who played quarterback at Notre Dame, and was four-year monogram winner in baseball, turned down a professional baseball career when he went to work as a clerk in the Houston offices of the Southern Pacific and then worked his way up to the presidency of the corporation.
In 1931 he was recipient of an honorary doctorate of laws from the University, and served as a member of its board of lay trustees for 10 years prior to his death in November, 1941. In 191516 he was president of the Alumni association.
A group consisting of Brian Odem, of Houston, Notre Dame, ’19, United States district attorney; Rev. William Robinson, C.S.C., of St. Edward’s University, Austin Texas, and E. M. Walter, Notre Dame, ’15, of the Houston Chronicle, in addition to a delegation from the Notre Dame club of Houston will represent the University at the launching ceremonies. Father Robinson will give the invocation, while Mr. Odem will read a statement from Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame. It follows in part:
“Angus McDonald was truly an American. ... When his country called him during world war No. 1, he responded eagerly, serving in the capacity for which his experience and talents admirably fitted him. For almost half a century he. was keenly interested in all phases of the life and development of Notre Dame, and his advice and counsel were always at the disposal of his alma mater. His school looks upon him as an exemplary Notre Dame man who always held steadfast to the principles he learned here long ago. It can pay him no higher tribute.”
“I can’t diagnose your case. It must be drink.”
“All right, doctor — I’ll come back when you are sober.”
5
Band Plays Wednesday;
Busy Season Scheduled
The University Band, under the dir-rection of H. Lee Hope, is already well
into a busy semester of activities. Mr.
Hope has announced a series of outdoor summer concerts to be held on Wednesday evenings beginning next Wednesday, July 26, and each Wednesday evening thereafter for 6 weeks. The concerts will be in
front of the Main Building, stalling at 7:15 P.M. Plans are being laid for several guest soloists and conductors, one being a nationally known figure.
The band numbers 100 members; however Mr. Hope would like to locate a few more clarinet players to fill that section. A V-12 band numbering 64 players is operating out of the University Band as a separate military unit, playing for chow formations, reviews, and other Naval functions. Pvt. James Kress and A. S. Raymond Kopituk are co-drum majors; Chief Petty Officer Barbes is handling the organization, muster reports and many other details.
A dance band made up of members of the V-12 unit is also being sponsored by the University Band.
F.D.R. Wins in Youth Poll
“With almost a 3-1 sweeping lead over all other candidates combined, President Roosevelt was the overwhelming choice of youth in Spotlight’s Presidential poll consisting of students and editors of colleges throughout the country. The poll ballot was answered by a cross-section of youth in over 100 cities in the nation.
“Of the entire total votes cast, President Roosevelt received 16,405 votes or 73.3% of total. His closest contender was Thomas E. Dewey, with 2,990 votes or 13.3%. McArthur, Stassen, Bricker, and undecided followed in that order.
“Of college student editors polled at Spotlights request, Roosevelt received over 54.8%, and these editors showed their preferences by attaching such statements to their ballots like “None but Roosevelt, Sir!” “No one even approaches Roosevelt,” etc. These editors came from 28 midwestern, 26 east, 37 south, and 21 western colleges. The colleges included Notre Dame, Annapolis, St. Benedict College, Wesleyan U. of Ill. and Conn., Alabama, Purdue, and the University of California, to name some of the better known.”—from Spotlight.
6
Bookmen Club Plans
Semester's Activities
The Bookmen, a campus literary club interested in the discussion of current literature, announced last week-end the opening of its regular semester membership drive. All civilians, marines and navy trainees are qualified for membership; the only requirement is that they be interested in, and be able to contribute something to, the activities of the club.
Bookmen meetings are held on every second Wednesday evening, and consist of a book review, or analysis of any current literary problem, by one member of the club, followed by an open discussion. Bookmen have planned one open meeting for this semester to which everyone on campus is invited. The paper on that evening will be delivered by a guest speaker, as yet unannounced.
Applicants for membership to Bookmen are requested to contact Richard Ames, Room 301 Sorin, on or before Tuesday, July 25. Interviews wTill be held at 7:30 p.m., July 25 and 26, in 301 Sorin. If unable to make application sooner, those interested may appear for interview on either of these two evenings.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ NROTC PLAN DANCE ❖
❖ According to Commander John Ca- ❖ ❖ ron, of the NROTC, a formal dance ❖ •X* will be held on the evening of Oct. ❖ ❖ 6, and will be followed by special *X* ❖ week-end festivities. This is the first
football week - end of the season. ❖ ❖ While other groups on campus have ❖ ❖ discussed the advisability of a dance ❖ •X» on this occasion, and set tentative i* plans for this date, the ROTC dance ‘X* •X* committee has definitely decided to *X« & hold their trimester social affair at *X* •X* this particular time.	❖
❖ & & *** •**
Stork Report
The Scholastic offers congratulations to Lieut, and Mrs. Paul T. Sprinz, on the birth of a daughter, Pamela, last Sunday in St. Joseph Hospital. Lieut. Sprinz is Director of Public Relations at the U.S.N. Training School.-on the campus.
Marine N. C. O.'s Drill
New Navy Companies
Despite decrease in the size of the Marine Detachment, reverberations of the familiar “One-t, Twoo-p, Three-p, — Three-p, Four-t, Lail!’ still ring clear on the campus. Thanks for this goes to the members of the Marine staff who have taken charge of Navy companies of Zahm and Cavanaugh Halls.
Steering Company L is Sergeant Redahan; Corporal Pesta leads the men of Company M, and Company N follows the orders of Sergeant Rockwell. Sergeant Santos commands Company 0, and Company P performs under the eye of Sergeant Beyl.
- We know that no members of the Family of Notre Dame will look upon this as a “slap in the face” to our capable Navy Chiefs. They are here with us in roles of athletic supervisors, and have done an excellent job. Chiefs, we doff our caps to you!
Here, then, is the reasoning involved: Where you need some plumbing done, would it be wise to call on a tailor for help? Definitely not!
From the very first day of “boot” to the last day of service, the average Marine eats, sleeps, and drinks drilling; it becomes so automatic with him that no forethought whatever is needed to execute his commands. Consequently, who better than he is fitted to teach the rudiments of military drill and discipline in the limited time allowed under the V-12 Program? Under this careful planning, with the emphasis still on scholarship, we will have an efficient military machine as well.—Guy C. Wilson
LaRaza Club Elects
Lorenzo Romagosa, commerce student from the City of Panama, was elected president of the La Raza club for the current semester. Jose Cardenas, president last semester, was elected to the vice-presidency. Other officers are Miguel Vila, treasurer; Jaime Velez, secretary; and Enrique Lulli, sub-secretary.	-
Following the election, plans for the semester were discussed.
❖	MOVIE TONIGHT	❖
>	Drill Hall	❖
:	_____ «J»
♦	"The	White Cliffs of Dover"	❖
At 2000	❖
• ♦	(For	Navy Personnel Only)	’I*
Law Ball to be Held at Rockne on August 18;
Civilian Semi-Formal to Cost $3.50 per Bid
BY FRANK PAULSON
Notre Dame men, from the most suave senior down to the 15 year old freshmen, long have waited for a social event comparable to those that made Notre Dame famous before the war. Now, at last, their wait is at an end. For on the night of August 18, Notre Dame men will again have the opportunity to at-
tend a first class dance held in their own Rockne Memorial. The dance that marks the return of the social life to the University will be the 1944 Law Ball, sponsored by the Notre Dame Law club.
The committee, headed by Lawyer Sam Alonzi and assisted by an able staff of subordinates, has spared no expense and effort to make this dance the highlight
Once again, the Rockne Memorial Lounge will look like this
of the semester and wise campus dealers are already making arrangements for the importation of their dancing partners. Such a move is not imprudent as a limited number of precious tickets will be printed and only the early birds will be assured a ticket to a glorious evening of dancing on the campus. Tickets go on sale to all civilians Friday, July 21 in the Law Library. Bids are priced at §3.50 which include a cleverly worded legal summons, with which the purchaser may summons his date. Remember, only a limited number of tickets are available starting this Friday in the Law Library.
Music for the gala affair will be furnished by a prominent orchestra whose identity cannot, at this time, be revealed. However, Music Chairman Tom Bremer, returned from his trip to the Chicago booking agents’ offices with a smile and promises that the orchestra will be a top flight musical organization and will provide danceable music in wholesale lots, both sweet and swing.
From all indications the 1944 Law Ball will be the social event of the semester and Notre Dame men are urged, nay petitioned, to obtain the precious tickets at an early date. Remember, August 18 marks the night of the dance of the year in the Rockne Memorial.
Miles of Brick Houses
Shelter Brave People
(Fleetman describes an English City after an air raid.)
America is young; American cities are young, brawling, noisy, carefree. American cities are changeable; American people are changeable. American cities of as many dissimilar elements as is a patchwork quilt. It’s a great feeling to come back to America and to renew acquaintances with her cities. ’
England is old; English cities are old, quiet, sedentary, bored. English cities are unchangeable; English people are unchangeable; perhaps the war will change the cities of England; perhaps some of the vivacity of the new world can be injected into the old.
I used to amble down Broadway on warm June nights; thousands of milling people jostled me about in that vigorous, hurrying, American way—thousands of people, American women, soldiers, sailors, (some in whites; some in blues) men in colorful clothes, drunks singing, fat business men wearing diamond rings; yes, thousands of Americans pushing, laughing, cursing, smiling, having a good time, glad to be alive, glad that it was summer, glad to be in New York City.
•. ■
How different Piccadilly Circus, the Broadway of London, and one misses the laughing, warm light which pours forth from the cafes and the night clubs along Broadway; one looks in vain for the .(Continued on page 18)
❖	❖
❖ GABRESKI IS LEADING ACE * ❖	♦
❖ Lt. Col. Francis S. Gabreski, ex. ♦ & '42, .Oil City, Pa., a student at Notre ♦ •> Dame from 1938 to 1940, stands' re-£• vealed as a leading American ace ♦ ❖ and a member of one of the most ♦
famed fighter squadrons in the war, ♦ ❖ the Zemke outfit’ or Wolf Pack. His ♦ •> picture and several references to his ♦ ❖ exploits were contained in the lead-❖ ing "Saturday Evening Post" feature ♦
of June 3, 1944.	+
& At the latest available count, when •t* the Zemke outfit had run up a record ♦ $ of 347 German planes blasted from ♦ ❖ the sky, Frank's score of enemy ♦ $ planes blasted from the sky, Frank's ♦ •> score of enemy planes stood at 28. ♦
There are 26 aces in his outfit; one ♦ $ of them got 22 German planes;- an- ♦ other 21.	♦
$ Col. Gabreski is a brother of Major ♦
Thaddeus S. Gabreski. '34, on duty ♦ ♦ with the medical corps in India. ♦
7
Publicity Office: Phone Call Rendezvous--Is Chief Dispatcher of Facts and Figures
BY JACK McGBANE
“Yes, Bertelli was married July 8 in Springfield. He’s a lieutenant in the marine corps and....” My interview with Walter Kennedy on the activities of his office was interrupted again by a demanding phone, so I turned to his secretary, Sue Grace, for help. Hardly had she begun when another phone sprang into action. “Publicity Department, University of Notre Dame,” she answered with her best vocal smile. “The first home game will be Oct. 7 when Tulane’s Green Wave makes its first appearance in the Notre Dame Stadium.”
J. Walter Kennedy
Director of University Publicity
While waiting to get a word in, I snooped around in the voluminous cliff of files gathering additional information. Then, seeing an opening, I made several more queries, departed, and returned to the much slower tempo of campus life, with a story about one of the biggest and busiest jobs at Notre Dame.
In March of this year Father Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, integrated the departments of academic and sports publicity, into the Publicity Department of the University of Notre Dame, with J. Walter Kennedy, ’34 as its director. Its purpose is to take courteous care of all the University’s press releases and public relations.
Previous to his appointment to the post of director of sports publicity by Father O’Donnell in June, 1943, Mr. Kennedy had been active as a publicist,
athletic director, football coach, baseball scout for the International League, and as a promoter. He succeeded Joe Petritz, who left his post to accept a commission in the Navy, and who is now somewhere at sea serving with the armed guard. Petritz was first full-time publicity director at Notre Dame, having assumed those duties upon his graduation in 1931. Prior to that year student publicity directors were employed, and men like Arch Ward, Francis Wallace and Petritz held down the job as undergraduates.
Every item of news carried by the nation’s press and radio networks concerning Notre .Dame, originates in the publicity department. Each week press releases are disseminated to over 200 news sources, both Catholic and secular, on academic developments; and 450 newspapers, radio stations and press services are notified of the activities of the widely-followed Irish athletic squads.
To keep such an active service with America’s dailies and periodicals, Kennedy’s department keeps thousands of up to the minute files. Twenty-five hundred separate folders are maintained on faculty members, students, clubs, and general activities, with another 2,000 on present and former athletes.
Walter Kennedy has assisting him in the publicity department Mary Patricia McCormick and Betty Lee Landing. Miss McCormick, a graduate of Rosary College, came to the campus last winter from Chicago, where she had been engaged in advertising and newspaper work. She enjoys the reputation of being one of the best women in her field today.
Handling Walt’s secretarial chores is “Susie” Grace who probably knows more about Notre Dame sports than any other girl in the country. The Associated Press ran a feature story on her last fall, praising her ability in handling her mansized job.
The Informer
The publicity department also carries on a very assiduous relation with the home-town paper of every student. Whenever a boy participates in any activity, be it athletics, band, dramatics, or club; or if he distinguishes himself in any way, his local newspaper is notified. The magnitude of this service needs little elucidation. With a normal enrollment of over 3,000 students, most of
whom are engaged in at least one extracurricular activity, the task of effectively continuing this association is tremendous.
From early in September until half way through December, Walt and his staff often work far into the night. Keeping tensely interested football fans supplied with material on the object of their devotion—The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame—means a lot of work. The Blue and Gold has the largest and most widely spread following of any team in the entire country and the public seems insatiable in its demands for news date-lined “Notre Dame, Ind.” Virtually anything that happens on the campus during the football season makes good copy, so the burden lies not in digging up stories, but in trying to get out all the important ones.
A normally heavy load of correspondence is more than doubled when the grid season begins. Requests are made for pictures of the players (several hundred each week) for statistics, for signatures and autographed footballs, and even for Eertelli’s or Miller’s jersey. “What do Notre Dame athletes eat before games and what did they eat ten years ago?” That’s an actual ’ question asked of the publicity department.
Requests from Teen-Age
Boys of high school age and younger are frequent inquirers. They want to know all sorts of things about the athletes—their homes, histories, measurements and, “does he go out with girls?” One letter started: “We four boys are studying for the priesthood and would like something from Knute Rockne’s files to prove that football is a Christian sport, that physical combat does not show disrespect for the human body.”
Some letters ask the most impossible questions: “Who owns the coin flipped by the referee?” “What is the number of real Irishmen on the Notre Dame team?”
Correspondence with men in service usually comprises about 60 per cent of the department’s total. They request statistics or facts in order to settle wagers and disputes with buddies. Walt often gets thank-you notes for supplying the information which enabled some fellows to collect five or ten dollars. Several of the more optimistic devotees of the Irish football team overseas have already made application for next season’s tickets.
A vast amount of preparation is made for football games by the publicity department. Last- minute press releases on the conditions of some injured player, (Continued on page 20)
8
“The time has come,” the Walrus screams,
“To speak of diverse themes,” “The gossip, stories, and of the queens Of those snappy Notre Dame Marines!”
Every semester brings something fresh and different, and so it is with this column devoted to the ND Marines! Resplendant with a new title, enhanced with cartoons, the voice of the Marines once again emerges from the boondocks of Cavanaugh. The Semper Fidelis lads greet the new semester with the reminder that “you must pass yo’ studies and stay on the ball!”
The Purple Heart of the Week goes to Pvt. Tommie Shay! In the citation just received from Marine Headquarters in Washington, Pvt. Shay is mentioned thus: “Facing enemy fire, and in the face of personal danger to himself, Pvt. Shay managed to break through enemy communications and receive information which later resulted in his passing the physics course.” Jest aside, hats off to Shay! He succeeded where your columnist failed, and we mean— flunked!
Now, remember- what General Vande-grift said, “There are two kinds of Marines; those who have fought, and those who are going to fight.” Well, I guess you know which kind you are, huh? Credit for the snappy new name for this strictly Leatherneck column goes to a new Marine V-12er but old-habitue, Neal Snyder, just come from overseas Marine duty. Upon Neal’s recommendations, and those of his famous (and we don’t mean infamous) roomie, the outstanding photographic genius and emminent Shakespearean scholar, R. C. Snider of Jamestown, N. D., the considered title of The Loquacious Leatherneck was cast aside for the present genuinely 'Gyrene byline.
Delmont Shaller took his lady friend from Mishawaka home to ‘meet the folks’ on the last furlough, and from all reports, things are looking up for Del and the little lady. Remember Del, we can love ’em, but we sure can’t marry ’em, no?
Who wants a one way ticket to Chi on the South Shore? Don Raggio, the big boy from Illini’s campus has been noted rushing madly around trying to sell one in the attempt to pay back a debt incurred over in the Main Building (I guess you know her name.) John (Venison) Reminger, Don’s roomie, is also pushing sales. Well Venison, how’s the deer?
Now that both sailors and Marines are occupying Cavanaugh, and since Sgts. Santos and Redahan, Rockwell and Beyl, together with Corporal Pesta have taken command of Navy companies, we think BE KIND TO SAILOR WEEK should be inaugurated. What you say? As a certain young worker from the Caf once said, “No kidding fellow, some o’ me best pals is in the Marines.” Let’s all work amicably together.
Loren A. Simmons, known in cafe circles as The Rogue, is sti1! racing around town. Oh, if a certain young lady from Waukegan only new! Well, he’s racing, but did I say what for?
Among those being more severely piqued by ‘no Chicago on week-ends order’ are Howard Webb and John Bily. As the great Japanese philosopher A. Sneeky Wretch once announced, “What Chi got, South Bend got too.” Could he be mistaken?
Weenie Sloyer, known also as Dreamy-Eyes, is still banging out tunes on downtown pianos in return for re
freshments. Weenie says that out in Penn where he comes from, “the folks sure do like their cokes, and that’s why I’m always . in from liberty on time!” Weenie enjoys the more potent kind of cokes. And his nite-life associates, Red “Tonsorial Artiste” Speece, alias “boobers”, together with Wilson Moody will agree to that! Well, where were you last Saturday nite?
So until pext time, as Gunny Sear-gant MacManus told the boys, “Watch out for me.”
Miller Not Yet Signed
While various reports concerning the signing of Creighton Miller, former All-American halfback at Notre Dame, with the Brooklyn Professional football team, inundate the campus and wedge their way into sports columns throughout the country, the evidence is not trustworthy.
According to the latest reports received at the Scholastic headquarters, no contracts have yet been signed. Reports that Miller would go to Hollywood to assist in the production of, and to take part in a movie story of the famous Miller family, are likewise unconfirmed. Miller has received offers from both Hollywood and the Brooklyn football team, according to Jim Casey, Scholastic columnist and close friend of Miller. The former N. D. athlete, according to Casey, is more intent on beginning a law course in the East, than on any other enterprise. Miller received his degree at the recent Commencement exrcises June 23. His home is in Wilmington, Del.
Nolting Aids Gridders in Summer Sessions
Ray Nolting, half back for the world’s professional champion Chicago Bears, reported early this week to assume his duties for the summer as backfield coach. Nolting will report back to the Bears after this summer session is finished in preparation for the All-Star game, August 30.
His knowledge of the “T” formation is being employed to advantage as the vast majority of the present Notre Dame squad are unfamiliar with the intricacies of the “T.”
Adam Walsh and Clem Crowe, who were signed during the past semester, arrived July 1 and took their positions on the coaching staff. Walsh, who comes from Bowdoin college on a leave of ab-. sence, will tutor the line. Crowe, also on leave of absence from Xavier University in Cincinnati, will assist in line coaching and as acting head coach of basketball for the duration.
9
2,700 in Daily Physical Education Classes;
New Play Field Will be Constructed
difficulty in handling mats. Boxing moves out of doors when possible. Track sections transfer to Cartier Field and the obstacle course. Advanced swimmers move to functional swim classes
BY JOHN A. SCANNELL
Head of Department of Physical Education
An average of 2,700 men a day in physical education classes over the past year!
That has been Notre Dame’s load in this one phase of the wartime program on the campus. And, though such a load obviously strains facilities to the utmost and creates problems in staff, the program has been rated highly by all inspectors visiting the campus.
Good cooperation from the University maintenance department has served to make the most of the facilities. We have been fortunate in the quality of the specialists sent us by the Navy as teachers, as well as in the officer in charge of them. A contract which calls for the navy to “supplement” the University staff to compensate for increase in load has meant that the department has retained direction of the program without the worry of locating additional staff. The present staff is made up of five members remaining of the regular staff in physical education, three members of the coaching staff, 15 navy specialists, and two officers.
This staff is responsible for 2,100 of the men referred to above. The difference in the figures represents midshipmen (half the midshipman school’s 1,200 men are in class each day) for whom the University furnishes facilities but not staff. Facilities for the midshipman program comprise the new Navy drill hall, a drill and athletic field of approximately 50 acres east of the stadium, and partial usage cf the Rockne Memorial.
The program for. .the V-12 and civilian students — no distinction is made between them in this program—uses the Rockne Memorial and the old Gym for the indoor season. Various fields on the campus are brought into use for the outdoor work, with old Minims Field, south of the Biology Building, and the parking let south of the tennis courts carrying most of the load.
A major piece of construction has just been authorized for the latter field. A group of eight asphalt surfaced tennis courts will be laid directly to the south of the clay courts, duplicating them in size and lay-out. These will be used for basketball and volleyball sections during the class day, and they will provide much needed tennis space over the week-end. The parking field to the south of these courts will be graded
from Notre Dame avenue to Eddy street, and south for a distance of 300 yards. This will provide ample space for the field gamss of the class program. It will offer excellent facilities for interhall sport.
In addition, an obstacle course, 800 yards in length and including 16 obstacles, has been set up east of the Biology7 Builing. St. Joseph’s lake takes a share of the load by providing an opportunity for functional (combat) swimming.
The activities conducted on these areas are varied and provide plenty of opportunity for the learning of skills, as well as the vigorous work-out needed for the development of the trainee. The indoor program finds classes in swimming, apparatus, tumbling and basketball in the Rockne Memorial. The apparatus room upstairs in the old Gym has been converted to a wrestling room by removing all floor pieces and coverin the floor with four mats each 20 feet square. The area under the north stands of the basketball court has become the boxing room. One full sized ring, six heavy bags, six light bags and platforms, plus ample room for rope skipping and shadow boxing, make this a very satisfactory space. Classes in track and mass combatives cover the dirt floor in the old Gym during the day.
The outdoor season finds some of these activities continued, some dropped, and some new ones added. Wrestling remains under cover because of the
Physical Education Class Hard ext Work
in the lake, while weak swimmers are held in the Rockne Memorial pool. The three standard' field games of soccer, speedball and touch football are added. Volley ball, omitted from the indoor program for lack of space, takes its place. Cross country is added to the track and obstacle work.
Class assignment to physical education is made by each dean as a part of the registration. An effort is made to assign 300 men per hour for physical education, this being the number best handled by staff and facilities. A seven group is broken into seven instructional sections for actual work. A seven period class day, from 8:00 to 4:00, allows for the clearing of areas for interhall, recreational and varsity uses in the late afternoon.
Interest in interhall sport has remained at a high level. The earlier fear that the man who had a required gym class during the day would not be interested in sport in his free time has long since been dissipated. During the past year there has been interhall competition in football, basketball, track, swimming, volley ball, boxing, wrestling handball, badminton, tennis, golf and softball. In softball play just completed, 38 teams were entered. Varsity athletics have continued without the dropping of any sport or the cutting of any schedule.
A vigorous program, reaching everybody, using all available facilities and staff, retaining many of the best features of peacetime and adding many new ones—that’s physical education at Notre Dame in wartime.
10
It.. sports
Head Coach Ed McKeever Issues First Call For Football; More Than 100 Respond
Campus Tennis Tourney Hits Finals This Week
BY JIM CAREY "Scholastic" Sports Writer
The Notre Dame Open Event Tennis Tournament began match play July 14. with 52 entries representing all the halls.
In the early rounds of play, Phil Martin' of Sorin upset the favorite, Dave
BY GEORGE KRAUSER
"Scholastic" Sports Writer
With a blue sky and a July sun overhead, the Notre Dame football squad launched a four week practice program last Friday. More than a hundred muscular giants turned out for the opening sessions of the summer conditioning program under the direction of Head Coach Ed McKeever, who is acting in place of Frank Leahy as director of the Irish pigskinners.
Ed McKeever, who hails from the Lone Star state, and who has been head backfield coach for the past three seasons, has proven himself worthy of taking command of the good ship Notre Dame. Since 1941 the Irish have had a galaxy of stars, which include such players as “Dippy” Evans, Steve Juzwik, Angelo Bertelli, Johnny. Lujack, and Creighton Miller, to mention a few, and all these were molded and fashioned under the watchful eyes of Mr. McKeever.
Walsh, Crowe Assisting
For assistance, the youthful mentor has Adam Walsh who comes from Bow-doin and was captain of the ’24 Irish eleven, which had the Four Horsemen for its backfield—and also a star track
Head Coach Ed McKeever
man in the hurdle division; Clem Crowe, who was head of athletics at Xavier University and now coach of basketball here at Notre Dame; Walter Ziemba, center on the ’41 and ’42 Blue and Gold elevens and now in his second year of coaching the Irish centers; Hugh DeVore, with two years experience at handling the Notre Dame pass receivers and end coach for this year; and Jake Kline, who is busied with the summer baseball at present but who will help out with the backs when the baseball season ends.
Only five lettermen return from last year’s mythical champions. Heading the list is the ’43 Irish captain, Pat Filley, who at present is recuperating from a knee operation, but none the less is helping the squad by giving pointers to the new linemen. Also in the line are Johnny “Tree” Adams, a 6' 7" giant and George Sullivan, the Massachusetts Marvel, proclaimed to be one of the best prospects ever to set foot on the Irish campus. Representing the backfield department are the fast, hard-driving Bob Kelly who turned in five brilliant performances last year and Francis Dancewicz, another Massachusetts product who was understudy to Johnny Lujack. From these five seasoned performers Coach McKeever plans to form the nucleus for this year’s eleven.
Standout Prospects
With practice already underway some men have been singled out as being the top prospects for this year’s aggregation. Starting with the center position Art Statute, a V-12 student from Saugus, Mass, and Fred Rovai of Hammond, Ind., stand out as promising material. With Pat Filley at guard is Eddie Miez-kowski from Windy City. Besides Sullivan and Adams, McKeever has pointed out an all-civilian trio, Mike Manzo of Bedford, Mass., Pete Berezney from Jersey, and Ken Schuster of Chicago. Holding down the end positions^ are Joe Kelly from Akron, Tom Guthrie of’^ewark,? N. J., Bill O’Connor, who hails from New
(Continued on page 20)
Chuck Samson
Caplan, from Zahm. After winning the first of the two sets by a close margin of 8-6, he went on to win with a comparatively easy victory, 6-2. R. L. Bont-sema, Zahm, had little trouble shutting out Judson Mear, 6-0 and 6-0, Ralph Wi-tucki defeated Joe Lauck from Walsh, 6-1 and 6-2.
These are only the first matches, the greater number is yet to be played. The tournament will close July 22 or 23, getting the final sign from the weather and the availability of players.
This is the first tournament of the semester and it will help to bring out the best among the players for the competition that will take place later on in the summer.
Ex-Varsity in Competition
The tournament is arranged to hold six “ceded” players for the last rounds of play. Those ceded men are members of Notre Dame’s undefeated spring team which is regarded by many sports authorities as the best in the country. They are: Chuck Samson, a Navy transfer from Ohio State, Jerry Evert and Joe Wood of V-12, Jim Griffin of the Naval ROTC, civilian Bill Tully, and George Ratterman, a new V-12 man from Cincinnati, Ohio. .This combination,, coached by Walter Langford, tied Miami of Florida and Texas for the National Collegiate title.	.
Notre Dame Captur
The monotony of knocking at the door only to never have it open is no longer a contention for the Notre Dame golf team, for June 26th brought Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., golf coach and his six man Irish team the National Championship title at the 47th Annual Intercollegiate meet in Toledo.
Attempts at supremacy on the part of the Blue and Gold have been many but they always fell short of their mark in the final tabulation. In 1937, they gained the contenders position in finishing second while in '31, ’33, and ’36 they snared honors that went along with third place. In ’34 and ’30 they took the number four spot.
A team total of 311 as recorded against Minnesota’s 312 was the winning margin that brought fame and victory to the locals. Michigan was third with a mark of 318 while another Big Ten entry, Ohio State, got in the four hole with a 327 total.
Michigan Favored
Despite Notre Dame’s regular season triumphs over Michigan and Minnesota by the decisive scores of 17%-9% and 20-7 respectively, still, the dopesters poured the publicity on the Wolverines and tried to edge them into the title before they had set foot on the course. In reality, it was the Golden Gophers who offered the stiffest opposition and led right down the home stretch but when they had eventually crossed the wire, a
Capt. Mel Wilke presenting the NCAA golf trophy to Father Holderith. Left to right.
Jim Bessenfelder, Jack Fitzpatrick, Fr. Holderith, Bob Terry and Captain Wilke.
close photo finish had Notre Dame winning by a stroke.
While the main aggregate had already finished and assembled on the last green awaiting the outcome of teammate Bob Terry, there was a game of nerves being waged on the back nine by Bob himself. Being three over par as he.readied himself for the 16th tee, Terry was approached by Tom Kennedy who came out puffing after making the jaunt from the final green to see what his buddy was doing and to relay the news back to the rest of the assemblage. Bob contended that he would probably bogey the next three but Kennedy merely encouraged him to hold his score down as much as possible and do the best he could. Little did Terry actually know how much depended on him. After bogeying the 16th and 17th, he came through with a par on the 18th. The ball had hardly rolled into the cup before the rest of the Fighting Irish delegation was surrounding Bob and hugging him like he was a newborn babe. Then, and only then, did he know what he had actually done—he had clinched Notre Dame’s first Intercollegiate victory.
Second Mid-Western Winner
In winning the meet, Notre Dame became the second Mid-western school to achieve such an honor, Michigan having been the only other institution in this sector to receive the crown. Eastern or western schools have had a partial monopoly on the event to date, Yale having
BY BILL W
''Scholastic"
won it in ’43 at Olympia Fields Country Club in Chicago.
Team totals were based on the low four individual scores by each team. In addition to Terry’s 76, Jim Bessenfelder had a 76, John Fitzpatrick a 77, and Mel Wilke an 82.
In the individual matches Notre Dame qualified six men but all were eliminated early in the playing except Jack Fitzpatrick who went into the second round but was defeated by Jim Jackson, the latter in turn being defeated by Lewis Lick, the eventual individual champion.
Notre Dame thus left the beautiful Inverness Country Club, home of the ace Byron Nelson, with something to cheer about and a gorgeous trophy which now adorns the trophy case of the pro shop in the Rockne Memorial Building. The six man team employed, Capt. Mel Wilke, Jack Fitzpatrick, Jim Bessenfelder, Tom Kennedy, Dick Seidel, and Bob Terry have accumulated another record of which the Golden Dome campus can be duly proud.
Worked Right Up
Although Fr. Holderith is not offering the bad weather of the early spring months as a cause for the initial and only defeat of the season to Purdue, 9%-8%, it is pretty generally recognized that the elements were not entirely in accordance with the best golfing etiquette and a late start was evident. Another contention was the return of only two monogram men of the year before, Wilke and Bessenfelder. Fitzpatrick, Terry, Seidel, and Kennedy were all playing tfieir first year of collegiate golf.
After the first loss to the Boilermakers, the Irish made up for their downfall at Lafayette and took the Northwestern Wildcats into camp on the University course, 19%-7%, on a Saturday afternoon and then played host the following day to the Wolverines, whipping them, 17%-9%. After these two crucial contests had become history, it was an assuring factor to Fr. Holderith that the boys were a “working unit.” Repeatedly he had stressed the ability of the fellows to play together, making breaks for one another, winning alternate holes where the opportunity presented itself. The scoring potency, became stronger as the
12
res NCAA Golf Title
WADriNGTON
istic ?ports Editor
:ry
ow In ler nd
:ne :ed tz-nd he ris
>n. :ul
ce ter )W op he te, >m ry of be
weeks rolled by and soon the opposition began to feel starvation where their own points were concerned.
Detroit, even on their home grounds, were completely whitewashed, 18-0, as the Irish hung up victory number three. The trip to Minnesota, despite the hospitality that was shown, made it no easier on the foe as Notre Dame admin-i istered a 20-7 beating to the Gophers.
ig ig id
at d-id n-o-id
>1, st
k-
•n
;y r-'g n, i-
s-le iy rs
le
•e te ie
Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., golf coach of Notre Dame's 1944 Intercollegiate champs.
A strong V-12 contingent from Lawrence College in Appleton, Wis., who were meeting with fairly good success, were determined to meet the Blue and Gold and scheduled a late match in quest of wresting some of the honor that was being showered on a vastly improved Notre Dame team. But their fate, as the / others, was doomed as they returned homeward after absorbing a 13-5 licking. I The recently, graduated midshipmen class was anothex- outfit who tried their skill at conquering the Irish linksmen but were overcome, 11 %-6%. The final match with the Illinois Institute of Technology again proved the proficiency of the Golden Domers, 15-0, and thus brought the team up another rung on the ladder that was to find its climax in the crowning glory of the season, the
capture of the 47th Intercollegiate Golf Meet.
Fitzpatrick Tops
Jack Fitzpatrick from Akron, Ohio became the leading individual pointgainer when the totals were finally revealed, having annexed 26% to his credit. Bob Terry and Jim Bessenfelder each put 19% on their records in tying for the number two spot.
Player	Matches	Earned
Wilke. Mel (Capt)..		s	is%
Bessenfelder. Jim ..		19%
Fit; Patrick. Jack ....		 8	26%
Terry. Bob 			19:h
Kennedy. Tom 			 6	19
Seidel. Dick 			 6	17
All of the above mentioned six men will receive major monograms. For a freshman, Fitzpatrick was an outstanding golfer and he now awaits call to the armed service. Jim Bessenfelder, the only trainee on the squad, being from the Navy V-12 program, has shifted his residence to Asbury Park, N. J. where he awaits transfer to a midshipmen’s school. After the momentous occasion at the Intercollegiate meet, the boys elected Jim captain for the ’45 season. Of course, he won’t be here to fulfill that duty but he has the satisfaction of knowing that the boys had him placed high in their esteem and that honor which they bestowed upon him will be a long-lived, cherished memory. Jim’s steady reliable golf all through the schedule was one of the more outstanding features which brought this team its just due.
Capt. Mel Wilke has finished seven semesters on his way to a metallurgy degree but he is now at home in Detroit awaiting induction. Fr. Holderith believed Mel to be a fine captain and deserving of the title. While his golfing ability may have been out-shined at • times by the youngsters on the squad, he kept the ball rolling by doing his best, setting forth the example that makes for spirit and will to win. Bob Terry, the fellow who won the Intercollegiate title without knowing it, is now at St. Louis Medical school. Dick Seidel has already become a member of the Army while Tom Kennedy, monogram man, and Jim Clynes have returned to school and are the only hopes on which Fr. Holderith will have to build next spring.
University Open Championship
The University Open championship 72 hole medal play was won by Jack Fitz
Patrick who scored a 279 to set a new University student record for this tourney. He bested Tommy Sheehan’s former low score of 286 set in 1938 by seven strokes.
The only hole in one to be recorded in play thus far this season was an ace on the sixth hole, 135 yards, by Walt Reilly a V-12er, May 20.
Thus the cover is shut on another more than successful season. The pages are worthy of a gilt-edged job this time and the binding is deserving of something most elaborate. In all, a squad of highly spirited youngsters and a coach full of optimism and sportsmanship combined their efforts to bring home another championship to Notre Dame, the School of Champions!
1944 Schedule Opponents Notre Dame
Purdue (there)________9|£ S?A Northwestern (here)____ 7%	19^
Michigan (here) _______ 9%	17%
Detroit (there)	0	IS
Minnesota (there)______7	20
Lawrence (here) _______ 5	13
ND Midshipmen.(here)	11%
Illinois Tech, (here)	0	15
Total points 45	123
Dual Matches lost—one (I)
Dual Matches won—Seven (7)
First place in the 47th Annual Intercollegiate Golf Meet at Toledo.
Fr. Holderith wishes the best of luck to his boys who are entering the service and hopes that the day will soon come when they can all return to Notre Dame.
The William J. Burke Memorial Golf Course proved to be the ideal training grounds for the '44 Irish linksmen who went on to win the 47th Annual NCAA golf meet at the Inverness Country Club in Toledo.
13
Klinemen Split Twin Billing as Informal Summer Baseball Season Gets Underway
BY JOHN FEENEY "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Notre Dame’s summer baseball team, with seven hold-overs from the spring campaign, is rounding into shape under the guidance of Coach Jake Kline. Returning veterans include pitchers Paul Lammers, Jack Barrett, and Eldon O’Brien; third baseman Frank Ciszczon; shortstops Dick Balbierz and Bob Cian-cherti; and outfielder Jack Mayo. Lammers and Barrett, who divided duties in the season’s first two games, are right handers while O’Brien is a southpaw.
Jack Tree, first baseman; George Martz and Vince Laurita, catchers; Jim Kartholl, second baseman; John Harm, third baseman and outfielder; and Gifford Rich, Frank Roberts, and Billy Albert, pitchers, are among the many promising candidates who have been reporting for practice sessions at Cartier Field since July 7.
Despite the fact that two games have already been played, Coach Kline has not as yet made his final selection of the men to be carried on the squad. This is due to the large turnout and the limited number of practices.
No monograms will be awarded since the regular schedule for the year was played in the spring. However, dates for ten games have been set. To this number . may be added one and possibly two other contests.	•
Win First Encounter
In the first billing, the Irish mauled Baer Field of Fort Wayne, Ind., 12-4, to open their 1944 schedule last Saturday afternoon. However the Klinemen met disaster in the next encounter Sunday, being defeated by General Electric of the same city, 9-1, under the arc lights.
In the Saturday tilt, the Irish opened the scoring ynth a brace of runs in the
"Down the Groove"
third inning and were never headed. Three more of Jake Kline’s men registered in the fourth frame on singles by George Martz, John Harm, Jack Tree, and Dick Balbierz, together' with a two-bagger, from the bat of Jim Kartholl. The next time up, Kartholl again came through, this time with a single, to drive in Jack Barrett. In the sixth, Frank Ciszczon crossed home plate on an error, ending Irish scoring until the big ninth, when five hits, including home-runs by Barrett and Harm and a double by Balbierz, were sufficient to account for a like number of runs.
Meanwhile, Paul Lammers, checking the losers on nine hits, while whiffing seven, was never in serious trouble, despite circuit clouts by Brown and Halloran.
General Electric Different Story
Unlike Baer Field, the other opposing nine, a power laden aggregation composed of pro and semi-pro players, proved to be too much for Kline’s comparatively inexperienced crew, as the 9-1 score attests. Jack Barrett pitched commendably, despite being tagged for 13 hits, but Notre Dame lacked the batting prowess to match the winners’ steady slugging.
Orphan and Miller, the G.E. twirlers, gave up only four hits and the Irish would have been blanked but for a bad throw in the fifth which sent Harm home from third with the lone N.D. tally. The Fort Wayne club clinched the victory with a four run splurge in the third, added two more in the seventh and ended the scoring with one in the eighth.
Fort Sheridan Next
The next game on the Irish docket is carded for Sunday against the formidable Fort Sheridan team, there. The Irish play Bunker Hill at Peru, Ind. on July 29 and are at home for the first time Sunday, July 30, for a return engagement with Baer Field.
Notre Dame ______________0 0 2 3 1 1 0 0 5—12
Baer Field ______________0 00 101 02 0—4
Lammers and Martz; Tursic and Zoeller, Penny (5).
Notre Dame ______________0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0—1
General Electric ________0 14 1 0 0 2 1 0—9
Barrett and Martz; Orphan, Miller ,(6) and Bush.	.
. The Schedule.
July 15—Baer Field (Ft. Wayne), there.
July 16—Gen. Electric (Ft. Wayne), there.
July 23—Fort Sheridan, there
July 29—Bunker Hill, there
July 30—Baer Field, here
August 5—Iowa Pre-Flight, here
August 6—Michigan City, there
August 12—Glenview Field, (Glenview, HI.)
August 19—Bunker Hill, here
August 20—Fort Sheridan, here
Dippy Evans and Joe Ruetz Get Their Wings
Frederick Owen “Dippy” Evans, backfield ace for Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish in 1940 and 1941, has traded his football uniform for that of an Army Air Forces Officer.
"Dippy" Evans
The former Irish star, who led the Ramblers in scoring during the 1941 season, is now a second lieutenant after getting his commission and getting his “wings” at graduation exercises at Foster Field, Texas. The new lieutenant is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Frederick O. Evans of South Bend, and he is married to the former Miss Billie Osthemer, also-of South Bend.
Joseph H. Ruetz, 1937 All-American guard, now flies as a Naval aviator. Graduated from the Naval Air Training Center, Corpus Christi, Texas, Ruetz is commissioned in the Marine Corps Re
serve.
Joe Ruetz
14
Naval ROTC Upperclassmen Spend Time Cruising on 'Wilmette1 and 'Wolverine'
BY J. D. USINA
Eighty-seven of the men in the Notre Dame Naval ROTC spent the greater portion of their semester leave aboard naval training' ships in Lake Michigan. The hulk of the group were aboard the USS Wilmette from June 24-July 1. Another group of 12 men shipped aboard the USS Wolverine, a training aircraft carrier operating from Chicago.
All the men who made the trip will be graduated in February and are scheduled to be commiscioned as ensigns in the Naval Reserve. Such shipboard training as received during the last week in June and first days of July plays an important part in fitting them as officers for the fleet.
Those 75 aboard the Wilmette shared the ship with a smaller group from Marquette University’s NROTC. A boat race in pulling whaleboats was won by the Notre Dame contingent as were boxing matches on the quarterdeck of the ship. Marquette managed to come through in the softball tilts played on Lower Mani-touk Island.
Standing various shipboard watches; conducting target practice and in general learning the various routines and organization of a naval ship were chief among the accomplishments of the cadets.
The skipper of the Wilmette is Lieut. Comdr. Maxwell, USNR and his ship has
been used each summer by the Notre Dame Naval ROTC for training purposes.
An innovation in the training program was offered to a small group of N. D. navy men who were aboard the aircraft carrier Wolverine. These cadets stood JOOD watches as well as four-hour familiarization watches throughout the entire ship. An opportunity to see air operations as well as to view communications and other technical aspects connected with aircraft handling was afforded this group. They were the guests of the Twin Cities of Benton Harbor and St. Joseph, Mich., over the Fourth of July as were the officers and men of the Wolverine and her sister ship the Sable.
There's No Substitute
For a Good Roommate
By SEAMAN GENE DIAMOND
After you come home to your “apartment” from a hard day in the classrooms, he is always there to comfort you. When you return from week-end expeditions to South Bend or other cities he awaits you with open arms. After a wicked afternoon on the golf course, he stands as a burning candle offering you a place free from reminders of tees and putters.
Who is he? He is your roommate, that
young man who became your associate through the courtesy of the Navy or the University. Maybe his grades surpass yours; maybe his girlfriend’s picture is classier than yours; maybe he can bowl better than you can. But, brother, no matter what kind of problem he may present to you, you’re stuck with him.
He’s an eager little lad with curls that he’s proud of; big, graphic brown eyes; and a facial expression that is the essence of gullibility. On that fateful July 4, he interrupted your attempt to recapture all the sleep you didn’t get on leave—when he dropped three pieces of luggage beside your bunk and announced himself in a vigorous contralto. You made a grunt suffice for a greeting and a handshake, then, but now you find that this imp has invaded and pervaded your whole routine.
He’s the guy who finds that walking on your heels saves shoe leather at drill and he thinks “double time’" is an excuse to emulate Jesse Owens. He’s the guy who stared with a hurt, unbelieving expression at his first tray of Navy chow and wandered aimlessly about Dillon until you told him that “it” was the third door to the left at the end of the hall. While you were struggling to substitute speech for calculus, he was complaining because synoptic meteorology wasn’t available for beginning Freshmen.
He wrote 37 letters the first week, 30 of them to Mabel who is a senior in Apple Center Progressive High School. Speaking of Mabel, that’s her picture on his desk. Did I say picture? I meant billboard, the thing must be 8 x 10 (and I don’t mean inches).
That one uniform of his completed the cycle from whites to slate greys to blues in the course of a week and his hat has much the shape of Science Hall. Chiefs like him because he addresses them all as “Sir” and, in spite of Mabel, he’s infatuated with the female menagerie in the chow hall.
He goes to phy. ed. to “develop himself” and to classes to “learn something,” poor deluded lad. He wishes he were back in high school but he loves to call cadence in South Bend.
Well, you’re stuck with him now and there’s nothing to do except to wait out his evolution into an old salt like yourself and hope that he’s part of the 40 present. When all is said and done, he has his good points. He always has a nickle for the coke machine and you liked the expression on his face when you elected him room captain. He smokes your brand and you admire his exuberance with a broom and dustcloth.
So, give Junior a break, treat him right; it may prove profitable in those lean days before payday.
15
Segura Beats Talbert In Exhibition Match
Francisco (Pancho) Segura, national intercollegiate tennis champion who features the two-handed racquet-wielding technique, and Billjr Talbert of Indianapolis ranked No. 4 nationally just behind : Segura, put on an exhibition match for ■Notre Dame’s Midshipmen last Tuesday "evening at 6:30, Segura winning the single’s event, 6-4.
Following the singles, Charley Samson, Notre Dame’s team captain who
was defeated by Segura in the intercollegiate meet three weeks ago, teamed up with his conquerer against Talbert and Midshipman Bob Holzl, former No. 1 Princdton man. Samson and Segura took the doubles event, 6-4.
Segura and Talbert, will probably rank No. 1 and No. 2, respectively, before the season ends, as the present No. 1 and No. 2 men—Lieut. Joe Hunt of the Navy ‘ and Jack Kramer of the Coast Guard—have been unable to take part in any big tournaments. Segura and Talbert are now touring the various service stations exhibiting their tennis wares.
Marines Survey Depleted Ranks; Still Make Gallant Stand in Cavanaugh Hall
BY GEORGE NUTIL
It was on 1 July ’43 that a group of young men moved onto the famous and historic campus of Notre Dame. These men were to form the new V-12 College Training Program. The majority of these lads were from civilian life; some had been to college previous to their coming to this University, while others had been with the fleet. They were directed to the reception center and during the spare moments tough looking drill instructors bellowed orders and commands.
“Will it never end?” was the cry of every new man.
The new trainees were soon informed by the commanding officer that they were potential officer candidates, and their primary duties were to study, and properly prepare themselves for the job that was someday to be theirs. The men had been classified, previous to their entrance into the program, as basic or engineering candidates.
Classes were quickly arranged, books obtained, and college soon began.
Study—these boys really did, and during their few spare moments they were issued military uniforms, and were taught the proper care of them.
Besides the 750 marines there were enrolled in the program 900 seamen, and constant competition between these two factions for drill, scholastic, and inspection ratings, was prominent.
An hour each Saturday morning had been set aside for mass drill, inspections, and reviews. During the summer months
Though depleted in ranks. Marines retain Campus Marching Honors
a large competitive review was held by the navy and then by the marines.
“Shhh! (we don’t like to remember this).” Medical shots were given with long pointed objects by the rover boys at sick-bay. “Ouch!” was the cry heard about the campus, and this cry lent itself to every horrible physical education period.
In September, January, and May a formal V-12 Ball was held with Eddie Howard, Johnny Long, and Jerry Wald respectively, supplying the musical compliment. Each ball was a huge success, and they were looked forward to and remembered by all.
At the end of each semester some men were separated from the program, and some went on to Parris Island for further training. In November 90 marines went to Parris Island, and 102 went to San Diego; in March 87 marines went to P. I. and 27 to “Dago”; in July 118 were sent for further training in the officers class, and 20 marines were eliminated. The mortality rate for the program has been quite high, as the men were going through a screening process, for Uncle Sam wanted only the best for officer material.	.
During the summer and winter months of the hash mark year, tough exams have been given, physical education classes have had a taste of the tough navy physical conditioning program, and fine week-ends in South Bend, Chicago, and nearby towns were made possible by the overnight liberty; the very sociable public was enjoyed by all.
16

By PETE BROWN
During the next few months we shall endeavor to keep you informed cn the activities of Notre Dame athletes who are now serving their country. We will attempt also to inform you of what the school’s sports opposition are doing and whom they will have playing on their teams this year.
Last year N. D. put a football team on the field which fought its way to the National Championship. A check shows what can happen in one year’s time. The members of that team are now scattered far and wide.
John Yonaker is a Marine sargeant at Parris Island, N.C. Paul Limont just received his ensign’s commission at Columbia’s Midshipmen’s School and is awaiting assignment. Jack Zilly received his ensign’s commission in the NROTC and is now on patrol duty off the coast of Florida.
Ziggy Czarobski is studying for a CPO rating at Bainbridge Academy, Bainbridge, Md. Jim White is with the fleet in the Atlantic. Captain Pat Filley has an honorable discharge from the Marine Corps and is expecting to return to school. John Perko is in the Marine Corps at Parris Island. Herb Coleman is a Naval Aviation Cadet at the University of Pennsylvania.
Angelo Bertelli received his commission as a 2nd. Lieut, in the Marine Corps, and shortly afterwards got married. Johnny Lujack is at pre-midshipmen’s school at Asbury Park, N. J. He expects to return to Notre Dame’s Midshipmen’s school next month.
Creighton Miller is going to study law and may play pro-football. Jim Mello is now stationed at Great Lakes.
Two of the men responsible for this team are also gone. Head coach Frank Leahy will finish his indoctrination training at Princeton, N.J., late this month. Ed Krause is a 2nd. Lieut, in the Marine Corps and is studying for Marine intelligence at Quonsett Point, N. J.
There is a rumor circulating about that the Chicago Cubs are going to hire the services of Joel Kupperman, child mathematician of Quiz Kid fame. They want to find what their mathematical chances are if they trade Jimmy Fox, Lou Novikoff and Manager Charley Grimm to Pittsburg for the double play
combination of Honus Wagner and Manager Frank Frisch. They figure that if Hershel Martin can win a ball game for the New York Yankees with two home runs, the above two could win a pennant. Remember that this is only a rumor and will have to be verified by the Cubs.
Since Dick Wakefield departed from Iowa Pre-Flight, his place in the Iowa baseball lineup has been taken by Ned Harris, Wakefield’s teammate at Detroit. The condition of organized baseball is really bad. No major or minor league team could down the Great Lakes nine, but the Ford Motor Company’s team turned the trick July 5.
AGE BEFORE BEAUTY: Thurman Tucker of the White Sox is the only man of the first five batters in the American League who has been in the majors less than five years. The other four are Pete Fox, who is 35 years old, Dick Seibert, Grandpa Bob Johnson, and Bobby Doerr.
Northwestern University has started its summer football practice. There is a record number of 150 candidates. . . If you see numerous men on their knees around the campus, don’t be alarmed, it is only members of the football team praying for cool weather. It is a known fact that a football uniform is 30 degrees hotter.
In the past twelve years, the Chicago Cubs’ management has pulled three of the biggest boners in modern majoi-league history. . . . First, they released Joe McCarthy as manager after he had won a pennant and had never finished out of the first division with just a fair ball club at his disposal. . . . After that, they paid $185,000 for Dizzy Dean, who practically had a broken arm that everyone in basball knew about. . . . Then to top things off, they fired Charley Grimm, one of the best baseball minds in the country. . . . Well, now they have Grimm back; perhaps some good soul will contribute the amount of Dizzy Dean’s price tag and then all they’ll have to do is get hold of Marse Joe and they’ll be right back where they started a dozen of years ago. . . .
Since baseball’s “Ball and Bat Fund” was originated, it has contributed $300,000 for baseball equipment for the armed forces. . . . Schoolboy Rowe, former Tiger and Phillie ace, was an honor student during his boot training at Great Lakes and was assigned to the station’s security watch, one of the most important departments of the Training Center. . . . Speaking of Great Lakes, the sailors’ ball team has four regulars batting over .385! • ~
And This Is Why Giants Walk the Campus
By GENE DIAMOND
With outstretched arms and what might be interpreted as a fiendish glint in their eyes, the physical education department of the V-12 program welcomes each and every roly-poly newcomer and guarantees to do all in its power to spend the next few months in likening him to a Greek adonis.
Each one has a reputation to uphold. Last fall the V-12 program produced four All-Americans in football, in the winter, “Crystal” Klier etched a V-12 Navy name into All-American basketball annals; and this spring Seaman Paul Bessenfelder and Charley Samson led Notre Dame to national championships in golf and tennis, respectively, while Seaman Frank Martin’s two-mile victory-highlighted the track team’s aquisition of the runner-up spot in the N.C.A.A. fiinals. Each of these men has made sport headlines give vent to wondrous tales of the Navy and Marines at Notre Dame, but there are others who have gone unsung while enduring the numerous muscle-building concoctions in gyms and fields about the campus.
For years Notre Dame has - stood for proficiency in all fields of physical and sports endeavor but never before in its history has the University seen as intensive and all-embracing program as that which wartime demands have now brought to Notre Dame.
The Navy prescriptions read, “Large doses, four times a w'eek” and Ensign Brewbaker, who acquired his athletic experience first -hand while playing a lot of tackle for Roanoke, and his staff of athletic specialists are quick to comply.
Adhering to the sound and proved conviction that physical training develops many of the essentials of a good fighting man, the Navy has prescribed a course stressing the sharpening of reflexes and endurance through participation in competitive contests, and the development of shoulder, leg, and abdominal muscles through calisthenics and apparatus work.
Primary and most familiar phase of the program is old “morning misery”— calisthenics—of which the less said the better. The rest of the program, however, finds the victim more receptive owing to • its being conducted at a more agreeable hour.
For basic men, “P.T.” consists of courses in track, combat, boxing, and wrestling, garnished by occasional carefree gallops over that simulated beachhead, politely known as the obstacle course. After sixteen weeks of fundamental training, the trainee passes into
17
the maintenance division where his course is widened to include soccer, volley ball, track, touch football, and swimming.
The functional swimming class has been expanded to include “abandori-ship” procedure, supporting an object above water while swimming, the removal of clothing in water and the use of clothing in staying afloat, and surface diving as a protection against strafing. •
Later on, when old man winter threatens, classes move into the Rockne Building for activity in the light and heavy apparatus rooms. The “activity” consists of work on high and low horizontal bars, parallel bars, stall bars, horizontal ladders, and flying rings, as well as rope climbing, tumbling, and hand walking.
An alternative to the aforementioned drudgery is to compete in intercollegiate sports, in which practice sessions suffice as a substitute. From time to time, intramural and inter-company tourneys will be conducted in softball, handball, tennis, wrestling, and other sports.
All in all, the stuff is conducive to muscle-building and can pay dividends in exclamations of awe when service center girls test your biceps.
MILES OF BRICK HOUSES
(Continued from page 7) moving chain of light which runs around theatre fronts in America; and prays that he might see the flash of just one neon light—something to remind him of the land he once knew. All English cities are wrapped in the inky-black cloak of night; its folds droop over the rooftops, and hang down into the streets, stifling the life, the gayety for which one looks
in vain. Up and down the streets, one walks; what is summer in an English town, what is a summer night in an English town at war? The town is sick, its people are sick; the people try to keep alive by slipping away under the cover of night to hide from the high-soaring bats which wreak destruction on the sickened city. There are no milling crowds of happy people in London; one can’t see the people; but one knows there are small groups or couples moving about. Everything is black. The sidewalk cannot be seen; it is only by being felt underfoot. Suddenly, the street slams you a jarring blow—you have just walked off the curb. Someone careens into you. The glowing red of cigarettes bobs up and down and whirls along in swift eddies of the night. Here and there matches splutter, throwing a ghostly light upon a human face. A push upon a door, a few steps, the blackout curtains are swished aside, and there they are— Americans, Yanks, hundreds of them, fellows a long way from home, fellows who almost always think of home; a lot of them never to see those homes again. This is the American Bar; those are Americans. What a sight!
Outside, a dim light points to the underground; down, down you go, down to the level of the tracks; so this is where the Londoners lived during the nights of the battles of Britain! The subway whisks by stations named Waterloo, Blackfriars; how different those names sound from Forty-Second Street, Twenty-Third Street, Wall Street! At last you reach the station desired on the Inner Loop, climb the stairs to dimmer and dimmer levels. High above, a full moon peeps furtively out from behind
scudding clouds; the dead hulks of bombed buildings stand rigidly erect in the bright moonlight, which bathes them skeleton white.
Over there, the moon, slipping across the drawbridge, darting up the ramparts, and creeping about the walls, throws flashes of light on the Tower of London. Is that Bloody Richard hunching along, or is it a moving shadow caused by the mysterious moon? A feeling of antiquity permeates the air, a feeling which one cannot find in the cities of America. One is awed by the scene, the silence, the gulf of time, the destruction.
English towns lack the warmth which one finds in suburban American areas, or in small American towns. Our towns are young; our houses are painted in bright, cheery colors; we like white bungalows plumped down on a carpet of thick green grass. English houses are coldly erect; many guard their privacy with a stone wall; most of them stand with their feet next to the sidewalk with perhaps a small cigar box plot of grass for a yard.
Do you enjoy walking down the streets of a strange American city, craning your neck to see the top of a high building, admiring the contrasts of the modern store fronts, or marveling at the colors of the homes? You won’t do that in Liverpool. All you will see is a vast sea of red brick, mile after mile of sickening red brick, through the yellow smoke and rain.
Liverpool’s finest hotel, the “Adelphi,” a beautiful modern structure, still stands defiantly; but across the street a once-huge department store is now nothing but a skeleton of uprights and transverse girders. Small signs fronting the walks are all that remain of many business buildings; the signs inform the passerby that the business has moved to such-and-such a street. And you will soon discover that the streets of Liverpool, like the streets of all other English cities, are not very long. Nor are signposts any longer available.
The buildings of downtown Liverpool are grimy and black; hundreds of incendiary bombs and fires have cast a smudge over the city. Outside the art museum—a huge Greek-type building— a gaping crater in its center, pose some statues, lime-white statues, ludicrously contrasted by the black, soot-covered building. The homes of Liverpool’s people have been shattered; their red bricks lay strewn over the ground amid the rubble in which children play war games.
It might be a good thing were American people to travel more; it might be a good thing for the world. Then the 130 million Americans would come to realize as never before, just how fortunate, how pleasant,-and how envied, is their proud American way of life.—B. 0.
18
DRILL COMPETITION
For the past year a slightly worn red rooster sign has stood outside Alumni Hall, with the announcement COMPANY G hung triumphantly beneath it. This has conveyed to the casual observer the impression that somehow Company G is superior to the other companies, which was true, eight months ago.
Let’s give some real signifigance to that rooster and add interest to the monthly inspections by having an intercompany drill competition. Give the ■winner a substantial reward; as, for example, extra liberty. This will not only make the drill better but will also give some immediate meaning to the unequaled discipline of this semester.
THINGS TO COME
By stretching that telescope way out we can just barely see in the distance something glimmering. It’s still a long, long way off but it is there, never the less. Yup, another V-12 Ball. Tentative date, 6 Oct.
• *
LETTER OF THE WEEK
Dear Mom:
Well, here it is another semester. I am sorry that I have been unable to write you for the past two weeks, but I have been very busy, sort of. Things have changed somewhat.
One example is my company. Boy are we lucky for we get a Marine noncom instead of a CPO. Just think of • it, we get to know how to march, act and grunt like Marines. The one difficulty being as indicated, we have to learn a new language. We are now doing forward, to the rear, close, and flank marches all to one amazing little growl, namely: “hoo-ah.” As the noncom said: “We must learn like the good soldiers we are!” The Marines sure are smart fellers.
I hate to say it but I am having a little trouble with Math, Physics, Eng
lish and Naval History this semester. But gee, what is a little calculus when you think of the really worth while things I am learning how to do, like how to sweep and dust efficiently and wash and iron my whites and stand watch and wax the deck and wash down the bulkheads and put on my clothes while running down to muster.
All in all the outlook for this semester is very bright, although I will only get to see you once in four months.
As ever your loving son, Augie.
P. S. I hear they just skip boot training at Great Lakes if you are from Notre Dame V-12.
THOUGHT AFTER A BIG NOON MEAL
I like my sack,	, .
But still it lacks,
The power to float along side of me to the calesthentics field and be there so I can lay down in between exercising.
Which is very discourising.
CONCERNING LIBERTY
Bang!
Plans for the funeral have yet to be completed.
OVERHEARD ON REGISTRATION DAY
Trainee: “Whatta schedule! Twenty-three musters and Phy Ed.”
Marine: “Could I exchange Physics for Theory of Baseball?”
NO IT COULDN’T BE
Maybe it’s just our imagination but could it be possible that the food is getting better? As Dagwood says we had better sleep a while until thoughts like that go away.
• ❖
COKE MACHINES
“Anybody got two nickles for a. . .”
RUMOR OF THE WEEK
A detail is going to be made up to go over and clean St. Eds. The civilians being so busy with studies, etc., can’t find time.
❖
Eight now, so you will be aable to get the same laughs as we have from your own “Gabby Gizmo,” we present (with notes by yours truly):
BELLHOP GROANS!
Bouquet of the Week.2 To those wonderful fellows of Company E3 for washing down the ceiling! last Saturday. It literally saved our necks.5 To you, dandelions and pansies.6
Boo-quet of the Week:~ To the nasty old Chief who made Quillmont Dowelfinger, Company B, climb the ropes on the obstacle course, instead of letting him sneak around the side. To you, BOO.S
Left, right, left: The lucky9 Navy men will really learn to marchio now, as Marine NCOs take over all drill classes. The swabbies are having quite a bit of trouble,! 1 however, and their instruction has had to start from the very beginning. Thus, the boots were carefully instructed in the intricate marine maneuvers: (Restricted, for naval personnel only) “First the left foot goes up; then the right.”! 2
WE HEAR
Things are getting tough. Looks as though the Marines are going to have to pass Phy. Ed. to stay in the program.! 3
Every Marine!-! who has successfully passed Physics is now entitled to a special campaign ribbon. 15
Thorndike Flooke, Company B, has set up a card punching business for all Marines flunking a subject.16
1	Also known as Marine Cadence.
2	Deah. deah.
3	As in jerks.
4	Navy men; overhead.
5	Impossible, too thick.
6	What, no violets?
7	You’re going to hurt my feelings.
S How frightening I
9	Now I’ll tell one. •
10	We joined the Navy to ride in ships. ■
11	This Lower Congo language is a little tough to catch on to right away. .
12	Now hold it.
13	Pure scuttlebutt.
14	Both of them.
15	Consisting of two crib notes emblazoned with a miniature s’ide rule.
16	Uses mass-production methods, of course.
19
PUBLICITY OFFICE
(Continued from page 8)
starting team, late photographs, coaches’ statements and color stories have to be readied for Saturday morning editions.
Kennedy manages all the radio broadcasting from the stadium, makes arrangements with announcers, and provides them with spotters. He handles all press box tickets, which seemingly small detail gives him his biggest headache. Walt has to weed out pretended journalists from the real ones, and in doing so, he has to be both detective and diplomat to avoid giving offense to legitimate members of the press.
Commencement exercises are another source of exertion for the publicity department. Stories are sent to dozens of papers covering the baccalaureate sermon, valedictory and salutatory addresses, and the principal speakers. The names of all graduates and the degrees conferred upon them are relayed to their home-town papers.
Long hours and hard work prevail as Kennedy and his assistants strive to keep the public ever-informed of developments at Notre Dame, yet they seem to-thrive on it. Always ready with a smile, and with a courteous response to even the zaniest questions, they carry on the best traditions of Notre Dame cheerfully, efficiently and affably.
McKeever starts football (Continued from page 11)
York City and who is in the V-5 program, Bob Walsh, a V-fiver from Chicago, Emil Ladyko from Connecticut, and George Boothby, another Massachusetts man.
In the backfield besides Dancewicz are Joe Gasparella from Pennsylvania and
Paving the way for another Notre Dame grid championship.
Steve Nemeth, a local man. Among the right halfbacks are two V-12’ers, Kelly and George Terlep of Elkhart, Ind., and two members of the V-5, Don Doody and Nunzio Marino. In the left halfback slots
are Joe Bartos of Lorrain, Ohio, Doug Waybright from Saugus, Mass., and Walter Kondratovich. At the fullback post are Jim McGurk of the V-5, Frank Ruggerio from Orange, N. J., and Frank Endress of Evansville, Ind.
”T" Still in Use
The Irish eleven, which will operate from the “T” formation again this year, is composed of Navy trainees, 4Fs, and 17-year olders. In the four week span of summer practice Coach McKeever will teach the complicated “T” to the newcomers and will attempt to whip the squad into condition for the season opener Sept. 30, against Pitt’s Panthers at Pittsburgh. Coach McKeever has indicated that, “it’s too early to consider definite prospects for this year” and that as regards to opponents “they will all be tough.” The one motto set forth by Mr. McKeever is, “We have to work, or else we don’t want you.” With that as a guide and McKeever and his assistants to enforce it, it looks as if Notre Dame will once again field another team capable of turning in outstanding performances, and of winning national recognition.
New Managing Editor
Robert Riordan has assumed the duties of Scholastic managing-editor with this issue, replacing Harold Berliner.
IAIKIJ	(Idlltli
To you v-7 men, we extend an invitation to inspect our officers uniforms, caps and accessories.
All Uniforms, Raincoats, White Suits, and Grey Chino Suits are tailored to your measurements. Kindly check on our dependability.
Over 35 years South Bend's oldest established tailors.
In our ad of July 7 it was stated that we were representing M. Born of Chicago. This was an error by the advertising department of the SCHOLASTIC.
PARKER-WINTE R ROW D
.	115-117'/4 N. Main Street (Upstairs)	North of Oliver Hotel	'
Phone 36318 for appointments
20
i THE GREEN BANNER ;
J BY JIM CASEY J ' M ftXXXXXXZXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXk<
BACK AGAIN
The intermission between last semester’s graduation and paying five skins for late registration seems very brief indeed. It was good to get back to Notre Dame, however, and see the gang once again. Many of the old faces are not seen among the ranks on Sorin’s porch, but that’s what graduation does to a good group. Before continuing, however, we want to say Hello to our old faithful readers (both of them), and greet any new ones. We might add that, if you have any bits of slander, or items of interest of a printable nature, which you would like to see in the magazine, contact us, and we’ll guarantee to mis-inter-pret some if not all of the facts. Oh yes, we almost forgot. If you don’t want to see your name in print on this page, (In other words, if you want to keep your reputation above reproach,) it will cost you plenty.
DIG, DIG, DIG
Discounting the Freshman orientation issue of the Scholastic, this week’s issue is the first one to appear this semester for the benefit of the entire campus. Among the first of our admirers who will receive complimentary copies, wall be St. Mary’s. We must let them know that we are still around pounding out copy. For their benefit, we should be hitting our stride by the time the girlies arrive back at the “Rock” in September. Until then, ’nuff said on that score.
ADVICE TO FRESHMEN
Before we forget, we might mention that the Freshman class is the largest group on campus. Many of them look rather young, so we’ll take this opportunity to give them a little brotherly advice:
1)	A Freshman student ticket is not on the 50-yard line;
2)	There is nothing much to do in South Bend after you take your one midnight a week. So, don’t gripe too much about having only one; '
3)	All passable South Bend girls down to the eighth grade have been taken over by the Navy. Besides, remember No. 2;
4)	A High School hero has only frosh standing. More tradition—Get those letters off your sweater, if you expect to wear that prep school job here at Notre Dame;
5)	Upper classmen will let you have
the shirts off their backs.... if you give them their price;
6)	Some of the profs actually think you came here to work;
7)	Indiana has all kinds of weather and, as you will soon find out, most of it is bad.
8)	Remember, certain steps are not to be climbed;
9)	Checks from home do not last as long as they are supposed to;
10)	There is no room service available in the hall. The Stuudent Council has been trying to get it for years;
11)	Remember, thou art only a frosh.
HERE AND THERE
From our snooper-snooper, Dick Mel-lett, we learn that Leo “Dock” Ratten-maier practices on his trumpet daily in Carroll Hall. The kid would like to win membership in the University band. A petition has been taken up, signed by all the hall’s residents, and will be presented to Mr. Hope. Not that Doc’s playing warrants so many admirers, but anything to get the glunk out of the hall.
Indianapolis is trying a population comeback at Notre Dame. Among the new enrollees are: Leo McNamara, Bud Slupesky, Ken Sweeney, Jim Blaes, Joe Thie, Leo McNulty, Joe Emond, Ed Kan-nington, Don Currand, and Bob Weiger.
Have you noticed the new ceiling in the cafeteria? Oranges $1.20 per doz.!! This is the deadline!!
ST. ED'S A.C.
The gang frcm old St. Ed’s got into swing early this semester with a student election that brought back memories of Notre Dame’s halycon past. After the primary on June 12, John Costelli of the second floor appeared as the most popular candidate. Two clever cards (and we don’t mean "posters”) backed him. Also running for student council in St. Ed’s were Bob Rotchford from the First Floor, Joseph DeLia from the third, and William O’Neil from the fourth. Although DeLia had the publicity, DeLia came forth as somewhat of a darkhorse to win.
We hesitate to say too much about the week-ends of several campus characters. Hassett’s however, was harmless. We understand he is to replace Frank Kent as dean of the local nature lovers.
Big question of the week: “Where is ‘Muscles’ Pfaff?”
[■JiiiiifiiiiiiiHiifiiiiiiitiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliii^Q 1 BUY WITH CONFIDENCE I I - . I i South Bend’s Leading Jeweler • =
1	A wide selection of	E
I	Desirable Gifts	i
:	on display.	=
= Use our I ay-aw ay plan. | p^iiiuHiiimiiiiiitiHitiiiiHiHiiiiHuiiiHiiitiiiniiHiiiitiiiiiiitiHifSl
"fl. f" N,x 7ml VITAMINS
HIGH-POTENCY TABLETS
VITAMINS A-D.BX-B2 (G)-C-B6
E-Niacin-Calcium Pantothenate
As Dietary Supplement ONE TABLET A DAY Will Supply the Full Daily Minimum Adult Requirement of the Vitamins of Which the Requirements Are Established.
Each small Ntne^Vitamtn Tablet Contains—
AS MUCH “A” as 4 Pints Whole Milk
AS MUCH “D” as 1 lb. of Butter
AS MUCH “C”
as 2 ozs. Orange Juice
AS MUCH “Bi” as 35 ozs. Raw Cabbage
AS MUCH “Bi”
FOR ADULTS OR CHILDREN
as 40 ozs. Raw Green Beans
AS MUCH “Be” as 30 Grs. Brewer’s Yeast AS MUCH NIACIN as lb. Lean Meat AS MUCH CALCIUM PANTOTHENATE as 150 Gms. Carrots
AS MUCH “E” as in 5 mgm. wheat germ cil
90 TABLETS SOM
GOLF CLUBS
BASEBALL GLOVES
BASEBALL BATS
SOFT BALLS AND BATS
TENNIS RACQUETS
FISHING TACKLE
Goldsmith and Spaulding
Distributors
SONNEBORN'S
121 W. Colfax Ave.
21
By ROBERT RIORDAN
Jim Casey. . . senior. . . business administration major. . . ‘‘everybody knows Casey"’. . . started in ’41. . . joined E. R. C. ./. . in the army for one semester. . . roomed with Jack Herlihy, then Creighton Miller. . : member of the Commerce Forum. . . was in Radio club. . . Chairmaned the Tea Dance of the ’43 Junior-Senior Ball.
Writes the “Green Banner”. . . .played interhall baseball. . . goes to St. Mary’s during open season to get a little information. . . . likes the “Rock” in spite of what he writes. . . will represent the Scholastic on the Student Council this semester.... has played politics here and there.__Democratic committeeman of the Notre Dame precinct.
Had his heart broken at 12. . . ran away and joined the Boy Scouts. . . -worked his way up to Eagle. . . still has no “one” gal... doesn’t think his abilities should be monopolized. . . makes it to Rosie’s every Friday night. . . thinks it has seemed rather dull lately. . . enjoys an occasional beer at George’s.. . biggest thrill at N. D. was the Southern Cal game of 1941. . . also had a big time at the Navy game that year.
Home is Buffalo, N. Y. . . . went to South Park High. . . played football until he found out they exercised. . . . once swam the Niagara River. . . has won several rowing titles. . - both crew and sculling. . . biggest thrill was winning a four man Canadian national crew race title just after losing the eight man race. . . most embarrassing moment was capsizing before a huge crowd while warming up for his first race.
Gives his grandmother hotfoots. . . she retaliates by French sheeting his bed__ wants to get a job as recreation manager of a resort in Arizona. . . has a knack for forgetting names. . . once forgot Miller’s name when introducing him . . . thinks he made a wise choice in ' selecting the Commerce College. . . has worked for Curtis-Wright on their plant lay-out. . . . helped set up floor plan for new Buffalo plant.
Likes camping. . . . has his own cabin in the Alleghenies. . . also goes in for picnics. . . smokes Phillip Morris. . . . reads autobiography, likes stage comedies and dramatic movies, and can always go for a steak, medium rare. . . . trying golf. . . . runs out of golf balls and can get no one to carry his adding machine.
{ajmmittttmjmiimfimmtmmiimiiiittiimtmmiiiiiimtiiim^
Campus Centenary Publications
i Notre Dame—100 Years$4.00 :
= Collected Poems of	:
:	Charles L. O'Donnell$2.50 =
... at the Bookstore
fa^mimitimitiiiiiittiiitii mu m ttiimimmitiiitmimutim it mifaj
{■Jiliiimtiiit iirtmititiimiiiiiitimitiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiimiiim^a]
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL, VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . .TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
I HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP I
SIX CONVENIENT CHICAGO STATIONS
The South Shore takes you direct to downtown Chicago. Six convenient stations — Kensington, 63rd St., 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
JOSIE and JIM'S
X X x
X
X X
X X X
X X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
x x X X X X
TUNNY ITALY
CALE
NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS
PLACE
SUNNY ITALY 601 N. NILES PHONE 3-0678
A TRADITION AT NOTRE
DAME
SERVICE MEN: Make This Your First Stop on That Night
Off!
zxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxmxxxxxxxxxx!
X
x X
22
► Know Your Navy 4
Scope—The length of chain out.
Scrappers—Openings on the side of a ship to carry off water.
Scuttle-butt — Drinking fountain; a rumor of doubtful origin.
Sea anchor—A drag thrown over the side to keep a vessel headed into the wind and sea.
Sea ladder—A rope ladder usually with wooden steps for use over the side.
Sea lawyer— A seaman who is prone to argue, especially against recognized authority. One who by his wit tries to avoid difficult duties.
Sea room—Far enough away from land for unrestricted maneuvers.
Secure—A command meaning to cease whatever work or drill is in progress and stow away all gear. Also to make fast.
Shipshape—Neat, seamanlike.
Short stay— When the scope of chain is slightly greater than the depth of water.
Shove off—To leave.
Show-a-leg— An order to make haste.
Sickbay—The ship’s hospital.
Side boys—Enlisted men of the watch in port or at anchor attending the side to render honors.
Silence—A command used in gunnery, meaning to stop immediately whatever is in progress. Emergency order.
Sing out— To call out.
Single up— To cast off double lines so that only single lines remain secured.
Sister ships—Ships built on the same design.
Sky Pilot—Slang for chaplain.
Smart—Snappy, seamanlike; a smart ship is an efficient one.
Smoking lamp — When the word is passed, “The smoking lamp is out,” it means “knock off smoking.”
Snub—To check suddenly.
Speed cones — A cone-shaped signal used in formation indicating engine speed.
Squilgee (squeegee) — A deck dryer made of a flat piece of wood with a rubber blade and a handle.
Station bill—The posted bill showing stations of the crew at emergency drills.
Steady—An order- to a steerman to hold a vessel on the course she is maintaining.	.
Steerage way — The slowest speed at which a vessel can be steered.
Stern sheets—The space in a boat abaft the after thwart.
Striker—A non-rated man who is qualifying for a petty officer’s rate.
Stow—To put in place.
Sundowner—A strict disciplinarian.
Swab—A mop.
Tackles (commonly taykles)—Commonly called a pulley or system of pulleys in civilian life.
Taffrail log—The log mounted on the taffrail consisting of a rotator, a log line, and a recording device to indicate speed.
Tarpaulin — A heavy treated canvas used as a protective covering.
Taut—With no slack; strict as to discipline.
Thwart—The athwartships seats in a boat.
Thwartships—At right angles to the fore-and-aft line.
Tompion (tompkin)—The wooden plug placed in'-the muzzle of a gun to keep out dampness.
Top sides—Above decks.
Transim—Any seat that is built in officers’ country and is a permanent fixture, by usage, is called a transom. Trice—To haul up.
Trick—A period of time during which the steersman is at the wheel.
Trimming tanks—Tanks used for ballast. '
Post-War Plans Discussed
Profs. Northcott, Egry and Schultz went to Cincinnati last week for four days to attend the National Convention of the S.P.E.E. at the Netherlands Plaza hotel.
There were four main discussions for the entire group, and the rest of the time, individual groups had panel discussions. University of Cincinnati was the host of this convention. It is a significant fact that every engineering group was represented at this meeting which had representatives from chemistry and mathematics groups. Altogether some 1,200 attended the four day discussions.
No army or navy topics were discussed this year; there was plenty of talk about rehabilitation and post-war plans. One interesting feature discussed was the use of visual aids in the future.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Glasses Correctly Fitted
Est.
1900
J. BURKE W. G. BOGABDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTiSTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION,
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH ANO JAWS
TELEPHONE 4.566!
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND, IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER, M.D.	M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-426S	* ~
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.O.S.	-
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND, IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-406 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2S74
23
Copyright 1944. Liggett & NhERs Tobacco Co.
^HESTERFIELD
. Help them "Get there first with the most." Buy more Z Bonds for Victory ★ ★ ★ /;
It’s always first with Chesterfields - first for Milder Better Taste-with the most in smoking pleasure for you and all your friends.
Yes, these are the winning qualities you £ want and expect in a cigarette. Chesterfield does it and says it in 5 Key-words... i 5
RIGHT COMBINATION • WORLD’S BEST TOBACCOS