babes in

CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY...
1/3 IN JULY	1/3 IN AUGUST 1/3 IN SEPTEMBER ,
No Carrying Charge
THE PALM BEACH COMPANY . . . THAT A APPEARANCE NEED NOT BE EXPENSIVE...
• ■
PALM BEACH WASH AND WEAR SUITS LOOK
LIKE EXPENSIVE WORSTEDS ... YET COST ONLY
I
$39.95 and $45
Next to your education, your appearance may be the most important factor in the kind of a job you get . . . how quickly you increase your responsibilities and salary. So, look your best I . . . and we’d suggest the new Palm Beach wash and wear suits. They’re so perfect in fabric blend, construction and tailoring ... so fashion-new in styling, pattern and color . . . you’d never know that they’re wash and wear suits! See them soon ... in handsome checks, import-look glen plaids, stripes and rich solid colors.
PALM BEACH BATAYA WEAVE SPORT COATS...........
PALM BEACH RESORTWEAVE SPORT COATS ......
PALM BEACH SLACKS.......................10.95	*
29.95
39.95
14.95
Q
On Campos Mk Shulman
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf’, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
A ROBE BY ANY OTHER NAME
As Commencement Day draws near, the question on everyone’s lips is: "How did the different disciplines come to be marked by academic robes with hoods of different colors?” Everybody—but everybody—is asking it. I mean I haven’t been able to walk ten feet on any campus in America without somebody grabs my elbow and says, “How did the different disciplines come to be marked by academic robes with hoods of different colors, hey?”
This, I must say, is not the usual question asked by collegians who grab my elbow. Usually they say, “Hey, Shorty, got a Marlboro?” And this is right and proper. After all, are they not collegians, and, therefore, the nation’s leaders in intelligence and discernment? And do not intelligence and discernment demand the tastiest in tobacco flavor and smoking pleasure? And does not Marlboro deliver a flavor that is uniquely mellow, a selectrate filter that is easy drawing, a pack that is soft, a box that is hard? You know it!
But I digress. Back to the colored hoods of academic robes. A doctor of philosophy wears blue, a doctor of medicine wears green, a master of arts wears white, a doctor of humanities wears crimson, a master of library science wears lemon yellow. Why? Why, for example, should a master of library science wear lemon yellow?
Well sir, to answer this vexing question, we must go back to March 29,1844. On that date the first public library in the United States wTas established by Ulric Sigafoos. All of Mr. Sigafoos’s neighbors were of course wildly grateful —all, that is, except Wrex Todhunter.
Mr. Todhunter had hated Mr. Sigafoos since 1822 when both men had wooed the beauteous Melanie Zitt and Melanie had chosen Mr. Sigafoos because she was mad for dancing and Mr. Sigafoos knew’ all the latest steps, like the Missouri Compromise Mambo, the Shay’s Rebellion Schottische, and the James K. Polk
* ♦ ♦
And today Californians, happy amony their Guernseys and Holsteins, are discovering a great new cigarette—the unfiltered, king-size Philip Morris Commander—and so are Americans in all fifty states. Welcome aboard!
-4
Polka, while Mr. Todhunter, alas, could not dance at all owing to a wound he had received at the Battle of New Orleans. (He was struck by a falling praline.)
Consumed with jealousy at the success of Mr. Sigafoos’s library, Mr. Todhunter resolved to open a competing library. This he did, but he lured not a single patron away from Mr. Sigafoos. “What has Mr. Sigafoos got that I haven’t got?” Mr. Todhunter kept asking himself, and finally the answer came to him: books.
So Mr. Todhunter stocked his library with lots of dandy books and soon he was doing more business than his hated rival. But Mr. Sigafoos struck back. To regain his clientele, he began serving tea free of charge at his library every afternoon. Thereupon, Mr. Todhunter, not to be outdone, began serving tea with sugar. Thereupon, Mr. Sigafoos began serving tea with sugar and cream. Thereupon, Mr. Todhunter began serving tea with sugar and cream and lemon.
This, of course, clinched the victory for Mr. Todhunter because he had the only lemon tree in town—in fact, in the entire state of North Dakota—and since that day lemon yellow has of course been the color of the academic robes of library science.
(Incidentally, the defeated Mr. Sigafoos packed up his library and moved to California where, alas, he failed once more. There were, to be sure, plenty of lemons to serve with his tea, but, alas, there was no cream because the cow was not introduced to California until 1931 by John Wayne.)	© i96i Max shuiman
BIRCHITIS
Editor:
I wish to congratulate Mr. Peter’ Butler (of last week’s John Birch fame) for his attempt at spreading the foolish if not malicious propaganda of his fraternal organization. Only two aspects of his Back Page merit comment. ।
First, Mr. Butler does his best to justify the surreptitious and irresponsible activity of the society by carefully mapping out the battle ground. “Communism is not a political party . . . nor an ideology. It is wholly a conspiracy . . . controlled by determined, cunning and utterly ruthless international gangsters, willing to use any means to achieve its end.” Thus the Society relentlessly attempts to transfer all the, American energy in the battle against Dialectical Materialism to a campaign against the “big bad robbers.” Reflecting this, the Society’s educational programs designed to expose the philosophical errors of Marxism are particularly anemic; for the most part the members’ training period consists in the study of Communist “tactics” and “sub-versionary” methods. Thus, when Johnny’s teacher supports the U.N. or( Social Security, the matter is clearly seen as a carefully forged link in the traitorous Red conspiracy. A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
Secondly, in a rhetorical twist, Mr. Butler equates American patriotism with 19th Century Economic Liberalism; and thence he proceeds to group all adherents of a social welfare policy with the traitorous gangsters by the equation: social welfare = creeping socialism — collectivism = of course, Communism. One only wonders which Red cell Barry Goldwater belongs to, in view of JBS Kent Courtney’s statement that the Senator is “tainted with socialism.”
Jerry Wolfe 411 Walsh (Continued on page 24)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member oi the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC .is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic
No. 22
Vol. 102
May 5, 1961
Founded 1867
copy editor 7/: •: *7*:.^	?
THOMASMARCINIAK . PhilipLorrabee i
news 'editor
: THOMAS WEISS JohnMcCabe
art editor	: s
THOMAS HANSEN
features, editor". ■	7;;
THOMAS SULLIVAN Thomas Hoobler <
editor-in-chief -77X
CHARLES RIECK
associate ecfitor 7 7 ROY RUBELI
sports editor ./
JAMES KILROY
; William Cary : John Bechtold
«*——.............. I The Notre Dame
6/4: In what is nothing less than a tribute to the University of Notre Dame, the Secretary General of the United Nations has accepted an invitation to appear as featured speaker of this June’s commencement. Dag Hammarskjold’s presence this June 4th lends visible evidence to Notre Dame’s influence upon the social and political life not only of the United States but of the entire world. In a very real sense, the world will acknowledge next month Notre Dame’s response to its scientific, cultural—and moral— demands.
It is to be hoped however that the student will not be lost in the cinemascopic lineup of world leaders that will be arrayed on his commencement. For if the presence of these persons is an honor to Notre Dame, it is an honor above all to its graduating students; these, in the final analysis, will carry Notre Dame’s spiritual and intellectual tradition to the world. Notre Dame is nothing more than the contribution it makes to the souls and minds of its students. With one year’s similar experience in its pocket, we have every confidence that elements of “spectacle” bruising last year’s exercises will not be repeated.
WALK-OUTERS: John Keegan’s last action as SBP was easily the most impressive if not the most important of his Administration. In a dramatic address to the Student Senate and despite equally dramatic opposition, he single-handedly changed the minds of some eight senators, causing the reversal of an early vote which defeated the proposed boycott of Thilman’s. The substance of the impassioned castigation of his colleagues was their lack of responsibility in not acting upon a clear-cut case of injustice to dozens of Notre Dame students.
Earlier in the meeting, the Senate had again indicated its impotence when confronted by a social-political problem involving local students. Semipersuasive arguments were advanced in opposition to the boycott motion; but the tone of much of the proceedings indicated rather the indecisiveness of many senators when confronted by a resolution of serious consequence. In fact, the inability of these Senators to realize the serious, down-to-earth overtones of their defeating vote was summed up in the irrelevent statement of one member: “I do not want my vote considered a vote for segregation, because actually I’m an integrationist.”
A “what if” attitude, when it blocks a novel and relatively prudent line of action, is the bane of any legislative body; and our Senate is particularly obsessed by these conjured fears.
photographer	.
; : WALTER DALY, Jr
business-' manager - > 7 ? JOSEPH FINNIGAN
*, 7; Robert Buckley
circulation manager
JAMES HICKEY
v rev. GEORGE BERNARD
news staff '	'
JosephCaspar Frank: Cuiffo Lawrence Kavanaugh JamesOliver ThomasScheuring SteveStapp • SteveStuedieli
*<5^ 'V;.'	r
Rob<trtChiappinelli ^f^^Walsh^
MOVIES: Two separate and distinct changes in campus movie policy are now under consideration. The first, which would affect the movies shown at Washington Hall, is something that we have long favored. Negotiations are in progress to permit the purchase of a 16 mm projector in order that fine films from the past can be shown. At present, Washington Hall fare is limited to Hollywood films of more recent vintage and while some of these movies have been quite good, more often than not they are just ran of the mill Hollywood flics. With the new projector it would be possible to choose from a wider choice of films, and thus, a Festival of Film Classics could be run throughout the year. The second change would establish a rental charge for the facilities used by area clubs in showing their films, on the basis of any profit that is made. The charge would vary according to the profits and be designed to eliminate them. The reason given is that movies are not to be used as money-making schemes. We do not agree with this for several reasons. First, all students are able to join at least one area club where they can see free movies. Secondly, flics have now become a major source of the income needed to subsidize and underwrite chartered transportation, dances, banquets, etc. To eliminate this profit would be to eliminate many of the clubs’ services. Thirdly, and most important, to eliminate profits would only mean eliminating the movies themselves. In any case, if this change goes further than mere consideration, we hope that it is the Senate that makes the decision.
BEST WISHES: Our congratulations and best wishes to the new Student Body President and his cabinet: Messrs. Buckley, Colleton, Haidinger and Schlereth. Although Mr. Colleton was the opposition in the recent election we are confident that his ability and interest in student government will make him a valuable righthand-man to Mr. Buckley. Mr. Haidinger has also shown much initiative and industry in several projects among which were the stay-hall study and the card stunts. As for Mr. Schlereth, a former Scholastic man, we can only say that our loss is the Senate’s gain. The midnight battle on the boycott issue, the first un~ dei* the new officers, was only a taste of what’s to come. But with hard work and determination they should be able to earn even more power, and responsibility for the Senate.
— R&R
your HEADQUARTERS IN SOUTH BEND FOR
Why are some girls prouder of their rings than others ?
You see it in her eyes—but the reasons aren’t all romantic ones. Her diamond ring is an Artcarved. This means it meets rigid standards of excellence in cut, carat weight, color and clarity.
Nor is this simply a verbal promise. Artcarved’s written guarantee explains how the exclusive Permanent Value Plan lets you apply the full current retail price toward the purchase of a larger Artcarved anytime, at any Artcarved jeweler throughout the country. You will be proud, too, of Artcarved’s award-winning styling, like the Evening Star shown here. To be sure it’s an Artcarved : Look for the name inside the ring, and ask for your written Artcarved guarantee.
Of course, being engaged is wonderful, but sealing the engagement with an Artcarved ring makes it more wonderful than ever—forever!
Artcarvec
DIAMOND RINGS
Top
Evening Star Engagement Ring $475.00
Bride’s Circlet............... $ 60.00
Bottom
Emerald Cut Engagement Ring $225.00
Bride’s Circlet............... $ 30.00
Wonderful selection of Artcarved Diamond Rings from $50. All fully guaranteed for diamond qualify and Permanent Value.
★
CREDIT (with no interest) AND LAY-A-WAY
AVAILABLE TO NOTRE DAME MEN
121 W. WASHINGTON CE 4-1311
AeihoriMe -Artcarved J-**
DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS
--------------------------------------------1 i
J. R. Wood & Sons, Inc., Dept SP-11	•
216 E. 45th St., New York 17, N. Y. j
I
Please send me more facts about diamond | rings and ''Wedding Guide for Bride and I Groom”. Also name of nearest (or home- | town) Artcarved Jeweler. I am enclosing j 10p to cover handling and postage.	|
I
Name	}
I
Address_______________________________„ j
i
City___________County or Zone	|
i
State___________________________________ !
i __________________________________________i
6
The Scholastic
Kf

Vaseline
HAIR TON IC
CMtM W* SU'S Mt
Lmwbmmi
HAtH
TONi-C
how to lose your head!
The best way to lose your head is to 'use your head by using ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic on it. Most men use water with their hair tonic — and ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic is specially made to use with water! The 100% pure grooming oil in ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic replaces the oil that water removes from your hair. So to lose your head, keep your head well-groomed with ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic! And remember, just a little does a lot!
it’s clear f
it's clean.. .it's
VASELINE
Vaseline I
'VASELINE* is a REGISTERED TRADEMARK of ChESEBROuGH-PONQ'S INC.
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
r--------------------------------------
May 5, 1961
7
_________________________________d
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist •
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS	a
GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
N ABICHT CAFETERIA
★ 1415 Lincolnway West AAA Approved Cafeteria
FREE PARKING
SUPER SMOOTH SHAVE
New "wetter-than-water* action melts beard’s toughness—in seconds. Remarkable new “wetter-than-water” action gives Old Spice Super Smooth Shave its scientific approximation to the feather-touch feel and the efficiency of barber shop shaves. Melts your beard’s toughness like hot towels and massage—fra seconds.
Shaves that are so comfortable you barely feel the blade. A unique combination of anti-evaporation agents makes Super Smooth Shave stay moist and firm. No re-lathering, no dry spots. Richer and creamier...gives you the most satisfying shave... fastest, cleanest—and most comfortable. Regular or mentholated, 1.00.
Copies
S M u l_TO M
[I sr afire a aew Kodak camera
brownieIIWlteam
Camera and projector everyone can afford!
Take sharp color movies, show them big and bright with this amazingly low-cost camera-projector team. The Brownie 8 Movie Camera, f/2.7 is easy to load and use, needs no focusing, has handy exposure dial. New Brownie 8 Movie Projector is remarkably trim and compact — yet it shows movies big, bright, sharp. Wonderful movie buy!
AVAHABIE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
«
The Scholastic
’university players produce smash
RODGERS-HART IN WASHINGTON HALL
"Babes in Arms" Will Run Five More Performances; Glittering Score, Elaborate Choreography Stand Out
Babes in Arms — the Rodgers and Hart smash musical hit of 1937, opened ' last evening at Washington Hall and will continue tonight and tomorrow, as well as Thursday, Friday and Saturday of next week (May 11, 12 and 13). Tickets for all performances will be sold j daily Monday through Saturday from j 4:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. at the Washington Hall Box Office. Student rates for ^the six performances range from $1.00 ^for side balcony tickets to $1.50 for orchestra and center balcony seats.
Accent on love. Babes in Arms, similar to the University Theatre’s recent production of Good News, belongs to that school of musical comedy which existed previous to Oklahoma and Porgy and Bess and which stresses spectacular production numbers rather than complicated plot structure; it is thus more £akin to vaudeville than the so-called musical play. Babes in Arms thus emphasizes to a great extent unique and clever choreography and elaborate production numbers based on an appealing score including “Where or When,” “You’re Nearer,” “Johnny One-Note,” “The Lady is a Tramp,” and “My Funny Valentine.”
The actual story of this play tells of | the determined efforts of a group of Ayoung ambitious performers to stage wtheir own successful review despite the many obstacles which face them. Within this main plot are woven numerous subplots, notably the rather complicated love affairs between Vai and Susie, and Gus and Terry.
As originally written by Rodgers and Hart, this play was very much open to various interpretations. Certain mod-_ernizations of the original play, both by •means of a recent adaptation by George Oppenheimer and by Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C. himself, do not in any way detract from the first version, but actually add more distinct meaning for the modern audience. One should not be surprised to find, therefore, in the University Theatre’s production of Babes in Arms such innovations as Todd A-O, Brigitte Bardot, and Elvis Presley, incorporated into a 1937 script.
■ With trans-Dixie star. Myrna Walker and Joe Harrington have been cast in the leading roles of Vai and Susie — the leaders of the determined band of apprentices of the Surf and Sand Playhouse. Miss Walker, a St. Mary’s sopho-
’ more, is well remembered for her per: formance in Most Happy Fella and the J more recent St. Mary’s production of i The King and I. The Scholastic in re-Lviewing her part in the former play ^called her “the best voice which the
| May 5, 1961
trans-Dixie lend-lease policy has so far yielded.” Joe Harrington has also had much experience in University Theatre productions including leading roles in Holiday and Most Happy FeUa.
In the roles of Terry and Gus, the two primary dancing apprentices of the Surf and Sand Playhouse, are Jane Sazama and Tom Karaty. For Miss Sa-zama, this will be the first opportunity to perform in a leading role, while Tom Karaty has been an integral member of the last three musical productions. Karaty, who appeared this summer as member of the “Jets” as west side gang, in the Broadway production of West Side Story, has also handled all the choreography in the show.
Experience counts. Peggie Hess has been cast in the role of Bunny — America’s oldest living apprentice; Sally O’Brien as Jennifer Owen — Metro’s little dividend and Greg Weismantel as Lee Calhoun — Mississippi’s answer to Tennessee Williams. Other principal roles are being filled by Mary Walsh, Jim Breitenbach, Bill Cook and Joe Gannon. Dancing apprentices include Judy Tarnowski, Sue Stuckman, Jan Ziherle, Bob Oberkoetter, Tony Mileto and Dave Deka.
The entire production is directed by Father Harvey — director of University Theatre; Bruce Bigwood is the stage manager; and Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C. is the choral director. The orchestra will be under the direction of Prof. Charles Biondo of the Music Department assisted by Charlie Prawdzik, senior music major. The technical director is A. Owen Klein.
CAPS AND GOWNS
The last measurement for caps and gowns for graduating students will be held on Monday, May 8, through Thursday, May 11, in room 2C of the Student Center. The times are 3:10 to 5:00 p.m. on Monday and Wednesday and 2:00 to 5:00 p.m. on Tuesday and Thursday.
The Bachelor cap and gown rental fee is $3.50; the fee for the Master cap and gown is $4.00 and for the Doctor cap and gown, $4.50. A 15 cent fee for transportation costs is also due. Bachelor hoods are $3.00. The Master hood is $3.50 and the Doctor hood is $4.00. Graduates are advised to bring cash as checks will not be accepted.
U.N. Leader to Speak At Graduation June 4
United Nations Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold, along with the first African Roman Catholic cardinal will be the principal speakers at the University of Notre Dame’s 116th annual commencement exercises June 4, announced University President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.
Hammarskjold will deliver the commencement address and receive an honorary degree during graduation ceremonies beginning at 1 p.m.
His Eminence Laurian Cardinal Rugambwa, Bishop of Bukoba in Tanganyika, will give the baccalaureate
LAURIAN CARDINAL RUGAMBWA
The emerging Church
sei-mon during a Solemn Pontifical Mass to be celebrated by His Eminence Aloisius Cardinal Muench at 9 ajn. Milwaukee-born Cardinal Muench is a member of the Roman Curia and a former papal nuncio to Germany. The two Princes of the Church will receive honorary doctorates during the afternoon exercises.
Honorary degrees will also be conferred by Father Hesburgh upon Dr. J. A. Stratton, president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Dean Erwin N. Griswold of the Harvard Law School; John W. Gardner, president of the Carnegie Corporation of New York; Dr. James E. Webb, head of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration; Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg, chairman of the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission; James Johnson Sweeney, director of the Museum of Fine Arts of Houston, Tex. and Dr. Arthur J. O’Conner, Scarborough, N. Y., physician. ,
Nearly 1,300 candidates for graduate and undergraduate degrees will participate in the Baccalaureate Mass and the commencement exercises which will be held on the mall near the entrance to the Notre Dame campus. In case of inclement weather, the ceremonies will . take place in the Fieldhouse.
-9
Five Seniors Named As Outstanding Engineers; Awards Presented By Technical Review Editors
Five outstanding engineering seniors were recently named as winners of the Engineer of the Year Awards, which were presented at the 1961 Engineer Show.
Mike Austin, Anton Yielding, Lawrence Brekka, Tony Chessick and John Whitney, the recipients of the award this year, were selected on the basis of their scholastic average, University disciplinary record and outstanding achievement in engineering and other campus activities.
“Reviews” choice. Each engineering and architecture department head was asked to submit a list of names of the men in his department with the highest scholastic averages. Also, each of the technical societies was asked to enter its two top senior members. From these names, the editorial staff of the Technical Revieiv made its final selections.
Mike Austin of Weymouth, Massachusetts is majoring in electrical engineering. He is currently holding a 5.58 average. Graduating first in his class of 308 senior engineers, Austin is a member of Tau Beta Pi Engineering Honor Society. As winner of a Hughes Master’s Fellowship and a National Science Foundation Fellowship, he plans to earn both his M.S. nad Ph.D. at MIT.
Anton Vierling from Westport, Connecticut holds a 4.16 average. A mechanical engineering major, Vierling is a member of the Debate Club, Blue ■Circle Honor Society, the Faculty-Student Discussion Club, Joint Engineering
Joyce. Donis Take First Place in Bridge Tourney
Pair championships in contract bridge were determined Sunday, April 30, in the La Fortune Student Center, with Dave Joyce and Paul Donis winning the Gerity Trophy for 1961. Brian Brady and George Mack were a close second, and Jack Hynds and Charles Sacher third.
Individual trophies were awarded the top three finishers as well as master points to the extent of 3.00, 1.50, and 1.00, respectively. Fractional master points were awarded to several other two-session and one-session high scorers. The names of the winning pair will be engraved on the permanent Gerity Trophy, presented by Mr. and Mrs. James Gerity, Jr., of Adrian, Mich.
Following are complete results of the two day tournament.
Dave Joyce-Paul Donis, 258; Brian Brady-Geo. Mack, 252; Jack Hynds-Chas. Sacher, 240.9; Frank Christopher-Jim Mark, 235.5; Chas. Wong-Ed Dela-hanty, 232; A. Astrologes-Joe McDonald, 231.4; Bob Peters-Wally Guillaume, 220; Ed Arnold-Tony Carpenter, 218.6; John Scheu-Pat Boyd, 215.5; Dan Allen-Bob Harvey, 215; Jon Wiseman-Tom McMahon, 209.5; Ted Witt-Ron Dvorak, 209.5; Dick Watson-John Saunders, 206.1; Mike Wade-Fred Francl, 205.9; Mike Doran-John Wolf, 193.5; Tom Foster-Ross Peterson, 185.5.
10
Council and a chapter member of the Tau Beta Pi Engineering Honor Society.
Lawrence Brekka, an aeronautical engineering major from Tarrytown, New York, belongs to the Institute of Aerospace Sciences, and was membership chairman of Tau Beta Pi Engineering Honor Society. Holding a 4.85 average, he plans to get his doctor’s degree in aeronautical engineering. Brekka has been granted an assistantship to MIT where he intends to do his graduate work.
WSND head. Anthony Chessick from North Arlington, New Jersey, is in the Engineering Science Department. He is the Station Manager of WSND, member of the Tau Beta Pi Engineering Honor Society and holds a 4.41 average. He has been the recipient of the Chicago Tribune Award for Navy Performance, the JEC Junior Engineer of the Year Award, a Dome Award, and was selected for Who’s Who in American Colleges. Chessick was recently accepted for work in Admiral Rickover’s Naval Reactor Development program.
John Whitney from Burbank, California, holds a 4.72 average and is President of the Notre Dame Debate Team. Having been involved in more than 225 Intercollegiate Debates, Whitney was chosen Outstanding Speaker in the Capitol Hill, Marquette, Notre Dame and Spring Hill Tournaments. He has received the William Doyle Award for Public Speaking and the Joseph Cronwell Award for Excellence in Debate and Discussion. Whitney is also active in the Blue Circle Honor Society, AIChE, Tau Beta Pi Engineering Honorary Society and the Tau Kappa Alpha Honorary Speech Fraternity.
Engler Wins Danforth Grant, Foundation Head Announces
The Danforth Graduate Fellowship program has chosen John H. Engler of the University of Notre Dame and ninety-seven other outstanding college seniors as recipients of four-year graduate teaching scholarships. This year Notre Dame sent two candidates into the final round in addition to Engler — John C. Cahalan and Chris Watters.
This fellowship program is unique in that its winners may hold concurrently any other national fellowship, such as the Rhodes, Woodrow Wilson, or Fulbright. As part of the Foundation’s assistance to the fellow three annual conferences on teaching are held during the year. At present about 665 scholarship winners are using this award.
Engler, whose special field is literature, won his award in a competition that included the best college seniors from over 400 universities in the nation. As a single student he will receive an annual maximum stipend of $1500 plus tuition and fees for four years.
DOROTHY WATKINSON
An evening in “Bali Ha’i.”
Bobby Christian Plays In 'Bali Ha'i' Paradise
A tropical paradise of sweet-scented flowers and heavenly music will set the^ scene for “Bali Ha’i,” the freshman^’p formal, tonight in the Student Center. Final exams, morning checks, eating ; conditions — all these cares will be forgotten by the freshmen this weekend as they recklessly cast aside their books and migrate to the side of the lake to while away the time with their girl friends.	i
Bobby Christian and his orchestra, । the “masters of percussion,” will set the^1 dancing mood with their ever-popular”’ arrangements. Decorations carry out a I South Seas motif with the main entrance ■ sporting a grass hut and an elaborate floral display throughout.
Brunette Dorothy Watkinson of Yea- i don, Pennsylvania, will reign as queen i of the ball. She is a senior at Archbishop Prendergast High School in the south Philadelphia suburb.
Tomorrow night, a dance in the Stu-^ | dent Center and “Babes in Arms” at Washington Hall are the main attractions for the freshmen and their dates. The 8:00 Mass in Sacred Heart Church Sunday is reserved for freshmen and will be followed by a Communion Breakfast in the North Dining Hall. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., will speak.
Two p.m. and twenty-four hour car permissions are available to those attending the formal. The traditional regulations surrounding entrance and exit| deadlines will be in full effect. No couple will be admitted after 10 p.m. nor may they leave before 12:30 p.m.
Men in charge of the Freshman Formal are Pete Clark, general chairman; Steve King, executive chairman; Phil Melchert,	accommodations;	Freddie
Heroman, decorations; Terry Kollman, publicity; Al Meyer, Communion Breakfast; Marty Durlocker, tickets and Bob_ Oberkoetter, entertainment.
The Scholastic
Bishop-Elect McCauley Elevated To Hierarchy; Richard Cardinal Cushing To Officiate May 17
Ant Q>ialtaHL
RICHARD CARDINAL CUSHING
Boston prelate presides.
p His Eminence Richard Cardinal Cushing, Archbishop of Boston, will officiate at the consecration of the Most Rev. Vincent J. McCauley, C.S.C., as the first bishop of Fort Portal, Uganda, in Sacred Heart Church on Wednesday, May 17.
Bishop-elect McCauley has labored in two mission fields, in East Pakistan and 1 India from 1936 to 1944, and in Uganda ' in 1958. From 1944 to 1952, he was supe-^*rior of the Holy Cross Foreign Mission w Seminary, Washington, D.C. For the next eight years, he travelled throughout the country raising funds for the missions and preaching on their behalf.
Bishop-elect McCauley is the third priest of the Holy Cross congregation to be elevated to the hierarchy by Pope John XXIII in recent months. The Most Rev. Theotonius Ganguly, C.S.C., was ^.consecrated auxiliary to Archbishop " Lawrence Graner, C.S.C., of Dacca, East Pakistan, last October 7th, and the Most Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., was consecrated the first bishop of Arecibo, Puerto Rico in ceremonies at Notre Dame October 25th.
The newly created Diocese of Fort Portal, was formerly a part of the Diocese of Mbarara and is a suffragan see of the Archdiocese of Rubaga in Uganda. The Bishop-elect first visited the East ■ African country in April of 1958 and "returned the following October as the head of the first group of Holy Cross missionaries to labor there. Last August he was named district superior of the Holy Cross foreign missions in Uganda.
Bishop-elect McCauley was ordained to the priesthood on June 24,1934 in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, by the late Archbishop John F. Noll of Fort Wayne. He took graduate studies and taught * until he entered the mission field in 1936.
! May 5, 1961
Bar President Warns Group To Preserve Law, Liberties
Whitney North Seymour, president of the American Bar Association and a prominent New York City attorney addressed the annual Law Honoi- Banquet of the Law School here on April 26.
Seymour wamed that the destruction of an independent bench and bar, “as we have recently seen in Hungary and Cuba,” is one of the Communists’ first steps to achieve full dominion over all individuals. He said the United States must look to the military, to scientists, diplomats and statesmen to defend us against the communist conspiracy. But he emphasized that the lawyers “have a peculiar obligation to preserve liberty under law both as a shield for our own citizens and as a sharp sword against freedom’s enemies.”
Announce Promotions.
Retirements at Banquet
The promotion of twenty-two University of Notre Dame faculty members was announced at the annual President’s Dinner in the North Dining Hall on the campus Wednesday evening (May 3rd).
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame president, was the host and principal speaker at the event which also honored two professors who are retiring and three who are observing their twenty-fifth year on the faculty.
Honored for a quarter-century of teaching at Notre Dame were Willis D. Nutting, associate professor in the General Program; Daniel H. Pedtke, associate professor of music and director of the Notre Dame Glee Club; and Richard T. Sullivan, professor of English.
Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., vice president for academic affairs, announced the promotion of four faculty members to the rank of professor. They are Philip C. Trexler, biology; John W. Mihelich, physics; Boleslaw Sobocinski, philosophy; and W. J. Wagner, law.
Newly named associate professors include Gerd T. A. Benda and George B. Craig, biology; David W. Juenker, physics; Joseph Bobik, philosophy; Bernard J. Norling, history; William Eagan, business organization and management; Ray M. Powell, accounting; and Richard Willemin, developmental reading.
Instructors who have been promoted to the rank of assistant professor are Arthur R. Evans, modem languages; John J. Fitzgerald, philosophy; George A. Brinkley, political science; J. Philip Gleason, history; Ross C. Brackney, Robert L. Brannan, Daniel McDonald, Edward Vasta and Donald Costello, English; and Joseph Haggin, chemical engineering.
Thilman’s BoycotM
Keegan’s administration ended Monday night in a meeting marked by disorganization and heated feelings. At 12:03 ajn. after two and one-half hours and five futile attempts at passing a motion, the Senate approved 17-12 a boycott of Thilman’s. Keegan was for it; Haggard and John Clark were against it.
At 11:15, when it appeared that no motion would be passed,
Joe Keyerleber resigned as head of the committee on race relations and walked out of the meeting. Rudy Ehrensing, president of YCS said, “I leave the Senate somewhat disillusioned. It is unfortunate that the Senate did not give its approval.”
Many senators felt that the Senate had once again failed to take responsible action. “Four years and no stand on integration!” Unrealized was the fact that the Senate was not taking a stand on integration, but was considering the best course of action to prevent discrimination against Notre Dame students at Thilman’s.
After the new officers took over Mike Hartnett moved that, “the Senate approve a boycott of Thilman’s if he refuses to serve any Notre Dame student because of race.” Hartnett’s motion was more specific than previous proposals, but objections were raised.
Haggard suggested that, “something be done to put the matter in the hands of Mr. Keegan, not Mr. Keyerleber.” He questioned the knowledge of many senators regarding the proper function of the Senate.
At this point Keegan made a short speech which effectively swayed the body for the motion. During the latter part of the evening, he had appeared unhappy with the proceedings and there was irritation in his words, “It is undoubtedly the right to vote for this resolution. ... If you want to shirk responsibility go ahead until Notre Dame disappears and the world crumbles. . . . We do have the responsibility and it is in the role of the Student Senate.”
John Clark asked, “Have you really thought all these things out.” He suggested that something could be done, “without creating YCS heros dragging crosses across the campus.”
With time running out a tacit stipulation was made that Keegan should handle the matter, and not the committee. Hartnett’s motion was then passed.
Though somewhat uninformed regarding the factors involved, the Senate acted wisely.
(Continued on page 12)
11
Qualifications Set for Peace Corps Volunteers: Skills, Stamina, Security Noted as Essentials

Some necessary qualifications for the Peace Corps volunteer were described at length in a recent statement issued by the Corps officials.
Paramount among the things the Peace Corps seeks in a volunteer is a specific needed skill. Host nations will determine their own particular needs and the Corps will try to satisfy these particular skill shortages. Engineers, technicians, teachers, craftsmen and administrators will be in great demand for countries concentrating on their industrial development. Countries seeking to improve their agricultural system will need fanners versed in the use of modern implements and techniques and agricultural specialists with college degrees.
In South Asia, Latin America and Africa, teachers will be needed to teach English or work in secondary schools and colleges. Construction skills, electrical abilities and civil engineering knowledge are in extremely short supply.
According to the statement, “The volunteer must understand that he is not trying to remake the world in our image. He must sincerely appreciate the values,
ADDRESS WANTED
The Notre Dame chapter of the Christian Family Movement is compiling a list of addresses of married graduate and undergraduate students in connection with that organization’s program for next year. Married students who will be here next year are asked to sign the list posted on the bulletin boards of the academic halls or send a postcard with name and address to: N.D. C.F.M. c/o Jungels, 726 W. Wayne, South Bend 25, Ind.
Thilman's
(Continued from page 11)
The Senate voted for three officers to assist the new Student Body President, Chris Buckley. They are: Tom Colleton, vice president; Tim Haidinger, treasurer; Tom Schlereth, secretary. The other stay members are: Simon St. Laurent, Bob Hellrung, Mike Connor and Dennis Flynn. Joel Haggard, John Clark, and Chris Buckley were voted the most outstanding senators of the year.
At a short meeting last Thursday the Mardi Gras report was made. Approximately $25,000 was netted, $15,000 short of the $40,000 goal. The breakdown went as follows: scholarships, $3,000; charity chest, $6,000; student government fund, $5,500; Student Center, $9,000; loan to Collegiate Press, $1500.
12
mores and traditions of the society in which he works.”
Officials are quick to point out that Corps assignments will be anything but a lark. Tasks will be difficult and perhaps frustrating. “A volunteer’s individual contribution will be small and may go unappreciated or unrecognized. Inner stamina and security are essential if frustration and disillusionment are to be avoided.”
Peace Corps youth will have to have a good understanding of the foundations of democratic institutions and be able to defend our system not only in conversation with “sincere doubters” but also with trained deliberate agitators.
Said Sargent Shriver, Director of the program, "At a critical point in history the President has placed an important and difficult task in the hands of our nation’s young people. The success of the Peace Corps depends on how well they meet the standards set for them.”
Anyone interested in obtaining a volunteer form for the Peace Corps may secure one at the office of the VicePresident for Student Affairs in the Student Center.
Seniors To Be Queried On Anticipated Careers
Three-fourths of the seniors at Notre Dame will participate during the next few weeks in one of the first comprehensive studies ever made of why, when and how college seniors make their career plans. They are among 40,000 graduates at 135 colleges and universities throughout the nation filling out questionnaires.
The research is expected to yield important information on the relationship between college experience and career aims and goals. It will be carried out by the National Opinion Research Center, a non-profit organization affiliated with the University of Chicago. Three government agencies — the Office of Education, the National Institutes of Health, and the National Science Foundation — are jointly sponsoring the $125,000 project.
A principal objective is a national estimate of how many college students in this year’s graduating class plan to go on to graduate studies, and how many intend to go directly into business, farming and other occupations. Also, the influences that prompted the students to make their choices will be determined.
Through the use of automatic data-processing machines, the Center plans to have the preliminary results of its survey available before the end of the academic year. Normally such a survey would take two or three years to complete. Mrs. Joan Romine is the field representative for the Center on the Notre Dame campus. .
WILLIAM F. BUCKLEY, JR. A view from the right.
Invite National Review Editor To Give Lecture Series Talk
The eighth lecture in the Distinguished Lecture Series will be held on Tuesday, May 9, 1961, at 8 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. The lecture will ben*’ given by William F. Buckley, Jr., editor , and founder of National Review. Mr. Buckley is a very controversial man in ;i the field of modern politics. He is well-travelled, an excellent orator, and a ; very interesting lecturer. As author of i two best-selling books, God and Man at ■ Yale, and Up From Liberalism, he is a ' key figure in Catholic publication and literary circles. A short question and answer period will follow the lecture.
At present the topic .of Mr. Buckley’s speech is unknown.
Young Republicans Schedule J Banquet, Elect 1961 Officers {
Republican Congressman Melvin R. ' Laird of Marshfield, Wis., has agreed to speak at the Young Republican Spring Banquet next Thursday, May 11 at 7^*’ pan. in Rosie’s Sunny Italy restaurant. Banquet chairman Dave Castaldi has announced that tickets may be pur- ’, chased either from him in 169 Dillon or from Joe Baroody of 307 Pangborn. ;
Thirty-nine year old Laird of Wis- I consin’s Seventh District entered the ■ political field in the state senate in 9 1946. In 1952 he was elected to the ;■ 83rd Congress and has served in five H consecutive sessions since then. Pres- 9 ently he is a member of the House Re-<9 publican Policy Committee. Aside from *'■ these functions Laird was vice-chairman 9 of the 1960 Republican Platform' Com- 9 mittee.	9
The 1961 club officers will be an-; 9 nounced officially at this meeting also. 9 In the elections, held Sunday, April 30, 9 Joe Baroody was elected president, 9 Lou Andrews, vice-president, John 9 Clark, secretary, Ray Kaiser, assistant .jS secretary, and Ralph Long, treasurer. ..19
The Scholastic ” J
PAPERBACKS
BANTAM
4 DUAL LANGUAGE BOOKS
J 1. Spanish Stories
2.	French Stories
3.	German Stories
4.	Italian Stories
I	•
ANDREW JACKSON
Johnson


YANKEE FROM OLYMPUS
Oliver Wendell Holmes


ODD JACKETS /
SOULE’S DICTIONARY OF ENGUSH SYNONYMS
EXODUS
Leon Uris
We have a host of cool, good-looking Odd Jackets, and well-tailored Odd Trousers to wear with them.
ATTENTION: Faculty and Students • Handbook of Chemistry and Physics (Latest Ed.) • Special Price $5.85
In Dacron® Polyester and Cotton Plaids, $35
In Striped Cotton Seersucker, $23 Solids in Arnel® and Cotton, $35 In Colorful India Madras, $35
In Fortre^ and Linen, $40
KSTAMISHDWW
Notre Dame Bookstore
on - the - campus
Classified Advertising
PART-TIME WORK—$2.10 per hour. Full-time Summer Work — $108 per week. 15 — $1000 Scholarships given out nationwide. Call Mr. Fredrickson. CE 2-1353 between 9-12 A.M.
CANOE HUPS
into the Quetico-Superior WildetneM. For individuals or groups. Write Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Ely, Minnesota.
I
LIGHTWEIGHT
from our University Shop
*£& J mi mt i
%
$
3
i.
11
s 5?
7 Wtss&m
Wtt
<3 si
4 15 W	■"
rm?.'
s ■ 3135 sSg: &	:
QOlothihoBD
Utas Itanteliings, Hats
7+ E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL.
NEW YORK • BOSTON • PITTSBURGH • SAN FRANCISCO • LOS ANGELES
'day 5, 1961

A L 0 N E
by
GEORGE M. MURPHY
After lighting a cigarette and seeing the smoke smothered to the ground and hearing the hiss of the drops falling on the tip, I sloshed on. I was walking alone in the rain along the desolated, cinder-strewn shore of the great, black, asphalt river, watching. Watching my past misting before me as it does a drowning man. A solitary car rose above the hill with its headlights reflecting oif the rain as if the feeble rays of a dying sun creeping over a destroyed world. I watched it as it sprayed past me, following its shaky orbit only to sink beneath the West and, once more, I was alone with only the past to keep me company. But this companion also soon faded from view. Oh God! So alone that it soaked through my being as the rain had my clothes. I flicked the cigarette towards the dark, unmoving river and saw it showei- like a falling star in its last great moment of triumph towards its own death and then, it too was gone. I hunched my shoulders and, pushing my hands deeper into my pockets, feeling the fading warmth flowing from my legs, walked on, leaving only a little burnt ash and my plodding footprints in the muddy cinders to slowly fill with water and crumble into nothingness upon the lonely shore of time as I followed the car. Time! A shore covered with many such ashes and footprints of lives which have long since filled in, smoothed over, and left nothing but their insignificant meaninglessness upon it. Oh Lord, keep me company; I am so alone.
t t i t
I
■v
I Sam, sitting idly behind the counter, . watched the man as he entered. Outside ; the door he glanced around, as if to see | that no one was watching, then stealths' ily, as if he were committing a crime, | the man opened the dooi- and peered in. I' He spied Sam behind the counter and walked toward him. “A little self-consciously” Sam thought, but then, they were always like that. As he approached, Sam saw the package he clutched in his j > hand.
“May I be helping you sir?” Somehow I that phrase seemed more elevated to
Sam.
£ “Er a why yes.” The man’s voice ' trembled a little.
“Poor old fellow,” thought Sam.
; ; “I have a a watch a here.”
“Unh,I got too many watches. But....
Shows to me.”
“Here a a here.”
.y “Nervous,” thought Sam.
| “Well, s’golt. A yes will take.” j “A a how much’ll you give me?” | “Och not much, is so many watches | I got. Ten dollars.”
j1	“But sir it cost a hundred-fifty.”
i	“I am so sorry but I reallv. ...”
“Please!”	’
; “Well not over fifteen.”
I \	“I, I need the money for my wife.
L She, she’s sick. H’here I’ll show you.
I‘|Rl, I have to buy medicine. Here’s the f prescription.”
“Oh well, I give you twenty.” “Thankyou sir, thankyou!”
! After he’d left, Sam sat thinking: “Dum old fool. You’ll never recover twenty on that old plate watch. Damn it all, why are you so kind hearted?
i You just run yourself out of business.” He fingered the watch; felt it in his
IW hand. There was a name on it, an in-Ir. scription “To Henry With All My Love,
Ellie.” Ellie, Ellie. He remembered or ■ rather how could he forget? He had I been in love with Ellie, his Ellie and ■ now she was dead.
■ He remembered the scene, the brilliant ■ sunset and salmon clouds. He saw the ■ fence a black grillwork against the sky. ■ Quick, boost, climb; they were over. A Pounding feet across the plowed field, j| running, running. . . . And he remem-H bered the Swiss Red Cross that took care ■ of him, and Ellie, til she died of tuberI culosis.
I “Ooff,” he roused himself. Better get I some work done. The things in the win-I dow needed dusting.	'
I The violin, he’d only given five for I that. It looked as if it could only play I old tunes. Sam wondered. His mother I had played the violin, sweet and sad B tunes that almost made you hurt were I all she knew. He could see the house | he’d grown up in, dark, like his little E pawnshop. And he remembered the little H room on the fourth floor where he did g his homework by candlelight because g the gas pressure wasn’t high enough, g As he dusted the Civil War sword, g thoughts started faster. He remembered g the old soldier from the Franco-Prus-g sian War sitting on the bench outside R	(Continued on page 18)
I May 5, 1961
You Lousy Jew!!!
by CHARLES W. BERBERICH
FORM AND MEANING IN DRAMA, by H. D. F. Kitto, University Paperbacks, 341 pp., $1.95.
In Form and Meaning in Drama, Professor H. D. F. Kitto examines six Greek tragedies — the Orestes trilogy, the Ajax, Antigone, and Philoctetes — and Hamlet. He includes a chapter on the Greek and Elizabethan dramatic forms, and one on religious drama.
Though the subject matter sounds dry and esoteric, Professor Kitto’s book is a tremendous and towering scholarly achievement. An important insight into the man and his work can be gained by looking at his lifetime goal. His greatest ambition is to explain to the English people the significance of meter in Greek poetry. This might at first seem humorous or even absurd, but it is indicative of his dedication and even more of his intensity of analysis and of his passion to share the benefits of his studies with the reader.
His concern with meter in Greek poetry is also a clue to his treatment of form and meaning in drama. Professor Kitto’s thesis is that in drama, as in all art, the form employed is inextricably bound up with meaning — both particular meaning in the analysis of parts of a work, and general meaning in considering a piece of art as a whole. He interprets a scene often on the basis of the meter used, comparing the meter to the kind used in other scenes where the meaning is clearer — which seems a sound procedure.
Professor Kitto’s insights into the Greek drama are consistently brilliant, lucid, and well substantiated. Perhaps this is because of a simple assumption that he makes — that the dramatist usually knows what he is doing. This assumption is one that is pre-emptorily disregarded by quite a number of drama critics. Based on this assumption, Prof. Kitto’s observations are almost amazing in their clarity, intelligibility, and reasonableness. In fact the reader is often tempted to credit them to mere common sense — and ignore the prodigious amount of study that went into them — so self-evident do they seem when put forth by Prof. Kitto’s controlled but vital prose. Unlike many scholar's, (and rather like the Greeks) his style is pleasingly simple. He wastes no words.
Prof. Kitto’s knowledge of his subject is at times overwhelming, and his insights are accordingly keen. He posits, for example, that Oedipus in “Oedipus Rex,” is not punished for what he has done but that the bizarre situation in
16
which he is entangled shows the apparent chaos and confusion of life. But life must go on according to some plan because what happened to Oedipus was predicated by a god, and if life were only chaos even a god couldn’t predict what would happen.
On the question of the gods in Greek drama, Prof. Kitto theorizes that they are the embodiment of eternal and universal principles and are used to give the Greek tragedy its two levels of meaning — the particular meaning for the people involved and metaphysical meaning for all time.
His idea of the difference between Greek and Elizabethan drama is that the latter works outward from a simple start into a panorama of suffering, characters, and conflicts, while Greek starts with the situation propounded and bores inward through the material of plot and characters to an inner and unifying reality. Elizabethan drama builds unity by aggregation, Greek drama by penetration. Unlike Shakespeare, Aeschylus isn’t interested in the characters he creates, but conflicts between eternal laws.
If there is any criticism of the book, it is really a criticism of the reading public. Prof. Kitto never writes down to his audience, and his book is not for uninitiates to Greek drama. He presup-
BOOKS RECEIVED
INDIANA UNIVERSITY PRESS
Life, Death and the Law, by Norman St. John-Stevas, study of law and Christian morals in England and the United States, 375 pp., $5.95.
RUTGERS UNIVERSITY PRESS
Population Perspectives, by Philip M. Hauser, sociology, 183 pp., $3.50.
UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN PRESS
Shakespeare in Warwickshire, by Mark Eccles, historical research, 182 pp., $4.50.
Romantic Narrative Art, by Karl Kroeber, survey of Romantic narrative poetry, 225 pages, $5.75.
THE OWL PRESS
Words and Their Ways, by Eugene H. Sloane, etymology, 122 pp., cloth $1.75, paperbound $1.00.
Listing in the Books Received section does not preclude the possibility of a later review.
poses at the very least, that the reader has read or seen (preferably both) all of the plays discussed. He counts on the reader to be familiar with the Greek language, theater, and mythology, not to say other languages than English into which he often translates the Greek text, and other books in the field of Greek drama. This is in no way an indict- . ment of Prof. Kitto’s fine book, but onlyfi j a warning that it is not casual reading. There is so much here that even the ■ most perceptive and erudite reader will be likely to miss quite a bit of what Dr. Kitto says. As the London Times put it so well: “A critical work of astonishing breadth and brilliance.” Prof. Kitto ! brings a veritable blast of fresh ail' into what can be a vei*y musty attic of human knowledge.
—Carl Wiedemann (
WORLD SO WIDE, by Sinclair Lewis, Pyramid Books, 191 pp., 35c (paperback reprint).
Sinclair Lewis must have had a copy of The Lonely Crowd at 'his side when he wrote his last novel, World So Wide. Mr. Lewis has systematically and cynically attacked the problem of conformism in American society. Perhaps the best part of the book is the first part, dealing I with the life of Hayden Chart, a high- I minded young architect, in the commu- I nity of Newlife, Colorado. Newlife is a I searching, scathing, but accurate esti- I mate of contemporary American life. In fl terms of The Lonely Crowd, everyone in ■ Newlife is totally outer-directed. Life fl there seems, for Hayden Chart, a series I of ritualistic shams. He comes to a full € realization of this only after the death ' in an auto accident of his beautiful, shallow, highball-gulping young wife, Caprice.
All that need be said about Caprice is her name, thanks to Mr. Lewis’s great gift at making names delineate character perfectly. “Caprice” is almost as good as the sneaky sound of “Elmer Gantry” in the novel by the same name, or the babbling rabbit image of “Babbit.”
During his convalescence from the € same auto accident that killed his wife, ' Hayden Chart (another appropriate name, especially for this architect, although it’s rather more difficult to pin down a reason) decides that men should be more than troutfishermen, tennis players, college alumni, alcohol consumers, and crackerjack salesmen.
He goes to Europe to find himself. He has had only a glimpse of his own narrowness by seeing it in himself and
The Scholastic
I
ithers, and wishes to discover some of his “world so wide.” The reactions of lis provincial friends to his planned :xodus is a superb piece of writing. This >art alone could make the book worth •eading. Sinclair Lewis reveals with jreat art his insights into mid-century America, insights presented with great rigor and relentless satire as well as jreat art in a combination that Lewis, post of all contemporary writers on American life, has mastered. The satire s so acrid as to make the nostrils burn, jut so well done and full of colloidal truth as Ito clear the mind for serious reflection about American society.
When the action reaches Europe it seems to lose some of the vigor that it possessed when Lewis was writing of modern Americana, though he is still writing of Americans, abroad and not so innocent.
| Hayden Chart goes about the job of finding himself and learning what Europe really is by becoming a student again at thirty-five. In the process he meets a beautiful, prudish, lady professor, Olivia Lomond, whom he first despises, but eventually charms and causes to fall in love with him. He realizes that he can never marry her because she keeps him from seeing his newly discovered world so wide, because her love jvould encompass him and bind him to ner drudging scholarship.
In the end he marries another American abroad, Roxanna Eldritch, an old friend of his and of his former wife, who is a lady reporter in Europe. She seems to be another, but gentler, Caprice who will follow him on his search for himself throughout the world. The cycle that started with Caprice’s death ends with Hayden’s marriage to another kind of ^Caprice. Olivia settles for an American ^professor living in Italy who is overtly a pompous fraud.
Sinclair Lewis in World So Wide, as in his previous twenty-two novels, shows great control of his form, but it doesn’t seem that his last novel will rank along with his giants such as Babbitt, Main Street, Elmer Gantry, and others. The main reason, besides the falling off of intensity in the latter part of the work, ^seems to be character. The first requirement of characters in a novel is that they not be flat, that they have physical and mental dimensions.
Strangely, Lewis’s minor characters seem much deeper and more vivid than his principals. His central character, Hayden Chart, is very appealing as an American who is still “inner-directed” and striving to get outside of his environment. But he is so easily identified with, that he becomes almost without any pform of his own. The lady professor is almost a drawn-out cliche. The less important characters become, the more real they seem to become.
It is possible that the flatness of character is intended by Lewis as part of his satire on Americans, but whether or not this is true, World So Wide is worth reading for what is good in it. That which is good, insight into America and Americans, is indeed very, very good.
)	—Carl Wiedemann
May 5, 1961
Interclass
Hall Residence
by MIKE CONNOR
What is interclass residence? How does it affect me as a student? These are questions certain to have direct bearing on everyone at Notre Dame. The feeling of the Committee on Interclass Living is that this interclass system is not only practical but preferable.
The basic theory is: you can move if you want to move, or stay in your present room if you want to stay.
A pertinent point to remember is that freshmen are not included in the plan. As Harvard has its Yard for freshmen, Notre Dame has and would have its Frosh Quad.
The system has several workable plans. A general plan will be presented here.
Rooms would be available in each hall according to a ratio, probably 30% senior, 30% juniors, and 40% sophomores. At room registration time, two lists would be compiled—one of those moving, including freshmen, and one of those retaining their present rooms. The system would then proceed as it does now.
A person desiring to retain his room could not be “bumped” for any reason, even by a higher average, as long as his average entitled him to a room on campus. Rooms would be made available by graduating seniors. Because of this, the objection arises that the seniors, after three years, would have the worst rooms available since the rooms would have been acquired as sophomores.
But it must be remembered that the present system as well as the new one gives preferential choice of rooms according Ito year and then by academic average. Thus, at the end of his second year, the student, if he desired a “better hall” or a “better room” could easily change due to his status as a juniorto-be. As such he would take second choice to seniors-to-be and have prior choice over sophomores-to-be.
Under the system more authority— disciplinary and otherwise — could be shifted to the stronger and more influential hall council. Which would inevitably result from the system due to the dis-persement of school leaders in all fields among the halls. This shifting of authority would, in turn, provide the rectors and prefects more time to devote to their primary task of counseling and directing the inner man.
Once the Administration sees the students capable of handling themselves well, it would naturally be more prone to give the students more control over
the social group. This could conceivably include such matters as lights, morning checks, etc.
Correlative to this would be a stronger, more influential, and more respected student government, composed of men with valuable experience gained through years on the hall level. The function of the Senate would be to make final decisions on reports and recommendations submitted on issues previously studied by Senate committees composed of members with previous experience in that particular issue. This would mean a more efficient Senate than we have now where everyone votes on matters in which some have little or no previous experience.
Another objection is that regional cliques might be formed. But it will certainly be no easier to form cliques under the interclass living system than at present.
In one of the hall meetings held to discuss this question of interclass living, it was asked if one or two halls might not become the “best” halls and, by virtue of reputation, draw the “best” from each succeeding year. It would be due to this very fact that the competitive spirit among halls would be greatly accentuated and increased. And this is, in fact, one of the desired effects of the system. Not only hall, but also the entire school spirit would be enhanced due to the integration of all three years as one unit.
A major difficulty is encountered in matters of privilege. What would be done about hours and such things as morning checks? (Seniors at present have no morning checks.) Such rules would initially have to follow Administration policy set up to accommodate the change.
What about choosing a hall for a “good rector”? In answer, one can only ask: what happens now?
As for “getting stuck” in an old hall: if changing at the end of the year isn’t a suitable answer for some, it should be noted that at least three-fourths of the occupants of the oldest hall on campus want to stay there now. The old halls have their prestige locations, larger and more easily decorated rooms, and lower costs.
Many of the pros and cons have been presented above. Now we/invite each student to carefully assess the system of interclass living, comparing it to what we have now.	/
'Jew'
(Continued from page 15) the guildhalls with his old sword and tattered uniform. And Sam still got a bitter sad feeling when he remembered the old man’s taunt as he passed everyday on his way to school: “Hey jew-boy squeeze squeeze the life out of good Christians. Hey jew-boy?” At the gymnasium, the Jewish boys always stayed together. Then they’d walk back to the row of tall houses on the dark crooked streets with cobblestone stairs, wondering why they had to be different.
But when Sam touched the tarnished brass ships’ clock, he remembered happier days; the crowded steamer to America and the great hopes each had for himself in the wonderful free land. He remembered how he’d proudly walked down the gangplank rehearsing his English speech and thinking of oh how long the five years before citizenship would seem. He could see Manhattan as it had looked to him then; a giant’s city with buildings that held up the sky which seemed so far up blue.
Sam was a quiet fellow. He lived by himself in a three-room apartment above the store. He had no close friends but he didn’t seem to mind. Funny, he didn’t even have a girl, but then he was fifty-seven. And stranger, he didn’t even notice that pretty secretary walking toward Fifth Avenue. But he couldn’t, work came first and besides, he was dusting the old leather chair.
Yes, that chair’d been a good bargain . . . didn’t think the gentleman would be back. But business was rough. Twenty dollars out, four dollars in, and here it was four in the afternoon. “Oh money, I’d love some more. Just so a retirement, a vacation in Miami. ...” Yeah, he had twenty-thousand in the bank, but if business. . . .
He ran the cloth over the books in the bookcase. The American Epic . . . yes . . . yes. America was a wonderful place. He was free; he had escaped Hitler’s Germany. He tried to smother the voice in the back of his mind that said: “twenty years ago . . . twenty years ago . . .” and “for what . . . for what . . . for what. . . .” He was free, free. Free from harm, from the state, from others from prejudice............
With a click, the door opened. A customer!
The man peered inside, then quietly walked in. In the gloom, Sam saw the package he carried in his hand. Businesslike, he stood behind the counter and examined it.
“Four dollars.”
“Hey now mister come on,” said the customer.
“Well five and that’s all!”
“Awright,” the man grunted, and then as he left:
YOU LOUSY JEW!
Sam cringed a little and went back to dusting books. There was a pretty new one, something called “Cry the Beloved Country” by Alan Paton. And then Sam remembered how . . .
18
At the Theaters
Keep watching for my last column this year. It promises quite a few interesting things, and at least one surprise.

It’s here finally, the movie which is now 21 years young and still raking the ’ money into the box office, David Selznick’s Gone With the Wind. Most of the students here were not even bora when this first came out, but many have heard about it and seen it since. Naturally, you will remember (unlike that unfortunate reporter)^ that Vivien Leigh made her screen debut as Scarlett O’Hara. And of course the ) late Clark Gable once more delivers his then-shocking line of: “Frankly, my dear I don’t give a damn.” Other stars in the movie who are no longer with" us include Leslie Howard in his role of Ashley Wilkes, Hattie MacDaniel as Mammy, and Ona Munson as the shady Belle Watling. Continuing the procession we have Olivia deHavilland as Melanie Hamilton and Thomas Mitchell as Papa O’Hara.
If you haven’t seen this one before, don’t miss this- opportunity, and if you have seen it here’s a chance to relive the memorable, scenes, especially the burning ofg, Atlanta. A sure bet for a prolonged stay. ,
Not to let us think they’re sleeping on their feet, the Granda performed the old switcheroo once more (I’ve lost count) and opened up on The Hoodlum Priest last week. Pretty soon we’ll have to demand affidavits from the manager so as not to misguide anybody. Well, anyway, they seem somewhat cei-tain of having All in a Night’s Work this week. This A-3 farce, starring Shirley MacLaine and Dean Martin, is certainly not one of Hollywood’s contributions to better entertainment.
b;
a: a: S( n B a fi P'
Before heading down to the two-faced theater, it would be best to consult reliable®^
sources. If you want to spend a dime to take your chance at pot-luck, call CE 3-7301. If you have only a nickel to spare, procure the world’s worst newspaper: our SBT. Good luck.
Well, it goes on and on like most of Walt’s movies. They still have The AbsentMinded Professor at the State, as he apparently forgot the location of the exit. I’ll be glad to show him, though. Maybe the manager caught this dreadful disease also, so maybe we could remind him to change movies.
In case you haven’t seen the movie and may care to do so, I hope this will serve to discourage you. It’s a movie that can best be described by this simile: it tries to offend no one, it has something to please everyone, and in the end fails miserably on both counts — in short, one of Ziggy’s concoctions.
In the end it turns out something like The Shaggy Dog. In fact, I have a sneaky suspicion that Disney uses the same scripts and only changes the names. I wish Walt would stick to Donald Duck; the rest of his movies are Mickey Mouse.
One kind word: you can always count on him for a happy ending. That’s it.
A b h o: t( c< a
tl F
f; SI o:
I a G
Tony Wong
The Scholastic I
the
FEATURES STAFF humor /
galleries
THE BLESSED VIRGIN READING by Carlo Maratta (Italian, 1625-1713).
•SB Although the works of Carlo Maratta are relatively rare in America he was an extremely prolific artist and is represented in the permanent collections of most of the major museums of Europe. He is best known for 'his sweet, sensitive,, and decorative paintings of religious figures, though he also excelled in portraiture.
Born in Camerano, he studied and forked in Rome where he was a pupil of Andrea Sacchi. His style is influenced by Guido Reni and Correggio. As perhaps one of the most important painters of his period, he was appointed Painter to six popes (Clement IX and X, Innocent XI, Alexander VIII, Innocent XII, and Clement XI). Under Innocent XI he was put in charge of painting in the Vatican and in that capacity restored the Raphael frescoes in the Vatican and
Farnese palaces.
1T In the Notre tvnirol latp Ra
Dame painting Maratta’s
typical late Baroque style is seen in the
facile handling of the draperies and the somewhat forced dramatic positioning of the accompanying figures. The Virgin 1 is represented in a pose of serene quiet.
The work is painted in oil on canvas, and was given to the University Art Gallery in 1951 by Peter C. Reilly, Indianapolis.
y	—James Key Reeve
*	book reviews
*	short stories
*	criticism of:
—movies
—plays
—concerts
*	general articles of interest
.. next year's scholastic features staff is now being selected. If you have talent in any of the areas listed on the left, apply at the scholastic office, in the student center, between 7 and 9 o'clock on sunday or monday nights.
SID BERNSTEIN AND JOHN DREW PRESENT
MUSIC AT NEWPORT June 30. July 1-2-3
Some of the artists who will appear during the 4-day Holiday weekend.
Louis Armstrong	Cal Tjader	Cannonball Adderley
Maynard Ferguson	Oscar Peterson	George Shearing
Lambert, Hendricks & Ross	Art Blakey	Gloria Lynn
Dave Brubeck	Chico Hamilton	Duke Ellington
Carmen McRae	Gerry Mulligan	Sarah Vaughn
Ramsey Lewis	Dinah Washington	Ray Charles
Stan Getz	Count Basie	Horace Silver
Lionel Hampton	Joe Williams	
THIS IS JUST THE BEGINNING! OTHER ARTISTS ARE BEING ADDED.
Tickets can be purchased now from MUSIC AT NEWPORT. 201 West 46th Street New York, N.Y. — Circle 5-6271. Ticket prices are: $3.30; $4.40; $5.50 (tax incL)
Storage for Winter Garments only $2.95
PLUS CLEANING CHARGES
FOR ALL YOU CAN STORE
“IT ISN’T” necessary to ship your winter garments home and then back to school again in the fall. You can store them at RUBIN CLEANERS in their SAFE, INSURED STORAGE VAULT. . . . Your clothes will be cleaned and HUNG in our storage vault. They will be ready when you want them. And you don’t pay until you pick them up. . . . The $2.95 pays for storage and insurance up to $150.00 in valuations. Excess values are 2% of additional amount.	.
CALL CE 4-3188
OR STOP IN FOR MORE INFORMATION AND FURTHER DETAILS AT
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFERSON	CORNER UNCOIN WAY EAST
1st comer across the river on the Bus Line
May 5, 1961
JACK TAR British knit cardigan with % length sleeves and stand-up collar. Knit of 100% fine cotton. Square rig fitted trunks of cotton and rubber. Combinations of gold, olive and navy with white. Cardigan $8.95 Trunks $5.95
MALOLO® ADMIRALTY wind-worthy 100% cotton gabardine jacket with bos’n pocket and British collar. Matching tailored Hawaiian trunks. In white, gold, natural, olive and blue with contrast braid striping. Jacket $7.95 Trunks $5.95
MALOLO® PICCADILLY LANE foulard stripe, terry lined jacket with terry trim on front. Teamed with standard Hawaiian action trunks, both of 100% cotton. In color combinations of spice, olive and blue ground. Jacket $8.95 Trunks $6.95
The SeAFaRiNg msn is a
(with a British accent)
Mooring your craft or sunning on a raft, Catalina combines the sun and sea of
California with the British style influence to brighten your seaworthy command.
STORM WARNING 100% cotton knit Cardigan with % length sleeves. Contrast tone trim on jacket and matching front zip Hawaiian trunks. ‘Storm God' embroidered on jacket pockets and trunks. Colors in white, gold or spice. Cardigan $9.95 Trunks $7.95
MALOLO® LIGHT BRIGADE regimental stripe jacket with British accented collar and over-size pocket. Shell head buttons. Shown with tailored front zip trunks. Of 100% woven cotton in color combinations of gold/red or grey/green. Jacket $6.95 Trunks $4.95
COLOR GUARD blazer knit cardigan with full sleeve and button front. Shown over medium length boxer trunks. Finest 100% cotton and available in colors of gold/black or navy/red with white. Cardigan $7.95 Trunks $5.95
• Catalina, Inc., Los Angeles, California. Another fine
KayserRoth Product
Rasmussen’s
MAIN & WASHINGTON STS.
20
SOUTH BEND
The Scholastic
“I ONLY HAVE EYES FOR YOU”
A Saint Mary's lass interrupts Bill Hein-becker in an important tennis match to ask for directions to the Huddle.
Notre Dome Netters Host Powerful Big Ten Foes
This afternoon and tomorrow Notre fame’s tennis team engages the Indi-'ana, Illinois and Wisconsin netmen here on campus.
Carl Sanger, Badger coach, will rely heavily upon three lettennen plus sophomore Marvin Cohen, the team’s number one singles player, as his forces attempt to beat the Irish for only the second time in the history of their series. The all time record stands at 20-1. The lettermen, Ian Zawacki, Len Reudisili And Dick Pease occupy the second (through foui-th positions.
I. Underrated Indiana has won five of its I first six matches and must be rated a ■ threat to Coach Tom Fallon’s boys. Don I Thorne and Gary Baxter, residing in the ■ number one and two spots respectively, ■ have swept through their first six matches ■ without a loss. Stuart Cohen and Dick ■ Martin will fill the third and fourth spots nmuite adequately.
Last Friday at Iowa City, Iowa, the Green whizzed to 7-2 conquest of Minnesota and a 9-0 drubbing of Iowa. Rain washed out a meet against Purdue scheduled for Saturday.
Bill Heinbecker and Don Ralph won fairly easy victories in both their singles encounters and also teamed up for a brace of doubles triumphs.
Joe Brown, operating in the number llhree spot, also won twice, as did Jim Whelan, the number five player. Jim Bemis, the team’s fourth best singles player, lost a long 14-12 duel with Minnesota’s John Adams, but recovered to whip his Iowa opponent handily. Murray DeWald brought a pair of victories in his number six role.
In the doubles, the teams of Ralph and Heinbecker and Bemis and DeWald jwon twice and the Brown-Whelan team ^plit.
[May 5, 1961
KLINEMEN TRAVEL TO TOLEDO TODAY; FACE BADGERS ON MONDAY, TUESDAY
The Notre Dame baseball nine journeys to Toledo, Ohio this weekend for a two-game series with Toledo University. Single games are scheduled for Friday and Saturday afternoon. In case of a postponement of today’s game, a doubleheader will be played tomorrow.
Toledo is a member of the tough MidAmerican Conference and has a strong team according to reports. They combine timely hitting with better than average pitching and a tight defense. They don’t very often beat themselves with inept play.
WISCONSIN INVADER
Monday and Tuesday of this week the Badgers of Wisconsin visit Notre Dame for a two-game set. The Badgers once again are directed by the veteran coach Arthur “Dynie” Mansfield. Mansfield has a ball club which is adequate in the hitting department but often lacking in pitching strength.
The big gun in the Badger attack is leftfielder Hugh “Pat” Richter. Richter, a sophomore, is a very versatile athlete. He was a star end on the Badger football team last fall and set a school record with 25 receptions although missing half the season due to a shoulder injury. When this injury finally healed in December, young Richter reported to the Wisconsin basketball team and won his spurs with his aggressive rebound
FIRST BASE AT CARTIER HOD	?
At left, Irish sophomore Dick Rusteck looks to first before delivering the pitch.
No. 30 is first baseman Dick O’Leary. At right, George Sefcik is out at first base . .1 after a tap to the Bowling Green third baseman.	:
ing. Now he is taking a whirl at baseball. When he receives his monogram he will become the first sophomore in Wisconsin history to letter in three sports in one year.
Richter has tremendous size, standing 6-5 and weighing 225 pounds. Going into last weekend’s doubleheader with Illinois, the big sophomore was hitting at a .385 clip. Included in his 20 hits were two home runs, two triples, and seven doubles. In addition he had nine runs batted in.
Another big stick in the Badger attack is sophomore first baseman George Kleinschmidt. Kleinschmidt leads the team in runs batted in with 15 and is hitting at a .300 pace.
PITCHING ACE
The ace of the pitching staff is another* sophomore, Ron Krohn. Krohn shut out Illinois last Saturday at Champaign, 2-0, to run his streak of scoreless innings to 18. A week earlier he performed a similar whitewash job on Northwestern. Krohn is a right hander.
Phil Ambelang and Don Shebesta, both lefties, and Ken Schuring, a righty, are other members of the hurling corps. None of them have been overly impressive this spring.
The Badgers have Mel Strand at third base, Dick Van Eerden at short, Mark (Continued on page 24)
the results:
offense
Notre Dame’s comeback-minded football team has entered its fourth and final week of preparation for next Saturday’s Old Timers game. This battle annually concludes spring practice at Notre Dame.
Coach Joe Kuharich put his charges through an intense intrasquad scrimmage last Saturday afternoon. The highlights of the workout were the explosive running of halfbacks Paul Costa and Chuck O’Hara, and the continued improvement of Frank Minik, Daryle Lamonica and the Irish forward wall.
A good sign for Irish grid fans was the potent offensive punch shown in the scrimmage which was lacking in last season’s attack. The blue-shirted Varsity scored 13 times against a collection of reserves. Eight players tallied at least one touchdown apiece in the long session: Minik, Jim Snowden, O’Hara, Costa, Mike Lind, John Powers, Lamonica and Frank Budka.
The opening kickoff was run back 95 yards by O’Hara. Some three hours later, O’Hara tallied the final touchdown from the ten yard line. After these and the eleven other touchdowns, Ed Rutkowski booted the extra-points. Rutkowski, a junior halfback who was a hero in last year’s Old Timers game while performing at quarterback, may have won full possession of the placekicking chores for the Irish with his outstanding showing.
LITTLE TROUBLE
The number one unit had little trouble moving the ball in the workout. Quarterbacking the first squad was Lamonica, Rutkowski and Angelo Dabiero were at halfbacks with freshman Snowden at full. The line included Powers and Steve Kolski at ends, tackles Bob Bill and Joe Carollo, Co-captains Nick Buoniconti and Norb Roy at guards and Tom Hecomovich at center.
Dabiero	Buoniconti
In the first three weeks of practice, some of the freshmen have been particularly outstanding. Both Snowden and Costa scored two touchdowns in Saturday’s scrimmage, while quarterback Frank Budka ran the second squad well. Several linemen have also impressed Kuharich in these early practices.
—John Bechtold
22
EDDIE SCHNURR
From court to course
Irish Meet Strong Foes In Triangular Encounter
Notre Dame’s golf team, recently returned from a quadrangular meet in Madison, Wis., initiates a long home stand tomorrow on Burke Memorial Course when it hosts Bowling Green and Southern Illinois in a triangular meet. The Irish will host Indiana and Purdue in another triangular meet on Monday. And next Thursday, a triangular meet features the Irish competing against Hillsdale College and Western Michigan here.
Bowling Green is expected to be the stronger opponent in tomorrow’s match. The Falcons have four lettermen back from last year’s squad which finished third in the Mid-American Conference. Leading the way for Bowling Green will be senior Bob Wink, a star last year, and Glen Apple, 13-4 in 1960. Lettermen Walt Felgar and Ed Gregor also return.
Monday’s match against Purdue and Indiana should be one of the toughest of the season for Father Holderith’s team. The visiting Boilermakers bring a traditionally strong group, having recently placed third in the Big Ten Championship Tournament. Indiana, fourth in that same meet, will be led by Forrest Jones, Phil White, Jerry McRae and Jim Vitou. Vitou, a leader on last year’s team was slow in starting this spring but is now playing well.
Last Saturday, the Irish split in a triangular meet with Iowa and Western Illinois. After falling behind to Iowa in the morning, Notre Dame came on strongly in the afternoon to gain an 18-18 tie. Bob Ferrel, an Irish sophomore, led all scorers with a 72. Notre Dame won easily over Western Illinois, 21-15.
Iiterhall Interviews
With the interhall season now in full swing, the Scholastic sports editor decided to drop by the Notre Dame Avenue playing field and talk with two of 1961’s top prospects. Interviewed were Ray Kelly, a senior Off-Campus strident from Garden City, N. Y. and Dick Bil-leaud, an Alumni Hall resident fron^f Bunkie, La.
Ray, for three years, you have proven | yourself the outstanding interhall per- I former here at Notre Dame. But this '' is the year that counts, your final one i as a Notre Dame interhall competitor. ' You aren’t worried about the so-called “senior slump,” are you?
Quite frankly, Jay, I just can’t imagine any change in my high caliber of play. It’s true that I did drop below .600 at one, time during the 1960 season. But that’s the past and I made up for it anyway with my flawless fielding and great clutch hitting. To say that I would “slump” is simply out of the question.
Dickie, the spectators were quite impressed watching that slide of yours into first base. It looks like you’ve already worked yourself into top physical condition.
that I’ve also cut down my cigarette and beer consumption—only one pack and two quarts a night, in fact. I’m expecting a great year myself. It’s only a matter of time until I start hitting that ball to the outfield.
You’re a leader in the post-game festivities Ray, having proven yourself just as tough at the bar as at the bat* We want to know how you do it. Doesn’t^ the rugged interhall competition interfere with your social life?
True, true, this does pose somewhat of a problem. Our coach, Mr. George Brennan, has imposed some stringent training rules on our squad. For instance, if we are caught in a bar, we have to buy for him — and that’s a lot of beer, my friend. But overall, I’d say the only real conflict is with my academic life — it’s slumping right now.
Dickie, this is really great Notre ’ Dame spirit the ball club is showing out here today. I’m sure the fans would like to know what’s fired up this team.
Jay, it’s Coach Brennan. He has what is called the “Incentive Plan.” For every run we score, it’s free beer for us; but if the opponents score, we do the buying. I guess you can see why we were so happy after winning our first game,' 21-1.
The Scholastic
I®
INTERHALL ACTIVITY
Currently underway in the Interhail athletic program are leagues in baseball, softball, and volleyball, and traditional spring tournaments in golf and tennis. The golf and I tennis playoffs are four-flight, single elimination affairs; the top tennis ’Oplayer will receive the new Court-] ney Cup.
TIME OUT
Trackmen Face Army In Outdoor Encounter
Notre Dame’s first dual meet of the 1961 outdoor season will take place to-^norrow when the Irish visit West roint’s Shea Stadium for the annual encounter with the Anny. The Cadets have a weaker squad than the one that defeated ND in the rain at Cartier Field last spring. But the hosts still boast a strong mile-relay team (3:16.9), good sprinters and two outstanding distance men.
Coach Alex Wilson's squad will be out to avenge an earlier loss to Indiana when they travel to Bloomington on Wednesday for the Indiana State Meet. Notre Dame will be looking for their third straight championship in this gathering as they face the leading schools of Hoosierland.
Wilson is relying on his hurdlers in their clash with Indiana’s Ray Spivey, outstanding hurdler in the Big Ten. It was Spivey who aided the Hoosiers in a half-point victory earlier this year in the Fieldhouse.
। The Irish track and field team made a respectable showing in the 52nd running of the Drake Relays last Saturday as they placed three of the four relay teams en-Itered. Notre Dame was competing against [the best of the nation’s college track teams.
I In the two-day meet which saw four relay records broken, the best show of (strength was by Texas Southern Col-l«ge. The Texans broke two existing marks en route to capturing four relay titles. With just nine men composing its aggregate, Southern posted new Drake marks in the two-mile and half-mile college relays.
Western Michigan’s four-mile quartet, sparked by John Bork’s 4:07 third leg, provided last Friday’s crowd with the meet’s outstanding feat in setting a new American and national collegiate standard of 16:50.4.
I
I Notre Dame’s two-mile team of Terry Jones, Dennis Johnston, Dan Rorke and Ron Gregory took a commendable third place behind Kansas’ new Drake mark of 7:28.6. The Irish 480-yard shuttle hurdle foursome of Lou Lucas, Jim Sheeler, Mike [Terry and John Mulrooney placed fourth while the 440-yard team comprised of Sheeler, Joe Balistrieri, Dick Musial and [Jerry Fitzpatrick brought the Irish in fifth [in a field of twelve.
It’s probably a little late now but congratulations are in order for Notre Dame’s bowling team, winner of the Midwest Intercollegiate Bowling Conference title two weekends ago. In a year that has produced few outstanding athletic performances here at Notre Dame, the bowlers’ performance is especially significant because it represents the first Irish championship in nine years of MIBC competition. For four consecutive years (1956-59), the Notre Dame bowlers were successful in claiming the annual MIBC Tourney, but not until this year was the coveted championship theirs. As irony would have it, the bowlers had to be content with a second place in this year’s Tourney, falling to St. Joseph’s of Rensselaer by two pins in a three-game series.
CAPTAIN AND TEAM
The 1960-61 captain was senior Dan Halloran of Tempe, Arizona. Hal-
Ted Nekic
loran’s composite 190 average in two years of participation with the team proved an invaluable asset. Dan’s average was third high in the Conference. The only other senior on the 1960-61 team was Ted Nekic of Cleveland, O. Nekic’s composite average for four years of bowling at Notre Dame totaled 185.
Perhaps, the greatest prospect for next year’s team is sophomore Bill Lieber. Lieber was the Irish ace this year and possessed an impressive 190
average for his bowling efforts. He was a finalist in last year’s National Collegiate Match Games and participated again this year. Sophomore Tom Schroeder from Chicago is also a prime prospect for next year on the basis of his 188-average performances in 1960-61. Mike Bentley of Warrenville, Ill., Dan Dvorak of Summit, N.J., and Jim Lewis of Johnson City, N.Y., were the othei- team members instrumental in the championship thrust.
LAST SATURDAY’S SESSION
Cartier Field was the scene of all the excitement last Saturday as the baseball team was battling its Bowling Green opponent; the track team was running through its regular practice; and the football team participated in its most extensive scrimmage to date.
Dan Halloran
BiU Lieber
Needless to say, even in the spring season, it was the
football team that had the majority of spectators, all hoping to see just how
good the vaunted freshmen prospects, namely Costa and Snowden, are. The Saturday preview of the 1961 Fighting Irish lasted but 45 minutes as Coach Kuharich then retired his squad to the secrecy of the Stadium. But what was
seen was impressive.
Junior halfback Charlie O’Hara received the opening kickoff on his five-yard line and, streaking through the amazed “white” opposition, went the rest of the 95 yards from there. Ed Rutkowski kicked the first of thirteen consecutive conversions and the scoring had begun. For the next few minutes, each team traded the ball back and forth with little gain; the “gang tackling”
of each unit was the proven stopper.
But the crowd soon had what it came for. Paul Costa, the towering freshman halfback, took a Varsity handoff to the left side of the line. Cutting to the outside at midfield, the high-stepping Costa hurdled futile tackle attempts from all sides and jaunted on to a touchdown. It was score number two for the Varsity and the sight everyone had waited for.
NOTRE DAME BASEBALL TEAM
What has happened to the Notre Dame baseball team? No one really knows. Just when the Irish appear ready to embark on the comeback trail, new failures spring up; the slump continues. With a two-game series against Toledo University today and tomorrow, this is really the final opportunity for a comeback—uninterrupted.
—Jay Kilroy
May 5, 1961
Baseball
(Continued from page 21)
Dilley at second and Kleinschmidt at first. Gary Sprindis and John Sekeres are infield reserves.
Joining Richter in the outer garden are football halfbacks Merritt Norvell and Bill Hess. Norvell patrols centerfield while Hess does duty in the right field sector. Bill Brimmer and Marlyn Bailey are in reserve.
The catching is in the hands of Tom Handford with veterans Russ Williams backing him up.
Last Saturday afternoon the Irish took it on the chin for the thirteenth time this spring, Western Michigan posting a 7-4 win. A Friday game between the two teams at Western Michigan was called off due to inclement weather.
The Broncos backed up lefty Bill Ort-lieb’s eight hit pitching with a thirteen hit assault on three Irish hurlers. Irish catcher Walt Osgood emerged from a bad slump with a four-for-four performance, including a home run, triple and two singles.
—Bill Cary
RWTURBOW
\pPTOMKTRIST
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington—Phone CE 4-5777
Rodin's Record Club
1 Free For Every 10 Purchased
ALBUMS & SINGLES JOIN TODAY
FOR MOTHER’S DAY
A NOTRE DAME SPECIAL
CHAMPAGNE TONE ORCHID CORSAGE
Free Delivery Satisfaction Guaranteed Free Greeting Card
Sailing Team Departs For Tufts Competition
This weekend the Sailing Team is participating in two widely separated regattas — one at Bloomington, Ind. and the other on the East Coast.
Notre Dame’s top four rookies were sent to Indiana University’s Novice Regatta. Six schools are competing in this regatta which is limited to sailors who have never before skippered in an intercollegiate regatta. The Rambler’s two skippers are Tom Fox and Jay Mulhern, each of whom has won an intraclub regatta.
Near Boston, Mass., the Irish are sailing for the Fries Trophy at Tufts University. Fourteen Eastern schools are sailing in this meet and the tough competition should be just what the team needs to sharpen up for the Midwest Champs. Ed Bukowski, Chuck Finnegan, John Zusi, Hank Chamberlin and Bob Singewald are the Irishmen sailing.
Last weekend the N. D. sailors qualified for the Midwest Championship regatta by taking a third, despite a disqualification and a breakdown, at the Area “C” Eliminations held on Lake Mendota, home waters of the University of Wisconsin. The top three of the five competing schools qualified in the ten race regatta. Commodore J. Day Kuras and John Zusi skippered for Notre Dame, taking Art Lange and Bob Singewald for crews, while Vice-Commodore Ed Bukowski, Louie Lange and Hank Chamberlin waited on the dock, in vain, for Mendota’s infamous gales, so that they could take over. The final scores were: Wisconsin, 53; Marquette, 45; Notre Dame, 38%; Purdue, 31; Beloit, 26.
The Sailing Club has open sailing on St. Joe’s Lake every afternoon starting at 1:00. At least one person taking each boat out must be a Club member and a qualified skipper. Membership may be obtained by the payment of the $4.00 dues to Pete Schied, 40 Pangborn. All those interested are invited to attend a Club meeting at Rm. 209 Eng. Bldg., 7:30 Wednesday night.
All writers wishing to join the Scholastic sports Staff for next year, contact Jay Kilroy in 240 Alumni.
Contact:
RON SALDINO 248 Lyons Hall
'Letters'	)
(Continued from page 4) THE CARDINAL BLINKS
Editor:
In a debate it is never expected that a man dwell on the weak points of his arguments. For that reason we can readily forgive Peter Butler for not telling the whole truth about Cardinal Cushing and his relationship to the John Bircl^”?
Society.
It is indeed true that His Eminence is responsible for the quotation attributed to him by Butler. It would be accurate, however, to use the Cardinal’s most recent statement about the Society. This latest quote appears on the front page of the April 8, 1961 issue of the Boston archdiocesan weekly, The Pilot, under the headline, “Cardinal Cites Exaggerations of Birch Group.”
The Cardinal said: “Everyone must' salute the labors of sincere and dedicated men who engage in the anti-Communist efforts. Robert Welch is such a man and so are many of the good people who are associated with him.
“On the other hand, we must deplore the exaggerations and excesses which discredit even a good thing. Anyone who suggests that our former President, Mr.
s
£
- -	j,
Eisenhower, promoted Communist causes^ is speaking in absurdities. Statement^ ? like these do not assist honest efforts to jj resist the spread of communism and f
and ।
alert people to its genuine dangers.
err people io ils genuine uangers. j It should be noted, also, that the lead I
editorial in the same issue of the Pilot
was a vigorous attack on the Society in i which it was characterized as “a good thing gone wrong.”	J
The editorial said, in part, “When we j feed the cause of genuine anti-commu^ nism with overstatement, we err just as ]( badly as those who nourish communism itself by understatement. The evidence j available seems to indicate quite plainly | that this movement, with all kinds of j good	intentions	allowed, is unbalanced, J
excited	and	definitely out of focus.”	I
Donald J. Thorman	I
Managing Editor	I
Ave Maria Magazine
“GIPPER” AND RELEVANCE Dear Editor:
I would like to voice my dissent with some of the points of Father Hesburgh’s article on Catholic education. Father Hesburgh refers to the “permanent, unchanging values that have made our higher learning something special.” For my part I think such values are conspicuous by their absence. Most of what I have been able to observe here is thpA replacement of the myth of the “GippeAJ by a sort of mediocre aping of ivy I league schools.	:
There has been no formulation of a comprehensive philosophy of Catholic education for America. And I don’t think Father Hesburgh’s speech is very helpful in this direction.
I was most deeply disturbed by Father Hesburgh’s insistence upon “relevance.” I value the university as the last outpost
G*
The Scholastic]
24
O
of the “irrelevant” truth. I hope the reader cringes at the words “irrelevant truth.” For it is clear to many that all truth is relevant to man, even that which seems to have no immediate connection with the worlds of politics, technology, and economics, etc. If the university does not foster the pursuit of the whole truth, there will be no institution that does, and we know how capable men are of 'jny intellectual achievement in a vacuum: thinking is more social than production.
In his discussion of mediation, Father neglects to discuss the most important mediation that a university does: that is, the mediation between the body of traditional knowledge and the individual intellects of students. I know that Father realizes this but I think he is too fascinated by what I consider accidental goods of a university education. This is pointed Jut by the fact that many of the func
WARNER'S RENT-A-TRAILER
Rent A One-Way Trailer TO TAKE YOUR THINGS HOME
I PICK UP TRAILER IN SOUTH BEND —LEAVE IT AT HOME
901 WESTERN	AT 7-9494
RAH! RAH!
RALE/OH
MODEL 22AW
tions that Father assigns to Catholic higher education could be accomplished by learned societies, political bodies, etc., without any special reference to students at all.	• t |
I am afraid that I have dwelled on what I consider the bad points of the article. I hope that those that I consider good are more obvious.
William Jungels Off-Campus
‘LETTERS' should be sent to the Editors, 320 Walsh. ‘BACK PAGES’ of social and speculativecriticism should be sent to the same address.
Raleigh bicycles were made for college life and the student body. And speaking of bodies a Raleigh is measured by frame size, not wheel size.
For example: Collegemen over 5'9" specify 23" frames. Men under 5'9" specify 21" frames.
Try a Raleigh out on Campus — You’ll feel better for it — Raleigh you will!!
For all details see your campus Raleigh dealer.

ALBRIGHTS
2720 Lincolnway West Mishawaka
Telephone BL 5-8988
’Bird-Watchers'
(Continued from page 26)
Revolution and reaction can only confound and trouble our society. And a careful analysis of the leadership of the John Birch Society very clearly reveals that the Society is an inteUectually bankrupt, reactionary movement utterly incapable of securing genuine progress.
The youths of the last generation reacted strongly against staid normalcy, and in the process they were somewhat overeager to espouse the dogmas of the socialist and communist Far Left. Similarly, the young intellectuals today — many of them — have had their fill of grandiose schemes which seek a return to the “good old panaceas” of the New Deal and which try to turn the hands of history back a half century or more. A classic example is the impressive liberal slogan “100% of parity for fanners” which merely means that the agricultural situation of 1912-1914 is selected as the desired ideal. But one lesson of history must be taken to heart: the increasingly conservative modern youth must avoid the dangerous trap of swinging too far to the right, for the erratic Reactionary Right is no more sound today than the Revolutionary Left was three decades ago.
THE CATHOLIC POSITION
The Catholic position in this matter ought to be clear. The Church is militantly anti-communist, but it knows that extremist attacks on that ideology or attempts to propagate a “countermyth” will only worsen, never improve^ the situation. How much better it would be to read the papal social encyclicals with understanding and try to alleviate the plight of those—the underprivileged masses and the idealistic, socially aware intellectuals — who despair of improving the human condition by the slow but effective techniques of natural progress and seek instead to overturn the entire national structure. Thus, positive activity is the answer; not the negative measures of the Birch Society but rather a striving for the Christian ideals of social justice and charity.
The spectrum of political ideas is somewhat ambiguous: the violent end is scarcely distinguishable from the red extreme. Since both attempt to use the very same measures, they are nearly identical in practice. Antarctica and the Arctic may be poles apart but they suffer from the same climatic difficulties! As Otis Chandler, the distinguished publisher of the conservative Los Angeles Times wrote in reference to the JBS: “If the John Birchers follow the program of their leader, they will bring our institutions into question exactly as the Communists try to do. They will sow distrust, and aggravate disputes, and they will weaken the very strong case for conservatism. . . . Subversion, whether of the left or right, is still subversion.” (editorial of 3/12/61)
fay 5, 1961
birch
watchers:
(“Goldwater is tainted with Socialism”)
I love Robert Welch His stuff is so warm, And if you don’t listen He’ll do you no harm.
— BROOKS ATKINSON
In recent months even the casual follower of current events has been overwhelmed by an enormous literature of fact and comment about the John Birch Society. Composed of many thousands of active “patriots,” all quite “conservative,” this organization is dedicated to putting America and the world back on the right track to counteract some fifty years of a steady Red shift that is variously dated from Marx, Wilson, Lenin or F.D.R. Its highly controversial founder, sometime Boston candyman Robert Welch, is mobilizing the entire Society, as well as several affiliated (“front”) groups to destroy the Communist influence in America which he now estimates to be 40-60% complete. At the present time the chief activities of each of the hundreds of small cells sprinkled about the nation are: 1) study of the exact nature of the Communist conspiracy; 2) active support of allied anti-Communist groups and individuals; and 3) a letter writing campaign demanding the impeachment of Chief Justice Earl Warren for Supreme Court decisions allegedly favorable to the Communist traitors.
TRAITORS GALORE
Accusations have been hurled that the Society engages in secret smear campaigns, is a fascist, militarist subversive group disrupting community life in dozens of cities, and that it is led by the most demagogic and obnoxious members of the lunatic fringe of the extreme right. The chief weapon of the Society’s numerous critics lies in the various writings of Mr. Welch. In these, the Eisenhowers, Truman, Roosevelt, General Marshall, Warren, the Rockefellers, and even Nixon and Kennedy are decried as ruthless, dangerous men who have deliberately attempted to betray their nation into the hands of the Kremlin. While many embarrassed Birchers deny that Welch’s opinions are those of the Society as a whole, other leaders of the movement venture even
26
further in their accusations. Kent Courtney, for example, claims that America’s leading conservative spokesman, Senator Barry Goldwater is “tainted with Socialism!” The Birchers to a man hold that the Society has become the victim of a vicious smear attack instigated by Communists who see the JBS as a threat to their own evil machinations.
It is indeed difficult to separate truth from fiction in all of these charges and countercharges. This writer feels, however, that the following points are well founded: 1) the Birch Society can point to many distinguished and dedicated patriots in their ranks — men and women who are profoundly disturbed by what they feel to be an organized socialistic conspiracy led by Kremlin agents and the New Dealers as typified by Alger Hiss; 2) “The John Birch Society is to be a monolithic body. . . . [It] will operate under complete authoritative control at all levels.” (Welch, The Blue Book of the John Birch Society, pp. 158, 159) “It is dominated by its founder, Mr. Robert Welch of Boston, who has plenipotentiary powers within the organization.” (W. F. Buckley, Jr. National Review 4/22/61 p. 241); 3) Welch and a select coterie of lieutenants are using the organization to propagate their own political views, which are based on the “great conspiracy” theory of modern history. This theory has its roots not in a genuine devotion to the ideals of American democracy, for Welch calls democracy itself a perennial fraud, nor in an intelligent opposition to the Communist threat, but rather in an almost paranoiac disgust with those progressive measures of the last half century which seem to have done harm to the personal positions of the Birch leaders. In sum, the JBS is merely another front — a rather successful one — for that collection of radical “individualists” which has been so aptly denoted “the lunatic right.”
Abolish the income tax . . . end foreign aid . . . reject the World Court . . . repeal Social Security (and restore the laws of the jungle) . . . keep the Government out of private enterprise and education .. . declare war on Russia ... impeach Earl Warren . . . denounce Presidents Eisenhower, Truman and Roosevelt as willing Red supporters . . .
drive out the thousands of Communist intellectuals, fellow travellers and secret saboteurs infesting the State Department, the Ivy League, the Federafiv Courts, the NAACP, the labor move- r ments, the nation’s churches, the news- ! paper and movie industries, each and every Government department, and, indeed, the whole liberal movement . . . pull the US out of NATO, SEATO, CENTO, UNESCO, and the UN . . . prevent fluoridation of the local water supply . . . break diplomatic relations with Soviet satellite nations, including India and Iceland . . . expose and expe'UB any and every “pinkie” in America (easiest way to spot them: they seem to oppose the work of the John Birch . Society) . . . enshrine Joe McCarthy as the greatest American, next to John Birch, of the century . . . etc., etc., ad nauseam. Indeed, the program of the leading Birchers is ci-ystal-clear and can be spotted a long way off. Too many decent people have, however, joined the Society and are unwittingly fighting fo?JB the entire program.
MENTAL BANKRUPTCY!
Impeachment of Earl Warren will notl suffice to hide the fact that the Supreme B Court, the Congress, and the Executive ■ have only been trying to right the ■ wrongs perpetuated by diehard reaction^H| aries, representatives not of human free^w* dom and opportunity but of selfish I vested interests. Does the true - con- ■ servative wish for progress without an ■ excess of bureaucratic interference? I Then he must take the burden of re-1 form upon himself. He must use his B own methods to achieve desegregation, ■ fair employment practices, adequate I medical and economic security for the I entire population, school improvement, ■ international cooperation, and so otxL through a long urgent list of necessaryqF progressive measures. It is the pro- ■ found conviction of many conservatives | that success in these areas can best be 9 achieved without resort to dangerous ■ < centralized overplanning and political I ! meddling. But intelligent action is de-fl manded. Absurd or far-fetched pan- ■aceas dreamed up by unrealistic ex- 9 -tremists must be absolutely rejected. I
(Concluded on preceding page) '■ |
The Scholastic^
OXFORD^
comfort... quality... appearance
The rich texture of fine oxford skillfully tailored gives the assurance of being well-dressed. Case in point: the Arrow University Fashion B.D. with the authentic roll of the classic button-down. Your wardrobe is incomplete without a selection of these casual Arrow shirts in both long and short sleeves.
35.00
\ From the "Cum Laude Collection”
OXFORD ol ix be.
Favored in university circles for its handsome appearance, its true comfort A classic white oxford from our Cum Laude Collection is this Arrow University Fashion B.D. with back-button and box pleat Available in long and short sleeves.
35.00
^GILBERT
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend