SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME 'S STU DE
MAGAZINE
Apr|23®O2


Rollerblading/ Mania!
Also: Service at Notre Dame
The College Football Hall of Fame
Attention:
Student Clubs and Organizations
Scholastic is again sending out a special summer issue to all the new, incoming freshmen
If you are interested in advertising in this issue please contact Karen Riley at 239-7569 or stop by the Scholastic office, 303 LaFortune. Office hours are 2:00 - 5:00 p.m., Monday - Friday.
i
'	■ i
Let those freshmen know you are out there — advertise in Scholastic! |
CONTENTS
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
ENTERTAINMENT
5
Out of Bounds
White Men Can't Jump
NEWS
Service at Notre Dame
CAMPUS LIFE
9 Rollerblading Mania
14 Celebrating the Earth
! SPORTS
16 A Tribute to Tradition
DEPARTMENTS
2
3
19
20
21
22
24
Editor’s Notes Editorial
On Other Campuses SPY Extra
Week In Distortion
Glancing Back
Final Word
Cover photo by Matt Cashore.
APRIL 23, 1992
1
EDITORS NOTES


On The Cover
Winding Down
Vol:T33r Nd.24 FApril 23^11992 ?
< • ■.?? JJisce Qu^^	Victuivs

Foundedj867;
? Editor
/r Patricia. Doyle,:
G i = t=■:' -: &:-5■’	■ F N F <.
; Mdrgar^K^™^
: . '
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
..QayidHol^
x^mwstife^ ^Editor:: Mollie :Miidd.
^PORTS;b^^g:”^^ :E^ftpr; <O

■ENTERTAINMENT^ Editor;Ji:Bradley:'Keck
departments;-MtordMic^abi;^^ Assistant?CoHnfOlary
■< ?-I /?: -:: fi <;;: ?■'; ■ i	’ - ■ ■' ? ■	: OA \? :■■ '■::.: ’:.
FEdifori/Nicl^Spqn^^
.■ -, "	■£;■, ■'	;v.A: :: \ \	■■'■'■'■?-C
SENldOW^W^
•Wanda^in^
: Man^liej^j^Qdid^
.Laura Toboni:F b\'F;y<-:;?. "i' / J \’;•A F <: :

:graphip:arts3^
Manager:^
Rollerbader Scott Smoron shows off his inline skating moves as he jumps into midair. As the weather gets warmer, more Notre Dame students are joining in the rollerblade craze. Inside, Campus Life writer Cricky Cavanaugh traces the history of in-line skating and talks with some Notre Dame rollerbladers about the popularity of the sport and the attraction to it
Also Inside
In Entertainment writer Rod Shelton reviews the movie White Men Can’t Jump. News writer Caroline Clarke looks atNotre Dame’s history of service to the community, while Copy Editor Chris Blanford looks at service projects that seniors will be participating in during the upcoming year.
In Campus Life, Steve Murray looks at the Earth Day festivities around the county and here atNotre Dame. While Notre Dame has always had a strong football tradition, Sports Editor Jim Kuser explains the possibility of having the College Football Hall of Fame relocated in South Bend.
Along with “On Other Campuses” and “Spy Extra,” senior Nate Fitzgerald bids farewell in his last Week In Distortion and looks back on his four years at Notre Dame. In “Glancing Back,” you can read about the history of AnTostal and also look at one of the predicaments in Scholastic's history.
Next week, April 30, will be the last regular issue of Scholastic published this semester. We will be publishing a freshman issue over the summer and if your club or organization is interested in advertising, please contact our Advertising Manager, Karen Riley at 239-7569. Also if you haven’thadan opportunity to write for us this year and you are still interested, please stop by our office in 303 LaFortune and let us know.
Patricia Doyle
Editor in Chief
Correction: In the letter published in • the April 23,1992, issue of Scholastic written by Lori Garner and Sarah Klinges, the end bf a sentence wais left out due to a typographical enror. The -: sentence should read: “Miss Graher ■; was so. excited -that; DissFunktion ‘deservingly’ won first place and is • i playing sometimc during AnTostal, that she made the ludicrous oversight that VRS was the runner-up at NAZZ and will also be plajdng sometime during AnTostal.” Scholastic regrets
SYSTEMS ’"
iManager^KeyinJ^

^ERTISING^^gl ^Ma^geftKaren^Rile^g
;?':?-"'.F	; y/- ■ v>
£BUSIN^^ ^anag^®lejen^elley;
■;	' --.v ■, - ' ■; ■
DISTRIBUTION. MANAGE ; Bi li;
; J.
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed al The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscriptionrideis$25.00/yearandbackissuesareavailable at $1.25 [copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicitied materials become the prop-erty of Scholastic.
Copyright 1992 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in pari without written permission is prohibited.
Leiters to Scholastic must be typed and include thewriter’sname, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should in elude their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves therighl to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United Stales,‘ Scholastic also will edit for copy fitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556
2
SCHOLASTIC

SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!!
. Vdu deserve	•
FR1D H V L U N CrM
at

12:00-2:00 pm
SCLUB
Subs Burgers Pizza
Rlumni-Senior Club is open euery Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday night from 9:00 pm until 2:00 am
I.D. Required
APRIL 23, 1992

REVIEW &PREVIEW
By J. Bradley Keck
If you’rereading this at the dining hall and feel the need to hunt me down and throttle my neck due to my offensive humor, stop. I’m not here. I’m over at St. Mary’s celebrating “Thirsty Thursday.” And wow guys, are you missing it! The beautiful women of Sl Mary’s are not only having us all for dinner, they are also limboing, jello wrestling and sucking down pasta. Yes, they are letting us all have that much fun and you don’t even have to leave your I.D. at the front gate.
I hope that An Tostal week has been good to everyone thus far, but things are only going to get better — we still have “Frivolous Friday,” “Psychedelic Psaturday” and “Suddenly It’s Sunday” yet to come. If you time your day just right on Friday you might be able to choke down a Subway sub on Fieldhouse mall, gobble down part of the REAL long sundae in front of South Dining Hall, and just getyour burp out in time to win the belching contest down at the Rock. Move fast though; all three events are at 3:30 p.m. At Stepan sometime Friday there is also a rootbeer chugging contest. Doesn’t du Lac have arule against sugar and caffeine abuse? I guess Fr. Malloy will touch on that in his Sesquicentennial Address at 8:00 p.m.
Saturday is mud day. After a picnic lunch on Stepan field (dining halls are closed), head over to the mud pits on White field. Watch all types of dirty fighting and competition in the pits starting with volleyball at 11 a.m. and concluding with a game against the food service staff around three just as indigestion sets in. Hogstock ‘92 will also be rocking S tepan Field from 10 a.m. until 7 p.m. Nine campus bands will groove in this “psychedelic experience.” Remember to get your shirt tie-dyed Friday afternoon on Walsh lawn before the Woodstock of
4
Michiana gets too out of hand.
Sunday is basketball day. Grab a good seat a Stepan and watch the hoops. The men’s final is slated to start at 3:00p.m. and usually is one of the biggest all-campus events of the year.
Well, Guns n’ Roses canceled all of their shows last week in Chicago andDetroit.Just when you think you can depend on someone, ... Unbelievable as it may sound they canceled the shows so that W. Axl Rose could “avoid arrest on misdemeanor charges.” Next thing you know there is Axl singing with Elton John at Wembley Stadium. (No, G n’ R didn’t sing One in a Million during the tribute for Freddie Mercury.) I guess either he had a great disguise or those pesky wanted posters didn’t get to the airport in time. As is usually the case, fugitives can leave the country but just can’t take the stage in Michigan or Illinois. With Axl’s low profile the only place I guess he can be spotted is on a stage in front of 20,000 people.
The Sound Action concert to promote Earth Day 1992 awareness takes place Friday at Foxboro Stadium in Boston. The concert presented by the Steve Miller Band features performances by Midnight Oil, The Kinks, Violent Femmes and Indigo Girls.
Also on Friday night in Chicago the entire gospel singing Winans family will be in concert. BeBe.CeCe and the crew take the stage at 7:30p.m. at the Arie Crown Theatre in McCormick place.
Mint Condition of Your Breaking My Heart (Pretty Brown Eyes) fame is also in concert Friday night. The show starts at 7:30p.m. in the New Regal Theatre.
Theatre buffs might also want to make plans to set Aspects of Love that just opened this Tuesday at the Civic Theatre. This Andrew Lloyd Weber musical has already been staged in London and New York, but
this is not a traveling company coming to Chicago, it is an entirely new production. Chicago native Linda Balgord has the lead role in this play that examines four types of love.	।
Coming to record stores on May 5 are ; compilations from two prolific artists. Neil Diamond is releasing The Greatest Hits 1966-1992. It contains 37 songs from all j most three decades. Addictions Volume 2 by Robert Palmer will also be available.
I wonder if any of these albums will continue the trend set by Kris Kross’ Totally Krossed Out last week and debut in the top ten. You might have heard their song Jump, the lyrics explain their cross-over appeal: “R&B, rap and bullcrap is what were dumping.” Oh, I get it: if you sound like ' R&B but claim not to be, you must have an automatic spot at the top of the charts. i
If you don’t want to buy any more CDs just wait Sony has just announced that they will introduce recordable CDs sometime this fall. These new “Mini-Discs” will, of course, not be compatible with today’s CDs.	|
MD players will range form $300-$500 and blank MDs will cost around $12.
Batman Returns is completely finished with production and is set for a June 19 premier. Michael Keaton stars as the Caped Crusader again, along with Danny DeVito as the Penguin and Michelle Pfeiffer as Catwoman (meow). This time it is Christmas in Gotham City and Batman must battle the Penguin and his army of little penguins.
SCHOLASTIC
1
ENTERTAINMENT
White Men Can’t Jump
Ron Shelton’s Movie by the Same Name Doesn’t Exactly Fly Either
by Colin Fleming
White Men Can't Jump and Ron Shelton, the writer and director of the film, has similar difficulties getting his movie off of the ground. The movie’s.most
interesting aspect may be found in its title but even the title turns out to be meaningless and empty. The greatest disappointment of White Men Cant Jump is its failure to probe potentially provoking issues such as racial stereotypes and white/black relationships on the streets. A story about basketball it is, but you won’t find any All-Stars here.
Sidney Dean (Wesley Snipes) and Billy Hoyle (Woody Harrelson) are two gambling court connivers, who ramble on and on senselessly throughout the entire film. To complete the films eloquent triumvirate, Gloria (Rosie Perez) is Billy’s alcoholic girlfriend, whose sole ambition is to pay off a gambling debt by cleaning up on Jeopardy. I never thought memorizing seven foods beginning with the letter Q would have any relevance to a film’s plot, but... ?
The film relies too heavily on sweaty basketball scenes and “your momma wears
“ jokes to keep the
audience’s attention. It was like being forced to watch ten first-round Bookstore Games in a row. Repetitive. Repetitive. Repetitive. But hey, now I do know how to betterinsultotherpeoples’ mothers. Maybe
it was just me, but Billy couldn’t jump, and Billy couldn’t play hoops to save his live, much less to make a living or save his relationship with Gloria. Stick to bartending Billy (“Woody”).
White Men Can’t Jump could have been an
Wesley Snipes and Woody Harrelson strike a pose between filming hoops scenes in White Men Can’t Jump.
interesting look at inner-city life and the struggle to beat the streets. Instead, racial stereotypes were reinforced. Some hope for black/white relationships is given, but Shelton only gives these matters a token
development I wanted to know why or how Sidney and Billy could become friends. They just were, just like how Billy’s fifty-foot hook shot just sort of went in the basket It wasn’t real; these weren’t the streets of Los Angeles. Mr. Shelton, you are no Spike
Lee — I hope you weren’t trying.
Only two statements are made about white/black social stereotypes. The first, made by Billy, is “Blacks would rather look good than win, and we [whites] would rather look bad than lose.” Sidney’s own philosophy is “You [whites] all listen to Hendrix, but you don’t hear”. These are the film’s lone attempts to suggest some sort of social meaning, but no answers are suggested or attempted. Just like Billy’s and Sidney’s friendship, the why and how of it all just doesn’t make sense.
In short, White Men Can’t Jump doesn’t know what it wants to say. Would a job be the answer to a hustler’s unrealized dreams? Is a game the true bond of friends? And, what causes those interracial problems found on the street? As far as suggesting answers to these questions, White Men Can’t Jump only shoots airballs. If you like athletics there is plenty of sweat to see' on Nike commercials, and probably more cinematic substance than in the basketball
scenes of this flick. So Billy, see you on Cheers’, Sidney, apologize to Billy’s mother; and Gloria, what exactly is the difference between an airball and an airhead? And Mr. Shelton, white men can jump —
they just can’t dance.
□
APRIL 23, 1992
5
NEWS
flF©(o]Sflli©© ©fl ^©F^S©©
“This school will be
one of the most powerful forces for good in this country.”
by Caroline Clarke
I n 1842, Holy Cross priest Edward Sorin founded the University of Notre Dame. He endeavored to create a pioneer university, one that would effectively integrate the realm of academia with community service. In his Chronicles, Sorin prophesized, “This school will be one of the most powerful forces for good in this country.”
As Notre Dame celebrates its sesquicen-tennial, the student body has faithfully adhered to Sorin’s philosophy. Members of the community are actively involved in a full spectrum of service projects benefitting the surrounding South Bend area.
In the university’s fledgling years, women religious constituted a powerful work force during the Civil War. In response to increased fighting in the early 1860’s, the governor of Indiana entreatied help of volunteers to care for the wounded. Sisters of the Holy Cross initiated a response, aidind nurse soldiers from both Union and Confederate forces.
When the city of Chicago experienced catastrophic loss with the fire of 1871, the Notre Dame family met their call to duty. Holding a fund-raising event on November 4, all proceeds were donated to fire victims.
Currently, the forefront of Notre Dame’s public service movement is the Center for Social Concerns. Established in 1893 under the auspices of the university’s Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry, the Center offers a multitude of activities. Included are myriad academic courses, informative seminars, guest lectures, films and educational programs. The primary focus of these events is to inform students of the specific
opportunities for service. In hopes of enriching student’s understanding of what such projects entail, the Center inspires students to reach out to the marginalized. While well known programs such as Urban Plunge and Christmas In April receive continued support, leaders encourage new ideas.
The Center is accessible to students, staff members serving as catalysts for community service. Groups such as Amnesty International, the American Red Cross, Upward Bound, and the Knights of Columbus all boast strong followings.
Several annual programs are also orchestrated to place students in direct contact with the needy. Programs such as Head Start and Christmas in April maintain contact with the peripheral South Bend community. However, students extend their efforts to other areas of the country. Since 1967, over 3,800 students have sac-
rificed part of their
breaks to Urban Plunge. This project entails 48 hours of studying and immersing oneself in the poverty and apathy corroding American inner cities. Students adapt to the lifestyles of their designated area in hopes of achieving a greater realization of the imbalance of justice which exists. In
loyalty to the educational dimension of
such projects, the program mandates an orientation workshop. Before engaging in the Plunge, students have selected readings and a follow-up writing assignment afterwards. According to Joanne Gatti, a recent Plunge participant, “The experience was truly wonderful. The educational aspect was unique; it prepared us for what we would encounter. Rather than being tedious, I saw the writing project as an opportunity to process everything that I learned.”
Another service opportunity is Headstart, a nationwide program run by respective school districts. Although students derive pleasure from helping others, times of awkwardness are inevitable. Andrea Cox noted,”1 had one little girl who showed telltale signs of physical abuse. She remained silent when I talked with her, and I didn’t know how to handle the situation.” Such scenarios raise ethical dilemmas. Cox continued,” It is hard to do anything without
Students work in the Appalachia program.
SCHOLASTIC
tangible evidence.”
Other communication barriers may arise. Cox noted that the prevalent feeling towards policemen was one of great apprehension. Despite socio-economic differences, all children appreciate hugs and affection.
During fall and spring breaks, the Center’s Appalachian Service Seminar takes students to Appalachia. Students form crews, repairing homes in the region. Of her experience this year in Appalachia, Meghan King noted, “As banal as it sounds, I find that we do take advantage of what amenities we have at our disposal. I did my part, and that felt good.” We can feel for the disadvantaged, but taking active measures to do something constructive embodies Notre Dame’s unique spirit. “I also met some great people while I was there, both fellow students and Appalachians.”
The national Christmas in April program, is cosponsored by the city of South Bend and the university. The one day project involves thousands of volunteers from the campus and community. The crews build and restore homes of the handicapped, elderly or poor area residents. Deborah Dinkel reflected,” I was impressed with other students responses. The comments I overheard on the bus reflected that the students loved it; we came away with even more than we gave.” Due to the nature of the service, however, the students had to excercise tact. “The house my crew worked on was owned by an elderly woman. She was upset her own family did less to help than a group of strangers.” Basic human pride is universal, and was a visible element. Pride must not be confused with being an ingrate. “We just had to express ourselves clearly. I could tell she appreciated the work done,” Dinkel noted.
The service spirit is not exclusive to a handful of students. The Center of Social Concerns estimated that 70 percent of the undergraduates annually engage in some form of service. This overwhelming statistic is impressive, indicative of the compelling communal spirit.
The lessons learned from public service projects are of tantamount importance to the growth of the individual. Matthew Bomberger, a Knight of Columbus, stated,”In our organization you meet like . minded people. It is like a fraternity, with each member concerned about the other
■ '_____'	'	' ' ; ';	- • work, liturgical music and other church and
■	by Chris Blanford :	community-related work. “We’rethought
[———————————1: of as missionaries,” he said. '	\ \
■’ any seniors are doing service “MyexperienceinLatinAmericaisgoingto
projects this summer after, their	affect whatl will be doing for the rest of my;
^graduation. Some seniors, however, life,” saidLcheny. ;
investing far more than a summer in their Lchcnyencouages others to apply. The best projects.	:	time-to apply, according to him, is after
Karl Roemer and William Lehenysigncd up college. This is when people are free from foriheNotreDamc/Holy Cross associates in jobs, loans and family, and they can commit Chile, a two an done half year committment fo a program such as this. '' [’ . : 'V: [They return to the university for a month in Lcheny heard about the program from: hiis [August to prepare to be immersed into a small group leader on a Notre Dame En-Torcign culture. Then they are off to counter retreat and was later encouagcd by Quemevaca, Mexico for a three month in- [ his rector to apply. -, S [ d tensive Spanish course. In mid-December “I really look at this a continuation of myj they fly to Santiago, Chile to spend two -? education,’’saidRoemer.“Thisapartofmyj years living with a Mexican family. The undergraduate experience.” : :	? 7
group! returns just beforeChristmas,1994. Nicholas Reitzug.anothersenior, is spend-[Therearefive people goingthis year. Three ingthe summer with group that takes in of them are from Notre Dame, one is from children with AIDS called the “Morning! [Saint Mary’s and one from the University bf 'Glory” community. ' . / [-. - ’	,
[Portland. :	;	:? . ? ? - Thereareabouthalfadozenchildrenthatthe
“It’s obviously a big committment, but I’ve -: community has taken in.They live on a farm talked toalotofpeople,’’saidRoemer. “I’ve inAnnapolis,California, a city about 50j thought about this a lot.” • ■ '•	: miles north of San Francisco. They have a
[Roemer’s sophomore year abroad; in: Christmastreefarminaddtionwhichmakes[ Innsbruck, Austria “whetted my appetite” to them self-sustaining.
learn another language and about another “I wanted to live in a community and the[ Culture. “I’m kind of an adventurer at heart, farming really interested me,” said Reitzug and this is a big ad venture,’’hesaid. ? He also is fascinated by working withAIDS A similar situation gaveLchcnyareason to victims. [[7/?'7 ' - ’- A ? r. [7.: ? [go to South America.Hc spentfour months “It sounds like [a very joyful community;...; inMexico his junior year, but he didn’t feel in spite bf the dcathand the sickness that the asthoughhe had enough time tolearnaboutkidsgothrough,”saidRei tzug.He expects! j the issues there.“Irealizedtliattherewere thechallengeoflivingwithsuchacom-! alotofproblems in Latin America,” he said. munityto bea learning experience. [ 77 “I decided that I wanted to Something about17Reitzug: discovered the community in a that.” ';[.. / ? j	• 7 ' 7 ? / 77packetat theCenter for SocialConcerns.?!
“Peoplcwhohavedoneadomesticprogram. MoreandmorestudentSarediscovering drey were afraid to do the Chile thing be- disparaging answers to questions coriceih? Icause they felt that two and a half years was ing the job market. Rather than giving tip [tod long; Some of them wish foey would several Notre Dame Students are [have done it for two and a half years,’’ said channeling their! eriergiesr and educational Roemer. 77 [j ? . 7' ' -	[- 77 .;7 7 benefits intoscrviceprojccts.allowingthe;
Roemer will be teaching in the shanty tosvri less-fbrtunate to partake in a Notre Dame; of Santiago as well as • doing[youih!jgoiipj-^^
members as well as the community.” Social Service at Notre Dame is truly a lifestyle, a mindset one adopts. Helping others is not perceived as a chore, but rather a privelage. University students gamer insight into
themselves as well as a new vantage point from which to see their fellowman. Armed with such resources, Notre Dame graduates will continue to fulfill Father Sorin’s prophecy.	□
APRIL 23, 1992
7
S
CONGRATULAZIONE
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
AND SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE
ALLA CLASSE DEL 1992
^poridi d
"The Italian Ristorante"
[n the honor of Graduates, Family, Alumni, Faculty, Administrators and Friends- all of whom made your lay possible, your Neighbor just to the south, Parisi's, has made plans to enhance your graduation celebrations:
★The opening of ROBERTO'S LOUNGE - an Italian ambiance where one can rest, relax, imbibe and meet with old friends or make new acquaintances.
★Weather permitting, the reopening of our umbrellaed dual patios for dining 'al fresco'.
★Saturday, May 16,11AM to 4PM, a giant cook out barbecue under our 2400 sq ft tent. A bountiful portion of BBQ chicken or award winning BBQ ribs plus the necessary 'fixins'. A variety of beverages available.
★As always, for the past ten years, an invitation to enjoy fine dining at dinner or buffet, selecting from our menu of delicious soups and salads, fish, chicken and meats plus Parisi's renowned Calibrian style pastas with choice of sauces.
MAKE YOUR RESERVATIONS NOW.
GRAZIE!
Roberto Parisi, owner/host
★1412 South Bend Avenue
South Bend, Indiana 46617
FOR RESERVATIONSZBANQUETS/BUFFETS
PHONE 232-4244 or FAX 232-4257
IbYOTA
ACCEPTS SHEEPSKINS FOR CREDIT
Here’s proof that your diploma is definitely worth more than the piece of paper it’s written on. In fact, it can get you into a wild, yet practical, ’92 Toyota Paseo. Or any one of our quality cars and trucks.
Okay, motivated collegians, you can now take advantage of the incredible Toyota Class of ’92 Retail Financing Program-if your diploma is from a four-year college, graduate school or registered nursing program. Even if you’re six months away from graduation. The hot scoop: Your dream Toyota can be
yours for no money down and a 90-day* deferred payment! We offer you all this plus special College Grad finance rates. For even lower monthly payments, talk to your Toyota dealer about leasing.
So, call it a diploma. Or call it a sheepskin. But be sure to call 1-800-5-COLLEGE for the location of your nearest Toyota dealer and a brochure with full details and qualification requirements.
TOYOTA MOTOR 1	1
CREDIT CORPORATION
See Your Toyota Dealer
•Finance charges accrue from the
contract date. Deferred payment not available in
New Jersey on vehicles with a cash selling price of less than $10,000.
©1992 Toyota Motor Sales, USA, Inc.
8
SCHOLASTIC
_________CAMPUS LIFE______
■ y
© Q U ®	H a (d ft eq g
EfiMftgi3
Skating beats walking as in-line skaters roll over campus
1
By Cricky Kavanaugh
Have you ever had the urge to fly? Do you have enough coordination to walk? Do you like fun, relaxation, and adventure? If you answered “yes” to any of these questions, then you are a perfect candidate for the new craze sweeping the nation and Notre Dame’s campus—rollerblading.
Rollerblading may seem like a new fad, but in fact the dawn of in-line skates, as they are technically called, came in the days when the young lad George Washington was chopping down cherry trees and telling the truth. However, in-line skates are not as American as apple pie.
In the 1760’s, a Belgian man named Joseph Merlin invented the first pair of roller skates, which closely resembled in-line skates. These primitive rollerblades consisted of four wooden wheels in a single line fastened to a pair of shoes. Although Joseph Merlin could officially be called the first “rollerblader” due to the fact that his skates were in-line, as opposed to conventional roller skates, his original in-line skate fizzled due to a rather embarrassing spill while on his blades. Joseph Merlin was skating down the street, with a violin in hand for musical entertainment because they didn’t have walkmans back then.
Without any means for slowing or stopping his progress forward, he crashed and shattered an expensive mirror which belonged to an important person in his town, splintered his violin into smithereens, and wounded
yWheri rollerblading,
^wbrldyp^^
on a
himself severely. Unfortunately, this first time Merlin took his skates outfor a spin was also the last time, and also the last time inline skates were utilized until the 1820’s.
After that accident, roller-skates were not heard about for forty years, and in-line skates did not reappear until 1823 when R. John Tylers created another species of in
line skates with five wheels in a single line instead of four. However, the in-line skate was left in the dust by the quickly advancing developments in roller skate technology. Had Joseph Merlin realized the potential popularity and demand that in-line skates would generate in the future, he would have swallowed his pride, bandaged his scrapes and sores, hired someone more trained on skates to market his product, and thus made a lot of money.
If, in the past, in-line skates have notfared very well, why have they become so popular today? Nobody knows the answer to this question for certain, but there are many clues that reveal possible explanations of the ex-citementoverrollerblading. Onehypothesis stems from understanding the current popularity of hockey. Rollerblades as we know them today are the brainchild of Scott Oslin, a Minneapolis hockey player who wanted to keep in practice while not on the ice. In 1982, he founded Rollerblade, Inc., which sold in-line skates out of the back of a truck primarily to dedicated hockey players and skiers as an off-season tool for training. Other companies quickly followed suit In 1984, another entrepreneur bought out Rollerblades, Inc., and began to market in-line skates to the general public, and just
APRIL 23, 1992
9
words are a “tool for freedom.” He purports that “God screwed us when he didn’t give us wings. So he gave us rollerblades.”
Rollerblading can also be a very humbling experience because learning to stop is not quite as easy to master as starting or moving forward is. Chances are that if you aren’t the best at stopping, accidentally hit a humongous bump, or your blade gets caught in crack or grate, you will go down hard. Tim attests that hard falls happen to the best of rollerbladers and includes a few of his own wipe-outs among the more serious ones. In short, Sullivan exclaimed
Mancashore that “when you go down you
Rollerbladers Nick Spangler, Scott Smoron and Dan Kelly soar off the Mod Quad steps. are really screwed.” However, once a blader learns how
as everyone calls bandages “Band-Aids” or cola “Coke,” “rollerblades” became the prototypic name for all in-line skates.
However, this does not fully explain the sudden rise of the rollerblade’s regime outside of the hockey player’s domain. Could it be that people are: fed up with the monotony of going in circles in a roller rink lit by a disco ball, and that the backwards skate just doesn’t tickle their fancy like it used to? Or is it that the majority of people who own roller skates today are under the age of thirteen and have to be in with the first glow of the street lights? Many people who advocate rollerblading suggest that the in-line skate offers many advantages that the roller skate doesn’t, and also that rollerblading is just all around more hip and more fun than rollerskating.
Rollerblades are not just for kids or for crazy college students but for everyone. If you can walk, you can rollerblade! If your knees or back hurt from jogging or doing the stairmaster and you love to exercise outdoors rollerblades are the perfect solution. In fact, one hour of rollerblading consumes as many calories as an hour of running or cycling. Not only is rollerblading a good way to keep in shape, but it also offers a great way to get to where you are going at up to 30 miles per hour — that is more than three
times faster than the average jog and ten times faster than walking. This may translate into significant additional time to listen to music, cram, eat, sleep,or rollerblade, if one rollerblades to class rather than walks. If it usually takes ten minutes to walk to and from class, rollerblading would only take you only one minute each way.
In addition to aerobic benefits and time advantages, rollerblading is fun and exhilarating. The conceptbehind the rollerblade is to transfer energy and movement of your legs into rhythm, flow and momentum that builds up speed. The nylon runners’ system of ball bearings and “high rebound kryptonic wheels” generate a supersmooth and high-com fort ride especially across terrain such as asphalt or concrete.
Veteran rollerbladering guru Tim Sullivan, who has been blading since 1985, feels that the best quality surface is asphalt on a cold day. He also revealed that rollerbladers have about as many descriptions for concrete as the Eskimos do for snow — because the world of rollerbladers revolves around pavement, just as the Eskimo’s world revolves around snow.
According to Tim, rollerblades contain much more purpose than just exercise, speed, fun or excitement. Rollerblades offer a life philosophy, and in Tim Sullivan’s
to stop, his or her method of doing so becomes a personal expression. “How do you stop?” is the first question'bladers ask each other when they meet.
Afraid and trembling I attempted to rollerblade myself, in order to find out what was really so supreme about blading. Amidst an uninterested crowd gathered around the war memorial fountain (who I knew would be extremely attentive as soon as the scream for help came out from my lungs and my body crashed to the pavement) I took my first strides on in-line skates. Although shaky and timid, as soon as the concrete began to pass smoothly under my borrowed black blades with a quiet hum, I gained confidence and was able to take a short jaunt around the paths. Fortunately I did not plummet to the ground. After a few more rounds about the memorial I had been taken in by the spell of rollerblades, and vowed to purchase a pair before the summer’s advent I even dreamt for a whole night that I was skating at high speeds all over campus!
From my experience and from the personal attestments of others, in-line skating is truly addictive. “It’s that freedom thing” in Tim Sullivan’s words. For devotees like Tim, it’s rollerblades or bust And blading does have charm that works magic. For
SCHOLASTIC
instance, Tim says, that, “No matter how crappy your day is, when you clip them on you always feel better. You enter your own world: people become obstacles, like cones you have to avoid on a course.” In this sense, rollerblading is areligious experience, “even better than church,” because of the peaceful mode into which the smooth ride coaxes the soul.
So when you see happy rollerbladers whiz by as you lazily wear away the soles of your walking shoes, don’t hold back from what you know you can and want to do. Don’t be a wimp! The rest of your life starts as soon as you take a chance to experience the world
1*	«	•'RAimA University of Wisconsin at Madison, said
A, ■ .'A'	< •_	yearsago. Doers said heused the skates for
A' W® »(dl;ffitosSS'.?	training.A but how he just Skates
■■ .k- .	- A '	■' A	recreationally. ' . R - -	... A
By Amy Reynolds
. “It uses the saine muscles [as hockey], . but it throws off your stride a little bit,” he
A Tired of cruisingcrowded parking lotson.. said. For that reason, Doers had to give up campus? Forget them.. College students skates for training. ..
nationwide, predominantly in Minnesota Still, Doers said he spent years playing arid California:, are joining the in-line cbm-	roller hockey with the in-line skates, a.
muting trend.. They are using their in-line	hockey- stick and a tennis' ball; with his
skates to travel to and from class, as well as for fun and fitness.
□
friends in parking lots. Roller hockey is just another way people arc using the skates to
. And considering that advanced skaters can reach speeds of up to 30 miles per hour, arid that they, do hot have to worry: about environmental pollution or parking the car,
get in shape and for entertainment .
With the in-line phenomenon taking the
exercise world by storm, researchers are studying exactly what the benefits of the
.in-line skates may just be the trans-	sport are.-	j
portation of choice in the future., ;	: A study conducted by the Human Perfot-
; “T just don’t like being inside a manceLabatSt. Cloud State University in metal box [a car] onaniceday. It’s - Minnesota found thatyoung men whoused the ideal way to see the cities and get in-lihe skates three times a week for about a panoramic , view,” Team : 45 minutes showed a gain in aerobic endur-RollerbladC; Race Captain Dave ance and a reduction iri body fat. -
j Cooper told Toledo Magazine. < . Another study,-done , specifically for j Cooper, like thousands of others, Rollerblade by the coordinator of Sports uses: his skates to commute to work - Science for the U.S. Speed Skating Team, in Dearborn, Michigan. ;	found that in-line skaters burned about12 to
AccordingtotheNationalSporting- 15 calories a minute during 30-minute Goods Association, about 20 com- workouts. : .
partiesmanufacture in-lineskates^	Physicians say the skates are a great form
with, salesAtopping $53 miUioniin.;. of exercise, biit that the pos^bility for seri-1990.: Although 1991 figures aren’t. ous injury, does exist if skaters collide with :. available, NSG A estimates that sales other skaters, cars or bicycles; A A jumped past $100 million. A R . . To preventsuch a mishap,, the most im-
Industry sales have doubled every portant skill to master in tite sport is stopyear since 1988arid now Rollerblade ping. Retailers and physicians also.strongly estimates that about 4 million people suggest skaters wear protective gear.: wrist own in-line skates. ;. R; guards, helmets, and elbow and knee pads.
“it’s growing like crazy,” said The most common “blading” injury is a Mary Haugen, Rollerblade'spokes- broken wristsinceit’s a natural reaction for woman. “Our main users are be- / people to put their arms out straight when :tweentheagesof 18and35. Athletes are still using them: for training,.and we’re seeing a lot of college students
of rollerblading.
Matt Cas ho re
Rollerbladers wear wrist guards, knee pads and helmets to protect them from Injury.
using them to commute to and: from ^class.’’A.'AA.;-.' /. : -Rh-R A .'A A “Aerobically, it’s somewhere between cycling and running,” Haugen' said. “It’s as good or better for the muscle groups in the legs arid lower back and it’s much more low impact than running.. And, ingeneral, it’s morefun.”’j A v ;.A-.A >!:. A A< A
Mike Docrs, ahockeyplayer at the
: they fall. A - R; ;' •;;	; A':X
c The'protectivegear andtheskates varyin price, but generally the skates cost between $75and$330,withpairsofkneepads,wrist guards and elbow pads costing about $30 per pair.	R <;R RrAr R-R .RR
; ; For people not certain whether or not to make the investment, most sport shSpsthat sell in-line skates will tent them;^ run for $10 to $15 a day. Ao A'. A
R Rollerblading has created a definite popularity and thein-1^^
surely be“rolling’’around for quiteawhile. Frdm the College Press Service	Q1
APRIL 23, 1992
11

Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call Colin Clary at 239-7569.
Thursday 23
Friday
Saturday
I
Picnic: Library Green (SMC), 4:30-6:30p.m. Live bands, good food. Carnival: Library Green (SMC), 4:00-7:00p.m. A carnival for the human race.
Limbo: Library Green (SMC), 4:30-6:30p.m. Don't get too bent out of shape.
Canoe Racing: St Mary's Lake, 3:45p.m. Most excellent fun. Pasta Eating Contest: Library Green (SMC), 4:30p.m. A pasta feast to rival the Oak Room.
Dunking Booth: Dunk Monk and other campus celebrities.
Simon Sez: Library Green (SMC), 5:30p.m. Come and play.
Jello Wrestling: The Field East of Angela (SMC), 5:00p.m. Wow. Off-road Bike Race: St. Mary's Nature Trail, 6:00p.m.
ephiphany,

LaForturie Information Desk: Sophomore Class: 239-5225

The Bucket Kickers: Outstanding live music and entertainment from local superstars on the Fieldhouse Mall, 5:00p.m.
Film: "Paris is Burning," 7:30 & 9:45p.m., Snite, $2.
Nature Walk: Earth Week continues with some enjoyable, Earth-friendly activity. Leaves from Galvin, 4:00p.m. Sponsored by Students for Environ-. mental Action;
Tye Die: Walsh Lawn, 12:30-3:30p.m. Groovy, man. Check it out.
ND Improv: Rockne Memorial Stage, 4:00p.m. Are you funnier than a wookie? (or Howie Mandel?) Sundae Eating Contest: South Dining Hall, 3:30p.m. Don't let this go to waste.
Sesqu icentennial Address: Monk Malloy, Joyce A.C.C., 8:00p.m.
Dance Party/Rocky Horror: Stepan Center, 9:00p.m.-2:00a.m. A mess of eye-liner and spraypaint. Dress like you mean it. Rock and Roll is our
Film: "Paris is Burning," 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Earth Day/ Hogstock: All day music, fun, information extravaganza at Stepan Center. One of the best days of the year. Two events at one great location.
'Naugh Fest: An alternative to Hogstock on the Fieldhouse Mall. Brian, Colin, and Vince and other campus bands are scheduled to perform. Highly recommended. -
Earth Mass: Join Fr. Himes at the
Grotto to celebrate. 5:00p.m. (Lewis Hall in case of rain)
Harley Newman: Professional Lunatic doing crazy stuff at Stepan Center, 7:30p.m. Fireworks to follow.
Mud Pits: White Field North, 11:00a.m. and all afternoon. Get gunky with all your friends! -
Junior Class Play: "One O'clock From The House," 8:10p.m., Hesburgh Library Auditorium.
Junior Class: 239-5117
Snite Film Series Hot Line:
Notre Dame MenuLine: 283-FOOD
Weekend Wheels Schedule:
Touch Four
Dial 239-2500, then press: x 2101 for iriovie info.
x 2114 for the music line x 2112 for concert info.
x 2117 for theatre info.
x 2525 for college events
x 1600 for local weather
x 1603 for national weather
x 1903 for movie reviews
x 1300 for local sports info^
x 1301 for TV sports events :
x 1303 for national sports report
x 1213 for world news
■OBI
a? W-
V '■Jr* 1
Sunday
Tuesday
28


&&

Performance: "Ordo Virtutum," St. Augustine's Church, 1501 Wash. Ave., ’ W p.m. A Medieval Musical Drama featuring soloist Nofrfn Nf Riain.
Women's Bookstore Basketball Finals: Stepan Courts, 1:00p.m.
Men's Bookstore Basketball Finals:
Stepan Courts, 3:00p.m.
Monday 27
film: "Bicycle Thief," Snite, 7:00 p.m.,$2. film: "Peggy and Fred in Hell," "The leadman," Snite, 9:00p.m.,$2.
Film: "Annie Hall," 7:00 pjn., Snite, $2. Film: "High School Confidential," 9:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Performance: Irish Singer NofrinNf Riain in a recital fo Traditional Celtic & English Spiritual Song. Sacred Heart Basilica, 8:00p.m.
Wednesday 29
Film: "Macbeth," Cushing, 7:00 p.m.
COMING SOON...
Please
practice your good-byes so you don't mess up at the end of the year
Movie Theatres:


Courtesy of 20 ih Century Fox
Wesley Snipes and Woody Harrelson will not be at the Bookstore B-ball finals, but their film is reviewed on page 5.
100 Center Cinema I&II: :
259-0414
Scottsdale Theatre:
291-4583
Town &Country Theatre:
259-9090
University Park Cinema East: . 277-7336
University ParkCinema West:
277-0441
Forum I & II Cinema:
CAMPUS LIFE
Notre Dame
and the Nation
Celebrate
the Earth I
By Steve Murray
Fifty years ago no one would have gone for it. Abandoning glass bottles, sorting metals and cardboards, hugging trees, shunning styrofoam and, worst of all, compromising corporate profits for nature. Today people flock en masse to celebrate
such things. All across the country, folk
festivals and college fairs this week sing the
praises of environmental awareness. Something has profoundly changed in the American consciousness.
Since the dawn of the space age, America and the world have gained a greater appreciation for our planet When people saw the earth in relation to the universe, it awed them: one beautiful, glowing ball of life spinning among a sea of empty, dead planets. The earliest photos of the earth taken from the Apollo spacecraft reveals the planet’s striking uniqueness, hi the sixties, these. pictures fascinated the world. Through them, it becameapparent to people that this marvelous planet of ours may well have resulted from some cosmic quirk, something that makes it totally different from anything else in the universe, something induplicable.
At the same time, scientists realized that
pollution and destruction caused by humans could put the future of the planet in jeopardy. The possibility existed for earth’s unique beauty to wither and die. Many people were determined not to let it happen. Hence, environmen-
tai groups, Earth Days and international
pollution negotiations were bom.
Among the myriad of problems ravaging the environment, shrinking wetlands, dwindling fresh water supplies, oil slop, acid rain and ozone depletion rank among the most threatening. In the past decades many legislators have risen on the star of environmental protection resulting in the passage of numerous laws and regulations to save our air and water. This rash of legislation has succeeded to a limited extent, but much of the government funding for environmental clean-up has proven ineffective. Factories filter deadly toxins out of their fumes and no longer throw hazardous waste into people’s drinking water as a result of government mandates, but the real improvements have come from changes in the way people act— the efforts to increase environmental awareness have sparked national consciousness and changed the way people behave.
Earth Day has become the heyday of all
efforts to increase awareness. At Notre
Dame, the Earth Day Commission, chaired by runner-up campus president candidate George Smith, has planned this year’s extravaganza for months. Next year’s copresident of Students for Environmental Action (SEA), Smith has become Notre Dame’s environmental guru and seeks a career in environmental protection. “I want to be a professional, earthy-crunchy guy,” Smith said. Spiralling efforts to clean up the environment have spawned whole fields of environmental researchers, representatives, legalists and many other careers. Many such environmental experts have stopped by Notre Dame for the first part of this Earth Week.
The 1992 Spring Environmental Conference lined up a series of speakers to give students the opportunity to hear various perspectives on environmental issues this Tues
14
SCHOLASTIC
day, Wednesday and Thursday. The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development (NDCIBD) and SEA have sponsored these forums. Starting Tuesday with a forum on “Corporate Responsibility and Ethics” in the Hesburgh Center, the week has belonged to Earth appreciation. Representatives from corporations such as McDonald’s and Amoco squared off with environmental activist Terri Capatosto in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. They discussed the decision-making process that takes place when environmental issues clash with economic interests.
NDCIBD devotes itself to exploring such issues. Ethical concerns in the arena of international business have become the focus of this 150-person group. Chairman and founder Paul Shinn said, “We are trying to develop globally-aware students who wrap that awareness with ethics.”
Yesterday in the Galvin Life Science Center experts discussed “Technology and the Environment.” Three professors presented the scientific and technological possibilities for saving the environment.
Tonight, the final evening of the Environmental Conference will involve a forum about Superfund, the much-criticized attempt by the federal government to clean up toxic waste sites. Even with huge expenditures, Superfund’sresults have proven minimal. Ensnared with legal difficulties and red tape, Superfund “pads the pockets of lawyers instead of cleaning up sites,” says Paul Shinn. At 7:30 in the Law School Auditorium, Mayor James Perron of Elkhart and James Michael Thunder, Esq., of Johnson Controls, Inc. will join Dr. Lloyd Ketchum, Notre Dame professor of civil engineering and geological sciences, to thresh out what has gone wrong with Superfund.
Tomorrow shifts the focus from finances and forums to birds and branches with a nature walk guided by Fr. McGrath. The walk departs from the Galvin Life Science Building at 4:00 p.m.
Saturday Earth Week will join forces with Hogstock and An Tostal for a bash on S tepan Field starting at 11:00 a.m. and lasting into the late afternoon. This will feature booths from fifteen groups on campus including Recycling Irish, World Peace Action Group, Women United for Peace and Justice, Amnesty International and St. Mary’s Women for the Environment. Bands will entertain

on other
campuses
By Karen Neustadt
/.America’s college students are turning	"We’re putting signs on spots where
“green”tocelebrateEarth Day!992with. people have worn a trail through a yard to festivals; seminars, concern and vigils as they rallyto supportthe environment, the No.1 issue of interest ambng young
adults.
"They'll be catchy, like one weare : ' posting on bus stops that says Thank You for Using Mass Transportation.. It's Good?; a spokespersonat Earth DayUSA head- For Me. Mother Earth,"' Another one we ' .
; are posting on trecs.TouchMe.FeelMeM I Am' Alive. Mother Earth,"! he said. h
; . 'Earth Day has become more like an 'Earth. Week,"': said Denise Greene, a
quarters in New Hampshire. Many activities started in March and will continueuntil theUnited Nations Confer-
; ehceton Envirbrirhent and Development inJuncT?;	..
> "Our slogan.: is ’Make Every? Day an Earth Daysaid Greene. "Our goals are .educational. We ivant’people to make changes in theirdaily liveis, like recycling mote, using less water, driving less : and shoppingenvironmentally." y y..?? Ji
;Studentenvironmentalgroupsarebe-■ihg lobbied by the National WildlifcFed-eration to write letters to encourageU.S. involvement ih the Conference, or Earth
until 7:00 p.m.
Campus environmentalists anticipate the biggest Earth Day celebrations yet for this Earth Day and environmentalism in general shows us all that difficulties and uncertainties have arisen, but that society can reverse the damage. Through cooperation and dedication the wetlands, rainforests, rivers and
fresh air can exist forever.
□
Summit.
On April 9, Earth Day USApresideht Bruce Anderson presented over 700 peti--tions representing thousands of signatures to the Council on Environmental Quality in Washington, urging President Bush to attend the conference. ... T.
At the University of Iowa, Victor Arango, a member of the United Nations Associatioh-USA, a group, heavily involved in environmental education, says thatEarth Day and the Earth Sumnut have sparked the imaginations pf many students. '• '
cut comers that says, ’How Would You: Like Someone To Walk on Your Wounds? Mother Earth,’" said Arango. .
AtFloridaAtlantic Uniyerstiy,Dr.Jane Goodall, whose workwithchimpanzees; in the wiids of Africhas placed her among ;? the world's most prominent naturalists,;/ will host a slide Showton chimpahzebsii^G
' • < 'T.T.e ■"? ; — y/FTtoyg
At the. University of Cteifomia at Berkeley, students areidckingoff EarthWeek V with an “Eco-Motioh Parade” that will feature altemative modes of transporta- : tion. Organizers say, they; are expecting; ? ? ip,0Q0jpeopie,y.:^
' At Dickinson College in;
. nine ecplogy-minded ^dente?jwiE^|i iEaith':Day ' celebrities- for living m^bj? d'Treehouse” a spe^
: for "students' interested jn,learning ahqui^ ;cbnseryation.Last;semester,thestuderite? cut theirwatercoriseryationin ;'year:ti^;.hope^
heatetm;the'hbirterSi
h a College campuses are pte^gteeirij^ - in'.the Earth celebration:	G1
APRIL 23, 1992
15
SPORTS
A Tribute To Tradition
Already the home of Notre Dame, South Bend hopes also to become the home of the College Football Hall of Fame
By Jim Kuser
A s the College Football Hall of Fame zjLreadies itself for relocation from
King’s Island, Ohio, to a place offering a museum attracts annual audiences of • selection as the site for the Hall of Fame. As
country. South Bend passed the test by pointing to die facts that it hosted the International Special Olympics, it is home to the South Bend White Sox and the Studebaker
tion committee is increasingly interested in Atlanta, New Orleans and South Bend. However, the professional influences in Atlanta and New Orleans are deterrents to their
concentrated college football focus, South Bend mayor Joe Kernan and his staff are salivating at the possibility of bringing the Hall to South Bend.
Says Kernan, “We should know by June whether or not we are the new home for the
College Football Hall of Fame. We are very the University of Notre eager to hear from the selection committee.” Dame and all of its heritage
The Hall has been at King’s Island since 1978, but it must move because of low
attendance (30,000 visited it last year) and in that we are easily acces-insolvency (it lost $400,000 last year). Al- sible to many, many people, though King’s Island has the population Third, the College Football base to support the Hall (it is 20 miles from Hall of Fame will be our
Cincinnatti and 50 miles from Columbus), it main attraction downtown,
does not have a concentrated college football focus.
Says Notre Dame Sports Information Director John Heisler, “One thing that South Bend certainly has is a strong interest in college football. Locating the College Football Hall of Fame in South Bend would be an approriate manifestation of this intense interest”
Although South Bend is home to a famous and formidable college football team, the city had to prove to the College Football Hall of Fame site selection committee that it could support the Hall. After all, King’s Island is in the center of Ohio State Buckeye
100,000.
“We are among the finalists for landing the College Football Hall of Fame for
three reasons,” says Kernan. “First, we are the home of
and prestige.' Second,weare . well situated geographically
whereas in larger cities it might be a secondary attraction.”
There are eight other possible locations for the College Football Hall of Fame: Atlanta, Boston, Dallas, New Jersey, New Orleans, Oklahoma City, Pittsburgh and San Diego. Of the eight, South Bend is one of the top three favorites.
Says Joe Doyle, sports editor emeritus of The South Bend Tribune, “The selec-
The very vision of a Notre Dame Fighting Irishman’s golden helmet conjures up thoughts of college football's golden days, both past and present.
Sports Information
16
SCHOLASTIC
i I
far as population base is concerned, Canton, । Ohio, where the professional football Hall of Fame is located, and Cooperstown, New York, where the professional baseball Hall of Fame is located, are not big cities. The most important thing for the city to be chosen is that it has connections to college football.”
S outh Bend has its share of connections to college football. As home to Notre Dame, South Bend is also home to eleven consensus national ’ championship teams (1924, 1929,1930,1943, 1946,1947,1949, 1966,1973,1977, 1988) and seven Heisman Trophy winners (1943 Angelo Bertelli, 1947 JohnLujack, 1949 Leon Hart, 1953 John Lattner, 1956Paul Hornung, 1964 John Huarte, 1987 Tim Brown). The championships and Heisman Trophy winners span the twentieth century from start to finish, giving Notre Dame football a college football tradition unlike any other.
Doyle summarizes the sentiments about South Bend and its connections to college football best by saying, “This is a college football community. From Rockne to Holtz, the tradition has been tremendous.”
Financing the College Football Hall of Fame will be a challenge for mayor Kernan and
APRIL 23, 1992
Former Notre Dame flanker Raghib “Rocket” Ismail typifies the type of player that the College Football Hall of Fame inducts into Its hallowed halls. Ismail will certainly claim a spot among those that are tagged “the best ever to play college football.”
Paul Webb
his staff. A facility covering 40,000 square feet of floor space has been proposed at a total cost of $6 or $7 million. There will be no tax increase to cover the cost Rather, all funding for the facility will come from corporate sponsorships and private donations. The College Football Foundation and its Hall of Fame are also partly financed by the Kickoff Classic, each season’s inaugural college football game.
“Many costs will be covered by the
exisiting structures and staffs of the Century Center,” says Kernan. “Once the Hall opens, it will pay for itself through ongoing operations.”
The proposed location for the facility is the city-owned parking lot south of the Marriott Hotel and across the street from the Century Center. A tunnel connecting the Century Center and the Hall is being considered. The facility would be shaped like a football stadium, and it would open into a . courtyard that would resemble a football field.
Concerning any rumors that Notre Dame may involve itself in the financing of the College Football Hall of Fame, Heisler says, “This project belongs to mayor Kernan, his staff and the Hall of Fame staff. We support its being in South Bend, but we will not have a hand in its administration. This is a major commitment on the part of South Bend. Notre Dame will provide a solid cornerstone upon which to build that commitment”
Father E. William Beauchamp, executive vice president of the University of Notte Dame and chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics, takes a neutral stance toward the possibility of the College Football Hall of Fame coming to South Bend.
“There is a good side and a bad side to its coming
17
here,” says Beauchamp. “The good side is that it would bring tourists to the community, raiserevenue for the community, and give the community yet another thing of which to be proud. It would be appropriate considering what Notre Dame has meant to college football over the years. The bad side is that there will be criticism that the Hall of Fame is here only because Notre Dame is here. It will take public relations work to maintain the proper perception of how closely related Notre Dame and the Hall of Fame are intended to be.”
Doyle dismisses Beauchamp’s concern by saying, “You either love Notre Dame or you hate Notre Dame. As far as the Hall of Fame’s proximity to the Notre Dame campus is concerned, there will be too much or too little of Notre Dame depending on your affection for the Fighting Irish.”
Doyle admits that South Bend would not have been considered a site for the College Football Hall of Fame had Notre Dame not been located here. However; he raises another point about South Bend's appropriateness as home to the College Football Hall of Fame, a point that brings those that love Notre Dame and those that hate Notre Dame together.
“South Bend is in the heart of American college football,” says Doyle. “It is central to the Big East, the Big Eight and the Big Ten. TheFar West, the Southwest and the Southeast are off the beaten path for college football purists. This is where the boys began playing ball. This is where the College Football Hall of Fame belongs. Bringing the College Football Hall of Fame to South Bend would be an appropriate tribute to an amazing college football tradition.”	□
Sports Information
Frank Leahy (pictured here with 1941 Notre Dame captain Paul Lillis) is one of several Fighting Irish football coaches who have been or who will be honored with admission to the College Football Hall of Fame. From Knute Rockne to Lou Holtz, the tradition of Notre Dame football mandates its predominant place throughout the Hall.
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
i|	Tom Price: Price, asophomorestartingpitcherfor theFightinglrish
j;	baseball team from Edwardsville, IL,handcuffed the Purdue Boiler-
i | maker batters last Friday by pitching a one-hitter en route to a 7-0 victory. Price, a south paw, improved his record to 2-1 andhisERA
I i to 4.73 with the win. Price was the only pitcher to appear in theMCC j Top 10 in ERA, saves, wins and strikeouts per game last year. In i high school, Price compiled a perfect 24-0 record.
Andrea Keys: Keys, a freshman catcher for the Fighting Irish softball team from Ballwin, MO, had three hits and two RBIs in Notre Dame’s 10-0 dismantling of Valparaiso in the second game of a double-header last weekend. In the first contest, the Irish won 2-0. These two wins were the last in a streak of five consecutive victories for Notre Dame, as the Irish were subsequently swept in two tight games by DePaul by the scores of 1-0 and 2-0.
SCHOLASTIC
18
ON OTHER CAMFUSES
Penn State gets DARTed
DART infection spreads to Penn State
Yet another school is on the road to doom by instituting on-line class registration, according to the Penn State Weekly Collegian. Penn State hopes to use a system similar to Direct Access Registration by Telephone after a trial period this summer. The sheer optimism of the administrators can make one cringe and beg for the return of the pencil system. According to the registrar’s office, the new system shouldreduce errors, give students immediate feedback on course status, and be generally more convenient than the old method. “It takes away a lot of stress from the advisers and students,” one administrator said. And Marky Mark is a talented musician.
Smells like fish
In the era of unelectable presidential candidates, one man has come forward to rescue the nation’s voters, despite his inability to meet the age requirement of 35, according to the College Press Service. Alexander Kogan, an 18-year-old freshman from Kalamazoo College claims the “ridiculousness of elections” as his motive for beginning a campaign for the office. “Also I need the money. Tuition costs are getting high,” said Alex. While former New York mayor Ed Koch was his first choice as a running-mate, “we couldn’t find his address,” Kogan said. The youth has since resorted to his father as a future vice-president Representing the “Seafood on the Wall ” ticket (named after the painted designs on the walls of the Kalamazoo cafeteria), Kogan promises to require Representatives to write their checks on bouncing balls, “so they will bounce before they get to the bank.” Quite a little humorist, isn’t he? Anyway, the aspiring politician views his campaign in a philosophical manner: “Like Socrates, you must remember this: Presidents must be comedians and comedians must be presidents.”
Come on, KFC is a good career...
You knew the job search for recent college graduates was tough, but has itreally been reduced to fast food? Well, sort of. According to the College Press Service, a group known as the International Finance Association is informing many jobless graduates of the opportunity to own their own franchise. While McDonald’s and Kentucky Fried Chicken are included, franchises include home furnishings, clothing, cosmetics and employment services among several posssibilites. Franchises accounted for $757.8 billion in sales last year and createlOO.OOO new jobs annually. In addition, 94 percent of franchise owners are successful in their ventures. So think twice the next time a pimply teen asks you “You want fries with that?”
Th© Chronicle of Higher Education
Tear Gas Flashback
The gas was back at Ann Arbor, according to The Chronicle of Higher Education. Following a disappointing loss to the Duke Blue Devils in the finals of the NCAA basketball tournament, over 500 Michigan students rioted in the streets. Less than an hour after the game ended mounted police donned riot gear to disperse the crowd. Tear gas was only used on the students after they began to throw rocks and bottles according to police. Five students were arrested in the incident. This is getting to be a favorite pastime with the Wolverines. Even before we got them on the field in September, their police were launching cannisters at our innocent fans. It takes a while to forget the taste of pure tear gas as you collapse in a local Burger King. Hopefully such antics will not occur at the nuttiest, most wacky ofall college festivals— AnTostal. We wouldn’t want any arrests for indecent exposure in air vollyball on Whoopie Wednesday or fun breaking out at Simon Sez. Behave yourselves!
□
Edited by Mike Owen
APRIL 23,1992
19
A Big Waste of Time
A few of our daily time-wasting activities, besides studying
Rhetorical Questions Answered
Don't Believe Everything You Read

In the course of a 73.5-year lifetime, the average American will spend...
7 years in the bathroom
5 years waiting in line
2 years trying to make phone calls to people who aren't home 1 year searching for misplace objects
8 months opening junk mail
These factoids, from a press release sent out by the Pittsburgh counsulting firm of Fortino & Associates, have been reprinted wherever column space is filled with neat little stories about the wacky world we live in—which is to say, just about everywhere.
Former presidential spokesman Larry Speakes once said, “If you tell the same story five times, it’s true.” So this story must be really true — after all, it passed unscathed through the factchecking procedures of so many reputable news organizations. Surely so many writers and editors couldn’t have reported information that was the result of someone’s having to hit the wrong button on his calculator! After a grueling four minutes with our own calculator, we broke the alleged “lifetime” statistics down into their daily quotas. According to Fortino’s data we learned, the average American spends, every day,
2 hours 20 minutes in the bathroom
1 hour 40 minutes waiting in the line
40 minutes trying to phone people who aren't home
20 minutes searching for misplaced objects
15 minutes opening junk mail
This was news. Has anyone outside of Eastern Europe actually waited in line 1 hour and 40 minutes a day, seven days a week, from infancy to death? After all, the Stones don’tgo on tour that often. And does everyone really spend 40 minutes a day trying to telephone people who aren’t home, when such calls are necessarily awfully short?
Don ’ t forget, these are supposed to be average figures. So if you think you’re spending only 30 minutes a day in the bathroom, then someone else must be spending 3 or 4 hours in there.
IS THE POPE CATHOLIC?
Yes, and catholic with a small c as well. In the fifteenth century, John XXIII was accused of keeping his brother’s wife as a mistress, of having at least200 other women, including many nuns— and of being an atheist. No wonder they took his number away (it wasn’t until more than 500 years later that it was reassigned to the beloved, roly-poly John XXIII of the early 1960's).
But he was nevertheless Catholic, as were all the variously misbehavingpopes, even the French ones, even the Antipopepretenders, and even the ones named Conon, St. Fabian, St. Hyginus, St Simplicius and St. Dionysus.
HOW MANY ROADS MUST A MAN WALK DOWN BEFORE YOU CALL HIM A MAN?
It depends. Leaving a West 76th Street apartment recently and heading north, I gotto99th Street before anyone said, “Joints and bags, man,” so the answer would be one, for 23 blocks. A stroll some time ago on just one block in the Bronx near the campus of the all-female Collegeof Mount Saint Vincentcausedawoman to exclaim, “Oh God, it’s a man."
WHY DID THE CHICKEN CROSS THE ROAD?
Right, it’s been answered, but the response “to get to the other side” has never seemed satisfactory. Chickens are stupid, not known for complex motives. Perhaps that’s the very point— a suggestion that behavioral motivations are every bit as obvious as they appear.
Suzanne Mittenthal, a sociologist who is technical editor of Poultry Science magazine, notes that recent studies have equated human neurology with that of pigeons, which is also poultry. “It’s not so absurd to ask why people cross the road,“she says, perhaps a little defensively. “It’s my experience that poultry don’t get very far. They see wildlife and they get fascinated. And then they get hit by cars.”
Karl Nestor, Poultry Science's editor in chief says,-"“Chickens are just curious animals. The fact that the road happened to be there was incidental.” Which, of course, suggests a whole new ontalogical. question, concerning chickens and eggs.
20
SCHOLASTIC
WEEK IN DISTORTION
Not so distorted rwmin.atioas from a hesitant Domer
by Nathan FitzGerald
Now that we can count the number of remaining class days on a few elated fingers, it appears that, for the seniors at least, all-nighters and too many hours spent in Maclabs are imminently behind us. Over 1300 days ago, this sesquicentennial class began their journey through the halls of Notre Dame.
In a myriad of memories, there’s the first snow we welcomed in early October, then the last flurry we all cursed in May. I remember Gary Gutting letting us out of freshman philo class one beautiful fall afternoon, telling us, with his Garrison Kiellor demeanor, “This will probably be the nicest weather you’ll have until May, so go but and enjoy it.”
With sugar-plummed visions in our heads of what college-life would be like those first few months, empty beer cans and books accumulated while the administration reguilded the golden dome and put the last touches of remodeling on North Dining Hall.
Then,“rousing some courage, we went to the comball SYRs that we lost our taste for soon after freshman year, wondering what they were like in the old days when the alcohol policy was a bit more permissive.
didn’t understand why everyone was so excited about playing basketball in the rain, snow and sleet behind the bookstore (that, by the way, giddily marked-up the price for every textbook we ever bought there).
But even I, the hesitant Domer, who came to his first Notre Dame game wearing green (wouldn’t an “Irish” football team wear green?), recall the jubilation of that phenomenal victory over Miami freshman year.
We stuck it out though, in spite of doubts and misgivings. The days came and went, as did roommates, friends and girl/boyfriends. Meanwhile, adventurous juniors and wise seniors moved beyond the campus to the streets of South Bend, adopting LaFortune as their on campus home, and subsisting on Huddle burgers and frozen pizzas.
Now that we’re about “to be handed our death certificates in May,” as a PLS bud so optimistically describes it, I don’t know if I learned anything here in four years. After all, I still don’t know what “deconstruction” is, or ethanol for that matter. I guess I can type a little better.
Those questions remain to be answered in years to come, when we’re signing X-mas cards to old college friends, telling them about the kids we’ve undoubtedly named Jen or Mike.
reading because we want to, for our own fulfillment
All I did that freshman year was bitch and moan, and I will continue through the arrival of SWAT teams and George Bush on our campus.
But perhaps there are a few young ruffians out there, rubbing the administration the wrong, progressive way. Perhaps this movement for coed dorms won’t die in its infancy or be blindly stamped out. After all, it is our camptis.
Those idealistic, zealous freshman are reassuring, because it’s the only way to begin, with exploration and testing the rules. Even on this tiny campus, there are still plenty of nooks and crannies I’ve never seen. And exploring South Bend means more than a few late nights at Azar's. Don’t overlook the museums, the zoo and the whacked townie bars with gun-toting patrons.
The University and South Bend are yours, my friends, and only you can make them better. Just don’t submit to “traditions” that only work to suppress growth.	□
: It seemed like we just floated through sometimes, with classes, studying and plans for the future maniacally swirlling around us as we looked for an anchor in new friends, or a rphone call home.
Like so many others, I was that weird guy who found it all to be really disillusioning. Never got into the rah, rah dorm stuff and
APRIL 23, 1992
And while examinations and papers seemed to erode my sanity more often than they expanded my mind, it seems that a few quirky classes actually did expose us to the weirdly worthwhile. Essays and ideas that we’ll be able to explore further only months or years from now, when all the deadlines and assignments have fallen away and we’re
Nate FitzGerald is an off-campus Seniorwho greatly anticipates the arrival of our nation's leader next month
21

Glancing Back
AnTostal's 25th year spurs a reflection on the festival's history and the AnTostal Jim E. Brogan Spirit Award
Spring has sprung at Notre Dame and that means: slush, raging winds, walks around the lake, Bookstore Basketball and, yes, AnTostal.
This year, AnTostal is hoping to present the AnTostal Jim E. Brogan Spirit Award to some deserving group. Secret judges will be roaming the campus looking for outrageous displays of spirit during AnTostal week. The award is given to the person or people who provide the most spirited example what AnTostal is all about — having fun.
“The judges are secret so that no one can unfairly influence them,” said David Duncan, 1988 AnTostal Co-chairperson. “In the past, there have been bribe attempts.”
Jim Brogan, a 1970 Notre Dame graduate, was one of the ingenious students who founded AnTostal in 1967.
“We were looking for something to celebrate spring that would cost little to nothing,” said David Ryan, a 1969 graduate and AnTostal co-founder.
Brogan stayed at Notre Dame for two years of graduate school, until he was asked to leave “for having too much fun,” and continued to have a big impact on AnTostal. He introduced the legendary “Kisser” game, AnTostal Impersonations and a talent show.
The AnTostal Jim E. Brogan Spirit Award
was created “sometime after I left Probably within one or two years,” said Brogan, in a telephone interview from his Los Angeles home. It consists of a plaque, inscribed with the winner’s name and hung in LaFortune and $50 cash.
“No one has won the award in recent years,” said Duncan, “because no one has done anything spectacular. It’s not something we have to give each year. We want the people who win it to really deserve it”
“In other words, do something totally outlandish,” said Cushnie.
Brogan is now a stand-up comic in California. “I really started my career during AnTostal One of my friends did some impersonations and I thought it would be a good idea to have a little contest during AnTostal. About 12 people signed up for the show and it was my job to say a few jokes between the real acts.
“Hundreds of students showed up for the contest. We set up a stage and a microphone ad we did it. Even Father Hesburgh showed up. I don’tknowiflwasmore nervous when I appeared on stage for the Tonight Show or for AnTostal.”
During AnTostal’s first year, Brogan “just helped out.” He collected empty pie plates after the pie-in-the-face contest and
entered every single event
“I did it because there weren’t too many people who would entersomeof theevents,” said Brogan. “That first year, it was just an idea in Ron Mastroni’s and Dave, [Ryan’s] heads. We had no idea that it would be so big and so popular.”
For his remaining years at Notre Dame, Brogan was in charge of publicity for AnTostal. The award originated from some of the stunts Brogan pulled. His plan was to publicize AnTostal, the newest addition to student fun at Notre Dame.
“Mostly I just publicized myself. Iputmy in the [AnTostal] Booklet as much as I could,” he said, in an earlier interview.
Brogan “feels very funny” about having an award named after him. “It feels kind of silly, really,” he said. “I went back for AnTostal once or twice after I left and heard about [the award]. I have a great fondness for the weekend. It was terrific fun.”
Asked if he had any words for 1988’s winner, Brogan replied, “congratulations. I’ll look to see them on stage doing stand-up in a couple of years. I just hope they aren’t thrown out like I was.”	□
Reprinted from April 14,1988 Scholastic
22
SCHOLASTIC

Drugs, PEZ and Scholastic: their libelous connection
 by Patricia Doyle■,
IA rugs, PEZ and Scholastic. What do iJ these three things have in common? On November 10, 1967, Scholastic ran an article about the development of a drug cult at Notre Dame of PEZ users. This ajticle opened with a fictitious UPI story regarding this cult of candy users that described PEZ as being “legal, sold as candy to children who apparently suffer no damage from eating it However, in individuals past the age of puberty, PEZ causes regression to childhood behavior.”
This article then presented the testimony of a frequent PEZ user. A former drug user, this student explained how on the return trip from buying speed in New York the student and his friends stopped at Howard Johnson’s. They bought a Snow White PEZ dispenser and two packets of PEZ candy out of a vending machine for twenty-five cents. On the rest of the trip home, the car companions ate the PEZ and started reminiscing about their childhood days — almost reliving them. Finally, after bursting into fits of
Scholastic file photo
No one ever imagined how much trouble a little piece of candy could cause.
laughter, they had to pull off the side of the road to regain their composure and return to theirproper age mentality. Since then, these students—and many others— had become addicted to the “sweet” drug that let them escape from everyday troubles for only a quarter.
Reports of doctors offering PEZ clinics for users and other cases reported from hospitals and other universities were also retold. Onereportdescribeda date of Bruce, a 25-year-old associate professor. On his date, Bruce was offered a PEZ by Susan. He eagerly ate one, then one more. While Susan did not eat any PEZ, her date soon started to act strangely. Bruce became concerned about his scout knife and baseball cards and finally curled up in a ball in the front seat of the car!
Much to the chagrin of Scholastic editors and staffers, on May 24, 1968, they received a letter from lawyer Otto L.
Walters who rep-
resented Pez-Haas, Inc. His letter informed Scholastic that their PEZ article “was found to have a detrimental effect on the distribution of PEZ products.” He cited several instances that, although meant to be humorous, might actually deter people from buying PEZ because it ridiculed them. He claimed that these statements were “— to say the least—derogatory and damaging.”
So, in the September 20,1968 issue, the Scholastic wrote a retraction stating that “editors of the weekly student magazine here have announced that PEZ candy, contrary to previous reports, is not, repeat not, a dangerous drug.” While this article was intended only to be satirical, Scholastic admitted that this article not only libelled the PEZ product, but also other firms associated with PEZ products, such as Walt Disney and Captain Video.	□
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 tides)
♦FREE LOCAL CALLS
♦LAUNDRY
PRIVATE IN ROOM SPAS
APRIL 23, 1992
FINAL WORD
Moving the Environmental Bandwagon
by Anton Salud and John Sabo
Anton Salud and John Salbo are the 1991-1992 co-presidents of
Students for
Environmental Action.
hile not entirely at a standstill, the environmental ▼ V bandwagon has slowed considerably. Vogue cliches such as “biodegradable,” “environmentally friendly,” “reduce-reuse-recycle” and even the triangular recycle symbol have become commonplace. The Observer reminds us every day to “Reduce-Reuse-Re-cycle.” Refillable mugs at the Huddlebear a similar logo. Dormwide recycling bins have made recycling cans, bottles and newspapers virtually easier than throwing them away. Even the dinig halls and bookstore are eager to recycle their plastics.
Pause now to congratulate yourself. The first step has been taken toward environmental sustainability.
Pause again, and think about those bandwagon cliches once again. What do they really mean?
We think of biodegradable most notably when chucking an apple core out a car window. Litter is rationalized as some form of organic fertilizer generously discarded by the automobilist to some roadside plants. Unfortunately, this is probably the only scenario to which the word “biodegradable” can be applied. Sure enough, an apple core flung to the roadside will either rot or be eaten by some animal. However, that same apple core covered and capped in a landfill would not rot so quickly, if at all. We may recall seeing documentaries on 50-year old, perfectly preserved garbage from capped landfills. This is a testimony to this slow composition rate. This is not to advocate raoadside garbage dumping, but rather to point out that garbage does not vanish, it stockpiles and will be with us for years to come. Landfills are not conducive to biodegradable materials.
Another bandwagon environmental slogan — “environmentally friendly” — is as much as a misnomer as “friendly fire.” A recent example close to home of such friendliness is the discharge of “vegetable dye” used by the French Paper Co. in Niles, Michigan. This dye is used to make black ink for paper production which is discharged into the St. Joseph River. This dye causes the St. Joseph River near Niles to run black. The company responded to concerned Niles residents by saying that the discharge met environmental regulations. Thank goodness for those “freindly” regulations which allow a river to run jet black.
Finally, “Reduce-Reuse-Recycle” along with the triangular recycling symbol are slogans which have deservedly been prioritized by environmental marketing as the
number one way to drive the “Save Mother Earth” message home to the average American. However, somehow along the way, ‘reuse’ and ‘recycle’ have muscled out ‘reduce.’ Consequently, and much to environmentalists’ disappointment, America has erroneously learned that we can continue to bum fuel, cut down trees, sprinkle fertilizers and produce waste at the same rate as long as we take a little of this production once used, and make it new again. This “a priori penance approach” is no better in the world of pollution than in the House of Go.
What’s the point of all of this? First, cliches are only cliches, even as far as environmental slogans are concerned.
It is east to print a slogan on a refilable mug or on a newspaper, it is cheap and easy to slap abumper sticker on your car. But, slogans and bumper stickers mean nothing to an oil covered coastline, a razed forest or a watertable fouled by landfill contaminants. Too often, our slogans get stripped of their meaning.
The second and most important lesson to leam from post-environmental bandwagonism, is that the miracle cure is not relevant in the environmental contest Recycling is an excellent way to reduce our impact on the environment, but it is only the first step towards living sustainably. Did you khow that there are two environmental clubs on campus? Recyclin’ Irish takes care of recycling while Students for Environmental Action (SEA) concentrates on reduction issues — the reduce in the R3 cliche.
SEA was the group who, two years ago, proposed the pre-cycling idea. Unfortunately, pre-cycling did not become as familiar as the other slogan. It is basically a fancy name for conservation, with a special emphasis on conservation’s relevance to reusing and recycling. ■ The general idea is that the less we use, the less we have to recycle.
So, if you are tired of separating your garbage and taking it to randomly located recycling centers, cut back on your production of garbage. Recycling alone is a mere environmental band-aid. We must look beyond treating the symptoms of our environmental ailments and try to eliminate their cause. A combination of frugal use of our resources and recycling of the absolute necessities is a powerful yetpractical mean to achieve the goal... “to save Mother Earth.”	□
24
SCHOLASTIC
S^) HovJ‘5 y^/A 'N^KErblT> WSo#A«?
A/^Yoia A XlWifJiU hl^o
A1^ coH£ip&Wi^ of Ha Mu otF<^c^ A* A^ A^uiq? Co^e-Q^^'T T)fcLbt$tori of
'/on 6otiA LofiA iJo&k So ■> blfh-T W tfc < ?
All foyit
-To PoPPa Ja^I
UiW--
T IMAI
Wat? just 5^/p V^n ^ArPT^P) TD -
QUESTION 34(c) on SOUTH BEND PD’S
34(C). WHICH OF THESE TWO CRIMES TAKES PRECEDENCE AND/OR REQUIRES THE MOST BACKUP? (CIRCLE ONE)
Jacks 'Rmhwte. is &oi^ So ^■ID^ fj&r MLL-, & »e's "Bfe^ As^ffeD^a^g-
This i$ rW^ WAPPEMiKq1;
OKA? I 6ut$$. — > —________
Ju-IlPH kt X NEEb
A	kcommate
TP XoU
d -rcT OK. ■BcftYok
nettl. Yo<! FkpBablY
>ae that Atv the
-BA5ES uiw^ME.-rHer
U?V£ MT
LVE SE£^ 6uvv
5 'Bauec.
THIS OH tyPgAW“-B*T
Towt Feu too ^FcaroK.tbu CAH HAVE. 6^ <?F Mr leftover
A^tVoa FO^S
-RPAl it 66T$l.
Wild Video Dance Party Rocky Horror	j
9:00 pm to 2:00	am	1
Stepan Center
Friday April 24	:
While at recess, step inside Stepan and dance the night away to your favorite videos displayed on many screens. When the party is over, stick around to do the time warp at the Rocky Horror Picture Show, beginning at midnight. You can even dress like your favorite character.

Proudly Presents:
Harley Newman
Saturday April 25
Stepan Center 7:30 pm
Harley: Professional Lunatic will keep you on the edge of your seats for ninety minutes of some of the most outrageous comedy, stunts, and escapes you could ever hope to see!

v© (?©LIL©W Jb