

SC\HOLASTIC 
The First of March 2007 
news 06 
- OF VACCINATIONS AND VIAGRA  
Nicole Garton  
Health Services offers the new HPV immunization but not prescriptions for Viagra. Scholastic explains why this is technically not a double standard.  
- COVER: WAR OF WORDS  
Daric Snyder The relationship between St. Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame has been one marked by collaboration and fraught with tension.  
Culture 23  

·················-LETTERS FROM ABROAD 
Michael O'Connor & Regina Gesicki We're not just in South Bend anymore. 'Rvo Scholastic editors are travelling the world and reporting home on their life-changing experiences in Dublin and Rome. 

READY FOR REVIEW 
Molly Kring TheJournal of Undergraduate Research reviews and publishes original work by Notre Dame undergraduates. 

Sports-28 
..... -A KNOCK-OUT SUCCESS 
Kaitlin O'Connor With a long history and new achievements, Bengal Bouts punches its way through the most recent tournament. 

Hum.or 35 
-DOUBLE SHOT OF HUMOR 
Joe Latta! & Mike Healy Resident humorists Joe Latta! and Mike Healy contemplate such various topics as adult diapers, Carl Gioia and worthwhile classes. Hilarity ensues. 
Senior Farew,ells . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Campus Chatter...........23 News Notes ! . . . . , . . . . . . . . 6 'Spring Sports Preview .......32 Tuition lncredse ........... 10 Gipper ................37 Snapshot . . . . . . .........20 Final Words ..............40 
Vol. 148, No. 9 • 1 MAR 2007 
SCHOLASTIC 
Editors In ·chlal Chrietophor Moakill DavidPooll 
Executive Design Editors Julio Ruffin JanaStewart 
Exocutlva Copy Editor Kato Dressor 
Executive Copy Assistant 
Jessica Farmwald 
Nows 
Carie Snyder, oditor 
Culture 
Sarah Barrett, editor Jennifer Wulf, assistant 
Sports 
Megan Teigen, editor 
Humor 
Mike Healy, editor Joe Lanai, assistant Bisa Suarez, assistant 
Design Emma Daugherty, assistant Chris Sebastian, assistant· 
Madison Clark 
Kathleen Dilonschnoidor 
Mary Kate Fahrenbach Anne Frazer Carolin Hubscher 
Anna Jordan 
Christina Lowis 
Audrey Marier 
Jamie Schulte BethAnn Visceglia 
Ellen Vogl~odor 
Photography 
Kristin Keva, editor Juan Muldoon, assistant Courtney Sullivan 
Business 
Bryan Lowery, manager Jomini Patel, assistant 
Distribution 
Mogan Teigen, manager 
Online Michael King, webmaster 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 
COVER STORY 
DARIO SNYDER 
COVER DESIGN JULIE RUFFIN 
Disce Quasi Semper Victtmis Vive Quasi Cms Mo1·it11ms 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 48668. The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine is copyright 2007 University of Notre Dame. All rights reserved, Night of the Living Dummy. No contents of this magazine, eilher in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner Without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic Magazine does nol assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
Pompous student senators. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. What we do hero echoes in eternity. All letters must include tho writer's name, address and phone number~ All letters must be signed. Names will be withhold upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Good ..bye, seniors. You will be missed. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed, The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.60 per copyj please specify volume and number, or date, Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy, Advertising rates available on request The opinions expressed in Scholastic Magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
1 MAR 2007 

Is God Calling You? 
Come Explore the· Congregation of Holy Cross 


Priests and Brothers 
With an evening of prayer and conversation with Holy Cross religious and other discerning men 
Blessed Brother Andre, C.S.C. 

Din.:n.ers · 
· 5:30-7:30pm .. 
Begins at Log Chapel, Di.nner to Follow 
.-· 
,:/ .. 
Friday 't \ March 2nd -,
. ,•, 
'·\, /) 
\. with Fr. Mark Poorman, csc -. 
r . 
. '; and Den. Pete McCormick, csc i · 
\;; -~ .!. . . i: ' . '1 
,·• , · Presenting On: 
Discerning a Vocation 
(574) 631-6385 · 


vocation. l@nd.edu · vocation.nd.edu 
Editor in Chief 
After a very fulfilling year as dictator over a staff of 50 people, Chris will be returning to the world of peonism. Graduating with a degree in accounting in May, he wiH attempt to further prove that business majors really can be successful writers, as he will attend law school in the fall. While he is uncertain s to where he will pursue his legal education, ing a few enticing offers from schools that 
:. . 
Julie is an *Rt.li~h anp . graphic des'ign)najor who is hoping to one day be 'a very creativti nurse. Having dropped chemistry ,after· one . month her freshman year, this could prove to be challenging, but she thinks she's ahead · of the game:· ,vhywait to burn out in your first career path when you can skip out on the real world for a while and start in on 
to graduate in May with a degree in American Studies. He will take 
antics on the road, as 
he hopes to take a job-· in either Chicago or North Carolina ... and will live nowhere else. He enjoys neither rap nor country niusic. 
m~jor who has no · current qfe plans'. Maybe she;ll go West. Hopefully 
she'll avoid any sudden inclement weather and her oxen will not drown when fording the river. Until then, she's planning on savoring the last few months at Notre Dame with her amazing friends. 
teaching, cutting an album that makes the kids feel good or 
couch from imminent 
. surprise attacks. This _ summer, he would like to visit or work in · Washington, D.C. IfMTV begins casting for a new seasori of "I'm· From Rolling" Stone," maybe he'll submit a tape. IfVHl casts for a second season of "I Love New 
_York," maybe he'll submit a tape. 
After surviving Notre Dame, Dave plans on putting away his journalism hat for a bit and going further into debt by attending law school next fall. At this point, he figures, what's a couple more tens of thousands of dollars between him and Citibank loan reditors? Assuming all goes according t Ian, Dave hopes to live out his days fightin he white-collar way. Barring that, he wil g for that call from The New Yorker tha 
Megan plans to make good use ofher English degree by moving. to Indianapolis and living off her roommate's financial analyst salary. That 
means, of course, that she'll have to cheer for the Colts and probably learn how to cook -unless she finds a Ph.D. program to take· her in and protect her from the real world for another five to seven years. 
Design Assistant 
Chris will graduate in May with a degree in graphic design. After getting his fill of cold weather, he plans to move back home to Dallas, where he hopes 
to become a designer or teacher and marry a doctor. Ifall else fails, you can find him living under a highway or enjoying hanky-panky with his arranged wife. · 


Ellen Voglrieder 
graduation: is one big · question mark. While she has no ·concrete . plans, she knows that she .wants, to pursue a career in design. However, like every question, mark, the "period" holds some certainty. For her, the certainty lies in knowing that she'll either 
·be in Minneapolis or Chicago, relying on her friends to be her second family :as her own family moves to South America.· 
. News.Assistant, · :,. 
~ . j • • • -; ~ • • -: ·; • : 
After graduation in· May, Kate is planning on enjoying a nice, lazy summer at home in New York, mixed with some travel in Europe and the 
United States. In the fall, she'll be moving 'to CGhicagb·and'·working as a: consultant Jo.i:J;'!:u:ronConsulting.Group.,She}s not. exactly sure what kii1,d ofw~rk it'will entail but knows that she will be racking up the frequent flier miles every week. 
Visceglia :Design 
iBethAnn has yet to /finalize plans for life !after graduation. :However, there is.one thing that is definite: . . . , This girl cannot wait to .. escape the Midwest and return to heaven on '. earth, also known as,theJersey Shore. After : returning back East, BethAnn hopes to either 
•stay in New Jersey or head to the Big Apple 
,.in. an attempt to lead a lifestyle resembling that ofCarrie Bradshaw. 
Amy is a political science major from Toledo, Ohio. In between drinking tea and pints in the pub, sp.e is studying politics at Oxford University for the year. Rising through the ranks of the design staff, she is very excited to serve as co-editor nextyear. In fact, she was excited five hours before everyone else! 
,; t.'.E~tisiness Manager 
,,; Bryan will be grad­uating in May with a ·degree in finance. He 
•will return hom.e to ' Bakersfield, California, 
' to work in investments -'-;..._______,. and soak up the "'7arm 
West Coast weather. And maybe, just maybe, ··,h~ 'wi!F retiit-ii~~~i:keys to the Scho'lasik" delivery van before then .. 
:· ,.. :·-: ...· : ,. 
Design 
Ellen is still unsure . about· her plans after graduation, .but 
· hopes to combine her . graphic design ·and history majors into employment in the 
mu·seum field. She doesn't actually mind the cold weather, which is fortunate since she may be in Michigan, or possibly the Washington, l).C., area. After a couple of years inthe real world, Ellen plans to attend graduate school. 

service program either abroad or at home in an effort to further delay the process of growing up and getting a real job. After 
. .that,,theroad hopefully lead$ to !l position in a graphic design firm located on the West Coast where the long, cold South Bend winters will melt away from his memory. 
Doug is an English and Spanish major from Southgate, Ky., who is currently studying in Toledo, Spain. Before going abroad, he served as managing editor and popular culture guru. He's excited to take over and says ofhis appointment, ''As if!,veren't arrogant enough without a title. Now I have the right to terrorize and harass those around me with no repercussions." 






Sibling Rivalry 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's would do well to 
reconcile their differences 
0 n February 13, senior Jonathan Klingler rekindled a debate that has plagued the "Viewpoint" section of The Observer for the past two years -why are St. Mary's students given preferential treatment on Notre Dame's campus? As discussed in the cover story for this issue of Scholastic (pgs. 13-18), Notre Dame and St. Mary's have had a long, amicable and mutually beneficial relationship. However, the recent negativity spewed forth by Notre Dame students, such as Klingler and the authors of the 2005-2006 comic strip "Jockular," has made it readily apparent that something has since changed. Klingler attributes this change to St. Mary's breaking off the "ephemeral engagement" in 1971, which ultimately led to the enrollment of women at Notre Dame in 1972. While this postulation is a fair and seemingly causal one, it fails to explain why hostility between the two campuses did not arise throughout the '70s, '80s and '90s. After all, during this period of coeducation at Notre Dame, St. Mary's students were entitled to the same benefits that they reap today. At the time of the proposed merger, Notre Dame and St. Mary's were comparable colleges .:__ each respected for its own approach to education. This still holds true today, but not in the same light as in 1971. Since the 1970s, Notre Dame has experienced unprecedented academic improvement, as is well-documented and widely known. While St. Mary's has improved, it has had an uphill battle against trends for coeducational, national universities. As a small, all-female, liberal arts college, St. Mary's has fallen behind its sibling school in growth. The unfortunate result has been a transformation of the relationship between the two schools. · It is true that we are a statistically more elite institution than in 1971; we are now able to compete with Duke, Georgetown and the Ivy League schools in recruiting students. But does this transformation necessitate a change in attitude? Are Notre Dame students justified in this newfound sense of elitism? · When career fair recruiters came to Notre Dame, they used to echo the sentiment that Notre Dame students are special because they carry no sense of entitlement. And yet it is apparent that Notre Dame students have claimed sole right to the tradition of this university -even though St. Mary's has long contributed to it. Today, it seems that Notre Dame students want to disassociate themselves from St. Mary's in every possible way. They want to be the sole recipients of the benefits of the Notre Dame community, almost proclaiming that St. Mary's isn't worthy of partaking in "our tradition." Our progress as a university can hardly be called that in light of this attitude swing. If we cannot share the benefits of Notre Dame with those around us, Notre Dame is not upholding its position as a leader in the community, nor its identity as a Catholic family. As a student body, we can combat this by relinquishing the collective chip on our shoulder and by making peace with our sibling. We -Notre Dame and St. Mary's -are a community of learning and tradition. And ifwe continue to allow the convergence of unjustified elitism with our traditional path, no matter what the admissions standards say, we will have become a worse institution because of it. · 
Hv1,l\R 2007 

Beware the Trippy Herb 
Administrators investigate the presence of a hallucinogenic, yet 
legal, plant cropping up on college..campuses ­
o David Poell
It's a hallucinogenic herb that can be smoked or ingested and may result in psychedelic experiences. And guess what? It's legal to cultivate, buy, possess and distribute in the state of 
Indiana -for the time being. 
The Office of Residence Life and Housing (ResLife) has begun to inform residence hall staff members and other officials of a psychoactive herb known as "Salvia divinorum" ("salvia"), the use of which has been reported on several college campuses around the country. Despite salvia's current status as a legal, unregulated drug under both federal and Indiana state law (although it is outlawed or controlled in a handful of other states), campus officials are entertaining the possibility of officially restricting use ofthe drug among Notre Dame students. 
Salvia divinorum is a plant that has historically been used by shamans for spiritual enlightenment and healing. These days, salvia has developed a reputation among college students and drug users as a substance capable ofproducing intense out-of-body experiences, similar to a psychedelic trip. 
Despite the lack ofreported salvia use on Notre Dame's campus, in an email dated Feb. 6 and sent to the residence hall staff from Paula A. Smith, assistant director of ResLife, hall staff members were encouraged to be cognizant about the obscure drug and its presence at other colleges. As a justification for the email, which was obtained by Scholastic, Smith says, "We had received information that other colleges had an increase ofthis particular herb being used on campus. So we forwarded information [Notre Dame Security Police] gave us and forwarded it to the hall staff." 
Despite the straightforward tone ofthe email, hall staff members have reported a sense ofconfusion about what action, ifany, should be taken in the event of salvia use by students, given its legality. 
"I can't recall an email like this," Drew Beatty, a resident assistant in Alumni Hall, says. "I assumed they were alerting us of a new illegal drug. It's almost like they are telling us how to get high legally." Associate Director of NDSP Phil]ohnson echoes a sense of uncertainty about enforcement. "People don't report legal activity, but the question is whether or not it's a wise choice [ ... ] It probably wouldn't come across our desk," he says. 
Yet Bill Kirk, associate vice president of ResLife, affirms that salvia's legality does not make itimmune from university regulation. 
"Regulations are intended to address things that aren't necessarily illegal but for moral reasons. A hallucinogenic is something we would address as a moral issue," Kirk says. In discussing this, Kirk stressed the effects of the drug, which are commonly reported as being extremely unpleasant to the user. "Ifyou see the effects it has on people, that's not something anyone ought to be aspiring to be doing," he says. . 
Kirk added that while there is currently no official policy tailored to salvia use, the development of one is expected in the future. "At the moment it's the thing, where whenever there's uncertainty, [RAs] should contact the rectors. We don't want to overreact to this [ ... ] As we find out more a~out it we will start to develop a protocol, [but] I expect controlling of salvia is going to be an outcome." 0 
1 MAR 2007 


-l'' 
. I 
..... •.... •.... (l!Scho/asticNews >-. _ · · ,' .-1 
! 
EXc!:(n(QJ[ig N6tre D~me's reprqgyctfv~:.hec)]tffpolipf4;fnJif.lgf1t ofa,,;f)J:),W cancer vaccine }j "f\if'5. :,., ' l _. ,• : "' {t:: .. T ,.,d/ T'tt itiil:'1' 
' 
•Nicole i~~~-ot\· :··, ..._,_._:.:;..._1,-.-,-·,, ·.·_··::,\ ,/_ • ,, .::~;-·•·-:-·,,.·. · ·_·_.:" ·-._' .. _. --~~:s,, _, . _._ .· · _..,,,, I ~~iil~.i~t, ,~dditi?~ of.a~:·e' ,thhffects ~f:#rious coriditjQ~ affectihg: .._~g~~ grOUJ> _tlf~<fr~i~iily -~_equi~~~-the . ' '\! •• &. 
h~g1¥.. p~pjll~~~~pi~-(~P:v> -.fert~lity: .~+#th .cqiit1;qt ~edicat:ion, -dnig.:Th~ policy _is-ijot set i~ S!q1:1,~}';~~ ·a ; . _· . Jt 
. ,._. ' .·.. ;va<:crn_e·,to Yf:S)~P:R~!trs1ty however;·1s o~~y pres~rlbed_ ~fter,-a -:~ame~·~radu~~e_stu~er~:.111~~~f}~~e1ve :> .Ii He~_lth, S~ry,1c~s' offen.rgr#1w SP,~rkeg;,,,/J~orough evaluaf10n and ~1~gn~s,1?:-7h~n ;,::Jeeway. .. Maybr. It s . sorµ~;~l_l}g OU~;·;' ·. / 1 
.·..c:·.;F:=':rlJS-•ii~~:t~?t~1~~!iilili~
' ' ', '' sexually tra;nsm,itted,._qi~¢~~~$'; fnc.ll.Lcli]?'.g//:i#J.di. Jlf~.tG.a.tli,o]4c faith,~.whj'clf.I~Je'va, :,:f!aH-wiJteV~ft:'lfffy '.Viagra? students',of :: cervical cancer and geriita.l,_~art~:· \ ' .ii /:'.>'t:onc~g~i'iN~~t,cli,s,cour~~~ sfodents from.::{ ~he appr_qpriate age an~ ~~rit~l st~tu\can .• ' :; Notre Dame's "no sex'1,-,.p_()hcy,,Js:;,;,,~~ek11.igJ~~%{Wealt~-'~-~r~;,w1.campus, :1(,restass1:1r:~ckSl:J.9:1ild,~hey~ve.r~fPepence : 
outlined in duLac has long tu:r'neg_ 'off:/;.:~a1tisJi£f~fi,g)ii thffqf§feftr,eatm.erit, _· X;c~r,~~in'ine2idtl:inalaa;es, ;th~!t concerns , .. _sexually active students who face thetist. }suppott)md'. referta.J/:St;µg~tlifsrifferirig : ·.:wiff be'adc;l/ess¢d se,;-iously;iatid Viagra , 1 of suspension or dismissal if caught in'•-,:\thf'effi'fts>A.f se~y~{lj{\;t;:insmi.[fe}t,,;)wiHnotbe'/,ttled O%si.mply oii account . the act. Since the Catholic nature of the. disease.s at¢,, tfeated "re~:cl.ily" ari4.:J11:g.1tS ./9fits-sexu~J:assodati9.p:~,(an9·status as an .I: university extends to Health Services' judgment~U.y"u11q~tst;t}9_tsopfid,~##iiJ.ib(;fiF1J2~W;!IJ.9~ ti:eatni~i;i:fpcqp.cerns which ;: 
--.. -polides, many students seeking sexual Pregnant s1:U'd~~!~. a~f :,?!.f~r~4}t.1ti!~}f;~~Y~\~f~P:;N?-~t~h~~-~ tfrecent mont~s. :-: ', ;;j health care often look to the greater of support through,_vap~11-~11~t:wor~,--;a.ncl.1;~sepq1;1~t1<>.g_s_,.,aboutproper,usageof: , South Bend community to provide for including Health Sirv:t~e's(tli~:omc.e .. ;t~e"'.d,rµg,(:$:Jknuary, Viagra came under f their needs. of Student Affairs, CarripU!? .Minisfi-Y:.::fire'.:\froi11{the Los Angeles.:.based AIDS i 
Though the HPVvaccine is associated and the University Counseling-:C:~nter, ;,·:H.~aiihcai-e E~undation, which in a lawsuit ' l with sexual activity, Ann'K.Ieva, director Referrals are made. to specialists iri'tlif: ., !aIIegecl'that:P~ier-thepharmaceutical l of University Health Services, defends local community who can• provide foi"',;,~;!:i>mpany :that/manufactures the drug :·1 the decision to offer Ga_rdasil, the first students' additional needs. · ....:..>has proJJloted recreational use· of ,·<>! vaccine of its kind approved by the U.S. Health Services also offers students Viagrairi1ts advertisements. ·''.f! Food and Drug Administration. Kleva various fact sheets concerning While the Health Center deals only•· ·: points out that cervical cancer is a serious reproductive and sexual health topic_s with undergraduate and graduate students, . disease, killing four thousand people a that are available online at http://uhs. ,faculty and staff of the university see , year, and is often difficult to detect before nd.edu/html/info.htm and are free of .a· similar display of Catholic values the tumor has progressed to a stage that charge at the Health Center, recently in their Human Resources medical is "difficult to treat." She believes offering reopened in the newly renovated St. •benefits.Under the Health Care Flexible . the vaccine on campus is appropriate as a Liam Hall. Topics include: acquaintance -Spending Account, expenses. ineligible cancer preventative because students who rape, genital herpes, hepatitis prevention, ·Jor reimbursement include abortion, oral , hope to engage in sex within marriage herpes, HIV infection and AIDS, HPV, contraceptives, contraceptive devices,· run the risk of contracting the virus in Women's Care Center for Pregnancy, contraceptive implants, voluntary . I the future. As with other vaccinations, sexually transmitted diseases, testicular sterilization arid infertility treatment. the HPV vaccine is not covered by cancer and urinary tract infection. Those experiencing difficulty conceiving university health insurance because it Noticeably missing from. this list is the are implicitly encouraged to consider · relates to "wellness," and only treatment Natural Family Planning method, which •adoption, as full-time administrators, . for diseases is covered under the policy. although advocated by Health Services, faculty and staff are "eligible to receive · . Kleva stress~s that offering the vaccine is not explicjtly addressed on the Web reimbursement of adoption expenses . is about preventing a serious illness and site. ._ up to $1,000 per adoption,,, Though i ·.·j not about encouraging sexual behavior on Universitypolicytowardanti-inipotence the HPV vaccine is not addressed . ! campus. Similarly, hormonal medications drugs like Viagra is not quite as clear-. specifically, all vaccinations are eligible , T in the form of the birth· control pill cut. Kleva mentions that the university for reimbursement. ·0 . / are available for students with painful, pharmacy does not carry Viagra because ,J 
~IMP~-Xirregularmenstrualperiodsthataredueto__the majority of students are not of the .. ____ ..... _ __ -~1 
..·~ 
1 MAR-2007 ­


............... (~)Scho/asticNews 



E very year, families across the country ask the question, 
I 
"How are we going to send our kids to college?" With the trend of increasing tuition in higher education, more and more families are affected by 
this financial burden. Families of Notre Dame students are no different. With the recent announcement of next year's tuition increase of5.5 percent to $44,477, the payment concerns are palpable. 
While setting the annual budget is by no means a simple task, tuition is one of the more basic aspects. The tuition rate sets part of the overall annual budget, while the scholarship endowment is not considered. The dialogue regarding the annual budget begins over a year prior to when the t/l budget will be implemented. For ~ instance, the budget for the 2008­~ 2009 school year will begin to be ~ planned this summer. The planning 
o of the budget begins with officers ~ such as Provost Thomas Burish, ;~Executive Vice President John
l' I ~ J) .........10 
Affleck-Graves and Vice President of Finance John Sejdinaj. The cost aspect of the budget includes the university's ongoing expenses, such as maintenance and salaries, as well as new initiatives. 
This year, tuition accounts for $18.6 million worth of revenue for Notre Dame's overall budget. Fortunately, the university has multiple sources of revenue, one of which is the endowment. The 5.5 percent increase in next year's tuition is the lowest in the past several years, in large part because the endowment has grown and has benefited from excellent market returns. Another supply ofmoney comes from licensed apparel and merchandise sold across the country, which is greatly affected by the success of the football team. 
Despite the exorbitant costs of a Notre Dame education these days, recent evidence indicates this is not necessarily detrimental to attracting students. A New York Times article entitled "In New Twist on Tuition Game, Popularity Rises With the Price," from December 12, 2006, discusses the recent trend of small liberal arts colleges across the country raising their tuition to give the appearance of a more prestigious university. Such colleges find that prospective students and their families associate cost with quality, and in many cases, applications increase alon·g with the price of tuition. At Notre Dame, applications for the 2007 freshman class are up 14 percent from last year. 
In the same article, regarding tuition, university president, the Rev. John I. .Jenkins, C.S.C., says, "We're setting it by our competitors." While competition is not the key factor in determining tuition, Notre Dame watches how 30 to 35 .of its peer universities set their tuition. Dennis Brown, vice president for the Office of News and Information says, "A lot of schools are doing it for 
1 MAR 2007 

WEIGHING THE COST Facing a 5.5 percent increase in tuition for the 2007-2008 school year, Notre Dame students question whether the sacrifices they make are worth it. 
income is. Tuition is simply becoming that can qualify for Notre Dame too expensive for people to pay for are typically going to be wealthy, or without financial assistance. upper-middle class, white, Catholic 
The rising price of tuition and its individuals. And that's just how it effects on external perceptions of falls out," Moss says. 
.Notre Dame is a relevant consideration However, Russo says that Notre to G. David Moss, assistant vice Dame works hard to keep money from president for student affairs. "My becoming a problem for low-income concern is not so much that we're students. Notre Dame's Office of 
1 MAR2007 
Scho/asficNewsC,II ·· · ·· · · · · ···· · · 
Admissions has a "need blind" policy, 
meaning that a student's ability to 
pay has no effect on their chances of 
admittance to the university. Also, 
once a student is' admitted to Notre 
Dame, the Office of Financial Aid 
insists itwill. do everything possible to 
meet a student's needs as it measures 
them. Russo says that a significant 
number of middle and upper class 
students get some level of support 
from Notre Dame; scholarships are 
helping students ranging across the 
income spectrum. 
The Office of Financial Aid states that it does its best to be fair in distribution assistance. "Family income doesn't exclude students ·from getting assistance," Russo says. Russo reminds students that there are ways to pay before, during and after college. He says that the Office of Financial Aid encourages families to investin an independent 529 program, which allows families 
prestige, but we're already there." He insists that tuition is set based on the need to maintain and improve the university. 
Administration officials also stres's that although tuition is rising, so is the amount of financial aid given to students. According to Joe Russo from the Office of Financial Aid, tuition increased 49 percent from the 1998-1999 school year to the 2005-2006 school year. However, university scholarships increased 169 percent in the same time period. 
One problem with this seemingly positive statistic is that although it is becoming easier for lower class families to afford an education, it is becoming harder for middle class and upper-middle class families to afford one. Middle class and upper-middle class families often don't qualify for financial aid, yet tuition prices are increasing faster than household raising tuition; it's just that when we do, we don't increase the amount of information we give to students to understand that this increase doesn't mean you can't come here," he says. 
Another worrisome aspect of tuition rates that affects high­caliber universities nationwide is how rising costs contribute to the lack of socioeconomic diversity at a school. At Notre Dame, the majority of students come from families with household incomes of over $100,000. Also, with the cutthroat atmosphere of college admissions today, it has become more and more difficult for those students from lower-income families to compete with their wealthier peers for spots at the nation's elite institutions. "It's one of those things that's a complex relationship [ ... ] In our culture the people who tend to have the resources to go to the kinds of [high] schools to pay before college; these can be further researched at www. independent529plan.org. In a statement that should give some consolation to families, Russo says, "[The Office of] Financial Aid will make itreasonaple for those willing to make a commitment." 
Despite the negative feelings people have about the spike in tuition, there is still positive news. At Notre Dame, only 
0.2 percent of students default on their loans, which is much lower than the national figure. As discussed in Jenkins' letter to parents about the tuition hike, Notre Dame 
retains 98 percent of its students from freshman to sophomore year, 96 percent of students graduate on time, and 99 percent ofgraduates· find career opportunities within one year or less of graduation. Furthermore, ;92 percent of alumni say they are w 
(.)
satisfied with their experience z here. "E.ven with the high cost, 
~ 
our performance is a tribute to the 0 
5
willingness of families to do what it f/J takes," Russo says. 0 
11 ••••••••• 


· ScholasticCoverStory([;· · · · · • · • · · · • · · 

• Daric Snyder 

~-~ -~~ ·: 
~ 
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · (llscho/asticCoverStory ... '• 
Y ou call me a parasite, even though your 'exemplary' young men take advantage of my friends and classmates at their most vulnerable, and rape them." 
Only days after an eye­brow-raising editorial column by Joseph Klingler peared in The 

Observer, With the institutional wedding tensions 
called off, Notre Dam.e decided it was
in the re­lationship free to play the field, and in the fall between 
of 197~, the first coeducational class
Notre Dame and ofundergraduates enrolled 
St. Mary's College. at Notre Dam.e. 
(SMC) students emerged again in the third annual per­formance of the "SMC 
Monologues" on February 16 
and 17. The "SMC Monologues," adapt­
ing the format of Eve Ensler's "The 
Vagina Monologues," powerfully convey 
the personal experiences and challenges 
of women from the college. Of the 17 
monologues performed, "Parasite" was 
the only one that tackled the problems 
of the ND-SMC relationship head-on. 
According to event producers, the mono­
logues were selected from a larger pool of 
submissions in hopes of covering a wide 
variety ofpertinent issues. 
This past month's war of words over the ND-SMC relationship is nothing new. The "Parasite" monologue draws upon a common stereotype cast on St. Mary's students that came up in another debacle within the pages ofThe Observer a year ago. The recent shots are only the latest skirmish in an ongoing struggle between two student bodies that sometimes :find themselves separated by more than just a highway. 
This isn't to say that this conflict ~ drowns out the benefits thousands of 
. e 
I 1/) students receive from the bond between a:: the schools. Thanks to the institutional 
w 
relationship and closeness between ND
~ 
u and SMC, students from both schools 
u :find increased academic, extracurricular, 
~ 
0 athletic and social opportunities.I Cf) u Undeniably, many students here form 
......... 14 
deep friendships with ·students from the other school, and some even :find romance. The student section in Notre Dame Stadium is large enough for both schools and 
Holy 
Cross College, too. Yet repeatedly, the relationship between the schools' students has proven to be less than perfect. Anger, complaints and downright disrespect surface in student publications, serious and satirical performances and all other outlets ofstudentlife. Perceptions of the relationship may be skewed from day one by freshman orientation or even before students step foot on campus by alumni, friends and relatives. 
Like many relationships on students' ·Facebo"ok profiles, this one's complicated. What may look like one big problem is actually several smaller ones. The relationship can not possibly be grasped without knowing how the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College got to where they are today. 
A SHARED HISTORY 
A year after establishing Notre Dame in 1842, the Rev. Edward Sorin, 
C.S.C, sent word back to the Rev. Basil Anthony Moreau, C.S.C., founder of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, requesting that a small cadre of sisters make the journey to northern Indiana to aid in the mission and perhaps launch another school. Traveling from Le Mans, France, a group of sisters from the Congregation of the Holy Cross arrived in the area later that year and established their :first school in Michigan, several miles north of Notre Dame. Ten years later, St. Mary'sAcademywas moved farther south to its current location. As the schools geographically came closer, cooperation and collaboration only intensified. Both shared a dedication to the mission ofMoreau's 
Congregation of the Holy Cross. 
When Notre Dame's Main Building burned down in 1879, Sorin vowed to rebuild the school, prom1srng, 

Scho/asticCoverStory !])· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 
"When it is built, we will put a gold dome on top, with a golden statue ofthe Mother of God, so that everyone who comes this way will know to whom we owe whatever great future this place has." 
The statue ofMary was a gift from the 
students of St. Mary's. 
In the following decades, both schools grew and shifted their focus towards collegiate education. In parallel, the schools provided similar opportunities for men and women on each side of the street. In the early-and mid-20th century, Notre Dame flourished under the attention garnered by its football program, involvement in military officer training during wartime and a post-war boom ofsoldiers returning to school. 
Meanwhile St. Mary's developed into a 
· close-knit, women's liberal arts school. Both schools gained from bold leadership and their continued complimentary relationship, even as their ambitions grew more distinct. In the 1960s and 1970s, the tides of 
social change began to reshape higher education. Across the nation, many private, single-gender schools began to open their doors to the opposite sex. Coeducationwas becoming the Catholic university in the world, in preeminence, and it just didn't seem right to have a university named after a woman, Notre Dame, Our Lady, and not have any women students," Notre 
Dame President Emeritus the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., says. Hesburgh, who led 
the university from
Beyond the battle ofthe sexes lies a 
1952 to 1987, adds, 
struggle for high-achieving students at "The relationship was so cordial and 
both schools to assert their own 
strong that when identities. At best, this personal we decided we were going to go 
assertion leads to high self-estee:m. and 
coeducational, a drive to succeed. At worst, though, it our first thought 
was, well, maybeends in elitis:m. and arrogance~ the easiest way of 
at prestigious schools such as Princeton and Yale. By 1972, talks of coeducation arrived at Notre Dame, Ind. For 
the two schools that spent a century growing up together by the lakes, things were about to change forever. 
"It occurred to me that Notre Dame was doing it is to join up 
with St. Mary's." He 
explains that administrators 
from the two schools seriously discussed the possibility of merging and restructuring the schools under the single banner ofNotre Dame. Yet after a couple months of exploration and debate, it became clear to officials from both schools that the fusion was more trouble than it was worth. Disputes over revenue sharing, best use ofthe campus and the loss ofthe two schools' strong independent identities iced the negotiations. 
"Ifyou aren't willing to live with us or take our name, that's not really marriage," Hes burgh says, seeing the merger in terms of a matrimony. With the institutional wedding called off, Notre Dame decided it was free to play the field, and in the fall of 1972, the first coeducational class of undergraduates enrolled at Notre Dame. Despite not officially joining together, the schools remained close. Hesburgh says, "We didn't want to do anything to hurt the relationship with St. Mary's." Shared resources and opportunities remained shared. At the institutional level, the decision to stay "just friends" may have worked for the best, but big changes in Notre Dame's student body inevitably altered the interaction between students at the neighboring campuses. 
"We've had the advantage of over a century of being an all-male institution with a female institution next door, which 
15 ••••••••• 

I ··•· ··' (f)Scho/asticCoverStoiy 
,,, 
"Ifyou aren't willing to live with us or tc 
took a little of the edge off," Hesburgh says. 
St. Mary's College President Carol Ann Mooney recalls when she came to SMC as an undergraduate in 1968. "The relationship was good, but even then, there were tensions," she says. Naturally, the dynamic of the relationship was a bit different then. The men of Notre Dame outnumbered the women of St. Mary's nearly sevenfold. 
Notre Dame's choice to become coeducational clearly meant an upheaval of the entire community's internal balance. As the first women dove into the pent-up testosterone tank thatwas Notre Dame, the university's culture struggled to become, as Hesburgh puts it, "much more refined." Hesburgh says, "We started introducingwomen into whatwas, for over a century, an all-male bastion with all-male values." 
By the entering class of 1975, enrollment of incoming women reached 20 percent. In 1990, women made up over a third of the Notre Dame student body, and today, the ratio edges towards 50:50. When the women of St. Mary's are added to the equation, the gender balance has notably tipped in recent years. With this new equilibrium comes a new dynamic to the community and, unfortunately, new hostilities. As students from both schools seek to discover their roles in the community, historyalone does notprovide an answer. It's time to tackle the current state ofaffairs and examine where things are going wrong. 
. : ;;.•_-· 
IDENTITY CRISIS 
Mooney has seen this community from nearly every possible angle. An SMC undergraduate in the late '60s and early '70s, Mooney went on to study law at Notre Dame, finishing first in her class and earning a juris doctorate , in 1977. After practicing law for a few years; Mooney returned as a Notre Dame faculty member in 1980. An acclaimed teacher, Mooney also served the law school during her career as both assistant and associate dean at different points. Later, Mooney served as Notre Dame's vice president and associate provost. In 2004; she movedfrom that position to the presidency at St. Mary's. If she can't put her finger on the causes ofthe troubles between Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, perhaps nobody can. 
"Basically, I don't understand it," she says, laughing. 
Mooney does agree that all is not quite right between students at the two schools. While rivalries and feuds are common for schools in close quarters, the long-shared history of the schools and outstanding gender concerns in the community must also be a part of this mystery. 
"There'sstill some relic ofbias in society against women," Mooney says. And this community is no different. Another perennial concern in this neighborhood has been the frequently strained relationship between men and women here, regardless of which side of the highway. Single-sex dorms, parietal hours and the lingering air of a once male­dominated culture have placed all students in an awkward position. The pressures to 
excel at both St. Mary's and Notre Dame only increases the stress between genders and schools. 
Mooney says women here and elsewhere are e_specially pushed to be "brilliant, highly athletic and beautiful." Though great strides have been made, there's a lot more ground to cover. On true gender equality, Mooney says, "I'll believe that when eating disorders 
disappear." This community misses · ,-the mark from .time to 
. , ,, time :too'.>s1:Jcie~t awareness is high, yet a read of stall notes 
...••••.. 16 
1 MAR 2007 

Scho/asticCoverStory G!i··············· 
e our name, that's not really marriage." 
-Fr. Hesburgh
... 
in any men's dorm, a perusal of The 
Observer comics or a night spent at the 
Dillon Hall Pep Rally or Keenan Revue 
reveals that Notre Dame's culture has 
room to grow. 
Hesburgh was almost surprised that 
gender issues remained in the community, 
saying; "I don't go along with that kind of 
attitude, I think it's wrong." 
Gender isn't the whole story though, 
or there'd be no detectabl~ bitterness 
between the women of Notre Dame and 
their St. Mary's counterparts. Beyond 
the battle of the sexes lies a struggle for 
high-achieving students at both schools 
to assert their own identities. At best, 
this personal assertion leads to high self­
esteem and a drive to succeed. At worst, 
though, it ends in elitism and arrogance. 
After years ofhard work and recognition 
through high school, students find 
themselves landing in this community 
as small fishin a big pond. It's easy for 
people to feel threatened by others, 
when in reality there is no actual danger. 
Especially for underclassmen, Mooney 
suggests, arrival in this community that 
draws lines between dorms, genders and 
schools: can cause students to see those 
on the other side as enemies rather than 
friends. When personal identity is on the 
line, people react emotionally. Anger and 
stereotyping are bound to ensue. 
"Identities are important to people at 
this time in their lives," Mooney says. 
For St. Mary's and Notre Dame, the 
same could be said about the importance 
of identity. As Notre Dame works to 
assert itself as a top-20 university, .St. 
Mary's strides to provide a world-class 
liberal arts education to ~omen, bucking 
the trend towards coeducation. 
Mooney says, "Single-sex education for women is still very beneficial; it's not a relic of a bygone era." Research backs her up. While the move to coeducation affected many women's c91leges as well, those remaining. women's schools . offer a different set of opportunities for their students. Studies reveal that .these institutions provide a highly successful environment Jor students. 
Women's colleges have been significantly · year required on-campus residency for more successful in sending graduates to · incoming students. Mooney explains that advanced programs in mathematics and residency is absolutely vital to the life of other sciences, and in many realms, the a small, intimate college, and many peer numbers show that in several instances institutions actually have three-or even women's colleges have better equipped four-year residency obligations. their students for the future. According Common Notre Dame stereotypes of to the Women's College Coalition, of the college prove to be untrue. In the last which St. Mary's is a member, women at few years, applications, enrollments and schools like St. Mary's are more likely to donations to St. Mary's have all been on graduate than their coed counterparts. the rise. Thenumberofstudentswhoapply Further, graduates of these schools are to both schools is notlarge, and those who twice as likely to pursue and earn doctoral are accepted to both don't necessarily degrees. St. Mary's, like other women's select Notre Dame. Increasingly, many colleges, also takes pride in and benefits women who choose to go to St. Mary's from relatively small class sizes and tight-. would have had no problem gaining knit relationships between students and admittance to Notre Dame. The college professors. is by no means a concession, and its 
At Notre Dame, home of students take pride in their DeBartolo 101, the same choice. can't always be said. "I thinkthey know, 
Under Mooney, St. first and foremost, Mary's has taken extra they are St. effort recently to play Mary's students," up: their strengths as a Mooney says. small, liberal arts school. "Everything we do here is aimed at helping women succeed," Mooney says. "Everything." Furthering the strength and closeness ofthe St. Mary's community was the motivation behind a recent announcement that the college plans a . three­
1 MAR2007 

TOWARD THE FUTURE 
While the exact nature of the tension between Notre Dame and· St. Mary's students may be hard to grasp, a solution is even more elusive. ­
"This will, in one form or another, continue to crop up," Mooney says. Some sort of dispute is always sure to bubble up, whether it's today's verbal battle, 1972's aborted merger or the gender disproportion that lasted for decades. She even pointed to complaints that Angela Gillespie, who directed the school after its 1854 move, spent too many of St. Mary's resources tending to Notre Dame. 
As Hesburgh states, the schools are "brother and sister." Sometimes, siblings fight. In the end, things usually work out, and the relationship continues to be beneficial. 
Mooney underlines that the "administrative relationships between the two schools are excellent." While students may get charged up, the overall relationship remains in good shape. 
"Some people are just looking for a fight," Hesburgh says, and during a cold, slow winter in a sensitive, passionate community, something was almost guaranteed to shore up. It's likely that many aren't actually that worried about it at all. Many here have friends at both schools. The insults, the stereotypes and continued issues ofgender identity can't be waved off, though. Dialogue between students, though often heated, may be the only way toward progress. 0 



SCHOLASTIC
$apfot 
PHOTOS BYJUAN MULDOON 



University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, 

CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 
Photo Reprints Available 
"What better way to celebrate the Notre Dame Fighting Irish's return to glory than with photos ofyour favorite players and plays from the 2006 winning season? Order reprints today of any of the student-photographed pictures from: Scholastic's annual football review. Full-color prints are available in 5x7, 8x10, or 1lxl4 sizes. 
5x7 -$5 8xl0 -$10 
and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, 
amagee@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students 
and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu 
ScholasticCulture @·

REELS IN MOTION DEPT. THE PROJECTIONIST 
CAMPUS CHATTe~ 
W hen you flash your ticket at DVD and adjusted the volume on a large right time, so Erin stares without blink­the door of the Browning audio machine. ing at the screen, waiting and waiting for Cinema, take notice of the On nights when the movie is on 35-mil­the moment to flip the switch. Ifall goes girl checking those· tickets. She is no limeter reels, Erin watches intently for the according to plan, the audience will never mere usher-no, junior FITmajor Erin exact moment when she needs to switch. know that the reels have changed or that Russell is a projectionist. Most a very nervous girl has been of her job takes place in a little anxious about messing up
0 @ () ® @ ® @
room in the theater marked the exchange for the last 10 "Projection Booth." minutes. 
Naturally enough, the booth ~ . \ . ::;: : ..!::>· She has to stay completely is full of the standard movie u silent during all the moyies. projection materials. Reels and Although the room looks
.·.·.
film canisters rest on the floor. . soundproof, it really isn't.
0 ... : .. , ·:S; > 
..
The room is painted the same Erin says that she is always maroon color as the theater, worried someone will hear and it has its own single bath­() \.i·: \.. .,::·· ~-...,,. .<·::. her walking around in there room -necessary since the and knock on the glass of projectionist must stay in the the projection booth. It has 
.
booth throughout the entire . never happened, and I would 
0
movie. Yet Erin confesses that O..... I:·,··{··.. think that almost three years 
she never uses it, for fear ofthe of projecting would have 
moviegoers hearing through '-....,:/ ... calmed her fears. But she's 
A 0 
the booth walls. still paranoid that she'll an­Depending on the movie she ... 0 noy someone. has to play, Erin either puts a 0 > ···•··.. •.... Each time a movie ends, 
DVD into the player or sets Erin breathes a sigh ofrelief. up the reels on the projector. @· Another reel changed, an­
() O•·. ··. 0···.. :·. o·-·· o-··.·... ...._··... o····­
' ... ·. _. . . ~-. ' -·:.. '~ . .:_ -.·:· : ·.....'' 
The night I visited, a DVD other audience with no idea 
w 
of "Andy Warhol: A Docu­that she has been standing ::> et: mentary Film" was on the schedule. She The film starts out on the top reel and up in the projection booth, making sure !::i 
::> 
introduced herself to the audience, "Hi. ends up on the bottom reel backwards. that they keep talking to a minimum and u 
0 
My name is Erin Russell, and I'll be your At precisely the right moment, it is Erin's the projector gets switched at precisely ~ 
:'.5
projectionist tonight. Please remember to responsibility to turn the projector from the correct moment. 0 turn off your cell phones and keep talking one reel to the other. It can sometimes -Kate Dresser I 
0 
Cf) 
to a minimum." Then she popped in the be a while in between the signal and the 
1 MAR 2007 23 ........ . 


• • • • • • • • • • • • • @ Scho/astic;Culture 
Letters from Abroad 
A Series of Firsts 
Dublin, Ireland 
• Michael O'Connor 
Dia daoibh!" Yes, believe it or not, Irish (Gaelic), the national language of Ireland, is taught to all schoolchildren and is on every street sign on this lovely little island. Granted, I I have only been here for a little over a 
1. month, but it is incredible how much I have been exposed to and how familiar I have become with the language. My time in Dublin has provided me with numerous "firsts" that I would not have been able to experience anywhere else. For example, I am sure the majority of readers have heard of Notre Dame's famous football game against Navy around a decade ago in Croke Park, Dublin. And perhaps you have also heard that there is to be another such game in 2012. 
Long before Notre Dame football can have center stage once more, the Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA) games in Croke Park have all oflreland's attention. Hurling and Gaelic football are played there -two fast-paced sports that involve incredible precision, talent and rowdy cheering. Our Dublin study abroad group was fortunate enough to be in attendance for the first-ever night game in Croke Park played under the lights. Although Dublin lost to Tyrone in Gaelic football that night by a slim margin, it was an Clare and just a short drive from Galway city, which gave me my first look at the Aran Islands and the "other" side of the Atlantic. 

Of course, there is much more left to the story that cannot be properly described in this letter. Ireland is a beautiful country that is green even incredible atmosphere to participate in and even more fun to learn all the Dublin cheers that the young lads were singing in the row in front ofus. 
Inaddition to the Croke Park experience, I have enthusiastically adopted a new hobby with some of my other ND­Dubliners. It's called cliffwalking. While the hills and mountains along the Irish coasts may not be as tall or majestic as the Rockies, there is still something mystical and powerful about watching the Irish Sea orAtlantic Ocean crash into the rocks below. Besides, the only landscape I have seen connected to an ocean prior to this study abroad experience has been the beach, so cliffs are quite an upgrade. 
So far, I have been able to do this in three places. Howth, a coastal town about a 3 0­minute train ride north ofDublin, offers lovely views of "Ireland's Eye" (an island off the coast in the Irish Sea), great views ofHowth's harbor and a passing glimpse of an old house where William Butler Yeats once resided. I also visited Bray, a coastal town south ofDublin which offers a five-kilometer cliffwalk and a decent hike to the top of"Bray Head," complete with a massive cross overlooking the entire town and the Wicklow mountains in the distance. Finally, I was fortunate enough to see the majestic Cliffs of 
Moher, located in 
: 

in the winter time (a nice alternative to the weather I hear South Bend has been having), and Dublin is a fun, young city, offering activities that would satisfy anyonf:'s mood or desire. And yes, I may have even sipped a Guinness while enjoying the .craic and some live traditional music in a true Irish pub along the way. 
1 MAR 2007 
ScholasticCulture @·· · · · · · · · ··· 
No Place Like Rome 
Roma, ItaJy 
• Regina Gesicki 
fter a month of life in
A 
the Eternal City, I have 
inadvertently learned more than I ever needed to know about buying food outside the jurisdiction of FDA regulations, vending patterns of illegal imitation accessories and the myriad uses of the word "prego;'' 
The first few days in Rome were 
.· miserable. I was astounded by the beauty and history ofthe city but shocked by the disorder I encountered and the confusion I felt. Jet-lagged and dehydrated, the somewhat ridiculous feeling that I would never return to the States overwhelmed me. I wrote frantkemails to my parents and friends, from which I directly quote, "All I want to do is hear someone's voice from the outside world. I feel like 
· I've been dropped fa the middle of the desert. J:know this is melodramatic, but my immediate thoughts are ofimminent death and the Sahara." 
I eventually decided I could and would survive in Rome. After I slept away my jei-lagged anxieties, I began to relish the SO-minute walk to and from class each day. (To think, I once complained ,about walking from Lyons to DeBartoh) The days of leaving my room 10 minutes before class are no more. I now allow myself an hour to trek along the Tiber River, traverse the ancient cobblestone streets and fight through the crowds of people and pigeons in St. Peter's Square to get to.class . . 
The open-air market I pass through each morning stretches for 10 blocks, with stalls full of vegetables, fruits and freshly sl;mghtered meat. One morning I moved out ofthe way ofone ofthe many errant motorini that frequently use the sidewalk as a passing lane and came face to carcass with an entire cow. Another morning, my overly excited roommate and I purchased an entire kilogram of spinach for one euro. We realized this was an even better deal than we had thought when we discovered thatwe had obtained 
2.2 pounds of greens. 
I walk along the Vatican walls, which are lined daily with large groups oftourists, toting guidebooks in multiple languages and adjusting their fanny-packs, as well as a number ofyoung men hawking Ray­Ban sunglasses if it's nice out, Burberry umbrellas if it may rain and Prada bags regardless ofthe forecast. Theyare always "very good quality." And they will always get taken away at U.S. Customs. 
There are a few establishments en route to class where I frequently take my now required daily shot·ofespresso with an entire packet of sugar ... you only live once. I was taught in my language classes that the word "prego" is a response to the Italian "thank you" -"grazie" -and it means, "you're welcome." I was apparently deceived. When I enter a cafe, I hear "prego!" When I approach the counter to order, I hear "prego?" When I receive my tiny espresso cup and saucer, I say "grazie" and expect to hear "prego," but I usually don't. I remain in awe of 

ABOVE View of Colosseum from below LOWER LEFT Scenic view along the Tiber River LOWER RIGHT Tourists bustle in St. Peter's Square in Vatican City 
this perplexingly versatile vocabulary. I want to think it's something like "yeah" in American English -an exclamation, a question and a statement all in one. But I have to think that in a city as ancient as Rome, words are always tied up with more meaning than I can imagine. 
My emails to friends and family are not full ofdesperation anymore. I can recount my stories of everything from accidental detours through the Circus Maximus to discoveries of restaurants that serve authentic five-course meals for 20 euros with the understanding thatI am lucky to be spending five months in the inevitable state ofbeing completely overwhelmed by La Citta Eterna. 0 

1 MAR2007 

· · · · · · · · · · · · · @Scholastic Culture 


0 
Molly Kring 
a Tuesday night in
0 n 
O'Shaughnessy Hall, a group 
of 15 undergraduate students sits around a conference table with hundreds of pages lying before them, comments scattered across the pages: "suitable for print," "premises _too vague," "conclusion is unoriginal." Thoughtful discussions abound, with comments 
ranging from "This paper speaks to 
me. I want to see this published," to 
"This bibliography is really lacking." 
This dedicated group of students is 
the editorial board for the Journal of 
Undergraduate Research CTUR). 
Founded in 2003, this year marks the 
third year the journal will be released. 
Spotlighting outstanding undergraduate 
research in the College of Arts and 
Letters, the journal contains three ·16­
to 25-page research papers chosen by 
a board of undergraduates. The topics 
of the papers range anywhere from 
"Japanese Women's Speech: Changing 
Women, Changing Roles" (Hillary Brass 
'06), to "Monsignor John J. Egan and 
Catholic Action against Segregation in 
Chicago"(Kamaria Porter '06). · 
"We've had some submissions where 
we're just like 'What were they thinking 
submitting this to an academic journal?"' 
senior Kelly Czaja, co-editor of this 
year's journal, says. Some of the more 
outlandish entries submitted this year 
include "an epic 50-page philosophical 
argument" and an "unresearched diatribe 
against academia," Czaja says. While the 
submitted entries do not always meet the 
caliber of work they desire, Czaja and 
Barnabo understand that it is only with 
time that the journal will reach its ideal 
product. "We're just happy we've gotten 
double the amount ofsubmissions as last 
year," junior co-editor Gary Barnabo 
says. 
Starting humbly, "The first journal 
was just folded and stapled in the corner. 
It was very experimental," project 
advisor and College ofArts and Letters 
Assistant Dean Vicki Toumayan says. 
Largely accredited to the diligent effort 
of last year's editor in chief, Benjamin 
......... 26 
Dougherty, the journal has improved markedly. "I had some misgivings when I first took over the project, but after last year when I saw how committed the students were and how much they were getting out of it, I was convinced 
the journal was a really good thing," Toumayan says. 
This year, Czaja and Barnabo have worked hard to advance Dougherty's vision for the journal. Entries submitted this year increased markedly from last year, going from 38 to 59. In line with this growth, the journal's editorial board has increased from the original three members to the present 24. The board consists of undergraduates from a wide array of academic majors. With such a diverse group, the board is better able to determine the best submitted papers. 
The group looks for innovative, inde­pendent research papers that "balance great research with something that will capture the interest ofthe read-,., ____ _ students will eventually write research papers with the hope of getting their work published in the journal. "It's the goal for everyone to get their work out there, to have it recognized by a wider audience," she says. 
The ultimate vision of the journal, however, has yet to be realized. As recognition of the publication grows, Czaja and Barnabo hope that the university will provide them with more funding, so that more articles can be published and a greater number of students can be recognized outside of the classroom. Czaja believes that increased funding could also lead to a wider distribution ofthe journal, so that a copy may be "found on every parent's coffee table [ ... ]We want to get to a point where people look forward to the journal coming out." 0 
er," Barnabo says. _ _j . 1.\1~)" 1.1 1• "The meetings ' \ 
:a~'h::e \\ \~~~~h\_. \ 
~~e:::rc \\\ ~'l'\.'i:'>"'o..'~.S:,~'-. :-,\:,,,--·, '~ 
< ·~ \J
and engaged, with a lot of banter back and forth regarding which papers should be published." As stated on JUR's Web site, the journal exists "to collect, [examine], and circulate outstanding academic workofstudents in the College of Arts and Letters." "Notre Dame's Journal of Undergraduate Research provides us with an opportunity to share our work within smaller circles," junior Andrew Karl says. Karl's paper, "An Aristotelian Apology for Romantic Love," was published in the 2005-2006 journal. In addition to rewarding work outside the classroom, JUR hopes to inspire underclassmen with examples of high-quality research. Czaja hopes that 
.., 
. °oI'-\ ~~~~h:\\S2..\\. 
.<0\ ·Pi 
student Veronica Fitzpatrick, another 
Illinois native with a powerful flair for 
poeticism. With an even cadence and 
a naked, foreboding tone, Fitzpatrick 
shares a string of haunting poems, including "Living Dead," "Views" and "Groceries." Her petite frame provides a veil for the immensity of her poetic imagery, and the crowd once again erupts into applause when she finishes. Brenna Casey concludes the evening with a beautifully crafted autobiographical 

in the air in the cozy coffee shop, for it is time for the latest installment of the Creative Writing Program's "Poetry and Prose" readings. 
Just beyond the shadow of the Golden Dome, the house lights dim as Notre Dame creative writing graduate student and Illinois native Brian Lysholm takes the stage armed only with a few sheets of paper and a microphone. With a disarmingly humorous delivery, Lysholm relates his thoughtful meditations on 
"punk teenagers in the suburbs" through a series ofshort prose pieces collectively titled "Jackie at the Ramada Inn." His insights leave the audience in laughter and applauding for more. 
Next enters creative writing graduate 
1 MAR 2007 
essay about her service experiences in Ecuador. "The colors of the ends of ~he earth are a little bit brighter," she begins, and the audience is rapt from the onset. Her complexly braided narrative provides a strong conclusion to a very pleasurable evening. Afterwards, audience member and English Professor John Wilkinson is visibly pleased with the "great variety of work being done in the creative department [ ... ] from sophisticated non-fiction prose to extremely ambitious prose." 
At a university that is typically cast as a "bubble" 
Scho/asticCulture@ . • • • • • • • • • • • • .' 
completely disconnected from the South Bend community, the Lula's "Poetry and Prose" readings are a welcome anomaly. The brainchild of master of fine arts alumnus Liza Gonzales' experiences at University of California-Davis, the readings at Lula's have been taking place on a biweekly basis since 2003. As program coordinator Coleen Hoover explains, the purpose of the program is to bring the student reading series "off campus, out into the wider community." "In general, Lula's provides an excellent atmosphere for the readings that cannot 
be found on-campus," Lysholm says. 
For those searching for a South Bend cultural hotspotor just a decent sandwich and a cup ofcoffee, mark your calendars for Wednesday evenings at 7:30 p.m. The Lula's readings provide a welcome reprieve from the cold while showcasing some of Notre Dame's most gifted and up-and-coming writers. 0 

.. ··.\· ·:.·; ·'.'..·.:·.@ScholasticSports
·. ''_,.' . ' ',' . ' 
. }Ci/.~~--~;ti;lltfl',Wl!!fffif ;~\!![. ,> c•·· 
Despite skepticism, merf$_,_bas~etball .t~am deserves a spot in the NCAA Tournament -.· ·• · 
oMegan Teigen· 
. L' _.

T he last time the Notre Dame men's basketball team finished a season-·\·, undefeated at home, senior-captains'Russell Carter and C.olin Falls ·were11\: : yet a year old. In 1985-1986, the Irish went 15-0 at the.Joyce Center for just the second time in program history. The only other undefeated home season · came in 1973-1974, when the Irish also :finished -15-0 at ho.m.e..This year, Notre Dame is 18-0 at home (22-6 overall) and, with this past weekend's 85-73 win over Marquette, has jumped into the top 25 and earned what should be a certain berth to the NCAA Tournament. The Irish are.now ranked No. 17 going into their last regular season game, a road trip against a struggling Rutgers team. . 
Things are finally looking good after a series of rough seasons, including a few recent late-season crashes like last year's, when after a 9-2 start the Irish lost 12 of .• their last 19 to finish 16-14, barely over .500. Come March, the Fighting Irish have .. consistently found themselves ori the bubble in post-seasori'·discussions, but most often landed on the outside looking in. As a consistent outsider for the past decade, this season's impressive home streak has not exempted the Irish from the usuaJ bubble mania. While some insist that they deserve greater recognition for this season's accomplishments, the questi<?:\1 remains: Is Notre Dame finally ready to move from a bubble team to a regular NCAA contender? Major non-conference wins against Alabam'iand Maryland and a much-. lauded flawless home record cannot completely overshadow a mediocre road record. ( •.· The Irish lost several key games away this season, including a last-second defeat at ( DePaul and a lackluster showing against an unimpressive South Florida team. At I ' this point, skepticism of the Irish is st~II prominent and somewhat wa~r~nted ...... _f , . As the student body knows, the media 1s always first to express skept1C1sm of aµy fI Fighting Irish team. Notre Dame has only six losses and a likely first-round bye in ! j the Big East Tournament, but the team is not receiving quite the creditthey deserve, l i regardless of the causes for cynicism. The AP poll awarded Notre Dam~ a top-25 ! · ranking this past week only after the Irish soundly defeated a top-20 Marquette f J team. A spot in the top 25 sounds like an Irish victory in the bubble debate, but f ·i · the ranking actually places them just behind the Marquette team that not·only lost i ·.jl to the Fighting Irish but also features worse conference and overall records than r . • Notre Dame. .. l r E:ven ifthe sta~s. ofthis .season's Irish team is considered questionabl~ because of [ : : their unproven ab1hty to wm on the road, Notre Dame should not be subJected to the t.:j •·• criticism that some members ofthe media have been tossing around. Unforturfa.te.ly',f.,, ......l for the Irish, recent history has given the media some momentum for holding Notre [ l Dame back yet again. It may also be fueled by the "Notre Dame football factor,i'!;•·.:t· which has recently built up a bias against the Fighting Irish that may carry over to ·i 
; ' 
other sports. After the football program has been declared overrated for the past • couple of seasons, sportswriters find themselves more skeptical when evaluating ;Y other Notre Dame programs. ! · Despite these doubts, this year the Irish will make their way back into the NCAA 
~ .·. 
a: Tournament; To silence criticsartd·ifo.llf¢i.rierge from-b-i:ibble'discussions in.'foture 0 D. years, however, there is no· room for another late-season collapse.. A road win •· ti) against Rutgers will hopefully propel the Irish into a successful post-season. That
u ~ first-round bye can't hurt, either. 
::i 
I 0 The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not.1zecessarily the viewsdf , . 
u 
Cf) 

Scholastic. 
.••••..... 28 
T he women's swimming and diving team continued its · "· title streak by securing the Big East championship for the 11th consecutive year. At the meet _on February 14, Head Coach Carrie · Nixon was named Big East Coach of the Year and senior Katie Carroll was crowned Most Outstanding Swimmer. 
· ·With this. award, Carroll broke Notre Dame's record for career all-Big East honors (she now has 28) ... 
Qn Saturday, February 24, freshman guard ToryJackson and freshman forward Luke Harangody -led the Irish basketball team to an 85-73 win over Marquette. This was the 108th time the Irish faced the Golden Eagles; The win secured the irilmbet. four slot in the Big East Tournament for the Irish ... 
Qn. February 7, the Notre Dame hockey tearii was rankedNo. lin · . othe nation for the first time in the 
1 MAR 2007 


..••;J •.-: 
~--..:.Y t; ­
-~ :--:'J~ ~~­-~--i·· 
. ,·· :-:-~~~-~--~·::·-,.-..;:,:~:~}p:~,Y •5/..-~'_;-? !:-···. '•~>-~>t:._ ..-:. -_ ,~..: _·.:•~-~ :_-._-_ ..-::.~_: ......;-,-,__!:· 
program's history. Living up.fo -~e. ­lit "#1" sign above Grace Hall, the· Irish trekked to Alaska on February 16 to play the Nanooks for the second time this season and won both games (1-0, 3-2 in overtime). In the opening game, freshman Ryan Thang slipped the puck past the Alaskan goalie to secure the Irish's first-ever CCHA regular seasqn title ... 
TheNo. 5 Irish women's lacrosse. tea_m opened the 2007 season on February 24 with a 12-11-win ~ver Stanford in double overtimein the next game. Junior Caitlin.McKinney scored two goals against]a:mes· :' Madison, and both were clutch -the first to tie and the second to win-in sudden death.The Irish were selected to finish seconcl:ih ·• the annual Big East preseason poll in voting done by the league's head 
.coaches. · 
1 MAR2007· 
Barry King 
•Mary Kaminski 
'· 
: 'E3ar~YKing, a seriiorfinance maj6r from Dublin, _ Ireland, has been an integral member of the . -men's''.tennis program for four years. For the 
first tim~ in King's career with Notre Dame, the Irish are ranked in the top 10.•They are· currently No. 9 in the nation and hope t_o,rise even higher as the season progresses. Ultimately, they are aiming to returqtotheRoulldof-16 of the NCAA 
·• CharTJl?)onship'and)mproVetbn-last ye'ar\quick exit from the tournament. ·-,, · · ·•··:. 

Wijy did ydu decide to come to the. Wh~t is your most memorable moment 
•·.·:United States to play tennis? in th~ sport?'. . In; lt~l~nd,rnost people come to the • One i~ probably.freshman year when we U;S.for college if they are highly ranked' · won the Big EastChampionship, beating ten_riisplayers because they can't really/ ·. Miami arid Virginia.Jech, both of whon:i go 'an,Yfurther in Ireland. When you ar~-' _we haef lost to in the regular season. It _17 or)8, you -~ither stay in Ireland to go wi.s pretty special when everyone ran to unive.r,sity ory9u go professional .. I .. , onto th_~ court. My other favorite moment looked into Notr:e:Dame, contacteo the ; / w~i last year'when we°' made it to the 
< c:o;ich, came on eretruiting tfip an_d, >· NCAA Round ()f 16 at Stanford. decided this was foYme_'.Plus; it cloesn't ; '·: · · •-----· ·· · 
hurt that we a.recth~.Fighting l,:ish. /What'is"youffavorite 'p1rt of playing / · t~nnis? _/? · ··.... Who is your)oie model?'••. / .. ,.:Jhe oo..e-on-::on'e aspect -it'~\13-II on 
. I wouldhave_ to say Roger Federer•·. Ji._.·., you. You car:i't hide b~hind anything. The because he has so many strengths t8}::' •\,<:id_r~~aliri,e-rus~ is pretty sp~c:ia.l}yhen1 his g·ame and .so few off-days.:A1so;thef?:'.~you:corri'e o~t offtop:· llikei'liowaftlie~ 
way he conducts himself off the court · · i'.:ollege level especially, you can give and gives backto the community is back to your coaches by winning on the admirable. court. 
29 ·•··•···· 

, · •· ......... ,,©•scholasticSports 
A KNOCK-OUT SUCCESS 
BENGAL BOUTS RAISES MONEY AND BUILDS RELATIONSHIPS 
• Kaitlin O'Connor 
ne-Two-One!" Sophomore 
Conor McLaughlin slams 
his fists into his sparring partner's padding. "One-Two-Three­Two!" As the two men circle around one another in a boxer's stance, his partner reaches a hand out toward McLaughlin's head, reminding him to always protect his face. "Jab! Double jab-Two!" The first-year boxer obeys the calls ordered 
0 
i 
by his senior captain and sparring partner Steve Hansen as he works to improve his 
i 
boxing technique. 
While this scene is common in the boxing room during Bengal Bouts season, which extends from October to March, there is something about these two boxers which makes the once-common exercise more remarkable. Hansen and McLaughlin· are boxing in separate brackets ofthe 170-pound weight division and, with continued success, may become opponents during the final rounds on March 3. The men have helped each other improve their respective techniques since the beginning of the season, and there is · a sense of friendly competition between them; each wants the other to do well. 
"We get really close down here," Hansen says. "The way you get better is by asking someone to help you out and by working with other people [ ... ] The attitude we foster down here is such that there's never been a problem competing against your own teammates:" 
The sp'irit of helping one another is truly the essence of Bengal Bouts. Founded in the 1920s ~y Knute 
.E!;.,. .--·-"O, ---·
Rockne as a way for the football 
l____________ ....... " 
r·FioAT LIKE i BUTTERFLY Two fighters prepare-;-o· ;;;;ow down. ' I 
····---·······-··--·-····---··---····--..........._ 
team to stay· in shape during the· winter months, the Bouts evolved. into the· tournament it is today in 1931,-when Dominick "Nappy" Napolitano a·dded the charity aspect to the sport, donating all of the money raised by-the Bouts to the Holy' Cross Missions in, Bangladesh. 
"Since then, we've become the single largest, contributor to the missions," senior captain and Bengal Bouts President Andrew McGill-says. Last year, the tournament donated $54,000 to the missions, and this year the boxers are on track to donate a lot more: "We've already 
raised $105,000 before expenses this year," McGill says. Most of the increase in money has come from the advertisements sold for the Final Rounds' program. Last year, ad sales reached $47,000, and this year they raised $70,000. "That is a testament to the boxers' willingness to help the heart of the program [ ... ] They want to be a part of something that is bigger than themselves," McGill says. "We're :fighting for a cause, and that cause 
is to raise money for charity." 
While many boxers join Bengal 
Bouts as an opportunity to support an 
important cause, others box for the sense 
of competition and the rush that they 
feel stepping into the ring. Senior and 
third-year boxer Preston Carter says, "It's 
unbelievable. My first fight ever, after I 
got out of the ring, I had no idea what 
had happened at all. It's such a different 
experience that instinct and· training 
kind of take over, especially for the first­
year guys." Senior captain Stu Stypula 
echoes such sentiments. "I remember 
getting into the ring, and I remember 
getting out of the ring, but everything 
in between is just a blur," Stypula says. "The whole thing just goes away with the adrenaline." , 
Others had very different experiences 
their first time. "If I look back to my 
freshman year, I couldn't even tell you 
what classes I took, but I remember the 
very first time I walked into the ring for 
1 MAR 2007 
· · ·· · ··. l 
I! 
the Bouts like it was yesterday. I remember [ ... ] the experience ofwhat it was like [ ... ] with all of my friends and family there watching me," McGill says. No matter how many people were watching him, sophomore and first-year boxer R.J. Tursi.::" was not nervous as he entered the ring for ­his first match. 
"I couldn't "B 
five days a week, where they do 500 jumping-jacks, 250 push-ups and 500 sit,­ups just to warm up. Many also run three to five miles a day in addition to the work they do in practice. However, training for the boxing matches is a welcome change from their daily routines as students. 
really  be  EING IN THE RING WITH ONE OTHER GUY,  
nervous smce  '  '' 
I had waited  THERES NOT MUCH ELSE LIKE IT.  

all night to do it [ ... ] It was really dark[... ] You can't really see anything except for the person you're boxing against. That's the only thing you're focused on," he says. 
"Being in the ring with one other guy, there's not much else like it. It really tests your mental and physical capabilities and pushes them to the limits," Hansen says. 
The boxers' limits are tested long before they ever reach their first match. In order to participate in Bengal Bouts, each boxer must attend intense three-hour practices 
-STEVE HANSEN 
ScholasticSports1qj•· · ·· · 
the Bengal Bouts program is much more than a physical, competitive outlet for the majority of boxers -some of their closest friendships are forged during their many shared hours in "the pit." Half of the 202 boxers in the Bouts only have the opportunity to compete in front 
of an audience 1n their preliminary match, which lasts three minutes and 45 seconds. In these cases, the boxers have "trained 
BENGAL BouTS CAPTAIN forsolongthat 
Senior and third-year boxer ParfaitMwez says, "Most of us, in some capacity or another, were involved athletically in high 
· school, and we came here to a sedentary lifestyle where we are studying [ ... ] and there's just no time to focus on that other physical aspect of our lives. There's not that opportunity to excel [ ... ] This gives us that capacity." 
While it addresses a need on campus, 
they're putting in over five hours ofwork per second that they're in that ring," McGill says. While it may seem like a devastating loss to be eliminated in the first round, Hansen does not believe that any boxer feels that way. "It's not necessarily the glory of the end fight, but the journey[ ... ] oftraining hard with your friends," he says. "That's actually the rewarding aspect of it." 0 


jj-,w:c¥, '"~e,,t;;fl1,i,iJ,,ic,iI1Ji,) .... . . . . . 
·· 
Spring Spotts er~vie"'l---~ 

Outlook: The men's team, after capturing its sixth Big East title in 2006, looks to maintain its consistent ways, having earned 21 top­three indoor and outdoor finishes since·1996. On tl1e women's side, a deep and experienced 
·squad hopes to capture tlie outdoor conference crown. 
Men's Baseball· 
Athletes tP. _Watch: SR Kurt Benninger, distance; JR Austin Wechter, sprinter; SR
Outlook: Looking to bounce back from 
Maryann Erigha, sprinter; JR Sunni Olding,
two heartbreaking losses in tlie 2006 NCAA 
distance·P,L'..7.P' (Jf C!i Regionals, tlie Irish baseball team hopes to 
0 
,\::1 • j}r l 1 1 ,:':)·· · -~~~~a~~to~ulci:·~~::rs::;~~~ ~:::1:r0;~1t~;:.rk~~c~ ;;ewc?m~;~=-:~~ ~:lazs M~k;~;
···_~'. _r':-,t,,..,.,;·t,./1ia'/;l Dave Schrage begins his first year as coach sSpnhulnter! ~R ~nc QmFcRk, JUJmp1er;,FERJ?annar of tlie Irish, coming to tl1e program witli an C .tz,: sprmter; ac yn , spmoza, ' ',\ ·, l9'J:, i.\~ " 1 impressive resume -most recently leading tlirower j \ \OJ IH:. \ · tlie University of Evansvill~ program to its =============================== 
most successful season ever. 
Women's Softball
Players to Watch: SO #20 Jeremy Barnes, IF; SR #44 Mike Duty, LHP/lB; JR #13 
Outlook: The Irish: softbali ieam hopes tliat
Wade Korpi, LHP . 
a nintlistraight N~M ro11rnament bid is in 
tliecards, but to·earri. it, ,they'll 'have to face Impact Newcomers: FR #12 BraydenAsh~ ·some tough, con1petiti6n:;Eleven. opponents down, OF; FR #4 A.J. Pollock,}13;. GS #15 ranked iri tlif U..SA.§.i2ftbal{top:2s; as. well as Matt Weglarz, C/lB ·'"'·,.... three other teafhs .who also received votes, will 
_provide a tough test for tlie team in 2007.
----------------'-'-..;_;__"; . -.... -. -. . . -.., ,:.\·. -..·.•• ,. ,.,, 
Players to Watch:SR #24 Si:e:phallie Brown, . OF; SO #8 Brittney Bargar, RHP;JR #1 Katie Laing, 2B/SS 
Impact Newcomers·: FR #16 Ashley Ellis, OF; FR #3 Headier Johnson, 3B; FR #10 Christine Lux, UT 
·Men's Lacrosse 
Outlook: The Irishmen's lacrosse team hopes to build.on its 2006 NCAATournament bertli, returning six starters and 16 letter winners. They entered tl1e season ranked No. 11 in tlie Insirf:e Lqczwse media poll and started off witli a 9-7 victory over No; 13 Loyola (MD). 
_1:'ll!-yersto Watch:J~#l Joey Kemp, goalie; SR #26 Brian Hubschmann, attack; SO #27' ~ .. Ryan Hoff, attack · 
Q. 
(/) 
: Impact Newcomers::FR#22 Will Yeatman, :.attack; FR#l2·GrantKrebs, midfield; FR#9 Mike Creighton;· defense 
SOUTHPAW SPECIALTY Notre Dame shows depth at the starti~g pitcher position with two strong left-handed hurlers. 
......... 32 1 MAR 2007 


ScholasticSports@··· ···· ··· ··· · 
Tennis 
Golf
Outlook: The Irish men's tem;iis team, returning with plenty of .experience• from Outlook:' The Irish men..··open the spring last year's run to the Sweet 16 of the·NCAA .~. season after finishing up their fall campaign Championships, is positi?ned J9r a breakout solidly (295.3 stroke average). Having gained year. The women, commg off_ of a season valuable experience in the fall, they _hope .. in which they were ranked as high a~ No.. _2 • to exceed the 28-32 mark that they E().Stl;"qt'{ nationally, are hoping for a No. i rankingth~s•...The women narrowly .mi_ssed an NC~;i:-. year after bringing in the top re,cruiting dass·/ l:l?urri:trhent' berth last· season .and hope to in the program's history. · ' bcild 9ff of their strong fall season. 
Players to watch: JR Sheeva Parbhu, men's 
Players to W~tch: SR Cole Isban; JR Mike
singles; SR Stephen Bass, men's ~ingles; SRs 
King; SR Noriko Nakazaki; SO Lisa Maunu 
Catrina and Christian Thompson/wo~en's · 
doubles; JR Brook Buck, women!s.sin'gles 
Impact Newcomers: .FR D~hg Fortner; · FR Kyle \½_!lis; FR Carl Santos Oc~p?;
Impact Newcomers: FR Seari , Corrigan, 
FR Annie Brophy; FR Julie Kim; FR Krtstm 
men's singles; FR Takashii Yoshii, .· men's 
Wetzel 0 
singles; FR Cosm.iria, .Cjobanµ, ,'. ',fomen's. singles; FR ColleenRi~Jf ~y, worn.en's siiigles .-·· 
Women's Lacrosse 
Outlook: The. Irish women's lacrosse. team,· coming off its most successful Sfa~on. ever, is ranked No. 5 in the IWLCA preseason poll. Although they lost to Da,rtmouth, in• the seniifinals of the NCAA Tmirnafnent last season, . there is hope· for greatei: 'success ih • · the coming season. A turnaround: from a 3­12 record in 2005 to 15-4 in 2006 bodes well for 2007. 
Players to Watch: SR #23 ,:,Meaghan. Fitzpatrick, defense; SO #4 Jillian Beyers, attack; JR #1 Caitlin McKinney, niidfield/ attack 
Impact Newcomers: FR #2 Maria Brooks, attack; FR #19 Rachel Guerrera, defense; FR· #12 Gina Sciascia, attack 
Women's Crew •· 
Outlook: Coniing off a strong showing at the Head of the Rock regatta in the.fall and a season in which they competed at the NCAA Championships· for the first time in Notre Dame history, the rowers' spring .schedule.·. features a slew of tough squads. They sta_rt the season on March 17 against Tennessee and Minnesota. 
ti)
Ii:·· 
Rowers to Watch: SR Meghan Boyle; SR 0 
a. 
. Melissa Felker; JR Maria Romano DOUBLE TROUBLE Senior twins Catrina and Christian Thompson take out the ti) 
u 
competition. 
Impact Newcomers: FR Megan Black; FR._·.; ~ 
0 
· LauraPetnuch;_FR,Danielle Le~ry-~.. : · · ·.· I 
u 
(/) 
1 MAR2007 

~;;~_~_~;==~=-: Jt 
... --.. 
0 --..
.. --.. 
~ --.
-
.-....
.. --­
. -=--=-n 
. ... . 
SCHOL8STIC ff 
SCHOLaST1C .il 
;::~ Now HIRING FOR 2007-2008 

[ .... • · .. ·· · · (~)Scho/asticHumor 
i. 
ii; 
r--.--,·=·) 

f. l~(C. >. ·,.>; ,·;.__:c:::::::::::::::::::===~~~~

t Listening In... 
¦ 
"Keenan is my whore [...] I will use her whenever I 

please!" -overheard Stanford resident 

¦ 
Girl 1: "What's your favorite class this semester?" Girl 2: ''I thinkit's gotta be parasitology." Girl 1: "Oh wow! That's so cool that you get to study all about Paris!" 

¦ 
'Justsoyouknow, I don't go for classygirls.Justgirls that 

wear glow-sticks between their boobs." -debauched boy to girl of interest 

¦ 
"Blacks bleachingtheir skin, whites burningtheirs-we 

are all really striving to be Mediterranean, aren't we?" -anthropology professor during lecture 

¦ 
"I can't wait to DART!!" -overly excited female student 


Nineteen YearsAgo 
Along, long time ago (all right, 1988), Scholastic routinely reviewed movies for the student body. These reviews were taken very seriously. The writers of the September 29, 1988issue ofScholastic even split their reviews up into categories to make the information simpler to the readers. The categories? Eerieness. Depression.Violence. Psychedelia. Erotica. Itis to this last category that we now turn our attention: 
"9 1/2 Weeks (Direct:ed by Adrian Lynn. Stars Mickey O'Ruurke, Kim Basi,ngerJEver try wat:ching this film with y(JUr pa_rents? Not a very crwfortahle si,tuarion. This is a film essentially ab(JUt O'R(JUrke and Basi,nger having sex. Its paucity ofp!-Ot is almost compematedforbyAdrianLynn'sbrilliantandsensual direction. He mptures eroticism in its essence. A great film to wat:ch with a date." 
Now, it is beyond me why anyone would want to watch a movie with a date when they couldn't watchitwith their parents.Who doesn'tlikea little "eroticism in its essence" with mom and pop? 
-Kate Dresser 


WHAT ARE-YOU DOI-NG TGN-1-GHT? 
MAY.WE MAKE A 50GGESTl'ON? . 




DECADANCE VS. THE FIREBIRD TIEMPO LIBRE TUE, MAR 6 AT 7:30 PM FRI, MAR 30 AT 8 PM WED, MAR 7 AT 7:30 PM 
HTTP://PERFORMINCARTS.ND.EDU 
FOR TICKETS CALL 574.631.2800 

DEBARTOLO ~UNIVERSITY OF 
PERFORMING ARTS CENTER WNOTREDAME 

Hey there Ladies and Gents ... in such an expansive sense. Uncle Gipp his man-points and proceeded to take a welcome to another fun-filled and knows the identity of Madame Party second industrious young (don't worry, not quite family-friendly edition of Hardy, but he shall not reveal. completely legal) female to observe the The Gipper, by yours truly, the Gipp him­Our second story shows that you can marvelous interior decor ofhis bedroom. self. Turn off your iPods, stop listening to truly learn a lot of life lessons from the Unfortunately, they were both too "Promiscuous Girl" and read about your nature channel. At least when it comes impaired to look at his "Love Actually" fellow classmates who are going out there to crocodile (or woman) taming. In this posters, so they decided to observe the and making something of themselves. tale, our prince charming was attending plaid pattern on his bedspread instead. Delinquents? Legends? Whatever! At a neighbor's party when he was subjected After the tour ofall our hero had to offer least some ofour industrious friends took to the advances of a less than desirable was over, Girl #2 quietly let herself out it upon themselves to get away from this young female student. In order to avoid of the apartment (exactly the way all of cold hellhole and take the time to share in any discomfort by actually speaking the Gipp's favorite dates end). One quick some good, clean, drunken shenanigans to the girl, our hero descen_ded to his bathroom break later, our champion went ·in Gipp's favorite pl~ce, Margarihiville. · apartment and proceeded to "play dead," back to ):iis room and collapsed on the bed, And since ol' Gipp is a sixth-year senior just like my old dog, Sparky. Obviously, completely"spent. Only to firid ... another creative writing major, he was there to due to his Popov-affected state of mind, girl! This third and final female student see it all. This edition of The Gipper is it was the best he ;:0uI& come·upwith·ar•· Was· the ·most· industrious of them all. brought to you by duLac, section 3.6 (not the time. The aspiring actor laid· down Despite'our protagoni~i:'s best-at!empt at that anyone has read it). on his kitchen floor and pretended to be playing dead, yet again, it didn't work:$)):l;F, Our first story, about bright young unconscious. Despite repeated proddings · Thislast go-getter would not be dertiea."It students poisoning their minds and and several attempts to "arouse" our must have beeri the exfra Axe Body Spray bodies with that devil firewater, has a protagonist, the unfortunate young lady our hero put on that night. Or maybe it bit of a "political" ring to it. Our female was unsuccessful. was the fact that the third girl was trying protagonist of this bawdy tale is a friend Wow. So far in this article we have to prove that brunettes really do have from the ranks ofNotre Dame's esteemed Prudes: 2, Young Go-Getters: 0. Don't just as much fun as blondes. The next student leaders. Due to stress from the worry, the go-getters make a comeback in morning, the hero woke up to some eh rigors ofthe political world (you know the end (they always do). Once Girl #1 had ... "evidence" ofhis randy activities. Let's ... student government), our hero decided departed, our hero decided to gain back just say he wore turtlenecks to church that to let off some steam by indulging in Sunday (and to class the day after). a few (or possibly a plethora of) illicit Well, that's about it for this issue's beverages. After the crunk juice kicked edition of The Gipper. And remember in, this venerable official was witnessed ... the Gipp accepts tips through email, with a "close friend" on -a crowded smoke signals and pigeon carriers. Who (ridiculously steamy) dance floor knows what you kids do in your free attempting an "illegal crossing" South time besides trying to see how many of the Border. After being rebuffed prescription drugs you can con out of once, our protagonist, emulating Heath Services in two weeks. Try adding the Notre Dame spirit of "If at first a little vodka to your roommate's beer, you don't succeed, try, try again," did and take it from there. See you in that indeed, do just that. Unfortunately, keg line. this dude was more uptight than Border Control. No dice. If the Gipp had 
c:: known student government kids partied 0 
::E 
this hard, he might have actually shown :::,
:c 
some interest and voted in last month's u 
~ 
election. It's rather refreshing to hear 
~­
that some politicians are willing to I 
u 
interpret "border patrol" <f) 
-fif~_,~,.­
1 MAR 2007 37 •........ ~ 
-~..-•• ! 
·.. ·.. · ·· · · · ·· ([)ScholasticHumor 
•Joe Lattal 
s the weeks wind down in the seniors' last semester at Notre Dame, the usual cliche questions arise in conversation -is there anything you would have 
A 
changedatNotreDame? Whatwasyourfavoritepartabputgoing here? What exactly are fried clam strips in the dininghall? 
Aparticular question repeatedly comes up when I'm speaking with :freshmen and sophomores -whatwas your favorite class at Notre Dame? But for a simple man with simple tastes, this is a difficult question. I would like to share a few of the most memorable classes from over the years. 
ENGL oooor:JocKLIT I 
(3.o CREDIT HOURS) 
Thereadinglistfromthisclasswastremendous,featuringworks suchas ''FridayNightLights"and,um,uh, didtheguywhowrote ''Friday Night Lights" write anything else? We might have read something else. I thinkwe watched "The DaVmci Code:' too; I ·don't really remember. Attendance seemed highly optional, and ,the only requirement on the final essay was that every word be five "letter-thingies" or shorter. I didn't mind the professor, but some of the TAs couldn't spell their grades. 
MGT 30102: Cuu:ERExTRAs 
(r.o CREDIT HOURS) 
The Career Center offers some really helpful programs in :fu:iding a career after graduation. But this class, only offered in the fall, featured some unique intangibles that are rarely taught by career professionals. Lectures included "How to Leave an Employer Info Session Early to Grab Lunch'' and "How to Ask to Use the Restroom in the Middle of an Interview." My short essay for the class explained what innuendos to make and not make with recruiters at the career fair. 
FIT2r967: AWFULMoVIES LAB 
(0.0 CREDIT HOURS) 
The weekly screenings that accompanied my fine arts requirement were phenomenal. Classics included "Santa versus Buckwheat: Rascals at the Pole," "From Justin to Kelly 2" and "The Danny DeVito SexTape." Iwillneveragainwatch anything shot in nightvision. 
PE 10009: ULTIMATE FIGHTING lNrno 
(0.0 CREDIT HOURS) 
Everyone had different thoughts on the PE requirement at Notre Dame, but when registration for ballroom dancing filled up faster than the hbrary fills with puddles, I had no choice but to ultimate fight It would have been niceifwe fought in our own weightdivisions. Itwouldhave beenniceifsome of the girls didn't eye gouge. Itwouldhave beennice iftherehad been a rule against crotchstomping. So muchfor havingkids someday, butballroom dancing might have been equally humiliatipg. 
FYC r3roo: FIRST YEAR CoMPosmoN 
(3.o CREDIT HOURS) After our teacher completely disappeared from existence halfway through the semester, leaving only a note that she ''had to go," a quirky grad student was responsible for my freshman education. She lobbied that the library resembled aphallus, theJoyce Center a pair ofbreasts and the Dome a golden nipple. She didn'tmentionwhat the Grotto might 
have symbolized, probablyatthe riskoflosing her job. At least she wasn't teaching ultimate fighting. 
People quote Tom Petty on their MySpace or Facebook profiles: "You'll never remember class time, butyou'llremembertimeyo~wastedhanging 
outwith your friends." I guess Pettynever sawthe Danny DeVito Sex Tape. · 
1 MAR 2007 
ScholasticHumorill······••••····· 
don'T s10P me now 
. · · · · Things·, I've Always Wanted to .Write Columns About _But Will Never Get T!J ·· · · -· · 
oMike Healy 
J(enton Villano plucks his eyebrows. He is also the president of the Pre-Law Society. When 
the LSAT rolled around, Kenton was so son was born, Mr. stressed about it and so worried about Bertuca was driving in missing time that he wore an adult diaper an unmarked cop car to the test. Knowing people would think down Lake Shore Drive. this was weird, he went all the way to The dispatcher radioed that Chicago to take the test at DePaul so no Mrs. Bertuca called the station one would hear him crinkling around to say she was going into labor. Since when he came out ofthe test (in fairness, Mr. Bertuca and his partner had no way that's not entirely true -I don't know for to bypass traffic to get to the hospital sure that he took it at DePaul because he (the unmarked car didn't have a siren), won't tell me where he took it since he's he and his partner began shooting their mad I'm putting the story of his diaper guns in the air so people would get out caper in Scholastic). I didn't understand of their way. It worked until police tried his rationale, since I imagine it would be to block part of Lake Shore Drive to deal far more distracting to take the LSAT with this "renegade shooter." Mr. Bertuca sitting in your own waste than to leave explained the situation to them, and they for an emergency bathroom break; but drove him to the hospital. hey, he's president ofthe Pre-Law Society, One of my roommates is Carl Gioia. not me. Kenton also plays "Magic: The He's a really great guy-just a prince ofa Gathering" and tries to watch girls in guy. It's awkward when professors in class the bathroom; but he is my friend, and make jokes about our kicker because if I he is nice. --:.:l mention that he's my roommate, people 
My best friend_ since ,, /~~~);,._ then think I:m mad at them. It's like t~ey fourthgradeLome ,,/<,_:~_.-{.~;~;tff~~?t,?•:-_--.. m.ade a_1oke abou~ someone who Just 
Bertuca's dad ,;:~_.._,.:_·:··:.?r:5-·"~'.J,: -·--·-'.c:~:0:,:-:;:-"':f{.:,>,.._ died. Dunng the Stanford is a Chicago , ;;/tft::• ~/_,-, -7~1~~~~13~;<~~-game,. some of 
cop. He ""'i ,,.j .-· ";' / -. .. ·r --.,~--,~~~, _my friends and 
.. • .!_' <· . ' . / , _.) i -~1 t "q: ...•,.,.,1•_l~i:,;t;. . p I a y e d -:-?ilk!.~~-~~· , ~, · ·'. _, .,. ~i' i ,;ii.'>',f _-• another group 
three years ·· .;~,r--->~-:-::. ··· / .]f _, c:' ~,. t .,. :f ofguys got into 
. h ~ .,. / .. ,l,: . • ~ ;,,_ <, J.§ 
m t e NFL :•;..,i , :·.·, •• •. Jf"?~ t· _j ,, /b .. an argument andhisname ._, ,-~"•n: -. A.:.1 r: about Carl.
i:-1 "J:-''•f•
is Tony . .:!I-·'),:""···· , ,1_.. -.-· T_heydidt~at Bert u ca. .. . '"~-,~: ,;· ._. . t): ~~-thmg (thatihke
D Sh 1 .i:, :· .. ,.:...... :· 4~ .. ........ -. "' 11 "N 
on u a f·~'.·6 _.' '"),-:-:'__.. _ I':;•_;·-··"::_:-·---~•~-111 to ca . _otre 
told "NFL .,_,.,~~_-_.?.:.,, ..,-~;r..", /?·:._ ._ >··,. -~ · , Dame F1ghtmg")
'~-'''' 1,.<i·,, .. 
Films" that Mr. ·, , _.,:· .;~j1f< -~ ::'.-:, ~ · · where they both talk Bertuca was "the ·· · · about how badly they want to :fight toughest player he ,. each other and how they're more than ever saw" (though he'~idn't call him "Mr. happy to meet up and brawl, as long as the Bertuca"). Mr. Bertuca once wrestled a other person names the time and place bear in the circus (this is true, I swear). and appropriate weather conditions and In college, Mr. Bertuca went to Chico barometric pressure. Nothing ended up State and was named Playboy's "Party happening, but I think a large number of Man of the Year." Mr. Bertuca works with girls were very impressed, which is really the bomb squad at the O'Hare Airport the important thing. People also did crazy and wears mesh shorts to work since he things like give Carl death threats. I don't had knee replacement surgery and can't know why people get so worked up about wear tl1e uniform pants. Since the shorts things. Carl was my co-head coach for don't have pockets, he carries his gun Farley football and great to work with. in a yellow fanny pack. When his :first Everyone at this school seems to enjoy 
1 MAR2007 
complaining about Notre Dame. 
:·: They whine about the girls or the 
parties, the student activism or 
any number of things. Every 
gripe always starts with the 
same phrase: "At any other 
school ... " I think we sell 
this school short a lot. I 
· like it here. And to speak 
to the larger points, :firstly, 
' I don't buy the argument 
-: that things are so different 
at other places. From the experiences I've 
had outside ofNotre Dame, parties aren't 
magically more fun if you're at a school 
not located in South Bend, Ind. (sorry 
IUSB); social activism isn't effortless and 
fervent;.and as far as girls, to hear it from 
random freshman talk in a dorm after a 
bad SYR, you would think every Big Ten 
school is a smorgasbord of copulation, 
the likes of which would make Caligula 
blush. I'll tell you what, if we're trying 
to point fingers about why we can't get 
girls or have a good night, then the 
only appropriate place to put it is up our 
collective nose. 
This brings me to the second point. 
Yes, there are weird quirks to Notre Dame, but that's what makes it unique. Sure, dorm parties are lame, but that's what makes it so much more fun to stay in getting drunk with your buddies and race bikes at 4 a.m. We can pitch and moan · about how restrictive the school is about academic issues and being "too Catholic" or "not Catholic enough," but then we're forgetting the fact that the ensuing "Viewpoint" war brings those issues more exposure than they could otherwise hope to get. Or we can complain about dorm rules and ResLife and things like that, but if you can't have fun making a beer run from D2 to your dorm or frantically trying to hide five bottles ofvodka in :five seconds, then you'd never be cool at a state 
school anyway. 0 0:: 
:E
There, that pretty much covers it. Well, ::::,
:c
no. I still have no idea what the :first comic 0 of "Black Dog" was about, but I suppose i== 
~ 
I can deal with that. 0
:c 
God. Country. Notre Dame. 0 
rn 
Thank You? 

A Look Back 
~ Christopher Meskill 
A good manager leaves his staff and his product in a better position at the end ofthe day. This may seem pretty simple, but it is often harder than one would think. Scholastic is comprised of over 50 editors, writers, designers, photographers and other staff members, and for the past year, they have turned their questions and concerns to Dave and me. As you can imagine, coordination was quite difficult. During my junior year, Scholastic underwent a serious design and content overhaul. Departments were slashed, and templates were tossed. In some sense, we were starting from scratch -and the results showed it. While the content and the look ofthe magazine were the sharpest that they have been in the 140-year history of the magazine, the transition was painstakingly slow. For instance, production nights often went until five or six in the morning (from the evening before). This overhaul set the stage for my year as editor. My goal at the beginning of my editorship was to maintain the quality of the magazine while improving the process. I sought the optimal staff to meet this end. I found a fair balance between those who could uphold our high standards and those who would not be content with the means by which we formerly met them. By building my staff upon this premise, I like to believe that I have not only improved the process, but also the quality. Regardless, I can say definitively that this year has been the highlight ofmy Scholastic career. This past year, I have taken great pleasure in presenting such serious campus issues as labor policies and grade inflation. I have been afforded the opportunity to interview members of the campus administration, the athletics department and, most importantly, the student body. And I have enjoyed watching my creative direction take form in various ways throughout our publication. But sadly, my time has come, and I must punch my time card. As I leave the staff, I remain optimistic for the future, as I have had a bird's eye view ofwhat the future holds -and it is indeed very bright. As I walk away, I feel that I leave my staff and my magazine in a better position than when I started, and that is all a manager can hope to do. 0 
A Final Thought 
~ David Poell 
F 
or the final time, dear readers, bear with me. Cliches permeate every retrospective in some manner, and this one is no exception; still, I'll try to keep them to a minimum. 
Four years after arriving at Notre Dame, my perceptions and understandings of this school have undergone several changesand phases ofdevelopment thatI never expected my freshman year. No doubt there are multiple reasons for this, but as I begin to contemplate what I've learned here outside ofthe classroom, I am fortunate to attribute this development to my time at Scholastic and my duties as a student journalist. And if I had to sum up what I've learned through numerous interviews, receiving angry letters and researching articles over the years, one thing always seems to stick out: Notre Dame is a place of wonderful contradictions. 
To the outside world, Notre Dame sells itself as the paragon ofCatholic education in the United States___:__ as it should. It's tough to imagine another school in the country where the students and faculty make such an effort to help peers and visitors alike feel welcome. Yet it's the little things that one discovers through investigating the trends of the school, talking to prominent campus figures and, of course, having a good time that have made me appreciate the dynamic nature of this school. 
Students here are on the whole extremely spiritual and ambitious, but they still go out of their way every weekend to let their hair down and make every effort to drink to get drunk-consequences be damned. Also, Notre Dame is founded on the mores of the Catholic faith, but it still is open to discussion of taboo subjects that are about as far from being Catholic as you can get. And let's not forget the obsession with football and how at times it seems that nothing -not schoolwork, not friends, NOTHING -is more important. Every Saturday the majority of students put everything they have in the fortunes ofone team, and I would bet a mint thatpractically nobody here would have itanyotherway. Notre Dame.kids on a whole want to be successful, but we still make a concerted effort not to take ourselves too seriously. Perhaps St. Augustine captured our adolescent anxieties best when he said, "Make me pure, Lord; but not yet." 
The poet T.S. Eliot wrote, "We shall not cease from exploration. And the end of all our exploring will be to arrive where we started and know the place for the first time." This is how I feel about ND. It'll be nice to have a break from the Bend. At the same time, I hope I can come back in a couple decades and feel like I did four years ago-like that excited, slightly confused freshman who had no clue what he was in for. , 
1 MAR 2007 


Available in the Huddle Mart Monday, Wednesday, and friday. 
_ BUDDLEMart 







