
(j 
, I \' ! ( 
•.· J,~ 
. 
,, _,15_ 
~ 
,; . o;r.;;..,,..~'i'•£1 
.~---~· -~--~~=:_, ~:~._-.,;~ I 
. ~-·-..... ... 
,.-~---· -· ·-· ·---···--­
• 
"Men have become aware from time immemorial of this state of apparently autonomously existent fragmentation and have often projected myths of a yet earlier 'golden age' before the split between man and nature and between man and man had yet taken place. Indeed, man has always been seeking wholeness-mental, physical, social, individual." 
David Bohm WHOLENESS AND THE IMPLICATE ORDER 
World renowned physicist, David Bohm, came to Notre Dame this Spring (his second visit in two years) preaching a gospel seldom heard from the pul­pit of modern science. Particles pushing each other in a glorified game of pinball physics does not, ac­cording to Bohm, accurately describe the fluid and unfolding movement of reality. 
"So what?" retorts the pragmatist impatient with the physicist's penchant for atoms and the philoso­pher's proclivity to ponder from the great catbird seat in a vast sky of speculations. Indeed, most of us are amateur participants in the profundities of either physics or philosophy. Yet by age 18, few \-Vesterners espouse a weltanschauung that is not splintered by fragmentary perceptions of ourselves, our society, and our international community. 
In this issue, Scholastic presents a collage of ar­ticles ranging from finding an identity as a feminist to surviving as a farmer in corporate America. Bill Jordan's article on .Jose Napoleon Duarte recounts the life of a politician looking for peace in a land ravaged by violence while two Notre Dame students describe the delectabilities of ice cream in their hu­
..-·-A"'~~£;~::,,'
c,~ft· \ 
'It 'f>~'. 
.H;<f<ilt~<:~: 
,,~ ~~-~~~: .--~~ ~>:~ 
·, {,.. ::"·-.·J 
~ '. i, ' 
\1' < ~' ••
--••fo\ tr , 
.... \ '· ,1 ' 
.,fl ' j\\ ' I _...,,., <~i! 
;,,."--•'• \: ••·,t''i';\a1j
":: : ,_;__ ~:--K·\-, 
1,,,1: ~ ~r. vr··· (.:', ..) 
. ; :;::;.c~ -~ i 
~~

;.::,;;.1 _j• : 
~ 4 ~)
&--$-• ,:::,.......... \ ·--~ ~ ~.,./ " ',
/JI':~-~:, A£ci,',"~,.....~. •I,}•,'.•. ' • l .,_,.~\­

·--~-.. L·•;_,,' ~ O• 
morous piece, HAAGEN-DAZS ICE CREAM: THE STUFF OF WHICH YUPPIE DREAMS ARE MADE. The underlying tenor of this year's final is­sue strains to be heard amidst the different and seemingly discordant agendas presented in each ar­ticle. Taking one's cue from Bohm, a Notre Dame or St. Mary's student might do well to listen attentively to the emerging story of conflicting interests and conflicting mind-sets that give a jigsaw puzzle por­trayal of our society. 
The tale could be told by any idiot. Once upon a time, during the golden age before war, before star­vation, before life became nasty, brutish, and short, mankind's golden ship smashed against the rocks and we have floated on fragmentary choices every since. 
We cling to different political parties, tax brack­ets, religions, and academic disciplines not because any particular one delivers a satisfying or integrated conception of the world, but because when ship· wrecked, driftwood is salvific. . 

Kathleen McGarvey Edi tor-in-Chief 


FEATURES 
6/Feminism's Lost Identity: One Woman's Opinion 
by Vivian Ostrowski 
. 7 /Date Rape on College Campuses by Mary Fran Gisch 
8/Haagen-Dazs Ice Cream: The Stuff of Which Yuppie Dreams Are Made . · by Sue and Dave Fischer 
10/The Family Farm Reaps Misfortune 
by Carol Gales 
16/Jose Napoleon Duarte's Struggle for Justice 
byBill Jordan · 
20/A Physicist Finds Fault with Fragmentation/An Interview with David 
Bohm 
by Dan Stewart 
.ELAN. 
24/A Letter from Moscow: Life Is Life byD. Scott 26/Don Vogl: New \Vork 27/Poetry 
.. DEPARTMENTS 
Calendar 3; Notables 3; Artistic Opportunities 28·; WSND 30; idle banter 32 
Editor-in-Chief 
Kathleen McGarvey 
General Manager CONTRIBUTORS 
Mary Ellen Arn 
Editorial 
Jim Basile/News/Sports Editor Kathleen Doyle/Campus Features 
Editor Ann Gallagher/Saint Mary's Editor Timothy Gianotti/Culture/ Fiction 
Editor Fred Zimmerman/Executive Content Editor 
Graphics 
Darryl H. Daniels/Executive Design Editor Kathleen Keifer/Art Editor 
Marketing 
Patrick D. Conboy/Advertising 
Editor Tom Curtin/Distribution Manager Dan Poorman/Business Manager 
Advisory Board 
Prof. Elizabeth Christman Mr. Michael Garvey Prof. Marjorie Kinsey Prof. Robert Schmuhl Dr. Linnea Vacca Mr. Paul Matwiy 
Design Staff 
Jean O'Bryan Thomas D. Grantham Becky Miklos 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the stu­dent body. 
The magazine is represented for na­tional advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published monthly during the school year except during vacation and ex­amination periods. Schola.~tic is printed at Aee itlaria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $9.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Sclwla~tic. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All un­solicited material becomes the prop­erty of Schola.~tic. Copyright © 1984 Sclwla~tic I All rights reserved / None of the contents may be reproduced without permis­sion. 
Carol Gales is a senior American Studies major from Livermore, Iowa. She is a staff photogra­pher for the Ob­server. This is her first contribution to Scholastic. 
Dave Fischer is a freshman from Lemont, Illinois. He wrote this, his first article for Scholastic, with his sister, Sue Fi­scher. 
Bill Jordan is a se­nior Italian and Government ma­jor from San Diego; Califor­nia. This is his first contribution to Scholastic. 
John Hines is a senior English major from Port­land, Oregon, and a frequent contributor to Scholastic. 
Sue Fischer is a senior economics major from Le­mont, Illinois-a small town lo­cated Southwest of Chicago. This is her second con­tribution to Scho­lastic. 
Vivian Ostrowski is a Philosophy/ English double ma;or at St. Mary's. Vivian hails from Camp­bell, Ohio. This is her second contri­bution to Scholas­tic. 


DRINKING AND DRIVING CAN KILL A FRIENDSHIP.\ 
Photo Credits 
Snite; Inside Cover, 23, 28, 29 Carol Gales; 1, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15 A.P., 16, 17, 18, 19 Cover by Carol Gales Spring has Sprung! And it's time to get out and enjoy all the great activi­ties, shows and events that are taking place around you; taking in a movie, a play or even visiting an exhibit is bound to get you in the best frame of mind possible not only for finals, but for those great summer months ahead! 
MAY 
May 1 Senior Trip to Chicago. May 6 Last Gleiss Day May 14 Glee Club Banquet May 2 Drive-In Movie night: Senior May 6 Golf Tournament May 14 Gift Presentation: Saint Class event May 6 Honors Convocation: At Mary's Seniors wilLpresent their 
May 1-2 Movie: Star Trek II. Show­O'Laughlin Auditorium, 7:45 gift to Dr. Duggan in Stapleton ing at the Engineering Auditorium p.m. For SMC Seniors only. Lounge at 4:00 p.m. _ at 7, 9:15, and 11 p.m. May 7 Study Day May 16-18 Commencement at Saint May 7 Junior/Senior Picnic: The tra­Mary's:
May 3 _The Weddingless Reception: 
ditional meal at Saint Mary's for 16: Alumnae/Senior Mass and
To be held at St. Hedwig!s 
Junior and Senior Women, 4:30-Brunch · · 
M_ay 3-5 Play: "We Won't Pay, We 
6:30 p.m. 17: Nurses' Pinning if! the Church
Won't Pay." At O'Laughlin Audito­
May 7 Concert: Alexander Nevsky at of Loretto 
rium at 8:00 p.m.; 2:30 p.m. on 
Goshen College, 8:00 p.m. 17: Baccalaureate Mass at Angela
the 5th. 
May 8-13 Finals; Athletic Facility _
May 4 Kentucky Derby Party: Senior 
May 10 Study Break: South Dining 18: .Commencement in LeM:ans
Class event. _ 
Hall Court at 10:30 a.m.
May 3-4 lv[ovie: An Officer and a 
May 11 Concert: Yefim Bronfman · May 17-19 Commencement at Notre
Gentleman. Showing at the Engi­
. will perform piano selections with Dame
neering Auditorium, at 7, 9: 15 _ 
the South Bend Symphony. At the _ 17: Cocktail Dance atthe ACC
and 11:30 p.m. 
Morris Civic Auditorium, 8:00 -18: Baccalaureate Mass/Dinner at
May 5 Super Sale: At the Fieldhouse, 
p.m.. the ACC 
A.C.C. --­
May 12 Dunes Trip: Senior Class 19: Commencement/Dining Hall
May 5 Great Ai,"ierica: Senior Class 
event Brunch
event 

NOTABLES 
WORLD'S FINEST MUSICIANS 
PLAY AT SAINT MARY'S 
Czechoslovakia has been called "The Conservatory of Europe" and ­with good reason: it is the homeland of the highest quality musical ensembles in the world. The Czech Chamber Soloists, an orchestra· known in its own country and throughout the wo.rld as the epitome of the finest ensemble playing, performed on March 29, in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. · 
During their first North American tour in 1977, the New York Ti1iies -described them as "vivid proof of the high level of Czech musical.culture." 
Such praise rang true as the group performed a wide repertoire ranging from the Baroque to the Contempo­rary, before a responsive and captivated crowd. The Czech 
Chamber Solois"ts included pieces by Handel, Barber, Benda, Vivaldi, -
Zainecnik and Janacek iri their 
concert. D 
· FRESHMEN RATE SMC TOPS 
Saint Mary's College freshmen are a well-prepared group who chose to attend the College because of its academic reputation, and the ability of this reputation to secure jobs after graduation. · · 
A recent national survey sponsored 
by the American Council on Educa-· tion involving almost 300,000 
freshmen from 526 colleges and 
universities indicated that Saint 
Mary's was the first choice for _ eighty-two percent of Saint Mary's 
freshmen. 
As a "high selectivity" Catholic . 
college (applicants with combined 
SAT scores. of 1025 and over), Saint 
Mary's -freshmen demonstrated 
superior academic achievement in 
high school; a high school average of 
B + or better was reported by 
seventy-one percent of the freshmen. 
Sixty-one percent also ranked in the 
upper one-fifth of their high school 
-Glass._ 
: Survey results also showed that 
obtaining a job wasn't the reason 
why most freshmen chose Saint 

NOTABLES 
Mary's; over eighty percent entered to gain a general education, meet new and irteresting people, and learn more about things of interest. Although the desire to become financially "very well off" was thirteen percent lower than the national average, a large number of Saint Mary's freshmen anticipate well-paying careers in the tradition­ally male-dominated occupations of business _management, law, medi­cine, and engineering. None ex­pressed a desire to make a career as a full time homemaker, but eighty-five percent did consider raising a family to be an essential or very important objective. D 
SMC TENNIS PLAYER -AIMS AT ALL-AMERICAN 
A great forehand and a deter­
mined foresight have placed Saint 
Mary's senior, Debbie Laverie, 
amongst those battling for the All~ 
American title in worrien's tennis. 
A native of Columbus, Ohio, · Laverie has been playing tennis since · age·ten and currently holds (as she 
has each season in the past four years) the number one position on the SMC team. But being the top for the Belles is just the beginning for Laverie who has been working at becoming an All-American through­out her college career: Playing in the nationals last spring, she was one round away from being named All­American when she was defeated in 
a close match. 
For Saint Mary's College, an All­American title would be a great honor. According to Jo-Ann Nester, Saint Mary's athletic director and tennis coach, "For a college of our size, this honor is almost unheard of." For Laverie, the honor of becoming an All-American would be the realization of a dream she has had almost since sh_e began playing competitive tennis. And now it looks like her years of hard work and determination may finally pay off. 
. ' 
DAD GETS DEGREE 
Marianna Hussey won't be the only one in her family to get a degree from Saint Mary's this year. 
The father of the senior English major, Edward J. Hussey, president of Liberty Homes, Inc., Goshen, Ind., will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree from Saint Mary's. 
Hussey, apart from being the father of nine children, many of whom are Saint Mary's and Notre Dame graduates, is the past presi­dent of the Mobile Home Manufac­turers Association and is a member of the Michigan Association of. C.P.A.'s and the American Institute of C.P.A.'s Formerly a member of the Saint Mary's Board of Regents, he is presently a member of the Advisory Council of the College of Business Administration at Notre Dame. 
Other honorary degree recipients w_ill be the commencement speaker, Reverend J. Bryan Hehir; Monika Hellwig,_ noted theologian, ~uthor and professor of theology at George­town University; Rosemary Haughton, co-director of the -"Movement for North American Mission'' and Reverend John Kava­naugh, S.J., Missouri province director of social concerns for the Jesuits. 
WE TREAT STUDENTS AS THE 
' . . 
----' 


PROFESSIONALS OF TOMORROW! 
We have the supplies for every need of commercial and fine artists, industrial architects, engineers, draftsmen, graphic designers and more. We also carry· the largest supply of ~reative talent book~ i~ the area and offer Custom Framing, Prints and Unique ·Gifts. 
WE TRULY APPRECIATE YOUR BUSINESS. ~, 
HOURS: MONDAY THRU FRIDAY 8:30 am-5:00 pm SATURDAY 10:00 am -3:00 pm 
bJ\ MAKIELSKl INC. 
SERVING AREA ARTISTS FOR OVER 73 YEARS _ 
117 NORTH MAIN • SOUTH BEND, IN. 46601 • 233-2409 
NOTABLES 

les H:00 p.m. on a Friday night at the.Reed College campus in a residential section of 
•Portland, Oregon. All across this tiny, manicured campus, parties are in full swing. Indeed, it's prime party time at college campuses throughout the nation. In a cramped room in Ladd Hall, a sophomore coed sits holding a glass of wine, savoring every word of her colleague's explanation 'of Machiavellian politics. The atmosphere is quiet, comfortable, and subdued-no loud stereos, no freely flowing taps of beer. The 30 other students crowded into the room listen just as intently. This is "partying" at Reed. To Reed come the creme of the academic crop from 
around the nation.:..._a · group of excellent stu­dents, not particularly interested in huge frat parties, bowl-bound football teams or in being, looking, or acting "prep~ pie.'' 
Located five miles from the heart of Portland, Oregon, in the tree-lined, blue-blooded neighbor­hood of Eastmoreland, Reed looks very Eastern and very preppie with its ivy-clad, Tudor-Gothic architecture. Although the quality of education at this small, liberal arts college easily matches that of any of the lvys, it is definitely not preppie. ·· Birkenstock sandals are far 
more popular here than Weejun loafers, and the only alligators you're likely to see are in the pages of 
National Geographic. 
Founded in 1909 from a $2 million bequest from the will of Columbia River shipping magnate Simeon 
G. Reed, Reed College is small (1140 students), expensive ($11,120 for tuition, room and board per semester), and has earned an excellent academic reputation extending far beyond its 
small, 100 acre campus. Simeon Reed, disillusioned with the direction niany of 
the Ivy League schools were taking at the time, hoped to establish a college devoid of intercol­legiate athletic competi-. tion, fraternities, sorori­ties, and dedicated, instead, to intellectual pursuits. That vision has turned to reality some 75 years later. Reed College boasts the highest percent­age of graduating students going on to obtain Ph.D.'s. Last year, U.S. News and World Report in a survey of university presidents ranked Reed among the 12 
best liberal arts colleges in 
the nation. Since the 
beginning, a Reed 
education has always 
consisted of a traditional 
liberal arts curriculum, 
including a mandatory 
Humanities course in the 
Freshman ye'ar, a Senior 
thesis, and a Junior 
qualifying examination. 
"The library tends to be 
the center of social activity 
at Reed" said Paul , 
DeYoung, Director of 
Career Services. Hard to 
believe, but true.H's not 
·necessarily that Reedies are boring, they simply 
.prefer to socialize in a manner unique among most American college students. The pursuit of a classic liberal arts educa­tion is the first and foremost concern of a Reedie. Beyond that, the primary rule of conduct is to partake of the noncon­forming, bohemian lifestyle that pervades the campus like the smell of the hon~ysuckle in the summertime: Everything, and everyone, is low-key here. Its graduates indude Steven Jobs (founder of Apple Computer), Howard VoUum (founder of Textronix), radio's Dr. Demento, Pulitzer Prize­winning poet Gary Snyder, and oddball, saloori-owner~i:urned­mayor of Portland, Oregon, Bud Clark. Its graduates· somehow typify the spirits of the univer­sity: unique; creative, and bohemian. D 

NOTABLES 

Feminism's Lost Identity: One Woman's Opinion 


A1I a feminist? This question carries more baggage than a Boeing 
747. An affirmative answer can imply anything from "I support the Equal Rights Amendment" to "I am a bra-burning bitch." But am I a feminist? Yes, and proudly so. I believe in the need for women's liberation-for a ·change in the basic relationships of power, for a recogni­tion of the destructiveness of rigidly defined gender roles, for a discover:y that the bonds which unite women are stronger than the social conven­tions which isolate women. The discrimination, prejudice, manipula­tion, and exploitation which a woman encounters because she is a woman are real and frequent injustices, especially when that woman is poor, uneducated and/or a minority. Feminists realize that gains for women must be paralleled by a decrease in injustice for all racial and economic groups. The fundamental goal of feminism is to liberate all human beings from oppressors, both overt and covert, allowing each to develop to her/his full potential. 
Many individuals who deny the need for women's liberation fail to acknO\vledge the unconscious ideologies and empirical evidence which attest to the need. The ambiguity of inequality in our society dulls oui: sensitivity to that inequality. Sandra and Daryl Bern, co-authors of a recent article on Feminism claim that "we are very much like the fish who is unaware of the fact that his environment is wet. After all, what else could it be?" The unconscious ideologies which shape our lives are powerful and are detrimental to the well-beirig of both sexes. For example, society often makes the following presumptions: -Society presumes that if a woman wants a full-time career, then children must not be important to her; she must therefore be a selfish person. No one presumes this about her husband. -Society views women as a surplus labor group; society places men as the primary breadwinners. A man is 
6 
not measured by his worth as a human being, but by the size of his paycheck. -Society teaches ,vomen that economic security lies in attracting a man, and then condemns women for their vanity. 
The list of ideologies is virtually endless; there are many other opportunities for examining experi­ences where society's expectations about appropriate gender roles have left us bound to our choicelessness. While most feminists do not aspire to create an androgynous population, we do hope to eliminate oppressive, 
by Vivian Ostrowski 
are sought to fill jobs with salaries too low to offer men; on the average, women earn fifty-nine cents for each dollar earned by men. Moreover, because the ideologies persuade women that their home is their most important domain, women are "satisfied" with what is often boring and dead-end employment. Feminists acknowledge that progress toward economic equality is not unknown: The Equal Pay Act of 1963 prohibits employers from discriminating on the basis of sex in the payment of wages for equal work; Title IV-of the 1964 Civil Rights Act prohibits discrimina­
"When I think of a feminist, I think of Gloria Steinem and that isn't a very positive image. Most of the time I think that people think of feminists as obnoxious and trying to push their views upon everyone else. I wonder if it's idealistic; I wonder if true feminism could ever be practiced. But I guess we are in a transitional stage. I look at Geraldine Ferraro and I think it's a step in the right direc­
tion:' 
gender-related beliefs. If warmth and sensitivity are desirable human characteristics, and if independence and assertiveness are desirable human qualities, then they are desirable for both men and women. 
The empirical evidence which speaks most clearly to the need for liberation is the dichotomy between employment statistics about women and the fictions surrounding their role in the workplace, According to the staff of Women magazine, forty percent of single, divorced, widowed or separated working women are self-supporting. Sixty percent of married women need to work to give their families total incomes of at least $7000. Despite these facts, however, women'sjobs are commonly regarded as a source of pin-money. Women are victimized by the«last hired, first fired" philosophy. Women 
tion on the basis .of race, color, 
religion, national origin, and sex. 
Effective implementation is neces­
sary, however. Although the legisla­
tion of social attitudes is impossible, 
we can stop the cycle of social 
conditioning whiclr-breeds sexist 
attitudes. ',. 
Such questions probe the "whys" 
of feminism, but "what" exactly is a 
feminist? Although an all­
encompassing answer to this question 
is impossible because huge differ­
ences exist between various feminist 
theories, broad categorization is 
possible. 
Feminist Jo Freeman divides 
feminism into two parts: the 
liberation ethic and the egalitarian 
ethic. The former is often termed 
•socialist feminism. The social feminist believe that equality under the present capitalist system is impossible; capitalism requires oppression. They strive .to replace hierarchical systems with egalitarian systems. They strive for a society where governing institutions repre­sent the interests of all people. They seek a society where power will not be used to dominate, where human beings will freely treat others with respect. This view demands a restructuring of the roles which society offers, not a mere redistribu­
tion of sexes within the personnel pool. · 
Feminists who hold to the egalitar­ian ethic strive for the elimination of gender roles and equality for the sexes within the existing system. They hope to acquire power within the capitalistic system in order to implement social and political reform. Though society's positions will not necessarily change, all human beings will have access to a 

"Professionally, I'm a feminist, socially, no. If you are a feminist, you lose a lot of your tradi­tional feminine qualities. Actually, I think deep down inside people really like social inequal~ ity, and only profess feminism when it works to their advantage:' A Saint Mary's Sopho­
more 
more flexible division of roles. 
Both of these viewpoints promise the opportunity to value individual uniqueness above gender role fulfillment. Considered together, these theories can be a powerful force towards liberating all human beings and offering a vision of a more just future. The struggle for women's liberation sterns from a long history of female political activism­women fought in the abolition movement, for labor rights, in the civil rights movement. Feminists no,v hope to liberate half of the human race from the economic, political, social, and psychological prejudices which presently dominate their lives. With demands which are neither hysterical nor insignificant, feminists hope to expose oppressive forces, unite people against those forces, and to foster a healthier and more egalitarian world view. D 
! I
Date. Rape on College Campuses ii i 
I 
by Mary Fran Gisch 

"There is considerable .evidence that college women are 1n. far greater danger of being raped by a friend or 
fellow stu­dent than by a stranger:' 
''S . 
ome people, when they think of rape,. picture a man hiding behind bushes, ready to attack," says Pat Rissmeyer, Saint Mary's director of residence life and hous­ing, "But that is not the case." Studies indicate that on a college campus a woman is more likely to be raped on a date than by a man lurking behind a bush. In other words, most rapists know their victims. Date rape, often called "acquaintance rape" has "emerged recently as a widespread phenomenon," according to journalist Karen Bennett, who has investigated this escalating problem. Bennett says that it is difficult to determine "whether this is a new trend ... or an experience .that women have only lately gathered the courage to report." · Oftentimes the victims of date rape are not aware that it is rape at all. The coordi­nator of the Rape Intervention Program at New York's St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, Ellen Doherty, says that once she has defined rape as "being forced to perform a sexual act against your will," then women have told her of personal incidents and that they "never thought of it that way before." One of the many myths surrounding rape is that only strangers rape. There is consid­erable evidence that "college women are in. far greater danger of being raped by a friend or fellow student than by a stranger," says Thomas J. Meyer, a journalist, who has · researched the issue. Many women have been raped by boyfriends, male friends, and 
I 
I 
acquaintances. According to a recent Kent State study, a large number of men indi­cated that they believed aggression was normal and that heterosexual relationships 
i "were a form of game playing." For exam­ple, studies showed collectively men more strongly tended to agree with the conception that "most women are sly and manipulating when they are out to attract a man;' while tending to disagree with the statement that "most women who say 'no' to a man's sexual advances mean it." 
Rissmeyer points to the traditional roles of men and women in our society. "Men are taught to be aggressors and initiate any sexual moves. Women are taught to be subservient and coy. Often men are told a woman's 'no' means 'yes,' so there are problems in communication. 
II
"Another myth in today's society is that ljgood girls don't get raped. Some think that only women who wear provocative clothing i/
I 
are victims," says Rissmeyer. "This, of 
l
course, is not true." 
Margaret Cavanaugh, Saint Mary's Regina Hall director, believes that Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students are pretty traditional. "Women wait for the men. He decides on the date and he is the dominating person in the relationship. Some women want it that way. It is an acceptable pattern to follow in our community." Cavanaugh, who is involved in the Sexual Offense Staff (SOS), cites, "At many other colleges, 
7 
NOTABLES 
''At many 
other col­
leges, stu­
dents go out 
in groups, 
but blind . 
dating is very 
big in the 
Saint Mary's 
and Notre 
Dame com­munity. It is not a smart idea, but the · assumption is 
that all Notre 
Dame men 
are nice!' 
students go out in groups, but blind dating 
is very big in the Saint Mary's and Notre 
Dame community. It is probably not a smart 
idea but the assumption is that all Notre 
Dame men are nice." · 
One student reports of an incident that 
happened to a friend of hers while attending 
a Notre Dame SYR her freshman year. 
While at\ ahotel party before the dance, her 
date became drunk, locked her in the room 
and attacked her. Twenty minutes later she 
escaped from the room, badly shaken and 
permanently scarred by the incident. 
Rissmeyer agrees and says, "When I first 
started here I was surprised at the number 
of blind date SYR dances that are set up on 
the campuses. And when there is alcohol · 
involved the women are more vulnerable 
and men more aggressive." 
Date rape can be much more difficult on ·the victim than stranger rape sometimes is. 
"Too often women go through a lot of guilt 
about it because they didn't scream and yell, 
or because he's usually a good person and 
just had too much to drink. The victim may 
blame herself thinking she led him on," says 
Cavanaugh. 
. Rissmeyer points out, "In the case of date 
rape the women's friends might not be 
supportive or understand, so she hesitates to 
tell them, or anyone about it." 
The question of sexual issues and women's 
own convictions is another important aspect. 
Cavanaugh believes that women don't seem 
to kqow their rights, and are forced into 
situations with threats. She feels that some 
have a lack of understanding of their own 
sexuality, so that a male/female relationship 
becomes difficult if pressure is put on the · woman's convictions. 
"It is hard for both men and women to talk about sexual issues," says Rissmeyer. Both Rissmeyer and Cavanaugh point out 
.that when students themselves are not sure about sexual issues, it is difficult for them to talk to others about them. "Students, particularly here, are curious about the Church's position on sexual issues. This leads them to farther question their own views;' says Cavanaugh. 
Dr. Mary E. DePauw, director of Saint Mary's counseling and career services, believes that educating women and men about the facts of sexuality and rape is the best way to remedy this situatio·n. "We need to teach more human development and human relations, and force people to think out these issues. Education is the only way 
to changethings." 
"Rape is an act of violence," says Cava­naugh. ''Victims feel as if all control in their life has been taken away. We try to deal with this at SOS and never force women to do anything; we let them make the deci­sions, even small ones, because it is impor­
tant~ . 
Both Cavanaugh and DePauw encourage women who are victims to talk about it with someone either in the counselling center, SOS, or a hall director. "I know it helps to 
· deal with the guilt feelings through counsel­ling, especially if the woman has told no one," says Cavanaugh. "Sometimes women are afraid we will phone their parents, which we won't. We believe in confidential­
ity." DePauw explains the counseling center is operated under the confidentiality policy. · "Rape can have effects on a woman that she may not even be aware exist. Counselling and support can be a big help in coping." D 
Haagen-Dazs Ice Cream: The Stuff of which Yuppi~ 
Rrst it was ~~shi. Then ferns. Now, What is so sp~cial about Haagen-Dazs ice 
yuppiness has spread to ice cream. Appar-cream? This sibling duo went·undercover for ently BMW's and Perrier were not enough to ·Scholastic to find out. Disguised as young· satisfy these materialistic hordes. They want :. upwardly-mobile professionals (in other it all. words, wearing grey.pinstripe suits and 
Of course, "all'' to the Yuppie does not .carrying briefcases) this investigative team 
Dreams 
are Made· 
equal sheer quantity. There is also the infiltrated the Haagen-Dazs store in a quality factor .. A Yuppie wants only the best. Yuppie community near Chicago. Alas, "Thirty-onederful" flavors are not Upon entering the store; we encountered a good enough for this conspicuous consumer. cheery red-and-white decor. The mirrored
by Sue and Dave Fischer. 
His "discriminating taste" demands the walls, Italian tile floors and spotless white creme de la creme of ice cream -Haagen-tabletops obviously provided a homey feeling Dazs. for the Yuppie clientele. We pretended to feel at home so as not to give ourselves away. 
As we were striding purposefully toward the counter, I detected an undercurrent of distrust among the patrons. Fearing that we would be found out and ostracized from the Yuppie community, I had to think fast. Suddenly, it hit me! We had forgotten to network! Quickly, my brother and I started throwing around important-sounding names and other useless information. This seemed to put the natives at ease. The crisis past, we decided to order. 
To our dismay, there must have been at least 15 flavors, not counting the sherberts. Suddenly, I understood why health clubs are 

STRAWBERRY: Sue: Mmmmm. There are large chunks of fresh, not frozen, 
b . i·n this Verrrry creamy. They
straw ernes . . d C 
ought to call it Strawberries an . ~e~; 
Give me another bite. Dave: No, it t )
M -you're right about t e 
turn. m_mmL t f them too. Understated
strawbernes. 0 s O ' taste, but surprisingly good: 'N '1J tnis .. aaan• -~" riice 
C e• p. 'lJi,\\
J\_C\\~ "'.'"' ~e t\a'·10r · ave~ 

~-o.1'.J\. yf, \ 1)e\ica .-eatn'i· P " 'o.itS,
eatn \\'i c, c eac" 
b ice er e\iibtl'-' I i.ots o~ 'Q nari . is 'Qeac eacn• ~ oooo<\ . \:)etter t , navet--,ts o\ 'Q "'nis is cg: "'nis is ... ooes!\ t I
u• ~ 0>· ,_ e ic Dave,
rll 
M.rt1lrl"'' en u2.v b 'caUS, oss, V . \ots_o\ 'Q:t,esn 'Qe~:e': 1:nat s \!.' · aurii -oee\, • ~nat \'->'L'L'i i:­
so popular among the Yuppie crowd. Obviously, we too would have to head off to. the health club after this eating extrava­ganza -not so much to keep up our Yuppie image as to keep off the extra pounds! . 
While the teen-aged Yuppie-in-training took care of the couple ahead of us, we decided to approach this monumental task scientifically. Rather than attempting to try all 15 flavors and getting something that · Yuppies never get -sick, we decided to sample two fruit flavors, two nut flavors, two chocolate chip flavors, and two specialty flavors. Our comments follow. 
I
Well, afterhours of intense, but delicious, 
research, I think that we have found the secret to Haagen-Dazs ice cr1::am-it's 
/
fantastic! Every flavor is intense, creamy, I and sinfully delicious. Maybe those Yuppies are on to something. D · 

"If Chrysler was worth 
. 
savmg, cer­tainly the family farm is worth sav­
ing:' 
The Family Farm reaps 
Misfortune 
by Carol Gales 
Mark Bormann is 28 years old. He is·. married, has four children, farms 480 acres in north-central Iowa, works part-time for two other farmers, works at a sale barn, and for the local Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, sells firewood, and is $60,000 in debt. 
But the Iowa farmer and his wife Sue have found new ways to conserve. They work hard, pinch pennies, and have given up junk food. Even with these savings, however, the Bormann family farm, in Livermore, Iowa, may be in danger. 
Mark and Sue were married in 1978. For several years, Mark worked with his wid­owed mother, Irene Bormann, who also farms. Then, in 1982, he arranged loans with the FmHA (Farmers Home Administra­tion) and other lending institutions to help fi­nance an operation of his own. He bought equipment, hogs, and cattle. He built a new home on a plot of land he bought from his mother. And he rented several hundred acres of farmland from her. 
But things haven't worked out. Each 


/ 
. . 
/./1/
, .· 
11 


"There is no free market. That's a joke. The farmer thinks he~s independent, but is he re­ally? In the final analysis he's depen­dent on ev­erybody else:' 
spring the Bormanns need to borrow money to buy seed, fertilizer, and chemical herbi­cides and pesticides. Each December they must make payments on the annual operat­ing loan and the long-term loan. Last year they were $1000 short of making the pay­ments. As they watch prices go up at the gro­cery store and the farm implement dealer­ships, they watch the prices Wall Street will pay for their corn and soybeans go nowhere. 
"We were always losing money, but were too dumb to realize it," Mark says now. "Two years ago everything was worth a lot more. We bought land, built silos, and made im­provements. 
"Now nobody has any money. We've had t\vo or three years of bad crops. Reagan gets up there and says there are just isolated 
. cases. But Jesus-seems like everybody's hav­ing problems." With farmers facing foreclosure all around them, however, Mark and Sue believe that . they can work their way out of the crisis. 
· "You pay for what you can, and you just have bills when you can't pay,» says Mark. "We thought we lived cheap before. Now we don't buy anything but groceries-which is all you need. We thought we needed cookies and pizza and French fries and potato chips. Now we don't buy junk food." 
· Recently Mark and his mother decided to sell two 160-acre plots of land-one of which .would soon have been in the Bormann family for 100 years. "That hurt," says Mark. 
·But he claims that "farming is as much a business as a way of life," and seems prepared to do whatever he can to keep his business alive. -. 
"There's always an option. If things get 
· tougher, we can give the FmHA the equip­ment they have notes on. We can cut back on acres. There's always some other farmer you can work for, and then usually you can bor­row their machinery, too. I could give the FmHA the keys to my house and say 'take it'-and then rent an old house somewhere around here. We'd be happy with that.''. 
It was a stroke of luck when a tornado blew away their barn and their tall blue Har­vestore silo last summer. "The tornado was a blessing. We owed money on the silo. When· it blew away, the insurance paid for it, and that was it.'' 
Economy Is Biggest. Factor 
. . . 
Many other-farmers, however, have not had that kind of luck, and -lack the determi--· nation that is keeping the Bormanns afloat. Gary Michels, 36, of Clarion, Iowa, decided this winter that farming would no longer support himself, his wife, and his three chil­dren. On March 20, auctioneers sold his · equipment, his tools, and a lot of other things his family couldn't use in their new home out in Fort Collins, Colorado. 
. "I decided to quit. This is rtot a forced 
· sale," says Michels. "I went out to Denver for a winter job, and found a better one. At my age I have enough years to do something · with my life. I farmed for 17 years, so I can't 

II 
~~i1 ~.. ..,~· 
!r"9'.'\t~~ 
,.,,-''.&;" 
n,11!{.~.>,: ·-~~~ ~--4, .. 

quit with no regrits. But the world goes ~n." 
Michels.feels that the outlook in farming is not good, and thiriks that he might have been forced·to sell a few years down the road. 
"Th_e way the economy is around the world is the biggest· factor," claims Michels. "The strong dollar is affecting the ag econ-· omy. We produce more than we can use. It's got to be exported. And foreign economies today don't have the dollars to buy it. . 
'Tm not blaming anybody. Things are the way they are. I've always felt that if you're playing a game, you've got to play by the 
-rule.~." And at this point in the game, according 

to the rules, ·guys iike. Michels have to get out. .. Greater Risks 
But not allfarmers would agree with Mi­chels, and some are ready to assign blame for the present problems in rural areas. Though some farmers are blaming themselves and each other for expanding operatioils too quickly when things looked good for agricul­ture in the 1970s, others claim that the chemical companies and implement makers, 
who have pushed their way into farming over the past fifty years, have caused most of the problems. 
Changes in the level of technology and 
chemicals have been a mixed blessing for the 
farming industry. Economists stress that the 
increasing use of more and better machinery 
has helped to make U.S. farmers among the 
most productive in the world. The farmers 
themselves, ho\vever, have a more immediate 
perspective: For them, this increase ih pro­
ductivity has meant smaller profit margins, 
fewer farmers, and inct_eased dependence 
upon the external forces of the market. · Ernest' Gales, 56, of rural Liverm~re 
Iowa, has a lot to say about the evils of "agri: · 
business." A far.mer all his life Gales has seen 
a lot ofchanges in agricultur~. When he was 
""D f .
rewer am1­lies are con­trolling larger acreages, and rural life is suffering:' 
13 

, 
: ! 

"Changes in the level of technology have been a mixed bless­ing for the farming in­dustry. Econ­omists stress increased productivity 
due to more and better machinery, but farmers say that in-. creased pro­ductivity has meant smaller profit 
•
margms, fewer farmers, and 
increased de­pendence upon the 
market:' 
1 a boy, his family farmed with horses. Today, he farms with petroleum-powered tractors and owns tens of thousands of dollars' worth of machinery. He buys chemical fertilizers, pesticides, and herbicides to make his crops grow faster and better. 
He knows that if he is to make any profit he must farm as efficiently as all his neigh­bors. There is no room for experimenting without chemicals, and there is certainly no room for horses. He points out that, "As the input costs get higher in proportion to our in­come, our risk gets higher." Thus, a poor crop means thousands of dollars lost. 
But Gales feels the chemicals and big ma­chines have brought irreversible problems to farming. Soil erosion, air and water pollu­tion, and the high rate of cancer in rural ar­eas are part of the price paid for the new technology. The mechariization and chemi­calization of farming have also made it easier for one farmer to handle more acres. As the business values of efficiency and productivity 
· have become dominant in the ideology of farming, the trend toward fewer, larger farins has accelerated. Today most Iowa farms are still family-operated. Yet fewer families are controlling larger acreages, and rural life is suffering. 
"The farmer has sort of self-destructed," says Gales. "He keeps going for the bigger things. It's like he's getting intoxicated with big technology." 
Gales believes that agribusiness has created needs in the farmer in order to sell machine ery and chemicals. Today, he says, ''most farmers are pretty capitalistic. It's created by agribusiness. We get the product of what the big corporations feel they're going to outdo their competition with. They stick computers 
. in, put in digital readouts and monitors and all those things that aren't necessary. They want to catch the farmer's eye." He is also troubled about the fact that ag­riculture has become so dependent on petro­leum products. "If we have to buy the inputs to raise the food from OPEC, they're going to have all our money in the end-and they're going to come over here and buy our 
farm." · 
Gales argues that a system of smaller fam­ily farms promotes a stronger rural life, with better schools and more small businesses in the towns. He claims· that if the government does not continue to provide farm subsidies now, it will have to pay more unemployment benefits to growing urban populations later. 
Losing Money by the Bushel 
· Paul Thilges agrees. A father of thirteen, 52-year-old Thilges has been in farming since he was born. He and Gales have been life­time friends, and they share similar views of 
, modem agriculture. 
"If Chrysler was worth saving, certainly the family farm is worth. saviqg," argues Thilges. "If we lose our families we lose our kids. If we lose our kids we lose our schools. If we fose our paro~hial schools were going to lose our church, and then our commu­nity." 
He speaks of some older friends who had planned to retire in Livermore, which has a population of about 300. "But everything has 
changed now. At one time there was a doc­
tor, pharmacist, dentist, two grocery stores-, 
now there's nothing left." 
Thilges scoffs at the idea that government 
should get out of agric_ulture and let the free 
market work. "There is no free market. 
That's a joke. The farmer thinks he's inde­
pendent, but is he really? In the final analy­
sis he's dependent on everybody else." The 
farmer buys inputs and machinery from oli­
gopolies. He sells·at a price dictated by Wall 
Street and grain companies. Hail, floods,· 
and winds can ruin his investments. 
..He's free to go broke," Gales says. 
· The fact is that farming is not profitable 
right now. Gales sums it up as "a low­
income, high~expelise situation." Figures pro­
vided by the Iowa State University Extension 
Service illustrate how impossible the situa­
tion is. A study tha_t examines· the costs of 
machinery, seed, chemicals, labor, land, in­
surance and other variables shows that the 
cost of ~roducing a bushel of com is around 
$2. 76. But as of March 26, the price offered 
for com by the Co~op grain elevator in Liver­
more was only $2.55.· Similarly, the cost of 
producing a bushel of soybeans is estimated 
at $6.61. On March 26, the Livermore eleva­
tor was paying $5.82 per bushel for soybeans. 
.Farmers in this part of the country are losing 
money by the bushel. ~'i 

"They work hard, pinch pennies, arid 
·have· given up . junk food. Even with these savings,· ...· · howev.er,
. I 
their Iowa farm may be 
. d ,,
1n anger. 
14 

"We Can't Stop the Trend" 
John Ley is the director of the Kossuth County office of the Iowa State Extension Service. Since it is his job to see that the fruits of research done at the university are disseminated to Kossuth County farmers, Ley is intimately involved in the present cri­sis. 
According to Ley, different farmers are having different kinds of problems. "But all the farmers have one thing in common: the low prices due to the strong dollar. We are unable to export," says Ley. "It's impossible for us to be competitive on the world grain market." This in turn creates an excess of farm products within the U.S., thereby driv­ing down domestic prices as well. Good news for the consumers, perhaps, but bad news for the farmer. 
Ley points out that some farmers who are feeling the pinch now were aggressive and borrowed a lot in order to expand when their land assets were worth _more and grain prices were higher. Others took advantage of the situation in the 1970s to try to get a son started in farming, or to increase their small holdings just a little. 
While budget director David Stockman and others have argued_ that farmers don't deserve government sympathy because they were trying to get rich and made some fool­ish business decisions as a result, Ley admits that, "We who work with farmers are all guilty to some extent. It got to a point where it seemed like you could make more money by wise growth than you could by just work­ing hard." For many farmers, borrowing and expanding operations on the advice of the Extension Service, lending institutions, and farm magazines was the fatal mistake. 
According to Ley, "the present stress is in­creasing enlargement. The conditions are speeding up a process we've seen for many years now. \,Ve can't stop the trend. It's some­thing we've seen since 1900, and it's not unique to agriculture." · 
Ley notes that most of those selling out­such as GaTy Michels-are leaving the north­central states. "Something like 25 % of those leaving the land also leave their community," he says. "We may end up with just the county seats, or towns of over 1000 people. This is greatly affecting retail stores and serv­ices. 
"The 70s were a time of bigness.· In the 80s, farmers will seek efficiency and profit, not merely bigness alone." Thus, Ley claims, "The number of farms of 700 acres or more is growing. But I don't see them getting five times or even two times as big as they are now. The family will still be able to handle · it." 
* * * 

"Duarte's 
Notre Dame education proved to 
have a lasting 
effect upon both his pri­vate and his 
public lives:' 
Jose Napoleon Duarte's
. by Bill Jordan 
Search for Justice 
Jose N,poleon Dua,te will spe.k to the Duarte, at Notre Da~~-Duarte's life has 
Notre Dame Class of 1985 at their com­made it clear that he took the idealistic mes­
mencement. Duarte, or "Nappo," as he is sages of that class seriously and has tried to 
known to his friends, is the first Notre Dame institute Christian ideals into action in the 
graduate to become a head of state. Beyond secular world. 
his experience as a statesman, however, · In 1948, Duarte graduated with a degree 
Duarte's life provides ample material for his in engineering and returned home to marry 
commencement address. the daughter of his godfather. "His family 
Born in 1926 in San Salvador, he is the sec­lived next door to ours, and he was my god­ond of three sons of Jose Jesus Duarte. His fa­father. The year after I got back, I married ther, who grew up in poverty, was a tailor his daughter. She is two years younger than I before becoming proprietor of a candy­am, so I can say I knew her from the day she manufacturing business. was born." Mr. and Mrs. Duarte have raised 
Duarte's youth saw him deeply involved in a family of six children. service to others as a Boy Scout. He received Duarte's Notre Dame education proved to a scholarship to the "Liceo Salvadoreno," a have a lasting effect upon both his private Catholic school run by the Marist brothers, and his public lives. Shortly after his return after which his father sent him to study at to El Salvador, he decided to enter local poli-. the University of Notre Dame with his older tics. Of this decision he was later to remark, brother Rolando. He came to Notre Dame in "It was because I have always been a man of· 1944 knowing no English, but worked hard concepts and principles thJtI decided to en-to adapt to his ne\v environment. In an inter-· ter politics." ' view with Tom Buckly for the New Yorker Indeed it was Father Hes burgh· who iden­Magazine Duarte commented, ''I'll say this tified Duarte as a Christian Democrat in for Notre Dame-it taught you to have guts. 1960. They were having lunch between I worked in the laundry. I served in the cafe­meetings of a group who were discussing teria and then I washed dishes. I got up at 5 Christian social justice. Duarte was outlining 
a.m. and went to bed at midnight. I even his ideology and Hesburgh told him that he tried out for the freshman football team. was a Christian Democrat. Hesburgh sug­They threw the ball to me. I ran about gested he look into the works of Jacques twenty metres, and then got hit. Boom! That Maritain who was the theological founder of was the end of my football." Christian Democracy, and pointed to Chile 
Father Hesburgh recalls 1945 as his first and Venezuela where Christian· Democratic year of teaching. Duarte attended his class parties had taken root modelled on the pro­on moral virtue and social justice. Hesburgh gressive, Catholic-backed parties in Western compared his idealism as a first year teacher Europe. to the idealism of a freshman, such as Duarte did the searching Hesburgh had 

"It is totally conceivable that some­body will take a pot­shot at him; he gets threatened every day of his life:' 

recommended and eventually founded the 
Christian Democratic Party in El Salvador. 
He was elected mayor of San Salvador in 
1964. His popularity grew as he was re­
elected in 1966 and 1968. The 1972 presiden­
tial election saw an apparent victory slip 
through Duarte's fingers. By most accounts 
he won, but the right controlled the ballot­
ing and simply changed enough ballots to de­
clare Colonel Molina the winner. The third 
candidate, Mejia, attempted a coup and 
asked Duarte to make a speech over the radio 
to calm down the people. The coup failed, 
Duarte took refuge at the house of a Venezu­
elan diplomat, and was apprehended by po­
lice who reportedly beat him unconscious 
with the intention of killing him in the 
morning. Duarte's brother, Rolando, called 
Father Hesburgh at 10:30 that night, and 
Hesburgh immediately phoned the papal 
nuncio in Guatemala City, the Vatican, and 
the Presidents of Venezuela and Panama. 
These efforts helped to save Duarte's life. 
The next seven years, however, were spent in 
exile in Venezuela. Then, in 1979 some 
reform-minded army officers gained control 
thrnugh a coup and allowed Duarte back 
into his homeland. While in exile, Duarte 
developed oil painting as a hobby, and in 
1983, Hesburgh received a Christmas card 
from him, with a reproduction of one of his 
paintings on the cover. The painting is of a 
small town in El Salvador. On the inside of 
the card, the Spanish inscription re_iids, "This 
picture was painted in 1983 as an homage to 
Maria Concepcion, the mayor of this city. 
She was sacrificed on the alta_r of her high 
democratic ideals." 
The next three years were marked by vio­
lence and chaos as El Salvador received in­
ternational attention for the right wing 
death squad assassination of Archbishop Os­
car Arnulfo Romero and the killing of four 
American churchwomen. 
· · .. Hesburgh is quick to praise Duarte for courageously enduring such violent danger . on a daily basis. Commenting upon El Salva­dor, he said, "I only spent a few days there; I think I'm not a coward, but I must tell you I was glad to leave," and concerning Duarte, "The ultimate is life and death and that's what Nappo's living with day and night. It is totally conceivable that someone will take a potshot at him; he gets threatened every day 
of his life." / 
The elections in 1982 gave the Christian 
Democrats a plurality, but a coalition of 
rightists prevented Duarte from the provi­
sional presidency. The two-round presiden­
tial elections in 1984 saw Duarte take office 
as the first popularly elected civilian presi­
dent in more than 50 years. 
When asked about the implications of hav­ing him speak here considering the large amounts of economic and military aid he re­ceives from our government, Hesburgh re­sponded, "I do not think that inviting him here to speak means anything more or less than the fact that he is a Notre Dame person leading a difficult life working for social jus­tice. We're saying we are proud of his efforts. 


"I tried out for the fresh­man football team. They threw the· ball to me. I ran.about twenty me­tres, and then got hit. Boom! That was the end·· of my foot..; ball:' 
It doesn't mean that the University or all the people in it have to agree with what he is do­ing, it just means that we are welcoming him back to say 'keep up the good work.' I'm sure a lot of people· here would like to give him a lot of free advice-maybe I would too . . . He needs our prayers more than he needs our advice." 
Duarte once confided in Hesburgh, "My big problem is ~hat I live in a culture of vio­lence and we must get.rid of that. This will be hard to do.'' Since that time most would say Duarte has .made some courageous deci­sions towards achieving this goal. He has taken steps that leave most Salvadorans hold­ing their breath, such as choosing to meet last October in La Palma with leftist guerril­las .. Despite the danger of his excursion, .he refused the offerof a bulletproof vest. Secu-. rity consisted of Boy and Girl Scouts. Of the spectacle, Time noted, "As thousands cheered, their. hands reaching out to touch him, Duarte•s· face creased into a smile. He was showing that he was not afraid Jo walk among his people unprotected . . . Such courage is especially admirable in El Salva­
dor where 50,000 people, one out of every 100 citizens, have been killed over the past five years." 
Another facet of this violent society is the right-wing death squads who show a blatant disregard for human rights. Here, Duarte has set up a commission to investigate death­squad activities. Considering such bold steps towards peace, dialogue an.cl social justice, one can begin to understand the danger sur­rounding President Duarte. 
Instability is the reality of many places in the Third World such as El Salvador. Democ­racy has enemies on both the right and left. Rather than polarize these two extremes, Duarte is trying to pull people together in conversation with social justice as the objec­tive. One extreme calls him a communist, the other extreme calls him a powerless puppet of elites. 
Father Hesburgh notes that more.impor­tant than Duarte's political position is the fact that he has had to work to enable mean­ingful political dialogue in his country. Hes­burgh · reminds, "He's paid his dues in pain and suffering and exile." D 
19 

By Dan Stewart 
Dan Stewart is a senior in the Pro­_gram of Liberal Studies from Lake George, New York. This is his first 
contribution to Scholastic. 
A Physicist Finds Fault with FRAGMENTATION An Interview with David Bohm 
On April 9, 1985, the University of Notre Dame was honored to host the theoretical physicist, David Bohm, who delivered a lecture dealing with the developments of 20th-century physics. Bohm is one of the foremost physicists in the world, having had close contact with Einstein, Oppen­heimer and Krishnamurti. Behind Prof. Bohm's gentle and distin­guished exterior lie the thoughts of a true revolutionary. 
Professor Bohm's forty years of research in physics and philosophy, both at the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory in Berkeley, and in various positions at Princeton, convinced him that the present approach of seeing the world as composed of independently existing parts does not work very well in physics. "In both relativity theory and quantum theory;' states Bohm in the introduction of his work Whole­ness and the Implicate Order, 
"notions implying the undivided 
wholeness of the universe would 
provide a much more orderly way of 
considering the general nature of 
reality." Modern science always 
assumed that reality at a basic level 
consisted of independent atoms, but 
Bohm notes that recent quantum 
theory shows that an atom behaves 
as much like a wave as a particle, 
and perhaps could best be regarded 
as a poorly defined cloud, dependent 
for its particular form on the whole 
environment, including the observing 
instrument. 
In the face of these results, Bohm· 
presents a hypothesis based on the 
belief that reality, at its most basic 
level, is a whole which is undivisible 
and is in an unending process of movement and unfoldment. In this implicate order, particulars are dependent on the whole for their form and meaning, so that any element contains enfolded within itself the totality of the universe. Bohm notes that such a view will help explain non-local causation, something that the atomic view cannot handle. Though Bohm's 
thoughts have profound philosophi­cal relevance, especially with respect 
to the relationship of mind and 
matter, it has always been Bohm's 
claim that science itself demanded a 
new world view. 
'' X '' 
This particular interview is not intended to deal with physics, but rather concentrates on the implica­tions of Professor Bohm's view on education. Professor Bohm is deeply concerned with the implications of the fragmentary world view on 
society, and claims that trying to live 
according to the belief that £rag-. 
merits of reality are really separate, · 
has led to a growing series of urgent 
crises. How we educate·ourselves and 
our children will ultimately deter­
mine how we view the world. As 
long as we continue to look at the 
world as really divided, then the world will conform to that illusion. Scholastic: Prof. Bohm, would you please tell us about your own education. Many of us who are 
· familiar with your work are particu­larly taken by the diverse range of your thought. In this age of speciali~ zation, it is rare to hear someone with a background in physics dealing regularly ,vith philosophical and educational issues. Is this diversity of interests a result of your education? Professor Bohm: Well, it's hard to say. I think my interests were fairly 
broa.d from the beginning. I became very interested in science when I was quite young, at the age of 12 or so. My first interest in science a_rose when we had an astronomy-book in class in fourth grade. By the age of 12 I went to the library quite a bit and read books on chemistry and physics, and I us~d to talk things over with friends. Then I went to the Pennsylvania State College. l think there the advantage was that we had a very small physics department: · there were only four. students. So you had a few friend~to talk things over with-this was very -important. _The ability to just talk things over was a key part of the education. You see, when I got to Cal. Tech. I found the 
· situation quite different, it was highly organized and there was a great deal of pressure and . 
· competition-exams all the time. I. found that the people were not as · interested in the subject, they were more interested in passing the · examination. _And then I \vent to Berkeley with Oppenheimer; there there was a lively group ofpeople with whom to talk things over; They had seminars and so on. So I think 
that in genei;-al the basic point is to · 
have people around who are really interested, talking things over. Scholastic: Exactly what work are 
you doing in education? Professor Bohm: Yes, well, I have always been teaching and writing articles. I have not specifically directed my work toward education, but I have always been interested in trying to explain what! a_m doing to the general public. Scholastic: Expanding on that point,• it seems that in some of the questions that you have been asked, both· this year and last, there exists a view which refuses to accept your hypoth­esis becaµse it does not point to. new experiments. In education and life in general, however, the effects of such a hypothesis seem to: be profound. In your book:. Wholeness and the Implicate Order ycm point out that there are two opposing world views: that of fragmentation and the view of wholeness which you propose. Moreover, you daim that living according to a fragmentary world view leads .to problems such as estrangement, pollution and eco­nomic an_d political disorder. How does your wholistic approach alleviate those problems? And what sort of educational view would you suggest tp p1;0mote the recognition of 
this wholeness and implicate order? Professor Bohm: The first point is 
that some of the ideas that I have 
proposed will make the whole . ._ subject of physics more intelligible, more easily understood. So that it · can be grasped more broadly, -~nd is 
not a sort of esoteric subject that only a: few people will _1,1nderstand. I think that this is important because science now plays such a key role in life. By concentrating only on getting results and not worrying about whether one can understand things in a simple way, you tend to increase the fragmentation as well as making the subject harder to understand. More generally, a view of wholeness will favor a relationship between · people. You see, there's a· general tendency that if you feel that the whole of nature is broken into · fragments, you would say that it is only natural that we should be alienated in a· similar way. In fact, people have used that sort of reasoning for a long time; according to the way they think nature is, that's the way they say human beings have to be. So if you concede that there is no reason to suppose that. nature is fragmented, then that 
reason for fragmentation [in man­kind] ceases. For example, suppose you have this theory of evolution which pictures all life as an eternal conflict for survival, which will then favor that form of society [i.e., one that is constantly in conflict with other societies]. That would tend to fit the view of atomic physics, so they all sort of fit together. But if you have another yiew that says this is not the whole story, then you will change people's thinking. And according to how people think, that will be their action and their being. Scholastic: Have' you had a chance to consider a possible curriculum for ii school? As you have just pointed out, it would be not beneficial for a school to just teach "facts; facts, facts;' similar to the one presented in Dickens' Harri Times, because that would misrepresent nature and institute a fragmentary world view. Would you claim, therefore, that it is necessary to teach the metaphysical considerations which underlie an objective theory such as evolution? Professor Bohm: Every theory contains metaphysics. The present theories of evolution contain a certain kind of metaphysics, and fragmentation is a form of metaphys­ics. Metaphysics is merely contained in a statement about everything. Any theory which says all is "X" is metaphysics. We are inevitably going to have metaphysics in our thought­common sense is full of metaphysical assumptions.·Much of this metaphys­ics will be inadequate and confused, so I think that it is necessary to have an attitude of being able to question our metaphysics in education, to be aware that there is metaphysics and to be able to question it and change it. That should be a basic part of education. 
· Scholastic: So you would say that in just teaching "facts" one tacitly. assumes the fragmentary world view, and instead you would ask that education look more closely at initial assumptions and deal more with the. development of creativity, then the memorization of facts. · ·. Professor Bohm: Yes, one should be more aware of these assump.tions, · · which are things taken {or ·granted without our knowing it: I believe · that creativity, to a large extent,. is · the ability to quest.ion things that have been.taken for granted. The . principal barrier to anything new are all those past assumptions, which we are now no longer aware _of. Scholastic: In your-book Wholeness ar,d the Implicate Orrler you claim 
MER R.I CK'S 
M,apleLane Pharmacy 
............. ·...................... 
............... 
. .. ·····­
Cl~sest to· Notre Dame 18075 St. Rd. 23 
272-7747 


BIG@ 
LUMBER CENTER 
• 
AIMSIIONG CEIUNG Jill • POWl:I TOOI.S 

• 
CABINEIS . ·• i.UMIEI 

• 
Pl rwooo • HAIDWAIE 


• 01.YMPI( SU.IN •. '1UMIING £ 
• PANEUNG flKllll(Al SUPPllES AND MUCH MUCH _MORE­
w ...... , .... , ... , ••, '•''"'.." 
EASY
t--·-IL~
---'·"\rr · 
~@i-j""!-c 
. . 
. 
---· ---­

272-6500 
125 DIXIE WAY NORTH 
ROSHAND 
21 



that progr'ess is made when one's mind breaks out of its relatively distinct position in the world and, 
through a:moment of insight, comes in contact with the flux of reality, which gives the rriind a new orienta­tion in its determination of rele­vance. How is it possible to teach such an insight? 
· Professor Bohm: I think that it is a matter of participation, you can't teach it [insight) as a subject-as content. But rather it must come about through participation: creating an atmosphere or spirit in which · people are able to have insight. The teacher has to be, himself, in that spirit. The question is whether he can bring the students into it. That requires a certain freedom of · dialogue. I think one of the major aspects of my education was that I was in a situation where we had a chance to have a lot of discussion, and where.the students were interested in the subject. There were only a few of them but that was enough to make all the difference. Scholastic: My next question has to do with religion iri education. It seems that a growing assumption of the secular enlightenment is that religion is the type of issue that can be taken out of education and reduced to a private sphere without any adverse consequences, just as a part of a machine callbe removed without changing its essential character .. Since you have rejected this Cartesian notion of separation, what place do you see for religion in education? Professor Bohm: Well I think that this is a subject that requires a lot of attention. Yourquestion is what is religion. Well, I think that one of the reasons why people began to take reason out of the public sphere was that there was so much division in religion. You see, religion has fallen into fragmentation, that is one of the problems. Religion has to do with wholeness-man has a basic urge towards wholeness. This [religion] deals with absolutes, and in making statements about the absolute, there is• a tendency to make· them non­negotiable. And if someone else makes another statement about the absolute, then the two cannot have a discussion. There's where the · problem is. Many people have felt that such issues could not be handled in the context of education. That perhaps is the reason why there was ari attempt to separate the religious and the secular. 
22 
Scholastic: I agree with you that the 
problems of fanaticism were one of 
the main reasons for the separation of religion from the temporal, but do 
you not agree that when one takes 
religion out of education one creates a void, and that void is quickly filled 
by a sort of scientism. So by avoiding 
religious considerations, one tacitly acknowledges the fragmentary world 
view. 
Professor Bohm: Yes, that is another tacit view about the whole: if you say that the whole is fragmentary, there is still a view about the whole, which again is metaphysics. The difficulty is then that man's urge 
toward wholeness has been left a void, and people are looking to satisfy it in other ways. So I think that this is .a difficult question. I think to solve it, it would be neces­sary to have what I call a dialogue among religious beliefs. I think that as long as people will stick fanati­cally to religious beliefs, there will be no way to solve it. If people could 
r 
listen to each other and have a genuine dialogue, then it might be · possible to bring them together. Scholastic: If one could develop an educational philosophy that directed 
a dialogue at questions of meaning, and \Vent beyond mere fact and the positing of dogma; then it seems that one would have attained a system that was actively neutral to religion and yet allowed for the accommoda­tion of religious considerations. 
Professor Bohm: The least you could do is to study religions and have a dialogue· among them. I think that would be possible. Mrs. Bohm: I was wondering if perhaps you should bring in the notion of the religious feeling. Professor Bohm: the feeling behind the religion; it is the urge people have to try and find meaning and wholeness in the world and of . life. I think that in -a dialogue people will be open to that, not studying it as a subject but by trying to be open to all feeling; · · · 
Scholastic: One question that arises when one deals with educational philosophies is the view of the child's nature. Some people have seen · children as a blank slate on which knowledge should be imposed, others have argued that children have certain instincts which must be recognized in the learning process. What is your view of nature? Professor Bohm: I think that everybody gets a tradition from their culture, it is made part of our thinking. I think that the child does have a natural curiosity-the wish to learn. And it can get conditioned by the environment, some condi~ioning is necessary, for example: not lo cross the road in front of automobiles. But then there is this oth!lr type of conditioning: all sorts of things taken for granted. I think that what the child is depends upon what the adult is. The child ·will be limited by the culture of the.adult, and if they change the child will also change. Scholastic: But you still believe that the child has the ability to break into a new order? Professor Bohm: Yes, provided that he is not discouraged by certain tacit assumptions. Pressures put on you and so on. There has to be an environment in which this [the ability of the child to creatively seek a new order] can happen. This will not happen unless the people who are teaching can participate in it too. I think that the child's mood is to participate in whatever culture . happens to be there. Whether that culture be fragmentary or something else. Scholastic: As my last question, Prof. Bohm, I would ask if you have any suggestions for graduation students in the liberal arts, who have to find a job in a highly specialized and fragmentary world? Professor Bohm: You have to sort of find your way in a world like this: Find a peculiar place where your education will be useful. D 


\ 
I 
i 
A Letter From Moscow: 
by D. Scott 
A recent visit to the Soviet Union opened my eyes up to a fact that should have been plain to me all along: people are the same everywhere. It is only the setting, the circumstance, and the politics which differ. Whether in the US, the UK, Morocco or the USSR, people have the same needs and capacities for friendship, love, security and freedom. 
For me, this realization required a trip to the Soviet Union and the friendship of six young Muscovites. We met the first full day I was in 
Moscow. I was with Pierre, a 23-year-old French­Canadian, and we encountered them-six laughing and slightly tipsy young Russians-singing Beatles' songs arm-in-arm and celebrating a birthday. Their beaming faces and obvious love for life contrasted sharply with the darkened streets and grim expres­sions of their comrades filing past. Soon we were talking, and shortly thereafter Pierre and I were taking our turn toasting the birthday, our new friends and the days of detente. 
When the bar closed at 11:00 p.m., we had no place to go, and the young Muscovites began totalk hurriedly in Russian, attempting to find a solution. 
· Finally, they turned to us and explained the situation. In the Soviet Union, prolonged contact with Westerners, though far from illegal, is not encouraged. And further, we were told that one of our Russian friends had a father who was highly ranked in the Communist Party and in the govern­ment. They explained that if they were seen with Pierre and me for lorig periods, it would be noted on their files. Such a notation would be especially harsh on the one whose father was powerful, for both father and son would be reprimanded severely. As a result, our six Russian friends were fearfuf of being seen with Westerners and of being trailed by the KGB .. 
They informed us that Pierre and I were the first Westerners they had ever really talked to for longer than the usual brief and shallow exchange. They then spoke of the friendship that had so quickly . developed between us, emphasizing its importance to them, and they finally asked us to return to their apartment with them, flatly stating that our friendship was worth any risk or possible black marks which might appear on their files. They wrote down an address and instructed us to meet them there in an hour. 
Pierre and I arrived in a taxi one hour later with enough vodka for two and enough nervousness for ten. Fifteen minutes later, a van drove up with a uniformed man behind the wheel, and we were whispered into the back by our friends. We pro­ceeded to drive a few kilometers into the country, past police checkpoints where the uniform and the insignia on the side of the van whisked us through. I realized the risk my Russian friends were taking, and I sensed the value that qiy foreign companions placed on our friendship through the sacrifices they were willing to make in order to keep our friendship alive. 
In a small house planted in the Russian country­side, we continued to delight in one another's company. I understood that they used this place as a retreat from the depression of work and from the repression of the state. We laughed, drank, sang with Paul McCartney and John Lennon, and talked throughout the night. I showed them how Western­ers dance, doing my best to mimic Elvis Presley and John Travolta gyrations; and Pierre exchanged jokes, all of which translated like bricks. They in turn opened up their lives for us to see, speaking of their worries, fears and hopes. They asked us about the West, and their questions were filled with the hope that they would someday be able to visit. Our replies to their queries acted like potent drugs: it was painful for them to hear about the world "outside;' yet they could not help but hunger for more . 
. We also spoke of our friendship and of the love we were growing to have for each other, and it seemed tragically ironic that we were supposed to be enemies. Up to that point in my life, I had cried very °little. In fact, I had not cried for a very long 

Life Is Life 
time, but as the sun rose the next morning,' after an entire night of pouring myself into this unexpected friendship, l found myself crying with these people. _ I cried for their inability to traveL I cried for our mutual inability to· transcend the politics of our situation for more than my three days in Moscow. And I cried for our inability to meet agairi in the . future at any time we desired. _ 
For the three days and two nights I spent with .. my Russian friends, we hardly ate or slept. Instead, . we survived offof Russian tea in the morning, . Russian vodka in the evening, arid we voraciously_ fed off of each other's. conversatio'n and range of experience. I found myself closer to these people than I have felt toward many of the people with ._ whom I have spent a lifetime in the W~t. l reveled in their openness, their affection, their acceptance of me as a person rather thari as an American cloaked in red, white and blue. . . . _ . 
The time 'arrived when we had to start saying our goodbyes, and we exchanged gifts. Pierre and I gave them everything that we had in our · · possession...:....our watches, jeans, shoes and_ T-shirts'. They gave us personal items-Russian art, Russian dolls, wooden tea sets. The monetary value of all these gifts was unimportant to us. What was important was the value we all felt toward the friendship which bound us. Thes~ Sovietfriends . had changed me in a very radical way, 'fad now . know as they do that people are the most important thing, more important than material possessions,. more important than ideology, more. important than even politics and the state. · · · 
In the final hours before Pierre and I rejoined the tour and boarded the train for Leni_ngrad, our . friends warned· us that they could riot see us again.. They said that because we had broken ·away from · the group and from supervision for three days, we would be immediately under suspiciqn and would be watched for the rest of our days in the Soviet Union: Our goodbye was to be fin~l. And just as.. they had said, Pierre and I were qµestioned . extensively upon our return to the group by Soviet authorities and were threatened with deportation if 
we left the tour again. We were told that we had 
not been acting the ,vay ''.guests" in the Soviet­
Union should act. 
Whenever I read of the Soviet Union or of the 
arms talks in Geneva, I am haunted by the faces of 
my friends. I no_ longer see the USSR as an antago­
nistic, monolithic body. Rather, I now see the many 
faces behind the scowling Soviet mask. I also know 
that my Russian friends see faces and feelings 
behind stories of the United States. Perhaps what is · 
necessary is.for the leaders of both sides to see 
behind the other's mask, to see beyond missiles and 
statistics and find the people behind. Only such 
insight, I believe, will lead to recoriciliation and 
peace. ·. 
In the meantime, though, I am .still haunted. I 
see all their faces gathered around me, saying 
goodbye for that last time, not knowing when, if 
ev~r•. we should meet again. I tell them once again 
of.my hope that they, one day, will be able to.see 
me somewhere outside of-the USSR', a day when we . will all have -equal freedoms. My friend, the 
birthday boy of. two days before, is greatly saddened . 
and says: ''We have an ·old saying iri Russia .•. 'life 
is life.' " And then, -after a pause, he says, "but we 
will always remember .. .'' D -D. Scott. 
· EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the true account of a 
·Notre Dame graduate in the Soviet Union. D. Scott 
graduated from Notre Dame in the class of 1984, 
but his name has been changed in this publication 
in order that the involved parties may be protected. 


Don Yogi's work, 
exhibited at the Snite 
Museum of Art, represents 
a palatable entree of large 
abstractions, watercolor 
landscapes of the Ameri­
can West, and small 
ceramic sculptures. This 
exhibit provides a lyrical 
experience with whimsical 
overtones introduced 
especially by the ceramic 
pieces. In addition, the 
ceramics and in particular 
those representing birds in 
flight display the sensa­
tions of weightlessness, 
airiness and lightness 
found in the large 
abstractions. 
The acrylic paintings, 
executed on a large scale, 
present subtle references to 
landscape. Some of them -· in fact refer to the smaller 
watercolor landscapes 
. which in many ways serve 
as studies for the larger 
works. However, the 
feeling of lightness and the 
aethereal qualities are · 
especially exemplified by . 
the large paintings. Here 
the viewer's perception of 
flying through clouds, or 
swimming under water is 
the result of captivation 
with the atmospheric 
effects created by Yogi's 
painting process. 
Looking at these 
abstract paintings the 
viewer questions whether 
the canvases are just about 
atmospheric effects and 
their reference to land­
scape. The artist's interest 
in color, colored shapes 
and their fusion into 
"atmosphere," is the most 
_easily discernible aspect of 
his work. This interest is 
obviously dependent on 
the painting process 
utilized by Don Vogl. It is 
the pouring and dripping 
of paint, the manipulation 
of stained areas and the 
way they disappear into 
each other that creates the 
overall feeling of atmo­
sphere ·• 
However, I would propose that Vogl's work is not only concerned with aethereal qualities reproduced on canvas, but it is also engaged in introspection, an inquiry about the art of painting. Each large abstraction seems to question its purpose. Is each picture meant to be an abstract depiction of a scene? Is it a depiction of sky, land,. water, etc... , or is it just . a canvas that has been stained by a number of different methods? The answer is repeatedly given by the paintings them­selves. 
In a few of these pictures, like the "Aurora Borealis" and the '-'Melting Iceberg," the artist has left areas of canvas unstained, peeking through the drips and smudges that articu­late the surface. lcono­graphically, that is in terms of understanding the landscape, the unstained areas are sometimes arbitrarily placed in compositional cooperation with the stained areas, and sometimes through their position significant . contribution is made to the landscape feeling. More importantly, however, these unstained areas serve as constant reminders of the inherent flatness of the canvas. Moreover, their introspec­tive nature is expressed in the way they describe the painting methods of the artist. They remind the viewer that these pictures are made of canvas and paint which is applied by pouring, dripping, brushing, and smudging. 
Another step toward the assertion of the flat support (the canvas) is 
revealed by the calli­graphic lines drawn on the surface of some of the paintings. In "Flagman" and in the other abstrac­tions, these lines which have been drawn with ball-point pen, acrylic paint, pastels, and cray pas, serve a double role. On the one hand they seem to belong within the illusionistic space created by the atmospheric perspective of the stained 
. surface. -The lines comfort­ably exist within this space and they even emphasize the sensation of weightless­ness apparent in all the paintings. On the other hand it is clearly evident that these marks were applied on a stretched canvas and they exist as reminders of the support's flatness . 
Finally in "Whether Or Not," a gesture of whimsi­cal precariousness, Vogl states that painting is nothing more than canvas, paint, and whatever materials the artist chooses. This time it is a clear, glass graduated tube that destroys the sense of 
. space establisl1ed by the careful staining of the canvas. The .visual game played h~re has punch and conviction. The viewer wants to see the painting as a.scene with deep space rendered in aerial perspec­tive, but the glass tube, attached to the canvas wi-th thread, and the shadow it casts reiterate the flatness of the picture. "Whether Or Not," .more than any of the other abstractions, elaborates on the theme of painting · about painting in a whimsical but lyrical manner, which pervades Don Vogl's exhibit. 
26 
The other side of Oz. 
You find my face bobbing pale in that beige sea, And we wade towards each other through Punctual Japanese. I'm the only one among these mountains Who thinks in your language And can hear the color of your dreams. You're the boy who wore green eyeshadow To meet my mother for Sunday brunch. An awkward embrace finds itself A Pacific reunion by the baggage claim, Drawing stares from more polite.travelers 
. Whose touch is kept behind closed eyes. A lifetime of crossings:· Atlantic, Thames, Channel, Sea of Japan, To reach this moonlit lagoon Mirrored in your eyes. 
Carolyn Lee Gray 
Reflections on the Sacred Heart Church Spire at the University of Notre Dame 
Headily with cheesy eyes . ·__ he peers from out the hands of time, While numbers mark the pupils round -as he unblinkingly will chime. 
:Mark one!·He speaks. The voice resounds · o'er shingle, brick, and glass it bounds. Mark four! He roars. The _piercing sound comes forth when lashes circle round. · 
None escape his knowing stare. On all will fall his amber eye. Four in all his faces be beneath his hat that wounds the sky. 
Mark two! He sings. And whispers me from far above the breathless trees. Mark three! He rings. And simply sees, for he has gills but cannot breathe. 
He feeds on clouds and mist at night this beast, the keeper of the time. I know him well; he stole my heart for he's the Wizard of the Rhyme. 
By S. Houk 

HAIKU POSTCARD 
Afternoon nap 
Nested like spoons in a tatami drawer 
Happy in Japan Carolyn Lee Gray 


Craft Show at ZOOFEST '85 at Potawatomi Zoo 
If you are a crafts person who would like a unique opportunity to display your work, then the Craft Show at ZOOFEST '85 is the place for you. ZOOFEST, a fun-filled weekend for the whole family, is being held June 8 and 9 at the Potawatomi Zoo in South Bend. If you would like the chance to partic{pate in the craft show, call the zoo at 288­4639 for more details. 
NATIONAL EXHIBI­TION 
Deadline: July 12, 1985 
The Woodstock School of Art in Woodstock, New __ 
-York, is hosting its Third National Exhibition and is opening up the spoils to aH artists living in the United States. Cash awards of $1,000.00 or more will be awarded to the juried winners. All two­
Ii dimensional media are acceptable, and all entries must be submitted in 
1.: 
standard size 35mm slide form. A maximum of two slides may be submitted per artist. • 
_PUNCHY POETS 
Deadline: May 15, 1985 
Wide Open: Magazine of Poetry is tossing up $150.00 to the best selected poet in its fourth poetry contest of all time. Wide Open prefers "short poems with punch;' but is open to all forms and styles. Even previously published poems may be entered, if so noted. 


POSTER DESIGN CQLLEGE POETS 
Deadline: May 3, 1985 Deadline: June I, 1985 
All amateur and profes­Undergraduate poets sional artists are heartily currently enrolled full welcomed to enter the time. in a four-year 1985 Duneland Harvest American or Canadian Festival Poster· Design· college or university are Contest and claim the eligible to win up to $100.00 prize for the $200.00 in the Lyric: winner. This year's,: -·: : _College Poetry Contest. A Festival will focus on _$10().00 second prize will Northwest.Indiana with . . also be offered, as well as an emphasis·on turn-df-a $50.00 third prize and a the-century history, _ $25.00 honorable_ mention. farming and crafts; There Entries-must be original is no limit.to the number, -: . !ind unpublished, written of entries any 011~ _artist. in_ traditional forms _ may submit. (perf.er~ply with regular 
scansion and rhyme)-, and 

must not exceed 32 lines. 
] 
ARTS & C:RAFTS 
Deadline: May 10, 1985 
The Hobart Arts League of Hobart, Indiana, welcomes student and faculty artists alike to participate in the Sixth Anriual Lake George Fine Arts and Crafts Fair to be held on June 8-9, 1985. Submitted work must be original and completed within the last two years, and three slides or photographs of each submission must be sent with the application. 
.. 
SHORT STORY WRITERS 
Deadline: July 31, 1985 
Stand Magazine, an international literary quarterly based in the U.K., is hosting its second international Short Story Competition. There will be a first prize of $1,250.00; a second prize of $625.00; a third prize of $325.00; a foµrth prize of $175.00; and a fifth prize of $125.00, and 
there will also be non-cash prizes awarded to as many· as twenty runners-up. Submitted pieces must be the original work of the artist, cannot have been ·previously published or broadcasted, and the pieces cannot be under . consideration elsewhere at 
the time of the competi­tion. 
FILM FESTIVAL 
Deadline: May 3, 1985 
The Sinking Creek Film Celebration proudly announces its 1985 . Competition for U.S/ Student and Independent films in 16mm. The Competition will be divided into three catego­ries: Young Filmmaker· (18 and under), College Filmmaker (Undergrad or grad), and Independent Filmmaker; and a total of $7,000.00 will be awarded to the juried winners in cash awards and rentals. 
Other cash awards will be given to the films which best express social concern through animation, which most appeal to children, . and to those which deserve merit for their experimen­tation. 
PUZZLED ARTISTS 
Deadline: May 3, 1985 
Artists of all types and sizes 1;1re cordially invited to compete in the Hall­mark National-Jigsaw Puzzle Design Contest .. Hallmark is looking for completely original designs of all types and all media, from quilt patterns to photographs. Submissions, which must be sent in 2x2 color slide form, should have good, strong color treatment, exhibit a 
. subject of interest,' be aesthetically pleasing and be intricate or involved in some way. And, says Hallmark, the submission must be "fun." This, of course, is open to the 
artist's interpretation. The first place winner will receive $1,000.00, the second $750.00, and the third $500.00. 
WATER BASICS 
Dea,dline: May 31, 1985 
Aqueous '85 is calling for entries limited to water based media executed in an aqueous manner on paper or board. Last year the competition netted $16,405 in awards, and this year, Merit, Purchase, and Travelling awards will also be given to deserving works. Work exhibited in any earlier Aqueous or Totally Transparent KWS competition is ruled ineligible. A catalogue of the exhibition will be mailed to each entering artist. 
For more information concerning any or all of these compe­titions, contact the Fine Arts people at 
Scholastic . 


29 



FM 88.9 
Chicago Symphony May25 May31Orchestra 
Claudio Abbado, conductor Galina Vishnevskaya finishes her in­Yuzuko Horigome, violin terview. David Schrader, Claudio Abbado and 
April 18 Mary Sauer, harpsichords In Performance BACH: Three Pieces from "The Musi­
Leonard Slatkin, conductor April 15
cal Offering," BWV-1079; Violin
Mark Peskanov, violin Concerto No. 2 in E, BWV-1042; Notre Dame Faculty Piano Trio BEETHOVEN: "King Stephen" 
Three-Harpsichord Concerto in C,
Overture, Op. 117 · BWV-1064; Suite No. 4 in D for Or-. April.23
HINDEMITH: Violin Concerto chestra, BWv-1069 
. Notre Dame Glee Club PROKOFIEV: Symphony No. 6 in E­flat, Op. lll 
April 29
Studs Terkel Almanac April 25 Laura Klugherz and Karen
AprifHl. 
Buranskas_:_violin and cello recital Carter Brey, cello . 
Claudio Abbado, conductcii-· 
Foreign correspondent David Schoen­
_May6
brenner discusses his book America "The Voyevode;' Op. ·78 : · . . . · Karen Buranskas-cello recital TCHAIKOVSKY: Symphonic Ballad, 
Inside Out: At Home and Abroad SCHUMANN: Cello Concerto in A from Roosevelt_~o Reagan. 
May· 13
minor, Op. 129 . . · _ . . . 
April 26
TCHAIKOVSKY: Symphony No. 5 ir1. South Bend Symphony E minor, Op. 64 · .. Multi~media performing artist Laurie 
•Anderson discu~ses her book and most ·May-20May4 recent recording, ho.th entitled · 
Lyon ~eifer-flute recital Sir Georg Solti, conductor United States . . SHOSTAKOVICH: ~y~pho.ny No. 9, ·May 27·
May3
Op. 70 . . . 
Hilliard Ensemble Vocal QuartetBRUCKNER: Symphony No. 9 in D E. L. Doctorow explains~ his mcist re~ minor cent.work: Lives of the Poets. 
On Stage
May 11 May10 
Daniel Barenboim, conductor and pi-. The discussion features two short sto­ano _ ries· by John Cheever "The Swimmer~• May 5 LEHAR: opera-BEETHOVEN: .Piano Concerto No. ·-and "O Youth and Beauty." "Paganini'' 1 in C, Op. 15; Symphony, No. 3. in 12 :PFITZNER: opera­E-flat, Op. 55, "Eroica" · .May 17 · ''Paiestrina" 
.. 19 BE;RLIOZ: opera­
Artist David. Hockney discusses "Ca­
May 18 "Benvenuto Cellini" 
meraworks;' a collection of his exper-Claudio Abbado, conductor imental photography. . 26 HINDEMITH: opera­
"Cardillac"Pinchas Zukerman, violin · Ellen Shade, soprano May24 BERG: Seven Early Songs; Violin 
Soprano Galina Vishnevskaya has a 
Concerto; "Altenberg Lieder," Op. 4; 
fascinating two~part interview. 
Three Pieces for Orchestra, Op. 6 
!
i; 
! 
i 
i 
; i 

31 
idle banter 
by Anne Gallagher 
Hi ... How are you? I haven't seen you in a while, You're looking great ... you've still got that tan from Spring Break ... a little help from the tanning salon, maybe? Seriously though, I can't believe this year"is · almost over ... ,ve made it through four years and the alcohol crisis ... oh, yeah, and administrative turnovers,: but that was no big deal anyhow ... not like the corrupt student government ... it gave "The Observer" something to write about ... by the way, how'd you like living off-campus? I guess I can see where you'd get tired of your own cooking ... definitely Wendy's for a . chicken sandwich ... Chi-Chi's happy hour with_ free nachos, Shirley's for the. late night cravmgs ... I' almost forgot that Lee's Ribs and McDonald's are delivering ... Yeah, Campusview is nice. There were some major parties there this year; But underclassmen everywhere. Especially at Corby's and Bridget's. I've had to hit The Commons a few times and seek shelter with ex-abroad students in order to avoid the crowds. Wasn't there anything else to do; couldn't people have gone to a concert or something ... REO, Foreigner or Kiss? ... or to hear 
Mario Cuomo or the Sophomore Literary Festival ... or go to yet another SYR ... I know, but football and basketball seasons don't last forever, especially ours ... I have 
to admit that the roadtrip to the Purdue 
game was. a really good time and the win 
over UCLA was awesome ... And we did do some winning off the field. We put up a good fight against MS ... A lot is going to change next year. Dr. Duggan resigning, parietals extended until midnight, lofts in Regina ... a lot changing at SMC next year 
... but Dr. Bambenek will still be at · 
breakfast ... what are you doing next year? Going to Chicago to work with the Big Eight? You'll see all the former SMC's and -­Darners in Mass on Sunday . . . Being a ) Liberal Arts major, I'm either going to go to law school or go save the world ... I haven't made up my mind yet ... It will be strange to come back as Alums. We'll walk around like everyone knows us, ·feeling about as secure as a freshman at the-ACC dance. Being nostalgic; we'll go to Senior Bar and. leave big tips .•. Yeah, I wonder if people will remember me too. Maybe they'd remember us if we stole a bust of Rockne ... but I'd rather have a team manager "borrow" me one ... I won't forget you though. Let's try to keep in touch ... and I'll be back, I know I'll be back. This year was too good not to come backfor some memories. 
SCHOLASTIC 
1985 1986 







