The kid who trapped a coi/ege education
Tommy is ten.
He lives in Mountain Lakes, New Jersey. There’s a lake in back of the house, and a lake in front of the house, and between them runs a gay little brook.	.
Some time ago, when Tommy’s book of War Savings Stamps wasn’t filling up fast enough, he hit upon the idea of getting help from some rats he knew. So he bought some traps, and set them in the
brook for muskrats. So far he’s caught a number of the rats, and even a mink.
And he has, earned by himself and in his own name, $200 worth of War Bonds!
Tommy puts 100% of all he earns into War Bonds. He’s going to hang onto them, to assure himself of a college education and other benefits in the years that lie ahead. We think that a lot of his elders could learn from him.
BUY WAR BONDS FOR KEEPS I
m MOBenH
GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street	'
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 84
APRIL 6, 1945
NO. 4
Students Attend Premier Showing of Film
Color Movie Portrays University At Its Best
The new technicolor movie, The University of Notre Dame, written, and produced on the campus, had its first showing before the student body last Tuesday evening under the sponsorship of the student council. The campus premiere followed a private preview by the faculty last week.
The project was begun last spring when University authorities undertook the task of selecting a medium whereby it might be possible to show the best of the campus and of Notre Dame educational life to the many thousands who have never had the opportunity of visiting the University. Mr. J. Arthur Haley, director of public relations, had received numerous requests for this type of picture; and it was under his supervision that the present movie was made. He secured the services of Mr. Charles Chapman, photographer and sound recorder, who had previously made successful movies for other schools, among them Michigan, Purdue, and Kentucky. The script was written by Mr. Richard Sullivan, professor of English at the University. The narration for the sound track employs the voice of Vincent Pelletier, ace NBC announcer.
In producing the movie, Mr. Haley used but one-fourth of the footage shot by the cameraman, in order to achieve a compact story of Notre Dame and hei-diversified channels of activity. Most of the actors are still on campus, and experienced a keen sense of accomplishment when they viewed themselves in technicolor, last Tuesday. The film runs for 34 minutes.
A number of copies are soon to be made for distribution, according to the purposes for which it is made. In this regard, Mr. Haley was guided by three main purposes, namely high schools and rehabilitation centers; alumni and civic
clubs; and for the general uses of the department of public relations.
Student Reaction
Frank Linehan, president of the Student Council which sponsored the showing of the movie before the student body, presided over the occasion and presented a brief introduction.
An audience of some 500 students witnessed the showing which featured the individual residence halls, various departments of the administration, and scenes from student academic and religious life.
Frequent applause greeted the movie -as groups of students recognized scenes showing themselves and theii- friends. For the older students many vivid memories were brought back as several highlights of the past football season were shown — touchdown runs, the navy review on the field before the game, and the familiar Victory March.
Every aspect of student life on campus was fully treated, beginning with the early history and proceeding on to the present day. An accent was placed upon the future of Notre Dame as pictures of proposed post-war buildings were flashed on the screen. Among those shown were the proposed Fine Arts building, a new library, fieldhouse, chemistry building, and a chapel, in commemoration of the Notre Dame dead of World War II.
NOTICE
All men graduating in June are reminded that photographs for the graduation issue of the SCHOLASTIC are to be taken on next Tuesday afternoon. April 10. and should contact Al Lesmez. Frank Linehan, or Tom Bergin for. details of the schedule.
Initial Co-Hop of This Semester Tomorrow Nite
The first of the post-Lenten social activities for Notre Dame students will be a Co-Hop tomorrow evening in the Progress Club in South Bend. The dance will feature Connie Sykes and her orchestra and will continue from 8 to 11.
For the benefit of the newer students the Co-Hop has been a feature of Notre Dame social life in recent semesters. All Notre Dame men, navy and civilian alike, are invited to attend these dances. Giris from all over South Bend are members of the organization and attend the bimonthly dances.
Originally, the Co-Hop functioned under the sponsorship of Catholic Action students, but after it attained maturity, it continued as an independent organization. A slight charge for admittance maintains the expenditures of the organization.
In view of the successful season which preceded Lent and the fact that -a new semester is underway, a large turnout is expected. For further information, notices will be placed on the bulletin boards in all the halls.
ASM to Hear John A.
Rassenfoss, April 11
The Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals will hear John A. Rassenfoss, supervising engineer at the American Steel foundries, Indiana Harbor works, East Chicago, Ind.
Mr. Rassenfoss will address the group April 11 at 8:15 p.m., in the Engineering auditorium of the University. He will speak on “The Manufacture and Properties of Steel Castings — Present and Future.”
t
College Parade
. . . By E..F. Gillespie
^he SVotre Qiame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867	'
If illtllll lill tlllllKlillliillHIIIIIIIIillillilllltitlilllllllilillltlllilUMtlllllllillllllllill till IHiliHIII till t HUH
tin 11 ihiii tint mi tiitiiiHiiiHiiit 11111111111111111111111111111 iiiiiiiiiiiiiit mu m111111111111111111111111 tn iiiihh
THE STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN, Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND GEORGE DESPOT JAMES REGAN -james f. McCarthy AL KUENZLI -RALPH HAYMAN BOB O'TOOLE
Navy Associate Editor Managing Editor
- Sports Editor
- Feature Editor Advertising Manager Circulation Manager - Promotion
COLUMNISTS
POWER - WALTERS -	- The Green Banner
E. F. GILLESPIE -	-	- The College Parade
ART WAGNER -	-	-	. Swabbie's Log
FRANK GUIDO -	-	-	- Photography
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY. C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS
FRANK GRIMALDI JACK FREESE GERARD HEKKER JOHN DEFANT
JOHN FEENEY
J. J. TENGE DAN DANISZEWICZ TOM RYAN
JOHN MILES OCTAVE EMOND ROBERT J. SHAW
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los-Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
4
THE STATIC
We are indeed greatly indebted to the girls across the Dixie, our own little Sweetbriar on the St. Joe, for by some chance or other we received a copy of their Static. We are sorry that the inmates of that institution do not find the Scholastic up to its pre-war par. But even that flattered us, we never even dreamed that we had readers at the Rock. We must say, however, that due to previous engagements all our potential Woelfie’s, Lynch’s, and Curtin’s are busy elsewhere. Until they again return home, we who are left will try to publish the best Scholastic we possibly can. As for Static, its name aptly describes any comment we could make.
HERE AND THERE	'
Georgia Tech has received permission from the Federal Communications Commission to establish a Frequency Modulation radio station. It will be used to help determine what type of antennas are best suited to the Atlanta area.
At the University of Kansas, a committee has been appointed to acknowledge and classify the war memorials which are being sent to the university. Already servicemen have forwarded a flag of the city of Naples and a collection of South Pacific insects to K.U. as souvenirs of the war.
1035 Loyola men, former students at Loyola College, Baltimore, Md., are serving with the armed forces.
POSSIBLE BUT IMPROBABLE
Three Zahmites were making their debut at a local beer dispensary. Bravely the first sat at the counter.
“A c-c-coke, please, with lots of ice,” he managed to stammer.
Summing up all his boldness the second stuttered, “A glass of ginger ale, with p-p-plenty of ice.”
Somewhat abashed, the third of the trio blurted, “Gee, gimme a glass of milk. I’m driving tonight.”
Z/ this poem is printed
It’s a cinch
The editor needed Just one more inch.
ODDS AND ENDS
The Boston Braves selected Georgetown University as its 1945 training base and is working out there to get in shape for the first “Play Ball!” cry of the umpire when the National League circuit opens.
The Metropolitan Opera Company is scheduled to appear at Purdue University on April 23, to present Gioachino Rossini’s opera, The Barber of Seville.
This week is vocation week at Loyola University in New Orleans. Talks are being presented concerning the business, teaching, and civil service professions, and also the religious vocation.
ROMANCE	*
An American boy was sitting on the couch with a French girl in a drafty room.
“Je t’adore!" said the American.
“Shut it yourself, you lazee Yangkee!” replied the mademoiselle.
"Scholastic" Editor Decries Peacetime Compulsory Militaristic Regime for Youth
BY ROBERT RIORDAN
In recent months there has been considerable discussion of the problem of peace-time compulsory military training for our nation’s youth. One of the outstanding figures in the opposition to such a move by our Congress has been Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. Father O’Donnell has been outspoken in his opposition to the Guer-ney-Wads worth bill which would require that all able-bodied men between the
ages of 17 (or 18) and 21 undergo a year of continuous military training under the exclusive control of the Army and Navy. Afterwards, they would be
classed as reservists for a period of four to eight years and would take such additional refresher training as would from time to time be prescribed by law.
While recognizing the need for a military nation, Father’ O’Donnell has emphasized the difference between a military nation and a militaristic nation. He contended that we must not have a system similar to those in Europe which would undermine home life and weaken our schools. We do not want a military caste, nor do we want to become victims of the pragmatic ideology of such a caste.
In offering a counter-proposal of a general nature, Father O’Donnell said, “I suggest a more intensive use of universities, colleges, and high schools as a training ground for the army and navy; and also a revival of the national guard, strengthened and adapted to the mechanism of modern warfare so that it will be literally a guard of the nation.”
It would be well to examine fully, in the light of past experience, just what this year of compulsory military training would mean to the American people in the post-war era. ■
War is no longer - fought by manpower alone. The methods of war have come a long way since the days of the cave man and his club. Today much of the fighting is done at long range; as a practical example consider the V-2 robot bombs which Germany sent against England.
A nation today must be completely
mobilized in order to wage a war, and four major factors, properly emphasized, are the basis of any military effort. These four are: man-power—men in uniform; production — weapons of war; technology—new methods of war; and food — always necessary. The need for fighting men is obvious, but to some it is so obvious that they fail to go further into the problem. These men must be equipped, and that requires production at home. The term “allout production” has become almost trite in the American’s war-time vocabulary, but it is still a major factor in winning the war. Unequipped or improperly equipped men would be helpless before an enemy with modern machines.
Time is required for industry to convert from peace to war production. During this time men could be given training in the basic fundamentals of military life, and by the time the production would be ready for theii’ use, they would be ready to undergo intensive training necessary for the use of specialized weapons. The only way in which this lapse could be avoided would be to maintain our industry in the production of war material which would lead to an unsound economy and a militaristic nation.
In the present conflict, more than in any other, technology is playing an important role. Most of the amazing
progress in technology is a result of the exigencies of war, and could not reasonably be expected to occur in an industrial world not geared to war. The development of such weapons as the rockets and jet-propulsion planes could not be expected of a peace-loving nation at peace. But of a militaristic nation— that is another story.
The fourth major factor- in modern war—food—is also an important factor in the peace to follow. The Allies have been phenomenally fortunate that the United States in particular has had such bountiful crops in the five years of war. In probably no other continuous five-year period has over-all production been so high. But this takes manpower and time. How will compulsory training for all farm youth help our food production?
The advocates of compulsory military training in peace-time seem to have lost sight of the fact that a trained manpower does not alone make a well-prepared nation. The answei- to this perplexing and important problem lies elsewhere.
(In next week’s Scholastic this problem will be discussed further outlining other phases, and proposing a solution.)
Knights Elect McDermott to Grond Knight Post
The revitalized Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus elected Walter McDermott Grand Knight to head the new staff of officers as the council got under way a move to set itself on a livelier basis. Elected to other top positions in the organization were Dick
Martin as Deputy Grand Knight and Phil Martin as Chancellor.
The reorganizational meeting was held Monday night in the Law Building, and the members agreed to handle new business at the next meeting scheduled for Monday, April 9 at 7:30 p.m. This week is being taken to permit new officers to acquaint themselves with the offices and duties. Preliminary discussion was held on the plans for the annual spring picnic and will be continued on next Monday night. Of prime concern is the intention of members to invite prospective members as guests.
Minor officers elected at the reorganizational meeting were: Francis E. Malone, recorder; Robert Riordan, treasurer; Joe Kivlin, warden; Frank Grimaldi, advocate; Bob Snyder, inside guard; Tom Snyder, outside guard. The important office of financial secretary will continue to be filled by Ernie Howard.
Acting Grand Knight Richard M.-Sadowski conducted the election at the meeting which was well attended, promising a lively interest in future meetings and activities.—Frank Grimaldi
5
San Carlo Opera Company to Present "Rigoletto" in Drill Hall Apr. 18; Open to All
BY JOHN DEFANT
The impassioned singing of' operatic heroes and heroines will replace the noisy cadence of marching feet in the Navy Drill Hall on April 18 when the San Carlo Opera Company presents “Rigoletto” as the semester’s first event in the Student Concert Series.
The presentation of Verdi’s opera by the San Carlo company maintains the high standard of the series. Some of the world’s outstanding concert artists have appeared at Notre Dame during the long series.
The San Carlo is neither the oldest opera company nor the most glamorous. Its casts are not studded with high-priced stars, and its repertoire specializes in tried-and-true favorites like “Rigoletto,” “Carmen,” “Aida,” “Il Trova-tore,” and “Cavalleria Rusticana.”
Yet in its 33 years of existence, the San Carlo has played to an estimated 19,000,000 people on its extensive tours, and its energetic director, Fortune Gallo, hasn’t lost a penny since an unsuccessful first season. Mr. Gallo traded the classes for the masses and “invented” popular priced opera.
Nearly one million opera lovers attend the San Carlo Opera engagements each season throughout the United States and Canada. The company includes many eminent singers, many of whom have sung with the Metropolitan and Chicago Opera companies. They carry a large orchestra picked from the finest opera and symphony players of New York, a brilliant and effective chorus, and a sensational ballet with two outstanding premier dancers.
Opera’s most important element, of course, is music. It is an art which is almost universally cherished, and which requires nobody of technical knowledge to enjoy. Operatic music for the most part is much more direct in its appeal even than the music used on a popular symphony program. It is full of melody and its melodies are often recognizable as such as easily as those of the dance tunes of the day.
- Besides offering musical delight and dramatic interest, well produced opera constitutes a visual spectacle almost without peer. The broadly delineated scenes of intrigue and physical violence contribute much toward making opera what it is—a spectacular art that grips the hearts of multitudes.
The San Carlo Company has achieved
8
success not only on its road tours. Despite the 20-week Metropolitan season, the San Carlo last year had the biggest of its 23 New York seasons. The company grossed $61,000 during a 12-day run, but it is only an indication, for it had similar success in all the cities in which it played.
The company Mr. Gallo will bring to Notre Dame is the same one that broke attendance records in New York, Chicago, New Orleans, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Boston, and many other cities.
There are many reasons for the public’s abiding interest in “Rigoletto,” which was first produced in 1851. It is not only based upon a most effective play, “The Fool’s Revenge,” in which the character, the jester, was one of Edwin Booth’s great roles, but the deformed jester has been vividly characterized by Verdi in his music. The quartet in the last act is the finest piece of concerted music in Italian Opera.
Although the. San Carlo Opera Company has put its emphasis on performance rather than stars, Fortune Gallo has not been so unwise as to try to get along with less than the best among singers. Mr. Gallo has been tireless in his search for worthy newcomers, and each season he brings new “finds” who prove operatic surprises to the 50 cities of , the United States and Canada in which the San Carlo appears.
The presentation of the opera in the Navy Drill Hall on April 18 has been made possible by the cooperation of Capt. J. Richard Barry, USN, and Lt. Comm. Waage, USNR. By providing the facilities of the Drill Hall they have made it possible to accommodate music lovers and friends of Notre Dame in South Bend.
Wranglers Open Drive for Members — Plan Banquet
The Wranglers, honorary forensic society on the campus, has organized for the current semester and meeting are being held regularly every Thursday night. Among the most important of the plans for the semester was the decision to open the ranks for the admission of new members to this traditionally exclusive organization. Any students who are interested in joining the Wranglers should contact or leave their names and addresses with Tom Devine, 300 Walsh; Jose Cardenas, Sorin, or Robert Riordan, 109 Sorin.
Dr. Gurian to Address
2nd N.D. Town Meeting
The second of the Notre Dame Town Meeting Series will be held in the Law Auditorium on Tuesday night at 7:30.
In his lecture, Dr. Waldemar Gurian, second to none as a student of Bolshevism, will deliver a lecture on “Contemporary Russia.” As a thinker and student of the history and ideology of Communistic Russia, Dr., Gurian enjoys a scholarly reputation on both sides of the Atlantic.	.
Dr. Gurian, who was born in Leningrad in 1902, received his doctorate from
Dr. Waldemar Gurian
the University of Cologne in 1924. Before coming to America in 1937 he lived in Switzerland and France in which country he enjoys considerable prestige among scholars for his books on the political and social ideas of French Catholics and the ill-fated Action Frangaise.
From his many published works both here and on the Continent, mention can be made of Dr. Gurian’s The Future of Bolshevism, The Rise and Decline of Marxism, Hitler and The Christians, and the classic interpretation of Bolshevism, Bolshevism: Theory and Practice. This last work, of which the English Jesuit scholar, Fr. Louis Watt, in his monograph, Communism and Religion calls “the best of all books which have described Bolshevism” is not only widely known but quoted as well by eminent scholars. So authoritative is Bolshevism: Theory and Practice that it has been translated from the original German into English, French, Italian, Spanish and Dutch. Even the Japanese, true to form, published a pirated edition without the permission of Dr. Gurian or his publisher!
BE KIND TO ST. MARY'S WEEK (Sponsored by the "Green Banner")
We’re not going to make any nasty references about Sweet Briar* for a whole week. Somebody has to be kind to them.
Dear Mom,
I’ve been away from Catnip Falls for a month now and to tell the truth, it doesn’t seem like more than ten years.
I’m really used to college life now. My room, a discarded closet in which the maid couldn’t fit her cleanup wagon, is small but comfortable. For awhile respiration was a problem but my roommate and I have worked out a system of alternate breathing and now we get all the oxygen we need.
There are screens on all the windows to keep mosquitoes out and keep me in. Each night when we come in we sign a register, just like a hotel. They have a “night clerk” on duty to see that we do.
Midnight has a strange effect on Notre Dame, just like in Cinderella. Every Saturday night we rush to catch the last bus so that we can be locked in the hall before we are locked out of the hall.
South Bend is a nice town. Everybody works in “Stewdeybakers” or “Bahndix.” I met a girl on Walgreen’s corner and next Friday she is going to teach me spotwelding.
My best pal is the guy across the hall. He borrows my class notes, smokes my cigarettes, wears my shirts, uses my meal book, and steals my soap. He’s a great guy.
Notre Dame is really going all out in the war effort. We have a blackout in the hall every night at eleven.
I’ll have to close now Mom, the lights just went out and I haven’t as yet snatched a candle from the Grotto.
Your little boy, Hector.
RATIONED VERSE
Gone are the days when our hearts were young and gay
For how can one be happy on 2 red points a day,
Meat is now a memory; butter just a dream,
No one can remember when he last saw cream.
... By Harry Walters and John Power
War has struck the Dining Hall and our stomachs feel the crash
For there is no joy at Notre Dame since that fateful ration slash.
THINGS WE WOULD LIKE TO SEE DEPARTMENT:
Mr. O’Malley in a “T” shirt and overalls.
STRANGE CHOICE IN PINUPS
Some of the lads have the walls of their cells plastered with pictures of Betty Grable and June Haver. Almost everybody has a picture of “somebody special from the old home town.” But there is a freshman in Zahm who has his wall covered with pictures of bearded wrestlers. His collection includes Togar the Terrible Turk, Prince Ali Ben Ali, the Mad Mohammedan, the Swedish Angel, the German Angel, and the French Angel; and last but not least Hilda, the World’s Greatest Lady Wrestler. Everybody to his own choice; we prefer Betty Grable.
YOUTH ON THE CAMPUS
Item Toner, Stamford, Conn, senior majoring in Economics, Zahm Hall Prefect, and Rosie’s best customer. Has been nicknamed “Young Chuck” by his compatriots. Plans on leading his Zahmbies
Am I late for spring practice. Coach?
against Sorin’s Bob Kasper and Sam Risk in the Interhall Golf Tournament. Rem boasts a wide acquaintance among grocers’ daughters of South Bend. He has never been to St. Mary’s, and says the iron gate at the entrance scares him away. Noted chiefly for his Connecticut Irish accent and wild nights on the Pacemaker.
TRUE STORY....
The Spring in Indiana brings out the magnolia blossoms. At Notre Dame it brings out Tom Kennedy, trying to adjust last year’s golf balls to this year’s swing. In South Bend it brings out personal property assessors, gremlins who make a house to house survey for the purpose of extracting a few pennies more in taxes from innocent residents.
One of these gentlemen called on one of our professors at his home last week and asked his name, his age, and occupation.
The professor gave his name, his age, and said he was employed at Notre Dame. Asked, the bright assessor, sizing him up, “What do you do out there?— cook.”
❖
TONSORIAL TRAGEDY
Jim Donnelly slogged across Badin Bog one day last week, dodged quickly as a platoon of Middies came charging at him and finally reached the Campus Barber Shop, known to the world at large as “Just Plain BilPs.” A freshman came out looking very much like those French collaborators in the Washington Hall newsreel, but that didn’t stop our Jim.
He grabbed number 97 just as Bill, the master of ceremonies shouted “Next number is 54.” Ahead of him were 27 Middies studying Fire Control, 15 V-12’s boning up on Naval Organization, and Phil Luppi reading The Bobsey Twins on the Rum Village Bits. Jim settled down for a- good wait, thinking how much nicer Notre Dame would be if it were closer to Mishawaka.
As a reward for his patience, the lads on the front porch are calling him “Pierre Laval—the bald collaborationist.”
❖
BENGAL BULLETIN
Tom Burns went into training for the Bengals the other day. He went out to the Dixie and jogged downtown. The exercise was too much for him, softened by many hours on Sorin’s Porch. So thirsty Tom journeyed to Georges for just one “malted milk.” One became two and two became five. As a result, his hard day of training—Tom gained three pounds.
7
Dean of Science College Announces Roll of Honor
The dean of the College of Science, Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, has announced the Roll of Honor for the college for the winter semester just completed. The Honor Roll is composed of those men in the College who maintained a final bulletin average of 87% or better and carries an honorary membership in the Academy of Science. The list was abnormally large for this term with a total of 58 men.
Upperclassmen who are repeaters on the roll of honor include John V. Allen, Brother Wendel, C.S.C.,, Chester B. Bramblett, Brother Romard, C.S.C., Eugene F. Diamond, John E. Dockweiler, Fred C. Diekman, Elmer F. Gillespie, Thomas H. Greiwe, John B. Griffin, Warren G. Kramer, William B. King, Ever-et D. Matmiller, James B. McCormick, Brother Nelson, C.S.C., and Mr. John Klingenschmidt, C.S.C.
Others on the Roll for the first time are John M. Applebe, Ernest Brock, Henry M. Castello, Patrick H. Charbe-neau, Brother Felician, C.S.C., Robert W. Cochran, Brother Peter, C.S.C., Robert J. Dashbach, Donald W. Dohnaleck, Brother Keric, C.S.C., William E. Donze, Richard M. Elghammer, Sheldon L. Fellman, Joseph C. Garbarini, Charles E. Glaser, Donald R. Griffith, Edward E. Hamel, Peter V. Hammill, John P. Harm, John M. Head, Daniel W. Johnston, Charles F. Krecke, Robert E. Lee, Keith Lusted, William J. Marshall, Charles F. Miserendino, James P. Malloy, Faris S. Monsour, Joseph P. Murphy, George Redmond, Robert M. Reynolds, John J. Sullivan, Joseph A. Thie, Marvin L. Thombeau, Robert J. Tufano, Claire E. Towers, John Van Boven, Richard D. Vieth, Robert L. Vosburg, William W. Wilkinson, Robert E. Wi-tucki.
Medical Aptitude Test Scheduled For Friday
On Friday, April 13, at 3 p.m. the Association of American Medical Schools will give a medical aptitude test at Notre Dame.
The Association designed and prepared the test to study students’ retentive ability in his general information capacity. This test is voluntary, but premedical students must take it before entering medical school.
All students who intend to take the test must pay a $1.50 fee. Th test will be administered in room 109 of the Biology building under the instruction of Dr. Mizelle and Mr. Plunkett. Students should make an effort to be there before 2:50 p.m.
Seven More Notre Dame Men Make Supreme Sacrifice
According to the latest casualty list to reach the editorial offices of the Scholastic, the number of war dead from the University now totals 207. There are 35 missing, and 31 captured. Since the last listing, in the issue of March 23, information has been received concerning the following men:
★201 Capt. George William Ball, ’36, killed in action, March 2, with the infantry division in Germany.
★202 Lieut, (jg) Paul Philip Di-Crocco, ’39, killed in action while in the Pacific area, on June 18, 1944.
★203 Lieut. John E. Chevigny, US-MC, ’31, killed in action in the first day’s fighting on Iwo Jima, Feb. 19.
★204 Capt. Leo S. Hillebrand, Jr., ’41, killed in action on Iwo Jima, Feb. 20. He was with the Fourth Marine division, and had been overseas for 13 months.
★205 Cpl. Dewey C. Mann, ex-’45, killed in action while serving with the Third army in Germany. He was with the 10th Armored Division.
NROTC Assigns New
Staff for Irish Pennant
Volume seven of The Irish Pennant, publication of the Naval ROTC unit, will go to press within the next two weeks, according to present plans of the co-editors, Stan Dean and Dave Armstrong. Last term The Irish Pennant came out as the annual for the graduating class of ROTC men; but this term will see the return of the magazine form.
Complete reorganization of the staff has caused some delay in getting material ready for the first issue, but the initial appearance of The Irish Pennant is tentatively set for April 14. Besides co-editors Dean and Armstrong, Jim Barlow, Tom Devine, Norbert Geier, Larry Sims, Paul Weyrauch, Joe Lauck, Jim Cassidy, Pete Gaydos, and Tom Brownell are assisting with the magazine. Brownell will lend his cartooning abilities to the cause. The Irish Pennant is scheduled for three issues during the current term. It is specifically a publication for and about the Naval ROTC unit on the Notre Dame campus, giving the "inside story” on men and events that evade the public eye.
The Irish Pennant began with the inception of the ROTC unit on this campus in 1941. Lt. A. E; Coryn, who has been the faculty adviser in the past, is on special sea duty at present. Lt. Pillar will be the adviser during the absence of Mr. Coryn.—Paul Weyrauch
★206 Pfc. Harry Joseph Osborne, Jr., ex-’45, killed in action in Germany on March 10.
★207 Lieut. John Keyes Qolff, ex-’45, killed in action on Dec. 18 over Yugoslavia while piloting a B-24 bomber. He had completed 50 missions, and had received the Air Medal, and the Presidential Unit Citation. He was previously reported missing in action.
Marleau James Cragin, 2/c, ex-’42, missing in action.
Lieut. Frank Michael Cusick, ex-’45, missing in action over Germany.
Capt. Arthur John Humby, ’41, previously reported here as missing, in action, is now reported found.
Pvt. James Frederick Landgren, ’44, of the infantry, reported missing in action.
Pvt. Warren Denis Leary, Jr., ’44, missing in action in Belgium.
Lieut. Leo William Shields, ’41, missing in action.
V-12 Holds Initial
Monthly Inspection
The first regular monthly inspection for the V-12 unit of the new semester was held last Saturday morning at 1100. A new inspection procedure was inaugurated to enable the expedition of the personnel and barracks inspection in order that both would be completed in time for the 1215 noon meal formation. Formerly the inspections were conducted from 1300 until 1500 thereby consuming two hours of what would ordinarily be liberty time.
Under the new arrangement, personnel inspection is carried on out of doors while, at the same time, inspecting parties are circulating throughout each company area.
In last Saturday’s inspection, Lieut. Commander Olney inspected Second Battalion personnel and Lieut. Beatty inspected First Battalion personnel. Lt. (j.g.) Lamson, Lt. (j.g.) Brewbaker, Ensign Hummon, Chief Scharff, and Specialists Le Page and Wardley inspected the respective company areas in the barracks.
Immediately after chow, the entire regiment fell out for review. The regiment was reviewed by the Executive Officer and the Executive Staff as well as by newly-commissioned Ensign Palmer Amundson, former Regimental Commander of the Notre Dame V-12 unit.
8
THE MONTHLY JANITORS' CONVENTION
Last week was the first inspection and there was the usual convention of disgruntled characters who had not learned, from enlistment papers, that the V-12 was to be a charwoman, streetcleaner, and upstairs maid as well as an officer’s candidate. Specialist Durdach arranged with Wardley to have two E.P.D. boys assigned to help him carry demerit cards. Specialist Von Pinnon caught several Company C boys by performing a white glove test on the soles of their shoes and by accusing curly-headed trainees of “Irish pennants on the cranium.” Westenkirchner was caught because the inspecting officer could still smell Bob Whitcomb’s cigar. ’ though not specifically mentioned in regs the aroma of Whitcomb’s ropes is usually worth about 20 demerits. The great mystery of the entire affair is that after spending a full hour cussing the laziness of seamen, despondently lamenting the hopeless futility of our efforts and upbraiding the treason-approaching appearance of every room; the usual muster notice conclusion is, “Orderly Barracks.”
. ♦
MAKE WITH THE SUNSHINE
riding addicts who delight in looking back at a wake of crushed flower beds. She held the bridle of a noble steed with high, intellectual hips; one white eye, and “Mishawaka Dairy” branded on its haunches, and told me that one is indeed blase who has not clung to the pommel of an English saddle while Dobbin takes the long way over- mulberry bushes. Upon learning that I would stick to hitch-hiking for transportation and Chinese checkers for amusement, she mounted her* walking glue, factory with a hue in one hand and a cry in the other and went in search of Specialist Zuckowsky who will ride on anything to save a bus token.
♦
GOTTA FAG?
Somebody in Sorin, the other day, was telling me about a cigarette shortage. It seems as though it took a war to prove that Marvels are worth crowing about. Chow hall girls still recommend their own chewing compound of paraffin and Bull Durham and Doctor Hennion of the Chemistry Department is working on the synthesis of a La Palina. St. Mary Girls have not, as yet, figured out a dignified manner of “rolling your own” but they still have the sharpest eyes in South Bend for banker’s butts.
Father Molter of the Biology Department assigned his entire Botany class to the collection of corn silk and only Clashmore Mike expressed complete indifference over the shortage.
♦
THE HALL OF FAME
This week’s jug of double-duty, hydraulic gargling oil goes to Vincent “I’m a Friend of Dahlem” Strecker of Company A. Besides being the only deck with pre-med preference on the station as well as one of the two Tertiarys in the unit; Vince is the first man ever to get a 95 in Heavy Apparatus.
♦
HERE IS THE GORY STORY
“Pardon me,” said the man with the side whiskers as he turned in his seat on the Sample Street bus, “ but isn’t your name Gene Diamond?”
The answer is “yes” and this column, for this week, comes in the nature of Art-less comment with the aforesaid person as its author. Diamond is that campus character, dressed in Scotch plaid toweling, who usually looks like one eye is peering into the zodias while the other gazes into the middle of next week. He is harmless, this column notwithstanding.
Student Council Meeting To Be Held Monday Night
Frank Linehan, president of the Student Council, has announced that the regular meeting of the Council will be held next Monday night at 7:30 in the basement of the Law building.
A number of matters important to the student body will be discussed and prompt attendance by all members is urged in order to expedite the meeting.
AND FLOWERS
This is spring which means offensive to Zhukov, perspiration to Devore, a squirm to the caterpillar and hope for bachelor girls. Also for young American noblemen who own a plug hat, a swallow tail coat and that “out at the elbows” disposition, Spring means riding of the on “horseback” type. Last Sunday, while anticipating nothing more strenuous than the usual Service Center mush and milk sociable, I was accosted and waylaid by the female of this species. She was not unlike a she-ele-phant and spent most of her Sundays prepping for the Irish sweepstakes. I knew she was an athlete right away, because she had a dewey eye and perfume like a breath of timothy hay and her merry laugh rippled upon the spring air like the joyful music of baldheaded bobolinks. She was one of these horse-
9
Notre Dame Men Enjoy the Golf Course Despite War Restrictions on Equipment
rpcii
BY JAMES F. McCarthy
From out of the lockers come mashies and drivers as a rabid band of enthusiasts turn once again to the greens and fairways. The little white ball (if one can be found these days) rolls into the spotlight once more, and with it comes the story of golf at Notre Dame.
Developing just prior to the opening of the William J. Burke Golf Course in 1928, golf interest at Notre Dame had its real beginning in 1930 when the University sponsored its first varsity team. At that time only 100 students and faculty members golfed with any degree of regularity, but from 1935 the play during April and May has averaged over 200 rounds daily. A census taken in 1940 revealed that 700 students and faculty members played golf regularly, or approximately one-fourth of the student body.
Varsity golf in its sixteen year history at N. D., has compiled an enviable record. The first teams were organized and sponsored by the students who, in playing their schedule, paid their own expenses both in 1928 and ’29. Coming under University sponsorship in 1930, golf won recognition as a minor sport, and in 1933, Notre Dame’s former President Bishop O’Hara appointed Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C. coach of golf and director of the University Golf Course.
Present records reveal that in 99 dual matches, during which the team met all the Western Conference Universities and other teams from the Midwest and South, Notre Dame has won 79, lost 18, and tied 2, giving the team a record percentage of .810.
During 1930, 31-32 the team won 17
Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C.
straight matches, and in ’33, ’34-’35 the golfers took 20 in a row. The teams of 1930-’31-’33-’34 went through their seasons undefeated and untied. Over a twelve year period Notre Dame won 12 team titles in the Indiana Inter-Collegiate Tournaments, eight of these victories running in an unbroken chain
from 1933 to 1940 inclusive.
Of the Notre Dame teams entered in the National Inter-Collegiate golf tournaments, (this tournament came under N.C.A.A. sponsorship in 1939) the 1944 aggregation walked off with top honors, one team took second place, and three teams have placed third. The Notre Dame Golf team of 1934 was the first
"Down the fairways. . .
team in the history of the Tournament to qualify five men for match play.
Along with good team play, Father Holderith’s golfers have contributed many outstanding individuals to the N.C.A.A. tourneys. Larry Moller, captain of the 1930 team, was a medalist in tournament play, but lost to George Dunlop of Princeton in the finals. Moller was elected president of the National Inter-Collegiate Association in 1931. In 1933 John Banks tied for Medal Honors, and in 1934 Winfield S. Day lost one down to the Champion Charlie Yeats in the quarter finals. The record in National Amateur play of 140 strokes set by Bob Jones was broken in 1939 by Tommy Sheehan of Notre Dame when Sheehan qualified for the National Amateur Tourney with 139.
With approximately one-fourth of the student body playing golf, the course has long been a center of Intra-mural sports activity here at Notre Dame. In years past Inter-Hall, Faculty, and Alumni Campus Club tournaments have been held, along with the Freshmen competitive matches. The 72 hole University Open Golf Championship Tournament was formerly held in September of each year. In this play the record low score of 286 was made by Tommy Sheehan in 1938. Student competition in (Continued on page 19)
1945 Bengal Aspirants
Eyeing April 25, date of the semi- e finals of the University Boxing Cham- d pionships, fighters in this year’s bouts went into heavy work this week under the watchful eyes of Instructors Dur- p dach and Buono. Body punching on the jy heavy bags and extensive track lapping j constitute the body of the daily work- . £( outs. Twice a week the boys don the । fj gloves and protective headgears to enter j ft the ring for three-minute rounds, tak- , c] ing time out only for extra pointers on ' ti footwork and position.	a
Thus far Don White, a V-12 trainee p and novice champ of last semester, is g unopposed in the 118-pound class but is d; hopeful that some competition will show B up. If not, he’ll go up a class to meet tithe 127-pounders. In this class Gene a Sterrett, another novice champ, is lead- t( ing the field in the intensity of his work- fi outs. He plans on plenty of competition li from fellow civilians, Frank Craig and o Ernie Raucsher, one of the few men n returning from last year’s show. Ernie B battled his way to the finals in the 1944 p;
The Boys Will be ai Ago
10

1945 Gridmen Developing Under Devore;
Practice Game Scheduled With "Old Hands"
BY JOHN FEENEY
ants Intensify Training
- edition of the bouts, and lost on a split i- decision.
s The 135-pound division seems to be the r hottest class of all eight, with five ex-’■	perienced men vying for honors. Jack
e	McGrath, returning champ from the
S 1944 bouts, leads the list of present contenders, but Jim Kitson, a newcomer to e । the ring at Notre Dame, has signified r j his intention of bringing at least one > । championship home to the R.O.T.C. conn ' tingent on the campus. J. A. Hasten, another R.O. and a winner in the show, e	put on last November by Marine Sers	geant Joe Santos and Specialist Dur-
s	dach, will be right in there swinging,
v	He has been leading the pack around
it	the indoor track almost every afternoon
e	and from his training seems quite in-
1-	tent upon adding another crown to his
fistic laurels. Pasquarella and Summer-n lin round out the list in this class, both d of them fast and shifty, the former a n novice champion. Coaches Durdach and e Buono have already expressed the sym-4 pathy they have for the judges who’ll be
a. Again Come April 25
With more than a week of practice already completed, some 59-odd candidates for the 1945 Irish football machine are working daily on the Cartier Field sod under the watchful guidance of Coach Hugh Devore and his corps of assistants. Mild though wet weather has prevailed, thus enabling the pigskin hopefuls to work long and fruitfully.
Even more rare than Army’s victories over Notre Dame are the returning lettermen with only four of these in sight at this writing. End, Bob Skoglund; tackle, Pete Berezney; halfback, Elmer Angsman; and guard, John Mastran-gelo, constitute a quorum in this department while three others—quarterback, Frank Dancewicz; center, Frank Szymanski; and guard, Fred Rovai—are ex
forced to decide the new champ from this class. -
At 145 pounds the nod so far goes to veteran Kermit Rousseve, who was Indiana state titlist at this weight in 1942. Frenchie took the Bengal championship that year, then journeyed down to Indianapolis with other N.D. hopefuls, annexed the state crown after a series of battles with other leading amateurs of the state. He left school for the army that year, returning this semester after receiving a medical discharge. An old hand at the game, he has been training seriously so as to enter the ring in tiptop shape.
John Groves, interhall champ of the show last fall and a Navy student, figures on giving Rousseve plenty of trouble. He’ll be aided and abetted in the “Stop Rousseve” campaign by Joe Kos-nik, another V-12 candidate who has shown great promise in the workouts this far, civilian Tom Terrill, Lou Al-masi, a Navy trainee who was eliminated in the novice bouts, and Paul Goodman, likewise a Navy man.
“Look to the lighter classes for plenty of spirit and lots of ability,” say the coaches, “for thus far they have shown the greatest enthusiasm and have worked hard to get into shape.” Some elimination bouts in these classes null be held at the regular time for workouts so that the present ranks will be diminished to four contenders in each class by the time of the semi-finals, when the leading contenders will go into the ring to be decided the best on the campus:
pected in July with the opening of the summer semester.	-
Holding forth in lieu of the departed veterans of 1944 are seven novices on the temporary first eleven. Center, Tom Schreiber; tackle, Jack Fallon; quarterback, George Ratterman; and fullback, Frank Ruggeiro, only squadmen last season, are now showing their wares as regulars, pro tem., at least. The three other slots on the elite team are filled by Bruno Opela at end; Tom Potter, formerly a student at Fordham, at guard; and Felice at halfback. Others who have caught the eye of the alert line coaches are Ackerman and Wykins at end positions; Ducato, Du Bueno, and Welsh at the tackles; Ganey and Fay at the guards; and Stanczevic and Schmidt at center.
In the backfield Roger Cadieux at quarter; Johnson, Gompers, Zehlers, En-triken, Porter, Slovak, and Le Brou at the halfback posts; and Flood and Bockheim at full, were singled out for laurels.
Because practice is only in its early stages the names of many able and talented gridders may be omitted in this review. However, as the drills progress, those meriting the plaudits will certainly receive them.
A best-two-of-three series of practice encounters will be held in the near future between the embryonic varsity and the players from last year who are still in the vicinity of South Bend, but who, for various reasons, are not participating in spring workouts. Among these latter are such aces as Bob Kelly, Frank Szymanski, Frank Dancewicz, Mike Manzo, Joe Gasparella, Marty Wendell, Jim Brennan, John Adams, and Steve Toczylowski.
The first of these clashes with the “alumni” is on the docket for either tomorrow oi’ Sunday, depending on the climatic conditions and the disposition of the coaching staff. The other two will materialize shortly thereafter.
Assisting the head Irish mentor in conducting the sessions are Wally Ziemba, line coach; Gene Ronzani, backfield tutor; Ken Stilley, another- line coach; Harry Jacunski, who will handle the ends. Lieut. Carey Brubaker, V-12 officer, who served on McKeever’s staff last fall, also is expected to lend assistance, as is “Jake” Kline during the late summer drills when he has no basebailers at his disposal.
II
Stilley and Jacunski Signed as Coaches
With the signing of Harry Jacunski, end on the Green Bay Packers, National Professional League champions, for the past six years, as end coach, the football coaching staff at Notre Dame is complete for the first time since the resignation of Ed McKeever as head coach in February. Jacunski, who replaced Clem Crowe on the staff, reported for his new duties Tuesday.
Late last week Ken Stilley, a tackle on the Notre Dame teams of 1933-34-35, was signed as line coach to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Adam Walsh. Stilley as a member of the 1935 Notre Dame team participated in the thrilling Irish 18-13 victory over Ohio State in Columbus.
Head Coach Devore now has as his assistants in addition to Jacunski and Stilley, Gene Ronzani, who was recently signed as backfield coach, and Walter Ziemba. Clarence “Jake” Kline is now fully engaged as baseball coach but he will assist Coach Devore in the fall.
Jacunski was graduated from Fordham in 1939 and was a star end on the great Fordham teams of 1936-37-38. Devore was then end coach at Fordham and the line coach was Frank Leahy, Notre Dame’s director of athletics and football coach on leave for the duration while serving as a Navy lieutenant. Jackunski makes his home in New Britain, Conn.
Stilley has been head coach at several Pennsylvania high schools since he graduated from Notre Dame in 1936. He first was head football coach at Allentown and later held a similar position at Altoona Catholic, Clairton and North Side Catholic High schools. He coached at the last-named high school, which is located in Pittsburgh, for the last two years.
Track Opening Postponed
Early this week the call for the outdoor track team candidates to report was issued and a large contingent greeted Coach Elvin “Doc” Handy yesterday. Workouts are now in progress and will continue daily without interruption until the season’s opening meet. The dual engagement, originally arranged for April 21 with DePauw University of Greencastle, Ind., has been cancelled because that school has abandoned track for the year. Coach Handy is casting about for another opponent but, because of the lateness of the date, is somewhat skeptical about getting one. Nevertheless negotiations with several other schools are in the offing.
“I have all my men from the indoor
meets returning,” said the boss of the thinclads, “but they may not be enough. Several new men will bolster the squad; even so we’ll not be very deep in many events and I’ll be forced to use men more often than I would if I could avoid it. Mark down the prospects as ‘just fair.’ ”
Veterans available to Handy include versatile Bill Tully, mile and half-mile; Dave Murphy and Fred Jones, 440 and sprints; Bob Schirmer, 440; Bob La Borte, sprints; Steve Provost, half-mile; Bill O’Neill and “Red” Walsh, hurdles; Joe Kelly, shot put and discus; and Bob Vosburg and Ray Struble, pole vault. Augmenting these are the aforementioned inexperienced candidates who may prove to be valuable assets.
The Drake Relays may furnish Notre Dame with its first competition of the season if the plans for an earlier dual meet fail to materialize. During the course of the schedule, the Handymen will engage Wisconsin, Iowa Pre-Flight, Drake, Illinois, and Western Michigan. In addition there are three other meets on the docket in which many teams will be involved—the Indiana State Meet at Bloomington; the Central Collegiate Meet at Milwaukee, Wis.; and the National Meet at a site not yet determined.
Klinemen Prepare for
Season's Opening Day
Interference from rainy weather and from the Easter holiday hampered Coach “Jake” Kline during the past week from holding lengthy outdoor drills, but he was able to make a “cut” in the squad bringing the number of those still candidates to 26. Coach Kline lost the services of the three returning lettermen when Frank Ciszczon, veteran third baseman, left last week to enter the Army Air Corps. This leaves pitcher Jack Barrett and Frank Gilhooley as the only returning veterans.
Most of the starting positions are still being keenly contested for, and Coach Kline would not hazard naming any of the starters for the opening game of the season next Saturday with Indiana University. The opening at third base caused by Ciszczon’s departure compelled Coach Kline to change several infielders to other posts.
John Suty and Jim McGurk are still battling it out for the initial sack berth with Bob Orem also vying for the job. Tom Martin is now a candidate for second base, competing with Bill Oatis for the post. Bill Hassett looks like the starting shortstop with Pete Castelli as his rival. Johnny Dee has shifted to third base and is trying to win the starting role from George Schneider and John Harm. -
Frank Gilhooley, Al Wittingham, and Leo Kelly are the leading candidates for the three outfield positions. Three catching aspirants are still in the running for the number one catching assignment. They are Bill Tracy, Leo Murphy and Emil Koluch.
With the addition of John LeBrow to the pitching ranks, Coach Kline now has four southpaws as candidates in addition to five men who throw from the opposite side. Other than Le Brow the left-handers are Bill Albert, Harry Ramsey and Jim Smith. Jack Barrett, Jack Stewart, Joe Gehring, Frank Foss, and Dick Laux are the righthanded -mounds-men.
Coach Kline is hopeful that a change in the weather conditions will occur so that his charges can get in additional outdoor work for the opening games. In addition to Indiana other teams on the schedule include Michigan, Purdue, Bunker Hill Naval Training Station, Northwestern, Iowa Pre-Flight, Great Lakes and others.
PERSONAL STATIONERY for MEN
Highest grade rag content bond. 50 sheets and envelopes to the box. Monarch size, 714 x 10%, with large envelopes.
Price including printing $3.00 Unprinted $1.50
We will pay postage.
DON MERRILL, Printer 60 Hollywood Avenne East Orange, N. J.
HOLD THAT HAIRLIHEI
KoImm pad add aM* cawdtpaad o* roadiM, 4|0<oai appunaca. Lal •wMwd jradutat aa-aadoa year bait Md (calp ...teat dw real c*m ol NCtdinf baidina. Rea ’ twlaiHM. TiaotaoMti
Phone 4-1481
HAF P-D METHOD MEN’S SHOP
The DIAMOND is the Birthstone for April
ooo
KRAUSS JEWELRY CO.
207 N. Michigan St.
12
New Interhall Athletics Program is Outlined
By JACK MILES
Interhall athletics appear to be in for a busy semester. Naturally, the most outstanding event of the term is the approaching Bengal Bouts — finals to be held on May 4.
Aside from the Bouts, however, four outdoor sports and two of the indoor variety are on the docket for this spring.
A handball tournament is scheduled to begin this month. There will be competition both in singles and doubles. If one desires to enter, he need only make known his intention to any member of the Physical Education department be-’ fore April 16.	'
Tennis will receive its share of the interhall attention. Entries should be made with Mr. Langford on the tennis courts before May 1.
On May 12 and 13, eliminations will take place in golf. These eliminations will be medal play. Then the low 16 will be paired for match play.
Play begins May 15 in the softball elimination tournament. Two leagues will be formed — one composed of civilians, and the other made up of Navy trainees. At the conclusion of regular play, the champions of the two leagues will meet to determine the campus championship. The competitive unit for civilians will be the hall; for the sailors, the company. All games will be played at 4:15 p.m.
Volleyball will begin at the same time, and will be conducted exactly as softball. However, teams representing established campus clubs may enter.
Information regarding the open swimming meet to be held May 16 may be obtained by consulting the Rockne Memorial bulletin board.
By TOM McCAUGHEY
JIM CLYNES
Co-captain of the Notre Dame golf team of 1945 . . . Pride of his home town, Ithaca, New York . . . Senior in Liberal Arts, majoring in Economics . . . Often referred to as “Boss” by his associates in Sorin Hall’s famed political machine . . .
Served his term as President of the Economic Round Table and the ambitious lad was also vice-president of the Glee Club . . . Swung a lot of deals during his N.D. career and his peak was reached in and around election time on the Student Council . . .
One of his biggest thrills was winning the Ithica Country Club senior golf championship before entering Notre Dame. . . Bridge is one of his favorite pastimes. . . . claims J. “Dock” Dock-weiler as his partner and the duo has
0,

Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251

FLOWERS
Make her heart thrill with a gift of beautiful flowers from our fine selection.
Cut Flowers
WILLIAMS
West of the Oliver Hotel
PHONE 3-5149
THESE NAMES ARE FAMOUS for QUALITY
ARROW Shirts and Neckwear	COOPER Underwear
VAN HEUSEN Shirts and Sportswear	BRENTWOOD Sweaters
B. V. D. Underwear and Sportswear	MARLBORO Sportswear
McGREGOR Sportswear	HICKOK Belts and Braces
SUPERBA — BOTANY	— WEMBLEY Ties
ARCH PRESERVER and BRITISH WALKER Footwear DUNLAY and PORTIS Hats WELBROOK Clothes
You'll find them all at
ROBERTSILVS
of
211 S. MICHIGAN ST.
taken on allcomers and usually succeeds in ending up on top. . . This weeks’s hero hangs his hat in 227 Sorin—that is, when he’s not on the golf course or down at Rosie’s having some of his favorite spaghetti. . .
They tell me he has a brother in Cavanaugh. . . . and the younger generation is reported to be following in brother Jim’s footsteps. . . Everyone to their own choice, not that we don’t like Jim
It is rumored that Jim has an “inter-
IFAen you’re down-town . . .
Books Stationery Greeting Cards Gifts
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan
Really FINE FOOD
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
--------Try Our	■ Spaghetti, Steaks, Chops, with crisp French Fries, green salad, basket of fresh Italian bread.
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
est” over at St. Mary’s; but Jim’s the strong, silent type and offers no comment.
Graduating in June with cum laude honors. . . . will continue his studies at Cornell’s Law School in Ithica.
N.D. Men Pilot "Mariner"
Herb S. Melton, ’42, of Paducah, Ky., and Glenn F. Menhennett, ex. ’44, of Kremmling, Colo., received their wings and commissions recently and are at present stationed at Corpus Christi, Texas, being scheduled to take off for the West Coast and the Pacific about the middle of May.
Their gigantic flying boat, the P.B.M. “Mariner,” — Navy’s largest Patrol Bomber and the last thing in comfort— has a 118 ft. wing span, is 80 ft. in length, carries 3,496 gallons of gas, and can more than hold her own in combat. Both pilots were outstanding students at the University.
Notre Dame BOOKS for
Notre Dame Men
Campus Centenary Publications
An abiding gift with the flavor of the campus. Order today!
NOTRE DAME — 100 YEARS $4.00
COLLECTED POEMS OF CHARLES L. O'DONNELL. C.S.C. $2.50
The Set — $5.00 •
These books mailed in an attractive box. Direct orders to:
PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame, Indiana
A Notre Dame Tradition
14
St. Joe Valley Alumni to Honor Memory of Rockne
On Sunday morning, the Alumni Club of the St. Joe Valley will honor the memory of Knute K. Rockne, by attending a Memorial Mass in the chapel of Dillon hall. The Mass will be celebrated at 8 o’clock by the chaplain of the club, Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C., of Saint Mary’s College. After the Mass, there will be a breakfast served in the cafeteria. The members will then adjourn to the lounge of the Rockne Fieldhouse.
The principal speaker for the gathering in the lounge has not yet been announced, other than the fact that he will be a man who was a close personal friend of the late Notre Dame coach.
The arrangements for the affair, which is annually held on the Sunday nearest the anniversary of Rockne’s death, will be in charge of George Koch, ’25, of South Bend. Later in the day a wreath will be placed on Mr. Rockne’s grave by members of the club.
• Greeting Cards
• Artists’ Supplies
• Picture Framing
I. W. Lower Co
DECORATORS
128 North Michigan Street
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
Four Officers Transferred
The transfer of four officers of the Naval training station at the University of Notre Dame has recently been announced.
Lieut. Comm. H. Samuel Faust, who has been serving as assistant head of the seamanship department of the midshipman school, has left for Washington for further instruction on his reassignment. Commander Faust was a teacher in Lewistown, Penn., previous to his entrance into the navy. He holds degrees from Pennsylvania State university and Susquehanna university. Commander Faust has been stationed at Notre Dame since Dec. 28, 1942.
Lieut. Sheldon L. Beatty, who has served as a course officer in the V-12 unit, has also left for Washington for reassignment later to the West Coast. He will serve there in the navy’s civil readjustment program. Lieut. Beatty has served at Notre Dame since June, 1943.
Lieut. Richard C. Tefft, administrative aide and transportation officer at the training station, has received his orders to report to Washington for his new assignment. Lieut. Tefft has been at Notre Dame longer than any of the group who have received their orders to new positions. He has been here since October of 1942.
Lieut, (jg) R. M. Hursh, Jr., seamanship instructor in the midshipman school, is the fourth member to depart. His new duties have carried him to Great Lakes.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGAHDUS E. C. BEEBY Optometrists and Mig. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
BOOKS
For Your
Reading Enjoyment
The Robe
Lloyd C. Douglas' all-time best-seller.
"young Bess" "The Violent Riends" "The Wide House" "The Brother" "Tomorrow Will Sing" "Great Son"
"Lower Than Angels" "The Small Back Room'
"Europe Now" "At his Side" "Rolling Stone" "Wars I Have Seen"
And a complete line of other popular novels, recent best sellers, fiction and non-fiction, at

50UTHSH0RE
NEWS CENTER « CI6AR STORE 127 W. Washington St.
“In the J. M. S. Building"
RU
15
Organization of Band Proceeds Under Difficulty
By OCTAVE EMOND
Difficulties encountered by Mr. H. Lee Hope, director of the Notre Dame band, while trying to arrange a schedule of practices convenient to all potential members of the band have forced a change in the pre-arranged schedule of concerts for the spring semester.
Actually there is at present here at the University a group of musicians capable of producing a very efficient musical organization. These men, however, are divided among the various military organizations, plus the civilians, a fact which has precipitated the conflicts arising from attempts to settle on an unanimously satisfactory schedule of practices.
Originally, Mr. Hope had intended to follow a very ambitious schedule which would have kept the band extremely busy. The director has now decided to reduce the number of appearances in proportion to the necessary reduction of practice sessions, hoping in this way to maintain the quality of the organization.
As the concert schedule is now arranged, the band will present one formal concert for the public (to be in the Navy Drill Hall during the latter part of the semester) plus several of the band’s popular “Campus Concert” series, which are special presentations for the entertainment of the students and their guests.
The new schedule of practices arranged by Mr. Hope is as follows: V-12 and civilians at 11:00 o’clock on Tuesdays and Thursdays; all members of the Notre Dame band with the members of the local Midshipman band one evening each week from 6:45 (1845) until 8:15 (2015); all civilian members of the Notre Dame band one evening each week from 6:45 p.m. until 8:15 p.m. The day of the week on which the evening practices are to be held may vary from week to week, and any questions about this program should be directed to Mr. Hope, in room eight, of Music Hall (second floor of Washington Hall).
The Notre Dame band has been cooperating with the war effort by limiting its appearances on the University campus, and men from the V-12 and V-7 units, with the civilians, are cooperating effectively, in the development of their ownjnusical culture as well as that of their own respective organizations and also of their country. It is hoped that the men of the local NROTC unit will also be able to participate in the limited but productive efforts of the band under the talented direction of Mr. Hope.
16
Speaking of Operations!
An invasion fleet of several hundred warships uses some 48,000 telephones—from 1,500 on a battleship to 10 on a motor torpedo hoat. That’s as many as are used by most cities of 160,000!
Our fighting men are using telephones, wire, switchboards, and other communications equipment in huge quantities. And Western Electric workers, peacetime suppliers to the Bell System, are busy meeting those needs.
That is why there are not enough home telephones right now. But we are looking forward to the day when the Bell System can again provide telephone service to anyone, anywhere, at any time.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
"Service to the Nation in Peace and War”
Biology Club Holds First Meeting of Semester
The Biology Club, an organization composed chiefly of pre-meds, met in the Biology Building auditorium Thursday, March 29, to open a new semester of premed activities.
Robert Benes, president, introduced the other officers to the group and then called upon Dr. John D. Mizelle, faculty advisor, to say a few words. Dr. Mizelle traced briefly the history of the club and then expressed a wish for success during the coming semester.
A social get-together of pre-meds and faculty members will be held Thursday, April 12, in Brownson Recreation Hall. Ping-pong, pool, and card games will offer an opportunity for relaxation. Refreshments will be served.
A picnic is planned for late May and Robert Benes is in charge of details.
Elmer Gillespie is in charge of a new club publication “The Pre-Med Pulse,” a proposed biweekly mimeographed paper that will present all the current premed activities and which will also include contributions from the faculty. The first issue should be ready within two weeks.
After a concise report on available medical films to be shown at future meetings the meeting was adjourned.
Golf and Tennis Teams
Inactive Because of Rain
Indiana weather reigned again on the Notre Dame sports scene over the past week-end. Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., golf coach, was unable to accomplish anything over the Easter holidays nor was tennis coach, Walter Langford. Both, however, are planning some activities for next week.
Coach Langford will hold the election for tennis captain sometime in the near future, and it is an even money bet that the honor will be given to either Charles Samson, Jim Griffin, or Bill Tully, stars of last year’s championship team. If Samson should win the title, he will be the first man in the history of the school to be so named twice, as he was the captain last year.
Entries were closed for the golf team on April 3 with the names of about 30 men on the list. Father Holderith is pleased with the fine turnout, and is looking forward to another successful season beginning on April 29 in a match with the University of Detroit. He will begin shortly to get his men into shape.
Seven out of ten terms as governor of North Dakota during the past 20 years have been filled by University of North Dakota graduates.
ELLSWORTH'S
No Man
Ever Has Enough...Ties I
you'll find a choice selection in your favorite name tie at our Men's Shop. Arrow, Manhattan, Wembley and Artcraft are all decked-out for spring!
1.00 to 2.50
Men’s Shop . . . Main floor *	'
17
NTEDS
FROA THE
R£SS BOX
By JIM REGAN
April Fools’ Day arrived a little early for the Scholastic sports editor and as a result yours truly was confined to the infirmary for the week previous to this day with a case of a little-known disease called the “measles.” However, the rest did the writer some good and he approaches the task of writing this column with renewed vigor.
* ❖ .* *
Before presenting a few sports notes we take the opportunity of expressing thanks to the sports staff for the manner in which they covered the sports news last week. A special thanks to John Feeney who wrote this column and carried on the duties of sports editor.
* * * *
However, it wouldn’t be like an editor if he didn’t have some correction to make. Therefore, we mention the fact that John omitted the name of George Ratterman, versatile forward on the Irish basketball team, in listing those
Notre Dame men mentioned for All-American basketball honors. George received honorable mention for The Sporting News’ team.
* # * *
Willie Hoppe, veteran billiard player and holder, of almost every record in this sport at one time or another, made a 500,000 to one shot in the Boston City Club recently. Hoppe hit a record string of 20 straight. He figures that he has a 50-50 chance of making a three-cushion billiard shot. Thus, the 20th straight was roughly a half-a-million to one.
*	* * *
Gunder Haag’s second trip to the United States was anything but a success, for the Swedish middle distance runner broke the tape but once in four starts. This only win came in the K. of C. meet in Cleveland when he completed the one-mile run in 4:16:7, a far cry from his best performance. This victory was tainted also for Jimmy Rafferty, undefeated in this event during the winter season, did not compete. Haag missed his chance to defeat the Irishman when he was unable to reach Buffalo in time for his last scheduled appearance because of lack of an airplane priority.
*	* * #
J. Walter Kennedy, publicity director of Notre Dame, is enjoying a two weeks
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661 702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER, M.D.	M. J. THORNTON. M.D,
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND, IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2574
Miisica Maestro... Have a Coke
(MAKE WITH THE MUSIC)
...or the cue to making friends in Cuba
At fiesta time the gay little isle of Cuba is a mighty cosmopolitan corner of the globe—where the familiar American greeting Have a Coke is just as happily understood as their own native Salud. From Hanover to Havana, the pause that refresbes^i^i friendly Coca-Cola has become a symbol of the good-neighbor spirit.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
u
V)
18
vacation in the East. Kennedy, accompanied by his young son David, visited with his parents in Stamford, Conn., before going to Bear Mountain, N. Y. for a rest.
N. D. GOLF COURSE (Continued from page 10) golf is keen even in wartime, with an Inter-Hall tournament coming up this semester.
During his years as coach Father Hol-derith has brought many outstanding professional golfers to the University to play exhibition matches. In 1935 Olin Dutro and Jimmy Thompson gave a lecture, demonstrated shots, then played a round with the varsity. In 1936 Jimmy Thompson, Lawson Little, and Horton Smith played an exhibition round in which Horton Smith set the course record with a 67, five under par. Al Watrous and Joseph DeVaney of Detroit played a round with members of the varsity in 1936. Then as a special feature of the 1940 Commencement, Walter Hagen, Sr., Johnny Watson of Erskine Park, Joe Kalfus of Maurice Park CC, and Walter Hagen, Jr. played an exhibition match.
In the history of the University Golf course there have been only five holes in one. Tommy Judge in 1940 and Roland Steinle in 1941 made holes in one on no. 6, a hole of 131 yards. Larry Moller in 1932 and Don Birtsch in 1939 made the 172 yards to no. 15 in one ; stroke, and in 1931 Joseph Swister came : into the select group with a hole in one , on no. 17, a hole of 203 yards.
; The histoiy of golf at Notre Dame, i crowned with the N.C.A.A. championship in 1944, is an outstanding one. Golf, , both varsity and intra-mural, has earned / a large share of the sports spotlight. . And so, as the golfers prepare to start ; a new campaign with a national cham, pionship under their belt, here’s wishing them good golfing.
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
Here is a raincoat that’s smartly efficient in its performance against the elements ... You can depend upon it, just as sure as it’s
going to rain some more.
$]J.5O
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Others $7.95 to $21.75
ON THE CORNER... MKHI6AN ( WSHH6RM
19
Copyright 1945, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
JOAN Me RA KN
dancing comedienne of "bloomer girl
NEW YORK’S MUSICAL HIT



MWtn* MURS
PLOS
00
FROM EVERY ANGLE
REAL MILDNESS AND A COOLER SMOKE
ENJOY ALL CHESTERFIELD’S WORLD’S
THE BENEFITS OF RIGHT COMBINATION BEST TOBACCOS