THE CAMPUS SHOP PRESENTS A DISTINGUISHED BRITISH VISITOR!
IMPORTED RAINWEAR
BY BARACUTA
The Windsor, illustrated
$37.50
The Windsor, illustrated, is a versatile coat by Baracuta, famed as the makers of “Britain’s finest rainwear.” Styled for all-weather, yearround wear, it is tailored of water-repellent cotton gabardine with a silken texture exclusive to these fine coats, single breasted, fly front styling with a lively cotton poplin plaid lining that keeps out chill. Natural or true Oyster white. Regulars, short or long sizes.
^GILBERT'S
On the Campus—Notre Dame
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY:
No Carrying Charge
Whether you need a handsome new raincoat, a suit, sport coat, topcoat, or haberdashery, you can get it now . . . when you need it... and charge it the Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in January, one-third in February, and one-third in March. Use this convenient charge account for all of your clothing needs . . . never an interest or carrying charge!
On Campus
MotShuhnan
{Author of “J JFasa Teen-aye Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
WHAT TO DO TILL THE PSYCHIATRIST COMES
Once upon a time at the University of Virginia then; was a cor'd named, oddly enough, Virginia University who was handsome and kindly and intelligent, and ingeniously constructed and majoring in psychology. Virginia went steady with a young man on campus named, oddly enough, Oddly Enough who was supple and fair and lithe and animated and majoring in phys ed.
Virginia and Oddly enjoyed a romance that was as idyllic as a summer day, as placid ns a millpond. Never did they fight—never, never, never—because Virginia, who was majoring in psychology, did not believe in fighting. “Fighting,” she often said, “settles nothing. The scientific way is to look calmly for the cause of the friction.”'
So whenever she and Oddly were on the verge of a quarrel, she used to whip out a series of ink blot, tests and they would discover the true underlying cause of their dispute and deni with it in an enlightened, dispassionate manner.Then, (he irritant removed, their romance would resume its tranquil, serene, unruflled course.
After six months of this sedate liaison, Oddly was so bored he could spit. He loved Virginia well enough, but he also believed that people in love ought, to fight now and then, “It. opens the pores,” he said. “And besides, it's
so much fun making up afterwards.”
But. Virginia would not. be provoked into a quarrel. One night, Oddly tried very hard. “Hey,” he said to her, "your nose looks like a banana, and your ears look like radar antenna, and your face looks like a pan of worms.”
“My goodness, we’re hostile tonight!” said Virginia cheerfully and whipped 120 Rorschach cards out of her reticule. "Come,” she said, “let. us examine vour
You too can smoke happily—with Marlboro, or with Marlboro’s unfiltered companion cigarette, Philip Morris— available in regular size or the sensational new king-size Commander. Have a Commander—welcome aboard!
4
psychic apparatus.”
Oddly tried again. “You’re fat and dumb and disagreeable,” he said, “and you’ll be bald before you’re thirty.”
“Humin,” said Virginia thoughtfully and lit a cigarette. “This sounds like an anxiety neurosis with totemism, ana-gogic trauma, and a belt in the back.”
“1 hate you,” said Oddly. “I hate your looks and your clothes and your toenails and your relatives and the cigarettes you smoke.”
“Now, hold on, buster!” cried Virginia, her eyes crackling, her color mounting, her nostrils aflame, “.lust keep a civil tongue in your stupid head when you talk about Marlboro! Nobody’s knocking that filter, that flavor, that pack or flip-top box while there’s breath in my body! It’s a full-flavored smoke, it’s a doozy, it’s a dilly, it's a gas—and anybody who says a word against it gets this.”
By “this” Virginia meant a series of combinations to the head and liver, which
she now delivered to Oddly and turned on her heel and stormed away.
Oddly brought her down with a flying tackle. “I love you with all my heart,” he said.
“And Marlboro?’’ said she.
“And Marlboro even more,” said he.
And they kissed and plaited love knots in one another's hair and were married at Whitsuntide and smoked happily ever after.	© I960 Max Shulman
Editor:
The recent financial grants made by the Ford Foundation have inspired a series of editorials in newspapers across the country hailing this latest impetus’ toward Excellence in our universities. The term “Excellence” is one frequently heard on our own campus and is even found in this magazine on occasion.
However, before we go surging forward to this ‘goal’ I would simply like to ask what it is. For it is clear that there is no separate Platonic Idea of Excellence which will float over the Dome upon completion of a fund-raising project or even upon the erection of thej Midwest’s tallest library.
Rather, it seems that in a university with the primary emphasis on the communication of knowledge and only secondarily on research into new fields the most important thing is the quality of our students. On this level, phrases like “University Excellence” are nearly as vague as some of those offered by our present national political figures. Excellence in itself is nothing and to estab-| lish it as a goal of the university seems unintelligible at best. Let us hope instead that each of our students works as best he can within the academic framework provided here to fulfill his own potential to know and that he achieves at least a start toward his education.
John Burns 329 Walsh
Dear Leo M. Corbaci:
Many thanks from a once starved underclassman for a change in the class hours. Now I even have time for a cigarette!
Sincerely,
A sated luncher.
(Continued on page 25)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23. 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp.. 420 Madison Avenue,\ New York 17. N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors. Box 185. Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic

;	>
R	-	-	1
l	editor-in-chief	J
k	"	CHARLES RIECK	|
f	'
associate editor	_ J
! ROY RUBELI	" J
e.	1
f newr editor	-	)
If THOMAS WEISS	*
Il	-	*
5	'<* v'4y<“V.^v0^
1 features editor	'	I
I THOMAS SULLIVAN	’
A WEEK FOE GREATNESS: Several weeks ago, a senior from Michigan mumbled that Notre Dame just “had” to beat State, and should be put into the proper frame of mind for that. When this word was passed to the Blue Circle and Sorin Hall, action followed with usual efficiency. Last week the student body was treated to “Beat Michigan State Week.” The five days of mostly senseless activity with some old-fashioned confusion succeeded well in its design to upset the campus. The Circle led off by plastering every other rock, tree, and building with its gaudy yellow signs. Then, not one pep rally, but two — held simultaneously on Wednesday. The band had the only clear piece of organization that day by appearing at both rallies. Sorin Hall held its second rally on Thursday with a remarkable scale of values showing — the Kennedy-Nixon debate was timed to coincide. On Friday was held what should have sufficed for any game — the Circle’s well-attended rally and an inspiring bonfire. The results of the week’s pandemonium were obvious when the students participated in what should have remained a spectator sport. With remarkable fairness the student crowd intentionally drowned the calls of State’s quarterback; when the mob jumped onto the field during half-time, they may have surprised the team but certainly gave barbaric insult to the band’s half-time efforts. Were the game’s incidents worth the exaggerated efforts of the Blue Circle and Sorin Hall?
WHO’S NOT: This is the time of the year when most active seniors spend two or three minutes typing out a letter of application for Who’s Who in American Colleges. This is about all they do in the matter since there are no published criteria to judge one’s suitability for the distinction. Some people are picked each year by the board, however, and hence there is some code to make decisions with. Unfortunately, the code is, as it were, a power play between various activities and points of view represented on the board, and compromise seems to be the only law- of judgment day. It is necessary, then, to ask for a statement of specific policy from the board of judges. Whether the decisive factors announced be academic standing, social scoreboard, campus activities, all, neither, or some, we might emerge from our ignorance. At least the candidates for Who’s Who might.	•
s£s>. A.’ ..«S »-v • —	• \ ■ •. Z »' z	» F...W _ ’ Ki. .-■ V w» i * »z»
।	" sports editor	<
JAMES KILROY	1
I	~	~
W.	'
i copy editor	z ■
I ?	THOMAS MARCINIAK	J
sr x	"	_ i
B	<	r	1
M -	,	.	- - i
•r executive assistant
I1 - WILLIAM VEEDER	‘
. 1
$ ' “ < ~ ’ art ecfitor -	"
I . DENNIS LUCZAK	?
1s ~ ~ ;
.1 photographer e ”
i " x WALTER DALY, Jr.	j
♦	'	s* *	-S,	i
SILENCE: Since the LaFortune Student Center was again closed last Saturday we have been going through our mail hoping to find a letter of explanation from the Student Center manager. Maybe there are serious reasons for causing this inconvenience to- our guests and to the off-campus students who have no other place to entertain their dates. We would like to hear them.
CHOW TIME: The first campus-wide Senior Supper Club meeting seems to have enjoyed quite a bit of success. We must admit that we had personal doubts about its acceptance, but the comments we overheard were favorable for the most part. Especially praised was the way in which Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., subjected himself to a question and answer session that i-anged from the ever present gripes about lights-out and morning checks to intelligent questions on civil rights and atomic energy. These bi-monthly gatherings can provide a good opportunity for the non-BMOC students to come to know Administration officials as more than just the formulators of rules and regulations. We hope that as many of them as possible will be invited — from both sides of the Dixie.
£	_v	v * v*	i
£	<>	x	* — I
£ business manager _	_	*
K JOSEPH FINNIGAN •’'	1
:r •* %	*»	i
ACTION: We are no less guilty than others in taking the multiple functions of Student Government for granted. But we would like to compliment it, and Student Body President John Keegan in particular, for gaining the concession of all night lights for the evening of the national elections on November 8. We only hope that the student body will show some restraint' and not abuse this privilege. Any misconduct, on anybody’s part, will only postpone the possibility of all night lights that much longer.—R&R
NICOLA’S
Cracker Crust Pizza
•
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. on the hour.
•
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
ON THE COVER: The illustration on the cover is to remind the readers of the symposium, “Power and Democracy in America," to be presented on the evening of October 25. Power is represented by the gears, and Democracy by the meshing of the large, medium and small gears, which is similar to the meshing of the classes in our democratic society.
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME FACULTY AND STUDENTS FOR OVER 38 YEARS. Gifts Wrapped and Mailed To All Parts of the World BLOCK BROS.
Cor. Mich, at Wash, in Downtown So. Bend
RUBIN CLEANERS
Save 20%—Use Student Discount Card ★
217 E. JEFFERSON
Downtown—on the Bus Une
★
Complete Laundry Service
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 40 Years!
Makes your haircut fit your head!
S «-l U» I- T o M
No matter how you like your hair cut—you'll look better when you use Short Cut. This new, non-greasy hair groom adds body to the hair fibers, makes your haircut fit your head. Keeps hair neat, and helps condition your scalp into the bargain. Takes 2 seconds, costs a fast .50 Pius tax
SHORT CUT
HAIR GROOM
9
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
6
The Scholastic
on: fabricated
construction
Although we have heard much in the past of Notre Dame’s two-year-old ten-year building program I have discovered from reliable sorcerers that upon its Q completion a series of five-year plans will follow. The first of these is to be called the New Expansion Program or N.E.P. The contractors foi* this first five year plan are two Russians, Iosif Vissarionovich Dzhugashvili and Vladimir Ilich Ulyanov, noted for renovating and enlarging the famous United States ship, The Republic (more commonly known among the ships of states as the U.S.S.R.).
• A recent Dun & Bradstreet report indicates that Vladimir, having been left a great volume of Capital by his German great uncle Karl, is the financier and consequently handles all the lenin’ and borrowin’. Iosif, because of his stallin’, was never very good at handling lenin’ so he is in charge of most of the construction details. There has been some question of their financial stability as it a has been rumored that for several years they have been operating in the red, but available evidence seems to indicate that they are making sizable gains from a variety of foreign business ventures. The report concludes with two small items of interest: their firm has been known as the “Workers of the World” and they have many revolutionary ideas.
In a recent study of the campus entitled The Revolting Conditions at Notre Dame du Lac they submitted a group of a improvements for the first five-year program. On reading this study I’ve selected some items of interest.
1)	Having become acquainted with the concern in administration and alumni circles over the patches of brown grass which give the lawn in the main quad the appearance of having been mailed, and noticing further that this condition has existed ever since there was heat on the west side of campus, they have suggested that all lawns be reseeded to con
October. 21, 1960
form with this rare species of brown grass.
2)	Upon an intensive study of the existing architectural wonders they detected an unique characteristic common to all of them . . . Notre Dame Brick. To give a further explanation of this term I quote page 1917 of their study. “All buildings are constructed with an apparent paleo-pyramid substance called Notre Dame brick which is found in several age groupings: a) early Notre Dame Brick as found in Sorin, St. Edward and Badin, b) middle-age Notre Dame Brick as in Walsh, Howard and Lyons, c) later-than-middle-age Notre Dame Brick or Knute Rock as in the numerous post World War II edifices and as is proposed for such new construction as the Bricker Amendment to the Law School.” This particular exhaustive study was brought to a hasty conclusion because Vladimir and Iosif were always rushin’. However, they didn’t agree on a new design for the campus until they were driving down Notre Dame Avenue and, while shielding their eyes from the garish and tasteless display of electrical power, Vladimir exclaimed in agony, “We will bury you!” The next morning Iosif presented this suggestion: place a seven-story mountain of dirt over all existing structures. Not only will this simplify the drawing of maps of the campus but this height will leave the golden dome still visible to inspired alumni and will enable it to continue to serve as a check point for aircraft and guided missiles.
3)	On the problem of congested sidewalks at the change of classes they have found that the class struggle was the cause of the problem and they therefore strongly recommended the abolition of all classes. To guarantee the success of this measure they further recommended purging the sidewalks of aU students.
However the largest concern surrounding these ambitious plans remains to be the raising of funds. As in the past, the
financial details will be handled by the former ladies figure control garment industry of South Bend known as the Notre Dame Foundation. Recently their funds were increased by a generous contribution from a concern which has also engineered many a chasis, the Ford Foundation. But these funds will not he sufficient to meet the future needs of this excellent university. Consequently, the following plans have been suggested to raise more dough:
1)	have the Notre Dame bakery use greater quantities of yeast;
2)	melt down the golden dome;
3)	initiate a new Notre Dame tradition: pass the basket at half-time of home football games;
4)	install a “pay as you go” system in the campus washrooms;
5)	apply for a sizable appropriation from the Student Senate;
6)	open a packaged liquor department in the bookstore;
7)	place Red Field in the government Soil Bank program; and
8)	send a brochure to the alumni reminding them that depreciated securities should never be given away. One should sell them, establish a tax loss, and donate the cash.
These are but only a few of the programs which broadminded, farsighted university fathers plan for the years to come. But in order to make these construction goals attainable all the sooner, we must start now. A contribution of any size would sincerely be appreciated. Make all checks payable to William Hanley and send c/o The Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
BOOK SALE
Now on sale at the Bookstore is the recent controversial publication by the University Press, Should An Avowed Roman Catholic be Student Body President?	.
7
STU’S EXPLAINING HOW MACHINES WILL
SOME DAY “OUTTALK” PEOPLE
“Stu” Smith graduated from Southern Cal with a powerful yen for excitement. His kind of excitement—Engineering.
He got what he bargained for (and a little more) when he joined Pacific Telephone. One of Stu’s early assignments was to find out how existing Long Distance networks could be used to pipeline high speed “conversations” between computers in distant cities.
The fact that he did a fine job did not go unnoticed.
Today, four years after starting his telephone career, Senior Engineer Stuart Smith heads a staff of people responsible for telegraph and data transmission engineering in the huge
Los Angeles area. As a pioneer in this new data transmission field Stu predicts data processing machines will some day do more Long Distance “talking” than people.
Stu contacted 12 other companies before joining Pacific Telephone. “I don’t think there’s any limit to where a man can go in the telephone business today. Of course, this isn’t the place for a guy looking for a soft touch. A man gets all the opportunity he can handle right from the start. He’s limited only by how well and how fast he can cut it.”
If Stu’s talking about the kind of opportunity you’re looking for, just visit your Placement Office for literature and additional information.
“Our number one aim is to have in all management jobs the most vital, intelligent, positive and imaginative men we can possibly find."
Frederick R. Kappel, President American Telephone & Telegraph Co.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
«
The Scholastic
0
TO CONSECRATE REV. MENDEZ FIRST BISHOP OF PUERTO RICAN DIOCESE
Cardinal Spellman To Officiate At Ceremonies Here; Prelate To Assume Arecibo Diocese Responsibilities
by JOHN
Rev. Alfred F. Mendez, C.S.C., will be officially consecrated the first bishop of the newly formed Puerto Rican diocese of Arecibo by his Eminence Francis Cardinal Spellman on Friday, Oct. 28, in Sacred Heart Church.
The Most Rev. Edwin V. Byrne, Archbishop of Santa Fe, N.M., and the Most Rev. Richard H. Ackerman, C.Ss.P., Bishop of Covington, Ky., will serve as co-consecrators with the Cardinal-Archbishop of New York at the 10:30 a.m. service. Archbishop Byrne, before as-sumig his present post in 1943, was Ordinary of the Dioceses of Ponce and San Juan in Puerto Rico for 18 years.
a The sermon at the consecration rites • will be delivered by the Most Rev. James
P. Davis, Archbishop of San Juan. Serving as host to members of the hierarchy throughout the United States who plan to attend the rites, will be the Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, Bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend.
Bishop-designate Mendez, elevated by Pope John XXIII to the hierarchy last July 30, will celebrate his first Solemn Pontifical Mass in Sacred Heart Church G on the Feast of Christ the King, October 30, at 11 a.m. On the Feast of All Saints, November 1, he will offer another Solemn Pontifical Mass at St. Mary’s College.
The Rev. Alfred Mendez is a familiar figure around the Notre Dame campus
REV. ALFRED MENDEZ, C.S.C.
McCABE
having served as Prefect in Dillon and Badin Halls, Director of the Placement Bureau, Director of Student Aid, Coordinator of Meetings and Assistant Director of the Summer Session. In addition to the above occupations, he was also the coordinator of the first National Congress of Religious in 1952, and chaplain to the Vetville married students from 1949 to 1952. Previous to these activities he served in the Holy Cross missions in Texas and Louisiana, and most recently was the director- of province development for the Holy Cross Fathers at Notre Dame.
Set Tuesday Morning Symposium Opening
This Tuesday the Distinguished Lecture Series presents the symposium “Power and Democracy in America.” The program will consist of four meetings in the Law Auditorium. Bob Donnellan, chairman of the series, cordially invites everyone interested to attend. Admission is free.
In the first session, at 10:30 a.m., Prof. Delbert C. Miller, connected with the department of sociology at Indiana University, will speak on “Democracy and Decision Making in the Community Power Structure.” Prof. Miller has coauthored many books including Industrial Sociology, Technology and Social Change, and Industry, Labor, and Community.
The second session at 2:15 will feature Prof. Robert A. Dahl of Yale University discussing “Equality, Consent, and Power in American Society.” His background includes co-writing such books as Congress and Foreign Policy, A Preface to Democratic Theory, Politics, Economics, and Welfare.
In the third session at 4 p.m. Prof. Peter F. Drucker, of the Management Division of the graduate Business School of New York University, will talk on “Individual Freedom and Effective Government in a Society,of. Super Powers.” America's Next 20 Years, Landmarks of Tomorrow, and Practice of Management are among Prof. Drucker’s works.
The symposium will conclude at 8 p.m. with a panel discussion moderated by Prof. William D’Antonio of Notre Dame. Dr. Howard J. Ehrlich of Ohio State University will be the discussant, and the panel will be formed of the three speakers from the day’s sessions.
DUKE ELLINGTON
Old favorite blows at SMC.
Ellington Band to Give Concert at St. Mary’s
Duke Ellington, one of the biggest names in jazz, invades O’Laughlin Auditorium Octobei- 24 for a one-night engagement. He brings to St. Mary’s the entire complement of his highly publicized jazz concert band.
The Duke, playing for the most part his own creations, will feature the groups most familar work, “Take the ‘A’ Train,” along with other long standing favorites. An original composition from the 30’s, “Sophisticated Lady,” soloed by Earry Carney, and “Black and Tan Fantasy” written in that same period are also among his concei-t selections. Included in the program will be many of the top standards from Ellington’s most fruitful and imaginative era between 1939 and 1942.
The first big band to play Carnegie Hall, he introduced his most substantial work, “Black, Brown, and Beige” in 1943. According to Barry Ulanov in the Handbook of Jazz Duke Ellington’s repertoire is described as “that extraordinary library altogethei- without equal in this musical idiom.”
In addition to his personal appearance at night clubs, theaters and colleges, the “Duke,” as he is popularly known, has received new acclaim as a television theme composer. To complement this activity he has explored the record field and currently holds an exclusive contract with Columbia. Bringing back the oldies in album form, he has collected some of the most interesting beats. Combining new arrangements with revised versions of former hits, Ellington has branched out into the popular record market.
Tickets for this 8:15 performance may be purchased at the door for $2.50.
9
October 21, 1960
Debaters to Open Season at Kentucky Meet; Team Looks Toward "Promising" Prospects
by FRANK CUIFFO
Sixty-two years ago an inexperienced Notre. Dame Debate Team, arguing against Butler University, received its first taste of intercollegiate debating. Accustomed to nothing more than interhall debates, the team was now in the big league against tough competition. Notre Dame won its first intercollegiate debate, and from that day forward debating has continued to grow in popularity and prestige.
From a small group Notre Dame developed a nationally known and respected team in all forensic activity. Last year Notre Dame finished first in five major intercollegiate tournaments at Mobile, Kentucky, Cincinnati, Miami and Illinois at Navy Pier. They tied for first at Purdue and placed second at Philadelphia, with a third at Notre Dame and Marquette.
Many of their present successes can be attributed to Professor Leonard Sommers who has now coached the team for sixteen years. This year’s officers include President Jay Whitney and Vice-President Guy Powers. Both have had four years of debating experience at Notre Dame. Whitney has recently said that the prospects for this year are exceptionally promising.
This week end Whitney, Powers, Joel Haggard and Chris Lane will travel to the University of Kentucky for the thoroughbred debates. This will be the team’s first major intercollegiate tournament of the season. All with the exception of Lane are
JAY WHITNEY, GUY POWERS A new season and great expectations.
defending champions of this tournament. Other highlights in this fall’s schedule include debates at Texas Christian, Fort Worth, Purdue, Wayne State in Detroit, and Miami.
This year the freshman interest in the team seems to have reached a new high. Over 20 freshmen students are actively participating in debating. Maurice O’Sullivan has been appointed freshman coach, and under his guidance will develop the future team of Notre Dame. Besides an interhall tournament, the novices will travel to the University of South Carolina, the University of Illinois in Chicago. Butler University, and Bradley for various intercollegiate debates.
At the present, Dick Meece is directing the Notre Dame Invitational Tournament. Already many rivals have shown considerable interest in the event, and Meece feels sure that this year’s tournament will be a great success.
Exhibition debates are also one of the team’s big interests. So far this year, three have been held in Chicago and one in Pittsburgh. For the immediate future, plans are made for exhibitions in South Bend and Chicago before various civic groups and high school students.
As in past years the team will sponsor a weekly discussion program, entitled “Controversy,” over WSND. Members of the faculty and other distinguished guests will be interviewed by Notre Dame debaters, and various political, economic and social issues will be discussed. This year’s broadcast promises to be the most interesting of the series.
J. PETER GRACE Scout two to get one.
Grace Named Head Of Three-Year Fund
Appointment of Mr. J. Peter Grace, president of W. R. Grace and Co., New * York, N. Y., as national chairman for a three-year, $18 million University of Notre Dame development program has been announced by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Mr. Grace is vicechairman of Notre Dame’s Associated Board of Lay Trustees.
The Ford Foundation recently awarded Notre Dame a $6 million grant on the condition that the University double that amount in contributions from alum- • ni, friends and other nongovernmental sources during the next three years. Mr. Grace will direct more than 5,000 volunteer workers in 175 cities in a personal solicitation program.
Designated as “top priority” by Father Hesburgh, the three-year program is a segment of the University’s ten-year, $66.6 million “Program for the Future” announced in 1958. The 13-story Memorial Library, to be built beginning next year at a cost of $8 million, is the largest item in the $18 million program. The University has earmarked $4 million for two graduate residence halls, $3.5 million for faculty development, $2 million for student aid and $500,000 to inaugurate a retirement plan for nonacademic employees.
FELLOWS TO BE	,
Interested seniors are reminded * that the deadline for applications for candidates for the Wilson and Fullbright Fellowship programs is October 31. Woodrow Wilson Fellowship applications should be submitted to Professor Frank O’Malley; those for the Fullbright Grants are to be directed to Graduate Dean Rev. Paul Beichner.
10
The Scholastic
9
Professor Pike to Speak On U. S., South America
Dr. Fredrick B. Pike, professor of history at the University of Notre Dame, will give the first of a series of lectures sponsored by the Committee of International Relations at 8 p.m., Oct. 27, in the Rockne Memorial Lounge. Having £ recently completed a tour through South v America, Mr. Pike will speak on “The U. S. Decline in Latin America: Chile and Cuba.”
A graduate of Loyola University of Los Angeles and professor here since 1953, Dr. Pike received his M.A. and Ph.D. from the University of Texas. He has contributed to such periodicals as The Americas, The Hispanic American Historical Review, the Review of Politics and is presently advisory editor of the A Catholic Historical Revierv.
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist • EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED •
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
EXCLUSIVE
NOTRE DAME DANCE CLASSES
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE	CE 2-3339
Italian Government Awards ND Student Research Grant
The Italian government has recently awarded a research grant to Gordon J. DiRenzo, who is studying for his doctorate in sociology at the University of Notre Dame. The grant, one of fifteen offered to American scholars, is for the year beginning Nov. 1. DiRenzo will work principally at the University of Rome studying Italian industry and politics from the viewpoint of social psychology. He holds undergraduate and master’s degrees in sociology from Notre Dame and lives in North Attleboro, Mass.
FOREIGN SERVICE EXAMS
The written examinations for Foreign Service positions are to be held in the near future. All students who intend to take these exams are asked to pick up all the necessary application blanks and all other important literature pertaining to the Foreign Service examinations in the Placement Office.
The Placement Office is located on the floor just above the basement in the Main building. Office hours are 8 a.m. to noon and 1 to 5 p.m. on Monday through Friday. The office is not open on Saturdays.
Mr. Murray this year will subsidize Notre Dame dance classes. The regular rate for 10 class hours is $24.00. Notre Dame students only will receive 10 class hours for $15.00. This amounts to only $1.50 per hour.
You’ll be surprised at how quickly you will become a good dancer at Arthur Murray’s. Even beginners will master several steps the very first lesson. Become a confident dancer and really have fun at your next dance.
ENROLL NOW!
CE 2-3339
/hi Q'uuuun
HMSK
Monday’s Senate meeting was short but not dull. Complemented by its newly elected members, the Senate approved the Mardi Gras budget and wrangled over election difficulties in St. Edward’s Hall.
Rich Jalovec, Mardi Gras chairman, presented an itemized budget for the 1961 Mardi Gras. Expected gross income — $68,070; net income— $41,290. Little was
questioned except for $300 marked for administrative uses at the carnival. This money was for strongboxes.
In the past there have been discrepancies between the amount a booth claims to have taken in and the amount the committee claims they have received from the booth. This year a system of checks and balances will be in effect, including a strongbox for each booth.
All proceeds will be deposited in the box and it will be opened only in the presence of a representative from the booth and the carnival committee.
The Military Ball budget — $2,040 — was also approved Monday.
One of the qualifications for election to the Student Senate is a 3.0 average. Only one resident of St. Edward’s Hall has a 3 average or better! This and confusion as to who was eligible for office, early closing of the balloting and a sizeable write-in vote resulted in an invalid election.
Bob Hellrung, sophomore class president moved that nominations be reopened for St. Edward’s in the new election. This would enable the write-in candidates to get their names on the ballot. In view of the confusion, it was only fair that the nominations be reopened.
Don Rice, student body vice-president, apparently devoted to principle and a strict interpretation of election policies, failed to see this. He argued that the write-in candidates should have known enough to have had themselves nominated before the election.
Many interpretations of the facts were given, with little clarification resulting. The motion finally canned with Don Rice and Wally O’Toole voting against it.
Except for Joel Haggard, senator from Sorin, the new members had little to say. It will be three weks before the new senators receive the privilege of voting.
Senators will be allowed three unexcused cuts a semester. This has a vaguely familiar ring, and it is lamentable that it is necessary.
October 21, 1960
11
Credit to Campus V.I.P.s
You are invited to join this preferred credit group!
How to Get Your
Braniff Courtesy Card
Simple! -Just fill in the coupon below and we will send you the application forms to sign. No red tape. Reasonable assurance of your financial responsibility is all we require.
BRANIFF
AIRWAYS
Good credit is an asset in school—and invaluable later in your business, social and community life. Establish your credit early with a Braniff Courtesy Card, and use it for any trips you make on Braniff. Your Braniff Airways Courtesy Card will eliminate any delay or inconvenience in having cash for your air travel trips. It ends the hazard of carrying a lot of money. It’s a good credit reference at hotels, restaurants and stores. It sets you up instantly, in any situation, as a person with an excellent credit rating.
BRANIFF COURTESY CARD COUPON
District Sales Manager
Braniff International Airways
Palmer House, Suite 305, Chicago, Illinois
Please send me a Braniff Credit Card application blank and complete information concerning its use.
Name______________________________________________________
College or University_____________________________________ SCHOOL ADDRESS
Street No_________________________________________________
City and Zone______________________________________________ State and Country_________________________________________
12
The Scholastic
When the Irish of Notre Dame met the Middies of Navy some 33 years ago in Baltimore, the nation’s longest continuous intersectional football rivalry ® was launched. Under the tutelage of the immortal Knute Rockne, Notre Dame sunk Navy 19-6 and set the pattern for the rest of this hard-fought series; the Irish have won 26, lost 6, and tied 1 under the direction of seven coaches since the days of Rockne. Yet, the tremendous edge enjoyed by Notre Dame is not really indicative of the closeness of the series; twelve games have seen the Irish on top by a margin of seven points or less. The first game of the series found the Irish trailing at the half, 6-0, and only by a second half comeback spear-headed by Christy Flanagan and Johnny Niemiec, did Notre Dame salvage the victory. Last year’s contest saw the Irish trailing 22-14 going into the last quarter; Notre Dame scored, and with a two-point conversion tied the contest. Then, with only 32 seconds remaining in the game, Monty Stickles kicked a 43-yard field goal for a Notre Dame victory.
The keen interest and enthusiasm generated for the annual Notre DameNavy contest is reflected in the huge attendance figures; in the 33 previous contests, a staggering total of 2,145,000 fans have jammed stadiums in Chicago, South Bend, Cleveland, and Baltimore. This is an average of over 65,000 fans 0 per game. The 1960 Navy-Irish clash will take place in Philadelphia, the fifth site of this annual classic. Although this will be the first time that Notre Dame will take the field in Philadelphia against Navy, the Irish are no strangers to the huge Municipal Stadium. Here, in 1957, some 100.000 fans witnessed one of the finest games ever played by a Notre Dame eleven against a heavily favored Army team. The spirited Irish downed the Black Knights of the Hud-£ son by a 23-21 score in a game that gave - birth to such Notre Dame stars as Nick Pietrosante and Monty Stickles.
The 1960 Student Trip to the Navy game will be the second in recent years. In 1958, over 500 students spent an enjoyable week end in Baltimore and Washington; they saw the Irish smash a good Navy team by a 40-20 score in a contest which heralded the stardom of Notre Dame’s Red Mack and Navy’s Joe Bellino. Mack’s collegiate career
' October 21, 1960
came to an unfortunate close earlier this season against Purdue, but Bellino will be on hand to lead the heavily favored Middies. This year, the trip will include some 600 Domers in an excursion which, we hope, will see the Irish bounce back and capture their 27th victory against Navy. Although this years destination is Philadelphia and New York, the goal is the same, another Irish win.
One of the major considerations for this year’s trip was the mode of transportation. Since the trip is intended as a service to the Student Body, bus was finally decided upon because of the cost differential between it and train. Buses offer about a $15 saving, the same traveling time, and direct transportation compared to rail travel. Over 600 students, including the band, will board Greyhound and Indiana Motor Coach busses at approximately 3:00, 4:00 and 5:00 on Friday and will arrive in downtown Philadelphia early Saturday morning. Rest stops along the turnpike will give the trippers a chance to purchase snacks to complement the box lunches provided on the busses. After Mass and breakfast in Philadelphia on Saturday morning, the buses will take the students directly to the stadium for the game. Immediately after* the game, the trippers will board buses for New York, and with the help of a special police escort from the stadium to the turnpike and from the turnpike to the
Barbizon Plaza Hotel in New York, a memorable evening on the town will be enjoyed by everyone.
Two hundred and sixty-five years ago, the site of the city of New York was a rocky, wooded, canoe-shaped, thirteen-mile-long island, bounded by two salt rivers and a bay, and peopled by dusky skin-clad savages. A half-dozen portable wigwam villages, some patches of tobacco and corn, and a few bark canoes gave little promise of the present four hundred and fifty miles of streets, vast property interests, and the encircling web of shipping. From the strategically located Barbizon Plaza on East 58th street, the trippers will have easy access to any and all of the myriad of attractions which New York offers. The Plaza is located just off Central Park, which extends from 59th to 110th Streets between Fifth Avenue and Central Park West. The Park is 2% miles long and % mile wide, extending over 840 acres of beautifully architectured land. The Park attractions, besides the huge zoo, recently unveiled statutes of Hans Christian Andersen and Alice in Wonderland, Wollman Memorial skating rink, the ancient Egyptian obelisk of Cleopatra’s Needle, include quaint and romantic carriage rides.
For those wishing to visit some of the main points of interest, a special sight-seeing tour has been aranged for Sunday morning. No excursion to New York would be completed without seeing the Empire State Building, whose 102 stories and 1,472 feet make it the largest building in the world. Nor could any Manhattan visitor miss the Statue of Liberty, the symbol of liberty in. a free world. The statue by Bartholdi is 152 feet high and was donated to the United States by France on July 4, 1884. The world-reknown financial center of Wall Street is another “must” for the trippers, as are St. Patrick’s Cathedral, the seat of the archdiocese of New York, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the United Nations and Rockefeller Center.
On Saturday evening, since the trippers will be preregistered at the Bar-ibizon Plaza, there will be ample time and a minimum of difficulty for the students to prepare themselves for a night on the town. After arriving at the hotel at approximately 7:15, many of the trippers will become theater-goers. Perhaps (Continued on page 25)
13
NOTRE DAME’s College of Engineering is now represented in the distinguished national engineering honor fraternity, Tau Beta Pi, and thus becomes the first undergraduate school of the University to be accorded recognition of this kind. At the 55th annual convention of the Tau Beta Pi Association, the petition for membership submitted by Nu Delta Epsilon, the Notre Dame Engineering Honor Society, was accepted. When the initiation ceremonies are completed later this semester, the Nu Delta Epsilon Honor Society will formally become the Indiana Gamma chapter of Tau Beta Pi.
Tau Beta Pi is the national engineering honor fraternity for which members qualify mainly through scholastic achievement in undergraduate work. The purpose of the organization is eloquently stated in the Preamble to its Constitution: “to mark in a fitting manner those who have conferred honor upon their Alma Mater by distinguished scholarship and examplary character as undergraduates in engineering, or by their attainments as alumni in the field of engineering, and to fostei- a spirit of liberal culture in the engineering colleges of America.” In the honor it bestows, in the ideals it provides, in the fellowship it represents, Tau Beta Pi is to the engineering student what Phi Beta Kappa is to the liberal arts student.
Affiliation with this organization was the primary goal in mind when Nu Delta Epsilon was founded in the Spring of 1958. Prior to that time formation of any undergraduate fraternity at Notre Dame had not been possible due to Administration policy. Pioneering work for the establishment of an undergraduate engineering honor society was done by the Joint Engineering Council in 1957. Through this work the Administration and faculty of the University became familiar with the nature and objectives of an honor society.
When the Administration relaxed its policy towards undergraduate honor societies, Nu Delta Epsilon was established. Contact was immediately made with the Tau Beta Pi organization. With the information gathered, a constitution was drawn up based on the requirements of Tau Beta Pi and acceptable to the Administration.
During the two years of its existence, Nu Delta Epsilon has functioned primarily to fulfill the ideals of a Tau Beta Pi chapter. Members were chosen from the top one-fifth of the senior class and the top one-eighth of the junior class on the basis of academic and extracurricular achievements. These members then began a program of self-development. Speakers were invited from the faculty of other colleges to emphasize the importance to the engineer of other fields. Preparation of the formal petition to Tau Beta Pi, containing a backlog of information concerning the Engineering College and faculty, required a great
deal of time and effort on the part of the members. In April, 1960, this petition was sent to 103 undergraduate chapters, to 15 alumni chapters, and to all national officers of Tau Beta Pi.
It was this petition which was reviewed by the selection committee at the national convention. The convention this year marked the 75th anniversary of the foundation of Tau Beta Pi. It was held October 12-15 at Lehigh University, the 3 birthplace of the organization. The president of Nu Delta Epsilon, Anton Vier-ling, and Professor Arthur J. Quigley of the electrical engineering department attended the convention as representatives. Mr. Quigley and the four other members of the engineering faculty who are members of Tau Beta Pi will be advisors to the local chapter and assist in the initiation ceremonies.
The scope of Tau Beta Pi encompasses both national and campus activity. Due $ to its reputation, professional engineers are well acquainted with Tau Beta Pi and its stringent requirements. Before a chapter can be established in an engineering college, a thorough examination is made of the college, its faculty and the engineering curriculum. High standards must be met. In fact, of the total number of colleges in the United States, only one hundred and three have thus far become affiliated with Tau Beta Pi. j| i Recognition of the quality of the Col- ' lege of Engineering at Notre Dame has, therefore, been enhanced by acceptance into Tau Beta Pi.
A student elected to membership joins the ranks of a select group of engineering students. Later in his engineering career, he will be distinguished as having been near the top of his class in undergraduate work. However, this alone would be insufficient to justify the exis- a : ( tence of an honor- fraternity on campus. Honor penetrates further than mere scholastic achievements. Tau Beta Pi requires that its members portray an exemplary character and possess worthy spiritual and moral qualities.
Since engineering has long qualified as one of the learned professions, the Tau Bate must strive for the ideals of a true professional. He must acquire an . organized body of intellectual skills ' which he is prepared to apply in both generalized and specilized situations. He must be honest and willing to work for a worthy goal with no consideration for the amount of time and effort required.
On the campus, the influence of Tau Beta Pi will be felt by all engineering students. For the freshmen, it will be a stimulus for efficient work and a goal to achieve. For the upperclassmen, the image of Tau Beta Pi should urge them to put forth the added effort to I excel in their studies and to develop proper engineering procedures. For those already in Tau Beta Pi, membership should not lead to stagnation of activity, but should give the student added impetus to continue his academic work and to share his engineering skills.
ENGINEERS and TAU BETA PI ,
14	The Scholastic
9
a
I
5
I 3
I -
I October 21, 1960
IN A SUCCESSFUL musical performance the artist must strike a happy balance between the emotional projection with which he communicates to his audience and the technical emphasis he uses In his reading of a musical work. Whenever either of these two elements is missing the performance fails to the degree of its absence. This, however, is only a part of the musician’s problem.
To succeed perfectly the artist must have complete command of every facet of the music. This includes not only his emotional projection and technical facility, but such things as his tempo choices, his dynamic flexibility (changing from loud to soft according to the inherent needs of the music), his ability to phrase correctly and so on. These characteristics can be called implicit characteristics of any piece of great music. This is not to say that a piece of serious music can be approached and performed in one way and in one way only. Quite the contrary.
An artist, in creating a masterpiece, pours himself into it. As a result, the finished work contains all the forces that are at work within the artist at the time of the work’s creation and in the same proportion in which they existed within the artist. Thus, when Berlioz (1803-1869), for example, tackled the last movement of his Symphonic Fan-tastique (1830) he revealed not only the whole of his emotional feeling through it, but the balance that existed within himself between such facets as his intellect, his acute sense of orchestral coloration and his sense of mischief.
Berlioz began the symphony out of complete infatuation with the English actress, Harriet Smithson, whom he had
JOHN OLIVER
never met. The work was a testament of his love for the woman and in the first three movements his feelings range from an intensely naive tenderness to the driving, high-flying, champagne-like passion of the movement entitled A Ball. On completion of these three movements Berlioz discovered something he hadn’t expected about his unattainable love. Jacques Barzun, in his Berlioz and His Century (Meridian Books, N.Y., 1956, p. 88) states that “a kind friend told Berlioz either gossip or fabrication casting doubts on the nature of Harriet’s relations with her manager.” The composer’s passion turned to an ironic scorn and in the last movement of the symphony, which he titled Dream of a Witch’s Sabbath, he superimposed the Dies Irae from the Gregorian Requiem Mass on the grotesque image of a frenzied witch’s dance. His bitterness, wit and biting sarcasm manifest themselves at once in this movement; but there is more to it than just this.
Even while writing under the influence of the strong emotions he felt, Berlioz never lost his intelligence and command of musical form or the brilliance of his orchestration. The last movement of this symphony is as much under the composer’s control as anything else in the body of his work, and the reason for this is that these facets of his mind (command of musical form and orchestration, etc.) were as much
a part of the composer’s nature as the emotions he felt for Harriet Smithson. The difference between these traits lies in the fact that the emotions were spontaneous and changeable from work to work and the formal command of the music was a cultivated part of Berlioz’s personality and make-up — something which he developed by much thought and hard work.
Therefore a conductor might approach this work primarily from the standpoint
S LARGE

of Berlioz’s emotional development within the work or from the standpoint of the composer’s mastery of musical form and orchestral writing. This is not to say that a conductor could make a success of a work if he conducted it with his attention given only to one part, such as the musical framework of the piece (what is technically called form), and to nothing else; he could not. He would merely be exposing one face of the symphony and not playing it as a piece of music. We can conclude then, that when two artists interpret the same work differently and succeed in their individual interpretations, they are both approaching the work as a whole but are placing their emphasis on different aspects of that whole.
I have gone into this discussion primarily to point up the fact that a piece of serious music can be validly approached in more than one way and that this is not, as some people would like to call it, poetic license, but rather (and I would like to emphasize this point) the intelligent and complete command -with which a mature artist considers a work of art. -
Van Cliburn, who appeared under the auspices of the South Bend Symphony Orchestra Association in the Morris Civic Auditorium, Sunday, Oct. 9, cannot be considered a consistently mature artist, though many facets of his are certainly mature in themselves. His exceptional feeling for the grandiose emotions of the romanticists brings him deserved praise from his audiences and musicians alike. His technical facility goes unquestioned. Yet there is something which is missing from his total make-up, for he is prone to failure.
By failure I do not mean disaster; this artist usually succeeds, but for many people something is missing. In his recent recital he began with Liszt’s Sonata in B Minor, a work written primarily to give Liszt an opportunity to display his own virtuosity. Toward the end of the number the audience began to grow audibly fidgety (this was after a full half hour of Liszt, which was played well, with much attention given to theme development). The number took thirty-five minutes which is simply too long. Technically the performance was excellent: Van Cliburn obviously feels this music and communicates much of this feeling to his audience; even so, he still had trouble. In the middle section of the work he used an excessive rubato technique (tempo changes which were out of line with what the composer had directed) and in so doing slowed the work down considerably. His purpose in doing this, as far as I could determine, was to emphasize the theme development within this part of the piece; as a result, the pianist lost contact with the other elements of the work and failed accordingly.
He followed the Liszt with Samuel Barber’s Sonata, Opus 26, a brilliant and somewhat dissonant study in a modern idiom. With this the artist was completely successful. His mastery of the musical line throughout the piece, (Continued on page 17)
16
At the Theaters
3
This is Exterminate Crabgrass from the University Mall Week, and it will end on Saturday after the football game is over. As you know, this was not the case last week.
The State Theater this week brings another fabulous double feature to the Bend: Dinosaurus and SOS Pacific. Whether or not the first of these is supposed to be a comedy I don’t know for sure. But one way or the other, it turns out as one. The picture features two dinosaurs and a caveman, and in this reviewer’s opinion, it should have been called Cave Man, because he steals the show from his two larger co-stars. The story is quite complex. One dinosaur is a good guy, a regular Organization Dinosaur, and the other is a “baddie,” an old meanie. The caveman does his best to take care of the old meanie dinosaur, but in the end it takes a mechanical monster to do the job. This reviewer saw Dinosaurus in a drive-in during this summer. Under these conditions, and with the right company, it was a fair movie — at the State it’s a loser. Its co-feature, SOS Pacific, is another in a long line of airliner-in-distress films. It all goes back to high and mighty John Wayne. The movie stars Pier Angeli, but that’s about all that can be said in its favor. If you want to see a twin bill of Pier Angeli Meets the Monsters, go to the State. Otherwise, forget it.
The Avon is drunk with Art this week. They are showing Russia’s famed Bolshoi Ballet (on screen, not in person) in Swan Lake. This ballet was written by a chap named Tchaikovsky and is all about swans. I’ve heard the music, and it’s good; but I haven’t seen the Bolshoi crowd, and can’t vouch for them. Also featured in this double bill is the screen version of Paddy Chayefsky’s The Goddess, starring Kim Stanley and Scuba Bridges, Lloyd to the laymen. Miss Stanley plays the now-too-familiar role of the successful actress corrupted by the Hollywood tinsel (is it really that bad?) and Mr. Bridges plays her romantic interest. It’s all Chayefsky and mixes with the Bolshoi like oil and water. This makes me imagine a double bill of Psycho and Bambi.

The Granada has resumed the wayward path it walked last spring. They un- Q expectedly switched shows on us. The manager somewhat sheepishly mentioned the M mixed up information given, but that doesn’t solve a blessed thing. This week, it’s W
a toss up between High Time and Let No Man Write My Epitaph. The former is an extremely stupid movie starring Big Crosby, Nicole Maurey, Tuesday Weld, and Fabian. In many parts of the movie, photographic tricks, many of them terri, ie, take the place of a sound plot. What story there was centered around rich restaii-ranteur Crosby’s desire-come-true of getting a college education at 53. Nicole Maurey still plays the French lady (which she is) with the French accent (which she has) and a lovely figure (no comment). Tuesday Weld can still be regarded as useless, though goodness knows some people can put anything to use. What few lines she has, she flubs. Hats off to studied incompetence.
Then there’s Fabian, bless his sweet soul. In an effort to spare the spectators’ sense of hearing, the producer gave him only one song, but that’s more than enough. The casual way he tosses his abundant mane and the calculated whisper of his voice are unnecessary. He is supposed to play an all-around college athlete (football, basketball, swimming), which in itself is a laugh. The only athletic equipment which suits him are the dumbbells with which he works out every morning.
(Continued on page 17)


g
. The Scholastic
A
(Continued from page 16)
and his feeling for the style in which it is written really went over, and people who were slightly shocked by the dissonance of the first movement seemed to be convinced, oi- at least aware, of its beauty by the time the last movement
£ ended.
The pianist concluded with the Rachmaninoff Sonata No. 2 in B flat minor, which he delivered in much the same manner as the Liszt, though his rubato was not quite as excessive.
His encore choice was a Liszt Hungarian Rhapsody which he played with just the right combination of fire and intelligence. His performance left me with only one question: what would he £ do to Mozart?
At the Theaters
(Continued from page 16)
When it’s high time for the movie to fade out, Der Bingle gets up on the auditorium stage and makes every middle-• aged woman sniffle with a heart-warming tribute to youth and what it means to be young. He displays remarkable remembrance of the subject.
The Epitaph choice is a stark naked story about slum kids and parents in Chicago, of John Bartlow Martin fame, and stars Shelley Winters, James Darren, Burl Ives, Jean Seberg, Ricardo Montalban and Ella Fitzgerald — the latter in her first attempted dramatic role. She could stick to singing. Shelley Winters is the mother with the darkly shaded reputation, Montalban is her paramour, Darren is the slum kid, and Miss Seberg, lately of the Saint Joan fiasco, is his girl. Decidedly, the movie is adult fare, and even a little crude at that. Mayor Daley will have something to say about this.
After a big week of aiming at the stars with Wernher von Braun, the Colfax returns to oui- own planet in the cliche-ridden picture Desire in the Dust. Here we have such never-before-seen folks as an ambitious Southern landowner (a Colonel, of course), his amoral daughter, a penitent ex-convict, and a fearless small-town newspaper editor. (The last of these is put in for the benefit of all you Clark Kent and Steve Roper fans.) Raymond “Perry Mason” Burr heads up the cast in the part of the " landowner and he’s ably supported by co-star Martha Hyer. Also seen is Joan Bennett and newcomer Anne Helm. Isn’t that exciting? All in all, it’s another “Way down South in the land of cotton” special.
For all interested feminae, a drive-in shuttle has been established by Waxy and Kenny. For more information, contact the pen at Michigan City. See you next week.
POWER AND DEMOCRACY
. . . the distinguished lecture series symposium presents power and democracy in america with robert da hl, peter drucker, delbert miller and william d’antonio. all sessions will be held on October twenty-fifth in the law auditorium, the public is invited to participate.
Not this: a student who studies drowsily no matter how much sleep he gets.
This! Perspicacious.. . sharp! NoDoz keeps you awake and alert—safely!
If you find studying sometimes soporific (and who doesn’t?) the word to remember is NoDo=@. NoDoz alerts you with a safe and accurate
amount of caffeine—the same refreshing stimulant in coffee and tea. Yet non-habit-forming NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable. So to keep perspicacious during study and exams—and while driving, too—	<
always keep NoDoz in proximity.
The safe stay awake tablet—available everywhere. Another fine product of Grove Laboratories.
SHELLEY
on Life Savers:
“So sweet, the
sense faints picturing them!”
October 21, 1960
17
Clearing
the hurdles with research
GENERAL
At Gen Tel, we’ve made a running start toward solving many of tomorrow’s communications problems.
For instance, scientists at General Telephone & Electronics Laboratories are working in the uncharted area of the spectrum where radio waves take on the characteristics of light. They have already developed an experimental ultramicrowave system that may one day make possible the transmission of two million messages on a single radio beam in free space.
As a major communications company with world-wide connections, General Telephone is helping to advance the science of total communications around the globe. Our stepped-up research in the basic sciences is but one example of the way General Telephone & Electronics combines the talents of many people and the facilities of many companies to meet the future communications needs not only of America, but the whole world.

a
1
a
al
'll
TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS k®
18
The Scholastic
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish in quest of their second victory of the season, invade Northwestern tomorrow afternoon to face the always tough Wildcats. After bowing to Michigan State last Saturday, 21-0, Notre Dame faces another team smarting from three straight losses. Kickoff time is 1:30 CDT.
The Irish will be playing with added incentive provided by a large number of students who are journeying up to Evanston for the game.
Notre Dame, holding a 23-4-2 record in the series, was edged by the Wildcats in a thriller last season.. 30-24.
Coach Ara Parseghian has had to face the task of replacing seven starters, including two All-Americans and the complete interior line, from the explosive squad that was ranked near the top in national ratings most of last season.
Lost by graduation are two All-American standouts, Eon Burton, halfback, and center Jim Andreotti, who played key roles in Northwestern’s football resurgence of the past two years. Gone also are last year’s fine tackle pair of Gene Gossage and DeWitt Hoopes and guards Pete Arena and Joe Abbatiello.
However, the Wildcats are dangerous again with the return of two backfield stars who were out of action some of this season because of injuries. The two re
quarterback who has shown streaks of brilliance this season.
Explosive returnee. Kimbrough’s running-mate is Eay (Dutch) Purdin who performed brilliantly last season with the departed Burton. Purdin, an explosive runner, averaged -5.2 yards per carry and caught 12 passes last year. His support will stem from Frank Johnson, returning letterman, and Bob Snider, a highly rated sophomore.
Rounding out this impressive backfield contingent is durable Mike Stock, senior fullback, who won All-Conference honors last year when he emerged as the Big Ten’s leading scorer with 33 points. The workhorse of the Wildcat squad, although weighing only 188 pounds, he is rated as one of the finest linebackers in the conference. Behind Stock is another senior. Jim Knowles, a 195-pounder whose career has been held back by injuries; Mike Somers, a junioi- whose specialty is defense; and hard-hitting sophomore prospect John Dickey.
Best fortified of the line positions is end where three senior lettermen, Elbert Kimbrough, Erv Cross and Paul Yanke, provide the Wildcats with experience, speed and exceptional pass receiving.
The versatile end, Elbert Kimbrough,
REVENGE-MINDED IRISH INVADE WILDCAT DEN
Dick Thornton, Wildcat passing ace
tumees are quarterback Dick Thornton and halfback Al Kimbrough.
Thornton leads team. Thornton is the key man in Northwestern’s attack. He led the Big Ten in total offense as a sophomore and was a key figure in the Wildcat’s smashing 45-13 win over Oklahoma in the opening game of the 1959 season. The importance of Thornton was emphasized in Northwestern’s first four games this season. A healthy Thornton placed the Wildcats to a 19-3 victory over Oklahoma in the opener. The next week Thornton was injured and unable to play and Northwestern was destroyed by Iowa, 42-0. In their last two games, against Minnesota and Michigan, Thornton has dominated play in losing efforts. Coach Parseghian said after the Iowa game, “When you lose your passer, one of your best limners, your punter and your leader, you really feel it.” All reports state that Thornton will be at his physical peak by tomorrow’s encounter with the Irish. Backing up Thornton are Junior Bobby Eickoff and newcomer Fred Quinn.
Al Kimbrough, has retained his old form and will start at right-halfback. As a sophomore in 1958 he compiled a 4.8 yards average per carry. He is a reckless runner who also excels on defense. His understudies are Al Faunce, a senior, and Sophomores Lary Benz and Paul Flattey. Benz is a converted
called “E” by his teammates to distinguish him from twin brother Albert, is a leading contender for All-American honors. Besides his fine pass receiving, he is one of the finest defensive ends in Big Ten history. Notre Dame fans will remember his interception of a George Izo pass in the final two minutes of last year’s game to pull it out for the Wildcats.
Teaming with Kimbrough to give the Wildcats one of the strongest end combinations in the country is Cross. Always strong defensively, Cross has developed into a potent pass catcher. Against the Irish last year he scored on a 78-yard pass play that was the longest pass completion in Northwestern history
Heading the tackle corps are vets Fate Echols and Boyd Melvin. Speedy and agile for his size, Echols, from South Bend, has developed into one of the finest Big Ten linemen.
Russ Asala and Wayne Chamberlain are experienced guards returning. Asala has played more minutes than anyone on the Wildcat squad.
Jim Onesti, whose forte is linebacking, heads the center crops. The position will be platooned with Dick Nichols, a senior, and Ike Smith, sharing the offensive assignment. The latter is the heaviest player on the team at 270 pounds.
—John Bechtold
19
9
< October 21, I960
i
Power-Packed Dillon Eleven Wins Interhall Grid Opener
Three leagues with a total of thirteen teams are playing in this year’s Interhall Football program, according to Vince Dooley, assistant director of Interhall Athletics. All halls except Sorin, Pang-born, Fisher and Walsh are fielding teams this season.
Coaching the interhall squads are scholarship players who, because of injuries or for other reasons are no longer able to participate in varsity football.
First action for the interhall battles began last Sunday. In the freshman section, Stanford overwhelmed Breen-Phillips by a 20-6 score. Cavanaugh, on the hard tackling of Pat O’Malley and the passing of Mike Burns and Doug O’Keefe, outclassed Keenan, 14-0.
In the sophomore division, Zahm was not hard-pressed as it overcame a fighting St. Edward’s eleven, 14-0. The junior and senior games exhibited the closest and widest margins of the day. Off-Campus, led by Rich DeRosa, pulled the major upset as it edged Alumni with a late score, 7-0. Dillon had an easy game as it 1’olled over Lyons, 32-0.
CARY CALLS 'EM
Tomorrow
Army over Vilianova Baylor over Texas A&M Clemson over Duke Georgia Tech over Tulane Holy Cross over Columbia Northwestern over Notre Dame Navy over Penn Auburn over Miami (Fla.) Kansas over Oklahoma State Michigan State over Indiana Marquette over Vanderbilt Princeton over Cornell Washington over Oregon State Texas over Rice Ohio State over Wisconsin Oklahoma over Kansas State Pitt over Texas Christian Michigan over Minnesota Florida over LSU Illinois over Penn State Maryland over Wake Forest UCLA over Stanford Missouri over Iowa State Yale over Colgate
Game of the Week
Iowa over Purdue
Upset of the Week Arkansas over Mississippi
Last Week’s Results
14 right, ten wrong, one tie 58.3 per cent
Totals to Date
53 right, 20 wrong, two ties 72.6 per cent
20
GRIDIRON PERSONALITIES
The personality in this picture is familiar to all Notre Dame football fans. He is none other than the Stadium vendor. With his hacksaw voice and weathered display board, he lures the customers to his stand.
Nine Letter Winners Set To Pace Stark Mermen
Captain Gene Witchger heads a group of nine returning lettermen as the Irish swimming squad, under the excellent tutelage of Coach Dennis Stark, prepares for another rugged season. Gene, who was also captain of last year’s team, competes in the free-style dashes.
Senior lettermen Bill Cronin, Frank Dinger, Chris Lund and Joe Meany provide added support in the free-style dashes. Bill Vasu, a sophomore, is also a leading candidate for a dash position.
Distance races will be the business of junior free-stylers Jim Grever and Ray Stephani, both lettermen. They will be pressed by John Clark, up from the top notch freshman team of last year.
Butterfly chores will be delegated to letterman Tony Haske, a senior and Matthew Garrity, another sophomore. Dave Witchger, a lettering junior, will perform in the breaststroke, and will be aided by sophomore Jim Remmers. Steve Sauer will also be seen in action in the breaststroke, but will graduate in January.
Sophomore Mike Donovan will attempt to fill the. gap left by the graduation of Genetyordanjlthe top. Irish back-stroker of last year. Diver Tony Devine is another sophomore trying to "bolster a spot seriously weakened by graduation.
The team has already started prewater conditioning, including running, weight lifting and calisthenics, in preparation for a very difficult season.
Bob Scarpitto Dominates | Irish Football Statistics 1
After having completed four games JI the Irish football statistics are as fol- j lows:	1
In TEAM STATISTICS the Irish | have been outscored 91-47, yet they have ■.f a three-point margin in FIRST DOWNS. 1 Notre Dame has amassed 1,082 yards gp TOTAL OFFENSE compared to the opponent’s 1,050. The Kuharichmen also S surpass their competition in RUSHING 1 OFFENSE with 751 yards to 538.
PASSING OFFENSE has been the j Green’s failure as the Irish are far be- i hind 'with 331 yards to the opposition’s ; 512. FUMBLES have been costly with both groups having dropped the ball j twelve times. Notre Dame has lost the ball on eight occasions compared to j the opponent’s seven. In PASS AT- A TEMPTS Notre Dame has attempted
82 but only 25 of these have been com- " pleted. Their four previous opponents , -have gone to the sky only 53 times but 'J have connected on 30. PASS INTER- < CEPTIONS have been one of the biggest failings as the opposition has grabbed off 13 Irish aerials. The Irish have pilfered three thus far.	:
In INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS, Bob Scarpitto leads the Notre Dame SCOR- g ING with 24 points on four touchdowns. Angelo Dabiero, Nick DePola and Daryle ■ W
Lamonica each have while Joe Perkowski points on conversions, department Scarpitto
single touchdowns f has amassed five 't In the PUNTING , leads again with-;
ten punts for a 35.8 yard average, s George Sefcik follows Scarpitto with a * 29.7 yard average for eight punts. i
In the PASSES CAUGHT department ( Les Traver, Sefcik and Scarpitto have ! each received four. Max Burnell is/ next with three to his credit. INDI-^ VIDUAL RUSHING is led by Scarpitto with 191 yards while Sefcik, Mike Lind';
and and
Joe Perkowski follow with 174, 126 112 yards respectively.

GEORGE SEFCIK
Shifty Irish seatback

The Scholastic S
A GRAD’S GRAND PERFORMANCE
Ralph Guglielmi was an AllAmerican quarterback at Notre Dame in 1954. After this came service in the Air Force and then a professional football career with the Washington Redskins. Last Sunday, in his greatest pro performance, Ralph completed 13 of 16 passes in the second half as the Redskins tied the New York Giants, 24-24.
campus character:
BLACKSTONE TORT
Pride of the law school, Blackstone has never lost a moot trial. But there’s nothing moot about his preferences in dress. He finds that when he’s comfortable, he can trap a witness and sway a jury like Clarence Darrow.
So he always wears Jockey brand briefs while preparing his briefs. Exclusive Jockey tailoring gives him a bonus of comfort he gets in no other underwear. Fine Jockey combed cotton is more ab-
TIME OUT
When the final second ticked off the clock, the score was Michigan State 21, Notre Dame 0. The Spartans earned the victor’s crown back to East Lansing and another conquest of Notre Dame was recorded in their football annals. The same score will go into the Irish record books also. But the game on October 15 was not a defeat for Notre Dame in every sense of the word. Coach Joe Kuharich’s eleven played their best game of the 1960 season and what the home team did win was just as important as the score. Last Saturday, Notre Dame, players and students alike, displayed more effort and spirit than at any other time since I’ve been here. It was a welcome sight and one especially needed that day.
It all began a week ago last Monday, or at least the noticeable part did. The North Carolina game was history and a fresher attitude was prevalent on the campus. On Monday morning, the word started to get around that “we can beat Michigan State.” Then the paper reminders were distributed and everywhere on campus there were signs saying “THIS IS BEAT MICHIGAN STATE WEEK.” On Tuesday night, yells of “Go Irish, beat Michigan State” filled the air as boys walked back to their halls from dinner. And on Wednesday and Thursday nights, Sorin porch was the rally scene.
THE GREAT RALLY
Then came Friday night and the usual rally that precedes the home games. Outside, the rain fell persistently. It looked as if Father Hesburgh, Frank Leahy, Hunk Anderson and the members of the great 1929-30 teams were going to be greeted by a sparse gathering. But as Blue Circle Chairman Pat Hart commenced the ceremonies, large groups of students were still pushing their way into the noisy and crowded Fieldhouse. With each word, the spectators roared their approval. -
Frank Leahy was the last guest speaker of the evening. And the impact of his speech was potent. In its essence, Leahy’ speech demanded effort. And effort was what it received, effort from both the players and the students.
SATURDAY’S EFFORT
Notre Dame’s spirit reached its high point in the first quarter of the game. With the students’ vocal outbursts and the players’ exti-a efforts, it looked as if the unexpected was about to happen. The Irish, with Sophomore Norb Rascher directing the attack, looked poised as they ran their offensive plays. Halfback George Sefcik almost broke away on several occasions and Fullback Joe Perkowski was a consistent gainer as he battered the Spartan forward wall for yardage. Notre Dame’s defensive play was inspiring also. Ed Burke, Mo Pottios, Nick Buoniconti, Norb Roy, Clay Schulz and the others were unmoveable as they stopped the big State runners in their tracks.
The picture changed in the second quarter. Gradually, Herb Adderly and his larger, more experienced teammates began to wear down the younger Irish. Intercepted passes helped their cause but it was really size and experience that carried them to victory from there on. Coach Kuharich’s squad gave it all the hustle and effort it could muster, but unfortunately this just wasn’t enough last Saturday afternoon.
Tomorrow the Notre Darners give it another try. If they expect to win, they must repeat their last week’s performance while committing fewer mistakes. And if the Irish can utilize their improved pass-attack with gluefingered receiving, then Northwestern will not find the game at all pleasant tomorrow afternoon.	— J.K.
sorbent, smootherfitting,too.
To look your best, feel your best, take a tip from Tort. Always insist on Jockey brand briefs, $1.25. Your campus store has them now! COOPER'S INCORPORATED • KENOSHA. WIS.
^Jockeu
@ BRAND
briefs
McDonald Studios
“The Finest in Portraits”
129 N. MAIN Temporary location
October 21, 1960
21
TRADITIONAL!
High Scores Highlight First Keglers Sessions
As the Kampus Keglers head into their third week, all indications point towards the highest scoring season in Notre Dame history. More than a score of bowlers are averaging over the 175 mark and several 600 series have already been recorded in the books. The highlight of this year’s action so far was a 277 game and a 689 series rolled by Dan Halloran of the Yellow League. Other season highs thus far are an 1106 game by Detroit “B” and a 2989 series by the Glee Club.
Slacks
Post-Grads are traditionally styled for those lithe, tapered lines you’ve always had a yen for! Smooth, pleatless front; precuffed bottoms. At the smartest college shops; in a host of washable fabrics from $4.95 to $8.95.
For colorful 17" x 22" Mountaineers poster— send 25c to H-l-S, Dept CB. 230 Fifth Ave., N.Y. 1.
For set of 6 posters (6 different sports) send $1.50.
NOT A SIGN OF A SLIP-UP!
Typing errors disappear like magic when you use Eaton’s Corrasable Bond. Never a trace of the word that was erased; errors can be flicked off Corrasable’s special surface with an ordinary pencil eraser. Saves re-typing, time and money. And the sparkling new whiteness gives all typing a new brilliance. You can’t make a mistake getting
Eaton’s Corrasable. (Rhymes with erasable.)
Eaton’s Corrasable Bond is available in light, medium, heavy and onion skin weights. In convenient 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. A Berkshire Typewriter Paper, backed by the famous Eaton name.
Made only by Eaton
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Typewriter Paper
EATON PAPER CORPORATION • g • PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS
In Notre Dame’s nonhandicap Classic League, Fred Kleiderer’s squad shows the way in both high team game and series with 1017 and 2730 respectively. An interesting note concerning the Kleiderer team is that despite an 880 team average (176 a man!), they are still in third place. I guess that’s just the way the pins fall.
The season’s first award was won last week when Dick Gold of the Red League ’ shot a 131 triplicate.
Thus far, there has been great interest in the leagues. The competition has been very close between every team entered due to presence of so many outstanding bowlers.	—Bob Miller ■
22
The Scholastic
A
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4)
Editor:
In your editorial “Mr. Keegan’s Student” you seem aware of all of the privileges but very few of the duties and responsibilities of an editor. After reading both your editorial and Mr. Keegan’s article, I feel that you have flagrantly distorted Mr. Keegan’s program.
" In the opening paragraphs of his article, Mr. Keegan enumerates some of the activities of students today. He adds that “(The students’) role is a debateable one. Some feel that this is their role and some do not.” This is obviously not intended to be, as you allegate, “a working definition” of the word student. Yet you treat his enumeration of student activities in the world as his definition of “student” throughout your editorial, a and thus invalidate youi- entire argument by building it on a false assumption.
You further state: “We are faced, finally, with a denial of the age-old notion that the student’s role is observation, absorption, and activity in matters intellectual.” To anyone who has read Mr. Keegan’s article this is an absolute lie. Mr. Keegan states plainly: “We are students primarily dedicated to the acquisition of knowledge through our con-W tribution to the academic process.... Our minds are young and for the most part our ideals and beliefs are still in then-embryonic stage. This formulative stage is guided by our education. Our minds must be ‘open forums,’ judging, evaluating, and analyzing all facts in order to facilitate our national growth. The intellectual option must be emphasized, not de-emphasized.”
Tom Hoobler •	140 Keenan
Editor:
Past “Escape” columns devoted to ridiculous attacks on the women (and girls) of St. Mary’s College have at least been somewhat funny. The drivel written by Mr. Foley last week is. not even this; I would prefer to see the Scholastic without the “Escape” column than to see this continue.
On the whole I am very satisfied with the Scholastic; it is improving constantly. But to include “small talk and obscenities” in an issue filled with the very welcome plans for Notre Dame’s future is not consistent editorializing.
James S. Kolb 301 Pangborn
ARMY-NAVY
AIR FORCE
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Insignias
GENDEL'S SURPLUS SALES SPECIAL—A Used Alpacca Lined Parka—Only $7.95
YOU SAVE EVERYDAY AT GENDEL'S 512 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND
Rodin's Record Club
1 Free For Every 10 Purchased
ALBUMS & SINGLES JOIN TODAY
BIG DEAL I
PaperbMate CAPRI MARK III
WASWC
NOW ’ll5
NOTRE
DAME BOOKSTORE
on - the - campus
CONTEST!!!
The two best compositions on “Why I would like to go out with DAVE GRUBER and KELLY KAMMERER!” Will win dates for the writers. Originality counts.
Address all entries to:
BOX 304 HOWARD HALL
October 21, 1960

J.E.C. Sponsors Talk By Bell Representative
At the last meeting of the Joint Engineering Council, it was announced that the council would sponsor a talk on job opportunities by a representative from the Bell Telephone System. The program is scheduled for 8:00 pan. Monday night Oct. 31, in the Engineering Auditorium and will be open to all engineering students. In addition, a movie about the United States’ “Echo” earth satellite will be shown. Refreshments will be served after the program.
Plans were also released for the Graduate Studies Discussion Panel to be held in the near future. The panel will consist of Rev. Paul Beichner, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School, along with the deans of the schools of Science, Commerce, Engineering and Law.
The program, also sponsored by the J.E.C., will feature a short introductory talk, followed by a discussion period inviting questions from the audience. All engineering students considering graduate work are urged to watch for further bulletins concerning this program.
FOR DRAMA PATRONS
Season subscriptions to the University Theatre may be obtained in the rear of Washington Hall between 12 noon and 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. Orchestra and center balcony seats may be purchased for $3 and side balcony seats for $2. A subscription includes tickets for three plays, HOLIDAY, OTHELLO, and BABES IN ARMS. Director of the University Theatre is Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C.
N ABICHT CAFETERIA
1415 Lincolnway West
Savory Food Since 1897
FREE PARKING
3000 SUMMER JOBS
IN EUROPE
ASIS EUROPEAN SAFARI
WRITE TO: American Student Information Service Jahnstrasse 56a, Frankfurt/Main, Germany
i.
Service
Adventure
Freedom
Acculturation
Romance
inexpensive
3

;;

3
&
IKORSKY AIRCRAFT
k SltOtSM M»CTtfT	how
WSJSSff"-10 k KUWfW
' w™
NOVEMBER 2
I.


%

24
The Scholastic
’	Student Trip
(Continued from page 13)
the highlight of the 1960 Student Trip will be the Broadway productions which have been made available to the trippers. Some of the plays which will be attended are “Music Man,” starring Bert Parks in Meredith Willson’s musical about an Iowa con man and his girl friend;
• “Gypsy,” which finds Ethel Merman playing the role of the domineering momma of the young Gypsy Rose Lee; “Take Me Along,” the musical adaptation of Eugene O’Neill’s “Ah Wilderness,” starring Jackie Gleason and Walter Pidgeon; “La Plume De Ma Tante,” a French revue created by Robert Dhery and starring Dhery and Colette Brosset; “West Side Story,” which highlights Carol Lawrence and Allyn Ann McLerie in Leonard Bern-
T-Bone Steak Special Thursday—$1.25
DINNER SPECIAL Monday thru Friday — $1.00 Between 4 P.M. and 8 P.M.
•
CE 2-5141
ROMAN INN
Comer Notre Dame - So. Bend Ave.
Kitty-Komer from Fire Station
Plan now for your BERMUDA College Week 1961 bigger, busier, better than ever!
•	Informal welcoming dance to start the fan.
•	College Day at the Beach... the biggest beach party of the year.
•	All-day cruise to historic St. George. Luncheon, Calypso music, Gombey Dancers.
•	Round Robin Tennis Tournament. B • College Week Golf Competition.
•	College Talent Revue.
•	Fun Festival with jazz concerts, choral groups, dance contests.
•	Barbecue Luncheon.
•	Sightseeing.
•	Special Golf and Tennis Trophies. ALL YOURS AT NO CHARGE
Th. BERMUDA Trad. Development Board • 620 fifth Ave., New York 20, N. Y.
October 21, 1960
stein’s musical production, “Bye Bye Birdie,” an unpretentious, barely resistable musical that Gower Champion has directed from a score by Charles Strouse and Lee Adams and a book by Michael Stewart. Besides these Broadway productions, which were available to the trippers for ?4, tickets to radio and television shows were provided free of charge.
After the theater, many trippers will avail themselves to the famous clubs found in close proximity to the hotel. The Latin Quarter at Broadway and 48th, the Blue Angel on East 55th, Eddie Condon’s on East 56th, Birdland on Broadway, the Embers on 54th, the Metropole on Seventh Avenue at 58th, and the CopaCabana on East 58th are all within easy reach. Sunday morning will find the tired trippers, after Mass and breakfast, on their own until approximately 2 p.m. when the busses will be boarded for the return trip to South Bend. The caravan will return through Philadelphia to make connections with those who departed from the trip after the game Saturday to stay at their homes in the Philadelphia area; the trippers will arrive in South Bend at 7 o’clock Monday morning in time for their first class. Cancelled cuts will only apply to the Saturday classes, and everyone must attend their Monday classes.
ODDS and ENDS
Navy’s quarterback Hal Spooner outshone much-publicized Air Force tosser Richie Mayo in the Midshipmen’s defeat of the Falcons last week. Spooner hit on 15 of 21 flips for 178 yards. . . .
Willie Jones emerged victorious in last week’s battle of fullbacks. The Purdue linesmasher outdid Ohio State’s magnificent Bobby Ferguson to lead the Boilermakers to a 24-21 upset victory. Jones counted all three six-pointers for Purdue. . . .
Our swami, Willie Cary, seems to have hit a snag as he dropped from 84% to 58.3%, a decline of 25.7%. However, he promises to do better this week (we hope).
Next week against Navy, the Irish will be matching muscle and wits with a shrewd Middie eleven, and the shrewdest of these spirited Midshipmen is Joe Bellino. Joe scored three touchdowns against the Air Force last Saturday to pace Navy to an easy 35-3 win. Bellino confined his scoring activities to the initial 30 minutes of warfare, scoring on one and 15-yard sorties and gathering in a Spooner aerial for 25 yards. This “hat trick” duplicated his feat of three touchdowns against the Army last year. As of now, Bellino is the prime candidate for the coveted Heisman Trophy.
John Juliano, a senior from Fr. Carey’s fine group of lads at Alumni Hall, is the hard luck boy of interhall football. John has been injured in all of his four years but recently has given indications that he may soon be sound enough of limb to knock heads. To John we say, “Go Get ’Em.”
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
The Sun of God Karl Adams
•
The Everlasting Man
G. K. Chesterton •
The Long Loneliness Dorothy Day
•
A Popular History of the Reformation
Philip Hughes
A Gilson Reader Etienne Gilson
•
Understanding Europe
Christopher Dawson •
St. Thomas More Reynolds
•
Government Is Your Business Keller
ATTENTION: Faculty and Students • Handbook of Chemistry and Physics (Latest Ed.)
• Special Price $5.50
Notre Dame Bookstore on - the - campus
25

the morality
of the hengal bouts
Criticism, both just and unjust, finds literate expression on almost every detail of campus life, the Bengal Bouts being no exception to the rule. The interesting criticism here pertains to the question of whether the bouts are moral or immoral, and whether they should be or should not be a regularly sponsored activity on Notre Dame’s campus. For two years this subject has been debated in the bull session, circles of Sorin-sub and throughout the campus with no practical conclusions accruing from these efforts. Therefore, the intention of this article is to explain the circumstances which surround the bouts, the moral principles which apply to boxing, and the interpretation of these principles when applied to this campus sport.
DEFINING THE BENGAL BOUTS
The Bengal Bouts are strictly a nonvarsity type sport which is open to the participation of all healthy students, even those who have never worn boxing gloves or know nothing at all about the sport — and it might be pointed out that ninety-nine per cent participating in these boxing events belong to this latter category. Being a nonvarsity sport therefore pennits the promoters of the Bengal Bouts to emphasize such points as muscular coordination and personal enjoyment of exercise, thus promoting the educational values of the sport. Also, it allows them to have a stricter interpretation of collegiate boxing rules, an interpretation which reduces the possibility of injury to zero.
Technicalities are important in the Bengals, too. In the first place, all equipment provides the latest in safety devices, for example, a two-inch mat covering for ring floor, head protection gear, and sixteen-ounce gloves. Secondly, referees are experienced boxers and instructed to halt any bout not evenly matched or when one boxer is in danger of receiving injury. A third point — all participants are given a complete medical examination and are disqualified if not in proper condition after the training period has ended. Finally, the boxers are prematched, that is, before the main events under the lights the participants spar with each other, and, pending the judgment of the Bengal supervisor and his assistants about the fairness of the match, these students
26
are matched according to equal ability.
Hence, it can be concluded that the Bengal Bouts are essentially different from both the varsity type sport of collegiate boxing and amateur boxing. The Bengals are truly an enjoyable exercise and a means of personal development. They are made so by the unique method applied to the sport of boxing and by the singular set of circumstances which govern the situation at Notre Dame.
In order to be able to make a value judgment as to the morality of the Bengal Bouts it is necessary to determine the standard of morals which will apply to the sport of boxing; and then, in light of these principles, the aspects of the bouts can be reviewed and criticized in a logical manner. Fortunately enough this information has been provided in a dissertation titled “The Morality of Prizefighting,” written by the Rev. George C. Bernard, C.S.C. The main principles Father Bernard employs in his examination of the morality of prizefighting center around the Fifth Commandment and St. Thomas’ notion that bodily exercise should be subservient to the exercise of the soul. According to St. Thomas three things were prerequisite in order to fulfill this condition: (1) that the pleasure derived is not sought in evil words or deeds or actions injurious to our neighbor; (2) that the end of the game is not the enjoyment attained and that the enjoyment should not exceed the boundaries of reason; (3) that the game befit the person, the time, and the place, and that all circumstances necessary for a virtuous act be maintained. Providing these three things can be met completely and without any reservation, then the game under question can be determined as moral and quite worthy of any individual whose interests lie in this direction. However, if just one detail about the Bengals can absolutely be proved immoral and it cannot be corrected, then this sport will deserve public condemnation.
St. Thomas’ first requisite stipulates that the pleasure emanating from the game should not be sought in evil words, deeds or actions injurious to our neighbor. The pleasure sought by participation in the Bengals is twofold: (1) the pleasure of good body-developing exercise which relaxes the tension of the mind; (2) the pleasure of competition, of competing one’s ability with another,
the more skilled being declared the win- fl ner. Obviously, on the theoretical level, fl this cannot be termed evil pleasure or fl branded as any other type of sordid en- fl
joyment which might prove injurious to our neighbor. However, arguing from the practical viewpoint that since in
%
juries do occur in boxing, even if they fl are accidental, then the sport still can fl be termed immoral. Perhaps this might fl be true in other variations of boxing, fl such as professional or collegiate, but in II the case of the Bengal Bouts it doesn’t fl apply because the rules and management fl, have strict enough control over the box- Hi ing conditions that no accident has oc- fl curred since these Bouts began. Thus, |l the Bengals can hardly be declared in- fl jurious or dangerous, for the special fl handling of the sport has eliminated the fl immoral possibility of doing even acci-fl dental injury to one’s neighbor.	fl
The second provision expressed by St. fl Thomas contains the stipulation that the fl game’s end cannot be enjoyment and ||H the enjoyment derived cannot exceed the IS limits of reason. As ah'eady implied, thejH end of the Bengals is hardly pleasure; fl rather, it is a means to develop another fl essential part of man’s self — his physi-fl cal being. And it should be quite appar-^l ent that the simple enjoyment obtained Bl from being a Bengal boxer is not out of fl bounds with reason.	|||
And the final requirement, that the|S game must befit the person, the time, fl and the place, and that all circumstances SH necessary for a virtuous act be main- fl tained, is fulfilled in this manner. As fl previously shown, the game does befit ^1 the person because it provides an oppor- fl tunity to develop another important as- fl pect of his being. The time and place and |9 circumstances are quite acceptable be- fl cause it occurs during the period of a fl student’s life when such activities are good for him, and the setting is in an fl all Christian community.	fl
THE BENGALS ARE MORAL
Undoubtedly, these are not the total arguments for or against the morality of this sport but such voluminous evidence can only be presented in the most general terms because of the alloted space. However, judging from the preceding examination of the morality of the Bengal Bouts, it can only be concluded that this campus activity is moral.
The Scholastic
Hobnail Oxford a fresh approach in shirtings...
The special weave of hobnail oxford accents the texture of this fine fabric . . . the authentic roll of the classic button-down is perfectly in-terpreted in the Sussex B.D. Offered in stripings of muted masculine tones as well as solid colors.
$5.00
cum laude collection
by
-ARROW-
^GILBERT'
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend