Che Rovre Same Scholastic AWepCisemenCs

EtSbO
A man is judged. by the pencil he keeps.
A well-sharpened Dixon’s Eldorado is a friend to be proud of.
JOSEPH DIXON CRUCIBLE CO.
Pencil Dept	Jersey City, N. J.
Canadian Dictributor* A. R.MacDousall & Co., Ltd.
Toronto —
EYES EXAMINED I
Glasses Fitted at Moderate Prices 1
Satisfaction Guaranteed	1
DR. J. BURKE & CO., |
, OPTOMETRISTS AND MANUFACTURING OPTICIANS	1
Notice: We dopOcete a&y lens the osme dsy, do _ o	C* I
wetter who fitted them. Brine the pieces. 2 JO S. Michigan bt |
MAKE THIS YOUR MEETING PLACE
JIMMIE & GOATS
. “WHERE THE CARS LEAVE" ’
The Ellsworth'Store
^ALL KINDS OF FURNITURE AND ROOM FURNISHINGS AT SPECIAL PRICES FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS
J. J. KREUZBERGER
MERCHANT TAILOR
ai6 W. Jefferson Blvd
Arnold Building
N.V.P. TRUNKS
Made by the makersof “Indestructo" and selling at a moderate price. Luggage section—and floor
GEO. WYMAN & CO. x -
National Grocer Company WHOLESALE GROCERS - -S	— - w-	}
403-8 South St Joseph Street . South Bend. Indiana “LIGHT HOUSE BRANDS" ~
Kable’s Restaurants
104-106 N. Meagan St -
fit W. Jefferson Byld.-306S0. Michigan St.
Pure Drugs. Careful Compounding. . Prompt Sendee
• ' " • -* :	. Always at <
The Eliel Pharmacy
330 W. Washington Ami. ' Emil Refer. Ph. G.-Mgr.
Gfl
the-wt shot* or m mmsort
Frank Mayr & Sons
JEWELERS
113 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
the Moure Same Scholastic Advertisements
Dr. Walter A. Hager
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT
"	Telephone Bell 52
N. W. Cor. Lafayette St.	.	,
and Washington Ave.	South Bena, Ina.
4——- - ■■ ■ - - - - - - ■■ - —...
..............................- , ■ ,,
Mike’s Restaurant
and Lunch Room
H. E. GROSS & SON. Props.
105 E. Jefferson Ave., South Bend	Home Phone 6183
I Home Phone, 5789	'	• Res Bell 1162
uffics | BeU Phone# 68s>	,
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTIST
611-612 J. M. S. Bldg.	,
Cor. Main St. and Wash. Ave.	South Bend, Ind.
m-----	,
. Nobile’s College Inn
HEADQUARTERS FOR CANDIES FRUITS AND ICE CREAM
STUDENTS’ ORDERS FILLED PROMPTLY
108 South Michigan Street
Phones: Bell, 602; Home, 965	*
Office:	PHONES Residence:
Bell 886. Home. 5842.	BeU, 3561. Home, 3702
DR. JOHN A. STOECKLEY
DENTIST
No. 511, Corner Suite J. M. S. Building
Wash. Ave. and Main St. South Bend. Ind.
DR. F. W. VAUGHN
SURGEON DENTIST and ORTHODONTIST
60S J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Ind.
“WALK-OVERS”
THE STUDENT'S SHOE
WALK-OVER BOOT SHOP
115 S. Michigan' St. .
. . , - —....- — - - — - —■ -	■■ ■< .
Bell Phone 581	Will call al University
Home Phone 2451	*	by appointment
Chiropodist
L. L. ROBERTS
Office and Residence. 222 S. Taylor Street. South Bend, Ind. « , ■■ - .
——- —————————- ■ - - “•*
With the Largest and Best Equipped Printing Plant in 1 Northern Indiana, and the most skillful workmen,.we are | prepared to meet your most exacting requirements.	. I
L. P. HARDY CO.
4x7-423 S. St. Joseph St.	- South Bend, Indiana I
Klingel & Kuehn
SHOES OF QUALITY -
Between Oliver Opera House and J. M. S- Bldg. . SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
<■ - ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ - ■ ■ - ■ , T^e f at Reasonable Prices. Special attention Bicycles
Anderson Brothers & Bultinck
109 West Colfax Avenue	South Bend. Indiana
—— - ■ 4
— , ■ ■■	- - ■ , ■ - — —w - >
Baker’s Shoes
“FOR MEN WHO CARE" EXCLUSIVE IN STYLE PERFECT IN FIT 1x4 W- Washington, Ave. South Bend, Indiana
THE LIGHT OF THE VISION
By CHRISTIAN REID 362 pp.—Price $1.25 THE AVE MARIA NOTRE DAME. IND.
||otpePamc||^^
DISCE- QUASI- SEMPER-VICTURUS-VIVE- QUASI- CRASMORITVRVS
Vol. LIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, December 6, 1919.	No. 11.,
Notre Dame Football, 19x9.
BY PAUL SCOFIELD, *20.
ITH a record of nine victories and no defeats Coach Rockne’s foot
ball men have just closed a season as strenuous as it was successful, and the Notre Dame eleven should rightly be called “The Champions of the West.” They met and defeated some of the strongest teams of the West, and their victory over the Army placed them at least on ah equal with the -much advertised teams of the East. The fame they achieved for themselves and for the school will be lasting, and associated with this fame is the feeling of all Notre Dame men, each one of whom is proud of the team and the school they represented.
Cartier Field was the scene of the first game of 1919, in which Kalamazoo College furnished somewhat unexpected opposition. The Notre Daine line was not yet fully developed, and time
and again it allowed the Wolverines to freak through and stop the backfield men before they could get under way. As the game progressed, however, the line braced and the speedy backs tore through their opponents for two touchdowns.
- , - —— - , - NOTRE DAME RECORD, 1919 K. K. ROCKNE. Coach CHARLES DORAIS. Asat. Coach _	LEONARD BAHAN. Captain		
	N. D.	Opp-
Kalamazoo.	'		0
at Notre Dame	14	
Mt. Union		7
at Notre Dame	60	
Nebraska		9 *
-	at Lincoln	14	
Western Normal .		0
- at Notre Dame	53	
Indiana _		3
at Indianapolis -	16	
Army		
at West Point	12	
Michigan Aggies		0
at Notre Dame	13	
Purdue ■		13
at Lafayette	33	
Morningside		6
; at Sioux City	14	
. Total Score 229 47 . . 	  -	■■ - - ■ 		— ■ - ■■ ■■ a •		
The first points of the season were annexed by Captain Bahan who, after Malone and Gipp had circled the ends for several sensational gains, carried the ball over the line, and then kicked goal. Seven more points were added when “Dutch” Bergman strolled fifty yards through the entire “Kazoo” team, and Bahan kicked goal. The final score of 14 to o was not a true indication of the respective merits of the teams, for the local eleven achieved many a spectacular gain only to lose the ball through some fluke or penalty.
The eleven men from Ohio, representing Mount Union College, who were the next invaders of Cartier Field, returned to the Buckeye State with their championship hopes sadly blighted, having been forced to accept the short end of a 6o-to~7 score. The first quarter appeared to indicate a close contest, as the period ended with the score a tie, 7 to 7, in consequence of the brilliant runs of the N. D. backfield and a neatly executed forward pass by Cholley and Brown, of Mt. Union. The remaining quarters inxno way "resembled the first. An
unsophisticated spectator might easily have thought that Rockne had placed his track team on the field, as the Gold and Blue sprinted down the field for eight more touchdowns. The final account credited them with nine touchdowns and - - */
i62	Noure dame ©chdascic
six goals. It is not easy to select for particular mention any individual in that game from among the constellation of N. D. stars that shone on that occasion. The whole aggregation of twenty-four men who represented N. D. played in stellar form.
The first game on the road was played at Lincoln, Nebraska, where the Gold and Blue met the University of Nebraska and treated them to the tune of 14 to 9. This was the biggest game of the year for the “ Cornhuskers ” and a multitude of enthusiasts were on hand in anticipation of a big Nebraska victory. -Their cheer that accompanied the kick-off was still ringing when “Little Dutch” stood smiling behind his goal posts and Notre Dame was six points to the good. Gipp had received the kick-off and, according to a bit of deliberate strategy, started down one side of the field only to pass the ball to Bergman,. who, feeling the responsibility of his title of “Flying Dutchman,” went down the other side of the field for the first touchdown. Bahan kicked goal and then the real battle began. Outweighed seventeen pounds to the man, our team grittily endeavored to stop the drive of the Nebraska backfield, but the “Cornhuskers” battered their way through for a touchdown. They failed to kick the goal. The opening of the second half saw Nebraska determined to overcome the one-point lead of the “Hoosiers” and Notre Dame equally determined to maintain it. For a while the outlook for Rockne’s men was dark. Their opponents forced them back to the 27-yard line, but here Notre Dame held and took the ball on downs. Bahan then opened the box of tricks, which had been brought on purpose, and then began the return march, which ended when the captain of the Gold and Blue carried the pigskin over for the second touchdown.. Nebraska realizing the impregnability of the Irish line, opened an aerial attack, and Dobson soon succeeded in booting from the 40-yard line a beautiful dropkick between the bars. This marked the end of the scoring. The remainder of the game was played in Nebraska’s territory.
The. team of the Western State Normal at Kalamazoo, Michigan, after victories over M. A. C. and Wabash, trotted out on Cartier Field fully prepared to humble the Irish. In the end they limped from the same field after yielding 53 tallies to Notre Dame and saving none for themselves. With the game two minutes old, Gipp and Malone had carried the
ball close to the goal, and on the next play “George” registered six points. From then the pupils of Rockne and Dorais gained almost at will; the backs enjoyed themselves by romping up and down the field; the linemen stopped every attack and opened great holes for the men carrying the ball. Barry and Bergman both got away for beautiful runs through the whole Normal team for touchdowns. Brandy, Mohardt, and Thelan also plowed through the opposition for tallies.
Six hundred “rooters,” on a special train chartered for the occasion, accompanied the team to Indianapolis to see Notre Dame triumph over Indiana in an animated mud-pie battle. The final score of 16 to 3 did not show the comparative merit of the Northern team, as they acquired several touchdowns that were recalled and Indiana was playing against a team of substitutes in the latter part of the- game, Rockne saving his “best bets” for the Army game to be played the following Saturday. Never, perhaps, was a football game played under conditions more unfavorable. The field was a mass of mud and rain and rain was falling throughout the contest. The light backfield of the Gold and Blue soon found that such mud was not conducive to good sprinting; nevertheless, they got away for several long runs. The first touchdown occurred in the second quarter when, after “Hunk” Anderson had blocked an Indiana punt on the five-yard line, Gipp carried, the ball over—only to lose the slippery pig-skin. Slackford quickly recovered it, however, and claimed the first points of the game. With only a few minutes of the first half to complete, Gipp drove the ball between the posts from placement on the twenty-five yard line, making the count 9 to o. In the third quarter Indiana found the Gold-and-Blue line puncture proof and lost the ball on downs on the forty-yard line. Thence the" “ Rockmen” on four straight first downs advanced to the goal line, where Gipp went over, making the total sixteen points. Rockne then injected a swarm of substitutes, who held the Indiana eleven until penalties placed the ball within striking distance of the goal. But even here the Indiana squad could gain only three yards in three downs, and Risley from the twenty-yard mark attempted a place-kick which barely cleared the bar and made Indiana the proud possessor of three points, their only score in the game. The much-touted attack of Indiana failed to materialize and they
Noure dame Schdagck?
163
succeeded in making only one first down from scrimmage as compared to fifteen by the Gold and Blue—evidence of the stonewall defence and brilliant offence of the Northerners.
The following week Notre Dame, minus Bergman, who was injured in the Indiana game, went East to meet her ancient rivals, the Cadets of West Point. The prospect was not encouraging, but not once did the team falter, not even when the Army with a score of 9 to o stood against them. They still had the intention to win, and they did win, as all the country knows. They won 12 to 9 in the greatest game that has been played on the “Plains” in years—demonstrating
after pass was hurled by Gipp into the waiting arms of Bahan, Kirk, and E. Anderson—five of them in all, by which the “second lieuts” were completely bewildered; and then with the ball on the one-yard'mark, Gipp drove through for a touchdown, ending the half 9 to 6. The second half opened with the Gold and Blue smashing through the soldiers’ line to the ten-yard mark, where the ball was lost on downs and the Army kicked out of danger. Another march goalwards was promptly started by the Westerners, and this time there was no stopping them. Dazzling forward passes to Kirk, E. Anderson, and Barry brought the ball again to
Reading left to right.—top row; Dooley; Shaw; Crowley; Kasper; Cudahy; Kiley; Coughlin; Trafton; Mehra; Vohs; Wynn; Walsh-Middle Raw: H. Anderson; Slackford; Kirk; Bergman; Miller; Bahan (Capt.)^_Brandy; Hayes; Barry; E. Anderson; Pearson; O’Hara-Bottom Rorw: Holton; Sexton; Donovan; Connors; Ambrose; Sanders; Payne? Prokop; Mohardt; Phelan. (Gipp.-Smith. Degree. Malone, and Madigan, five of the most prominent stars of the team, are unfortunately absent from the picture.)
again that the Gold and Blue never quits, whatever the odds. In the first quarter the Army displayed an offence that was irresistible. Time after tiriie they pounded the Notre Dame line for substantial gains, till they carried the ball to the one-yard line, but it took them four efforts to measure that single yard. Again the Cadets took the ball, and advanced to the twenty-six yard line—only to find that the “Fighting . Irish” were now fully aroused and determined . to stop them. The West Pointers then had recourse to a place-kick, which McQuarrie sent squarely between the posts, thus making the score stand 9 to o against the Westerners. Field-marshal “Jimmie” Brandy, after running . back the kick-off, opened up with the style of ■ play that defeated the Cadets in 1913. Pass
the one-yard line; Miller’s drive resulted in another touchdown, and the “shave-tails” were for the first time on the wrong end of the score. The last quarter was almost a repetition of the third. “Hunk” Anderson recovered Wilhide’s fumble, and again the Gold and Blue advanced to the ten-yard line, but slippery footing prevented them from carrying the ball over. The remainder of the game saw the Westerners resting, with frequent exchange of punts in which Degree outclassed his opponent, and the game ended just as Brandy intercepted a forward pass preliminary to another advance.
Reinforced by two hundred “rooters” and a fifty-piece band, the Michigan “Aggies” invaded Rockne’s camp a week after the Army game, knowing that they were the Notre Dame “jinx”
164
Nocre dame^didcvdc
and that they had defeated the Indiana eleven last year. Rockne, taking little account of these facts, however, and wishing to save his regulars for the Purdue fray, started the game with a team of substitutes, except Degree. ~*The first quarter proved that the ‘Aggies’ were stronger than estimated; they not only stopped the Notre Dame attack but threatened to score. Most of the regulars were sent into the game at the beginning of the second quarter and the tide began to turn. Using the same aerial attack that' had been so elective against the Army, the Gold and Blue carried the ball to the five-yard line, but they lost it on downs. A second time the Varsity swept forward almost to the goal line, but an imcomplete pass over the line lost them the ball. The “Aggies” punted, and then a third N. D. offensive was
under way. Bahan and Slackford repeatedly. Brandy soon wiggled through for a tally, tieing broke through the Michigan line, and after a the score. George Gipp then decided to do
long pass, Gipp to Kirk, had placed . the ball within striking distance of the goal, Slackford plunged through for the first touchdown of the game. The third quarter found the teams in a punting duel with Degree having the advantage. The final quarter yas featured by brilliant pass work on the part of Gipp, Kirk, and. Coughlin.
“Beagle” reached some right or ten feet in the air^ and pulled down a pass behind the goal. Bahan kicked goal, bringing the final total to 13 points. The record crowd which attended the game got an idea of how the Army was defeated by the wizardly passing game of Gipp and Kirk.
The eighth consecutive..victory of the season was the result of Notre Dame’s jaunt to Lafayette where Purdue was humbled 33 to 13. The’Gold and Blue eleven was slightly over-” confident at the beginning of the game and the “Boilermakers” -pushed over a touchdown in the first quarter. But Rockne’s men soon realized the strength of their opponents and Bergman-and Kirk both registered in the second period, the former by means of an end-run and the latter ..by. bring on the receiving end of a cannon-ball pass from Gipp. The third period' brought forth more aerial work.and “Bernie” Kiik boosted. the total to nineteen. With
fifteen minutes to play, Purdue fought to over--cpmexthei lead of their opponents and managed	.	.
. to score six^rnore points.-But tiie team from.
northern Indiana was not satisfied with aiq-to-13
. -,a-	- v--7 i-.:	’ k • Hit them with all you’ve got!. And, Joe.
“	- IM Berp.umrip^.rorty^e. ;
. and	^or -- '^taM^ha^kij y<m-devils," wild to fight! '
another marker,‘‘Geprge’s.^	the^ .itfs tin^n^	JLtfsgp!”
result of a Purdue fumble, while “Hunk” was on his toes in intercepting a forward pass. The final result of course make the Gold and Blue the~ “champs of Indiana” and the only undefeated big eleven in the West. The aerial work was phenomenal, twelve passes being good for a hundred and sixty-two yards, and the line men notonlydid their allotted work exceptionally well but also had a share in the scoring and in receiving passes.	’
With snow falling throughout the contest and the thermometer at ten above zero, Notre Dame upheld^the hope of her supporters for a clean slate for the season by defeating Morningside College, 14 to 7, at Sioux City, Iowa. A fumbled kick-off at the opening of the game gave Morningside their lone marker. The “Rockmen” only fought the harder and “Jimmie
some stepping, by which seven more points were added and the scoring ended. The famous aerial work was not uncovered as the weather condition" made it impossible. Thus with a record of nine victories and no defeats Notre. Dame ended her regular season with a strong claim to the
■ championship of the West.
The Battle Call.
BY v: F. FAGAN,
20.
JHE cleats and tape, and pads were set, And helmets lashed to fighting jaws; ■	~
They sat and crouched, Pete with the ball. .
In silent soberness they met	■
The coaches’ burning glare. The pause Was tense, then flared the battle call.
“Well boys’we’re here! They’ve always feared, , Our teams. But now they, smile	.
Contemptuous of your fighting name.	.
In other years they never jeered, '	»	*
It meant hot hell to goad and rile '	/.
Those old-time men of Notre. Dame.
“Remember Philbin and‘Big* Mac? ' ■ They’re gone! But, boys, their spirit’s here. ’
. Today, Kirk,.whenyourtackle, crash -
- Your man! AndHartley,fling them back! . -- ;.-Thatfullbackquits.driye in andsmear	.
- Eachplay. Charge low, and? Sackford, smash!


$fie None &ame$cholc»de
165
x' :	/	-
Varsity Verse.
How They Did It.
September brought the gang again to Notre Dame, 1 And “Rock,” he says to Dorais, “Let’s start this football game.”	,
■ Out came, the uniforms, with marks of ancient gore, He placed them on some sturdy men, a couple score, Then came a little practice of brain and'body too, ' And-‘.‘Rock”: said, "Guess you’re ready, now show ; what you can do.”	'
Kazoo,, the- Normals^first upon the field were brought. We beat them by fourteen to Kazoo’s tiny naught.
Then came Mount Union here, a strong Buckeye eleven, ■
And we had a pleasant track meet—sixty-one to seven. ~ - Next it was Nebraska, a terrifying sign, " But we gave them a walloping fourteen to nine. -	.
Then Western Normal thought that they had many a hero	‘
But we goVfifty-three, they carried home a zero. ■ Old Indiana followed and finished with a three, And our “Rockmen” grabbed a sixteen, and made it victory.	.	•
Then looking-for some real fight, they drubbed the Army boys,	■
Kicked the Old Mule twelve to nine, I’ll say we made - some noise.	-	■
. Next they tried the Farmers, the Aggies Wolverine,
Gave them the big zero, and themselves secured - fourteen.	•	.
Purdue also had ahunch that they could play the game, . Just thirty-three to thirteen—they all look the same.
And just to finish strong we took on Morningside, And -by fourteen to six we took the Hawkeyes’ hide. And now that we’ve the championship of all the football world, >	K	'■	'	'
Let’s have the fighting Gold and Blue to every breeze
unfurled.
—J. T. B.
To the Men of the^Tbam. -
- Yours was a brilliant team, indeed;— The swiftest of our day—	.
Let lasting glory be the meed '
' Of praises for your play. .
It was a splendid gallantry
- You showed in every game,—
' A spirit surging like the sea—
_ And proud is Notre Dame. ”
£ May,' when yourgridiron days are done, . Your courage ever be,
- - As when Our Lady’s champion, ‘	~
. ' You brought her victory.—w. c. h.
- - 7 ■ - ■ •	7. Bahan. 7 , •	‘ ' .• .
Here’s to the lad with a corner on grit.
7 'He’s the pluckiest, fighter that stands on two feet.
7 And I’ll always be proudthat I’ve shaken the mitt ;
Ofthequarterbackcapta in and gentleman,—Pete.
- -	—V. F/F.,7
' "Hb’saMan.”
. You led that Fighting Irish crew, '	_ Pete Bahan,	'
Their trust was not misplaced in you, Pete Bahan.
For three years now you’ve carried on;' Your genius many games has won;
We honor you for what you’ve done, Pete Bahan.	-
Admiring scribes will write about
, - Pete Bahan.	-
r~ — When deeds are tongues, you’ll hear them shout "Pete Bahan!”	'
Since Rock’s hip-hipping you began You’ve played as only daring can. By all that’s nobk, -you’re a man, Pete Bahan.
—T. T.
Thb Finish.
Our football team has lost no game,	'
In East and West has gained much fame.' Although in many games outweighed, The harder odds, the harder played. .
-	-	—w. K. (3rd. Prep.) .
Ths Dopesters.
“You aren’t very heavy; your pounds are next to nil; . And all your tricks will be of no avail; _
The other teams have mighty^ men; they’ll wreck your" plans, your hopes tfiey’U kill, '	- -
And scatter opposition like feathers in. a gale.
Their coaches are ai wily lot and-they never miss a guess, - Their stars can cover miles and miles' of space;
And so we critics and we scribes are able to confess. The Gold and Blue can never win the race.” '
But when the season started and the team began to . show,' _	’	.
How Jack and David slew the giants of old, .. Another song was^ chanted by the journalistic row. And wondrous tales of N. D. men were told.
The celerity of Bergman, the dexterity of Gipp, The feats of Brandy, Bahan, and Malone; .
The way a line of scrappy men did tear and rip and smash, ' ' .	-	.	.
* Throughout the whole United States are known.
“Your line is light-but powerful; your backs have speed to Burn, x	,
~ And you can’t be.stopped by anything on earth; -
Your' coaches are prodigious, they know all there is to learn.	.
" The plays you’ve worked have often, proved their ' . worth.” . • . • , •	.'
So it isn’t size and press predicts that make a-winning. ’ team, .---7^-.	■_ - • . -• - • .
Conjectures never won great victories, \ . 7 . But courage, strength and skill and speed can realize a. , dream, ’ --.7\. ' / —. -	. 7	. ■.7.-'-'
Inspite of allallegedauthorities.—w. C.H. '
*

166
None dome Schokreckr
The Coaches.
Just as Captain Rockne and ex-Captain Dorais, the peerless football combination of the 1913 eleven, with their novel and perfect forward passing, nimble field running, and good generalship, led Notre Dame to victory over tlie strongest teams in the East, West and Southwest, so that same combination has developed this year a team which has impressed itself even upon adverse critics as one of the strongest in collegiate competition. The phenomenal success of the undefeated eleven of 1919 is for the most part to be attributed to the work of Coach Rockne . and Assistant Coach Dorais.
With Rockne concentrating his efforts upon the development of the line and with Dorais as the silent general of the backfield, the singular
■COACH ROCKNE
achievement of the team was inevitable. The Coaches received throughout the season the ' fullest confidence and heartiest co-operation of the candidates. They noted carefully the particular ability of each player and made their choice for positions accordingly. No department ■ of the game was neglected, no weak spot escaped attention, no play lacked perfection. >
Rockne has just completed his second year as mentor of the Notre Dame eleven. His long i football experience and his three years of work as assistant with Coach Jesse Harper left nothing lacking, in the way of qualification. He faced a difficult schedule with a determination to develop a winning team. The nine unbroken victories of the season show how he succeeded. He injected into the men that indefinable ,N. D.
spirit which resulted in every contest in a mad In 1904 Wisconsin gave us the worst drubbing fight for victory. And not only oh the gridiron in our gridiron history, when we bowed before did Rockne develop that efficient spirit, but also her to the tune of 58^0;
in the student body. He quickly succeeded in restoring that traditional, unanimous enthusiasm which was so sadly lacking at the beginning of the year.
“Gus” Dorais, who piloted the Notre Dame elevens in 1910, ’11, ’12, and ’13 gave this year, as assistant to Rockne, just the co-operation needed to achieve such amazing success. The backfield was gradually perfected by him until towards the end of the year its efficient teamwork was the outstanding feature in every victory. The indomitable will, tireless efforts, and brainy, direction of the coaches developed a machine which conquered teams on which every individual, player received the attention of two personal coaches. The cherished memories of their work will
.,•11	<- i •	.. Asst. Coach Dorais
remain indelibly, fixed in the
minds and hearts of the members of the squad, and of the stifdent body.—p. r. conaghan.
Football Facts.
The game with Morningside on Thanksgiving Day marked the close of Notre Dame’s thirty-first football season. It was also her twenty-eighth consecutive season. The gridiron sport was inaugurated at Notre Dame back in 1887, when the Gold and Blue lost its first game to Michigan by a score of 8-0.
The “Fighting Irish” have participated in . 211 contests, winning 159, losing 36, and tying 16.
- The fact that Notre Dame has amassed a total of 5492 points against 1040 by her opponents forms a fine commentary on the chronic strength of her “pigskin jugglers.”
This year’s aggregation is the tenth Notre Dame team - to go through a football season without a defeat. ,
In 1905 we administered our most crushing defeat , on record by trouncing the American Medical Collegexby a total of 140 points, and holding them scoreless. \	'
Nocre dame Schokreric
The Men of the Squad.
BY ALFRED N. SLAGGART, *21.
Bahan. .
_ When the Notre Dame stands proclaimed to an opposing team in a spirited yell, “He’s a man— Who’s a man?	e
He’s a Notre Dame man,” . ■ they expressed the conviction that comes surely from intimate acquaintance with Leonard
- Bahas, the captain of our 1919 team. Bahan is a brilliantly versatile athlete, being a monogram man in basketball and baseball as well as in
football. While in preparatory school he was twice selected as all-Kentucky quarterback, winning at the same time similar honors as allstate forward in basketball. Notwithstanding this record, “Pete” came to Notre Dame not as an athlete but as a student. During his first year no one knew that the mechanical engineer,, whose marks were in the magna-cum-laude class, would in a short time be using’ on the Notre Dame gridiron that mental poise for which he has since become so well-known in footballdom. Rockne has not had on his squad a more consistent player than this Bahan, and this regularity along with his head-work made him an ideal quarterback. To have been captain of the 1919 team is an honor, and it could not have fallen on a more worthy man than Leonard Bahan.
Madigan.
Notre Dame’s “ fighting-Irish ” center, “Slip” Madigan, has completed an envious football ' career. For three years this versatile athlete has been, at guard or center, the mainstay on the Notre Dame line. A swift thinker in the tense and crucial moments of the game, and a real warrior, he has keen a constant worry to every line Notre Dame opposed. Particularly notable was his brilliance against Nebraska and the Army. On these occasions “Slip” was considerably outweighed, but even Day of Nebraska and Greene of the Army will testify that he was
not outfought. We regret that the scrappy
pivot man can play no more. To Madigan, the Add to his speed, smashing ability, and headstudent and the gridiron star, Notre Dame	_	-
. extends a sincere tribute of gratitude.' His
achievement is recorded with those of the greatest in the annals of Notre Dame Football.
Bergman.
“Little Dutch” -Bergman, the second of his - clan—but not the last, we hope—to “carry on” for Notre Dame, will end his brilliant gridiron career with the battle against the Oregon “Aggies”, in Portland, Oregon, on Christmas Day. The absence of the name Bergman from the Notre Dame line-up will seem odd<- For years the supporters of the Gold and Blue have gloried in the name, while opposing teams and coaching staffs have wasted hours of worry .over it. “ Bergie’s ” phantom open-field running, his sprint starts, down-wing rushes, and mystifying off-tackle gains have placed him among the “greatest ever.” Football experts and critics of every section have lauded his work, and the • “Flying Dutchman” has missed unanimous AllAmerican selection only because of injuries that have kept him out of critical games. No football man has ever held more securely the respect and admiration of the students and faculty of Notre Dame. Bergman’s grit, his efforts when crippled, his fight when he knew he was marked “get him,” brands the “Little Dutch” the most memorable of the “Fighting' Irish.” When he steps off the Portland field on Christmas day he will have closed his career as one of the greatest of
the “big little meh” football has produced. With his equally famous brother, “Big Dutch,” he will be perpetuated in the annals of Notre Dame football.	' '
. Miller. .
When Walter Miller puts on his burst of speed and tears down the gridiron he makes the Hill Street Car at its best look as if it were standing still. For three years Walter has been a mainstay of the eleven and has. never failed to go forward when called upon. Last season he was Slackford’s partner at the fullback position and at the end of the long schedule honors are equal between the two. Walter is the sum total of what is desirable in a fasttback.
' work the fact that he is a punter of note, and you haye the reasons for his reputation in American football. His fame will not die with his graduationin June, but'for many a day the students ~
i6S •
Houre dame&hdoscic
of his time will recall with delight the sensational dashes and high-soaring punts by which he distinguished himself at every opportunity.
Slackford.
At the outbreak of the war “Fritz” Slackford left the halls of Notre Dame and became one of the most distinguished soldier-students. On his return this fall, his “pep” and endurance were still at fever pitch, and his football performances during the season have won for him wide recognition founded on genuine merit. Men of former years will recall how he shattered an opponent’s line with his Herculean frame, and this year was, another illustration. When Rockne called upon him to “finish the job,” Fritz always went “over the top” on his first play and hit the enemy with the momentum of a military tank. We can safely assure the big blond back that the memory of his feats on the gridiron will long be cherished by followers of the Gold and Blue.
Malone.
Grover Malone, one of the most versatile Gold and Blue backs, also finishes this year. His performance in the early season was stamped with the same sensational brand that characterized the phenomenal work of the “Little Wonder ”'in former seasons. He was prevented from taking part in many of the major games of the schedule by a mean ankle injury that kept him limping badly, but as a star “Grove” has never waned in the least. Built low and massive and possessed of no mean ability in sprinting, he skirted ends at will and richocheted through “stonewall” lines, leaving a trail of tacklers behind. He has finished his term, but his multitude of admirers will long chant-his praises. -	"
Kirk.
Soon after the Army game a writer on a New York daily, speaking of exceptionally good forward-pass receivers, said, “It is doubtful if any surpass Kirk, left end of Notre Dame.” This was no news item to us who know him. Those who have been followingthe rapid development of this youngster realized long ago that in Kirk Notre Dame had a man who was following in Rockne’s footsteps. Bernie’s phenomenal ability in catching Gipp’s passes proved a source of discouragement to rival coaches during the season. Try as they would, they could not organize a defense which could hold this end of ours. Already the Eastern sport-writers are
urging Kirk for a berth on Camp’s All-American, and those who have seen him in action can see no reason why he should not have the honor. He has two more years to play.
Gipp.
Notre Dame'is to enjoy for another season the service of George Gipp, one of the best halfbacks ever developed in the West, if not in the whole country, the opinion of one Walter Camp to the contrary notwithstanding. The truly classic work of big George has been the most prominent factor in the success of the past phenomenal season. In 1916 Gipp leaped into national notice,
when, as Captain of the Notre Dame Freshmen in the game against Kalamazoo Normal he booted the longest drop-kick of the year. He struck a spectacular stride the following year under the tutelage of Harper, but suffered a broken leg in the game with Morningside. This year George has provoked numerous headline encomiums by virtue of his magnificent end-dashes and by his consistently sensational hurling of passes. Commenting on the ability of this star back, the Purdue Exponent pays this tribute: “Gipp will be remembered as the powerful half who last year, made consistent gains against Purdue when'the elevens met on Stuart Field. This man is also one of the best forward passers in the game and must be watched if Purdue . expects to break up the aerial attack of the visitors.” Camp and Eckersall will have to offer some excuses if in their selections they pass by George Gipp.
Degree.	'
Another veteran who bids farewell to Notre Dame football after three years of brilliant service is the “old reliable” at tackle, “Cy” Degree. He made good fromjthe scratch, winning his first monogram in 1916 and duplicating his stellar work, in 1917, despite the fact that he was retarded by a troublesome knee. Time after time the giant tackle , was forced to the sidelines by a revival of the old injury, but. he was always ready for the next game with all his. characteristic grit.. This year he overcame the effects of his former injury and played a fine consistent game throughout the season. “Cy” was-in on every play with the clinch of his deadly tackle. The Nebraska, West Point,
*$fie Noure dome Schokwcic
' and Indiana backs slighted Degree’s wing, knowing that efforts to get through him were as a rule futile. In the passing of Degree, Notre Dame loses one of her greatest defensive stars, and it will likely be several seasons before Rockne and. Dorais will be able to develop the equal of this super-giant.
Barry.
“Nam” Barry, the fighting little bantam who was Bahan’s understudy at half-back, is by no means a new figure in Notre Dame football. He began in St. Edward’s Hall a good decade ago, for years he starred in the Interhall games, and last season he broke into the Varsity. Barry is a light man, but his ability to run through an open field, dodging or shaking off tacklers and wiggling through any number of opponents, will make him notable in American football within the next two years. ‘ Nam” carries his smile as surely as he -carries the ball, and his cheery manner after being clipped stamps him as unique among football stars. “Rock” can tell you of his determination to smash against the Cadets at West Point, and those who saw the game will never forget his all-American catch when Notre Dame was “finishing up the job.” There is not a man on the team who is more deserving of the big N. D., and Barry is eligible for two more monograms before Rockne gives him hiszfinal discharge.
Pearson.
“ Dud” Pearson is another of Rock’s big ones, who will take the train in June with an N. D. sheepskin tucked under his famous passing arm. Pearson proved his prowess two years ago by breaking into the intercollegiate limelight and remaining there, despite the fact that he fought ‘ under the serious handicap of a badly injured shoulder. His showing in. the terrific W. and J. battle of 1917 won the admiration not only of Notre Dame men but also of the disconcerted cohorts of Metzger. Much of the success of the Gold and Blue in the battle with M. A. C. this season was due to the fine work of Pearson. In fact every time “Dud” was called on to fill his position his work was extraordinary. Rockne suffers another real loss in Pearson.
2. Brandy.	.
Two years ago it was published throughout the football world that a featherweight halfback of Notre Dame had stopped the mighty Oliphant and that this youth playing his first season in college iootball had raced through the
169
-Cadets for a winning touchdown. .The new star was Joe Brandy. In September Coach Rockne saw the wisdom of playing “Li’l Joe” at the quarterback position, and throughout the fall we have been hearing echoes of two years ago. Joe went to West Point again, and, as the general of the Fighting-Irish, directed the whirlwind aerial attack which another time sent the soldiers down to defeat. Brandy’s specialty seems to be beating West Point. Indiana, Purdue, the Michigan Aggies, have all been outwitted by this_small man, whose invincible spirit and inside knowledge of the game rank him among the great players of Notre Dame. Joe will lead the team for another season.
Mohardt.	*
John Mohardt, the Jnterhall man of two years ago, broke into the ranks of football stars last year and was one of Rockne’s best bets in the-backfield. This season, however, Mohardt did not play in every game in consequence of the superabundance of backfield talent. We saw , Johnny tear away for long runs in the Mount Union and Michigan Aggie games, but because of the sloppy field at Indianapolis he was unable to show the form which has made him a man to be reckoned with. With his ability in tackling, his speed, and his experience, he will doubtless during the next two seasons make the nucleus for a great set ot backs.
Smith.
Donning a football uniform for the first time in his life, “Morrie” Smith stepped out on CartierField three years agoandwas immediately recognized by Coach Harper as a man of great possibilities. From that moment until the final whistle sounded this season in the Morningside fray, Smith has shown exceptional quality. We lack adjectives to describe the smashing, “ go-get’-em” action of the hefty guard from Ottawa. Of this player an Indianapolis scribe writes: “Smith is not a name to create a furore in any community, but this particular member of the Smith family has been making football players sit up and take notice, and he will keep his opponent hustling when Notre Dame and Indiana clash at Washington Park next Saturday. Smith weighs only one hundred and sixty-nine pounds, but he has been holding down a forward wall position at guard with great eclat for Coach Rockne’s Irish eleven.’ ’ Smith has been awarded the position of right guard on the mythical allState team and has been picked by the Rochester
c
170	'Sfie Noure dome Scholastic
Herald for the same position in an all-American selection. “Morrie” is a champion whose record at Notre Dame is, to say the least, enviable. He will be graduated this year.
Trafton.
“Big George” Trafton showed his quality at Oak Park before he picked out'Notre Dame for an address. During the season past his success at pivot position has increased with each contest until in the Purdue game the big center startled the crowd by a zig-zagging march down the field with an intercepted pass. In this Chicago “youth” Notre Dame has another Rydzewski. His work on defense has been stubborn, and as for his offensive, you may ask the backs on the Indiana and Pin-due elevens: Although badly battered up in several contests, George wore a smile as broad as that of Madigan, his partner, and his high spirits, even in the face of odds, contributed towards the consistent morale of the Western Champions. Notre Dame will watch opposing centers wonder at Trafton for two more years.
H. Anderson.
Rockne must have been born with the proverbial silver spoon, for he is to have ‘ ‘ Hunk ” Anderson • at left guard for two more years. Anderson broke into the headlines by virtue of his sensational delivery of “football goods” at Nebraska, West Point, and Purdue. At the last place he insisted on duplicating Trafton’s aerial scoop by getting in the way of a forward hurl and gliding through the entire Purdue defense for a touchdown. An aggressive battler and a brainy linesman, “Hunk” earned well his popularity among the “fans” by uniformly, giving his best. Although Anderson played on the S. A. T. C. team of last year, he still has two years of eligibility.
E. Anderson.
Very much in evidence during every game of the season was Eddie Anderson, prominent member of the famous “Flying Circus.” With his mate, Kirk, he was on the receiving end of many a successful pass. His uncanny ability in catching the swift ones from Gipp .gave him, distinction as “ one of the best ends in the West.” Ed did hot, however, confine his gridiron accomplishments to aerial work; an exceptionally fast man, he was down under every punt and got his man. A reporter at the Anny game remarked, “Every time I see Anderson start
I get ready to write ‘Blank was downed in his tracks.’” Eddie played last year on the S. A. T. C. eleven, but he still has two more years of school, and perhaps that is why Rockne and Dorais chuckle when they think of next year.
Kiley.
When Kiley found that the “Aerial Twins,” Kirk and E. Anderson, were competing with him for the position of end, he did not lose hope of becoming a regular but only fought the harder, and as a result he emerges from the season a monogram man. “Rog” did his share of retrieving forward passes and also became known and feared as one of the hardest and surest tacklers' on the team. Few gains were made around his flank and fewer still are the men who managed to shake him off once he had thepi. With Kiley back for next year, and the year after, the important position of end ceases to be a problem for the Coaches.'
Dooley.
Pre-eminent on Rockne’s squad of guardsmen and a fighting man in every sense of the word is big “Jim” Dooley. Of magnificent physique and fierce driving power, the big .boy from the^ East has been a bulwark to the Gold and Blue. He won his monogram by dint of grinding work. Numerous times Rockne sent him into the line to relieve Smith at guard and in every instance the Massachusetts giant showed himself equal to the task. When a play through the right wing was to be stopped Dooley was there. A defensive star of first magnitude, 'Dooley should in his two remaining years fight his way to the pinnacle of football fame.
Coughlin.
Those watching the Notre Dame machine in action have marvelled at the success of our off-tackle plays, which, after the forward pass, have been throughout the season our most consistent ground-gainers. This success/is greatly due to Frank Coughlin, the herculean left tackle, who achieved his first fame three seasons ago. From the moment that he entered an intercollegiate contest he has proved a most valuable line-man. Weighing well over two hundred pounds and capable of limitless punishment, Frank has always been a bulwark in the line of defense and a terror to the opponent. There is in him that enviable combination of brain and brawn, and though he never wastes any of his energy, he goes through a game on all twelve cylinders;

*5fie Moure domeSchclcBcic
■y
There is a prophecy in the praise accorded him by sport-writers, and this season should accord him a place’ on the all-Western. Notre Dame is to enjoy the services of “Lil’l Willie” for one more season.
■ Shaw.	' x.
Shaw played well the role of “minute man” throughout the season. This husky bearcat was called on frequently to jump into tackle position, where he acquitted himself so strikingly that even the taciturn Rockne was wont to point him. out with a “That’s-him!” Shaw was impenetrable. Possessed of impressive physique and a “football” disposition, he has the making of a champion. Willing, anxious, and industrious, the big fellow should during his two remaining years develop into an allAmerican. At present he is the best prospect for first-string position next year. With this sure “comer” in the local camp, we predict that the Coach’s” trouble at tackle will be the least of his worries.	,
“ Red ”, Dona van was out of the game during the entire season because of sickness, but will ' make things interesting next year for all other aspirants for the end places. Kasper, Walsh, Phelan, and Wynn are backfields of most promising consequence; they were edged out of regular positions on the first team because of- ' the wealth of big-time material. With most of the champion backs completing their intercollegiate careers, these men will undoubtedly be seen eating up yardage for the Gold and Blue when Rockne and Dorais pitch camp for 1920.
N. D. Freshmen Football, 1919.
BY E. MORRIS STARRETT,
21.
~ N. D. Freshmen, 7; Valparaiso University, o.
N. D. Freshmen, 36; Culver Military Academy, 7.
N. D. Freshmen,. 36; St. Viator’s College, o.
N. D. Freshmen, 23; M. A. C. Freshmen, o. -
N. D. Freshmen, 14; Fort Wayne T. O1 P., o.
Hayes.
After tackling the Boche for a loss Dave Hayes came back to Notre Dame and not even a hip-wound could keep this sturdy forward from ' the Hall of Fame. Two seasons ago Dave established his worth as an end and this year he has upheld the reputation of his ante-bellum days. Heavy, husky, and “hard,” he played his end position with such steadiness and success that he is looked upon by pigskin followers as a veritable Gibraltar. Bom with the invincible Irish fight in his nature, David conducts himself with such reserve and almost reproachable modesty that his popularity with the Coach and the.squad is as notable as the largeness of his heart.
Making the Varsity squad never hef ore this last season involved such consistently fierce fighting for places. As a result, a coterie of capable men who would ordinarily receive monograms has been forced to be content with second honors, x Mehre played a fine, determined game at center, showing always that “ I’ll-give-all-I’ve-got-anyway” spirit which augurs well for his future. Connors,. Sanders, Gooley, and Ambrose did exceptionally at guard. All of them faithful, ready, dogged men, they should give a.good . account of themselves in the heavy schedule
' of next year. Vohs and Cudahy are deadly, would order the Freshmen to buck the Varsity two fighting, tacklers with abundance of football or three sessions, each of a solid hour or more.
This year’s Freshmen squad was the largest that ever reported on Cartier Field for the fall drills and scrimmages with the Varsity. The first call resulted in the appearance of over sixty yearlings in uniform, and during the following weeks more than a dozen reported. The turn-puts included a wealth of fine material recruited from the preparatory and highschools of the midWest, while several of the squad had seen action with the Notre Dame Varsity squad in the S. A. T. C. organization. There was an abundance of line material, which will be badly needed for the Varsity of 1920. The development of. their backfield men has been watched with interest, for this year Notre Dame loses most of the greatest backfield squad the school has had in years. ,
The evident strength of the first year men made v it advisable to "schedule the hardest slate that any Notre Dame yearling squad has ever attempted. The games scheduled included four games on the road, and one to be played at home on Cartier Field. The game between the Freshman elevens of Michigan Agricultural College and Notre Dame was the first real home game by a. Freshman team of the University.
Many of the games were won under serious
£
handicaps. It was often the case that during the week days preceding a big game"“Rock” would order the Freshmen tobuck the Varsity two
- sense, ready to fill the yawning gap next year. In these scrimmages the youngsters were knocked

$fie None dome Scholastic
al out, battered, crippled, and crushed, so that or. one or two occasions Coach Miller doubted whether he had eleven men in condition for his next trip.	, _
The total of nine straight victories annexed by. Rockne’s Varsity eleven is scarcely more creditable than the record hung up by the Freshmen eleven representing the Notre Dame class of 1923. The Varsity eleven went through their schedule of nine games without a defeat, but they were heavily scored upon, whereas the Freshmen played a schedule of five hard games without a defeat and were scored upon only once, for one touchdown. And whilst they were holding all opponents scoreless the yearlings were setting up as a standard for future first-year teams a record total of 116 points. Freshmen teams of other years have won most of their games and with large scores, but no one of them has a record equal to that of the present season. .
The success of the Freshmen was largely due to the long hours of drill and scrimmage work,
put in night after night under the tutelage of Coach John Miller and his able assistant, Sherwood Dixon- For-years Miller has been one of Notre Dame’s most versatile athletes. He was a monogram man for three years on the Varsity trade and football squads, and was captain of the former in the spring of 1917. Under his direction the yearling backfidd soon became the equal of the line, and in subsequent scrimmages with the Varsity hardly ever failed to register touchdowns that gave Rockne good excuses for lecturing the Varsity. It will be a backfidd combination that the Varsity will need most in 1920, and if the 1923 men_fumish the needed material it will be because of Coach Miller?s excdlent work this fall. Sherwood Dixon of the 1917 Varsity squad, assistant coach, gave the Freshmen candidates for line honors the inside information concerning Rockne’s methods, and on several occasions mixed it with the'Varsity to bolster up his forwards. .	.	_	..
The first test for the Freshmen came just after the first call for candidates had been answered. -The coaches had little time in which to select the first three devens out of the turnout of more than seventy men and to prepare
Lyllis, and Conley, are material to fill the backfield ranks of the Varsity, which will be badly depleted by graduations tins year. Notre Dame has every right to be proud of the record made by the. 1923 mem..	'
Valparaiso University was the first victim of . the N.D.FreshmemValparaiso is a newcomer .	_ _ in Indiana football, and this year’s schedule
- for the first -battle with the Varsity. It seemed indicates ambitions for mid-West honors. Coach improbable that the first-year men would be Miller’s men were hardly conceded a chance to . able to make any showing at dl . against the win, but with the seasoning of two weeks of _ seasoned Varsity crew which had ;had nearly. Varsity scrimmage were able to do the unex- -. three weeks of hard work. < The Freshmen were pMted. ;: .PU	field, Captain #
equal to the occasion, however; and before a crowd of several hundred students shocked the veterans into a realization of how weak was their defensive and offensive work. Time after time that afternoon' Miller’s men broke through and dropped Rockne’s “pets” in their tracks, and when, carrying the ball the Freshmen menaced their opponents’ goal four times. The Varsity effected two-touchdowns only after the hardest kind of a battle in which several of the yearling stars were carried from the field. “Ojay” Larson, center of Notre Dame’s 1918 S. A. T. C., . was elected to lead the Freshmen eleven, and in every game this year has proved better than in his 1918 season.	_
The bulwark of the 1919 Freshmen eleven has been its line. Most of the games have been played on slow fields where it was up to the forwards to open holes for any possible gains. In this work Captain Larson stands out supreme. Degree and Parker have rarely let an offensive play go through them, and the former has been invaluable for his punting. Garby and Donahue
are a pair of tackles that will be needed by the Varsity of 1920. At the wings Carberry and Siefort can be relied upon to carry on the “ aerial attack” for which Notre Dame is so well known. Thomas has shown himself a clever field general at all times, often outwitting the Varsity when he was allowed the choice of only a few plays. The work, of. Coughlin, Castner, and Lynch needs little mention. It has been evident in every game to the extent of rolling up the biggest score ever , made by N. D. Freshmen. The yearlings’ seconds were in many cases only slightly less experienced or lighter than the first-string men.' Voss at center, Reid and Kelly guards, Cotton and Oberst tackles, Doriot, Wilcox and Griffin at ends, formed a forward wall that could best the line of hot a few varsities. The backfidd men, McCarthy, Logan, Kane,
A-



*5fie Notre dame Sdidarac
i73
Larson’s men* resorted to a kicking game in which . Degree and ?Kasner featured. Finally the break came when Coughlin recovered a fumbled punt _ on Valparaiso’s twenty-five yard line, whereupon his backfield mates converted the chance into a touchdown and goal. In two other instances the yearlings marched within striking distance of the Valparaiso goal but failed to register. Every attack of their opponents yras _ stopped in mid-field, with the result that the ' final score was 7 to o forthe Freshmen. The
Valparaiso papers took the defeat so much to
heart as to allege hastily that several of the - Notre Dame regulars had played against them and that the Notre Dame team could not properly be judged a Freshmen eleven. Their mistake is easily explained by the fact that there were Degrees and Coughlins on both the Varsity and the Freshmen squad. All the men ' ' who played Valparaiso were Freshmen athletes-On the second occasion Culver Military .	Academy was trimmed in the only game in
which the Freshmen permitted the opponent to ■ score. Only members of the yearling squad under one hundred and seventy-five pounds were eligible for the contest. Coughlin’s touchdown from kick-off featured the game which
' resulted in a score of 36 to 7. •	.
. Wading and plunging through mud, the Freshmen added to their list of victories by defeating St. Viator’s, .36 to o, bn the Friday before the Indiana game. The sloppy field did not stop the. showers of forward passes or the accuracy of the goal kicking. Castner and Coughlin, as ;	usual, featured the attack and Captain -Larson
. smothered every attempt to puncture the line.
.	’ The Freshmen next met the yearlings of the
. Michigan Agricultural College in' the first Freshmen game played on Cartier-field. The Michiganders were no match for . the representatives of the Gold and Blue, and if Miller’s men i ' had not been so interested in the returns of the Notre Dame-West Point game the final score / of 23 to o would have been doubled. Coughlin, Castner, and Captain Larson, again did most of the work. -
An Irishman who refuses to learn the history of his country or to support a movement to free 4.1. w	+	the land of his forefathers is a good Irishman
While the Varsity was topping on its,season	.	;	,	..
a	of ritv the Freshmen	the English standpoint. .	■
with a victory , at Sioux City, the Freshmen
concluded their schedule by winning, 14 to o, over the T. O. P.’s of Fort Wayne, before a
______	.	British government has derived an excess : taxa-' < large crowd. The snow-covered field discouraged tion of $i,6oo,oob,ooofromlreland. We.jare open work. Lynch scored both touchdowns and glad to learn that there are so^e Englishmen hi<i .end-rnns carried .the ball within- scoring whoare notafraidof thefadts.
.distance on three other occasions. .’ • •• .	.	;	—7John buckley, ’20.
Irish Thoughts.
i
'	*	■	'	' .V	*
Remember Fontenoy!
Liberty is more desirable than peace.
There are still numerous snakes in Ireland. England does not believe in sparing the rod.
• England’s policy: “Take all and give nothing.” Ireland, — first in civilization and last in freedom.
The British Empire is a compulsory league of
nations.	. :	.
. A frown from America would bring England . to her knees.	"
There is a place for everything and Mr. BuU's place is in England.	—~ _
Washington did not think it necessary to warn the United States, against an alliance with . England. ................... _	.	.
England kicked .the American colonies once too often, and she may do the same in the case of Ireland. .	\	...
- - . -
An Irishman loves a fair fight and a fair fighter, and this is one of'the'reasons why he hates England.	'	"
■ The heel, of autocracy may be able to, crush the -body but it can never crush the spirit of democracy.	.
The pronunciation-of an Irishman is called a brogue and is sneered at, while that of an Englishman is an accent, cultivated by the so- . called best people.	.	. :
The British idea of, a joke is to get the repre- . ? sentatives of India and Egypt to attend the . peace conference in France and then refuse them a passport back home.	_ 1 . .	-
Bad government in Ireland costs forty dollars per capita^ while good government in Belghun costs about ten dollars per capita.- Where is the . >. advantage in being badly governed?	<

An .English commission has reported that the



174
Nacre dameSchckwdc
DiSCE-QUASl-SEAVER VICTURVS VIVE- QUASI CRAS NOR1TVRVS
Enltrti ax Stcond-Class Mail Matter.
PabHahed every Saturday during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
VOL. LIU.	DECEMBER 6. 1919. NO. 11.
Board of Editors.
Francis Farrington. ’20
William C. Havey, '20 Charles A. Grimes,’20 Cornelius Palmer, ’20 Thomas H. Beacom, ’20 Alfred N. Slaggert, ’21 Arthur B. Hope, ’20 William Robinson, ’20 Walter M. O’Keefe, ’21
Robert E. O’Hara, ’20 Paul Scofield, ’20 Thomas J. Tobin, '20 J. Sinnott Meyers, ’20 Paul R. Conaghan, ’20 Leo L. Ward, ’20 Jennings Vurpillat, ’20 M. Joseph Tierney, ’21
Notre Dame teams have always had first-class coaches and extra good players. Our persistent victories, however, are not due to these alone.
If they were, how could The Notre Dame Way. we from mere hundreds of students, produce year after year, teams superior to those of schools with enrollments of thousands? Neither can our consistent success be attributed to the “incubator system” of interhall and junior athletics, for very few of the Varsity men have keen contributed by interhall training. How then, may we account for Notre Dame’sconstant pre-eminence? Let us look back at this year’s game with Nebraska. The field, a tog of mud and sawdust, thousands of Nebraskans cheering on our opponents, our team outweighed fifteen pounds 'to the man—everything pointing to our defeat, and yet Notre Dame won, not by luck or chance, , but by playing the better game, due to team training, individual pluck, and to the glorious N. D. spirit, animating all. What this last is, we all should know, even if we could define it but poorly. It is our most precious heritage from our Alma Mater. Undying glory to the Varsity of 1919. - They ran true to type— and what greater praise could be given? Let the spirit which bore them to victory on the gridiron bear us in like manner through the trials ofthe lifeinto which weshall be flung in a few short months orafew years at most. Let us all play the game in the Notre Dame wny. ‘	~	'	—W. H. R. ' '
In his review of the Anny-Notre Dame game this year a New York journalist remarked: “Old-timers were reminded of the wonderful wprk here in 1913 when Rockne and “Rock.” Dorais threw consternation into the Army ranks ,and beat the Cadets by just such tactics. Rockne is now head coach of the Notre Dame eleven, and took delight in his team’s victory today.” Well may Knute Rockne be gladdened by the victories of his prot£g£s, for they proved that the Coach, a leading exponent of advanced football tactics in 1913, has become a most efficient mentor of a. progressive game'in 1919. Not until this year, since Rockne himself was a player, has Notre Dame had an undefeated eleven, and to his coaching more than to any other factor is due the phenomenal success of this season. True, he was favored in the beginning with excellent material for a winning team, but it has been his extraordinary ability in handling men that has put Notre Dame in the championship class. “Rock” is above all a student of men. His remarkable control over them is rooted in their respect for him. And in their regard for Coach Rockne the football men but reflect the attitude of the whole student body, which rejoices in the knowledge that the man who took care of his end in a way that made him national for three seasons is now taking most creditable care of Notre Dame’s end in the world of college athletics.—T. j. T.
The staking, out of the grounds recently for the erection of Old Students’ Hall marked the beginning of a new era for Notre Dame. For t the past few years the Old Students* Hall, project uppermost in the' minds of all Notre Dame men has been the erection of this hall, which will furnish additional room on the campus and, be headquarters for the- visiting alumni. Toward the accomplishment of this work the Alumni have devoted their efforts, and now the dream is becoming a reality-. This new building means two things for Notre Dame: it affords needed rooming accommodations, which .will ' obviate the necessity of a large number of men living in the city, and marks the beginning of a new quadrangle?^ For years the' “Campus” has been the hub of our college life, a life in which the men lived in close touch and enjoyed everything ' in common. The steady growth ofthe University • has rendered such a building imperative if Notre Dame is to retain her old traditions. This hew



WieNotre domeSchokwcic
i75
hall will be erected across the road, opposite the' post-office. We welcome the “Sorin Hall” of the new era and extend our heartiest thanks to the Alumni and former students who, by their generosity, have made its erection possible. <7 .	—j. s. m. /
The friendships we form at college are as valuable to us as the learning we derive from books. It has been aptly said that friends can do more for our welfare than we our-Friendship. selves can do. The value of friendship cannot be over-estimated. While in school we often allow what afterwards are seen to be trivial matters to influence us against our schoolmate. We may become angry in an argument that means little to either of us. We .may go too far “in having fun with others.” Any variety of small incidents may cause ill feeling. A recent argument over the payment of
a twenty-five cent debt changed two friends into pity ?at t”7 disCTimi“at^n should J	any branch or arm of the service, particularly m a
place like Notre Dame, where fair play was slways ' the slogan and nothing counted but the merits. '.
You may be interested to know that our firm has recently opened an office in New York City. I am -down there every month or so, and will be delighted to see any of the old Notre Dame crowd, of course. . I feel that this connection will not only be profitable, but that it will give me an opportunity to affiliate more closely with former Notre Dame men.	'
The old'school, of course, has the first place in my heart for many reasons, "but I think the greatest thing about it is the inspiration it gives to every ambitious boy, of whatever degree or~ circumstance in life, to ■ succeed by striving. I very well recall the motto which . opposing teams used to post in their training quarters: “ The Irish never know when they are licked.” ‘	.
With best wishes and regards to the editors of the Scholastic, I remain .
Sincerely, '	..
Thomas D. Lyons, ’04.
avowed enemies^ The hoy supposed to owe the money admitted that he did not care if the other fellow ceased to be his friend, and gave as a reason that the latter would never influence his life. How does he know? Fate may bring these men together in later life and make one dependent on the other for promotion or success. Yet one was willing to sell his chances of success for a quarter of a dollar. We are too uncertain about the future to incur the ill-will of anyone. Some of us are bound to be successful in life and can undoubtedly help our less fortunate friends. Perhaps the boy against whom you now have a grudge will be the successful one. If this should be the case, wouldn’t you feel foolish if this meaningless grudge should prove a stumbling-block to you? ‘ Cultivate friendship while at college for it will mean much to you and aid your, progress after leaving school. Be ever- on guard against unintentionally making enemies and never be willing “to sell a friend.” This is the least noble of what might be oiir views on friendship.—d. j. p.	'
Tulsa, Oklahoma, November 24, 1919.
Board of Editors,
The Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana^	>
Gentlemen:	’
Permit me to compliment yot^ on the very fine Scholastic which you are issuing. I had the brief and arduous honor of being editor-in-chief for a few months in 19041 and I have some conception of the effort and
good luck required to turn out such a creditable paper.
What particularly attracted my attention in the last issue was the editorial on the S. A. T. C. I had the pleasure of being a member of the “Army of the Arkansas” at Camp Pike and was in the I. C. O. T. S.
7 when the officers’ training school was demobilized after the armistice. I take a considerable interest in ,the American Legion and was elected delegate to ihe Minneapolis Convention. At the time of the convention, however, the Oklahoma National Guard was called out on the coal mine strike, and as I have the fortune or misfortune to hold a captain’s commission in the Guard, I was unavoidably prevented from attending the Minneapolis Convention.
These introductory remarks are not entirely for the" purpose of personal advertisement, but to give some little force to my thorough agreement with your stand relative to the S. A. T. C. As you know, the military'' chiefs of the United States Army placed much more . reliance on the abilities of the boys of 18 and 19, who ■ largely made up this organization, |han they did on the new draft law, calling men from 31 to 45. My observation is that they were entirely correct froin the standpoint of military efficiency, and I think it a great
Book Review; -
Hills and the Sea, by Hillaire Belloc. The Methuen ..
Company, London. Price, $2.00 <	. .
Brother Alphonsus, always on the look-out for inter- ; esting and important additions to English Catholic . literature, has recently placed in the Apostolate Library a book of essays by .Hillaire Belloc. This man of genius, who possesses the natural logic of the Frenchman as < . well as the gift, of reverie proper to the best English . . minds, is probably the foremost journalist of the day. Those who delight in intimacy with an original mind; ; ; and subtle thinking will find “Hills and the Sea”, a . book after their own hearts. One travels into ancient . ' lands, whose soil is fertile with human memories.but . one views them through eyes fresh and fanciful as a < child’s. No writer of English has interpreted the

<3

176	None dome Sdiokwuic
religious mystery of Paris so well as the author in the essay at this time is due to the fact that they have
.	called '* The Arena,” nor has anyone looked deeper into
>	the heart of natural things than Mr. Belloc in "The
j	Love Stream.” Some other titles are: “The Idea of a
Pilgrimage,” “Autumn and the Fall of Leaves, ” and “The Guns.” The essay is, after poetry, the literary form that best repays reading. “ Hills and the Sea” is one of the most remunerative collections of modern essays.
■	Washington Hall Events.
Rev. Dr. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., former President of Notre Dame, delivered in Washington Hall last Tuesday morning one of the most pleasing and helpful addresses of his career/ Speaking to the University men for the first time since he took up his new duties in Washington, our distinguished ex-President paid high tribute to the men who have been associated with him in the work of Catholic education, and made a plea for more active participation in public life by the men of Notre Dame. The spontaneous nature of the welcome to the former head of the University was evidenced in the introduction by Thomas' Beacom, President of the Senior Class and head of the Students Activities Committee. The prolonged applause of the audience showed that the admiration of the students for Father Cavanaugh has not in the least abated during his absence. They feel that in him they have one of the most genuine illustrations of the high ideal of service he urged upon the audience. Tributes to the memories of such men as Professors Stace, and Edwards, and to the work of such men as Professors McCue and Hoynes were paid by Father Cavanaugh, who declared that much of the glory of Notre Dame is The result of the devotion and zealous service of the lay professors. An ardent appeal for leadership in public life by Catholic college men formed the conclusion of the address. The speaker declared that little constructive work or legislation; especially in Washington,..is being achieved by the men who have been educated in Catholic principles and that too many men are using their talents for mere personal gain. We hope .that we may have before the end of. the.year the pleasure and benefit of numerous other addresses from Father Cavanaugh.
This evening the Orpheus Four, one of the . ^.best male quartets oh tire platform, will "give a - < concert in Washington Hall; Their appearance
already made a decidedly favorable impression on the students in a previous concert. A wide variety of songs, ranging from popular selections . to the grand opera harmonies, may be expected, as well as delicate blending of voices. Next Wednesday evening John Kendrick Bangs, noted humorist and lecturer, will deliver in the college theatre his newest address, “Light and Shade in the Land of Valor.” His conception of a humorous lecture is to laugh with everybody and at no one, and the success he has attained during the past years is evidenced by the large number of lectures he has to offer every year. Everybody can be sure of one of the best laughs of the season when they hear Mr. Bangs. The University Band will give its first concert
-in Washington Hall in the evening of Saturday the 13th of December and the Glee Club will appear in concert the next evening.—F.s. F. ■
University Bulletin.
Lost: Behind Sorin Hall a pipe with transparent stem and briar bowl. Finder please return to John Holden,' Badin Hall, and receive reward.	'
Confessions will be heard in the hall chapels every night after night prayer and in the basement chapel daffy from 6:00 till 8:00 a. m. and from 6:15 until 7:00 p. m.
Day students are urged -to receive Holy . Communion every morning during Advent. For their convenience a priest will remain in the basement [chapel until .8 :oo o’clock every morning. .	.	*	-
There will be no more sectional meetings of the Chamber of .Commerce until after the holidays. Section ! will meet Sunday, January 8th, and the other sections will follow in order. The Chamber luncheon will be held on Saturday, December the 13th, at 1 :oo p. m: in the Mishawaka Hotel.: Members whose names are -on the delinquent list are not permitted to attend. The c speakers invited for the occasion are, Mr./Paul W. Brown, <of St/ Louis, Editor of America at Work, and Mr. Wm. Ganson Rose, of Cleveland, ~ 3 author of The Ginger Cure and of 'other books on advertising and other kinds of business.
'Sfie Nocre dome Scholastic
i77
Personals.
—Leo L. Tschudi (LL. M., ’16) is now deputy recorder for the city of Dubuque, Iowa..
—Columbus Conboy (B. S. A., ’16) is now employed as chief designer for the Murphy Brothers, of Louisville, Kentucky.
—Charles Euart (student 1900-03) is now
Fraternal Secretary of the Catholic Men’s Association of America.
—“The Church in Spanish America Sixteenth Century” is the title of an *by Rev. John F. O’Hara, C. S. C.,
Young
in the article which
appears in The Grail for the. 7th of November.
—Maximillian G. Ziebold, student of Walsh Hall 1916-17, of Waterloo, Ill., was united in marriage on Nov. 19th to Miss Edy th Brickley, of Prairie de Roche, Ill. The Scholastic extends them hearty congratulations.
—Peter G. Dwyer, star half-back on the 1909 and 1910 elevens, is now head of a life insurance agency in Syracuse, N.e Y. During the war Pete was commissioned a first lieutenant and acted as athletic director in several southern camps.'
—Right Reverend Monsignor Philip O’Ryan, - S. T. L-, rector of the Star of the Sea Parish, San Francisco, was the guest of his uncle, Reverend Timothy Maher, C. S. C.y at the University on Friday, November 21. The Monsignor promised to return to Notre Dame for a longer visit later.
—Rev. J. A. Langton, chaplain at 'West Point, N. Y., in a letter to Father Gallaghan, Prefect of Discipline, says the following regarding the Notre Dame-Army game: “Your team is bringing home victory again and believe me those boys deserved to win? I gave them a special Mass this morning and they were right there—^ven to receiving Our Lord. They will tell you all about the game. You tell them I saw ifall and prayed for them in the “pinches. They are the finest and cleanest .bunch of little gladiators that I have seen on the field.”
. ■—Marcellus and Bernard Cremer, .students banquet at the Hotel Mishawaka. A most of Corby Hall, 1916-17, are now employed in. pleasant surprise was furnished the members by the Russian Department of the Bureau of -the arrival of Mrs. Ellen Ryan Jolly and Mrs.
Foreign and Domestic Commerce, at Washington, D. C.
Notre Dame undergraduates and alumni feel'just pride in the notable achievements of . one of her sons, an officer in the Marines/ Colonel. Hiram L. Bearrs, better known as “Hiking
Hiram,” who has gained widespread fame as a “Devil-Dog.”. The following excerpt from the Hartford Courant is a comprehensive account of his daring exploits:	~
Colonel Hiram L. Beairs, who commanded the' iO2d United States Infantry, composed principally of Connecticut national guardsmen, has been put on the retired list by the War Department, according to word received here yesterday in well-informed military circles.
Col. Bearrs, a marine officer, better known as ” Hik-ing Hi,” was decorated eleven times for bravery and recommended for brigadier-general by General John Pershing- He is credited with leading the .i<nd Regiment in what both French and American officers considered the most daring deed performed during the war by a single regiment: At the St. Mihiel drive, he broke through the V through which the Germans were retreating at the widest point on the western side, and after remaining in isolation three hours succeeded in taking and cutting , off Vigneulle, and cutting off large numbers of German troops. '
Col. Bearrs received the sobriquet of "Hiking Hi” when a young officer in the Philippines. His reputation for bravery was well established before he went over- “ seas as a major in the Sixth Marines. Among his decorations are the Distinguished Service Cross with palm, and the Croix de Guerre with palm. One of his exploits was the capture of a German lieutenant and two privates single-handed in No Man’s Land.	.
Colonel Bearrs was in command of the road Infantry from August 1, 1918, to November 1,1918, succeeding Colonel John H. (Machine Gun) Parker. Col.. Beans was relived by Colonel Douglas. Potts, who. was in command of the unit when it returned to this country.
Local News.
—At the meeting of Section III of the-Chamber of Commerce in the Library last Monday evening, Mr. Charles Davis, ’21, gave an interesting talk on “Advertising Notre Dame’ which evinced the practical qualities of school spirit. Plans for the banquet of the . local chamber are well advanced and Father O’Hara, has secured for the occasion speakers from St. Louis, Kansas City, and Toledo. -
----The men from New England celebrated the feast' of Thanksgiving. by a sumptuous ;

Rogerson as guests of honor. After an excellent repast, the members of the various states were called upon by President Waters for a few remarks. Mr. J. C. Krippene, a veteran of the Yankee Division, related a few experiences of the New .England “outfit.” Hany Denny


178	*5fieNocre domeodidcwtic
followed this number with a few artistic selections on the violin. Johin Ambrose and ‘ ‘ Paddy ’ ’ Granfield contributed some sparkling wit to the merriment of the evening. The event was followed with a talk by Mrs. Jolly, such as only she can give.
—The “Juggler” makes its bow to Notre Dame with the December issue. AJiumorous monthly, edited by three upperclassmen, Delmar Edmondson, Laurens Cook, and A. J. Moynihan, will make its appearance before the holidays. The first number will be tentative and the success of the magazine rests largely on the support given the first issue. Sparkling satire and wholesome wit will be the tone of the new magazine.
—The President of the University has received the following notice from the Great Northern Sales Company with a request that it be brought to the attention of the students of the University: 11 Wanted:' Students who desire to profit financially during their spare time, to sell auto headlight controlling device to individuals and dealers. Very profitable terms. Apply to the Great Northern Sales Co., 305 Merchants’ Bank Building^ Indianapolis.”
—On December 1st, Dr. James Bums, C. S. C., President of the Universify, was the guest of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. At the meeting Mr. William Wenzel discussed “The Vacuum Tube as a Generator of Alternating Currents” and James Trant treated the subject of “TransAtlantic Radio Communication.” After congratulating the speakers on their excellent papers, Dr. Bums gave an enthusiastic talk to the. engineers encouraging them in their work.	' -	'
—On Monday evening, December 1st, the" local branch of the Friends of Irish Freedom were fortunate in having as their guest Father Philip O’Donnell, of Boston. President Tobin before introducing Father O’Donnell, called upon Mrs. Ellen Ryan Jolly for a few introductory remarks. In reviewing the achievements of the Irish-Americans ; in American history, Mrs. Jolly paid tributes to the heroism of General Meagher and Father Corby.' Following Mrs.-Jolly’s speech, Dr. Cornelius Hagerty, C. S. C.‘, supplemented Mr. Tobin’s . introduction of Father O’Donnell. Treating the glories -of Ireland Father O’Donnell sketched the pre-
eminence of the Irish scholars, musicians, and patriots. Father “Phil,” as he is lovingly called by his parishioners, related some of his > adventures on visits to Ireland.^ His whole speech evidenced an ardent devotion to the Sinn Fein cause. The Friends of Irish Freedom were privileged to meet the orator-priest after the meeting and all look forward to another visit from the distinguished guest.	,
—w. M. O’KEEFE, 20.
Athletic Notes.
Notre Dame, 14; Morningside, 6.
Before a large crowd of gridiron enthusiasts, who were not in the least discouraged by the inclement weather, Notre Dame humbled Morningside in a hotly contested game at Sioux City last Saturday, 14 to 6. Although Morningside furnished stiff opposition for Rockne’s men, it may be safely said that the weather saved the lowans from a much worse defeat. Notre Dame was slow in starting, and the Com-State eleven, taking advantage, succeeded, with a series of brilliant end dashes by Hinkley and Wenig, in scoring a touchdown in the first five minutes of play. Captain Wenig failed at the kick for the'goal.	’	.
Morningside’s taste of triumph was very temporary. The Gold and Blue, roused into action by the apparent ease with which the lowans had “put one over,” took the aggressive. For the rest of the first quarter Morningside strove valiantly against the smashing attacks and the end-sprints of the Gdld-and-Blue backs. The quarter ended with the ball on the enemy’s twenty-yard line and the “Irish fairly, rarin’ to carry on.” With Gipp and his crushing aids . carrying the ball, the.Morningside defense was brushed aside and the ball went over. Gipp added a mark with the old toe. A Sioux City reporter, inspired by the powerful drives of the Hoosier battering rams,' thus narrates the onslaught: ‘‘The marker failed to undaunt the visitors, who were slow in getting under way^ In the second period the Notre Dame forwards in the backfield opened the throttle wide and ripped their way to a touchdown by some of the most sensational line-plunging ever seen on a Sioux ■ City gridiron. Miller, Slackford, and Gipp hit the line dose to the ground and at such terrific speed that nothing short.of h reinforced concrete ' wall would havestemmed the tide.”
’ Notre Dame put a-kick well down into
Morningside’s territory and the Iqwans, failing oh line-plunges, were forced to punt out of bounds. Captain Bahan and Gipp advanced the ball around end for substantial gains, but the Methodists braced momentarily and Gipp pupted. By pretty dodging Hinkley returned to midfield. The Iowa backs were next hurled for big losses and the ball*went over on downs. Again Morningside held and the ball went to the lowans for some more brilliant runs by Hinkley. After an exchange of punts between Wenig and Gipp, the half ended with the ball in Notre Dame territory. Then in demonstration of her championship form, Notre Dame opened up the third quarterwitha sensational aggressive. Again the Sioux City scribe, impressed by the spectacular work of Rockne’s backfield combination, admires: “By successive end-runs, forward passes, and terrific line-smashing, the Catholics placed the pill on the one-yard line, where the Morningside line made official application for a niche in the hall of fame by holding the visitors and causing them to lose the ball on downs.’’ Wenig’s punt from behind the goal line' was harassed by Anderson and Kirk, and the ball went out of bounds twelve yards from the Maroon line. Four smashing drives, led by big Gipp, resulted in the second interment of the pigskin behind the Morningside goal, and a point for goal was added by Gipp. Notre Dame then cut loose with an aerial bombardment that was uniformly successful, but the numerous chances to score failed to improve the fourteen points. The game ended with the hall deep in Morningside territory.
The Sioux City Tribune, commenting upon . the result of the game, suggests the esteem in which the Notre Dame eleven is held in the West. “ Davis, Gantt, and Captain Wenig did not show to such advantage as they have in previous encounters, but their work was just as brilliant —owing to the classy opposition they were confronted with. Davis rammed the Catholic - line hard,' but the Indiana stone-wall was simply his equal. Ted Gantt and Captain Wenig were in stellar form, but the Catholics, polished with experience from playing” (and incidentally defeating) “the best elevens in the country,met the attack of the Methodist forwards squarely. The fact, however, that Morningside held the unbeaten Notre Dame football aggregation to two touchdowns will cause no little amount of international chatter in the football world.” The summary:	’	_
nedchckvcie		179
notrb dame		MORNINGSIDE
Kiley	5 L. E.	Day
Coughlin	L. T.	Rorapaugh
H. Anderson	L. G.	Steele
Trafton	— ' C.	Horney '
Smith	R. G.	Beck
Degree ,	R. T.	Marcell
E- Anderson	R^E.	’	Wenig
Brandy	Q- B.	Lloyd
Gipp	L. H.	Davis
Bahan '	R. H.	Gaunt .
Miller	F. B.	Hinkley
Substitutions: Notre Dame—Slackford for Miller; Barry for Bahan; Kirk for Kiley; Touchdowns: Notre Dame, 2; Brandy, Gipp; Morningside—Hinkley. Goals from ^touchdown: Gipp, 2. Morningside—none.
■	—A. N. SLAGGERT.
N. D. Freshmen, 14; T. O. P., o.
Coach John Miller’s undefeated Freshmen finished their splendid season by winning from the powerful T. O. P. eleven of Fort Wayne at Fort Wayne on Thanksgiving Day, 14 to o. The game was played in a blinding snowstorm, which badly handicapped the yearlings whenever they tried to advance the ball by the aerial route. Immediately after the kick-off, the game developed into a punting duel between Castner and Ralph Miller of the opposition. The first half ended with no score and the ball in mid-field.	.
In the third period the Freshmen opened up a fast forward-passing attack, alternating with line bucks. Thomas made five yards through the line, thereby placing the ball on the T. O. P. 45-yard line; The next play developed into a long, dodging end-run by Coughlin, who was not downed until he had reached the 5-yard marker. A moment later the same man went over for the first touchdown, and Castner kicked goal. Shortly after the kick-off, Lynch distinguished himself by picking a forward pass out of the air and running through the entire Fort Wayne team for the final touchdown of the game. Ljnch also kicked goal. The final quarter saw the ball see sawing in the middle of the field, and the T. O. P. outfit trying desperately, but without success, to score by the forward-pass route.	-. . /
For Fort Wayne, Chambers, Miller, Dempsey, and Bradley starred; for the Freshmen, Lytich, Coughlin, and Castner were the feature men.

N. D. FRESHMEN Carberry Garvey DeGree Larson (Capt.)
L. E.
L. G.
C.
E. Wilkins . Flaherty White

i8o
$fie None dame Schokreric
Parker	,	R. G.	Suelzer, Merchant
Donohue	R. T.	Smith
Seifert	R. E.	Hilgeman
Thomas	Q- B.	E. Miller
Coughlin	L. H.	R. Miller
Castner	F. B.	Chambers
Lynch	R. H.	Dempsey,Wilkins
Touchdowns:
Bradley
Coughlin, and Lynch. Goals from
Touchdown: Castner, and Lynch. Referee: Ritter;
umpire: Riker.—e. w. gould.	upholding the reputation of Notre Dame in
' ' ***
Corby Hall, 26; Penn College, o.
• The reinforced championship eleven of Corby-Hall shattered all records for travel in their Thanksgiving Day game played in Oskaloosa, Iowa, where they defeated Penn College, 26 to o, on a slippery field in zero weather. The Corbyites scored thirteen,-six, and seven points respectively in the first three quarters, using the forward pass and end-runs with sure effect despite the slow field. “Biff” Lee, fonner baseball and football man at Noire Dame and now coach at Penn, declared the game the best and cleanest football exhibition staged there this year. The - ‘ ‘ Quakers did not seriously threaten .Corby’s goal at any time-. Mr. and Mrs. Dowling entertained Father Haggerty’s squad in royal manner at the Hotel Dowling. An after-the-game feature was the edition of the college journal carrying a full story of the game for sale on thestreettenminutes after the final whistle. Eighteen men made the trip: Atkinson, Ward, Conner, Miller, Conway, Murphy, Bliebernicht, Sexton, O’Hara, Kasper, and Wynn composed the first string starting the game. Desch, Moore, Heuther, Foley, Hart, Sharpe, and Robb all got into the play for at least a few minutes. Corby’s record for the season is five games won, one tied,-and: one lost.’
Brownson, 20; Michigan City High, o.
. On a field covered with snow, Brownson Half and Corby.—P. r. c.%	- 7
decisively defeated the. Michigan. City High	■	y
School on Thanksgiving Day by we neat margin The following communication was . recently of 2o-o.- The excellent display of teamwork by received from an alumnus iff Brooklyn: “Here the “Dormitory Boys’’was a credit to Coach is another straw for the .‘Irish’ controversy Sanders, and it is difficult to understand the
recently carried on in the columns of the Scholastic. Looksas if the Irishare. ‘breaking the heart of the world’ as to football.” The “straw” in question is-from the pen of Grant-
.	land Rice, the noted sport-writer, , and funs as
Heimann and De Corps formed an irresistible follows: “With Notre Dame suppressing'the offensive, the former tearing through the Mich- Army' team and Georgetown conquering the' igari line time andagainjorgoodgains. The Navy, why pan England for? her inabiEtyto "defensive work of Aviles and Boley merited favor- settle the Irish question? ”	.	7”’.
poor showing of his men in.the interhall contests. All points, including three touchdowns and a safety, were scored within the first two periods, after which numerous substitutions were made.'
able comment. The removal of Lou Walsh early in the game, the result of a broken shoulder,, was the only unpleasant incident of the contest. Touchdowns were scored by Smith, Heimann, and Boley.—M. j. t.
- * . * * .
Interhall Games.
With the Varsity and Freshmen teams
outside competition, it remained for the Interhall League to complete the football atmosphere which pervaded the campus. Rivalry among the hall teams could not have been more intense. The players entered into the games with the fighting spirit so characteristic of Notre. Dame football warriors. The championship honors go to Corby Hall, which defeated Walsh last Sunday by the score of 12 to 6. “Bill” Hayes, the fleet dash-man from the East, did most of the work for the “hall of victfolas,” while the playing of “Red” Ward, Martin, Desch, and and Bliebernicht was the feature of Father Haggerty’s men. The only serious injuries, of the year occurred in this game, in which Martin, stellar guard, suffered a compound fracture of his ankle. ’
The invincible Sorin squad triumphed over Brownson last Sunday in a 13-to-o victory. The battering line-pllinges and long end-runs of the elusive Miles and the efficient work of Captain Murphy, Hallet, and Lally stood out prominently in the Sorin no-substitute team. Heiman, Breen, and Hoen did the special work for Brownson. Shea and Nixon are the stars on the Badin Hall team, whidh also put up a hard fight for the championship honors.
Many who saw the Sorin-Brownson game are confident that Sorin-has the best team in the league and an effort is now being made for the
arrangement of another game between Sorin




Press Comments on Notre Dame Football.
Followers of the gridiron sport in the Nebraska camp need offer no apologies for the Cornhuskers, who bowed in defeat to one of the cleverest forward-passing teams in college football, east or west.—(From the Lincoln Stale Journal, for Sunday, Oct. 19th.)
*** ’
Who was it said the little Irish Brandy would not get into the game because of his injuries? However, he was in there Saturdayjwith a patch over one eye directing the plays of his team. . . . Indiana’s football team went down, to defeat Saturday at the hands of the magnificent Notre Dame combination, by a 16 to 3 count. Despite the handicap of playing on a field which was in most places three inches deep in mud and water, the flashy Irish backfield was able to make long and consistent gains by forward passes and end runs, and the opposing line baffled the Crimson offense at almost • every stage of the contest. Indiana was not outfought, ' but was outclassed.... The work of Gipp and Bergman featured the contest throughout for Notre Dame. Indeed, the Irish backfield is one of the speediest and
most brilliant ever seen on a Hoosier gridiron. ..-. Notre_ chained ]ightning. He is little, but runs the baU with Dame practically cinched the state title for 1919 by
its victory over Indiana, for there is little, doubt but that Purdue will also fall before the versatile Catholic offensive. Notre Dame is now being heralded as one . of the greatest grid combinations in the country, and , is being touted to defeat West .Point next Saturday.
—(From the Indiana Daily Student, November 4.)
A bewildering aerial attack aided and abetted by sensational end-runs, off-tackle smashes and line-plunges in the second quarter by Gipp, Bergman, and Slackford threw consternation into the Crimson camp yesterday afternoon at Washington Park, and the Notre Dame gridders pushed over a victory on Indiana, -a 6 to 3. A field which was ankle deep in mud and water in spots was anything but conducive to sensational football, but Bergman and Gipp and the entire Notre Dame squad put up a football battle hard to compete with. To the wet and sloppy condition of the field can Indiana attribute its success in holding the score close. The field was ni such a condition that Bergman, considered-the flashiest backfield man in the West, was unable to get his stride, except in a few instances. He. used the "come-back” play with such success he was'able to wiggle and squirm through the Indiana team-for gains of from ten to thirty yards. It was his sensational dashes which placed the ball in scoring territory several times while he was in the contest.
George Gipp ably assisted - Bergman in the Irish drive toward the Indiana goal line.—(From the Indianapolis Star,. Sunday, November 2.)
Too much credit cannot be given Notre Dame for the position it gives Hoosier land in the sun on the - gridiron map. Season in and.season out this institution / throws forth one of the greatest football machines in the.country. How they do it while other Hoosier
■ institutions fail to come up to the standards set by the Irish is a mooted question.-;. Still the fact stands that
the Irish team is far and away better than any other to work the tyrward pass. Jesse Harper, who coached
Hoosier eleven this season,—that is, if dope can be depended upon just a trifle. The Irish have yet to tackle Purdue, but it is hardly to be expected that the _ Boilermakers can hold the wonderful backfield Coach Rockne has to throw at opposing teams this season.
A team with such a backfield as Notre Dame possesses can hope to make a creditable showing against the country’s best. Next Saturday at West Point the Irish team will have a chance to show just how strong it is against a team that can be considered as representative of_the East. To win that game Rockne will be forced to show all his tricks, all his gridiron knowledge, and more football than his eleven has been wont to show this season.... The Notre Dame line, although a bit light, has a fight and an aggressiveness that bodes evil for opposing linemen. Getting the jump on the other fellow is a big asset to a lineman. These men Coach Rockne has workingforhimhaveability.... Their drive, especially that of Madigan, H. Anderson, 'Coughlin, Degree, and Smith, opened great gaps in the Indiana defense, but the field was such that the Notre Dame backs could not get started in the right direction.
In Bergman and Gipp, Notre Dame has two of the •greatest backfield men in the West. Bergman is like
dazzling speed. _ He never stops until he hits the ground. He resembled an eel Saturday by the manner in which . he slipped from the grasp of would-be Indiana tacklers. Gipp does not play such a dashing game as does Bergman, but he gets there just the same. He has a wizard toe, can hurl -the ball on forward passes'with unerring accuracy. He can run the ends or smash
the line off tackle for steady gains.	•
Alongside of these two sterling players, Rockne has-Bahan and Slackford. Both of these men are well above the ordinary. Both are steady and have football sense. Besides'these backs he has several other substitute backs well able to hold their end of the play whenever they are called upon.' Barry and Bahan are ground-gainers, while the latter is a good field general and calls his signals with a commanding voice. He puts much pep and fight into his teaiii.
The Irish wing men are wonderful performers. Either Kirk or Anderson can snag the pill out of the air on . forward passes with great skill. Both are fast and wonderful defensivd men. It was seldom in Saturday’s game that either was boxed. They broke up what little interference Indiana displayed and got through to get their man time after time. Any way you look at it, the entire West will be pulling for the Irish against the Army, for this section holds considerable pride in its football teams. Notre Dame will carry with it the -well wishes of some of its bitterest opponents on the gridiron. This contest will be one of the big intersec- -tional clashes* of the season and will be one of the biggest games on the gridiron card for Saturday. —(From the Indianapolis Star, November.3.)	.
At West Point the Army will play the sixth game with Notre Dame. The Indiana eleven holds the upper ~ hand in the series by three to two, and we look for . it to make the count four to two. Notre Dame'this :

season has shown that same old Notre Dame ability
ri
182
None dame
the Hoosiers in previous years, has given way to Rockne and Dorais, who as players introduced the Cadets to the forward pass in 1913 with as bad a beating as the Army ever got. Notre Dame has an experienced line and a strong backfield and an attack which is. much further advanced, than the Army’s.—(By Daniels, in the New York Sun, on Nov..7.)
The squad that Coach Rockne, former All-American end, is bringing East with him is every bit as husky as their Army rivals. Bergman, at right halfback, is the star of the aggregation. Against Nebraska a couple of weeks ago he received the ball on a double pass on his own ten-yard line and ran through the entire Nebraska team for a touchdown. In all of Notre Dame’s other contests Bergman has been the big factor in their scoring. Bahan at quarter is a good field general and a capable thrower of the forward pass. It is at this sort of game that the Westerners excel. A majority of their points to date have been tallied via the overhead route.
The rush line which Notre Dame will present is not as heavy as the one that Coach Daly will muster. Coughlin at left tackle is the only forward who tips ■ the beam at more than two hundred pounds. Madigan and Smith, center and right guard, weigh less than 160 pounds each. H. Anderson, at the other guard, and Degree, at right tackle are the next heaviest. The former weighs 174 pounds while Degree is credited with a weight of 182. Kirk and E. Anderson, at the ends, weigh-' 163 pounds each. However, they are a fast, . hard-playing pair. Both are good receivers of the forward pass. Notre Dame has compiled a record of 157 points to their opponents’ 19. Victories over Kalamazoo, Mt. Union, Western Normal, Nebraska and Indiana are credited to them. They are a formidable aggregation.—(By Tom Thorp, in the New York Evening Journal, November 7.) -	_
half, and this boy, who is known as the “kid with the rubber legs,” having been an acrobat in a circus at one time, brought the ball to the 40-yard line.
(From the New York Tribune, Nov. 8.)	—
Notre Dame, always a fast, aggressive eleven, beat the Army today, 12 to 9, in one of the most interesting and hardest-fought games ever staged on the Plains. The Westerners flashed their usual repertoire of airline plays, and when other methods of attack failed them'they made these overhead tosses work to excellent advantage. . . . Bahan and Gipp, two powerful backfield men, figured prominently in all the visitors’ forward pass play. Both these huskies tossed with unerring accuracy, and Bahan wason the receiving end most of the time. Occasionally E. Anderson got clear, and a long toss found him under the ball with outstretched • arms. . .. The Westerners probably-launched fifteen or twenty of these overhead plays and all except four or five were successful. Long and short passes, wee ones, just over the line of scrimmage, were frequently resorted to, and they threatened the Cadets to such an extent that old-timers were reminded of the wonderful work here in 1913 when Dorais and Rockne threw consternation into the Army ranks and beat the Cadets by just such tactics. . . . Rockne, by the way, is head coach of the Notre Dame eleven and took delight in his team’s victory today.—(From the New York Times, Nov. 8.)	_
Notre Dame, once more exhibiting an excellence with the forward pass, which attack has more than once carried them to victory over the Army, beat the West Pointers today, 12 to 9,in an interesting and hard-fought game. The Hoosiers, except for the initial period, outplayed the Cadets. . . . The Westerners flashed a pair of excellent wing men in E. Anderson and Kirk. Degree’s punting was also of high grade.—(From the New York Herald, Nov. 8.)
The Army lost to Notre Dame, 9 to 12, today in a close and hard-fought game. The Westerners, except for the opening period, played better than the soldiers. Notre Dame’s air line attack ultimately proved to be' the Army’s undoing. Coming from behind with thescore 9 to o in the Army’s favor, the visitors launched overhead plays for long and short tosses, which upset the Cadets in the second period. ... Gipp, Brandy, E. Anderson, and Bahan featured in Notre Dame’s game. —(From the Buffalo Express, Nov. 9.)	'
With the score 9 to o in favor of the Army, du; to a touchdown by McQuarrie in the first period and his goal from placement in the first part of the second period, the Westerners started. Notre Dame had just received the kick-off, following the second Army score, and about five minutes remained of the period. The Notre Dame players acted like a bunch of wild cats. They jumped about and slapped their little star quarterback, Joe Brandy, who weighs but 135 pounds. They hadn’t expected this Army onslaught and they beseeched Brandy to open up. “Let’s go, Joe. Let’s go. ” And Joe went. He opened up with an assortment
of forward passes with Kirk, regarded as the greatest The Notre Dame eleven vanquished the West Point forward pass grabber, on the receiving end. Kirk’s team here today by the score of 1210 9. It-wasacase specialty is plucking the flying oval from under the of open style of football triumphing, over the old, line-• very noses of-his opponents while on the dead run. In smashing game. ~ Notre Dame’s forward pass tactics almost less time than it takes to relate it Notre Dame _ proved too muchfor the Soldiers and turned victory had scored a touchdown and the half ended.	into defeat. Vainly did the Army men shift their
“ We’ll get that other touchdown in the next half,” ' defensive formations in an attempt to stop the long the-visitors snapped out as they left.the field. And	- - - -	-	-
they did. - They got the second soon after the third period began. And in the final period the light forwards.
' of the visitors played the Cadets to a standstill, which was some achievement, in itsidf. . . . Daniel kicked off to Miller, who had replaced Slackford in the second
passes which the Westerners repeatedly completed, carrying the ball down the field for gains of many yards., -These took the heart out of the Army followers and brought the Notre Dame, cohorts to their feet in
delight.
Degree, the-Notre Dame kicker, out-.
punted McQuarrietime after time during the second

'EfieNocFe dome Scholastic '
183
quarter, but later in the game, with the wind at his back, the Army halfback began getting his kicks off in better shape, and the advantage which the Western team had gained was lost.... During the rest of the third quarter they punted out of danger whenever their goal was threatened and the long spirals from Degree’s boot kept the Army well in the center of the field. The Notre Dame ends got down under each kick in short time and repeatedly nailed the Army backs with almost ■	no gain:—(From the New York Sun, Nov. 9.)	-
* * _ * * —
Notre Dame is one of the speediest teams seen in these parts this year. And the big reason for its swift attack is the fact that it uses the direct pass in most of its formations. Brandy hardly utters his signals^ . before the backs are in motion—which means that Madigan, the center, must be pretty good to make as many passes as he does in a game without a slip. There are several good forward pass receivers among the colleges this year, but it is doubtful if any of them surpass Kirk, left end of Notre Dame, for catching , passes. He caught no less than five against the Army _ Saturday, all netting substantial gains. One of his catches brought the ball thirty-three yards to the Army 7-yard line, whence the Westerners went over for their first touchdown. The passes of'the Hoosiers succeed largely because they are thrown over the center of the line to Kirk or a back who cuts in. Another runner . goes ahead and picks out the defensive half, leaving the runners a clear field down the counter lane, a most clever play on the whole, which succeeds in the majority ’	of attempts.—(From the New York Tribune, Monday,
Nov. 9.)
; • 1 ***
; -	“Butch” Scanlon, Purdue Coach, says, “Bergman
i - is a second Harley, but has been having trouble with an >	injury to his knee and the standing at the end of the
L	game depends on how long Bergman will last.”. . . Be-
I	cause of this record our team expects to. be given the
f ' hardest battle of the year and are especially anxious for 5	a victory over the fighting Irish as such an accomplish-
r	ment would win us national recognition.... In Gipp
s	and Bergman the Catholics have two of the best half-
e - backs in America. ’ Bergman is known for his fleetness ■	and ability to get away in the' open field and can be
J	counted on to give the opponents much worry. Gipp
I . will be remembered as the powerful half who last year | • made consistent and long gains against Purdue when |	the elevens met on Stuart Field. This man is also one
;	of the best forward passers in the game.—(From the
; - “ Purdue Exponent, Saturday, Nov. 22.)
. Notre Dame disposed of Purdue in a smashing, !	exciting 33-13 game, and with the elimination of Ohio
i . State by Illinois, remains the only undefeated team |	" in the West, with a mighty good claim to the Western
|	. title... . The Notre Dame-Purdue game was marked
. by the kind of sportsmanship that should stamp eyery f	contest. Time after time members of one team, would
| -	. hurry to the aid of an opponent who was laid.out; the
I * Purdue, stands ceased cheering when Notre Dame had I	the ball in front of the Purdue cheering section so that
j	the signals could be heard; and when Birk was hurt,
2	the Notre Dame stands gave him a big yell.... When
you come to the end of- a perfect pass it’s an easy bet ‘	•/
that you’ll find Bergman or Kirk at the receiving end.	'
In fact the great triple-pass combination, Bergman to	. <
Gipp to Kirk, took one back to the baseball days of the .	.	..
famous old “Tinker to Evers to Chance;” both were	■	.
deadly in effectiveness and mighty unpopular with	“
the other fellow.—(From the Indianapolis News, Monday, Nov. 24.)	-
Yes, we have got to “hand it” to Notre Dame.	- .
Those were some forward passes yesterday... . After holding Notre Dame scoreless while they put across ■ ~	. .
a touchdown and kicked goal in the first period, the	.
Boilermakers finally went down under the wonderful _	■
passing offensive of the Irish and were defeated 33-13 on	—
Stuart field yesterday afternoon in a game which gave ~	-
Notre Dame the state championship. The Catholics	.
were helpless to score around the Purdue ends or '	-
through the old Gold and Black forward wall, but their	.
•passing game, which swept the Purdue team off its	'
feet at times, was one of the most perfect that has been witnessed on the Purdue field in several years. The	.
combinations Bergman to Kirk and Gipp to Kirk were those that rarely failed, and all the points scored by the . Notre Dame team were a direct result of their work.	-
—(From The Purdue Exponent, for Sunday, Nov. 23.)	-
The four finest ends in the state this year were .	•
undoubtedly the Notre Dame and Wabash pairs.	-
Kirk is undoubtedly the best forward pass receiving end in the country. . .. Halfbacks are galore, plunging backs; backs that wiggled and backs that just made .. touchdowns, but out of the lot emerge two wonders, the great Notre Dame pair, Gipp and Bergman. No man in the country throws a better pass than Gipp, and he is no slouch of a ground gainer either. Bergman is	.
another Harley. Nuff said.—(From the Indianapolis News, Monday, Nov. 24.)	. .	— „ I-
Six years ago Knute K. Rockne was an end and captain of the Notre Dame football team, and1 about ~	'
the best lineman the Gold and Blue ever had. With	’ .
Dorais at quarter and Rockne at end the Notre Dame attack was irresistible. 'When Jesse Harper quit foot-	.
ball and returned to business life, he left a sorry, gap for	. .
local officials to fill. Harper’s principles had won much _	j
fame for Notre Dame and his system fitted O. K.	- .
They needed some one to jam into Harper’s berth,	•
and one who-had taken training under Harper himself	"
was naturally preferred. Along toddled Rockne and they signed him at once. “Rock” took a tough	- :
baptism last year, due to the chaotic'state of athletics < , on account of the war, but he nevertheless turned out a-fast outfit.	. . . -	'	- .
That one year was enough to tip him off on a lot of	. .
the finer intricacies of coaching, and since that time _	>
he has been as wise as the rest of them. ' He hasn’t yet ascended to the plane where he thinks he knows it all; .	7
but he commands the respect of every man on the _ squad, and well he may, for Notre Dame is coming	. - -7
through in great shape this fall, and largely through	. — 7^-
Rockne’s capable direction.	~	‘
“Rock” coaches his men the way he used to play, .	; Ss 1
and he spends a lot of time with his line showing them ~

184
'fcfie Notts- dame Scholastic
what to do by example. The snowy-headed mentor gets down-and demonstrates by action what he wants his men to do against their opponents, and he’s a sure success of what’s what in tactics.—(By Archie Ward, in the Indianapolis Star, Nov. 1.)	*
* . * *
Again it is the Notre Dame Irish who have put the West on the football map. . . ". Notre Dame followers will look back to the 1919 season as one of the greatest an Irish team ever went through with. ... A victory over Notre Dame would have been the greatest achievement a Purdue team has done in eight years.... But trying forward passes on Notre Dame is nigh on to disastrous at any stage of the game. ... So alert and active are the men of Rockne at handling the ball an opposing team always runs a dangerous chance when it shoots the oval into the air.-... It is doubtful if there is a team in the country that can compete with the Irish in this method of advancing*the ball. . . . Week after week the Purdue team has been drilled in breaking up this method of attack but it just couldn’t be done.... George Gipp, one of the most versatile players in the West, shot the oval with such unerring accuracy to his eligible men Purdue couldn’t cover. It looked at times as if it was an impossibility for Gipp to find a man loose, and some blue-jerseyed Irishman would leap from nowhere to grab the oval. Such accurate handling of the ball was almost beyond conception.—(By John W. Head, in the Indianapolis Star, Monday, Nov. 24.)
*** '
With Notre Dame suppressing the Army team and Georgetown conquering the Navy, why pan England for her inability to settle the Irish question? —(From the New York Tribune, Nov. 18.) '	_
An exchange prints this lineup, all founded on fact: Church, Harvard; Pope, Indiana; Bliss, Stevens; Christian, Williams; Kirk, Notre Dame; Pope, Hamilton; Abbott, Syracuse; Pryor, Tufts; Pugh, Swarthmore; Churchman, Virginia; Toogood, Hayerford. —Chicago American.
-	A
It is rarely given to a line player to star for his team, but in the entire array of Notre Dame fighters there is no more brilliant performer than “Slip” Madigan, pivot man of the Gold and Blue eleven. To this husky center can Notre Dame give credit in no small degree that opposing teams have failed to crumble the line. He is the athelte who took care of Green, the Army center, touted as an all-American player, and, in short, he is perhaps the most consistent performer on the Notre Dame first line defense.	_
Madigan, for all his brilliant play this season, has been constantly outweighed by his opponents. He carries only 157 pounds and he ranks as one of the lightest centers «in the “grid” annals of the Gold and Blue. But Madigan has proved that a superiority in avoirdupois is the least of the advantages in a real football struggle; x and he has likewise proved that the ■ bigger they come the harder they fall. Particularly did he prove this in the game at West Point, where he was opposed by a man who tipped the team at well over the 200 mark. , . . “Hunk” Anderson' and. Maurice
Smith, the guards, are tried veterans, with a list of victims not less worthy than those of Madigan. They have earned their positions through a season’s battles with a bunch of ambitious rivals that made the final selection a matter of doubt right up to the minute of the kick-off of the Kalamazoo game. . . . Kirk and E. Anderson, the Notre Dame ends, carry with them the ' confidence of the entire student body. No more fleet or gifted wing men have worn the Gold and Blue in several seasons. Kirk’s ability in grabbing passes has been a feature of every game played by Rockne’s men this fall.—(By Archie Ward, in the South Bend Tribune, for Wednesday, Nov. 19).	.
> .	* **	/
Negotiations between Coach Rockne of Notre Dame and Andy Smith of the University of California for a post-season game on the coast have been opened. Last season the game was practically arranged, but when both teams lost so many star players who were called into service, the contest was called off. If Notre Dame goes west it can'do so as a representative team of this section. The Hoosier eleven has not lost a game this season and a^ it only has to play the Michigan Aggies, Purdue, and Morningside colleges, there is little likelihood of its meeting with a defeat. Notre’ Dame has beaten Nebraska, Indiana, and the Army, and is as strong an aggregation as there is in the West.—(By Walter Eckersall in the Chicago Tribune of Nov.n.)
Where are the giants of yesteryear? Mclnerny, Bachman,Keefe, Feeney,Lathrop, Fitzgerald, Rydzew-ski and the rest. Many of them will be in Indianapolis Saturday for the Notre Dame-Indiana game, but one we know will not be there—Big Mac, the cheerful, the hard-fighting, the unafraid. He lies out there on the old western front, and we know that in his last fight against the Hun he was the same old cheerful, hard-fighting, daring Mac that went through so many gridiron battles for Notre Dame. But the spirit of Big Mac and of all the others is the spirit of the little Notre Dame team of 1919. ... It is a big task this “little” team has cut out for it—to carry on the work ofi its larger precedessors. But the size of the job hasn’t ■ got these boys bluffed any more than the monster
Nebraska line, which they outplayed.
“If the line can hold, the backfield will'ramble.” This seems to be Hie theory of Rockne’s campaign this year. In the backfield there is enough material to makp a track team. There are backs that sprint,"backs that buck; backs that worm their way through a broken field, in fact, some backfield.
At the ends there are Kirk and Anderson, who did the impossible when they stopped Paddy Driscoll, former Northwestern star the time Notre Dame played the Great Lakes team last year, and this season no opposing • team has put overa successful end run against this combination.. .. Dudley. Pearson, who plays subquarter, has charge of tickets for the game Saturday, paints'the banners for the pee-rade, hires the special trains, is manager of the students’ special, knows every- -thing about everything, answers all questions about the game and attends classes.', Outside of this he has all his spare time to do as he pleases.—(By ..Thomas A. Hendricks, in the Indianapolis-Friday, Oct. 1.)

the Noun? Blame Scholastic AiCeptisementS
Yellow Taxi Cab and Transfer Co. Main Office, Cor. Mich, and Colfax Ave.
BELL 514 HOME 55»5
CAB AND BAGGAGE SERVICE
One or two passengers, - - -	$1.00
Each additional passenger, - - -	.50
Special trip for Baggage, - - - - $1.00 Each additional Trunk, - - - - ■ .50 Suit Case,....................-	-	.25
The Oliver Hotel
European Ran
1—
BEST IN THE WEST
300 Rooms	Fireproof
/
THIS HOTEL OPERATES PERFECTLY APPOINTED
CAFES . CIGAR> AND NEWS STAND BILLARD HALL BAKE SHOP BARBER SHOP HAIR DRESSING AND MANICURING PARLORS
CARS FOR ALL OCCASIONS 7-passenger cars for parties, touring, etc. RATES REASONABLE
SELF SERVICE DINING ROOM OPEN DAY AND NIGHT . Waiter service after 9 o’clock P. M-if desired:
0/ Low Comfortable Collar ofwide reputation
Auditorium Hotel CHICAGO
I--	N.
On the comer of Michigan Boulevard and Congress Street, in the theatre and business center.
Special attention shown students and alumni of Notre Dame.
OLDEST BRAND IN AMERICA
UNITED NMRT A CCUM CD. TNOT.N»Y._
SOI* ST	___
MAX ADLER CO. SOUTH BEND, DID,
JOHN J. CALVEY, Mancger
Che Notre Same Scholastic AiCeptisements
No. 126
Mechanics Tools
Draughtman’s Tools
The First National Bank South Bend, Indiana (Oliver HoteLBuilding)
Capital, $ 105,000 Surplusand Profit, $ 145,000
G. E. Meyer & Son
■	I
Hardware Merchants
115-117 West Jefferson Boulevard (Opposite Poetoffice) „ Fine Cutlery	South Bend, Ind.

A. L. HUBBARD, President.
J. M. STUDEBAKER. JR.. Vice-Prest.
C. L. ZIGLER, Cashier. .
C. J. WHITMER, Ass't Cashier. -
SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT AT REASONABLE PRICES
Wb Issue FOREIGN EXCHANGE at Lowest Market Rates and Letters of Credit Payable Throughout the World -
Try Our Traveler’s Cheques
The Dome
Official Portrait Photographer
McDonald
axx South Main St	e „ A T .
on. Poet one*	South Bend, Ind.
Spalding
Foot Ball Goods
BALLS, GOALS, GUARDS, PADS, SHOES, ETC.
In addition of course—	. "
Spalding Equipment for ecerj other Athletic Sport
SEND FOR CATALOGUE	.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
SIX STATE STBEET, CHICAGO
Ideal Laundry Company
“Get the Ideal Habit’ ’
Three collections a week at Notre Dame. Leave your pack? v ages at the .	‘
NotreDameNewsStand
Cox Sons & Vining
72 Madison Ave., New York
CAPS AND GOWNS
Silk Faculty Gowns and Hoods. Lowest Prices. Best Workmanship. - Gowns for Judiciary, Pulpit and Choir
Schuler, KNngel & Co.
Wholesale Fruita and Produce -
Citizens National Bank . j and Trust Co. -112-14 ,W. Jefferson Blvd. _. South Bend, Ind.


tl
UiuUrrSitp of J^otre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
i;
it.
in
College of 2Irt* anb letter*.
Departments of Ancient Classics, Modem Literature, History, Political Economy, Sociology, Domestic Commerce, Foreign Commerce, Journalism, Library Science.
College of Boente.
Departments of Chemistry, Physics, Biology, Pharmacy, Agriculture.
College of Srdjiteriure.
Departments <4 Construction, Design.
College of engineering.
Departments of Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering,. Chemical Engineering, Mining Engineering, Industrial Engineering.


CoUtgt of Jtato.
College of rftne 9rt&
Departments of Artistic Drawing, Paint- -ing, Cartooning, Instrumental Music, Vocal Music.


$»paratorp Moot
Variant Courses.
4ft. CbtoarblHL For Young Boys.
Notre Dame is recognized by all educators, by Hie press and by die public as a college whose work is of die same grade as that of the most highly endowed colleges or die best state universities. Its atmosphere is strongly Catholic and no young man who has ever attended die University of Notre Dame can escape its influence in after life. -

The discipline is paternal, and aims at givingyoung men die fullest liberty con-, sistant with earnest study and manly Christian character. Rooms at reasonable rates. Catalogue sent on application.
Address:
THE REGISTRAR
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
L-