Congratulations
Notre Dame GRID MEN of 1945/
suggestion for Shoppers . . .
Two
BOTANY "500" SUITS ARROW SHIRTS
STETSON AND LEE HATS
BOTANY TIES
MAIN AT COLFAX
“The MEN’S Corner”
•
Home of Nationally Accepted Merchandise
NICE GOING “IRISH” on a successful season
Gift
Billfolds
for’HIM or for HER
A slim Billfold by Rumpp foe bills, cards, checks and notes. Made in an assortment of leathers... ostrich, seal and goat.
There’s extra security for notes and valuables in this billfold. Compartments for cards and change, too. Made by Rumpo in ostrich, seal and goat leathers.
Initials in Gold Free
navaum
7he/SATHER Shop.
Ill Waal Washiagtaa Av*.
ri he. Nolte S^a^fte
SCHOLASTIC
Ptetenh
The Fighting Irish
of 1945, who played before 535,000 fans this year, and who had the loyal support of thousands of Notre Dame students and graduates and the devoted following of uncounted millions of "synthetic alumni."
Three
^he cNotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
College Parade
By THOMAS M. HIGGINS
•iiiiiitttiiiiuitiittiuHittiiiHiinitmtuiiiiiittiitHtitiittitiiiiiiiitiiittitiitttiiiimtiiiinimiiitnttMiiiiiiii
•iHttiixiiiimii'itiiiiiiiiiMititittiiiitiiiififiiiiiittitiiHitiiiitiiiiiiitismi'iiitttiiiniiiitiiiitiiiiuiMiiitiiii
THE STAFF
FRANK GRIMALDI, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN DEFANT -GEORGE COLLINS PAUL WEYRAUCH james f. McCarthy
-	Managing	Editor
Navy	Associate	Editor
-	Sports	Editor
-	Feature	Editor
COLUMNISTS
THOMAS M. HIGGINS -	-	- The College Parade
LOUIS ALMASI	-	-	-	-	-	The Crow's Nest
ARTHUR MOSHER, RAY FRANKLIN -	-	- The Shillelagh
JACK STEWART	-----	The Green Banner
PHIL CORBOY	------- Splinters
ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	-	- Frosh Froth
CONTRIBUTORS
JAMES GREENE JACK TINKLE BILLY SLAVICK GERARD HEKKER PAUL ABRAHAM JOE RENINGER W. O. MILLER JIM REGAN JAMES BURNS SAMUEL HAZO
- PAUL RAGAN
RALPH HAYMAN JOE LANG
FRANK TYCHSEN DAVE OLSON JUSTIN CICCONETTI JOHN C. THOMAS JAMES JOHN BILL PFAFF DAVE WARNER JOHN GUNTHER BILL BRAUN
JAMES FERSTEL -ARTHUR COUGHLAN -REV. PAUL BEICHNER, C.S.C. ADVERTISING -	-
- Photography
Circulation Manager
Faculty Advisor
Publications Office
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 11033, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
’ Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Four
STRICTLY IN THE SPIRIT OF THIS ISSUE . . .
An item from the Indiana Student printed here in its entirety: Under a Minneapolis dateline, October 30, “Minnesota’s Golden Gophers settled down today to some serious work.” Either it was very serious work, or else the reporter ran out of ink.
The Ohio State Lantern reports that when the Ohio boys showed up at Pittsburgh recently to play the Panthers, they neglected to bring along a complete set of game uniforms. Shouldn’t they change their name from the Buckeyes to the Plumbers?
Charlie Trippi, a real old Southern Gentleman from ’way down Pennsylvania way, has been elected captain of the 1946 Georgia Bulldog team. Steve Cantos has been selected by his Michigan teammates for the school’s most valuable player award. This is the first time that the honor has been bestowed upon a freshman.
According to the Creightonian, Creighton University has extended an offer of a four-year scholarship to the center of a Lincoln high school who lost an eye in a game against Creighton Prep.
Loyola University (Maryland), which had no intercollegiate football team this year, had 72 percent of its student body engaged in intramural football during the season.
The Rochester Campus comes up with this masterpiece: “. . . . the Rivermen dropped four in a row, three of them to teams they could have whipped easily on a second try.” Lads, won’t you ever learn that it is the first time that counts?
The Purdue Exponent reveals that when the Ohio State jay-vee squad journeyed to West Lafayette to play the Purdue junior varsity, they visited Purdue Home Ec classes. They couldn’t have sampled the typical Home Ec cooking, however, as they subdued the Purdue team 13-7. (When will the Ohio State Lantern learn that Purdue is not in Bloomington? Indiana students are liable to^get mad!)
In a poll conducted at Siena College recently regarding the student body’s desire for an intercollegiate sport program, the answer was unanimous—football.
NOTES UPON A SCREWY FOOTBALL SEASON . . .
We remember when bowl games were feats of skill between evenly matched teams. This year it seems to be different. The Rose Bowl will have as host a thrice-beaten team, Southern California, and in the Cotton Bowl there will be Missouri University, another thrice-beaten outfit. . . . Out on the coast, a California back angled a bad punt off the side of his foot. A teammate grabbed the ball on his own 15-yard line and set sail for the UCLA goal line. Past the mid-field stripe he lateralled the ball to the man who had made the bad punt, who in turn carried the oval over for the only score of the game. . . . Trying to go them one better, however, in a high school game: A centered the ball to B who handed it off to C who gave it to D on a double reverse. E took the pigskin from D on a Statue of Liberty play and lateralled it to F who flipped a short pass to G. The ball bounced out of G’s hands and into H’s arms.—P. S. They lost 47 yards on the play!
Five
The Notre Dame Coaching Staff
HUGH J. DEVORE
* Notre Dame’s new head football coach and director of athletics is a native of Newark, N. J., where he starred in football at St. Benedict’s Prep School. Devore, who enrolled at Notre Dame in 1930, was highly impressive as a member of the freshman team and in 1931, as a sophomore, he won a starting end position on the varsity eleven. A regular for the next three years, Devore was named team co-captain and wron AllAmerican honors in 1933, and he gained considerable prestige as the best collegiate blocker in the nation. Upon his graduation from Notre Dame, Hugh was named assistant freshman coach at the university for the 1934 season. After serving as line coach under Jimmy Crowley at Fordham during the 193536-37 seasons, he accepted a position as head coach at Providence College in Rhode Island. Four years later he became assistant to head coach Ank Scanlan at Holy Cross. In 1943 he joined the Notre Dame staff as line coach. When Ed McKeever moved last spring to Cornell as head coach, Devore was named his successor. Married, he has four children: Hugh Jr., 6, George 5, Madeline 3, Marie 2.
★ ★ ★
KENNETH L. STILLEY
* After nine years of successful high school coaching, Ken Stilley joined the Notre Dame coaching staff this year to aid in developing Irish linemen. Stilley, a native of Clairton, Pennsylvania, was educated in the public school system there and was an All-State fullback choice in each of his three years on the squad. Entering Notre Dame in 1932, he played left tackle on Irish elevens and earned monograms in 193435. He also was an outstanding weightman on the Notre Dame track squad. Ken’s high school coaching career began in 1936 when he became head coach of the Allentown, (Pa.) Prep. School. In 1940 he served as assistant coach at Allentown High School and then in 1941 moved as head coach to Altoona Catholic High School. During the 194243 seasons he returned to his home town to become head coach at Clairton High School, and in 1944 he served as head coach at North Catholic High School in Pittsburgh. This year is his first on the Notre Dame Staff.
★ ★ ★
WALTER J. ZIEMBA
* A native of Hammond, Indiana, Wally Ziemba entered Notre Dame in 1939 after gaining statewide acclaim for his football ability at Hammond High School. Ziemba attracted even more attention through his feat of versatility of playing end one year, fullback his sophomore year and tackle his junior and senior years in high school. He
maintained his tackle berth in his freshman year at Notre Dame and held down a first string job on the Irish frosh squad. After playing varsity tackle in his sophomore year, Wally was shifted to center in 1941, and was an immediate success. In spite of a knee injury in 1942, Ziemba’s performance in his senior year attracted enough attention to gain him All-American honors. Upon graduation, Ziemba entered the Marine Corps, but received a medical discharge in July, 1943. He joined the Irish coaching staff in the Fall of 1943.
★ ★ ★
JOSEPH L. SHEEKETSKI
* Joseph Sheeketski, from Shadyside, Ohio, came to Notre Dame in 1929, after a brilliant high school career at Shadyside high school. He won his frosh numerals, played on the national championship team of 1930, although he did not win a monogram, and then for the next two years was right halfback at Notre Dame. He was recognized as one of the greatest blockers in intercollegiate football, and his backs this year give promise of reflecting his coaching in that phase of the game. Following his graduation from Notre Dame, Sheeketski went to Holy Cross, w’here he was backfield coach under Dr. Eddie Anderson for the next six years. In 1939, he became head coach. During the next three years that he was at the helm of Holy Cross, his teams gained nationwide attention for their brilliant blocking and all around play. Following the 1941 season, Sheeketski resigned to become a member of the FBI. He remained a "G man” until January of this past year, when he resigned to enter private business in Cleveland.
C. J. (Jake) KLINE
* A former Notre Dame baseball star in the pre-World War I era, Jake Kline returned to the University in 1931 as assistant freshman football coach after several years of managing minor league baseball clubs. Jake, who hails from Pennsylvania, climaxed his baseball career at Notre Dame after playing in 1915-16-17 by captaining the ball team in his senior year. Still fresh in the memories of old time Irish baseball fans are the three home runs Kline slugged to beat Michigan in 1917. Passing up several big league offers, he enlisted in the Army in 1917 and spent 1918 and 1919 overseas. He was named head baseball coach in 1934 and has piloted Irish nines ever since, in addition to his duties as assistant football coach. Jake holds a full professorship in the department of mathematics.
★ ★ ★
HARRY A. JACUNSKI
* Harry Jacunski was born in New Britain, Connecticut, where he was educated in the public school system, and attended New Britain high school. At New Britain High, he gained statewide recognition as a center and was named All-State in 1934. Jacunski entered Fordham University in 1935 and earned monograms for three years as a regular end on the Rams. He joined the Green Bay Packers, in the National Professional football league in 1939, and played end with the Packers for the next six years. While Harry was a member of the Green Bay eleven, the Packers captured two professional championships, in 1939 and 1944. Jacunski was married in January, 1940, and has twin boys, Richard and Robert, 4^, and a daughter, Carol Ann, 3. Harry serves as line coach for the Irish, joining the staff this past spring.
Left to right: lake Kline. Harry Jacunski, Hugh Devore, Wally Ziemba, Ken Stilley, and Joe Sheeketski.
Six
6ongratulations? SKugh Devore!
a Gift of James McGarraghy (left) of Chicago
Mascot Clashmore
Mike II,
Coach Hugh Devore Receives
tie, bringing nation-wide acclaim to the team and coach.
Before the 1945 Notre Dame football team had taken the field for its first game, the nation’s so-called “experts” had written the Irish off as a hopeless case. Claims stated were that the new head coach, Hugh Devore, had the worst material in 25 years at Notre Dame. After the opening game victory over Illinois, the United Press named Devore as the “Coach of the Week.” The honors and words of praise did not stop there.
Few football teams in Notre Dame gridiron history have had more respect and admiration for their head coach than the 1945 squad did for Hughie Devore. This spirit plus the sound coaching tactics of the former Notre Dame star sent Notre Dame through a terrific schedule with only two defeats and one
Hughie Devore did not have any magic powers or any streaks of luck during his one-year tenure as head coach. He merely acted as Hugh Devore, no one else, with a result which the records show. He wasn’t hampered by lack of confidence at the outset of the season nor did he let his players become over-confident after they had become successful in the first six games. After a trouncing at the hands of Army, Devore rallied the team into stride again, so forcefully, in fact, that Northwestern and Tulane were brushed aside by wide margins.
It isn’t known yet who will be honored as the “Coach of the Year,” but at least in the hearts and minds of all Notre Dame men it will be Hugh De
vore. He has rightfully earned that title.
It also remains unknown at this time as to where Hugh will go from here. Certainly his one season at Notre Dame should speak for itself, so that an attractive offering should be in the making. While Devore has received no offers personally, rumors—what little they mean— have him as a possibility at Annapolis or the University of Arkansas as head coach. It has also been reported that Hughie did receive a most attractive offer- from one of the country’s leading schools but that he has made no decision as yet.
Well, Mr. Devore, wherever you may go, all Notre Dame men wish you continued success. You have won your place at Notre Dame for good—you will not be forgotten.
A TRIBUTE
They hit the line—and they hit it hard— And they ran the ends of fame.
They passed and kicked to the distant goal. When they starred in the college game.
g But they heard the bugles of war that called To a rougher and tougher test, And now they sleep under foreign sod, The stars who have earned their rest.
They played the game in the good old way That led to the bayonet's thrust.
They led the charge to the final goal. Which covers their golden dust.
—Grantland Rice
The 1945 Football Issue of THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC pauses to pay tribute to the Notre Dame football monogram winners who gave their lives in the World War, now over. As the school and nation return to peacetime living and peacetime joys, we must not forget those who will never return.
Hercules Bereolos Jack Chevigny Vincent F. Harrington George Murphy Martin G. O'Reilly
E i g h t
Notre Dame 7; Illinois 0
Before 40,000 startled but highly pleased spectators, an underdog Notre Dame eleven opened their 57th football season by defeating a hard-fighting highly-touted Illinois squad, 7-0, in spacious Notre Dame stadium. The Irish, quite unaware of the fact that they were supposed to be beaten, crossed the experts and the goal line on the first play of the game when Frosh Phil Colella scampered 76 yards for a touchdown behind letter-perfect interference.
Hardly a fan had settled down in his seat after the opening kickoff when Colella took a shovel pass from Frankie Dancewicz, Blue and Gold “T” master, and raced wide around the Illini left end, cut back through the secondary, and galloped the remaining distance unmolested to pay dirt. When Stan Krivik came into the game and dropkicked the extra point, the scoring column had reached the “30” mark with the time clock showing 50 seconds of the contest completed. But the next 59 minutes and 10 seconds told an entirely different story.
Notre Dame kicked off, and when Tony Butkovich, Illini quarterback, fumbled the ball the Irish recovered on the visitor’s 35-yard line, but were unable to gain. After an exchange of punts, Illinois moved from its own 20 to the Notre Dame 11-yard line, with Bray and Zaborac sweeping the ends for consistent gains. The threat ended here, however, when Bob Skoglund, Irish end, broke through and dropped Bray for an 18-yard loss. Bray fumbled on the play and Bill Fischer recovered for the Blue and Gold on its own 29, but again the Irish couldn’t gain.
Coach Hughie Devore’s lads were called upon to make their second goal-line stand late in the second quarter. That common pigskin disease, “Fumblitis,” had engulfed the playing field by this time and very few players, on both sides, could be considered immune once they had an opportunity to carry the ball. After an exchange of fumbles early in the second period, Notre Dame drove to the Illinois 22-yard line before being halted, and neither team threatened any more until the Illini recovered a Colella fumble on a punt return and took over on the Irish 42. Eight plays later the out-of-staters had a first down on the six-yard mark, but the hard-charging Notre Dame line held for downs on the four, and the first half ended with the Irish still in the lead.
The “fumblin’ fits” continued in the third stanza and succeeded in stopping both teams from gaining much headway until the closing minutes of the quarter. Bill Gompers, sub halfback, fum-
Baltimore Sun—
“Phil Colella, a Navy Veteran of South Pacific action, streaked 76 yards for a touchdown on the game’s first running play to usher in Notre Dame’s football season with a 7-0 triumph over Illinois today.
Colella takes a 47 yard pass from Dancewicz as Illini men. Bukovich and Zimmerman stand, and fall, nearby.
bled Butkovitch’s short punt and Illinois recovered on theNotre . Dame 39-yard line to set up threat number three. Following a 15-yard penalty, which set them back to their own 46-yard line, the Illini struck by air. Butkovich faded back and flipped a long spiral to Heiss, who ran to the Irish 8 before Dancewicz knocked him out of bounds. But again the Irish line proved superior, stopping the drive on the four-yard line and taking over on downs early in the final quarter.
Dancewicz punted out of the end zone to Stades, who returned to the Notre Dame 29-yard line and the Irish had to repeat then: three previous stellar performances to protect their lead. In four plays the Illini were on the eight-yard line with first down and goal to go. And once more the green-shirted line rose up and stopped the threat, taking over on its own one-yard line after four more drives by the Orange and Blue.
Thus the curtain dropped on the fourth act of the brilliant defensive duel between a young, never-say-die Notre Dame team and an equally valiant Illinois squad, as the Irish opened their first post-war grid season successfully.—John C. Thomas
Notre Dome 40; Georgia Tech 7
Notre Dame had appreciated Georgia Tech’s southern hospitality to the extent of a 40 to 7 victory in Atlanta, October 6. It was a matter of too much size and speed on the part of the Irish for the young but spirited Engineers to cope with. Tech scored first and for a short time in the first quarter it looked like a close tussle. Then the Irish backs swung.into action that ended only with the final gun.
Displaying trickery for which southern teams are noted, Tech scored early on a hidden ball play with Ed Holtsinger whipping across to thrill the partisan crowd of 35,000. Kyker booted the extra1 point and Tech led 7 to 0. That score was just enough to rile up the Irish gander, so Frank Dancewicz tossed a pass to Phil Colella for a touchdown before the opening period ended. Krivik drop-kicked the first of his four extra point conversions of the day to tie the score.
The second period was just well on its way when Notre Dame struck again. Colella and Frank Ruggerio teamed up along the ground while Dancewicz included a pass to Skoglund to carry deep into Tech territory. Elmer Angsman chipped in with a first down on the 19 and then the Chicago boy blasted the rest of the way into the end zone. Krivik again converted. Joe Gasparella passed to Bill Zehler for 54 yards and a touchdown in the waning moments of the first half to make the intermission count 21 to 7 for Notre Dame.
Tech held the Irish on the first series of downs in the second
half and then started a little drive of their own. Peek and Matthews led the way in the march that ended on the Notre Dame 20, when Terry Brennan intercepted a pass by Holtsinger and galloped 42 yards before Matthews tagged him on the Tech 33. The Irish drove from this point with Angsman going over. Krivik made his last conversion.	'
The Hamburger squad went into action in the final quarter as Tech’s outmanned but fighting crew gradually was worn to a frazzle. Late in the quarter, Johnny Agnone and Emil Slovak each added a touchdown to run the final score up to 40.
George Matthews, Tech’s speedy halfback, was the game’s leading ground gainer with 98 yards, closely followed by Phil Colella with 93. Captain Paul Duke and end Walt Kilzer were outstanding for Georgia Tech while Notre Dame’s veterans, Dancewicz, Angsman, and Bob Skoglund led the Indiana boys through the game.
Notre Dame tallied 15 first downs to 10 by Tech. The Irish rushing game was good for 295 yards while the Rambling Wreck chugged along for 159. Notre Dame also held a decided edge in the aerial game, gaining 101 yards to 72 for Tech.
An interesting fact was provided by the game statistician in that the two teams traveled exactly 1,000 yards counting runs, passes, and all kick returns. Of the even grand, Notre Dame accounted for 560 and Tech 440.
Ten
Coach and Captain—Boley, rated one of the nation's top defensive backs, learned from the master. His vicious tackling that nailed many an opposing back who broke into the secondary is a reflection of Coach Devore's great defensive work as an end on the 1933 team.
The Atlanta Journal—Ed Danforth
“Some boys went to do a man’s job Saturday in Grant Field with the traditional result.
“Georgia Tech’s well-organized, sharply geared football force lost to a bigger, faster, taller team from Notre Dame, 40-7, and I do mean taller. Superior height, supposedly a basketball asset, became the hazard the under-sized Engineers could not clear as 35,000 people saw.”
Notre Dome 34; Dartmouth 0
The Irish were off to a dazzling start on Saturday, October 13, when on the very first play from scrimmage Phil Colella, fleet freshman halfback, took Capt. Frank Dancewicz’s 50-yard, bulletlike pass and scampered over the goal for the first score against the outmanned Dartmouth Indians. There was no let-up for the hapless Indians, as a squad of 53 blue-and-gold “Irishmen” paraded up and down the field before some 45,000 enthusiastic fans to end the game, Notre Dame 34, Dartmouth 0.
A quick glance at the statistics, and one can see that the score might well have been double, for Devore’s men picked up 19 first downs to the Green Wave’s 7; netting 334 yards from scrimmage by rushing as against 90, and 84 big yards by passing as compared to 19. Devore put the lid on the Notre Dame passing secrets early in the game, and Notre Dame spent the last three- . quarters running through a large assortment of ground plays.
Following Colella’s first-play touchdown, the game settled down until late in the same period when end Bob Skoglund took a Dancewicz pass on the Dartmouth 4 and went over standing up to make -the score 13-0. A low pass from center spoiled Stan Krivik’s chances to make it two in a row.
Midway in the second quarter, third string halfback, “Zip” Zehler, raced 24 yards for touchdown number 3. Krivik came m to make the score 20-0 at half time. Soon after the third period opened, fullback Stan Krivik plowed through center to pay-dirt from the Indians’ 3. He then added the extra point with a dropkick, making the score 27-0.
The Notre Dame backfield men of the 4th quarter were Tri-pucka, Gompers, Agnone, Slovak, Hernan, Raba and Yonto, hard-driving speedsters from the 4th and 5th strings. As the final -quarter rolled to a close, Jim Yonto, fullback, pushed over from the 2, and Bob Skoglund took his own blocked place kick and ran in for the extra point to end the day’s scoring at 34-0.
This third straight win for the Irish added a lot of experience to previously untried linemen, and each line that Coach Devore could send onto the field was able to hold its own and often stopped the Dartmouth backs far behind the line of scrimmage. Thus far in the season, Notre Dame had piled up a total of 81 points, as against 7 for the three opponents.—John Gunther
United Press—
“Notre Dame, after establishing overwhelming superiority with its “varsity” in the first quarter of the game, used its second, third, and fourth teams the rest of the way to steamroller Dartmouth 34-0 today for the Irish’s third consecutive victory.”
Swanson of Dartmouth looks for an open field against Irish as Panelli, Stanzyk, and Kurzynske move in for the tackle.
Eleven
Notre Dame 39; Pittsburgh 9
■ Held to but two touchdowns in the first half by a courageous but inexperienced Pittsburgh Panther eleven, the Notre Dame team rallied in the second half to annex its fourth straight win of the season by a 39 to 9 score. The game played in Pittsburgh Stadium attracted a crowd of 65,000 who were stunned as the underdog home squad battled on even terms with the visitors for thirty minutes.
Clark Shaughnessy, Pittsburgh coach, had been predicting for almost a month that his team would surprise the sporting world by defeating the “Fighting Irish” and it appeared that he might have been right as Notre Dame pushed over but one touchdown in the first period. Pittsburgh outplayed Notre Dame in the second period but the Irish came up with a touchdown on the last play of the first half to take a 12 to 2 lead at the intermission. In the second half it was all Notre Dame except for Pittsburgh’s lone touchdown in the waning minutes.
Notre Dame’s first score was a result of a fumble by Pitt’s Ed Zimmovan on the first play that Pittsburgh had the ball. Notre Dame took over on the 23-yard line and on the first play Phil Colella ran for the touchdown. The play was called back, however, but two plays later Frank Dancewicz pitched a pass to Colella on the one-yard line, whence Frank Ruggerio went over for the touchdown.
Pittsburgh monopolized the play for almost the remainder of the first half. They entered the scoring column with two points as a result of a safety when Notre Dame’s Terry Brennan was tackled in his end zone. Pitt made but one real touchdown threat
of their own, but this was halted on Notre Dame’s 17-yard line. On the last play of the second canto, Dancewicz passed to freshman Bill Leonard in the end zone for the second touchdown. The attempt for the extra point again failed and N. D. led, 12 to 2, at half-time.
Notre Dame started off the third quarter with a rush but this advance was halted when Pitt intercepted a Dancewicz aerial. Notre Dame soon gained possession of the ball once again and scored when Elmer Angsman nabbed a flat pass from Dancewicz and raced 20 yards to pay dirt. Stan Krivik made his dropkick good for the 19th point for Notre Dame. The third quarter ended with Notre Dame on the long end of the 19 to 2 score.
The score started to mount in the fourth quarter as the Pittsburgh defenses began to falter. After one minute of this session, Angsman scored his second touchdown of the day on a line buck. John Panelli accounted for the fifth U.N.D. six-pointer when he burst through the middle from the 19-yard line. Krivik made his second point of the day when his dropkick again split the uprights. Ernie Virok intercepted a Pittsburgh pass and dashed 40 yards for a score for Notre Dame’s last touchdown of the day. Krivik again came in and raised his average for the day in extra point attempts to .500 and Notre Dame’s score to 39.
Pittsburgh’s only touchdown was in the closing minutes on a pass that covered a total of 50 yards. Jack Smodic was on the throwing end of the play with Herb Douglass receiving. Francis Mattioli converted for Pittsburgh from placement to complete the scoring for the day.—Jim Regan
Twelve
Boston Sunday Post—Associated Press
“Fought virtually to a standstill for two periods by a heated-up Pitsburgh eleven, Notre Dame proved its class by pounding across four touchdowns in the second half and winning going away, 39-9, before a packed crowd of 65,000 in Pitt Stadium today.”
Phil Colella — The hometown crowd gave Phil a big welcome in the Smoky City and he responded with some great football.
Notre Dame 56; Iowa 0
In trouncing the hapless Hawkeyes of Iowa 56 to 0, Notre Dame ran its victory string to eight games—the fifth of this season—before a home crowd of 52,000 on a beautiful Indian summer afternoon. Despite the fact that Coach Hugh Devore cleared the bench of subs by using all the 56 men he had in uniform, the boys from ’neath the Golden Dome just couldn’t stop scoring. During the first half the Fighting Irish first-stringers were in action a mere 11 minutes, and heaved only one pass—that one incomplete—and the only Irish pass of the whole game. The Irish were not “laying it on.”
The Hawkeyes were not only unable to prevent the parade of Kelly-green jerseyed backs from scoring touchdown after touchdown, but were also completely powerless offensively in the face of N.D.’s hard-charging forward wall and netted only 49 yards and two first downs from scrimmage, while the Irish were amassing a total of 367 yards and 14 first downs. Devore was very reluctant to display his formidable passing attack, along with his more intricate plays, assuming that hostile eyes were scouting his boys for the all-important Navy encounter the following Saturday.
The game was barely four minutes old when Frank Ruggerio drew the first blood of the massacre by driving over left guard for a TD on the third play after Dick Cronin recovered an Iowa fumble on the Hawkeye 19-yard line. Drop-kicker Krivik rang up the extra point. Elmer Angstnan was the next to hit paydirt on
another plunge after Capt. Frank Dancewicz had set up the touchdown by returning a punt to the Iowa 27-yard line. Three plays after the following kickoff Phil Colella intercepted a Hawkeye pass and the Rochester, Pa., speedster went 38 yards for a touchdown. Stan Krivik made it three in a row.
That was the cue for the understudies to take over and they, not to be outdone, picked up where the starting eleven left off by scoring three times in the second quarter with Bill Gompers, John Agnone, and Emil Slovak registering six-pointers in that order. Of the three, Agnone’s 23-yard jaunt was the longest; he set the stage himself when he intercepted a pass on the Iowa 30-yard line. At half-time the board read 41-0, Notre Dame. A Naval demonstration during the intermission was highlighted by a squadron of planes flying over the stadium.
Four minutes after the second-half kickoff Notre Dame tallied again when end Phil O’Connor nailed Niles for a safety in back of the goal as he attempted a surprise pass which failed to fool Phil. From there on out the touchdown-manufacturing machine coasted along, scoring once more in the third quarter and again in the fourth. Joe Yonto, Ruggerio’s sub, “was the man” in the third when he scooted around right end for 30 yards and a TD. In the fourth and final, Leo Traney jumped on the bandwagon by reeling off beautiful 51 and 18 yard jaunts, the last resulting in a score. It was the seventh TD of the game, and Traney was the seventh Irish back to score during the afternoon.—Peter F. Pesoli
Associated Press—
“The Ramblers of Notre Dame, apparently gaining strength week by week, rambled over helpless Iowa today, 56-0, despite the fact Coach Hugh Devore put every available player into the game.
“Devore used his first string but 11 minutes of the first half, and only one pass was tossed—that was incomplete— as the Fighting Irish blasted their way through the Iowa line for one touchdown after another.”
A Hawkeye pass goes astray as John Agnone darts in for an interception. George Ratterman is Irish player in background.
Thirteen
Notre Dame 6; Navy 6
Notre Dame and Navy met in Cleveland’s Municipal Stadium, November 2, before a throng of 82,000 rabid football fans. Both teams entered the game undefeated and left, after 60 minutes of spine-tingling football, with the same status. After the Irish had rolled over the Middies throughout the first half to lead 6 to 0, Clyde ‘Smackover” Scott intercepted a Notre Dame pass in the third quarter and ran to a touchdown that left the game in a 6 to 6 deadlock. Behind that score lies football drama.
The play that will be a topic of football conversation for many years occurred in the final minute of play when Captain Frank Dancewicz passed to Phil Colella near the Navy goal line. The Rochester, Pennsylvania, freshman drove for the goal but as he did so, Tony Minisi of Navy grabbed him around the neck, hurtling him out of bounds six inches shy of the game-winning touchdown. Colella’s feet got into the end zone but the ball didn’t. Notre Dame had time for two tries for a touchdown but both failed as the gun sounded ending the game. Most observers agreed with the officials that Colella did not score but there are those, too, who are certain he did. The game is over, the score permanently tied, but the discussion will go on.
Despite the ultimate-thrilling final minute of the game, the first 59 were anything but dull. The Irish took the opening kickoff and drove deep into Navy territory after a first play pass from Dancewicz to Bob Skoglund clicked for 43 yards. But Navy stiffened and turned back the Irish surge. Late in the opening period, Frank Ruggerio intercepted a Navy pass, carrying it back to the
Navy 34. Ruggerio and Elmer Angsman drove to the 11 and Colella went to the 5 from which point Ruggerio smashed through for the touchdown. Stan Krivik’s try for point was blocked.
Notre Dame continued to dominate play for the remainder of the game save for the moment when Scott raced off with that intercepted pass to give Navy its only tally of the day. Notre Dame’s line played valiant, determined ball all afternoon, stopping Navy second-half drives deep in their own territory several times. Prior to Notre Dame’.s final thrust that nearly won the game, Dancewicz and Colella succeeded in grounding four straight Navy passes to take the ball on downs on their 40.
George Ratterman came in for Dancewicz only to be thrown for a 12-yard loss by Dick Scott, Navy center. Ratterman then went back to pass again, this time connecting with Bill Leonard who had outraced the Middies’ secondary. Leonard, handicapped by a leg injury, was caught from behind on the Navy 18 after a gain of 54 yards on the play. The next play was the Dancewicz to Colella pass. The rest of the game is now history.
Navy wouldn’t be beaten but it was Notre Dame’s game from every angle save the score. The Irish ran up 12 first downs to 8 for the midshipmen, rushed for 146 yards and passed for 116 while Navy had a net rushing gain of 34 yards, and passing 55. This was the one Notre Dame wanted to win—and almost did. The Fighting Irish lived up to their name in every sense of the word.—Paul Weyrauch
Cleveland Plain Dealer—John Dietrich
“No decision. Bruised and scarred, but still unbeaten, Notre Dame and Navy fought a 6-6 tie before 80,506 uproarious fans yesterday in Cleveland Stadium.
“In a struggle filled with valiant rallies, with the Fighting Irish holding the ball inches from the goal line in a dramatic finish, the old rivals waged their first deadlock in 19 games.”
Elmer Angsman gets away for a good gain against Navy in Cleveland. Left to right Kelly. Scott, Hoeraschmeyer, of Navy, and Angsman.
Fourteen
Notre Dome 0; Army 48
It was a gray and gloomy day in the Bronx on November 10. Threatening skies were overhead, and a huge tarpaulin covered the gridiron below in Yankee Stadium. Yet 75,000 of New York’s celebrated subway alumni and mixed partisans from points north, west and south occupied every available seat of the spacious arena. They were all there for a common purpose—to see what the grid-ders of Notre Dame could do in the way of avenging the stinging 59-0 blow dealt them by the golden-helmeted juggernaut from the plains of West Point. Few experts anywhere conceded Notre Dame victory; the Pointers were at least a four-touchdown favorite. Army was bidding for its 16th consecutive victory over a span of two years. Before coming up to the Notre Dame game, it had run roughshod over all comers— P. D. C. (Ky.), Wake Forest, Duke, Melville Navy, Michigan, and Villanova.
As the 75,000 spectators filed out of the stadium that afternoon, they were convinced that here was an Army team which was no fluke, having just witnessed them combine air and ground maneuvers to blitzkrieg a plucky and stubborn Notre Dame eleven, 48 to 0, for their seventh victory of the 32 meetings between the two schools. The Irish, only the week previous, had thoroughly outplayed Navy at Cleveland, but had to settle for a bitter 6-6 tie. Consequently, we were not at top strength, the Navy game having
taken its toll in injuries. Ruggerio received a gash on his chin requiring 13 stitches, but played briefly in the Army game, using a mask for protection. Colella and Angsman, too were injured in that hotly disputed Navy game, yet both started the Army game. But the Cadets from up the Hudson were distinctly the superior team. It was the old story of Felix (Doc) Blanchard and Glenn . Davis, the Mr. Inside and Mr. Outside of the West Point attack. They did everything and they seemed to be taking turns doing it.
And when it wasn’t Blanchard and Davis, it would be Shorty McWilliams, Arnold Tucker, or Stuart—all less publicized but very effective backs.
The game was only a minute old when Elmer Angsman fumbled on the third play after the opening kick-off. Army recovered on the Notre Dame 30 yard line and after Blanchard picked up three on a plunge, Davis, the elk-like Californian, sped 27 yards off tackle for Army’s first score. Dick Waiterhouse converted and the touchdown parade was on. The Irish fought back gallantly after Army’s initial tally, as it always does when the opponent	•
New York Times—Allison Danzig
“For the first twenty minutes there was the prospect of a characteristically close, bitter fight and the 75,000 who filled the Stadium to the last seat, marveled at the contempt with which the Fighting Irish tore into the scourge of the gridiron, both offensively, and defensively.”
Frank Dancewicz — Stellar defensive
„	play by Captain Dancewicz was
a highlight of the game
for Notre Dame.
scores first. In successive order Ruggerio and Colella charged for first downs. Then Angsman, N.D.’s leading ground gainer for the season, ripped 20 yards off-tackle, bringing Irish rooters to their feet. But Army, as they proved all afternoon whenever the Devore Boys neared the pay-off stripe, would dig in as if to say, “That’s all, brother!”
The only other real Notre Dame opportunity for a score came late in the third period. Dancewicz had engineered a successful, sustained drive down to the Army one foot line. Gomp^rs, trying for the TD off-tackle, fumbled and before anyone knew what happened Stuart had recovered the fumble before it hit the ground and raced it back to the Army T1 yard line where he was tackled by Boley Dancewicz. Incidentally “tackled by Dancewicz” was a familiar sound on the public address system all afternoon.
Time and again he brought down Blanchard and Davis in the open field to prevent scores. Other defensive stars were Johnny Mastrangelo, Dick Cronin, Terry Brennan, and Bob Skoglund, who left a couple of molars on the Yankee Stadium turf, tackling Blanchard. For the Cadets, Tucker, particularly, was a hawk on pass defense, coming out of nowhere to bat down sure clicking passes out of the waiting clutches of Phil Colella, Bob Skoglund, and Billy Leonard.
There will be a day of reckoning for Army on the gridiron and every Notre Dame man will want to see it. For the present, however, we’ll string along with the words of Captain Boley Dancewicz when he addressed the entire student body who had come to Union Station to greet the squad on its return: “They’re the greatest team I ever played against. They had Class.”
.	—Dave Warner
Fifteen
Notre Dame 34;
Northwestern 7
Playing before a sellout crowd of 49,500 in Dyche stadium, Evanston, on Nov. 17, Notre Dame rebounded brilliantly from the trouncing handed it a week previously by Army, and downed decisively a highly respected Northwestern team. Rated as the upset specialists of the Big Nine by virtue of their conquest of Purdue and early season deadlock with Indiana, the Wildcats absorbed the worst defeat of their Notre Dame rivalry. To their large student attendance the Irish gave cause for gleeful delight as they leveled Northwestern’s superbly organized ground and air attack. Unable to withstand the steady barrage of Notre Dame backs, and equally unable to crack the Irish forward wall, Northwestern took to the air in the final quarter and scored.
Devore’s eleven, after repelling the powered thrusts of its host early in the game, went on to score in every quarter, crossing the line twice in the final period. Frank Leahy, recently discharged from the Navy after two year’s service as Lieut. Commander, watched from the pressbox, with interest and pleasure, as the Irish performed. With Leahy’s return came the departure of Notre Dame’s regular right end for the past two seasons, Bob Skoglund. This was Skoglund’s final appearance before leaving for active duty in the Navy.
Northwestern took the opening kickoff and ripped and tended their way 48 yards down the field before losing the ball on downs. Immediately after, they again struck deep into Notre Dame territory only to be stopped by Capt. Frank Dancewicz’s pass interception.
Midway in the first period the Irish broke the scoring ice, moving from their own 10 for the tally. Elmer Angsman, continuing his role as No. 1 ground gainer, featured the drive with a 50-yard sprint to the 10 yard line. There Terry Brennan plowed to the 1 and Angsman took it over. Krivik’s educated toe gave Notre Dame a seven point lead.
Early in the second period, after capitalizing on a fumble and scoring their second touchdown, the Irish found themselves with their backs to the wall, as the Wildcats advanced the ball to the six inch line. Devore’s front line, however, found the N.U. backs easy pickings after the ravages of Blanchard and Davis the week before, and held for downs.
Opening the second half, Northwestern punted to the N.D. 44, where the Irish began their third touchdown drive. Sparked by Angsman and hard hitting Floyd Simmons, a recent transfer from St. Mary’s Pre-Flight, they belted their way to the Northwestern 4. Simmons went over standing up; Krivik split the uprights for the third time, making it 21-0.
Getting the final quarter under way, George Ratterman, passing from the Wildcat’s 29 yard line, completed one to Bill Leonard who lateraled to Angsman for an apparent score. The officials, however, ruled it a forward pass; this nullified the score and gave Northwestern possession.
A minute or so later Bill Gompers, playing the outstanding game of his Notre Dame career, plucked a Wildcat pass from the air and raced 32 yards down the sidelines for the tally.
Taking to the air in desperation, Northwestern, with Clayton Farrar doing some fine pitching, completed^djree passes that put. them on the Notre Dame four. After two running plays failed, Hap Murphey took a lateral from Farrar and skirted right end to score for the home team. Conners added the extra point from placement.
Bouncing back Notre Dame took the kickoff and after Bob Van Sumner and Gompers had moved the ball to the opposing 48 yard stripe, George Ratterman, on a beautifully executed pass, connected with Gompers on the ten yard line. The husky halfback carried a Wildcat tackler into the end zone with him. Krivik’s dropkick ended the scoring at 34-7.—Dick Dietz
South Bend Tribune—Jim Costin
“Stunned by an early Northwestern drive that all but swept them out of the park, Hughie Devore’s youthful band of Notre Dame football players lived up to all the traditions of ‘The Fighting Irish’ here this afternoon and roared back to hand Lynn Waldorf’s equally youthful Northwestern Wildcats a stunning 34-7 defeat before 49,500 pop-eyed fans, the largest crowd ever to see a game in Dyche Stadium.”
Camera stops Terry Brennan in middle of run against Wildcats. Notre Dame men in background are Dancewicz, Berezney. and Skoglund.
Sixteen
Notre Dame 32; Tulane 6
Throughout the entire first half of Saturday’s sectional encounter with the Green Wave of Tulane, it seemed that the Fighting Irish were fated to be just another of the legendary “victims of the Bayous.” Notre Dame had invaded Louisiana and New Orleans for the first time, and the capacity crowd of 63,000 rabid Southern fans, who paid homage to the heralded Irish from the North, witnessed an unexpected burst of offensive power that carried a 6-0 Tulane lead well into the third quarter.
The lone Tulane touchdown drive was given an emphatic start when they returned the opening kickoff to their own 32-yard line. A series of line plays extended to the Notre Dame 42, where the Irish defense stiffened. Tulane took to the air, and completed successive passes to the Notre Dame 8. Another attempted pass in the end zone was ruled complete through interference by Terry Brennan. Wih the ball on the 1-yard line, Tulane pushed over two plays later. Mastrangelo blocked the extra-point attempt. The remainder of the first half was dominated by the Irish, who made repeated forays into Tulane territory as deep as the 20-yard line. All, however, proved ineffective beyond that point, and Tulane fans gave vent to their exuberation as the highly-favored Irish team retired to the lockers on the short end of a 6-0 score.
Whether Coach Devore convinced his charges during the interim period that southern hospitality requires no reciprocation isn’t known. It was evident, however, that the Irish had snapped out of their lethargy when Brennan, after an exchange of punts, dashed 30 yards to the Tulane 47. On the following play, Terry bettered himself with a 52-yard jaunt around his own right end for the
first Irish score. Mastrangelo, Ruggerio, and Berezny provided effective blocking en route. Stan Krivik dropkicked the extra point, and the Irish had finally plotted a course.
After a Notre Dame drive that failed on the Tulane 1, the subsequent Tulane punt was taken by Colella on the Tulane 45 and returned to the 20. Dancewicz’s 11-yard pass to Bill Leonard, and line smashes by Colella and Angsman soon netted another score. Krivik failed to convert, and more conservative Irish fans hoped for another touchdown as their ounce of prevention. They hadn’t long to wait. Early in the fourth quarter the first of three Notre Dame touchdowns was scored when Fred Rovai recovered a Tulane fumble on the Wave 44. Vicious line smashing by John Panelli and two passes by George Ratterman, the second to Bren* nan in the end zone, scored the third touchdown. Krivik again failed to convert, but the two-touchdown lead provided a comfortable margin, and the tension that seemed to permeate the stadium all afternoon was lifted. Minutes later, Angsman, Brennan, Panel* li and McCain combined their versatility in a sustained drive from their own 16-yard marker for an additional score. Krivik’s kick halved the uprights and the score stood at 26-6 with few minutes remaining in the game.
Irish substitutes supplemented the widening margin with a last minute drive from the Tulane 40. George Tripucka, freshman quarterback, passed to Johnny Agnone in the end zone in the waning seconds for the touchdown that spelled a conclusive finis to the afternoon’s struggle.—Roger Cahaney
Chicago Tribune—Arch Ward
“Tulane, victorious in only two of its eight games this season, threatened for 30 minutes today to contribute one of the major upsets of the intercollegiate football season. Then it cracked under its opponents’ relentless pressure and Notre Dame won, 32-6.”
John Mastrangelo — John furthered his All-American progress by his outstanding defensive play against the Green Wave.
Seventeen
4 vt
Notre Dame 7; Great Lakes 39
A game band of Fighting Irish, living up to their name, came to the end of the long 1945 football trail, December 1, on Ross Field, Great Lakes, Illinois, where they were completely subdued by a highly keyed and determined Bluejacket eleven, 39 to 7. With Hugh Devore serving as coach for the last time, Notre Dame wanted to win this game but so did Great Lakes, playing their last major football game. While the Navy combination rolled over the Irish with power to bum, Notre Dame did not stop fighting once. The team showed the effects of the long, hard schedule for they had the will to win but nothing with which to motivate that desire.
Great Lakes wasted little time in showing the shivering, nautical crowd of 23,000 that this was the Navy’s day. Frank Aschen-brenner took the kickoff on his 16 yard line and darted 55 yards to the Irish 29 yard line before being forced out of bounds. Klern-mer made it a first down on the 17 in two thrusts at the line and then took a pass from George Terlep for seven more yards. Marion Motley, sensational negro fullback, hit the N.D. line three times, crossing the goal on the last try. The extra point attempt failed and the Lakes led 6 to 0.
Notre Dame drove to the Bluejacket 30. after the ensuing kickoff but their attack stalled at that point. Not until Frank Ruggerio recovered a fumble on the Great Lakes 20 early in the second quarter did Notre Dame have a scoring chance. Terry Brennan hit for two and Frank Dancewicz passed to Dick Cron:n on the 6 yard line. Ruggerio and Elmer Angsman went to the two foot line and Ruggerio smashed over. Stan Krivik dropkicked the extra point and the Irish led, 7 to 6. That lead was short lived as Great Lakes marched straight downfield for another score as soon
as they received the ball. Terlep scored and Dick Ratcliffe converted to put the Sailors ahead, 13 to 7, a lead they never relinquished.
While neither team scored in the third quarter, Gerat Lakes showed the greater offensive power, moving from their own 20 to the Irish 31 as the quarter ended. On the second play of the final period, Motley drove to the Notre Dame 7. Two penalties set the Lakes back but Aschenbrenner skirted left end from the 11 to score. The conversion was wide but Great Lakes led 19 to 7. For the remainder of the game it was a matter of how high the score would be. Every attempt to pass or run was thwarted by the hard charging Great Lakes forward wall, led by Notre Dame’s own Marty Wendell, now a Bluejacket.
Motley escaped the grasping arms of five Notre Dame tacklers on a 44 yard T.D. jaunt. After one Great Lakes drive was halted, the Bluejackets bounced back after a pass interception to go for another score. Another ex-Notre Dame combination, Terlep and Bill O’Connor, registered the score on a pass play. That one made the scoreboard read Great Lakes 32, Notre Dame 7, with only a few minutes remaining in the game. On the first Irish play after returning the kickoff, fleet-footed Dick Ottele of the Lakes intercepted a Notre Dame pass and scooted 40 yards for the final tally. Sullivan converted to make it 39 to 7.
In the face of defeat Notre Dame was not without individual brilliance, as John Mastrangelo starred on defense, while newcomers Bob Van Sumner and Floyd Simmons looked good on offense. The entire team was brilliant in its relentless fight but that spirit did not pay off on the bleak December day.
Des Moines Register—Bert McGrane
“The whole Great Lakes football arsenal exploded in the face of Notre Dame Saturday, the violent eruption blowing the Irish to bits in a cyclonic 39-7 upset.
“Notre Dame was smashed, smothered, routed. From the opening play, the Bluejackets fairly tore the Irish to shreds as their roaring line rolled back Notre Dame and their bruising backs ran over the favored visitors.
“The Irish never stopped trying, but the pressure on them was so overpowering that they couldn’t do a thing about it.”
Elmer Angsman — He ended the season as the team's leading scorer and ground gainer.

Eighteen
MONOGRAM WINNERS *
Elmer Angsman	Jim McGurk
John Agnone	John Panelli
Pete Berezney	Tom Potter
Terry Brennan	Steve Oracko
Al Burnett	George Ratterman
Phil Colella	Fred Rovai.
Dick Cronin	Frank Ruggerio
Oswald Clark	Bruno Opela
Frank Dancewicz	. Phil O’Connor
John Fallon	Willmer Russell
Ed Fay	Vince Scott
Bill Fischer	Bob Skoglund
Bill Flynn	Bob Van Sumner
Joe Gasparella	Emil Slovak
Bill Gompers	Jack Vainisi
John Glaab	Ernie Virok	•
Walt Grothaus	Bill Walsh
Stan Krivik	Bill Zehler
Bill Leonard	John Graif, Mgr.
John Mastrangelo	Jim Molidor, Mgr.
Ed Mieszkowski -	Ted Rademacher, Mgr.
* Subject to approval of Faculty Board in Control of Athletics.
Individual Statistics for the 1945 Season
Players	TD	PAT	PTS	TC	NYG	Avg.	PA	PC	I	NYG
Angsman 					.... 7	0	42	87	616	7.0	0	0	0	0
Agnone		... 3	0	18	22	131	6.2	0	0	0	0
Brennan 		... 2	0	12	57	252	4.4	1	0	1	0
Colella 				... 4	0	24	63	317	5.0	0	0	0	0
Dancewicz 				... 0	. 0	0	12	12	1.0	88	32	5	539
Earley				... 0	1	1	1	3	3.0	0	0	0	0
Gasparella 				... 0	0	0	2	10	5.0	4	1	0	50
Gompers 		-.	... 3	0	18	36	185	5.1	0	0	0	0
Hernan 				... 0	0	0	3	3	1.0	0	0	0	0
Krivik						... 1	23	29	9	39	4.8	0	0	0	0
Leonard 				... 1	0	6	0	0	0	0	0	0	0
McGee 					... 0	0	0	3	29	9.8	0	0	0	0
McGurk 		... 1	0	6	11	29	2.5	0	0	0	0
Panelli 		... 2	0	12	18	115	6.3	0	0	0	0
Potter		... 0	0	0	2	6	3.0	0	0	0	0
Ratterman 		... 0	0	0	8	8	1.0	30	9	5	203
Ruggerio 				... 4	0	24	79	279	3.5	0	0	0	0
Simmons 				... 1	0	6	14	42	3.0	0	0	0	0
Slovak		... 2	0	12	24	92	4.0	0	0	0	0
Skoglund 		... 1	1	7	0	0	0	0	0	0	0
Tripucka 		... 0	0	0	2	8	4.0	1	1	0	21
Traney 				... 1	0	6	4	37	9.2	0	0	0	0
Van Sumner 		... 0	0	0	7	13	1.8	0 ‘	0	0	0
Virok 				... 1	0	6	0	0	0	0	0	0	0
Yonto 		... 2	0	12	13	53	4.4	0	0	0	0
- Zehlei'						... 2	0	12	15	122	8.1	0	0	0	0
Safety (Iowa) 				2							
	38	25	255	492	2401	4.8	124	43	11	813
Key to Abbreviations:	TD-	-Touchdowns. PAT-		—Points	After	Touchdowns.	PTS—Points.		TC—Times	
Carried. NYG—Net Yards Gained. Avg.—Average. PA—Passes Attempted. PC—Passes Completed. I—Intercepted.
Nineteen
The Spirit of Notre Dame
Notre Dame spirit! You’ve all heard about it. You’ve read about it in every sports column throughout the Nation. You turn your radio dial to a sports pio-gram and if the commentator mentions Notre Dame it is quite possible that its school spirit will be the natural followup. If you’re a student on the campus of Our Lady, then no explanation is necessary; but if your only connections with Notre Dame are made via radio and the local newspaper, then you might appreciate a little elaboration.
“How to have school spirit” is not taught at Notre Dame. It is derived from a tradition which is nearly 104 years old—a tradition which consists of guts and grim determination, honesty and sacrifice, on and off the football field, in the classroom and in the hall. Yes, school spirit is very easily attained. When you first set foot on campus soil and raise your eyes dome-ward you feel it, but you don’t realize it yet. You usually wait until the night of your first pep rally in the fieldhouse.
You’re up in your room conscientoush studying when the strains of the “Victory March” suddenly interrupt your solitude. Being possessed of a certain amount of curiosity, you investigate and soon find yourself parading around the campus, along with a few hundred other guys, singing your foolish head off and yelling at the top of your lungs. At this moment you’ll find yourself quite susceptible to a very common college disease called “spirititus.”
Your next procedure takes place in the fieldhouse. The scene is set. The team and the coaches walk in and the crowd cuts loose with a mighty cheer. Then the school song rings out once again, followed by the usual yells and “balcony oratories,” which are usually the hit of the evening’s performance. By now you are beginning to wonder if you are going to have any vocal energy left at
game time tomorrow, but this is a very remote cause for worry. After the rally is over you trudge back to the hall feeling pretty good. You’ve just got your first taste of Notre Dame spirit.
The next morning it’s everybody up. Mass and Communion for the team. No, you don’t have to go, but usually every-
Pep Rally in Fieldhouse
body does. After all, it’s a very small sacrifice to make compared to playing 60 minutes of college football. This is a weekly tradition at Notre Dame during the entire pigskin season. After a couple of Saturday morning masses followed by an equal number of Blue and Gold victories, you’ve got yourself believing that the luck of the Irish depends on you. You can’t afford to miss Mass.
The kickoff! And here is where you first come into contact with the cheer leaders—Rudy Lopez, Herb Lee, Bill Kelley, Bob Vosberg, Dan Gallivan, Joe Garbarini, Marshall Rabillio, Doug Van Hemert, and Bob Brown—nine “sparks” who keep the “fire of spirit” roaring. Never a dull moment at the game as long as these boys are able to move. Plenty of acrobatics and a touch of comedy here and there are their specialties. Autograph hounds are a little thick at times, quoting Herbie Lee, the wallflower
of the Dartmouth game. Clashmore Mike, the Irish mascot, does his part too. Mike, the hurdle champion of the University, is one of the feature attractions at every home game. Nor can we forget the brilliant half-time performances of the Notre Dame Band, which is an aggregation hard to beat. Yes, they all do their part to help bolster school spirit.
Of course, not all games are played at home and there are many Saturdays when you set up your own private grandstand, composed of anything from an easy chair to the wash basin, for you and the gang in your own room. And you wait anxiously for the yells that echo throughout the hall each time the Irish score.
Another red-letter day which typifies Notre Dame spirit is the Monday following the Army game each year. This is the day when the entire student body visits nearby South Bend, ending up at Union Terminal to meet the football team. Win or lose, rain or shine, it’s always the same. When the New York train pulls into the station, the cheerleaders clear the way and escort the team into the center of a huge circle of students waiting in the terminal lobby. Cheers and singing break forth followed by short talks by each member of the team and the coaching staff. Then back to school and morning classes, the team by waiting taxis and the students by foot—a three-mile hike—led by the Band and the yell leaders. You really enjoy blocking traffic on busy Michigan Street once a year.
These are just a few examples of school spirit at Notre Dame. This spirit has played a vital part in Notre Dame history and will continue to do so in the future. Its magnetic power has proved to be very great, judging by the nationwide list of Irish boosters. For without this spirit, Notre Dame wouldn’t really be Notre Dame.
—John C. Thomas
The Notre Dame Student Body Greets Team Returning From Army Game
Twenty
The Notre Dame Band
by Jack English
This year’s edition of the Notre Dame band, composed of ROTC and V-12 personnel along with civilian students, continued, as in former years, to supply color and thrills to the home football contests of the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame. The already famous organization attracted nation-wide attention this season through its presentation of intricate, highly original and novel formations coupled with smoothly coordinated, spirited and timely music.
Exhibiting its attractions for the first time at the Illinois game, the band entertained the fans at half-time with several complicated formations. First the band spelled out “Illini” to honor- the many Illinois fans present. Then, from the south end of the field a huge pink heart, 30 feet in diameter, carried by several students, moved slowly toward the north end zone where civilian and NROTC dates were seated. • The band then struck up, appropriately enough, with Sigmund Romberg’s “Sweetheart.” This entertaining feature was followed by the novel “Surrey with the Fringe on Top.” In this super spectacle of color and precision, which was pictured in Life magazine, so original and unusual was the formation, the members of the band formed a huge antique surrey complete with revolving wheels and a red, white, and blue fringe. This was accompanied by the hit tune from “Oklahoma,” “The Surrey with the Fringe on Top.” Following this, the surrey magically changed into a large locomotive complete with wheels which began to travel slowly down the field to the music of the song sensation of the nation, “The Atchison, Topeka and the Santa Fe.” Not satisfied with this realistic formation, Mr. H. Lee Hope, director of the band, had planned to have smoke coming from the engine, but an unforeseen wind spoiled this clever idea.
The Dartmouth game marked the last appearance of the Midshipmen Band. So, for this farewell occasion, the University Band of 108 players was combined with the Midshipmen Band to form a huge aggregation of 170 musicians. Formed thus in block formation, the augmented bands played “some powerful music,” consisting of the “Gridiron March,” “The Barnum & Bailey Circus March,” and a medley of Dartmouth tunes. The climax came with a truly
brilliant arrangement of “Chiri, Biri, Bin.” Credit for this musical extravaganza goes to the Chief Bandmaster of the Midshipmen School, Lloyd Ander-man, and to Mr. Hope, who pooled their-resources to produce entertainment on a grand scale.
The final home game of the season between Notre Dame and Iowa occurred between semesters. Consequently, the University Band was not on the campus for- the game. However, the Midshipmen Band performed along with a review of the Midshipmen regiment, which was soon to leave Notre Dame. Since it was Navy Day, several high naval dignitaries were present to view the proceedings. The excellent ground performance was complemented by an air show consisting of 100 Navy planes flying over the Stadium. Thus, on this great Navy Day, the sailors here shared the spotlight with the Notre Dame football team.
On November 17, the Band, together with hundreds of Notre Dame students, traveled to Evanston, Ill., for the Northwestern game. This marked the first time the Band had traveled to a game since the Northwestern contest of 1943, the reason for the suspension being transportation difficulties due to the exigencies of war. Here, the Band repeated, by popular demand, “The Surrey with
Surrey with the Fringe on Top
the Fringe on Top” and “The Atchison, Topeka and the Santa Fe” to the evident enjoyment of the 49,000 fans. For this game, the Band was composed of 140 Notre Dame students, the largest group ever to represent the University.
The close of the football season has not meant the end of work, worries, and headaches to Mr. Hope, who is now busy organizing a 76-piece symphony orchestra. Try-outs are now under way for this orchestra, which will feature “almost perfect instrumentation.” The orchestra will give concerts on the campus and elsewhere. For those who do not make the symphony orchestra, a pep band will be organized to play at basketball games and other athletic contests. All this has made Mr. Hope one of the busiest men on the campus.
The football season has ended and the great musical organization, which has so well represented the University, can point with pride to a splendid record of achievement made possible by endless hours of rehearsal, planning, and hard work. And with a bigger and better season in prospect for next year, when the Band will again take to the road, Notre Dame students and fans everywhere can rest assured that it will continue to maintain its musical predominance and record of unusual, original, and clever formations.
Twenty-one
Notre Dame 1945
Left to Right—Bottom Row: Dick Debuono, John Glaab, Joe G Bob Skoglund. Capt. Frank Dancewicz, Marty Wendell, John A Phil O'Connor, Walter Grothaus, Roger Cadieux, John Panel! Pantera, Mike Bush. 3rd Row: Frank Tripucke, Matt Maryansk Opela, Ed Stelmazek, Steve Oracko, Terry Brennan, Bill Gomi ler, Frank Johnson, Ernie Virok, Al D'Alanzo, Bob White, Tom (Mgr.), Ken Stilley, Jake Kline, Hugh Devore, Joe Sheeketski
I o N S
Who's Wl
All other states may have some team to which they point with pride. From mountain peaks to rolling plains or where the breakers ride. From Florida to Oregon, from Texas up to Maine, From Michigan to Tennessee we hear the stout refrain.
They're spilling oratory for a winning football team
Apparel for Men
MIME CORNEA... MKHKAN ( W6MI6UI
T wenty-two
5 Varsity Football Squad
4
F
I
G
H
>e Gasparella, John Mastrangelo, Elmer Angsman. Peter Berezney, Phil Colella, m Agncn«i Fred Rovai, Ed Mieszkowski. 2nd Row: Bill Russell, Jim Kurzynske, melli, Ton Potter, Bill Fischer, Vince Scott, John Fallon, Dick Cronin, Leroy anski, Emil Slovak, Bill Flynn, Bill Walsh, Jim McGurk, Frank Ruggerio. Bruno lompers. I d Fay, Bill Leonard. 4th Row: Dick Heman, Frank Copolla, Bill Zeh-Pom Schreiber, Bill Michaels, Al Schmid, Bob McAuliffe. Top Row: John Graif :etski, Walter Ziemba, Harry Jacunski, Jimmy Molidor, Ted Rademacher (Mgrs.).
Who In Hoosierdom *
de.	But our Who's Who in Hoosierdom shows three teams known to fame.
:■	1	Purdue and Indiana—and the bunch from Notre Dame
,	So in this famous Hoosier state we'll make the rafters roar.
For Isbell, "Bo" McMillan, and for good old Hugh Devore.
:	—Grantland Rice
I
R I S H
n, jWomen and Boys
ON THE (OftNEK... WCNWAN $
Twenty-three
Presenting ....
Frank J. Dancewicz
Elmer J. Angsman
George W. Ratterman
FRANK J. DANCEWICZ—Polish, senior quarterback, returned to the Irish as regular signal-barker for the second straight year in search of his third monogram. He" came to Notre Dame from Classical High school, Lynn, Mass., -where he was heralded as the greatest high school grid performer in New England in 1940 and 1941. Boley served as understudy to Angelo Ber-telliand John Lui ack during his sophomore year, but came into his own as one of the nation's greatest passers during the past two seasons. One of the leading politicians on the Notre Dame campus, Frank hopes to take his congeniality into the coaching business after graduation. Frank was named to practically every All-American selection made at the close of the current season. Besides being an outstanding defensive player and deadly passer, Boley was the guide for the youthful Notre Dame squad this year—the captain in every sense of the word.
❖
ROBERT W. SKOGLUND—Swedish-Irish, senior left end, was the only returning wingman who earned a monogram in 1944. Following in the footsteps of his brother Len, who won N.D. letters in '36 and
Robert W. Skoglund
'37, Bob played his prep football at Loyola Academy in Chicago. In addition to captaining the Loyola eleven, he was selected for All-Sectional honors and grabbed off three letters in football, two in track, and one in boxing. Skoglund was a member of the NROTC unit on the Blue and Gold campus, and was commissioned at the end of October. He played his final game for No’tre Dame against Northwestern. Bob was one of the most improved players on the squad—a Rock of Gibraltar on defense. Skog was the only member of the team to score a point after touchdown besides Stan Krivik, doing the job in the Dartmouth game.
❖
ELMER J. ANGSMAN — German - Irish right halfback, played a bang-up game for the Irish last year at fullback, but was switched to halfback by Coach Devore this season to give Notre Dame more running power in that department. Bud came to N.D. from Mt. Carmel High in Chicago, where he played under former Irish grid-der Wally Fromhart. Elmer won two monograms in football and one in baseball in high school. He hopes to utilize his artistic ability in commercial advertising after graduation. Angsman led the Irish in scoring during the 1945 season-and was also the leading ground gainer. He lost 11 teeth in the Navy game but came right . back to play his best ball in the remaining games of the season.
❖
GEORGE W. RATTERMAN — German-Irish, sophomore quarterback, is a member of the Naval ROTC. His football monogram for this season is his fourth in as many different sports since coming to Notre Dame. The Cincinnati boy, one of the most versatile athletes ever to attend Notre Dame, was a standout on the basketball, tennis, and baseball teams. He won 9 monograms at Xavier High School in
Cincinnati. Rated a comer as a passer. Ratterman's poise and headwork make up for his lack of weight, as he tips the scales at only 160 pounds. He is a great clog dancer and a pianist, and is in great demand at club functions in his home city. George was understudy to Dancewicz this season, showing up well in relief roles as a passer and field general. He threw a 48 yard touchdown pass to Bill Gompers in the Northwestern game.
PHILIP J. COLELLA — Italian, freshman halfback from Rochester, Pa., came to Notre Dame with one of the finest high school records in the country. Three times an All-State, and leading scorer in Pennsylvania in 1943, Colella enlisted in the Navy in 1944, and saw action in the South Pacific as a Navy corpsman. He was given a medical discharge early this year. Shifty, and speedy, and possessed of a determination to get across the goal line at all costs, Colella figured heavily in the Notre Dame offense this year. He was off to a flying start in college football when he raced 76 yards for a touchdown on the first play of the opening game with Illinois.
Philip J. Colella
Twenty-four
The Fighting Irish of 1945
William Fischer
John B. Mastrangelo
WILLIAM FISCHER—German, freshman left tackle, who earned three letters in football at Lane Tech high school in Chicago, made a name for himself in the tough Chicago City Public League. Captaining the Lane Tech Eleven in 1944, he was good enough to earn a position on the honorary All-State squad. Lee Artoe, of the Chicago Bears, is Bill's favorite athletic hero. Fischer's life ambition is to become a top notch coach. At 255, Bill is the heaviest man on the squad. He saw considerable action as relief for Berezney and was also the kickoff specialist for the Irish.
WILLIAM H. WALSH—Bill, 17-year-old, German-Irish, freshman center, came to Notre Dame following a successful career at Phillipsburg, N. J. high school where he won three letters in football and baseball, and one in track. He was named All-State center in football and All-State catcher in baseball. Being elected captain of the high school football squad was his biggest, thrill. Wash became the regular center following the resignation of Frank Syz-manski, maintaining that position all season.
William H. Walsh
PETER P. BEREZNEY—Austrian, senior right tackle, hails from Jersey City, N. J., and came to Notre Dame after winning three monograms as a member of the varsity eleven at Dickinson high school. Pete, who was named to the All-City and AllState elevens in 1942, has completed his third year as a member of the Irish squad. He won a monogram in 1944 as
r
Edward T. Mieszkowski
well as this season. Some day Berezney hopes to become a lawyer. A brother, Dr. Paul Berezney, starred at Fordham and later as a tackle with the Green Bay Packers. Pete made his number ”47" very noticeable every Saturday during the season, as he spent most of his time in the opponents' backfield.
♦
EDWARD T. MIESZKOWSKI, Polish, junior tackle, has completed three seasons on the Irish squad after winning five monograms in football and wrestling at Tilden Tech high school in Chicago. Ed, who was All-City selection at tackle, also held the city heavyweight wrestling championship; he was captain of the Tilden wrestling squad. Hampered by injuries during the
first two years on the Irish squad, Mieszkowski came through the 1945 season in top form, his stellar line play earning him first team selection on the I.N.S. All-Midwestern for 1945.
♦
JOHN B. MASTRANGELO^-Italian, junior left guard, was one of two returning guards at outset of season who earned monograms during 1944. John, a bosom pal of John Glaab, hails from Vandergrift, Pa., where he won four football monograms while alternating between tackle and fullback at Vandergrift High. “Cut" professes math as his favorite study, and when not busy on the gridiron, he might be found on the tennis court. Music is one of his favorite hobbies. John received the distinction of being named "Lineman of the Week," after the Navy game, by a poll of the nation's sports writers. ’
♦
JOHN R. PANELLI—Italian, sophomore fullback, hails from Morristown, New Jersey, and attended Cheshire Academy, Cheshire, Connecticut. He - won three letters in football, one in baseball, and one
John B. Panelli
T w e nt y - f i v e
Presenting ....
Fred J. Rovai	Emil Slovak
i 1
Joseph R. Gasparella
in basketball. John vas elected grid captain for two seasons and was named AllState in 1943. He is a great pass catcher. Due to his resemblance to Jim Mello, former Irish fullback ace "Pep" was given Mello's old number to wear on his jersey ”65."
❖
FRED J. ROVAI—"Rowboat," Italian, senior guard, returned this fall for his second season of football. He was a regular in 1944 as well as 1945. Fred is from Hammond, Indiana, and won All-State honors there as a high school fullback. He was freshman fullback on the Irish team in 1942, then went into the Army, and after receiving a medical discharge, he joined the team last fall. Shifted to guard, he has displayed his vicious blocking ability to good advantage.
❖
TERENCE P. BRENNAN—Irish, freshman halfback, is one of the youngsters on the squad. Seventeen years old, he hails from Marquette High, Milwaukee, where he earned seven letters, two in football, two in hockey, and three in track. Brennan, captain of a conference champion-
Terence P. Brennan
ship grid squad, was named on the AllConference team. His father played at Notre Dame in the early 1900's, and his broher, Jim, was a halfback for the Irish last season. Terry broke up the Tulane game with a 47 yard touchdown dash that started the Irish on to their victory parade.
John A. Vainisi
EMIL SLOVAK — Slovene, junior right halfback, is one of the smallest men on the Irish squad. His brother, Marty, played with the Cleveland Rams for four years and Emil hopes to add to the family grid prowess through his performances at Notre Dame. He got off to a good start this fall by scoring against Georgia Tech and Iowa.
♦
JOHN A. VAINISI — Italian, freshman tackle, got his high school start at St. George in Evanston, Illinois. While earning two monograms as a tackle on the St. George eleven, John played under the tutelage of Max Burnell/ former Notre Dame halfback. Moose, who played with Marty Wendell, 1945 Irish fullback, and against Buddy Young, former Illinois star, was co-captain of the St. George
team in 1943. His greatest ambition is to become an All-American at Notre Dame.
JOSEPH R. GASPARELLA — Italian, sophomore quarterback, provides the Irish with another of the best passers in the land. Joe, hailing from Vandergrift, Pa., played both football and basketball, captaining the grid teams in his senior year at Vandergrift high. The six foot, four inches, 218-pound, 18-year-old youth, who did an excellent job as understudy to Dancewicz last year, proved his versatility this year as he alternated at the quarter, half, and fullback posts. He hopes to become a journalist.
❖
WILLIAM D. ZEHLER—Halfback, claims Rutledge, Pa, as his home town. Attended Ridley Township high school. “Zip" scored his first Notre Dame touchdown in the Georgia Tech game when he took a pass from Joe Gasparella and raced 54 yards to score. An Atlanta correspondent stated that that play was the one that took Tech down for the rest of the game. Zehler is 19 years old, weighs 185, and stands six foot, one inch.
William D. Zehler
Twenty-six
The Fighting Irish of 1945
William G. Gompers	Thomas A. Potter
Frank A. Ruggerio
WILLIAM G. GOMPERS — Freshman halfback, is a resident of Wheeling, West Virginia, •where he earned three monograms in football and one in basketball. Captain of the football squad in his senior year. Bill was named to All-City honors as halfback. His speed gave Irish fans plenty of thrilling moments this season. He also developed into a better than average pass receiver.
STANLEY KRIVIK—Bloomfield, New Jersey, fullback, attended Bloomfield high where he starred in football. Krivik was the extra point conversion specialist of the 1945 Notre Dame squad. He revived the lost art of drop-kicking, making a total of 22 conversions in the first nine games. Krivik also saw regular action as a fullback, scoring in .the Dartmouth game. He is 26 years old.
<*
THOMAS A. POTTER — Italian, junior right guard, is one of several discharged war veterans on the Irish squad. Potter won a monogram as a guard at Fordham
Stanley Krivik
in 1942, and in December of that year he went into the Army. He was given a medical discharge the early part of this year. Tom was - named All-State guard two years running while playing at Kear-
'L 'i- . Vincent J. Scott
ney, N. J., High and St. Benedict's Prep, South Orange, N. J. His greatest grid thrill came when he intercepted a pass and dashed for a touchdown in the Missouri-Fordham game of 1942.
4
VINCENT J. SCOTT — Italian, junior guard, is from LeRoy, New York, where he collected ten letters—four in football, three in track as a shot putter, and three in baseball. It was while at LeRoy high school that he first gained recognition, when he was selected on the All-Western Interstate Conference for two successive years. Scotty was a very dependable lineman all season with the Irish.
FRANK A. RUGGERIO — Italian, senior fullback, played three different positions in as many seasons on the Notre Dame team. He began his varsity career as a guard in 1943, was shifted to halfback in 1944 and this season Coach Devore had the youth at fullback. Frank won six letters at Orange high School in New Jersey, four in football, and two in baseball. He was named to the All-State squad for two years. Rooge, whose biggest athletic thrill was being a member of the 1943 National Championship eleven, names the late Lou Gehrig as his favorite athlete. Ruggerio was a powerful and consistent ball carrier all season.
♦
JOHN J. AGNONE—Italian, senior halfback, hails from Youngstown, Ohio, where he won an aggregate of six letters at Youngstown High—four in football, one in track, and one in basketbalL He was named All-City and- All-State halfback in 1942, when he captained his team to a conference championship. This season was his third on the Irish squad. He scored in the Georgia Tech, Iowa, and Tulane games.
. John J. Agnono
Twenty-seven
Presenting ....
John J. Fallon	Janies S. McGurk
Walter-J. Grothaus
JOHN J. FALLON — Irish, sophomore guard, gained a berth on the Irish varsity squad last year, when he was only seventeen years old. John earned three monograms at Marquette high school in Alton, Illinois, where he captained the eleven in 1943. He played on an undefeated, untied team in 1943 and was named to the Catholic League All-Stars. John also is a wrestler of sorts and his biggest thrill was competing in the A.A.U. meet. He worked his way through Mexico in 1943 while traveling through the Republic to the South. Was a starter in the Northwestern and Tulane games this year.
❖
RICHARD M. CRONIN — Irish, senior end, played his first year of football at Notre Dame this season. Dick, who is taking a pre-med course, was too engrossed in his scientific studies to report for football during his first three seasons at Notre Dame. He was captain of the Fenwick high school in Oak Park, Illinois, and was awarded All-City honors in 1942. His size and height were used to good advantage this year. He became regular left end following the Navy transfer of Bob Skoglund.
Richard M. Cronin
JAMES S. MC GURK—Irish, sophomore fullback, who attended Montclair High, Montclair, New Jersey, has completed two seasons on the Notre Dame varsity. Jim came to Notre Dame after winning two football letters and a similar number both in track and baseball. He won a monogram as regular first baseman for the Irish this year. Mac is a member of
William J. Flynn
the Naval ROTC on the campus. He improved rapidly during the season, seeing considerable action in the Navy game, and scored the second Irish touchdown in the Northwestern game.
❖
WILLIAM J. FLYNN — Irish, freshman end, came well recommended from Horace Mann High School in Gary, Indiana, his home town, where he earned two monograms in football and one in basketball. He was grid captain in his senior year. A product of the Calumet region, which also sent N.D. such stars as Wally Ziemba, Fred Rovai and Jules Rykovich, Bill was named on the All-City grid squad and the All-Conference team of the Northern Indiana Conference for two seasons.
WALTER J. GROTHAUS—German-Irish, freshman center, is an alumnus of Purcell high school of Cincinnati, Ohio, where he was a member of city and conference championship teams. He won five letters, three in football and two in basketball, and was named All-City and All-State in both sports during his senior year. During his last year, his grid squad went undefeated for the first time in history. Walt developed into a fine center this year for Notre Dame. He was inducted into the Army after the Tulane game.
❖ *
ROGER E. CADIEUX — French-Irish, sophomore quarterback, received his high school training at Cathedral high school, Springfield, Mass., hometown of Angelo Bertelli and Milt Piepul. He won two monograms in football and a pair in baseball. A member of the Western Massachusetts champions in 1942 and '43, Roger was tendered All-City honors in both football and baseball. He wants to become a dentist when he leaves Notre Dame.
Roger E. Cadieux
Twenty-eight
The Fighting Irish of 1945
Thomas P. Schreiber
Philip J. O'Connor
John F. Le Bron
THOMAS P. SCHREIBER — German-Irish, senior center, is in his third year on the Irish squad after performing brilliantly at St. Martin High in Detroit. Tom garnered three letters in football and one in basketball and was named All-Conference center in his senior year. He made rapid progress during the season, developing into a fine center.
❖
WILLIAM LEONARD — Freshman end, is a product of East High School, Youngstown, Ohio, where he earned two monograms as an end on the football squad. A member of the city champions, East High, Hoppy hopes to follow the steps of Bab Dove, Youngstown youth who earned All-American honors as an end at Notre Dame. Leonard got off to a good start toward that goal during the 1945 season.
PHILIP J. O'CONNOR—Irish, freshman end, played football and basketball at Cathedral High School, Indianapolis, In-
. William Leonard
diana, earning two letters in each. He was elected captain of the Cathedral grid eleven in 1944 and attracted such wide attention by his football activities that he was named on the All-City squad
Bruno P. Opela
and gained honorable mention on the All-State eleven. Although he was a fullback in high school. Coach Hughie Devore was attracted by his potentialities as a pass-snatcher. O'Connor bore out the Irish mentor's judgment by - his play this season.
❖
BRUNO P. OPELA—End from Chicago, Illinois. Played for Lane Technical High School before entering Notre Dame. Bruno does not lack size, being six foot, one inch and weighing 196. He is 22 years old. Saw considerable action this season as a reserve end.
♦
JOHN F. LE BROU — French-German, halfback, established quite a record for
himself at Calvert Hall, Baltimore, Md., where he won nine monograms, two in football, three in basketball and four in baseball. John was named captain in football and baseball and his grid squad won the Catholic football Championship. An All-State grid selection, LeBrou lists his greatest thrill as scoring 25 points in his high school grid finals. Le Brou was a pitcher and monogram winner in baseball; this was his second year on the football squad. Johnny was also one of the fastest men on the team
JOHN P. GLAAB—German-French, junior tackle, is a native of Long Beach, California, where he played three years of varsity ball for Woodrow Wilson high school. He was named to the All-City and All-League elevens in 1943. While winning three letters in football, John • was a member of the City Champs, Foothill Champions, and the Long Beach Compton League Champions. George Sullivan, teammate of Glaab last season, is his favorite athlete.
John P. Glaab
Twenty-nine
Men Behind the Notre Dame Scene
Dr. James E. McMeel
. University Physician
* Dr. James E. McMeel, a practicing physician in South Bend, has been university physician at Notre Dame since 1934. Dr. McMeel, after attending the University of Chicago, graduated from the Rush Medical college in Chicago in 1913. After four years of hospital service and 27 months in the armed forces during World War I, he returned to South Bend and has been practicing there ever since. Dr. McMeel swabs
throats, diagnoses ailments and issues pills and other medicine for students who make more than 8,000 calls annually to his office in the student infirmary.
H. Lee Hope, Band Director
* One hundred highly-polished musical instruments—one hundred pairs of rhythmic marching feet — a keen sense of all types of music and formation marching — these are the tools with which H. Lee Hope, director of the University of Notre Dame band, annually molds together one of the outstanding collegiate bands in the nation. Director Hope, a graduate of Michigan, formerly served as band director at Murray State
Teachers’ College. He appeared as a guest conductor here in the summer of 1942.
Joe Dierickx, Stadium Caretaker
* Thousands of fans who annually trek to the Notre Dame Stadium to witness the Blue and Gold eleven in action often cast this remark: "The gridiron in this stadium certainly is well cultivated; I wonder who is responsible?” The answer is Joe Dierickx, who has been working as caretaker of the Notre Dame Stadium since it was built in 1930. Before coming to Notre Dame, Joe was a top-notch acrobat for the nation’s
leading circuses and he spent 16 years on vaudeville stages and on circus trapeze bars.
John W. McAllister Superintendent of Equipment * John W. (Mac) McAllister, one of the few remaining holdovers in the Notre Dame Athletic Association from the days of the immortal Knute Rockne, handles more than 10,000 pieces of athletic equipment annually as he issues uniforms, towels, shoes, sweaters and jackets to nearly 500 Notre Dame athletes. "Mac” has come into contact with more athletes and other Notre Dame men during his tenure in the gymnasium equip
ment room than almost any other personality on the university campus.
* Joe, and his 18 student and full-time assistants, annually plant 200 pounds of Kentucky blue grass on the stadium field and scatter 3*/2 tons of fertilizer. Joe never sees a football contest though he attends every one.
Hugh Burns, Team Trainer
* Hugh Bums, successor to Eugene (Scrapiron) Young as trainer of athletic teams at the University of Notre Dame, is one of the busiest young men on the university campus. Hugh, who served as assistant to "Scrapiron” during his student days at Notre Dame, studied orthopedics in New York for 1% years after his graduation in 1939. He headed the physical education program at De Lasalle High School in Chicago and then served as trainer at Xavier
University in Cincinnati. After 19 months in the Marine Corps, Hugh returned to Notre Dame as trainer in January of 1945.
* He is faced with the responsibility of curing strained muscles, "charley horses,” and other ailments of athletes in order that they may be ready for action in every game. Bums, who has studied physiotherapy, uses ultra-violet ray lamps, heat treatments, vitamin pills and 14,000 yards of tape annually in working on Irish athletes.
William H. Duley Director of Stadium Personnel
* The Notre Dame Stadium is famed for having one of the smoothest working service organizations in the country. Much of the credit for the success of this organization is due to the tireless work of William H. Duley, who has been director of the stadium personnel since 1932. A South Bend printer, Mr. Duley is in active charge of the 850 men who act as ushers, gatemen, messengers, rampmen, and information clerks for
the thousands who annually attend Notre Dame home games.
Harry S. Thilman Football Ticket Staff
* Thilman, right hand man to John P. Donnelly, business manager of athletics, handled more tickets this Fall than any other member of the NDAA. A part-time employee of the athletic association for 12 years, Mr. Thilman became a regular member of the staff on July 1. A native of South Bend, he was in private business before assuming his new duties.
Thirty
Whenever journalists, businessmen, Monday morning strategists and sports enthusiasts congregate for the purpose o' gridiron dissertations, the trend of conversation will inevitably concern itself with the accomplishments of one Knute Rockne. Over the span of fifteen years since the tragic death of this memorable personality, many grandeloquent talks have been given in his honor; thousands of anecdotes have been revived at the mere mention of his name; an esprit de corps second to none has persisted on the campus of Notre Dame as an aftermath of his sincerity, perseverance, loyalty and honesty. This humble man has become significant of an era and of a University whose gridiron attainments have become legendary. His were the qualities to be found in the ideal coach and the incomparable man.
Reiteration of his many successes can but renew a nostalgia so evident whenever the Fighting Irish assemble—whether it be on the football field, the basketball court, the cinder path or the baseball diamond. The indeterminable "something" that is manifested in the indomitable courage, the persevering loyalty and the omnipresent desire for victory—whether "the odds be great or small"—can be directly attributed to this same Knute Rockne, builder of men.
That "Rock" would have been proud of the accomplishments
of the 1945 version of the Fighting Irish can be appreciated by recognizing in their endeavors the same characteristics which were consistently reflective of any of his own teams. Since that warm September afternoon when the Irish prevented five goal line thrusts by a stubborn Illinois eleven until the final seconds when they succumbed to the might of Great Lakes, the 1945 club was every bit as truly a Rockne team as his own National Champions of 1930. In their two defeats they were as magnificently Notre Dame men as they were in the seven victories.
And thus another football season has been terminated. Fifteen have passed since the last Rockne coached team. Five coaches and hundreds of boys have struggled to maintain all that he has made possible. All of them may be said to have sustained the same attributes that he inculcated in his first team almost three decades ago. Seasons will come and seasons will pass but all Notre Dame athletic teams will be analogous to the best of the lucrative Rockne era; all Notre Dame men will strive for the victory in the same persevering way; all Notre Dame coaches will never forget this man whose perfection of personality, devotion to duty and sincerity of method have become synonymous wih Notre Dame footbalL
—Phil Corboy
Thirty-one
Pigskin Sidelights
By FRANK CACCIAPAGLIA, Jr.
Who’s the cute little Atlanta telegraph girl who caught VINCE SCOTT’s eye when the team met the Engineers in October? It is reported that Vince was kept pretty busy the whole weekend—sending telegrams.
Also, while down in Atlanta, JOHNNY AGNONE came upon a luscious peach who was flashing a new portrait of herself. Result? Agnone got the portrait and someone to correspond with in Atlanta. That’s cementing Yankee-Rebel relations. Nice work, Johnny.
Chicago’s DICK CRONIN found the New York atmosphere a little intoxicating—realized he was on the way back to South Bend only after a few hundred miles out of New York.
To FRANK DANCEWICZ—Who is that Tulsa coed who followed the Irish all the way to New Orleans to see you in action against the Green Wave? How about that, Boley?
PHIL COLELLA got a politician’s welcome when the team arrived for the Pitt game. An aggregation led by Phil’s old high school band gave him all but the key to the city.
What were Moose Fisher, Pep Panelli, Elmer Raba and Rudy Lopez doing at 6:00 a.m. on the streets of Chi the Sunday of the Northwestern game? They must have been breaking themselves in for the Legion Convention.
Before the football season was under . way, FRANK RUGGERIO promised his girl back in Jersey that he’d score so many touchdowns for her—Hope you kept your promise Frank.
ELMER ANGSMAN still spends a few hours now and then with the dentist trying to get his incisors patched up. Can’t wait till he can flash that “complete” smile for the girls at the D. A. V.
Now that another football season has ended, FRED ROVAI won’t have to worry about breaking training to get back to Hammond and “take care” of his dad’s bar.
The team and coaches were treated to a hilarious pre-game show the day of the Northwestern game when they watched the death-daring feats of the two motorcycle police that led the Notre Dame bus through Chicago traffic.
And speaking of pre-game shows— the combined Northwestern-Notre Dame bands sounded like the New York Philharmonic tuning up when they murdered the National Anthem. Each band played the selection in different keys.
Thirty-two
NOTRE DAME JACKETS * SWEATSHIRTS ♦ PENNANTS ❖ GOLF CLUBS * HAND BALLS and GLOVES ♦

SONNEBORN'S
121 West Colfax Avenue.	Phone 3-3702
to the 1945 Squad for a valiant season
RARKER - Wl NTERRCWR
115% N. Main St. (upstairs)
• BIRTH STONE RINGS
THE HAPPIEST CHRISTMAS IN YEARS!
Gifts for Every Member of Your Family
• EARRINGS
• BRACELETS
• PINS
• COMPACTS
• LEATHER GOODS
Capt. Dancewicz Lauds Devore and Team's Spirit
“The spirit was tops; and after four years, no other was better than’ this year’s. The spirit among the players and coaches was the best possible.” Those are the words of Frank Dancewicz, captain of the 1945 Notre Dame football squad. As captain of the team and one of few veterans on the squad, Frank had much to do with the fine spirit that prevailed among the players and coaches this season.
When asked about the menial status of the team before and during the season, Frank stated that due to inexperience the team did not know what to expect ; as a result they were neither overconfident nor did they display a lack of confidence. After several successive victories, the squad still maintained their level attitude.
Dancewicz considers Devore tops as a football coach. He was well liked by everyone on the squad and by all who had affiliations with him.
“The team was at theii- best in the Navy game; but Army was the toughest opponent,” according to Boley. He attributed the Great Lakes nightmare to the general weariness from travel and to the poor physical condition of the team as a result of the prevailing sickness at the time.
Dancewicz will graduate in June. He competed for three years on the Notre Dame varsity, being regular quarterback and field general in his last two seasons.

Hans/-Rintzsch
Michigan at Colfax


FOOTBALL TEAMS, 1945
Associated Press
1. Army	6. Michigan
2. Navy	7. St Mary's
3. Alabama	8. Pennsylvania
4. Indiana	9. NOTRE DAME
5. Oklahoma Aggies 10. Texas
1945 ATTENDANCE FIGURES	
Illinois 			45.000
Georgia Tech . 	 		32.000
Dartmouth 		45.000
Pittsburgh 		65.000
Iowa 		52.500
Navy 				82.000
	
Army 		 . .	76.000
	
Northwestern 	 . .	49.500
	
Tulane 			63.000
Great Lakes 		25.000
Total	535.000
1944 Attendance	507.000
1943 Attendance	504.000
THE
ALLAM E RICAN FOOTBALL TEAM Selected by
The 350 Members Of The J American Football Coaches Association
r F
HERE, at last, is an All-American football team selected by the men best qualified to judge— the football coaches of the nation.
It’s the first time in the history of college football that any publication has been privileged to announce a selection from the top authorities in the game.
350 COACHES TO VOTE
These are the men who have set the college football stage—discovered, trained and turned out the players. Together, they have witnessed all of the good football in the entire season.
NEW METHOD OF JUDGING
During each week of the football
season, coaches watched with trained eyes every man who looked like All-American material. Week after week, these reports were filed with the Association, tabulated, and returned to the coaches for a careful study and a final, end-of-season vote.
The men who made this final All-American team are the real "Who’s Who” among the nation’s players, as selected by the "Who’s Who” among the men best qualified to judge.
Don’t miss the American Football Coaches Association 1945 All-American Team in the. December 29th issue of The Saturday Evening Post.
Again the Post pioneers in a sports venture of interest to millions of fans. To keep up with all that's new in the nation's favorite sports — be sure to read the Post every week.
)>r< 1 M B i: H 29 . 1>>45
1O‘
Frank Leahy Returns to N.D. Coaching Job
The return of Frank Leahy to Notre Dame has given the well known football “bug” an adequate reason for remaining out of hibernation a little bit longer- than per usual. The campus is buzzin’! The pages of Notre Dame football history are being turned back a few years to that memorable 1943 season when Leahy’s national champions ruled the pigskin world. Football yarns of yesteryear are being spun all over again with numerous arguments being the ultimate result. Records and statistics are being produced with ease and anyone who has the slightest bit of argumentative spirit considers himself an expert.
Yes, the genial Irish coach has returned to his alma mater, having received his naval discharge a few weeks ago in San Francisco. He has turned down many handsome offers to coach in the professional ranks in order to take the coaching reins of the Blue and Gold bandwagon from the affable Hughie Devore, head football mentor during the season just completed.
He was thoroughly pleased with the showing made by the youthful Irish squad, which was expected by many of the experts to play the role of pushovers the past season. He was also high in his praise of Coach Devore and his entire coaching staff and the manner in which they welded the teen-laden Notre Dame team into one of the most powerful gridiron squads in the country.
With the war over and many former Irish stars, who have been released from the armed forces, hoping to don their grid togs once again, the prospects of another successful season with Leahy at the helm are shaping up quite favorably among the nation-wide list of Notre Dame rooters.
Try our Loafer—
The college man’s favorite campus shoe
$6.50
A STATEMENT
Elmer Layden, Commissioner of The National Football League. Former Head Coach and Director of Athletics at Notre Dame.
“I have seen only the Northwestern game, but I congratulate Hugh Devore, the coaches, and the team on the fine football they are playing, and the great example of Notre Dame spirit they are showing. Coming back after a loss is always difficult, and it is a test for any team, particularly a decisive defeat. This team of 1945 has met the test, and I congratulate them on their fine record, and their splendid representation of Notre Dame.”
Books...
make splendid gifts for the young people in your family.
The Bobk.Shop
130 N. Michigan
G/asses CORRECTLY Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus—E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND .
MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street Evenings by Appointment
Exclusive representative far
Nettleton — Crosby Square Walk-over — Foot Joy Stacy Adams — Matrix
^5.95 to £16.50
X-Ray Fitted by Experts
WILLIAMS, The Florist lust West of the Oliver	Phone 3-5149
120 So. Michigan Street
Thirty-five
Notre Dame Football Managers
When Notre Dame’s warriors step on the field on Saturday afternoons, spectators see a smooth-functioning team. What they do not see is the enormous amount of work and planning that makes it possible for them to put in an appearance on enemy gridirons. To the student managers falls the responsibility for making the arrangements necessary to bring the team to a particularstadium at a particular time.
The managers’ staff was organized in the days of the immortal Knute Rockne. Under the system inaugurated by him, many freshmen aspirants are carried, each having as his goal the head managership. The sophomore year finds a lesser number assisting the veterans, There are usually three juniors on the staff, and one senior manager in charge. The war has modified the Rockne system, which is used by many major colleges when conditions permit.
Today at Notre Dame, the head manager is scholarly-looking John H. Graif. Johnny, a senior from Mankato, Minnesota., has held down the head mana-
John H. Graif	Ted Rademaker	lames F. Molidor
ger’s berth for two years. His task is a major one. He must see that everything functions smoothly from the time the team leaves the campus until it returns. In advance of the trip Johnny gets the itinerary from the Business Manager, makes train and hotel reservations for the party, requests excuses for players making the trip, issues expense money to the players, and engages transportation to the train. During the game he lists the players’ game-time for
the head coach. After the game the weary players must be brought back to the school as scheduled. Then Graif turns in his expense account and gametime list, and prepares for the following week.
The associate manager in charge of equipment is Ted Rademaker, of Peru, Ind. He is responsible to equipment-head McAllister for the extensive paraphernalia used by the team. Ted, who is
Thirty-six
7imh
Welcomes the new students at Notre Dame.
Our food will please you.
120 South Main Street
(Across from the Courthouse)
Open 11:00 A. M. to 7:00 P.M. Seven days a week
BOOKS
New Novels for your winter reading—
"THE BEST FROM YANK" THE MARRIAGE OF JOSEPHINE THE BLACK ROSE
CASS TIMBERLANE
NORTH. EAST. SOUTH. WEST THE HISTORY OF WORLD WAR H "BEDSIDE BOOK OF FAMOUS
FRENCH STORIES"
NEWS CENTER * CIGAR STORE
127 W. Washington St.
“In the J. M. S. Building"
Head Manager- Graif’s roommate, entrains with the equipment the day before the team leaves. The morning of the game he lays out the uniforms, then waits for the team. After the game, he must see that everything is returned to Notre Dame. Ted, a senior in accounting, is also serving his second year in the capacity of associate manager.
The third man on this team is James F. Molidor, of Libertyville, HL, who assists the other managers. Specifically, he sees that the players get their meals, checks on taxicabs and busses, and looks after the general welfare of the entire party.
—J. M. Wieman
United Press All-American Teams
FIRST TEAM
Henry Foldberg, Army...............End
Tom Hughes, Purdue..............Tackle
John Green, Army...............Guard
Vaughn Mancha, Alabama..........Center
Warren Amling, Ohio State........Guard
Tex Coulter, Army...............Tackle
Dick Duden, Navy.................  End
Harry Gilmer, Alabama............ Back
Glen Davis, Army................  Back
Herman Wedemeyer, St. Mary’s___Back Felix Blanchard, Army__________Back
SECOND TEAM
Max Dodge, Nevada..............End
Don Malmberg, U.C.L.A.......Tackle
Joe Dickerson, Penn..........Guard
Dick Scott, Navy..........  Center
Ed Deramee, Navy...................Guard Buster McClure, Nevada...........Tackle Bob Ravensburg, Indiana.......End
Frank Dancewicz, Notre Dame...Back
Bob Fenimore, Oklahoma Aggies_Back Stan Koslowski, Holy Cross.___Back
Pete Pihos, Indiana...........Back
I.N.S. All-Midwestern Teams
FIRST TEAM
Max Morris, Northwestern..............End
Ed Mieszkowski, Notre Dame.........Tackle John Mastrangelo, Notre Dume...... Guard Harold Watts, Michigan.............Center
Warren Amling, Ohio State............Guard Clarence Esser, Wisconsin..Tackle Bob Ravensburg, Indiana....—End Frank Dancewicz, Notre Dame.......Back George Taliaferro, Indiana...Back Dick Fisher, Ohio State...........—Back
Pete Pihos, Indiana.................Back
SECOND TEAM
Ted Kluszewski, Indiana			End
Jim Kekeris, Missouri.			Tackle
Jim Lecture, Northwestern....		Guard
Mac Wenskunas, Illinois			Center
Howard Brown, Indiana			Guard
Ralph Serpico, Illinois			Tackle
Bob Skoglund, Notre Dame..		End
Jerry Niles, Iowa				Back
Bill Dellastatious, Missouri—		Back
Ollie Cline, Ohio State			Back
Ed Cody, Purdue			Back
I.N.S. All-American Team 1945
Henry Foldberg, Army —.............End Dewitt Coulter, Army ...........Tackle
John Mastrangelo, Notre Dame ----Guard Vaughn Mancha, Alabama__________Center Warren Amling, Ohio State_______Guard Mike Castronis, Georgia ________Tackle Max Morris, Northwestern________End
Herman Wedemeyer, St. Mary’s ....Back Bob Fenimore, Oklahoma Aggies ....Back Felix Blanchard, Army-----------Back
Glenn Davis, Army---------------Back
Frank Dancewicz,
Notre Dame_______Honorable Mention
LAST MINUTE SUGGESTIONS for CHRISTMAS
NOTRE DAME—100 YEARS
COLLECTED POEMS OF CHARLES L. O’DONNELL, C.S.C.
THE SET —$5.00 •
BOARD OF PUBLICATIONS Administration Building Notre Dame, Indiana
Thirty-seven.
Clashmore Mike—Irish Mascot
By James F. McCarthy
Two familiar figures were absent from the Notre Dame football scene this year. One was scrappy little Clashmore Mike, the spunky Irish Terrier, who, as team mascot for the past decade, had captured the attention of football fans throughout the nation. On Monday, Sept. 17, less than two weeks before the 1945 grid season opened, Mike’s body was found on the campus by a caretaker and buried in the Notre Dame stadium where the mascot had begun his illustrious career.
The other notable missing from the Irish camp this year was Mr. Dan'Hanley, Mike’s trainer, who after 17 years of service with the University, was confined to Healthwin, no doubt remembering his colorful days with Clashmore and looking forward to the time when he could again train a mascot to win fame with the Fighting Irish.
It was back in 1935 that a terrier, then an eight-week-old pup, arrived on the Notre Dame campus. Presented to
Head Coach Elmer Layden by a Chicago kennel-owner, the pup was turned over to Dan Hanley for training as a mascot. Mr. Hanley named the dog Clashmore
Mike after a famous Irishman, and then set about the difficult task of providing the young mascot with his famous repertoire. With the aid of a broken bar, the frolicking puppy was taught to clear two feet. As the weeks passed the bar was raised, the result being that as the season opened a vivacious terrier was taking the high hurdles with ease.
A victorious encounter with the Pitt Panther marked Mike’s debut. Clashmore, in a lively mood that day, quickly went after the strange denizen of the East. To the glee of fans who packed Notre Dame stadium, the aggressive Irish Mascot literally made the fur fly, and a worried student wearing the panther hide made a hasty retreat to the Pitt bench.
Mike showed his fighting spirit many times afterwards, especially one Saturday afternoon in 1941 against the Navy goat. Apparently the nautical atmosphere aroused Clashmore somewhat, for he strained angrily at his leash as Mr. Hanley led him before the thousands
For a great season . . .
For a great fight ...
We say “well done, IRISH!”
— The Huddle
Thirty-eight
who jammed Municipal Stadium in Baltimore that day.
Suddenly an accident occurred — or perhaps it wasn’t an accident. Mr. Hanley tripped, dropping the leash, and Mike raced in the direction of Bill, renowned Navy goat. Dust flew as the two mascots captured the crowd’s attention. It was dog and goat in a battle royal. But the goat soon retired from the fray, and the game little terrier trotted off happily with another victory to his credit.
Not long after the game, a letter came to the University addressed to Mike in care of his trainer. The letter reads as follows:
Baltimore, Maryland
Dear Clashmore Mike:
I suppose you get lots of letters from your fans. I would like to be one of them. I saw you were at the Notre Dame-Navy game. I thought you were very brave the way you went after the Navy goat..
Mike, if you have any autographed pictures, I would dearly love to have one. I am sure you must have lots of requests for them. Well, here’s wishing the best o’ luck to you and your team.
As ever your ardent fan,
Mary Kiehne.
According to records, it was the only letter the colorful Clashmore ever received. Incidentally, Mary got the picture.
Hostilities between Mike and the goat were renewed the following year. Ignoring hurdles which had been set up for him, Mike again tangled with the Navy mascot. The battle raged as in the previous year and, to the displeasure of the Midshipmen and the goat, Mike once more emerged victorious.
The same year, Army’s mule fell before fiery Clashmore. Mike chalked up another victory, and with it a rivalry that existed down through the years.
Mikes’ predecessors were two in number. As legend has it, the first was a bulldog who, carrying a football in his mouth, entered the stadium in advance of the 1924 team. Following the Bulldog came Shawn Rue, an Irish terrier, who lasted until 1931. That year the team had a rather rough time of it, and after an unsuccessful season Shawn Rue disappeared. . . .
The place of the recently deceased canine warrior had not been vacant long until into the spotlight appeared Clashmore Mike II. Presented as a gift to the University from James McGaughey, of ■ Chicago, long a devoted friend of Notre Dame, the newcomer made his appearance on the eve of the Illinois game. A shy puppy during half-time festivities this season, Mike II tried to get the swing of things but did not quite measure up to the veteran that had gone before him.
Swuitmai Soon Aoaui —
tAnd did you know that Flowers make the perfect Gift?
SOUTH BEND FLORAL COMPANY
Phone 3-8227	114 So. Michigan St.	South Bend. hid.
Thirty-nine
ST JOE VALLEY N.D. CLUB HONORS TEAM
AT CIVIC BANQUET
The University Dining Hall was filled December 4 with sport enthusiasts who gathered to pay tribute to the 1945 Fighting Irish football team and then-coach, Hugh Devore. Two themes prevailed through the evening of interesting talks by noted leaders in the sport world; one concerned a salute to the 1945 Notre’ Dame squad and the other was based on the challenge to Americans today, that of winning and maintaining the peace.
Bill Fox, sports editor of the Indianapolis Neivs, served as toastmaster for the evening. His clever introductions and quips contributed much to the success of the program. The Mayor of South Bend, F. Kenneth Dempsey, L. W. St. John, Director of Athletics at Ohio State, Col. Francis Gabreski, former Notre Dame student and flying ace, Wilfrid Smith of the Chicago Tribune, Governor Ralph E. Gates of Indiana, Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, Hugh Devore, and John Lavelle, Director of Athletics of the New York Catholic Youth Organization, were the speakers during the evening.
Mayor Dempsey said to the football squad, “You have won your glory and we’re glad to have been your neighbors f for a little while,” Wilfred Smith expressed the thanks of the newspaper men to Hugh Devore, “an honest workman who has played square with us.” Added the Tribune football expert, “We wish the greatest success to Devore in whatever he does for he is a credit to his alma mater.”
Governor Gates effectively told the group of the challenge that is facing America today. A challenge that calls for the promotion of a peace that will be lasting as well as a challenge to make this Nation one which will -be ready to again accept into civilian status the returning servicemen.
Colonel Francis Gabreski related some of his many interesting experiences encountered during the war. He also requested people to recognize as heroes only those who will never return for those who have returned are merely among the more fortunate.
“Tonight belongs to the Notre Dame football team and its young coach, Hugh Devore. The season just closed must rank high in the annals of Notre Dame,” said Father O’Donnell. He added that “What though the odds be great or small,” are more than words.to a song
Forty
Larry’s last lindy
Larry’s wilted collar and billowy shirt are heading him straight for the stag line—permanently. You are looking at his first and last partner.	■
Take a tip from Gertrude! Be a smooth dresser as well as a smooth dancer! V7ear an Arrow, the shirt with the non-wilting collar and the Mitoga-fit which conforms to the lines of your body.
Get your Arrows at your local Arrow dealer. If he doesn’t have your favorite today, try him again later.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Ifs idler's for ARROWS
MAX ADIER
in relation to this year’s team. “This is a real championship team.”
Hugh Devore remarked that he was prouder of his team in defeat against Great Lakes than he would have been in victory. Hughie also expressed his appreciation to the team, for its cooperation, as well as to the assistant coaches, trainer Hugh Burns, and all who worked with him. Captain Frank Dan-cewicz presented a gift to Devore on behalf of the squad. Devore then introduced each member.
“Running The Team,” Grantland Rice Sports Review by Paramount Pictures, had its World Premiere at the banquet. It typified scenes on the Notre Dame campus not only involving football but also the daily routine of all students.
During the course of the evening, Toastmaster Fox read several telegrams from invited guests who were unable to attend. While many of these messages were part of Fox’s supply of quips, others expressed the feelings of sport notables in regard to the Fighting Irish and Hugh Devore. The following tele-$ grams were received:
From Frank Leahy, Director of Athletics of Notre Dame to Eugene O’Brien President N.D. Club of St. Joe Valley:
“Regret exceedingly that I am unable to attend tonight’s banquet. Please convey my heartiest congratulations to Hugh Devore, his assistant coaches and players on a highly successful season. Never has a Notre Dame team more completely reflected that attitude of her coach than this year. Hughie Devore as a player was alert, smart, anxious to win, aggressive spirited, and a great blocker and tackler. His Notre Dame team of 1945 had all of the above mentioned qualities. This year’s team played and fought for Notre Dame in a manner that will long serve as an inspiration to all her loyal sons from coast to coast. I hope fervently that our future teams will be equally as representative. Thanks to you and all the swell fellows there for making possible such an outstanding football banquet. Notre Dame deeply appreciates your gesture. Regards to all.”
From Arch Ward, Sports Edtor of the Chicago Tribune, to Toastmaster Bill Fox:
“I regret exceedingly that I cannot be your toastmaster this year because as an old philosophy classmate of Bill Fox a quarter of a century ago, you will know I can’t read. This telegram will convince any skeptics that I can’t write, either. I do want to add my little word of congratulation to a Notre Dame team that lived up to the University’s rich gridiron tradition. We will wait a long time to salute a finer group than Hugh Devore and his 1945 squad.”
Salute to
Hughie Devore and the
Fighting Irish of 1945
The NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N.
Michigan Street, Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
Forty-one
NOTRE DAME ALL-TIME FOOTBALL RECORD
Year 1887	Won 0	Lost Tied		Year 1903	Won 8	Lost Tied	
		1	0			0	1
1888	1	2	0	1904	5	3	0
1889	1	0	0	1905	5	4	0
1892	1	0	1	1906	6	1	0
1893	4	0	0	1907	6	0	1
1894	3	2	1	1908	8	1	0
1895	3	1	0	1909	7	0	1
1896	4	3	0	1910	4	1	1
1897	4	1	1	1911	6	0	2
1898	4	2	0	1912	7	0	0
1899	6	3	1	1913	7	0	0
1900	6	3	1	1914	5	2	0
1901	8	1	1	1915	7	1	0
1902	5	2	1	1916	8	1	0
Year	Won	Lost Tied		Year	Won	Lost Tied	
1917	6	1	1	1932	7	2	0
1918	3	1	2	1933	3	5	1
1919**	9	0	0	1934	6	3	0
1920**	9	0	0	1935	7	1	1
1921**	10	1	0	1936**	6	2	1
1922	8	1	1	1937**	6	2	1
1923	9	1	0	1938**	8	1	0
1924* *	10	0	0	1939	7	2	0
1925	7	2	1	1940	7	2	0
1926	9	1	0	1941	8	0	1
1927	7	1	1	1942	7	2	2
1928	5	4	0	1943*	9	1	0
1929*	9	0	0	1944	8	2	0
1930*	10	0	0				
1931	6	2	1	Totals	345	75	27
1945—Won 7; lost 2; tied 1
(■jaataaaaaaataaaaaaaaaaaaaaaatiaaaattaaaaBiaaaatiaaaiiiaatiaaaaaaaiataatiiiittiQ
E • Greeting Cards = 1 • Artists’ Supplies | = • Picture Framing |
I I. W. Lower Co. |
I DECORATORS j B 128 North Michigan Street E ^^aaiiitaaaaiiaaaaaiiiaaaiiaaaaiiaaaatiaaaatiiaaiaiaaitiaaaiiiiiaitiiaaaaaaiiif^
*National Champions
**Western Champions
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Coin
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Traditionally
The place where
Notre Dame men meet
for
Delicious Italian and American Food
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
You'll enjoy our prompt courteous service and the collegiate atmosphere. Plan to meet your friends here often.
A Christmas gift that's different...
give an oil painting of Notre Dame, painted by an internationally known artist.
$30.00 and up
Miss C. F. Makielski
623 J. M. S. Building South Bend
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
JEWELRY GIFTS for CHRISTMAS ■&&&
Purchases Gift Wrapped Free of Charge Leading Credit Jeweler BLOCK BROS. Corner Michigan and Washington
»<•>..-
THE STAMP SHOP Everything for the STAMP COLLECTOR 501 Pythian Bldg.
PATRONIZE "SCHOLASTIC" ADVERTISERS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS ANO CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M.S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND, IND.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
303 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER, M.D. M. J. THORNTON, M. D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER j. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. . SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING PHONE 3-2574
F.o r t y - t w o
NOTRE DAME SONGS
NOTRE DAME. OUR MOTHER
Notre Dame, our Mother, Tender, strong and true. Proudly in the heavens. Gleams the gold and blue. Glory’s mantle cloaks thee. Golden is thy fame. And our hearts forever. Praise thee, Notre Dame. And our hearts forever. Love thee, Notre Dame.
VICTORY MARCH
Rally sons of Notre Dame;
Sing her glory and sound her fame. Raise her Gold and Blue And cheer with voices true:
Rah, rah, for Notre Dame (U rah, rah) We will fight in ev-ry game, Strong of heart and true to her name We will ne’er forget her And we’ll cheer her ever Loyal to Notre Dame.
Chorus:
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame.
Wake up the echoes cheering her name. Send a volley cheer on high, Shake down the thunder from the sky. What though the odds be great or small ? Old Notre Dame will win over all.
While her loyal sons are marching Onward to victory. _
WHEN IRISH BACKS GO MARCHING BY
Rah! Rah! Rah!
Up! Notre Dame men! Answer the cry. Gathering foemen fling to the sky. Fight! Fight! Fight!
Brave hosts advancing challenge your name, March to the battle, Notre Dame!
Rah! Rah! Rah!
Chorus:
And when the Irish backs go marching by
The cheering thousands shout their battle cry: For Notre Dame men are marching into the game, Fighting the fight for you, Notre Dame.
And when that Irish line goes smashing through. They’ll sweep the foemens ranks away;
When Notre Dame men fight for Gold and Blue, Then Notre Dame men will win that day.
❖
HIKE SONG
The march is on, no brain or brawn Can stop the charge of fighting men. Loud rings the cry of grim defy Of hard attack let loose again. Oh, it’s the hike, hike of victory, The call, to rise and strike. For Notre Dame men are winning When Notre Dame hears hike, hike, hike. Hark to the cheering song rising high, Hark to the roar as the ranks go marching by; Shoulder to shoulder chanting her glorious name. Burn high your fires and swing along for Notre
Dame;
“More farm life for me!”
New developments, offering advantages of speed and economy in construction, are being fully used in our program for extending and improving farm telephone service. . Among these are mechanical pole-hole diggers and plows for burying wire underground. Sturdier steel wire that permits longer spans will require fewer poles.
And we are experimenting with "power line carrier’’ to provide telephone service over rural electric lines. Radio, too, is being studied for use in connecting more isolated sections with telephone exchanges.
Providing more and better rural telephone service is part of the Bell System plans for constantly improving nation-wide communications service.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Forty-three
FIRSTS IN
SMOKING PLEASURE
WITH THE THREE
4^ .
ALWAYS M/LOER BETTER TASTT/VG COOLER SMOXT/VG
So gather around... light up and share the very best at Christmastime. Chesterfields have all the benefits of Smoking Pleasure... they’re givable, acceptable and enjoyable...
RIGHT COMBINATION WORLD’S BEST TOBACCOS
