.  . .­ .  
.  '  .  ,,  .  .  .  
.  .  .  "  


,. 
.4ccording to f]ead foot1Jc /Je isn't going (lll)'zVIJerc. A 
~­~ WHERE -·<·­y OUR PIZZA. ~-"we!::"E--DH; V ER-G~!!ucR~ , OAK ROOMTHE HUDDLE CAFE239-7157 239-7518  

ACE ACE IS THE PLACE WITH THE HELPFUL HARDWARE MAN 272-7535 --HOURS-­7,30 AM To 5,30 P.M. Closed Sunday • GARDEN • PAINTS SUPPLIES o TOOLS • HOUSEWARES • PLUMBING & • HARDWARE ELECTRICAL • SPORTING !iUPPI.JES GOODS i~.·-· ••, FREE PARKING FRONT & REAR 219 DIXIE WAY J l\1'r--1~rl:tr1i''C:-i . NO. IN ROSELANDI~ --­__ .._  

~ ~================~ 
TRADITIONAL ITALIAN CUISINE 
Ph.. 277-0578 
1703 South Bend Ave. [I Mi. East of Notre Dame] 
"N.D. You Are-1t'-1,, Good Luck Fighting Irish! 
HOUSE SPECIALITIES INCL UDE: Fe//uccini •Lasagna• Veal Parmigiana 
• Bucatini Con Broccoli • Pizza 
• sandwiches 
Lunch -Dinner -Carry-Outs Complete Wine and Cocktail List 

Closed Sunday & Monday 
Reservations Accepted 


Vol. 125, No. 3, November, 1983 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
FEATURES 
8  The Observer us.  Notre Dame:  
A Look at What's Behind the Controoersy  
I I  The Observer Story:  
The Administration's View  
12  The Observer Story:  
The Observer's View  
14  The Observer Story:  
An Editorial  
15  Soccer at SMC  
17  Thoughts on the Day  
24  A Cliche  
25  Social Justice:  
Christian Transformation of the World  
27  Student Political Apathy: Why?  
28  Things Haoe Changed Since 1970  
32  The 1984 Election and Notre Dame  
34  The Kellogg Institute at Notre Dame  

REGULARS 
2 The First Word 4 Scholastic Notables 6 ND Focus/Dean Roemer and Father Van 7 SMC Focus/The Holocaust Reoisited 
16 Cinema/The Right Stuff 18 Gallery 20 Poetry 22 Fiction/The Donor's Tale 36 The Last Word 
.Kathleen Doyle 
Jim Basile 
Jeannie Euch and Laurel-Ann Dooley 
Michele Dunlap Sharon Houk Abuid Amaro 
Professor Janet E. Smith 
Mary lsphording Kerry Tempie Ed Colbert Barbara Steuens 
Kathy Curran Keuin Donius, Patty Brennan Daoid Guffey Kelly O'Shea Laurel-Ann Dooley Kathleen Musial 
Mary Ellen Am Jim Ganther 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial b.oard of Scholastic or the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student body. 
Copyright © 198 3 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 
The First Word 
by Kathy Curran 
St. Mary's Editor 
I have always admired people who are productive 
in the morning. Those who can awaken without a 
booming alarm, shower and brush their teeth, and 
clean their rooms before 8:00 are always a step ahead 
of everyone else. They can run two miles while even 
my dog is still sleeping. They can hold intelligent con­
versations with one another while digesting their well­
balanced breakfasts. They can sit attentively while 
their professor rambles and their classmates jerk their 
nodding heads. They can manage their time so well 
that they are able to read The Tribune thoroughly be­
fore dinner. They are organized. They are efficient. 
In my book, they defy physiological reality. I can­not comprehend how some people can wake up in com­plete control of their senses. Athletes have to warm up for a while before a game; don't humans have to orien­tate themselves for a few hours before they can face a day? Or a-t least receive some kind of a stimulant (like 8 ounces of liquid caffeine) ? Morning people must be superhuman. . 
My mother is a prime example. Somehow she man­aged to make breakfast for my entire family, find all of our missing socks and shoes, and sew all of our ripped hems before the car pools began arriving. Dad made it to work; Mary to college; Peggy and Ann to high school; John, Patty, Tommy, and I to grammar school; and she Shelley Jenny, and Timmy to Mass -all dressed 'and fed. ' Our home was miraculously rolling before sunrise because Mom is a morning person. 
I really want to be like my mother. It is -too time­consuming to stumble back to my room almost every morning because I forget to bring my towel to the showers. It is degrading to have to ask people what day it is if they call before 10:00 a.m. It is dangerous to sleep through mid-morning fire alarms .which blast outside my door. It is humiliating to be known as the 
R.A. who met the parents of the girls in her section in a bathrobe. 
I honestly have tried to convert. Nothing works. I even tried sharing a room with my two-year-old niece this summer. Every morning at 6:00, upon hearing "Auntie, Up!," I would roll out of bed, change her clothes stumble out to the family room while she chatte;ed, and turned on Sesame Street. But within minutes I would fall fast asleep on the couch. Not even hearing Ernie and Bert fight could pull me out of that stupor. 
My rooming relationship with Brianne was short­
lived because I am a hopeless case. I will never be able 
to sing in the showers. I cannot foresee myself putting 
on nice clothes upon awakening. I do not anticipate 
being able to leave breakfast without supporting Co­
lombia's coffee growers. 
I salute morning people because they are happy during the day-when it is light enough to see and ap­preciate smiles. They are in concert with nature. They are not given coffee mugs which read, "It's not easy for a night person to work days . . . It's not easy for a night person to work, period!" I pity night-owls­we have a lot of fun but we are the southpaws of the working world. · 
I have no profound messages this time -no words of wisdom to share which were gained from my work experiences in blueberry patches (or in Nifty Thrifty B·udget Bakery, for that matter). This issue of the Scholastic is a bit on the "heavy" side already, so my column will not further that. Anyway, I cannot think of any thought-provoking ideas this late at night. If I were a "morning-person," I would get up tomorrow and write this over a glass of orange juice. Unfortunately, my theory that I work best under pressure is coupled with another-I think most clearly after the sun has set. I wish I were different. O 

SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1983 
EDITORIAL BOARD 1983-1984 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF James S. Ganther 
GENERAL MANAGER Thomas M. Sapp 
ST. MARY'S EDITOR Kathy Curran 
Photo Editor Michael P. Leary 
News/Sports Editor Kevin Donius 
Culture/Fiction Editor Laurel Ann Dooley 
Copy Editors Kathleen Doyle Janet Drobinske 
Art Editor Keevie McCarthy 
Advertising Manager Jeannie Euch ' 
Business Manager Jim Dever 
Distribution Manager Stephen Busk 
Advertising Staff Reginald V. Daniel, Rich Cameron 
Production Staff Joe Krumenacker, Maura Mandyck, Sharon Houk, Diane Emard, Fred Zim­merman, Kathy McGarvey, Joe Dant, Jim Keyes 
Advisory Board Dr. James McDonnell Prof. Elizabeth Christman Mr. Michael Garvey Prof. Marjorie Kinsey Prof. Robert Schmuhl 
Photo Credits: Mike Leary, p. 2, 3, 8, 9, I 0, 11, 13; 
· 16, 36; Chas Phillips, p. 4, 5, 26; John Compare;p; 7, 15, 27; Greg Ab­bott, p. I7, 2 I , 3 3, 35, Scholastic File Photos, p. 26, 28; Kellogg Institute, p. 34, 35. 
Illustrations: Jim Kiefer, p. 22; Sue Ritger, p. 17; Jim Kiefer, p. 22; Teresa Bolakowski, p. 24. 
Announcing: 

Fiction· Contest 
Get your short stories and other writings together for Scholastlc's contest early next year. 
Scholastic Magazine: 
Don't wait to get your copy at the newsstand, get it by mail. 
r--~ ------------------------------------,
: NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC .NOTRE DAME, IN DIANA 46556 
Please send me a subscription to Scholastic for ____years at $9.00 a ye_ar. I am enclosing $____ • Cash 
Check 
' Name___________________ 
Address_________-,-.;...________ City__________________ State_·________Zip ________ 
----~--~------~--------------------------~ 

University of Notre Dame by Kevin Donius 
News/Sports Editor 

Juniper Press 
"Payable On Return," a play writ­ten by a graduate student in de­velopmental economics has been se­lected by Juniper Press as its latest publishing project. The student-run publishing house selected the play by Michael Varga from twelve literary works submitted for consideration. 
A story of a reunion of two college roommates who have taken different paths in their lives, "Payable On Re­turn" goes beyond the topics of friendship and relationships to the controversial issues of race, sex, and prejudice. Student jurists selected the play for its appeal both to students and nonstudents. 
as a leather-bound album providingLaetare Medal biographical information on each of them. There have been 104 recipients At ceremonies held October 21, of the award in its 100-year history. University President Rev. Theodore This year's Laetare Medal was 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., dedicated the awarded to Edmund and Evelyn apsidal chapel of Sacred Heart Stephan of Chicago for their service Church to those who have been to the University while he was chair­awarded the Laetare Medal, the Uni-man of the Board of Trustees. Past versity's highest honor given an-winners include presidential candi­nually to Catholics who have "illus-date Al Smith; President John F. trated the ideals of the Church, and Kennedy; Supreme Court Justice enriched the heritage of humanity." William Brennan; Thomas P. ("Tip") 
The chapel will contain three O'Neill, Speaker of the House of bronze plaques listing the names of Representatives, and former Secre­all Laetare Medal recipients, as well tary of State Edmund Muskie. 

Snite Museum 
The Snite Museum of Art is cur­
rently displaying the Esmark Collec­
tion of Currier and Ives lithographs, 
made up of more than 650 originals 
which illustrate the growth and 
change of America between 1835 and 
1880. 
In those years, the lithographs were found in virtually every home. Today they have been described as a "preservation of the romance of America." The collection is divided into six groupings: "American Mid­dle Class Values, Recreation and Education"; "Commerce and Indus­. try and the Challenges Therein"; "Life on the Mississippi/The United States at War"; "The American Sporting Life"; "The American Ex­pansion, Politics and Satirical Hu­mor," and "The Four Seasons of 
Rural Life." 
Guests at the exhibition will re­
ceive a guide to the work of Currier 
and Ives which includes 16 color 
photos and opens up to an 18" x 11" 
poster. The Snite will have the ex­
hibition until January 8, when it will 
move on in its nationwide tour. 
4 
SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1983 

The Laetare Medal is the University's highest 
honor given to Catholics who have "illustrated the ideals of the Church, and enriched the heritage of humanity." 
Saint Mary's College 
by Patty Brennan 

SMC Choir Concert 
The Saint Mary's College Women's Choir and the Men's Glee Club of Miami University presented a joint concert November. in the Little Theatre at Saint Mary's. 
The Miami Glee Club, conducted by Dr. John C. Wabrick, celebrated its 77th season this year. The 80­member group performed selections from "Hello Dolly" and "Wildcat" as well as others. 
The Saint Mary's Choir, comprised uf 60 women, is directed by Dr. Raymond Sprague, assistant pro~ fessor of music at Saint Mary's. The choir performed several numbers, including "Blow the Wind Southerly" and "If I Had a Ribbon Bow." 
The choirs joined at the end of the concert to sing a few "Frostiana" pieces. The concert was free and open to the public. 
assistant. for speciai projects at 
Saint John's Medical Center in 
Anderson, Indiana. She also spent 
two years as an administrative 
Sister Kathleen Reilly, C.S.C., was assistant for finance for the Catholic added to the list of new members of Schools Office of the Archdiocese of the Saint Mary's College Board of Washington, D.C. Regents earlier this month. · The Board ofRegents convened for 
Sister Kathleen, a 1965 graduate its first meeting of the year on of Saint Mary's, is an administrativeOctober 20. 
Potter were joined by over two ·. hundred delegates from various ·
ACU-I Conference 
colleges and universities in ACU-I Four stuclents represented Saint Region XI. The students attended Mary's College at the Association of sessions given by professional uni­
I ,
College Unions -International versity personnel on campus pro­
(ACU-I) Region XI Annud Con­gramming and leadership develop­ference at Western Illinois Univer­
ment. sity. Saint Mary's will be the host Anne Marie Kollman, Susan Miller, school for the 1985 ACU-I con·­Julie Strazzabosco and Mary Anne ference. 
Community Service Award 
Saint Mary's College presented 
Ernestine Raclin, chairman of the 
Board of Directors of First Source 
Corporation and First Source Bank, 
the Community Service Award at the 
Business Associates Dinner. 
The Community Service Award is 
presented to an individual who 
makes outstanding contributions 
through volunteer activities to the 
Michiana community in such areas 
as business, cultural activities, educa­
tion and labor. · 
· Mrs. Raclin has donated her time, 
energy and talents to a.variety.of 
organizations throughout the Michi­
ana area. 
The Saint Mary's College Business 
Associates Program is comprised of 
business leaders in the Michiana 
community who offer advice and 
assistance in strengthening the bond 
between Saint Mary's and the , 
community. 

C
Focus 
Dean Roemer and Father Van: 
The Student Senate is a forum for students to debate important issues 
by David Guffey 
Among the most publicized groups at Notre Dame is the Student Sen­ate. After their weekly meetings are covered by The Observer, the topics discussed by the Senate often be­come topics of discussion everywhere from hall council meetings to tables in the South Dining Hall. Often things proposed, however, are never implemented into action or policy. This has led some to ask, "What is the role of the Student Senate at Notre Dame?" Recently, I talked with Father John L. VanWolvlear, C.S.C., Vice-President of Student Affairs and James A. Roemer, Dean of Students abo'.lt that question. 
According to both Dean Roemer and Father VanWolvlear, the Stu­dent Senate in its present form was created by students as a forum for students to debate or discuss issues of importance. Says Dean Roemer, "They created themselves and so they can debate anything they want." Many resolutions brought us by the Senate deal with issues out­side the "umbrella of the Office of Student Affairs." These are · not handled by the Campus Life Council or Father VanWolvlear. 
With issues that do involve student affairs, the Senate acts as an advi­sory body to the Campus Life Coun­cil (CLC). If resolutions are passed by the CLC they are sent to the Vice-President of Student Affairs for review within seven days. 
There is a tendency to think of the Student Senate in terms of the senates of state and national govern­ments. This according to Dean Roe-mer leads to some misconceptions. "The end result of the (U.S.) Senate is legislation. The end result of their 
(the Student Senate's) work is a res­olution which says 'the consensus of this group is that this particular· course of action ought to be pur­sued.' The resolution then carries only the weight of that group.'' 
There is also a tendency to equate the power of the Student Senate with that of the CLC. "Because the Stu­dent Senate meets more often and receives more publicity, it is often perceived as a more powerful group.'' Dean Roemer continued, "Only the CLC could send resolutions to Father VanWolvlear's office." And still the recommendations of the CLC (as with the Senate) are resolutions, not legislation. · 
A recent controversy developed when the Student Senate passed a resolution proposing that the Knights of Columbus be allowed to rent out party space to outside groups for activities including alcohol. Accord­ing to Dean Roemer, "The Student newspaper wrote an article the next day that said the Student Senate had passed a resolution ·making it pos­sible for the Knights of Columbus to lease out their facilities for alcohol parties. Anyone who read the article said, 'great, it's been done.' 
"The next day I wrote a letter saying you can't do that." Dean Roe­mer clarified, however, that he had not vetoed the resolution; "I just said, 'you have got to take that res­olution to the CLC.' " 
Even issues that pass through the CLC can be rejected by the Vice­President of Student Affairs, Father VanWolvlear. Some issues reoccur frequently but are not practical or in keeping with University values. "For instance, I don't know how many times we have studied getting laundry machines in men's dorms. It's the pumping systems that make it too costly and impractical yet it has come up every year, I think, since I came in 1978.'' 
Clearly, there is no legislative role over student affairs issues belonging to the Student Senate. However, it is not a group .wholly without a role. Several resolutions origin a ting in the Student Senate have been success­fully implemented. Both Father Van­Wolvlear and Dean Roemer acknowl­edge those successes, such as im­provements in the D6 parking area, lighting on Stepan courts and ben('hes on campus. 
The Student· Senate also controls allocation and some appointments of leaders of Student Government ac­tivities. "This," VanWolvlear com­mented, "is probably· their greatest and most successful role." 
Both Dean Roemer and Father VanWolvlear indicated that the Stu­dent Senate is a group whose role is often confused because of its struc­ture. However, as an advisory group and as an administrator over Student Government, the Senate has had suc­cesses in shaping a role for them­selves and thus, the student body of Notre Dame. D 
David Guffey is a senior Americu,. Studies major from Mount Carroll, Illinois. He is an R.A. in Holy Gress Hall. This is his first contribution to 
Scholastic. 
SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1983 

Focus 
The Holocaust Revisited: 
In a class all its own as students examine the historical and present 
by Kelly O'Shea 
From the Crematory flue A Jew aspires to the Holy One. And when the smoke of him is gone, His wife and children filter through. Above us, in the height of sky, Saintly billows weep and wait. God,. wherever you may be, There all of us are also not. 
-Smoke by Jacob Glatstein 
This poem is but a sample of the type of literature a number of Saint Mary's students are reading this semester. Why should a class focus on such grim writings? What does this poem mean? The poem was written by a prisoner of a Nazi con­centration camp. The class studying the piece is St. Mary's Holocaust class. 
This .. is the second year Saint Mary's Professor N. J.. Meyerhofer has offered the class. It is offered jointly by the modern languages and sociology departments. The class provides its students with an over­view of the Holocaust, its history and development. .The course also attempts to integrate this historical appreciation of the Holocaust into a meaningfal understanding of man's condition as it exists today. 
In its study of the Holocaust the class uses a text as well as original literature written by Holocaust vic­tims. It is hoped that these materials will afford the student an intellec­tual understanding of the Holocaust. But Professor Meyerhofer hopes to give his students more than just a cognitive understanding of the hor­rors that occurred in World War II, he wants them to leave his class with a deeper understanding. Toward this end, Professor lVIeye:rtiofer enlists the help of actual Holocaust survivors. These people come into the class and tell of their own experiences with the concentration camps and the atrocities that occurred there. 
Students seem to think that this is the most meaningful part of the class for them. They experience the pain of these survivors firsthand, rather than indirectly through a written text. They listen as the survivors recall the events that previously the students could only read about. The real pain that these survivors suf­fered now and then forces the stu­dents to realize on an emotional level that the Holocaust did occur. It af­fected real people, not just strangers in a faraway place. 
It is this realization the Professor Meyerhofer wishes to promote in his students. He feels it is part of his moral and ethical responsibility as a professional to make sure that people do know the Holocaust occurred, that it was not a figment of someone's imagination. This may seem like a rather unnecessary quest; after all everyone knows the Holocaust oc­curred. But -this is not so. There are a group of . university professors called the Historical Revisionists who claim that in fact the Holocaust 
never occurred. They claim it was just a fiction made up by some Jewish supporters to malign the Nazis. Meyerhofer feels that because the movement is led by academic in­tellectuals people may allow it an amount of credibility. His class is a reaction against the revisionists and their work. The Holocaust did occur, and mankind had best not forget it lest a similar incident occur again. 
Professor Meyerhofer also hopes that the course will help students to 
give some thought to what implica­tions the Holocaust has for human­ity today. The fact that man has proven himself capable of such atroc­ities in the past suggests that he could also perform them in the future. How should this realization fit into our vision for contemporary society? What warning signs must we look for in the future in an at­tempt to avoid another holocaust? Are there miniholocausts occurring now in the world? What should be done about them? These are just a few of the questions that students will wrestle with during and after .their Holocaust class. It is hoped that by finding answers to these questions students will become more informed realistic participants in to­day's world. These women and men must be the ones to see that in the future smoke comes only from burn­ing wood. D 

SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1983 
7 


The Observer vs. Notre ."Daine: 
A Look at What's Behind the Controversy 
Father Hesburgh and David Dziedzic and portions of two of the letters they have exchanged. 
Editor's Note: The following series of articles begins on the cover of this month's Scholastic. Because of our printing deadlines; we are only able to present the "Observer vs. Notre Dame" story as of November 9, 1983. 
Burke also wrote that "The cir­
culation of the newspaper ... entices 
advertisers who provide even more 
revenue to cover 'costs.'" Burke 
cited the following financial abuses, 
quoted from his letter, all later 
found in the audit: 
-personal use of the delivery van 
-payment of three students to · 
paint the newsroom 
-a loan made to a staff member 
as a down payment on a car. It is 
my (Burke's) understanding that 
The Observer is entitled to use the 
vehicle while the $1000 loan is 
outstanding. 
-substantial pay increases for 
each editorial board position over 
the past 4 years 
Burke wrote that his first choice 
in curbing the questionable Observer 
practices was to have an audit 
performed. Louis Cohen, director of 
Internal Auditing, informed Burke 
that he had attempted to perform 
an audit on The Observer in the past · but that records were_ kept in such 

a manner that made an audit im­possible to perform. 
Burke suggested that "two policy changes be considered. 1) The uni­versity should no longer collect the subscription fee. 2) The university charge a fair market equivalent rent for the space and utilities used by all business entities on campus. 
"Other possible alternatives would be," according to Burke, "a reduc­tion in the current subscription fee" ... "and/or a continuation of current policy after the establish­ment and implementation of fiscal policy and a twice yearly public audit." 
At the same time that Burke was seeking to "trim the fat from the budget" of The Observer, Michael Monk, 1982-83 editor-in-chief, An­thony J. Aiello, 1982-83 business manager, and Eric Schulz, 1982-83 controller were seeking from the Officers of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College a "slight increase in student fees from $5 to $6 per semester for the publi­cation of the paper" which would result in a $16,000 rise in our (Observer) revenue each year which will enable· us to better meet our own expenses." This request took the form of a letter which was sent to the Officers of the University and included an outline of financial problems and a copy of the 1982-83 Observer income statement. 
After receiving this proposal the University asked The Observer to undergo an audit to which editor-in­chief David Dziedzic agreed. 
Internal Auditing made last summer an examination of The Observer for the current fiscal year up to May 31, 1983. The audit, com­pleted by William F. Mc~{inney, assistant director of internal audit­ing, was released July 1, 1983. Copies were sent to Alexander Szilvas, controller, Daniel O'Hare, business manager, Reverend John Van Wolv­lear, C.S.C., and Thomas Mason, vice-president for Business Affairs. 
The internal audit of The Observer 
showed a deficit of $7206 as well as 
the following items quoted from the 
audit report: 
-a formal budget was not pre­
pared for the year's operation 
-a loan of $1000 was issued to 
the systems manager, Bruce Oakley, 
for a car loan in September, 1982. 
Interest-free payments of $100 were 
due the first day of the next ten 
months. 
-Observer procedure is to have 
two signatures on each check. Three 
persons are allowed to sign checks: the editor-in-chief, the business manager, and the controller. When one of these three is issued a check, the other two are required to sign it. Forty-one checks totalling $13,274 with only one signature were found. Three of the checks were signed by the payee only. 

-The previous (1982-83) editor­in-chief, business manager, and con­troller received frequent payments from the general accounts. From December, 1982 through March, 1983 they also received bonuses from the general accounts and payroll ac­count. In May, 1982 they also paid themselves for painting the news­room. 
Van Wolvlear first suggested that the newspaper be placed on the University budget program in an August 4 letter to Dziedzic. His letter stated that "We strongly recommend to you that The Observer be placed onto the University's Bud­get Unit Contrql System.'' This included the preparation of a yearly budget, monthly printouts of all activity deposits for each type of advertising, all receivables, all expenditures, including payroll, etc.... Management salaries would ~E_roposed by the student board for 
approval by Student Affairs and 

pasting copy on the front page. 
Student Activities." Van Wolvlear further stated that "The fiscal operation of The .Observer lacks continuity" and that "in order to grant additional funding ... we feel that a change in financial account­ability is in order," but "be assured that the University policy regarding your editorial and journalistic free­dom of the press will not change.'' 
Dziedzic, O'Hare, Szilvas, Van Wolvlear, McKinney, McDonnell, and Cohen met soon after the Fall, 1983 term began. The budget system was presented to The Observer at that time. 
At a meeting of The Observer general board on August 29, 1983 the budget system was presented and discussed. The board decided not to place the newspaper on the budget unit system. On August 30, 1983, Dziedzic sent a letter to Van Wolvlear which indicated the board's decision. 
Van Wolvlear replied in a Sep­tember 2, 1983, letter that Dziedzic's letter "really disappointed" him. His letter continues, "You and your staff evidently did riot consider being of assistance to the Observer staffs who will succeed you. In no way will your people be able to regularize an accounting system for future 
SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1983 
9 
. . ' . 
. ----. -----­

staffs. Coming under the University 
Budget Control System would give 
you more time to concentrate on 
improving the content of The 
Observer." 

Van Wolvlear's letter continued, "We have adequate proof that our system of accounting works and adequate proof that The Observer's doesn't. In no way do I question the integrity of the present or past business managers of The Observer but I do question their ability to establish a sound accounting system which will be adhered to year after year." 
A subsequent meeting was held September 29, after the University Officers held their monthly meeting on September 27, with Dziedzic, Van Wolvlear, and McDonnell in attendance. It was at this meeting that Dziedzic was informed that student fees of approximately $70,000 would be cut off if The Observer did not deposit all of its funds into university bank accounts and if it did not join the budget unit system by January 1, 1984. No ,·, mention has been made of the 
!! $17,600 collected by the Saint Mary's administration for student Observer fees. Dziedzic, on October 3, 1983, wrote a letter asking to meet with some or all of the Officers of the Univer­sity, but was not put on the agenda 
for the Officers' next monthly meeting. 
On Thursday, October 6, Margaret Fosmoe, managing editor, O'Hare, and Dziedzic met again with Van Wolvlear, Mason, Faccenda, as well as Reverend David Tyson, C.S.C., Reverend Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., and Reverend E. William Beauchamp, 
C.S.C. The matter of The Observer's accountability and Observer reluc­tance to participate in the University Budget Unit Control System was discussed. The Observer was told at that meeting that any further appeals would have to be directed toward Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president. 
Dziedzic wrote Hesburgh on October 19, 1983 presenting The Observer proposal which stated that "In order to maintain its indepen­dence and integrity as a newspaper, The Observer believes that strict internal control and third-party accountability are necessary. There­fore, The Observer will enact the following measures to insure finan­cial accountability both internally and externally": 
1. -To implement all of the sug~ gestions from the Internal Audit report of July, 1983, and to prepare monthly Income Statements which will be made available to the University. 
2. To prepare a charter which will 
Conversation takes a back seat The Observer at lunchtime. 
formalize existing standards. The charter will stabilize The Observer's internal structure and will provide a system for the dismissal of general board members and the impeach­ment of the Editor-in-Chief. 
3. To prepare an accompanying accounting procedures manual which will be followed by succeeding 
· Observer administrations. 
"The board decided not to place the newspaper 
on the unit budget system. On August 30,  '( i  
1983, Dziedzic sent a let­ 
ter to Van Wolvlear  
which indicated the  
board,s decision.,,  

4. 
To fo-rm an Alumni Board of Directors. The board will consist of former Observer general board members who are now professional journalists and businessmen. The board will meet twice annually and will be the ultimate governing body of The Ol;Jserver, 

5. 
To hire a University-approved external Certified Public Accountant to perform an annual audit of all Observer financial activity. 

6. 
To have the Observer Alumni Board of Directors meet annually with a representative of the Univer­sity to review the audit report. 

7. 
To begin to pay rent and utilities fees for the LaFortune office space. 


The next day, October 20, Dan O'Hare, the Observer business man­ager, was terminated from that posi­tion by editor-in-chief David Dzie­dzic. O'Hare was one of three Observer general board members to vote against the Observer resolution which was later presented to Hes­burgh. Alex Szilvas, Controller, and Scott Bower, Photo Editor, also voted against the Observer proposal. Two other board members abstained from the voting. 
Hesburgh's reply was dated October 27 and The Observer printed the letter in its November 1, 1983 edition. In his letter Hesburgh told Dziedzic, "What you want is very simple: editorial independence to the extent that you are free, except in the event that you do something outrageous. On this point, there is no need for discussion. I believe the action· of the administration in 
to 

granting operational editorial in­dependence to The Observer over -the past decade is there for everyone to see." 
Hesburgh also wrote that the only problem that he saw that had yet to be discussed was the method of Observer accountability for -the money that the University collects and gives the paper to spend. He said that the University system should be "agreeable'' to The Observer and that he had "asked Father Dave Tyson" his "Executive Assistant, to meet with" Dziedzic to work on the problem. Hesburgh added in a postscript that he requested that Student Body Presi­dent, Brian Callaghan, be present at the meeting between Tyson and Dziedzic. 
The Student Senate held an open forum meeting November 7 with student government members and Dziedzic in attendance. Dziedzic answered questions about the Uni­versity's request that The Observer join the University Budget Unit Control System. D 
Kathleen Doyle is a junior English major from Harrisburg, Pennsyl­vania. Kathleen is a copy editor at 
Scholastic. 

The Observer Story: The Adlllinistration's View 
"Why should The_ Observer feel that it is special?" 
by Jim Basile 
Churchill once commented that, "It is better to be making the news than taking it; to be an actor rather thari a critic." It appears that The Observer, Notre Dame's student newspaper, has taken Churchill's advice. The Observer, usually the re­porter of campus news, has become a major campus news story itself. The Observer is the lead actor in a confrontation with the University administration concerning th~ newspaper's financial op2rations and editorial practices. · 
Last spring The Observer asked · the University to increase the stu­dent fee it collects .for The Observer. Dean of Student Activities James McDonnell said that, "As a condition for the fee increase, The Observe1· submitted to an internal audit by the University. The Observer agreed to implement any recommendations the auditors presented." At that same meeting of April 20 the issue of an editorial advisory board was pre­sented Father John Van Wolvlear, vice president for student affairs, present at the meeting with McDon­n"ll and Observer editor-in-chief Dnve Dziedzic said that, "Dave seemed to have no problem with the advisory boaru." McDonnell said, · "We even suggested some names and Dave agreed to them." 
When the results of the audit came through several p·roblems were found with The Observer's financial opera­t~ons. The Observer has since taken steps to remedy some of these problems. 
The University, however, wanted more drastic action. McDonnell said, "We were shocked by the results of th~ audit. I find.it incomprehensible that a student organization using a quarter million dollars a year makes no pre-expenditure budget." The University response was to demand 
that The Observer enter the Univer­
sity Budget Unit System. The 
Observer responded that such an 
action would negate their status as 
an independent newspaper and · 
jeopardize their editorial indepen­
dence. 
Father David Tyson, C.S.C., Executive Assistant to Father Hes-1:;urgh, asked, "What does The Observer mean by independence? We collect $70,000 a year for them from the students. As a management professor I see no way that this is independence. If a Notre Dame business major thought that this was financial independence he would not receive his degree. We cannot col­lect money from th~ students and then not be able -to account for what happens to it.'' The University insists that a move to the Budget Unit System would not threaten editorial independence. Tyson pointed out, "The move would net give us any more· control over The Observer than we have now. All we are asking is that they use standard­ized accounting tech.iiques and be financially accountable." 

McDonnell echoed Tyson, "We are living in an age of accountability. Every organization on campus must have a budget. I don't see why The Observer feels it is special." 
Van Wolvlear pointed out, "Father Hesburgh do2s not intend to use the budget to control The Observer. He has given his word that they have complete editorial independence." 
The Observer responded that they did not feel they could trust the administration. McDonnell said, "Frankly, I am surprised that The Observer would write that there is mutual mistrust between themselves and the administration. As far as I am concerned the mistrust is one­sided on the part of The Observer." 
Tyson said, "I have been amazed at the vehemence and venom of the whole thing. We can do no more than give The Observer our word. They must trust us as human beings. If The Observer mistrusts the administration so much and thinks we are a bunch of liars then there is nothing we can do. I wonder if they know that Father Hesburgh has often defended the editorial independence of The Observer against outraged parents and alumni even after outrageous personal attacks upon him and other members of the administration." 
Van Wolvlear said, "They have our word on their editorial indepen­dence. What more can we do?" 
The Observer presented a counter­proposal for an alumni board to oversee Observer finances. The administration rejected the offer. Tyson pointed out, "First of all, that would do nothing to standardize accounting procedures which is what we need. Secondly, a board made up of Observer alumni would not necessarily be impartial." 
"What does The Observer 
mean by independence? 
We collect $70,000 a year for them from the students. . . no way is this 
independence." 
McDonnell said, "The counter~ proposal is unacceptable because this should be handled within the community. The Observer should be responsible for its finances in the same way that any other student publication is.'' 
The University, though not de­manding, is suggesting that The Observer have an editorial advisory board. McDonnell said, "This board could be picked by The Observer and would not have editorial control. The goal would be to increase the quality of the paper and help the 
students to have a more fulfilling 
learning experience.!(:­. "Since we have no~ journalism 
department," Van Wolvlear said, "an 
advisory board seems a logical step · 
to assure a quality paper and a good 
learning experience for the stu­
dents." 
McDonnell, citing a case involving 
the University of Nebraska news­
paper pointed out that if student 
funds are collected by the university 
to finance the newspaper then the 
university must have some type of 
advisory board or else it is liable 
I
to be sued for any irresponsible ! 
action by the newspaper. As of now, 
however, the University is nof'in­
sisting upon an advisory board. 
One thing .the University does 
demand is that The Observer come 
under the Budget Unit System. If 
The Observer does not come under by 
January 1 all University funds will 
be cut off. Tyson said, "If they don't 
agree I dci"n't see that we have any 
other option but -to cut them off. 
We owe the students accountability 
for their money. I don't want this 
thing to drag out and I will push 
for as speedy a resolution as 
possible.'' D 
Jim Basile is a sophomore from 
Philadelphia. This is his first contri­
bution to Scholastic. 
The Observer Story: The Observer's View 
"As a newspaper, it is most important that we run ourselves." 
by.Jeannie-Eu.ch and Laurel-Ann Dooley 
Is it possible for the voice of the students to freely express itself in the face of the administration when that same administration holds the purse strings of its operation? The Observer thinks not and it is this very point that has created a major issue on the campus of Notre Dame. The following is an attempt to relate The Observer's position in this debate. 
In March of 1983, editor-in-chief of The Observer,.David Dziedzic (acting on the advice of former editor Mike Monk and business man­ager Tony Aiello), put in a request to the University for a $1/semester 
student rate increase to cover in­creased production costs. Sparked by this and information passed on to the University by Student Body President Lloyd Burke, the Univer­sity conducted an audit and found many cases of financial mismanage­ment and irresponsibility on the part of the 1982-83 Observer board. This ultimately led to the University's "Budget Unit Control" proposal and the struggle between the adminis­tration and the newspaper. Dziedzic and his staff stepped into office with the task of answering to the accusations of the University while upholding the integrity of The Observer as Notre Dame's only "in­dependent student newspaper." 
12 SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1983 

A problem does exist. The $7,000 deficit is indisputable. While the issue stems from financial grounds, however, The Observer board feels the roots penetrate much deeper than 
l 
the dollars and cents of the audit. 
i
The current debate began on August 4 with a suggestion from Father John Van Wolvlear, Vice President for Student Affairs, to join the Budget Unit Control System as a solution to The Observer's problems. By the end of September this had turned into an ultimatum. According to Dziedzic, he was told at a SepterQ­ber 22 meeting with Jim McDonnell, Director of Student Activities, and Father Van Wolvlear that if The Observer did not go under the Budget Unit Control System and deposit 
all funds into University bank 
accounts by January 1, 1984, student 
fees would no longer be collected. 
The reason given was that the audit 
made apparent financial problems 
under the present system beyond -the scope of student capability. 
The Observer did not operate on 
a budget during the 82-83 school 
year nor did it maintain adequate 
documentation of its financial trans­
actions. The results of this were 
pointed out in the audit. "We do 
not argue the need for account­
ability," said Dziedzic, "but as a 
newspaper, it is most important that 
we run ourselves. To turn over 
money, not only University collected 
money, is totally unacceptable to 
The Observer." 
In an effort at striking a mutually 
agreeable compromise, keeping the 
above premise in mind, The Observer 
general board submitted a proposal 
to Father Theodore Hesburgh, Uni­
versity President. Positive action 
was taken to rectify the problems 
evidenced by the Internal Audit 
Report. The Observer has begun 
operating on a budget and has in­
stituted a double entry accounting 
procedure. Three new positions have 
been created to divide the handling 
of funds and to eliminate possible future misuse. It is preparing both . a charter and a procedures manual 
and is requesting the formation of 
an Alumni Board of Directors to 
review all aspects of The Observer's 
financial operations. The Observer 
has agreed to hire a third party 
Certified Public Accountant to per­
form an -annual audit. Finally, the 
paper has offered to pay rent and 
utility fees to the University. The 
Observer will institute all of the 
above, they have said, to assure the 
"continuity'' the University desires 
while "maintaining its integrity and 
independence as a newspaper.'' 
Father Hesburgh, however, has 
rejected these efforts at compromise. In his October 27 correspondence · he stated that on the issue of accountability, "there is no room 
for negotiation." 
While The Observer is not totally 
financially independent now (the 
University collects student funds as 
well as provides rent-free housing 
for Observer operations), The 
ObservGr does have complete control 
over all advertising revenue and all 
expenditures. This, Dziedzic pur­
ports, is the key to a publication's 
editorial independence. The Observer 
did not immediately dismiss the Uni­. versity's proposal. After much dis-

News editors Jeff Harrington and Mary Healey exaniine copy displayed 
on the computer. 
editor's "boss." The Observer feels 
that it has filled this role under the auspices of the proposed Alumni Board of Directors. 
The University claims it will not 
intervene in editorial policy and 
offers its word in writing to insure 
·this. Dziedzic held that The Observer 
cannot operate on trust and ques­
tioned the University's motives and 
understanding of a newspaper's 
operation. He referred to the Sep­
tember 12 letter from Father Van­I. 
Wolvlear. Paragraph one states "coming under the University Budget 
Unit Control System would give 
you more time to concentrate on improving the content of The Observer.'' 
Commented Dziedzic, "Father Van 
seems to imply that our business 
manager also writes .the articles in 
The Observer and this simply isn't 
true." . 
The second and lpngest paragraph of the letter, Dziediic continued, 
cussion howeverI the consensus of the general board was that an internal solution was more consistent with the paper's goals and with standard journalistic procedures. 
"The way newspapers work," ex­plained Dziedzic, "is that there are two basic wings: the publisher and the editor-in-chief. Decisions are made between the two of them based on money and content; they go hand in hand. If a big decision comes to a newspaper to send someone to Lebanon, for example, and the editor says the coverage is essential to uphold the integrity of the news­paper while the publisher says 'hold on, that's a lot ·of money," the fight exists within the paper." 
Dziedzic intimated that once under Budget Unit Control, this struggle would implicitly exist between the University and The Observer and could affect editorial content. Dzied­zic does not argue the need for some­one to act as publisher, as the 
13 


devoted itself entirely to discussing the content of the paper with re­peated specific references to articles found in this semester's Observer: "Such blatant coilnection of editorial and financial policy, even if only meant as a suggestion, is exactly what The Observer will not tolerate from the administration.'' 
Despite the "questionable" mo­tives of the administration's ulti­matum, The Observer general board is nonetheless willing to cooperate. Recognizing the responsibility of accountability, changes have been made. The only point that The Observer refuses to negotiate is the ~epositing of all funds in University 
'ihe Observer has begun operating on a budget and has instituted a double entry accoun­ting procedure. Three new positions have been created to divide the handling offunds and to eliminate possible future 
misuse_,, 
bank accounts. It is precisely this point that the University insists upon enforcing. Dziedzic remains firm: "it would be difficult to operate without one third of our incoming 
revenue ( collected student fees), 
. . i' however, we would find a way."; Accountability is definitely the primary aspect of this multifaceted issue, but it is the student body to which it is owed-the student body that financially supports The Observer, the student body for whom it is written. For this very reason editorial independence is crucial t~ The Observer general board. The O~server is, and wants to.remain, the voice of the students. Said Dziedzic "We just want to continue operatin~ as the students' newspaper.'' . 
Jeannie Euch is a government/ALPA major from Hartland, Wisconsin. She is currently the_ Advertising Manager of Scholastic. Laurel-Ann Dooley is an American Studies major from Fort Lauderdale, Florida. She is currently the Culture/Fiction editor of Scholastic. 
14 SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1983 
-

Soccer at SMC 
by Michele Dunlap 
Never underestimate the power of a St. Mary's woman. This may be an old cliche, but it has been justified repeatedly by the women of the St. Mary's Soccer Club. Alma Fallon and a few of her friends are some of these St. Mary's women that should never be underestimated. They could almost be considered the founders of the club. Their limitless efforts re­sulted in the club, members, games and even the coach. These women recruited a majority of the members on the team and gained some essen­tial donations for the team's exis­tence. 
After recruiting ended there was a high-spirited and talented group of women athletes. The majority of this group had very little soccer experience. The conversion of this group of soccer misfits into a club that could compete with top colleges was the product of John Akers, the head coach of the Soccer Club. Assisting Coach Akers this year are Bill Varanka and Tom Gibbons, two seniors at Notre Dame. John Akers has had plenty of experience with soccer. He has played for many years and .has coached at the high school level. His main interest is building a very strong competitive club. Next year the "A" Team will begin competing with intercollegiate teams. They are also sponsoring the first annual St. Mary's Indoor Soccer Invitational in February. Twenty 
colleges will be invited; of these five will be chosen to participate in the event. This is to introduce St. Mary's name into the soccer arena, and show that they are a developed and competitive club. In addition to developing their skills in soccer, they have had to develop many other skills in order to make this club a success. 
Soccer is thought to be a relaxing and hassle-free sport. It has proved to be none of these for the St. Mary's women. _They are in a business of having to market their club for funds and solidity. The opening week of the season the team had to pro­duce $700 solely for league fees. Other necessary expenses · include balls, uniforms, goals and care of the field. All the time and equipment are volunteered and donated. What a selling job these women have done. They are also trying to establish · themselves as a solid and capable club so that in a few years St. Mary's College will convert the Soccer Club into a varsity sport. As if this is not enough to worry about, last year the league that St. Mary's competed in introduced a new rule. It stated that every member had to be at. least nineteen years old. St. Mary's very young club would have lost thrEe quarters of its members. Rather than giving up and deciding it was too time-consuming to protest, they petitioned the new rule and received an omission of this rule for all college students. For a group of girls just out there to have fun they 
I 
sure have had to put up a fight. There must really be something ex­tremely special about this game. 
These women have learned fast how to develop their skills in this game. This is evident in that both the "A" Team and "B" Team hold the top position in their respective leagues. The Soccer Club is very much "on the ball," one might say. They have learned how to be asser­tive, competitive and still remain as a positive representative of the St. Mary's community for South Bend. D 

Cinema 
The Right Stuff or is it? 
"The Right Stuff is packed full of the stuff that moviegoers lap up, particularly in the present" age of sagging nationalism." 
'' 
i, 
by Laurel-Ann Dooley 
Culture/Fiction Editor 
Clad in cowboy hat and boots, a solitary figure gallops on horseback across the Arizona desert. Suddenly, appearing before him outlined in the glowing goldness of the setting sun, looms a newly developed Air Force jet. The old meets the new with a flourish of symbolism and special effects, and The Right Stuff begins. 
As an American movie of the '80s, it definitely has all the right ingre­dients for box-office success. Based on the development of the United States space program, the movie out­lines the gradual demise of the test pilot hero and his reincarnation in the form of the astronaut. Patriotism abounds and a feeling of hard-living
i:\ adventure reminiscent of John
![ 
Wayne westerns pervades the film. Flags fly, triumphant ticker-tape parades march through the streets, spacecraft soar into previously un­explored regions-The Right Stuff is 
packed full of the stuff that movie­goers lap up, particularly ·in the present age of sagging nationalism. 
But something went wrong. Sim­ply stated, The Right Stuff is too long. Stretching over three hours, the movie attempts to include every detail related, however flimsily, to the plot regardless of relevance. The result is a slow-moving, weighty film. What would have been a more than satisfactory two-hour movie is instead a dull three-hour one. 
The movie does have its positive aspects. The current presidential campaign of former astronaut John Glenn who is represented, although 
16 
SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1983 
not featured as many mistakenly believe, adds an element of time­liness that will undoubtedly pulI many into the theatre. The common­ly heard accusation that the movie is no more than a John Glenn for President publicity maneuver, how­ever, is simply untrue. The character of Glenn has no more than five major scenes, and certainly does not come across as a sure-fire presidential candidate. On the contrary, Glenn is portrayed as an old-fashioned and rather simplistic, if not simple­minded, soul who hums The Battle Hymn of the Republic when under pressure (something the Glenn Presi­dential Campaign has repeatedly denied as fact). Nonetheless, there is no charismatic leader figure por­trayed here. 
The special effects, as in so many of today's movies, are perhaps the best executed part of the film. Yet, while the cinematic effects are in­deed superb, they often serve to fur­ther point up the deficient content, hollow dialogue, and choppy plot. One scene depicts the tribal rights of Australian aborigines who ap­parently sense the presence of a NASA craft above their settlement. They therefore build a large bonfire around which they perform some sort of aborigine ritual. One has to wonder what ancient Australian cus­tom provided set behavior for space­craft orbits. As if this was not absurd enough, the sparks from the fire are then seen floating around the craft as it circles the Earth, and the unexpected detachment of its heat shield is mysteriously stopped. Come on now. 
Such utter abandonment of sub­tlety and sensitivity taints an other­wise sound film. Perhaps the pro­ducers were out to get the younger movie audience, as the mentality it often appears to be geared for is that of a Bambi fan. If not, they gravely underestimated the intellectual level of the American adult. 
This is not to say that The Right Stuff is an entirely worthless piece of cinematic trash that should be avoided at all cost. It does provide some entertainment, the subject mat­ter is strong enough to be able to resist almost any sort of treatment, and several of the actors give com­mendable performances. The Right Stuff is not all wrong; wait for it to find its way onto cable television. O 

Thoughts on the Day 
by Sharon Houk 
A common sentiment this time of year seems to be the desire to start over. As college students, we have the tremendous luxury of being able to start over at the beginning of every semester. I often wonder about all the people who don't have semesters. I'm curious as to what allows them to feel that they can start over. 
Perhaps I should start over. In the middle of the semester, our biggest question might be how to adjudicate these exigencies. That is, how do I get through this mess I've gotten myself into? How do I cope? 
Now coping is a very nice thing, and we should be thankful for the ability to cope. Sometimes coping is the best that we can do. But coping is not living. My basic orientation towards life should not be, "How do I solve this problem?" Whoever it was that said life was like an EE problem set didn't have his circuits straight. 
I must say that it is rather difficult to have a proper orientation towards life when you have missed sixteen morning-bird Calculus classes, got a "Try It Again" on your Fluids exam, and must come up with two twelve-page term papers in the next three days. Under these conditions it is easy to view life as a problem. And it might not seem that easy to solve. I can't think of anything more enigmatic than life right before a punt-situation Mechanics final. 
But even in the face of the ensured 
death of your Emil grade; or when 
contemplating the possibility of 
paralysis during your first oral final 
(and you thought Herodotus was 
a new punk band from Yugoslavia), 
you can do better than cope. For 
me it means putting things in per­
spective. I try to give .the day its 
full value. That means enjoying the 
scenery on my way to the GRE's. 
That means appreciating a friend's 
company at dinner and not having · 
to complain about the Hungarian 
Noodle-Bake. Giving the day its 
full value means enjoying the quiet 
on the way to a Friday morning 
Emil Review even though you can't recall what it is you're supposed to review. For me it means mostly making the most of the day. 
Father Carroll always told us we should get up before our worries. Regardless of what time you manage to get out of bed, your worries shouldn't follow you to the shower. They shouldn't snap at your heels on the way to Hayes-Healy, and above all, they shouldn't stop you from seeing the beauty in the day. 
Each day ought to be treated as a 
new day. Yesterday's troubles 
shouldn't fix your eyes solely on the 
cracks in the sidewalk. There is no 
reason you can't appreciate the trees 
on your way to wing a Politics 
final. All the exams you'll ever take 
or quizzes you'll ever bomb or papers 
you'll ever turn in late are but dust 
compared to· the Day. 
--. 
When I have to face that journal that I forgot to do, that journal (which of course is due tomorrow at 5: 00) seems to be the biggest factor in my existence. When it is three in the morning and I'm writing a paper on a book I forgot to read, I can't think of anything quite as big as that paper. And what about that interview? But there is nothing quite as big as the fact that you are alive. 
As easily as a day can be over­
looked, so can a life be overlooked. 
And it is not somebody else's life 
that we easily overlook. It is our 
own life. We forget all about the day because our eyes and minds are glued to the biggest problem we happen to have at the time. But none of these problems are so big and important that we should be satisfied with coping and forget to live. 

To live means to give each day its full value. For me this r.1eans to start over every time the alarm clock rings. We don't need the beginning of next semester to start over. People who don't have semesters have the day just as surely as we do. . 

Gallery 

Oil 9" X 12" "Jewel" 

''Images of Clay'' By Kathleen Musial 
Kathleen Musial is a senior BFA 
candidate at St. Mary's College. 
Kathleen is primarily a ceramist. 
Her paintings are a two-dimen­
sional interpretation of her 
experiences with clay. 

2' X 3' '-'On the Wail"
Oil 
18 
SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1983 


Oil 3' X 4' "Up or Down" 
SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1983 

Poetry 
A Potpourri of poems and poets 
from around campus . .. 
Untitled 
suddenly this Reality is viscious and even my dreams disintegrate into nightmares 
yesterday we drank too much tequila we laughed and we danced and we played the part of the Young and the Wreckless 
suddenly i want no more tequila i need your smile from the heart a smile to remember forever because, you see, i will soon be sober and afraid 
by Dalia Sidabras 
Mavoureen 
The snow falling in drifts of angel hair powder 
Untitled 
hear the rain falling lightly dreamily dampening my hammock and cares 
dripping in uneven puddles near the stairs and splashing those nearby buds with all of life's abundance 
in water cool, cool rainwater is plenty that brings life to flowers and me 
by Joseph Holterman 
And I'm reminded of a girl blowing bubbles in the white sugar fields, Blessing them with the sweetness of her breath And loosing them on the coldness of the world. And I remembered how they floated into the sun-speckled sky and burst in forty rainbow colors against the snow. 
by Joseph J. Dolan 
SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1983 
Untitled 
I'm happy, for the moment. I'm not lonely. We talk. We laugh. You are funny, nice. I am happy. Then the face In the crowd The face that shatters all hopes of a pleasant future That face was my future Your features, Illuminated now by the weekend movie's light, bring back sharp memories of your shining hair cheeks eyelashes... the morning sun hitting each in our bed from the window in the corner 
·of the room... You shift in your seat (in the theatre) you rustle next to me wrinkling our sheets... it is all the same to me my attention is drawn back to the nice stranger in the seat beside me How was the movie? wonderful just wonderful 
by Lisa Fitt 
Upon Reading Plato's Symposium 
Drenched with sweat, I sat in a bar In the world's armpit, New Jersey, And drank philosophy. 
A man wearing a tequila bottle Like an oxygen mask Stopped breathing To ask, "What is the nature of love?" 
As he was in no position for dialogue And I can't speak very well About that formal business I let him sample my own formula, Which contains no poetic immortality But desirable death. 
"Love is rational acknowledgment Of the willingness to die For the object of said love Further, because God's love is The true object and source of love, Any stranger can be your lover As you sacrifice yourself to God." 
He shook his head And ·suggested that I try sobriety, But I won't stop drinking Philosophy, For it condemns me To purposeful death in love. 
by Thomas J. Berry 


The Donor's Tale 

22 SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1983 
i 
I: 
li 
• ~ ' -' • -• 
. 
. . . ' . . . . 
by Mary Ellen Arn 
The building isn't located in a really "bad" section of town but strolling along Forbes Avenue at night without benefit of escort is not wise. Plasma donations are taken in the former office space on the first floor, though the filth on the street-front window is hardly indicative of sterile conditions. One can only hazard a guess as to what lives in the apartments above the plasma center. I was willing to overlook my surround­ings, however, and continue with the ordeal-if Jackie 
0. manages to survive the experience then certainly I too could make a small contribution for the benefit of mankind. (Jacqueline Onassis reportedly donates blood as of.ten as is medically permissible in her efforts to "help those less fortunate than" herself.-The "Star," Aug. 24, 1981.) Who knows? Maybe my own plasma will save a governor's, or even a senator's life someday. 
Regardless (more or less), I mustej:ed my courage (I'm not fond of needles) and marched headlong into the waiting room. I wasn't exactly sure what I had been expecting to find, but there certainly weren't any bandages, or doctors, or equipment around. In fact, the room was rather bare, filled only with long v,hite wooden benches and a single counter with a receptionist at work behind (she may not have even been a nurse-sometimes those things are difficult to judge). I was instructed to sign in on the "new donors" list and handed two laminated documents to read while awaiting my turn. Turning back toward the benches I couldn't decide exactly where to sit-the occupants of the benches looked as if they were awaiting a Salva­tion Army hot lunch, not in line. to donate life-giving plasma. Upon further consideration I turned back to the receptionist (I was positive now that she wasn't a real nurse) and told her that I could only be spared from the office for an hour and could I possibly be taken right away to hurry the process along. 
I read the documents while seated in a corner be­tween a wall (which was endowed with a poetic eulogy 
' ~ -< -• 
' 
. . . . . . . _.------·-----~· 
of some Sonya person's physical attributes written on it) and a woman (who came remarkably close to fitting the legendary Sonya's description). The wall offered little comfort as I squeezed up against it. I scanned the room, and as I did so it struck me that I wished the room had been dimly lit. The daylight was unbearably bright as it reflected off the white ceiling, walls, floors, and benches, and the other donors were grotesquely revealed in a most magnified dimension by such radiant light. Personally I would have preferred the vagueness of shadow. Two of the donors, seated a few benches in front of me, were involved in a heated, barely controlled verbal dispute; I'm dead sure if one of them hadn't been called to the desk that I would have perished in a private riot. Perhaps they were donating plasma in compensation for how much they'd drawn from others in their short hoodlum lives. I daresay that the $7 per pint paid for plasma wasn't going to be donated to their favorite charity. I huddled there, suddenly paralyzed with the thought of would­be killers seated a mere 10 feet from the corner in which I had trapped myself. Mentally I gauged how many steps it would take me to reach the door. 
Most of the other donors were old, tired and haggard­looking-dressed in a potpourri of colors, textures and eras. No doubt their $7 was going to be liquefied immediately, into a bottle of "Ripple." My God! I tried to fathom what would happen to a surgical patient having the likes of their blood pumped into a vein! If not physical, then moral, depravity would inevitably set in as a complication. Heaven only knows what filth has been dissolved into the blood streams along skid row. I thank the Lord that Providence has kept me on my reducing diet for the past two decades­someone will be buoyed by the years of good food and nourishment which is the foundation of my 
plasma's purity. I have no sympathy for those who have no respect for themselves, and after today I'd say there are quite a number of them. If only blood could be analyzed for common decency! 
After twenty minutes spent with the dregs of humanity, I was called back to the counter. At last, my mission was getting somewhere! From where I stood answering questions I could see into the actual donating room. What an intricate jungle! Tubes, bags and polished metal tables stood or _hung everywhere. Through that very door is where the liquid source of life's sustenance is transferred from the hearty and robust to the struggling and weak. I felt my heart swell like the dough of my old mother's sweet bread, and I felt good. _ 
That feeling was immediately swept away an,l:l re­placed with indignation! I shudder to think what sorts of people must try to sell plasma if the screehing questions have to be so demeaning. No, I am not a member of any of the identified groups believed to c&.rry AIDS.... No, I am not presently addicted to alcohol or drugs, ... No, I am not pregnant, suffering from unexplained "night sweats," or experiencing dizzy spells ... no no no no NO!! Wouldn't you suppose that the receptionist would be grateful to be screeriing someone who obviously was not hiding anything about her condition? Hardly!! I was treated as everyone else had been-the recipient of a battery of rapid, mechanical questions spoken in a monotone. Naturally it was a struggle to keep my overriding purpose in mind and not give the cause up entirely. lt?s a wonder my 
boss can go through this embarrassing interrogation 
week after week. 
Sent once again to the benches I had to lie in wait next to those waiting-room mercenr.ries for still another call. I felt glaringly conspicuous in the waiting room-like a prize-winning Holstein in a motley herd of cows. 
Much to my surprise, when the call actually came I was led into a doctor's examining room. I was re­lieved. I would much rather withstand the needle in private and not force others to endure my discomfort. Hopefully my plasina would be processed much more quickly in this private room than if taken in the ward, so that a deserving person might receive the benefits of my gift as soon as possible. 
I gave the doctor my most appreciative smile as he entered the room, lay back on the table and held my left forearm out toward him. I had debated about which arm to submit to the I.V. tube, and I came to the conclusion that the hand that holds my fork is essential, so my left arm would be my choice. I had also con­sidered wearing long sleeves to cover the wound during rny afternoon at work, but I was sure I'd be much too warm. 
Imagine my insult when the doctor informed me that he had a few more routine questions to ask before I could join the other donors-in the ward! Continuing, he asked me if I had ever had hepatitis, and I replied (truthfully, I might add) that yes, I had had hepatitis when I was young, as a secondary infection stemming from mononucleosis. Well, that doctor looked me right in the eye and said, bold as brass, "We get addicts and drunks in here all the time looking to make a few extra bucks, and we have to turn every last one of them away for the same reason-exposure to hepatitis. Don't go feeling bad though. I'm sure you didn't get hepatitis by shooting up with a dirty needle now, did you? I'm afraid your file goes into the reject pile any­way, there just isn't any guarantee that your blood is pure ... it's kind of like my old daddy's cows; all the best grain, tending and pastures; and the cows' milk is sour. D 

Mary Ellen Arn is a business major from Glenshaw, Pennsylvania. She is a junior, and this is her second contribution to Scholastic. 
SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1983 
. . 
• . • -•• • 
. . . .. . . -. . . . ­
'' 
i 
A Clich& 
by Abuid A. Amaro 
As I was walking with my grandfather through the extension of his farm a thunderstorm started, and before you knew it, was upon his land. 
Thunder and lightning everywhere was -the result of this event Trying to equate itself with the thunders my valiant heart beat so rapidly that it was difficult to know which sound was the body, which was the skies. 
I was about to run for the farmhouse when I watched the face of my grandfather. He was so quietly at ease that he seemed out of place in the noisy atmosphere. 
Out of curiosity I asked my grandfather if he were scared. He asked back, "Are you?'' M:; silent gaze at the lightning, not very far away, answered this question for me. "Don't worry, son. It is natural," he said. · 
But if it w2re so natural why wasn't he scared? My grandfather had a good reason that I will share with you, only if you promise to pass this wisdom on. 
My grandfather said: "Son, these storms are as dangerous for me as they are for you, bu~ in my case the fear is gone. I :lo not fear the -thunder because the lightning that it announces is already gone. I do not fear the lightning because I don't know where it might fall. For that reason son, I simply do not fear any storm." 
R£fl:~cting on his words, I staye~ with him. Watching the skies, the light and the sound was fun now. Before I knew it the storm was gone. W c walked to the house. This time two very secure men were going back, wh2re once a child and an old man had gone out. 
Abuid Amaro is a senior Arts and Letters major from Puerto Rico. This is his first contr-ibution to Scholastic. 




ehristiari Tral1$JO)rriltti'oti ·~f the World 
by Professor Janet E. Smith 
Certainly, in any age there has been a vast disparity between the values of "the world" and the values of Christ. Ours is no different. Al­though we like to think that man­kind has made great progress, the appalling gap between rich and poor in most countries, the oppression of political and religious freedom in many, the worldwide legalization of abortion, the increase of violent crime--to mention a few examples -indicate that we are not making much progress in ,the eradication of evil-the task to which Christ calls us beyond all others. A Catholic uni­versity has a special obligation-in­deed has as its foremost obligation the promotion of this task in the manner consonant with its nature: a Catholic university has as its spe­cial province the task of developing young intellects so that they might understand the truths of the Faith and the ways of the world-and then become bearers of love and justice, the true fruits of Christianity, to a world achingly in need of Christ's redeeming power. We see an en­couraging example of a university carrying out this duty in a course presently being taught at Notre Dame--a full course is being offered to explain and promulgate the recent pastoral of the American bishops on war and peace. Catholics are appro­
priately assuming the leadership role in this pressing moral issue; admin­istrators, professors, and students to­gether are helping the teaching office of the Church, the bishops, to spread the witness of Christ and the strength of the Catholic tradition by challeng­ing the world with informed zeal on this topic. 
Other teachings of the Church de­serve the same concentrated and zealous promotion. For instance, too few Catholics have understood the Church's teaching on justice in the workplace, which finds dangers in both capitalism and socialism. U.S. Catholics should not blindly accept the "doctrine" of society that maxi­mization of profit is the highest goal of business, or simplistically assume that abolition of private property will solve all social ills. Several papal encyclicals set out the principles for ensuring justice in the workplace and deserve a close study by all who will be leaders in the economy. Few Catholics, too, realize that many of the social ills of society today were "prophesized" by Pope Paul VI when he clearly and courageously enunci­ated the moral truth that artificial birth control is wrong and thus will inevitably lead to much social evil, such as divorce, abortions, and lack • of respect for women and children. Catholics waste their patrimony when they neglect these teachings and fail to challenge the world to 
aspire to the demanding but reward­ing code of morality taught by Christ through the Church. 
It is often tempting to downplay the unpopular truths of Christianity: If one speaks the truth, one often loses one's audience. In the first part of St. Thomas More's Utopia a con­versation takes p)ace ab<mt the diffi­culties of giving advice. More, in this dialogue, counseis the use of tact and indirectfon, but a character named Raphael argues that such a method is likely to water r:own the force of one's advice. Raptael argues that any advice that cJunsels anything unconventional is likely to be ill­received -and also observes that most good advice is likely to be un­conventional. He explains his posi­tion by using Christianity as an example: 
If we're never to say anything that might be thought unconven­tional, for fear of its sounding ridiculous, we'll have to hush up, even in a Christian country, prac­tically everything that Christ. taught. But that is the last thing He wanted. Didn't He tell His disciples that everything He had . whispered in their ears should be proclaimed on the housetops? And most of His teaching is far more at variance with modern conven­tions than anything I suggested, except insofar as His doctrines 
I: 
' 
• 
"A Catholic university has as its task to become bearers oflove'. .and-Justice,· the true fruifs of l;hristianifY,J,Q ,a world aChiQgty in .... .·need of.'Christ's reil~~rning. powe,.g·· . 
' ' ­

. -' ... 
have been modified by ingenious preachers.... 'We'll never get hu­man behavior in line with Chris­tian ethics,' these gentlemen must have argued, 'so let's adapt Chris­tian ethics to human behavior. Then at least there'll be some connection between them.' But I can't see what good they've done. They've merely enabled people to sin with a clear conscience .... 
Any Catholic institution seeking the respect of the world is very sus­ceptible to the danger which More humorously depicts in this passage, for there is a strong temptation to adjust the teachings of Catholicism to the "sophisticated" reasoning of the secular world rather than to stick to the real task of Catholicism: the transformation of the souls of men in accord with the teachings of Christ. This requires not that we adapt ourselves to the world but that we adapt the world to the ideals of Christ-an act that today is often called "practicing social justice;" St. John has given us the prescription for how this is to be done: 
We can be sure we love God's children if we love God himself and do what he has commanded us; this is what loving Goa· is­keeping his commandments; -and his commandments are not diffi­cult, because anyone who has been begotten by God has already over­come the world; this is the victory 
-. -· ; ..-.. ', . , ,· ... 
over the world-our faith 5:2-4). 

As this passage indicates, in order to promote social justice, it is not sufficient to teach only the social and ethical teachings of the Church. These teachings grow out of cen­turies of study and prayerful medi­tation over the redemptive act of Christ. A prayerful study of scrip­ture and Church doctrine will help us to remember that Christ never promised us justice or happiness in this world-rather, He promised us suffering. This suffering, though, is not to be the result of a passive ac­ceptance of evil, but is to be the product of an active resistance to evil. This is a resistance which will rarely require violence but will al­
ways require self-sacrificing love; one cannot be motivated out of hate for one's enemies but must love them and desire their conversion. And Christian suffering differs from all other suffering in that it is not to be a suffering grudgingly endured, but one. embraced in graceful hope. Only love and hope can sustain a Christian in the struggle against the unending evil of this world. 
Expecting successful transforma­tion of the world and, ultimately, har­mony with the world are two of the mistakes to which Christians in their fight for social justice are prone. Ari­other is believing that the injustice committed by others-by institutions •-is worse than the evil existing in 
one's own soul; as advocates of so­cial justice we are demanding that others live in accord with the will of God; we must foster justice and goodness and obedience in our own hearts first. College students should certainly be attempting to combat the less than fully Christian ele­ments on their own campuses as well as fighting evil hemispheres away; such activities at Notre Dame as the attempt to curb excessive drinking, to monitor University investments and to give generously to charitable causes, are favorable signs of Chris­tian zeal. Christians must be radiant examples of Christ's love and selfless­ness-for only then can we expect to effectively advance the work of saturating this world with the love and justice Christ promised all His children. D 
Professor Janet E. Smith has taught in the Program of Liberal Studies at Notre Dame since the fall of 1980. 
Student Political Apathy: 
Why? 
"How could this have happened to me? How could I, a former political activist and he/1­raiser, have sunk so far into the void of ignorance and apathy?" 
by Mary Isphording 
POLITICAL APATHY. What do 
you think when you see those words? 
"-Who cares?", right? Me too. 
I wasn't always this way. In high school, I was a big political activist who couldn't believe that people of voting age could be so ignorant and apathetic that they would neither know who the candidates were and what the issues were, nor bother to vote on them. I was positive that I would always be well informed on every candidate and issue and would register to vote even before my 18th birthday so I could begin the exer­cise of my voting rights as soon as possible. 
Well, that was two years ago. On the first day of classes this semester, one of my profs gave us a pop quiz comprised of questions such as "Who are your state's senators?" and "Name your home district's repre­sentative to Congress." I couldn't answer either question. I could have made some reasonable guesses, but I really didn't know the answers. At least I did know the name of our vice-president, which is more than I can say for some members of the 
class. · Then, to make matters worse, when I was home for break my dad mentioned something about getting an absentee ballot for me so I can vote in the very important upcoming Ohio elections (don't ask me. what the issues are). "But Dad," I said, "I can't vote-I'm not registered." The look of utter disgust on his face only deepened my embarrassment. .How could this have happened to me? How could I, a former political activist and hell-raiser, have sunk so far into the void of · ignorance and apathy? I suppose there are a_lot of reasons, or at least excuses, for such behavior which we've all heard be­
fore. There's always "I'm so busy with school that I don't have time to be informed on the candidates and issues" which leads right into "it's pointless to vote if I'm not in­formed." And, of course, there's the. standard "I'm just one person and I can't do anything about the way things are, so it doesn't matter who I vote for or even if I vote at all." I can't say that these excuses are unreasonable; I use them all the time myself. 
But i•m still not sure why I'm so apathetic. I don't know whose fault it is. Some people blame the apathy of the youth today on ·the disillu­sionment we experienced growing up in the era of Watergate, ABSCAM, and other such scandals. Other peo­ple blame our apathy on the idea that we are spoiled: all the fighting for voting rights went on before we were born, or at least before we were old enough to appreciate it, so we take these rights for granted now. 
I think there is some truth to this. Just how much those who had to fight for the right to vote value that right was made abundantly clear to me when I worked at the polls on the first floor of Augusta Hall during the May primary elections a couple years ago. Nuns came to vote in wheelchairs, blind, deaf, often unable to pull the levers in the booth them­selves. But the right to vote meant so much to them that they went to physical extremes to exercise it. · I saw this kind' of appreciation again last week when I was in Washington, D.C., gazing at an exhibit depicting the suffragette and youth vote move­ments in the National Museum of Natural History; A woman about 60 or 70 years old was looking at the exhibit at the same time and said to me, "Don't ever forget how impor­tant it is to vote." I must have "not registered to vote" stamped across my face or something. 
It really is kind of sad that we have gotten so apathetic, though. When the prof who gave us the quiz on the first day of classes presented us with the results and most of us had failed, he reminded us that we are the "educated elite." If those of us who are supposedly being edu­cated to become the new leaders of our society neither know nor care about our politics and government, who will? If we are the future of our country, what kind of future will our. country have if our attitudes don't change? 
Well, I doubt this article has in­spired you to run out and register to vote and collect all the informa­tion you can on current events and personalities. It hasn't even inspired nie that much. But at least I'm beginning to care that I don't care, and that's a step in the right direc­tion. D 

Mary Isphording is a St. Mary's stu­dent from Cincinnati, Ohio. This is her first contribution. 

Things Have Changed Since 1970 
by Kerry Temple 
Associate Editor, Notre Dame Magazine 
It wasn't just what the student said that bothered me, but that he didn't seem to think anything was wrong with it. What he said was: "When I got accepted to Notre Dame, I never thought I wouldn't get the job I wanted. Without a doubt, a Notre Dame degree is a ticket to success. But when I didn't have a job by the end of my senior year, I thought my four years had been a waste of time." This skewed view of the purpose of a college education did not come from one of those much-maligned business majors, but from a student in the Program of Liberal Studies. 
A few days later a young woman student told me that she felt good about her four years at Notre Dame. Her only complaint was that she hadn't had much interaction with the faculty outside the classroom. They were hardly accessible, she said, and always seemed too busy to talk with students. 
These were not isolated incidents. A number of students have told me as much, and colleagues here at the University have expressed concern with what is happening beneath the dome. The students, they say, are too career-minded. The student body's homogeneity thwarts the real learn­ing that diversity of opinion brings. Faculty members give students low marks for intellectual curiosity and eagerness to explore new ideas. The students criticize the faculty for not being available to talk informally. Other observers say the pressure to publish and do research handicaps the faculty's teaching performance. Even the graduate students, who work more closely with the faculty than the undergraduates do, want more outside-of-work interaction with 
them. 
These trends are regrettable for a couple of reasons. One is that they run counter to what learning at a university is all about-not voca­tional training but a community of scholars asking, testing, exploring, questioning, but accepting nothing (not even the tenets of their faith). Second is that these trends deviate from the Notre Dame tradition ­close student0faculty relations, learn­ing for learning's sake. 
Things have changed since Sep­tember 1970 when I stood as a fresh­man in Farley Hall's basement and heard hall leaders advise:. "Don't worry about grades or what you're going to do when you get out of here. Notre Dame is full of good people. So if you're faced with a choice of studying or being with those people, get out of your room. Most of what you learn here will not be. learned from books." 
In the early 1970s Notre Dame 
really did seem to be a community 
of scholars. It probably came closer 
to being a real university then than 
at any time in its history -for many 
reasons. 
Of course, the times were·different then. I was startled the other day when a student had not heard about the bombing of Cambodia, the Kent State murders, the riots at the Demo­cratic Nationa,l Convention in Chi­cago. He was not born when Presi­dent Kennedy was killed in 1963. Those shots ignited a revolutionary age in which every stone was over­turned. 
I grew up while freedom fighters marched through Mississippi, while blacks rioted in urban ghettos, while war raged in Vietnam, while the presidency was brought to its feet during Watergate, while hippies took to the streets. American society was erupting, blowing apart at the seams. There were countercultures and sub­cultures. Social mores were shat­tered. Drugs became common. Our music became anthems of a chang­ing world -all we needed was love and peace. 
These were revolutionary times. We wore our hair long and our jeans patched. We trusted no person over 30, no organization larger than a commune. We strove to be "relevant" and "down to earth," and rebelled against the Establishment and all authority. Defiance was the order of the day; challenge -do not per­petuate -the status quo. 
Notre Dame was not spared these collisions. There were rallies and draft card burnings. Classes were canceled. Students set fire to the ROTC building. The '60s had been a time of upheaval within the Univer­sity community as students won hard-fought battles for independence. Student publications waged lively wars with administrators and stu­dent government gained a real voice in University affairs. Restrictions on hall life were loosened. 
These struggles of liberation -in society and at Notre Dame -created an environment primed for learning.· By the early '70s the angry, destruc­tive and negative forces were fading; the winds of change had blown the windows open. An air of excitement permeated the quads and corridors. Notre Dame was on the threshold of its dream to be that place where all the philosophical, theological and so­cietal questions could be asked and pursued in a spirit of intellectual and moral inquiry. Students chose courses, not to improve their mar­ketability, but to explore subjects they wanted to know more about. We really could, we believed, forge a new, more humane world. 



Many of the residences had a "hall fellows" program in which faculty came into the hall and led discussions on faith, literature, politics and hu­manism. Dialogue with faculty was the hallmark of a Notre Dame educa­tion; there were ample opportunities for relaxed conversation, even de­bate. We carried the issues into late­night bull sessions where the ques­tions seemed all-absorbing and the need for answers urgent. 
Other ingredients spiced the stew: Notre Dame's governance was trans­ferred from a religious order to a lay board; it· was an experiment that provoked questions of institutional identity. The University also went coed which lent diversity to the edu­cational mix and prompted questions relati~g to changing sexual roles. 
Finally, and significantly, the Catho­lic Church, a monument to tradition, stability and authority, was strug­gling through its own identity crisis in the wake of Vatican II. Mean­while, everything was up for grabs; the questions wide open, the answers uncertain. 
It was an exhilarating time to be young, free and idealistic. It was a fun time to be in school. It felt as if students and faculty were partners on a voyage of discovery. We, like students of all generations, were products of the times. The pendulum, which ·had swung dizzyingly left, was dropping back toward normality by my senior year in 1973-74. We were fortunate to have been students then -before the pendulum went so far righL, before conservatism be­
came the norm. 
Society and student life today seem 
boring in comparison. The place 
doesn't seem as lively; the dialogue 
doesn't seem as charged. l wonder 
sometimes if we take ourselves too 
seriously, if administrators don't get 
a little too uptight, if students .have 
lost a creativity and a real sense of 
what college should be about. I 
wonder if the reality is drifting 
further from the image and if we're 
losing something in our quest to be like "our peer institutions." 
Amid these concerns -sympto­matic of most graduates looking back at their first decade as an alum­nus-is a belief in the place. But at the core of that belief is the recogni­tion that what makes Notre Dame special is the generous nurriber of good people here. While the Sacred Heart bells have tolled for too many giants in the past 10 years, there are still plenty of good people here to share a cup of coffee, to talk about life and God and what it means to be human. These are the ultimate ques­tions, the ones which form the con­text of each person's life, the ones against which all actions are mea­sured. There is no better time to ex­plore the roads over which these questions will take you than your four years at Notre Dame. For earn­est inquirers there may be no better place. .. 
Mr. Kerry Temple is the Associate Editor of Notre Dame Magazine and a former student at the Dome. In addition to his work at ND Magazine, he is a frequent contributor to Today in Michiana. 

BRUNO'S II PIZZA 
(Across from Big "C" Lumber) 
Mondays Only 
Bruno will deliver a 
16" with any toppings 
277-4519
for$6.95to campus FREE 
Open 4-11 7 days a week 
BIG@ 
LUMBER CENTER 
• 
,(RMSTRONG CEILING TILE • POWEii TOOLS 

• 
CABINETS • lUM&ll 

• 
PlYWOOD • HARDWARE 


• OLYMPIC STAIN, • PIUMBING & 
• PANELING ELECTRICAL SUPPUES AND MUCH, MUCH MORE ... 
We make "doing 1t yourself' 
·EASY 
11 
~ 
~01:1•-r 
!'!!!!.!'!!!!.!
==:=.-==-.=....~ 
;;@ 
272-6500 
125 DIXIE WAY NORTH 
ROSELAND
LUMBER 
CENTER 

Good thru Dec 83 
Wl1t Qtolnnial fancaltt :Jlousc .._ ~ 
$1.00OFFT'::!hAd~ 
OUR SPECIALTY Limit 1 OVEN-BAKED per person 
APPLE PANCAKES 

~ The original ft#~ · clown-delivered r_JQ balloon bo11quet 
0~ 

256-0062 
(formerly Balloou Howkay) 
2812 Lenson Drive Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 


The 1984 Elections and Notre Dame 
by Ed Colbert 
With 1984 still two months away, 
. politicians, legislators, businessmen, and even students are already pre­paring for the election year. Political analysts around the country have started making predictions about Re-. publican reelection, Democratic chal­lengers, and third-party chances. Is­sues and platforms are beginning to take shape in meeting halls through­out the United States. The Univer­sity of Notre Dame is certainly not oblivious to the fervor that is begin­ning to sweep this country. Several political groups on campus are mak­ing preparations for the election year, and are planning to take an active role in the election process. Other political groups at Notre Dame view 1984 as an important year be­cause issues concerning them are sure to be exposed during the cam­paigns. 
Though other organizations on campus may have some political in­tent, at least five groups manifest their existence on politicians and is­sues. These five can be split into two categories: campaign-oriented politi­cal groups, and single issue-oriented political groups. The College Repub­licans, The Young Democrats, and The Democratic Socialists of Amer­ica are all concerned with electing a candidate suitable to their parties' platform. FLOC (Farm Labor Or­ganizing Committee); and the Wom­en's Caucus, however, are each con­cerned with one particular issue. The College Republicans boast a mem­bership of 210, of which 60-70 are active members. The group works in coalition with the C.R.N.C. (College Republican National Committee), 
which is a structure for all College Republican groups.. The C.R.N.C. sponsors a national project on which all the local groups work. According to Bill Borg, Chairman of the Notre Dame College Republicans, his group plans to participate in the national project. This project consists of a massive petition drive for the release of Russian political prisoner, Yuri Balovlenkov. Balovlenkov wishes to join his family in America, but the Soviet government has not yet al­lowed him to leave. On November 16, the College Republicans will partici­pate in a nationwide fast: a sym­bolic gesture protesting Balovlen­kov's detention. In the past, accord­ing to Bond, the College Republicans have sponsored a pro-Polish Solidar­ity campaign, and an anti-unilateral freeze campaign. However, the most important actions the group will take this year are helping to reelect a Republican President, electing a Re­publican Congress, and especially aiding in the campaigns of state and local Republicans. The group's main goal on campus is educating the stu-

"Notre Dame is certainly not oblivious to the fervor that is beginning to sweep the country. Several political groups on campus are making preparations for the election year, and are planning to take an active role in the election 
process." 
dents about the Republican Party and the Republican candidates. 
"Education on being a Democrat, what it means to be a Democrat is the essential purpose of the Young Democrats at Notre Dame," said Jim Malackowski, chairman of the Young Democrats on campus. The Young Democratics have a membership of one hundred and five, with thirty to forty active members. Its main ob­jective, other than educating, is to assist in the state, local, and Presi­dential elections of 1984. The Young Democrats of Notre Dame operate out of a national organization of Young Democrats, and their main project is the mock election scheduled for the spring semester. The purpose of the mock election, traditionally run by the party that is not in power, is to expose the students of Notre Dame to the candidates and to the major issues. Malackowski says, "We have in the past, and will in the future, try to reach all students and expose them to the Democratic prin­ciples." 
The Democratic Socialists of Amer­ica are a third campaign-oriented political group. The national group is led by Michael Harrington, and works for a new ideology, a new order. The group is relatively small on campus, but sees itself as a legiti­mate alternative to the two estab­lished parties. 
Political groups concerned with is­sues are also found at Notre Dame. One such group is the Women's Caucus, a group of twenty to twenty­five women who are trying to edu­cate the University about women's issues. According to Mary Ellen Sternitzke, Director of Publicity for the group, the members are not all feminists, but are concerned with reaching and educating this predomi­nantly male campus: Planned for the year is a lecture series with female faculty members, and a lecture on planned parenthood, as well as a right-to-life seminar. 
FLOC is also a one-issue group on campus. The groups consisting of twenty to twenty-five members is concerned with the well-being of farm workers in America. This group is responsible for ·sponsoring the Libby/Campbell's boycott. 
The political groups all seem to have one common goal: education. The members of these groups are ac­tive and eager to be involved in the election and with the major issues of the day. They are also anxious to ex­pose other students to their own po­litical organization. O 
_f,, 

Ed Colbert is a senior Arts and Let­
ters major from Ionia, Michigan. 
This is his first contribution to Scho­
lastic. 
SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1983 
' -­
--•-----------~----­

The Kellogg Institute at Notre Dame 
"The Kellogg Institute is a center for interna­tional affairs. The Institute strives to develop intensive and fruitful links with Latin America." 
by Barbara Stevens 
Latin America is appearing in the news more and more frequently these days. As Latin America grows in im­portance, a new institute at Notre Dame, the Kellogg Institute, simul­taneously gains significance. The Kellogg Institute, founded at Notre Dame last year after a donation from the Helen Kellogg Foundation of Chi­cago, is a center for international af­fairs. Operating out of several spa­cious, attractive offices on the twelfth floor of the Memorial Library, Notre Dame's branch of the Kellogg Insti­tute has decided to focus strongly, but not exclusively, on Latin Amer­ica. 
"Despite the differences between the United States and Latin America, we have many points in common," said Guillermo O'Donnell, academic director of the Institute. "For exam­ple, we both have a strong Catholic tradition." 
The Kellogg Institute consists of chairpeople, an advisory council headed by Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh, fifteen to twenty fellows, and members. Some of the fellows are members of the Notre Dame fac­ulty who devote part of their time to the Institute. The rest are visiting fellows from other parts of the United States, Europe, and Latin America (mostly Chile, Argentina, and Brazil). The visiting fellows spend from two months to one aca­demic year at the Institute. They work on individual projects, partici­pate in seminars, help organize work­shops and conferences, and may teach courses at Notre Dame. 
The Kellogg Institute is not a teaching institute. Although fellows often teach courses, the Institute doesn't grant degrees or offer courses on its own. "We are ex­clusively a research institute," ex­plained Prof. Albert LeMay, the Kel­logg Institute program coordinator. 
The main goal of the Institute, ac­cording to O'Donnell "is the genera­tion of new knowledge and excellent scholarship about themes which we consider relevant not so much be­cause there is a hole in literature but because we feel there are some very crucial problems for human beings, especially for humans who live in cruelly deprived conditions." The in­stitute focuses in two directions in its research-inward to the univer­sity and outward toward Latin America. The Institute tries to work closely with the academic depart­ments, especially the social sciences. They financially aid some of the stu­dent groups such as the Student Organization for Latin America (S.O.L.A.) and sponsor lectures and conferences at Notre Dame. The Kellogg Center will also soon begin publication of working papers of the Institute showing research done by fellows. · 
'On the basis of the work of 
Denis Goulet (left), O'Neill Professor of Education for Justice, with Professors Nancy and Alfred Stepan. 
34 
SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1983 

scholars and exchange of faculty and students," said O'Donnell, "we hope to make a contribution to the intel­lectual•' life of the University and more generally to enlighten discus­sion on views the University tries to evolve." In reaching outward, the Institute strives to develop ·intensive and fruitful links with Latin Amer­ican social science institutes. 
The Institute has narrowed down the aim of its research to five themes. "After long discussion,"· ex­plained O'Donnell, "we· reached the conclusion that we can't learn and teach about everything, so we es­tablished priority lines. These lines guide selection of the fellows." The themes are: 1) Problems of democ­racy and democratization. 2) Alter­native economic models/development. 
3) The Church, society, and policies of Latin America. 4) Human rights in a broad sense (i.e., minorities and women). 5) Concern with the lot of the poor. "The fifth line of research is the backbone for the other four," said O'Donnell. 
The Kellogg Institute boasts a very impressive membership. The members are highly intelligent, most of them have held important posi­tions and have had published several works. Academic director, Guillermo O'Donnell, also holds the Helen Kel­logg Chair in International Studies as well as being a professor in the de­partments of government and sociol­ogy. He has written several books, his latest, El Estado Burocratico Autoritario,1966-1913 :Triunfos, Der­rotas y Crisis. The Institute chair of International Development is held 
by Alejandro Foxley, who is also a 
professor of economics. Currently Foxley is .in Chile, where he's the director of CIEPLAN, probably the most distinguished center for eco­nomics. Since 1973 the Chilean gov­ernment has prevented Foxley from 
teaching because he's well-recognized 
as a democrat, and the government is 
hostile in its dealings with those promoting academic freedom. The 
executive director of the Institute, 
Reverend Ernest Bartell, C.S.C., is a 
professor of economics who pre­
viously served as president of Stone­
hill College in North Easton, Massa­chusetts. One of the senior fellows. of the Institute, Alexander Wilde, an associate professor of government, 
was formerly Acting Secretary .of 
the Latin American Program in the 
Wilson Center,. Washington. D.C. The Institute initiated some activi-· 
ties last year, but really began in 
full gear this year. "This year is the 
year for creating visions and long­
range goals," observed LeMay. The 
Institute has already begun realizing its visions by sponsoring impressive 
speakers ·and conferences. On Sep­
tember 8, 1983, Ian Roxborough of the London School of Economics and Political Science spoke about Unions in the Mexican Automobile Industry. Roxborough is 'the author of The­ories of Underdevelopment and the co-author of Chile: The :State and Revolution. On October 13 Dr. Werner Baer, a professor of eco­nomics at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, spoke about 
"The Economics Crisis in Brazil." 
Baer is the author of the book The 
Brazilian Economy: Growth and De­
velopment. On October thirteenth Dr. 
Edmundo Vargas, Executive Secre­
tary of the Inter-American Commis­
sion on Human Rights of the OAS 
talked about "Human Rights in Latin 
America: A Different Perspective 
from the Inter-American Commis­
sion." 
The Kellogg Institute will be hold­
ing two international conferences this 
academic year, one in the fall and one 
in the spring. In November, there will 
be_ a conference on "Issues of Democ­
racy and Democratization in North­
ern and Southern Hemispheres." In 
April there will be a conference on 
possible relations between economic 
development policies and democracy 
in the Third World with an emphasis 
on Latin America. This conference 
will also be a tribute to Albert 
Hirschman, who is probably the most 
creative author on these topics and 
who is retiring from his position as 
a senior member. of the Institute for 
Advanced Studies in Princeton. 
In spite of Latin America's grow­
ing importance in the world, most Notre Danie students are almost completely ignorant about Latin American policies, culture, and ways of life. O'Donnell believes that the student's knowledge of Latin Ameri­can affairs could improve. "Notre Dame has the advantage of very diverse composition in terms of back­ground which makes . teaching ·at Notre Dame an interesting experi­ence. It is my hope that with the work of the Institute, among· other things, we will be able to increase .interest in the Latin American re­gion of the world." D 

. 
SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1983 
. ------~--­
--~-·~ -~­
,,, 
The Last Word 
': 
'i 
by Jim Ganther 
Editor-in-Chief 
•11, I I spent part of the summer of 1982 as the honored i guest of the United States Marine Corps at their resort in southern California known as Camp Pendleton.. Part of the daily ritual for the visitors was something ca.Bed "PT," an acronym for Physical Torture or Per­sonal Training or something of that nature. Anyway, PT meant getting up long before the sun with 75 other bleary-eyed midshipmen to bounce and stretch and crank out push-up after painful push-up. 

After the eastern horizon became bright enough for us to see potholes, we would conclude -the PT session with a brisk three-mile run up a nearby hill and back, and for some reason the run seemed to be uphill both· ways. And while we ran along, the Gunnery Sergeant would teach us marching songs, or "jodies." As I reca11, Gunny Arthur was six feet, four inches tall, 280 pounds; a Caribbean black. When he said sing, we sang. As he taught us songs, he also taught us a little about life. 
"Ain't no use in lookin' down-ain't no six-pack 
on the ground!" "Lift your head and hold it high-the Navy mids 
are marchin' by!'' 
The gunny's outlook on life was simple: keep your eyes off the deck and on the horizon. Think big, think positive, and face life head-on. I have remembered Gunny Arthur's advice concerning positive mental attitude, and applied it to my job search. I am capable! I thought. I can do it! They want me! And so, with smiles and confidence, I commenced my quest for gain­ful employment. 
My first interview in -the area of corporate finance was with a Wisconsin firm which manufactured dis-

Ii 

posable nose-blowing equipment. Granted, .owing your paycheck to the fact that sniffles are socially unaccept­able is not the most glamorous way of making a living, but we've all got to start somewhere, right? And so I interviewed with the Sammy Davis, Jr., attitude: Yes I can! 
Three weeks later I heard from the firm in question: No you can't! 
Was I disappointed? You bet. But I have since had other interviews with successful results, and am con­vinced that the gunny was right: The only way to face life is head-on, for life is like those rugged hills of Pendleton. Sometimes it seems that the only way to go is uphill. D 

Coming Next Month!! 
A review of Nancy's Windy City-the best pizza In town. 
36 
SCHOLASTIC/NOV-EMBER 1983 
~
• • • • -• • • •. • • • -• • • • -l • .• • 

New Hours: Monday Thru Friday 9-8 Saturday 8-3 
277-0734 
Who Want to Look Their Best. .. 
Visit our location at 417 Dixieway North 

In Roseland across from Wendy's
f?~ 

405 Dixieway North (U.S.) Roseland
-ROSELAND.PHARMACY 
. \ . ­
272-6060 
Roseland Aquatics 
10 percent off Fish and dry goods with this ad (excluding feeder .aoldfish) 
Feeder Goldfish 10 for$1.00 with ND/SMC Studentl.D. 
415 Dixieway North Hours: 11 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. (Across from Wendy's) Mon.-Sat. 277-4862 

FULL SERVICE ChPCk CJ,hing Convenience 
POSTAL SUB-STATION 
Postage Stamps Pmel Post with v,1/,d SMC or ND ID Registered Mail Post.I Money Orders Certified Miil Post.I Cards O.ily 5 p.m. Pickup 
Sub-station Hours: 9 o.m.-5 p.m. Mon.-Fri. 9 o.m.-1 p.m. Sot. 
STORE HOURS: 9 AM-9 PM MON--SAT. 9AM-12 NOON SUN. 


