PUBLISHED WEEKLY - FOUNDED 1867
IT’S MIGHTY LIKE
A TREE
Though, it spreads across the entire nation, the Bell Telephone System is simple in structure. You can think of it as a tree.
BRANCHES
The 24 associated operating companies ... which provide telephone service in their respective territories.
THUNK
The American Telephone and Telegraph Company... which coordinates system activities, advises on telephone operation and searches for improved methods.
ROOTS
Bell Telephone Laboratories... whose functions are scientific research and development; Western Electric ...manufacturer and distributor for the system; Long Lines Department of A.T.&T.... which interconnects the operating companies and handles Long Distance and overseas telephone service.
* * *
With common policies and ideals, these Bell System companies work as one to give you the finest, friendliest telephone service... at lowest cost.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE
। ■■ — RAYMOND J. KELLY	—
What the world thinks of us
“So, you went to Notre Dame, eh?”
“Yep.”
“You played football, eh?”
“Nope.”
“Oh, then you played in the band?”
“Nope.”
“You never went to Notre Dame!”
—Maroon Bee
The 'Liberals' still operate
The University of Michigan refused re-admittance to 12 students because of activities that were “detrimental, to the work of other students or the public interest.” All were admittedly radical and so the ASU has sprung to the defense of these students. The student board at Wisconsin U. sent a letter to President Ruthven of Michigan, demanding to know the specific reasons for his action. The Mount Holyoke Neivs printed a letter from the campus chapter of the ASU which stressed the fact that six of the Michigan students, about whom the controversy rages are Jewish and two are Negro. In both instances, the College Parade feels that the campus liberals blundered. In the first place, what right, except that assumed by snoopy neighbors, is given to a Wisconsin student body to interfer with the activities of the faculty of another school? Michigan has a student Senate, in which Socialists and Communists are more than adequately represented. Criticism of University policy should come from within the school. In the second instance, it was a low trick to tacitly accuse the University of Michigan of some form of prejudice because eight of the students were non-Aryan, according to the German definition of the term. It is merely an appeal for sympathy from persons who feel a most natural horror at the sight of minority oppression. Pernicious utterances and activities on the campus were the basis of Michigan’s decision, not race or religion.
❖
Society figures
Stephens Life came through with one of those rarities in a collegiate publication, an interesting statistical story. The vice-president in charge of dates gave her annual report which showed that during the last school year the average Stephens Collegian had 25 dates. The
head Glamour Girl dated 265 times while 37 students never went out. We are not in the least interested in that last group but certainly would like to meet that woman with 265 dates. Not that we would care to join the mob but we would like to know just how she did it.
More Famous Quotations
“The reason that there is so much knowledge in universities is that every freshman brings in a little and no senior takes any away.”—Dr. Loiuell, Harvard
Commerce man makes good
The Marquette Tribune reports that one of the school’s grads is making good as a fudge merchant. He has kept accurate charts showing his sales for the past year. Business has been booming every month and prosperity, he states, is due to his snappy slogan: “ENJOY that dark brown taste.”
Sounds like Sorin
“What year are you in?”
“Fifth.”
“Taking your master’s?”
“Naw! taking my time.”
—Gander

“This beats sky-writing any day!”
Dream Woman
She doesn’t drink, she never smokes, She doesn’t spend her dimes on cokes, She doesn’t like to stay out late, She’d rather sleep than have a date. She doesn’t neck, she doesn’t pet, In fact, she doesn’t walk as yet.
—Minnesota Ski-U-Mah
♦
Thanksgiving talk already
The Broivn and White told an interesting story about one of its Lehigh boys. It all took place one summer evening when he was with a date over whom he was becoming more and more enthusiastic as the evening progressed and as he made more and more trips to that flowing bowl. He finally reached the stage where he was making advance plans. Dates until the end of vacation were easily settled and he began to dispose of his week-ends before the thought of Thanksgiving struck him. He realized that last Thanksgiving had not been a success. Half his friends were from old guard states and celebrated a weeklate. So with the faculty for going to the heart of a problem that is such a part of the Lehigh man he reached for the phone and called the White House. When someone answered, our friend asked for “Frank.” Upon being assured that “Frank” was busy, he demanded the official date for Thanksgiving and received the information. As he feels that this news is on the nature of the inside on a national proclamation he has only whispered it and then only to close friends.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
= FRANK WEMHOFF^^
Top of the Week
The case of Scotch against the Irish ___something worth fighting for.
Tsk! Tsk!
Poor Joe Blow.______He couldn’t dodge the draft.... Joe was a conscientious objector.... but not conscientious enough .... Joe has flat feet, so he couldn’t march.... Joe gets seasick.... Joe gets dizzy in the air. . . . Joe is now a piece of camouflage
A Ham's advice to Players...
______In two weeks Notre Dame will battle “Scrip.” Our literary magazine will be perpetrated soon enough after the Army game to permit incorporation of your hangovers. Thus, in dire anticipation of that event “The Week” goes again behind the scenes to scout the opposition, to see just exactly how “Scrip” gets that way. —
Scrip’s home field is in Alumni hall. The coach of Scrip, in spite of a better name, we shall call Blossom. Scrip’s team will have five essays in the line and four poems in the backfield. We drop in on Scrip’s last pep talk before the season’s opener with its traditional .foe. Blossom is speaking:
“O.K., you guys, get this. — If we can just make an issue of this first game we may be able to go through undefeated. These boys we are going to play are tough; they’re used to our style of play. They’ve seen it before. You five essays are about as good as pros. You’ll have to block for the poems. Given the right kind of blocking no one will be able to catch on to our poems. Our squad is limited so be careful. You essays especially are well padded but don’t run too long in the same spot or you may be clipped.”
"But, coach, we don’t have any ends in our line.”
“That’s all right, my boy, Scrip has never had an ending. That is how we have fooled Commerce U. and Engineer Tech for years. But you will have to fight hard or else they will beat you into a pulp. And we don’t play ten-cent ball here. Now, go on out there and revise yourselves. I’ll be with you as soon as I finish Argosy. Might give me an idea for a play.”
P.S. Scrip’s cover this year will be suitable for framing and hanging as will be the editor.
The English Majors Strike Back
If there are those among you who through zeal or sentimentality read that clipping column on the preceding page in last week’s Scholastic you may vaguely remember a quotation accredited to the English majors: “The intelligentsia are no better than the commonalty.” The English majors are grateful for being recognized as “the intelligentsia.” A compliment is a compliment no matter how subterranean its source.
The Old College Try
They tell this one on Joe Papa, genial reserve tackle on the varsity.... It was in the freshman-varsity football game... Joe was in with a varsity squad that was struggling hard to protect about a ten touchdown lead.... the game was late in the last quarter.... the freshmen had finally managed to stop Joe’s team on one play and it worried the big fellow .... the team went back into the huddle and Joe exhorted, “Come on, fellows, let’s go out and get this one for the Gipper.”
Hits and bits
The Founders Day program was ambushed on Sunday night but was committed with energy on Monday... Notre Dame’s fullbacks: “The Moose” and “the Mouse”.... The Glee Club rates a big blow for its program in the Dillon-Alumni quad.... even the pseudo-cynics were satisfied.... The Notre Dame band now makes formations by the Palmer method.... Scrap Young sent a telegram to Charlie Atlas ten minutes after Georgia Tech’s trainer made his initial appearance on the field.
4*
Folk Lore
“Fuselli” Everroad and “Whizzer” White were strolling along a path in Leeper Park on Saturday night when they heard a group of small boys yelling at them from a side path.... “Yah! Yah! Ya can’t catch us. Yah, Stumpy, can’t catch a flea!.... This kept up until the pair gave chase. Puffing madly, the two were gaining on the other little fellows when they tripped over a wire strung across the path knee-high and sprawled on their faces. As they huddled on the ground, dazed, the little bullies came back and stood around the two seniors, yelling, “It worked! It worked!”
OPINION
I Here’s a, sprinkling of campus opinion on the elections next month. Notice , whether you think the reasons given are • genuine or memorized. We tossed a coin ' to see ivho’d get a chance to speak first, • as we’re not playing any favorites.
Cavanaugh Hall, John Quinn: “I hope Willkie wins. Having been a business man, he’d be able to handle our domes-' tic affairs much better than they’ve been handled. He made a good point when he linked Roosevelt with political boss Hague in Jersey City and Kelly in Chicago.”
Brownson Hall, Sam Molter: “I want Roosevelt for a third term. He’s done his best with the unemployment problem, and the Republicans have no better solution. As far as the present Administration’s sanctioning of the conscription bill goes, I think such a bill was bound to be passed soon.”
Sorin Hall, Millard Edmonds: “I’d like to see Willkie win. He’s a smart business man as shown by his having turned the public utility company Commonwealth and Southern into a profit-making venture. Roosevelt doesn’t deserve another term on his record.”
Lyons Hall, Bill Riley: “Why shouldn’t Roosevelt be elected for a third term? The propaganda against it is just a lot of hooey. Besides, I’d rather have the President with his known faults than Willkie with his unknown virtues.”
Dillon Hall, James A. Byrne: ‘I’m for Willkie. His getting elected would furnish the stimulation business needs for a- come-back. By providing jobs foi- men instead of relief he would give them back the self-respect they’ve been without since 1932.”
Badin Hall, Bill Lukoskie: “It’s hard to know who would be the best man. but I think I’d rather have Roosevelt than Willkie. However, I can’t say that he did right in packing the Supreme Court or purging the party in the state elections last fall.”
Breen-Phillips Hall, John Roscher: “I’m for Willkie. He’s whole-hearted in his opinions and speaks his mind. Also, he’d be a good manager because of his past business experience.”
Carroll Hall, Louis Horning: “We need somebody who’s been in before in view of the present crisis. That’s why I hope Roosevelt wins. Willkie is making a mistake, criticizing everything he does.”
—Carl Rohrer
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 74
OCTOBER 18, 1940
Number 5
SORIN HALL REGISTERS
‘Td rather have it and not need it than not have it and need it.”
On the Notre Dame campus, there is a Crusade of Prayer for Peace; let us hope we shall have it and not need it.
.	—Robert D. LeMense
600 Crowd Campus Residence Halls
To Register for Selective Service
Health Program Continues
For University Students
A little over a year ago, the University’s board of health decided to do something more for the health-guarding of the student body than provide students with infirmary and physician service. Since that time a number of changes have occurred in the school environment of the average Notre Dame student, members of the board of health announced this week.
A clinical laboratory has been established; the dining halls have acquired a dietitian; drinking water and water in the swimming pool are tested regularly, dining hall food is tested; all sophomores with the exception of physical education majors are now required to take a course in elementary hygiene; these are some of the changes that have taken place since that -decision was made by the health board.
Solemn High Mass Begins Registration Day
A Solemn High Mass was celebrated in Sacred Heart Church, Wednesday at 8:30 preceding the campus observation of Registration Day. Rev. Robert Woodward, C.S.C., was the celebrant, assisted by Rev. George Welsh, C.S.C., deacon, and Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., sub-deacon. Fathers Woodward, Welsh, and Barry have volunteered to act as chaplains in the army. The registration ' of all students and members of the Congregation, 600 men altogether, affected by the Selective Service Act continued throughout the day after Mass. Classes were suspended in accordance with the tiaditional patriotism of the University to facilitate registration. Rev. James Trahey, C.S.C., supervised the activities of the day, assisted by 25 members of the Congregation.
Any students or members of the Congregation selected, may, upon application, be deferred until the end of 1940-
41 academic year’ or until July 1, 1941, depending upon which date is prior. The total number- of registrations by class was not available, but it is evident that the largest registration was from this year’s graduating class. •
In commenting on the observance of Registration Day, it is interesting to note the main reason for the enactment of the Selective Service Act. The vital theory back of the necessity for conscription seems to be the necessity for the trained man in modern warfare. The main reasons given as the direct need for conscription commonly resolve into two general headings: First, we must have adequate protection for ourselves as a nation; either to beat off an invasion or to uphold the Monroe Doctrine. Secondly, conscription might act as a damper upon the spirits of possible invasion forces. Conscription consequently will have preventative as well as protective value. Senator Tydings of Maryland perhaps best sums up the case for conscription in his statement:
Board of Health •
At present, the board of health is composed of the Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., prefect of discipline; Professor James A. Reyniers, head of the University’s laboratories of bacteriology; Dr. James E. McMeel, University physician, and his assistant, Dr. Joseph Caton.
One of the first things done by this board in the new health program was to establish a clinical laboratory. Miss Josephine Duncan, M.S., R.N., was placed in charge of this clinic, and it was located in the Laboratories of Bacteriology in the Biology building. Primary purpose of the clinic was to run all clinical tests needed by the students. Such tests will be given any student the school physician has examined and designated as needing this service.
3,000 Tests
Last year, which was the first in which this new facility existed, over 3,000 tests were made for the benefit of the students. But aside from testing students, the clinical laboratory gives tests to all
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
food handlers in the dining hall, drinking water undergoes germ-seeking scrutiny regularly as does dining hall food, and water in the swimming pools is checked twice a week to see that the filtration and chlorination systems are functioning properly. Reports of all these findings are sent regularly to the State Board of Health, to Father Trahey and to Dr. McMeel.
Any member of the present junior and sophomore classes will vouch for the merit of that phase of the new health program dealing with the establishment of a compulsory course in elementary hygiene. This year’s seniors came a year too soon to be included in the course; the present freshmen will take it next year. It is a two-semester, non-credit course that must be taken by all students of the University excluding physical education majors. First classes were held in this new course one year ago, during the first semester of the 1939-40 schoolyear, and since then it has proved very popular with those who are taking or have taken it.
The maintenance of health and the prevention of disease are the chief concerns of the course in elementary hygiene. Visual material, such as slides and motion pictures, is used to illustrate and explain most of the subject matter. 737 students are enrolled in the course this semester. Professor Reyniers, Mr. Robert F. Ervin, and Mr. Philip C. Trexler, members of the staff in bacteriology, are teaching this new course.—John Casey
Begin New Service for Alumni of University
A new service has been founded at the University for the benefit of present Notre Dame alumni and future graduates. It consists of an opportunity for these men to continue that spiritual informing which was so vital a part of their school training. Notre Dame alumni who wish pamphlets on subjects in the major fields of Catholic doctrine or thought may obtain these by writing to the Notre Dame Student Commission on Decent Literature, Notre Dame, Ind.
Some of these pamphlets are on such subjects as “What Catholics Believe,” “The Divinity of Christ,” “The Doctrine of Indulgences,” “Faith and Science,” and hundreds of others from the press of various Catholic publications. Vest pocket prayerbooks are also available to those alumni interested in the new plan.
The Student Commission expressed a hope that any requests will be accompanied by financial help enough to cover the actual cost of the pamphlets, which is ten cents in most instances.
LAWYERS’ NIGHT TO SHINE
Dick Shelton's Orchestra Plays
For Lawyers at Law Ball Tonight
In line with the general rejuvenation of the Law Club, the members will sponsor the annual Law Ball tonight. The dance will be held at the Palais Royale. Music will be furnished by Dick Shelton and his orchestra, featuring Gloria Gilbert for the vocals. Shelton comes to South Bend after a successful engagement at the Blackhawk in Chicago.
Novel invitations and programs are a feature of the dance which will be in cabaret style.
Among the patrons are the Honorable J. P. McGoorty of the superior court of Chicago, and Mrs. McGoorty; Dean and
Law Graduates Establish
Bar Examination Record
The past decade has again proven the superiority of Notre Dame alumni in the field of law. In the last ten years, approximately 70 percent of Notre Dame’s men have been admitted to the practice of Law in states throughout the country.
This percentage is above the average maintained by Law schools. Of the 29 graduates who received their degree in 1939, 21 have passed bar exams. The Class of 1940 is well on the way, too; of the 37 who completed their course, 24 have been notified of their results. Twenty of the 24 have passed. The average is 83 per cent for the past two years.
—Elmer D. Silha
Mrs. Thomas F. Konop; the other* faculty members and their wives. Among the guests will be a group of South Bend lawyers attending in a body.
A special section has been reserved at the Carnegie Tech-Notre Dame game on Saturday for those who wish to attend. Tickets for the dance and the game will be sold at the door.
Those attending the ball will receive 12:30 a.m. permissions.
This event culminates a successful season of Law Club activities and prefaces new and varied activities by the group during the coming months.—Joe Stephen
University Band Plans
Dance on October 26
The University Band will sponsor a dance on Saturday, Oct. 26, it was announced by Larry Schmidt, president. Bob Richardson and his orchestra will furnish the music.
Schmidt will act as general chairman and music chairman. Others working on the affair are Hawley Van Swall, publicity; Dan Dahill, tickets; Joe Stephen, hall and door manager; and Tom Richards, arrangement.
Pface of the dance will be announced Monday, when arrangements will have been completed.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
Mission Crusade Welcomes New Members
“The Catholic Students Mission Crusade is a pontifical society founded 22 years ago at St. Mary’s Mission House at Techny, Illinois. . . .” Thus spoke the Rev. Michael Mathis, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame unit of the Catholic Students Mission Crusade, and Professor of Religion.
Notre Dame was one of the 17 colleges represented at this organization meeting of the Crusade. Rev. Thomas F. Butler, C.S.C., the present rector of Dillon Hall, and professor of history, was at that time a student and represented the University of Notre Dame. The 1923 convention of the Catholic Students Mission Crusade, which was attended by 1800 students was held at Notre Dame and was under the management of a young priest, Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., who is now president of the University.
Father Mathis brought from Europe to this convention the Rev. Dr. Schmid-lin, Father of Catholic Mission Science, and Dr. John Aufhauser. The former then occupied the Chair of Mission Science, the first to be established in the world, at the University of Munster, in Westphalia, Germany; while the latter held the Chair of Mission Science at Munich University, in Bavaria, Germany. It was at this convention that the Catholic Students Mission Crusade launched its program of mission study, ever since one of the outstanding successes of the Crusade.
The Crusade now numbers 1140 units in universities, seminaries, novitiates, colleges and high schools; 1580 units in grade schools, and 70 units among crusaders who have graduated from colleges or high schools and who have launched into their life’s work. The total membership is conservatively estimated at 700,000.
The special purpose of the local unit of the Catholic Students Mission Crusade is to prepare its members for active missionary work, either as professional or ordinary missionaries. A professional missionary is one who dedicates his whole life to the conversion of souls. Whereas an ordinary missionary has some other avocation in life, such as the priesthood, agriculture, commerce, industry, literature, the arts, the professions, trades, and so forth, and who labors in the zone of his personal influ
ence for the salvation of souls. He does this principally by good example, by making articulate Catholic doctrine and practice in his contacts with others, especially in his work. The professional missionary is a pioneer who establishes the Church through the Mass and the Sacraments in countries where they do not exist. When this is accomplished, he moves on to other places, leaving to the ordinary missionaries the task of bringing all the inhabitants to drink of the channels of grace. Hence, it is obvious that the work of the ordinary missionary is secondary only to that of the professional, but of equal importance in the conversion of any land.
“The reason why the local unit of the Catholic Students Mission Crusade is interested,” explains Father Mathis, “in the Liturgy of the Mass is that this is a practical means of preparing missionaries spiritually for their work.” This is the most difficult part in the preparation of any missionary; however, it is an essential part because a missionary can do effective work only in direct proportion to the depth of his spiritual life. For the layman especially, the Mass is a novitiate in which he is taught each morning some doctrine which is important for his spiritual growth. What is more, he is not only taught a doctrine, but is given, through the graces of the Mass, the help to put that truth into practice throughout the day.
Accordingly, the local unit of the Catholic Students Mission Crusade studies the Liturgy of the Mass, not merely by reason of its beauty, but more particularly for its power to teach a lesson in spiritual life, and then to do what no other teacher can do, give its students the power to put that lesson into practice. Accordingly, there is a lecture each day, except Saturday and Sunday, on the Mass for the morrow, in the Sacristy of the Main Church. Then at the main altar of the Church, at 6:10 each morning except Sunday, there is a five-minute summary of the lesson of the Mass for those who were unable to attend the lecture on the preceding evening. The Mass for Sunday is special. It is said in the Log Chapel at 7:00 a.m., and is preceded by a sermon explaining the theme of the Mass. Another special feature of the Sunday Mass is the translation into English of the Latin said by the priest, excepting the Secret, and the Canon from the beginning to the Pater Noster. This privilege has been granted by the Bishop of the diocese. Every Sunday, except
those following a football game on the preceding Saturday at Notre Dame, there is a meeting of the Club in Room 117 of the Administartion Building Th? purpose of this meeting is to study academically the problems that confront an ordinary missionary in translating Catholic principles into action in his chosen profession.
Father Mathis annotmced that the “local unit of the Crusade will welcome any student who seriously wishes to be an ordinary missionary in the Church.” This year a bulletin is published twice a month by the Unit and is called “Preparation for Mass.” Its purpose is to give the student body an example of the study of the Mass that is being.done by the Club.—James P. (yLaughlin
Photo By Sessler On
Photography Magazine
The cover of the November issue of Popular Photography, the well-thumbed
publication of
Prof. Sessler
camera addicts, is the work o f Professor Stanley R. Sessler, head of the department of art at Hie University. “Prize Stallion” is the title of the illustrated colored transparency. It is produced in full color and depicts an Arabian sorrel having a prize ribbon pinned on it by a young
woman. The young lady is Mrs. Clarence Manion, wife of Professor Manion, of the College of Law. The Manions have a large ranch in Michigan and their hobby is breeding Arabian horses.
Campus camera fans might be interested to know that the cover was taken from a transparency made by Professor Sessler; taken on colored film with a Contax camera. The first known use of this process of reproducing colored transparencies on covers was the cover for the official program of the Northwestern-Notre Dame game last November. Many students will remember the appealing picture of a little boy with an oversize football helmet cocked over his head. The model was Mr. Sessler’s three year old son.
The covers of most of the official programs of home games here at Notre Dame stadium are the work of Professor Sessler and the department of art. Another such use of the “photo-covers” will be the program for the lowa-Notre Dame game, Nov. 16.—John Powers
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Prof. Hermons Author
of Pamphlet on '’P.R."
Proportional Representation, or P.R. as it is called, seems to have captured the imagination of liberal and progres
sive groups everywhere. The reason lies in the fact that such groups are seeking “causes” to promote in the interest of good government. They seldom examine all the evidence or inquire into the presented facts of
Dr. Hermens a ^ven Plan but go headlong into it and advocate its adoption by every government without delay.
It is truly unfortunate that the energies of these groups are used in support of an electoral system which is so dangerous to our democracy.
Dr. F. A. Hermens, associate professor of politics at Notre Dame, has just written a 40 page pamphlet which he hopes will be an aid to those individuals who are now campaigning against P.R. This pamphlet is published by the University of Chicago Press as one of its series of Public Policy Pamphlets.
In this publication Dr. Hermens states that the idea of P.R. is based on premises alien to our democratic conception. A British Royal Commission, repeating the contention of P. R. advocates, stated that "the object of a representative body is to represent.” Most of us differ with this idea for we believe that our congress and various state and local legislatures have as their object the governing of their country, state or city.
Dr. Hermens points out the necessity of a majority in a legislature and how this majority is seldom attained under P. R. He goes on to cite examples of Italy and Germany under P. R. and how these two countries, in the absence of a workable majority, fell easy prey to “strong men.”
The pamphlet then analyzes the experience of American cities which have tried P.R. Notable example of the failure of this system is New York City where under the P.R. elections of 1939 Tammany obtained two-thirds of the councilmen with 48.5 per cent of the first preference vote.
It is interesting to note that P.R. made little headway in this country when it was advocated on its own merits, but since climbing on the city-manager hand wagon, it has made decided progress.—Thomas F. Carty
Arnold Lunn. Noted English Lecturer
Unable to Attend Catholic Press Meet
Because of the European war the British government refused in September to allow Mr. Arnold Lunn, writer, lecturer and former member of the Notre Dame faculty, to leave England and come to the United States. Mr. Lunn was scheduled to speak last Saturday afternoon in Milwaukee, Wis., before the general session of the National Catholic Educational Press Congress. His subject was to have been “Catholicism in the Modern World.” However, in Mr. Lunn’s place, Mr. William Ryan, a contributor to Commonweal and other Catholic publications, spoke before the assembly.
The Press Congress, which took place in the auditorium of Marquette University High school, opened on Saturday morning, Oct. 12, with a lengthy paper read by the Rt. Rev. Msgr. Peter M. H. Wynhoven, president of the Catholic Press Association and editor of Catholic Action of the South, in New Orleans, La., on the “Union of the Catholic Press in the Doctrines of Christ.” Msgr. Wynhoven discussed thoroughly the way the Catholic press is held in a common path by Christ and his teachings, and how petty differences resolve in the light of that fact.
Small, separate discussions of specific problems occupied much of the Press Congress weekend. These groups dealt with such subjects as the Catholic School Newspaper, the Magazine, the Annual, the Catholic press and the liturgy, the Catholic press and racism, and poetry. The chairmen of these different groups raised discussion as to how Catholic publications should be infused with the Catholic spirit and finally to be joined by the love of Christ through love of His Church and of his doctrines.
New York Host on N.D.- Army Weekend
Ten coach-loads of Notre Dame students will leave the Pennsylvania station at Plymouth, Thursday, Oct. 31, for New York and the Army-Notre Dame football game. It has been announced that buses will leave the campus at ten minute intervals between 4:00 and 4:50 Thursday afternoon to transport students to the station. There will be no charge for the bus ride.
Two diners on the train to New York will be open at all times for meals and lounging.
Upon arrival in New York, all stu-
During the afternoon sessions two well known writers and editors addressed the congress: the Rev. Wilfred Parsons, S.J., professor of political science at the Catholic University of America, and former editor of America, and the Rev. Daniel A. Lord, S.J., of St. Louis, Mo., national director of the Sodality of Our Lady, who recently gave a series of sermons before the Notre Dame student body.
One of the features of the Press Congress was a panel discussion under the chairmanship of the Rev. Franklyn J. Kennedy, editor of the Catholic HeraldCitizen, of Milwaukee, Wis. Eight editors of college publications were seated on the auditorium stage with microphones on the tables before them, much in the manner of “Information Please!” With Father Kennedy asking the questions the participants offered their ideas on Catholic news and propaganda. Among the ideas offered was one which suggested that the way to make the Catholic press more effective is to get more competent writing done for it. If the Catholic press will present the work of writers who are as competent as those on the secular press, and with some of the attractive typography of the latter, readers are more apt to be impressed and to contribute toward their suport. The participants were Miss Jeanne Baumann, Mt. Mary College, Milwaukee; Miss Virginia Cheatham, Mundelein College, Chicago; Miss Mildred Strattman, College of St. Francis, Joliet, Ill.; Miss Louise Dolan, St. Mary’s College, Holy Cross, Ind.; Bruce Selkirk, St. Louis University; Richard Schreiber, St. Joseph’s College, Collegeville, hid.; William C. McGowan, Notre Dame, and Joseph Waldman, Marquette University, Milwaukee.
dents will receive baggage checks at the station. At St. Francis of Assisi Church, across from the station, everyone will attend Mass. After Mass baggage tickets will be exchanged for suitcases, and everyone will go his own free way.
- Sunday night marks the end of the trip. Students will board the train for South Bend and arrive on the campus Monday morning.
The Hotel McAlpin will again serve as Notre Dame headquarters over Hie week-end.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
THE
Debaters to Discuss
Forming of New Union
Would-be foreign affairs experts, bull session chronics, political career aspirants, and all others interested should answer the call of the interhall debate coaches and try out for their hall debate team. The honorary forensic society of Notre Dame, the Wranglers, will again this year supervise the interhall debate tournament.
The question this year is vital and pertinent in that there is a possibility of its becoming a proximate reality rather than being merely a point of contention for various debate groups throughout the country. The interhall teams will debate this year’s intercollegiate question: Resolved, “That the nations of the western hemisphere shall form a permanent union.”
Thomas Grady, chairman of interhall debate, has divided the teams into two groups, affirmative and negative, and has appointed the Wrangler coaches of the various halls. Following is the grouping of the halls and the names of their respective coaches: Negative: Walsh — John O’Laughlin; Carroll-Brownson — Jerry O’Dowd; Sorin — Jack White; Zahm — John O’Dea; Lyons — John MacCauley; Howard — Ralph Gerra; St. Edward’s — Stan Litizzette. Affirmative: Dillon — Jack Hennessey; Morrissey — Bill Cotter; Alumni — Milt Williams; Badin — Bill Meier; Breen-Phillips — John Burke; Cavanaugh — Bill McVay.
The first round will start in about three weeks; it will be merely a practice round, but from then on the elimination will start. Mr. Grady estimates that the tourney will take about four weeks. Preliminary debates will be judged by members of the Wranglers; the final debates by a member of the faculty. A trophy is awarded to the hall victorious in the finals. This trophy becomes the permanent possession of the hall which wins it three times in succession. Howard Hall won the trophy last year.
—Robert D. LeMense
Announces Aptitude Tests
Dean H. B. Froning, of the College of Science, announces that the Association of American Medical Colleges will give an aptitude test in Room 213 of the Science Hall at 3:00 p.m. on November 8. All pre-medical students who plan to apply for entrance to some medical school in the fall of 1941 should take the test.
Applications should be made immediately at Dean Froning’s office, room 202, Chemistry Hall during regular office hours. A one dollar fee will be required of each student. The test will be given only once this year.
By William K. Mulvey
I didn’t find Frank Doody in the traditional pose of the engineer with a slide rule gripped desperately in one hand and a pencil poised in the other. Instead, I found him in the room of a friend, solemnly contemplating an insect bite on his right bicep.
He was rather reluctant to give any information for fear of being thought a braggart, but when
Frank Doody I promised him I wouldn’t let on that he had told me, the story began to unfold. It ran something like this.
His first two years in high school rolled along in a conventional unexciting manner. He was a good student and a good athlete. In his junior year, he began to blossom. His prowess on the football field and in the swimming tank began to be recognized. Then his curly hair, broad shoulders and big-lipped smile brought him success in the world of politics. He was elected vice president of his class in that year.
But Frank wasn’t destined to stagnate yet. In his senior year, he was made captain of the swimming team, and starred as a great right halfback for Fenwick of Chicago. Once again, however, he was forced to divide his time between athletics and administration. His classmates elected him president of the senior class, and the members of the honor society made him president of that organization. So ended, the brilliant career of Frank Doody of Fenwick.
In 1937, he matriculated at Notre Dame, and enrolled in the College of Engineering. They tell me that he is a good engineer, but he points to his sojourn in school last summer as a refutation of that praise. As I see it, any engineer who graduates from Notre Dame without one season in summer sessions must needs have some occult relationship with the deities. At any rate, his fellow engineers had enough confidence in him and respect for him to make him president of their club.
Frank is not appreciated merely in the narrow confines of the College of Engineering. Commerce men, science men, Phy Ed men and even English majors have found his personality and ability to their liking. They banded together,
and slipped him into the vice presidency of the Junior Class of ’41, despite Hie impotence of his own political party.
He is now in the last of four hard years in the department of mechanical engineering. After graduation, he would like to align himself with the automobile industry because he finds himself “par-tial to internal combustion engines.”
His greatest thrill came way back in 1936, when Fenwick played Austin for the -Chicago city championship. Soldier Field was packed, and the sensational Bill DeCorrevont had his day. But our own boy wasn’t so far behind either. He helped by adding six points to the Fenwick side of the ledger. The only disappointment of the day was the final score, 19 points apiece. Fenwick had to be happy with merely the co-championship of Chicago.
Frank has strong likes and dislikes. Swimming and golf are his hobbies. His ex-roommate, Larry Bracken claims that he is the best left handed golfer on campus. He also strongly approves of large families, but then, he could do little else but approve. He is one of 12 himself. He does not like to read. Technical books in mechanics are alright, but literature curdles his practical stomach. Incidentally, he doesn’t like this column, and he particularly doesn’t like the way I write it. So, perhaps I had better cease. But, so help me, this is Francis Arthur Doody as I found him.
Ameche, Brown May Speak At Tonight's Pep Meeting
Don Ameche, noted screen star, and Warren Brown, well known Chicago sports writer, have been invited to speak at tonight’s pep rally in preparation for the Carnegie Tech game.
The first pep meeting of the year was held last Friday night before the Georgia Tech game, when John Burke, new Student Council president, introduced the various speakers. Judge Albert Doyle of the Speech Department gave the main address. Coach Bill Alexander of Georgia Tech praised Notre Dame and expressed appreciation for the opportunity to continue the long standing rivalry. Coach Layden introduced the Notre Dame squad, but not without interruption by a poor imitation of last year’s sustained, “Yea, Elmer.” Old-time Notre Dame athletes, stars of football, track, or baseball, attending the pep rally were: Norman C. Barry, ’21; F. R. Lockard, ’19; W. K. Mohn, ’19; W. B. Degree, ’20; Grover Molone, ’20; Walter R. Miller, ’19; F. D. Slackford, ’20; J. I. Poland, ’19; Dillon Patterson, ’20; R. G. McGur-rie, ’19; Frank Miles, ’21; Gerald Hoar, ’21; E. J. Meehaan, ’20; J. C. Powers, ’20; W. A. Sweeney, ’21; F. J. Murphy, ’20; and C. W. Baker, *20.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
STUDENT FORUM Thomism and Modern Culture
By William Meier
The unity of Christian culture has been slowly dissolving for the past four centuries. As a result of three distinct spiritual crises, the humanist Renaissance, the Prot-testant Reformation, and the rationalist Aufkla-rung, men thought they were about to become masters of themselves, matter being vanquished and subdued. And yet, as is evidenced in the world of today, men soon found themselves divided as never
before, in disunion with everything about them. Men, in adopting their materialistic philosophies, have placed too much importance on matter—with man himself and his mastery of matter his own ultimate end. But matter is a principle of disunion and can only beget division, a dissolution of human personality. Man’s determination to be self-sufficient had ruined him. Pure subjectivity, like pure materiality, disperses. Objectivity must be the first condition of unity, affecting both the mind’s activity and the activity of love necessary to unite us to our principle of being.
What, then, is the solution of our lost unity? Man cannot find unity in himself, but must go above himself. He must fix upon being and God with an objectivity influenced or transported with love, as did the early Christians. Essential presuppositions of such a plan are a resurrection of metaphysics and renewed charity. Man has become a being cut off from his “ontological roots and transcendental objects,” so self-centered that he has become merely a “wolf howling in despair towards eternity.” To restore man’s ontological values we must have a metaphysics, and a real metaphysics, distinct from the material metaphysics of our modern culture. And Thomism, following the rigid, yet comprehensive and all-inclusive synthesization of St. Thomas Aquinas, offers a restoration of the proper hierarchy of speculative values and so inaugurates in us the order of wisdom. And with wisdom, we may then see the proper relationship of part to part, with a united and peaceful whole.
The chaos of modern times is a result of man’s mistaking his culture for an
ultimate end. He recognizes the dominance of reason over nature, and in so doing sets up reason as being supreme, not realizing the dominance of the supernature over his reason. There is another wisdom more divine than this natural wisdom—the Gift of Wisdom, bom of love itself, through the gifts of the Holy Ghost. The great theologian of such wisdom is St. Thomas Aquinas. He has accurately defined the central truth (the distinction between nature and grace) and has explained the nature of mystical wisdom, defending it against every false imitation.
The unity of our culture is determined therefore: (1) by a certain common phil-osohical structure; (2) a certain metaphysical and moral attitude; (3) a certain common conception of the universe, of man and human life.
The unity of metaphysics has long been broken and obscured in the West. It has been reduced to the barest minimum —a minimum held together by matter, which is incapable of keeping anything together. A common philosophy is needed to begin the cure of the Western world. St. Thomas, by remarkable synthesis, united the talents of all sectional men, by completion and consolidation, unproved on the philosophy of Aristotle, removed the bad from the good and developed a philosophical architectural scheme of embodying the principals of Truth. It is now time for us to turn to the universal human reason and wisdom and to serve Divine Truth. Then St. Thomas Aquinas, the common doctor and his treasury of truth could serve as leader and instrument to establish order once more in the world.
The Catholic Church unites all men in reason, in a type of divine unity, in the unity of the kingdom of Heaven and because it is aided with grace the natural unity of reason is aided by the supernatural unity of grace to produce fruit. This dual unity, of reason and grace, of the human spirit and of the Church needs an intellectual instrument to manifest, consolidate and diffuse it. That instrument is Thomism, the most highly developed and most perfect form of Christian philosophy, the “philosophia perennis,” the wisdom of St. Thomas Aquinas. By sifting this wisdom we may find the answers to the problems of the world today. This adoption and use of the incomparable instrument of Thomism must (Continued on Page 24)
Father Murray to Meet
With Sociology Majors
The Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., head of the Department of Sociology, will meet the seniors majoring in sociology individually, in order to discuss the thesis and second semester classes, in the Social Work office of the Main Building, between 6:30 and 8:00, next Wednesday evening. Seniors enrolled in the College of Law will be excused from this meeting.
Dr. McMahon Brands
Isolationism as Folly
In a pamphlet recently published by the Catholic Association for International Peace, Doctor Francis E. McMahon of the department of philosophy roundly attacks Isolationism, and issues a clear challenge to all thinking Catholics to examine their attitudes toward war-torn Europe. Dr. McMahon states: “No nation is exempt from the obli-
Dr. McMahon gation to satisfy the real needs and just demands of peoples and thus to promote world peace.”
“A problem that affects humanity as a whole is one that morally obligates all of humanity. A nation, such as the United States, with its great power, prestige and resources, is a fortiori charged with a heavy responsibility to promote this work... If a spirit of extreme isolationism prevails in the policy and actions of the United States it is very likely that the problem will remain unsolved....” Moreover, “dominant majorities have not scrupled to violate basic natural rights: the right to life itself, to education, to religious worship, and the right to work. Great masses of people have been reduced virtually to the status of slaves, and brought to the brink of starvation. The problem of ethical minorities was perhaps never graver in modem history than it is at the present time.”
Dr. McMahon sees a solution in the defeat of nationalism, and the establishment of an international order based on the spirit of Christian charity. The title of the paper is “The Rights of Peoples.” It can be obtained in the pamphlet racks. It would be a serious mistake for any student of the war to neglect this reading.—John MacCauley
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
FORM NEW DEFENSE UNIT
Father Miltner Takes Part in Defense Unit
Co-operating with the federal government on plans for national defense the University of Portland, under the Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C., president of the university, has formed a unit of the Marine Corps reserves. This is said to be the first all-collegiate marine corps reserve group in the country.
In the above picture Father Miltner is shown discussing the plans with Captain Lloyd E. Wagner, (left) who will command the unit and Lt. Col. George T. Hall, inspector-instructor of the 20th ba-talion, U. S. Marine Corps reserves in
Professor Gurian To Talk
Professor Waldemar Gurian, Ph.D., of the department of politics, will speak on the underlying economic causes of the present European situation, on Friday, Oct. 25. The occasion of Dr. Gurian’s address will be Dean Dugald Jackson’s senior lecture in the Engineering auditorium. Anyone wishing to attend this lecture will be welcome.
Prior to joining the Notre Dame faculty, Dr. Gurian lectured in Austria and in Switzerland on Bolshevism, and previous to that had been a lecturer on
Portland, Ore.
Father Miltner, dean of the College of arts and letters at Notre Dame for many years, was apointed president of the University of Portland last July by the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Until his apointment Father Miltner had been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1918. He received his Ph.B. from Notre Dame in 1911, Ph.D. from the Gregorian University in Rome in 1915, and S.T.D. from Laval University in Quebec in 1917.—Bob Fitzpatrick
politics at the Academy of Political Science, in Berlin. Dr. Gurian has written such books as Rise and Decline of Marxism; Hitler and the Christians; Bolshevism, Theory and Practice; and The Comparison of Bolshevism and Nazism. Most of these works have been translated into Dutch, French, Italian and Spanish.
At present Dr. Gurian is also editor of The Revietv of Politics, scholarly quarterly published at Notre Dame, which deals with the philosophy of politics in all its facets. The latest issue of this magazine appears on the newsstands today.
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
The missal is the treasure-house of the prayer of the Church. ... Its riches minister to every mind and every mood.... Its author is the Holy Ghost who guards the Church against error in its composition and interpretation. . . . The central core of its many parts is the ceaseless coming of the Word made Flesh, the ceaseless renewal of the Sacrifice of Calvary.
Mostly one thinks of prayer in the sense of asking. ... It is also a thanking. . . . Primarily it is for giving glory to God. . . . The prayers of the missal have the additional quality of teaching. . . . They instruct “unto the knowledge of the mystery of God and Christ Jesus” (Colossians 2, 2)
The Offertory prayer for the blessing of the water and wine is an exposition of the manner of our participation in the nature of Christ.... It was originally a Collect for Christmas in what is known as the Leonian Sacramentary which authorities variously place between the fourth centui-y and the eighth. ... It is the oldest source of the Roman rite. . . . The appropriateness of the prayer both in its ancient use and its place here in the mass is evident.
The prayer recalls man’s first creation according to nature, his second according to grace. ... In the order of nature God fashioned man wondrously, mirabil-iter.... In the order of grace he refashioned him more wondrously still, mirabilius.
In the first God endowed man with wonderful gifts beyond the requirements of his nature. . . . Man spumed these gifts through original sin. ... In the second God exceeded his own generosity and gave the ultimate in love, his only begotten Son in person. . . . The new gifts are more wonderful still not only by reason of their nature but especially by reason of the bearer. . . .
Indeed we are made like unto the bearer himself. . . . The mystical union of the wine and water as elements of the Holy Sacrifice is the symbol of the union effected between oui' nature and that of Christ. ... In St. Paul’s phrase, Christ “emptied” himself to take on and elevate our human nature.
(Mass Calendar on page 24)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Jackson Chung--War Veteran at 26
If and when Uncle Sam takes a liking to the “adventure” of war, Benedict Jackson Chung, of Shanghai, China, who lives in Howard Hall, can give a little advice on the subject. And he ought to
Benedict Jackson Chung
know whereof he speaks for when he’s not studying Engineering at Notre Dame he’s a Chinese air-pilot and soldier.
Bom in Canton in 1914 — known as a “Southerner”to the Chinese — Chung, has come to the United States to study engineering. He had just finished his first year of .college in Shanghai when the Oriental war broke out. He volunteered and was placed in service as a quartermaster, driving a supply truck at the “front” and served for six months without serious injury.
When questioned as to his experiences at the “front,” Jackson had this to say: “My closest escapes were from aerial raids. Four times my truck was narrowly missed by the bombs. By the Grace of the Almighty my truck was spared while others were blasted to bits. But
I was not afraid. In war, there’s no time to be afraid. Men act like machines under fire of artillery and gunfire. It is only before the battle starts or after it is over that one becomes afraid. The thought of what might have happened leaves many a man pale.”
When interviewed as to the outcome of the present war between Japan and China, which at present is being shoved into oblivion by other wars, the young Chinese grimly replied: “Our army is pursuing a Fabian policy in fighting. We will wear the Japanese army out by dogging their heels and dodging their attacks. With this defense, Japan will never succeed in taking all of China or in holding her under submission. Japan, indeed, will pay a very high price for their war.”
But Jackson Benedict Chungs’ troubles are of a deeper hue than national patriotism. His father is the Highway Supervisor behind the Chinese lines in Szechuen province which is interior China. His mother, his younger brother, and an aunt are in the once blockaded area at Tientsin which is now free from the siege. Asked if he was worried by the impending silence from his family in China, Chung replied, half-assuredly, half-fearfully, “They will be all right.” And with this meager substitute for quelling their fears Chung and his two sisters, one a Franciscan nun in Milwaukee, the other a pre-medical student in Mary Manse College, Toledo, Ohio, console their fears.
Although Benedict Chung had a year’s credit in Engineering when he enrolled at Notre Dame in 1938 as a sophomore, and Chung is still a junior. Lung trouble, which at times hinders his physical achievements, but fails to dampen his indomitable spirit, kept him in the Infirmary the greater part of last year, thereby causing him to lose a year’s credit. At one time the ailment became so serious that physicians had abandoned all hope of life, let alone recovery. Although Chung was a non-Catholic, the Bulletin, traditionally, sent out its request for prayers from all the Notre Dame students for the Chinese boy’s recovery. Special masses and prayers were offered. And, as a final gesture, the Prefect of Religion administered Conditional Baptism. The crisis came. The battle for life was exhausting. And then, by what physicians termed “miraculous,” the crisis passed and Chung lived to renew old acquaintances at the beginning of Summer Session.
Although 26 years of age, Chung
looks barely 18, speaks English with the finesse of an English-literature professor, and is a very congenial fellow. He is helping finance his education by selling imported Chinese jewelry. He sells genuine ivories and jade, ruby and other stone rings, all genuine merchandise and not of the calibre of the average Chinatown curio shop. Florence Wong, whose picture resembles Myrna Loy a-la-Chi-nese, his flame of school days in Shanghai, is attending Clark College in . Dubuque, Iowa. Chung’s favorite movie star is Paul Muni, “because he never fails to give a good characterization.” He likes football and all types of classical music. Dislikes jazz and “swing,” “because it makes so much noise. But it is entertaining.”—Tom Powers
High School Principals To Meet at Notre Dame
For the first time in its history, an association of Northern Indiana high school principals will hold its annual
meeting on the local campus tomorrow. Prof. Leo F. Kuntz, head of the department of education, is in charge of arrangements for the program, and announced that about 6 5 educators are scheduled to attend.
Tomorrow mom-
Prof. Kuntz ing’s program will begin with a tour of the campus at 9 o’clock. Following this, the academic part of the program will begin in the auditorium of the Law building at 10 o’clock. The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice president of the University, will officially welcome the assembled principals. The Rev. Hugo Henry Hoever, O.Cist., professor of philosophy, will be one of the speakers. Father Hoever, who spent the years from 1 OH-27 teaching at Marienstatt, Germany, will discuss the effects of Nazi ideology . in Germany’s educational system. Professor T. Bowyer Campbell, member of the department of history and the University’s leading authority on affairs in the Far East, will address the meeting on some phase of the conditions in the Orient.
After the completion of the session in the Law auditorium, the assembled principals will be guests of the University at a luncheon in the dining halls. Arrangements have also been made to reserve a section of the stadium at the Notre Dame-Carnegie Tech football game for them. The game will conclude official activities of the association for this year’s meeting.—John Casey
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Sophs Name Raeburn For Cotillion Nov. 15
To the much-interested sophomores, the mildly curious juniors and the aloof seniors, comes the announcement of the orchestra scheduled to play at the Sophomore Cotillion and the bid prices. General Chairman Hans Olaf Hetland and Music Chairman Charles Miller announce that Boyd Raeburn and his band will provide the music.
Chairman Helland also announces a special ticket for $6.25, including the Cotillion bid, two tickets for the Iowa game, and a ticket to the Victory Dance the eve of the Iowa game, Friday, Nov. 15. The price of the cotillion bid alone is $3.00. These tickets will go on sale a few days before the cotillion, the exact date of which will be announced. Attractive decorations are promised for the cotillion.—Robert D. LeMense
Announce Postal Rates,
And Post Office Hours
Those students who are interested in sending their Scholastics home or elsewhere might be interested to know that it costs two cents to send the usual 28 page issue and costs three cents for the 32 page issue. If the Collegiate Digest is enclosed in the package it jumps the rate up to five cents.
Program rates, however, vary with distance and the rates can be obtained at the window. The mimeographed Religious Bulletins are first class mail and subjected to the rate of three cents an -ounce. They should not be enclosed in Scholastics or programs.
The windows of the Post Office are open Monday through Friday from 7:30 a.m. until 5:30 p.m., on Saturdays from 7:30 till 2:00, and on Sunday from 7:30 a.m. until 8:00 a.m.—Bob Fitzgerald
Commerce Forum Plans
Study Club Feature
A new feature of the Commerce Forum this year will be the formation of study clubs, specializing in each department of the College of Commerce. The Commerce faculty will aid in this discussion work, and membership in the study groups is open to all members.
The membership drive hase been extended and all Commerce students with a qualitative average of 82 per cent may sign for the coming year with Larry Walsh of Walsh Hall.
Last Thursday evening, the Forum under the direction of President Bill Foley, Memphis, Tenn., held its initial meeting of the year and plans and program for the coming year were presented to an audience of 200 students.
—John Moriarity
BY GEORGE MILES
Lately our thoughts have been turning to those four, or five, little rabbits who made their home near the lilac bush in the main quadrangle, last spring. It is rather an easy job to locate alumni, even if they never return to the campus after graduation, but it is a different matter with rabbits. And we can’t keep ourselves from believing that something dreadful has happened to those baby bunnies. For all we know, they may be cooped up in the Biology Laboratories, doing their anonymous little bit for Science.
* * *
After listening to the faculty representative, the student representative, the alumni representative, the coach of the Georgia Tech team, and the coach of the University team at the pep rally last week, advising that the student body was the real team, that spirit (we think that was the word) was the most important element in a football game, we began to wonder just what the players were planning to do with their free afternoon.
* * *
Of all the “Old-Timers” who came back to the campus last week, the one we would especially like to meet is the man who played football for five years. There is a man who has really pulled himself out of a rut. And it probably all started with a harmless game of “touch.”
* * *
There are definite signs of a revival in the reading of the classics these days. And, as usual, the young men who have English as their major study are leading the way. One fellow reports that his latest efforts in reading were more than repaid by the pleasure he derived from the book. It is called “O’Reilly of Notre Dame.” This fellow knows all the characters and all the allusions; he can tell you in a flash which figure is “Bucky” O’Connor and which is “Moon” Mullins.
* * *
But while there are indications of a literary revival, there are also evidences of a tendency which threatens to undermine our accepted system of epistemology. A young man who had been cam-pused asked for, and received permission to leave the grounds on Wednesday. On Saturday he asked again, but was refused. When he sought release once more, he was denied permission.
and told that he was fortunate to have been allowed out three times. “But I’ve only been out once,” this fellow said. “Three times,” said his superior, “Wednesday, Saturday and now.” The fellow was, as he told us later, stopped right there.
* * *
We never gave much thought to cheer leaders before. But we know now that they have their problems just like ordinary people, and we shall forever treat them with respect and a little awe. Not long ago, the head cheer leader was cornered by one of his freshman apprentices, and asked what cheer “system” was used at the University, military or western roll.
Well, we knew it would happen. When Warner Brothers announced that they would make another picture at Notre Dame they merely confirmed a fear that • we have had since the Rockne epic. Why must W. B. pick on us? We just know that there are hundreds, aye, thousands, of schools waiting for the clarion call of Hollywood. Harvard, Yale and Slippery Rock Teachers probably are standing with open arms and clear-cut profiles. Give the other fellows a chance, Hollywood ; we hate to be typed.
* * *
For the past two Saturdays we have been sitting next to the band at the football game, and we have discovered one fellow who just sits. He doesn’t even fake like some of those tuba players. He doesn’t even have an instrument. He just sits.
* * *
The draft registration has come and has gone, and another memorable event has been marked down in the University scrap-book. But we are afraid that, there will be consequences of a most horrible kind. Some one is certainly going to write a poem. And the poem will join the hands of Uncle Sam and the University in a fight to the finish. The thought of it sends chills down the spine.
* * *
The other day, two young men of the University were discussing the state of the various eating places in South Bend. One asked how the new “Cupy’s” was. “Just like the old one,” answered the other fellow, “terrible.”
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
WILLIAM C. McGOWAN. Editor-in-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr., Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND.
Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN, News Editor
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES, Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER Art Editor
REV. C. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms. Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
The Catholic Press
Ten years ago the United States was beginning to feel the icy nudge of the depression. Ideas which were prevalent in 1929 were still alive and everyone with a radio was urged to look around a comer for prosperity. Those people who had been hurt by the depression in prices, trade and business in general had not recovered, and those who were untouched didn’t care what happened because they were secure, come what may. But Pope Pius XI knew what the trouble was and he offered his remedies then as he had offered his preventative measures before the catastrophe. Only a few listened, however, and tried to return to first principles in their endeavor to reconstruct a social order that would last.
One of the men who heeded the Pope in his plea was Dean J. L. O’Sullivan of the Marquette University school of journalism. He realized the far-sighted truth of the Pope’s words—that justice and mercy are necessary in an enduring society, and that charity should dominate the minds and hearts of men if what they achieve is to be of genuine Christian merit. In his own words he started the Catholic School Press Association in order: “to unify and direct this effort of the student press (to enlighten, educate and inform the community); to encourage, to stimulate and to guide. It has found a fertile and a responsive field. Its triumphs are due to the energy, the vision and the ability of the faculty members who serve as the directors of student publications, and to the editors and staff members who have co-operated so loyally in the work.”
Perhaps the most important contributions that the Catholic press can make to
the Church are to inform the laity more fully of the doctrines of the Church, especially the encyclicals issued by the Holy Father, which are not readily available in the secular press; to correct errors of the secular press in regard to the Catholic Church and its function. A striking example of the latter was during the Spanish war when no adequate mention was made in the secular press of the monasteries and churches pillaged in Spain or of the Catholic clergy who were outraged by the Loyalists — until Catholic publications began to print them.
The contribution of the Catholic college press can be measured in its devotion to the truth, in the accuracy and competence with which its pages are written, and in their demonstration that news can be presented attractively and decently at once, a principle that is every day losing ground among editors and publishers.
But all is not glory for Catholic publications. They have too often lacked the experts who alone can tackle with any mark of competence the various problems in social science which confront them. The Most Rev. Robert E. Lucy, S.T.D., Bishop of Amarillo, Texas, wrote recently in The Catholic School Editor that his experiences with the Catholic press have not always been happy ones: “I have before me two Catholic weeklies which I have read with interest. What I learned from them is this. The Smith amendments to the Wagner Act are vicious and calculated to destroy the Act. The very purpose of these amendments is to hamstring the labor movement. They must not be adopted. (And then in the other....) The Smith amendments to
the Wagner Act are constructive and desirable. They will do away with intolerable abuses in industrial relations. They ought to be adopted.”
Bishop Lucy adds this. “The explanation.... of such dizzy dogmas. ... is easy. Social science is difficult to master. In some of its ramifications it is extremely involved.... We have produced (only) a handful of experts in economics and even fewer scholars who have any adequate understanding of international relations.” It is the fewness of these Catholic experts that makes for one Catholic publication directly contradicting another. For the most part the experts work on monthly journals and are not available for weeklies and dailies which must present some view to their readers, no matter how little preparation is made for a complete understanding of the problem confronted. “Frankly,” says Bishop Lucy, “many of the editors and writers in the Catholic press are simply not equipped to contribute articles of any value on problems of economics and international relations. It may not be their fault but they have had no special education in social science.”
Every editor is faced today with editorial problems on important issues. Whether Catholic or secular he must explain the problem, he must make a choice, and finally he must explain his choice. Papers are filled with articles on political and industrial relations, on labor unions, labor legislation, social security, the League of Nations, the problem of building for the defense, of the proper limits to our aid to Great Britain, on neutrality, and America’s position today with regard to the rest of the world. For most publications it is true, as Bishop Lucy puts it, that “To write about these.... it is required only that a man have a pencil, some paper and a smattering of ignorance.”
Catholics above all have the problem of keeping uppermost in their minds the fact of man’s special dignity, his proper place in the state, and finally the two-thousand-year-old fact that unless a society is based on Christian principles it will not endure. There are powerful orders in the world at this moment which oppose this Christian concept and they are active. Unless they are confronted with more effective opposition than is apparent at this moment, in ideas and otherwise, there is a danger that they will win. One factor which can serve the purposes of right strongly is the Catholic press, but only if it takes stock of what it possesses and then presents a unified program for men to follow. Lack of unity in our social thinking at this moment might be disastrous.
—'William, C. McGowan
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
MID-CITY
By RICHARD EVERROAD
If a dirty-knuckled farmhand bumped his wagon up the steps of the War Memorial and began to sell produce, the people worming their automobiles around the Circle would probably not show much surprise. Mid-City is not far removed from just such a system of marketing. Farmers do come and go through the city -with truckloads of inedible looking greens and crates of eggs and pullets. And people do buy directly from them in a somewhat more formalized manner; they prattle and paw over rows of evil smelling foods in the dirty-clean atmosphere of City Market. That is all a part of the scene that makes the town an overdeveloped county seat.
An East-West airline pilot would probably see Mid-City as a “Great, sprawling city,” but he would be deceived. It is not great; and the most relaxed posture it can achieve is a sort of alert half-crouch. It is not great because it has not yet learned to be real. A New Yorker does not appear anxious to tell you of his city because he ‘knows’ it is great; a mid-westerner is altogether too eager to let you know that Mid-City is the most architecturally perfect city in the world.” But even its architecture is not perfect, because it is self-conscious. Too many of its stores have been anxiously designed. Too many of its homes are quite obviously, deliberately grandiose.
Mid-City has growing pains, and its mechanisms have outgrown its needs. Business men ride to work in fast cars, splitting traffic lights, easing through boulevards, and get there too early. They work furiously and find that there is no need for all this rustling of papers. They finish too soon and wonder why they were rushing. But they do not appear ridiculous, even to their secretaries, and that is why Mid-City is not real or great.
There is a real part of the city that the rotund members of the Chamber of Commerce do not display to their visiting industrialists. It flattens itself out along Broad Avenue, stops, starts, and spots the whole West side curling north to nestle along the banks of the river. It fringes factories and huge testing grounds for tractors. It rattles with a thousand heavy tracks as they vibrate clumsily along bumpy bricks. People live in it, pale stringy people, with dead
ened eyes and lustreless grey skin. Factory smoke rests triumphantly on top of it, padding the skies against air currents. And the people move about, slowly. They have no reason to rush, no aim to fulfill; they do not stream forth from factories as sharp whistles blow. Rather they lounge and loll along, talking deadly, incessantly staring at the long streams of unbelievably shiny automobiles that grumble over the cobbles.
The rest echoes of the farmlands and the cornfields. Newly rich residents with rough faces and hands drive station wagons and skid into small parks with gravel driveways. Trees everywhere hide the homes that shine newly through their astonished leaves. Brazen stained glass is refulgent under a mildly smiling moon, and uncertainly dressed people chatter with calculated indifference of the latest opening of a country club or hotel bar. Shock haired boys and clear eyed girls sit noisily in parked cars at the “Pole” and drink Coca-Cola with a great deal of ice in it.
On Saturday nights, the University students gather in the “Topper” or the “Town Tavern,” where they drink beer and become noisily collegiate; they chorus the “State War Song,” the newest hits, the stock fraternity songs. No one seems to mind when they begin the suggestively worded lyrics from the newer recordings of obscure bands. A smiling guitar player approximates the melodies, straining the wing collar of his incongruously formal costume, as he speaks sly words in a scratchy tenor. The students form an oval of bright, empty faces around a long table; their eyes become very misty as they harmonize “The Sweetheart of Sigma Chi.” Then after the space of two or three drinks the crowd begins to slacken, and gradually dissembles, to gather again later at another “spot.” So it goes until state law closes the bars at one. Dates are taken home and a smaller group begins to gather at the illegally open taverns neai’ the race track in Mid-City.
In the daytime, the downtown section is busily aimless. In department stores, one may linger over crowded counters of inexpensive miscellany, if he is not so poorly dressed as to arouse the clerks from their disdainful lethargy. A variety of salespeople, young and female, old and male, stand in lukewarm attendance
to serve the shopper. An old man in a Coolidge suit sells clothes to adolescents and a flaccid youth in a waistcoat daintily creases hats. He smiles knowingly at the objections of his customers and corrects his tastes with a polite eagerness. Everything sold in the store is “very smart,” from the striped tie knotted experimentally before a lean nosed farmer to the light yellow shoes forced on the flattened feet of the Negro beau.
At the hotels, and at Union Station, traveling men, with sagging trousers and smooth rounded vests protruding from their overcoats, bustle and stride importantly among porters and baggage. Taxis jump away from under the marquees of the station and drivers reply in monosyllables to the boisterous queries of their passengers. In the station lunch room, groups of grey and brown suited salesmen laugh in rough cacophony at the low rumble of repartee that passes among them. They smirk at the busy waitresses and chew forth half audible remarks between puffs of cigar smoke. City business men are hunched on the uncomfortable stools of the counter drinking hot, dirty coffee from heavy cups, eyeing the clock on the wall between nervous cigarette drags.
And in the suburbs, a colored maid wheels' an ornate perambulator; a young wife, her head scarfed like a French peasant, jerks her open car to a stop before the market; a tailor loads suits and dresses into his delivery car; State students speed across Twenty-First street to the hamburger wagon at Pennsylvania Avenue. A child throws rocks at a real estate sign on the corner of Senate Avenue and runs quickly across the street, stopping to look around on the other side, and then scrapes up the steps of a low brick porch. A girl on a bicycle makes an awkward shuffling stop with her feet on the ground and carefully adjusts the strap of her shoe. Automobiles swish down Wilson at short intervals; a mailman empties a reserve storage box and scrapes at his forehead with a dirty handkerchief; and all through the section, women slam and push open back doors, carrying rugs out to be beaten, while the dull afternoon sun steams the sidewalks and melts the tar on the roof of the State field house.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SCOTCH-IRISH
Splinters From the Press Box
.. ■	JAMES NEWLAND-- — — ■■
From the rising of the sun until the going down of the same, so also shall the matchless power, the speed, and the exactness of a great 1940 Fighting Irish machine, paced by a roaring, charging Moose and the supreme running and passing gracefulness of three speed merchants, strike with the vicious fury of the goddess of vengeance. And nothing shall mar its path.
Such is the story this department f ore. casts for Layden’s greatest grid combination, which last week threw a 14-minute blitzkrieg into a game, worn out team of Ramblin’ Wrecks to tin-ill beyond words 40,000 people ■with the most sensational, devil-may-care passing and running attack these two eyes have ever had the pleasure of watching. We may as well face facts. There is little doubt that if Coach Layden-had left his first string in that Georgia Tech tilt, those southern lads would have just laid down and pulled their hair, beat on the ground and moaned not the best of words in their choice southern style as only they can do. They were outclassed, but at the same time they were dead game, giving the second string a tough battle all the way. This substantiates the story “the Yellow Jackets never give up.”
A trifle sad, a trifle tarnished is this Carnegie Tech eleven here tonight for their annual classic with the Irish. Long, gray clouds are hanging low and there is no music on Skibo Hill this season, but there is a legitimate reason for same. A healthier check wasn’t the only reason blond Bill Kern left Carnegie for West Virginia this year. A combination of circumstances, of which most of you are familiar, seems to have left every school in and around the good city of Pittsburgh behind the eight-ball as far as grid material is concerned. It bombed Tech as well, and Dr. Eddie Baker is now forced to navigate a team with noticeably extinct reinforcements. In 1938 a great Tech eleven made its first trip to the Sugar Bowl and watched little Davey O’Brien throw them dizzy with bullet-like passes. Since then Carnegie followers have watched their team suddenly fall, which leaves them now nursing one loss in two games played.
But let’s not split hairs over one Skibo loss this year — because in reality it doesn’t mean a thing. Perhaps they are crippled with a noticeable lack of reserves. And yet, it never fails. We mean
when the Skibos tackle the Irish there is invariably infused into their fighting hearts—perhaps for only 60 minutes— an ingenious, elusive something that makes them as sharp as a razor’s edge; that makes them run faster, block harder and pass with unusual success that is entirely unbecoming to their current make-up. Their backfield is here tonight minus the cunning ingenuity of Merlyn Condit. But his mighty twin, one wpll-known George Muha, will be on our turf tomorrow and he’s good enough to play on any man’s ball team.
The Carnegie Tech-Notre Dame series is and always has been one of the best. They have battled each other annually for years and never a game goes by that doesn’t produce some extra thrilling play. We know of no football relationship in the country that is more classic than Tech and Notre Dame. And more than 40,000 fans will watch them battle it out once more tomorrow. We pick the Irish to win, but Tech will, as always, be in there pitching—all the way.
Interhall football, once the pride and glory of this campus, got off to an impressive start last Sunday on Cartier Field. Time was, when intra-mural athletics was mentioned it automatically meant Notre Dame. Tradition has it that Rockne picked some of his greatest stars from the ranks of interhall squads. Competitive athletics in those days held practically as much interest among students as did regular scheduled games.
Football among the various halls gives good grid talent, which would ordinarily go to waste, a chance to show their ability. And there was plenty of good material on Cartier field Sunday. Sorin hall, in defeating Morrissey hall, showed definite power in the backfield. Members of the different squads this year have something to look forward to besides getting their names in the paper. As has been previously announced in THE SCHOLASTIC, a banquet will be held for all players on every team; individual plaques will be awarded an all-tournament team; a training table will be set up for the finalists; and the final game will be played in the stadium.
Picking Splinters:
Notre Dame over Carnegie Tech Tennessee over Alabama Cornell over Syracuse Fordham over Pittsburgh Iowa over Indiana
Interhall Grid Ba

With a smaller edition of the pomp and ceremony of big time football, including large crowds, the Inter-Hall gridders got off to a whirlwind start last Sunday, and when all the returns were in, there was little doubt in the minds of the fans, but that this is going to be one of the most hotly contested tournament in the history of the school.
League 1
In the morning games, teams from League 1 took the field with Cavanaugh topping Brownson by a 6-0 score; Breen-Phillips shading Carroll, also 6-0; and St. Edward’s just nosing out Zahm, 7-6; while Off-Campus drew a bye. Cavanaugh in winning, pushed over their score in the third quarter on sheer power plays when Jack O’Connell converted an attempted pass into a touchdown run. Despite the fact that they were woefully outmanned, a plucky Carroll team battled Breen-Phillips on even terms till the very last minute of play when the latter scored on a 30 yard touchdown]
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
ill be out for revenge
Notre Dame, Unbeaten, Risks Record
Against Unpredictable Carnegie Tech
Under Way
pass from Johnny Baum to Fred Eichorn. In the feature attraction of the morning, St. Edward’s, the defending champions, earned the right to “IronMen” distinction when nine of their starting eleven against Zahm, played 60 minutes of hard, bruising football. Harry Erd, bone - crushing fullback, scored all of St. Ed’s points, when he plunged over from the five yard line in the second quarter, and then place-kicked what proved to be the winning point. Bill Hartman, St. Ed’s center, distinguished himself with brilliant play on both the offense and defense. To win their end of the score the Zahm boys gained possession of the ball by blocking St. Ed’s punt. Bob Casey, fullback and captain, scored on a drive between guard and tackle.
However, the afternoon games with League 2 supplying the action, produced the best football and greatest thrills of the^day. In the battle of “Titans,” Howard and Walsh fought to a 6-6 standstill, with Howard, led by quarterback
Muha, Jordan©, Fisher Are Standouts for Tartans
With the completion of the Carnegie Tech football game, Notre Dame will have played her 401st grid contest. Up to that time they have chalked up the enviable record of 308 victories against 68 defeats; mix in 24 deadlocked games and you have the history of Notre Dame football before you. In the span of 51 years of gridiron warfare they have been Western Champions four times and National Champions three times; all in all they have truly lived up to their name of the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame. Now let us turn our attention to the coming game with Carnegie Tech.
In the past Carnegie has proved to be the stumbling block in the path of an undefeated season to many a coach, but particularly to the Fighting Irish who have visions of another National Championship within their grasp. Sadly lacking in reserve power, Carnegie will be forced to use most of her starting lineup for a full 60 minutes.
The Skibos will be playing a new role this year, that of the underdog, but as many a team has reason to know the underdog can be a most competent opponent. The running attack will feature George Muha whose name will stir memories among both players and fans as resembling a tornado once he starts to move. Muha worked out with the New York Giants during the summer months and was offering a contract to play with
Vic Gulassey, having the edge in play right up to the final 50 seconds, when a Walsh sleeper* pass, from Bob Fitzgerald to Joe Lawler, caught the Howard secondary napping, and tied up the game. Lyons, with their ace Bill Johnson booting a 23 yard field goal, shaded Dillon, 3-0. Johnson had able support from backfield mates, Joe Kramer and Bill Brady, and center, Joe Keenan. In the final game of the day, the Sorin seniors packed too much wallop for the Morrissey sophs, -winning by a 7-0 score, with Jack Boyle accounting for 6 points on a touchdown plunge from the four yard line; Truck Schirf kicked from placement for the extra point. Dan Broderick, Sorin 150 lb. end, gave Morrissey a lesson in blocking it will never forget, while Sorin players are glad they won’t have to look at Joe Campagna, Bob McSweeney, “Bud” Cedarwall, and Wally Christman, again this year. Alumni, the other team in the league, drew a bye.
According to “Doc” Handy and Joe
them but refused stating he wished to continue liis college education.
Frank Jordano will be Muha’s running mate. He was kept in the background last year because of the brilliant play of Merlyn Condit, but this year he has blossomed into a first rate ball carrier and rumor from Pittsburgh states that he has developed quite a passing arm. Paul rTiedlander will be running the squad and at the same time doing his best to remember Just what play it is; he is back with the team after a year’s absence from competition. Tony Laposki will be in the fullback slot. This quartet will form the starting lineup which has hopes of avenging last year’s 7 to 6 setback.
In the line there are two shining stars from last year, Ted Fisher an end who has the reach to pull down Jordano’s long pay off passes; Pete Dobrus, a tackle who is probably the most underrated man on the team. The only man who does not have any varsity experience is the center, Henry Holets. Although Carnegie has won only four out of its 17 starts with Notre Dame, it is the team to watch for surprise tactics. With Muha running and Jordano passing* anything can happen.
With the Georgia Tech scalp tucked away, Notre Dame rooters have every reason to believe Carnegie will fall the same way. The combination of Saggau passing and Hargraves catching, Juzwik running wild and Piepul looking like Bronko Nagurski make the Irish a hard team to stop.—Joseph Lafferty
Saitta, who are running this tournament under the auspices of the Physical Education department, “This is the best organization on Inter-Hall ball that we have ever had here at Notre Dame. The boys are turning out en masse, and the spirit and enthusiasm of players and fans alike is positively astounding. After witnessing last Sunday’s demonstration, it looks like a great season and a great tournament.”
On Monday of this week Coach Layden invited all the inter-hall players to see slow-motion pictures of Saturday’s N.D .-Georgia Tech game.
Sunday’s Schedule
League 1 (9:30 a.m.): Cavanaugh vs. Carroll; Brownson vs. Breen-Phillips; St. Edward’s vs. Off-Campus; Zahm draws a bye.
League 2 (1:30 pun.): Howard vs. Lyons; Walsh vs. Dillon; Morrissey vs. Alumni; Sorin draws a bye.
—Jim Clemens
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
—■BY ALBERT DEL ZOPPO —
Do you want to know what kind of a
fellow Peter Kelly is? Then listen to this. Last week I stepped into room 111 Sorin to squeeze from Mr. Kelly some
statistical information for this column. In the midst of the cross-examination I asked Notre Dame’s regular left-guard the trite question: “What football event gave you your biggest thrill ?” I expected Pete to tell me about a punt he had
blocked, or some touchdown that he had blocked, or some touch
down that he had scored in his high school days. But I failed to reckon with Pete’s modesty. “My biggest thrill? That’s an easy one,” said the Irisher. “Benny Sheridan’s touchdown run against Southern California last fall.”
That’s Pete Kelly for you—no trumpet-blowing, no self back-slapping, but always willing to give the other fellow a boost. Those of us who saw the Southern California game last year will never forget Sheridan’s spectacular run, but neither will we forget the size of the hole that was torn in Southern Cal.’s right flank — the side opposite Notre Dame’s left guard, Pete Kelly.
Kelly is a Chicago boy. But he learned his football at Fenwick High in Oak Park. Playing center and tackle, Pete, who was inspired to play on the line after watching Notre Dame’s “Moose” Krause in action, captained his team in liis senior year, and led it to the Catholic city championship.
Coming to college wasn’t exactly a step into the big-time for Pete Kelly. In 1936, when Fenwick played Austin High for the city championship, 85,000 people watched the game in Soldiers Field. Pete didn’t have much of a choice in the selection of the university he was to attend after he graduated from high school. The Kellys, all seven of them — mother, five sisters, and a brother — had already decided on Notre Dame, the home of the Fighting Irish.
When Pete reported to Layden in his
freshman year he took one look at the size of the varsity tackles — Shellogg, Beinor, and Harvey — and signed up
as a guard. Pete has never regretted the change. “There’s plenty of action for a guard in the Notre Dame system,” says Kelly, “and that’s why I like to play the position.”
Against Georgia Tech last week Pete
Kelly played only one quarter of the game. But he played long enough to show what a good guard is expected to do. He pulled out of the line to block out the enemy secondary on offensive plays; pulled out to cover passes on defense; and he did his share of sharp blocking and tackling on center-of-the-line plays.
Kelly is a Business Ad major in the Commerce School and expects to graduate this June. His plans for the future? He intends to handle the business affairs of the Kelly Undertaking establishment back home in the Windy City.
Freshman Swimming Meet
Opens Memorial Program
The 1940-41 Rockne Memorial sports program opened with a freshmen swimming meet Thursday, Oct. 10. Since the number of contestants did not necessitate preliminary trials the entire meet was held in a single evening.
There were six events in all. The 50 yard free style was won by Purcell in 0:26.1. Second and third places went to Reardon and Platt respectively. In the .100 yard free style Reilly, Purcell, and Hassett finished in that order. The winner’s time was 1:02.5. Walsh, followed by Rumley and Platt, splashed to victory in the 50-yard breast-stroke. The victor annexed the event in 0:35.1. The laurels in the 50-yard back-stroke fell to Reardon who covered the distance in 0:35.9. Walsh and Slevin were the runners-up. Walsh, Reilly, and Slevin ripped through the water in 0:52.9 to demonstrate leadership in the 75 yard medley. Elwood, Reilly, and Slevin were foremost in springboard diving.
According to Mr. Thomas Mills, director of the Memorial,' this swimming meet merely marked the beginning of an extensive first semester program. Present plans call for a ladder handball tournament in the near future and two swimming meets following the Christmas holidays.
Mr. Mills also announced that during the remaining two home football games the Memorial will be closed to athletic activities after 11 o’clock, but will remain open for the inspection of campus visitors.—Frank L. Kunkel
Irish Visit Champaign
For lllini Homecoming
Playing away from home for the first time this year, when they travel to Champaign, Notre Dame will meet an Illinois team which Coach Zuppke rates stronger than the lllini of 1939. This game will highlight the lllini homecoming festivities.
Although the line suffered heavily by graduation, the backfield remains almost intact. Such stars as Paul Ehni, who had the second best punting average in the Big Ten last year; George Bernhardt, a converted guard, who is now a plunging fullback; Paul Milosevich and George Rettinger, two shifty fullbacks, give the Fighting lllini a well balanced offense. Combine this array of backfield talent with five returning monogram linemen and a group of fine sophomores, and you will have a team which can give the Irish plenty of trouble.
Zuppke, who is now in his 28th year
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
coaching Illinois, has a rare ability in the art of pointing his team for a single game. This can be demonstrated in Illinois’ stunning victory over Michigan, 16-7 last year.
Michigan, led by Tom Harmon, was a contender for conference and national honors until that game which was voted by the Associated Press the biggest sports upset of 1939. This year the Illini are admittedly stronger; Southern California beat them, but only after a hard fought game. Illinois usually wins games she points for and there is every indication that she will be pointing for Notre Dame. Watch out Irish!—Bill Rogers
20 Men Carve Paddles
For Monogram Initiations
A last minute reprieve in the form of the interhall football schedule came to the prospective Monogram initiates. When the afternoon games interfered with the use of the Field House for the planned climax of the week’s initiation. President Bob Saggau postponed the ritual until this Sunday afternoon.
This postponement will not change the coveted moment when the monogramwinners may slip into the new heavy blue sweaters and throw their chests out behind the golden monogram. However, full privileges and honors of the Monogram club will be withheld until the final stage of the initiation has been completed.
The first part of the initiation found the potential Monogram men well groomed in suit coats and bow ties in a movement to end all popular misconceptions of the “cord-pants, T-shirts” athlete. Each of these new members provided cheerful valet service for the old members; instead of the harsh awakening by an alarm, one of the members might have “Herk” Bereolos gently rouse him each morning. Other members request daily delivery of the morning paper at their door. Emmett Necas found himself pacing off the distance around the Commerce building to satisfy the whims and curiosity of a group of older members. All such requests necessitated prompt and pleasant fulfillment.
As a foreshadowing of the terrors in the offing the new members were commissioned to take themselves over to the carpenter shop, and get a good-size wooden paddle. To impress the personality of the new members with the gravity of the ritual, each member was instructed to carve his name in the white pine before he brought it to the gathering Sunday. Woe to the athlete with a long name, a dull knife and limited time. The penalty for the unfortunates who did not have their carving completed was deeper impressions on their “personalities.” There are horrible rumors circulated
Sam* I Spiro & Company
Shirts, Pajamas, Handkerchiefs . . . Mansco Underwear
This Button-Down is a Better-Behaver
Today’s shirt-psychology subject will be: "Why do collars behave the way they do?” Got the answer? Manhattan button-downs never get out of hand, out of shape or out of focus. The points are designed correctly, anchored firmly, spaced smartly to set off the tie-knot to full advantage. Featured in many fine fabrics, but favored in these rugged Size-Fixt*, Man-Formed Manhattan oxfords. Stripes or solids, at nearby good stores, $2 up.
*SIZE-FIXT
Average fabric shrinkage 1% or less MAN-FORMED shaped to masculine contours
COLLAR-PERFECT . styled to stay set just-so
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D. E. C. BERRY, O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
Notre Dame Men Come in to the HUDDLE
Look over our pipes — large selection at all prices.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
about the campus as every initiation time rolls around that makes hearers wonder if the initiation proper, rather than the intercollegiate competition itself, isn’t the hardest part in winning a monogram.
Track provides most of the in-coming members with Hercules Bereolos, Eddie Sullivan, George Schiewe, Ray Roy, Francis Sheets, Bill Buenger, Joe Prokop, and Captain-elect Joe Olbrys. Andy Chlebeck, captain-elect of the baseball team will be the only new member sliding in from the base paths. Larry Ryan, George Sobek, and Bob Smith were paddled for their 200 minutes of basketball last winter. For his four years of leading the cheers, Al Perrine, is an initiate. The managers getting their monograms are: Jackie Ryan, Emmet Necas, and Ray Mendolia, all working on football this fall; Marty Shea, baseball; Bernie Brockman, basketball; Tom Morrison, ' minor sports, and Bill Hawes, track.—John Quinn
230 lbs. And a Smile
On Crutches, It's Brosey
We noticed two big things on entering Ward 3 of the University infirmary Tuesday night. One was a big man looking very much out of place in a hospital bed. The other was a big smile.
Cliff Brosey, the injured Irish tackle, doesn’t like the idea of lying in a bed all the time but in his own words: “It’s just one of those thing and I’ll have to take it. I can be thankful it wasn’t any worse.”	_
Cliff said he didn’t know just what happened when he broke his leg, but enough did happen to put him out for the remainder of the season.
Dr. McMeel said that the leg will mend all right but it will take time. The bone was broken about five inches above the right ankle and the ankle itself was pushed out of place. In his freshman year Cliff cracked a bone in his left leg but it did not give him the trouble that tliis injury has. .
Although out for the remainder of the football season, Cliff is looking forward to track competition when he can again get into action. He does not think his leg will in any way affect his shot putting. So when spring comes, Cliff will be out again trying to break the third thing he has broken in his three years at Notre Dame—the University shot put record.
It is a little difficult to picture Bro-sey’s 230 pounds on a pair of slim crutches but wherever you see this odd appearing combination, you will also see a big smile. The smile certainly won’t be caused by the crutches; because one Mr. Brosey certainly dislikes the thought of them.—BUI Reynolds
A complete selection of the famous
KIRSTEN PIPES
A sensational advancement in pipe enjoyment and beauty scientifically proportioned to fit the smoking habits of the smoker. The bowls are made of finest imported briar, the shank is genuine Duralumin.
Now Priced
$5 to $10
Conveniently Located In the Lobbies of
HOTEL OLIVER HOTEL HOFFMANN HOTEL LA SALLE
Don’s Fiesta
Don F. Hickey, ’38, proprietor
STEAK SANDWICHES
HAMBURGERS MEXICAN CHILE CON CARNE FOUNTAIN SERVICE
Drive In and Table Service
“The Mosta of the Besta at Don’s Fiesta”
420 LINCOLN WAY WEST 3 blocks west of Michigan Street out La Salle Street
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
THE
Letter from London
Of interest to the literary minded on campus is a letter received from the New Zealand House in London.
The letter was addressed to The Principal, Notre Dame University, U. S. A. It reads as follows:
“If it does not put you to any inconvenience, could you insert the following paragraph in any journalistic or university newspaper you publish?
THIS SCHEDULE IS
EASY
TO REMEMBER
You never have to wait long for a South Shore Train to Chicago. Nineteen daily, departing as follows:
The first three morning trains leave at 6:00 a.m., 6:50 a.m. and 7:30 a.m. Thereafter, until 9:30 p.m., a South Shore train leaves every hour at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 and 12:00 midnight.
Similar frequency of service FROM Chicago. Ask ticket agent for full details. Ticket office 301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111.
TO CHICAGO
SOUTH BEND
“ ‘A young man, visited twenty-one countries, lived in five, technically and university educated, fond of travel, golf, tennis, and mountaineering, wishes to correspond with students interested in the above subjects and in the publishing, mechanical, administrative, and editorial phases of newspaper work, free-lance journalism, short story writing, and foreign affairs. Willing to exchange clippings, newspapers, and magazines. Write to Frank D. Price, c/o New Zealand House, The Strand, London.’
“I would be grateful to you if you could insert the above paragraph in one of your university publications.
Yours faithfully,
(signed) Frank D. Price.”
BOSTON SHOE STORE 124 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
THESE SHOES ARE
GOOD SPORTS!
TOUCHDOWN" (With—Red-Rubber Soles)
Boston .	. • Does it Again
by Guy McGregor
25
OLYMPIC at
OTHERS $5.50 TO $7.75
'TOUCHDOWN* With Cordwainer Hand-Finish
Philip Morris Sponsors
Grid Forecast Contest
With the football season now in full swing, Notre Dame students are given an opportunity each week to win 1,000 cigarettes in the annual forecast contest sponsored by the Philip Morris Company.
The company this year will award, in addition to the regular weekly prizes, six portable radios to students submitting the most wrappers. Last year three radios were awarded. Details of the contest are posted on all bulletin boards on the campus.
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
AS I SEE IT
By John Patterson
Henry McLemore, John Carmichael, and Warren Brown saved the reputation of sports writers in general last week with intelligent accounts of Notre Dame’s victory over Georgia Tech.
With
A NEW
OUTFIT
These three wielders of the typewriter seemed to get the point which many of their esteemed colleagues missed. They were the only scribes who understood that the Irish first team played only 17 minutes of the ball game. All the other writers acted as if the “luck of the Irish” again pulled N.D. out of a dangerous situation.
McLemore humorously showed that “not since Grant refused Lee’s sword at Appomattox has the north extended such courtesy to the south as Notre Dame did last Saturday.” He went on to say that the Irish can’t possibly be beaten this year.
Concerning that last point there might be some disagreement. Too many things can enter into the picture. Injuries, overconfidence, and off days can knock any team out of the championship book without warning.
You Are Bound to Score
By
Parker- Winterrowd
115V2 N. Main St.
In Carmichael’s column Monday, the Irish were rated as all-powerful football players. He bemoaned the fact that future Irish opponents are not quite up to snuff, and victory will mean little glory. Correctly, Carmichael warned N.D. to take no opponent too lightly — upsets being the fashion of the moment in gridiron tactics.
But it was at least surprising if not terrifying to see the lack of football knowledge in some of our supposed topnotch writers last Sunday. Nobody in the stands ever doubted that Notre Dame was the superior team, but those who missed the game and only “know what they read in the papers” are liable to think Notre Dame had a mighty tough day of it.
SUITS and COATS—or Custom-Tailored
—any fabric and style you select

A fourth team backfield and a third team line isn’t supposed to set the world afire. Out’s didn’t. Maybe some of the sports writers turned to the wrong page in the program. Next week they will be supplied with copies both in braille and in large display type. Then the boys will know whether the Irish are superior to their opponents or not. At least they will be able to keep an accurate list of substitutions and draw their conclusions from more accurate data.
How Good is Your GUESS
See our campus representatives — listed below — about the contest we are sponsoring for Notre Dame Men. Fill out your ballot and don't miss your chance to win a Suit and Overcoat—Adler-Rochester or custom tailored—valued at $45.00 each.
JOHN SIEVERT CAPT. MILT "MOOSE" PIEPUL JOHN RYAN 234 Alumni	107 Alumni	337 Walsh
THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
OFFICE PHONE 3-4822
OFFICE HOURS 9-12 AND 1:30-5 TUES. ANDTHURS. . 7-9
EDWARD F. SCANLON, D.D,S.
DENTIST
ROOM 1. MAIN COLFAX BLDG. SOUTH BEND. 129 W. COLFAX AVE.	INDIANA
THE MUSIC BOX
By Felix Pogliano
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE, EAR. NOSE. THROAT
PHONE 3-1395
J. M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 4-8989	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661	RESIDENCE 3-4080
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTl STR Y—X - RAYS
702 J. M. S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
405 ASSOCIATES BUILDING
Solid, Sweet, and Rough. . . .
With three different types of music three different bands come forward this week with three topflight records: “Night and Day,” by Charlie Barnet; “You're Breaking My Heart All Over Again” and “Shadows on the Sand,” by Tommy Dorsey; and “Scrub Me, Mama, With a Boogie Beat,” by Will Bradley. Barnet’s arrangement of “Night and Day” is done in good swing style at medium tempo, featuring excellent piano and trumpet solos as well as sax by the maestro himself. One of the variations near the end drags in the refrain of “Yankee Doodle.” I don’t get it, but it is undoubtedly of great metaphysical significance. “Wild Mab of Fish Pond” (me too) graces the other side of this job. Typically Barnet (Bluebird)
Tommy Dorsey styles a pair of beautiful melodies to take the honors in a more quiet field. His clear trombone is just as sweet as Frank Sinatra’s voice on both sides. Victor does a nice job of recording this one.
The talk-of-the-country band backs up Bay McKinley as he sings the sequel to “Beat Me Daddy.” Will Bradley’s “Scrub Me Mama” once more places the emphasis on the boogie-woogie orchestral rhythm in this comic arrangement. Jimmy Valentine sings “There I Go” on the reverse. (Columbia)
HEto Columbia
• !> m a s t c r to o r k s
ENTIRE STOCK REDUCED AS MUCH AS ONE-HALF
Columbia
Masterworks
Rimsky-Korsakov — “Scheherazade” — The Cleveland Orchestra. Artur Rod-zinski conducting. $5.50.
• Tschaikowsky — “Nutcracker Suite” — Frederick Stock conducting the Chicago symphony orchestra. $3.50.
Irving Berlin—“God Bless America”— Leopold Stokowski conducting the All American Youth Orchestra. $0.75.
latest Columbia
POPUIRR RECORDS
PHONE 3-1254
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER.
M. D.
M. J. THORNTON, M. D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
. Leonard A. Rose, d.d. s. Cyril F. Rose, d. d.s. Peter J. Rose, d. d. s.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
Piano By the Count. . . .
Count Basie, he of the sock piano, offers a comment on the state of the universe in “The World is Mad” (Parts I and II). Basie fans will go mad, too, when they hear this double feature that is full of Basie’s piano, Lester Young’s sax, “Jo” Jones’ drums, and Walter-Paige’s bass. (Okeh)
Decca plugs a young man with a band that is really on the way up. Johnny-Long gives out “In a Shanty in Old Shanty Town” and “Swing Me Bach.” The first features the vocal ensemble in the style made famous by Dorsey’s “Marie,” “Blue Moon,” “East of the Sun,” and others. The other side is sung by Helen Young. Johnny sounds just as good as he does over the air.
Columbia
Popular, 50c
“There’ll Always Be An England” and “Wings Over the Navy”—British Fusi-leers Band.
“Jealous” and “How Deep is the Ocean”—Eddy Howard with Lou Adrian’s Orchestra.
“Scrub Me, Mama, With a Boogie Beat” and “There I go”—Will Bradley Orchestra.
Okeh-Vocalion, 35c
“The World is Mad”—Parts 1 and 2— Count Basie.
“Shadow on the Sand” and “Eight O’Clock”—Ray Herbeck Orchestra.
“Where Do You Work-A-John” and “Echo of the Angelus” — McFarland Twins Orchestra.
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
Worth Listening To . . .
“Yesterthoughts” and “Stranger” by Raymond Scott. (Columbia) Nan Wynn does the first and Clyde Burke the second. A swell pair.
HODinS
Open Tues., Thurs., Sat. Evenings
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Mass Calendar: Oct. 20-26
Sunday, 20—Twenty-third after Pentecost. 2d prayer, St. John Canty, Confessor, 3d from the Mass for the Propagation of the Faith, 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Note: Today, Mission Sunday, the Solemn Mass may be the Mass for the Propagation of the Faith. 2d prayer and last Gospel of the Sunday.
Monday, 21—Saint Hilarion, Abbot. Mass: Os justi (Common of Abbots) 2d prayer, Sts. Ursula and Companions, Virgins, Martyrs, 3d, the Saints (a cunc-tis), 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Tuesday, 22—Feria. Mass of the preceding Sunday. 2d prayer, the Saints (a cunctis) 3d, the Faithful Departed, 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Wednesday, 2.3—Feria. Mass of the preceding Sunday. 2d prayer, the Saints (A cunctis), 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Thursday, 2k—St. Raphael, the Archangel. 2d prayer, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo.
Friday, 25—Saints Chrysanthus and Daria, Martyrs. 2d prayer, the Saints (a cunctis) 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Saturday, 26—Vigil of Sts. Simon and Jude, Apostles. 2d prayer, St. Evaristus, Pope, Martyr, 3d, the Blessed Virgin (Concede), 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Engineering Faculty At
Meeting in Fort Wayne
Dean Dugald Jackson, several members of the engineering faculty, and senior electrical engineers attended the meeting of the Fort Wayne section of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers last Tuesday evening. Prior to the meeting a dinner was given in honor •of the guest speaker, Mr. Wayne J. Morrill, a design engineer for General Electric Company. In his demonstrated lecture, Mr. Morrill pointed out the importance electrically as well as mechanically of vibration in rotating machinery.
—Bill Herzog
STUDENT FORUM
(Continued from page 10) be done by modem “apostles,” by intellectual cooperation among Catholics. To mobilize it is not easy—the solution of new problems is not to be found readymade in St. Thomas: the truths are there and it is our duty to extract a solution by new and original effort. We must be faithful to Thomist principles, but simultaneously bold in new application.
Thomism is not a medieval philosophy but a progressive, living philosophy in our modern world. Thomistic ideas, as St. Dominic said of men, “rot in the heap but are fruitful when sown.” The Architectural Sage has given us the principles of truth — the philosophical fund from which to draw the solutions of twentieth century cultural problems. This Thomist synthesis offers us a means “par excellence” of achieving once more
For Mote F“" Out ’’ Ll 6 Chew Delicious
DOUBLEMINT GUM Daily
ffighspot yout days
fun of chewing	doubUMWI GUM
The velvety smoota	Delicious^
adds to the	helps make your mouth
cooling, real-nun	to everything yon do.
feel refreshed.. •	inexpensive treat
Chewing this health	your diges-
helps sweeten your b	attractive.
. ton. • • helps keep V	healtWul, delicious
Treat yourself daily
DOUBLEMtN1 GUM-
Buy several packages o
a unity of Christian culture. But it must be considered as a “means” only, for in final analysis no philosophical science can alone truly form or rectify culture. We must begin by Christ. Christ makes Christian culture, through His Church and through the angelic doctor, St. Thomas Aquinas. It is for modern Thom-ists, modem theologians and philosophers, using the instrument of Thomism, and under the dual radiances of the
U-U7
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
25
Gospel and Catholic Faith, to labor and bring to the service of the Son of Man all the virtues of the mind and its scattered riches—to dethrone anti-Christ in our contemporary civilization, to cross the threshold of a new Middle Age and rediscover unity and universality of our Christian culture.
We must awaken from our philosophical lethargy and assume the burden of a universal diffusion of Thomistic Truth. With restoration of a common moral attitude we may restore the place of God in the world, realizing the dominion of supernature over natural reason and seeking that Gift of Wisdom which will enable us to logically view the relationship of each part to an orderly whole. We must work in the light of the Holy Gospel and of our Catholic Faith, and follow the footsteps of the Apostle of Our Time—St. Thomas Aquinas. As Ma-ritain puts it:
“St. Thomas is our predestined guide in the reconstruction of Christian culture, the steward and minister of that great blessed kingdom which the Church, in the admirable Preface to the Mass of Christ the King, describes as the kingdom of truth and life, of sanctity and grace, of justice, love and peace....”
MAX ADLER
“ON THE CORNER” Michigan at Washington
College men prefer ARROWS, if for no other reason than downright good looks. Arrow Shirts cost no more. Come in tomorrow for your Arrow selections.
It's Adler's for Arrows!
You can keep a
good collar down
rr'tHE collar on our handsome Arrow Hitt shirt behaves like a perfect gentleman under any and.all conditions. It looks starched ... won’t curl or wrinkle or wilt. Get Hitt now!
Only $2.

WE MADE IT!
. . . and arc wc proud of that handsome Gordon Oxford shirt! In fact we have proudly shirted college men for generations—and today Arrow is still the favorite to win on any campus.
Gordon Oxford has the famous button-down Dover collar, Sanfor-ized-Shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than 1%). Invest $2. today in this.time-honored celebrity. Another buck will buy an Arrow tic to top it off. See your Arrow dealer today.
ARROW SHIRTS
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
*
A
AT BETTER DEALERS EVERYWHERE
THE ALLIGATOR CO., St. Louis, Los Angeles, New York
and... the University Coacher in Alligator’s Genuine WATERPROOF Fabric
Dhis is the coat for real outdoor men because it keeps ou dry no matter how hard, or how long it rains.
Jenuine waterproofing plus smart styling.
Famous Galecloth. Light weight, firmly woven with smooth finish—
J]g50
Step
out in
Ihe
Atti

MVmotor
Styled after the London Coaching Club coat with full S5-inch sweep, convertible collar, large, roomy pockets, fly front and many other distinctive features. Tops among all casual type, comfortably draped coats. Water repellent for protection against rain—ideal for storm and sport.
Samthur Special Finish < Cloth with exclusive ; suede-like finish— / • $1475
ALLIGATOR
because . . . IT'S SURE TO RAIN!

MUSIC
By John W. Larson
Rachmaninoff’s Prelude in C sharp minor has, over a number of years, got to be one of those things that every person in all the world knows. Even small infants in their swaddling clothes have been known to scream a knowing approval on hearing this particular music. It has at one time or another found its way to the music rack of every piano in the universe, and then been subjected to numerous performances, all varying in the degree of their excellence. I should imagine that some obscure Arabian who plays the piano with his index fingers could play the first three notes of the Prelude. All of which makes Rachmaninoff regret the inspiration that brought forth his famous Prelude. I don’t know that he really hates it, but I have never known him to play it at any of his concerts, though Alec Templeton claims to play it exactly as he has heard the master himself perform it. And I have often wondered if old Rach has ever heard any of the swing versions of his Prelude. They are usually somewhat mangled affairs, so perhaps he’d not recognize his own music if he did hear it.
Speaking of mangled affairs brings to mind the matter of playing swing music on what was not long ago a quite forgotten musical instrument—the harpsichord. Until several years ago the harpsichord was known only as some sort of freakish contraption by which the Virgin Queen, Elizabeth, whiled away hours not spent in making plans for her nobles or the British navy. And then, of a sudden, the harpsichord was resurrected from the pages of musty history books, and fast became a living reality in the concert halls. In no time at all almost any excuse was used to throw in a harpsichord somewhere. Harpsichordists feverishly tinkled away with Bach and Mozart and Couperin. Radio took over the instrument, and the rest was simple. Yelia Pessl, a very attractive and young Austrian harpsichordist who had never ventured beyond Bach’s Italian Concerto, fell sway to the nasty temper of the age and soiled her pretty little harpsichord with swing.
It proves how extremely resourceful are the propagators of swing. Theirs is one branch of modern art which cannot be accused of scorning tradition. Yelia is, by the way, not the only person to play swing on the harpsichord, but she is, I believe, the most notable legitimate harpsichordist to do it. Should the popularity of this phenomenal development continue to grow, the day will not be far off when we shall have a harpSichord in every parlor.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
RADIO
By John M. Coppinger
The radio year has officially opened and already three programs have gotten under way. Judging from the quality of the inaugural broadcasts we feel safe in predicting this will be the finest year of Radio at Notre Dame.
First in importance is Radio Stage. This is a half hour dramatic-variety show presented every Tuesday evening at 8:30. Note the time — 8:30. The first presentation was a drama called “Joe Told You.”
We can, however, report on Newscast, a new program. This is the show chosen to fill the spot left open by the now submerged Periscope. At this moment we forget who was the Periscope but we do know the Newscasters. They are Bill Mulvey and Duke Murphy.
This is not the old Periscope but a program with a different manner of presenting the campus news plus other significant pertinent observations by the Newscasters. Take the advice of one who knows, Bill Mulvey is one of the most caustic wits to hit this campus and when he starts commenting something usually happens. He ‘hams’ his program but it’s
pleasant ham with Duke supplying the honest rye. ... By the way, it’s on the ah’ at 3:30, Thursdays.
The third program is an oldie from the campus studios — The Sportscast. This is in the hands of Breezy Bill Foley and Jack ‘Six Point’ Morrison. This is easy listening for you local sports fans.
Enough about the programs but a little about their publicity. Someone volunteered to be the publicity agent for the Club this year. The gesture was noble for he knew beforehand there would be small glory for posting notices of the various shows on the campus bulletin boards. He did, however, have the gratitude of the other members of the club. Trivial, perhaps, but sincere. So far there have been no notices besides this column. If the P.A. accidentally reads this . . . ‘How about a little support?’ (
Kuppenheimer Clothes	Manhattan Shirts	Florsheim Shoes
The New Store is exclusive Headquarters for LEE WATER-BLOC HATS ____ THE MEN'S CORNER
1 V FOR MEN AND A ^.YOUNG MEN
MAIN AT COLFAX
Villagers Club Stages
Dance on Hallowe'en
Ghosts and goblins will be defied by the numerous couples who will attend the Halowe’en dance to be given by the Villagers’ club in the Palais Royale on Thursday evening, Oct. 31, the eve of the Army trip holiday.
Warren Deahl, president, has invited campus and off campus students of both St. Mary’s and Notre Dame to attend this affair. Charles Rogers and his orchestra will provide music from 9 until 12 in a Hallowe’en atmosphere created by cornstalks and pumpkins.
Alex Tsiolis, general chairman, is in charge of arrangements. He is assisted by Nicholas Papas, ticket chairman; and John Schindler, music chairman.
—Robert Uhl
"Life of Rockne"
By Harry Stuhldrehr
With illustrations, from Warner Bros.’ “Knute Rockne - All American.” The first edition sold for 52.50 — NOW
50c
Your
with a
w«Bloc H
"T. E B.'s Year Book"
A collection of verses well known to readers of “The Wake” —
25c
The UNIVERSITY
S5.00
"Lessons in Liberty"
By Dr. Clarence Manion of N. D. Constitutional Law Faculty
Should be “required reading” for every American —
$1.50
Not only a new color but a new band and a new edge. Khaki is the color—with a feltbind-ingofcontraating color.
Makers of the Aetna
Insured Hat... $3.50.
.VA .
N. D. BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall
LEE HATS
358 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, N. Y. t*REG. U. S. PATENT OFFICE
DO YOU SMOKE THE CIGARETTE THAT SATISFIES
IT’S THE SMOKER’S CIGARETTE, because All America has a line on their
DEFINITELY
BETTER TASTE
ROBERT RAPELYE GEORGETTE McKEE featured in •'THE RAMPARTS WE WATCH" The March of Time's full-length photoplay
Copyright 1940, Liccett & Meeks Tobacco Co.
AVhat smokers like yourself want most is mildness, coolness and taste... and that’s just what you get in Chesterfield’s right combination of the finest tobaccos grown ... a definitely milder, cooler, better taste. That’s why it’s called the Smoker’s Cigarette.

f	MAKE YOUR NEXT PACK j
CJicsterrie
This picture of Chesterfield buyers inspecting tobacco crops in the field before auction time is one of many interesting scenes in the new book "TOBACCOLAND, U.S.A/' This fascinating story of how Chesterfields are made, from seed to cigarette, is yours for the asking. Mall your request to Liggett A Myers Tobacco Company, <30 fifth Avenue, New York, N. Y.