A tmoofiP
*From the MGM picture: “This Time for Keeps”
... It's Desi Arnaz's— I Love to Dance''* (RCA Victor)
Cuban’s
rhythms
have been
ew befw!
K. J. Kcynohls Tobacco Co. WlusUHi-Sulein, N. C»
BLEW
Hore people sre
HIS volatile
sweeping the country. Everywhere he’s played, Desi Arnaz has broken attendance records! And, when Desi lights up a cigarette, it’s the brand that’s been a national favorite for years and is now making new records of its own! Yes, more men and women are smoking Camel cigarettes than ever before!
Why? The answer is in your “T-Zone” (T for Taste and T for Throat).
Try Camels. Discover for yourself why. with smokers who have tried and compared, Camels are the “choice of experience”!


CAMEL is the cigarette for me I

J
=
w u
o £ u
LETTERS
RED PUDDLE SMEARS ARMY
Deak Editor:
After many years of drudgery, suppression and depression under that fascist organization known as ARMY— what happens? John A. O’Connor writes an article saying “treat the cadets like the gentlemen they are.”
encountered by everyone else who crosses the “Dixie” at the Notre Dame-St. Mary’s junction? Surely, this type of accident can easily happen again—unless, that is, some means of safe crossing were provided for pedestrians commuting between the two colleges. Offhand, I know of very few large schools located adjacent to highways which do not have some sort of safety crossing, either in the way of traffic lights or an underpass.
Obviously the installation of traffic
lights at this point on U. S. 31 would be of great inconvenience to motorists, but • certainly an underpass (or tunnel) would provide a safe means for crossing this busy highway. Then, of course, there would be no excuse for such tragedies as that of last Saturday night.
This solution, it would seem, should have been adopted long ago. We hold dear the lives of our schoolmates who belong to our student communities. Can we afford to see another such tragedy?
(Continued on Page 33)
Oh, how I would like to!! Just the very thought of what these same cadets will turn out to be in a few years sends my hands to flying and my feet to kicking in frustration.
I approve of the Blue Circle’s plan to \fix the cadets up with St. Mary’s queens.
BUT meeting them at the train with a band—NO!
I hereby announce the opening of a new organization, known as the Red Puddle. Membership is open to any exinfantryman possessing a lethal weapon.
We will greet the cadets! Take cover Blue Circle!
Dan Garvey
323 Morrissey
P.S. O’Connor is hereby authorized by the Red Puddle to dig foxholes for the cadets. Six feet deep ones.
Surely Reader Garvey’s declamation cannot be the prevailing temper among Notre Dame men. Surely not, for it is not in the spirit of Notre Dame.
Notre Dame will play host to Army. The Cadets will be our gziests. We will dreat them as gentlemen, for we are striving to be gentlemen, and that is the only Christian way to prove we are.
Some day the Army series will be resumed, bigoted persons and misinformed sportswriters notwithstanding. When that day comes, when any time comes that men discuss the Army-Notre Dame games, let them speak of Notre Dame as an honorable host.
Our representatives under Coach Leahy's tutelage will pound home our physical sentiments with every lunge, every smash, every viciozis block.
•—Editor
RE: HOMICIDE HIGHWAY
Dear Editor:
In mourning the tragic deaths of Joseph Hailer and Marie Despres, there comes to our minds the ever recurring thought: why could not this sickening 'Occident have been avoided? And what are we to think of the potential jeopardy
PASSENGERS RELY ON COCA-COLA AND
TRAVEL REFRESHED
BOTTlfD UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COtA COMPANY If COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND.
© 1947, The Coca-Cola Campaey
3
His bullet
rings a bell
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
30 miles away!
Zing!.. . and the damage is done.
A bullet... intended for game... pierces an exposed telephone cable.
Instantly, hundreds of wires are open to the ruinous effects of moisture.
Instantly, too, nitrogen gas ... stored in the cable under pressure... begins its slow escape, keeping dangerous moisture out. And, as the gas pressure falls, a small contact closes and an alarm is sounded in a Bell Telephone testroom many miles away.
Through mathematical plotting the break is readily located and, within minutes, an emergency crew is on its way. Repairs are frequently made before telephone service is interrupted.
This alarm system is but one of countless expedients all of which reflect the initiative and ingenuity of Bell System personnel... men who find highly interesting and rewarding careers in an ever growing business.
4
TOP OF THE WEEK
Notre Dame man: “Sometimes I feel I’m just a rock in your path, honey.”
BAREFOOT BOY WITH CHECK?
down-under, “my men are too busy to go about fixing a mere gate.”
“Okay, then,” rasped St. Peter, “I’ll have to sue you for breaking the terms of our contract.”
you going to find a lawyer?”
Father Barry, the jack-of-all-enter-tainment at Notre Dame, found himself in the same predicament last week. He had made an agreement with the NYC to sell enough tickets to warrant the use of two trains for the Navy game trip. When the original ticket sale ended, the good padre had enough tickets left over to decorate the inside of the drill hall. The law of diminishing returns had reared its ugly head. Notre Dame students had an economic problem that even Messrs. Kiekhofer, Sheehan and Petersen couldn’t have doped out. How could N. D. men spend 14 bobs for a trip ticket when their incomes were zero, their capital zero, and their surplus
Where are those subsistence checks? November is almost here and the closest | most ex-hash eaters have gotten to any treasury turnips has been when they passed the St. Joe Bank. We have the solution, we think. It’s simple: we veterans Administration just can’t get the of government bureaucracy. The Veteran’s Administration just can’t get the dough—they have been red-lined. All vets know the tomfoolery one went through just to get a can of flea powder from Uncle Sam. The VA is up against the same wall. For example, look what would have happened to some of our great men in history had they lived during bureaucratic 1947:
Patrick Henry: “Give me liberty or give me death.”
Memo to P.H. (thru regular government channels) : “Your request has been forwarded to a higher echelon. We must inform you, however, that your request for liberty must be made out in triplicate ^before it can be acted upon. In the latter case, should your request for death be granted, your- National Service Life Insurance will be made retroactive to the date of said incident.”
Major Devereaux: “Send us more J aps.”
Memo to Maj. D: “If your supply of the aforementioned has been exhausted, we advise you to try your local quartermaster Supply. We cannot give your request consideration, however, until it is initialed by the General-in-Charge of Reallocation, the Commissioner of Excess Supply, and your immediate superior.”
ST. PETER AND FATHER BARRY?
It seems that the gate broke down between hell and heaven. St. Peter looked over the damage and yelled to the Wevil, “Hey, Satan, it’s your turn to fix the gate.”
“Can’t do it,” replied the boss from
“Yeah,” retorted the devil, “where are
(Continued on Page 30)
Arrow Proudly Presents
Native to a million college top-bureau drawers before the war, Arrow’s famous Gordon Oxford cloth shirts in five classic campus styles are back to deck the neck of the post-war college man.
Ask for these models by name:
"DOVER” Roll front button-down
"doubler”
Doubles for dress and sports — two pockets
"brockly” Medium point collar
"SUSSEX”
Widespread stay collar
AT
*3.95
the new "fenway” Casual, longer point button-down
P. S. All Arrow Gordon Oxfords are Sanforized (not more than 1% fabric shrinkage) and come with the famous Mitoga fitting body.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
w	■	»
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
FROM THE DEAD?
The Chicago Club, once called dead, rocked the campus with an election the size of which has not been seen in many a semester. The campus mail men were issued trucks to transport the campaign literature to the halls. Bulletin boards were weighted down with placards. The Junior and Senior Class elections sneaked by, almost unnoticed, in the Chicago Club’s wake.
The election meeting was held in the Law Auditorium. The place couldn’t have been more packed if Gypsy Rose Lee was on the stage. Chicagoans had to queue as long as an hour in order to vote. All candidates were in the running right down to the last few votes. By a small margin Ed Hoban and his representative party copped top honors. The new officers of the Chicago Club are Ed Hoban, president, Chuck Connor, vice-president, Austin McNichols, secretary, and Frank Harrison, treasurer. Emmet ‘Tip ’O’Neill and Joe Archibald were the campaign managers who promoted this ticket to victory. Tentative plans are now being arranged for a victory dance after the Northwestern game in Chicago. Tip O’Neill will be the dance chairman. Ed Hoban and his cohorts state that the Chicago Club will still be the biggest, fastest-moving club on the campus.
FROM A TEST TUBE
The Chemistry club called its members out from behind their test tubes, retorts and bunsen burners for a meeting last week. The main purpose of the affair was to elect a new president. Ex-president Bill Koch graduated last August leaving the boys without a prexy. Bob Ninneman, arriving late from band practice, was completely flabbergasted when Vice-President Bill Holton calmly informed him that he had just been elected president, and that he had better be on time from now on. Pat O’Connor still holds down the secretary-treasurer’s post. Club plans call for a smoker to be held in Brownson Rec, similar to a very successful shindig held there last year. Plans for the renewal of the Chem. Dept, magazine, The Catalyzer
are being laid by Club Moderator Dean Baldinger. Dr. Price gave an interesting talk on the opportunities for chemists today.
FROM CAMPION
All men on the campus who have graduated from Campion High School within the last ten years should keep their eyes on the bulletin boards. Time, day, and place of the organizational meeting of the new Campion Club will appear shortly. A charter committee is now at work drawing up the necessary documents for the club. On the committee are Bob Hennebrey, Dick Tillman, Tom Hannon, and Bob Madden.
The Pittsburgh Club’s membership drive is still on. The officers elected at the close of last year, are Jack Collins, president, Bernie Powers, vice president, Bill Bradley, treasurer, and Al Lesko, secretary. Anyone living within a 75-mile radius of Pittsburgh, “the golden triangle,” are invited to join. Contact any of the officers for any and all club info.
FROM THE FOX
The Fox River Valley Club of Wisconsin opened up its membership drive with a meeting last week. All persons living within a fifty-mile radius of Appleton, Wisconsin, are welcome to join the club. The big event of the year will be a Christmas dance.
The Central Illinois Club started things smoking last week. Movies of last year’s Notre Dame games were shown. Plans are being formulated for a smoker to be held at the local Legion Post. The Central Illinois Club will
(Continued on Page 30)
CLUB PREXIES
All club presidents are requested to send a postcard containing their name and address (campus) to 251 Cavanaugh Hall or the SCHOLASTIC OFFICE. A list thus formed will be of invaluable aid in gathering club news. .
VJ&e	Seat*
The side-show going on in Washington with the investigators and the motion picture household gods affords the gods one of the best publicity releases they have had in a long time, and it’s all free. Somehow the pronouncements of Robert Taylor, Adolphe Menjou, and Gary Cooper have taken on the aura of infallibility. Last week, it was the accusers who held the floor. This week, the accused. None of them stand to lose very much. The ones who pointed the finger and yelled “Red” will gross much of a muchness on their next picture, simply because they are now pegged with the label, “Anti-Communist Crusader.” The others, who were pointed at, whether - ■ they are actual Commies or not, will probably gross just as much because everybody will want to know what a real, live Red looks like. The reaction in foreign countries to the amazing things that sometimes go on in Washington under the guise of “investigation” would bear investigating.
It might be borne in mind by giving ear to the opinions of the stars as though they were pronouncements of the Pope, ex cathedra, that the Robert Taylor of the "witness chair is not the Robert Taylor of Bataan, noi- Gary Cooper—not so strong and silent in Washington—the-OSS agent who overcame all manner of odds to triumph for democracy. Sure, there may be Reds in Hollywood. There are also Reds in Cedar Rapids. The way to go at them is not by gaudy, hysterical, public hearings, but by legal, quiet means, whereby the accused will have^ an opportunity to prove their innocence '• —if they can stick them with any recognized crime—without being exposed to what amounts to irrebuttable slander. To the Communists, a ticket to Siberia.

&
ti
Fi

I s
If
To the investigators, you can	go along,	| ,
too.	I
EXCEPTION AGAIN ...	|	I
The honored editors, who are my very I dear friends, will be thrown into a state I of complete confusion to learn that I dis- I agree with last week’s editorials about K the student body and the campus elec- | tions. In order to see a football game g properly, it is not necessary to behave like the coon-coat boys in the roaring O twenties. If the Cadets want to wave their hats in the air, they can. For all « of me they can wave each other. There is no need to go into a state of frenzy every Saturday afternoon. (Nobody has^MR yet told me what these class officers ar^RRU supposed to do.)
(Continued on Page 30)
6
I ( The Notre Dame Seholaatie
!| Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus d	FOUNDED 1867
4 H	iittttiiiiiiiiuiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitniiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiHf
j	THE STAFF
I j	FRANCIS I. KEENAN. Editor-in-Chief
JOHN A. O'CONNOR______________________________________Associate	Editor
J	EDWARD J. SNYDER ____________________________________ Associate	Editor
]	JOSEPH WILCOX___________________________________________Feature	Editor
|	PETER BROWN  Sports	Editor
R	SHAUN McDERMOTT __________________________________________ News	Editor
? । y1 ROBERT STOCK  Associate News Editor
JAMES FERSTEL  Photographic Editor
> . DONALD BIRREN Art Editor
" E. A. CORDESMAN __________________________________________ Art Editor
| WILLIAM GORMAN ________________________________________________... Librarian
ROBERT KOPF _____________________________________________Circulation
| JOHN CLARK  Circulation M. E. VARGA__________________________________________ Advertising Manager JOHN S. BRENNAN Faculty Moderator
..................................
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
ilMiiiinitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilititiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiaiutiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiuiiaiHtiiiaiimiiiiiiiiiitiiniiiii
Meet the Editor
Since anything hot is
Shaun McDermott
$ From Brooklyn comes soft-spoken Shaun McDermott, p Scholastic news editor. He’s got the job of ferreting out anything of news value that breaks around here.
usually tipped off in advance to the downtown publication, Shaun has to dig for his stuff and whip on a pack of eager reporters in an effort to root out the facts.
McDermott is not the sterotyped, visor - crowned news editor, all commands and clattering telephones. He’s a modest junior, but is packing a heavy enough load to graduate himself next June.
A rifleman with the 11th Armored Division, Shaun picked up a Purple Heart in Belgium. He spent 10 months in Paris; says it’s quite a town. Can’t get much else out of the guy, but he admits he’d Slike to go back.
Twenty-three years old, Shaun looks ahead to work in the newspaper field once he gets out of school.
CALENDAR
Oct. 31 HALLOWEEN. Trains leave tonight for Cleveland. Witches will be out this eve, buzzing around on brooms and cackling over cauldrons. This is no phenomenal event in South Bend, however. One can poke his head inside the Lido any night and spot a few witches buzzing around the darkened booths and cackling over their bourbon.
PALACE, Cynthia. Elizabeth Taylor and George Murphy in a good evening’s entertainment. Companion feature is The Crimson Key.
Nov. 1 ALL SAINTS DAY. Holy day of obligation. No classes.
NOTRE DAME vs NAVY. If Irish backs can pick up the necessary downfield blocking convoys Leahy’s lads should steam past the Middies by better than 20 points.
VICTORY DANCE AT CLEVELAND; sponsored by the N.D. Club of Cleveland and the Cleveland Club of Notre Dame. Bill Cullen’s orchestra will beat out the mellow stuff at the Carter Hotel in Cleveland. Tickets a buck and a half at the door.
HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL; at School Field, Riley vs South Bend Central. Kickoff at 8 p. m.
STATE, Homestretch, with Don Ameche. A horse racing picture, with the usual but always thrilling gallops to the wire. Joe Cheney is making book right now, and he hasn’t seen the picture.
RIVER PARK, The Plainsman. Notwithstanding that this DeMille western is ten years old, it is still one of the best films about the winning of the West. Gary Cooper, as Wild Bill Hickock, is impervious to Jean Arthur’s overtures. Buffalo Bill’s in it; so’s half the Sioux nation.
Nov. 3 ALL SOULS DAY liturgically celebrated today. Remember them and they’ll remember you.
CENTRAL HIGH AUDITORIUM, Edward Tomlinson, an associate editor of Collier’s, speaks on “Democracy versus Totalitarianism.”
Nov. 4 PALACE, Ghost and Mrs. Muir. This was supposed to come to town some time ago, but didn’t show. It’s still a good picture. The companion thriller is Bulldog Drummond Strikes Back. Question: when will the public strike back?
Nov. 6 STATE, Beast With Five Fingers and Fear In the Night. The hero of the first horror specimen is apparently a thug without thumbs. Don’t dare to see these two chilling pictures without first consulting your doctor. If he advises your seeing them, then he should see a doctor.
Nov. 7 PALACE, Sang of the Thin Man. William Powell is still suave and polished as he moves down his last pictorial mile.
7
Uie>	.
Death Trap ('41) to Homicide Highway |'47)
In the Scholastic of October 17, 1941, Editor John A. Reilly headed the editorial page with an editorial titled: “Death Trap.” It began thus: “Last Saturday night we had a good close look at the famous ‘death-trap’ that exists at that point on the Dixie Highway near the St. Mary’s entrance. We came away convinced that the most important thing ... to do right now is to take measures to lessen or eliminate this hazard to the life and limbs of students of both Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.”
The editorial continued by describing a near accident which took place on the night in question. It noted that the only regulation affecting the hazard was an elastic thirty-mile speed limit, and that a prime help would be the enforcement of a 15 or 20 mile speed limit such as was guaranteed in ordinary “School Zones.” “Rural schools with minute enrollments have these protective zones which are respected on even the busiest traffic arteries,” it reported, adding, “yet students of the University and of St. Mary’s are placed on unequal terms with the Dixie Highway.”
The editorial concluded: “What is certainly needed at the College entrance is the installation of inexpensive amber lights which will enable the traffic minority to get across and also slow down speeding automobiles.”
But nothing further was done! Many serious accidents had taken place at that spot! Other serious accidents were yet to occur!
Last Saturday night’s tragedy only reiterates what has already been said. Something must be done! Students of both schools as well as the faculties which include many elderly folks, should not be continuously exposed to the menacing traffic of Homicide Highway.
Whoever is responsible for traffic policing on Homicide Highway has failed miserably to control speed regulations or to erect proper caution signs. Motorists heading north make a practice of picking up top speed after passing the stop light at Angela Boulevard.
If for any reason the authorized guardians of public safety fail to take these measures of their own accord, the only alternative is for the two schools—whose students and faculty members have been actual, and are now potential, victims—to demand that such measures be taken, or that an underpass or overpass be erected.
Unfortunately, any remedial measures will come too late for Marie Despres, Joseph Hailer and the other victims of this hazardous crossing on Homicide Highway.
Fire Hazard
Something must be done immediately to reduce the fire hazard in the Social Science building caused by the almost universal violation of the “no smoking” rules in that frontier tinder-box.
At present students are lighting up the minute they hear the bell ring, or, what’s worse, begin scratching matches and trying to get in the first few puffs as they shoulder and smash their way towards the inadequate doors. This only log-jams the traffic at the outlets. The dangerously narrow stairs are clogged with impatient students lugging books while a few inconsiderate smokers block the way.
8

Getting out of the Social Science building and over to classes in the Main Building or farther requires speed, skill, determination, tricky footwork, and a sprinter’s wind.
A lot of tardies could be avoided if the no smoking rule	]
were enforced, and traffic hurried on past the bottle-necKS.	i
One more unhealthy condition could be alleviated, too, if smokers would refrain till they got outside: poor, stuffy, and anesthetizing ventilation could be overcome. The, place is like an incubator. Lectures are falling on drowsy ears. The place needs an airing out.
Why ~ Why — Why?
The recent abandonment of the Metropolitan Club’s popular “Player of the Week” program comes as a perfect, -• though extremely unfortunate, case in point—the point being the reasons behind the much publicized and very evident apathy which permeates the Notre Dame student body.
The “Player of the Week” program was a snappy, interesting, well-run affair sponsored and administered by an enterprising, hard-working campus club—the Metropolitan Club. Their resumption this season of what had, in the past, grown to be a very popular after-the-game attraction, was noted by many as an indication of what independent, selfdirected student effort could produce in the way of genuinely student activity.
It bears repeating that this activity was student-inspired, student-directed, student-administered, with 100 per cent student participation. In other words it was an encouraging example of what student initiative, so noticeably lacking, generally could produce. It was bound to act as a stimulant to further effort on the part of various student organizations along similar lines. And the fact that this attempt followed on the heels of accusations hurled at the Met Club because of its previously dormant status gave the entire program a very healthy complexion.
Then came the sudden cancellation.	<
But why? Even in the light of the reasons advanced lor this action the Scholastic feels that the question remains unanswered. Darkness prevailing at the close of the program • shouldn’t prove insurmountable in the search for one’s automobile; nor should the fact that voters very often ballot for backfield men as “Player of the Week” discourage this activity. And finally the ten cent admission charge will never make the Met Club a wealthy organization. In fact this amount barely took care of the club’s expenses on the first attempt.
Nd, the Scholastic strongly feels that the benefits arising both from the program itself, in that it offers a refresh- | ing after-game hour, and the hoped-for effects of this ac- I tivity on other student groups far outweigh any minor con- | siderations to the contrary.	I
All pros and cons aside, however, Scholastic is convinced I that encouragement of healthy, independent student activity | is the best antidote for the widespread disinterest and lack of £ enterprise pervading the campus atmosphere.	9
Scholastic sincerely hopes that recognition of the sourcesOg of this spirit, or lack of it, may lead to a remedy of the g situation.	1
’ The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89. NO. 6
OCTOBER 31. 1947
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Cleveland Ready for 1,000 Man Invasion
SENIORS ELECT SULLIVAN, McCAFFREY, Caravan Moves East RYAN AND BURNS, AS 353 BALLOTS CAST	On N.Y.C.Atl:30 a.m.
By LAWRENCE S. CONNOR
After a week of spirited campaigning by the nominees for Senior class officers, 353 students of that class turned out to elect George Sullivan as their president last Wednesday. Three members of the “4 For All” ticket—Thomas McCaffrey, Larry Ryan, and George Burns—were voted in as vice-president, secretary and treasurer respectively.
Sullivan, a member of this year’s football team, won on a close decision from Joseph O’Reilly, of the “4 For All” ticket. Sullivan garnered 164 votes to O’Reilly’s 148. McCaffrey, retiring local secretary of the N.F.C.C.S., defeated his nearest rival, Richard Kasberg, 200 to 118. Ryan, senior manager of the Notre Dame football squad, defeated John Defant, 224 to 96. Burns, vice-president of the Commerce Forum, won from Thomas Brogan, 179 to 102.
The newly elected president, George Sullivan, is a resident of East Walpole, Mass., and has acted as president of the Boston Club for the last two years. He held the presidency of the Monogram Club for the same two years. His work as co-chairman of last year’s Junior Prom is another indication of his experience in executive matters.
Thomas McCaffrey has a record of fine service behind him; vice-president of the Vet’s Club during Jim Webb’s regime, past National Chairman of the National Federation of Catholic College Students, and the recent secretary of the local Council of the same organization. He is also a member of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus. His home is in Vallejo, Calif., and he is a member of the California Club.
The secretary of this year’s senior class, Francis Larry Ryan, has been a member of the managers association here at Notre Dame since 1942. Because of his fine record in that association, he
was elected last spring as the senior manager- of the 1947 football team. Larry is a former member of the Commerce Forum, and lives in Bayfield, Wisconsin.
George Burns, of Watertown, New York, is a member of the Central New York Club, and is currently vice-president of the Commerce Forum.
This combination of men promises to be a valuable asset to the senior class this year. Each has a reputation for hard work in school activities. They plan to hold a meeting in the near future to determine their policies for the coming year.
In other returns from the election, Gerard Hekker, an independent nominee for president received 21 votes. The other independent, Victor Gutschen ritter, running for treasurer, garnered 44. James Kinn, running for president received 18 votes. Other members of his ticket, Joseph DiSpigno, candidate for vice-president picked up 29 tallies; Donald Poepsel, secretary nominee, 28; and Donald' Clark, for treasurer, 22.
SENIOR PREXY SULLIVAN An end to inaction?
By GREG HALPIN
Courtesy the New York Central R.R., the Student Council, cash on the line and not a few I.O.U.’s, the Notre Dame Caravan moves east for Cleveland and the Navy game tomorrow morning at 1:30. Approximately 1,000 students and University officials, including the Notre Dame Marching Band, will roll out of the St. Mary’s siding in two special trains which are scheduled to arrive in Cleveland’s Union Terminal at 7:30 A. M.
These 1,000 will be joined in the stadium by some 1,500 other students, their parents and friends, and married vets and their wives who purchased the tickets remaining from the extended, two-week sale and who are traveling to the game separate from the “Specials.”
The student trip, always a knotty administrative problem, this year presented its supervisor, the Rev. Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C., Director of Student Activities, with a new and distinctly post-, war headache. Due to unannounced reasons, the Veterans Administration is playing hide and seek with students’ subsistence checks until November 1. As a result, deprived of financial nourishment, many an N.D. man will languish by the radio tomorrow as the Irish go after number five in the big, lakefront stadium.
In an effoi-t to help alleviate this condition and give as many as possible a chance to make the trip, Father Barry announced early last week that credit for the tickets would be advanced to veteran students. About 100 took advantage of this opportunity. The lack of response was attributed by Father Barry to the fact that debts are running high on campus due to the delay in checks and going $10.00 or $14.00 more in the hole to many just didn’t seem the economic thing to do.
Last-minute developments in arrange-(Continued on Page 33)
9
Rules Set For Hall Decoration Contest
Chairman Tom Jackson of the Armygame week-end Hall Decorations Committee, a function sponsored by the Blue Circle, reports the following rules and limitations concerning respective hall decorations:
Only one official decoration committee will be permitted in each hall, and it in turn will work directly under the hall’s Student Council representative. A limit of §100 is placed as expense money for the props and work cannot begin before Tuesday, Nov. 4. Each committee chairman will submit to his student council representative an expense account of the entire undertaking. Only students may work on the projects. The height of the decoration cannot exceed the height of the building and it must be securely fastened to avoid accidents.
Electrical appliances may be used if the sanction of the hall rector is obtained. These would include such items as flood lights, colored lights or a public address system. All electrical appliances and tools are to be procured off campus—to solicit such items from campus carpenter or electric shop is strictly prohibited.
All decorations must be down by Monday, Nov. 10.
The judges of the decorations shall consist of one member of the lay faculty, one member of the clergy (not residing in any residence hall) and one student from Moreau Seminary. Their decision will be respected as final.
Judging of the decorations shall take place Saturday, Nov. 8, not later than 1 P. M., and the winning hall ■will be announced at the Army game. The prize to be awarded to the winners is yet undecided, but, it may be noted that last year Badin Hall won and a banquet was held in their honor in town.
An important extra “don’t”—“No hall decoration shall have as, or incorporated into its theme any symbols or drawings representing a graveyard or cemetery (e.g. a tombstone representing the Army Team) or any symbols or drawing relative thereto.—Phil Shea.
Blue Circle Announces
New Members, Stay Council
The Blue Circle announced this week a list of 37 new members for the 1947-48 school year, as well as the members of the Stay Council who were voted in for their second term last semester, for
10
the purpose of aiding the new members in their activities and to insure the organization of smoothness in carrying out functions.
Chuck Russ, Walt Zenner, Vince O’Reilly, Leo McNamara, Tom Green, Steve Du Brul, Steve Valetich, Tom Higgins, Gerry Hekker, and Dick Elliott compose the 10 man Stay Council.
New members consist of John Donnelly, Thomas Klug, William Eggers, and Robert Slocum of Zahm Hall; Robert Bates, John Gaines, Curran Higgins, Philip Jensen, John Sanders, and Bernard Powers of Cavanaugh Hall; Ronald Myrter and Don Mahoney of St. Ed’s; John Fitzpatrick, James Ferstel, and Thomas W. Jackson of Sorin Hall; Robert Luther, Richard Burns, John Harrington, and Arthur Owen of Walsh Hall; Clifton Bloim, Robert Powell, and William Shine of Badin; Charles Bauman, and Dave Skorky of Alumni; William Duggan, Richard Gorman, William Soos of Dillon; William Murtagh, Robert Connelly, Robert Murray and John Kennedy of Howard; Terry Armstrong, William Denning, Daniel Barlow and Richard Hahn of Morrissey; Mort Lewis and Gerard Fitzpatrick represent Lyons Hall.
These new members who were interviewed by the 10 members of the Stay Council must have an 80 scholastic average to be admitted.
This year the Chairman of the Blue Circle will be elected by that body rather than have a member of the Student Council acting as chairman as was done last year.
ARMY GAME WEEKEND
Among the autumnal coloring of the Campus foliage will come the sprinkling of 290 greyclad Cadets from the United States Military Academy on Nov. 8. the day of THE football classic. The boys from the Point will arrive at St. Mary's siding at 10:30 A. M-, and will be greeted by the president of the Student Council. Larry Turner, and the president of the senior class who will be elected by then. The band from the University will possibly be present.
The Cadets will eat their lunch in the Dining Hall at 11 o'clock, and sight-see about the campus for a bit before marching into the Stadium at 1 P. M.
After the game they will be guests at the Victory Dance to be held in the Navy Drill Hall and will depart from the siding at midnight after returning their dates (28 St. Mary's girls) to their habitat.
NSA Delegates Go To f Regional Convention
Last Sunday the Notre Dame delegation of the National Students Association attended the regional convention of the NSA which was held in Terre Haute at the Indiana State Teacher’s College.
A constitution proposed by the N. D. delegation which is composed of Jack Murphy, Norman Kopec, and Charley Mouch, was adopted by the convention and will be ratified at the next regular meeting. It was decided to have a student government clinic to which all representatives of the various student governments will be invited to attend. The clinic will be held at the University of Indiana in February and all colleges and universities in the state are expected to send representatives.
The student government clinic is an important example of the practical objectives that the NSA hopes to accomplish in. the near future.
The objective of the meeting held Sunday is to actualize the various programs that were decided during the National Convention in Madison.
A unanimous decision was handed down by the convention in its condemnation of the World Student News, a publication of the International Union of Students, which has very definite communistic tendencies.
At the present time the NSA is negotiating to affiliate itself with the IUS. The proposed affiliation would come about after the World Strident News has been withdrawn from the organization.
To facilitate discussion at Terre Haute, Murphy and other students *' active in the N.S.A. movement at Notre Dame drew up a sample document which indicated all the points they wanted to include in the final draft of the regional constitution. Chief among them was the proposal that any college in Indiana may be a regional member, whether it belong to the national organization or not.
Present members of the Indiana region include Purdue, Indiana State,
Indiana
Tech, Evansville, Anderson,
Marion, St. Joseph’s St. Mary’s of the Woods, and St. Mary’s of the Holy Cross. A campus-wide referendum will be held at Notre Dame so that the student body may decide whether the university will join the national and regional organizations.
In connection with this, a student forum on the N.S.A. will be presented in Washington Hall in the near future. Any student interested in working fori the N.S.A. on this campus will be able to do so.—Jack Lowe.
$ Two Indian Students Shatter Idea that India Is Land of Snake Charmers and Rope Climbers
By JOHNNY WALKER
To the average American India has long been a country populated by a race of snake charmers who spend most of their waking hours in beguiling lethargic cobras out of wicker baskets or who ascend rigid hawsers only to pass into nothingness upon reaching the top. But to cosmopolitan Notre Dame this September came two equally cosmopolitan Indian gentlemen to continue their graduate work in Engineering. The two, N. S. Setty of Sorin Hall and Madras, a student of Mechanical Engineering and N. Ethirajalu (“call me Rajan”) of Morrissey Hall and Bangalora, a student in Electrical Engineering, are the very antithesis of the classical notion of the classical representative from the land of the Sacred Cow.
No befezzed students, these; nor do they rest from their labors upon a bed of jagged glass in a room suggestive of incense and the exotic strains of Orientate. But modern is the word for engineers Setty and Rajan. Their command of the English language would start many Americans rustling through the pages of Webster and their amiable demeanor makes them unofficial ambassadors of good will. Both have been sent to Notre Dame by the Indian government, not only because of their academic studies but with a view towards fostering a better understanding between such diverse nations.
Their acquaintance with each other began aboard the ship which brought them to San Francisco, even though they hail from Mysore and Madras which are adjacent to each other in southern India! America was a series of surprises, pleasant and unpleasant, to the pair! Although they were imbued with the traditional foreign sophism that America housed only a collection of millionaires and thugs, they found Americans' friendly or as Rajan put it, “Americans, are friendly in quantity but not in depth.”
Setty, and Rajan have much to say concerning the future of the two nations so lately bom on the ancient soil of India', that of Hindustan and the split entity (^..Pakistan. They insist that the reports of rioting and bloodshed during the gestation period of these nations liave been somewhat colored by the foreign press. These difficulties, they believe, -h^ye only been occasioned by the transitional upheaval; the hatchet-thrdwirig will soon stop with the return to normalcy. Setty and Rajan maintain that the Indian princes, long identified by the outside world as diamond encrusted despots with a flair for hunt
ing the wily Bengal tigers with 14-karat rifles, are actually, in the main, beneficient and democratic rulers who have readily acceded to the new governments and will in some future time become mere figureheads. The caste system, an outgrowth of the Hindu religion and the Brahmanical concept, and a stumbling block to democracy if there ever was one, is also on the skids. The caste system, together with the autocratic rule of some of the princes, has helped India become a land of marked contrasts; the vast private fortune of the Nizam of Hyderabad and the poverty of the majority of India’s population; the exquisite pearl-like beauty of the Taj Mahal, which should be seen only by moonlight, and the squalor of India’s larger cities.
SETTY AND RAJAN
From a strange land to a stranger one
While it is true that India has come far since the days of Lord Clive and the black hole of Calcutta, there remains much to be accomplished before she can take her place among the highly industrialized nations of the world. Where Hindu and Moslem majorities . and minorities clash, there is a prevalent habit towards settling their differences by burying the hatchet in the other fellow’s head. True, these are described as “transitional difficulties,” but transitions which take the lives of thousands of people leave something to be desired. India is still a land of potentials. Many of her vast natural resources remain undeveloped. Her railroad system, in a land just a shade smaller than these United States, clanks along like the Toonerville Trolley on three-gauge trackage with less efficiency than the 600 miles of road in poor little Rhode Island. Vast portions (87 per cent in 1941) of the Indian population
No Special Privileges VA Warns Veterans
The Veterans Administration today cautioned veterans entering schools and colleges this fall under the G-I Bill that they must comply with the regularly prescribed standards and practices of the educational institutions during their period of enrollment.
Government-paid tuition to an educational institution does not place a veteran in a special-privilege class, VA said.
Student veterans must abide by all the rules and regulations of the institutions where they are enrolled. They must maintain satisfactory academic marks. Willful misconduct or unsatisfactory progress are grounds for withdrawal of subsistence and tuition payments. In the past, cases of willful misconduct or unsatisfactory progress have been negligible and for the most part student veterans have attained academic marks equal to or above the nonveteran students.
Nearly 900,000 World War II veterans reinstated lapsed National Service Life Insurance policies worth 5% billion dollars during the past eight months under the liberal provisions still in effect, Veterans Administration announced today.
Holders of lapsed term policies who have not yet reinstated have only a little more than two months in which to do so under the plan now available, VA said.
Until January 1, 1948, such veterans need only fill out a three-question application form and pay two monthly premiums—one for the 31-day grace period during which the insurance was continued without payment, and the other for the current month.
are still illiterate and the education afforded India has been at the hands of small bands of missionaries and the English government.
In a Calcutta square southeast of the Maidan, stands the Victoria memorial and on it are inscribed these words: “A people must rise to freedom, freedom will not descend to a people.” India has started this rise with the departure of Britain's captains and kings, but this rise is a long uphill fight. It is for men like Hindustan’s Pandit Nehru, the Moslem league’s Mohamed Ali Jinnah, and the doily-clad religious zealot M. K. Ghandi who, aided by educated young men like Setty and Rajan, will make the climb an easier one, so that India's 400 millions may someday join the world family of nations as an equal partner and may realize the ideals symbolized in their flag, “courage, peace and chivalry.”
11
Beware—The Undead Flit About Tonight^
By JOE WILCOX
Weird Whistles and Ghastly Groans Rend the Air For Tonight Is Halloween and Spirits Tread the Streets
Ghoulies, ghosties, and other things that go boomp i’ the night about this time of year are at it again tonight, with no holds barred. Vampires, werewolves, zombies, witches, and familiars go abroad in the land unchecked, for tonight, as everyone knows, is Halloween, the eve of All Saints. On this date, traditionally, the deceased, the undead, the witch, the wizard, the wraith and the spectre haunt the frosted countryside. The moon is eclipsed by the odd silhouettes against it.
Perhaps one thinks more of ghosts in connection with Halloween than of any other preternatural creatures. From time to time in history, even the present, there have been those who claim ability to converse with the dear departed. They arrange seances, hold hands, blow trumpets and let in chill winds, while waiting for the ghost of Uncle Squeedunk to make a remark. A remark they often get, but not from Uncle Squeedunk. It is a matter of fact that genuine ghosts cannot be summoned. They come quite of their own accord, but they cannot be summoned. You can make them go away, sometimes, by exorcising them, but they will usually return. Why they behave as they do is a mystery.
All ghosts, to be sure, do not behave in the same way. There are as many kinds of ghosts as there are people. Some have an inexplicable penchant for moseying up and down stairs, usually carrying lighted candles, and occasionally uttering moans. These frequent old castles with long, dim staircases.
Ghosts of a more violent nature shriek loudly and pass cold, clammy hands over sleepers. It is this type of ghost that makes life in a haunted house nerve-wracking. Unlike the first type of ghost, who is very easy to live with once you get used to him, the shriekers are never friendly.
Another kind of ghost is addicted to throwing things and to doing tricks in general. These are usually harmless, if annoying. A few of them, however, are
inclined to the perpetration of malicious mischief, such as England’s famous brick-throwing ghost.
A very disturbing ghost is the stander. This manifestation simply appears to people and just stands there. They just stand. After they have stood a sufficient length of time, they depart, usually disappearing slowly, only to come back shortly and stand some more. This type of ghost is usually found to have been done foully to death.
Other ghosts which have been done foully to death wreak vengeance upon the doers. The vengeance, usually of a most horrible sort, is sometimes wreaked upon just anybody who happens to be around at the time. The ghosts are not too choosey. Vengeful ghosts, as a whole, are to be deprecated and avoided.
Some ghosts insist upon running people’s business. They appear to you and give advice, which is very poor and should not be followed. The reason is that they were frustrated busy-bodies in life, and, thinking that ectoplasm gives them added prestige, attempt to carry on their interference after death. These ghosts, nevertheless, remain sore
Nothing sadder than a lonely ghost on Hallow'een
ly incompetent to mind other people’s —or other ghosts’—business.
Then, there are the actor ghosts. For some foolish reason these ghosts appear, usually upon the anniversary of some dastardly deed, and reenact the deed. The pantomime frightens the onlookers dreadfully. What the ghosts seek to accomplish by such behavior is unclear. M. R. James, who turned out some mean ghost stories, was particularly taken with the actors. He wrote two stories about them, neither of which should be read by those of faint heart, whose moral was “never buy old doll houses or wood cuts.” I won’t.
Some ghosts succeed only in making themselves felt as presences. These are very impotent, and it is very easy to get along with them if you just ignore them. They are totally incapable of doing anything at all. Likewise uninteresting are the chain-draggers, who appear in deep, dark cellars and drag chains about to no good purpose. They are very noisy, but quite harmless.
Notre Dame’s ghost, otherwise the Spirit of Notre Dame, abides in Washington Hall. It is a combination of the
12
stairs-walking, candle-carrying manifes-J tation and the playful kind. His antics annoyed the students who used to live in Washington Hall in years past, so that nobody now lives there except the ghost, if ghosts can be said to live. It would be a nice gesture if somebody would go over to Washington Hall tonight and be frightened. There is nothing any sadder than a lonely ghost on Halloween.
Ghosts, in the United States, are a singularly quiet people. This is not so in England and the other countries of the British Isles. Perhaps the islandic fog, creeping, as it does, into the very vaults of the vine-encrusted cemeteries of the countryside, has something to do with calling the perturbed spirits of departed Englishmen back from the grave. But back they come, and even the most skeptical must admit that the evidence in favor of the existence of the ghosts is immense. LIFE recently carried an exhaustive article on England’s ghosts, and, among other things, it printed a picture of an actual stair-walking ghost which picture was developed under seal of the crown. If it wasn’t a ghost, it was something equally disquieting.
In Wales, it’s a rare man who hasn’t seen at least one ghost. The Irish believe that Brian Boru and his men are sealed up in a cave, ready to go to the defense of Erin again. The Scotch are haunted with the shades of Malcolm and Duncan; with the Spoorn and the witches on the heath.
On the continent, only the Scandinavian countries manage to find many ghosts. The Latin countries go in more for witches. Italian •witches have the anti-social habit of turning themselves into frogs and sucking the blood of babies. The French do not seem over afflicted with anything more than mortal.
But in the Balkans, more than the spirit of Red Russia is abroad this Halloween. For the Balkans — the remote highlands of Rumania, Bulgaria, Jugoslavia—are the haunts of the vampire and the werewolf, pieces de resistance on any shelf of weird literature.
Werewolves, men who are able to turn themselves into wolves at certain phases of the moon, some of them turning willy-nilly—have terrorized the peasants of the Balkans and other parts of inner Europe for centuries. Werewolves appear without warning; pretty female footprints in the winter snow and minute, not-so-pretty wolf pads the next. Werewolves are much more unpleasant than any run of the mill timber wolf, for they are more than uncommonly * hard to destroy. Once you have man” aged to do one in with a silver bullet, (Continued on Page 29)
Chill-Hungry Movie Fans Once Again Served With the Not-So-Frightening 'Frankenstein1
By JOHN A. OCONNOH
Every year about this time the theatre owners across the nation decide the moment has arrived to scare sheol out of their patrons. This they set out to do by flashing the most fiendish and horrific films obtainable across the silver screen. Children are frightened out of normal growth and forever carry about with them a cautious fear of the dark. Hypertension victims are propelled into fits of neurasthenia, shivering and quaking under a glacierous mass of fear at every strange step or midnight howl of an adventurous tomcat.
Probably the most ghoulish example of this type of entertainment is the stock Halloween chiller Frankenstein.
Mary Shelley’s horror classic was first brought to the screen about fifteen years ago, and is still good for a score. Far from being senile, although dated from the costume and photographic angle, Frankenstein will probably evoke its share of screams from the more timid in the audience, and fortify the theatre-
THRILL OF A WEDDING NIGHT
Behind the bushes honing up his fangs
goer’s almost universal distrust of science majors.
Frankenstein is “A tale which holdeth children from play and old men from the chimney corner.” Chances are it will holdeth Notre Dame men from homework ■ and St. Mary’s girls from walking home through the neighboring woods.
Actually Frankenstein is not such a terrifying or implausible story. Doctor Frankenstein himself was a student of natural philosophy and chemistry, who cracked up from too-many night exams. He went to Ingolstadt U., but showed only a passive interest in anything outside his studies. He never knocked off for a beer down at George’s, never played interhall ball, and never cheered for the team when the going got tough. His only interest was book-learning, and his spare time was spent around the unhallowed damps of the grave. In other words he picked up a little change from body-snatching.
After hanging around the local gymnasium one afternoon Frankenstein decided he could make a better human specimen himself, so he set about gathering scraps from charnel houses and picking up a femur or two out at the potter’s field.
The film here digresses from the original story by introducing an unfortunate hunchback who plays cats-paw for the looney doctor and makes off with a pickled brain from a local hospital. Like the doctor, this hunchback is also interested only in his profession, not taking time to appreciate the beauties of creation around him, but bent on donning the role of creator himself. In other words, he too was not a well-rounded man. Not well-rounded that is until one day later on in the story when the monster clubbed him over the cranium with his paw which made him well-rounded for all eternity.
Finally Frankenstein patched a huge mummy together, using a little adhesive tape here, a little wire there, bolting on a head, and stretching him out on a slab before administering the juice.
No" sooner does the stupendous paraphernalia tingle into action than the spark of life twitches in the prone monster. That’s where the screams start. Despite movie-goers warnings of “You’ll be sorry,” the grinning doctor goes on with his experiment and pulls the final
(Continued on Page 29)
13
Tonight at the eerie hour of 1 a. m. one thousand Notre Darners will board a couple of the New York Central’s caravans bound for the several objectives of Cleveland, the Navy game, blind dates, and unlimited Saturday night wassail.
Cleveland
Cleveland, which has weathered the
storm of Notre Dame student trips before, will have the welcome mat spread
wide when the trains pull into the union terminal tomorrow morning at about six. It’s a pleasant town, noted for hospitality to visitors. Although the sixth largest city in the nation, Cleveland still maintains a small-town air that makes an outsider feel at home. It’s a kind of hick town with long pants.
Paramount on the list of post-game celebration spots will be the Carter Hotel where the local chapter of the Alumni Association will hold its Victory Dance—with dates for everybody—but there will be plenty of other things for Notre Dame men to see and do on their
7
Ki
"5
TERMINAL TOWER BY NIGHT A hick town with long pant* . . .
By Robert T. Stock
brief sojourn in what Bertie McCormick’s sheet calls “Chicagoland’s eastern outpost.”
The game itself, to be played in mammoth Municipal Stadium, the biggest baseball yard in the country, will attract one of the football season’s largest crowds, estimated at about 86,000 customers. Much has been made of New York’s subway alumni, but for rabid Notre Dame partisanship Cleveland ranks with anybody. Predominately Catholic, burghers from Cleveland and all the surrounding towns turn out in mobs for the
biennial renewals of the ND-Navy donnybrook in the lake front arena.
The Stadium is located on the edge of Lake Erie, due north of the Terminal Tower (where the trains arrive). A ten-minute walk or a taxi will take you there. ND men enter’ Gate C on the northeast corner. The best way to find the game is to look for a large group of middle-aged fans, carrying pennants, wearing mums, and making loud conversation, and attach yourself to it.
When the fray is history and the middies have carted themselves off the field in varying stages of decomposition, Notre Darners will be in the mood to celebrate, no matter what the Michigan-Illinois score is. With the fear of night watchmen and signing-in absent for an evening, they’ll have a plenitude of time
and a wide range of opportunity for victorious revelry.
As mentioned above, the top event of the evening will be the Victory Dance, jointly sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland and the Cleveland Club of Notre Dame. Arrangements have been made to supply all the visiting firemen with blind dates recruited from Ursuline and Notre Dame colleges for women in Cleveland. Local appraisal, admittedly prejudiced, rates these femmes high on the pulcritude scale. Could be the start of a few cross-country romances.
Bill Cullen’s orchestra, featured on the Radio Club’s “Campus Carnival,” will blow their horns for the affair. Tickets are $1.50 a head. The place: the Rainbow Room of the Carter Hotel, Prospect at East 9th.
Other events on the Cleveland Alumni calendar for the week end include a rally tonight at the same hotel, a press party for visiting sports scribes this afternoon, and a kickoff luncheon in the Stadium tomorrow noon for Notre Dame and Navy dignitaries.
No Lack of Cabarets
For the night-life seeking Notre Darner, cabarets are rife in the downtown area. The better joints are on Playhouse Square, Cleveland’s chief amusement area around East 14th and Euclid Ave. (For the purposes of orientation we might mention that the latter is the town’s main drag, running directly east from the Terminal Tower.) Recommended for entertainment, food, and anything else that might be wanted are Herman Pirchner’s Alpine Village, the Eldorado Club, Borselino’s, the Continental Restaurant, Fischer-Rohr’s, the Normandie Room, the Hotel Hollenden’s Vogue Room, the Statler’s Terrace Room, the Cleveland’s Bronze Room, and the Gill-sy’s back room. Notre Dame men will undoubtedly conduct their own research on the subject.
Students will have one difficulty in the night clubs of Cleveland; most of ’em will be jammed to the doors with joyous Irish fans likewise celebrating the contemplated triumph. Tell them you’re a Notre Dame man and they might give you their table; better advice would be to get there early and stake a claim.
14
Im WelcatM Mat
Sixth City, Scene of Many Past Student Trips, Prepares to Greet 1,000 Visiting Notre Dame Men
Prices range from high to outrageous. Cover charges are usually but not always levied. Like Indiana, Ohio sets the legal drinking age at 21. Warning: if you’re under age, apprehension in the act of tippling will cost you a 25-buck fine.
Patrons of the drama will find Cleveland woefully inadequate. There is but one legit playhouse in town, the Hanna, on East 14th near Euclid. (Playhouse Square, it is readily seen, is a misnomer.) The Hanna’s presentation tomorrow night is “Harvey” the highly successful play about the rabbit. Joe E. Brown is in it. He does not play the rabbit. Most of the seats are probably sold by now, but it might be worth a try.
Barons Play at Home
Three amateur theaters flourish on the city’s outskirts. The Lakewood Little Theater, at 17823 Detroit Avenue, is showing “The Male Animal” for $1.50 a look. The Brooks Theater presents “Home of the Brave” and the Drury Theater “Joan of Lorraine.” Better ask a cop for directions.
Sports fans looking for more athletic excitement after the Navy game will be interested in the goings-on at the Arena, East 38th ^nd Euclid, tomorrow night when the Cleveland Barons play the St. Louis Flyers at hockey. It’s minor league hockey (the American Hockey League to be exact) but for roaring action and screaming thrills it’s hard to beat. Faceoff at 8:45, but again, get there early. Tickets are $2.40, $2.00, $1.50, and scarce. If you don’t mind a little shinny with your hockey, this might be worthwhile.
A dozen first-run movie houses group themselves around the Playhouse Square district. Most pictures come to Cleveland long before they hit South Bend and a generation before they stagger into Washington Hall. Movie hounds will find
miles of film to sate their appetite for celluloid. Tomorrow night’s attractions run from Deanna Durbin in “Something in the Something” (we forget what) to Linda Darnell in “Forever Amber” which is just as bad as you’d think.
Other projection palaces are the Telenews, which purveys the news of last week in palatable newsreel form; the Lower Mall, which runs some magnificent foreign movies in an atmosphere of grime and gloom; and the Carter, the Standard, and two or three other 14th-run wall holes on back streets. The latter will appeal to horse opera fans who like to shout gratuitous advice at the gallant hero as he ushers cows across the vast western prairies. Clevelanders boast that the Carter is the only place in the United States that still shows Hoot Gibson.
Good eating places are not too numerous, but we might recommend the various hotel dining rooms and the Clark and Stouffer chain whose restaurants are spotted throughout the downtown area. The Italian Village at East 17th and Euclid smacks of Rosie’s. If you’re lucky, one of the Cleveland Club boys might invite you in for a few home cooked meals, but don’t count on it.
Speaking of the Cleveland Club, student trippers who have friends in this organization are favored by the gods. The Clevelanders’ homes are practically the only places where you can sleep
AEBIAL VIEW OF DOWNTOWN CLEVELAND (STADIUM FOBEGBOUND) . .. prepares to weather another, storm
Saturday night. Major hotels have been •sold out for the week-end since the middle of July, although some of the outlying hostelries might have a few rooms left. Don’t stay in any of the downtown flophouses unless you’re carrying a club. If worst comes to worst, there are plenty of benches on the Public Square, semioccupied by drowsy bums. Just flash your I.D. card and tell ’em to shove over.
Public transportation in Cleveland consists of surface-line street cars and buses. The newer models will give you a smooth, fast ride; the older models, unfortunately in the majority, will break your back at eight miles per hour. Most of the lines have their terminals at the Square; any of the motormen or conductors will tell you how to get where you’re going. A dime will pay the fare.
Cleveland is the city nobody knows. Except for individuals like Bob Hope and Jack and Heintz, and sports representatives like the highly efficient Cleveland Browns and the usually incompetent Cleveland Indians, not too much is known about the town, its people, and its institutions by the rest of America. (Witness the fact that the Satevepost has portrayed some thirtyodd “Cities of America” in its series and has yet to hit Cleveland.)
That such a condition might forthwith cease, here follows some dope on the big town by Lake Erie.
Notre Darners will find Cleveland a busy, hustling city, built on steel mills, machine shops, and a wide range of other industries. One of the few Democrats extant, Mayor Thomas A. Burke (Holy Cross ’26), runs the town. Civic enterprise and a generous spirit charac
15
terize its citizens. Population, according to the last census, was 822,000, with some sixty suburbs included, 1,250,000.
Among some of the major civic projects are the National Air Races, the huge Fourth of July Festival of Freedom in the Stadium, and the Community Fund, which was originated in Cleveland.
Cultural centers include the Cleveland Museum of Art, one of the finest in the country; Severance Hall, home of the Cleveland Symphony Orchestra; the Museum of Natural History; the Health Museum; and the Western Reserve historical Society.
Two universities and five colleges serve the city in the field of higher education: John Carroll University, Western Reserve University, and Baldwin-Wallace, Case Tech, Fenn, Ursuline, and Notre Dame colleges. (The latter two supply the Victory Dance dates.) Carroll, administered by the Jesuits, is the only Catholic university in northern Ohio. Currently in the throes of a “new deal” in football, the school is attempting to emerge into big time grid competition. Their “Rockne” is Herb Eisele, a tremendously successful coach at Cathedral Latin High in Cleveland who took over the football chair at Carroll this year.
Moes — the Place to Go
Favorite hangout of the local collegians is Moe’s, an amazing little dive around East 117th and Euclid. Beer by the quart and much noise are its trademarks.
The Union Terminal building group and the Public Square directly in front of it constitute the center of the downtown area. From there the city spreads out in a fan-shaped pattern, 30 miles east and west, and ten miles south. To the north, near the lake, are the Stadium, the City Hall, the Cuyahoga County Court House, and several other administrative buildings surrounding the Mall, a small park on the lakefront. The Terminal Tower is the tallest building in the United States outside of New York—708 feet. From its top on a clear.*'.; day you can see . . . uh . . . quite a dis-. ’ tance. (The writer, a native Clevelander, blushes to admit he has never been up in the Tower.) Beneath the Tower, on the Square, stands the Soldiers and Sailors Monument, a hideous pile of stone which profanes the memory of northern Ohio men who won the Civil War for General Grant.
Most of Cleveland’s factories are located in the half-mile wide valley of the Cuyahoga River which splits the east and
west sides of town. (Cuyahoga is an Indian word meaning crooked. The river is.) From those factories poured four billion dollars worth of war materials during the late intersectional scrimmage. Also aiding in the war effort was the N.A.C.A.’s Aircraft Engine Testing Laboratory at the Cleveland Airport.
Cleveland was founded in 1796 by Moses Cleaveland, a surveyor who thought the territory belonged to Connecticut. His name, with the first “a” dropped, was given to the City. The land, snatched away when Ohio gained statehood seven years later, cost the Connecticut Land Company $1.76, a high price in those days. Today in the same town it will barely negotiate the transfer of a pound of butter.
Life in Cleveland is much like that of any other Midwestern city, with the accent on a surprising amount of laborcapital harmony, and an equally surprising over-use of the right of free speech. A visitor can hear a harangue any night on almost any subject by simply standing on the Public Square and listening. Three newspapers keep the town more or less informed, the prosaically-named News and Press in the afternoon, and the oddly7named Plain Dealer in the morning.
That, then, is Cleveland, objective for the 1947 Notre Dame student trip. One final note: don’t forget to turn your watch ahead before the trains pull out tonight. Cleveland is in the Eastern Standard Time zone.
CONDENSED MAP OF DOWNTOWN CLEVELAND Notably missing above: Moe's Place
"Southland Fantasie" j To Feature Cotillion
Ray McKinley, upperclassmen, and their dates surrounded by banks of magnolias and other Southern niceties— that’s the program for the Sophomore Cotillion. Bob Bosler, chairman of the decorations committee, announced this week that the Sophomores plan to literally transpose the South into the staid Palais Royale.
Features of this “Southland Fantasie” will be a gigantic tableau “On the Levee,” columns of roses intertwined with greenery, and more than life-size figures of the South’s romantic past. Dance-goers may even have to check their bids with a kindly old river pilot before entering onto the dance floor.
Idea for the theme came from the Tu- £ lane game which will follow the dance. Then too, Cotillion heads thought that after battling South Bend’s late November winds, couples might enjoy the warm reverie of the South.
Bids for the Cotillion went on sale this week at the price of $4.90. They will remain on sale until November- 19 or until the supply of eight hundred is exhausted. Those desiring to purchase bids will not have to go to a central distributing plant, since Bid Chair-man Bill Sahm has arranged for tickets to be on sale in most of the residence halls. Information concerning bids and the men handling them can be obtained from the hall bulletin board.
16
I man
About the Campus
Sinusitus victims queueing up at the Notre Dame Infirmary meet the cool and confident eye of a new observing physician this fall. He’s roly-poly Arthur O’Dea, M.D., from Buffalo, N. Y.
“Doc” O’Dea has a lot to back up the claim that he’s a big man on campus. He’s here at Notre Dame to pick up his Bachelor of Science degree, necessary if he’s to follow through with those plans to do bio-chemistry research at the University of Buffalo, where he received his Doctor of Medicine last year.
The chubby, cellar-voiced “Doc” is only 23. Besides his part-time duty at the Infirmary he’s also one of the team physicians. A passive sports enthusiast “Doc” keeps close watch on the squad.
When asked about Swistowicz’s injury, he cheerily reported that “Mike will be a little sore for a while, but he’s all right.”
O’Dea interned among terminal cancer patients, the kind that are on their way down the chute. Realizing that the present methods are obviously inadequate, the Doc vowed he was going to give battle. His plans call for research at the U. of Buffalo School of Medicine, digging out the facts about this medical enigma. He has his convictions about cancer, thinks it can be licked, and wants to be in on the kill.
Doc is a pipe smoker and a deep sleep-(Continued on Page 25)
A B.S. degree with an assist from sinusitis
EVENING TELEPHONE LINEUP "How much longer must we wait — ?"
Student Council Calls For Prompt Action To Prevent Further Crossing Tragedies
Dominating the discussion at the public Student Council meeting on Monday evening in the Engineering auditorium, the recent tragedy at St. Mary’s crossing caused a flood of suggestions as to how the dangerous conditions existing on U. S. 31, between Notre Dame and the institution across the way, can be corrected, both from the Council members and the handful of students who appeared for the forum. It was at length decided that the Executive Council, unaer Ralph Thorson, draft a letter to the State Road Commissioner requesting that some measure be taken immediately to insure safe passage across the highway at this point. Recalling past incidents at the crossing, President Turner further directed Thorson and his committee to pursue the matter until precautionary action is actually taken.
In addition, Maurice Mahon was commissioned to interview the head of this township in order to learn if anything can be accomplished through local channels.
Installation of telephones, with facilities for out-going calls, on each floor of all residence halls was the final subject brought up for discussion. Turner stated that the telephone company had already been contacted and had promised to in
stall phones as planned by the Council as soon as the matter can be taken care of. The proposed “floor-phone” system would obviate much wear and tear on the hapless victim of the present hall phone setup, who, out of the goodness of his heart, answers the clanging Alexander only to learn that the intended recipient of the call may (or may not) be found in room 493, five flights up.
The subject of telephone calls was brought up again later in the meeting when the Council passed a motion to the effect that out-of-town directories will be procured from the phone company and placed in the basement of the dining hall for the convenience of students maxing long-distance calls to Chicago and other large cities throughout the country.
Student Council President Larry Turner expressed disappointment at the poor turnout of the student body for the forum. The fact that a late change in the location of the meeting from Washington Hall, which was being used by the Savoyards for rehearsals of “The Pirates of Penzance,” to the Engineering auditorium was offered as an explanation for the small audience present.
—Bill Bradley
17
TELEVISION CAMERA ATOP STADIUM
This searching eye caught this action . . .
SMITH'S DOWNFALL
Lancaster Smith is shoved to the turf by Iowa Fullback James Smith (22), after returning a punt to midfield. A door-die lunge by Leon Hart, left, comes too late.
Navy Steams Fearfully into Cleveland Stadium To Meet Mighty, Title-Bound Irish Gridders
By BOB LEANDER
A leaky, listing Naval Academy football team puts in at Municipal Stadium tomorrow with little thought of repairs and dire fear of greater damage to its scarred and battered bulkheads. Notre Dame, 1946 national champions and as yet unconquered this season, furnish Capt. Tom Hamilton’s team with a singular opportunity to add to its winningless ways.
The Middies defeated Villanova on opening day, 1946, and proceeded to drop ten straight games before tying Duke, 14-14, three weeks ago. The following Saturday, encouraged by their showing against the Blue Devils, the Midshipmen unfurled their colors at the expense of Cornell’s Big Red who succumbed 38-19. The jubilation was not long-lived, however, as Pennsylvania’s Quakers swatted the Hamilton crew with three scoring thrusts last Saturday while holding the Middies to seven first downs and nary a point. On the heels of this scuttling and two earlier engagements dropped to California and Columbia, 14-7 and 13-6, respectively, it would seem that Navy’s wiser course would be to steer clear of the Port of Cleveland tomorrow — a very unlikely occurrence.
The Midshipmen (despite the horrendous prospects indicated by their record) have several reasons for holding out hope in their clash with Notre Dame. In Dick Scott they have possibly the finest center in collegiate football this season. An All-American selection last year, Scott’s stalwart linebacking has
been a large factor in Navy’s holding all comers to a maximum of three touchdowns this Fall.
Contributing to their own offensive gestures the Middies have several backs, any one of whom is quite capable of running through such holes as their linemen contrive to open. Ben Moore, a 155-pound scat-back from Granada, Mississippi, has broken away several times this season as have Bob Schwoefferman and Bob Horne. The latter was at the wheel with Reaves Baysinger in the conquest of Cornell and figured highly in the Duke stalemate. Bill Hawkins runs from the fullback slot and is called upon for all heavy-duty ramming. It was his plunge in the last ten seconds of the Duke game which set the scene for Willie Wills’ score-tying placement.
Aside from these flickering stars is one Arthur Markel, an end with exceptional pass interception tendencies and no mean mark as a flanker. Add to this Navy’s earnest desire to salvage some glory from an otherwise forlorn schedule and you have garnered a fair idea of the Admiralty’s intents and purposes in Cleveland.
For reasons why the future gold braid should think twice before appearing in football uniforms tomorrow, a brief squint at any Sunday .morning newspaper during the past four weeks would give sufficient argument. Though not reducing the opposition to a collection of bruised and broken athletes, the Fighting Irish have, nonetheless, managed handsomely to dispose of their (Continued on Page 21)
Scholasi:
PROBABLE Si INC
83
73
61
57
68
74
81
36 15
41
30
NAVY
Markel .....
Shimshak ...
Emerson ....
Scott ......
Golding .... Smith ...... Ryan ....... Baysinger .. McCully .... Schwoefferman Hawkins ....
ROSTER ’L/
NOTRE DAME
No. Name	Pos.	No. Name	Po	>. 1
I Earley 	 -	. ...B	44 Leonard 	—	i	Arr
3 Brown	B	45 Michels 	I	Md
3 Tnpucka .		„...B	46 Walsh ........	(	Mo
	B		Gra
15 O'Connor ....		G	54 Sullivan 	1	Kil«
19 McGee 		.....H	55 Swistowicz 	1	r- Hai
20 Smith 		.....H	57 Lally 	|	1 Abi
21 Statute 			C	61 Russel 		1	1
22 Gay 			B	62 Simmons 	.1	1 Gre
24 Coutre 			B	63 Budynkiewicz ...J	
26 McGehee 			T	64 Urban 	A	
27 Espenan 			E	69 Clatt 		Ri
30 Gompers 		.....H	73 Gaul 		
33 Kosikowski ..		E	74 Signaigo 	V	pLav
39 Oracko 		.....G	80 Cifelli 	I	[ Sco
40 Livingstone ...	.....H	83 Wightkin 	1	[ His
42 Waybright ..		E		1 Em
18
SWISTOWICZ' NEMESIS
Mike Swistowicz grimaces in pain with a groin injury the heels of Iowa Fullback Ronald Headington (11). who proceeded to gain three yards.
ANNOUNCER'S BOOTH OUTSIDE STADIUM
. . . and picked up a word description here.
Si ING LINEUPS
NOTRE DAME ......................... Martin	38 .................................. Connor...........................81 ..................................................................... Fischer.72 ..............................................................................:. Walsh.46
........................ Wendell	58
.....0..............   Czarobski	76
S.......’.................. Hart	82
.......................   Lujack	32
..................... T.	Brennan 37
.......................... Sitko	14
........................ Simmons	62
■R ’LAYERS
NAVY
Po	>. Name	Pos.		No. Name	Pos.
	Arnold 		.B.	62 Weir 			G
	I	McCully 		..B	63. Cooper			G
	(	Moore 		..B	65 Hunt 			G
	Gralow 		..B	68 Golding		G
	1 Kileen 		,.B	71 Strahey, ...		T
	1: Hawkins 		..B	73 Shimshak		T
	1 Abromitis 		..B	74 Smith, N.		T
	Baysinger 		..B	76 Knoizen ...		T
	1 Green 		..B	77 feeder 			T
	Schwoeffermann	B	78 Jones 			T
	(Williams 		..B	81 Ryan 			E
			..B	82 Frazier ...		E
	kJ		..C	83 Markel ...		E
	1 Lawrence 		..C	87 Ridderhof			E
	Scott 		..C	88 Piasecki		E
	i Hissom 		.G	89 Andresen		E
	Emerson 		..G	90 McElroy		E
Memo to Poor Lugs with Bum Stadium Seats: See Game from 50-Yard Line via Television
By HARRY MONAHAN
So you’ve got a lousy seat in the Stadium? On the goal line? In the end zone? Well, it’s in the Stadium isn’t it? Some saw the Iowa game from seats in Washington Hall.
But they weren’t clinging to the tower, beating off the pigeons and grabbing what views they could get through binoculars. It was station WBKB’s initial telecast of the Notre Dame home games and they watched Brennan mark up the first half tallies on the wavy screen of the two television units set up on the stage in Washington Hall.
Even from their distant observation post they may have had a better view of the game than many actually in the Stadium for they got the sea gull’s version from the coveted fifty yard line, with the television camera’s added advantage of moving in for close-ups of the plays. They could almost read Zig-gy’s lips as he gave the Iowa tackles his pep rally line of chatter and see the dazed expressions of the Iowa guards as they disengaged themselves from the turf after Messrs. Swistowicz, Sitko and Clatt had pounded over their positions.
The screen produced a clear newsreellike scene except when any abrupt change of distance was involved. On those occasions the screen would break and ripple like a reflection in a pool until the camera focus was corrected; usually a matter of seconds only. In the pregame color talk the cameras were turned on the Dome, Sacred Heart Church steeple, Cartier Field and the crowds streaming in from the parking lots. The
more distant targets, while distinguishable enough, resembled artist’s sketches more than photographs.
The two sets installed in Washington Hall are RCA’s latest gifts to the gadget-loving public. With standard broadcast and FM bands, television and phonograph features plus the regular panel of push buttons and dials, it is an awesome instrument for anyone but Engineering students to' tackle. The screens were large enough to permit fair visibility from as far back as the tenth row. Some of the “color” of the game is lost in the black and white picture of the television screen. Identification of the two teams was difficult since the jerseys of both teams registered dark.
Only a small audience attended this initial program. But it is expected that, at least for the Army game, Notre Dame will boast sellouts not only in the Stadium, but also in the Drill Hall, Washington Hall, Moreau Seminary and the other locations on campus at which these machines have been installed. This does not take into consideration the additional “spectators” who will see the game on screens operating in Chicago. If you live in the Chicago area and cannot procure any of those rare Army ducats, buy a television set. It probably won’t be any more expensive. Or step into your neighborhood television-equipped tavern for a cherry coke or milk shake at 2:00 P. M. on the afternoon of November 8.. You’ll have as many seats as you need, and right- on the fifty-yard line.
19
SPLINTERS
from the Pressbox
By JIM BUTZ
Navy’s oft-beaten but always-danger-ous Midshipmen are the next victims on the schedule of the Fighting Irish. Three losses and a tie in five games make Navy’s record unimpressive, but their single victory, a 38-19 romp over Cornell, shows that on a given day they are capable of some fine football.
Last year’s cozy 28-0 Irish win saw Leahy’s lads ring up 27 first downs, 329 yards on the ground, and 119 more by passing. Floyd Simmons was the individual hero as he covered 83 yards in 16 trips and scored twice. Fred Earley had a “four for four” day in the conversion department.
Last Saturday’s Iowa game marked a new record for radio broadcasting at the Notre Dame Stadium. Two national networks aired the game in addition to eleven stations which did direct broadcasts. Adding to the affair was the first telecasting in Irish history by a Chicago station.
The pre-game show staged by the Iowa and Notre Dame bands was a very pleasing spectacle. Take a bow, Mr. Hope, and let’s have more of the same.
After the Iowa tilt the sports scribes were discussing the “new” look which Notre Dame had against the Hawkeyes. Warren Brown of the Chicago Herald-American, a veteran Irish booster, would have none of it. “That,” said Mr. Brown, “is the OLD Notre Dame look.”
Local Seers Forecast Victory By 20 Points
If the local sages that plague the dining hall call their shots about the forthcoming Navy game correctly, the Middies should find themselves in deep water next Saturday.
20
Indeed, the coffee cup crystal gazers seem to think that Navy may find smooth sailing anywhere but in the Cleveland Municipal Stadium.
Dan Mahoney, Chicago, Illinois—Off Campus: N. D. 28, Navy 0.
“We should make one touchdown a quarter and our line is certainly strong enough to hold Navy scoreless.
John Cauley, New Hartford, N. Y.— Sorin Hall: N. D. 24, Navy 0.
“Coach Leahy will try to hold the score down, but even against our third and fourth teams Navy will still not be strong enough to score.”
Tom Boyle, Raton, N. M.—Zahm Hall: N. D., 36, Navy 0.
“Now that we’re rated number one in the AF Poll the boys should have added incentive to run up a score.”
Bob Gallagher, Chicago, HI., — Off Campus: N. D. 28, Navy 7.
“The score could be as high as we want it to go, but we have not tried to run up a score yet this season and I don’t think the boys will try it on Navy.”
I. V. Krishnamurti, Madras, India— Farley Hall: N. D. 31; Navy 13.
“I expect Navy to put up a good show.”
Undefeated Harriers To Run At Loyola
The Notre Dame harriers will participate in the first of a series of four invitational meets tomorrow when they run in the Loyola University cross country run in Chicago. On following Saturdays the Irish squad will engage in the Indiana State meet at Bloomington, the Central Collegiates at Des Moines, Iowa and the National Championships in East Lansing, Michigan.
Last year the Notre Dame team took seventh place in the Loyola contest which was won by a strong Illinois group. Several schools with strong individual performers are entered in tomorrow’s meet.
Last Saturday, Notre Dame finished its dual contests with decisive victories over Michigan State and Iowa. N. D. swamped the Hawkeyes 20 to 66 and outran the Spartans 19 to 36. Jim Murphy and Cornie Styers won in an intentional tie, covering the three-mile course in 16:02. Five of the first eight placs went to the Irish.
The other Notre Dame scorers were Jim Kittell, third; Bill Leonard, sixth; and Jim Kelly, eighth. Bob Mitchell finished ninth and Lou Tracy, 15th.
Notre Dame scored a clean sweep in the dual meets by triumphs over Purdue and Wisconsin in addition to last weeks victories.—Jim Howard
Army, USC Are Chief 5 Threats To Irish Title
Faced with two tough and two not-so- । tough obstacles, the Ramblers continue their drive towards the mythical national title.
Columbia’s win over the Army definitely took some of the edge off the coming clash in the Notre Dame stadium, but it also eased the pressure that goes with a four-year winning streak. With everything to win and nothing to lose, the Army can be counted on to shoot the works here next week. Its record of three wins, one loss and a tie might just as well be forgotten for all the bearing it will have when the cadets invade Indiana.
Northwestern’s Wildcats, who entertain the Irish at Dyche Stadium thi^ year, refused to lie down and play deacr
after Michigan had poured on 49 points. They roared back with 21 points, no mean feat against the Wolverines. Last week they bottled up Indiana’s George Taliaferro and eked out a 7-6 victory over the Hoosiers.
Tulane, due here Nov. 22, has suffered three setbacks as against two victories. Last week’s efforts resulted in
an overwhelming victory for the Green Wave as they sunk Auburn 40 to 0.
Notre Dame’s last game and springboard to the national title is played in Los Angeles against Southern California. The Trojans worst effort to date has been a tie with the strong Rice Owls. Every other contest has been Southern Calif, all the way. Washington State, Oregon State, Ohio State and the California Bears all have been
Trojan victims.—Jack Slattery.
TJEKD HEAT
Cornie gasp out
Styers, left and Jim Murphy * of Saturday morning's haxy4^ gloom to break the tape together for an
intentional tie for first place.
| £ Navy Steams
(Continued from Page 18)
challenger’s threats without creating undue suspense either on the bench or in the stands.
Coach-Scout Bill Earley Sees Formidable Foe in Powerful, Unpredictable Middie Squad
BY BILL EARLEY. ASSISTANT COACH. AS TOLD TO JIM BUTZ
Figuratively, the Irish haven’t been required to work up a second wind, and seldom has it appeared they would need all of theii- initial supply. Two virtual first teams have been alternating without perceptible loss of gross talent, and the appearance of the third team has yet to give the opposition cause for cheer.
Going into the Navy game the Irish will, for the first time this season, find themselves severely handicapped by injuries. Frank Leahy’s first two choices at fullback, Pep Panelli and Mike Swis-«wicz, are ailing and although slated travel with the squad will not likely see action. Ralph McGehee, second string tackle, is also making the trip with little expectation of playing because of an injured ligament in his knee. Bill Gompers whose shoulder isn’t responding to treatment as well as had been hoped will very probably miss his third successive game. Coy McGee is still favoring the ankle he sprained in the Iowa game last week. The extent to which this may hamper him is ably demonstrated by a similar injury which has prevented Moose Connor from reaching the peak of efficiency he achieved last year.
In all other respects the Notre Dame squad, abetted on this invasion by over a thousand fellow-travelers, is primed for whatever action the Navy might have threatened when 150 years ago ^bime swabbie cried: “We have not yet begun to fight!”
Although I am fortunate enough to be an assistant coach at Notre Dame, I am in the unfortunate position of being able to see the Irish perform only on the final Saturday afternoon of the football season.
The other eight Saturdays I am busily engaged in scouting some future opponent, and the closest I get to seeing our boys perform is viewing the movies in the athletic department.
BILL EARLEY
Wild winds made matters worse
On both of the past two Saturday afternoons I have watched Navy split a pair of ball games, walloping Cornell 38-19 and dropping a 21-0 affair to Pennsylvania.
The usual procedure is to leave South Bend on Thursday night or Friday
morning. I usually arrive on Saturday morning several hours before the game is scheduled to start. When the weather permits, I like to fly.
At Ithaca, N. Y., the home of Cornell, I was shunted to the far extremes of the press box with the rest of the scouts. We were left out in the open, supplied with a folding chair and left more or less on our own. The wind was rather wild that day, and I had a difficult time keeping my various charts and papers on my lap. What I saw down on the field convinced me that Navy has an effective, well-balanced attack.
Last Saturday Johnny Druze and I journeyed to Philadelphia to see the Midshipmen bow to Penn. Although the 21-0 score might indicate that the Quakers had an easy time, the game was a battle all the way with Penn using their first string almost all the game.
Navy did most of their offensive work on the ground. Dick Scott, their captain, looks better than ever this year.
Bill Hawkins, battering fullback, is the outstanding ball carrier on the Navy team. He has stood out in both of the two games in which I’ve seen him play.
And just in case you don’t think the Midshipmen are considering handing Notre Dame a walloping, let me tell you that after the Penn loss, the student section rose and sang their alma mater, “Navy Blue and Gold” and followed it with a loud “Beat Notre Dame.”
I hope they don’t.
Quarterback Reeves Baysinger	Coach Tom Hamilton	Captain Dick Scott
21
INTRODUCING ...
played 20 minutes of the Iowa game but suffered a hip injury which put him of_. for the rest of the season.
By TOM McNALLY
The citizens of oil-rich Longview, Texas, will tell you confidentially that their biggest discovery to date occurred, not in the rich, surrounding oil field, but on the football field of White Oak High School where Coy McGee first learned the ballet steps of a scat-back and the timing and precision of the broken-field runner. Ever since the Southern California game of last year, most of us will be only too happy to agree.
In that instance, McGee entered the game at the start of the second quarter with the score knotted at 0-0. On the first play he took a lateral and headed for the western sidelines where he picked up his blockers downfield and shook off the potential tacklers, dancing, twisting and squirming his way past five men before being downed on the Trojan 17.
Here a fumble, followed by a Southern California quick-kick set the Irish back to their own 23, whereupon McGee resumed control. On the identical play, he took a lateral from Ratterman and shot again for the sidelines where he completely outran everyone in sight for 77 yards and a touchdown. As a finisher, later in the game he started off tackle, found no hole, and swung wide around end to score untouched from 11 yards out.
Coy was only one more of “those McGee boys” at White Oak High. His older brothers Kenneth and Beryl had preceded him there and both had been outstanding players and, this season, his two younger brothers Randall and Max are following the tradition of one or more MeGees playing football at White Oak since 1936.
But, surprisingly enough, Coy was known not only as the brilliant climax runner but also as the heady quarterback and triple threat man in Coach Winion Knowles modified T formation. His punting average in his junior and senior years was 49 yards per boot and his passing completions were better than 50 per cent. The high point of his passing was his 19 strikes in 26 pitches in a drizzling December rain for the regional championship when he was a senior.
Seventeen-year-old Coy finished his high school requirements in three years while maintaining a 95 scholastic record. After graduation in January, 1944, he enrolled at Tulsa University where he
22
Goy AfcQee
played football on one of Coach Henry Frnka’s powerhouse teams. Coy was playing quarterback—so were both Perry Moss and Bobby Jack Stuart! Also present were “Red” Wade, Camp Wilson, Clyde Goodnight, Nolan Luhn, and Ellis Jones, the one-armed guard. It turned out to be a puzzling season for McGee. He frequently played first string in practice but Saturday would find him on the bench and either Stuart or Moss in the game.
COY McGEE
Tulsa's loss is Irish gain
Finally, in 1945, after a brief stint in the Army, Coy came to Notre Dame with bad luck not far behind. After no service at all in the first few games, he
STATISTICAL SUMMARY OF FIRST FOUR GAMES
First Downs (total) ........ By rushing ...................
By passing ............. By penalties ............
Rushing attempts ........... Net yards gained rushing Average per rush ............ Passes attempted ............ Passes completed ............ Passes had intercepted ...... Yards gained passing ........ Touchdowns from passes . Penalties, number ........... Total yardage, penalties ... Touchdowns .................. Points after touchdowns ... Field goals ................. Total points scored ..........
His career last fall reads like a piece of fiction. At the beginning of the season, he was just another backfield man on the B squad with apparently no chance of seeing any game action. But Coach Bill Earley was impressed by the tricky Texan and suggested as much to Head Coach Leahy. Leahy also looked, and, in the middle of the week preceding the Iowa game, Coy went from the B squad to a scrimmage session as a first team member. Although he missed the Navy and Army trips, he was never too far from the top thereafter until the climax of the Trojan game.
This year he turned up for practice weighing ten pounds under last season^ 165. But the lack of weight didn’t both®;' Coy. In his prep days, he learned the following about protecting himself from his heavier opponents: “A small man must learn to ride a tackle like a boxer rides a punch. Above all he must protect himself from a bruising, head-on tackle by learning to sidestep and change his pace without ever losing his balance.” He demonstrated the above by turning in brilliant ball against the heavy Nebraska line which averaged 222 pounds per man, and consequently earning the Player of the Week Award for his efforts.
McGee is a junior and has an 89 average while studying to be an aeronautical engineer. Finally, he is president of the Texas Club and also president of the Rebel Club on campus.
1946	1947
.. 64	66
.. 44	42
.. 17	22
.. 3	2
„ 230	196
.1166	776
. 5.1	3.9
. 55	77
. 26	44
. 2	3
. 515	612
. 5	5
. 26	25
. 271	202
. 22	17
. 17	9
. 0	1
. 149	114
^dd Touch Football To Intramural Menu
To that ever-growing list of intramural athletics, always a popular elective at Notre Dame, has been added touch football. Dr. John Scannell of the Department of Physical Education made the official announcement last week and already competition has gotten under way starting with last Monday, Oct. 27.
Dr. Scannell’s plan was to have twelve teams divided into two leagues with the winners of each league playing off the championship. Should he not be able to secure twelve entries, he will run an elimination schedule.
All games will be played on the second rank of fields in the shadows of the stadium with the starting time set at 4 ^m., promptly. One referee, usually a 'Sudent for the Department of Physical Education will be assigned by phy ed instructor Ernie Szekely to work each game. Touch football combines all the thrills of football and basketball. Seven men comprise a side; the usual formation is three men on the line and four in the backfield though any formation is permissable. Goal posts have not been erected so that the extra point will be passed or run.
Following are the rules:
Field Markings—Twenty yard zones.
Number of players—Seven to a team (no tackles).
Equipment—No protective devices. No spiked shoes.
Substitutions—Unlimited.
Length of game—Foui‘ ten minute quarters. One minute to change goals ^fetween quarters and ten minutes rest between halves.
Time outs—None except those for substitution and injury which are unlimited.
Kick-off—Sixty yards from opponents’ goal line.
Yardage and downs—Four downs to advance the ball into the next zone.
Forward pass—Made from any point back of the line of scrimmage with all men eligible as receivers; No penalty for any number of successive incompleted passes. An incomplete pass in the end zone will count as a touchback only in the case of fourth down.
Touch—Two hands simultaneously.
Penalties—Unnecessary roughness in touch—15 yards. Leaving the feet in blocking or having any part of the body other than the feet in contact with the ground in blocking—15 yards. Use of hands on the head—15 yards.
• W Scoring—Regulation football.
—Dave Warner
OVER THE GOALPOSTS
With Pete
the University. Even
Last Saturday a group of strong-legged, long-winded students finished their dual meet competition with victories over Michigan State and Iowa. These two wins gave the team a perfect dual meet record for the season with four victories against no defeats. Who are they? They are the aptly titled cross country team.
The cross country team, which is made up of the distance men on the varsity track team, are probably the most unlucky athletes in though they com
pete as a varsity team against teams from other colleges, they receive no varsity awards for their work. The good old pat on the back is their award.
Their efforts to give the University a representative team are in no way small. These distance men start training a week after school starts, and for most of them their training and practice does not finish until the National Collegiate outdoor championships two weeks after school closes. The actual cross country season lasts about the same time as the football season. This includes the above mentioned dual meets and four invitational meets; the Loyola Invitational, the Indiana State Championships, the Central Collegiate, and the National Collegiate.
The typical week of the cross country man is devoid of the physical contact work done by their football brethren, but it still is not a soft life. On Monday they go for distance to build up wind and endurance. Their workouts cover from four to six miles. Tuesday sees them running on the fairways and in the traps at Erskine Country Club. This is to get them used to the hilly and obstacle-littered courses that some universities call the course. Wednesday they work on speed. Thursday, the tapering off starts. Friday they do no running, and Saturday there is a meet.
The meets are usually run over any convenient bridle path. The one here at
Notre Dame runs around the twin lakes and is just over three miles in length. That distance is the average for most of the courses throughout the country. Each team competing in the meet has the right to start seven men. Only the first five of these count for points. The other two men do not count in the point total, however, they do count for a place in the final tabulation. The reason for this is that by their counting for a place in the race, they force the other team’s men who finish behind them to have a higher point rating at the end of the race. For that reason they are called “pushers.” The point scoring system is another peculiar thing. The winner receives one point, the second man two points, etc. So the winning team will always be the team with the lowest point total.
Here at Notre Dame there are about ten men who make up the cross country team. Included in this group are Jim Murphy, Corney Styers, Jim Kittell, Bill Leonard, Jim Kelly, Bob Mitchell, Lou Tracy, Tom McGuire, Merle Flemming, and Leo Paradise. The team is coached by “Doc” Handy.
It seems a shame that these men should put so much time in on a sport that is run as varsity competition and still be treated as an intermural team. In fact they are not even considered on the plane with an intramural squad, because an intramural team can at least receive medals for their work.
STUDENT TRIP.
Mass, Sacred Heart Church... midnight.
Snack, Dining Hall ... immediately after Mass.
Trains leave St. Mary's siding . . . approximately 1:30.
Train for trip "A" returns from Cleveland . . . 11:59 Saturday.
Train for trip "B" returns from Cleveland . . . 1:30 Monday A. M.
Tickets on trip "A" are void after midnight Saturday. On returning students should be at Cleveland Union Station 15 minutes before train time.
23
Irish Bucket Brigade Begins Fall Practice
In preparation for the season’s opener, which is less than two months away, 23 members of the varsity basketball squad are now in the second week of practice. It is too early to make any predictions as to what kind of a team Notre Dame will field this year, but judging from these pre-season practices, no hardwood five will have an easy task defeating such fighting Irish as O’Shea, O’Halloran, Brennan, Foley et al.
KEVIN O'SHEA
Will his knees last out the season?
Thus far, Assistant Coach Tom Brennan has spent his time stressing the fundamentals of the game. The men are working in an organized manner. Each member starts the day by perfecting his shots. The next step is taken towards the development of better dribbling. Then, they are put through their paces in the art of defense, each man taking his turn at guarding an opponent. The finale is a six-man scrimmage. Here the stress falls on perfect ball-handling, with the forwards centering theii- plays on the pivot position.
The question of whether or not Kevin O’Shea’s knees will hold out for the season is one of great controversy, and the answer is of great importance to the team. Thus far, Kev has been out there each night, but has not taken part in any of the light scrimmages.
Head Coach Ed (Moose) Krause received a chance to take his first peek at the team last Monday, when a rainy day prevented football practice. Mr. Krause, although he didn’t have much time, may
24
INTELtiALL FOOTBALL
By JOE ARCHIBALD and TOM ADAMS
Interhall footballers turned into the second lap of their bruising campaign on rock-pocked gridirons last week as Lyons snapped Badin’s victory streak with a 14-7 setback while Cavanaugh, Walsh, St. Ed’s, and Dillon were recording victories. Farley and Off-Campus battled to a scoreless deadlock in a game reeking with penalties, fumbles and the lack of substitutes.
LYONS, 14; BADIN, 7
Badin Hall suffered its first setback of the season at the hands of a strong Lyons Hall squad in a hard-fought battle, 14-7. Paul “Zeke” Lane registered the first touchdown for the Lyonites in the opening period. Lane place-kicked the extra point. Early in the third quarter, Jim Quigley, Lyons guard, recovered a fumble on the Badin 30-yard line. On the following play, Lyons scored its second marker when Lane hit Tom Musca-tello with a pass. Lane’s pass to Moons added the extra point. A Badin scoring threat early in the final stanza was temporarily thwarted on the Lyons 2-yard line. Walt “One Play” Mahannah punted the Lyonites out of danger, but Badin soon struck back. Chick Beaulieu’s passes carried the Badinites to the Lyons 5-yard line from where Dick Niemer scored Badin’s lone touchdown. Di Girolamo’s conversion was good.
CAVANAUGH, 7; ZAHM, 0
Cavanaugh Hall, sparked by the brilliant running of Jim Presley, won its second consecutive victory of the season
have obtained an inkling as to the squad’s chances.
If Frank (Heinie) Kaufmann’s bad leg doesn’t give him anymore trouble, he should see plenty of action throughout the season. Ralph Hinger, returning veteran center of the 1945 squad looks good, along with Andy Sobek, another veteran, from the ’44 team. Other fellows who may be potential starters are Don (Red) Gatens, the Iowan cattleman, and Tom Johnson.
Four new additions have been made to the varsity. They are Charlie Sposato, whose long shot is deadly, Jim Stevenson, Dick Niemer, and Jim Reis. Other aspirants who looked good in early drills were Emil Garafola, Tom McHale, and Eddie McCarthy.
Coach Tom (Red) Foley is in the process of organizing his freshman team. Thus far, 70 boys have signed up for the tryouts. Tom has decided that, in order to give each man a better chance, he will observe them in groups of 15. The fellows will practice in the gym, until a better arrangement can be made, at 7:30 each night.—Joe Archibald.
by downing a stubborn Zahm eleven, 7-0. Presley scored the winning touchdown in the final period when he received a short pass from Quarterback Bernie Powers on the Cavanaugh 19-yard line and sprinted 81 yards to tally. Presley also place-kicked the extra point. In the opening quarter, a strong Zahm line halted a 67-yard Cavanaugh march on its 1-yard line. The two squads then fouglj) to a standstill until Presley broke loose to score in the final quarter. In the closing minutes, Quarterback Joe Bidwell began a passing attack in a futile attempt to score before the game ended.
WALSH, 6; ALUMNI, 0
Walsh Hall handed a winless Alumni eleven its second defeat of the season, 6-0. The winning touchdown came in the second quarter when Don Jost ran 48 yards to score. Neither team threatened the other’s goal line in the last half. Alumni’s attack was halted by frequent fumbling, a surprisingly strong Walsh line, and pass interceptions on the part of Walsh’s Pat Shannon and Ronnie Callanan.
ST. ED'S, 18; BREEN-PHILLIPS, 0
Lanny Dickmann paced the St. Edward’s Hall eleven to an 18-0 victory over Breen-Phillips. It was strictly a one-sided contest for the bigger boyi^ from St. Ed’s. Dickmann passed to Frana/ Yacobi early in the first quarter for the initial score. Another tally in the third quarter raised the score to 12-0. Dickmann plunged across from the three yard line, again in the third quarter, to bring the final score to 18-0.
FARLEY, 0; OFF-CAMPUS, 0
The Off-Campus squad battled to a scoreless tie with Farley Hall in a hard-fought game, marred by numerous fumbles and penalties. The only threat of the game came when Off-Campus advanced to the eight yard line as the first half ended. The poorness of the encounter might be charged to the fact that both teams had a very limited number of substitutions.
DILLON, 6; MORRISSEY. 0
Morrissey Hall suffered its second straight setback, this time at the hands of Dillon Hall, 6-0. The only score of the game came when little Frank HarrisZ*'' drove over from the five yard line. The attempt for conversion was blocked.
6
Cltenuf'l OhatieA,
By JOE CHENEY '
American sport fans consistently follow the same parade year after year. They tag along with the team which is making the most noise, always hoping to be one of the “I told you so” guys. When the band wagon on which they are riding slows down because of a loose wheel, these same fans jump off and hop on the fastest wagon that comes along.
When Michigan began running up big scores on weak opponents while Notre Dame rolled along taking each game in stride, the sports writers who had gen-.erously tapped their typewriters to the Wane of the “Victory March” scrambled out of the Irish box car and boarded the Michigan Express. Now these same guys are ready to jump again; many already have. .
After last Saturday’s game here, Harry Wismer, the celebrated sports announcer, abandoned Army whom he claimed earlier this season had a better team this year than it had during the past three years. “Since Columbia knocked off Army today,” raved Wismer, “I don’t think we’ll bother- to broadcast the Notre Dame-Army game. Why,” he continued, “Notre Dame will swamp Army by at least six touchdowns and maybe more.” See what I mean I
We don’t have to leave the Notre Dame campus to get other such examples. Take the case of George Strohmeyer, for instance. Last year outspoken George had more confidence in himself than suited gthe majority of his team mates. But the ’students in the stands cheered “60” when he stopped Davis and Blanchard in Yankee Stadium and he was playing that afternoon with an ankle as big as a balloon. This season hard-plugging Bill Walsh has taken over Strohmeyer’s starting assignment and is playing a whale of a game out there backing up the line and throwing smashing blocks. Strohmeyer isn’t playing his 1946 brand of ball but he’s out there plugging. Together, Walsh and Strohmeyer give Notre Dame plenty of line strength.
Remember, too, how last year we deserted Lu jack for Ratterman. This year Johnny never looked better and we’re kind of happy to have him with us even though Tripucka improves with each game.
Yes sir, sport fans are funny people and usually pretty hard to please.
^CACHING STAFF BUREAUCRACIES
In time the football coaching departments will be bigger than the squads
if the specializing trend doesn’t come to a sudden halt. At one time the head coach was lucky if he had someone to handle the equipment. Today, he has a tackle coach, a guard coach, a center coach, an end coach, a quarterback coach, a halfback coach, and a fullback coach.
Some coaches even have professional scouts who travel about trying to find weaknesses in next week’s opponents. Most of the colleges, though, send one of the assistant coaches to handle this job.
Let’s take a quick squint into the future. It seems logical to believe that more coaches will be added to the present overcrowded coaching rosters, what with defensive players replacing offensive men every time possession of the ball changes hands.
Something will have to be done before football bureaucracy gets rooted into our gridiron departments. If things don’t change (and they’re not going to) head coaches will have to add a defensive halfback coach, a defensive fullback coach, and a defensive tailback coach to their over-populated staffs. The punting coach will have three jobs: punting, kick-off, and extra points.
Sort of reminds a guy of the army with all the brass adding a desk or two here, two or three Wacs there, and a half dozen enlisted men sitting around watching them shift papers for the “in” basket to the “out” basket and back again day after day. At the end of the week the piles were so high that “file 13” was awarded the top layer.
J. WALTER KENNEDY CHECKS CHATTER
In a recent column I gave out some misinformation about Ted Husing using a red and green pin system while broadcasting football games. J. Walter Kennedy, an ex-Notre Dame publicity director, informs us that Husing has always used a professional spotter since he started broadcasting 25 years ago, and that he invented and patented an electric light identification box which he has used exclusively in his broadcasts.
Thanks to Mr. Kennedy and apologies to Mr. Husing.
PREDICTION:
Notre Dame 35; Navy 7.
Man About the Campus
(Continued from Page 17)
er. He hopes we won’t have a shooting war with Russia. He is actively interested in criminology. Again his internship brought him in contact with the massive strides medical science is making in criminal psychiatry.
When asked whether or not he thought South Bend was a physician’s paradise he declined to comment any further than admitting all towns around the Lakes are dampish holes. ‘
Pepsi-Cola To Award Graduate Fellowships
Twenty-six new graduate fellowships, each of which will pay full tuition and $750 a year for three years, are being offered to college seniors this year for the first time by the Pepsi-Cola Scholarship Board.
Any college student who will receive a bachelor’s degree during the school year- 1947-48 from a college or university in the United States may apply for one of the new fellowships, according to an announcement made by John M. Stalnaker, professor of psychology at Stanford University and director of the Pepsi-Cola Scholarship program. Winners will be selected on the basis of their promise of outstanding achievement in later life as evidenced by their undergraduate records and recommendations as to character, personality, and qualities of leadership. The fellowships will be limited to those students who have financial need.
Seniors who wish to apply for one of these fellowships may obtain application forms from the dean of their individual colleges or by writing to the Pepsi-Cola Scholarship Board, 532 Emerson Street, Palo Alto, California. Completed applications with official transcripts of credits and other required information must be received by the Board not later than January 1, 1948. Winners will be announced March 15.
Council Names Burns Local NFCCS Head
Notre Dame’s local council of the National Federation of Catholic College Students (NFCCS) rolled ahead last week toward a busy year with the election of Lou Burns, B. J. Bedard and Tom Murray to the top posts in the organization. Burns, as senior delegate and chairman of the local group, succeeded Frank Keenan. Bedard, vicechairman and junior delegate, and Murray, secretary, replaced Bill Walsh and Tom McCaffrey respectively.
Looming on the immediate horizon as the most important project of the year is the approaching student relief drive. Inasmuch as both the NFCCS and NSA are pledged to raise large sums in support of their respective relief programs, while other organizations seek Notre Dame’s support, the roll of the local council as a coordinating agency comes into effective play.
Provisional approval of the national constitution of NFCCS, concluded the important business at last week’s session.
25
Abused Gridiron Officials Have Difficult Job In Pleasing Grandstand Quarterbacks
By GUS SWEENEY and TOM HYNES
Atlhough it is conceded by one and all that the spectator (especially the fellow with the bottle in the fifty-seventh row behind the goal post) can invariably spot foul play on the field, tradition demands that there be four officials to confuse the fans, impede the plays, and prevent a home team victory.
At best, the whistle-tooting position is a thankless job, and all regard it as a necessary evil (although perhaps at times it is more evil than necessary). The grandstand quarterback can always see things so much better than the officials that some question has been raised as to the utility of any sort of officialdom in a football game. Regardless of how the "four blind mice” call a play, they are always prejudiced, punchy, on the opponents’ payroll or just plain stupid. Officials never do anything right except when the penalty is in the home team’s favor, and then they never penalize enough.
However, at a closer analysis of the duties of these professional highwaymen, one can see some reason for their existence. The quartet is composed of a referee, umpire, head linesman, and field judge.
The referee controls the game from his position behind the defensive team. His is the last word on everything, even making sure that the field is properly marked. He determines where the ball should be prior to each play, stops each play when he thinks it is dead, and is the sole authority for a score as well as for the forfeiture of a game. This is the same man who calls the captains out to the center of the field just before the kickoff and digs deep into his pocket to find a coin to flip (they use silver dollars at Yale, half dollars at Michigan, quarters at U. S. C., and pennies at Notre Dame). Every penalty is explained to the captains, and they are told by him if there are any options. The referee notifies the field judge immediately after he suspends play and works in coordination with the other officials in assuring proper procedure of the contest.
The fellow standing behind the defensive secondary is the umpire, the second ranking official. He has primary jurisdiction over the equipment and the conduct and position of the players. His duties include assisting the referee in deciding which team has the ball, watching for pass interference, and (with the head linesman) looking for illegal advances
beyond the line of scrimmage on passes. His horn notifies the teams that a foul has been committed, but play continues until the referee declares the ball to be dead.
The position of the head linesman is on or near the sidelines even with the line of scrimmage. He marks the progress of the ball, keeps track of the downs, marks the spot of the pigskin when it goes out of bounds, and keeps an eye on off-sides and defensive holding. The line sticks are also under his supervision. The head linesman has a horn too, so that he may inform the referee when he has cited an infraction of the rules.
The timing of the game is entrusted to the field judge, and he is especially careful to suspend the time when the ball is out of bounds after an incomplete pass, after a penalty has been called, or after a score has been made. At the end of a period, the referee is notified. The field judge also checks on interference in regard to the catching, securing, or possessing of the football after it passes the line of scrimmage. Another of his jobs is to fix the point where the ball goes out of bounds on his side of the field.
These are the principal duties of the officials who try to keep peace on. the gridiron each Saturday. They come from colleges large and small and are appointed by the home team’s conference. At Notre Dame, however, they are delegated by Tug Wilson, commissioner of the Western Conference.
Notre Dame IAS Members Hear Smith at Meeting
Forty-five aspiring airmen heard Mr. Stanley B. Smith, project engineer at Bendix Aviation Corporation, speak on the subject, “Trends in Aircraft Fuel Metering Problems” at the second meeting of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences last week.
Besides the lecture series, inaugurated with Mr. Smith’s talk, the plans of the Notre Dame IAS include The Burble, student publication of the Aeronautical Department, at present being organized under the direction of Ernest J. Turisch, with the first issue of the magazine tentatively scheduled to appear on or about October 30. Student inspection trips of local industrial plants are included in the group activities, with the first of these planned for the week of November 3.
Mullin Discusses Nuclei In Atom Lecture Series
Fundamental properties of nuclei were discussed by Dr. Charles J. Mullin, asssitant professor of physics at the University of Notre Dame, Monday night in the first of a series of weekly lectures on elementary nuclear physics to be delivered at Notre Dame for students, educators and the general public.
Dr Mullin explained the atomic theory of matter, the construction and fundamental properties of the atom’s nucleus, and the properties and reactions of the atom’s primary particles. Other lectures will be delivered in succeeding weeks by members of the faculty in the department of physics, chemistry and biology at Notre Dame.
DR. CHARLES J. MULLIN
Nuclei, atoms, and primary particles
The primary purpose of the lecture series is to provide a basic introduction in nuclear energy as applied to chemistry and biology. Notre Dame has been conducting experiments in nuclear energy for more than a decade.
New Appointments Made to Biology Department Posts
Several staff changes and appointments have been made in the Biology Department since the beginning of the school year, the Rev. Robert J. Sheehan, C.S.C., head of the department, announced this week.
The appointments: Donald J. Plunkett, associate professor of biology, named assistant head of the department; John A. Jump promoted to associate professor of botany; Noe Higinbotham, assistant professor of botany, granted leave of absence to participate in radiobiology research at the Argonne National Laboratory, Chicago; Albert L. Delisle, formerly director, Botanical Division, Universidad Nacional Facultad de Agro-nomia, Medellin, Columbia, appointed associate professor of botany and curator of the University’s Herbarium; Louis E. DeLanney, San Jose Teachers College, named assistant professor of embryology; and Edward O. Dodson, formei^) of the Dominican College of San Rafael, named instructor of vertebrate zoology.
26
pampas Bowling Loop Starts Rolling Nov. 30
The KKK is active again right here on the campus. Now wait a minute. Put down those clubs for there’s no need to worry. There won’t be any cross burnings oi’ white sheet masquerades. The members of the new clan will do their intriguing with bowling balls and ten-pins. The revived KKK is but a fancy handle for the Kampus Keglers Klub, an organization composed of bowlers from twenty-four campus clubs.
Headed by Ernie Huffman (Pittsburgh Club) and Johnny O’Brien (Chicago Club), the Keglers swing into action on the local Bowl-Mor alleys the afternoon of November 30. To date, .sixteen clubs have joined the league, where’s room for eight more. Says promoter Huffman: “Need twenty-four teams to fill out the league . . . interested clubs can contact me at 364 Cavanaugh if they want to join.”
When the door closes on the league and the balls start to roll down the hardwood, over a hundred campus bowlers will be shooting for individual and team honors. Bowling will start after the final home football game, and continue until the first of May. After the final game, an award committee will go to work to ferret out the top teams, top individual scores, top three-game scores, etc. Awards will be made to the winners early in May.
Novembei- 15 has been set as the deadline for the admittance of new members. Following the deadline, schedules will be published. Member teams will draw eir respective divison slots from the
hat. The Kampus Keglers will be governed by the regular rules of the American Bowling Congress.
Teams now in the Kegler fold are: Chicago, Pittsburgh, Texas, Rebel, Toledo, Buffalo, Cincinnati, Inter-American, Italian, Villagers, Central New York, and Philadelphia clubs.
Foundation's Organization Ends After 3-Day Meeting
Organization of the newly created University of Notre Dame Foundation is virtually complete after a three-day meeting of the finance committee of the Foundation’s board of governors, concluded here last Sunday.
Notre Dame officials estimate the Uni-l^ersity needs at least $25,000,000 at this time to build urgently-needed residence halls, research laboratories, and addi-
Noonday Concerts Continued At Cavanaugh Reading Room
The Cavanaugh Reading Room, which has been open since 1943, resumed its noon hour concert series four weeks ago. This Concert Series was initiated last year when the students of Cavanaugh, Breen-Phillips, Zahm, and St. Edwards completed their collection to buy a radio-phonograph combination. Since then, collections from the aforementioned halls plus a collection from Farley Hall, have built up a fairly representative library of records.
The concerts this year •will be given on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday from 12:30 to 1:30, and all students and members of the faculty are invited.
This week’s concert program is as follows :
Monday, November 3
Sibelius—Symphony No. 5 in E Flat Major
Kleinsinger—I Hear America Singing
Tuesday, November 4
Shostakovitch—Symphony No. 1 in F Major
Weinberger—Und er the Spreading Chestnut Tree
Addinsell—Warsaw Concerto
Lecuona— Malay uena
Wednesday, November 5
Brahms—Concerto in D Major for Violin and Orchestra
Bach—Brandenburg Concertos Nos. 2 and 3
Friday, November 7
Wagner—Parsifal Prelude—Good Friday Spell
Khachaturian—Gayne Ballet Suite
tional classrooms, dining halls and other buildings at the University. Therefore, the Notre Dame Foundation has been organized to coordinate financial support for Notre Dame on a nation-wide basis.
The Foundation’s board of governors is composed of 50 prominent Notre Dame alumni, and is directing the organization of a national program of city chairmen, now numbering 143, and city committees of five or more members under each chairman. An additional fifty cities will be similarly organized before the end of this year.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., President of Notre Dame, and Harry G. Hogan, of Fort Wayne, Ind., chairman of the board of governors of the Foundation, addressed the finance committee at its meeting on the Notre Dame campus.
Gilson of French Academy Is Lecturer
The doctrine of the existence of God as Creator of all finite beings, as maintained by the philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas, transformed the necessitarian philosophy of Aristotle into a Christian philosophy, according to Dr. Etienne Gilson, world-famed philosopher, in a series of three lectures last week at the Mediaeval Institute at the University.
Dr. Gilson, a member of the French Academy and of the faculty of the College de France and the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto, was the first in a series of guest lecturers to be presented at the Notre Dame Mediaeval Institute during the 1947-48 school year.
“To the mind of Aristotle, who was a pagan, metaphysics was the science of the first causes of being,” declared Dr. Gilson. “For St. Thomas Aquinas, it becomes the science of the First Cause of beings, namely, God. As far as being itself is concerned, it may be regarded either from Aristotle’s point of view, or from that of St. Thomas . . . St. Thomas incorporated the Aristotelean conception of being within his own doctrine.
“Being, understood in the Aristotelean fashion, is essentially the existing substance. Since its very nature is to be, it necessarily is. Hence the necessitarianism of Aristotle’s metaphysics. In the Christian conception of the world which St. Thomas Aquinas obviously held, all finite beings are created beings. Consequently, because they are created, there is within them a possibility of nonexistence; their existence is radically contingent. It is a remarkable fact, however, that, granting this radical contingency of all created substances, St. Thomas, nevertheless, maintains that, inasmuch as they are substances they contain no intrinsic possibility of nonexistence. Once they have been created they will never completely cease to be.”
Dr. Gilson pointed out that it might seem that to the mind of St. Thomas the Christian God created the world of Aristotle, but, he added “that world is radically transformed as it enters into the existential thinking-of St. Thomas.”
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS CLUB
The International Affairs Club invites all students and faculty members to a lecture, “Will the Marshall Plan Succeed?" by Ferdinand Mermens, PhD., Professor of Political Science, Thursday, November 6, at 8 P. M. in the Law Auditorium.
27
'Scholastic' Writer Wins Wings in Aero Lab's New Link Trainer Despite One Tailspin
By DENNIS J. O'NEILL
At the Aeronautical Labratory behind Cartier Field a new Link Trainer arrived via the War Surplus Administration. So, equipped with pencil and notebook, I started out on what I expected to be a routine assignment. It was not.
The Lab was rather deserted when I arrived at 4:30 last Friday and after some searching I found Mr. R. S. Eiken-berry getting ready to close down for the day. I approached him, and after introducing myself and stating my reason for being there, I started to ask him various questions about the Link which he readily answered. “But,” he said, “why don’t I give you a demonstration and a chance to see what it is like for yourself.” Of course that was my hope from the first moment, but I had thought that was beyond the realm of possibility, or at least not as easy as that. Without a moment’s hesitation, I gave an affirmative answer.
Mr. Eikenberry got into the Link first, with me standing close by trying to observe everything. He explained that the “Link Trainers are used primarily for training those in the Aeronautical Engineering School in radio procedure and instrument flying. It does not have the feel of a regular plane so as to discourage those who have flown a regular plane before from trying ‘to fly by the seat of their pants.’” On the instrument panel there were many wierd dials and indicators; a gyrocompass, which indicates the true geographical North; a gyroscope, which tells the pilot whether he is in level flight; an altimeter, which indicates his height above sea level; an air speed indicator; an R.P.M. dial which tells how many revolutions per minute the motor is making; and a fuel gauge, which can be set so that the pilot must make a certain predetermined point on a limited gas supply.
After showing me the instruments and explaining their purpose Mr. Eikenberry said, “Now you get in and try it. Have you ever flown a plane before? I told him that I hadn’t and the extent of my knowledge about flying was that in order to go down, the control stick is pushed forward, and in order to go up the stick was pulled back; to turn, the stick is pushed to the side you wish to turn with slight rudder pressure on that side. That was enough fundamental knowledge, Mr. Eikenberry thought, so I climbed in.
SCHOLASTICMAN O'NEILL, INSTRUCTOR The safe way to fly
The Link had the feel of a regular plane, as I had imagined it had, although in reality it was supposed to be different. I tried to relax and grip the control stick gently but every once in a while I noticed how white my knuckles were —indicating how relaxed I really was. My greatest consolation was the fact that I knew the plane was grounded in spite of the fact it pitched and acted as if it were in actual flight. I was not totally in the dark during my “flight” since the canopy was left open and I could see by looking out if I were level; not having to depend too much on the instrument panel.
The plane has a simulated cruising speed of 165 M.P.H. with 1800 R.P.M. It banks, climbs, dives, and spins depending upon the pilot at the controls, doing everything a regular plane will do except land and take-off. (The fact it goes nowhere is taken for granted.) I got into only one spin during my tenure at the controls, which I got out of by applying opposite rudder- and pushing
IN MEMORIAM
SCHOLASTIC extends the heartfelt sympathy and prayers of the entire student body to the parents, relatives and friends of Joseph Hailer and Marie Despres. May they rest in peace, and may God and His Blessed Mother watch over their loved ones.
N. D. Participates In < Books Movement
A series of informal discussions on great books inaugurated two years ago at the University of Notre Dame by the Honorable Roger J. Kiley, of Chicago, Judge of the Illinois Appellate Court, has resulted in Notre Dame’s becoming a center of participation in the Great Books Movement.
Judge Kiley, who was graduated from Notre Dame in 1923, became acquainted with the program through Dr. Robert Hutchins and Dr. Mortimer Adler at the University of Chicago, where the Great Books Foundation was started. Believing the program should be started at Notre Dame, he contacted the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., now president of Notre Dame, in 1945 while Father Cavans naugh was vice-president.
In October, 1945, an informal group consisting of Father Cavanaugh, Dr. Clarence Manion, Dean of the College of Law at Notre Dame, and Judge Kiley began to meet regularly at Notre Dame to read and discuss great books of Plato, Aristotle, St. Thomas Aquinas and other* great minds, with the center of discussion based on four basic concepts: (1) the end of man; (2) the nature of the community; (3) what can regulate people in a community; and (4) relationship of law to the virtue of justice.
Out of this original discussion group grew a similar group in the College of Law at Notre Dame. Ultimately, in 1946, numerous citizens in South Bend became interested in the movement and began the discussion groups.
Notre Dame’s current participation i^. the Great Books Movement consists of* being host twice monthly to two discussion groups composed of South Bend men and women who are reading and discussing the first year’s course of the Great Books Foundation program.
the stick forward until I was in a uniform dive. Then I gently pulled the stick back until I leveled off horizontal to the earth. The main trouble I had was in keeping the plane in straight flight. The right wing continually dipped causing the plane to veer to the right. Since I was not “flying by instruments” I did not have an occasion to use the head phones in the cockpit over which the pilot receives instructions from land. There is another attachment on the triner which simulates rough air but since I had enough trouble in “calm air,” I didn’t use that either. All these. < elements, when blended together, givD the pilot the closest thing possible to actual flight while still on the ground.
28
Juilliard Quartet Has precision — Warmth
Displaying precision, warmth and unity, the youthful Juilliard String Quartet amazed the medium-sized audience in Washington Hall Tuesday night. With Mr. Mann and Mr. Koff doing some brilliant fingering, the conceit opened with a vigorous performance of Hadyn’s G Major Quartet. Then followed the dissonant, easily misunderstood First Quartet by Bartok. The audience squirmed slightly but the quartet came through with luxurious tone and an effective, unified interpretation. The concert closed with a balanced performance of Beethoven’s E Minor Quartet. Here the young artists combined tonal beauty, subtle teamwork, and clarity, doing the master’s work full justice.
{^.Summarizingperformances: Hadyn was Brilliant. Bartok was weird, but moving. Beethoven was wonderfully balanced. The Juilliard String Quartet is indeed furthering the cause of the high exacting art of chamber music in America. They deserve much credit and praise.
—Tom Hannifin
PHOTO CREDITS
Cover picture, football action and television shots by Jim Ferstel. Map by Bill Braun. Aerial view of Cleveland by Butler Airphotos. Terminal shot by Photographic Service Co. Cross Country finish by Paul Jackson. Link Trainer picture by John Alporte.
For tonal beauty and subtle teamwork — much credit and praise
Frankenstein Again
(Continued from Page 13)
lever. As a result he has on his hands an ogrish stupe who wants to play cuddle. The monster proceeds to stalk around the lab knocking things over much like a student stumbling in under the wire on Saturday night.
The monster carries on a one-man crusade against people. He strangles everyone he gets his hands on, including the producer of the picture, which was the best thing he ever did.
Of course the film has to introduce a goofy bride who sits around frozen-faced in front of an open French window when she knows perfectly well the fiend is right outside behind the bushes honing up his fangs.
In the meantime Frankenstein himself realizes his mistake. He shouldn’t have devoted so much time to study. He wishes now that he’d taken up some extra-curricular activity, like knifethrowing, because the monster is by this time plodding towards him with a determined look in his watery eyes.
At which point the mad doctor cries out his message to all students, “Know from me . . . how dangerous is the acquirement of knowledge, and how much happier that man who believes his native town to be the world, than he who aspires to become greater than his nature will allow.”
With these words rattling in his throat Frankenstein succumbs to the vise-like head hold administered by the chuckling monster. The doctor croaks. The monster goes to Hollywood and makes a sequel; then enters professional wrestling as a career.
Spirits Tread the Streets
(Continued from Page 13)
the corpse is very likely to turn out to be old man Piercemusbutzdyksky, who was always known to carry on queer dealings in the light, of the full moon.
Probably still less to be desired as next door neighbors are vampires, the undead, who, while lying in their coffins in the daytime, go about promiscuously at night drinking blood from small holes in their victims’ throats. It was the vampire business, fact and legend, that set Bram Stokei' to writing Dracula, the classic horror novel of all time. Vampires, who are unsatisfied to become truly dead until someone has pounded a stake into their hearts, turn into bats for their nocturnal excursions. When they have finished with a victim, he dies, or un-dies, and as one of the fraternity repeats the procedure on somebody else. There are various charms, incantations, and the like which will keep these people away, which seems rather a good thing to do under the circumstances.
You can always tell a vampire because his reflection never shows in a mirror. Vampires are very frightened of mirrors. Many women are also very frightened of mirrors, which may or may not indicate that many women are vampires. Last week, a vampire was captured in Carolina. The press quoted him as saying he was “bloodthirsty.” The press might have looked up his death certificate. On the whole, vampires do not flourish in this country.
Witches have done a little better in the United States. In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, it became necessary to burn a few. Since then, the American Society of Witches, Wizards, Warlocks, and Familiars, a powerful unregistered lobby, has conducted a violent campaign to discredit Cotton Mather and the witch burners.
When they die, witches are usually buried at a crossroads with stakes in them. Some are covered with a large stone. This stone must not be disturbed, as some people in an English village discovered last year. They took away the stone and the witch got out. The consequences were highly undesirable.
If you wake up in the morning with two small holes in your throat, don’t bother me.
29
Campus Clubs
(Continued from Page 6) also hold an elimination tournament for all of its members interested in representing the club in the new Bowling League.
FROM HUNGER
Our mail I Send all club news to 251 Cavanaugh Hall oi* to the Scholastic office.
Jack Nolan was elected president of the Propeller Club at a recent meeting. The Club, which is composed of foreign market majors, chose Gene Sevecal, vice president, and Bill Mazanee, secretarytreasurer, to complete this year’s executive slate. Under the sponsorship of Professor H. J. Bott, the Club discussed plans for a survey that would be sent to 350 leading export firms which may be interested in employing prospective N.-D. foreign marketing graduates in their export departments.
Almost half a hundred members of the Toledo Club recently gathered at the Ramble Inn for a steak dinner, with all the trimmings. Mr. Cassidy, professor* at Notre Dame, was the guest speaker.
Int'l Affairs Club Sponsors Hermens on Marshall Plan
The International Affairs Club of the University of Notre Dame will sponsor a lecture on the Marshall Plan by Dr. Ferdinand A. Hermens, Professor of Political Science, Thursday evening, November 6, at 8 o’clock in the the Law Building Auditorium. This is one of a series of lectures which will be sponsored this semester by the Club as a part of their program to help the student body to understand the many problems facing the post-war world and to view these problems and their solutions under the light of Christian and democratic principles, as they believe that only such principles are capable of insuring a lasting peace.
Last Monday night the International Affairs Club held a general meeting at which time the Marshall Pan was discussed. Mr. Ai*thur Curran gave a report on the history and purposes of the Marshall Plan and the “pros” and “cons” of this plan. Mr. Norbert Smith exposed some of the basic problems underlining the plan. Mr. Claude Julien, a student from France, presented the European attitude, especially that of France towards the Marshall Plan and explained the domestic and international situations with which present-day France is faced.
Membership in the International Affairs Club is open to all members of the student body, and students interested in joining are invited to attend the general meeting on Monday, November 10, at 7:30 p. m. in the Law Court Room.
The Scorner's Seat
(Continued from Page 6)
The chill hand of England’s austerity program has blighted the showing of the Hollywood epics on the isle. Alas, alas for England. Gone is her great glory, for the cinemas are Hollywoodless. Without provoking a controversy about the relative merits of English and American films, I must say that the amount of tears I would shed, if even seven-eighths of what Hollywood calls motion pictures were deported to Pakistan (poor Pakistan) , would water very few roses. Good riddance, I say, to particularly bad rubbish.
THEY GOT THE SPIRIT, TOO, DEPT.
From the West Point Pointer comes the following piece of poesy, which bears a remarkable resemblance to the paens sung to the Irish by the more ebullient fans and subway alumni. It takes a heap o’ writin’ about, apparently, to make a football team great.
THE ARMY TEAM
Hail to the football team of ’47
I shall never forget;
Each name I know will be written in heaven,
But now we look to ’48, Their talents yet unknown;
I know the highest praise they’ll rate When their first games are shown.
So here’s luck to them from a fan who knows
That Army’s team is best;
And I’ll be there when the whistle blows, To yell with all the rest.
To yell -with you, too, chum.
SPEAKING OF SHEEP TRICKS .. .
The dining hall and I, I fear, will come shortly to a parting of the ways. Like thieves in the night, they have plotted against me and are contriving to serve me mutton with an alarming frequency. I do not like mutton. It matters not whether you call it lamb or otherwise, it is still nothing more nor less than mutton of a sort, and it tastes like a boiled bilge mop. Sheep should be Kept alive, to lower the price of wool.
Paddock calls.
The Week
(Continued from Page 5) gone through the students’ accounts window?
Like St. Peter, Father Barry had to fix the gate himself. The black-robed troubleshooter extended a mass I.O.U. to the student body. Said Father Barry: “Pay me when you get the money.” Said
the Notre Dame student body: “Do hear St. Peter talking?”
NIGHT TRAIN TO MAYHEM
Tonight is the night! Come midnight, reluctant rectors will unbar their hall doors. Out will stream hundreds of underfed, cologne-drenched Notre Dame men. Their destination: Municipal Stadium, Cleveland. It’s safe to say that most of the students will board the train, rent a pillow, turn off the lights, push back the seat, stretch out, yawn, and then lie awake all night. First stop in Cleveland will be the Hotel Carter. As the boys check in, most of the guests are expected to check out. Those unfortunates, however, who lack accommodations will either have to park in an all-night movie, visit a friend, or catch the “Special” which leaves between the^ halves.	®
Saturday evening, many of the students will be guests of the Cleveland Club at the Carter. Dates will be supplied. The girls from Cleveland Local No. 3759 have expressed theii* desire “to show the boys a good time” providing they can get off the night shift. Some students, however, will by-pass the Carter crawl in favor of the local floor shows. Others will put on shows of their own.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
St. Mary’s girl: “Why don’t you try to be a little boulder!!!”
Six Freshmen Seek Posts On Hall Debating Team
Intramural debating was revived wit^ a zing recently when six freshmeiw engaged in a three-way elimination contest to determine the team to represent Breen-Phillips in the forthcoming interhall debate tourney. Similar eliminations were held in Alumni Hall on Wednesday. Preliminary debates in other halls were waived because of smaller turnouts.
In the afternoon stanza of the B. P. contest, a negative team made up of Bill Dixon, Casper, Wyoming, and Bill Carey, Pittsburgh, defeated Walt Collins, of Philadelphia, and Ed Magner, of Gardner, Mass., who defended the resolution that a federal world government should be established. However, Dixon and Carey fell before the verbal onslaught of Lou Duerinck and Quintin Marlow of Riverside, Illinois, and San Antonio, Texas, respectively, who upheld the argument for a world federation. Professor William Eisen acted as judge^ ^ and critic for the afternoon tussle*/' ’ Frank Finn, of last year’s varsity debate squad, rendered the evening decision.
30
CCLEEEE IAEAIE
By JOHN ARMSTRONG and JAMES O'RIELEY
A two ball golf mixer was recently held at Purdue U. The announcement of the event read, ", . . Boys MUST choose girl partners to make up a foursome. Interested students may sign in the Women’s gym . . .” Yes, sir, things are tough all over!
According to an ad in a recent Southern California Daily Trojan, “Bob Wood (S.A.E.) smokes CHESTERFIELDS'. He says: ‘Chesterfields are first on my cigarette list’.”!! We’re now waiting with baited breath to see some college man’s saddle shoes and cords Jiursting out of Lord Calvert’s “Man of ^Distinction” ad.
From the Ohio State Lantern we learn that a recent ruling of the VA in Columbus eliminates houseboats as homes eligible for loan guaranty under the GI Bill. Anchors aweigh, my boys. . .
At Butler University, the Bittier Collegian reports, that the male students are having to economize on smokes, candy, etc. because they aren’t able to make ends meet. It seems that the social pace is killing this year, “with someone dreaming up a dance about every two weeks, all winter long.”
SMOKE GETS IN YOUR EYES
Coleman Hawkins was really burning them up with his hot licks in Bloomington recently. As the climax of a red hot passage was reached a freshman, from Indiana U. reached into his pocket to discover his evei- faithful pipe smoking away and filling the auditorium with the sweet fumes of Half ’n Half. Not once but twice was the undergrad forced to make an unscheduled departure to the lobby to extinguish his flame while the hot licks continued.
Not to be outdone by Phogbound U., which recently signed up Li’l Abner, University of Rochester is developing a football powerhouse. We read in The Campus that Goolie Dumby, a 250-pound tackle transfer from Minnesota, (any relation to Earthquake McGoon?) 'will soon return from Uncle Sam’s army to do battle for the honor and glory of RU. Go get ’em, Goolie!
Says the Ohio State Lantern, “It took two Franklin County deputy sheriffs «‘th squad car sirens screaming to res-e ‘mistreated ’pledges and restore order at the Delta Phi Epsilon sorority this week.” It seems that while the activities
were in a meeting the pledges locked the doors of the actives’ room and scattered their hairpins around the house. In retaliation the actives ordered the pledges to sell coal from the basement bin piece by piece to neighbors . . . Naughty girls!
SHILLELAGH SHENANIGANS
A furious court battle is now on in Marion County, Indiana over the patent rights on a special type of paddle used in fraternity initiations at Indiana U. The plaintiff claims that the defendant is manufacturing a paddle with identical placement of the Greek letters and center hole.
From up Canada way we have the news that two senior science students in McGill University have developed a new tooth powder which they are marketing. The proceeds are pledged to the buying of equipment for research in the polio and cancel- fields.
Several of the publications seem to have had the same thoughts along musical lines lately . . . quite a few of them ran columns on jazz, with the emphasis on bebop. The Syracusan was outspoken on this type, while McMaster’s University’s Silhouette from Canada gave a gentlemanly comment to its readers.
Still another Canadian publication, the Queen’s Journal of Queen’s University in Ontario, is making quite an issue of building a new Student’s Union building. It will be completed next fall according to present plans.
Georgia Tech has also decided it wants a Student Union building. The Technique, weekly paper of the school, even made it their plank for the week.
The Syracusan supplies us with a bit of something or other, thusly:
Father: Did you have the car out last last night, son?”
SALTY SEND-OFF
The Fieldhouse was the scene of a salty send-off last night as Rear Admiral Matthew Perry, U. S. N„ gave the lads from the Campus of the Green the last-minute scoop on the boys from Midshipmanville.
Rev. Joseph D. Barry, C. S. C„ Director of Student Activities and Rector of Farley Hall, was the guest speaker.
Son: “Yeah, dad, I drove several of the fellows downtown.”
Father: “Well, tell the fellows one of them left his little lace hanky in the front seat.”
Fagots, which brings us news from St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods, offers for sale “lovely one piece, grey swimming suits, styled to fit anyone.” Buses for Terre Haute leave at 9:45 p. m.
A campaign to stop walking on the grass is also in evidence, as witnessed by “ ‘Eekf they’re back!’ So said the green grass to the big oak tree one Sept. 15.” The girls are supposed to take pity on the grass now.
According to the Ohio State Lantern, students at that University are upset by the fact that they cannot smoke in some buildings, while administrators can. The coeds are griping that the' campus police are too strict, and vron’t allow ‘smooching,’ which they claim is all right. Oh these bothersome college officials!
—.	—"I	Q CT «
Combat Vets Start Priesthood Studies
Thirteen ex-servicemen, veterans of some of the bitterest fighting in World War II, have entered Holy Cross Seminary on the campus of the University of Notre Dame this Fall to study for the Catholic priesthood.
Included in the group is a former flight officer in a naval squadron aboard the U.S.S. Midway who had 2,000 hours of flight to his credit upon his discharge. Another seminarian had 17 combat missions over Japan as commander of a B-29. Still another was seriously wounded in a tank while serving with the Second Armored Division of the Army.
The thirteen ex-G.I’s at Holy Cross Seminary this Fall brings to almost 100 the number of ex-servicemen who have enrolled either in seminaries or novitiates of the Congregation of Holy Cross or in the pre-seminary course at the University of Notre Dame.
Ex-servicemen at Holy Cross Seminary this Fall are: Michael C. Diehl, Johnstown, Pa.; John R. Birkmeyer, Buffalo, N. Y.; Walter G. Michalik, DeLancey, Pa.; Fred Underwood, Evansville, Ind.; Francis X. Gaffney, Bridgeport, Conn.; Edward McDonnell, New Bedford, Mass.; Robert E. Vaughn, Girard, O.; Michael J. Handley, Port Huron, Mich.; James B. Gillis, Hammond, Ind.; Edward J. Moran, Flint, Mich.; Richard Laurick, Elmhurst, Ill.; James S. Stromberg, Minneapolis, Minn.; and William J. Doyle, Rocky River, Ohio.
31
NOTRE DAME NAMES MAKE NEWS
In the Headlines
Cleveland Club prexy BILL BRAUN, one of Notre Dame’s delegates at the national convention of the NS A in Madison, Wisconsin, this summer, and Miss Ann McEniry, a junior in philosophy from St. Mary’s College, and Milwaukee, Wisconsin, teamed together last Tuesday to answer a round of questions on the NS A directed at them in an interview by FRANK VENNER, master of ceremonies, on his weekly “Notre Dame Dedicates” program over WSBT. . . .
PROF. WESLEY C. BENDER
Public Relations
Beating the Notre Dame fire-truck to the punch by half an hour, K. of C. Financial Secretary PAUL A. COREY did yeoman service by putting out a minor conflagration in the Law Building Monday. The fire, before it was stopped had consumed a cardboard wastepaper box, some varnish on one of the massive legal doors, and had inflicted serious damage on a broom. Among others it sent into the hall was Law PROFESSOR BRODERICK, formerly Navy Chief at N.D., who tried in vain to keep oraer in his Common Law Pleading class, which had fled into the corridor. Nobody was crushed. Arriving late, the firetruck went back home again with its tail between its leg. . . .
Prof. Talk
And in anothei' address before the social science teachers at the Indiana State Teachers convention on October 23, Professor WESLEY C. BENDER, Head of the Department of Marketing at Notre Dame, upheld the need for an aggressive public relations program by the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations Organization. The Notre Dame professor suggested a ten-point program for improvement including aggressive public relations designed to educate the people and “to sell the Council and its fact-finding experts so that their
reports will be officially accepted by all governments.” . . .
In a national radio broadcast over the Columbia Broadcasting System on October 23, Dr. F. A. HERMENS, professor of Political Science at Notre Dame, charged that the proportional representation system of voting should be discontinued in the United States as a further protection against the Communist infiltration into oui- government. Said Dr. Hermens, “Proportional representation has proved to be clumsy, costly, time-consuming, and very unpopular as a whole in various American cities that have tried it as an experiment.” “In addition,” he said, “proportional representation has been responsible for- certain subversive, unAmerican elements gaining undeserved political influence, especially in New York City, which is voting on P. R. repeal in the November election.”
Chemistry Professor CHRISTOPHER L. WILSON delivered an address at the fall meeting of the American Electrochemical Society at Boston, Mass., describing the products derived from cinnamic acid as a result of research conducted at the Chemical Laboratories of the University of Notre Dame. Dr. Wilson, who has achieved distinction as a chemist both in England and in the United States, also conferred with leading American electrochemists on Notre Dame’s research in electrochemistry. . . .
DR. F. A. HERMENS Proportional Representation
In an address before a Communion breakfast of the Newman Club of Purdue University on October 26, THOMAS T. MURPHY, Associate Professor of Finance at Notre Dame, advocated the revival of free international trade as a vital step toward world economic recovery. Declared Professor Murphy, “Unless the destitute peoples of the world are again made self-sufficient, the problem of caring for them is a continuing
one. To restore their economic potence is to assist them to prepare for their future well being.” . . .
A Sombre Note
Victims of Homicide Highway’s menacing traffic: bright-eyed, smiling Marie Despres, St. Mary’s junior, and modest, handsome JOSEPH HAILER, Notre Dame junior, last Saturday night at the entrance to St. Mary’s College. Four occupants of the death car suffered injuries, as did Notre Dame freshman VERNON BURKHART and Evelyn Kritzer of St. Mary’s. Quick-thinking
PROF. CHRISTOPHER L. WILSON Products' Research
JAMES FARRELL, N.D. sophomore from New Rochelle, N. Y. took top honors for level-headed coolness. As the first person at the scene of the accident, he stopped traffic and prevented shaky motorists from crumpling the injured into their cars until ambulances had arrived.
Interhall footballer GORDON WOLFE^ from Dillon Hall and Terre Haute, Indiana, suffered a broken leg in a rugged game last week and as a result of it had to leave school. Gordon is a senior in the Commerce school at Notre Dame and would have been graduated in June. . . .
Mistaken Identity
Mr. FRANCIS W. KERVICK, Head of the Department of Architecture at Notre Dame, is not a competitor in the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial contest to secure a design for a federal memorial to commemorate Thomas Jefferson and the pioneers of western expansion, as was stated in the Scholastic (Oct. 17, 1947). A news release from Thomas W. Parry and Associates in St. Louis, Missouri, carried this information, but Mr. Kervick informs us that he has not and is not preparing any drawings and so he could hardly be termed a competitor. Our sincere apologies to Pr<^ fessor Kervick for this erroneous puW' licity.
32
e
LETTERS
(Continued from Page 3)
. Or, can we afford to see to it that it ' won’t happen again?
Albert Wm. Burgstahler 357 Badin Hall
Dear Editor:
There is no guarantee that last Saturday’s tragedy will not recur unless immediate action is taken to remove the basic causes of the accident. These are of a twofold nature. First, there is tne movement of large numbers of people across the highway. Secondly, there is the high speed operation of heavy traffic. These factors combine to make the St. Mary’s-Notre Dame crossing extremely dangerous.
One solution is to install a hand-^jerated traffic light that could be work-<xl from either side of the road. To cross, a switch would be pressed causing the light to change to red. After a determined period the light would automatically turn green to permit the free flow of traffic. This will enable pedestrians to walk from curb to curb without waiting in the middle of the road.
Even with lights and signs, however, the hazard will still be present. The real need is for an underpass. The construction of a tunnel would be expensive, but the saving in lives would be well worth the cost. Examination of the records will show that this is not the first accident at this point. It is only a won-. der that more injuries haven’t occurred. The Scholastic and the Student Council should urge the immediate installation of a light at this crossing, with the ultimate goal of building an underpass as soon as practicable.
A	Chuck Russ
”	261 Alumni
DISTORTED FACTS?
Dear Editor:
In associations with the past and present editors of the Campus Clubs column, I have found them to be strictly fiction-ary writers. It is doubtful whether either could properly interpret a copy of Mutt and Jeff, much less the news sent in trustingly by club representatives.
Many of us are disappointed by the distorted items of news that have appeared in this column. I consider both writers masters of their art, with the exception of their deviation from the facts.
We Campus Clubbers depend on this column as a medium of transporting our news to those students who are over-looked oi- inactive in oui- clubs, and who ^kdon’t always receive news directly from ^^Bie clubs.
Rectification of this situation in the
future would be greatly appreciated.
Philip G. Kelley
SCHOLASTIC regrets this first, and severe, criticism of its popular Campus Clubs column; considers that columnist Casurella is doing a fine job; recommends reader Kelley be more specific if he has any facts to back up his criticisms.—Editor
CRIME. INC.
Dear Editor:
In reply to a letter written by Robert T. Stock of Zahm Hall:
I have read your letter in the Scholastic. I am touched. Do not lose hope because you no longer have your red lumberjack coat, which you referred to as one of your dearest and oldest friends. It is not so old. A new friend can be purchased in the village for §18.95.
You seem to think that someone stole your coat.
You are right.
I stole it.
I won’t give it back.
It is a good coat. It keeps me warm and comfortable. It is like a dear friend to me. It is very nice to make a new friend.
Perhaps you have read “The Deep Freeze” by Anton Frostbite. It tells of a poor’ man who stole a red lumberjack coat. The next day he felt sorry and returned it, no questions asked. Later he froze to death on his way to a class in economics.
I would return your coat, but you are not a real lumberjack; you should not wear a lumberjack coat. I am a real lumberjack. I have jacked lumber all over Texas. It will be cold in Texas this winter.
I hope you do not freeze. A Friend
Dear Editor:
Open letter to the clown who stole my coat from room 112 of the Main Building on Wednesday, Oct. 8:
. All right, ya crummy crook, keep the damn coat!
Robert T. Stock, 202 Zahm Hall.
With the crash of the gavel, the Case of the Missing Coat is closed.—Editor.
ECUADOREAN DISPLAY
Dear Editor:
In the Library for the past three weeks there has been an exhibit of pictures and products of Ecuador, placed there by Antonio Mortensen, N.D. stu
dent from that country. The exhibit has •created considerable interest on the campus, and it has been visited by the authorities and professors of the University as well as many students. Carlos Cardinal Motta, Archbishop of Sao Paulo, Brazil, the Consul of the Dominican Republic, and several other visi-
(Continued on Page 34)
Student Trip
(Continued from Page 9) ments for the trip included an announcement by Father Barry that there would be a special train leaving Cleveland Monday morning at 1:30 for those who are staying over Sunday, arriving on campus at 6:30 a. m.
This year’s returning trains, on both Sunday and Monday mornings, will make stops at South Bend to discharge off-campus students before continuing on to St. Mary’s siding.
The week-end room situation in Cleveland, which has many an N.D. man contemplating park benches and pup tents, is a problem that defied desperate efforts towards its solution. “We tried everything and every place,” explained Father Barry. “The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Cleveland did its very best to try to obtain rooms for students over the weekend, but to no avail. The hotels and rooming houses have been all taken as far back as last summer. I’m afraid the wandering Irishmen will have to find their own nocturnal resting places.”
As previously planned, there will be a Mass in Sacred Heart Church Friday to enable students to fulfill their All Saints day obligation with a maximum of convenience. The Mass will be followed by a light snack in the Dining Halls before going to the siding to board the train. For those who miss the Mass on campus, Mass will be said on the half-hour Saturday in the Cathedral in Cleveland which is located nine blocks east of Union Terminal. Masses Sunday are on the same schedule, with an early Mass at 2:00 A. M.
Father Barry also announced that the trains will not leave until both have been loaded. This is a precaution against any accidents that might occur from students walking between cars or close to them. “The full co-operation of every student is asked in making this trip safe and enjoyable,” said Father Barry. “Above all we want no accidents. Loading onto the trains can be accomplished with a minimum of effort and inconvenience if everyone does his part. This is the students’ trip. Its success is up to them.”
33
tors applauded it. It has even come to the attention of government officials of Ecuador, one being Mr. Luis A. Palacios, Consul in Chicago, who has commented most enthusiastically upon it. During this time when so much depends upon better understanding between nations some of our other students might emulate Mr. Mortensen’s example in the matter of helping to cement relationships between the United States and the particular nations from which they come.
Anyone interested in this particular project would find considerable encouragement and help by getting in touch with Antonio Mortensen now residing in the Presbytery.—Thomas E. Poole
TOO MUCH PRAISE DEPT.
Dear Editor:
Thanks for crediting me with the writing of “The Far Off Hills” in last week’s “Notre Dame Names Make News.” I didn’t do it, however; a man by the name of Lennox Robinson wrote the play.
Noel Digby
To the editors of “Names Make News” the back of our hand. To Messrs. Digby and Robinson a deep apology.—Editor
BACKWARD PROGRESS
Dear Editor:
Whoever was responsible for the distribution of the student football seats should have the double-whammy thrown at him. Did he get his section numbers or his classifications fouled up? When we were Freshmen we sat on the 15-yard line; when Sophomores we sat on the 30; and this year we were set for some fine Junior seats around the 40-yard line and what a low blow we get—the 10-yard line is where we squat! Just to make it worse a bunch of Freshmen (with three more years to see the games) are sitting off to our right. What master plan are we under now? Probably next year we will be in the end zone, but good. How’s come?
Pat Durkin, Joe Condon, John Brogan, Tom Landgren, Terry McManus.
LETTER WRITERS!
The SCHOLASTIC wants letters to the editor. The SCHOLASTIC needs letters to the editor. But the SCHOLASTIC will not print unsigned letters. If you lack the nerve to back up your contentions with your name, we don't want your letter. To date SCHOLASTIC has printed two unsigned letters because they were humorous. However, this announcement brings that policy to a screeching halt. In rare cases we will grant requests that names be withheld.
MUSIC ’ Books » Radio
James C. Petrillo’s ban on the making of records or transcriptions after December 31 will undoubtedly have both good and bad effects, although the average music lover at present is outraged by the utter disregard shown him by the czar of the American Federation of Musicians. There is, however, no cause for alarm as yet since Petrillo’s statement will not be the last word on the subject. By the end of the year the radio industry will fight back, probably by employing orchestras as little as possible, and, though Petrillo’s action is justified in that it defends the thousands of smalltime, unrecorded musicians, we feel he will receive little support from the big names in the music world. Not being humanitarians and caring little for the welfare of their weak fellow artists, these stars will greatly miss their comfortable cuts of the §250,000,000 gross income of the recording industry. The juke box people cannot stand idly by while J. C. P. knocks the nickels out from under them. Wurlitzer and associates will not go down without a battle. The disc-jockeys will plead their cause (such as it is) via the air waves. (But would the ban facilitate cleaning radio of much of their- unintelligent gibberish?) So with power lined up on both sides (the A. F. M. is by no means the underdog) we believe a compromise will be sought not long after the ban gets underway.
Collectors of classical recordings will be least touched by the ban. The existing recordings of much of this music are excellent and their popularity is not ephemeral. In addition there exists a substantial quantity of new, unreleased classical recordings that will take care of the demand for at least a year. The situation is somewhat similar in the jazz field—jazz of the old era, that is. Where the ban will hit hardest is in the popular • music field. Here a tune reaches its peak for a week to a month and then poof— is heard no more. But during its popularity period, the unimpressive tune is hurled at the listener from all sides. There is no escape. Perhaps the ban as regards this situation is a blessing, though we look with dread at seeing “Heartaches” and “I’m Always Chasing Rainbows” leading the popular field in March, 1948, because of record reissues.
The recording world is in confusion, but there is no cause for alarm. Who
knows? Perhaps Congress will have a hand in this yet, and then all would be well. Or would it?
MARKOVA AND DOLIN
Last week we left the performance by the Markova-Dolin Ballet Troupe partially enchanted but only moderately satisfied. Too many solos and not enough of Markova and Dolin. The bright spot of the program was a humorous, satiric dance aimed at the affected mannerism^ of ballet, while the most effective dance5 was executed neatly by Markova in Saint-Saens’, “The Dying Swan.”
As indicated by present enthusiasm, practically everyone will enjoy the ballet suite, “Gayne” by Aaron Katchaturian. This Columbia album has six sides filled with some really powerful and effective music. The work gets off to a furious start with the exciting “Sabre Dance,” featuring rapid, pounding rhythm. By way of contrast, the “Lullaby” follows with a silky, oriental melody. Using a hopping rhythm and a clever off-beat trumpet the “Dance of the Rose Maidens” is quite gay, and you may feel like dancing this one yourself. (In their first radio concert this season, Artur Rodzin-ski and the Chicago Symphony lost much of the sprightly gaiety in the “Rose Maidens” dance by going to^ slow.) The suite is based on Russia^?! and Armenian folk dances, but in the “Dance of the Young Kurds” look for a tinge of ‘rag-time’ above the dominant rhythms. For the most part, Efrem Kurtz keeps the New York Philharmonic under control, but there are a few blurred crudities on the frenzied climaxes and some trouble with the fast rhythms. However, the recording is bright, the orchestration is sensational, and this performance, except for the slight defects mentioned, is good.
New vocals on the ageless “Body and Soul” have been scarce for a time but Gordon MacRae does a pleasant, but unexciting job on a recent Capitol release. The phrasing and quality sound somewhat like Como, but are not similar enough to make MacRae as good. A potential hit from the new show, “Allegro,” called “A Fellow Needs a Girl^ fills side two admirably. A fine tune gecJ fair treatment.—Tom Hanifin
34
MPU. .Br wMM/ ui^ast
Industrial Organic Applications of Metallic Sodium
Sodium for organic reactions is shipped in 80,000-lb. quantities. It is pumped into Hie car. Solidified by cooling and melted by hot oil for removal.
There would seem to be a considerable gap between the electrolysis of salt to make sodium, and research in the field of organic chemistry. However, at Du Pont as much emphasis is placed on organic research to develop outlets for sodium as on its inorganic uses.
For more than 15 years, intensive work on industrial uses for sodium has been carried on in Du Pont laboratories and plants by chemists, physicists, chemical, mechanical and electrical engineers.
In the organic field, this research has contributed a number of important uses for sodium such as the reduction of fatty esters, particularly of natural glycerides, to alcohols.
0
C,5H3,C-0R+4Nas^£>-CISH3,CH20H+4R0Na
Du Pont organic chemists have found that sodium with selected S6C-ondary alcohols, such as methyl amyl alcohol, in the presence of toluene or
More facts about Du Pont— Listen to “Cavalcade of America,” Mondays, 7 P. M. CST, on NBC
xylene, eliminates shortcomings of the classical method involving ethyl alcohol and sodium. Practically quantitative yields of the higher molecular weight alcohols are obtained.
This new method is especially useful in preparing unsaturated alcohols not easily made by catalytic hydrogenation. The process can be carried out at atmospheric pressure and compares favorably with catalytic hydrogenation of saturated, higher fatty esters because of the simplicity of operation and equipment.
The discovery of the new reaction conditions has led to the use of millions of pounds of sodium annually for manufacture of long-chain alcohols for wetting and emulsifying agents and synthetic detergents.
Other important processes developed by Du Pont organic research include the use of sodium for reduction of fatty esters to corresponding long-chain acyloins, and reduction of nitriles to primary amines.
Du Pont has also contributed to the development of many other uses for sodium and its simple derivatives, such as in the manufacture of tetraethyllead, used in high-grade motor fuels, dyestuffs synthesis, and descaling of alloy steels. In the form of sodium hydride or sodium alkoxides, sodium is a catalyst for many Claisen condensations, useful in the manufacture of barbiturates, sulfa drugs, vitamins, keto-acids and diketones.
Preparing to carry out an organic condensation reaction involving the use of sodium, R. B. Clark, B.S., West Virginia University M2, and W. J. HiHs, M.S., Syracuse ’36.
Questions College Men ask about working with Du Pont
WILL AN ADVANCED DEGRU
HUP Ml?
For certain types of work, particularly research and development, a higher degree is a distinct advantage and about a third of the men engaged in this work are Ph.D’s. However, the majority of our technically trained men are Bachelors or Masters. Every effort is made to recognize a man’s training as well as his special experience and aptitudes. Write for a copy of the new booklet, "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate,’’ 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
"EC. U.S. PAT. OFF.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING .. . THROUGH CHMISTtY
the, univRRsrn library IE3 LIBRARY-