Volume 73
April 12, 1940
Number 21
TWENTY thousand Broadcast N.D. Notre Dame men, sev-Night Program eral hundred thousand members of their families, and several million friends of Notre Dame, will join in tribute to the University on Monday evening, the Seventeenth Annual Notre Dame Night. The program will be aired over the Mutual Broadcasting System. (See page 5)
GLADYS Swarthout, Name Soloists Albert Spaulding, and for Music Week Ezio Pinza will appear on the program of the Fifth Annual Music. Week, to be observed here and in South Bend from April 29 until May 4. (See page 5)
❖
THE UNIVERSITY Hawkeyes Here of Iowa’s slugging for Two Games Hawkeyes meet Notre
Dame this afternoon and tomorrow on the Cartier Field diamond. Iowa is defending champion of the Big Ten and boasts one of the strongest hitting combinations the Irish will face all season.	(See page H)
❖ .
THE SCHOOLMEN, Schoolmen in	undergraduate philoso-
Disputation	phical society, tapered
off after Wednesday’s intercollegiate conference by presenting their Fifth Annual Philosophical Disputation in Washington Hall, last evening. James Daner was chairman of the disputation.	(See page 7)
Batter Up! Slugging lowans Visit Cartier Field Today and Tomorrow
RECORD 8MW m:\l\G
POST OCT UTES
Mr. Glencannon versus
THE SMUGGLERS OF SAN DEGO
Was it Lincoln—or Glencannon—who said, “If you can’t lick ’em, join ’em”? This week, Glencannon finds his ancient enemy MacCrummon working a profitable smuggling racket, and decides to join in. Like a cat joins a mouse, we might add.
by GUY GILPATRIC
IN THE SATURDAY EVENING POST TODAY
MUTINY AT THE SODA COUNTER by
JEROME BARRY
Spread the butter a little too thick, be a trifle too generous with the ham and cheese, and you can make the best soda counter chief lose his job. Unless he catches you at it!__A story of skullduggery at a Broadway soda fountain, with a dash of romance for good measure.
4
Meet Baseball’s Red-eyed Radical Meet the man who last December slyly engineered a new rule that is making the Yanks rage. Bob Considine and Shirley L. Povich in this week’s Post bring you the first of two articles about Clark Griffith, President of the Washington Senators, Yankee-baiter No. 1! Read Old Fox.
FLYING JUNKMAN
Here’s the not-so-crackpot story of a man who can buy a wrecked crate for $8 and the same week sell the crank-case alone for $60—back to the flyer who wrecked it! Introducing Mr. Balboni, the air-minded junkman who even expects to buy Los Angeles some day for $24! An article in this week’s Post by T. Benson Hoy.
And... CONVERSATION WITH AN EX-WIFE, a short story, We’re All Pretenders, by Felida Gizycka and Oliver La Farge; an article, Queen Tramp Rules the Seas; and the second part of Philip Wylie’s hilarious new Hollywood fishing aerial, Salt Waler Daffy. Also articles, short stories, poems, cartoons. All in this week’s Post.
BY LOSING WAR ..15 CWNA WINNING?
With 90% of her prewar industry destroyed, how is China still able to cheat Japan of victory? Edgar Snow brings you the details of China’s "Indusco plan” and her strange “three-stage prolonged war” strategy which may yet defeat the Japs.
THE DRAGON LICKS PMD CHAW his wounds ... Aj. unn □nun
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST

The Notre Dame Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE by jack wlmann
Must they be reminded that Russell’s is a licentious liberty, and that the real freedom is best protected by prudent restrictions.
❖
Something of a Spot
Well, Hear It Again
Bear With Us
The late Heywood Broun said it well when he wrote that the most dreadful nightmare of a columnist is the dream that has him up on the Columbia campus clad in only a pair of pajamas—and but 15 minutes in which to turn out the next day’s column. Of course, The Scholastic is a weekly, this column is adulterated plagiarism, but yet we’re wondering what to steal as the dead-line is buried.
❖
News Editor Makes the News
Our’ most persistent correspondent. is staff member McGowan, who usually bothers to card us as to why he hasn’t received a copy of some girl’s magazine, but this week he crashed through with a story out of the New Rochelle Tatler. Something must be awry in Westchester County for a set of Dean’s Proclamations were printed as follows:
1.	No student may have a weekend of less than five days.
2.	No late permissions beyond 3 a.m. will be granted except to seniors, who may have two 5 a.m. permissions weekly.
3.	Students are requested to keep their campus cars in the college garage. Patronize local talent.
4.	Hourly mail service will go into effect.
5.	To protect professors from the eternal question, “How many cuts do I have?” unlimited cuts will be granted in all classes.
Could This Be Verse?
The sultan got sore at his harem, And invented a scheme for to scare ’em;
He caught him a mouse
Which he loosed in the house, The confusion was called harem-scarem
—The Pitt Panther ❖
Musical Melange
Larry Clinton, whose name is mentioned by plenty of seniors, confided to the dancers at Wisconsin’s Military Ball that this is his first western trip with the Dipsydoodlers. . . . Mount Holyoke’s dancers were sent by Van Alexander’s rhythms.... Also out of the Panther Room, Woody Herman is the attraction at DePauw’s Junior Prom....
The drunk tip-toed up the stairs, shoes in hand. He patched up the scars of the brawl with adhesive tape, then climbed in bed smiling at the thought he’d put one over on his wife.
Came the dawn. The ex-drunk opened his eyes and there stood his wife glaring at him.
“Why, what’s the matter, dear?”
“You were drunk last night.”
“Why, darling, I was nothing of the sort.”
“Well, if you weren’t who put all the adhesive tape on the bath-room mirror?”
The Rub in the Russell Ruckus
If the sale of Bertrand Russell’s alleged does not mount this month, it will not be the fault of the press which has repeated the adjectives used by the men who criticized his appointment to the faculty of C.C.N.Y. But the Northwestern Daily needs to be straightened out on at least one fact. They take peculiar pride in printing the telegram of thanks from Russell that was motivated by an offer of financial assistance from 60 NU faculty members who wanted to help him appeal his case. Italicized print explains that this case is a test of academic freedom and liberty of thought.
A man walked into a pool parlor and. said, “I’ll give a dollar to the laziest man in here.”
A man lying on a billiard table—“Roll me over, buddy, and stick it in my pocket.”
—Prankster ❖
Scooped by the Scissors
After the final exams, the Northwestern students and campus residents hold a “flunkers’ frolic.”... Indiana’s Dean C. E. Edmondson is national faculty billiard champion-----Purdue’s Boilermakers -will be baccalaureated by Mildred H. McAfee, President of Wellesley College. ... One campus character tells another, “You know it, asphalt, you were on the road.”.... And now is the time for all you fellows to bring out last year’s saddles and notch those trousers an inch higher.
❖
Statistics from the Woods
To read all the books in the St. Mary-of-the-W’oods library at the rate of one volume a day the curriculum would need be extended to a 140 year course. And to keep afloat of the magazine current those young ladies have 685 periodicals which await reading. Next week they promise to compile the space necessary to store records which would keep a co-ed in step with the swing fashions.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE WEEK By FRANK WEMHOFF
On location
Camera Fan — Dooling of Cavanaugh Hall Pictures, Inc., is readying a stupendous, etc., extravaganza ... a travesty on “Gone With the Wind,” a hook that was popular way back in 1940 . . . Character roles will not be filled from the ranks of the dramatic club as Producer Dooling finds that they are allegedly busy elsewhere . . . Freshman Hall will be slightly disguised to look like “Terror,” the beautiful plantation home of “Scarface” O’Hara . . . Cavanaugh talent scouts have baited Ed Butler for the role of “Rat” Butler . . . “Ashcan” Wilkes, an extremely ethical figure, might fall to Jerry O’Dowd . . . Seemingly gigantic production problems were easily solved. . . . The Battle
of Atlanta was faked in all its ghastliness when a camera was smuggled into the dining hall kitchen for a closeup of Sunday’s chicken on the wane . . . Steve Coughlin will be Gerald O’Hara, because of his capacity for clearing obstacles . . . in one scene Steve is called upon to execute a dashing ride to “Terror” . . . the script has Steve hurdle the Cartier Field fence by the A.A. Office so Joe Petritz can get a scoop release . . . Tom Carty was cast as “Scarface’s” first husband because he doesn’t live long and we might as well get used to his picture by obnoxious degrees . . . The Dome is inevitable ... St. Mary’s was chosen as the camp site for the Union Army just to make the satire completely ridiculous. Producer Dooling sought far and wide for an “Aunt Pittypat” but had to be content with Eddie Corny . . . The balance of the roles will be filled by ten guys named “Hyaboy” . . . The “most beautiful still of the month” will be Ashcan Wilkes drudging in the cotton field . . . this scene at first stumped the Cavanaugh prop men but they solved it by having Ashcan pluck the whitecaps from Badin Bog in a hail storm ... a sneak preview will be held in Washington Hall as soon as it is warm enough to keep the windows up all the way. . . .
Blow of the Week
To the Engineers for proving that they know more than just plotting curves ... a keen dance, with Karl Hunn’s coming band . . . but they should give Bill Dunham a few more blows on the drums. . . •
❖
Specks between pecks
We have been asked to tell you that • Radio Stage will try again Friday night with a play “Revenge in Corsica” . . . if the play goes as anticipated the title will be changed to “Revenge on Corsica” . . . Father* Holderith’s back yard opened last week and dozens wer.e out trying to adjust last year’s golf balls to this year’s swing . . . Gonzaga’s champion bowling team stopped here recently . . . they decided to try out the knolls of Walsh only to find that there were no pin boys and had to spot their own. . . . Brownsonite Buzz Lannigan found a super-poisonous looking insect on his shoulder . . . the sight of it almost paralyzed him with fright ... he broke all records tearing his shirt from his back in attempting to dislodge the bug . . . only to find it was a dead bug and “Made in Japan.” . . .
Rain check
Milt Williams and Al Funk sort of rang the bell last week . . . the bell was at St. Mary’s . . . the pair was all decked out in roomie’s tux and a new set of arguments . . . they told the Sister that they were the Notre Dame debate team and all prepared to meet the gossip hounds . . . the Sister told them that they had come a week too soon and that the girls were over playing basketball . . . the boys mumbled something about leaving their gym clothes at school and retreated down the nickel-a-bounce road back to N.D. . . . well, they didn’t lose, anyway. . . .
Lonely Hearts Subsidiary
A letter recently came to Alumni from “the rock” and addressed to Lover John Hackett, President of the Lover’s Club, and would Lover John please forward the names of the other Lovers . . . another lonely heart is Chicagoan Don Murtagh, who is bemoaning the fact that his ticket is the underdog in the approaching Chicago Club elections . . . but the Irish are always supposed to come through for the shortender. . . .
CAMPUS OPINION
v
Question of the week: Do you think the questions asked by the government in the census are justified?
Alumni — Thomas Schmid: “Yes, I think the questions asked are justified. That is the only way we can get figures which will offer a basis for helping us find a solution for our economic and social problems. The census department is the only agency that can make a complete coverage in order to get representative figures.”
Dillon — Bill Foley: “The government is justified in asking such questions as long as they are kept in strict confidence. On the whole, I don’t see why people should object to answering such questions as long as they are used for strictly census purposes.”
Zahm — Jack Wahl: “To a certain degree the questions asked by the government are all right. Some of the questions, however, are too personal and people naturally do not want to answer them. I think they should eliminate some of the less important personal questions, but those that are absolutely necessary should be answered truthfully by the people. Some of these questions are important to solve social and economic problems. Most of the questions they ask are justifiable.”
Badin — Jim Fayette: “The census is a good thing. If it weren’t for the census, the government wouldn’t have figures to solve their economic problems. If people could only realize it, the census is being taken for their own good. With the aid of the census the government is able to solve our agricultural and labor problems.”
Brownson — John Henry: “I don’t think the personal element in the census should make so much difference. The very broad scope of the census makes any personal question rather insignificant. The benefit derived from the census far surpasses any hard feeling caused by the few personal questions.”
Morrissey — Anthony Danadio: “To a certain extent the questions asked by the census are justifiable. They are doing it for the good of the people in general. They shouldn’t, however, delve too far into personal life. There isn’t any doubt about the good it does in spite of the personal element.”
—Ray Donovan.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance tor mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188
Volume 73
April 12, 1940
Number 21
1939 — LAYDEN, BAND, GLEE CLUB ON AIR FROM CAMPUS
17th Annual Notre Dame Night Will Be Aired by Mutual System, Monday
Bishop O'Hara to Speak On Nation-wide Hook-up
Twenty thousand Notre Dame men, several hundred thousand members of their families, and several million friends of Notre Dame, will join in universal, world-wide tribute to Notre Dame Monday evening, April 15, the Seventeenth Annual Universal Notre Dame Night.
Participation of the large number of friends of the University is made possible by the cooperation of the Mutual Broadcasting System. From Station CKLW, Detroit-Windsor outlet of the Mutual chain, a coast-to-coast broadcast of the key program sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of Detroit, will bring to Notre Dame admirers everywhere the voices of the President of the University, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.; Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics; the University Glee Club; and, as special guests, the former president of Notre
Dame, Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D.; William J. Cameron, nationally famous spokesman of the Ford Hour; and Harry Kelly, Notre Dame alumnus, secretary of state of Michigan, and master of ceremonies for the Detroit party.
The national broadcast will be from 8:30 to 9:00 Eastern Standard Time, which is 7:30 to 8:00 Central Standard, 6:30 to 7:00 Mountain Standard and 5:30 to 6:00 Pacific Standard. This year, the various Clubs have an unusual advantage in tying in the national broadcast with dinner meetings, without breaking into the individual Club programs.
Universal Notre Dame Night was established in 1924 by John H. Neeson, now director of public works in Philadelphia, and at that time president of the Alumni Association. In Philadelphia special honor will be paid by Notre Dame men to Mr. Neeson.
In Chicago the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, will head the guest list. . . . The Notre
Dame club of Los Angeles will combine the night with the beginning of “The Life of Knute Rockne.” ... A program built around films of the campus and the 1939 football games is planned for observances in Seattle, Wash. ... In St. Louis, Mo., Professor Clarence Manion, famed Notre Dame orator and author, will be the guest of the evening. . . . The Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., will be the guest speaker in Cleveland.
Spaulding And Pinza Here for Music Week
National Music Week for 1940 will be observed at Notre Dame and in South Bend from April 29 until May 4. This year’s program marks the fifth annual presentation of this type of high grade musical entertainment to campus audiences. The University, and music and civic organizations of South Bend have cooperated this year to present to the public the musical talents of Gladys Swarthout, soprano, Albert Spaulding, violinist, and Ezio Pinza, basso. The South Bend Symphony orchestra, and the Notre Dame Glee Club, Band and Symphony orchestra will also give concerts during the week.
The Symphony Association of South Bend and the University will present Mr. Spaulding in the fieldhouse on the campus Friday evening, May 3. The South Bend Symphony orchestra will take part in this program. Albert Spaulding should be of uncommon interest to audiences in this country, as he is one of the few world-renowned violinists who is a native American. The Spaulding concert is to be free of charge to all students of the university.
On Monday, April 22, Miss Gladys Swarthout, Metropolitan Opera star, will be presented by the South Bend Masonic Order. Miss Swarthout’s recital will be held in the Granada Theatre in South Bend.
Ezio Pinza, famed bass soloist, will present a recital in the South Bend Central High school auditorium on Wednesday, May 1. Mr. Pinza’s recital is sponsored by the Civic Music Association of South Bend. Members of all campus music organizations are to be provided with tickets to this recital, announces
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CUTE? MONOGRAM MEN READY ANNUAL ABSURDITIES
Mr. Frank Lloyd, University comptroller.
Dates for the appearances of the University’s glee club, symphony orchestra and band are not yet definite, but they will be announced when the schedule for Music Week is completed. The Linnets, freshman choral group, is tentatively slated to present a program during the week.
Professor Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the department of music, and Mr. Lloyd are in charge of Music Week arrangements.—John Casey
Student Philosophers
Probe Finality Problem
At precisely 8 o’clock Wednesday evening Chairman James Daner banged down his gavel on the lectern of the Law Building auditorium . . . and the Student Philosophical Conference — probably the first intercollegiate undergraduate meeting ever held in this country — was under way. Students from the Universities of Indiana, Illinois, and Notre Dame discussed the general topic •— Finality — under the general auspices of the Schoolmen. .
Miss Jean McGrew, of Indiana, opened the Conference by treating Finality as “the physical and natural scientist sees it.” Miss McGrew condemned Science for encroaching upon the field of Philosophy. She said: “The true reason why this universe appears to some scientists as mysterious is that they ask Science to give them the why of things. They get as answers only the how, because that is all science is equipped to give.”
Donald W. Ruth, also of Indiana, bolstered Miss McGrew’s stand, saying: “The world is a living whole, a continuing power of organization, a teleological world order in which mechanical repetition is subservient to the creativeness of life.”
Matthew H. Schwartz, the first Illinois speaker, attacked the Indiana viewpoint, saying: “To extend the doctrine of final causes to a metaphysical level is to make statements the words of which are not definable in terms of my sense experiences.” He then referred to metaphysics as, “Nothing but a disgraceful muddle of mutually intolerant opinionated dogmatisms . . . because all statements belonging to metaphysics reveal the absence of that logical relation to empirical statement whose presence is a necessary condition for the verifiability of the statement in question and is therefore usually required in the findings of all scientific procedure.”
Bruse Moncreiff, second Illinois speaker, supplemented Schwartz’ denial of final cause in Science by further denying final cause in Philosophy. He said: “Any attempt to carry the laws of Logic over into Metaphysics is an attempt to force the world to conform to man’s thinking, and this in effect is the principle of finality and the teleological proof of the existence of God which is easily refuted.”
Robert Sullivan, of Notre Dame, defended the necessity and the universality of the Principle of Finality. He outlined Aristotle’s notion of causality and broke down Finality into intrinsic and extrinsic, saying: “Every agent produces some definite effect according to its own nature; it cannot produce this effect ac
cording to its own nature; it cannot produce this effect, this definite and appropriate effect rather than any other, except on condition that it has a tendency to produce this particular effect rather than any other.” He continued: “A denial of the Principle of Finality would be tatamount to the denial of Principle of Sufficient Reason; namely, that every existing reality must have a sufficient reason for existing and for being what it is.”
Robert Shea concluded the Notre Dame case for the validity of Finality by citing proofs for the Teleological argument for the existence of God. He said in strict syllogism: “A means cannot be directed to an end except by an intelligent cause. Now we find in nature, even in things which lack intelligence, means directed to end. Ergo — nature is the result of an intelligent cause.” An animated discussion followed the formal presentation of papers.
Monogram Men Present Absurdities April 29
Complete with skirts and high heels, the stalwart monogrammed sons of Notre Dame will soon tread the lighted stage in their annual thespian effort. Entitled, “Don’t Be Absurd,” this year’s dramatic presentation of the Monogram Club deals with the hypothetical elimination of athletics at Notre Dame and the activities of her deposed athletes to return sports to the school. A tentative date of April 29 has been set for the Play.
The feminine lead will be played by Miss Roberta Saggau, erstwhile football player, who deserts the gridiron for the frying pan. Rumors from the rehearsals, where Walt Hagen, Jr., is holding forth as director, has it that Miss Saggau has exhibited such beauty that a campaign is being conducted to have “her” elected “Miss Notre Dame.” Her male co-stars will be Jerry Flynn and Tom Duffy.
From the fertile brains of two of the campus’ leading songwriters have come four original songs, three of them by Chet Sullivan, who has dedicated the numbers to Miss Dolly Bishop of St. Mary’s of the Woods. The fourth, “You’re a Tonic to Me,” is by John Kelly. The fifty members of the club will show that they have talent as well as beauty by singing these numbers in unison. In addition, Karl Hunn’s orchestra will perform with the presentation, and as a special added attraction President Steve Coughlin will sell gold bricks between each of the four acts.
—Bill Welch
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Fifth Annual Symposium Affirms: Will Is Free
The Schoolmen, campus undergraduate philosophical society, tapered off after Wednesday’s intercollegiate conference by presenting their Fifth Annual Public Philosophical Disputation in Washington 'Hall yesterday evening.
President James Daner opened the
Speakers: Ray Allen, Thomas Hackett
program by tracing the historical background of Disputations — an important part of twelfth century Universal curricula — then introduced Thomas E. Hackett, whose preliminary paper developed the theme that “the man of thought motivates the man of action.” (the full text of “Philosophers Motivators” is carried on page 11 of this issue.)
Alfred Callan gave the second paper, “Foundations of Social Freedom,” pointing out the necessity of the freedom of autonomy in the world of today.
James Cleary, John Pindar and Richard Fallon then presented the formal thesis: “The Human Will is free with respect to all objects except the ultimate end.” The thesis was developed in three parts: Nature of the human will (Cleary); Human Will in relation to means (Pindar); Human Will in relation to ultimate end (Fallon).
Raymond Allen, ranking philosophical major, then defended the thesis from the many floor objections •which closed the Symposium.
Seniors Look Forward
To Annual Ball, May 3
May 3 is the date. Mark it well, for on that night Men of Notre Dame will drive their autos right on the campus. Seniors, happy in their cars and 3:00 a.m. permits, will escort their lovely ladies to the Rockne Memorial for the Senior Ball. There will be dancing from 10:00 till 2:00 to the strains of Dipsy-Doodler Larry Clinton and his orchestra.
Clinton, ranked number one in a recent Radio Guide poll, will bring a 15 piece orchestra and two vocalists. He plays sweet equally as well as swing and has told the music chairman, Kevin O’Gorman that his program for the ball
will be made up exclusively of sweet music, with swing only on request.
Formal invitations for the Ball were issued Wednesday, yesterday, and today in the basement of the Dining Halls.
The Tea Dance Saturday afternoon will be held at the Chain-o’-Lakes Country Club.
Among those who have been selected to committees are: General Chairman, Walt Wuebbold; Tea Dance, Kenneth Goff, chairman; Tom Hammond, Burley Johnson, Robert Connolly, Jim Foley and Joe Gerwe; Music, Kevin O’Gorman, chairman; Edward Hannan, Paul Hellmuth, Phil Carroll, Bob Beaudine; Decorations, Tom Liston, chairman; Jack Rogers, Mark Ertel, Jack DeMoss, Joe Thesing, Paul Chaput, Kenneth Ober-bruner; Arrangements, Christy Flanagan, Anthony Bernard, co-chairmen; Jim Moore, Jim Donoghue, George Wallace, John Ward, Pete Sheehan, Steve Coughlin; Favors, Jim Shiely, chairman; Henry Dowd, George Ward, Thad Harvey, Tom Lloyd, Joe Lavery, Charles Zegiob; Publicity, Mize Morris, chairman; William C. Fay, Don Foskett, Pat Gorman, John Femeding, and Tom Femeding.
Tickets, John Gavan, chairman; William Kennedy, Cecil Jordan, Bill Small, Charles Barrack, John L. Crane, and Joe Smalley; Programs, John Ciccolella, chairman; Robert Frost, Edward Jacobs, John Dean, Rex Ellis, John A. Kotte, Edward Huston; Invitations, Albert Kessing, chairman; Bob Rothacker, Nick Pesut, Dave Bernard, Chuck Magner, Tom Moran, Dick Kelly; Patrons, Dan Hushek, chairman; Tom J. McKenna, Bernard Teah, Tony Gentle, Tom McCarthy, John Donohue, and William H. O’Brien.—Jim O’Donohoe
K. of C. Expects 600
At Annual Formal Ball
Next Friday will be K. of C. night at the Palais Royale. To the music of Jack McLean’s orchestra the Knights of Columbus will dance at their annual formal ball.
Chairman George Morris can well expect a large gathering, and hopes to welcome at least 300 couples at the door. Last year’s dance received nothing but compliments from the guests and Chairman Morris has modeled Friday’s affair after the 1939 dance.
Popular with dancers is the cabaret style table set up to be used. And new to Notre Dame dance enthusiasts will be the table reservations for convenience. Present reservations point to a successful dance, and those who wish to attend should buy tickets early. See Chairman Morris in K. of C. office in Walsh basement for reservations.
Tickets are $2.50.
"On Borrowed Time" Is Tomorrow's Film Fare
The movie version of Lawrence Edward Watkins’ “On Borrowed Time” will be offered in Washington Hall tomorrow night. Lionel Barrymore and Sir Cedric Hardwicke share honors in this delightful fantasy of death’s brief holiday.	.
Mr. Watkins reports that while attending a Mythology class in college he became interested in a legend about Death being held powerless up in a tree. He never forgot this amazing little story and, realizing the possibilities of weaving bits of “cracker barrel” philosophy into the yarn, he modernized the legend into a recent best-seller.
As a stage play, Watkins’ novel received a two-year approval on Broadway. When Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer studios screenized the story they naturally chose the elder Barrymore to portray “Gramp.” Sir Cedric Hardwicke was cast in the role of Death, personalized by a dignified gentleman named “Mr. Brink.”
“On Borrowed Time” is the story of “Gramp,” his nephew “Pud,” and Pud’s wicked “Aunt Deborah.” Gramp, fearing that his death will cause Pud to fall into Deborah’s hands, delays the suave Mr. Brink in an apple tree. It is this temporary absence of Death that supplies much of the humor of Mr. Watkins’ story.—Ed Butler
John Meaney Tops Senior
Class With 95.97 Average
The Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies of the University, has announced the names of the men in the class of 1940 with the highest averages in their respective colleges. These averages are based on the.men’s work during their four years of college. The average of the Law students is based on their three years’ work in the College of Law. The men with the highest averages according to
John Meaney	Colleges are as fol-
■	lows: Arts and Let-
ters, John William Meaney, Corpus Christi, Texas, - 95.97%; Engineering, Joseph Anthony Knaus, Red Lion, Pa., 91.32%; Commerce, Philip James Sand-maier, Lakewood, Ohio, 95.29%; Law, Edward Francis Bright, Franklin, N.J., 93.27%; Science, Howard Albert Klein, Detroit, Michigan, 93.12%.
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE STUDENT FORUM
entry set of books. Its underlying principles are still evident in the varying methods in use today.
Accounting Today
By Philip J. Sandmaier
When you or I seek current information of the world at large, we naturally read the newspapers. When the business
man needs enlightenment concerning the condition of his business, he consults financial statements prepared by the accountant. The latter is, in many respects, the counterpart of the newspaper editor. The idea behind the work of both is
Phil Sandmaier very similar, even though the scope of their activities does differ. The editor handles matters from a viewpoint both world-wide and local, collecting for the subscribers what they want, all the printable news available. The accountant, on the other hand, is a bit more local in his leanings.
His subscriber is the business man, and so the accountant-editor collects for him what he as owner of an enterprise wants, particularly, news of what his business has done in the past and what its condition is at the present. He can obtain news of the general business world from other sources, or from an analysis made by the accountant, if he deems private means preferable. But always uppermost in his mind is his own enterprise.
After all the pertinent material has been gathered for the accountant and assembled on his desk, the actual editing begins. Just as the sports editor knows sports and the society editor, society, the accountant must have a knowledge of the business he is analyzing. He not only studies the processes involved to get all the obvious information, but also he anticipates what facts will later be required.
The finished product presents to the manager of the business a story most understandable and useful to him. He can see at a glance what goods he has on hand, and how much they cost him. He can see his expenses, and can trace them to see which are satisfactory, and which are running too high. There before him is the amount of money he has to pay out, and the amount he will take
in, the profit he is making, and how much of that profit he can safely withdraw. These are items of a general, universal nature. Every industry also gives rise to studies on specific matters; materials on these will form part of the story presented to the manager.
And who is the fellow who gathers the facts with which the accountant works? He is the reporter of the accounting office, the bookkeeper. The accountant has organized the system and has told the bookkeeper what to do. All the latter has to do is to follow the routine, and to consult with the accountant when any complications arise. The difference between the accountant and the bookkeeper, not clear to many people, is really quite distinct. There is little trouble distinguishing between the construction engineer and the structural iron worker. One plans; the other does. The accountant uses the figures of the bookkeeper to bring to light, in theii’ proper shade and emphasis, both the details and the broader' aspects of a business, drawing from them telling conclusions that only a trained person can see.
Despite the fact that its usage is so widespread, modern accounting is a very young science. As late as sixty years ago there had been no scientific approach toward the subject. Man has always had confidence in the ability of another man to pay at a future date. Thus there entered into the picture credit, and with credit, the need for remembering items.
This first type of accounting was the forerunner of what we today know as the single entry system. What one person owed another and since this was all that had to be remembered, was all that was recorded. But as the fifteenth century neared its end and the development of trade brought with it the need for something more complete, more systematic. And it was out of those outposts of learning of that period, the monasteries, that this deficiency was supplied. Luca Paciola, a Franciscan monk, an authority on mathematics in his day, published in Venice in 1494 a treatise on business finance. This work, the first ever written on the subject of bookkeeping, was used by the merchants of those times as a practical guide for a double-
In recent years the demand for accounting has increased greatly; the quality of its work has had to be better and better. Why is this so? One word will suffice — competition. This force led to expansion, which meant helpers, and with helpers came the question of the distribution of returns, in wages or profits. Moreover, credit was used to a greater extent in purchases and sales, and more loans were made. Along with expansion to meet the force of competitors came the necessity of economizing. To decrease costs facts were required, and so cost accounting came into being. Individuals combined into corporations, making it essential that statements be prepared for all concerned. More work for accountants. The government also entered into the picture, producing an effect upon which, I am sure, no elaboration is necessary. We all know of the social security, income tax, and security exchange legislation, to mention but a smattering, now in effect.
It is natural that with this growth in the demand for accountants that universities and colleges should find the number of students in Accounting increasing as the years pass by. This has led to higher standards in the whole field, especially among the professional class — the Certified Public Accountant. To earn this designation these men have passed the state examinations and requirements, which have been made increasingly rigid. New York State, for instance, now requires that an applicant be a college graduate, a step which may soon be followed by all the others.
There is another class, of greater social importance, the investor. He must be able to read the published statements intelligently, and by comparing these with other statements, obtain in a general way an estimate of the soundness of the enterprise. Too often “tips” are unsound; men who should know better find themselves owners of worthless securities. In a few decades the executives and investors will be made up largely of the college graduates of the “forties.” Were everyone of these to have in his mind on graduation day a knowledge of the fundamentals of accounting, it is the belief that the businesses of the country would be operated in a more effective manner, and the funds of the public invested in better fashion. The results would be a more enlightened community and an appreciable enhancement of the general welfare of the nation as a whole.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
9
Puppet Show's Archery
"A Deep Bark Secret"
The “Question of the Week” that has been getting first place in the campus bull sessions since last Monday is: “How did a mere puppet shoot an arrow at a target and have it split another arrow that was all ready imbedded in the target’s bull’s eye?”—but no one will tell!
Yes, it is going to remain a mystery. Tony Sarg’s Marionettes, who played t , their version of “Robin Hood” last Monday in Washington Hall, refuse to talk. Moreover, Mr. David Pritchard, head of । the troupe that pulled the strings dur-' ing the show’s two performances, claims that it is a trade secret.
Your reporter was allowed a back-stage view of the production and although he gleaned a few ideas on how the arrows were shot and how they apparently hit the target, he still is in the *	dark when it comes to explaining how
I	one arrow split the other. One might
surmise that the arrows were concealed it the sleeve of the puppet and were worked by strings or springs, or a com-|	bination of both.
;	He might also continue his specula-
i tions, after a quick look at the target '	when one of the troupe was trying to
I	whisk it away from his gaze, and say
that the arrows were lying on the surface of the target and were released by springs at the correct moment. In regard to the splitting of the arrow, however, I think the bull sessionaires had better continue their debate.
“The Man on the Flying Trapeze,” had nothing on this group in the way of agility. There is just a very narrow cat-walk above and on either side of the puppet stage. The actions of the play require the four people to be constantly jumping from one side to the other, bending over, or straddling the walks. Everything may look serene below, but bedlam reigns above. Puppets change handlers as often as shares of stock in a busy exchange. As a result, an operator may be handling one puppet and speaking the lines for some other puppet.
This is the twenty-first year that Tony Sarg’s Marionettes have been on on the road. According to Mr. Pritchard, who adapts and plans each year’s production, the puppet season starts in October and ends in the latter part of May or early June. Each year the production travels from the east coast as far west as Colorado Springs, where the puppets have been giving performances to the local !	high-school children for seventeen con-
j	secutive years.—Harry Penrose
I
Hark to the Tale of Goff
A Tammany kind of Toff!
Politics is that friendly campus game
By which class “Bosses” rise to fame;
Pat hitched his wagon to a public star, And rode a horse that won by far;
When the seniors gather to dance and tea
Jockey Pat will preside as their M.C.
Perennial favorite of A.B.’s assistant Dean
In stagnant Sorin Goff is usually seen.
Hobnobs with Massey and others of the arts. . . .
Was sought by Hollywood for Abe Lincoln parts. . . .
Haunts the region of Lake Cayuga’s waters,
Playing squire to New York’s daughters!
Inspiration for the muse has gone and fled
So, we’ll do a Goff, and away to bed!
Knute Rockne Bust
Unveiled By Daughter
Miss Mary Jean Rockne unveiled the bust of her illustrious father, Knute K. Rockne, last Saturday, in the arched foyer of the Memorial which bears his name. While three other Rockne children as well as University officials and friends of the great coach looked on, Miss Rockne entered the niche and drew away the blue and gold shroud that bore the seal of Notre Dame.
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, accepted the bust on behalf of Notre Dame, praised it “as a welcome addition to this beautiful memorial dedicated to Knute Kenneth Rockne.” Nison Tregor, of New,York City, American sculptor who fashioned the bronze likeness, commented briefly on the artistic features of the bust. It stands on a simple grey marble base, also designed by Tregor, on which are carved the words: “In Memory of Knute Kenneth Rockne, 1888-1931.”
Carefully placed lamps cast a golden light into the niche and enhance the rugged beauty of the bronze workmanship. The placement of this bust marks the official completion of the impressive foyer, already a pilgrimage spot for thousands. A delegation from the Monogram club as well as members of the student council attended the ceremonies.
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University was official host. The guest list included the following from South Bend: Mrs. Knute Rockne and family, Judge and Mrs. G. A. Farabaugh, Mr. and Mrs. E. M. Morris, Mr. and Mrs. Elmer Layden, Mr. and Mrs. Stanley S. Sessler and Mr. and Mrs. Frank E. Hering; Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., Notre Dame; Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Dorais, Detroit, Mich., and Dr. Maurice Goldblatt, Chicago.
Following the unveiling ceremonies there was a reception in the Rockne Memorial lounge. Prof. Francis J. Hanley, of the department of art, was in charge of arrangements.
—James Brugger
Notre Dame Graduate
Heads Cornell 'Lawyer'
Robert D. Fernbach, who was graduated from Notre Dame in 1938 and is to graduate from the Cornell Law School in June 1941, has been chosen Editor-in-Chief of the Cornell Law Quarterly, which is the nationally known legal periodical published by the Cornell Law School.
Members of the Board of the Cornel] Law Quarterly are chosen on the basis of scholarship. . Fernbach placed first in mid-semester examinations.
10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
William C. Fay, Editor-in-Chief
William C. McGowan, News Editor
Frank Wemhoff, Literary Editor
Bernard Longo Art Editor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Adress manuscripts to Editor, 259 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Across the Editor's Desk
Take a Broom, Mr. Hays
A FEW YEARS ago the National
Legion of Decency pounded on the door of Will Hay’s office in Hollywood. A virtue had become a vice as the motion picture industry employed its art to create a new and powerful cesspool of smut. Unblushing suggestiveness in situation, scene and dialogue had forced a pagan menace upon a Christian people. But these people had to be heard and the Legion cleaned house.
The house needs cleaning again. This time the dirt can be found under a soft, rich rug of sophistication and so-called modernism. Open licentiousness has become a thing with bustles and bows to a new flood of themes peppered with smug insinuations. These are to satiate a vivacious generation of self-styled sophisticates.
The most dangerous element of all in this new trend is the recent output of films dealing with hitherto untried subjects. Social and economic problems have found their way into the housewife’s retreat. Ethical themes, in films like “Dark Victory,” have offered us the barnyard philosophy of Naturalism. Again, the second most powerful weapon of propaganda in this country is guilty of destructive perversion.
In its weekly list of moral evaluations of current motion pictures the
Donald Foskett, Managing Editor
James Newland, Sports Editor
John Patterson Promotion
Kev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
Legion of Decency condemns the movie, “Strange Cargo” and warns that “this picture, in which religion is the prominent issue, presents a Naturalistic concept of religion contrary to the teachings of Christ and the Catholic Church. Irreverent use of Sacred Scripture. Lustful implications in dialogue and situation.”
The National Legion of Decency must pound at that door again — with the same insistence that it did before.
—Edmund R. Butler
Free As a Breeze
SOME DAY, we expect, if our crusaders for intellectual and moral freedom bray loud enough, a messiah will rise from the ranks of the American Youth Congress or one of its less notorious step-children to smash the shackles of convention and sweep away the barricades of reason. And everybody will be happy, because nobody will have to do what anyone says any more. What difference will it make if I say snowdrifts are white and my precocious brother in the great Order of Intellectual Democrats says they are green? We’ll both be right! And so it will go for years and years, and everybody will be—oh, so happy — because everybody will be just as smart as everybody else and nobody will be wrong. And all the college
newspaper editors will squat at their typewriters once a year on the eve of Bertrand Russell Day to tap out tenderly words of grateful eulogy in memory of one who gave his all for freedom of speech, freedom of thought, freedom of everything!
Our collegiate Winchells (and of course we’ll have our Thompsons and Roosevelts to enlighten the ladies’ auxiliaries of the Order of Intellectual Democrats) will beam as they reanimate memories of the great day back in 1940 when Bertrand Russell suffered untold humiliation at the hands of an intolerant and myopic lot of cranks. Oh, yes, that was hard to take, but how the gall was sweetened through the years as one by one the converts brushed the webs from their eyes and smiled with satisfaction at the thought that never, never again would anyone tell them what was right and what was wrong. True, there were still a few antiquated reactionaries who taught something about a Christian objective morality, but it just wasn’t “the thing” to take any stock in them anymore. Anyhow they were pretty well taken care of back in—let’s see, it was sometime in April of 1940 when a clever Eastern college editor said that Bishop Manning and the rest of his crew had no right to say what was good and what was evil because, after all, “morality is relative.”
It was really thrilling to think of the way the great intellects rallied behind our martyr. Hutchins was indignant; Sproul was indignant; Dewey was indignant. Everybody who was anybody was indignant. Even Mrs. Roosevelt would have been more indignant than usual except for the painful memory of the Youth Congress debacle at Washington. And the great intellects had a right to be indignant! Why, who could stand by and watch our priceless academic freedom imperilled because Bishop Manning and his crowd thought our Bertrand might influence somebody’s moral beliefs? He was hired to teach philosophy, wasn’t he? Morals? Bosh! What if he did advocate and practice free love and adultery? That was his own business! It’s a free country, ain’t it?
And so our sapient collegians will reminisce. And they’ll be happy, too! Everybody will be happy because everybody will be right—except those exasperating Christians!—Donald A. Foskett
Yez Dance
Promotion of Social Events is on the upswing. The K. of C. Formal—next Friday—and the Senior Ball deserve enthusiastic support.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
11
WHY PHILOSOPHY?	by Thomas E. Hackett
(Delivered at Schoolmen Disputation, Thursday)
This paper, unlike the others to be read tonight, is not a scholarly one; it is, in fact, not even philosophical. Its scope and purpose put simply, is to answer a question so often asked those of us majoring in philosophy, namely, “of what practical consequence are philosophers?”
Among very many who have had only a little philosophy, and who have seen no further than the course or two that they have had, there is a mistaken notion of the philosopher and his work. The conception popular among so many is that the philosopher is an odd-looking fellow, not overly adept at wearing his clothes, oblivious of all that is practical, who cuts himself off from the rest of the world in a dark garret, and spends all his life writing things which only a very few people understand. He contributes to these persons’ well-being by giving them something to read and think about. But this is as far as the philosopher affects things. If he had never existed, civilization for the vast majority of people, would be just as it is today.
Now the positive side of this picture might very well be true, but not so the negative. We contend that philosophers exert a profound causal influence upon the whole world and all the people in it. And it is my intention in this paper to demonstrate this fact. The manner of this demonstration will be quite simple and direct, and will consist merely in a listing and short description of a number of concrete cases, representing different fields of knowledge and endeavor, in which may be seen philosophers writing, and historic events taking place as a result of their writings.
Now philosophy has a manifold of functions and hence affects things in manifold ways. Time would not permit an adequate exposition of all, or even a few of these functions—and so the cases listed will be mainly in illustration of only one of the roles of philosophy. This function can be explained by the proposition that before there can be action, there must first be ideas. And here, when the action is complex, there is usually a division of labor, for the man of action is not ordinarily a man of ideas, and so must seek his ideas from others. From this flows our philosopher’s func
tion, which is the supplying of these necessary ideas.
Paradoxically, among our list of examples, some of the best ones, are bad ones. What I mean, is that some of the more striking results that philosophers have effected have been bad r.esults. This however does not affect our thesis, for I am trying to prove the existence of causal relation between philosophers and civilization; in other words, that philosophers influence the course of human events—whether this influence is good or bad is only of incidental interest.
For our first case of the philosopher exerting positive and causal influence upon some event of world-wide interest and consequences, we turn to the field of government, or political science, and here we find a very striking case in point, namely, that of Jean Jacques Rousseau and his all-important part in the precipitation of the French Revolution. Rousseau, though not an exemplary philosopher, was still one very potent, and one very illustrative of our present thesis. Here, we have the embodiment of the popular conception of the philosopher, a small, sickly, man, timid, afraid of people, somewhat of a recluse, whose greatest physical effort was using his pen, and which task probably called for most of the physical energy and courage he possessed. And yet let us take a look at what effects this timid and eccentric person brought about with his pen. In a phrase, and as we will find it written in most history texts, Rousseau was one of the most important, if not the most important immediate causes of the French Revolution.
In Rousseau’s day, though it had for some time been subjected to the attacks of John Locke, and other philosophers, the doctrine of the divine right of kings —that the king was answerable to God, but not to r.«.an—still held some sway in France. The people had a certain reverence for the king, and in general among the masses, he was still looked upon as the true sovereign ruler. But then came Rosseau with his radical idea that sovereignty rested with the people and only with the people, that the true function of the prince was to be no more than an executive—thus proclaiming democracy as the only legitimate foundation of civil society. And he proclaimed further to
the people that they had certain rights which sprang from their human nature, among them, liberty, equality, the right to property, the right to vote, control of taxation, trial by jury, and above all, the vindication of the ideal and dignity of man-kind. It is interesting and important to note that these principles, which were embodied in Rousseau’s famous Contrat Social, also formed the basis for the Declaration of the Rights of Man, which was drawn up by the Revolutionaries upon the establishment of the new regime.
Notice, I do not claim that Rousseau was the total cause of the revolution. The revolution was probably inevitable, but Rousseau caused it to take place when it did, and. he did to an extent, determine its nature—for prior to the writings of Rousseau, the struggle had been one between the privileged classes and the state—it now became a struggle between the people and the state. And these results which we claim came in very great part from a man and his pen, must not be under-estimated — for not only did it result in mass murder, some 400 civil riots, a tremendous loss of property and life, and the beheading of a king and queen — but there was more to it than this. The doctrine of the sovereignty of the people challenged the right to exist of every state in Europe. There was not an effect merely upon France, but upon the whole world; for the French Revolution set in motion those revolutionary forces — democracy, nationalism, socialism — which have changed the face of Europe and of the world, and are not yet spent. It might be said of Rousseau, as O. W. Holmes said of Montesquieu, “Like Descartes, or Kant, he commanded the future from his study, more than Napoleon from h?s throne.”
Now, let us enter another field, one quite different, to see a case of especial interest to Americans; one in which,-though the connection between philosopher and man of action is not seen quite so strikingly, has still a very significant reality. That event which have in mind is the discovery of American by Columbus.
Now the reason that Columbus made his historic voyage to the west was because he thought that the earth was
The Notre Dame Scholastic
round—and yet an examination of positive science in those days will show that at that time, it had not advanced so far that it could, by empiric means, demonstrate with certainty that the earth was round. Such a conclusion could be reached only by speculation—by a priori method. And we find just this being done by philosophers. Clear back in ancient Greece we find Plato reasoning to the roundness of the earth on a prion grounds. And, in illustration that Columbus was causally influenced by just such thinking, I wish to quote this passage from a modern author: “Columbus and Copernicus, who did more than any of their contemporaries to revolutionize modes of thought, appealed to their contemporaries on the strength of texts from Aristotle and Philolaus. It'was by reasoning on the texts of Strabo and Ptolemy that Columbus convinced himself of the existence of new country beyond the western world.”
Any layman who acquaints himself with the atom theory of modern Physics, will be little less than amazed when he sees the great amount of advancement and accomplishment in learning which it exemplifies. The theory certainly calls for a world of praise to modern Science. And yet, I wonder would I be too bold were I to suggest that the first modern physicist who suggested the idea of atoms, was led along this line of thought by philosophers. After all, in the beginning, the theory was practically pure speculation; no one had ever seen or heard an atom. And yet it is very true that philosophers, some of them, had for centuries, supposed this very thing. Clear back as far as the fifth century, B.C., we find a school of Greek philosophers, called, by the way, the Atomists, the two outstanding members of which were Leucippus and Democritus, who in an attempt to learn the ultimate constitution of physical bodies, said that they were composed of an infinite number of particles, too small to be seen. This idea was later held by some Roman philosophers, and then in the modern period we find it being taught by Gassendi and Hobbes. The modern scientific conception of Atomism is supposed to have started with John Dalton in the early part of the last century, and it seems only reasonable to suppose that when he first conceived of this theory, that he had been at least by way of suggestion, influenced by these philosophers, directly or indirectly.
Another place where the influence of philosophy is felt, and especially among Catholics, is in morals, or Ethics. Today, certain practices, which were in the past considered as very vicious, and which actually are such, are more and more
becoming quite moral in the eyes of many people, even though they are detrimental to the human race. I have reference to such practices as abortion, birthcontrol, and euthanasia. Institution after institution, and group after group has fallen by the wayside in accepting these false doctrines. And yet in the face of all this moral destruction, one institution has stood out in fighting off these assaults, and has championed the observance of the laws of nature. I mean of course, the Catholic Church. The Church
The Weakest Link
We build great universities where youth May learn of art and science, beast and bird,
Yet in these halls of universal truth The hallowed name of God may not be heard;
By force of law, religion must be banned, The fountain-head of truth must be ignored,
Leading the youthful mind to understand
It needs no aid nor guidance from the Lord.
When life is freighted deep with destiny And the young soul is plunged in constant strife
Can it be short of human tragedy
That God should be uprooted from his life;
Why should our colleges outlaw the Master
When only He can save youth from disaster?
— Rev. Thos. E. Burke, C.S.C.
has not only preached against these immoralities, but has actually succeeded to an enormous extent, in deterring its members from such sins. We are all familiar with the means — pamphlets, articles, and sermons by our priests, which have pointed out that the natural law is immutable, and that we sin when we do not use a thing for the purpose for which it was created. This might seem simple and easy enough, but let us stop and think how helpless our priests and teachers in this work would have been, had they not had at their disposal, those great moral doctrines of Aristotle, St. Thomas, and other scholastics. Had it not been for the moral doctrines of these philosophers, by the time the Church would have found a way to show the immorality of these acts, its members would have long since been lost in the flood of false philosophies.
. All of us today are quite familiar with the institution of Communism. We have seen how in Russia, it has brought about a state in which a mere few thousand are ruling 180 million others in virtual ignorance. And we are aware, most of us, that pending on the outcome of the present war in Europe, this institution might spread to other parts of the world, as it already has to Spain and Mexico. And we are aware too, that this worldwide phenomenon, can to a very great extent, be traced to one man, Karl Marx. But there is another fact too, that I am afraid is not quite so familiar, but which is an integral part of the coming-into-being of Communism. That fact is that Karl Marx, as he himself tells us, received his principle economic doctrine which foresaw the rise of the proletariat, from the inspiration and ideas of a famous philosopher of the last century, George W. F. Hegel. Marx was a student of Hegelian philosophy, and among the tenets therein, was the idea that the history of the world was true only as a history of ideas. Each idea, as it is affirmed by truth, brings with it the idea that is its negation. The ideas do battle and out of their conflict a new and higher idea arises to be fought and conquered in its turn. Starting here, Marx substituted a battle of economic forces, waged by means of the social classes which are the product of these forces. One set of economic forces raises a particular class to power. But no class can rule without bringing an antagonistic class into play, which overthrows the class then in power, and so the process goes on. This conception of political and social change underlies the fierce invective of the Communist Manifesto, and indeed all of Marx’s writings. It has been the theoretical driving force behind the communism of modern Russia, and finds its dogmatic expression in the writings of Nikolai Lenin.
Today, in Germany, we see the Jews persecuted and driven from the country. And again, as an instrument employed in this process, we see the ideas of philosophers. The case of Nazi Germany does not constitute the first time that the Jews have played the role of the scapegoat and the persecuted. However this particular case is somewhat unique, in that the people who had a hand in it, and who favored it, in great part acted in good faith in the belief that their action was patriotic. Now how did this come about? The Nazis of Germany needed the wealth of the Jews, and yet in taking it, to satisfy the ordinary sense of justice of the people, they had to give some excuse for their action, and unhappily they found this excuse in the writing of philosophers. Certain philoso-
(Continued on Page 23)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
13
POST OFFICE — CHECKS FROM HOME GRATEFULLY RECEIVED
Criminology Students
To Visit State Prison
Notre Dame students of criminology will attend a clinic to be held at the Indiana State Prison, Michigan City, Ascension Thursday, May 2, it was announced today by Professor Frank T. Flynn, of the department of sociology.
Buses carrying the students will leave the University at an early hour, and upon arrival at the prison the group will separate into squads of ten. They will be conducted through the institution by members of the prison staff.
They will have lunch at noon followed by talks by members of the prison administrative staff. Several topics concerning routine procedure at the institution will be discussed by the classification staff. A baseball game will be enjoyed in the afternoon.
“The trip is not an observation or sight - seeing tour,” Mr. Flynn commented, and added, “it is rather an educational clinic.”
Announcement of names of those in charge of the clinic will be published in the near future.
Dwyer Begins Annual Investment Talk Series
Mr. John E. Dwyer, Chicago Investment Counsellor, delivered the first of his series of lectures this week to the “Investment” classes of the College of Commerce. Mr. Dwyer, who is a special lecturer in the Commerce School, spends a week each semester discussing the various phases of the investment field with these classes.
“It is my plan,” stated Mr. Dwyer in his opening lecture, “to discuss the business of investing money from the stand
point of the individual.” During the week Counsellor Dwyer developed this theme in regard to three types of securities — railroads, industrials, and municipals.
Stressing the uncertainty of the current investment market, Mr. Dwyer continued, “There are multiplied risks in the investment field today. The day has passed when a person can buy one of the so-called “safe” investments and promptly forget about keeping track of it.”
Mr. Dwyer emphasized the importance of the earning powei* of any enterprise when considering it as a possible investment. He claimed that if a company shows definite earning power it is worth something to the investor.
Notre Dame Men Write 2200 Letters Each Day
Here comes the Mail!
The mail truck’s three trips a day to the Notre Dame campus brings an average of 1200 letters. This average increases 10 to 15 percent just before a vacation. When the mail truck returns to South Bend it carries on the average of 2200 letters per day. Out of these 2200, contrary to popular belief, two-thirds go to home and mother and only one-third to respective “only and onelies.”
When Joe Junior, residing in Dillon Hall on the Notre Dame campus, receives a letter and a package slip, Joe goes over to the postoffice, claims his package, buys some stamps, and dismisses the postoffice and its activities from his mind.
But this is just one piece of mail coming to Notre Dame from people in every state in the union and from several foreign countries, 15 to be exact.
Eleven different publications are mailed from the campus. These publications average 73,370 pounds per quarter.
There are 150 packages received at the postoffice each day but only an insignificant number mailed.
The General Offices receive most mail, with the Athletic Office second. In football season, however, the mail to and from the Athletic Office exceeds that of all others.
The Junior halls seem to have a slight edge on other halls in the amount of mail received in a day, but the seniors insist that they will rank first in a few weeks with the coming of the Senior Ball.—Joe Stephen
American Society Hears
Templin On Metal Tests
Mr. R. L. Templin, chief engineer of tests for the Aluminum Company of America, addressed the local chapter of the American Society for Metals last Wednesday night in the Engineering Auditorium. In' 1934, Mr. Templin received the Charles B. Dudley Award for his paper, “The Fatigue Properties of Light Metals and Alloys.”
The subject of Mr. Templin’s talk, “Mechanical Property Tests of Metals,” included a discussion of the different types of mechanical property tests such as the tensile, dynamic, fatigue, hardness, and impact tests. The empirical nature and the usefulness of the data obtained was also discussed. Many illustrations complemented the address.
The next meeting will be May 8. At that time Mr. Gilbert E. Doan, head of the Department of Metallurgical Engineering in Lehigh University, will address the engineering students on “The Metallurgy of Welding Processes.”
Dozen Local Engineers To Attend Chicago Meet
Twelve members of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers will attend the Eighth Annual Midwest Students Conference of the society in Chicago on Monday and Tuesday. Host to the conference is the Armour Institute of Technology. The conference headquarters is the Stevens Hotel.
The Conference wnll start Monday morning with a trip to the International Harvester Company. The noon luncheon will be followed by a formal welcome to the delegates by Mayor Kelly. The rest of the afternoon and the next morning will be spent in the presentation of student papers on various subjects.
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Iowa’s Big Ten Champions Open Two Game Series Against Klinemen Today
Iowa—Did Somebody M
Hunthausen Will Face
Slugging Hawks Tomorrow
Iowa University’s slugging “collegiate Yankees” meet Notre Dame this afternoon and tomorrow on the Cartier Field diamond. The Hawkeye club is defending champion of the Big Ten, and boasts one of the strongest hitting combinations the Irish will face all season.
After a rest of four days, Notre Dame null travel for the first time this season to meet Chicago on Wednesday
Norv Hunthausen afternoon.
Against the Iowa nine Coach Kline will depend on his two star hurlers to stem the tide of base hits. Norv Hunthausen, fresh from a one-hit victory over Northwestern, will start tomorrow, and Rex Ellis, who pitched a one hitter against the Hawkeyes last year, was on the mound this afternoon.
Notre Dame showed a surprising strength at the plate against Northwestern considering the Irish lacked batting practice, not to mention a few warm up games. Hunthausen’s performance was of mid-season caliber, and if it is a criterion of his work to come, the Irish nine need worry little about a good season.
But the big test of pitching strength comes in the series with Iowa. Co-Capt. Jim George finished last season with a batting average of .452 to lead the Big Ten. Erwin Prasse, second baseman for the past three years, swats lustily. Shortstop Andy Kantor has had little trouble with Big Ten pitching for the past three seasons, and holds a .352 average for last year’s work.
The Hawkeyes have four dependable men to turn loose on the Irish hitters. Starting this afternoon was Fred Hohen-horst, tomorrow Co-Capt. Harold Haub. For relief in case of an Irish onslaught are Wymore and Statsny. Wymore patrols right field when not on the mound.
Outstanding sophomore in the Iowa line up is Rudy Radies. Hi's willow has
been meeting the ball regularly so far this season, and he promises to aid the Hawkeye slugging percentage in any game.
In tripping Northwestern, the Notre Dame club proved itself capable of producing. But today and tomorrow the boys are in for some hard work. For the past two years Iowa has trounced Notre Dame in the opener of a two-game series only to lose by one run in the second contest. With two stellar slabmen such as Ellis and Hunthausen, Notre Dame can point for two victories this season. Faultless fielding and steady hitting power can beat the Hawkeyes.
Shift of Hymie Crane to left field proved successful against Northwestern; the infield is well-grounded in ball handling tactics, paced by Ray Pinelli at the plate. Bernie Crimmins, one of Layden’s right halfbacks is at home behind the plate and hits well from his spread-eagle stance at the bat. Andy Chlebeck has a tendency to imitate the major leagues’ Gerry Walker on the base paths, but has the speed to cover a lot of territory in right field. Roy Pinelli hasn’t found his batting eye yet but camps under all flies in the middle pasture.
Prospects point to a great season. Iowa has the strength to kick the prospects around a bit.—John Patterson
14 Teams See Action In First Scrimmage Drill
Along about the third inning of last Saturday’s Notre Dame - Northwestern baseball game, an explosion was heard from somewhere in the general vicinity of Brownson field, which caused many fans, sitting in the top rows of the grandstand, to crane their necks for a better view of the spectacle. What they saw was not a volcanic eruption, although there are 11 young men, who will testify vigorously in the affirmative to that statement. It was only “Big Moose” Piepul, captain-elect of the 1940 Irish gridiron forces, hurling his 210 pounds, against a determined band of “scrubs,” to inaugurate the first big scrimmage of the spring practice period.
To the appreciative eyes of some 500 interested spectators, who like their football spring, summer, or fall, Coach Elmer F. Layden put on an impressive (Continued on Page 17)
Lineups For low
Iowa
Rudy Radies ... Erwin Prasse Andy Kantor . Frank Kocur .. Dick Smith .. Jim George .. Bob Cook..... Norm Hankins
.IB. .2B. .SS. .3B. .LF. .CF. RF. .C...
Harold Haub
P.
Time of game—2 o’clock. Place—Cartier Fi Umpires: M. J. “Bruff” Cleary, Ft. Wayne;
The Notre Dame Scholastic	15
Mention Revenge?
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESSBOX
By FRANK AUBREY
>wa Series
Notre Dame .... Chuck Farrell ....1............. George	Sobek .... Ray............Pinelli .... Chet Sullivan .... Hymie............Crane .... Roy............Pinelli .... Andy Chlebeck .... Bernie Crnnmins .... Norv	Hunthausen Rex Ellis Field.
le; Julius De Rose, South Bend.
“Struck out — by Hunthausen 8; base on balls — Hunthausen 1; hits — off Hunthausen 1.” Those vital statistics — curried from the box score of last Saturday’s Northwestern game tell the whole story of the contest. To anyone who saw the game, a box score is superfluous, for Norv held everyone’s undivided attention from start to finish. The first flurry of interest awoke when Norv walked Erdlitz in the first. Not another Wildcat reached base until De Correvont scratched his bounder off the mound in the eighth. In between times, Norv kept the crowd from drifting over to the football emporium by his batting.
•
We filled the bases with two down in the second, but the crowd moaned because the pitcher was next up. Pitchers aren’t supposed to hit — especially in the dutch. Norv conformed to regulations by whiffing. But from then on he was strictly a nonconformist. Came the fourth with Chlebeck and Crane on the bases and again two outs. Again the crowd moaned as the pitcher came up. The scoreboard manager reached for a zero, the scorers chalked up the third out, the team on the bench got ready to run out for the 5th, the — “crack!” and the ball shot down the first base line, Chlebeck and Crane trotted home, and the manager ran out to second base to hand Norv his jacket.
•
Our outfield of Crane, Roy Pinelli, and Sophomore Chlebeck were lucky it was a nice warm afternoon, for they had nothing to do but stand quietly and watch the ball game. Northwestern got only three balls out of the infield — one fly apiece to our picket line. Andy Chlebeck appeared right at home in a baseball suit. He punched out a couple drives — one of which went for a hit, stole a base, and when Erdlitz made a bid for an extra base drive, Andy sprinted over in right-center for a pretty catch. Over in left, Hymie Crane made the most of Red Oberbruner’s absence to have a good day. Oberbruner will be back in action in two weeks.
•
Before the game our catcher and second-baseman were unproved. It’s a pleasure to say now that both Crimmins and Sobek are o.k. Besides catching a steady game — a one-hitter at that, Bernie pulled off a spectacular diving catch of a foul pop that grabbed the loudest applause of the afternoon. He couldn’t solve Dick Klein’s delivery, but a look at Bernie’s batting form is conviction enough that he’ll be a hitter. He leans forward into the ball, and gets all his body behind the swing. — Sobek, as a lead-off hitter reached base thrice and played a smooth and capable game in the field.’ He looks to be a sure shot on ground balls, and needs only game experience to develop some of the fine points — like pivoting on doubleplays. All in all these two sophs look to be good for about three years of firstline play.
•
For a team which must go through twenty tough games, this 1940 gang looks like a good bet. We havn’t seen the rest of the pitching staff as yet, however, and we’ll need more than Hunthausen and a lot of guys named Joe. If Rex Ellis has a sinker as good as his thinker (90 average), and if Tony Celia can get a good tall mound to work from, we’ll have enough. If need be, the old “College Parader” himself will be ready to step in and do some hurling. Then there is Jim Lang — a big, rugged, solidly-built right hander who looks like he has the makings. But after Saturday’s fiesta of one-hit pitching, errorless fielding, and adequate clubbing — Jake Kline shouldn’t be in the mood to worry. With all this high grade stuff at his command Jake’s principal job will be to keep the boys all smiling at each other, to see that all caps continue to fit, and to persuade Elmer that some of his boys look much better in a baseball uniform IN THE SPRING.
While we are sympathizing with Norv Hunthausen on so narrowly missing a nohit game — merely on the scorer’s judgment that DeCorrevont’s bounder could not have been fielded in time or a put-out, how about a little sympathy for Jack Ledden. It’s tough to be an official scorer on a play like the one in question — as it means so much to the pitcher. We think Jack was right, but should his decision be questioned, it still remains better to have erred in leaning over backward rather than to have ‘given’ Norv a no-hit game which might be doubted.
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic
INTRODUCING By PETE SHEEHAN
Every athlete receives support back in the old home town but Hank Halpin is practically the only Notre Dame star who is claimed by four different communities as a favorite son.
Born in Bozeman, Montana — the state which also gave us Greg Rice — Hank moved to Montpelier, Ohio, at the age of seven. Four years later he was enrolled in a Port Chester, New York, grammar school. After receiving a broad education in seven institutions “Halp” entered Port Chester High but two years later his family decided to return to the West and settled in Lafayette, Indiana. Luckily for Notre Dame, Hank attended but one college.
In New York Halpin won two letters. He spent a year at left end on the varsity football squad and high jumped, pole vaulted, broad jumped and anchored the relay track team every Spring.
He went out for football at Lafayette in' ’33. Mike and Emmett Crowe were the grid stars of the very promising Jefferson High school aggregation. As a left end he saw Jeff High lose their opening game from a very advantageous spot on the player’s bench. At practice, the following week, the coach decided that something must be done about the left half position. One Saturday afternoon the transfer from
Port Chester was notified to start in the Jefferson backfield. Five minutes later the fans were calling the coach the greatest discoverer since Columbus. This stranger’s number was first called on the home 12-yard line, and on the next play he was attempting the extra point. For the next 17 games Hank was in at left half and his team never lost a single contest. He was chosen second team all-state in ’34.
In the Spring Halpin competed in both the 100- and 220-yard dashes, the high jump, broad jump and relay. During both his junior and senior years he led the team in scoring.
Hank won freshman numerals in both
football and track but because of his size did not go out for football after’ his first year. He has already won two monograms for his track endeavors, and has scored 65 points. His jumping ambition he discarded and he has concentrated on the 440-yard dash. His best time •—: 49 seconds flat was made last season as anchor man on the relay team.
Although the Morrissey Sub can’t say much for Hank’s practice sessions on
the flute, he has been good enough to belong to the Symphony Orchestra for two years. He claims that he has never taken a music lesson in his life.
The Lafayette Church League lists him among her stars during the Summer softball season. Last year he batted .325 and played left field.
Statistics: Full name — Joseph Henry Halpin. Born in Bozeman, Montana, on Jan. 17, 1916. Now resides in Lafayette, Ind. Height, 5 feet 8% inches; weight, 145 pounds. A Philosophy major, Hank will be graduated in June and hopes to continue his studies in English. A younger brother will probably carry on Hank’s excellent track record here.
Tennists Open Season
At Wabash, Wednesday
Headed by Bill Fay, Indiana Intercollegiate singles champion, and Dan Canale, a sophomore, who ranks 18th in National Junior Tennis competition, Notre Dame’s 1940 tennis squad will open its season next Wednesday against Wabash college at Crawfordsville, Indiana.
Walter M. Langford, professor of Spanish, and tennis mentor during the absence of Professor Pedro de Landero, is enthusiastic concerning prospects of the Irish netters. Coach Langford believes the Irish will better .500 for the first time in several years.
Captain Fay, titlist in the Indiana State Intercollegiate championships last spring, leads the squad. Fay beat his teammate, Jack Joyce, in a four-set final for the Indiana crown. Joyce, hampered by an infected hand most of last season, has recovered and has been playing better tennis daily. He looms as the darkhorse star of 1940 Notre Dame tennis.
Practice in the Rockne Memorial and fieldhouse opened before Easter and with the flashes of spring days, the squad moved outside for recent drills.
A total of five lettermen have reported, with John Walsh, Harold Bowler and John Wolf turning out in addition to Captain Fay and Joyce. Norman Heckler, a junior who displayed plenty of promise a year ago, has also added strength to the proteges of Coach Langford.
Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics, has announced a schedule of eight dual matches and the state tournament at Lafayette to keep the tennis men busy. After Wabash, Notre Dame meets Kentucky, Western State, Northwestern, Indiana, Chicago, Michigan, and DePauw on consecutive week-ends.—Bill Scanlan
Varsity Footballers To
Play Oldtimers, Apr. 27
A fortnight tomorrow afternoon, and Coach Elmer F. Layden will possess insight of his football inventory for the season of 1940. For on Saturday, April 27, Coach Layden will steer his ’40 Irish on the turf of Notre Dame Stadium to lineup against the “Oldtimers,” Notre Dame forerunners composed of graduating members of last year’s varsity, augmented by graduate students who have won their monogram and a group of freshmen who will be eligible for varsity play, come fall.
There will be no Old-Oldtimers back for contact participation such as was the case three years ago when several mem-

The Notre Dame Scholastic	17
LESSON IN FUNDAMENTALS — LAYDEN LECTURES GRID SQUAD
bers of the ’30 club returned for the “Johnny O’Brien” memorial game.
The Oldtimers’ fracas serves to bring an end to the six weeks spring training schedule. Inclement weather and the absence of several key men who are doubling in baseball and cinderpath lanes have disturbed Coach Layden and his corps of coaches. More than 100 prospective varsity men have been prancing about Brownson practice field for two weeks under the canny and scanty eyes of Layden-Grant-Boland-Benda.
The Oldtimers, scouting around at present for a head coach, have about decided on a starting lineup. When Frank Albert, monogram winner takes Tom Gallagher’s left tackle job, the Oldbugs will lineup with the 1939 starting team intact, including: Sitko, Stevenson, Zon-tini, and Thesing, backs; ex-Captain Johnny Kelly and Bill Kerr, ends; DeFranco and Riffle, guards; McIntyre and Mooney, centers; and Tad Harvey, right tackle. This aggregation will be not only difficult to displace, but it will be tough to beat.
Substituting for Coach Layden in this interview, late in the week, backfield mentor Chet Grant intimated that Hargrave, McGannon, Juzwik, Bagarus, and Captain Piepul would move the ball; Jack O’Brien and Phil Sheridan will terminate the front line; Bob Osterman is scheduled to bend over the ball; Brutz and Lillis will play tackle; and Guban-ich and Pete Kelly will get the starting signal to play beside Osterman.
These two-dozen ball players will be only a fraction of the squad dressed for the game, but they are expected to figure more prominently in the box score.
—Eddie Huff
Purdue Golfers Favored
Over Irish Thursday
Next Thursday afternoon the Notre Dame golf team will open its season here against Purdue with a chance to revenge one of the two losses suffered last year. When the Boilermaker golfers left the course after last year’s match they flaunted a half-point victory margin and the new course record, of 66 held by their number one man, Johnny David.
When Purdue’s well-tanned golfers head out for the first tee they will be natural favorites over the untried Irish, in view of their recent southern competitive jaunt. Although Johnny David and Carl Freese have gone, no longer to trouble the Boilermaker’s opponents, the Notre Dame team remembers enough other fine men to give them an idea of the problem ahead. Captain Walt Hagen said, “We’re aiming for this one because it’s the first one and because we want to get even with them for last year’s defeat.”
The team has been playing squad matches, and from these Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., coach, hopes to pick the best line-up. Captain Hagen, Sammy Nield, Phil Donahue, and Bill Schaller are the monogram men left for the nucleus of a team.
Other upperclassmen who have had experience on the squad are George Costello, George Schreiber, Bob Bertsch, Bob Centlivre, Milo Wolf, and Bob Smith. The most promising sophomore is Wee Willie Wilson, making up for his weak driving with a fine iron game, he has turned in some fine cards.
Father Holderith was reluctant to
comment on the chances for this year but said, “It looks like this year’s squad ought to be able to- maintain the usual standard of Notre Dame golf.”
In view of the records which indicate an .877 average for the ten years of the golf team’s existence, that is going to require some fine playing. “The boys have their eyes set on the greens in Vermont, where the National Tournament is to be held, but as I see it there’s plenty of golf to be played before then in these dual matches.”—John Quinn
First Scrimmage (Continued from page 14) show, relaying no fewer than 14 teams, who battered and bruised each other up and down the field, for the better part of three hours.
Standouts were many, and far too numerous to’mention. No fewer than six touchdowns were registered by the Irish, in a scrimmage where the defense was much further advanced than the offense, and the high caliber of the Irish backs was not found wanting. Three of the touchdowns were along the sensational style: Don Hogan, a husky sophomore left halfback, flipped a beautiful 50-yard pass to Joe Prokop, a junior righ half, and sprint star on the track team, who took it over his shoulder on the dead ran, and galloped the remaining 20 yards to a score. Clarence (Rube) Marquardt, another junior righ half, received some fine blocking by his mates, on his 60-yard touchdown sprint around his own left end. A short pass from freshman left half Roy Cestery, to freshman quarterback Billy Lukowski, who weaved his way some 40 yards through a broken field, accounted for another score.
After the festivities were over, Coach Layden, wearing a big smile, gave vent to the following reflections: “The timing, blocking, and footwork were slightly off, but then that is to be expected in the first scrimmage of the year. . . . The veterans have yet to hit their true stride, and the new men are naturally nervous and over-anxious, in their desire to make good. ... In order to break down this over-anxiety, we have installed the new system of running two scrimmage plays after each practice session,- so that each man can brush up on his signals, perfect his timing and footwork, and thus he ready for the big tests when they come. . . . We have been running into great difficulties in the matter of weather, but the spirit is great, the boys are working hard, and the general interest in the program laid down has contributed much to our success thus far. . . . The ability of a team to come from behind is a tradition here.”—Jim Clemens
18
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Litizetti Boosts Dewey;
Wranglers Plug Demos
The Wranglers saw one more witch join the boiling cauldron of politics Wednesday evening in the Law Building. Stan Litizetti, of Helper, Utah, plugged the presidential candidacy of Thomas E. Dewey, the racket-busting ingenue from the city of iniquity, as a sharp retort to the two talks of previous weeks: Jack White’s “Hull Next” and Milt Williams’ “F.D.R. Runs Again.”
Mr. Litizetti, a staunch Republican, previewed a Dewey march to the White House as being practically in the proverbial bag. He pointed out that the powerful Republican candidate was a statesman, a shrewd politician, and came very close to F.D.R. in possessing that intangible thing called “presidential glamor.”
Exhausting everp possible qualification manufactured in Republican national conventions, and attributing these as a matter of course to his candidate, the speaker maintained that Mr. Dewey belonged to the liberal clan — a merit which would insure his full party support.
Mr. Litizetti, after reviewing Dewey’s brilliant life at the bar, turned to the practical side. He contended that the New York wonder would defeat his Democratic opponent. He contended that the on a party split brought about by the third term issue, while any other Democrat would not even approach Dewey’s power at the polls.
A Democratic majority of Wranglers quickly built a rebuttal that staggered Mr. Litizetti. John O’Loughlin of Bangor, Me., (where’s Vermont?) offered a bit of prejudiced aid to the speaker, and together they pieced a faltering rejoinder.—F. G. Barreda
Mathematicians Hold
Annual Symposium
This week the Department of Mathematics presented the fourth annual Mathematical Symposium; the general subject was “The Foundations of Topology.”
The first session, on Wednesday afternoon, brought Professor R. L. Moore, of Texas University, to lecture on “Contiguous Points,” and Professor Karl Menger, of Notre Dame, to lecture on “The Topology of Lumps.”
resterday morning the symposium continued with Professor E. W. Chittenden, of Iowa University, lecturing on the “Classification of Topological Functions”; Dr. John W. Tukey, of Princeton University, spoke on “The Equal Generality of ‘Convergence,’ ‘Closure,’ and ‘Neighborhoods’.”
Rockne Memorial News
Much interest is being shown in the interhall swimming meet to be held next Tuesday and Thursday. Lyons Hall, which scored 23 points last year, is defending champion. The sophomore hall was led by William Cotter who scored 19 points himself. Bill is in Dillon this year.
A new event has been added to the meet, the 220-yard free style. The rest of the events are the 200-yard relay, the 50-yard breast, 50-yard free, 50-yard back, 100-yard free, 150-medley, and low and high board diving. The four compulsory dives are the plain front, plain back, the front jackknife, and back jackknife. Scoring in the re-
CLOTHIER

GOOD NEWS for Flannel wearers — we have a handsome and complete selection of shades and patterns, fashioned in casual models that add to the luxury of this beautifully textured fabric.
PARKER-WINTERROWD (Upstairs Shop)
11 Sy2 - 117y2 N. Main Street
WE CORDIALLY INVITE YOU TO CALL AT OUR UPSTAIRS SHOP OR CONSULT OUR CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES:
GEORGE L. HAITHCOCK—MAIN BLDG. “TAD” HARVEY—11 MORRISSEY HARRY STEPHENSON—109 SORIN	JACK DEMOSS—309 SORIN
Learn AVIATION at an AVIATION School
U. S. Civil Aeronautical Authority’s approved methods used.
COMPLETE FLIGHT AND GROUND SCHOOL COURSES FOR ALL LICENSES.
See your Hall representative or Don Marietta, 232 Alumni Hall.
INDIANA AIR SERVICE
Phone 3-2455	(Incorporated)	Bendix Field
lays will be 10 points for first place, eight for second, six for third, four for fourth, and two for fifth. In the individual events five points will be awarded for a first, three for a second, two for a third, and one for a fourth.
Officials of the meet include George Cooper, starter; Charlie Hafron, clerk of the course; Norv Hunthausen, announcer; George Keogan, Harold Loveland, Al Handy, and Captain Schleuter, timers; Professor Ray Hoyer, Bill Cer-ney, Dominick Napolitano, and the Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., judges; Ed Slezak and Gil Burdick, diving judges; and Slezak, scorer.
Now under way at the Memorial are the swimming course for instructors and
TAILOR
HOUND & HORN Flannels are for sporting men — and any well-dressed man this Spring.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
a singles handball meet. The course for senior lifesavers in the instructor’s course will continue throughout April under the direction of Burdick and Slezak, and on May 6th, Thomas Costello, of Washington, and the Red Cross,
Meet us at HOWELL'S CAFE
for
finest quality
STEAKS — CHOPS FRIED CHIECKEN FRESH LAKE FISH SPAGHETTI DINNERS
•
Sandwiches Sodas Sundaes
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.-
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST SUCCESSOR TO ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
will arrive to give the final week of the test.
Seventy-one are entered in the singles handball affair. Fathers Meagher and Hager won the priests’ doubles handball tourney, defeating Fathers Ernsdorf and Overman in the finals.—John E. Lewis
N. D. Pinmen Lose to Gonzaga University
On April 2 a bowling team representing Gonzaga University, of Spokane, Washington, proved too strong for Notre Dame, the west-coasters winning by the comfortable margin of over 300 pins. The match, held in South Bend, was a continuation of the astounding play on the part of Gonzaga. Leaving Washington on March 16th, to begin a 6,500 mile barnstorming tour of the country, which brought them as far east as the Atlantic seaboard, they literally “bowled” over their opponents one by one.
Their team of Captain Gross, Mathi-
In the Gallery of shoe Firsts
MANSFIELDS
FIRST IN STYLE, as your eye will tell you.
FIRST IN WEAR, as months will prove.
FIRST IN VALUE, measured against any other shoe at
SELBY SHOES
130 W. Washington St.
son, Sweeney, Kuchenbecker, and McCammon ran up a winning streak which Notre Dame was unable to break. Despite the fine play of Lou Reilly along with Jake Bower, Jim Dempsey, Joe Nigro and Cy Tlusty, the Irish couldn’t cope with the almost professional play of the westerners. Harrigan and Kelly of Gonzaga and Notre Dame, respectively, managed the teams.
—Al Clark
Wayne U. Student Wins $500 Gruen First Prize
After scrutinizing the entries of more than eight hundred students of eighty colleges and universities throughout the country, seven expert jurors selected as winner of the first annual Gruen Watch Company contest for collegiate students of advertising, marketing, and merchandizing the poster submitted by Robert Roadstrum, a student of Wayne University, Detroit, Mich. Roadstrum was presented with a $500 cash scholarship.
Second prize, a $250 cash scholarship, was awarded to Henry A. Shull, a senior at Northwestern University.
Twice a month journalism students at the University of Michigan take over the editing of some daily newspaper in the state.
Sanford Ink "Ad1-Writing
CONTEST!
Any undergraduate at Notre Dame has a chance to win a prize in this new ad-writing contest ... All details of the contest may be obtained at the Bookstore.
The winning "Ad" will be run in THE SCHOLASTIC.
Copy must be in by April 15.
Will be judged by the advertising II agency of the Sanford Ink Com- || pany.	II
PRIZES:
1st Prize — choice of any $10.00 pen and pencil set or desk set.
2nd Prize—choice of any $5.00 pen, pencil or desk set.
3rd and 4th Prize—one regular 4 ounce bottle of Sanford’s Pen Tested Ink with chamois pen wiper.
Notre Dame Bookstore
20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
at
KUEHN’S
In the Shoe Den for Men
Reflecting your good taste —this.handsome custom-type Crosby Square Shoe for Spring, a direct re* production of a costly hand-made original, helps you earn "the good opinion of those who count” And provides trim comfort. Come in today and try on a pair or two.
$ r 50
and up
I«A» advertised ia Esqaire, Uffe, aed The Saturday Evcaiag Post
120 So. Michigan
YOUR RELIGION
A mind that views life merely from the natural level will soon he filled with a sense of futility. Like a moth flying into a lamp, it -will be overcome by the fatigue of trying to get out of the dark. For the brightness of natural beauty is but reflected brilliance, and so is only a sign and symbol of that ultimate being and ultimate beauty which the mind incessantly craves. But even from the higher vantage point provided by Divine Revelation, not all things lie clear to one’s view. If Faith, like a telescope to the eye, brings many distant tilings within range of our mental vision, it also makes us aware of many more that are still beyond, and must, in this life, ever remain beyond its ken.
This is the failure from which even the wisest of men may not escape. It is also the principal cause of all other failures. For what else is failure but a falling short of the goal toward which one should aspire, and is not all such shortcomings finally due to the darkness of ignorance of ourselves and of things and of God? Why else did Our Lord, Who came that we might have life and have it more abundantly, call Himself the Light of the World? And was He not moved to compassion for those that sit “in darkness and the shadow of death?”
This is not to say that in nothing do men succeed, that being failures, they have no successes. We do indeed succeed in many enterprises. But it is no contradiction to say that even when we have in some way succeeded best, we have failed the worst. For “What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world, and suffer the loss of his own soul?” It were the height of success to gain dominion over the whole world, to be able to rule its population, to administer its wealth, to enjoy its pleasures, to assimilate its knowledge, to appreciate its beauty. But were it only that, it would be but the triumph of failure, the achievement of everything but the one thing necessary.
It is precisely the neglect of this one thing necessary, this attitude of regarding as least necessary the cultivation of the spiritual life, which is union with Christ in his mystical body, the Church, that eventually sears our vision and causes us to wander off into the by-paths of failure. For then, “having eyes, we see not, and having ears, we heed not.”
Such statements are old. Yes, as old as Christianity. They are commonplaces among Christians, and object of derision for infidels. But they are also true; and it is this that matters. It is this that justifies their repetition and establishes
their right to be considered and made guiding principles of our lives. Even if the greatest of temporal success is but partial achievement, and so also partial failure, there is no sound reason for not striving to heighten the possible successes and to diminish the degree of the inevitable failures. As Christians, it is our duty to walk before God and be perfect, to strive for the perfection within our powers and the measure of Divine Grace that may be vouchsafed us. It is not reasonable to rest content with injustice because even “the just man falls seven times a day,” nor excusable to make no effort to reduce the number of our offenses because “in many things we all offend.” Even though we must admit that we are “unprofitable servants,” we may still lay up for ourselves treasures in Heaven.
To be aware of failure, of the everremaining gap between our actual state and what we should like to be, and to acknowledge it, and above all, not to be cast down about it is, as Monsignor Benson rightly implies, a test of religious excellence. For it is an index of one’s ability to see himself as he really is in the sight of God, and of his love of truth, the essence of humility which, in turn, is the foundation of all sanctity. Of St. John the Baptist, Our Lord said that no man bora of woman was greater
EVENING OUT...
...ACCESSORIES
Kirk ARROW—$2.50 Chevy ARROW Collar—25c Black or White Ties—$ 1.00 !iuwm
The Notre Dame Scholastic
than he. And yet the Precursor himself felt that he was not worthy even to loosen the latchet of Our Saviour’s shoes. The feeling of failure then is a feeling of unworthiness in the sight of God, and the fact of failure is the realization that of ourselves we can never become worthy of Him. But it is precisely that fact which makes us cling to Him. And it is by that union that all our failures will be turned into triumph.
—Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C.
Confraternity Convenes at St. Mary's April 19
Many distinguished guests will participate in the second regional convention of the Confraternity of Christian Doc
Swing & Sway the Arrow Way
NO stuffed shirt—this! Arrow Shoreham, because of its easy fitting flexible front and smart authentic collar attached, is the most comfortable dress shirt yet devised...$3. Sanforized-Shrunk, fabric shrinkage less than 1%.
Wear it the year ’round— in summer with white coat— in winter with tux... but always with a black Arrow tie, bat or butterfly ... $1. Other Arrow dress shirts, $2.50 up. Buy one today . . . now.
HRROW SHIRTS
trine, to be sponsored by St. Mary’s College on April 19, 20, and 21.
Most Rev. Edwin V. O’Hara, D.D., Kansas City, Mo., will address the assembly on the subject “God in the Home.” Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, will have as his topic, “Be Go-Givers for Christ.” Jerome Kerwin, Ph.D., LL.D., professor of political science at the University of Chicago, will talk on “Living Religion.” Father Dickmann, O.S.B., Collegeville, Minn., editor of Orate Fra-tres, and John Craig, Tulsa, Okla., will attend. “Mobilizing for Christ in the Confraternity,” will be the title of an address by Rev. Stephen A. Leven, Ph.D., Louisville, Ky., a director of the confraternity. Another address will be given by the Most Rev. John F. Noll,
D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne. Rev. Alexander Wyse, O.F.M., assistant director of St. Anthony’s Guild, Paterson, N. J., will demonstrate discussion club methods in the high school. Rev. George Dennerle, Cleveland, Ohio, one of the compilers of the Vacation School Manuals to be used in the demonstration classes Saturday, and Catechist Margaret Campbell, Victory-Noil, Huntington, Ind., will participate. On Saturday, April 20, George McMorrow, Notre Dame student, will lead the Missa Recitata.
In addition to these there will be many students, representatives and faculty members from the following institutions of learning: St. Mary’s of the Woods, Terre Haute, Ind.; Mount Saint Scholastica College, Atchison, Kansas; Nazareth College, Louisville, Ky.; St. John Bosco Convent; Nazareth College, Nazareth, Mich; Marygrove College, Detroit, Mich.; St. Francis College, Joliet,
The radio program which was designed to aid the contestants in the Confraternity quiz contest is almost ready to go on the air. Watch for the scheduled times to be released soon. This series of radio dramatizations is enacted by local radio and stage stars, such as the star of “Brother Orchid,” the Periscope Boys, leading ladies at St. Mary’s, and many others who have volunteered their services.
It's Max Adler's for Arrow Dress Shirts
A complete selection of newest formal wear by Arrow. Choose the attached-collar, soft pleated-bosom Arrow Ahoreham, or the smart narrow-bosom Arrow Lido.
MAX ADLER
Michigan at Washington
The Notre Dame Scholastic

OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
Long ago, and for a long time, the only form of public worship was the Sunday High Mass. Together with its sacrificial and sacramental character it was the moment for public announcements and the weekly sermon. Everyone joined in the singing of the parts now reserved to the choir. Circumstances have changed all that, much to the weakening of the sense of corporate worship.
Before the High Mass, a simple ceremony takes place in the sacristy that is full of meaning. The priest blesses the water that is to serve as a sacramental in the church and the home. The prayers for this ceremony are in most missals for the laity. They invoke the power of the Holy Ghost to hallow this material thing that its use may protect man from evil. Holy water as a sacramental remits venial sin.
The celebrant sprinkles the altar, the attendants and the people with the newly blessed water. The prayer he recites, and the choir sings, during the paschal season is from the Prophet Ezechiel, “I saw water running from the right side of the temple, and all to whom that water came were saved.” That is, the saving waters of divine grace welling up from the font that is Christ and poured forth on all mankind.
Mass Calendar: April 14-20
Sunday, 14—Third after Easter. 2d prayer, St. Justin, Martyr, 3d Octave, 4th, Sts. Tiburtius and Companions, Martyrs.
Monday, 15—Sixth day of Octave. Mass of feast. 2d prayer, Bl. Virgin (Concede), 3d, the Church, 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo.
Tuesday, 16—Seventh day of Octave. Everything as of yesterday.
Wednesday, 17—Octave Day. Mass of feast. 2d prayer, St. Anicetus, Pope, Martyr, 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo.
Thursday, 18—Ferial. Mass of preceding Sunday. 2d prayer, BI. Virgin (Concede), 3d, the Church, 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Friday, 19—Ferial. Everything as of yesterday.
Saturday, 20—Blessed Virgin on Saturday. Mass: Salve (Common in Paschal Time), 2d prayer, the Holy Ghost, 3d, the Church, 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Preface B.V.M.
Knights' Calendar Is Chuck-Full For April
April will be a busy month for the local members of the Knights of Columbus, according to announcements made by Grand Knight Timothy R. King, senior in the College of Law.
The 18th annual Spring Formal of the Council is scheduled for next Friday, at the Palais Royale. Jack McLean’s popular dance band will furnish the music for the 300 couples expected to attend one of the finest non-class dances of the year. George B. Morris is the general chairman for the dance.
Equally as important as the dance will be the Spring major degree initiation to be held at LaPorte, Ind., on Sunday, April 28. In preparation for this event, two first-degree initiations are scheduled for the campus council and will be under the supervision of the council officers. The dates of these degrees are April 16 and 25. First degree
CUSTOM TAILORED TO MEASURE . .
Individually styled and tailored to YOUR measure . . . selection of over four hundred patterns . . . imported materials ... in shetlands, tweeds,	$ /I T
worsteds, flannels and gabardines..................^D
PARKER-WINTERROWD (Upstairs Shop)
IJBy/a - 117% N. Main Street
123 W. Washington St Others $3.25 to $7.50
candidates from nearby councils will be included.
The Third Degree class of some 75 candidates from the six councils of the Second District will be named the “Bishop O’Hara Class,” honoring the former president of the University, who is a charter member of this council. Immediately following the degree work the candidates will be guests of the participating councils at the initiation banquet. Robert E. Sullivan, general chairman, is trying to secure a prominent Catholic as principal speaker for the banquet.
Students having eligibility requirements for admission must have their applications in the K. of C. offices not later than April 18.
The new auditorium at Tulane University has a concrete dome measuring 110 feet in diameter — largest in the U. S.
Yale University has more endowment per student-than any other U. S. college or university.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
23
Why Philosophy?
(Continued from page 12)
phers have held that the different races of man are unequal in native deposit. These teachings were crystalized in the last century by a French writer, Joseph A. Gobineau. Gobineau wrote that the Nordic people were superior in practically all ways to all other races; that Germany had the greatest number oi Nordics, and that unless preventive ac-
When did you last change your HAT-I-TUDF?
THE PEANUT
. . . many years and scores of soakings have withered this “Old Faithful” to a shadow of its former smart self.
Change Now to a Smart, New LEE Water-Bloc* Hat
THE PADDOCK
. . . suits any mood .. . wear it brim up*pinched in front and low on the forehead D
THE FRANK H. LEE CO.
358 Fifth Ave., New York
f*Req. U. S. Pat. Off.
tion were taken, other strains would mix I in with and contaminate the German race, arid so destroy its supremacy. In the present century, this book was translated into German and put into the hands of the German people. As was necessary for the ends of the Nazis, the people were converted to this doctrine, and the result—200,000 people have been forced to leave Germany to wander homeless and friendless from country to country, not to mention all of the suicides, and the plight of those who have remained in the Fatherland.
If time permitted there are numerous other examples that could be cited. For instance, we might point out how very many of the doctrines of our United States Constitution have been culled directly from the writings of philosophers; or how the writings of Machievelli, vtho divorced morals from politics, and of whom Nikolai Lenin was a student, has been the directive force in the frequent “purges” and other unprincipled practices of the rulers of Russia; or again how the writings of a philosopher of economics, Adam Smith, the fosterer of laissez faire, guided the economic destinies of several nations throughout the last century; or how the faculty theory of St. Thomas, implicity, is the foundation of liberal education. And any other cases too numerous to include.
I would then, like to conclude at this point and leave you to consider these several events that I have listed, and to reconsider the question which was treated herein, with the hope that you may come to think, as we think, that this world and this life, is not formed alone by men of action — soldiers, scientists, and politicians—but that indeed, these would be of little effect without the essential, integral, complementing part played by the philosopher, the man of ideas.
Spanish War Film Shown
Before Campus Audience
“Spain in Arms,” a startling pictorial revelation of Spain’s bloody civil war, made a surprise appearance on the Washington Hall screen last Sunday night.
Three cameramen lost their lives in filming this amazing record of Spain’s chaotic confusion, the revolution and the Franco redemption. Repugnant scenes of the desecration of religious things, actual views of the people’s war against the International Brigade, and interesting scenes of reconstruction comprised 70 minutes of thrilling, informative entertainment.
Dr. Haas Will Speak
At Physics Colloquium
Dr. Arthur Haas, professor of theoretical physics at the University, will speak Thursday in Chicago at a physics colloquium sponsored by the physics department of the University of Chicago. His subject is “Periodic Properties of the System of Atomic Nuclei.”
A Horse, A Horse, My Kingdom for a Horse
Poor Richard — Hasn’t anyone ever told him of the South Shore Speed Line?
This is an ideal time to remind you that every day of the year the South Shore Line provides hourly service from South Bend and Chicago. Speedy schedules. All-electric all the way.
NEW LOW RATE TO CHICAGO
SOUTH BENO
24
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Fourth Degree Honors Given to 18 N. D. Men
Fourth Degree Initiation, the last and highest honor to be enjoyed in the membership of the Knights of Columbus, was bestowed last weekend on 18 Notre Dame men in Logansport, Ind. Forty-two members from all over the state were initiated, and the 18 Notre Dame men included the Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., and Judge John Wallace, ’28, now presiding over a court in Chicago.
Past-State’s Deputy, Atto D. Dorsey, master of the Fourth Degree in Indiana, was in charge of the initiation ritual.
Those being initiated in addition to Father Carey and Judge Wallace, included Grand Knight Timothy R. King; Past Financial Secretary George B. Morris, Jr.; Thomas F. Carty, recorder; Howard D. Murdock, lecturer; Arthur F. Selna; Joseph McKeon; Robert Sullivan; Joseph McGeever; and Eugene R. Zinn.
Every High School and College Library should have a copy of
"LESSONS IN LIBERTY"
A Study of God in Government
By Clarence Manion
A new book presenting the WHY of American government —acclaimed by educators, writers and civic-minded Americans as a most lucid explanation of our democratic system of government and the principles underlying and supporting it.
$1.50
(Special 25% discount to schools)
Schools and colleges from every state in die Union have written for copies of this timely work and their enthusiasm affirms its value. Use it as a textbook, in class — or for reference work — or for your library shelves.
BOARD OF PUBLICATIONS University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Ind.
AND CONTENTS NOTED
Jacksonville, Illinois Tuesday, March 27
Dear Sir:
While perusing your august pulp, the Notre Dame Scholastic of Feb. 23, 1940 (Vol. 73, No. 17, to be exact) I fell upon the correspondence between you and Miss Gallagher concerning the remarks made by Mr. Willmann regarding Varsity.
I am moved to write, not to side with or against Willmann or Gallagher in their dispute over Varsity. Let them quibble as long as they have the subscription price. I will stick to Atlantic Monthly for laughs.
But you, in your reply to Miss Gallagher, did Mr. Willmann two injustices that an old school-friend, who knew him in the days when journalistic and literary laurels were scarce about his noble brow, can scarcely brook.
In the first place, even Miss Gallagher did Mr. Willmann the justice of recognizing the fact that the name, Willmann has double the usual quantity of “n’s” (at no extra charge). I know that your neglect has cost Mr. Willmann some hurt. His name is a sensitive point with Mr. Willmann. He is not jealous to the extent of demanding his full title in all its resplendency: “John Betz Albert Willmann,” but he is firm about the second “n.” It is like appearing in top-hat and tails, leaving out the white tie, to omit that last “n.”
Secondly you call Willmann a “sly
THE BOOK SHOP
Notre Dame Headquarters for Books Stationery Pens Pencils Greeting Cards
• 130 N. MICHIGAN STREET
rascal” and say he “sneaked by us again.” But I say that, even were it compatible with his nature, Mr. Willmann would have difficulty being “sly” or “sneaking.” It is in the realm of physical impossibility—like accusing an avalanche of sneaking up behind one.
Once in his checkered career Mr. Willmann tried to remove himself quietly from a library—upon request of the authorities who misconstrued his delving among the masters as “cutting up,” Mr. Willmann tried to go quietly. But despite his best efforts, he knocked over a chair and dragged with him in disgrace three faithful friends, of whom I was one.
Moreover, when he played baseball, he could never steal even a small-sized base without everyone knowing it.
May I repeat that I hold no brief for Mr. Willmann’s judgment—but let justice be done, and you can see from the above testimonial that there was an injustice.	.
Thank you, sir; I remain, sir;
Yr. ob’t. ser’t.,
(signed) L. Elizabeth Wilson
Corby Hall,
Notre Dame, Ind., March 29, 1940.
Editor of The Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.
Dear Sir:
Both Father Massart and myself were here for the Bengal Bouts. We not only saw every one, but enjoyed them all. We want to express our gratitude to the members of the Scholastic and also to all those who participated in the bouts for the very fine spirit they showed in putting it across for our cause over in India. The Bishop of Dacca, His Excellency Most Rev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C., will be very happy to hear of the success of the Bengal Bouts again this year.
Sincerely yours in Xto,
(signed) Paul Shea, C.S.C.
R. Massart, C.S.C.
Caloric Continuity
In the Pitt News we read the story behind the goober. It seems that a biology professor has calculated that the energy received from eating one peanut is sufficient to do an hour’s sustained mental work. Further analogy is that a person could talk for two hours on the energy that is consumed in eating food every day. A football player needs energy to raise six gallons of water from freezing to boiling point. It. also takes fewer calories added to one’s basal metabolism to play Bach on the piano than to do a number in “boogie-woogie” style.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
25
HEADSUP! GET UNDER A NEW STETSON!
Balance up your good appearance by choosing America's smartest hat buy . . . Smart heads favor them.
SAM’L SPIRO SCO.
YOU'LL BE TEMPTED TO CUT CLASSES
... so that you can show the town your new Stetson Playboy! It’s the smartest Air-Light felt we’ve seen...comfortable as a crew haircut! See the Stetson Playboy today...after class!
STETSON HAT
FIVE DOLLARS AND UP
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
DISC-CUSSION
The Bonnie Baker epidemic is spreading farther and farther. I rather suspect it will be checked within the next few months but till then the TuckerBaker duo rolls merrily on. Their latest four sides are: “If I Could be the Dummy on Your Knee,” “If It Wasn’t for the Moon,” “Apple Blossoms and Chapel Bells,” and “Sh! Baby’s Asleep,” with assorted vocals by Orrin, Bonnie, and the Bodyguards. If you like the “shy voice of wee Bonnie” and the stereotyped Tucker rhythms, you’ll want these.
The very popular “Gaucho Serenade” has been done by, among others, Glenn Miller, with “When You Wish Upon a -Star,” and Pat Friday, with “You, You Darlin’.” I still don’t like Ray Eberle, so of the two I’ll take Pat’s version. But Miller’s is a nice pair and if you prefer dance arrangements, his should satisfy.
Another song of which you’ve heard at least enough is Dick Jurgen’s “Cecilia” with Ronnie Kemper reciting. Its mate, “Love Song of Renaldo” is more melodic and has Eddie Howard, whose large shoes have been well filled by Hany Cool, singing.
Larry Clinton, the Seniors’ choice, has recorded a pair that show why he is near the top in the swing group. “Hong Kong Blues,” despite its name pretty much American, is cleverly done. Ford Leary handles the words. The old timer, “On Revival Day” is the plattermate and is also a nice arrangement. Clinton is. however, more talented as a sweet band as witness “Reverie” and “Heart and Soul.”
Among the older numbers deserving . of praise, I find first: “The Thrill of a New Romance” and “Havana for a Night” by X. Cugat. “New Romance” is in beguin tempo and is a pretty close second to the Cole Porter number that made that tempo popular. An excellent voice labelled Dinah Shaw does the lyrics. “Havana” is a Bolero, and Cuga is the man to play any South American rhythm. Incidentally, watch the growing popularity of this type of music in the next few months. (Dept, of International Relations)
Both Noel Coward’s “Ziguener” and Jerome Kern’s “Smoke Gets in Your Eyes” are among the most beautiful melodies, popular or classical, ever written. I’ve waited a long time to hear them played the way the Victor Salon group has recorded them. The violins so necessary to express the gypsy theme are here handled perfectly. And I’m quite sure no one will find much fault with this arrangement of Kern’s greatest . ' hit. .	-
Less beautiful, perhaps, but more . spectacular is the Boston “Pops” disc. '
26
The Notre Dame Scholastic
of the tuneful tango: “Jealousy.” While this side is slightly anti-climactic it is still very interesting. “Ritual Dance of Fire,” on the other side, is less tuneful, and also less interesting than A side, but, nevertheless, is a pretty good buy.
—Bill Geddes
RADIO LOG
This coming year will be interesting for radio listeners. With a national political campaign facing us we must prepare for a continuous barrage of speeches of all kinds and it is well to stop at this time and look back over the tremendous change that radio has made in the grand old game of politics.
Even as recently as the Harding-Cox campaign, the candidates embarked on railroad cars and went shuttling back and forth across the country, endeavoring to reach the ears of the voters with speeches delivered in person, usually, from the back of an observation car. The average voter heard the candidate once or twice; the candidate’s nerves, vocal chords, and tempers were frayed by the necessity of making 15 or 20 speeches a day.
Today the candidates can reach every corner of the nation, addressing hundreds of thousands of voters with one speech. This through the magic of radio. Consequently, the electorate is better informed on the issues of the day; the candidates find that their life is a little more liveable even during the heat of the campaign; and a new form of political oratory has been developed.
In the old days, a politician had to be endowed with a powerful pair of lungs. It -was the era of the frenzied orator, whipping up the emotions of the mob. Now, with a few carefully prepared and often more carefully delivered speeches the politician can reach a far greater audience than his predecessor ever thought possible. Radio has helped to bring the campaign issues down to the people. It has contributed immeasurably to the education of the voters, and, if its use is not restricted by partisan groups, can aid the cause of democracy and good government.
Radio Log
.4:00—Monday: Confraternity Sketch 4:00—Tuesday: Academy of Politics 7:00—Tuesday: Music of the Masters 4,00—Wednesday: Confraternity Sketch 7:45—Wednesday: Sportscast 4:00—Thursday: Periscope
7:30—Thursday: Faculty Talk 4:00—Friday: Confraternity Sketch 9:00—Friday: Wranglers
7:30—Saturday: Round Table
—Ray Kelly
Delicious and Refreshin
It s something Coca-Cola gives that millions have liked for more than fifty years,— a happy after-sense of complete refreshment that adds to your enjoyment of ice-cold Coca-Cola. No wonder people
the world over say: get a Coca-Cola, and get the feel of refreshment.
THE PAUSE THAT


Drink
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyer Avenue
The Notre Dame Scholastic
PROFESSIONAL CARDS

CDr. 0. Qrundy
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 434 Associates - South Bend Office Phone 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHKRLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-■•BO SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
HiitiiiiiiiiMiiiiHiHiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiimiiiiiiiiuH
OFFICE 4-5661	RES. 3-4080
Pr. & £ucas
DENTISTRY — X-RAYS
702 J. M.S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
BiMwmmniwm»tn>mimiinntniinti»»uHiiiin»»iiiiii»Hiiil»I
CDrs. Probst and Singler
DENTISTS
405 Associates - South Bend Phone 3-1254
———————————>
SOUTH BEND	!
X-RAY LABORATORY	J
S25 SHERLAND BUILDING	■
U. E. FISHER.	M. J. THORNTON. ■
M.D.	M.D.	|
----------------------j.
DENTISTS
430 SHERLAND BUILDING TELEPHONE 3-4269
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDS., SOUTH BEND
MUSIC NOTES
Beginning Monday evening, April 22, Notre Dame and South Bend will be presented with two full weeks of truly great music. The opening concert will be given in the Granada Theater by Gladys Swarthout. Those wishing to hear Miss Swarthout should reserve their seats as soon as possible. A sell-out is anticipated. Prices range from fifty cents to two dollars. Miss Swarthout’s concert was to have been given a week later, as a part of Music Week, but her concert schedule prevented it.
Music Week at Notre Dame begins Monday, April 28, in Washington Hall with a concert given by the University symphony. This concert will climax the evolution of this organization from a squeaky double octet of two years ago to a very presentable orchestra.
Tuesday evening the Glee Club will be heard for the third time in Washington Hall this year. The club has sung in concert before more than 11,0.00 persons this year, and has been heard twice on coast-to-coast hook-ups.
On Wednesday evening, May 1, in South Bend Central High school another internationally famed artist will be heard. His name is Ezio Pinza and his glorious basso is known to all opera lovers. For years he has been the leading basso of the Metropolitan Opera Company. This concert is one of the Civic Music Association series. Admittance to this concert is by membership only.
The widely-travelled University Band will be heard in Washington Hall, Thursday evening, May 2. Reviewers from the cities in which the band appeared on its-eastern Easter tour remind us that we have more than we realize in the way of a concert band.
The closing concert of Music Week will be given in the Field House on Friday evening, May 3. Albert Spaulding will be the artist. Mr. Spaulding continues year after year to be ranked among the world’s greatest violinists. This will be a brilliant close to our 1940 Music Week.—William Mooney
Dr. W. C. Donald, of the University of California faculty, says that college men of this generation are taller, heavier and rangier than those of the last generation. But, says he, the college woman is keeping pace with this change, for she’s now taller and has wider shoulders, narrower hips and longer legs than the co-eds of previous classes.
Pretty soon collegians will be giving Superman a real run for his money!.
NEW SMALL ALBUMS— never before so complete at these price!
Swing Collector’s Special
DECCA Album No. 121
“CHICAGO JAZZ ALBUM”
Eddie Condon and His Chicagoans:
“Nobody’s Sweetheart”
“Friar’s Point Shuffle”
“There’ll Be Some Changes Made”
"Someday, Sweetheart”
Jimmie McPartland and His Orchestra:
“China Boy”	-
“Jazz Me Blues”
"Sugar”
“The World Is Waiting for the Sunrise"
George Wettling’s Chicago Rhythm Kings:
“Bugle Call Rag”
“I Wish I Could Shimmy Like My Sister
Kate”	,
“I’ve Found a New Baby” “Darktown Strutters’ Ball”
Complete Album — $3.59 or Separate Records at 50c each. ’
DECCA Album No. 128
DEANNA DURBIN with Charles Previn and his Orchestra:	■
“Ave Maria”—from “It’s a Date” [Schubert]
“Alleluia”—from “A Hundred Men and a Girl” [Mozart] “Musetta’ Waltz Song”—sung in Italian [from "La Boheme”] "Loch Lomond”—from “It’s a Date” "Amapola”—sung in Spanish—from "First
Love” “Love Is All”—from “It’s a Date”
Complete Album — 61.40
DECCA Album No. 96
GEORGE GERSHWIN SONGS ;
“Somebody Loves Me”—from "Geo. White’s Scandals”
“Maybe” — from musical production, "Oh, Kay”—played by Victor Young and his Orchestra—voice by Bing Crosby
“S’Wonderful" and “My One and Only”
“Who Cares” and “Wintergreen for President”—by Jacques Fray and Mario Brag-giotti
“Summertime”—from "Porgy and Bess”
“Looking for a Boy”—from "Tip Toes"
—by Victor Young and Orchestra—voice by Anne Jamison
“Clap Yo’ Hands”—from “Oh, Kay" “I Got Rhythm"—from "Girl Crazy” —by The Merry Macs
"Mine”—from “Let ’Em Eat Cake” ■
“That Certain Feeling”—from "Tip Toes”
—by Victor Young and Orchestra—voice by Shirley Ross and the Foursome
Complete Album — 62.25
DECCA Album No. 97
GEORGE GERSHWIN SONGS
“Soon”—from "Strike Up the Band”
"They Can’t Take That Away From Me”— from "Shall We Dance” — by Victor Young and his Orchestra — voice by Connie Boswell
"Bidin' My Time”—from “Lady Be Good" "Oh, Lady Be Good"—from "Lady Be Good”
—by The Foursome with instrumental accompaniment
"Embraceable You”—from “Girl Crazy" "Swanee”—from "Sinbad”—by Victor Young and Orchestra—voice by Judy Garland
"The Man I Love” — from "Strike Up the Band”	'
"Someone To Watch Over Me” — from “Oh, Kay”—by Victor Young and his Orchestra—voice by Frances Langford—Arthur Schutt at the piano
“Song of the Flame”—from operetta “Song of the Flame”
“Don’t Forget Me, Don’t Forget Me”—from operetta “Song of the Flame”—by Victor Young and his Orchestra — with Tony Martin vocalizing
Complete Album — 32-25
RODIN'S
132 N. Michigan Phone 4-1184
Needles and Record Accessories
Open Saturday Evenings
busiest CtganWei/i f/?e County
... dats (fasfe/fidC
Going "two packs at a time" because Chesterfield is today’s definitely milder, cooler-smoking, better-tasting cigarette
c/Jfiss^lasta .Pedersen ... the smiling hostess who welcomes guests at one of New York’s most famous hotels. She will tell you Chest* erfield is the busiest cigarette in the place.
These three qualities—MILDNESS, COOLNESS, TASTE... are the sum and substance of real smoking pleasure. You enjoy all three in Chesterfield’s right combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos.
At over a million places where cigarettes are sold you can see these clean white Chesterfield packages going into more pockets and more handbags every day. All over the country smokers are finding out you can’t buy a better cigarette.
nesterneld
Today’s DEFINITELY MILDER, Cooler-Smoking, Better- Tasting Cigarette
Copyright 1940, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
