The Notre Dame Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY $3.00 THE YEAR
OCTOBER 28 1 9 3 2
and raw tobaccos
have no place in cigarettes
?
Tabe too Co.
"If a man write a better hob, preach a better senten, er make a better mousestrap than hie neighbor, tho he btdldbis bouse in the woods, the world will make a beaten path to bis door.”-—RALPH WAIS3O EMERSON. Docs not this explain the world-wide acceptance and approval of Lucky Strike?

They are not present in Luckies . . . die mildest cigarette you ever smoked
WE buy the finest, the very finest tobaccos in all the world—but that does not explain why folks everywhere regard Lucky Strike as the mildest cigarette. The fact is, we never overlook the truth that "Nature in the iRaw is Seldom Mild”—so

WITH CLIVE IN INDIA
"Nature in the Raw”—as portrayed by the noted artist, Karl Godwin ... inspired by the fierce and brilliant assault by Clive and a handful of followers, outnumbered 20 tolby savage hordes of bloodthirsty natives, at the Battle ofPlassey—the birth of the British Indian Empire —as described in the famous Henty book, "With Clive in India.’*

these fine tobaccos, after proper aging and mellowing, are then given the benefit of that Lucky Strike purifying process, described by the words—"It's toasted”. That’s why folks in every city, town and hamlet say that Luckies are such mild cigarettes.
“It’s toasted”
That package of mild Luckies
October 28, 1932
One
HURRY . . . .
and get Your Copy of the latest
NOTRE DAME
Now on Sale
at
The Cafeteria and All Newsstands
Twenty-five Cents .... and well worth it!
Two
The Scholastic
October 28, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	k I	II	B
I he Notre Dame scholastic
scripts may be addressed to	r\ st
the scholastic, Pubii- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Monturus
cations Office, Main Building.
FOUNDED 1867
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
Edmund A. Stephan..............
James S. Kearns................
Associate Editors
F. GRANGER WEIL	JOHN PICK
WALTER JOHNSON WILLIAM DREUX LLOYD TESKE
News Staff
MITCHELL TACKLEY.......News Editor
ROY SCHOLZ......Assistant News Editor MICHAEL WIEDL ROBERT DILLON JOHN McELLIGOTT
Desk Editors BERNARD COUSINO WALTER KENNEDY PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY
Department Editors
TIGHE WOODS _____________The Week
ROGER MCGOVERN......College	Parade
ROGER BEIRNE.......Music and Drama
RICHARD PREZEBEL......Staff	Artist
Sports Staff LESLIE RADDATZ ......Sports	Editor
WILLIAM FLYNN JOSEPH KURTH PAUL HOST EDWARD VAN HUISSELING FRED MacBETH GEORGE BELTING JAMES PICK
Features Staff RAY WATERS....................Features	Editor
LOUIS HRUBY HARRY BURCHELL WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
Business Staff
JOHN F. STOECKLEY....Graduate Manager RAYMOND J. NABER_____Circulation Manager R. J. FITZSIMMONS .. Advertising Manager HARRY McGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON J. ALBERT SMITH
Volume LXVI.
OCTOBER 28, 1932
Number 6
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, Oct. 28.—Scholastic staff meetings, Editorial Board, Publications office, 6:30 p. m.; news, sports and features staffs, 7:00 p. m., Room 222 Main building; Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 8:00 p. m.; football “B” team at Lubbock, Texas.
SATURDAY, Oct. 29.—Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church at 12:30 p. m.; football, Notre Dame vs. University of Pittsburgh, broadcast 12:45 p. m. Central ' Standard time; movie, “Frankenstein” at 6:35 and 8:15 p. m. in Washington Hall.
SUNDAY, Oct. 30.—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church; S. A. C. meeting, library, 10:30 a. m.; Interhall football games at 9:00 a. m. and 2:00 p. m.; Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.; Irish club meeting, Law building, 10:30 a. m.
MONDAY, Oct. 31.—Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.; Movie, “Tom Brown of Culver,” 6:35 p. m. and 8:15 p. m. at Washington Hall.
TUESDAY, Nov. 1.—All Saints’ Day; no classes. Symphony orchestra practice, 7:00 p. m. at Washington Hall.
WEDNESDAY, Nov. 2.—Wranglers meeting( Law building at 6:30 p. m.
THURSDAY, Nov. 3.—Spectators meeting, Law building at 8:00 p. m.
5 UMMARY
NEWS
Pitt game tomorrow is sell-out; expect sixty-two thousand at the Pittsburgh Stadium_______5
Fee of $1.10 will be charged for Navy game in Cleveland Nov. 19 announces S. A. C.__________5
Professor Casasanta’s University Band to leave tonight for Pittsburgh_____________________5
New Regulation governing probation and dismissal of students is before University Council__________14
Honorary Joseph Scott gives inspiring talk in Washington Hall__________________________________________12
Notre Dame Usher’s club will sponsor informal dance •
Nov. 4___________________________________________13
FEATURES
Jim Munn, fashion plate of the senior class, takes a bow in Man About Campus___________________________8
Some good criticisms are brought out in Voice of the Campus______________________________________________9
Secretary Kenneth Oliver handles all records of room, board and tuition accounts 13
Heart gripping story that established Frank Ward O’Malley as journalist published___________________16
A few words on how to gather information about the theater in Theater Talk____________________________17
Introducing Norm Greeney___________________________24
SPORTS
Carnegie Tech fails to come up to expectations, result 42 to 0____________________________________________20
Cross-Country team beats Carnegie Tech 18-37; Bowers leads field 20
Morrissey and Freshman lead in interhall competition as Carroll drops out 21
Reserve team plays strong Texas Tech eleven----------21
“Notre Dame is ready,” says Joe Kurth as practice for Pitt game ends_________________________________22
Kempf wins handicap golf tournament, Green second----22
Good showing is made in fall track handicaps---------23
Splinters from the Press Box; Kearns says it will be Notre Dame 20, Pittsburgh 0---------------------28
Basketball practice begun by Coach George Keogan-----31
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
week-end the sophomores were with us and now they have silently folded their tents and will be with us no more until the spring elections. The upperclassmen have decided the dance was a success. The members of the class of 1935 would be branded as traitors if they thought otherwise. One thing was proved definitely at the Cotillion, and that was that the selection of an orchestra is not the most important thing. Few realized that they were listening to Maurie Sherman instead of Jimmy Gar-rigan, as advertised, and yet there were no couples storming the box office to get their money back. Ray Reardon, this was his sixth or seventh Cotillion, has not been officially interviewed as yet. but his opinion should bear some weight.
■	V
X\ VEN if their team did take a bad trimming, the Carnegie Tech cheering section had the satisfaction of getting the last word with the Notre Dame rooters. After hunting horns had been wound for several minutes and waving handkerchiefs had been answered by doffed plaid caps, the Carnegie band broke into the Victory March—well, what could we do? This humble column advocates a little rehearsal for the cheer leaders and the gentlemen who broadcast the scores during each game. This strain of trying to give a drum yell and at the same time listen to what Pittsburgh, Army, and Navy are doing, is too much for the spectators.
V
J J IS honor, the mayor of Cleveland, was on the campus Saturday. Ray Miller has not forgotten how to be democratic since he left here. Instead of riding around in an official car with an escort of motorcycle policemen, he was merely Ray Miller, ’14, sitting in the cafeteria and chat-, ting with Professor Clarence Manion and some of the boys. When he was pointed out as the mayor of one of America’s great cities, one of the Class of. ’36 replied, “You guys are goofin’ me. Where’s his plug hat?”
j^^_T their meeting Sunday the S. A. C. decided to have a bonfire for the Northwestern game. It might be timely here to warn the freshmen and sophomores of some of the tricks played at bonfires of other years. In 1929 Sophomore Hall was almost disqualified for trying to add a goat-pen to their pile. The goat-pen was inflammable enough but they forgot to take the goat out. Another year Lyons Hall had gathered a nice pile behind their hall. Word got around that this pile was going to be hijacked by raiders from the other side of the campus. The Lyonites made ready, and when they heard a suspicious rustling in their wood pile two fire hose dampened the ardor of the invaders.
V
X HE first issue of the Juggler has been around the campus for ten days. Editor McCabe deserves credit for trying out a new form. There are probably fifty college humorous publications that attempt to include nothing in their magazines but short puns, spicy jokes and risque cartoons. The Juggler has always been a clean magazine, and now it has the added distinction of being one of the most sophisticated. Anybody can do slapstick comedy but subtle humor is a real achievement. That letter of an Oxford student at Notre Dame was especially good. You ought to encourage that boy to let us have some more of the same next month, Joe.
V
X OM MAHAFFEY received a real ovation when he returned to Walsh Hall after the game Saturday afternoon. It wasn’t all in jest either. Tom started the season on the sixth team and has worked himself up to a guard position on the shock troops. Students here do not like to be accused of sentiment but they do appreciate per
severance.
October 28, 1932
Five
UNIVERSITY BAND WILL MAKE PITTSBURGH TRIP
62,000 WILL SEE NOTRE DAME BATTLE UNDEFEATED PANTHER TEAM TOMORROW
Eighty-two to Leave Campus at Nine O’Clock Tonight.
“On Down the Line” to Pittsburgh is the cry of the University band. The personnel of eighty-two musicians will leave South Bend tonight at nine o’clock on a specially chartered car on the Pennsylvania railroad. Professor Joseph J. Casasanta and his boys will arrive in Pittsburgh tomorrow morning at eight o’clock.
Dawn-Town Parade /
Upon arrival at the Pennsylvania city, the band will parade to the downtown district. By invitation of thee University of Pittsburgh band, the musicians will be the guests at a luncheon served in the Memorial hall of the College at 12 o’clock.
With Louis Alaman, drum-major, swinging the big baton, the band will stage a 15 minute field extravaganza during the recess between the halves of the game. The feature number of the afternoon performance will be the playing of the University of Pittsburgh “Battle Song.” .
Judging from the performances given on the home field during the past three weeks, football fans witnessing tomorrow’s game will be in for a treat in the line of letter formations and maneuvering. Professor Casasanta, director of the band, has been rehearsing his men all week for tomorrow’s spectacle.
On Radio To-Morrow
During the playing of the Pitt fight song, the band will form a block letter P. For Notre Dame, the band will form the letters IRISH, N. D., and the monogram. The “Hike Song,” “Irish Backs,” “Victory March,” and “Notre Dame, Our Mother” will comprise the repertorie of the band. •
By special invitation of the management of Station KDKA, of Pittsburgh, the Notre Dame band will broadcast a 15 minute program of fight songs. The broadcast will be made directly following the game at 6:45 o’clock Eastern Standard time or 5:45 o’clock, Central Standard Time. Professor Casasanta has been preparing a suitable program for the occasion.
The Pittsburgh trip is the first to be made by the organization this year. The itinerary of the band also includes the Navy game trip.
Tickets for the Navy Game Will be $1.10; S. A. C.
Secures Week-End Rate
A charge of one dollar and ten cents will be made for each student ticket to the Navy game, to be played in Cleveland, November 19. This was made known late this week after a meeting of the Student Activities Council. A week-end rate for those people who desire a more prolonged visit in Cleveland will amount to ten dollars and five cents. The rate on the regular student special as previously announced will be five dollars and fifty cents.
Tickets In Bookstore
Football and Railroad tickets will be on sale in the bookstore on No-, vember 9 and on November 14 between the hours of 12:30 and 4:30.
While no definite arrangements have been made as yet in Cleveland in the way of hotel rates, receptions, etc., it is probable that student headquarters will be at the Statler hotel. Other plans include a Mass for the student body in the Cathedral, Saturday morning after the arrival of the special. The latter will pull in at about six o’clock, Eastern Standard Time.
The Student Activities Council is in correspondence with the Honorable Raymond Miller, Notre Dame, ’ 14, mayor of Cleveland, and expects to have some definite information shortly in regards to the intentions of hospitable Buckeyes on the arival of N. D. students.
Manion Will Represent Democrats at Indiana U.
Professor Clarence Manion of the College of Law will journey to Indiana university on November 2, to participate in a political convocation sponsored by that institution. Professor Manion will present the case of the Democratic party to the assembly. Active in state politics, Manion last June delivered the keynote address at the Democratic state convention in Indiana.
SEASON’S LARGEST CROWD
Ohio’s Tie Sobers Pitt Pep; Carnegie Whitewash Cause of More Concern.
“Hunk” Anderson and his point-a-minute Irish grid machine left Notre Dame last night for the east, w’here Jock Sutherland and his Pitt Pan-
Heartley Anderson
Consternation takes hold of Pittsburgh
thers will attempt to turn the three game winning streak of the Irish, into one of defeat. 62,000 rabid football fans are expected to flock to the Pittsburgh Stadium, and if the weather permits there will probably be a sell-out or a total attendance of 70,000 people. The largest football attendance for 1932 is held by Southern Caifornia and Stanford, who played before 60,000 fans last week.
Changed Sentiment
The citizens of the Smoky City until recently have held a belief that the Panthers would defeat the Irish this year, but Pitt’s tie game with Ohio State last week has changed this belief to a feeling of consternation, following the shut-out Carnegie received here last week. Statistics show that the Irish have scored 177 points in 180 minutes, while the Panthers (Continued on Base 25)
Six
The Scholastic
1500 Students Cheer As
Irish Leave For Pittsburgh
SEMINAR ANALYZES U.S.
BANKING CONDITIONS
O’Shaugnessy’s Paper Raises Heated Discussion.
CALL FOR VICTORY
Crowd Gathers Thursday For Rousing Sendoff to Team On Way to Pitt Game.
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish went away from home last night for the first time this year. Echoing after them as they rolled down Notre Dame avenue toward their special cars was the roaring encouragement of 1500 Notre Dame students pleading for them to “Beat Pitt!”
Crowd Gathers At Eight
Shortly before eight, -the student group gathered at the Post Office to wait for the team’s departure. Cheerleader Dave Powers, mounted on the baggage truck loaded with grid equipment, led the crowd through a series of cheers for the -team and various individuals on the squad.
The gridders arrived in threes and fours. Paul Host, Chuck Jaskwhich, Joe Kurth, and Ed Kosky came quietly in a small group. Badin hall’s representatives, Ed Krause, Hugh Devore, Al McGuff, Sturla Canale, and Joe Pivarnik, climbed into cabs together. Groups from Walsh, Howard, Sorin, and Corby followed in rapid order.
The “Victory March”
By the time the cabs were loaded and ready to leave, the shouting student had turned musical for the “Victory March” and “On Down The Line.” As the cabs rolled out through the jam of students on either side of Notre Dame avenue, the popular chant of the evening picked up in a medley of “Touchdown!”, “Lick ’em!” and finally a crashing roar,, “Beat Pitt!”
Congress has proposed that the Army and Navy be consolidated. They want to beat Notre Dame every year.
That we have so many liberal governments in Europe is due directly to the teachings of Jefferson.—Michael MacWhite, Minister from the Irish Free State.
Columbia Will Honor Notre Dame Tonight
With Special Program
Plans for featuring Notre Dame’s songs over a nation-wide radio chain were announced this week by the Columbia Broadcasting Co. The broadcast will be on the air at eight o’clock to-night, central time.
The following telegram announcing the program, which is a part of the weekly “All-America” football broadcast was received by The Scholastic Thursday:
The Editor, “The Scholastic” University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana
Honoring Notre Dame musically at nine p. m. E. S. T. October 28th during All America football program. Listen to station WGN at Chicago.
Columbia Broadcasting System.
Schedule of Club Pictures
For “Dome” is Announced
Hall pictures for the Dome will be taken at the following times, according to a newly revised schedule. The pictures, as usual, will be snapped in front of the halls. Follow this schedule:
Monday, 12:30—Carroll; 12:45—Corby.
Tuesday. 12:30—Sorin ; 12:45—Walsh.
Wednesday, 12:30—Alumni; 12 :45—Dillon ; 1:00—Badin.
Thursday. 12:30—Howard ; 12:45—Morrissey ; 1:00—Ljons.
The schedule for Dome club pic-ures for the coming week is as follows:
Monday, Oct. 31.
12:50—Chicago, Library Steps.
1:00—New Jersey, Library Steps.
4:15—Rochester, Library Steps.
4:30—Cleveland, Library Steps.
4:45—Cincinnati, Walsh Basement.
5:00—California, Walsh Basement.
5:10—Minnesota, Walsh Basement.
5:20—Philadelphia, Walsh Basement.
5:30—La Raza, Walsh Basement.
Friday, Nov. 4.
12:30—Triple Cities, Walsh Basement.
12:40—Wabash Valley, Walsh Basement.
12:50—Youngstown, Walsh Basement.
1:00—Peoria, Walsh Basement.
4:15—Utica. 'Walsh Basement.
(Continued on Page 7)
John O’Shaughnessy, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, presented a paper “The Banking Situation in Chicago” before a meeting of the Eco-
Professor William Downey
Breeds Young Babsons.
nomics Seminar held Tuesday evening.
O’Shaughnessy outlined the causes of the failure of the banks in Chicago and its relation to the general situation of affairs throughout the country. He also brought in the moves made by the government during the period following the crash of the stock market, and the bearing they had on the banks.
In concluding the paper O’Shaughnessy gave plans as suggested by authorities to prevent a similar general failure of banks.
Lay Ethics
During the discussion which followed the reading of the paper, it was decided that the fault was the lack of ethics on the part of the bankers throughout the country, and that there should be some greater restriction in the granting of the privilege of starting a bank.
Professor William E. Downey, of the department of economics, was present at the meeting and led the discussion.
The next meeting of the seminar will be held Nov. 1, in the Law building. The paper will be given by Charles Fiss.
An object in possession seldom retains the same charm that it had in pursuit.—Pliny the Younger.
October 28, 1932
Seven
“SCHOLASTIC” TAKING BOWLING ENTRIES NOW
“Young Scripper” Wonders About Those Contributions
Number is Still Below The Desired Quota.
By James Munn
The proposed Scholastic bowling tournament to be held during the middle of next month at the LaSalle Alleys in South Bend, is becoming very much an actuality, as the result of the large number of interested competitors who have handed in their names to the Scholastic Editor. Before definite announcement can be made, however, it will be necessary that the list of competitors be increased somewhat, and judging from the excellent response to date, there seems small doubt that the required number will signify their intentions.
Single Fee
A very satisfactory financial arrangement has been offered by the LaSalle management, so that it will be possible to bowl in both singles and doubles for the reasonable fee of one dollar. There will be no further expenses. The dollar covers both bowling and entry fee. For the benefit of those who wish to bowl in only one event, the entry will be fifty cents.
Contestants are urged to hand in their names without delay. When the required number have been received, The Scholastic will issue definite announcement regarding the date and rules of the tournament. All entries are to be addressed to The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall. Send your entry in today to start the ball rolling.
DOME SCHEDULE
(Continued from Page 6)
4 :20—Wisconsin, Walsh Basement.
4 :30—Montana, Walsh Basement.
4:40—Akron, Walsh Basement.
5:00—Auburn, Walsh Basement.
Tuesday, Nov. 1.
11:50—Law Club, Law Building Steps
1:00—Monogram, Library steps.
4:15—Metropolitan, Library Steps
4 :30—Northern New York, Walsh Basement.
4:45—Pacific-Northwest, Walsh Basement.
5 :00—Rocky Mountain, Walsh Basement.
5:10—Buffalo, Walsh Basement.
5 :20—Capittol District, Walsh Basement.
5:30—Grand Rapids, Walsh Basement.
Wednesday, Nov. 2.
4:15—St. Louis, Walsh Basement.
4:30—Economics Seminar, Walsh Basement.
4:45—Rhode Island,' Walsh Basement.
5:00—Saginaw Valley, Walsh Basement.
5:10—Detroit, Walsh Basement.
Faculty Vetoes Council Plan to Run Interclub
Formal, November 4th
The motion passed by the Presidents council to hold a Inter-Club formal was vetoed by the Faculty during the past week. Economic conditions were given as the reason for this move.
If the plans had materialized the admission was to be one dollar and a half. Of this amount fifty cents was to be paid to the club selling the ticket, to be used in paying for the club’s Dome picture. The remaining dollar was to be used in defraying the expenses of the dance.
John Hinkle Speaks To Members of Press Club
One of Notre Dame’s younger alumni, John Hinkle, who is remembered for his work as editor of The Scholastic of ’28-’29, visited the campus during the week. The Press Club was fortunate in having Mr. Hinkle address its members on “Methods of Printing News in the New York Times.” He recounted various interesting methods of “bigtime” newspaper work to an appreciative audience whose eyes were opened to several newspaper tricks. The life and experience of a “star” reporter on that classic of Metropolitan newspapers, The New York Times, was unfolded in detail.
Mr. Hinkle also told some highlights of his career as a budding journalist. The work according to Mr. Hinkle is most enjoyable; every day builds up some new acquaintances and experiences. At present the one-time Scholastic editor is awaiting a call as a Washington correspondent; he resides in Washington, D. C.
• 5:20—Wheeling, Walsh Basement.
5:30—Fort Wayne, Walsh Basement. Thursday, Nov. 3.
4:15—Southern Illinois, Walsh Basement.
4:30—Texas, Walsh Basement.
4:45—Connecticut Valley, Walsh Basement.
5:00—Pittsburgh, Walsh Basement.
5:10—Indianapolis, Walsh Basement.
5:20—Kansas City, Walsh Basement.
5:30—Louisiana-Mississippi, Walsh Basement.
HIS BOOK SOON DUE
Hand in Something, He Pleads Whether You’re a Chemist or Classicist,
By Charles Sheedy
Well, the Young Scripper was talking to the Old Scripper the other day, and the Old Scripper said that the best way to let the students know about Scrip was to tell them about it in The Scholastic. (By the way, spell Scrip S-c-r-i-p, not S-c-r-i-p-t. Script is another story altogether.)
Anything the Old Scripper says goes with us. He’s an old hand at editoring. He put out a swell magazine last year, and it looks like he is going to repeat this year, if we can judge by the first number of the Juggler. (Advt. We’re looking for a blowT from him next month.)
Taking His Advice
And so we’re going to take the old man’s advice and tell you about Scrip. It’s a quarterly, you know, and it’s supposed to print all the best stories and essays and poems that you fellow are writing. But how are we going to know what you’re writing if you don’t let us see your stuff? The contribs have been coming in too slowly.
There are a lot of fellows on the campus who could write if they wanted to. Let’s see some! You don’t have to be a senior, or an A. B. man. There are a lot of things in science and engineering worth writing about. Why not write up one of them, and send it to 348 Sorin, where lurks the Young Scripper himself? (By the way, Scrip is going to be copyrighted this year, so you won’t have to worry about somebody stealing your stuff.)
Another thing, Scrip will make its first appearance this year during the second week of November, rain or shine. Lefty Douville, the Circulation Manager, says he wants to sell a copy to everybody on the campus. He also says that he has a staff of high-pressure salesmen to sell them to you. Rex LaLonde is one of Dou-ville’s assistants, so we know that Morrissey is one Hall that will be well taken of. See you later—The Young Scripper.
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
CHICAGO PROFESSOR TO SPEAK TO SCIENCE MEN
By Gene Healy
We came upon something new in the line of fish stories when we interviewed Jim Munn a few days ago. It seems that Jim and his friend Lefty Douville drove up to “Lefty’s place” in Michigan, one Spring day last year—ostensibly to hook some of the whoppers fishermen love to tell about. Before leaving school they made it a point to promise, unconditionally, trout dinners to all their friends on the campus. But it happened, (so the story goes) that: “On the way home we had an accident. We ran into another car, and all the fish we caught were splattered for miles over the Indiana landscape. So they didn’t get their trout dinners.” Was he embarrassed!
And There Was Mr. Smithberger
But that wasn’t all. (And, incidentally, it occurs to us that Jim may have thought we were running an Embarrassing Moments column.) He told us about being awakened early on morning this summer by his sister who announced that there was a caller below, and that she didn’t know just who he was, and well—“Wouldn’t it be a good idea to go down and find out?” So Jim, subjecting matter to mind, as they say, dragged himself from his bed, donned his robe, hunted about for his slippers, and not finding them where he had left them (it must have been the cat) started down stairs in his bare feet. And who should he see when he reached the landing? You’ll never guess. Mr. Smithberger!
Liked Alumni
Let’s not forget Jim himself, though — however entertaining these anecdotes. He’s a native of Saranac Lake, New York. You’d guess as much, were you to notice tacked to his door the newspaper clipping which relates the grim details of Saranac’s latest blizzard. Jim stayed in Brownson Hall during his first year, and, like most folks who have stayed there, he recommends it to all incoming freshmen. After Brownson, a year in Saint Ed’s and another in Alumni. He says he had a lot of fun in Brownson, but his year in Alumni was the most enjoyable.
He’s not, so far as we can tell, an avid enthusiast about anything; nor has he any rabid dislikes. He’s an
English major, and intends, after leaving Notre Dame, to enter the Columbia School of Journalism. He admits that he’s easily pleased, and when we asked the conventional question, he said: “Oh, I haven’t any par-
James Munn
Walked the ])lank last summer.
ticular favorites. I like all the better modern writers.” He was a member of the Dome staff last year. His favorite diversions are walking, writing and bowling. And, apropos of this latter, we were told (by him) that: “Every now and then I give the editor of your Scholastic a good trimming.”
One Of The Mystery Men
Jim was one of the shades in that hazy company which backed the “Mystery Man” last year. The cabal seems to have gone on the kibosh, however, and he and the. Mystery Man set about to find other fields to conquer. The Adirondack Club held its elections, and Jim was ushered into the presidency—an office which he still holds.
We didn’t dare stick our heads into Jim’s wardrobe, while we were visiting him. (Even we stop short at some things.) But we’d have liked to. A friend of ours has referred to Jim as “that fellow with the beautiful shirts”; and we’d like to find out where they come from. He’s one of those few on the campus who comprise the “Best Dressed.”
P. S. We forgot to mention the daily letter from Saranac. Father Farley says “Attaboy” as he hands it to Jim each morning. The. reason is known to most Sorin Hallers. Jim walked the plank last June and did a wonderful job of it according to the gossip of Northern New Yorkers.
“Biology of Twins” is Subject of Dr. Newman’s Talk.
Dr. H. H. Newman, of the department of Zoology, University of Chicago, will deliver the lecture at the Indiana Academy of Science meeting to be held at Notre Dame, November 17, 18, and 19. Dr. Newman will speak Friday evening, November 18, in Washington Hall.
“Biology of Twins” will be the subject of his address. He has done considerable research in this field, and is credited by contemporary scientists as having made outstanding contributions.
Plan Annual Meeting
Final plans for the Indiana Academy of Science’s annual meeting, the first to be held at Notre Dame since the fall of 1927, are nearing completion under the direction of Professor E. G. Mahin, professor of Metallurgy and Aanalytical Chemistry, who is chairman of the program committee and member of the Academy advisory board.
Title of various papers to be read during the meeting are being received and from indications a full program will be presented. Titles for inclusion in the program must be in the hands of Dr. Mahin by November 1.
Commerce College Begins Work on Graduation List
Dean McCarthy, of the College of Commerce, has announced that beginning with Wednesday, October 26, he will institute a survey among Senior Commerce students in order to compile a list of senior commerce students having the necessary credits eligible for graduation in June.
The survey will be conducted through the medium of sending a card to each senior commerce man at the rate of fifteen per day. Dean McCarthy estimated that he would have the complete list of eligible graduates ready for publication by Thanksgiving.
The Dean also stated that any student believing himself eligible for graduation and not receiving a card should call at his office any afternoon except Saturday between the hours of one and three.
October 28, 1932
Nine
“CATALYZER” IS ISSUED BY CHEMISTRY GROUP
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
First Issue Edited by Jenny Makes Appearance Monday.
By William Flynn
The first issue of the 1932 Catalyzer, monthly publication of the Department of Chemistry of the University, and edited by the Chemists’ club
Frank Jenny
The first one is out.
was released by Editor Francis J. Jenny, Senior Chemical Engineer, Oct. 24.
The eight page issue contains an article entitled “Synthetic Resins and Modern Varnishes,” by Clarence Kaiser, B.S. in Ch.E., ’25, who is now chief chemist for the O’Brien Varnish Company of South Bend. The article mentions modern discoveries relative to the manufacture of “quick drying” varnishes and also suggests future work in this field of specialized chemistry.
McCue Testimony
Outlining its purpose the year’s first issue of The Catalyzer editorially advises the student of chemistry that “you are brought through the medium of The Catalyzer in intimate contact with various phases of the profession which is to constitute your life’s work.” Among other features of the issue is an editorial testimonial to the late Dean Martin J. McCue who was the first dean of Engineering at Notre Dame.
The Catalyzer has been published by the Department of Chemistry for ten years.
All letters must be signed tn full with address and mailed to the Editor of
The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall.
IS YOU OR I IN LOVE?
Editor of The Scholastic
Dear Sir:
Criticism may be amusing even if it is not significant or even logical; the letter on the Week’s peroration on music proved just that.
When we were accused of having been influenced in our style by the restoration period (which contained such men as Dryden, the first great English critic) we were flattered. We are afraid, however, that Nathan and Huxley have had their effect on us.
Next: in accordance with our twofold nature we may be drowsy in body, yet we may revel mentally. Philosophically this can be justified by a galaxy of authorities.
The gentle satire was lost when I referred to “Is You in Love”—a conscious perversion of “Is I in Love”— which my critic intimated was written by the equal of Irving Berlin.
The writer of the letter, an advocate of the “King’s English,” (so he says), commenting on the “blow” we had given Toscanini said that he could not “down” a certain usuallj7 expressive word he had used.
But now for the most amsuing, the syllogism. Some words, it would seem, mean a number of things. The Word “catharsis” (if Greek type had been permissible we should have used it) was understood in its medicinal sense. One of the basic results of any esthetic experience in catharsis (Consult Freytag, Marshall, Puffer, Knight, Parker, etc., etc.) “Artistic creation and appreciation is cathartic or purgative and compensatory in an Aristotelian and Freudian sense.” (p. 117, Introducion to Metaphysics.)
Acquaintance with the proper meanings of terms involved seems to be a prerequisite to an effective syllogism.
We are charitable: we merely ask our critic to reconsider his own words: “We are happy in the realization that we can still live and learn while some folks just learn.”
J. P.
Initials will be used on request.
BADGER MELODY
Editor of The Scholastic
Dear Sir:
Could you please tell me why the University band begins its march each Saturday with “On Wisconsin?” What has this song to do with the occasion ? It’s a nice number, but slightly incongruous.
J. A. L.
As The Scholastic understands it, the music “On Wisconsin” has been adopted by Haskell and C. I. T. as their college air, just as Washington and Lee’s “Swing” is used by countless high schools, brotherhoods, etc.
STUDENT APATHY (CONT.)
To the Editor of The Scholastic Dear Sir:
On Sunday evening, October 23, Mr. Joseph Scott, a learned Catholic layman, made an appearance in Washington Hall. His address attracted a numerically small audience. I dare say the hall was half-filled. Does such a showing reflect the intellect of Notre Dame men? It seemingly does.
Mr. Scott, whose forensic ability has attracted thousands, can draw but a paltry few at an institution of higher learning. Yet at this same institution, the students are willing to sacrifice a broken neck in their haste to see a movie with nothing to offer but a cheap love theme.
There is something radically wrong with the attitude of the majority of Notre Dame men and I, therefore, appeal ... to the influence of The Scholastic to correct this attitude.
Yours very truly,
A. A. M.
Hinkel Visits Notre Dame
John V. Hinkel, graduate of Notre Dame in 1929, was on the campus over the week-end. Hinkel, who wrote an appreciative biography of Adolphe Ochs, is now connected with the Nev.’ York Times.
Ten
The Scholastic
WRANGLERS ENDORSE ROOSEVELT CANDIDACY
Boyle Flays Republicans For Misrepresenting Record.
The Wranglers endorsed Franklin D. Roosevelt for President of the United States, by a vote of eight to four, last Wednesday evening, after listening to an extremely interesting speech given by President James Boyle.
While the vote cast no reflections upon the other presidential candidates, it clearly indicated that the trend of opinion was directed in Mr. Roosevelt’s favor.
Democratic Platform Lauded
Boyle, however, was inexorable in his condemnation of the present Republican rule. He charged the Hoover administration with mis-representation, ridiculing their campaign statement, “we have done everything possible, to lessen the depression.” He claimed that the powerful position enjoyed by the United States, as creditor nation of the world, proved that this country held sufficient grip on economic conditions, to be held accountable for a major portion of the chaotic results that have existed since 1929.	.
Speaking about the Democratic platform, Boyle said, “It is enough to put any man into office!” He assailed the Republican issues as being characteristically evasive.
Attempting to prove that an actual coalition exists between Roosevelt and Alfred E. Smith, the president of the Wranglers argued that, “the so-called break was effected in order to get those millions of voters, who in 1928 were against Smith because of bigotry, behind Roosevelt.”
Intolerance
“If he were to run again this year, Smith’knew better than anyone else that he would be defeated by that same spirit of Puritanism with its pseudo tolerance, that conquered him in 1928. He also knew that Roosevelt would be defeated, if backed by him, and as some of the bourgeoisie think, by the Pope. Now, when no veiled campaign of narrowmindedness can be started, Smith has begun to openly back Roosevelt.”
Boyle had some difficulty in ob-(Continued on Page 11)
JEFFERSONIAN
James Boyle, president of the Wranglers, whose club went on record Wednesday evening as endorsing the Roosevelt candidacy and the Democratic platform.
Andrew Maffei Speaks To Members of Italian Club
Andrew Maffei, vice-president of the Italian Club, addressed that body last Tuesday evening in Room 2 of the Main Building on “Italy’s Appeal to the United States To Cut Debts and Enter the League of Nations.”
Mr. Maffei pointed out that, according to Mussolini’s recent announcement, Italy would not resign from the League of Nations, as she • did not wish to “leave the bedside now that the League is extremely sick.” Referring to war debts, he stressed the fact that the United State’s cancellation of them would restore the equilibrium of Europe.
Quotes Benito
In conclusion, he emphatically denied the belief that Italy’s practical disarmament proposals hide an obscure Machiavellian plot, and quoted Mussolini’s attitude: “There is a simple method to test our sincerity: try us.”
Monday evening, October 31, was selected as the date for the first in the series of the much discussed Roman dinners. Chairman Mike San-tulli announced that the affair will be held at Niccolini’s restaurant at 8 p. m.
Other matters were recorded in the change of the weekly meetings to twice monthly, and the reading of short papers by Joseph Esposito and Pat Dizenza.
ITINERARY ARRANGED FOR PITTSBURGH TRIP
All Details of Grid Squad’s Journey Cared For.
Complete arrangements for the Irish football squad on its trip to Pittsburgh were cared for before the party left Notre Dame last night. Football manager Anthony W. Wirry handled the details under the direction of the Athletic Association.
The itinerary for the trip as released by Wirry is as follows:
THURSDAY, OCT. 27.
C.S. T., 8:00 p. m.—Cabs will be at the Post Office to take team to Pennsylvania Station where party will be assigned reservations in special cars.
9:00 p. m.—Train leaves for Pittsburgh.
10:00 p. m.—Retire.
FRIDAY, OCT. 28.
E. S. T., 7:45 a. m.—Rise.
8:30 a. m.—Arrive at Pittsburgh. Packard automobiles will be waiting to take team to Mass at St. Paul’s Cathedral.
8:45 a. m.—Mass at St. Paul’s Cathedral. Immediately after Mass, party will leave in cars for Pittsburgh Athletic Association. Rooms will be assigned on arrival.
9:30 a. m.—Breakfast at Pittsburgh Athletic Association.
11:15 a. m.—Leave for Long Vue Country club.
12:00 p. m.—Lunch at Long Vue Country club.
2:30 p. m.—Practice at Pitt Stadium.
6:00 p. m.—Dinner at Pittsburgh Athletic Association.
10:00 p. m.—Retire.
SATURDAY, OCT. 29.
7:30 a. m.—Rise.
8:00 a. m.—Mass at St. Paul’s Cathedral.
8:45 a. m.—Breakfast.
11:15 a. m.—Luncheon.
SATURDAY, OCT. 2
12:30 p. m.—Leave for Stadium.
2:00 p. m.—Game. Immediately after game, cars will take party to (Continued on Page 11)
October 28, 1932
Eleven
BARRETT SPEAKS TO
K.C.MEMBERS MONDAY
Oregon’s Anti-Parochial Law Is Discussed At Meeting.
“Catholic Organized Action” was the subject of a talk given to the members of the local council, Knights of Columbus, by Deputy Grand Knight Edward Barrett, at the regular meeting of the organization held Monday evening of this week.
\ Action taken by the Knights of Columbus in reference to the anti-parochial school law recently passed in Oregon was the underlying theme of Barrett’s address. The Supreme Court of the United States classified the law as unconstitutional.
Dangers Of Such A Law
Mr. Barrett pointed out that if the law had been permitted to remain in the Oregon state constitution, other states would have been influenced by the act and would likewise pass a similar law.
In his talk, Grand Knight Barrett told of the active part taken by Hon. Joseph Scott in the fight to have the law declared unconstitutional.
Following Barrett’s talk, the Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., briefly spoke on the benefits derived from the Knights of Columbus, stressing the moral courage of Columbus.
Charles Fiss acted as master of ceremonies, and introduced the speakers of the evening. The Notre Dame “Jugglers” entertained during the meeting. Refreshments were served to 250 members.
Father Miltner Actresses
Patricians Club Tuesday
“The Relation of Philosophy to Success in a Literary Career,” was the subject of a talk delivered by the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, to the members of the Patricians Club at the regular meeting of that group held Tuesday evening in the Law building.
Father Miltner pointed out to the members that there could be no good literary art unless it were based on the sound objective philosophy. To succeed in literature, a person must accept natural laws.
Law is the bondage of free service.
—J arret.
SECRETARY
Mr. Kenneth Oliver, new Secretary of the University who outlines his work in story on page 13.
Capitol District Club Is
Active at Meet Wednesday
At a meeting of the Capitol District club of New York on Wednesday night in the law building, the plans for the annual Christmas dance were completed. Charles Quinn, president of the club, appointed the following committees to handle the incidentals of the dance. Vince Gorman, and Frank Robolotto are on the programs; Jack Rainey, Frank Mahar and Ed Eckert, on dances, and Joseph Bucci and Frank Kelly, on publicity.
When the number of accepted members was announced, it was found that the club has its largest enrollment, 35, since the charter was issued.
President Quinn, announced the next meeting for Wednesday, Nov. 2. The picture for the Dome will be taken at noon on Nov. 4, in the basement of Walsh Hall.
PITTSBURGH ITINERARY
(Continued from Page 10)
Pittsburgh Athletic Association.
5:30 p. m.—Dinner.
8:00 p. m.—Leave for Pennsylvania Station.
8:30 p. m.—Train leaves for South Bend.
10:00 p. m.—Retire.
SUNDAY, OCT. 30.
C. S. T., 7:30 a. m.—Arrive at South Bend.
8:15 a. m.—Mass ip Sorin Hall
Chapel.	.
8:45 a. m.—Breakfast.
PROF. SULLIVAN TALKS TO PRE LAW STUDENTS
Crime And Prison Treatment is Subject of Address.
Prof. John A. Sullivan, Department of Sociology at the University, gave an interesting talk entitled “Present Day Treatment of Criminals and Prisons,” to the Pre-Law Club Tuesday night. About forty members attended the meeting in the Law Building.	»
Mr. Sullivan decidedly favored the indetermined sentence in many cases, whereby the criminal is compelled to report to the judge at intervals.
Crime Expenditure Is High
The audience was startled by the revelation that the total expenditure for crime in the United States is twelve billion dollars yearly. Prof. Sullivan made the Club realize the enormity of the amount by stating that the automobile industry expends only four billion dollars annually.
The speaker also commented on the conditions in juvenile homes and prisons. Although much remains to be accomplished, present surroundings in these institutions are considerably improved over those of a few years ago. The children in these homes have been segregated by efficient officials into different groups. Greater interest on the part of judges has brought about many needed changes in the prisons as well.
Wranglers Discuss Politics
(Continued from Page 10)
taining the assent of the society, that such a union actually exists, but when he concluded with the following remarks, his opinion was shared by many members.
“The New York delegation was polled for the first time in the history of the party in that early morning session of the convention for no other reason than to show those throngs of bigots — who had voted strictly along religious lines — that Tammany and Al Smith with all those things he typifies, were against Roosevelt.”
The Oregon system of debate functioned perfectly, with each member of the Wranglers advancing questions or commentations on the speech, after which, the convincing decision favoring the endorsement of Roosevelt, was reached.
Tivelve
The Scholastic
“SANTA MARIA” BOARD OF EDITORS COMPLETED
“But There Is Still Nothing to Edit,” Becklenberg Rages.
Fred Becklenberg, Editor-in-Chief of the Santa Maria, the local Knights of Columbus publication, announced the names of the members of the Editorial staff this week.
Walter Kennedy and John Jaeger are the Associate Editors. Granger Weil has been appointed Features Editor. He will be assisted by John McElligott. The sports will be edited by Edmund Moriarty. Raymond Naber is the new Business Manager.
As yet the plans for the publication are indefinite. Last year the Santa Maria appeared for the first time as an annual. Editor Becklenberg has not decided as yet whether this plan will be continued; he is contemplating a renewal of the discarded form of the Santa Maria Quarterly.
McManus Named Chairman of Boston Club Dance
The Boston Club held its second meeting of the current scholastic year last Monday night in the Law auditorium.
The president, Robert Monahan, announced the appointment of Paul McManus as chairman of the Christmas dance. All the Club members are requested to be present at the K. of C. recreation rooms at 12:30, November 3, for the Club’s Dome picture.
The first copy of “The Hub” the Boston Club’s new bi-monthly newspaper was distributed to each member and was received with great enthusiasm.
Plans for the club’s first smoker were made definite. Jim Bowdreu and Fred Solari were appointed Cochairmen of the affair which is to be held in the K. of C. recreation room Thursday evening, November 3, at 8:45 p. m.
Son Bom to N. D. Alumnus
Dan Halpin, of the Class of 1931 and former personage about the Athletic Office, is father of a baby boy named Kenneth. Halpin is now connected with a branch of the Universal Pictures Corporation in New York Ciyt. -
KNIGHT
Honorable Joseph Scott of California who gave address here Sunday evening.
Holy Cross Priest Becomes Advocate in Roman Court
VATICAN CITY, Oct. 23. —The Rev. Dr. William J. Doheny, C.S.C., for the last three years Superior of the Holy Cross International College in Rome, has just been admitted as an advocate of the Sacred Roman Rota.
Upwards of a hundred candidates from twenty different countries have pursued special courses of the Rota during the last few years. Dr. Doheny is one of three candidates who successfully concluded the course this year. He is the first American admitted as an advocate and attorney before the tribunal of the Rota.
Dr. Doheny made his studies in Canon Law under the Rt. Rev. Msgr. Filippo Bernardini, Dean of the Faculty of Canon Law at the Catholic University of America in Washington.
The Rev. Dr. Doheny is a native of Merrill, Wis., and a graduate of St. Norbert College, West De Pere, Wis. He entered the Congregation of Holy Cross at Notre Dame, Ind., in 1919, and was ordained to the priest-ho%d in 1924. He received the degree J. U. D. at the Catholic University of America in 1927, and is the author of “The Mode of Tenure of Ecclesiastical Property.”
The Sacred tribunal of the Rota is the court of last appeal in the settlement of marriage cases.
JOSEPH SCOTT, K. S. G„ GIVES ELOQUENT TALK
1918 Laetare Medalist Visits Campus Last Sunday.
Last Sunday evening an enthusiastic Washington Hall audience heard an address given by the Honorable Joseph Scott of California, Laetare medallist in 1918, knighted with the Order of St. Gregory by Pope Benedict XV. in 1920. Mr. Scott is one of the most prominent Catholic laymen in the United States. He was introduced simply, as one who needed no introduction, by Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
Catholic Leadership
White-haired, bushy-browed speaker Scott delighted his audience with the dynamic, inspirational qualities of his address. He spoke of Catholic leadership that Catholic young men must assume in a world that is tending toward agnosticism. He urged his listeners to take away with them from Notre Dame a firm background in Catholic philosophy and the kind of faith that comes from many mornings at the Communion rail. He spoke briefly of Louis Pasteur, a great scientist with the simple faith of a Breton peasant, as opposed to the rank and file of would-be scientists who deride the idea of God.
Humorous Too
Not wholly serious was Mr. Scott’s speech. He told many stories, nearly always with himself at the butt, that brought forth shouts of laughter. The audience was particularly pleased with the speaker’s sly references to Father John Cavanaugh, in the audience, as “my young friend, Father Cavanaugh.”
A significant figure in national affairs and a militant Catholic, Mr. Scott is one of the most accomplished speakers ever listened to in Washington Hall.
Professor O’Connell Talks to South Bend Unemployed
Professor Eugene O’Connell of the Science Department addressed a gathering of the unemployed at the Portage Avenue Branch of Worker’s Relief Association, in South Bend last week. The subject of the talk was “The Guilds of the Middle Ages.”
October 28, 1932
Thirteen
N.D. USHERS’ CLUB WILL HOLD DANCE NOV. 4TH
Tickets 40 Cents a Person For K. C. Ballroom Affair.
The Notre Dame Ushers’ Club will hold an informal dance Friday evening, November 4, in the Knights of Columbus Ballroom at Jefferson and Lafayette streets. The arrangements committee is working hard and is overlooking no opportunity to make the affair one of the most enjoyable events of the season. The music will be furnished by the Notre Dame “Jugglers.”
Ralph Gartner of 620 East Marion Street, the most popular captain of the Ushers, is the general chairman of the dance. His adept manner of handling the patrons in the East boxes of the stadium for the past three years brings praise from the Personnel Manager, Frank Buhl, and from the high-priced customers themselves.
Only Forty Cents
The Chairman is being assisted by men on the following committees: publicity, Gene Michalski, chairman; Claude Shaw, A. H. Goepfrich, Ed. Anderson, Lawrence Wade, and William Kline. Arrangements, Pat Turn-ock, chairman; Lyman Swanger, Clarence Lush, Bob Munz. Decorations, Ted Witucki, chairman; R. N. Lee, Leo Leyes. Reception, Roy Phillips, chairman; Ed Fisher, Thomas Murray, John Cahill, and John McElligotr.
The assessment is forty cents a person. .
Lloyd is New Comptroller
Mr. Frank W. Lloyd has succeeded Mr. Clifford Collins as the Comptroller of the University. Mr. Lloyd was formerly vice-president of the Commercial Investment Trust of New York which engaged in investment banking.	r
Mr. Lloyd is married, has two daughters, and resides in South Bend. His brother is the president of the South Bend Insurance Company.
Of no use are men who study to do exactly as was done before, who can never understand that today is a new day.—Ralph W. Emerson.
DEMOCRAT
Professor Clarence Manion who will plead the case of the Democrats at political convention at Indiana U.
(Story, Page 5)
S, A.- C= Gives Annual Award For Frosh Scholarship
The Student Acitvities Council medals for the highest average in each of the four colleges, exclusive of Law, for freshmen 1931-32, will be given Wednesday at 5:00 p. m. in the Office of the President, Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C. They will be presented by Father O’Donnell.
Following are the awards: Arts and Letters—Gerald Henry Cowles, Woodhull, Ill., 96 average. Science—Fran-• cis J. Broeman, Cincinnati, Ohio, 95.7 average. Engineering — Victor Conrad Weigand, Barberton, Ohio, 94 average. Commerce—Francis J. Hoha-han, Galesburg, Ill., 94.6 average.
Cowles is not in school this year. The award will be sent to him.
At a recent meeting of the Student Activities Council, it was decided that the award would be changed from a gold medal to twenty-five dollars in gold.
CLUB NOTICE
A box has been placed in front of the Main Building bulletin board as a receptacle for all club notices, news of meetings, etc. Secretaries of campus organizations are asked to take advantage of this convenience offered by The Scholastic to facilitate collection of the items. All reports should be dated and signed.
SECRETARY OUTLINES WORK AT UNIVERSITY
Expense Records Kept Intact by Secretary Oliver.
Mr. Kenneth Oliver, new secretary in the administrative division of the University, only became actively associated with Notre Dame at the beginning of the 1932-33 scholastic year, but for many years before that he had been in contact with the school through his friendship with the late Most Reverend George J. Finnigan, C.S.C., Bishop of Helena, Montana.
Mr. Oliver, who succeeded Mrs. Mary Beyer as secretary, was formerly with the export division of the Studebaker corporation. in South Bend.
Student Accounts
The affairs which come under the supervision of his office are those which pertain to the keeping of student accounts. An individual record must be kept for each student, giving the amount due, the amount paid for tuition, board, room, fees, and laundry. The record of those students who are employed by the University must also be kept carefully up to date. This latter detail is done through co-operation with the office of the vice-president, who has charge of student employment.
Mr. Oliver reports that he likes his w’ork here a.t the University, and that it is proving to be very interesting. There is constant contact with students, and faculty, so dull moments are seldom to be found in his office.
The division of University administration which Mr. Oliver manages forms a connecting link between the students and the offices of the registrar, treasurer, general accounting, and athletics.
Four Assistants
In the division of the Secretary’s office, there are four assistants who aid Mr. Oliver in the duties attached to it. All records must be kept so that a student’s financial status may be instantly ascertained. The equipment of the office is very neat, and is kept strictly in order at all times.
Mr. Oliver is a native of Eau Claire, Wisconsin. He served with the United States forces during the world war for two years.
Literary people let words get between them and things.—Chesterton
Fourteen
The Scholastic
UNIVERSITY COUNCIL TO PASS ON NEW RULE
Meeting This P. M, To Decide On New Regulation.
The University Council will hold a meeting this afternoon at 4 o’clock in the Administration building to decide whether or not the proposed academic regulation regarding the probation and dismissal of students will be accepted.
Proposed Regulation
The proposed regulation reads as follows:
“The student who at the end of the semester has failed of the passing grade in a third of his work is placed on probation for the ensuing semester. In case he already be on probation or has been on probation in any two former semesters, such student is liable to dismissal from the University because of poor scholarship. Dismissal is also incurred by the student who at the end of a semester has failed of the passing grade in two thirds of his work.”
The new regulation lias already been passed on by the College of Arts and Letters, the College of Science, and has been included as a rule in the College of Law for some time past.
No Dismissal At Quarter
If the Council accepts the ruling, a student in any of the five colleges of the University, will not be subject to dismissal from school at any time during the year except at the end of the semesters. At the present time, the ruling makes it possible ot dismiss a student at the end of the quarter if he is deficient and has been on probation for at least one quarter previous.
Mid-semester reports of deficient students will in any event be continued as before.
Irish Club Meeting!
There will be a meeting of the Irish club Sunday morning at 10:30 in the Seminar room of the Law building. Joseph Partello will read a paper on “Our Irish Ancestors.”
James Danehy, president, requests that all members be present.
BOOKMAN GIVES VIEWS ON MODERN POETRY; CONFRERES BALK
Modern American poetry was the subject of a lengthy discussion at the meeting of the Bookmen last Monday evening. The impetus was given by an essay entitled “The Death of the Muse” read by Kenneth Kreps, past secretary of the club.
The speaker presented some definitions of poetry by several of the modern writers before presenting his paper. He then showed how the works of such poets as H. D., Amy Lowell, Vachel Lindsay, Carl Sandburg, and Edgar Lee Masters either came up to or fell short of his standard.
Kreps’ confreres argued not so much on his conclusions, as on what he considered good poetry, questioning his definitions. Each man gave his own favorite definition and tried to make modern poetry fit his standards. Naturally everyone left the meeting adhering to his own opinions, but, determined to seek further proof for them.
Philosophy Faculty Will Hold Meeting Wednesday
The faculty of the Department of Philosophy, College of Arts and Letters, will hold a meeting next Wednesday evening at 7:45 o’clock in the Conference room of the General Offices.
Members of the department are requested by Father Miltner, department head, to be present at the meeting. A program for the next issue of the University Bulletin will be drawn up.
Interhall Debaters!
Interhall debating will start Wednesday. Nov. 2, it was announced by Arthur Sandusky, chairman.
The teams of the various halls are requested to obtain the necessary information regarding time and place, for their debate, from their coaches.
Anyone interested in auditing any of the debates is cordially invited to attend. All debates will be held at 7:45 p. m., on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday evenings of next week, in both the .uditorium and court room of the Law building.
PROMINENT JESUIT WILL OPEN CONFERENCE HERE
Father Husslein, Sociologist to Begin Economic Meet.
James E. Armstrong, Alumni secretary, announced during the week that the sermon at the solemn high Mass, which will initiate the one-day program of activities of the National Catholic Alumni Conference, will be delivered by the Reverend Joseph Husslein, S.J. Father Husslein is Deean of the Department of Sociology at St. Louis university and author of a recent book, Christian Social Manifesto.
Armstrong In Chair
The theme of the book is in harmony with the purpose of the Conference which will be held here Nov. 20, namely, a discussion of the current economic conditions throughout the country.
Mr. Armstrong, who will preside at the Conference, also announced that the Reverend B. P. O’Reilly, S.M., former president of the University of Dayton, will speak at the meeting of the Conference delegates in the afternoon, as will the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., prefect of religion and former Dean of the College of Commerce.
Several other prominent speakers will appear on the program which will be completed next week.
Chemists in Joint Meet on Campus During Week
The Ninety-second monthly meet-' ing of the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society was held Wednesday night in the Auditorium of the Engineering building. This was a joint meeting with the American Society for Steel Treating.
Mr. R. J. Teetor, general manager of the Cadillac Malleable Iron Co., gave the principal speech. His topic was, “The Manufacture, Properties, and Uses of Malleable Iron.” Mr. Teetor’s discourse was illustrated with photomicrographic slides.
Approximately 100 chemists and students attended the meeting. These men were from South Bend manufacturing plants and the University Chemistry department.
I
October 28, 1932
Fifteen
SCHOLASTIC REPRESENTS 65 YEARS OF TRADITION
BOOK REVIEWS
By John Pick
First Issue Hand Written and Read to Students.
The Scholastic had its beginning sixty-five years ago; 1867 to be exact.
The earliest formal publication containing selections from the writings of students, was called “Progress.”
An Old Title Page In Those Days: Ornate.
It was a manuscript paper, written in elegant penmanship, and circulated only among the more appreciative literary denizens of the University. This was so well received, that the faculty appointed a certain evening every two weeks in which the “Progress” would be read to the students in the Senior study hall. This was always looked forward to as the finest treat imaginable. The “Progress” was followed by publications with such amazing appelatives as “Olympic Gazette,” “Weekly Bee,” and “Literary Gazette.”
Ranaissance After War
Shortly after the war, (yes, the Civil War) a great intellectual era had set in, and college life had settled down to thoughts of literature, arts and science. It was at that time that the present magazine made its debut, with the hearty approval of Father Corby, the president. At this time it was called the “Scholastic Year,” the idea being that it would be published only during the school year. Two years later its name was changed to the Notre Dame Scholastic, and since then it has had continuous existence.
Humble Beginning
As all great magazines, it had its humble- beginning. There was no staff of thoroughly competent news, sports, and literary, writers. In fact, it was little more than the fly-leaf of The Ave Maria, to which it was attached. It’was published by a half-
Christopher (Kit) Morley, America’s own unique master of whimsicality, has been visiting the White House. With Mrs. Morley he has been the guest of President and Mrs. Hoover, and it seems that the two of them found the Hoover’s temporary abode (however temporary, we shall better know in a week or two) a nice, comfy and homely place, from the president’s study, “with its faint trail of cigar smoke,” to the rose room, which was assigned the Morleys.
Morley goes on for a few thousand words about his visit to the White House in a recent number of the Saturday Reviezv of Literature, and he is at great pains to prove that Mr. Hoover is something more than “the unemotional scientist, economist and engineer, coldly considering human destinies in equations and statistics,” that editorialists, “going beserk on a typrewriter keyboard,” are wont to accuse him of being.
Morley, being essentially a literary gentleman, was primarily interested in what our national executive reads, and one gathers that Mr. Morley spent his one day and night at the White House skipping blithefully from one bookshelf to another. One learns that the President read during the last summer Shaw Desmond’s
Windjammer, Eaton’s Immigrant Gifts to American Life, John Jay Chapman’s New Horizon in American Life, < Knickerbocker’s The German Crisis, Henry Osburn Taylor’s Fact-. The Romance of the Mind, Pringle’s Theodore Roosevelt, Lewishon’s Expression in America, and Heden’s Across the Gobi Desert.
Among other remarks of the President which left their impress upon
dozen young aspirants to literary fame, and was intended chiefly as a literary medium for the writings of students.
Sixty-five years have rolled by, and today The Scholastic has acquired tradition. It hopes to justify the ideals and aspirations of those Notre Dame men of ’65. An alert and able staff of some fifty students now bring not only the literary achievements of the campus to the foreground, but present a full kaleidoscope of Notre Dame life.
Mr. Morley’s impressionable mind was, “What this country needs is a good 300-word poem,” or words to that effect. And Mr. Hoover’s idea of a godd 300-word poem, according to Mr. Morley, is Kipling’s “Recessional.”
In this, the second column, it is extremely apropos to tell about the reading tastes of Franklin D. Roosevelt, who, you may have heard, is the Democratic nominee.
The story comes to us through Isabel Paterson and was relayed to her by Hendrik Van Loon, who garnered the information from Roosevelt himself. Van Loon reports that the governor is a very well read man, indeed, but that he does not read novels and has no time for poetry. In short, that he reads only for information or moral instruction and cares not at all for literature as such.
Whereupon Miss Paterson launches into a diatribe which seems only partly justified. She says: “The history of this country during the last 40 years has been written in fiction, poetry, and criticism . . . One who has never read the significant novels and poetry of that period will be seriously handicapped in understanding the temper and mind of the people and the changing currents of opinion . . .”
In fiction, for instance, Howell’s Rose of Silas Lapham, Harold Frederic’s Damnation of Theron Ware, E. W. Howe’s Story of a Country Town, something of Frank Norris’, Crane’s Red Badge of Courage, Gertrude Atherton’s Splendid Idle Forties, and, Patience Sparhawk and Her Times, and Willa Cather’s pioneer novels; then Lewis and Lardner, and, for a glimpse of the last romantics again, Ellen Glasgow’s Romantic Comedians.
While in poetry, says Miss Paterson, there are the smothered desperate cry of Emily Dickinson, the harsh sardonic protest of Spoon River Anthology, the lovely swan sons of Edna St. Vincent Millay and Elinor Wylie, the childlike vitality of Carl Sandburg and the singular phenomenon of Vachel Lindsay.
Miss Paterson’s statement of her case, it seems, makes of American literature something more than it is. She makes it too alive and rich with vitality.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Here’s The News Story That
“Made” Frank W. O’Malley
WALSH HALL PEPS FOR Pin GAME ALL WEEK
\‘ When Frank Ward O'Malley, forni-j er Notre Dame student and outstanding newspaper man, died last week, many remarks were made about the story he once tvrote which gave him his start. Inconspicuous up to the time of its publication, O’Malley was made as a reporter tvhen the follow-ing account of the famous Sheehan murder case made its appearance:
Mrs. Catherine Sheehan stood in the darkened parlor of her home at 361 West Fifteenth street late yesterday afternoon, and told her version of the murder of her son. Gene, the youthful policeman whom a thus named Billy Morley shot in the forehead, down under the Chatham Square elevated station early yesterday moraine. Gene’s mother was thankful that her boy hadn’t killed Billy Morley before he died, “because,” she said, “I can say honestly, even now, that I’d rather have Gene’s dead body brought home to me, as it will be to-night, than to have' him come to me and say, ’Mother, I had to kill a man this morning.’
“God comfort the poor wretch that killed the boy,” the mother went on, “because he is more unhappy to-night than we are here. Maybe he was weak-minded through drink. He couldn’t have known Gene or he wouldn’t have killed him. Did they tell you at the Oak Street Station that the other policemen called Gene. ‘Happy’ Sheehan? Anything they told you about him is true, because no one would lie about him. He was always happy, and he was a fine-looking young man, and he always had to duck his helmet when he walked under the gas fixture in the hall, as he went out the door.
“He was doing dance steps on the floor of the basement, after his dinner yesterday noon for the girls—his sisters I mean—and he stopped of a sudden when he saw the clock and picked up his helmet. Out on the street he made pretence of arresting a little boy he knows, who was standing there—to see Gene come out, I suppose—and when the lad ran away laughing, I called out, ‘You couldn’t catch Willie, Gene; you’re getting fat.’

“ ‘Yes, and old, mammy,” he said, him who is—who was—only twenty-six—‘so fat,’ he said, ‘that I'm getting a new dress coat that’ll make you proud when you see me in it, mammy.’ And he went over Fifteenth street whistling a tune and slapping his leg with a folded newspaper. And he hasn’t come back again.
“But I saw him once after that, thank God, before he was shot. It’s strange, isn’t it, that I hunted him up on his beat late yesterday afternoon for the first time in my life? I never go around where my children are working or studying—one I sent through college with what I earned at dressmaking, and some other little money I had, and he’s now a teacher; and the youngest I have at college now. I don’t mean that their father wouldn’t send them if he could, but he’s an invalid, although he’s got a position lately that isn’t too hard for him. I got Gene prepared for college, too, but he wanted to go
right into an office in Wall street. I got him in there, but it was too quiet and tame for him. Lord have mercy on his soul: and then, two years ago, he wanted to go on the police force, and he went.
“After he went down the street yesterday I found a little book on a chair, a little list of the streets or something, that Gene had
The Late F. W. O’Malley Notre Dame Is Proud
forgot. I knew how particular they are about such things, and I didn’t want the boy to get in trouble, and so I threw on a shawl and walked over through Chambers street toward the river to find him. He was near the bridge clapping time ewith his hands for a little newsy that was dancing; but he stopped clapping, struck. Gene did, when he saw me. He laughed when I handed him the little book and told that was why I’d searched for him, patting me on the shoulder when he laughed —patting me on the shoulder.
“ ‘It’s a bad place for you here. Gene,’ I said. ‘Then it must he bad for you, too, mammy,’ said he: and as he walked to the end of his beat with me—it was dark then—he said, ‘There are lots of crooks here, mother, and they know and hate me and they’re afraid of me’—proud, he said it—‘but maybe they’ll get me some night.’ He patted me on the ■ back and turned and walked east toward his death. Wasn’t it strange that Gene said that?
"You know how he was killed, of course, and how— Now let me talk about it children, if I want to. I promised you, didn’t I. that I wouldn’t cry any more or carry on? Well, it was five o’clock this morning when a boy rang the bell here at the house and I looked out the window and said, ‘Is Gene dead?’ ‘No ma’am,’ answered the lad, ‘but they told me to tell you he was hurt in a fire and is in the hospital.’ Jerry, my other boy, had opened the door and was talking to him while I dressed a bit. And then I walked down stairs and saw Jerry standing silent under the gaslight, and I said again, ‘Jerry, is Gene dead?’ And he said ‘Yes,’ and he went out.
After a while I went down to the Oak Street Station myself, because I couldn’t wait for Jerry to come back. The policemen all stopped talking when I came in, and then one of them told me it was against the rules to show me Gene at that time. But I knew the
Impromptu Affairs Have .Men At Fever Heat.
Walsh Hall this week showed that student enthusiasm is not yet dead. In anticipation of the Pittsburgh game, the senior hall has each night for the past week been staging impromptu pep meetings. Parades were formed to cheer Walsh Hall’s football men—Roach, Kosky, Murphy, Shee-ketski, Jaskwhich, Mahaffey, Koken and Vejar. On Tuesday evening special demonstration was held for the Walsh Hall-team. Led by Ed Kosky and George Kozak, the Walsh men showed that they were behind Woods, Cashier and Duffy, Walsh’s backfield aces.
Demer is Named President of the Anthracite Club
Robert J. Demer was named president of the Anthracite club at a meeting of the organization held last week. James D. Devers will fill the office of vice-president.
Edmund A. Quinn was selected as secretary and Edmund P. Philbin, as treasurer. The membership of the club includes all students whose homes are within 50 miles of Scranton, Pa.
Nothing except a battle lost can be half so melancholy as a battle won.— Wellington.
policeman onlly thought I’d break down, but I promised him I wouldn’t carry on, and he took me into a room to let me see Gene. It was Gene.
“I know to-day how they killed him. The poor boy that shot him was standing in Chatham Square arguing with another man when Gene told him to move on. When the young man wouldn’t, but only answered back. Gene shoved him, and the young man pulled a revolver and shot Gene in the face, and he died before Father Rafferty, of St. James's, got to him. God rest his soul. A lot of policemen heard the shot and they all came running with their pistols and clubs in their hands. Policeman • Laux—I’ll never forget his name or any of the others that ran to help Gene—came down the Bowery and ran out into the middle of the .square where Gene lay.
“When the man;that shot Gene saw the po-(Continued on Page 32)
October 28, 1932
Seventeen
PROF. GROOM TO GIVE A SERIES OF RECITALS
THEATRE TALK
Ry Roger Beirne ~
St. Patrick’s Church Is Scene of Organ Program.
Professor Willard L. Groom of the Department of Music of the University was guest recitalist at a concert held at Indianapolis, Oct. 18. The concert given in Christ church was sponsored by the Indiana Chapter of the ^American Guild of Organists, which ranks fourth in size in the U. S. A. Among the several compositions played those of Mozart, Karg and Elbert were the most noted.
The professor is also playing a series of preludial recitals to the Sunday evening services at St. Patrick’s church in South Bend. The schedule for this series is as follows:
OCT. 30.	■
Psalm 150 ........................  —	Moline
Harmonies du Soil- ............. Karg-Elert
Cantilene .........................  Pierne
NOV. 6.
Chorale in A minor .............. Franck
Andante from E flat Symphony .... Mozart
Pastorale from Sonata 12 _____ Rheinberger
NOV. 13
Entree A Lento Assai ( from Seventh Sonata
Grand Choir J	for Organ
Cantabile J	Guilmant
NOV. 20.
Berceuse and Finale from “The Firebird” Strawinsky
Pavane pour une Infante defunte ... Ravel
Prayer ________________________ Hugo Wolf
Prelude & Fugue in G minor _________ Bach
Choral prelude “Mit Ernst, o Menschenkinder” Karg-Elert
Chappelle des Morts ..............  Mulet
DEC. 4
Ave Maria ........................  Bossi
O clemens! O pia! _______________ Dallier
Priere a Notre Dame____________ Boellmann
DEC. 11.
Epilogue _________________________ Willan
Andante Cantabile—Symphony 1 .... Beethoven Hymnus  Von Fielitz DEC. 18
Sixth Organ Sonata __________ Mendelssohn
Choral—Andante Sostenuto
Allegro Fuga
DEC. 25.
Prelude to “The Blessed Damozel”
Debussy-Christian
The Holy Boy ------------------------ Ireland
Pastorale for Christmas-tide ________ Corelli
One beneficial result of the depression, according to President Lewis of Lafayette college, is the recognition that the man with a well-trained mind commands a premium, while the go-getter i§ in the bread line.
On this last Friday of October we give the hostages of this column over to how one might find something out about the theatre without realizing it too severely. Of course, there is Sheldon Cheyeney’s beautiful book, “The Theatre,” which is sub-titled so powerfully “Three Thousand Years of Drama, Acting and Stagecraft.” That great tome could be read now and then of a Sunday and, as those who have read it will pledge, it will be good security against your next theatre trip. A glimpse at Baker’s “Theatre Technique” would allow sympathies for lulls in plays and insist on applause at other times. There are many readable books for the passively curious.
Embellishments
The history, the schools of playwrights, the reminiscences of the actors, all enhance the opportunities you may have to attend both the movie and the legitimate play. Stimulus for a little initiative begins with the mercenary bargaining with oneself, and ends with the high calibre of interests such a prompting manifests.
A more active receptivity for the exhibitions in the movie house or the not as yet wired-for-sound play homes is one thing, and the passive curiosity of whether or not the villain will be shot or hanged is nothing at all. Not that the “die for dear old art” attitude is recommended, but that dear old art will kill one if precautions are not made.
The Old Norm
The old criterion, ordinary intelligence, becomes paralyzed after a few hours of cocktail parties and animated mice. Missing the more sublime and more satisfying subtleties, raised to life for one’s entertainment in the great plays, is the act of another thief in the night, stupidity. Like everything else, the more one knows about the theatre the less one will know about anything else; but you will see more than the actors on the stage do, which, often makes the theatre a ridiculous haunt for the seeker of truth. A paragraph or two next week will continue our best ideas on play watching.
Theatre Guild Again
On South Lafayette Street, two blocks down from Jefferson, Sheridan’s Restoration play “The Critic”
will be given. The South Bend Theatre Guild produces this play with Powers and Rolfes in the cast, Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday nights of next week. Admission, fifty cents.
“Smilin’ Thru”
“Smilin’ Thru” gave Norma Shearer contrasts in character studies. Her gay ninety poise and coyness was the more effective whimsical girl. But her eagerness and possessive touches in her twenty era sweet bold thing had a dash and a dare which gives her talent a sensitive, capable grace. On his sham speech, upon his return from the war, when he meets Norma Shearer for the first time, Frederic March extols the high values of his complex and unclinchable effects.
Broadway
One veteran manager- was rather startled out of his senses the other day when he rented his playhouse for a new drama coming to Broadway. The star of the show was a young woman who didn’t know so much about acting, but she did have a wealthy husband who was willing to pay the cost of the shows as long as his wife wanted to have her name in lights in front of the theater.
The star, feeling that the marquee was rather inadequate and could not hold letters big enough to feature her name, demanded that the whole front of the theater be reconstructed. The manager of the house, not wanting his theater looking like a Coney island merry-go-round, tried to argue the actress out of this wish, pointing out that it would cost all of §20,000 for the project.
“Oh, what’s §20,000?” she giggled. “Just another diamond bracelet to me, and I’ve got enough of those already.”
The manager, who used to put on a half dozen plays for that amount, nearly swooned.
“American education has failed to produce outstanding leaders. Because so much time has been consumed in lifting masses of average students to a somewhat higher level of culture, it has been impossible to supply the foundations necessary to build character for leadership.” Dr. Cloyd Heck Marvin, president of George Washington university told his faculty recently.
>
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
HO-HUM: ANOTHER PROFESSION.
Add new features to the college curriculum: M. S. (master of swimming). Chicago University is now offering training courses and midterm examinations to all prospective masters of swimming.
The degree is granted only after the merman has passed most rigid examinations in speed swimming, fancy diving, life saving, and endurance swimming.
The degree should prove invaluable in securing summer employment as a life guard, and the possibilities are that beaches in Florida and California may hire someone with an M. S. for a permanent position.
DO YOU WANT A LIQUID DEGREE?
After seventeen years of idleness Chicago’s “beer college” last week heard the busy hum of students at work over textbooks and labora-test tubes.
The Wahl-Henius Institute of Fermentation started its first term since 1915 today with nineteen students in attendance.
In an opening address to his students, President Max Henius asked:
“What has the future in store for us?”
And he answered immediately:
“The revival of the brewing industry in the United States of America.”
Courses in chemistry, physics, bacteriology, yeast culture, refrigeration, and botany are offered.	’
NO FATE TOO GHASTLY
You know him, don’t you: that most annoying of fellow creatures? He sits beside you in a lecture, it’s always the one you particularly want to listen to, and while the professor is explaining the subject, he continually makes small remarks in a quiet voice. If the instructor makes the slightest mistake in a complicated derivation, he lets you in on the secret in a very confidential manner. If he happens to know something about the subject, he will repeat in his smooth yet annoying tone, “Yes, yes, I know that.” He is just loud enough to distract your attention, and he mumbles his words so that you hardly hear him. The result is too awful for words.
Boiling in oil is too mild a fate for these pestiferous creatures, but what we would do to these is as nothing compared with what we would do with the “bunk artist” who takes a large portion of a class’s time in having explanations made for his special benefit. The remainder of the class understand thoroughly, and in no unmistakable terms make it known. The bunk artist continues to require reasons for every step and explanation for every detail; he cannot take the time at home.to dig these out for himself. We gnash our teeth when one of this kind gets into action, and we think of all the horrible things we would do to him. A kettle of oil for the first pest, and for the second a bath of brine into which to toss the quartered carcass.—M. I. T. “Tech.”
CREIGHTONNAGE!
Here are a few of the results of the freshmen placement tests held at Creighton University:
Q. 1—Why are the days longer, in the summer?
A.—The heat makes everything expand.
Q. 2—What does idiom signify in the study of language?	.
A.—An idiom is a fool in any language.
Q. 3—What caused the American Revolution?
A.—The English put tacks in the American’s tea.
SOUNDS FISHY!
Selling fish bait, minnows and worms, is the way one University of Missouri student earned enough money to pay his enrollment fees this fall. As side lines, he marketed snails and mussel shells.
WHAT’S IN A NAME?
Which brings us to the story about the Palo Alto lady who wanted her lawn mowed weekly, and went to the Student Employment Service to get help. The committee assured her a Rough would be sent once a week. The first week the student who came to take care of the grass was named Stubblefield. On the next occasion the ambitious lad who was sent was named Clover, which the lady managed to laugh off, but the following time her resistance was completely broken when the arrival announced himself as named Sprinkle.—Stanford Daily.
October 28, 1932
Nineteen
THE PROTEST VOTE AND NORMAN THOMAS: ECHOES
When The Scholastic editorialized a few weeks ago on the advisability of a Catholic’s voting for Norman Thomas it knew instinctively that its position would be misinterpreted by some and entirely misunderstood by others. It has become reconciled to that sort of thing whenever religion and politics are mentioned in the same breath. The Catholic Church’s position will never become apparent to people who do not make an attempt, to understand her.
Those who persist in their warbling about the Church and its “political” policies can be put into two categories. One type knows nothing about Catholicism save that the Pope has a fleet of sub-' marines chained to his back porch and a wireless • in his library that is in constant touch with the Empire State building. The other class has its doubts about the latter business, knows even that the Holy Father is not an overzealous politician, but thinks it good policy to tell the public that he is. This class embraces the sensationalist, the would-be radical, the mud slinger and the bigot.
During the past week we became acquainted •with a new, milder but interesting type. Our attention was called to an editorial which appeared recently in the pages of the official publication of Colorado University. The editorial, in reference to an article on this page two weeks ago entitled “The Protest Vote and Norman Thomas,” has this to say: “When Mark Hanna’s statement that the Catholic Church will be the institution that will keep America from becoming socialistic is concerned, our liberal friends are inclined to smile. And yet if The Scholastic represents Catholic thought in America, this will be difficult to deny. If we may be permitted to interfere in something that is really none of our business, we think The Scholastic editor has made a mistake^ The Catholic Church has the most to lose if religion is injected into politics. There is no quicker way to bring about religious intolerance than to practice it . . . We think that religion is one issue that might be kept out of the campaign.”
Now we will permit this editor to interfere in something that is not his business provided that
he knows something about our business. But he obviously does not. We might force ourselves to overlook his inadequate grasp of the fundamentals of Catholicism, but we can’t condone the peculiar notion he has of Socialism. He is entirely oblivious to the fact that Socialism is not a political movement alone, that it professes a philosophy of its own, and has some definite stand on religion. Is it “meddling” then, for a Catholic to pass judgment on, or give an evaluation of, the Socialistic program?
The Scholastic agrees with the gentleman from Colorado that religion and politics should be completely divorced. The Catholic Church would like nothing better.
We begin to give up hope, however, that such a condition will ever exist when we hear of Catholic statesmen who are barred from the microphone, or when we read editorials by college editors who tell us that Socialism and Catholicism never step on each other’s toes, and that it is intolerance to think that they do.	’
ON ORV MOHLER
Wednesday’s • papers this week carried the story of the disablement of a fine college football player. Orv Mohler, Southern California’s great quarterback, has suffered an injury to his neck that will keep him out of football for the rest of this, his last grid season.
The Scholastic knows that it voices a sincere Notre Dame sentiment when it offers words of sympathy to Mohler on his misfortune. In addition to hoping for his speedy recovery, Notre Dame regrets that he has been prevented from winding up his outstanding career in flashing action.
Mohler was an admired and respected opponent. Any man who can hoist an eleven, no matter how great, by its boot-straps in the final quarter to overcome an appreciable lead is above the average. Mohler was that. The Irish, and the Irish backers will miss him from this year’s game.
f
Twenty
The Scholastic
“First Big Test”* Scots Fail, 42-0
Irish Whip Tech by Widest Margin In Ten Years; Lead 28-0 At Half
CROSS COUNTRY SQUAD BEATS CARNEGIE 18-37
Notre Dame Offense Unbeatable; Lanemen Almost Steal
Show; Six Men Score.
Notre Dame displayed excellence in every department of the game to overwhelm Carnegie Tech last Saturday by a score of 42-0. The "first real test of the season” turned out to be another romp, in which twentyeight Notre Dame players put on a display of perfect football.
From the dramatic beginning when Tech took possession of an Irish fumble shortly after the kickoff, and failed to score from the ten-yard line, Notre Dame marched down the field repeatedly for touchdowns. It was amazing to see Tech, by no means a weak team, unable to halt the advance for any length of time during the game.
Lukats Heads Attack
The Notre Dame first string played for 28 minutes and scored 21 points. Lukats led the attack with numerous gains through the Tech line. He put on a rare display of passing. In the third quarter he managed to toss three complete passes, with Vejar, Host, and Melinkovich on the receiving end. Jaskwhich at quarterback brought the crowd to its feet when he returned Dueger’s punt 60 yards for a touchdown. He brought his scoring total u]J to nine points by making three perfect kicks as points after touchdown.
The entire varsity line starred. Host and Kosky at the ends showed up well by ruining Carnegie end runs, and their blocking was deadly. Kurth and Krause were in fine form on the defensive, blocking viciously io open gaping holes in the Tech line. Harris, Greeney, and Alexander formed a stone wall in the center of the line that the Carnegie plungers were unable to penetrate.
The shock troops, who started the game, hammered the Tech line for three touchdowns. Mike Koken proved to be the outstanding ground gainer of the day. His charges through tackle and around the ends netted 166 yards. One run was 58 yards for
Kitty Gorman
He was back in form Saturday.
a touchdown. Vejar at quarterback ran back punts in his usual flashy style. His work on passes, both throwing and receiving was a treat. Roach and Pfefferle at the tackle positions and Tom Mahaffey at guard turned in sparkling performances. Gorman at center spilled Carnegie ballcarriers before they could get moving. He would spot the play and crash through to break it up.
In the Carnegie backfield Kavel and Duegner bore the brunt of the attack. The latter came into the game when McCurdy was injured, and managed to punt and pass effectively. Stewart at left end was a source of constant trouble to the Irish. He caught two passes for nice gains and played a fine all around game for 60 minutes. The Tech line (Continued on Page -24)
Roberts Wins As Irish Place Five Men in First Six.
Last Saturday morning the Notre Dame blue-jerseyed thinlies took the Carnegie Skibos on a round-the-lakes cruise. Something happened on the trip, probably the boat, sprang a leak, at any rate, the Blue and Gold harriers reported back at dock long before the straggling Skibos.
Five of the first six men to cross the finish line were Irish runners who -counted in the low numbers to give their team a score of 18 points compared with Carnegie’s 37.
Roberts 18:44, Bowers 18:45
It was not the football team, but the cross-country squad that began the glorious “Victory March” last week.
Clyde Roberts carried the tape honors in the meet by running the three and one-half mile course in 18:44. Ralph Bower matching strides with Roberts finished second in 18:45. To break the monotony of a landslide a Pittsburgher, Schell, stepped across the line in third place with diminutive Joe Young of Notre Dame almost running on his heels. Tom Grimes ran next in 18:57 and Duke, also of the Blue and Gold crew, followed in 18:59.
Nicholson Greatly Pleased
The remaining Notre Dame runners were Sluska, who finished in ninth place; Else, eleventh; Troy, twelfth; Hoyt, fourteenth; Moran, fifteenth; O’Reilly, sixteenth; O’Meara, twentieth; Van Petten, twenty-first, and La Framboise, twenty-third.
The field of harriers who traversed the course numbered twenty-four.
Coach John P. Nicholson was greatly pleased with the improvement which the squad registered over last (Continued on Page 25)
October 28, 1932
Twenty-one
RESERVE TEAM LEAVES TO BATTLE TEXAS TECH
Morrissey, Freshman Lead In Interhall Football Race
Twenty-four Men Make Trip; Southern Team is Strong.
Tomorrow, at Lubbock, Texas, the Notre Dame “B” team will tackle Texas Tech. This game is one of the most important and hardest games ever attempted by the Hamburger —squad. Not only does the squad travel half way across the continent to give the game an intersectional tinge, but it also encounters first class opposition.
Tech Secord Impressive
The record of Texas Tech is an impressive one. Tech started off its season w’ith a 65-0 slaughter of Colorado Miners, and then went on to a surprise 6-0 win over Southern Methodists. Followers of Notre Dame football will recall, with something of a shiver, the hectic battle which the Mustangs of Southern Methodist gave the national champions of 1930. _ Filling the ozone with passes, and fighting every inch of the way, the Mustangs held Rockne’s last team to a 20-14 win. Tech seems to have played itself out against S. M. U., and last week, in a dull and listless game, they dropped a 6-0 decision to Texas A. &. M. An aditional bit of color will be added by the presence of Ed McKeever in the Tech lineup. McKeever was with the Notre Dame squad two years ago.
Trip Planned
The squad of twenty-three players left Wednesday morning at eight o’clock for Chicago. At Chicago, they will board a train for Lubbock. En route, the squad, under, the direction of Manager Charlie Quinn and Manager Ray Keating, will stop at Kansas City, Waynoka, Oklahoma and Amarillo, Texas.
The members of the squad making the trip are:
Left Ends — Begley and Gildea; Left Tackle—Mariani and Esser; Left Guards — Jaeger and Steinburger; Centers — D’Amora and Fitzmaurice;
Right Guards — Shamla and Mahaffey; Right Tackles—Vyzral, Cou-sino, and Jehle; Left Ends—Murphy and Herold. .
Quarterback—Caldwell and Burke; Left half — Jordan and Cavender; Right half1—Dilling and Winterbottom; Full back—Hagen and Donnelly.
INTERHALL HEAD
Tom Yarr
Hall Standing
GROUP I.
W L T Pts.
Morrissey ..........  8	0	0	6
Corby 		.. 1	0	1	3
St. Edward’s 		.. 1	1	0	2
Badin 			.. 1	1	0	2
Dillon 		.. 0	1	1	1
Lyons 		.. 0		0	0
Carfoil 			.... 0	3	0	0
GROUP II.
W L T Pts.
Freshman ____________ 3	0	0	6
Alumni ______________ 2	0	0	4
Walsh ...............  2	0	0	4
Brownson ____________ 0	2	0	0
Howard ______________ 0	2	0	0
Games for Sunday, Oct. 30.
Group 1.—Lyons vs. Dillon, Minims field, 9:00; Morrissey vs. Corby, Cartier field No. 1, 9:00.
Group 2.—Howard vs. Alumni, Cartier field No. 2, 9:06.
Joe Kurth Wins Shoes
Joe Kurth, varsity right tackle, because of his performance in the Carnegie Tech game last Saturday, won a pair of Bostonian shoes offered by the Paul O. Kuehn Company of South Bend to the Notre Dame man playing th emost outstanding game. Head Coach Heartley Anderson was judge of the contest.
NEW RATING PLAN
Determine Standings on Points Rather Than Percentages; St. Ed’s Protest Overruled.
By Edward Van Huisselling
Interhall Sports Editor
Numerous strange happenings which occurred during the past week threw Interhall football off its regular course and brought it to the front as a topic for campus chatter.
The foremost of these oddities was the failure of two teams to put in an appearance for their scheduled games. Badin and Walsh halls were victors in these games when Lyons and Carroll, their respective opponents, chose to forfeit the contests.
Carroll Drops Out
Monday brought the announcement that Carroll had dropped from the league. The dormitory lads are the second to drift from the fold; Off-Campus preceding them by two weeks. Rumors have been floating around that Lyons is contemplating dropping out. However, a valiant effort is being made by interhall officials to keep the sophomores in the thick of the fight.
The interhall system was originated to give every many at Notre Dame an equal oportunity to play football. However, with two teams already disbanded, it seems that the men have lost interest in this movement and are content to allow it to fall into a most deplorable condition.
Carroll Games Forfeit
Interhall officials announced that teams scheduled to play Carroll would automatically be given victories via the forfeit route.
Announcement number two was forthcoming from Tom Yarr early this week to the effect that Morrissey’s protest of its game with Badin on October 9 was allowed because the Juniors used two varsity men in their lineup. The eligibility rules state plainly that no member of either the Freshman or Varsity squads is eligible to compete.
The suden change gives Morrissey a firm grip on first place in Group H.
(Continued on Page 26)
! ’
I
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
“Notre Dame Ready”, Says Kurth on Eve of Pitt Game
SEEDED TEAMS REACH FINALS OF TENNIS MEET
TENSENESS IN AIR
Voedisch’s Excellent Scouting Helps Varsity to Stop Panther Plays.
By Joe Kurth
The Panther is stalking its prey. The Pittsburgh Panthers watch from their stadium the approach of the Fighting Irish. From outside the stadium the Blue and Gold eleven approaches cautiously, realizing that, perhaps, upon the turf of the Pittsburgh stadium they may encounter pit-falls that will catapult them from the rank of national contenders.
Notre Dame is ready. During the past week the hustle sign has hung out upon the hallowed ground of Cartier field. The air of tenseness, always present before a big game, has electrified every player from the most regular first team member to the lowliest scrub. It galvanized them into action and made them go through their routine work with a zest that makes for winning football.
Varsity vs. Reserves
No intensive scrimmage was scheduled for the week, but both the first and second team, were put through a light defensive scrimmage against the reserves. The reserves used Pittsburgh plays and they put on an exhibition that was a credit to them. Neither the first nor the second team fell prey to the spinners, reverses, lateral passes, or forward passes of the lauded Pittsburgh offensive.
Anderson Is Pleased
Coach Anderson was pleased with the defense that his teams set up against the “synthetic” Pittsburgh team. Assistant coach “Ike” Voedisch prompted the reserves in their work against the varsity teams since it was he who scouted the Panthers in all their games. Ike’s work as a scout is outstanding and the Notre Dame eleven is fully acquainted with the Pittsburgh offensive, providing Coach Sutherland does not spring a new offense.
Notre Dame is ready to enter the lair of the Panther.
Kempf Wins, Green 2nd In Handicap Golf Meet;
A.. A. Establishes Trophy
One of the hardest fought golf matches ever to be staged on the Notre Dame Memorial course was played Tuesday afternoon. This round which was won by Louis Kempf culminated the long drawn out handicap tournament which lasted almost two weeks. Weather conditions, however, had a lot to do with the postponement of the- scheduled matches.
Tied Up To Twelfth
Kempf played a brilliant game of golf that afternoon as did his opponent and runner-up, Herman Green. The victor trailed Green until the ninth hole when he lifted a beautiful shot from the fairway, up onto the green and within a few inches of the cup. The players remained tied until the twelfth hole. At this point Kempf took the lead when he made the hole in a par three, while Green was taking five strokes for his count.
Outside of the weather, everything in connection with the matches was perfect. The starters for the tournament were chosen by the scores they had made in 18 holes of medal play which were played on Oct. 2. The 18 low cards were then matched and the first round was started. Revised handicaps were issued at the start of each new round, and when the third session was due, Kempf, George Nag-elson, Green and Bill Cole were the remaining contestants. In this round Kempf beat Nagelson one up. Green easily disposed of Cole.
Kempf Gets A. A. Award
The handicap tournament was sponsored by the Athletic Association, and Louis Kempf will receive a trophy to be retained in his permanent possession. This prize, according to Athletic Director Jesse C. Harper, will be* donated by the Athletic Association.
Every state in which there is an automobile to every 106 inhabitants or less is a democratic state.—Prof. A. N. Holcombe of Harvard.
Chreist and Kelly to Play Staley-Powers For Title.
The battle for the tennis doubles championship of the University will be waged between the seeded teams of Chreist and Kelly, and Staley and Powers. These two teams, pretourney favorites to win, came through as was predicted and will meet as soon as the weather permits.
Staley and Powers Favored
The combination of Staley and Powers, on their tournament showing, have a slight edge on the other duo, who played number one doubles on the Notre Dame squad last year. Kelly, particularly, has been far off his usual steady game and unless he improves may be the downfall of his combination.
In the semi-finals, the team of Louis Chreist and Dick Kelly met a tartar in the team of Hackenbrook and Morrison. The varsity pair were able to forge ahead to win in the last set, mainly, through the splendid play of Chreist, the number one man of the varsity team and the recent winner of the University singles title.
Kelly was very weak in this match and the cagy team of Hackenbrook and Morrison nearly scored a major upset by directing most of their play at him. The scores were: 6-3, 3-6, 6-4.
Teams Close In Semi-Finals
In the other semi-final match, Seton Staley and his partner Ed Powers, the other seeded combination, mastered Valdes and Margrett to the tune of 6-2, 7t5. This powerful pair, after vanning the first set in easy fashion, eased up in the second and were extended to extra games before finally winning the match.
The scores of the second round were:
Hackenbrook-Morrison won from Reuland and Measer by default.
Valdes-Margrett beat Shapiro and Daly 3-6, 6-2, 6-4.
The seeded teams of Staley and Powers and Chreist and Kelly drew byes.
Chreist and Kelly had advanced to the second round by defeating Gill and Martin 6-0, 6-2.
October 28, 1932
Ttventy-three

OPEN THROTTLE!
FALL HANDICAP MEET PRODUCES GOOD MARKS
Nick Lukats (48), apparently stopped after a sizeable advance, prepares to toss a lateral pass to George Melinkovich (30) tuho added more ground before being halted. All this in the course of Notre Dame’s 42-0 tvin from Carnegie Tech
ACROSS THE SCRIMMAGE LINE
By Joe Kurth
Nick Lukats, at one stage of the game, brought all of his histrionic efforts, garnered in the law school, to bear upon the referee, Colonel Hackett, when he talked the arbitrator into giving Carnegie Tech a ■ penalty of fifteen yards for unnecessary roughness. It was laughable to see Nick with his hand over his mouth and hear him giving his reasons why the penalty should be inflicted.
Twice during Saturday’s game it would have been advantageous to the staff of officials if a member of the engineering department had been present with a surveyor’s instrument to see whether or not Notre Dame
really did make a first down. It was so close, both times, that a sheet out of this Scholastic could not have been put between the yard stick and the ball. Both times the ball was given to Carnegie. I wonder if Notre Dame ever did get the benefit of the doubt in any game?
One cannot help but comment upon the zeal of Professor Joseph Casa-santa, after seeing him hold the band on the field and play the number he did between halves. Game or no game, he finished his number. More power to you, Joe.
May I ask the indulgence of the student body in putting the personal element—I, into this column? I am out “gunning” for Bill Flynn because of the story he wrote about me entitled, “Introducing Joe Kurth.”
When Mike Koken and “Chuck” Jaskwhich got into the open on their long runs, they didn’t waste any time. They turned on all the power in their legs and “set sail” for the distant goal line.
(Continued on Page 30) .
New Track Aspirants Please Nicholson With Showings.
By James Pick
The 1932 fall handicap track and field meet which was held last Thursday and Friday revealed to Coach Nicholson the strength of his oncoming freshman horde. Mid-season records were turned in, in a few of the track events while in some of the field events, the javelin, broad jump, and shot put, there was evidence of excellent performances.
In the sprints Gilfoil proved to be at the head of the field by copping first in the century and furlong, and running second in the quarter mile. Gioe placed second in both of the shorter sprints.
Else Wins Mile
Du Cassa recorded the best time in the 440 by finishing ten yards ahead of the sprinters after starting from scratch. He covered the distance in :53.4.
The mile run was won by Else in 4:55.6. Van Patten lead the pack all during the race and lost only by an inch or so at the tape.
Van Petten returned Friday to win the half mile. He was followed by big Jim Shields who starred with the freshman team last year. Else took third and Du Cassa, fourth.
Finkel, varsity weight man, outclassed the shot putters with a heave of 43 ft. 11 in. The men in this event showed great promise. Others hurled the ball over 42 ft., which is a good mark at this time of the year.
- Basan Wins Discus
Basan, a sophomore football player won the discus throw, at 119 ft. 4 in.
The broad jump was won by Fischer with a leap of 22 ft. 10 in. This record, however, includes an 18 inch handicap. George Meagher, a freshman, was superior in this event with three marks over 21 ft. He did not have a handicap.
Meagher, although a better broad jumper, came through with a victory in the high hurdles. Jim Fagan of the varsity took second. Fagan won the low hurdles on Friday in the excellent time of • :17.7. Fagan should be the best hurdler on the track team this year.
(Continued on Page 30)
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING Norm Greeney
N. D. 42; TECH 0.
(Continued from Page 20)
By William Flynn
Since economic self - preservation became more important than pseudo “culture” and Jake Curley discovered that sport-followers would part with some of their hoardings to hear grunts and groans and see facial expressions of intense agony as toes are twisted and arms bent, it has been the custom for some college football stars to become wrestlers.
But for a wrestler, not a professional, but a good one and a champion of his own right in a rather large and densely populated state, to turn football player is something else. In the gridiron game there is no “quick money” but the intensity of grunts and groans and twists and agony remains just about the same.
State Wrestling Champ
The man -who turned such a trick was Norman Greeney, right guard of Coach Hunk Anderson’s current cast of the Notre Dame Fighting Irish, this week beginning its road engagement which shall carry it from coast to coast before December 10.
Back in Cleveland, Ohio, Greeney’s home town, those who remember something of high school athletics of the four year ago vintage, recall Greeney as a state light-heavyweight wrestling champion. He held that title several times. There is a story about the campus that he used to toss a coin with Bob Terlack, now guard for “Sleepy” Jim Crowley at Michigan State, to see who would be current champion when the two met in tournament finals.
Since his light-heavyweight days, sometimes Ohio state interscholastic wrestling champion, and all - state guard, Greeney has reached his full growth. At the present time he tips the scales at 202 and is six feet, one inch tall. He doesn’t appear to be that big. But then appearances are usually deceiving.
Sociology Major
This German-Irish guard lives in a Corby single, 342. You can find him in his. room any evening. After dinner he usually hits the books until “lights out.” The reason seems to be that he’s majoring in Sociology which anyone will testify takes considerable work.
His room has something of an Irish air about it. Above his bed is
a huge, green banner sporting a silver Irish harp. Below the instrument that once rang in Tara’s halls are the words: “Erin Go Bragh.” Irish scholars will probably understand the phrase. Most people can’t, and Greeney refuses to translate.
Greeney first attracted attention of the football world in 1930. Tom Kas-sis was first string left guard that year.' In the Northwestern game at Evanston, where Warren Brown claims the national championship for that year was decided and not at Olympic Stadium at Southern California as many contended, Kassis was injured.
Shifted to Right Guard
Greeney took his place. In his own words “I was in long enough to get a black eye.” That eye must have recovered by the time California was reached for the following Saturday Left Guard Greeney played the entire game until the last few minutes when he was relieved by Jim Harris.
That same friendly rivalry continued during the 1930 season until Greeney was injured in the Carnegie game. For that reason he didn’t get in the remaining two games on the schedule.
When time for spring practice for the present season came around last year, Greeney was shifted to the op-
was prone to overshift, leaving plenty of opportunities for the Irish blockers to open up holes.
On the whole, the game was comparatively free from penalties. Notre Dame made 466 yards from scrimmage to 70 for Carnegie. They also led by a wide margin in first downs made, having 20, to 4 for Tech. The Irish completed six out of eleven passes for 97 yards.
Summary: Notre Dame (42)	Carnegie (0)
Vairo _____________LE____________ Stewart
Pfefferle__________LT............   Croft
Wunsch ------------LG........... Heinzeer
Gorman ____________C............... Jones
Mahaffey __________RG............. Burzio
Roach _____________RT............ Forsman
Rascher -----------RE______________ Burns
Vejar -------------QB............ McCurdy
Koken _____________LH............. Spisak
Sheeketski ________RH.......... Kavel	(C.)
Banas _____________FB____________ O’Toole
Touchdowns—Koken. Sheeketski, Melinko-vich, Jaskwhich, Brancheau, Banas.
Substitutions: Notre Dame—Kosky for Vairo, Krause for Pfefferle, Harris for Wunsch, Alexander for Gorman, Greeney for Mahaffey, Kurth for Roach. Host for Devore, Jaskwhich for Vejar, Lukats for Koken. Melinkovich for Banas. Brancheau for Sheeketski, Murphy for Vejar, Gildea for Vairo, Canale for Haf-ron, Tobin for Sheeketski, McGuff for Koken, Leonard for Banas.
Carnegie Tech—Mihm for O’Toole, Nutter for Croft, Sayles for Spisak, Dreshar for Burzio, Plummer for Nutter, Doloway for B’.ack, Dueger for McCurdy, Croissant for Doloway, Siegal for Jones, Fedder for Croft.
Referee—Col. H. B. Hackett (West Point). Umpire—C. C. Eckles (W. & J.). Fie’d judge —E. E. Miller (Penn State). Head linesman —J. J. Lipp (Chicago). •
posite side of the line. In the Haskell game this year close observers of him in action may have seen his application of wrestling principles to guard play.
On one of the rare occasions when the Indians had the ball, they tried a reverse. Suddenly, into their backfield, popped Greeney. He didn’t know just how the play was going to end or which one of the wily Redskin halfbacks would carry the ball so he put a headlock on both of them.
Imprisoned by his right arm was the one carrying the ball. Greeney put on a little more pressure. The Indian’s helmet slipped off and Greeney had only one Indian and a helmet. The play was stopped for a loss of three yards.
So, Norman Greeney, future line coach, good fellow, excellent story teller, Treasurer of the Monogram club, alumnus of John Marshall high school, Cleveland, is still a wrestler at heart.
October 28, 1932
Twenty-five
NOTRE DAME VS. PITT
(Continued from Page 5)
have garnered but 138 in 300 minutes.
Pittsburgh had defeated Ohio Northern, 47-0; West Virginia, 40-0; Duquesne, 33-0; and Army, 18-13, before playing a scoreless tie with Ohio State last Saturday.
One of the big newspapers of the country has righlty named Notre Dame “the team without a star,” as the total points scored have been collected by players from the first team to the fourth. The three leading scorers of th squad are Banas, Melin-kovich, and Koken. Steve has 36 points to his credit, Mink has 30, and Mike has 16 points. The Irish have also gained 1,535 yards from scrimmage, or an average of 7.5 yards on 197 snaps of the ball from center. In the three games played, Notre Dame has made 51 first downs to 10 made by their opponents.
George Melinkovich has proven to be the best ground gainer, as he has 1	an average of 8.6 yards in 20 times
that he carried the ball. Banas averages 814 yards in 31 tries, while Nick Lukats carried the ball 27 times for 7 yards a trip.
The game tomorrow will renew a rivalry of 23 years standing. Notre i	Dame has won 4 of the 5 games, the
other resulting in a scoreless tie. Here are the scores:
1909—Notre Dame. 6; Pittsburgh, 0. 1911—Notre Dame, 0 ; Pittsburgh, 0. 1912—Notre Dame, 3 ; Pittsburgh, 0. 1930—Notre Dame, 35 ; Pittsburgh, 19. 1931—Notre Dame, 25 ; Pittsburgh, 12.
*	Coach Anderson isn’t the only
coach of the eastern bound contingent to have his worries, as Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta has been drilling his band of 81 pieces on “P” formations for the past week. This will be the first trip east for the band.
4 YEARS of opportunity
HARRIERS BEAT TECH.
(Continued from Page 20)
week’s race in Evanston. Six men finished the distance of three and one-half miles under nineteen minutes. The times of the men were not sensational, but consistent enough to defeat many teams in a dual meet.
Before the present season got underway Coach Nicholson said the team would be “fair—just fair. If they win at all it will be a result of their great enthusiasm.”
If it is spirit then that won for this much improved squad last Saturday, we can look forward to a few thrilling victories, if not hidden upsets, during the remainder of the season.
SO MUCH can be gained from these undergraduate years. Campus leadership. Classroom scholarship. Lifelong friendships. Energy and health are important assets for the man who would get the most from these years.
Too often constipation is permitted to sap health and undermine vitality. It can become a serious handicap.
A delicious cereal will overcome this condition. Two tablespoonfuls of Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN will promote regular habits. ALL-BRAN supplies “bulk,” vitamin B and iron. Ask that it be served at your fraternity house or campus restaurant.
•
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s Com Flakes, PEP Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kelloggs whole wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — real coffee that lets you sleep.
^9^
All - Bran
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
(Continued from Page 21)
The Gold Coasters kept their slate clean Sunday by nosing out St. Edward’s in one of the hardest fought games in the history of interhall competition. The final score read: Morrissey 6; S. Edward’s 0.
St. Edwards’ protests of the game, based on two questionable decisions on pass interference were not allowed by interhall officials, and the victory was recorded for Morrissey. 0
St. Edward’s was decidedly off form throughout the entire game. They took the ball within the Morrissey 20 yard line four times only to lose it on fumbles three of those times and once on downs. The St. Edward’s line, led by Captain Andrews and Viviano, played a steady game, but St. Edward’s backfield was shaky throughout the fracas.
Alumni continued on its way to the top of the hill with a crushing 19 to
THE GAME
PUTS YOU IN
makes an
ideal

KnouuJlU
At a close range or for distance,
SPORTOCULAR
gives you supernatural siqht The SPORTOCULAR
easily adjusted and
the sport enthusiast
SPORTOCULAR
0 win over Brownson. Slippery under-footing gave both teams considerable trouble and caused many runners to slip and fall in the open field.
Although Brownson was no match for the Juniors, they showed a great improvement over their showing of a week ago. They relieved some of the sting of defeat by holding Alumni for downs three times within their six yard line.
The smooth running Freshman Hall team bowled over Howard to keep one step ahead of Alumni, their most dangerous foe in the race.
Gleason and Dizanza were again the high spots in the Frosh lineup.
As the weeks roll by it becomes more apparent that the Freshman-Alumni struggle of November 13 will decide the championship of Group II. Both squads are the smoothest outfits seen in Interhall play in some time. Their plan of attack is somewhat similar to the extent that both use" their shock troops to wear down the opponents before the regulars go
to work. However, these shock troops have a knack of scoring points themselves as well as holding the enemy at bay.
A new scoring system has been inaugurated during the past week. The percentage basis in figuring the standings of the various teams has been substituted by the point system. Under the latter arrangement, a team is credited with two points for a victory, one for a tie, and none for a defeat. This method is supposed to reduce the possibility of three or four teams tying for the top honors in the group.
Morrissey 6; St. Edward’s 0.
In one of the biggest upsets of the year, the highly touted St. Edward’s football machine went down in defeat before a weaker Morrissey hall team, 6 to 0. The heavy St. Edward’s team was thwarted time and again when they came within striking distance of the Morrissey goal by a charging line and fumbles.
Morrissey scored the lone touchdown early in the first quarter. Striking with unexpected fury, they crossed the goal after a long pass had been ruled complete because :>f interference on the Minims’ two yard line. A pass for the extra point was knocked down.
The game was marred by continual arguments between players, officials, and coaches.
Dick Emmerling, husky St. Edward’s back, was easily the outstanding performer on the field. His long punts kept the Morrissey team far from the St. Ed’s goal.
Molinari was the outstanding man in the Morrissey line, time and again breaking up plays before they
OTTO INVITES YOU
NICKLE LUNCH
114 E. Jefferson St.
Wholesome Delicious Food
Any Dish, 5c Sandwiches, 5c
T-Bone Steaks ....35c
Pork Chops........30c
Fried Chicken ....30c
Hamburger Steak...25c
Above orders include French Fried Potatoes, Bread and Butter, or Toast; Coffee.
October 28, 1932
Twenty-seven
reached the line of scrimmage.
The players fought so hard that total exhaustion was not far from many of the players when the final whistle blew.
Andrews and Viviano were the outstanding men in the St. Ed’s line. They played a steady game throughout and plugged many holes in the line.
The losers were really the team that fate forgot. Four times they worked the ball down deep into Morrissey territory only to lose it on fumbles. Their offense was far superior to that of their rivals while their defense could have been little better.
Alumni 19; Brownson 0.
Alumni Hall continued on the right road in its quest for Interhall honors by turning back Brownson by the score of 19 to 0 Sunday. A muddy field which made for a slippery ball hindered both teams in their offensive drives, Brownson especially experienced trouble with the wet ball, the result being that they fumbled a number" of times; most of which Alumni recovered.
Alumni, with a smart defense and
a steady defense, was always the master of the situation. From the opening kickoff till the final whistle the junior hall was always in command.
With the “shock troops” in at the beginning, Alumni tallied a touchdown in the opening period. The regulars entered the game in the second quarter to score another touchdown, before the end of the half. A makeshift lineup was in when a blocked kick paved the way for the final touchdown near the end of the game.
Midway in the first quarter Alumni came into possession of the ball on the Brownson 40 yard line when a Brownson kick went out of bounds at that point. Bloemsa, who made himself generally useful throughout the game, passed to Rickard on the 25 yard line. Rickard easily completed the distance to the goal. Bloesma’s attempted dropkick for the extra point was blocked.
In the second period the Juniors recovered a Brownson fumble on the Brownson 13 yard line. On the first play Luckonitch ran the 13 yards for the touchdown. Pallman’s attempted dropkick was blocked.
A Brownson fumble recovered by Pogue on the freshman 14 yard line in the fourth quarter did not prove advantageous for Alumni at the time as Brownson- took the ball away on its own five yard line. Alumni came back to block the Brownson kick in the end zone and Pogue recovered for the touchdown. Pallman passed to Bloesma for the extra point.
Freshman 21; Howard 7.
A fine, well-drilled Freshman Hall team took the lead in the Interhall League by defeating Howard Hall Sunday by the score of 21 to 7, in a well played game. For Freshman it was their third successive victory; for Howard it meant the second time in as many tries that it has failed to come out on top.
It was one of the best played games this year. The teams were evenly matched, ntiore so in fact than the score would indicate.
Freshman with Gleason and Di-zanza playing the same sterling brand of ball that characterized their play in each of the first two games continued to play heads up ball and in addition a newcomer in the person (Continued on Paste 30)
Every Hour on the Hour
to
DOWNTOWN CHICAGO
Every hour on the hour a fast train ,	• leaves the South Shore station, Michigan
St., at LaSalle, South Bend, for downtown Chicago, making the trip in a little more than two hours. This is the quick, •	convenient way to the city. Equally fast
trains also leave Chicago every hour on ।	the hour for South Bend.
For complete information on South Shore Line service, see Jimmy McGrath, No. 1 Morrissey Hall.
’ SOUTH SHORE LINES
HALLOWEEN
MASQUERADE BALL
Featuring
Louis Panico
America’s Greatest Trumpeter
25c Admission ■■ Park Plan
Saturday and Sunday
DUANE YATES
PALAIS ROYALE BALLROOM
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
An old favorite of the sports pages is dead. The death was violent. No longer can the nationality distinction so popularly aimed at the local squad be limited to the Fighting Irish. And this in the very land where, ’twas once said, “The Cabots
Flatten
the Peaks
The Tuberculosis Death Rate
MAA
MEN
I5ym.25vm. 45wts. 65m»
THE NATIONAL, STATE AND LOCAL TUBERCULOSIS ASSOCIATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES
WOMEN
Buy Christmas Seals
speak only to the Lowells, and the Lowells speak only to God”—
Carl Pescosolido. a Harvard left half-back, ran back a Dartmouth kickoff 93 yards to enable the Crimson to turn back their northern foe, 10-7.
Needlessly, year after year, tuberculosis takes its great toll. No other disease kills as many persons in the most productive period of life—15 to 45. Examine the peaks. Startling? Yes, for tuberculosis can be avoided and cured. Help flatten these peaks. Your
health tomorrow may depend on your assistance today.

NOW ABOUT THIS DEFENSE
In the volumes that are being written about the Notre Dame offensive juggernaut, we’d like to insert a chapter or two about the defensive strength of that same Irish grid squad.
None of the three victims polished off thus far has "crossed mid-field against the Irish under their own steam. As a matter of fact, the opposition has had the ball in Notre Dame territory but three times under anybody’s steam.
Haskell recovered two Irish fumbles on the home 35 and 22-yard lines. Drake stayed on their own side of the 50-yard mark, and Carnegie came within sight of the Irish goal once, when they recovered a fumble on the nine-yard line.
The high tides of the enemies’ offensives left these high water marks on the stadium turf: Haskell: once to their own 40-yard line, once to their 36, once to their 34, and twice to their 30.
Drake: twice to their own 40-yard line, once to their 36, once to their 35, and once to their 33. Carnegie, showing a little more in the line of an offensive, once gained just to mid-field. Advances to their own 47, 46, 39, and 36-yard stripes were the other big drives for the Scots.
SCORECASTS
For this week, and we offer the major one without qualms of any sort, we pick them to finish this way:
NOTRE DAME 20, PITTSBURGH 0.
Auburn 20, Mississippi 0.
Army 26, William and Mary 6.
Harvard 13, Brown 7.
Bucknell 12, Villanova 7.
Carnegie 13, Temple 0.
Colgate 20, Penn State 0.
Columbia 20, Cornell 6.
Rice 13, Creighton 7.
Dartmouth 14, Yale 6.
Tennessee 13. Duke 0
Fordham 13, Boston College 0.
Vanderbilt 20, Georgia Tech 13. Oregon 13, Gonzaga 0. Nebraska 13, Kansas State 7. Washington and Jefferson 7, Lafayette 0. Marquette 7, West Virginia 0.
Michigan State 20, Syracuse 7.
Indiana 13, Mississippi 0.
Pennsylvania 14, Navy 6.
Purdue 10, New York University 7. Northwestern 13, Minnesota 0.
Ohio State 7, Wisconsin 0.
Michigan 26, Princeton 7.
Texas 19, Southern Methodist 10.
Stanford 13, U. C. Los Angeles 0. Tulane 14, South Carolina 0.
California 27, Nevada 0.
Chicago 7, Illinois 0.
Georgia 13, Florida 7.
Detroit 14, Georgetown 6.
October 28, 1932
Tiuenty-nine
PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY
p, (Office 4-5661	X-ray °ne {Residence 3-4041 DR. E. S. LUCAS Dentist 702 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Opposite Oliver Hotel	Indiana		Expert Eye	Glasses Properly Fitted Service	at Moderate Prices J. BURKE, Inc. Optometrist and Manufacturing Opticians Established 1900	228 S. Michigan St.
		
Office Phone 3-3309	Res. Phone 5-1343 DR. B. A. KAMM Ear, Nose and Throat Suite 526 Sherland Building Jefferson and Michigan „	(10 to 12 m. LJ	9 [3 to 5 p. m.	South Bend, Indiana		DR. J. M. SINGLER DR. E. A. PROBST '	D entis ts Phone 3-1254	405 Associates Building
		
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective Shoes Residence Phone 4-6354 DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 432-34 Associates Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.		Dr. E. J. Cain	Dr. H. H. Rogers ROGERS Eyesight Specialists Phone 4-8251	213 S. Michigan Street
		
Office 3-6978	Residence 2-6741 DR. LEO J. QUINLAN Dentist 514 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Ind.		„ . ,	(Office 4-5821	X-Ray Telephone |Residence 3_3090 DR. H. W. CARTER D e n t i s t 315 Union Trust Bldg.	South Bend, Indiana
(10 to 11:30 a. m. ■Hours jo x 4	■ 12 to 4 p. m. DR. H. BOYD-SNEE Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat	. 716 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Indiana	>	FRANK J. POWERS, M. D. University Physician Office at	Hours: University Infirmary	12:30 p. m. to 4 p. m.
Thirty
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
(Continued from Page 27)
of Joe Ford gave them a helping hand.
Ford scored the first touchdown on a pretty 40 yard run and it was also he who took Gleason’s pass over the goal line for the second score.
With the Freshman first team in at the start of the second period the combination of Gleason and Dizanza went to work and succeeded in working its way down to the Howard 45 yard line. Here Ford made five yards and was seemingly tackled when he broke away and scored easily. A pass Gleason to Dizanza added the extra point.
SCRIMMAGE LINE
(Continued from Page 23)
Vejar threw a pretty pass to Shee-ketski for a touchdown, Saturday. It was Laurie’s first throw in competition.
Stewart, Carnegie Tech left end, made some very nice tackles on the Notre Dame safety men. Jaskwhich and Vejar will vouch for that statement.
LISTEN IN!
Uh a NEW AETNA RADIO
■» A
After considerable juggling of the ball, Kavel finally caught the ball completing the pass that Dueger had thrown to him.
The forward pass from Lukats to Melinkovich was one that merely went down in the statistics of the game, since it was fourth down and George just missed making first down by a hair. It was one time a surveyor could have been used.
Kitty Gorman covered on passes very well last Saturday and on the completion of one of them, he made a beautiful tackle.
New Triple-Grid Tubes
The Last Word in Radio
By the way, the 42 to 0 defeat handed to Carnegie Tech was the soundest trouncing they have taken since they started football.
HANDICAP TRACK
(Continued from Page 23)
R. C. A. Licensed— Fully -Guaranteed— New type Tubes— Dynamic Speaker with more Power— Smoother Tone. None sold to dealers.
Replace your old tubes for the Football Games
X? RADIO TUBES
Have Your Tubes Tested FREE!
and accurately at Walgreen’s. Open until midnight.
Aristocrat — R. C. A. LicensedBest Quality obtainable regardless of price.	*
Type-226 tabes... .80c List Price
Type-201A tabes. ..T5c List Price
Other popular Nos. at simi-- —  ------T.
far low prices.
Save 25% to 45% on your tubes
R I O' FDD	RADIO TUBE
ft dig I UU n 9 HEADQUARTERS
The records:
100-yd. final—Won by Gilfoil; Gioe, second ; Fischer, third. Time :99.
75-yd. High Hurdles—Won by Meagher; Fagan, second. Time :10.1.
440-yd. Final—Won by Du Cassa; Gilfoil, second; Wenz, third. Tome :53.4.
Mile run—Won by Else; Van Petten, second ; Rossi, third. Time 4:55.6.	■
Javelin—Won by Favret, 173 ft. 7 in.; Cummings, second, 148 ft. 2 in., with a 10 ft. handicap; Walsh, third, 147 ft. 2 in.
High Jump—Won by Murphy; Zieprecht, second; Favert, third; 5 ft. 7 in.
Broad Jump—Won by Fischer, 22 ft. 10 in.; Meagher, 21 ft. 10 in. second; Schiavone, third, 19 ft. 2 in.
Pole Vault—Won by Edwards; Maxwell, second; Osweiler, third; height 10 ft. 7 in.
Shot put—Won by Finkel, 44 ft. 11 in.; Elser, second, 43 ft. 3 in.; Sullivan, third 42 ft. 8% in.: Welsh, fourth, 40 ft, 7% in.
Discus Throw—Won by Basan, 125 ft. 6 in.;
Finkel, second, 119 ft. 4 in.; Walsh, third.
220-yd. Dash—Won by Gilfoil; Gioe, second ; Rubly, third. Time :23.	'
Half Mile—Won by Van Petten; Shields, second; Else, third; Du Cassa, fourth. Time 2:14.4.	■	.
150-yd. Low Hurdles—Won by Fagan;
Coyne, second. Time • :17;7.	- ■
October 28, 1932
Thirty-one
COACH KEOGAN BEGINS BASKETBALL PRACTICE
Football Keeps Krause Busy Until Northwestern Game.
By George R. Belting
There is one big job on Coach George Keogan’s hands these days and that is the responsibility of placing on the basketball court a quintet representative of Notre Dame. We are not worrying about this, for we feel very confident that Notre Dame will always have a team worthy of representing her* as long as Coach Keogan remains at the helm.
Four Monogram Men
However, when one stops and considers that there are only four of last year’s monogram men returning to the squad, and that of this number, one will be lost until after football season, he readily understands that Doctor Keogan has no set-up job. Leo Crowe, Captain Johnny Baldwin, who was forced to leave the team last year through sickness, Joe Voegle, and Ed Krause are the lettermen who will for mthe nucleus of the 1932-33 aggregation. Krause will not be
available for cage duty until after the Southern California game, about the fifteenth of December. This means that the big center has only four days in which to get in trim for one of the hardest games on the Notre Dame schedule—N orth western.
Practice started early this week and now all of the boys have their shooting eyes in the best of shape. Coach Keogan expects to have his eagers scrimmaging about the middle of next week. It is only by watching the men work out during a tough
119 WEST COLFAX, WEST OF PALAIS ROYALE
"The Mary-Ann Welcomes Notre Dame Men"
scrimmage that the coach can tell the real kind of material that he has from which to select his team.
There are a number of last year’s Freshman squad coming up for their first shot at a varsity job. One of the yearlings that showed up well last year and who is expected to see plenty of action this season is Joe O’Kane. Other members of the 193132 Freshmen outfit who will be fighting for varsity berths are Jim Newbold, Al McGuff, Ray Boland and Al Jordan.
SPECIAL LUNCHES △ Dinners v
STUART ERWIN BING CROSBY LEILA HYAMS
STARTS SATURDAY
Not a revue—but a fascinating radio romance—
“THE BIG
BROADCAST”
WITH
The biggest show on the screen in years —All your Radio favorites plus a great comedy story!
BURNS A ALLEN KATE SMITH MIUS BROTHERS BOSWELL SISTERS ARTHUR TRACY THS STREET SINGER
VINCENT LOPEZ
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
CAB CALLOWAY
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
RACKETY
A Laugh Producer DeLuxe With
RAX
THE ALL-AMERICAN FOOTBALL SCREAM!
How was he to know that Physics was a science—A quarterback wasn't a discount —that the Yale Bowl wasn’t full of soup?
Starting WEDNESDAY
Victor McLaglen
And Gretta Nissen
PU BLIX THEATRE
Thirty-tivo
The Scholastic
After College WHAT?
Advertising?
Frederick C. Kendall, editor of Advertising & Selling, says, "Advertising is still young. Yet it is already a vital part of every important industry. The pro* fessional advertising man must be not only a thoughtful student of human nature, but also a student of all American business.’’
’'^'PARKING”-ideas are the life blood of advertising. That’s why advertising men, as well as college men, turn to a pipe. For a good pipe with the right tobacco is man’s first-aid to dear thinking and wisdom. As for the ’‘right tobacco” —“that’s Edgeworth Smoking Tobacco.*
Just one puff will tell you why. It’s that truly individual blend of fine old hurleys—a blend you find only in Edgeworth. Once you try Edgeworth, nothing less will do. Want to try before you buy? Write for free sample packet. Address Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 2zd St., Richmond, Va.
* A recent investigation showed ' Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
On Down The Line
Ry Fred MaeBeth
During his TWENTY YEARS of coaching, HOWARD JONES of SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA has had 136 wins, 37 losses and 9 ties for an AVERAGE of .778 . . . WILLIAM HAYWARD, veteran trainer of the UNIVERSITY OF OREGON football squad, began his 29th consecutive season this fall ... he has been track coach for 30 YEARS and the OREGON STADIUM is named HAYWARD FIELD after him . . . EARL SANDE, long one of AMERICA’S FOREMOST jockeys, will become MANAGER and TRAINER for COLONEL MAXWELL HOWARD of Dayton.
TURTLE RACING has become a popular sport in HOLLYWOOD . . • the turtles have WHITE ENAMEL on their backs with BLACK NUMERALS thereon . . . HENRI COCHET, ex-ranking tennis player of the world, has been swinging a racquet for 25 YEARS ... he is now 31 . . . the substitute for CAPTAIN TAY BROWN (U.S.C.) at tackle is named LADY . . . FEATHER is a 200-pound FULLBACK on the NEW YORK GIANTS PROFESSIONAL TEAM • . . in a recent game between HASKELL and CREIGHTON, the INDIANS were penalized FOUR INCHES . . . half the distance to the goal . . .
♦
JOHN LAW (CAPT. N. D. ’30), football coach at Sing Sing, says that “ALABAMA” PITTS .would be a star on ANY PROFESSIONAL FOOTBALL TEAM, or MINOR BASEBALL team ... joe McCarthy, manager of the YANKEES, was making $2,000 a year in 1915 playing second base for the BUFFALO BISONS . . . there is an international GOLF MUSEUM at NEWPORT NEWS (Va.) . . . among the antiques are 80 of . the oldest golf clubs in existence ... the “YOUNGEST” was made in SCOTLAND in 1895 . . . ED PRANTE, 225-pound MARINE BOXER is following in TUNNEY’S footsteps ... he has won 22 of his 28 professional fights by knockouts.
LAURIE VEJAR and CHUCK JASKWHICH are staging a littlev impromptu battle for NATIONAL
O’MALLEY’S STQRY
(Continued from Page 17)
liceman coming, he crouched down and shot at Policeman Laux. but. thank God, he missed him. Then Policemen named Harrington and Rouke and Moran and Kehoe chased the man all around the streets there, some heading him off when he tried to run into that street that goes off at an angle—East Broadway, is it?— a big crowd had come out of Chinatown now and was chasing the man, too, unttil Policemen Rouke and Kehoe got him backed up against the wall. When Policemen Kehoe came up close, the man shot his pistol right at Kehoe and the bullet grazed Kehoe’s helmet.
“All the policemen jumped at the man then, and one of them knocked the pistol out of his hand with a blow of a club. They beat him, this Billy Morley, so Jerry says his name is, but they had to because he fought so han. They told me this evening that it will go hard with the unfortunate murderer, because Jerry says that when a man named Frank O’Hare, who was arrested this evening charged with stealing cloth or something, was being taken into headquarters, he told Detective Gegan that he and a one-armed man who answered to the description of Morley, the young man who killed Gene, had a drink last night in a saloon at Twenty-second street and Avenue A and that when the one-armed man was leaving the saloon he turned and said, ‘Boys, Pm going out now to bang a guy with buttons.’
“They haven’t brought me Gene’s body yet. Coroner Shrady, so my Jerry says, held Billy Morley, the murderer, without letting him get out on bail, and I suppose that in a case like this they have to do a lot of things before they can let me have the body here. If Gene only hadn’t died before Father Rafferty got to him, I’d be happier. He didn’t need to make .his confession, you know, but it would have been better, wouldn’t it? He wasn’t bad and he went to mass on Sunday without being told; and.even in Lent, when we always say the rosary out loud in the dining-room every night. Gene himself said to me the day after Ash Wednesday, ‘If you want to say the rosary at noon, mammy, before I go out, instead of at night when I can’t be here, we’ll do it.’
“God will see that Gene’s happy tonight, won’t he, after Gene said that?” the mother asked as she walkede out into the hallway with her black-robed daughters grouped behind her. “I know he will,” she said, “and Til—” She stopped with an arm resting on the banister to support her. “I—I know I promised you, girls,” said Gene’s mother, “that I’d try not to cry any more, but I can’t help it.” And she turned toward the wall and covered her face with her apron.
1
<
RECOGNITION at QUARTERBACK . . . the crowd seems to enjoy every minute of it . . . DOUG FAIRBANKS finished 13th in the CHINESE OPEN GOLF TOURNAMENT . . . “FOOTBALL ANNUAL” picks NOTRE DAME to lime three games this year ... no doubt they mean PITTSBURGH, ARMY, and SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA . , . COACH JOCK SUTHERLAND of PITT is. called ‘THE TACITURN SCOT” . . . he seldom speaks to his players ...
In Which an Ancient
Prejudice Is Exposed
Many, many years ago colleges began publishing papers. To cover the cost of these publications they decided to enlist the help of storekeepers thereabouts. In true charitable fashion these storekeepers consented to help by paying for space containing various announcements pertaining to their business. “Donations to a good cause” they called it, and so a stigma on college publication advertising got its start.
But the real status of the college publication has changed. A glance through this magazine will show that some of the most successful names in business believe this stigma no longer exists. They appreciate the actual advertising “pull” of a magazine contacting EVERY student in a university of nearly three thousand.
It is to those who still consider us a “worthy cause” that this message is directed. We ask that you throw away your old prejudices and investigate our claims with an open mind. Call us at 3-1121 and a courteous representative will call and give you details. And when you decide to take space in the Scholastic, debit “Advertising” and not “Charity.”
The advertising manager SCHOLASTIC
The Board of Publications
Administration Building
Notre Dame .... Indiana
\^yhat on earth
are you up to nawi
"Finding things out, smarty! I thought rd examine the tobacco in a cigarette. ■
"Look here...this is Chesterfield tobacco. Notice its lighter color... you don’t see any dark heavy types, do you? I guess that’s why Chesterfields are milder.
"I’m told that uniformly lighter color is due to cross-blending. It sort of welds all the tobaccos into one.
"And here’s something else. Notice that these long shreds are all cut the same width. It stands to reason they burn smoother and cooler.
"I don’t pretend to be an expert but it looks to me as if they make Chesterfields right.
"Here, light one. That’s the best test after all. They Satisfy.”
© 1932.
Liggett & Myeks Tobacco Co.

1