B OF OOTRE MIRE
HAT
FOR
I JUST CAME FROM
GILBERTS
AND THEY ASKED
ME TO EXTEND A
WIERfty CHRISTMAS
HAPPY NEW YEAR
GOSM, SANTA. IF IT WEREN'T FOR
I'D HAVE BEEN LOST FOR
-v f GIFT (SUGGESTIONS
NOW/
CopjT;£til iNxkfl UU
ANO A DOBBS
aUK
A BOTANY ROBE FOR THE KID BROTHER-
2
The Scholastic

Letters
Roger’s Swan Song
Dear Editor:
There are two or three guys in this school I would like to meet in a dark alley someplace because they think they are real smart and can make fun of a person because the way he writes.
Our English teacher said we should write about stuff we know and put it down plain so everybody can get it. Well, I don’t know about too much stuff and I put it down any way that comes to me and if anybody doesn’t like it they can come on over and if they’re not too big I’ll punch them right on the nose.
And you guys should holler since all you put in your magazine is fakes so I’m not going to read it any more.
So send back my money.
Very truly yours, Roger O’Keefe
Breen-Phillips Hall
Spotlight on the Dome
Dear Editor:
The golden dome and statue of Our Lady at your university is probably the most beautiful example of the prevailing spirit of Notre Dame. It is famous and proves to be the most beautiful landmark of the world. Bearing this in mind and also the thousands of dollars recently spent to preserve its beauty, it comes as a source of amazement that the beauty and its significance should be appreciated by the outside world for only seven hours during the day. Why several hundred (or at least a dozen) huge, terrific spotlights do not silhouette the dome at sundown to sunrise is beyond my poor comprehension.
Sincerely,
Peg Ryan
South Bend
The Telephone Problem
Dear Editor:
I was just about to write you in a similar vein when I discovered the item on p. 32 (Dec. 3 issue) re: telephone list. But why not do a really thorough job? Telephones' are fairly useless for the primary purpose of outer-communication when they remain a well-guarded secret of the day-time switch-board operator or the Director of Studies’ Office. There are a great number of new office phones on the campus. There also are a great number of new professors whose
(Continued on Page 30)
Two things way college man should know I
7
This is a baby. Fussy about clothes. Demands frequent change of wardrobe. Hits bottle daily. But finds life incomplete. Is fust waiting for day when he can wear smart "Manhattan" shirt.
Your day has come to enjoy one.
Very smart. Widespread collar points, and stays to keep ’’em flat.
Fabric residual shrinkage 1% or less.
CAMPUS FAVORITE
THE MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY
Copr. 1943, The Manhattan Shirt Co.

Dec. 17, 1948
3
Campus Clubs
Reports coming in from the clubs this week show that although Notre Dame students will leave the campus for the holidays, they will keep activities on a par in their home towns. Christmas dances and parties sponsored by clubs from coast-to-coast will set hometown society columns buzzing with reports of their doings.
A complete description of the dances will be found elsewhere in this issue of the Scholastic.
Triple Cities Primed for Dance
The Triple Cities Club held its first meeting of the year recently. An election of officers was held and the new leadership is headed by president Dick Treije, vice-president Vito Popelka, secretary Jim Connerton, and treasurer Tom Benedict.
Plans for a Christmas dance, to be held in Binghamton were discussed.
Alumni Party for Minnesotans
The Minnesota Club will migrate to the Radisson Hotel in the “City of Lakes
and Parks,” Minneapolis, for its annual Christmas Dance, Dec. 28. The alumni, sponsors of the affair, promise even more “jocundity and exhilaration than was experienced by the gay blades at last year’s fracas.”
The ’48-’49 edition of the club started off in full swing with an initiation dinner. At this time election of the “wheels” was held for the season: Paul Kennedy, president; Bob Culligan, vice-president; Hank Madden, secretary; and Bart Regan, treasurer. Under the new administration the coterie has an extensive list of activities, the first of which, a bowling team, is in progress under the direction of Tom Boemer.
Accounters Hear Car Costs
A new campus organization, the Accounting Club, got off to a good start several weeks ago with a discussion by two prominent accounting executives from Studebaker. Their topic was: “The Accounting System at Studebaker and Apportionment of Costs to Automobiles.” John Morgan, faculty moderator, introduced the speakers.
The club also elected officers with principal offices being filled by Fred Crowe, president; Jack Kevert, vicepresident; Fred Veit, secretary; and Pat Fisher, treasurer.
Naugatuck Valley Starts Club
Residents of the Naugatuck Valley of Connecticut broke ground for a club this week. In their initial election they chose John J. O’Rourke as president; Edward J. Bowley, vice-president; Neil MacKay, secretary; and Maurice Noonan as treasurer. Publicity director for the club will be Alfred E. Sullivan. The Rev. Edward Murray, C.S.C., is club moderator. Plans were laid for an informal dance to be held during the Christmas vacation.
Detroit Club Sets Dance Site
The annual Christmas formal dance of the Detroit Club will be held on Dec. 28 this year in the Grand Ballroom of the Tuller Hotel. The dance is held each year in cooperation with the Alumni club of Detroit. Tickets may be obtained from the dance chairman, Bill Anhut. Information may also be obtained from president Larry Smith, 337 Sorin Hall.
Central Illinois Meet Tonight
The Central Illinois Club will hold a meeting tonight in the Law Building to make plans for a Communion breakfast and a dinner to be held later in the year. The annual Christmas dance will be held this year in the Jefferson Hotel in Peoria, Dec. 28. (Continued on Page 29)
Youll like the "Bold Look" in
TUXEDOS . . 12.50
Tailored to give that long, lean, off-the-pages-of-Esquire look that can be achieved only by perfect styling. Completely comfortable because ... if it doesn’t fit. . . perfectly . . . we won’t LET you wear it!
Tuxedo Shirts by Van Heusen Formal Jewelry by. Swank
THIS WEEK'S BROWSER WINNER: BOB CHRISTIAN, 348 ALUMNI HALL
4
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
By Bob Vierhile
library. If you’ve got to impress the folks, arrive at Union Station with a box of Fannie Farmer’s under the arm instead of a bedraggled copy of The Growth of Liberalism in the Countries of Latin Europe. The weight is almost the same, and you’re sure to get some enjoyment out of the candy.
First Name, Middle Initial ■
Top of the Week
The Notre Dame laundry has discovered a new solvent which will shrink a sanforized shirt until the Bold Look becomes a complete blank.
Trash Notes
Eager, the itinerant garment peddler, has addressed me from the depths of the South Bend Tribune want ads. My scrib-blings, he claims, reek of an odor similar to that perfumed daily from his comic (?) strip. To Eager, I offer the incense of phosgene and the stimulation that may come from a year’s subscription to Cringe Comics.
gibberish male heroics, the dramatization of shop-worn he-she jokes, the come-the-hence nonsense of two-straw soda lovers, and the bilge that is perpetrated as “school life.” The whipping-a-dead-horse technique employed by these so-called comic strippers is inexcusable.
Things You Haven't Done Dept.:
This is the time of year when everyone swears that he’ll take two books home and read them over the Christmas vacation. Forget it. Everybody makes these promises and goes mad breaking them over the recess. Save the wear and tear on yourself. Leave the tomes in the
There seems to be a new fad making the rounds. If you take a look at the names on the bulletin boards, in this magazine, and in various other places, you will not many students are using their second instead of their first names. Some initial, like Y or W, replaces what was supposed to be, from diaper time, their mother-cherished monicker. I’m sure that the person who calls himself W. Caldwell O’Brien is really trying to hide something — maybe it’s involved in that W.
Bottom of the Week
Le Grand Decision: For the early vacation, 4; against, 7.
Eager of Notre Dame illustrates rather atrociously the sullen state into which comics, generally, have fallen. Once, you could actually get a laugh from a newspaper’s comic pages. No more. Now you must eye drawings that symbolize something. The latest, and probably the most distressing of these, is the hodge-podge passed off as a symbolization of Notre Dame life. It is neither symbolical nor comical. It is a muchness of nothing— the kind of thing you can enjoy for much less than the cost of a newspaper simply by locking yourself in a closet.
It seems to me that if a comic strip purports to serve the reader’s entertainment tastes, it should be something more than( drivel. The same themes, repeated time after time, consist, principally, of
CHRISTMAS MASSES ANNOUNCED
The schedule of Masses in Sacred Heart Church for the Christmas holidays is as follows:
Midnight Solemn High Mass, Christmas Eve.
Masses at 5 and 6 am. in the Basement Chapel and 8 and 9 a.m. in the Upper Church on Christmas morning.
On New Year's Day there will be Masses at 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 am. There will be no 10 or 11.
The Brothers' Choir from Dujarie Hall will sing the Midnight Mass. Christmas carols will be sung at 11:30 Christmas Eve, one-half hour before Mass.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
LOOK how popular Sheedy is since he switched to V/ildrcct Cream-Oil. So—don’t monkey with other hair tonics—get Wildroot Cream-Oil right away. A little bit grooms your hair neatly and naturally without that greasy, plastered-down look. Relieves annoying dryness. Removes loose dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test. Non-alcoholic Wildroot CreamOil contains Lanolin. Get a bottle or tube today at any drug or toilet goods counter. And have your barber give your coconut professional applications. Considering what Wildrcot Cream-Oil does for your appearance, the cost is peanuts!
4c of327 Burroughs Drive, Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
Dec. 17, 1948
5

CALENDAR
DECEMBER 17
COLFAX—The Night Has a Thousand Eyes — and if they all watched it, they’d be mighty unhappy.
PALACE—The Saxon Charm. Robert Montgomery gets a shot at Francis Wakeman’s best seller. He would rather get a shot at the guy who cut out all the character of Matt Saxon. While the picture sags like a third-floor sack in St-Ed’s, it manages to move fairly fast. Even a cyclone won’t move Sword of Avenger fast enough.
STATE—Valley of the Giants. Wayne Morris and Alan Hale toss logs around like toothpicks. There’s a neat bit of Bengal tactics near the end which climaxes the expose of the culprits. The Fighting 69th. James Cagney, Pat O’Brien, and cast come back for a reissue. Hollywood has Anally tossed in the towel and admitted they can’t make any good new pictures. Even the good oldies, like 69th, have about run the circuit. The next move will be back to- the Rudolph Valentinos.
DECEMBER 18
SIX SHOPPING DAYS BEFORE CHRISTMAS — and all through the campus, nothing was stirring, not even the Student Council whose loyal members dejectedly trot down to the R.R. station and make with the personality while singing “We were Only Foolin’ ” to the ticketmen.
DECEMBER 19
RADIO—The Joy fill Hour. Father Peyton presents his annual Family Rosary Crusade Christmas broadcast over the Mutual Network at 8:30 p.m. EST. A full hour of Christmas music and dramatization of the Glorious Mysteries.
STATE—Sainted Sisters. Veronica Lake and Joan Caul-fleld share honors in a light chunk of spirits and spooks. Hazard. Carey MacDonald and Susan Hayward manage to get a few laughs out of this one.
DECEMBER 20
GYMNASIATUS — Moose Krause and the Irish basketbailers meet the Quakers from Pennsylvania in the preXmas flnale. A couple of games under the old-gold belts should make the difference for the Irish, who should be making big strides come next month.
HOLIDAY
An Adventure in
For the One and Only
F lowers h wnuams
ORCHIDS & GARDENIAS
Specializing in Corsages
V
Williams, The Florist 219 West Washington "Just West of the Oliver"
DECEMBER 21
A-HOMEWARD WE WILL' GO—This looks like the biggest day since Father Sorin hired Ziggy. Remember, two big, monster weeks at home. How could anybody forget?
DECEMBER 25
CHRISTMAS DAY—Families will gather around flreplaces everywhere to commemorate the birth of the Saviour. The simplicity, the sanctity of that blessed day seems strangely out of place in a world that is split by secularistic forces. But to those who will meet the Saviour at the Communion rail, the promise of “Peace on earth to men of good will” rings as true as it did 1900 years ago.
% Stratlgon Grill
The finest in foods . . .
SEA FOODS STEAKS
CHOPS
Noon Lunches
“Art” Buchtel and “Harry” Reed Proprietors
"WHERE NOTRE DAME MEN MEET"
The Scholastic
6
/^ohe Sbame
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 90 December 17, 1948 No. 12
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Editor
JOSEPH A. DOYLE
Associate Editors	'
ROBERT T. STOCK JOSEPH HERRINGTON
KENNETH A. THOREN________________News
VICTOR DORR_____________Assistant News
W. GREGORY HALPIN____________Features
HARRY MONAHAN Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT________Assistant Sports JOHN WALKER____________Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN__________'_____Librarian L. A. KYSER_____________Advertising
ROBERT J. VIERHILE--------Advertising
JOHN T. CLARK_____________Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL________Circulation
JOHN S. BRENNAN._Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: The Scholastic departs from its picture-cover this week to send each of its readers a Christmas card. Soon all 5,000 of you students will be packed and ready to head homeward. Home may be far away over the High Sierra or a puddle-jump to Osceola, but it is home and that’s the important thing. We hope you have a nice time while you’re there, and we know that you’ll keep Christmas in the spirit of the age-old scene depicted on our cover. In the words of the English carol: “God rest you, merrie gentlemen. . . .”
—Drawing by Don Birren.
The Christmas Farce
Christmas cards and Christmas wreaths and Christmas shopping and all the trappings of what is called the “holiday season” are currently hitting their peak. The State Streets of the nation are infested with cardboard reindeer and pillow-stuffed Santa Clauses. The crowds stumble back and forth through the spinning doors and wonder what to get for Uncle Chester, who coughed up a lousy two-buck tie last year. Store owners scan their shelves and anxiously hope that their stock holds out and that there aren’t too many exchanges afterward. Everybody says Merry Christmas to everybody else and nobody quite knows what it’s all about. Christmas means a day off from work or a couple of weeks off for college students. It means red ribbon, silvery tinsel, and white tissue. It means carols and heavy sentiment and the Elgin Watch Company’s super-colossal two-hour show, broadcasting lip service to the traditions of the day while hoping desperately to snatch a few listeners from P. K. Wrigley’s big blow-off on the other network. It also has something to do with Christ.
The world has made a secularistic farce of the great feast of love. The birthday of the God-man has been turned back into the ancient pagan winter celebration. We honor not Christ, but our own backs and bellies. A Child is bom and we are examining the puppy dogs on our Christmas cards. A Virgin becomes a Mother and we are out on the street admiring an imitation reindeer. A God enters the world to save it from hell and we are fussing with that string of lights that just blew out on the Christmas tree. We surround and obscure the Christ Child with a clutter of simpering Santas, sucker-priced evergreens, drooping mistletoe and mechanically-given gifts. All the things wrong with the world seem focused on Christ’s birthday. The blight is not complete; for a few happy moments on Christmas Eve a man may stop and realize the full meaning of the feast because the overpowering love of the Infant can’t fail to reach every heart for at least a little while. But that moment is soon gone and the silly farce goes on. Christ is sent back to the manger as the radio comedians start telling each other how cheap they are.
The Christmas customs are good; some of them are fine and beautiful. But we have got them so distorted and exaggerated that we have lost sight of the stupendous central reality of the day—God has become Incarnate. We are so concerned with a thousand little things that we have almost forgotten the one big thing.
Let’s not forget it again this year. Catholics have the unbelievable privilege of seeing Christ bom again when the priest brings Him down from Heaven with the few words of the Consecration. If we make that moment the main object of our Christmas, we will at last see the true and overwhelming glory and magic and joy of Christ’s birthday.
Dec. 17/ 1948
7
7,200 years
of college... and still learning
THE Bell Telephone Laboratories is known as a leader in communications engineering. On its staff are 1,622 engineers and scientists with college degrees. Among them they have 7,200 years of college training ... and they are still learning.
They study many things. How to speed your voice across the street or around the world. How to keep your voice natural in tone and volume. How to make central office equipment capable of switching your call even faster. How to produce in laboratories the materials which are hard to get in their natural form—quartz, for instance. How to conserve the scarce metals which go into wire and cable, by making one circuit carry many conversations.
From such studies they learn how to make your service better and better, and keep its cost low.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
8
The Scholastic
Nabi#
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 - Number 11 DECEMBER 17,1948
BETTER LATE THAN NEVER
Christmas Evacuation Starts Tuesday
Moore Essay Contest Will Award $500
Five hundred dollars in prizes will be awarded in the new John E. Moore Prize competition for the best essays on “Americanism and Catholic Thought,” it was announced this week by the Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., chairman of the committee on scholarships and prizes.
The awards, called the John E. Moore ’08 Prizes, are open to undergraduates only. A grand prize of $250 and five individual prizes of $50 each will be presented to the winners at commencement in June. The grand prize winner will be selected from the five individual winners.
The essay may be written from the religious, philosophical, historical, political or economic point of view. The specific topic must be approved by the respective department head by Feb. 12, 1949, and the essays submitted by April 1. There is a 50C0-word minimum.
Students interested in the contest may consult one of the following heads of departments: Religion, Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., 323 Main Building;—Philosophy, Rev. Bernard McAvoy, C;S.C., 232 Main Building; History. Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., Library; Political Science, Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., Social Science Building; Economics, Mr. John H. Sheehan, Social Science Building.
Moore, a retired Detroit businessman, is ND Foundation governor for Michigan. He inaugurates the prizes this year as an incentive for student thinking on Catholicism and America.
Local Study Clubs Denounce Peron's Argentine Regime
Dictator Peron’s regime in Argentina came in for a hearty denunciation recently at a joint meeting of the International Relations Club of St. Mary’s and the International Affairs Club of Notre Dame. After a two-hour discussion of the government’s principles and actions,
Flush, the final class bells will say, and then like a covey of quail, several thousand ND men will take off for their homes and Christmas vacation. Using every transportation convenience known to modern man, including the thumb, they will seek out their home towns in every corner of the country.
Trains, busses, planes, cars and even boats will be overloaded with the Notre Dame specimen. Farewell to the drudgery of books. Goodbye Dining Hall meals. So-long early classes and night checks. Clear the tracks, we’re heading home.
CHRISTMAS IN MORRISSEY Bob Schmid, Frank Crovo, Pete Green
including the reports of several students who have visited Argentina within the past few years, a unanimous vote of disapproval was adopted.
It was the second venture of this type undertaken by the clubs. Last year a similar meeting was held concerning the Palestine issue.
Future plans by the ND group include several discussions of topics of international significance, climaxed by its annual banquet some time next semester.
After a week of tempting rumors suggesting a longer vacation, the campus sat back and stoically accepted its fate — the Christmas holiday starts at noon Tuesday as originally planned. The smarter lads, however, have saved up their cuts and will be cutting out early tomorrow afternoon, while the others must see the week-end through and then two more days of education before taking off.
If one were to ask what the home towns had in store for their prodigal sons the answer would be a rousing “pulenty.” Nearly every geographical club is set to toss a gala shindig to celebrate the holiday festivities. Besides that there will be days filled with skiing, sleeping, and fluffing-off, while the nights will be jammed with dates, dances, parties and numerous etcetera.
For those who have to remain on campus because of circumstances, the schedule looks like a quiet one. The Villagers Club, however, is holding a dance at the Erskine Country Club which will gladly enjoy the stay-at-homers* company.	•
Months, weeks, days and now even hours have been checked off the wall calendars in anticipation of the big holiday. Now that it is upon us everyone is prone to say that we will be back soon. Be that as it may, the ND contingent will come trooping back with far bigger stories than they now possess in their repertoire.
And so the first lap of the ’48-’49 year has been completed. With the football season, the Navy trip, and the Soph Cotillion, among other things, behind, the University looks forward to a pippin’ vacation and then back to even bigger things.
CAROLS FOLLOW BENEDICTION
The student body is asked to participate in the singing of Christmas carols in Sacred Heart Church im- ’ mediately following 7 pan. Benediction Sunday. Dec. 19.
Dec. 17, 1948
9
Luce Personality Charms Admirers and Press In Crowded Post Lecture Question Session
“Posing for pictures,” Mrs. Clare Booth Luce was saying, “has always, made me nervous. You never know what you’re going to look like.” But she smiled broadly as she said it and looked the camera straight in the eye. A flash bulb popped and it was all over. Mrs. Luce had come through handsomely for one so nervous.
The huge blue and gold drapes muffled the sound of the hundreds in the Drill Hall beyond, making their way to the exits. It had been a big night and a big crowd. They had jammed the immense auditorium, pulled there by the magnet of greatness; by the incredible career and background of the beautiful blondhaired. convert.
They had heard her say: “The drama of the Mass is so magnificently contrived that I cannot see why it did not occur to me earlier that it must be divine drama, created by the master hand.” Her lecture was entitled the “Dramatist and the Mass.” They were leaving, full of her own personal faith and feeling a warm rekindling of their own. Clare Booth Luce had not let them down. Rather, she had lifted them up closer to the Mass and to God.
On the other side of the curtains, Mrs. Luce was graciously at bay. She was being pressed by a crowd of students and friends, all asking questions, all wanting autographs. She signed the first piece of paper offered her—a torn blue envelope, but when she gave the pen back, she shook her head. “These pens are a bit messy, I’m afraid. Would you mind taking these instead?” And she drew from her coat pocket a stack of small holy cards signed with her name. Mrs. Luce patiently passed them around. “Pray for me,” she said.
There were many more friends, students and priests, wanting just a word or even a smile, lingering to stand and admire the charm, beauty and brilliance of a great woman. And there was a Scholastic reporter, a little more forward than the rest, pushing forward and waiting for a long break to ask some questions. He never got it, so he had to fire them on the run.
Reporters Take Note
AU members of the SCHOLASTIC news and sports staffs are reminded that there will be meetings at 12:30 pjn. on Thursday, Jan. 6, in Boom 120 of the Main Building and in the Cavanaugh office, respectively.
“Mrs. Luce,” he asked, “you spoke tonight about the need for increased Catholic leadership. Do you think Catholic colleges are supplying that demand?”
Mrs. Luce’s answer came after a moment of thought. “I don’t think the Catholic laity are doing their job. They are
MRS. LUCE A radical Faith
not supporting their church. Catholic schools could do more, but generally they are doing the best they can. They can’t control the student after graduation and that’s when he can do the most good. If you could only realize what it would mean to the Church and the world to have an active Catholic laity!”
There were more interruptions.
“Mrs. Luce, is it possible for Catholics to become real leaders in today’s secular world?”
“Almost impossible. The only real Catholic is a radical Catholic. It is almost impossible for a practicing Catholic to make his way in the political field. But that doesn’t mean we should give up. On the contrary, we must change the morality of the practice of politics, we must start at the bottom and try to inject Christianity as we go up. There must be some changes made and we have the right radicalism in our faith to do it.”
Father Murphy and Father Thornton were waiting at the rear door. “I have to go,” Mrs. Luce said. “But I’ll come back. There are many more things I want to tell the people here at Notre Dame.”—Greg Halpin
Engineers Ball Renews Pre-War Traditions
A pre-war social tradition at Notre Dame will be revived Feb. 11, when the Irish masters of the slide rule and T-square plan a renewal of the annual Engineers’ Ball. The affair will be strictly formal and restricted to students of the ND College of Engineering.
According to Joe Harkins, dance chairman, preparations are being made to insure a “big week end” for the engineers and their guests. Festivities will reach their height, of course, with the Ball Friday night at the Palais Royale; but anothei- dance is also scheduled for Saturday night. Final arrangements have not yet been made concerning the site of the Saturday affair.
Principal theme of the dance will be “St. Valentine, the Engineer,” Elmer Carvallho and his decorating crew report. Work has already begun by his committee, all architecture majors, on a series of murals to deck the walls of the Palais. Make-up of the program and the favors will also reflect the “engineer mood” of the dance.
Bob Weber and his ticket committee began a systematic canvass of the campus last week, hawking bids at $3.90. Weber explains that the early ticket sale .is necessary to cover- initial operating expenses. Each off-campus engineer has already been contacted by mail, and each on-campus engineer will also receive a personal visit from the ticket-hucksters, probably before the Christmas holidays.
Discounts are being arranged on tuxedo rentals and corsages. A blind date bureau will also swing into operation shortly.
“We picked the date for the ball very carefully,” chairman Harkins explains. “It will come just after mid-semesters, before the engineers really have to crack the books hard again, and it comes before Lent, when all social activity ceases.”
Plans for the Engineers’ formal began a short time ago, when the engineering section of YCS considered methods of renewing “traditional social relationships among all the men in the College of Engineering.” Questionnaires were sent to all the engineers at the university, and they returned an overwhelming vote in favor of a formal ball.
Definite arrangements then got under way, through the combined efforts of the various campus chapters of the American Engineering Societies. Chuck Bauman was named to head the entertainment committee; Paul Doyle was placed in charge of .the arrangement group; and Paul Novak was appointed to make arrangements for the favors.
The Scholastic
10
Juniors Choose Rock For May Prom Site
On the evening of May 6, the Rockne Memorial will be the scene of one of the biggest social functions of the year — the Junior Prom. Tuesday, Dec. 7, plans for the dance were formulated during a two and one-half hour meeting of the Junior officers with Father Kehoe.
Jim Holloway and class prexy Russ Skall were appointed co-chairmen, and Jack Thornton was named business manager. The various committees were organized and chairmen were selected. Jim Conway and Herm Hamilton will handle the decorations, while the refreshments will be arranged by John Wahlen and Ken Lisy.
Bob Rohling and Bill Eggers are responsible for hotel accommodations. The bids will be handled by a group headed by Bill Shanahan, and Bill Bradley and Bob Slocum will publicize the dance. The final details are handled by Bill Donnelly and Jack Finnegan, who will select the favors. And the entire general arrangements for the dance have been assigned to Bob Schlosser.
The Prom will be an exclusive affair, as the bids will be limited to a maximum of five hundred.
A definite theme has not been selected for the dance as yet, nor has an orchestra been chosen, but with the dance five months in the future, the committees will have sufficient time to make cautious selections.—Tom Kelley
Hungarian Cleric Foresees Own Arrest
“I expect to be seized when I get back.”
When Father Andrew Zakar, the private secretary to the Primate of Hungary, Cardinal Mindzenthy, was last in the United States, he visited Notre Dame and made that prophetic statement.
A few weeks ago Father Zakar was seized in Budapest on charges of treason or, to quote from the Ministry of the Interior communique, the cleric was taken into custody on suspicion of “antinational activities.”
When he left the intensely communistic Hungary with Cardinal Mindzenthy on a mission to the United States and Canada, Father Zakar was aware that police authorities were attempting to expose a so-termed plot, involving the secretaries of Cardinal Mindzenthy and former Prime Minister Ferenc Nagy for their unreserved comments on government policies.
N. D. Chemists Aid Fight On Infant Deaths By Isolating Two Rh Neutralizing Compounds
By DAVE DRISCOLL
A significant development in the battle against infant mortality has been made by Notre Dame chemists. Dr. Charles C. Price, head of the Chemistry Department, recently announced the isolation of two chemical compounds capable of neutralizing the Rh antibodies in the blood of expectant mothers. These are the antibodies that often cause still-births and miscarriages, or jaundice and other blood diseases in infants.
The structure of the compounds is now being studied and it is believed that they can be synthesized. Work is still in the experimental stage, but there is hope that this development opens the way for future means of preventing diseases caused by the Rh factor.
Rh Antibodies Affect Many
Dr. Price estimated that there are about 20,000 American women for whom successful childbirth is made difficult by these Rh antibodies. Up to now a few expectant mothers with this antibody problem have been successfully treated with extracts of red blood cells which contain the compounds recently isolated. However, in such treatment frequent dosage is necessary and a large amount of blood is needed. Since such supplies of blood are hard to obtain, synthetic production of the compounds would be of great service.
In evaluating the results of this hopeful development Dr. Price said:
“The results to date indicate that the substances responsible for the activity of the blood extracts are relatively simple organic compounds. There is, therefore, every reason to believe that we will be able to establish their structure and eventually to prepare them synthetically. We have every reason to hope that such
DR PRICE (right)
results would establish a basis for the clinical treatment of difficulties in childbirth arising from complications due to Rh antibodies.”
ND Group Works on Discovery
Dr. Price heads a group of Notre Dame scientists who have been working on this project since the discovery by Mrs. Bettina Carter, immunologist at Western Pennsylvania Hospital, Pittsburgh, that a blood extract of alcohol-precipitated Rh positive red blood cells is able to neutralize Rh antibodies. This group includes Dr. Chaidao Chen, of Hunan, China, research associate in Chemistry at Notre Dame, Arthur C. Sinclair of Elkhart and Robert Mitch of Rochester, N. Y., research fellows in chemistry. Thomas Hardock of Budapest, Hungary, and David Read of Seattle, Wash., who were formerly research fellows at Notre Dame worked with these men at the time the compounds were isolated. The Eli Lilly Company of Indianapolis, is lending assistance to the project. Dr. Price has made a. preliminary report of their work to date in the current issue of The Journal of the American Chemical Society.
Campus Film Places Stress On Education
Notre Dame is having its picture taken again this month. A 16-mm. color-sound reproduction of life on the campus is being filmed by the Department of Public Relations for distribution to alumni clubs, civic and fraternal organizations, high schools, and youth groups;
The movie will concentrate on the University’s scientific research and educational facilities, with special emphasis on the need for expansion, according to J. Arthur Haley, public relations director.
“We are showing what is being done here and what can be done when our opportunities are expanded,” Haley said. “We expect the film to be completed some time early next year at which time it will be available on application.”
Charles T. Chapman, of Evanston, III., who filmed “The University of Notre Dame,” a similar production, in 1945, is making the movie. The narrative script will be written by Richard Sullivan, associate professor of English and author of “First Citizen.” Running time will be 32 minutes.
Dec. 17, 1948
11
Natural Law Parley Draws 600 Prominent Men For 2-Day Lecture Session At Notre Dame
By LOU MEECE
The first Natural Law Institute, held last December, was the first discussion of Natural Law by prominent men in the field to be held in modern times. Last Friday and Saturday the College of Law sponsored the second meeting of the Institute. Dean Manion of the College of Law headed the committee on arrangements and took the helm when the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame was unable to be present in his capacity as chairman. Archbishop Paul C. Schulte of Indianapolis was the honorary chairman of the Institute.
Over 600 judges, lawyers, educators, and businessmen from all parts of the country attended the Institute. Principal speakers during the two day meeting were Federal Judge Robert N. Wilkin of Cleveland, 0.; Dr. Gordon Hall Gerould of Princeton University; Dr. Ernest Levy of the University of Washington, Dr. Heinrich A. Rommen of the College of St. Thomas at St. Paul, Minn., and Dr. Maurice Lebel of Laval University. Quebec.
In the opening session of the Institute Dean Clarence Manion told the gathering that “what happens to the peace and freedom of the world in the next ten years will depend upon what happens to Law during the same period. . . . All personal rights,” he emphasized, “exist only in the reasoned and reasonable government by law. Despotism, on the contrary, is government by the unprincipled and capricious exercise of sheer force.”
Lebel Defines Natural Law
Following Dean Manion’s talk Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, director of the Mediaeval Institute of Notre Dame, introduced his friend Dr. Maurice Lebel, head of the Department of Greek at Laval University, Quebec. Dr. Lebel, a world-renowned expert in the classics, defined Natural Law as “natural justice, or an inner sentiment of right and wrong which is to be found everywhere in all men.” Professor Lebel then went on to trace Natural Law in the Greek Period and to show its bearing on modern problems.
On Friday evening Dr. Ernest Levy, Professor of Law at the University of Washington, spoke on the Natural law in this period. On Saturday Dr. Gordon Hall Gerould, Professor Emeritus of English at Princeton Universiy, spoke on the Natural Law in mediaeval times. Natural Law in the Renaissance Period was treated by Dr. Heinrich A. Rom
men, Professor of Political Science, College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn. Dr. Rommen was active in Catholic educational, social, and political organizations during the last days of the German Wie-mar Republic.
American Jurisprudence Explained
Thus the first four speakers traced the Natural Law through the four great stages, Greek, Roman, Mediaeval,' and Renaissance, which preceded our modern civilization. To explain the status of the Natural Law in American jurisprudence the last speaker before the Institute was Robert N. Wilkin, federal judge for the northern district of Ohio. Judge Wilkin took his Ll.B. degree at the University of Virginia, did graduate work at Harvard and received his Doctor of Law degree from Western Reserve University in 1932. In 1942 he served on the Supreme Court of Ohio and is currently a member of the American Judicature Society, Delta Kappa Epsilon and Phi Delta Phi fraternities and a trustee for Oberlin College and Western Reserve.
Judge Wilkin pointed out two great changes in the philosophy of jurisprudence in the past thirty years: first, a great shift from the former authorities
LAW INSTITUTE DIGNITARIES — (Left to right) Dr. Levy, Dr. Gerould. Dean Manion, Archbishop Schulte, Fr. Murphy, Dr. Rommen, and Dr. Lebel
and the philosophy of the Founding Fathers to what has come to be known as positivism or realism. In describing the second change he said, “Within the last eight or ten years there are unmistakable signs of dissatisfaction ovei' the insufficiency, the aridity, of modern positivism and very definite indications of a revival of Natural Law philosophy.
“The critical problems of our national life today have come directly from this materialistic and positivist attitude toward life and law. ... As a result of the disrespect for courts and the judical process there followed a corresponding neglect of the common interest and public welfare.
“The victors in World War II disregarded the proposal of China and other states to establish a government upon universal and fundamental principles of justice and resorted instead to the old hoax of a tenuous and tentative balance of power among independent sovereign nations. . . . The war was fought for human rights and dignity, but the victors failed to assert and affirm the eternal principles upon which such rights and dignity depend. On the contrary, they adopted and acted upon the false theories of the nations which they had vanquished. ... If the disaster of a third world war is to be avoided, the U.S.S.R. and the U.S.A, must acknowledge the impossibility of national sovereignty in international affairs and then unite in an effort to establish juridical order for the world.”
12
The Scholastic
Fortunately the trend is shifting, Judge Wilkin pointed out. Reference to Natural Law was made in the Nurem-burg trials; the bigotry of science has abated. “The confession of science, made at the time of its own greatest achievement, that it was unable to save mankind from disaster, revived a general concern for those ideals and beliefs which' had sustained man’s faith and hope in times past.”
As a result of his experience on the bench, Judge Wilkin stated that the Natural Law is neither impractical nor idealistic. Out of his experience and that of others it is clear that “courts rely on the thoughts and beliefs of common men and give to words their generally accepted meaning, in confidence that in such matters ‘the children of this world are in their generation wiser than the children of light’.”
Thus history is being made at Notre Dame. The history of the Natural Law which has gone into disuse and abuse, but the value of which is being rediscovered by the Natural Law Institute of Notre Dame.
Professor John Broderick, Jr., assistant dean of Notre Dame's College of Law, has been appointed to serve on the Committee for Cooperation with the Bench and Bar of the Association of American Law Schools for 1949, it was announced this week.
Several other members of the law school faculty, including Professor Broderick, will attend the annual meeting of the Association to be held in Cincinnati, 0., on Dec. 28, 29, and 30.
Atty. Gen. Lauds Institute
United States Attorney General Tom C. Clark sent a message of commendation to the 1948 Natural Law Institute held here last week. Said Clark:
“It is gratifying and a most healthy sign of the times to note that the College of Law of the University of Notre Dame has for the second successive year deemed it worthy to conduct the Natural Law Institute, an ideal that became a reality last yeart You are to be greatly commended for teaching and upholding the dignity of man and the sacredness of his personality by such a symposium. Men of ill will who would deny the common man his God-given rights will dismally fail in their purpose when men like you stand guard at freedom's ramparts. My sincerest wishes for the success of this noble undertaking by men of good will."
A Cry at Christmas
The Spirit Murmurs in an Indifferent World
By GREG HALPIN
In eight days it will be Christmas.
Christmas is the sacred celebration of the birth of Christ. In a very real and Catholic sense it is the reincarnation of God’s Son. And what kind of a world, what kind of a Notre Dame does the Christ child look out at from his crib this Christmas of 1948?
He finds a world divided against itself with the forces of God and anti-God, religion and secularism drawn up in battle. And He sees the foe winning.
He has to look to Italy to find a fruition of his Sacrifice. To Italy, where His Church brought His dusty, ragged, working children back to Him through sound trucks and leaflets dropped from airplanes. Where, radiating from the great force and spirit of the Vatican and its courageous Pius XII, his priests have fought the battle on the front lines, wrestling with men’s souls in the dusty side streets of small peasant towns.
Or He can turn proud eyes upon his children. On the youth and their movements. On the youth of France and their battle against Thorez and his followers. To Germany where the students and young workers are putting His life into practice today.
And turning here, He can see a vital force fighting against the reaction of the deep-rooted, passive Church—the Labor schools in New York, the YCS cells on college campuses, the Catholic Press.
But when He is all through looking, He must think ahead to the Cross and weep. The blood stained, splintery Cross of Calvary has become smooth and gilt-edged. It has been taken off the shoulders of too many of his followers and placed on top of Churches and altars as a reminder — but only a reminder. Its reality — the reality of pain and sacrifice and a vital church is being ignored.
And were His Mother, by His side, to turn His eyes toward Notre Dame — what would He find there?
A golden statue, atop a Golden Dome. A statue of hope and love and no meaning to so many. He would find a huge stadium and new buildings and plans for more and perhaps, if He looked hard enough, a low murmuring of spirit — His spirit and that of His Church.
But the murmur is low. . There is need to turn it into a cry so that He might need not look so hard, nor listen so hard. A cry on His Christmas to re-
affirm the spirit of sacrifice and love upon which this school was dedicated to Him and to His Mother. A cry made out of a chorus of students and teachers and priests. A new and old Notre Dame uniting in the work of the future—in the winning of His battle, the gaining of the Divine Victory in the sweat, blood and tears of radical Catholicism.
In eight days it will be Christmas.
N. D. Engineers Visit Air Base In Chicago
A group of students and faculty members of the Department of Aeronautical Engineering at Notre Dame were taken on a tour of the Chicago Base of Operations of the United Air Lines last week.
The fledgling engineers, led by Mr. Edward S. Kavanaugh, ’38, Professor of Aeronautical Engineering, spent an entire day studying the myriad phases of airlines operations. At the telecommunications section, the group saw how the Flight Reservations “brain” electronically arranges passenger space at the various airports. After visiting the weather and flight planning bureau and having the commissary service demonstrated for them, the ND engineers inspected some of the airline’s flight equipment and training facilities, such as the synthetic flight trainer.
Finally, the students paid a visit to the control tower, completing their study of arrival and departure procedures. They saw how the planes are directed to the proper runways for takeoffs, and how approaching planes are “stacked” into position for an orderly descent onto one of the three runways in the direction of the wind.
Dec. 17, 1948
13
Drive Seeks Prayers For Foreign Students
Notre Dame students will swing into the second phase of the campus Student Relief Campaign next week, with a double-barreled plan of action aimed at living up to the drive’s motto: “Give and Pray for Destitute Foreign Students.” This Sunday has been set aside as a day of prayer for needy students in war-devastated countries; and during the Christmas vacation, each student will be urged to sell his quota of four donation books for the benefit of the drive.
According to Jack Dempsey, campus chairman of the Relief Campaign, Masses and Holy Communion will highlight the day of prayer. ND Senior Louis J. Burns, Jr., national relief chairman, announced that the day at Notre Dame is part of a nationwide prayer program under the auspices of the Na-
CHAIRMAN DONAHUE
Two cars in every garage
tional Federation of Catholic College Students. Nearly a quarter million students, representing 209 American Catholic colleges are taking part in this activity.
In urging Notre Dame students to take an active role in the spiritual effort, Burns declared that a day such as this “should be heralded on every Catholic campus in America as the day of the Greatest Charity — the day when every Catholic college student can give unstintedly.
“It is true,” he explained, “that there is a real limit to what students can donate to any charity. But there is one great treasure which each one of them has — a 'treasure which grows as it is given — the treasure of prayer.”
Defunct Comptroller Post Creates New Positions
Two new positions in the business organization of the University have been created to supplant the recently abolished post of comptroller, according to the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame.
Father Cavanaugh announced that William J. Broderick, former ND comptroller, has been named auditor and investment officer of the University, and G. Edward Harwood, certified public accountant, has been appointed director of accounting. Under the new set-up, both officials will be directly responsible to the Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., who is in charge of all ND business and financial affairs.
Mr. Broderick is an alumnus of Notre Dame and has served on the University’s business staff since 1932. In 1942, he was elevated to the post of chief accountant, an office he held until 1942, when he was named comptroller.
Mr. Harwood, a native of Harwood, England, received his bachelor’s degree in 1922 from London University, and a C.P.A. from the University of Maryland in 1926.
Irish Meet Purdue In Debate Exhibition
Tonight Notre Dame’s busy debate team will entertain Purdue University in an exhibition debate in Washington Hall at 7 p.m. Notre Dame will take the negative in discussing the topic: Federal aid to education. The student body is invited to attend.
Last, week Notre Dame made a forensic good-will tour to Purdue University in Lafayette, to.Western Michigan in Kalamazoo, and to Wayne University in Detroit. These debates were nondecision as requested by the host schools. Each debate was followed by a discussion period in which the audience questioned the debaters.
The University of Iowa Invitational Tournament (December 3-4) at Iowa City featured the fall semester schedule. Chicago, Marquette, Illinois, Iowa, Northwestern, Army and Purdue were some of the schools attending.
Bill Carey of Notre Dame was named the best individual debater with a rating of 4.7 out of a possible 5. Frank Finn with a 4.5 ranked third. Both received a rating of superior.
In extemporaneous speaking Frank Finn tied for first place, while in public
speaking Bill Dempsey tied for second place. Finn, Austin Hogan and Dempsey gained an excellent rating in discussion. Notre Dame’s negative debate team — Bill Carey and Tom Ninneman — was one of the five outstanding negative teams in the tournament.
The team will travel to Pittsburgh for encounters with Duquesne, Pittsburgh, Carnegie Tech and St. Vincent on Jan. 7 and 8.—Frank Haendler
Congregation Purchases National Youth Magazine
The Catholic Boy, a national magazine for boys, has been purchased by the Congregation of Holy Cross, according to an official announcement this week by the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., Provincial of the Indiana Province of the Holy Cross Fathers. The offices of the magazine have been transferred to Notre Dame.
Rev. Frank E. Gartland, C.S.C., an ND alumnus and a former instructor at the University, has been appointed editor of the publication.
Members of an advisory board, appointed to assist the editor,- include Frank Bruce, of Bruce Publishing Company, Milwaukee; Louis Chapleau, South Bend attorney; George F. Drummey and William A. Lubbers, local businessmen; and Dennis J. O’Neill, of the D’Arcy Advertising Company, Cleveland, Ohio, father of Denny O’Neill, a sophomore here.
Father Gartland is a native of Boston, Massachusetts, and was graduated from Notre Dame in 1933. He was ordained in 1937; and from 1938 to 1940, he served as Prefect of Religion here. Between 1940 and 1946, he held the position of Youth Editor of Our Sunday Visitor, after which he returned to the Notre Dame campus to teach at Holy Cross Seminary.
Relief Map of Cagles Mill Reservoir on Display Here
Illustrating one of Indiana’s first major flood control projects, a three-by-five foot relief map of the proposed. Cagles Mill Reservoir- experiences its last day of public display this afternoon in the Science Museum of Notre Dame.
The map pictures an area of 12 miles north and 20 miles south of the proposed site of this flood control project to be located 45 miles southwest of Indianapolis.
Planned by Indiana and governmental agencies, the new reservoir is expected to be 7 miles long and cover an area of 1,240 acres. ___
The Scholastic
14
YCS Helps Supercharged Frosh
Meet Lasses of Local Schools
Taking their cue from the supercharged class of last year, this year’s freshman class have hit upon the idea of Sunday afternoon informal socials with the several female institutions which stud the surrounding area.
Under the auspices of the freshmen YCS, the ambitious program was inaugurated last Sunday afternoon with two parties. Tickets were sold at two bits per on a first-come-first-served basis. Forty lads from St. Ed’s attended the social at St. Patrick’s Hall with girls from St. Joseph’s Academy. A corresponding number of eager freshmen from Breen-Phillips Hall had a gay time that evening with student nurses at the St. Joseph’s Hospital Nurses’ Home.
Zahm’s social debut had to be postponed because of the over-loaded social calendar already taxing the girls of St. Mary’s Academy. Farleyites were sadly disappointed when plans to meet with belles from St. Mary’s College suddenly fell through. Arrangements had been made but were rudely tossed to the winds at a late date when an unexpected veto was tossed at them from across the highway.
These Sunday afternoon socials met with great success last year and were the outgrowth of an inquiry on Christian Education. The roots of the project can be found in the Encyclicals. The freshmen YCS and all other freshmen have high hopes of continuing these modest affairs on a monthly basis, with a rotation of the girls schools from hail to hall.
Frank Zappala, as chairman of the social activities of the freshmen YCS, was
in charge of the opening socials. Don Bebenck, of St. Ed’s, Pete Brennan, of B-P, Bob Fink, of Farley, and Bill Ro-gell, of Zahm, are in charge of their respective hall socials. The next get-together is planned foi' some date in January and will be opened to freshmen living in other campus dorms.
Library Will Display New Material Weekly
To give students and faculty members an opportunity to view new materials added to the university library’s collections, the Main Library has set up a continuous display of new acquisitions.
Located at the east end of the Social Science and History Reading Room, the exhibit shelves hold new books and other materials for a period of display from Monday through Friday. Displays change weekly. During this period of display these new acquisitions may not circulate. Reservations for these new titles may be made at the Main Circulation desk. No notification for these reserves will be sent the borrower: the Main desk will hold the book until the Wednesday after the display. If it is not picked up by that time, the second person on the list may take the book or it will be shelved if no one waiting for it calls.
This service will permit the library’s users to see and to handle new titles in many fields, especially those of interest in certain specialized fields of study.
ND Lawyers Score High, National Bar Exams Reveal
The Notre Dame Law School has received a statistical report from the National Conference of Bar Examiners in Denver which shows that the graduates of the local law school made average grades on the 1947 bar examinations that were slightly more than 17% higher than the national average.
All over the nation from all the law schools the general average of successful applicants on all the bar examinations in 1947 was 58%. Notre Dame law graduates during the same year passed a little more than 75% of all the examinations.
Especially interesting to the Notre Dame “lawyers” was the Virginia Law Weekly of September 30, 1948, which headlined the story of the University of Virginia law graduates of 1947 who had made the “noticeably high” average of 58% on their own state bar examinations in June, 1948. The story points out that only 47.4% of the total number of applicants on that examination had passed, which made their record of 58% very good.
In 1947 the College of Law at Notre Dame graduated 33 men. Six either have not taken any bar examination or came from states (New Jersey, for.example), that require a clerkship of six months or a year before a graduate is permitted to take the bar examination. Of the 27 men who took bar examinations in 1947, one took and passed two state bar examinations, and seven failed. Out of 28 examinations taken by this group, there were 22 admissions to the state bars, and seven who will be or have been permitted to take the examination a second time.
Europe's Schools Lure Summer Students
After Two-Years Tenure, Hinkel Resigns Public Information Post; No Successor Yet
That old urge to “join the Navy and see the world” seems to have been replaced to a large part by opportunities to “go to college and visit Europe.” After a hesitant start pioneered by small groups of exchange students, the universities of Europe have steadily increased their offers of special summer programs for American students.
Nine universities in England and Scotland have just announced a new, expanded series of courses for overseas students, to be held from July 10 through Aug. 20. Subjects taught will range from English social life, literature, industrial development, town planning, and government to survey courses in modern European civilization and ancient Greece.
Undergraduates Welcome to Apply
Arrangements have been made to accommodate 780 U. S. students. Although the courses are intended primarily for graduate study, undergraduates with good scholastic records will also be eligible. All applications must be received by the Institute of International Education at 2 West 45th Street, New York City, before March 1.
Cost of the courses, including tuition and board for the six weeks, will range from S216 to $264. Round trip travel expenses by steamer have been estimated as between $330 and $450. Several partial and full scholarships will be availably to highly qualified applicants.
Colleges included in the British program include Bristol, Liverpool, Birmingham, Edinburgh, London, Nottingham, Oxford, Southampton, Manchester and Sheffield. All are recognized by the V.A. for grants under the G.I. Bill of Rights.
High point of most of the courses will be “field trips” to Stratford-on-Avon, Nottingham, and other points of historical interest connected with the subjects taught.
For the third consecutive year, the University of Oslo has also announced a summer session for American students, to last from June 27 to August 6. All courses will be taught in English, and will cover the sciences, the humanities and a survey of Norwegian culture. Expenses for the six weeks are estimated at $300, and transportation will vary from $320 to $400 for the round trip.
Full details of the Oslo program, including catalogs and application blanks, can be obtained from St. Olaf College, Northfield, Minnesota.—Joe Dukert
16
The resignation of John V. Hinkel, director of public information for Notre Dame since Jan. 1, 1946, was announced this month by Father Cavanaugh.
Mr. Hinkel’s resignation is effective at the end of the month. He is resigning to do public relations work in his home city of Washington, D. C. A successor has not yet been announced.
Expressing Notre Dame’s appreciation for Hinkel’s services, Father Cavanaugh said he accepted the resignation with
JOHN V. HINKEL To leave ND
“sincere regret.” Under Hinkel, he declared, the department made “significant progress.” He also praised the retiring director for his devotion to Notre Dame, indefatigable energy, and initiative and creative ability in the field of public information.
Hinkel, a former newspaperman and Army officer, is an alumnus of Notre Dame and Columbia University. He served on the sports staff of the Washington Post for one year, then on the news staff of the New York Times for nine years before leaving the Times on military leave in 1940 to enter the Army. His military service included two and a half years overseas in North Africa, Sicily, Italy and Austria. He finished the war as a lieutenant colonel of Military Intelligence, and joined the staff at Notre Dame while on terminal leave from ihe Army.
For didst of his overseas service Hinkel was chief of the Information
Division, Allied Commission for Italy, heading a large staff collecting strategical technical and political intelligence from Italian Government sources. Later he helped to administer* thousands of displaced persons, slave laborers and former prisoners-of-war when American troops entered Austria.
While with the Times, Hinkel also was, from 1935 to 1940, New York correspondent for the NCWC News Service. In 1938, as a special foreign correspondent, he covered the International Eucharistic Congress at Budapest, the Spanish Civil War, the Nazi invasion of Austria and other major events in Europe. He is a member of the Gallery of Living Catholic Authors, and is president of the Serra Club of South Bend and a member of the Executive Committee of the Catholic Broadcasters Association.
ND Middies Compete For Tribune Medal Awards
Two hundred and twenty-five Notre Dame NROTC midshipmen, under the tutelage of Capt. A. L. Danis, will compete with some 32,000 other high school and college students this winter for the Chicago Tribune’s annual gold and silver medal awards. Four medals, awarded on the basis of character, military proficiency and scholastic achievement, will be presented to the winning midshipmen here next spring.
The ROTC and NROTC medals, awarded twice each year since 1935 by Col. Robert R. McCormick, editor and publisher of the Tribune, will be presented to cadets and midshipmen at 107 schools in eight states.
Postal Rates to Increase
Several increases in postal rates, effective Jan. 1, 1949, have been announced by the Post Office Department. The rate for air mail letters will be hiked to six cents per ounce. A new item, an air mail postal card, will be placed on sale at all Post Offices for four cents. Special delivery stamps will be boosted to 15 cents; and the rates for third doss matter will be two cents, up to two ounces, plus one cent for each additional ounce. Postal notes will now cost eight cents each.
The Scholastic
h WAKE BREWS
By SCORCH BORED
Notre Dame, Ind., Dec. 16.—The gentlemen of the New York press, as a group, are trying to crucify this department. ... In less than a year their acid pens have ravaged football. . . . Why can’t these New York writers invent some sport of their own like quoits or railroad euchre? . . . Let this department run ITS sports—football, baseball, basketball and mumblety-peg. . . . Why the heck can’t writers on the Juggler and Religious Bulletin give us a break, too? . . .
Joe Thumbhead, end on Northwestern’s football team, was asked why sometimes he seemed so manly and other times so absurdly effeminate. . . . Said Joe: “Heredity, I guess. Half my ancestors were men and the other half women.” . . . Tom Storeteeth, All-American tackle last year, attended the wedding of his youngest son, Zeke, last week. . . . Zeke served with the infantry on Long Island in World War II. . . .
Players on the Riley football team collected §1.08 to buy Frank Croziar a dictionary and pronunciation guide. . . . Nice goin’. . . . George Tricknee, former quarterback on the National Championship Nevada team of ’07, doesn’t smoke, chew, drink, swear, cuss, lie, or cheat. ... He died last October. . . . Frank Leahy expects Navy and Pittsburgh to be tougher next year. . . .
Pome
In the cistern little Willie
Pushed his little sister Lily.
Mother couldn’t find her daughter;
Now we sterilize our water.
—B.B.T.
Daffynition
The difference between a bachelor and a married man is that when a bachelor walks the floor with a baby he’s dancing.
—Happy Bachelor Girl.
The Wake Depends	Help!
Upon Its Friends	Ouch!
Glasow's Gloombusters
Then there was the woman in the circus who got a dishpan face from diving 100 feet into a tub.
—Glasow Schlitz.
Fireside Chat
Brother Rosie quite distrait, Fell into the fire grate;
Who would have thought that
Brother Rosie
Could make the room so nice and cozy.
—Brother Bookstore.
Remember Way Back When
We went to the dining halls for breakfast with a smile on our faces and got bacon and fried eggs.
—Walt Mahannah.
Dec. 17, 1948	'
The girls at St. Mary’s were as beautiful as the rising sun on a day off.
—Jim Slattery.
Ode to Moose Fischer
Undei- the spreading pepper tree The football hero stands.
A tackle tore his legs off ■—
A fullback got his hands.
Two ends had cut him half in two,
A blocked kick smashed his pan
But what the hell did he care —
He made All-American. . . .
—The Weary Wart.
Best Joke Dept:
He: Gee, this course sure was comprehensive.
Him: Yeah, everything the prof didn’t discuss in-class he-covered on the tests.—Caspar of Old Paducah.
Green Light Flashed For Freshman Voting
After three months of involuntary silence the freshmen class suddenly came to life this week with their rousing class elections. Caught slightly by surprise when the Student Council gave the yearlings the go-ahead sign, they responded admirably in the short time allotted for petitioning, campaigning and voting.
Four tickets gained the ballot privilege while one man chose to run independently. A rally Tuesday night turned into a fiasco when not more than 100 spirited freshmen showed up out of a class of approximatdy 1200. The blame was reportedly placed on the inefficiency of a Student Council committee.
The Forty-niners’ Party included Roger O’Hara, Elmer Layden, Jr., Frank Zappala, and Paul Burns running for the regular offices. Edward Vasta, William Riley, John Harrington, and Francis Ronnenberg, were on the Representative Ticket. The Shamrock Party boasted David Lajoie, Paul Fatum, Bernard Endres, and Hughes Wilcox. The Four-Roses Party featured Frank Price, Sal Fiorello, Bob Hickey, and Duke Richeson. Gene Hull ran independently for president.
The final results of the elections, which were held yesterday, were not released in time for publication, but will be announced in the next issue of the Scholastic.
Duo Mouras Departed Friend
Two old friends meet. “That was too bad about old Jones. How did he get killed, anyway?” one said.
“Fell through a scaffolding,” the other answered.
“Really? What was he doing up there?”
“Getting hanged.”
—Uncle Charlie.
Thought of the Week
The fire in some girls’ eyes is quenched by the water on their brains.
—Lippy.
Life's Great Mystery
Weep to the tale of Willy T8
Who met a girl whose name was K8
He courted her at a fearful r8
And begged her soon to become his m8.
“I would if I could,” said lovely K8 “I pity your lonely, unhappy st8. ;
But alas, alas, you’ve come to 18;
I’m married already, the mother of 8.” j
—Happy Bachelor Boy.
The Wake Depends	Help!
Upon Its Friends	Ouch!
17
The World
f
Out behind the Biology Building and down Juniper Road a piece there is a small, white farmhouse with a friendly air.
by W. H. LYMAN
As you turn into the drive, you can see nothing pretentious about the place: it could stand a fresh coat of paint—but still it isn’t shabby; here and there in the big front yard are stray pieces of lumber and some children’s playthings lying about—but it doesn’t appear cluttered; the drive itself might be paved— but then, it looks quaint and old-fashioned, country-like as it is.
You get the feeling that the people who live here must be normal, natural, unaffected people. When you round the corner of the house into the back yard and come upon a little band of happy-looking children, your feeling is strengthened.
But the man you came to see is Mr. Willis Nutting of the Notre Dame Department of History, and he doesn't seem to be around.
“Hey there . . . just a minute . . . I’ll be right with you,” comes a voice. You look around and see nothing but the yard full of children.
Then: “Here I am up here on the roof. I’ll be right down.”
In a minute Mr. Nutting is standing in front of ■you—dressed in denims, work-jacket, work-hat and sneakers. You have to look three times to be sure this is a Notre Dame history teacher.
Children Necessitate Additions
Mr. Nutting explains that he was just putting the finishing touches on a new wing of his house. Things are getting a bit crowded with the children growing up, and besides, manual labor is good for the soul. Our likeness to God is in our creative ability; so we should develop our bodies as well as our minds.
One doesn’t have to talk with Mr. Nutting long to find out a good deal about him. He is first and foremost a family man. He is deeply religious, but is so sincere you could talk to him all day about God and not feel the least uncomfortable.
The reason for this two-acre farm of
his, this little world of his own, is his family and his religion.
“Someone has said an agrarian is a anarchist who happens to like farming,”	]
he says. “But there’s something more to	J
farm life. In these times of controls and social domination a man can salvage some of his dignity and freedom by having a little place of his own.
“After* all, a family is a man’s vocation and it’s easier to be a good father— a guide and a leader —on a farm. There you spend time with your wife and children. You get to know them and understand them.”	j
i
“Take Reginald V, our pig,” he says.	;
“Everybody had something to do with	.
Reggy- Charlie, our nine-year-old, helped	i
build the pig-house and the pen. Teresa,	j
who is ten, and Ted, who is five, fed him	!
when he was small and have watched his progress eagerly for the day he’ll taste	!
good as pork and bacon.”	.
THE LATE REGINALD V	FARMER NUTTING AND ADELINE
RJ-P-	**.. . and her daughter. Clementine"
18	•	I
History Professor Finds Human Dignity And Freedom On a Two-Acre Farm
Myriad Home Chores
Mr. Nutting does his own butchering. He raises bees, grinds wheat, supervises the family gardening and does all sorts of carpentering. Besides, he teaches history at Notre Dame.
Mrs. Nutting bakes the best bread and biscuits you ever came on. She churns her own butter, keeps a very neat house —and every so often serves an “estate dinner,” made entirely from things produced on the farm.
No country scene is complete without Grandma. Mrs. Barry, Mrs. Nutting’s mother, does the family sewing and tailoring, and her tales bring to Juniper Road old Ireland and County Cork where she was born.
TERESA, CLEMENTINE AND TED Also bees, wheat and history
Life on the farm seems to revolve around the children. Mother, Father, and Grandma get much of their happiness in planning for them, looking after them and watching them grow up.
Teresa, Charlie, and Ted haven’t been spoiled, however. They are responsible and have small chores they are enthusiastic about doing. They feed the chick-
GRANDMOTHER BARRY Tales of County Cork
ens, see that Adeline, the cow, and Clementine, her daughter, don’t stray out of bounds; and they tend their own personal gardens.
Everyone Pitches In to Help
When Mr. Nutting was building the new wing of his house, Charlie helped with the carpentering, and Teresa and Ted carried things back and forth. Teresa also did the bookkeeping for the project. If Mr. Nutting lived in the city, the children would probably be more in the way than an aid to him. But on the farm, they needn’t be shunted off to the radio, movies and comic books; they work and are normal and healthy and happy.
Deeper than the community spirit is their religious spirit.
In the house holy pictures hang on the walls, two liturgical drawings over the mantel, and a tiny cross in the cellar over the work bench.
Every evening the Nuttings say compline—the day’s last liturgical prayer. They have fine customs like the Christmas candle Mr. Nutting makes every year from the wax of his bees; their house is blessed on Easter and their fields on Rogation Days. Every Sunday
they all try to go to Mass together, as a family.
You can’t help liking this little farm— this little world of Willis Nutting. There might be something, at that, to this back-to-the-farm movement everybody is talking about.
CARPENTER NUTTING and SON CHARLIE Some last touches on the now wing
19
ou wear an Elgin Watch with assur-/ ance that it is superbly smart in its styling, for Elgins are acclaimed by “best dressed” men and women everywhere. But there’s an inside story that will excite you too, just as it did Robert Montgomery. It’s Elgin’s exclusive DuraPower Mainspring. Here in the part that runs the zvatch is truly a history-making achievement.
This miracle mainspring will never rust—and rust is the greatest cause of breakage. It will hold its “springiness” for a constant accuracy never before possible in any watch. Eliminated are 99% of all repairs due to steel mainspring failures!
The one who is buying a watch for you will appreciate a hint—“an Elgin with the DuraPower symbol ‘dp’ on the dial.” It’s sure to be smartly styled.
Lord and Lady Elgins are priced from $67.50 to $5000.00. Elgin De Luxe from $47.50 to $67.50. Other Elgins as low as $29.75. All of these puces include the Federal Tax.
’Made ot “Elgiloy” metal. Patent pending
ELGIN watabes L L I I W TIMED TO THE STARSI
The genius of America * to wear on your wrist
HEAR ELGIN'S "2 HOURS Of STARS" THANKSGIVING DAY. NBC NETWORK
20
The Scholastic
SCHOLASTIC SLCLTT
Irish Cagers Prep for Western Journey
CHI STADIUM ACTION — O'Shea leaps high for an easy lay-up against Northwestern
Toledo, Buffalo and Met Clubs Lead Pack As Campus Bowling Race Gains Momentum
Swinging into their fourth week of competition, the Kampus Keglers are beginning to hit their stride with two new marks being set last Sunday at the Bowl-More alleys.
In the Blue League, the Toledo and Buffalo clubs are setting the pace with identical records of eight wins, one loss and eleven points. Close behind the two leaders is the St. Louis club with seven wins, two losses and 10 points.
Over in the Gold League, the Met club is all alone out in front, leading the Texas and Chemistry clubs 11 points to nine and having eight wins against a single setback.
The 250 rolled by B. Fisher of the Youngstown club is still tops for a single game. By setting a new team record of 957 for a single game, the Metallurgy club also took over first place in the three game high score, ousting the Italian club by posting a total pinfall cf 2717.—Jack Meaney
KEGLER SCHEDULE December 19
BLUE LEAGUE St. Louis vs. Kansas City Minnesota vs. K. of C. Toledo vs. New Jersey Kentucky vs. New England Buffalo vs. Generation Metallurgy vs. Youngstown Indianapolis vs. Vetville Utica vs. Rochester A.I.Ch.E. vs. Central New York
GOLD LEAGUE Syrian-Lebanon vs. Philadelphia Aero vs. Detroit Pittsburgh vs. A.S.M.E. Met Club vs. Cleveland Inter-American Affairs vs. Texans Architects vs. Rockford Italian vs. Prop and Wing Chemistry vs. Off-Campus Fox River Valley vs. Columbus
Penn, Navy invade Midwest Cage Circuit
By RALPH WRIGHT
Having snared two of three contests with Big Ten foes, Notre Dame’s basket men will test the Ivy League brand of ball Monday evening when they entertain the University of Pennsylvania at the Fieldhouse.
Penn would take a special delight in trouncing the Irish because the local boys really .have the Quakers jinxed. Notre Dame has won all 13 games in the series, the most recent being a 60-56 verdict in Philadelphia last year. Penn’s strength is still a question mark; they swamped little Swarthmore 61-44, but absorbed a 72-60 walloping from Tony Lavelli and his strong Yale quintet. Local fans can get a better idea of what to expect after the Ivy Leaguers tangle with Illinois in Champaign tomorrow night.
On December 22, at Chicago Stadium, ND takes a crack at another eastern team when they help indoctrinate Navy in midwestern basketball technique. The Middies,'under Ben Carnevale, are venturing to the midwest for the first time in history and play Northwestern tomorrow. In two seasons with Carnevale, Navy won 26 of 34 contests, closing last season with a 49-36 victory over Army. This year they humbled Penn Military, 48-30, and Harvard, 45-33. This first meeting of the two schools gives Coach Krause a chance to even a score with Carnevale whose Eastern five whipped a Western group coached by Krause in last season’s college all-star game. Carnevale has three returning lettermen— Captain John (Wheel) Barrow, a prolific pointmaker, Harry Woods and Lee Rens-berger.
Hoosier Classic, December 27, 28
After, a very short rest for Christmas, Notre Dame heads for the Butler Fieldhouse where it will once again participate in the Hoosier Classic, a yearly get-together of Indiana’s basketball powers. The Irish play Purdue December 27 and Indiana the following evening. Butler, of course, is the fourth participant.
ND has a chance to even its all-time (Continued on Page 23)
Dec. 17, 1948
21
Indoor Season Looms For Irish Tracksiers
Irish track preparations swung inlo full operation last week, as Coach “Doc” Handy attempted to get the cinder squad in peak condition for the difficult indoor season which opens early in February. The schedule for the thinclads is not yet complete, although the usual battles with Michigan State and Penn State will provide the usual rough competition for the Notre Dame cinder kickers.
Coach Handy announced definitely that the Purdue contest will be the first, but final word on several other meets can not be expected until the end of December. In conformity with the normal indoor plans, certain top performers will enter the Chicago Relays, and perhaps some Eastern indoor invitational meets.
Notre Dame has a nucleus of approximately 15 monogram winners from last season around which to build this season’s track team. The loss of George Sullivan, Floyd Simmons and John Johnson from the field events will be a severe handicap to the tracksters, but Coach Handy is relying on John Helwig to fill
this vital gap in the team composition. The other team positions seem well filled, and again the Irish are strong in the distances and middle distances.
—Jim Howard
VACATION CAGE SCHEDULE
Dec. 20—Pennsylvania, here
22—Navy (Chicago Stadium)
27—Purdue (Indianapolis)
28—Indiana (Indianapolis)
30—So. Methodist (Dallas) Jan. 30—St. Mary's (S. Francisco)
11—DePaul, here
Hurdler Fleming Gets Bid For Sugar Bowl Track Meet
Bill Fleming, one of the nation’s crack hurdlers, and top scorer on Notre Dame’s track team last year, will open the current track season by competing in the famed Sugar Bowl cinder contest Dec. 30 in New Orleans. The invitation was extended to Fleming on the basis of his brilliant performances last spring
in the C.C.C. meet and the NCAA contest.
The tall junior from East Providence, Rhode Island, returned to the Irish track team in mid-season last year after Army service, and immediately assumed a heavy load of responsibility when John Smith, the ace timber topper, was injured. Bill showed consistently well in the high and low barrier’ races, and in addition carried the Irish colors in the high jump.
As the schedule progressed, so did the limber runner Fleming. When the outdoor season arrived, Bill was winning both hurdle races and placing high in the high jump to carry the burden of Notre Dame points in dual contests. Swinging into the final hound of tough invitational battles, Fleming proved his championship caliber by taking honors in the C.C.C. contest in Milwaukee, and then a week later placing among the top six hurdlers in the nation in the NCAA meet in Minneapolis. .
Fleming hit bad luck just as he was gaining in performance and in the National A AU meet he injured his left foot and was forced to withdraw from competition. Coach Doc Handy believes Fleming’s injury is healed, is very optimistic and expects Bill to show well in competition.—Jim Howard
Gordon (S) drives in for basket
O'Shea (7) grabs rebound as Bamhorst (21) watches
22
The Scholastic
Basketball
(Continued from Page 21) series with Mel Taube’s Boilermakers who were edged 42-40 last season. Taube has all eight major lettermen returning including lanky Dick Axness, topnotch scorer, and Bill Berberian, all-around performer. Howie Williams, 6' 5" Bill Butterfield and South Bender Bob Hartman complete the first string. Purdue trounced Detroit, Marquette and Kansas and has a date with Nebraska tonight. Indiana went berserk against the Krausemen last year, handing them a 72-46 beating—by far their worst of the season. Among Hoosier newcomers is Gene King, the former South Bend Central celebrity who received all kinds of compliments from Dave Gallup and Jim Costin. So far the Hoosiers have toppled DePauw, Michigan State, Xavier of Cincinnati and Drake.
Mustangs, Gaels Prep for ND
After the homestate clambake breaks up, Notre Dame heads westward to open relations with Southern Methodist at Dallas, December 30, and St. Mary’s of California. The fast-breaking Mustangs won four of five to date (they split with Texas Tech) including impressive wins over C.C.N.Y. and Niagara. Captain Bob Prewitt, who bagged 233 points in 1947-48, sets a fast pace, but Coach Doc Hayes still mourns the loss of footballers Doak Walker, Bobby Folsum and Kyle Rote, all in grid togs yet because of the Cotton Bowl. Walker and Folsum lettered last year; Rote is a soph sharpshooter.
Kevin O’Shea will display his abilities before the home-town folks on January 3 as ND meets St. Mary’s in San Francisco. Kevin will be matched against Frankie Kudelka as two of the country’s top college eagers vie for further’ prestige. The Gaels easily defeated California, but lost to Sanford, 64-59, and to Johnny Wooden’s U.C.L.A. squad, 61-52.
To Tangle With Chicago Rivals
There will be no easy going after the return from the Coast, however, as Notre Dame meets its old Chicago rival, DePaul, in the Fieldhouse, January 11. The Blue Demons have lost only to incomparable Kentucky to date and outfought Illinois in Chicago Stadium last Saturday. Ray Meyer’s outfit is about the fightingest team anywhere, and they really control the backboards. Chuck Allen, bespectacled veteran, looped in 221 markers last season, but even he plays second fiddle to speedy, little Pete Coorlas and sophomore Bato Govedarica. Chicago writers voted Coorlas the outstanding player’ to appear at the Stadium last year. He’s a drive-in expert who rivals even O’Shea. Another standout is Gordie Gillespie, rebounder de- ’ luxe and a fine one-hand shot.
SPLINTERS from the Press Box By Harry Monahan
The Case for the Defense
Put away the tar and feathers, boys, you’ve got the wrong men this time. We aren’t happy with the seating arrangement for basketball either, but we think some unfair charges are being fired at the athletic office. The professional coffee-cup-complainers have manufactured their own explanations for the reserved seats in the Fieldhouse and seemingly have made a very strong case against Herb Jones and Bob Cahill.
Those seats are not being sold over or under the counter as many of yeu suspect. They represent obligations to the Congregation of Holy Cross, the faculty, the coaching staff and visiting team. It also includes the customary complimentary tickets to the basketball squad and 27 local season ticket holders. This latter group is an inheritance from an offer made several years ago to the local fans, but has not been allowed to increase in the past three years. Scouts from Notre Dame cage opponents and visiting newspapermen fill in the remainder of the section.
Some 400 people were turned away from the Illinois game, but no students who came to the Fieldhouse were without seats. Notre Dame cannot retire into its shell because of inadequate facilities. It must meet these outside obligations, but the athletic office is doing its best to hold them to a minimum.
Based on the student attendance at the Wisconsin game, which totaled only 2400, Bob Cahill feels sure that there will be general admission seats available at the remaining home games. But knowing the student body for the erratic thing that it is, he cannot make any advance arrangements for the students’ wives: His advice is to come to the box office prior to 7:30 on game nights. At that time those seats not filled by students will be sold on a first come first served basis. In all fairness to those outside the student body who are interested in Irish basketball, students will have to be in the Fieldhouse by that time.
Musings at Halftime
At the risk of being censured by the local press for trying to tell Coach
Krause how to run the basketball team we will venture the opinion that Dick Kluck deserves more game time and less bench time. He’s capable on defense, glue-fingered and not shot-happy. . . . Interhall eagers are complaining about the poor arrangements made for their games. Why schedule a game for 7 pan. and then enforce the rule that equipment cannot be charged out until 7:15? Sounds like the game is going to be very dull foi- the first half. Can you get your hirelings straightened out, Mr. Scannell? The boys would also like some capable referees, not the drafted variety they are using now. Can do? ... At a recent Scholastic dinner a special athletic board composed of Pete Brown, Jim Butz and Bob Leander conferred on Jim Howard the title of Defender of the Track Team and Happy Herald of Handy’s Harriers.
Los Angeles Memoirs
Headline in the Daily Trojan-. “Irish ‘Upset’ SC, 14-14” . . . We heard that when Notre Dame finally lost a football game all other games played that day would be reported on Monday. The Los Angeles papers did that one better and the SC-Irish tussle was still front page news on Tuesday. . . . Picture if you will, ladies and gentlemen, our hero Steve Oracko supervising a dishwashing team of sorority pledges. . . . Quote of the Week End: “Those Los Angeles girls are certainly fast. It must be the environment.” But what explains those fast Trojan halfbacks?
Predictions of the Week
This is definitely the last *time we climb out on that limb this semester.
California over Northwestern: Another game in which one point could make a lot of difference.
Oregon over Southern Methodist: The Mustangs will pay for the Rose Bowl unpleasantness.
North Carolina over Oklahoma: Too much Choo Choo.
Georgia over Texas: A bad day for the Lone Star State on all fronts.
23
Dec. 17, 1948
Testimonial, Speakers Bring Successful Season to Close
On a note of tribute to the men who fought so hard all season, a testimonial to the team brought the football year to its close on Dec. 9. Under the auspices of the Blue Circle pep rally committee, the rally was held in the Dining Hall.	*
The band and the cheerleading squad made a tour of the campus before the program started. Jim Cassidy, president of the Student Council, spoke in behalf of the student body. Dean Clarence E. Manion, of the College of Law,
and the Rev. John H. Murphy, vicepresident of the University, spoke on the part of the faculty. Coach Ed “Moose” Krause and Captain Bill Fischer represented the coaching staff and the team, respectively.
Injured Tripucka Back on Feet
Quarterback Frank Tripucka, who injured his back in the Southern California game, on Dec. 4, was scheduled to fly back to the Notre Dame campus yesterday according to word received here this week from Bernie Crimmins, backfield coach who has remained in Los
Angeles with Tripucka. The Irish quarterback is currently at Good Samaritan hospital in Los Angeles.
Crimmins reported Tripucka is now able to be on his feet and that he will fly home as a “stretcher case.” He was scheduled to arrive at Notre Dame last night.
WATCH FOUND
Found: Lady's wrist watch on Thanksgiving Day. Owner may have it by identifying.
John H. O'Reilly ' 158 Dillon Hall
I
ANojAVETime
COACH
The 'NIGHTHAWK”.. 7 a.m. Nightly..Only 4 hrs. 10 min
NEW YORK
COMPARE... you'll go by AIK!
	Fare	Time
FASTEST RAIL PULLMAN	$44.10	16 hours
FASTEST RAIL COACH	$27.30	17 hours
the "NIGHTHAWK*	$29.69	4 hrs. 10 mix.
MN Fares Mtn Federal TaxJ
$oo«o
“	K plus fax
jflBW ONEWAY
FOR RESERVED SEAT TICKETS: 144 South Clark Stv The Falser Haase, Steveas Hotel
PHONE: DEARBORN 2-5711
AMERICA'S SECOND OLDEST AIRLINE . . . SERVING 70 CITIES DAILY
24
The Scholastic
ROTC Riflers Open Season; Defeat Michigan, Illinois
The Irish ROTC rifle team opened the current season on Nov. 20 by defeating the universities of Michigan and Illinois and Illinois Tech. The Notre Dame sharpshooters carded 1827 points as compared to 1744 for Michigan, 1731 for Illinois Tech and 1708 for Illinois.
Captain Daly, officer-in-charge of the rifle squad, is planning a complete schedule for the team. Already three shoots, all “postal” matches, have been fired. Among the opponents were Holy Cross, Rochester, Tulane, and Idaho. Harvard, Vanderbilt, and the University of Missouri have also been challenged. Shoulder-to-shoulder matches are expected to commence in February, with Purdue as a tentative starter.
The first team, composed of Frank Brickson, Jim Hartman, Ted Gaudent, Ed Walsh, and Dan Murphy, is a veteran of last year’s ROTS league. Their numbers are bolstered by a 21-man squad, many of whom are freshmen.
The ND men will fire all of their postal matches and the home shoulder-to-shoulder contests on the ROTC rifle range, located under the Stadium near gate fifteen.—Tom Bennett
It’s Adler’s
for
Van Heusen
Mm COMBI... MKMMN $ MMNHM
Short and
to the point
Look to
Gilbert’s
for
Kan Heusen
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
. The shorter-point Van Preen with "‘Comfort Contour” collar
Youll find college men’s collar favorites in
0
“VAN HEUSEN** IS A TRADE MARK REGISTERED IN THE U. S. PATENT OFFICE
Perk up your shirt wardrobe with Van Preen, a beauty of a shorter-point, fused collar—one of Van Heusen’s campus-chosen collar classics. See it—wear it, on Van Heusen shirts famous for their fine, lab-tested, Sanforized fabrics ... a new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size! §3.50, §3.95, §4.95.
Van Hensen the world’s smartest shirts /
PHIUIPS-JONESCOBP^N.Y.l.NxY. /
Dec. 17, 1948
25
Science paints the future
41 of every 1,000 U. S. chemists are engaged in production of paints, lacquers, varnishes and colors
Modem paint making is an outstanding example of chemistry at work— of the way the scientific approach has replaced rule-of-thumb methods.
Today, paints are formulated by chemists to meet specific needs. In their search for better finishes, these highly trained technicalmenare aided by the electron microscope and infrared spectroscope. A variety of gonio-
blow won’t break. Tests with mechanical scrubbers prove it outwears old-style enamels by more than five times. "Dulux” enamels now guard boats, large and small, as well as petroleum tank farms, machinery and other industrial installations.
At Du Pont’s paint laboratories, a widerange of materials is understudy. Where the colloid chemist, the physical and organic chemist, the analyst, physicist and other technically trained men leave off, the chemical engineer, mechanical engineer and metallurgist stand ready to design equipment to make better commercial production possible.
Modern equipment speeds research
Many of today’s research tools are complex and expensive. The modem research worker may use a $30,000
Mark P. Morse, B. S., Physics, Washington College '40, measures specular and diffused reflection of a sample paint surface with a goniophotometer, a Du Pont development for obtaining data on gloss and brightness.
mass spectrometer installation which' can make an analysis in three hours that formerly took three months. High pressure equipment, ultra centrifuges, molecular stills, and complete reference libraries are other tools which speed research and enlarge its scope.
Young scientists joining the Du Pont organization have at their disposal the finest equipment available. Moreover they enjoy the stimulation of working with some of the most able scientists in their fields, in groups
Rust would quickly weaken this structure. Because "Dulux” resists salt water and salt air, it has for years protected many famous bridges.
Satin-smooth beauty and outstanding durability are properties given by "Duco” or "Dulux” to furniture, trucks, buses and trains.
Paints ate tested by exposure to weather at paint "farms.” Research men interpret results as guide for development of improved paints.
photometric and spectrophotometric devices are used by the physicist and physical chemist in the study of gloss and color.
Du Pont men have produced many superior finishes. One of them, "Dulux” nitrocellulose lacquer, made mass production of automobiles possible by shortening paint drying time from weeks to hours.
Finish failures — chipping and scratching—were costing manufacturers of home refrigerators a million dollars a year before Du Pont chemists developed "Dulux” synthetic resin enamels, based on alkyd resins. A "Dulux” coating on metal or wood dries into a film that even a hammer
Send for your free copy of this new booklet
The 40-page, fully illustrated brochure, "The Du Pont Com-panyandtheCollegeGraduate,” answers your questions about opportunities at Du Pont. Describes openings in research, production, sales and many other fields. Explains the plan of organization whereby individual ability is recognized and rewarded. Write today. Address: 2518 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
small enough to bring about quick recognition of individual talent and capabilities. They find here the opportunity, cooperation and friendly encouragement they need. Thus they can do their best work, both for the organization and themselves.

BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING . . . THROUGH CHEMISTRY
More filets about Du Pont—Listen to "Cavalcade of America” Monday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
26
The Scholastic
NOTRE DftME NAMES MAKE NEWS
Russ War Problem Probed
In the opinion of Dr. WALDEMAR GURIAN, professor of political science here, Russia does not dare risk open war with the western nations because she knows that she would be defeated in the long run. Dr. Gurian stated his opinion in the first of a series of lectures on Russia given last week at a troop school for reserve officers of the 842nd and 267th composite groups at reserve headquarters in South Bend. Although she will have an atom bomb in three to seven years, Dr. Gurian believes that Russia will not be able to keep abreast of atom bomb developments, improvements and production because of her extreme backwardness in technology and the production of steel, coal and other essentials for waging successful war.
He further observed that Communism is losing its grip in Europe and that there is unrest among the Russian satellite nations. While stating that the American airlift is winning the cold war in Germany, Dr. Gurian said that Russia is counting on the United States getting tired of the cold war, exhausting itself by depression and inflation and trying to keep the rest of the world on its economic feet. He made three proposals for American foreign policy in dealing with the Russians: 1. Make no concessions. That is a sign of weakness which Russia likes to point out to satellite nations. 2. Organize military alliances with other western nations. 3. Support other countries in their fight against communism. . . .
JOHN V. HINKEL, director of public information, addressed the Mishawaka Junior Chamber of Commerce last week on the subject “Must the United States Fight Soviet Russia?” Mr. Hinkel recently resigned his position at Notre Dame to take a public relations job in his home city of Washington, D. C. . . .
An exhibit of mediaeval research prepared for display here by the Rev. A. L. GABRIEL, 0. Pream., a member of the faculty of the Mediaeval Institute, has been commended by the Service du Con-seillier Culturel, the cultural relations department of the French embassy in Washington. In connection with the exhibit, which depicts mediaeval student
life in Paris, the French embassy has offered the mediaeval institute audiovisual aids, including slides showing mediaeval manuscripts preserved in the French Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris.
The Rev. WILLIAM ROBINSON, C.S.C., conducted novena devotions last week in St. Joseph’s Church in preparation for the feast of the Immaculate Conception. The novena was in petition for vocations. . . .
JOHN LAW, captain of the 1929 ND football team, has been named director of athletics at Mount St. Mary’s College, Emmitsburg, Md. Law has been football and baseball coach at the college since last fall. . . .
Squirt Magnate Honored
EDWARD M. MEHREN, of the class of 1932 and president of the Squirt Company, Beverly Hills, Calif., was recently elected first president of a new organization, the National Brands Soft Drink Institute, representing 2,500 independent bottlers of soft drinks in the United States. Mehren, in addition to his soft drink achievements, is the country’s foremost advocate of some “in-between coins,” like 2%, 7%, and 12% cent pieces. He has written and talked extensively in his campaign for these coke machine boons, and has traveled thous-
EDWARD M. MEHREN In-between coins
ands of miles since early in 1948. On July 27, two identical bills providing for the coinage of 7-cent pieces were introduced in the House of Representatives, and the same bills will be reintroduced in the 81st Congress. Mehren will push ’em. . . .
JOSEPH D. WALLACE, a junior at Notre Dame, has been awarded the Bronze Star medal for meritorious achievement on Jan. 22, 1945, near St. Vith, Belgium, when he took command and led his unit after his company commander was wounded. The citation was read last week by Lieut. Col. LEONARD PALMER, commander of the Army Air Corps ROTC unit here. . . .
WILLIAM E. COTTER, a graduate of Notre Dame and presently a corporation lawyer and leader in Catholic charitable activities, has been made a Knight of the Holy Sepuchre by Pope Pius XII. Cotter was one of the founders and is now secretary-treasurer of the Catholic Actors’ Guild. He is also chairman of the United Negro College Fund. . . .
Anthology Accepts ND Poem
The Annual Anthology of College Poetry has accepted a poem written by DOMINIC GIANCOLA, a student here, foi’ publication in their next issue. The anthology is a compilation of the finest poetry written by the college men and women of every section of the country, and the selections were made from thousands of poems submitted. Giancola’s work is entitled Strike Me to Heaven.. •.
The Marketing Department of the College of Commerce here will be represented at the coming meeting of the American Marketing Association to be held in Cleveland at the end of this month. Dr. BROOKS SMEETON, a professor of the College of Commerce, will preside over a panel discussion on the first day of the conference. The panel will include representatives from the University of Illinois, the Babson Institute, Ohio State University, the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co., the Studebaker. Corporation, Indiana University and DePaul University.
—Walt Collins—
Dec. 17, 1948
27
Sunny Italy			*
A		>fre Dame Tradition	"Rosie's." Here You'll Always Enjoy the Italian Accent on Fine Food.
			SUNNY ITALY CAFE 601 NORTH NILES
College Hospital Plan
BENEFITS: $6 per day for Hospital Room.
$60 for X-rays, Anesthesia, Laboratory, Delivery and Operating Room, Medicines, Drugs, etc.
$90 for Surgeon's fees.
$120 for Maternity; with additional $90 for Caesarean or complications requiring surgery.
Entire Family — One Policy — One Rate.
Any Illness — Any Injury.
RATES:	Individual: $ 1.50 monthly. Family: $2.75 monthly.
WRITE: World Life & Accident Association, Dept. P., Richmond, Indiana
Irish Gridders Win All-Opponent Berths
Anyone boosting Emil “Red” Sitko as the Irish back of the year will have supporting evidence from Purdue, Michigan State and Southern California. The Fort Wayne Flash placed on the all-opponent teams of all three of these 1948 Irish foes.
Ambling Leon Hart and bruising Bill Fischer were runners-up in garnering all-opponent honors. Both Purdue and Southern California gave them berths on their squads. Stunned by his battering touchdown gallop, the Trojans gave Leon the only unanimous choice on their eleven. Sitko was an unanimous choice by the Michigan State Spartans. Jim Martin also won an all-opponent berth with the Spartans.
Complete all-opponent elevens as voted by these three teams are:
PURDUE: Ends, Hart (Notre Dame) and Rifenburg (Mich.); tackles, Wistert (Mich.) and Nomellini (Minn.); guards, Fischer (Notre Dame) and Tomasi (Mich.); center, Tonnemaker (Minn.); quarterback, Elliot (Mich.); halfbacks, Sitko (Notre Dame) and Bye (Minn.); fullback, Kuzma (Minn.).
MICHIGAN STATE: Ends, Martin (Notre Dame) and Rifenburg (Mich.); tackles. Austin (Oregon State) and Kohl (Mich.) ; guards, Kelly (Penn State) and Sterling (Santa Clara); center, Dworsky (Mich.); quarterback, Drazenovich (Penn State); halfbacks, Sitko (Notre Dame) and Kaulukukui (Hawaii); fullback, Rogell (Penn State).
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA: Ends, Hart (Notre Dame) and Wilkins (Oregon) ; tackles, Stanton (Oregon) and Frassette (California); guards, Fischer (Notre Dame) and Levenhagen (Wash.); center, Watson (Rice); quarterback, Van Brocklin (Oregon); halfback, Sitko (Notre Dame) and Krall (Ohio State); fullback, Jensen (California).
Chicken-in-the-Rough
Steaks — Chops — Sea Food — Chicken
Open 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. Closed Mondays
213 North Main St.
“Nabicht’s — South Bend’s Oldest Catering Family’
RARE OPPORTUNITY!
STUDY . . . TRAVEL
"SPAIN
BARCELONA GROUP
65 DAYS JUNE 29, 1949
MALAGA GROUP 65 DAYS JULY 2, 1949
Sponsored by: UNIVERSITY OF MADRID
. For Information Write SPANISH STUDENT TOURS 500 Fifth Ave., N. Y. 18, N. Y.
28
The Scholastic
Clubs
(Continued from Page 4)
Again this year Rev. John A. O’Brien is the club moderator. A roster list of all club members has been prepared and sent out to all members. Also, the club basketball team is operating under the direction of Jim Marshall. Plans for the club’s participation in the Mardi Gras are now being formulated.
Villagers Choose Country Club
In a recent meeting president Tom Hynes of the Villagers announced the time and place of the Villagers annual Chirstmas semi-formal dance. He said that chairman Dave Matthews had arranged to hold the dance in the Erskine
Country Club on Dec. 27 with the popular Herbie Germann and his Aristocrats providing the music. Bill Van Scoik is the ticket chairman and Dick Towner and Dan Brennan are in charge of publicity.	—.
Fr. Brennan Speaks to Fly-boys
The Air R.O.T.C. held a Communion breakfast in the East Dining Hall Dec. 8. Toastmaster Tony Ray introduced Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., guest speaker, who spoke on the theme, “Each man graduating from the Air R.O.T.C. will be Mr. Catholic Church in his future military career.”
Schenectady Dance on 29th
The Schenectady Club of Notre Dame
will present a Christmas Dance for students, alumni, and friends at the Edison Club on Dec. 29. Festivities will begin at 9 p.m. with Don Killion’s Orchestra providing the music. Mixed drinks, beer, cokes, and soft drinks will be available at the bar for all who are interested.
Rural Lifers Wrestle Question
The Rural Life Club discussed the moot question, “Will world food production fail to keep pace with the continuing increase in population?” in a recent meeting in the Law Building. Dr. Francis of the Department of Sociology and Mr. Julian Pleasants of Lobund kept the discussion rolling. A flurry of questions ended the meeting.
I
I
General Bectric Is net one business, bet on ornenixatlen
CAREERS at GENERAL ELEGTRIG
GENERAL^ ELECTRIC
HE WANTS TO START YOU IN BUSINESS
R. J. Canning (Michigan), Director of die G-E Business Training Course: Every year I interview and select seniors interested in G-E business careers. Our training course gives to business administration and liberal arts men practical experience in business procedures as well as evening classes in company accounting and financial operations.
ELECTRICAL BIGINEER
A. H. Lauder (Wyoming), Assistant Manager of a G-E division: I don’t think opportunities were ever better for the engineer who takes his engineering seriously—who concentrates on it and avoids the temptation to swerve off into administrative work. In my 26 years here, I’ve found variety and opportunity for creative thinking.
SALES ENGINEHI
P. C. Shirkey (Princeton), G-E sales representative: The company needs many men to do the kind of work I’m doing—that is, to keep up with new apparatus and find economical and practical applications for it among G-E customers. The company runs its own course for us, with studies in engineering as well as in sales methods.
I
1
29
Letters
(Continued from Page 3)
phones are not listed in the directory of of the telephone company, at least not under their names. There are several hundred off-campus students in a similar position. Wouldn’t it be nice to have a complete list of all these “secret” numbers at the beginning of every academic year? The students on other campuses publish regularly a directory of all people connected with their university complete with office phone, residence phone, address, college, and year. . . .
Another suggestion: Campus papers elsewhere include articles on general topics (even politics), essays, etc. In short they are a real forum for intel-
OFFICERS pinks
Quality Year Round _
Dress Trousers $8.95
Beautifully tailored of finest ELASTIQUE material. Tailored
for correct fitting, styling, and comfort. BRAND NEW! Wrinkle-proofed. Zipper front. Roomy pockets. Sizes 30-42 in assorted lengths. SUPPLY LIMITED. Previously sold $14.95. Now only $8.95, postpaid! C.O.D.'s plus charges.
LEONARD & LEE SURPLUS SALES 69-71-73 E. 75th St., Dept. 100 Chicago 19, III.
s200 or MORE! Every Hour!!
Sell name plates for front doors
Every order pays you — in cash — immediately!
Free Sample
Write Dept. 00
NATIONAL ENGRAVERS 214 Summer St., Boston, Mass.
lectual exchange. None of the present ND campus publications offer space for semi-populai- articles. . . . Could the Scholastic expand its rather limited scope to include ND activities beyond sport, dances, “human interest” stories and short reviews? E. K. Francis Department of Sociology
Attention, Coach Leahy!
Dear Editor:
Am enclosing a picture of my grandson (a future football player for ND). I thought maybe you would like it for
the Scholastic. He is Thomas A. Lieb of Erie, Pa. His uncle is a junior at ND (John Sherwood of 155 Cavanaugh).
Mrs. Fred Sherwood
Wellsville, New York
Better watch out, you frosh of 1966.
—Editor.
Sentio Idem
Dear Editor:
Congrats to Ken Thoren for an honest review of a student production — the first I’ve ever seen.
Corsages
— FOR THAT DANCE
Flowers for All Occasions
Flowers Wired to Every City and Town in the World
South Bend Floral Co.
114 So. Michigan	Phone 3-8227
The Halpin opus was sad.
Yours for better writing, Jim Cunningham
Off-Campus
The Best Yet
Dear Editor:
Hats off to you and your staff for the 1948 Football Issue. It’s the snappiest, slickest Football Issue ever published — a masterful job from cover to cover.
Off-Campus
Edward J. Snyder
Middies1 January Ball Airs Hawaiian Motif
A Hawaiian motif will be featured in the Navy Ball to be held in the Drill Hall on January 15 by the NROTC, cochairmen Lou Lorou and Ed Meagher announced this week. Bill Cullen and his band have been awarded the musical contract.
The theme of the dance will be “A Night at Trader Vic’s.” Trader Vic’s is
Fine Repairing
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS, JEWELRY
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
30
The Scholastic
a Honolulu night spot hit by quite a few middies during their summer travels. This theme depends of course on whether Trader Vic’s permission for the use of the name is forthcoming.
Ticket chairmen John Ryan, Tom Carroll, and Walt Murphy placed the bids, priced at $3.25, on sale last Saturday. Judging from the results of a recent survey more than 90 percent of the Navy’s 210 midshipmen will attend, plus an undetermined number of Air ROTC cadets who have been invited.
Blind dates are being arranged for bashful middies by Sparky Thornton from such varied sources as St. Mary’s, South Bend, and several Chicago girls’ colleges.

WANT TO EARN $9000 A YEAR?
Would you like to be your own boss . . . with professional standing in your community? Then you’ll be interested in the opportunities offered by a career in life insurance selling for The Mutual Life. Many of our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more!
We invite you to send for our Aptitude Test, which predetermines your chances for success in this field. After taking the test, you’ll hear from our manager in or near your community. If you qualify, he’ll explain our excellent on-the-job training course and the famous Mutual Lifetime Compensation Plan, which provides liberal commissions, service fees and a substantial retirement income at 65. Mail the coupon today!
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY of NEW YORK
34 Nassau Street	New York 5. N.Y
FIRST IN	AMERICA
PLEASE SEND APTITUDE TEST NAME__________________—AGE---
ADDRESS.
CITY______________________________________
1104
!I hate coats,” this human mutters as he wiggles into one. “Feels like a misfit!”
“Try a Mt. Rock,” I interject. “Mr. Rocks never
hang too far forward, or too far backward
—but ahvays hang right all around.” He did—and discovered "they fit”!
"I can’t thank you too much, goat,” he shouts. “I’m gonna name all my kids Billy!”
Moral: Pay yourself a tribute. Try on a smooth, perfect-fitting Mt. Rock coat. WE’VE got ’em! $50 to $125.
We are offering a 10-to-25 per cent discount on all ready-made and tailor-made suits and coats. Consult our campus representatives for further information: Pete Francken, Tom Tierney, Tom McGuire, Mike Ivers, Jack Clynes, Gus Cifelli, Max Gabreski, and Jim Scheeran.
to all
Notre Dame Men
we wish
A Very Merry Christmas and A Happy New Year
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc.
115% N. Main Street
READY-MADE SUITS AND COATS
CUSTOM TAILORS
Dec. 17, 1948
31
Radio
By BO CONNOR
Jane Froman, you remember, is the concert singer who kept popping up in Time magazine’s “People” column a couple of years ago when she was injured in a plane crash, temporarily crippled and finally married to the pilot of the ill-fated plane. For quite a while her unfortunate accident overshadowed her fame as a singer, but since she recovered she’s been doing an unusually fine job on The Pause That Refreshes On The Air (Sunday, 5:30 p. m.).
Froman Unexcelled on Air
She gives a richness to the songs she sings that can’t be equalled on the air. I suppose she manages that by her ability to sound both powerful and faint in an auditorium that gives off the suggestion of an echo. Add that to her near perfect diction and you have the ingredients for a first rate singer. I suppose if you were to classify her, you’d say she is a mezzo soprano.
In addition to Miss Froman there is Percy Faith and his orchestra to put you in any number of moods. They have an excellent string section that is used to good advantage on such numbers as Jealousy and Dancing In The Dark. Roger Pryor acts as the M.C. and while he doesn’t do much more than introduce the numbers, he does add a certain dignity to the program.
Unquestionably though, Miss Froman is the real attraction. She sings anything from a folk ballad to an aria. At least once, and usually twice she sings one of the numbers from the great musical comedies of the 30’s—those more specifically composed by Gershwin, Porter, Kern and Berlin. Sung a couple of times by her and you’re ready to admit that songs like I’ve Got You Under My Skin, Smoke Gets In Your Eyes, etc., are classics in their own right. She does an exceptionally good job on TVie Night Has A Thousand Eyes and Buttons and Bows (surprisingly enough)—two current favorites.
Commercials Kept to Minimum
You’ll probably like a couple of policies the sponsor (Coca Cola) abides by too. The commercial is limited to a ten-second break midway in the broadcast and the audience refrains from clapping until the last number is finished. Everything considered, this stacks up as the best half hour of music on the air.
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIES
& Katz
1 V FQR MEN AND 1 ^YOUNC MEN MAIN AT COLFAX
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIES
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
32
The Scholastic
Dec. 17, 1948
33
Browser’s Column
spirit of the season to splendid acts of charity befitting your position as an ND student. May you gather the Notre Dame family to your bosom at this time. May you be instilled, at this festive time, with hope for the future, may your every job dream come true.. On January 5 may you return to your* life here as you left it and may it always remain as steady and stable.
There comes a time when even those whose blood is composed of acid and venom (such as ours is reliably reported to be) feels that blood surging warmly through him. And despite everything he tries to do to keep from perverting his nature, there creeps into his being a corrupted little feeling for his brother man. There even wedges past his Adam’s apple a tiny lump, indicating traditionally enough, an emotional view of the circumstances he finds himself in. The Christmas season is upon us and so these things have happened to this poi-soned-penner.
Moved as we are with this bourgeoisie sentimentalism and determined to convert one of the legion of enemies to our cause, lest we eat our Yuletide gruel alone, we dedicate this column to peace and light and good will toward men.
And, so casting aside cold truth, we proceed with some pleasant paragraphs about a few of our contemporaries.
you every best! Hail to thee blight spirits! May your Christmas boxes contain many cases of beer for future club parties. May your Christmas dances be great successes, may you return to campus reaffirmed in your great faith m tradition and reaction. Merry eight days before Christmas to you!
And to you, Max A. Browser, may your Christmas wine be bitter, may your turkey be tough, may you long for a heart that stirs with the human impulse, you Scrooge, you!
SINCE SEPTEMBER^, 1948
Bouquet Tossed to Class Officers
We would like first to send the merriest of greetings to all class officers, young and old. We forgive them their trespasses against good student government; we pass over their apathy toward constructive activity; we even turn ourselves blind and deaf to their appointing themselves prom committeemen. We sing sweet carols to their ears. May they live long their lives; May their every New Year’s wish come true ano may they find a new set of hormones in their Christmas stocking.
And to the Student Council—God rest ye merry, gentlemen! Your work this semester has been arduous. Go to your homes and rest. Relax and forget the many cares of governing, directing and entertaining the Notre Dame student body. The rich harvest of good laborers be yours! May your tree hang heavy with gilt-edged petitions, and leather bound resolutions. May you drink deep of the seasonal brew of good five-cent coffee.
To the campus club officers — we lift our brimming cup of egg nog and wish
Campus Tooters Receive Pat
Sweet music of angels, then, to the Notre Dame band. May their drums ring truly and their trumpets blast like Gabriel’s. May their Christmas feast and Christmas wine, tear away their bitter taste, acquired from reading our gentle words. May they, the meek, inherit the earth!
And to this great, robust body of men — the Notre Dame student body, our brothers, our friends — the fullest enjoyment of your triple cuts! A warm greeting from the folks at home, many nights of contentment at the family hearth. May you be inspired by the
10,408 COLLEGE STUDENTS
HAVE CHANGED^ TO kwMd
THERE’S A REASON:
CASINO ROOM
The
CHICAGO CLUB
presents its
<Cfjrt£itmaS ©ante
For Students, Alumni, and Notre Dame
CONGRESS HOTEL
Friends
MUSIC By DEL RENE
Larry Heuser, chairman
34
The Scholastic
SANTA offers a HINT for a GIFT for HIM or HER
for Her
.... The distinctive Pilcher Compact. Created to accentuate feminine charm .... in gold. From $3.50 to $11.00.
for the Family
. . . . The unique Notre Dame plate, beautifully embossed with campus scenes.
$2.00 each
for Him
. . . . The impressive monogram belt bluckle. Something special for a special Notre Dame friend. Fits any belt. Gold finish, $1.75.
Now at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Dec. 17, 1948
35
Give cm by the Carton!
Give em to everyone who smokes—the family, the
neighbors, your friends—everyone who s been good to
you all year. Chesterfields are the best tip I can give
t,Gc£TT4 M
you at Christmas time or any time. When you give
Chesterfields you sock em with a load of good cheer.