PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE. EAR, NOSE, THROAT
PHONE 3-1395
M- S- BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
434 associates bldg.
PHONE 3-25^4
DR. H. R. FRASER
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-89B9
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661
RESIDENCE 3-4080
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTISTRY—X-RAYS
702 J. M c
• "• s- bldg.
SOUTH BEND. tNO.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
PHONE 3-12S4
SO3 SHERLAND
BUILDING
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY 625 SHERLAND BUILDING
E. FISHER.
M- -«• thornton.
M. D.
8^?.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP Leonard A. Rose, d.d.s. Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s. Peter j. Rose, d.d.s.
S23-629 SHERLAND BLDG.
SOUTH BEND
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
3,A J. M. S. BUILDING
TELEPHONE 4-360
Phone 3-2805
Residence
4-1544 -.
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY
FOOT AILMENTS
X-Ray Examination hours BY APPOINTMENT
609 J. M. S. Blog.
SOUTH BEND, IND.
J serrice


BUT it’s plenty important! In the telephone business, not just one, hut thousands of important items of equipment must be distributed throughout the country when and where needed.
Seeing to it that everything used in the Bell System is always on hand has long been the responsibility of Western Electric. So has making the equipment and buying the material, as well as distributing them throughout the nation.
Western Electric thus plays its part in enabling you to reach your party quickly and at low cost, whenever you telephone.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
3
COLLEGE PARADE
।	~ RAYMOND J. KELLY ■ ■	—
Letter from Vassar
The Syracuse Daily Orange reported the results of a poll made at the University of Georgia which showed that 60 per cent of the male students were opposed to compulsory training while 60 per cent of the co-eds were in favor of it. In an editorial, commenting upon this result, the Orange made the observation that this result “is comparable to an endorsement of the income tax by a man who is tax exempt.”
On the other hand, the Vassar Miscellany News published a letter, written, presumably, to what the War Department insists is a “selectee.” Between the paragraphs of the actual letter, the thoughts of the writer, continuing the ideas set down on paper, were set out a la “Strange Interlude.” The part of the letter that made the Parade pause and read again was:
“I know the loneliness must be hard, but I’m sure they’ll make provisions for some kind of recreation. I don’t see how they’ll ever make a soldier out of you, Johnny. They certainly aren’t making one of me. But it isn't as thought it were 1917. I know you won’t be sent abroad. It’s cheering to hear people like President MacCracken say that the war must be stripped of its moral veneer, that no one should urge us to kill and be killed the name of Christianity....
“I’m glad he wasn’t in chapel Sunday night, terribly glad he didn’t hear Jesus described as a tough-minded man of fibre strength and force, and that we believed a lie when we believed wars never solve anything. It is a misconception common to most Christians that they must have nothing to do with war, that’s what he said. And History is made by men,, not by economic forces.”)
A brawl in Baker Street
In a recent issue of the Saturday Re-view of Literature, Rex Stout, creator of the well-upholstered detective, Nero Wolfe, advanced a theory that Dr. Watson, the companion of many of Sherlock Holmes’ adventures was actually a woman. After reading over the article and accepting Stout’s contention that he can prove his point and, in fact, is preparing a two-volume work on the topic,
an editorial writer on the Indiana Daily Student threw the entire idea aside. He said that Stout could draw a deduction and point to facts until he was purple and he’d never be convincing. Dr. Watson could not have been a woman for he was a lover of fine foods. The descriptions he gives of the midnight suppers that he and Holmes enjoyed in the rooms in Baker Street are not the work of a woman. A brace of roasted woodcocks, fine imported wines, rashers of crisp bacon, muffins and jars of jams—those are for a man’s meal.
Tradition
Years ago, some clever fellow working on the Juggler staff wrote a bit of verse. Because it hit so close to home, expressing in this lad’s clever manner, what
“Da grudge battle of da century — Gunner Cokesoak an’ Hygiene Harry Hotchkiss’*
many, more inarticulate lads had felt all along, the poem was printed in the Juggler. Moreover, it was reprinted in the Scholastic and the Santa Maria, nearly ever year. In the last two years, it has not seen and, so that our present sophomores and freshmen, do not miss this bit of tradition, the Parade reprints this verse.
We might have loved as lovers do ’Neath starry skies above.
We might have danced in night clubs gay There to -speak of love.
We might have sped in roadsters swift For stolen midnight rides;
Or tripped the light fantastic step Through life’s more shady sides.
We might have done a thousand things Well known to college fame
But you went to St. Mary’s And I went to Notre Dame.
❖
Vital Statistics
Ten years after graduation, one out of every five St. Mary’s girls is married.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Centennial Will Begin in June, 1942; to Last a Full Year
NEW DEAL IN NEWS
By Fitzpatrick & Maguire
Plans for the Centennial year at Notre Dame have taken a definite step forward with the appointment by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, of an executive committee and several sub-committees, to be in charge of arrangements for the celebration. The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, will be chairman of the executive committee.
According to plans, the celebration of the Centennial will formally begin with an announcement by Father O’Donnell at the commencement in June, 1942, in which he will ask faculty members, students, alumni, and friends of Notre Dame to unite in a year of special prayer, petitioning through Our Lady, God’s blessings on Notre Dame and the Centennial year, and begging for peace throughout the world. This intention will be featured in a program of masses, communions, and adorations of the Blessed Sacrament, to be observed during the summer session of 1942, and the school year of 1942 and 1943. The celebration will be formally closed with special events at the commencement in June, 1943.
Various symposia will be held throughout the year, with eminent scholars from America and abroad, faculty members, and students invited to participate; and invitations will be extended to learned societies to hold their annual meetings at Notre Dame. A new history of the University is in process, and a moving picture which portrays the modern Notre Dame is being filmed.
The Mission House, which was the first college building on the campus, will be transformed into a museum in which relics of the University’s past will be exhibited. Plays of historical significance are being considered, and it is hoped to form a large chorus, composed of men from the Moreau seminary choir, the Glee Club, and a group of specially trained students, to sing the special Centennial mass in June, 1943.
Publication of a Notre Dame prayer book, to establish a spiritual union among Notre Dame men, has been indorsed by the executive committee.
The Golden Dome of the University •will be releafed, probably this summer, in preparation, for the Centennial.
As announced by Father O’Donnell, the committees in charge of plans for
the celebration and their respective chairmen, are as follows:
Executive Committee—the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Sub-committees, to work under the Executive Committee:
Committee on Invitations and Literature, the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Committee for Reception, Housing, and Decorations, the Rev. Francis
REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C. Executive chairman
P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.; Committee for Academic Affairs, the Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C.; Committee for Student Participation, the Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C.; Committee on Radio and Movies, the Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C.; Committee on Church Observance, the Rev. Kerndt M. Healy, C.S.C.; Centennial Alumni Committee, the Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C.; Committee for Music and Drama, the Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C.; Committee on Exhibits, Mr. Paul R. Byrne; Committee on History, the Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C.
—Dan Broderick
Conlon Addresses Aeronauts
“Magnesium Alloys in Aircraft” was the subject discussed on Wednesday evening by Prof. E. W. Conlon, guest speaker from the University of Michigan, before a meeting of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences in the Engineering Auditorium. A color picture, “Soaring at Elmira,” was shown.
Notre Dame Infirmary, March 17— George Miles, noted columnist, his face a mass of red blotches, lifted his itchy torso from a hospital bed here to cry out, “In times like these, as true Americans, all of us in here insist that this is not GERMAN measles.”
Miami, Fla., March 18 — Col. Jack Landry landed here today on the last leg of his mercy flight in search of the missing Joy Beaverduck. Landry obviously had been flying blind all the way from South Bend. After refuelling Landry soared into the sky flying more blindly than before.
Somewhere in the Atlantic, March 20 — Special Dispatch from Fredric B. Slurp, Sleepy Eye Correspondent of the London Times.) Shortly past noon today as we were floating off the coast of Iceland a Nazi submarine appeared on the surface. The two German commanders boarded Joe Glumpf’s cake of ice and ordered two deluxe hamburgers but both defiantly refused relish. Peanut butter sandwiches were dispensed to the members of the crew before the submarine submerged.
&
South Bend, Ind., March 19—Dr. Albert Silkini, famed magician who appeared this week at the Granada Theatre, while walking down Colfax Avenue this afternoon turned into a drugstore.
❖
New York, N. Y., March 17—Addressing a St. Patrick’s Day gathering of the sons of Hibernia here today, Terrence O’Hearndon, their president, praised the triumphant struggle of the Irish people to remain neutral and at peace in a war-torn world. O’Hearndon’s speech was interrupted by a slight disturbance in the audience resulting in police intervention. Ten were seriously injured, 45 slightly cut and bruised, and 30 were arrested, among them Mr. O’Hearndon.
♦
LaSalle Bowling Alley, March 20— George Alfs, popular Notre Dame senior, was slightly injured here today while attempting to make a 7-10 split when his thumb became jammed in the bowling ball. He was picked out of the gutter about half-way down the alley by friends.

The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
. - ,
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 74
MARCH 21, 1941
Number 19
Bengaleers Vie for Championships;
Gym is Scene of 10th Annual Bouts
Leahy and Assistants are Honorary Officials
Sixteen of the choicest specimens of the Fighting Irish will meet in the ring at the Fieldhouse tomorrow night to battle for eight University boxing titles and bring to a close the tenth Annual Bengal Bouts, Notre Dame’s most popular indoor show. These 16 men are the survivors of a starting field of over 100 and have fought through three nights of preliminaries for the right to compete for the prizes and trophies.
Presiding at the ringside as honorary referee will be the new head coach of Irish football, Frank Leahy. His staff of assistants, Ed McKeever, backfield coach, John Druze, end coach, and Joe McArdle, line coach, will officiate as honorary judges, along with Mr. Frank W. Lloyd, comptroller of the University. In addition to these notables, Mr. Dominic Napolitano, director of the tournament, has garnered a long list of officials and followers of amateur boxing: Amateur Athletic Union Boxing Commissioner George Cooper; A.A.U. Tournament Clerk Charles Hafron; A.A.U. Referees George Nate and George Van derhayden; A.A.U. Judges William Sheehan, Eugene Young, Hi Fermen, Earl Murphy, Bernard Wi-tucki and Edward DesLauries; Medical Examiners: Dr. J. E. McMeel and Dr. Joseph R. Caton; A.A.U. Timers: Elmer Tepe and Harry Richwine;; Announcers: Track Coach William Mahoney and Football Coach William Cemey; Glove Clerks: Patrick Putnam and Joseph Se-menczuk; Bandager: Paul Patten; Equipment Clerk: Mike Hines.
Because of the encouraging ticket sale, a capacity crowd is expected for the final night of the boxing tournament which is sponsored for the benefit of the Holy Cross Missions in Bengal.
The winners of the prizes and special awards will be announced during tomorrow night’s card. Blue and gold boxing
sweaters will be awarded to each finalist. A trophy will be presented to the residence hall housing the largest number of winners. A second trophy, given by The Huddle, will be presented to the individual who, in the opinion of the judges, displays the best sportsmanship in the ring.
Tuesday’s Winners
Elimination in the 135, 145, 155 and 165 pound classes began Tuesday night with a 12 bout card. In the opening bout of the 135 pound class Robert Taylor, Holy Cross, Ind., decisioned Andrew Bar-biere, New York City, on the basis of his ability to score clean hits with either hand with equal facility and his ability to keep out of close range where Bar-biere was most effective. Louis Schmitz won the decision from T. Spencer for the same reason that Taylor won his. In the 135 pound class, George St. George, of Chicago, Ill., and Adrian Padon, Tulsa, Okla., put on a very fast fight, Padon showing superior marksmanship in scoring knockdowns in the first and third rounds, and St. George showing his ability to take plenty of punishment and still carry his part of the fight. Padon won by a decision.
In the 145 pound class Jim Rice won a decision over Dan Dahill, Rice scoring clean hits with a small number of blows,. despite Dahill”s aggressiveness. William Scanlon, La Crosse, Wis., fighting from a very low crouch, but too low to be an
1941 BENGAL BOUTS FINALISTS
MARCH 22
1.	Paul Malloy, 1941 120 lb. champion, vs. Louis Feraro, South Bend Golden Gloves champion in 126 lb. novice class.
2.	(127 lbs.) Dan Canale, Dillon Hall vs. Sammy Meyer, 1940 135 lb. champion
3.	(135 lbs.) Louis Schmitz, Breen.Phillips Hall vs. Adrian Padon, Lyons Hall.
4.	(145 lbs.) Jim Rice, Brownson Hall vs. Rod Maguire, 1939 and 1940 champion.
5.	(155 lbs.) George Greene, Alumni Hall vs. Bill McGrath, '40 165 lb. champion.
6.	(165 lbs.) Joe Costello, Walsh Hall vs. Tom Nolan, Cavanaugh Hall .
7.	(175 lbs.) Bill Hoyne, Alumni Hall vs. Jerry Ryan, 1940 champion.
8.	(Heavyweights) Bruce Hebenstreit, 1940 175 lb. vs. Charles Kravolec, Morrissey Hall Fights start at 8:00 — Admission, 35 cents.
Arturo Godoy crouch, forced Walter Ro-mita to go the full three rounds before the latter was able to take the decision.
In the first of four good bouts in the 155 pound class, Joe Rorick warded off a violent first-round attack from Bernard Wojcik, and came back to score a technical knockout over the latter in 2 minutes and 40 seconds of the second round. George Dixon took a very close decision from Bob Duffy on the basis of the former’s accuracy and ability to sidestep Duffy’s harder punches. Dick Reynolds decisioned Sam Rowbottom as he carried the fight to Rowbottom and pierced the latter’s defense in the third round. Ted Burke took a very close decision over Jack Russell. Burke’s accuracy decided the victory, despite Russell’s aggressiveness and apparent ability to throw harder punches.
The first bout in the 165 pound class came to an annual end when Joe Costello TKO’d Norman Trembly. As Trembly came out of his comer at the beginning of the second round. Costello gave him two very hard lefts and rights that dumped Trembly on the canvas. Trembly, dazed but not injured, rolled over on his knee and stood up beside the ropes. As he rose from the canvas, his seconds shouted for him to stay down and rest for part of the count. Trembly apparently didn’t understand the advice until he was standing up, and while still in a daze from Costello’s hard punches, followed his second’s advice and returned to the floor. In doing this, Trembly technically “took a dive” and the referee was forced to award the fight to Costello. Some of the hardest hitting of the evening was seen in the fight between Pete Ashbaugh and Jerry Dwyer, the decision going to the former because of a knockdown in the first round which Dwyer was
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
unable to compensate for in the following two rounds. In the last bout of the evening, John Kelly of New York City outpointed Frank McDonough, Chicago, Ill.
Wednesday’s Bouts
special committee appointed by former governor M. Clifford Townsend to study tax conditions in Indiana and to devise a tax program for the state legislature.
Typical of the industrious character of the man, Prof. Payton wrote this
answer on a political questionnaire inquiring into his occupational background previous to his law practice and teaching: “Worked at various occupations to educate myself.”
—Jack Sprague
Nine bouts, packed with hard fighting and close decisions, marked Wednesday night’s card. John Morris took a decision from Leo Linck in the 125 lb. class. Kermit Rousseau outpointed Walter Romito in the 145 lb. class. Rod Maguire succeeded in keeping his title from going to Joe Rorick. George Greene won over George Dickson by a very close decision. Bill McGrath decisioned Ted Burke, in the 155 lb. class. Bill Hoyne won by a decision over John Henry in the first bout of the 175 lb. class. George Mc-Quiston won by a technical knockout over Norbert Ellrott in the second round of their fight. Starting the heavyweight bouts, Bob Dowd scored a technical knockout in the first round over John Kearney. Bill Smyth won over John Clark with a very close decision. Bruce Hebenstreit won with a technical knockout over Henry Priester in the second round of their bout.
Tom Powers
Prof. Eugene J. Payton, College of Commerce, Dies
John Meehl, driver, tells his story to Reporter Silha
Professor Eugene J. Payton, teacher,
lawyer, leader, and Catholic gentleman,
died last Saturday in St. Joseph’s Hos
Prof. E. J. Payton
pital, South Bend, after a long illness. He was born in Dunmore, Pa., in 189 3 and r e-ceived his B.S. degree from Grove City College in Grove City, Pa., in 1916. In 1919 he entered Notre Dame to take postgraduate work, and in 1920 joined the
faculty. He received his L.B. degree in
1923.
For 18 years Professor Payton taught business law in the college of commerce at Notre Dame and at the same time carried on a legal practice in South Bend. In 1938 he entered politics when he became the Democratic candidate for state senator. He won the office and proved himself to be one of the senate’s most capable members. As a senator, Prof. Payton was first placed on the important “good roads” committee and in 1939 was made a member of the
Horse and Buggy Visits Campus Daily
The passing years have seen the abolishing of many old methods, yet there remains on the campus at least one remembrance of the “good old days.” Every day, rain or shine, parked in front of the old campus bakery is an old canvas - topped buggy, the type popular in post Civil War days.
The buggy was built in 1889 and is still being used today. Bought by Brother Leo, C.S.C., now Notre Dame’s Farm Director, in 1900 for the price of one dollar, it is now worth much more as an antique. The frisky battle-scarred horse which pulls it, Barney, was once a race horse and was bought for ten dollars. The horse, like the buggy, is old and has watched students come and go for nearly 30 years.
The driver of the buggy, John Meehl, has worked on the University’s farm for the past 20 years and makes the trip in every day for supplies. Loping at a rheumatic gallop, Barney makes an instinct-grooved circuit of the various stations, the warehouse, the bakery, the electrician’s shop. A portrait of consummate
patience while waiting for Mr. Meehl to come out of the bakery, he is a natural softie for the stroking bestowed upon him by passersby.
Students are often clustered around the buggy closely examining this relic of transportation of by-gone days. Few have seen anything like it outside of books and old tintypes. Since the driving of automobiles is prohibited, the students are thinking of pooling their cigarette money and buying a horse and buggy. There is nothing in the rule book prohibiting it, and the general idea is that if it was good enough for grandpa it’s good enough for them.
Brother Leo says that the main reason for the horse and buggy is a financial one. The cost of driving it to and from the farm is almost negligible, compared to the cost of driving a truck or a car, to obtain the needed supplies. John 1 Meehl takes a personal pride in his horse, maintaining that Barney can still i put this modern generation of horses in J the background.—Elmer D. Silha	f;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ON THE MAT!
1. to r.—P. Lillis, R. Gerra, R. Coleman, T. Carty, M. Byrne, R. Doran, Prof. Quiz and a judge.
Juniors, Freshmen Win in Prof. Quiz "Quiz"
Fresh from a strenuous fortnight along the Atlantic seaboard, radio’s man of many trades, the original Professor Quiz, brought his famous “Battle of the Wits” to Notre Dame last week, when students filled Washington Hall with jeers and cheers as the juniors sank the seniors, and the freshmen downed the sophomores in a “witskrieg” to the finish.
Student Council President Jack Burke weighed the counsel of class presidents and student councilors before finally choosing three from each class to uphold that class’s reputation. Football Captain Paul Lillis paced the juniors to victory in the first contest, as he tied Tom Carty of the senior team at 450 points. The other members of the winning aggregation were Bob Coleman and Matty Byrne. Seniors Bob Doran and Ralph Gorra went into defeat.
In the “younger” competition three freshmen upstarts, Hal Haley, Jim O’Dea and Jim McDonough, either picked the right questions out of the professor’s battered fedora or knew more of the right answers to beat sophomores Bill Brady, Bill Costello and Dick Padesky. Brady copped individual honors with 550 points; Hal Haley followed closely with 500 and Jim O’Dea tagged along with 475. For his sponsors, Velvet pipe and cigarette tobacco, Professor Quiz awarded one can of Velvet pipe tobacco to each contestant.
Professor Quiz (Dr. Earl Craig) came to Notre Dame through the efforts of
Johnny Moran, onetime* editor of the Scholastic and now publicity man for the professor. Generally regarded as the pioneer of all quizmasters, the genial prof gave some hint of a colorful past as he amazed the boys with his card tricks in an “after-quiz” performance. The prof has been a professional magician, wrestling instructor and circus performer among other things; a varied background indeed for a man who later gained a graduate degree in psychology in a leading American university before beginning his present “Battle of Wits” program in Washington, D. C., four years ago.	—Mark G. McGrath
Campus Newscaster Has
Varied Career in Radio
Introducing a little boy with an odd career — Freshman James C. McDonough, the Chicago lad who recently relieved retiring Senior Bill Mulvey as Campus Radio Newscaster over Station WSBT. Jim’s rise has not been as sudden as it might appear for last September when Jim came to Notre Dame he broke into the Radio Club through a successful audition and received a major role on the opening broadcast of the year, “The Founder’s Day Program.” Tuesday after Tuesday he continued performing either with Vern Witkowski’s “Radio Stage,” or as a gassed lover in the Washington Hall stage performance of “Outward Bound.”
Then at the semester Jim inveigled
Radio Club President Bob Le Jeune into allowing him to produce a series of programs entitled “The Cavalcade of Plays,” 15-minute dramas which he was to adapt for radio and present every other Tuesday. He gathered a cast, found an eerie scrip, “The Ghost of Green Mansion,” got his brother, Frank, a Sorin Hall senior and president of the Notre Dame Press Club, to be his announcer and he was off. The cavalcade is still rolling. Finally there came the Campus Newscast and seemingly an over - industrious freshman had talked his way into radio prominence at Notre Dame. But not so.
Jim’s radio career had begun long before September, 1940. Ten years ago little eight-year-old Jimmie toddled off amiably and regularly to private dramatic and speech lessons in the “Windy City.” For five years Jimmie’s privately acquired talents were limited to participation in six schoolboy plays annually. Then he reached the eighth grade and participated in a radio audition for a part in “Young Hickory,” a popular juvenile serial. Promptly began three years of work with NBC and WAAF in Chicago during which time he remained with the “Young Hickory” broadcast, played the lead in “Jimmie and His Pals” and had parts in many other similar radio skits.
In the summer of ’38 Jim was offered the part of Jimmy on the “Tom Mix” broadcast. But woe to James, he was entrained for Prairie du Chien, Wis., to enter his junior year at Campion Jesuit High School. He soon joined the “Masquers,” Campion’s dramatic group, and became their president the following year. He then forgot his woes in “the happiest years of my life.”
Jim had practically loafed through the summer of ’39, acting only fill-in parts on the old “Jimmie and His Pals” program, so he dived into the summer of ’40 with vigor — perhaps because he heard that he was going to Notre Dame the next September. All through June and July he worked with the Michiana Shores stock theatre with friend Mike Kinnare, now a fellow Notre Dame freshman, and with such notables as Allison Skipworth, Sally O’Neill, and Taylor Holmes. But in August these two Barrymores broke off and formed their own group, “The Grand Beach Summer Theatre,” for the ambitious purpose of competing with their old stock company. In the last six weeks of the summer they staged four successful plays, comedy, and drama, and then broke camp to leave for Notre Dame.
Now he’s talking about his plans for next summer. It seems that Mike Kinnare and Jim will reorganize the Sum
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
mer Theatre and make a tour of middle western towns. It’s impossible to hazard a guess past that, because the draft camp is, at the moment, two years off, and Jim isn’t any more definite about his college career than “I’ll probably major in English,” but the least one can say is that James C. McDonough is certainly an enthusiastic answer to Bob LeJeune’s plea, “We want new blood in the Radio Club.”—Mark G. McGrath
"Scholastic" Predecessor
Published in June, 1860
’Way back in the days when Notre Dame was still a struggling infant, and Greek was something to be learned rather than laughed at, a few of the more industrious- students got together and published a paper, the precursor of the present day Scholastic. They called it “The Progress,” and only one issue was printed, that on June 26, 1860. All other issues were written in long hand.
“The Progress” was an eight-page, bimonthly publication, and was composed chiefly of essays, poetry and editorials. Two ads, however, appeared on the back page, one for Notre Dame, and the other for St. Mary’s, and they offer an excellent proof of the truth of the adage, “How times have changed!” Notre Dame students paid $125 for the year, in those days, and spending money was deposited with the Treasurer, who doled it out at •his leisure. St. Mary’s girls were given an added incentive to attend their alma mater by reason of a course in fancy needlework, which was offered free. Timothy E. Howard, after whom Howard Hall is named, was the chief contributor to “The Proress.”
Another paper, one which appeared shortly afterward, was the “Olympic Gazette,” whose professed purpose for existence was its “Devotion to Intellectual Amusement.” It was written in longhand, came out every Wednesday afternoon, and was read to the different classes in their respective study halls. It consisted of two pages, one given to literature, and the other to box scores of intramural cricket games. The only issue remaining is of Oct. 12, 1864.
The boys of 1899 had journalistic aspirations, too, although they ran in a slightly different vein. They published an eight-page paper called “Squirt.” It was entirely facetious, and even had a woman’s page. Lame jokes which had the boys in stitches were typically this:
Murray:—“What have you been cutting with your razor? It’s full of nicks.”
Dillon:—“Been cutting my teeth.”
(There was only one issue of “Squirt.”)—Dan Broderick
By Russell L. Harris
“Big Buck” comes from the vague vastness west of the Mississippi. South Dakota, Nebraska, and Minnesota have all housed him at times. At present the chosen city is St. Paul.
Arriving at Notre Dame, he had the air of the West about him — from Nebraska to Chicago, “Big Buck” had bunked with bovines. Perhaps cattle trains are not
Gene DeLay comfortable but they “git” you there.
Love for Notre Dame was acquired when he came here for the graduation of an older brother. That love has persisted. It is as strong in him now that he is a senior as it was when he was a freshman. During the intervening years he has seen Notre Dame from a fair, far land — St. Mary’s. He is known there as the mixer of mouldy malts and continental cokes. He jerked sodas and performed other sundae duties to suit the varied whims of thirsty femmes. He is the mediator, the balancer, the smoother between Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. He is the Oracle of the Rock, King of the Roost, the Artiste of the Oriole.
But that is gone, finished, past. He has returned to spend his last semester idling in the traditionalism of Sorin sub. When “Big Buck” came to Notre Dame, he chose Commerce, and Commerce it has been for four long, Indiana years. But when “Little Buck” (Brother Paul) came, “Big Buck” advised. This June “Little Buck” also takes his degree — in English.
As a freshman, “Big Buck” made his numerals as “that rangy, passing center.” His reward also included a broken nose. But for the past two and a half years his extra-curricular activities have been confined to Mass-serving at St. Mary’s. The reward for such devotional activities is spiritual, but recently, for others, that reward has been materialized. The juicy steaks of the Caf are for other mouths.. Sorin eats elsewhere. It’s the rule, you know.
Don’t be fooled by that credulous “Yeah, Men?” — it is the utilitarian
amiableness of a Commerce Forum member. “Big Buck” is also a Columbian Knight. His ambitions ? — Who can say? — Ask the man of two campuses, Eugene Emmet DeLay.
Barton Harp Quintet
Appears Here Monday
Five young women harpists, the Barton Quintet, will give a concert in Washington Hall at 8 p.m. Monday. The quintet appeared here last year and was enthusiastically received. The young ladies present a varied program of classical and popular music.
Last evening, Miss Maude Scheerer gave a dramatic reading of the current stage hit, “Life With Father.” Miss Scheerer’s interpretation received the emphatic approval of her audience.
A good illustration of Miss Scheerer’s ability is probably best seen in an incident related by James B. Pond, famous lecturer and critic. Mr. Pond was forced to come late for a reading by Miss Scheerer. Because of this he sat behind a post in the auditorium where he could neither see the stage or Miss Scheerer. Mr. Pond, however, commented:... “All I got was her voice. Her voice? For some time I was sure she had others with her on the stage assisting her in presenting the current Broadway hit she was playing that night. There was not one voice, there was not one person. There were many. Then I arose, rather rudely perhaps, and peered over the heads before me. There was no company. Maud Scheerer alone had given me the illusion of a crowded stage.... From then on I knew her for the great artist she is.”
Also well received were the Siberian Singers who performed here last Friday. This group displayed a fine blending of voices and an unusual range. The audience was pleased by the fine singing and personal exuberance of the group.
Upperclassmen Elect
Officers on April 23, 25
Campus politicians are again squaring off for the annual fight for class offices. The primary elections are scheduled for April 23 and 25 for the sophomore, junior, and senior offices.
Registered now are: (for the class of ’42) president, Daniel Shouvlin; vicepresident, Andy Chlebeck; secretary, Bill Adams; treasurer; John Klees; (for the class of ’43) president, Jim Allan; vicepresident, Oliver Hunter; secretary, Frank Conforti; treasurer, William Mc-Caughey; (for the class of ’44) presi
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
THE
dent, Bill McNamara; vice president, Lawrence Goebeler; secretary, Richard Doermer; treasurer, Richard Dexter.
There is no limit set on the number of parties that may enter the primaries; however, there is a gentlemen’s agreement against campaigning at the polls. All those wishing to run should turn in their names as soon as possible to Eugene Shoemaker, 301 Dillon, or to John Burke, 227 Walsh.—Jack Sprague
University Theatre To
Present "The Gondoliers"
Back in 1889 Sir W. S. Gilbert and Sir Arthur Sullivan hesitated in their ceaseless and often serious quarreling long enough to compose another of their very popular light operas. This one they called “The Gondoliers.” Not long did Sirs Gilbert and Sullivan sing in harmony though, for that same year the famous writing team split up again — this time for a period of six years.
But “The Gondoliers” apparently did not suffer from the strained relations of its creators, for it is still one of the most comical and popular of their entire group of light operas. The Notre Dame Savoyard Company, a newly organized subsidy of the University Theatre, will give local audiences a chance to see and hear this, delightful musical comedy in Washington Hall on April 2, 3, and 4. Directing the opera is an ex-member of a Broadway Savoyard company, head of the University’s department of speech, Prof. Cecil Birder.
If Gilbert and Sullivan were unable to agree on little else, they must have been strong supporters of the old maxim, “In numbers there is strength.” Mr. Birder is working with a cast of 35 members, including 15 men and women leads, and also rehearsing an orchestra-of about 30 additional members.
The nine men lead players include: Jack White, James Inwood, James F. Purcell, Anthony Donadio, Robert Bischoff, Jerome Heinlen, Henry Karie, William Madden and John Drayna. The romantic interests of the young men of the cast will be represented by Mary Frances Kabel, Catherine Landon, Joan Birder, Agnes Haney, Jean Campbell, and Jean Chambers, all of South Bend. The male chorus, always a vital part of any Gilbert-Sullivan musical, is made up of Frank Tenczar, Victor Golubski, Edward Kempf, Joseph Donlan, Jack Doherty, James Dempsey, Frank King, William Murrin, Daniel Donahue, William Brady, John Henneberger, Vincent Meli, William Binet, and Roland Doyno.
—John Casey
THE CAMPUS
BY GEORGE MILES
[While the editor of “The Campus’' is recuperating in the Student Infirmary, ivhere he lies in dappled ease, Mr. William K. Mulvey, one-third of the authors of “Man About Campus,” has most kindly submitted the following pinch-hit, a very neat line drive to the right-field fence.—Editor’s note.]
Mr. George Miles,
Measle Division,
Notre Dame Infirmary.
Dear George:
Pinch hitting for genius is never easy. I suppose I should never have attempted this, but something had to be done. Our esteemed editor has traded his usual good humor for the deep purple of frustration. It seems that no one wanted to tackle this column. I hesitated for a while, but couldn’t bear seeing a fellow Irishman so unhappy on St. Patrick’s Day.
I know how you must feel, George. Measles is such a degrading disease. One cannot help feeling inferior when downed by an infection that is usually granted only to infants. Even a head cold would have been better; it’s so much more mature and virile. But “cheer up,” “keep smiling,” and remember that “adversity is the true test of strength.” (If I hadn’t loaned out my biography of Ben Franklin, I would have just hundreds of these bright platitudes to lift your flagging spirits.)
Well, George, this week started off with a big wind and St. Pat’s Day. One would think that “Erin go bragh” would have been the spirit of Monday, but instead it was “Erin go jump.” The Polish and Italians wore' green, while the Irish sported orange ties and Scotch plaid • jumpers; classes ran on schedule, although the optimists kept insisting that St. Patrick would manage a miracle. There was a minor sort of miracle — we had one of those banquet type meals Monday evening . . . real food and everything.
One Irish friend of ours got a little confused on St. Pat’s Day. He got his hair cut by a German and then tried to smooth things over by sporting a green lapel-flag bearing the shamrock. His day was ruined when he discovered that the flag was made in Japan. It took our new all-Irish coaching staff to save the day. Mr. Leahy, of football fame, and
all his cohorts arrived on the campus with huge green carnations.
Speaking of football, this new T-for-mation of ours is really cosmic. If you feel the earth rumble some afternoon, don’t run to your nearest geologist. It’s only the linemen executing a few pirouettes and entre-chats that are part of the intricate new shift. A feminine observer remarked that they “looked cute.” I trust that won’t .be the impression they give their 1941 opponents.
There is a new feeling of good fellowship on Cartier field. The coaches are offering a hat and pair of shoes to the player who keeps the neatest note book of the plays. Not to be outdone, the players have pooled their inoney to buy a new suit for the first of their number that breaks a coach’s leg in blocking practice.
While the rest of the world rearms, Notre Dame remains aloof and distinctive as she takes the primary step in a giant disarmament program. A special war bulletin tells all students possessing guns to register them with the Hall Rector. Maybe they are going to the British and Greek war relief. One never knows about such things, does one?
Here are some' odds and ends that might interest you: John O’Dea is no longer washing windows in Alumni Hall; . .. the St. Pat’s Day Religious Bulletins were mimeographed on green paper . . . and it gave a most generous blow to our own Bengal bouts.
I guess that’s all there is to say, except to beg you to get well quickly. All 12 of your roommates miss you. Mr. O’Malley misses you, Father Ward is anxious about his favorite undergraduate “Aristotelian,” and Dr. Gurian keeps asking for the fellow who can answer questions properly — and besides, I can’t go on writing this silly stuff week after week.
Sincerely yours, Bill Mulvey.
Win Bridge Tournament
The upperclassmen’s bridge tournament, promoted by Frank Pollnow and Bob Finneran, wound up last week with Max Hill and Charles Oliveros taking championship honors by beating the Frank McDonough and John Maloney double team in the finals match.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
STUDENT FORUM
Atom Smashing! What's It All About?
By Joseph R. Feldmeier
Atom Smashing, the mystifying term applied to research in nuclear physics, is often mentioned in our daily papers. The term is mystifying only because reporters want it that way. Really, research in nuclear physics is a straightforward attempt to understand the structure of matter. True, it’s a difficult task to describe accurately all the work that has been and is being done in this field, but a few remarks as to the purpose of nuclear research may be in order.
By way of introduction, let’s build up a picture of matter as the physicist looks at it. The 92 elements, carbon, oxygen, iron, etc., are the basic materials of everything we see about us. The building blocks for each element are the atoms; all the atoms of a particular element are alike, but are different from those of any other element. The atom can be pictured as being constructed like our solar system; that is, as a central sun about which planets rotate. In the atom, the central core is called the nucleus, the rotating planets are called electrons. The study of the planetary electron system of the atom is known as atomic physics. During the past 50 years experimental and theoretical workers have learned much about the behavior of the planetary electrons and as a result have explained the nature of light, X-rays, magnetism, chemical properties, etc. The next logical step in understanding the structure of matter is, of course, the study of the atom’s central core, or nucleus. This study is scientifically called nuclear physics.
The question now arises: If the nucleus is so small that it cannot be observed with the most powerful microscope, how can. we study it? The physicist’s first step is to try to get a mental picture of how the particles in the nucleus are put together. He is aided by analogy and past experience in picturing the nucleus, just as he was aided in picturing the whole atom by analogy to our solar system. Once a picture, or nuclear model, is thus obtained, some prediction can be made as to the behavior of the nucleus when put under experimental test. Thus by a trial and error method
of theoretical prediction and experimental verification a better and better model of the nucleus is obtained.
But the nucleus is so small we can’t pick out one single nucleus and experiment with it. What can we do? Well, we can use a block of metal, say lead, which is nothing more than a group of lead atoms, each having a nucleus surrounded by electrons with open space between. If we take a large number- of small bullets and shoot them into this block of lead, by chance a few bullets may hit some nuclei. Our model of the nucleus may tell us that if this occurs the bombarded nucleus will eject one of
its constituent particles. If the ejected particle is observed, then it follows that our model has some characteristics of the real nucleus.
Our next problem is getting these bullets. The large machines whose pictures you have often seen supply them. They ar^ nothing more than guns that shoot small ‘bullets” (electrons, protons, etc.) at nuclei with very great velocity. There are different kinds of these guns, the most popular being the electrostatic generator, the type used in the University of Notre Dame laboratories, and the cyclotron, the type employed at the University of California. Both are used to explore the nucleus, but each is employed foi* different kinds of experiments, just as rifles and shot guns are employed for different kinds of hunting.
What are some experiments that may be done with these “bullets”? First, we
can take a. very thin sheet of metal and observe how the ‘bullets” change direction and velocity upon passing through the sheet. These scattering experiments give some knowledge as to the size and shape of the nucleus. Second, the “bullets” may hit some nuclei so that the constituent particles of the nucleus are re-arranged. These excitation experiments give some knowledge as to the arrangement of particles in the nuclei. And, third, a. bombarded nucleus may eject a particle. These disintegration experiments tell us in what way and how strongly the particles in the nucleus are held together. The term “atom smashing” accurately describes only this last type of experiment, although it is often used with reference to the whole field of nuclear research.
What practical value will come from this work cannot be predicted, but the nuclear physicist is chiefly interested in finding out the structure of the nucleus, just as 25 years ago the atomic physicist was interested in finding out the behavior of the planetary electrons around the nucleus. We are now reaping the benefits of the discoveries in atomic physics (X-rays, radio, etc.) just as tomorrow we shall probably realize the benefits from present-day nuclear research.
Notice to N.D. Students
If you are interested in questions that this articles leaves unanswered (e. g., how the generator operates, hozu we detect particles coming from a nucleus, what experiments are now in progress in the Notre Dame laboratories), any member of the Department of Physics staff will be glad to answer them.
Chicago Key City For
18th Notre Dame Night
Monday, April 21, has been selected as the date for observation of the 18th Annual Universal Notre Dame Night, and Chicago will be the key city of the program.
Plans are being laid now for a national broadcast from Chicago, scene of Notre Dame’s largest local alumni club, featuring the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, Frank C. Walker, postmaster general of the United States, and member of the lay board of trustees of the University, and Frank Leahy, new director of athletics and head coach of football.
Guest of honor will be the Most Rev. Samuel A. Stritch, D.D., archbishop of Chicago.—John E. Lewis
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
In 1871 Notre Dame Boasted 110 Alumni,
500 Students, 700 Books in the Library
“Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!” cried a young boy, as he capered about vigorously, and clapped his hands. “Papa and mama will be home in a week now, and then, and then, I shall go to school. All through 1871 “Eric; or, Little by Little” talked like that in the Scholastic. Imported from England’s Cambridge University, “Eric” uncovered the evils of the English educational system. The Scholastic ran it as an expose, with the pious reminder that, of course, it had nothing to do with Notre Dame. Instead, said the Scholastic, in 1871 and thereabouts the following things could be said of Notre Dame.
She had 110 alumni, 500 students, 7,000 books in the library.
In 1866 John T. Carlin graduated from the University at the age of 17. For two years he attended Rush Medical College, then went to the University of Dublin where he was studying as the Franco-Prussian War broke out. Enlisting as a surgeon, he operated on soldiers until the war was over. Then back to Dublin he went where one day he was presented with a medal from the French government, and one from the German, for valiant services.
A correspondent of the Dublin Nation was surprised to learn that the Irish language was taught at Notre Dame. At this time the chair of Irish Language, the only one in the United States, attracted a good deal of attention from newspapers all over the country.
Six Notre Dame students left school to join the Vatican’s Papal Brigade. They hoped to be a nucleus for an . American regiment.
On the semester exams of 1866 one senior received the following grades: Penmanship, 60%; Arithmetic, 40%; Grammar, 50%; German, 50%.
In the old days, forerunner to the Wranglers, was the eight-member, choosy Two Penny Club, publishers of a weekly Gazette.
The Scholastic advocated a contest for bell-ringers. Student blacksmiths swept over the A.B. competition.
The “Bond House” in Niles was the favorite week-end spot. In the winter, sleighs, one nun to each, carried St. Mary’s girls there for afternoon tea.
Members of the surveying class discovered that St. Mary’s is one mile, five rods away from the Main Building.
On Nov. 9, 1867, 70 students played the first recorded game of football.
Chief Justice Salmon P. Chase walked
around the campus, dined with the students, handled stroke oar for members of the Boat Club. His colored servant, who spoke French, German, English, Italian, was rated a genius by the Scholastic.
Pope Pius IX wrote a letter to the students.
Professor Ivers’ dancing class was one of the leading intramural sports.
In 1870, in the earliest recorded boat race, the “Santa Maria” won the cup. Winners at races during following commencement exercises were the “Pinta,” - the “Minnehaha,” the “Hiawatha.”
In an article dealing with athletic facilities, one faculty member wrote: “There is ample room... for all manly sports, including, alas, the redoubtable game of football. It must be said, however that this game has not been played at Notre Dame with the barbarous accomplishments found in too many schools and colleges.”
A baseball coverage by the Scholastic told that “the bat made by Master Andrew Mitchell was decided to be the best of the whole game.”
The large sycamore tree standing a little behind Corby Hall is accounted for in an old Indian tradition. A white trapper one day saw an Indian standing by the edge of St. Joseph Lake. A few years before, the trapper’s best friend had been killed by an Indian and the trapper had sworn to get revenge. He slipped up on the redskin, stuck a knife in his back. The Indian stumbled to the little log chapel, fell to the ground. After him came the trapper who finished off the Indian as he lay helpless on the ground. The trapper slipped away. A few years later the Indians saw the sycamore tree grow up, marked that it was shaped like a human hand. They said it had been nourished by their brother’s blood, would stand forever as a reminder of the cruelty of white men.
Mr. Shickey’s “hacks” drove students from the train station to Notre Dame, St. Mary’s.
In 1876, according to the regulations of the University, students were expected to take baths regularly and all letters sent or received by the students could be opened by the president or his representatives.
Societies of the day were: “Philoma-thean Standard,” “Thespians,” “St. Stanislaus Philopatrian,” “St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association.”—Don Heltzel
OUR DAILY BREAD
Laetafe Sunday is a seeming paradox. ... It is mid-Lent yet the Church is gajr .... Flowers are on the altar, the organ plays, the priest puts on rose-hued vestments ... The Church thus proclaims • herself an understanding Mother.... Her children are of flesh and blood as well as spirit.... This moment of ease is to steady them for the long climb ahead.
Spiritual joy, not profane gaiety, is the spirit of Laetare Sunday.... Joy for perseverance thus far in the ways of penance (Introit).... Joy for deliverance from the bondage of sin. (Epistle). __Joy for the promise, and the reality, of the Bread of Life. (Gospel).
The semi-festive garb of the day suggests the triumph of the Cross. — The stational mass was at the Church of the Holy Cross-in-Jerusalem.... Constantine built this Church in the reign of Pope St. Sylvester I (314-335).... The tile links Rome with Jerusalem where Constantine had also built a church in honor of the Holy Cross.
Here took place the presentation of the Golden Rose, the inspiration for our Laetare Medal, until the exile of the popes in Avignon.... Like Laetare Sunday, the rose represents joy after sorrow, love after hate, fullness afer hunger.
The Mass-theme revolves around the Holy City which was the official seat of God’s majesty.... The New Jerusalem is the Church, the kingdom of God upon earth.__It is the Heavenly City which neither treachery nor migHt can overthrow. .. The faithful are its individual stones, “built' together into an habitation of God in the Spirit” (Ephesians 2, 22).
The week brings further cause for joy.... The feast of the Archangel Gabriel (Monday) and of the Annunciation (Tuesday) celebrates the bearer of the message of salvation and its recipient. ... “Hail, full of. grace.”..“Be it done to nie according to thy word.” (Luke 1, 28, 38)
(Mass Calendar on Page 20)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
JAMES NEWLAND, Promotion
WILLIAM C. McGOWAN, Eclitor-m-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr., Managing Editor
WILLIAM SCANLAN, News Editor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to The Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Bengal Sidelights
Noted in the box office—Tickets sold faster, than ever before as 10th Annual Bengals got under way Tuesday . . . ten-cent raise in prices for final night fails to slacken interest . . . pre-sale indicates largest turnout in history . . . and no wonder; fights so far vouch for a slam-bang affair tomorrow ... as usual freshmen entries fare well.
Historically speaking the Bengals are the biggest of the intra-mural attractions on the campus. Into the blue book of Notre Dame boxing have been written the names of Max Marek, Jimmy Brown, the Purcell brothers, Sammy Dolce; after tomorrow night others will rank along side of these former standouts. Rod Maguire seeks his third title as does Jerry Ryan. Long-armed featherweight Paul Malloy can’t find a. worthy opponent. Looks as if Bill McGrath will find the going rough.
Athletic birector Frank Leahy takes his place among the notable honorary referees. Packy McFarland was the attraction in 1935; beef-trust wrestler Danno O’Mahoney refereed the heavyweight bout in 1936. Barney Ross held sway in ’37. Then Max Marek returned in ’38 with the story of how he had messed up Joe Louis as an amateur. Last year Billy Conn came out from Pittsburgh as third man in the ring as Jerry Ryan and Bruce Hebenstreit battled for light-heavy honors. On the way to catch his train back to Pittsburgh
Billy thought, he told Father Cavanaugh,
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES, Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER, Art Editor
REV. C. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
that one of those N.D. football jackets would be perfect for road work. Billy got the jacket a few days later — compliments of Notre Dame.
Apologies to “Brother Jerome” Ryan for pre-bout publicity slights. Jerry'has two sweaters emblematic of two-year reign as light-heavyweight king. But so little mention has he received that no one in the training room knows him. One newcomer pointed to Jerry one afternoon, asked who he was. Sarcastically replied Ryan’s shadow, 145 pound 1940 finalist George Greene, “That guy, why that’s Brother Jerome from across the lake.”
THE SCHOLASTIC is indebted to Promoter Jim Newland for his hard work. Mike Jacobs can look to his laurels. Paul Neville, from Mr. Barry’s office, is doing a fine job of getting space in Jack Ledden’s Tribune sports section. To Winchell-imitatc Jim McDonough, thanks for the build up on the air — too bad Jergen’s Journal mimicry is second-rate. Father Lynch has never let up in his efforts to help in every way. His boys put up the ring — a supremely important item in any boxing show.
SCHOLASTIC staff members in general merit praise. To salesman Mark McGrath — you could probably sell the Brooklyn bridge with a little effort. Mark collected fees for 100 reserved seats, some 50 general admissions. John Casey, Jordan, Minn., journalism giant, is responsible for the program, its ads, its decorative qualities, its entire layout.
And, of course, there is “Nappy.” All
of the men who have fought and will fight tomorrow know what kind of an instructor Dominic Napolitano is. Besides spending his days in the boxing room helping everyone of the hundred entrants, “Nappy” spent his nights contacting the A.A.U. officials who are working the bouts.
Assistant trainer Bill Padon will watch some of his boys slug for titles tomorrow. Bill, probably the best boxer in the University, has been troubled with a bad shoulder for years, can’t compete as a fighter. But competitors George Greene, Paul Malloy, and brother Adrian Padon carry Bill’s instructions with every punch.
Honorary judges “Capt. Bligh” McArdle, Ed McKeever, and John Druze take a night off from handball playing and football coaching duties to watch “Fighting Irish” go at it in the square — circle. Other football assistant Bill Cerney shares the announcing chores with young track coach Bill Mahoney.
Barnum was wrong — his is not the “greatest show on earth.” Notre Dame offers 42 rounds of preliminaries for three nights at of a cent a round. Tomorrow eight championship fights, 24 rounds of action — 16 adopted “Fighting Irish” of ten nationalities will clash for Bengal supremacy, for the missionaries in Bengal.—John Patterson
Brother Angelus
Fifty-two years a member of the Congregation of Holy Cross, was reason for celebration this week by Brother Angelus, C.S.C., guestmaster of the Main building, and oldest active brother in the ordei' today. The cheerful brother, who made his profession of vows March 19, 1888, is one of the few living men who knew the Very Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., founder1 of the University.
He came to Notre Dame in 1882, the same year in which the golden dome was built atop the administration building. His first duty after the taking of vows was teaching minims in Notre Dame’s old grade-school which was located in what is now St. Edward’s hall. It was discontinued in 1920 when the commerce school was set up.
Brother Angelus has traveled extensively in the interests of The Ave Maria. In 1920 he went to Australia. He was born in Ireland and came to New Hampshire when only four years old; but he refuses to tell his actual age.
This unique record of 52 years’ service maintained by Brother Angelus, is indeed commendable; and the Scholastic extends heartfelt congratulations to him, with sincerest best wishes that his record may continue to grow for many years to come.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
News from Desmond Fitzgerald
The Scholastic is grateful to two of Mr. Fitzgerald’s correspondents for these excerpts from his recent letters. Having taken part in the Easter Rising of 1916 and in the Irish Trouble thereafter Mr. Fitzgerald became Minister of External Affairs in the Cosgrove Government of the Irish Free State, and is today a Senator of Eire. He was visiting lecturer in the Philosophy of Politics at Notre Dame in 1938 and 1939 and his lectures have been published by Sheed and Ward tinder the title Preface to Statecraft.
Lonsdale, Temple Road, Dublin.
Your card has taken over seven weeks to come. Although the war has increased the time-distance that separates us, my mind constantly goes back to Notre Dame. I appreciate the Scholastic. I read it from cover to cover including the sports news. I think I always appreciated the wonderful work N.D. is doing, but never more than now when it is impossible to foresee just what is in store for poor distracted Europe. In my moments of depression it is a comfort to remember the crowds of students at the daily six o’clock mass in Dillon Hall. I have a picture of a very athletic young man leaning up against a tree in front of the Grotto and having a most intimate and friendly conversation with the Holy Mother. I have no idea what his name is. But after all his presence there owes something to a sort of spiritual imperialism and I assure myself that it owes, under God, something to the work of the men of my race. The summer before last a couple of Notre Dame students—just graduated—came here. After having some experience of our crowded Dublin churches they said, “Dublin is like one big N.D.” Of course I told them they meant that N.D. is like a little Ireland. I want to tell you that their N.D. formation suffered no sea-change on this side of the Atlantic.
I am not writing this because you need encouragement to carry on the work. But if I may speak as an objective observer I should like to say that there never was a time in history when the work you are all doing there was more vital or necessary. That reminds me. I have received various numbers of the Review of Politics but I don’t know how long it is since the last arrived.I was just wondering if it still appears. On this side so many
publications have had to cease appearing owing to war conditions, that one expects everything, especially anything that might be labelled highbrow to disappear. I must say that the numbers I saw I thought were remarkably good.
Desmond Fitzgerald
Ireland is well outside the war though we have received a few bombs that killed some people and destroyed houses. On three occasions our house has been shaken by them. If we get no worse than that we shall think ourselves fortunate. We feel that we need all prayers that we be spared from invasion. Personally I have much to be thankful for. The house of my two sisters and brother in London has been wrecked—but only after they left it. They had warnings—first a time bomb fell in front of the ’house, then the windows were blown out. I have another brother in London who is largely paralyzed so that he cannot leave his house, bomb or no bomb. He is able to carry on his work as a writer as his secretary is with him all the time. I speak to him on •the telephone and hear the detonations of the bombs nearby. Thank God nothing • has been nearer to him than a stick from the handle of a market-basket that crashed through the window.
In the early summer when the university closed my third boy felt that he should enter the army as a private. If he had remained a private he would have been exempted and allowed to return to the university. Just before that
time he was commissioned as an officer so his studies are interrupted possibly till the end of the war, whenever that may be. Another son is ill at the moment and may have to be operated on. Please remember him and all of us in your prayers. The rest of us, thank God, are all well.
By the way I don’t think I have written to you from this address before. We moved here last October. We are nearer to Dublin (it is just on the edge of the country) and we have more room in it than in Montpelier Manor. While we were there a great amount of our pos-sions had to be left in store. Incidentally it would have room in it for any friend who wanted to come and stay, but what is the good of that at a time when no one can come.
Dublin has quite a strange look, with practically no motor cars on the streets. Only special persons, such as priests and doctors, receive a ration of petrol and that only a limited one. We have all taken to bicycles, the push bike. On the other hand, I think if you were here you would be pleased to observe that the imminent danger that threatens the country has to a large extent obliterated our internal hostilities. We who were on opposite sides in a civil war now confer together as colleagues.
Yes, civilization is tottering about us here, and in these disastrous days I realize more than ever how much it is endeared to me, and how much it has retained of what has come down to it through 2,000 years. I have no idea what ■ the future is going to be-^even the immediate future. I retain a sort of optimism that is probably just wishful thinking, and behind that is the knowledge that Providence governs history. At the same time I cannot say that I succeed in maintaining a detached philosophic frame of mind. During the last few months I have often sat down to my typewriter early in the morning and by lunch time there was not more than a line or two typed though I was dead tired from walking up and down. My mind would keep turning to the war, and to the dis-; astrous news that was at the time com- -ing through.
Of course, apart from one’s concern about possible invasion here, about the disastrous wound that is being inflicted-upon the old Europe and its order, I . am (Continued on Page 22)	-
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Presenting —Mr. Leahy's Coaching Assistants
Notre Dame’s current football coaching staff’s previous experience chart sounds like a college “hit parade.” Eight different schools are listed on the background of Coach Frank Leahy and his four assistants—Joseph McArdle, William Cemey, Edward McKeever and John Druze.
Coach Leahy sets the pace with four previous berths, at Georgetown, Michigan State, Fordham and Boston College. McKeever, the backfield mentor of the new Irish setup, brings in the southern systems of play. He coached the backs at Texas Tech in the Cotton Bowl game with St. Mary’s of California in 1938 in addition B.C. manners. During the summer of 1938, Coach Leahy, then an assistant mentor at Fordham, heard McKeever speak on backfield play at a coaching school in Texas. “I was so impressed that I vowed then that if I ever should get a head coaching job, he’d by my backfield coach,” is the manner Coach Leahy recalls his first acquaintance with McKeever. When Leahy received the call of Boston College, he invited the southern lad to come east—and the latter accepted.
McKeever turned down an opportunity to be head coach at Boston College in order to return to Notre Dame with Leahy. Ed was a student at Notre Dame in 1929-30-31, and played right half on the 1930 “B” squad. He left Notre Dame and finished at Texas Tech where he played more football. When he isn’t talking football, McKeever thinks about his two-months old twin daughters, Jane and
1. to r.—Football Coaches W. Cerney, E. McKeever, F. Leahy, J, Druze and J. McArdle
Susan. His home was Spafford, Texas.
Only holdover of the staff assembled by Elmer Layden is Bill Cerney. The ace scout of the past seven years is assisting in coaching the backs at the present time. He coached at Loyola of Chicago in 1925, winning eight of their nine games. He then went to assist Chuck Collins at the University of I'Jorth Carolina from 1926-34. Cerney was coach of Notre Dame’s undefeated, untied “B” squad teams of the past two seasons. He is also an accomplished after-dinner speaker. Bill played fullback at Notre Dame, and was No. 1 understudy to Layden as the “fifth horseman.” In the 1924 Princeton game, he got off an 80-yard punt for his outstanding individual feat for Notre Dame. He is a native of Chicago.
Playing 180 minutes of football against Pittsburgh is the major feat of John Druze, new tackle and end coach. Druze, 26-year-old husky, comes from Irvington, N. J. He captained the Fordham team of 1937 and later joined Leahy at Boston College.
The other member of the new staff, Joseph McArdle, rosy-cheeked guard of Fordham teams of 1932-33-34, will coach Irish guards and centers. His home is Lowell, Mass., not far from his previous coaching berth at Boston College.
When newsmen questioned Coach Leahy at a pre-season press meeting as to what he, a former lineman, would do with all the available forward wall coaches, Coach Leahy quipped: “Well. Druze will handle the end and tackles
and McArdle will coach guards and centers. McKeever coaches the backs—as for me, why I just walk about from group to group and try to look wise.” Railbirds who’ve watched practices, however, have learned that Coach Leahy becomes a human dynamo in supervising, in his easy way, all the proceedings.
—Bill Scanlan
Ziemba Shifted to Center;
"B" Team Still Undecided
Cold, snowy weather kept the Notre Dame spring practice sessions indoors as the boys began their second week of drilling under Coach Frank Leahy and his staff of youthful assistants. The new mentor was greatly pleased with the fine enthusiasm and cooperation the players have exhibited.
One of the major campus football questions, “Will there be a B Team?”, is still undecided. Mr. Leahy will keep as many men on the varsity roster as show sufficient ability. Fate of those not quite up to varsity caliber is still uncertain. Neary 150 men reported for another practice and about 50 men have been chosen for indoor work in the fieldhouse.
While final settlement of the status of the remaining members of Elmer Layden’s former staff is still unsettled, Bill Cerney is working with backfield coach Ed McKeever, former Texas Tech star.
Major change in the squad lineup to date is the shifting of sophomore right tackle, Wally Ziemba to center position for which Coach Leahy thinks the 230 pound husky is well qualified. Qualifications—that is the basis upon which the new Irish coach is building his team. On this basis, Joe Prokop, junior right half who doubles as a hurdler for Track Coach Mahoney, may be moved over to a fullback’s job. Another change may be completed by working freshman fullback, Bob McBride, as a guard or quarterback. Definite evaluation of available material, however, awaits actual scrimmage sessions. This will also give the coaches a chance to see what the rest of the freshman squad has to offer. Sometimes a man will look good in preliminary work but will not show up well in the more strenuous drilling. Thus, Mr. Leahy plans to • get a more accurate line on his squad ; early next week when scrimmage begins —weather permitting.
Practice sessions during the* past week were devoted chiefly to. learning play assignments, conditioning work, and practice shifting. Linemen have been working on their new shift which last winter’s rule changes permit them, and reports indicate that the stalwarts are mastering the new technique in fine fashion.
—Jack Dinges

T h £ NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Irish Trackmen Compete
In Chicago Relays Saturday
Fresh from a very creditable showing in the Butler Relays last week-end, the high-powered Notre Dame track team journeys to Chicago tomorrow to compete in the traditionally star-studded Chicago Relays in the Amphitheater.
This meet, sponsored by The Chicago Daily News, annually draws nationally known stars from schools throughout the midwest. Such Big Ten teams as Michigan, winner of the Butler Relays last week-end; Indiana, Big Ten indoor champ; and well-balanced Ohio State will compete with the Irish in an attempt to cop the team title.
Coach William Mahoney announced
that Notre Dame has entered her mile and two mile relay teams as well as Keith O’Rourke in the high jump, Jim Delaney in the shot put, and Ed Dunham in the 1,000 yd. run. The mile relay team will compete in a match race with Ohio State and the two mile squad will attempt to break the tape ahead of Michigan and Indiana. This same two mile . team set a new unofficial Notre Dame record of 7:53 in the Butler Relays last Saturday, but still managed to grab only fourth place.
In the team standings at the Butler fieldhouse, the Irish garnered 25% points to finish in third place behind Michigan and Indiana. The outstanding performance from the Notre Dame point of-view was Jim Delaney’s brilliant toss in the shot put event. Delaney’s winning heave measured 50 feet, 7 inches, to nose out Indiana’s giant Negro, Archie Harris.
Notre Dame’s only other first came when Keith O’Rourke eased over the cross-bar at 6:3%. Bill Nicholson finished in a three way tie for fourth in this event. Other events in which the Irish garnered points were the 60 yd. dash, in which Bill Buenger took fourth; the distance medley, in which Notre Dame copped third; the mile and four mile run, third; and the two mile run in which the Mahoneymen took fourth.
—Ray Donovan
Splinters From the Press Box
-	— —JAMES NEWLAND—	=s
TOMORROW AT EIGHT P.M.
The publicity has been laid down with a terrific and everlasting roar, the fighters are trained and sharpened to a razor’s edge, three thrilling nights of preliminary battles have narrowed the field to 16. The stage is set for the Tenth Edition of the Bengal Bouts.
Notre Dame students, faculty members, and the hundreds of other fight enthusiasts present tomorrow night can rest assured they will witness a full, colorful, rip-roaring evening of real thrills—because the 16 remaining fighters are definitely the cream of the University’s boxing clan, everyone of them dangerous, potential champions. Any person who has ever seen the Bengal show will rate it tops in boxing entertainment — and it goes at 35 cents.
The Bengal turnout this year is by far the largest and best squad of fighters who have ever participated in this annual sports show, a show that has grown by leaps and bounds until it is now ranked second only to basketball and track as being the outstanding winter sports demonstration at Notre Dame. This week’s preliminaries were hard-fought and the fighters themselves think the field is unsurpassed. And these gentlemen should know, after throwing leather for three nights.
For nine years the Bouts have turned over sizeable checks to Holy Cross Missionaries in Bengal. It is the largest single contribution from any student source. Indications today point to even higher attendance this year. Notre Dame students are urged to do their part in making this year’s fight the definite success they should be. You certainly cannot beat this sort of thrilling entertainment for the price. One hundred per cent student attendance will not only help raise the fund for Bengal, but it will help the 16 remaining fighters put on a more thrilling, colorful show for YOU.
THANKS IN ADVANCE
__With 16 well-trained fighters poised and confident for tomorrow night’s battles, we take this opportunity to express our humble thanks to a select few persons and firms, whose generous cooperation helped so greatly in the staging of this year’s Bengal Bouts. We would fill three columns by trying to print an individual list. Yet we want each person who has been connected in any way with
the success of the Bouts to know our sincere appreciation.
To Professor Dominic Napolitano, who tackled a job of- three persons in teaching, training, and helping all Bengal entrants, goes credit for directing the whole show. “Nappy,” an old hand at training fighters for ten years, has seen that each and every fighter is in top shape for every fight. We know he has the thanks of the fighters he so ably tutored.
Tomorrow night you will be presented with a 16-page program. This was made possible through the generous support of advertisers in and around South Bend, Chicago, and other neighboring cities. We thank them very much and urge those attenting the bouts to remember these generous firms. Our thanks are also in order to the Ave Maria Press and those associated therein. Posters, stationery, etc., were donated by them.
Without the generous advice and counsel- of Mr. Frank W. Lloyd, comptroller of the University, success of the Bouts definitely would be left in jeopardy. Mr. Lloyd provided us with many helpful hints in preparation for the staging of this year’s show. We thank the Studebaker Corporation for the generous use of their ring. What would a prize fight be without a ring?
To Notre Dame University officials, from the president down, we offer sincere thanks. Every request was met with whole-hearted cooperation. There has been no request made that didn’t receive enthusiastic hearing. We realize that a number of requests were made this year that were not brought out last year. Without this cooperation we might be behind the proverbial eight ball. Athletic Director Frank Leahy and Assistant coaches McKeever, McArdle and Druze are very kind and generous to act as honorary referee and honorary judges respectively. Their presence tomorrow night will give every student and fan attending, a chance to become acquainted — especially for those individuals who failed to attend the pep rally held last week for the new coaches.
We risk the monotony of constant repetition by expressing our appreciation to the Scholastic “slaves” who labored for two weeks selling tickets. John Casey, of Alumni hall, and Mark McGrath, of Zahm hall, especially deserve credit for their hard and competent work.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
= By AL DEL ZOPPO
William Buenger looks more like a football player than a track man. Well over six feet tall and weighing around 180 pounds, Bill seems to possess the physical requirements of a first class end. So we were not surprised when we were told that Coach Mahoney’s dash man was a great end in his prep school days, captaining Missouri Military Academy in his senior year. But football was never Bill’s favorite sport. And even at Missouri Military he showed a preference for running on spiked rather than on cleated shoes. The academy track coach was thankful for Bill’s choice, for Bill was one of the big reasons why Missouri Military was crowned indoor and outdoor State champions in 1936.
■ Buenger was a dist a n c e man in prep school, running the halfmile and the mile, and it was only by chance that he became a dashman. It seems that Bill’s coach lacked a sprinter in a dual meet one day, and realizing that Bill was the strongest man on the squad, he placed him in the dash, feeling that Bill could run that event without affecting his chances to win his regular event. Bill surprised himself and his coach that day by taking first place in that particular race, and from.that day on he was a. sprinter.
Bill had several reasons for coming to Notre Dame after his graduation from high school. First because his uncle had spent several years here as a student. And second because several home-town boys—Larry
Ryan and Frank Doody—were attending N.D. and competing in athletics.
As a sophomore, Buenger easily made the track team, and Coach Nicholson thought enough of his running ability to run Bill in the Indiana Relays. And Bill came through with a fourth. A pulled tendon robbed him of a monogram that year, but Bill had no trouble earning an N.D. last season.
Buenger is at present experiencing
his best success in his three years of varsity track. Besides placing in almost every dual meet this season, winning a first at Indiana, Bill placed fourth at the Butler Relays last week in a race which saw a new world’s indoor record established.
Coach Mahoney has high praise for this quiet, good-natured speedster: “He’s one of the most powerful sprinters I’ve ever’ seen,” says the N.D. mentor, “and when he learns to fully utilize that power he’s going to be a tough boy to beat.”
With the outdoor season close at hand, Buenger is looking forward to continuing his fine indoor showing. And before he hangs up his spikes this June, we have every reason to believe that he will have chalked up a few more first place runs to his credit.
Bill is a Commerce school student majoring in Business Administration, but he’s making no plans about entering into sales work because he is a draftee.
World War I Interrupted
Kline's Career in Majors
Williamsport, Pa., points with reasonable pride to Clarence J. (Jake) Kline, varsity baseball coach, freshman football coach, and associate professor of mathematics.
Bom in Williamsport, Jake, the son of Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Kline, attended St. Joseph’s High School in that city.
Jake’s decision to matriculate at Notre Dame, upon his graduation from high school, was no doubt influenced by the nation-wide attention turned towards the
Coach Kline
local institution at this time as a result of Knute Rockne’s prodigious p a s s -snatching feats. In his undergraduate days at N.D., Jake won three baseball monograms at third base, captained the team in his senior. year, and hit well over .300 in each of his three seasons. In
1917, he clubbed three home runs against Michigan in a single game to climax a brilliant collegiate career.
As soon as he was eligible to play professional baseball, the Pittsburgh Pirates sought him earnestly but the bigger game called and Jake spent the next year and a half overseas with the Twenty-Third Engineers.
Returning from France, he directed prep school athletics at Notre Dame as the Irish then maintained a boarding school for grade and high school youngsters. During the next few years Mr. Kline played baseball during the summer and, then, from 1925 to 1930 managed several clubs in the Utah State League. In 1931 he returned to his alma mater as assistant freshman football coach and instructor in mathematics, his undergraduate major. Promotions followed rapidly. First, 1932 saw Mr. Kline installed as head freshman football mentor; then-two years later he was appointed head baseball coach.
His success at Notre Dame has not only been measured in the won and lost column, where he has won 69 contests and lost 39, but also in the caliber of players he has produced. Currently, Ray Pinelli, senior third baseman, and son of Major League umpire, “Babe” Pinelli, is destined for the big leagues.
Jake, Mrs. Kline and their four children reside in South Bend.
Frank L. Kunkel

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
N. D. Cagers Close Season; Win 17. Lose 5
Seventeen victories in 22 starts, including a string of 11 straight triumphs over a seven week period, is the record compiled by the 1940-41 edition of the Fighting Irish basketball team. This record, one of the finest ever achieved by a Notre Dame court team, ranks the Irish well up among the nation’s great fives for the past season. It is all the more noteworthy when one considers that they accomplished their great feats without the services of their coach, George Keogan, and Eddie Riska their captain and high-scoring forward. Keogan was laid up with heart trouble for the last half of the season, and Riska was out with a broken ankle during the most crucial month of the campaign.
Off to a flying start, the Irish racked up three straight victories, crushing Monmouth and Kalamazoo in a seasonopening doubleheader, by the scores of 81-34' and 75-39. They followed this up a week later with a 34-28 win over a stubborn Illinois Wesleyan five. In walloping Monmouth, the Keoganites recorded the highest score in their history, and by adding 73 points in the second game, set a new scoring record for a two-game sequence. In turning back Wesleyan, the Irish won without the aid of a single free-throw, all four of their charity tosses going awry.
. Lose to Badgers
Next time out the Irish dropped a heart-breaking 44-43 decision to Wisconsin’s newly crowned Big Ten Champions, when a last half rally just fell short of tying the score. The Badgers won on the foul line, dropping in 20 out of 28 free-throws, and by controlling the rebounds off the backboards for the major portion of the game, thus stalling Notre Dame’s attack.
Back on the victory trail in the game against Michigan, Capt. Eddie Riska popped in 12 points to lead the Irish in a 37-27 conquest of the Wolverines, in a game that was marked by hard defensive play on the part of both teams. Jim Mandler was high-man for Michigan with ten points.
Evil days again fell on the Keogan-men, as Illinois and Northwestern dealt the Irish successive defeats in their next two games, the former winning a thrilling overtime battle, 41-39, and the latter romping to a 46-36 decision. In losing to Illini, the Irish blew an 11 point lead with but ten minutes to play, Illinois knotting the count at the end of the regulation game at 37 all, and outscoring the Irish two baskets to one in the
overtime period to clinch the verdict. It was the Wildcats all the way in the Northwestern game, with the Keoganites scarcely having a look-in.
Irish Fight to 11 Straight
Reeling from the two straight defeats, the Irish entered the new year fighting mad and embarked upon a winning streak that was to carry them through 11 consecutive victories over some of the nation’s outstanding fives. Kentucky was
Capt. Eddie Riska
the first victim by a 48-47 score, the Wildcats’ last minute rally just falling short by one point. Cy Singer, sophomore guard, was the big gun of the Irish attack as the Jasper, Ind., boy tallied 14 points. On the same night, Ray Meyer, former Notre Dame cage star, was appointed assistant varsity basketball coach to the ailing George Keogan.
Returning home, the Irish added two more triumphs, halting Wabash by a 5338 count, and then winning from Butler, 45-35. Singer again led the scoring against Wabash, dropping in seven buckets in ten attempts for 14 points, while Capt. Eddie Riska tallied 18 markers against Butler in a game that produced fisticuffs and rough-play in a hectic second half.
Pennsylvania was submerged 53-37, and Syracuse was turned back 54-49, in an overtime thriller on the team’s first Eastern trip. Ray Meyer assumed active command of the team, as George Keogan was confined to his bed. It was the 12th consecutive time that the Irish have beaten Penn which has yet to defeat Notre Dame. The Syracuse victory proved costly as the Irish spark-plug, Eddie Riska, broke his ankle at the end of the first half and was put on the shelf at a time when his team needed him most.
Boasting a record of six straight victories, including wins over hitherto unbeaten Temple, Creighton, and L.I.U., the Michigan State Spartans invaded the Notre Dame fieldhouse only to be repulsed by an aroused Irish five, 46-39. “Chuck” Butler, slim sophomore forward subbing for the injured Riska, stole the show with 17 tallies made from all comers of the court. In the next two home games, Marquette fell the seventh straight victim, by a 58-40 score, and North Dakota made it number eight in a game that saw Art Pope, a substitute forward, tally 12 points to lead the Irish -to a 46-38 victory.
Beat N.Y. In Garden
Their next three victories carried the Irish to unprecedented heights, placing them right at the top of the basketball world. Accounts were squared with Northwestern in a return game, the Irish winning handily by a 47-36 count. N.Y.U., always a power along the Atlantic seaboard, was met and defeated, 41-38, before 17,831 howling fans in New York’s Madison Square Garden. George Sobek, playing the most brilliant game of his career, led the scorers with 15 points, receiving ample support from his teammate, Cy Singer, who tallied 14. Then, in the best game played on the Notre Dame court all year, the Irish made it 11 straight, by turning back the Georgia Tech Yellowjackets, 53-42, despite a 21 point scoring splurge by Capt. Carlton Lewis of the visitors.
That all good things must come to an end was borne out when the Irish visited Butler for a return game; the Bulldogs smashed the Notre Dame victory chain with a 54-40 triumph. Michigan State also took revenge for a previous defeat at the hands of the Irish, whipping the invaders on their home court, 44-51 to even matters for the year.
In their final two games of the season, Keoganites were victorious, defeating Marquette for the second time, 44-39, and then closing their campaign with a 56-42 verdict over Detroit, a team they have beaten 14 consecutive times. Eddie Riska was top point-getter in both encounters, . scoring 10 against the Hilltoppers, and closing out his collegiate career with a splurge of 16 against Detroit.
And so ends another chapter in Notre Dame’s splendid basketball history. What next season holds in store only time will tell; but if future Irish basketball teams emulate the 1940 squad in fighting heart and the courage to come from behind -when the pressure is on, then many another victory will find its way into the Gold and Blue record books of Notre Dame.—Jim Clemens
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
K. of C. Bowlers in National Meet
Selected after a lengthy series of contests in the bowling alleys in Walsh Hall, Notre Danie’s five top-notch K. of C. bowlers returned last week from the National K. of C. Bowling Tournament being held March 8 to 27 in Indianapolis boasting enviable success.
Leo Maloney and Cy Tlusty, however, blasted out a beautiful 195 average in the doubles competition and a total score of 1,169, which definitely placing them high in the prize money brackets. Both boys returned in the singles but slipped considerably as only Tlusty scored a possible vanning average of 190. Perhaps the souvenir-gatherers hounding them with the express purpose of appropriating their Notre Dame basketball sweatsuits upset their mental equilibrium.
However, the boys returned to Notre Dame satisfied and began practicing for a K. of C. meet scheduled at Michigan City this weekend, one in Toledo, Ohio, next weekend and several other possible contests.
Fencers Close Season
Against Washington U.
Facing a dangerous Washington U. squad in the local fieldhouse Thursday, March 27, the Notre Dame fencing squad has an even chance to earn its seventh victory against two defeats this season. The match will start at 7:45.
Washington’s Captain George Curtis, southpaw foil and saber man who has won his every foil match in the last two seasons, is the mainstay and chief threat of an otherwise rather unknown team. However, Baker in foil and epee and Beckman in saber and epee are reported to be able swordsmen in the St. Louis outfit.
It is Russ Harris’ foil match with Curtis that will greatly determine whether the N.D. senior will break the Irish individual scoring record set by Kevin Kehoe in 1936.
Washington U. and Ohio State are the only two teams that have had scheduled matches with Notre Dame each of the eight years fencing has been instituted here. Notre Dame has won all eight matches with the Washington teams; last year the Irish took a close one, 9 to 8 in the last bout of a match which closed an unbeaten season.
A freshman tournament in foil and saber during the week before the Easter holidays will close the 1941 fencing season.
The student league competition will finish 14 weeks of actual bowling in the K. of C. alleys within the next two weeks. Competition is extremely close with the third place Walsh team only three games behind a victory bound Dillon quintet. Sorin is sandwiched into second spot. Joe Vollmer of Dillon fell from his 190 three month average to a 172 but still holds first place in individual averages. Tom Fourney with 170 and Leo Maloney with 169 are the other leaders.
Bowling will receive another spurt of popularity when and if a spring tourna-ent, open to the entire student body, gets under way. Thirty-two men will be chosen by competition to bwl in the finals. A tournaent of this kind was held in 1938 and 1939. Father Ernsdorff took the singles championship in ’39 and Bib Derengowski collaborated with Joe Nigro on the doubles. There is no team competition in these spring tournaments.
—Mark G. McGrath
Notre Dame Tank Team Meets Indiana Tonight
Confronted by an alarming shortage of manpower, the inexperienced Notre Dame swiming team can hardly be expected to cope with Indiana University’s aquatic skill in the Rockne Memorial pool this evening. Measles and spring football practice worked hand in glove to deplete the Irish ranks.
From among the sprintmen, only Lee Hastings, Tom Hoyer, and George Han-inger are available for service in the 50 and 100 yard sprints. Bob Russell, Dick McGee, “Mac” McCarthy, Emmett Hassett, and Bernie O’Connor may supply the strength needed to outkick and out-stroke the Hoosiers in the 220 and 440. Frank Pollnow and Bill Cotter form the spearhead of the local breast stroke strength while John Doerr and Bob Fin-nerman serve in the same capacity in the back stroke. Irish diving security is wrapped up in the persons of double feature men Bill Cotter and Tom Hoyer.
Indiana has a better balanced squad than Notre Dame’s recent conqueror, the University of Chicago. When natatory prowess is up for discussion, the Hoosiers point with pride to the versatile Beneditti and his strong arm teammates, Pakucko and Boaz.
The following events will be staged in tonight’s meet, scheduled tc start at 8:00 p.m.: 300-yd. medley relay, 220-yd.
free style. 50-yd. free style, 100-yd. free style, 150-yd. backstroke, 220-yd. breast stroke, 440-yd. free style, 400-yd. relay, and fancy diving (low board). Big Ten dual meet rules will govern the competition.
Morrissey and Badin Win
Interhall Basketball Titles
Interhall basketball crowns were awarded to Morrissey and Badin hall teams, lightweight and heavyweight champions respectively, as a result of the final games played last Wednesday and Thursday.
Morrissey defeated Howard 27 to 19 in a well-played game. Both teams were evenly matched with a 15 all score at the end of the first half. In the second half, however, Howard’s scoring opportunities were limited by Morrissey’s shifting man-to-man defense to four free throws. High scorer for Morrissey was Ed Reagan who made ten points while Rod McGuire tallied five to lead the Howard squad.
Don Degnan, captain of the winning five, congratulated his team as a fine ambitious group that worked hard all season and finished with a record of eight victories and one defeat.
Howard’s leader, Frank Fox, wishes to thank Bob Fushelberger on behalf of the team for his fine coaching. Bob organized the team and his work contributed much to their season’s record of six wins and two defeats.
Heavyweights
In the heavyweight division, Badin nosed out Alumni 33 to 30 in a thrilling overtime contest. With ten seconds remaining, Dick Creevy of Badin flipped in a long one-handed shot to tie the score at 30 all. In the overtime, Harry Wright sank a free throw and Callahan sent a field goal through the hoop to give the sophs their 33 to 30 victory.
Tom Conley, Badin coach, organizer and player, remarked on the fine playing and ten victories to one defeat record of the champions. The big, fast Badin boys played a rough game with Tom Callahan as their offensive ace.
Bill Sturm, captain of the defeated Alumni squad, congratulated Badin for winning a hard-fought game and said his own team had worked hard winning seven and losing one, but added that they couldn’t expect to win them all. The seniors employed a zone defense in which Osborn, Sturm and Mortell starred.
Ten gold medals were awarded to the champions of each division and ten silver medals were given to each of the runners-up, Howard and Alumni.
—Bill Rogers
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
THE
Science Hall Instruments
Record N. D. Weather
Shivering from icy winds, flying snow, and a very low March temperature, this reporter decided to find out something about Notre Dame weather. After climbing the ancient wooden steps of Science hall, passing through a small third floor door into the attic, and clambering up another flight of stairs, the writer reached a tiny, glassed-in-room, perched high on the hall roof. It was the Notre Dame cooperative station of the United States Weather Bureau.
Here operates genial Brother Pius, C.S.C., of Brownson hall, special observer for the U.S. Weather Bureau. He started his story of Notre Dame weather by explaining a curious machine of his own invention. It is an automatic wind register which records each day’s wind directions and shiftings on a lined chart.
The small machine, attached to the weather-vane overhead by means of a steel rod running through the roof of the room, moves a lead on the chart, recording each movement of the vane. A clocklike device keeps the lead moving outward as the day progresses. In this manner the wind direction for any hour can easily be seen by consulting the chart.
We then left the weather shed for the wind swept roof where we climbed more steps, almost being thrown down by the blasts, and finally reached Science hall’s highest peak, the great thermometer case. Here, unprotected from the icy gusts and holding on for our lives to an iron rail, Brother Pius explained the workings of the minimum and maximum thermometers, which after being set each 24 hours will record the highest and lowest readings in the 24-hour period.
Then after taking a quick glance at the large metal tube which measures rain and snow, we hurried back to the protection of the weather room. We then got down to facts on Notre Dame weather.
This winter has seen 34 inches of snow pile up on the campus; though not exceptional, it is above average. No average figures over a long period are available, but compared to last winter’s 32 inches, and the “bad” winter of 1935-36’s 32.9 inches it stands up well. No temperature below zero was registered this year, though zero itself was reached on several occasions. Last winter a 15-degree below temperature was registered on Feb. 19.
Chances for a pleasant spring are doubtful according to the records which show this territory to be a permanent
customer for rainy springs. Last year between March 21 and the end of the school year, it rained or snowed 44 of the 70 days. The longest clear period during this time was five days. The total precipitation last spring was 15.4, about an inch above average.
Beginning with the start of the com and wheat season April 1st, Brother Pius will take weather readings at 7
Knights Celebrate Founders’ Week In Special Program, March 23 to 30
Knights of Columbus Founders’ Week will be celebrated locally from March 23 to 30 with several special activities by Notre Dame Council No. 1477, according to Grand Knight Robert Sullivan.
The program will be part of the international observance in honor of Rev. Michael Joseph McGivney and a band of Catholic laymen, who in 1882 established the order in New Haven, Conn. Since that time, the order has grown tremendously throughout North America and now lists over 420,000 members in 2,500 local councils. It is represented in every state of the union, each Canadian province, Alaska, Cuba, Mexico, Newfoundland, Panama, Puerto Rico, and the Philippine Islands.
Outstanding on the local progi-am will be a Corporate Communion for members and their friends at Sacred Heart Church or Alumni Hall chapel; they will attend the 8:00 o’clock Mass on Sunday. Chairman Paul Kashmere is completing the arrangements for this program.
Following the Mass a breakfast will be served in the Notre Dame Dining Hall. The guest speaker for this occasion will be Gilbert E. Powell, past state deputy, of New Albany, Ind. Mr. Kashmere will be toastmaster.
A special Founders meeting of the council will be held Tuesday evening, when the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C.,
Philadelphia Newsman Speaks at Press Meet
Thomas A. Daly, noted lecturer and writer for the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, will be guest speaker at the annual Notre Dame Press club banquet which will be held at the Faculty dining hall at 7:15 on Thurday, April 3, it was announced today by President Frank Mc
o’clock every morning to be telegraphed to the state weather bureau at Indianapolis for use in the special report for farmers of this part of the country.
Brother Pius succeeded in office Hie Rev. James E. Kline, C.S.C., in 1938. whom he assisted for several years. Notre Dame’s weather station was established in 1913 by the Rev. T. P. Irving, C.S.C.—James V. Ctinningham
will speak on the origin of the fraternity. This session will be open to members and invited guests.
A large class of candidates in honor of the Founders will be admitted at an exemplification of degrees, also on Tuesday evening. The class was enrolled through the efforts of a committee headed by Joe Callahan.
The Notre Dame council will present a radio program next Thudsday at 9:15 p.m., in the form of a play, “Founding the Knights of Columbus.” The play is a transcription prepared by the World Broadcasting Company featuring June Meredith of “First Nighter” fame, Philip Lord well-known character actor of NBC studios of Chicago and familiar in New York and London theatres, Norman Gottshalk of “Houseboat Hannah,” and John J. Walsh, musical comedy star of “Anything Goes,” and Richard Aherne of the Abbey Players. All players and the announcer are members of the Catholic Actors Guild of Chicago.
This innovation is a dramatic description of the “Founding of the Knights of Columbus.” It lifts the curtains of the past two generations and gives an insight into the lives of the early brothers of the Knights of Columbus and their neighbors. The actors portray the lives of Father McGivney and the first officers as they plan, strive for, and finally start the new fraternity for Catholic men in New Haven.—Hoivard J. Korth
Donough.
Mr. Daly noted for his wit and humor, is regarded as one of the most experienced newspapermen in the country. His poetry and dialect add greatly to his , natural flare for humor.
The banquet is open to all students and members of the faculty. Tickets, priced at $1.00. are available from any member of the Press club.
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Mass Calendar: March 23-29
Sunday, 23—Fourth of Lent (Lae-tare). Second prayer, Intercession of the Saints (A cunctis), 3d, the Living and the Dead. (Omnipotens)
Note: Purple vestments will indicate that the priest is saying the Ferial Mass instead of the mass of the feast on any given day.
Monday, 24-—St. Gabriel the Archangel. Second prayer, the Feria, 3d, for Peace. Credo. Last Gospel of the Feria. Ferial Masss 2d prayer, of the feast, 3d, for Peace. Last Gospel, of the feast.
Tuesday, 25—The Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Second prayer, the Feria. Credo. Preface of the Blessed Virgin. Last Gospel, of the Feria.
Wednesday, 26—Feria. Mass proper. Second prayer, Intercession of the Saints (A cunctis), 3d, the Living and the Dead (Omnipotens), 4th, for Peace. (Requim)
Thursday, 27—St. John Damascene, Doctor. Mass proper. Second prayer, the Feria, 3d, for Peace. Credo. Last Gospel, of the Feria. Ferial Mass: 2nd prayer, of the feast, 3d, for Peace.
Friday, 28—St. John Capistrano, Confessor. Second prayer, the Feria, 3d, for Peace. Last Gospel, of the Feria. Ferial Masss 2d prayer, of the feast, 3d, for Peace.
Saturday, 29—Mass of the Day. Additional prayers as on Wednesday.
Rockne Memorial News
The Rockne Memorial squash tournament is now in its closing stage as the semi-final matches between Alfs versus Palmer and Lackner versus Pahl were scheduled for this past Wednesday. The winners of these two matches were to meet and the championship be decided by the end of this week.
Handball
Another Open Singles handball tournament is scheduled for the early’part of next week by Mr. Mills. Entries should be placed in the entry box located in the locker room of the Memorial before Monday.
A. S. M. E. Meeting
Thursday evening, Feb. 27, a joint meeting of the Notre Dame Student Branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the Civil Engineering Club viewed a movie of the recently completed Pennsylvania Turnpike. The picture was shown under the au
spices of the Civil Engineering Club.
The picture dealt with the methods of construction of the turnpike and the elaborate precautions taken to insure perfect safety, durability, and beauty. All arches and tunnels on the turnpike have been built in the form of semi-circles, in accordance with latest engineering methods and with an eye for the scenic beauty of the highway.
After the showing of the picture the A.S.M.E. Club held its regular business meeting, conducted by Chairman Bob Odenbach. Tom Vincent and Frank Sheets gave short talks. The former delivered an informal discussion of his experience with boiler work. Last summer Vincent held a position as assistant boiler engineer with the New Jersey Engineering and Contracting Corporation. In his discussion of his work he told of methods of boiler installation, contract specifications, and the regulations concerning the letting of such contracts.
Mr. Sheets also told the club of his work last summer, in which he acted in the capacity of research assistant for the Ohio Fuel Gas Co. In his work he assisted in the search for a method of breaking down natural fuel gas with a low BTU content, and adding oxygen and nitrogen to increase the heating value of the fuel.
After the business of the meeting had been completed refreshments were served to the members of the club.
—Bob McFarland
John B. Carney Places In Architects' Contest
Representing Notre Dame’s School of Architectural Design, John B. Carney received a “mention” in the last contest
Architect Carney with prize Skeet Club design
sponsored by the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design. The winning design was of a skeet club. Full particulars concerning the lay of the land, the site, and general information dealing with the structure are given. The student must build a specified project of his own design, taking into consideration all of the information presented to him.
Rewards are made after the drawings have been analyzed by experts in that particular field of design. Factors taken into consideration are: the originality of the student, the practicability of the ideas envolved and the general ability of the student to analyze the situation placed before him. Mentions are made by the Beaux-Arts Institute six times a year; four of the projects have been completed for this term. Carney, a junior from Dillon hall, has received “mentions” in two of the past contests and a “half mention” for his design of a playground. The next project due is an emergency hospital for a munitions plant. It must be finished within five weeks. Competition is nation-wide.
.	—Elmer D. Silha
Announce Examinations For Economic Students
William H. Downey, head of department of economics, announces a comprehensive examination for those majoring in economics and eligible for graduation at the June commencement exercises. Juniors who have signed up for the combined law course and wish to take the examination now, should consult Prof. Downey. The examination will be held on the afternoon of Thursday, April 3, in Room 227 of the Main Building.

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE
Traces Record of N. D.
Men in A. E. F. of 1917
When the drum-roll of war summoned the youth of America to defend what they thought to be the democratic ideal, the students of Notre Dame were not slow to respond late in the fateful spring of 1917. The effects of the first World War upon the minds of the'students and the changes it brought about in the lives of many of them is interestingly reflected in the yellowing files of the war-time Scholastics. One of the first echoes of national affairs that seems to have penetrated the quiet sanctum of University life appears in an editorial in the March 10, 1917, Scholastic concerning the re-election of Woodrow Wilson: “. . . he (Wilson) asks the support and cooperation of a united America, and reasserts his principles in regard to America’s relation to foreign powers. .. . All prejudice and party politics must be laid aside and a true United States must support the chief executive — not Woodrow Wilson but the President.” Sentiments exactly paralleling these appeared in the editorials of the leading American journals after Franklin Roosevelt’s victory.
The next significant editorial brought the war measures of Congress directly to Notre Dame’s students. It was the announcement of Registration Day for all males between the ages of 21 and 31 years for selective service. The patriotic fervor of the the editorial is inescapable: “Many will register simply because they have to do so. That is not the spirit. It reveals a lack of patriotism. It shows indifference which is becoming an American characteristic. . . . How long will the war last? Until we put an effective finish to it. . . . Go to the registration booth with patriotism in your hearts. . . .” And only three weeks ago seven Notre Dame men left the campus for the training camps of the armed forces of the nation.
In each succeeding issue of the Scholastic, after the declaration of war, there is an ebb and flow of war news and discussions, sometimes dwindling to a few lines indicating the camp at which a certain student is training, but always the spirit of the conflict hovers over the pages. Those students who remained behind gave vent to their patriotism in verse and essay form, both humorous and serious in their contempt for the Kaiser, German Kultur and all form of “Prussianism.” An appeal for conservation of food supplies and other necessities made by Herbert Hoover, in charge of the food of the armies, appears in one
issue of the Scholastic. The editors took up the cause of the Liberty Bonds in a number of issues. The plight of Ireland is considered in several essays and her people are seen to be in the position Belgium once held before the “Hun” trampled her fields.
But the most appealing and pathetic writings during this period are the letters of students who have gone to training camps or who are already in France with the A.E.F. They are brave letters, at least one, many of them filled with a buoyant loyalty for country and Notre Dame, many others with a calm acceptance of their task. Here is a typical quotation: “. . . I have no complaint to make about the way the situation is being handled. There is going to be only one result: our forces are bound to win and finish strong. . . .” Another letter, according to the files, the first written from the trenches, is addressed to a priest on the campus: “. . . It is the most interesting thing I have ever experienced (referring to the trench warfare). I expect to have lots of good tales to tell when I get back. Think of me often in Mass. . . .” In none of them is there any indication of despair, disloyalty or complaint. Soon from the 290 Notre Dame men who had enlisted by June 8, 1918, a steady stream of correspondence to priests, brothers and friends at the
SOUTH BEND'S
PALACE
SOUTH BEND’S MOST IMPORTANT STAGE EVENT IN YEARS . . . •
"Mr. Sherwood has written with deep compassion ... A moving play, thoughtfully written and beautifully played by Alfred Lunt. Lynn Fon-tanne and the others in the cast."
Life Magazine
The Playwright’s Company and the Theater Guild Present
ALFRED H LYNN NT RMTANNE - BOBOT £ SHIRMMK 6ntUl1^t THERE SHALLBE
NO NICUT" with Richard Whorf — Sydney Greenstreet — Maurice Cilbsmau
•k TICKETS NOW ON SALE *
BOX OFICE OPEN DAILY AND SUNDAY—10 A. M. te 10 P. M.
UnnilM, S3.H, S1.7S, Sakeay, SMS, SI.H, Si.lt, He. (B. S. Tai MW)
ALL SEATS ABE RESERVED!
PLEASE PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS—Adv.
21
school was flowing.
Then, as now, the Holy Cross congregation was represented among the ranks of the Army and Navy chaplains by such priests as Fathers Mathew J. Walsh, the late George Finnegan (later Bishop), John C. McGinn and the late Charles L. O’Donnell, the famous poet-president of Notre Dame. The latter’s reports are interesting, since he was stationed not far from the “Rainbow” division in which Father Duffy and Joyce Kilmer gained their fame. He mentioned them in this letter to the late Father Cavanaugh, written April 20, 1918: “.. . the room in which I write was usurped by German officers in their three weeks’ occupancy here. But the little French town is filled with the bravest of all armies in the world.” And again: “. . . what faith these lads have (the soldiers of his company). Father has them trained . . . they are the stuff out of which great soldiers are made . . . Joyce Kilmer is in town about a mile from here. He is sergeant now . . . the same quiet, serene personality we knew at home. . . .”
The calm spirit and seeming indifference to war horrors is evident in these letters. Today there is a possibility of a repetition of such words and acts, but Notre Dame men will not lower the standard set so high in 1918.
—Richard Powers
One Evening Ferformaace
8:30 P. M. — jfarck 25th
"Mr. Lunt has never been more mov-inr nor more deeply Impressive than he Is as the Finnish scientist, aer taa Miss Foatanne ever appeared mesa earnestly and beautifully than as the loyal American wife." -
Richard Watts. N. Y. Herald trih.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
22	THE
DESMOND FITZGERALD (Continued from Page 13) worried about so many friends who when I last heard of them were in areas that are now occupied. When France fell I feared that Madame Maritain might be there while Jacques was in U.S. I got our legation in Vichy to try to find her and it was a great relief when I was informed that she was in America with Jacques.
I saw Arnold Lunn some time ago. In fact it was just at the time of the collapse of France. He was over here and ' depressed that he wanted just to talk. Poor chap, one son had just come through Dunkirk, and the other with his wife was in Malta. Without those particularly intimate causes to anxiety, I was sufficiently depressed myself by the collapse of France following on such a long series of depressing events. I think that Shane Leslie has been over here recently. I know that a son of his was or is in Trinity.
By the way, I saw a long time ago from a Scholastic that Oliver St. John Gogarty had been at N.D. and did not make too happy an impression there. He was come down on heavily in the Scholastic and probably his talk deserved it.
(Mr. Gogarty delivered an address here Nov. 27,1939, on “The Place of Ireland in the Present Crisis,” which was reviewed by the Rev. Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., in the issues of Scholastic for Dec. 1 and 8, 1939. Editor’s note.)
But those of us who know him find it easier to forgive as we remember that when a friend was needed he was always a good friend. T. S. Eliot was over here a few weeks ago, just for a couple of days. You know, I always find him personally very charming. Probably because I find that we agree on so many points. If these were normal times I should send you some snapshot that my wife took during his visit.
It is very hard to do any real work at these times. Apart from the fact that one is harassed with meetings, one’s mind is dissipated with news. But I did during the worst phases of the war news, seek solace in trying to write a metaphysical play. And I have read very little latterly. But a week or so ago I read that book of correspondence between Yeats and our Lady Wellesley. Those people who like to say his last poems were his best irritate me. Some of the craftmanship remains in spite of weaknesses. His song was already sung and the time had come for him to be silent— . at least as far as those particular songs were concerned. What they do is reveal an inner tragedy.
I wonder if you are likely to meet
Lord Halifax. His function in America is that of a diplomat. But I know him as a deeply religious man. Behind the diplomatic representative is one who would consider the injury to religion as the greatest evil.
You have done me a greater kindness’ than you know in sending me the Scholastic and your note. It is more than ever a work of charity to write during these times. Everything is so depressing on this side of the Atlantic that the mind likes to turn to that side where some vestige of peace remains. And now that one feels so very much cut off, an occasional note from there would be more than ever welcome.
On other occasions I felt that it was always possible to cross the Atlantic. Now I know that I cannot expect to go over there (or for friends over there to come here) until the war is over at the soonest. And I have no idea when the war will be over, or what the circumstances will be when it is over. One has every reasoon to believe that one will be decidedly poorer if one is still alive. And while previously one might only have had to ask oneself was the expense justified, in the new circumstance it may be just impossible to raise the fare. Not that the prospect of financial loss gives us a moment’s uneasiness. In these apocalyptic times that seems a very minor matter.
Please give my affectionate greetings to all my friends there. I remember them all even though they are not good correspondents. You will excuse this long and rambling letter but while writing I felt that I was there with you so I was self-indulgent. Please remember Ireland and the Fitzgerald family in your prayers.
U. S. Education Better
Than European—FitzGerald
“Education in the United States is much more reasonable, and more systematic, than that of Belgium and most European countries,” said Dr. John James FitzGerald, instructor in philosophy at the University, as he compared the educational systems of Europe and America. He studied in Belgium at the University of Louvain from September, 1933, until July, 1937.	’
“The Belgium system, which is typical of all the European systems, is bad — both as a matter of mental hygiene and health. It fosters cramming at the end of the year. Some students have been effected even fatally.”
The young Notre Dame instructor had planned to return to Belgium on the ocean liner Queen Mary in September, 1938, for further work, but because of the outbreak of war in Europe, the State Department refused permission
for his passage. Dr. FitzGerald still hopes to return to Europe — ‘but one cannot plan in these times,” he added philosophically.
Dr. FitgGerald considers Abbe Le-maitre, astro-physicist at Louvain as the outstanding professor of his experience. Abbe Lemaitre, who lectured at Notre Dame during the 1937-38 schoolyear, collaborated with Albert Einstein in the development of the theory of relativity.
According to the Belgium manner of study, the student has 21 hours of classes each week, with eight or nine different subjects. The classes are taught in both French and Flemish. “Belgium is a bi-lingual country,” said Dr. FitzGerald. “Most of the foreign students study in French. When I was there about 500 foreigners were present, including representatives from such countries as Australia, England, United States, India, China, Arabia, Iraq, South Africa, and various South American republics. No classes are taught in English, so I studied in French.
“The schoolyear in Belgium begins October 18, with no really intensive study until after All Saints’ Day. Classes continue until June 16. We then have about three weeks to review before the exams start on July 7. During the schoolyear there are no quizzes, no particular assignments, and few, if any, required attendance courses. The final exams are entirely oral and may last . from ten minutes to an hour and a half. It is really an inquisition.”
Dr. FitzGerald pointed out that the high school of America corresponds to colleges in Belgium and the Gymnasia, in Germany. After college, which includes six years — the two extra years being the first two of American universities — the European student enters a university where he studies in some professional or specialized course, much like the classes on the graduate level in America.
All of the teaching is done on the lecture basis. Dr. FitzGerald greatly prefers the system of grading and teaching at Notre Dame. Here he has variety — he teaches freshman rhetoric, metaphysics and cosmology for juniors, and the theory of knowledge in the graduate department. He follows the progress of his Alma Mater, Boston College, on the football field and watches with the same interest the play of his adopted school, Notre Dame. He lives in Room 143 in Lyons hall annex. The room is modestly arranged, with books on his favorite subject, philosophy, preponderant on his book-rack; medieval and ascetic is the ; room and not as a callow freshman recently put it—squalor.	j
—Bill Scanlan

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
THE
CLUB NEWS
CHICAGO
The campus Chicago Club has many interesting activities planned, according to President Clarence Ryan. There is to be an Easter dance in the Terrace Casino of the Hotel Morrison on April 14. The dance will be formal and the price is S3.00 per couple.
Prior to the Easter dance there will
Quick, Watson . . . the Speedule!
You don’t have to be a master mind to remember the South Shore Speedline Schedules to Chicago.
19 TRAINS DAILY
First three morning trains leave South Bend at 6 A. M., 6:50 A. M., and 7:30 A. M. Thereafter, until 9:30 P. M., trains leave every hour at 30 minutes past the hour. Last two trains leave at 11 P. M. and 12 Midnight. Hourly service back from Chicago, too!
TO CHICAGO
SOUTH BEND
For information phone 3-3111
be a handball tournament for club members. All who wish to participate should see Jack Lucas of Alumni Hall. There will also be a Communion breakfast following the Easter holidays.
President Ryan has issued a challenge to all comers in basketball, after defeating the Met Club, 40-38, recently.
❖
ST. LOUIS
The soccer playing of the St. Louis club, though hampered by bad weather and inter-hall football, has not entirely ceased. They have issued a challenge to all comers for spring games.
A skating party will be held at the St. Louis Arena on April 14.
A Communion breakfast was held on March 9, when a talk about how the Church tries to establish world peace, was given by Father Mullahy. There will be a smoker and possibly a hay-ride following the Easter vacation.
NEW JERSEY
The New Jersey campus club held a Communion breakfast in the faculty dining hall last Sunday morning. John Druze, new assistant football coach, spoke to the members about his experiences as a player and a coach.
A Variety of Pipes— A Variety of Prices—
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow .............$1.50
Yello-Bole Regular ......1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial..... 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ____ 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor-----4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran------5.00
Hollydourt ______________3.50
Sasieni ________________ 5.00
Comoy ___________________5.00
METROPOLITAN
At a recent meeting of the Metropolitan Club, it was decided to hold a Communion breakfast in the near future. Plans to hold the club dance in the summer immediately after the close of the schoolyear, instead of at Easter, as is the usual custom, were also discussed.
13 CAA Students Enter
New Secondary Course
Uncle Sam is giving 13 Notre Dame men their secondary training under the C.A.A. program this semester. Those who have gone from the fledgling class to secondary flight training are: Dan Stack, Jack Landry, Bill Gallagher, Gard Oliveros, John Kelly, Wally Borer, Don Neuner, Mat Byrne, Joe Ryan, George Wurth, George Rudolph, Gerry Sullivan, and Art Humby. Of these, George Wurth, Gard Oliveros, and Art Humby, have enlisted in the Army air corps and expect their appointment in June.
Aside from their regular practice • flights to accustom themselves to the 225-horsepower Waco open biplane after learning in the lighter 50-horsepower Cub, these students take 15 hours of acrobatics and fundamental army war manuevers. At the end of the course, they will fly cross-country to Indianapolis and back.
All is not sky-splitting though. Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday the students attend ground school from 7:15 to 10:30 in the evening. They study aerodynamics, radio, navigation, civil air regulations, and the mechanics of their planes.
The course will be completed in June after 40 to 50 hours training in the Waco.—Jack Sprague
Specialising in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Sucmmot to ROGERS
Prompt Lens or frame repair service in onr own laboratory.
212 & Michigan St Phone 4-8251
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
RADIO
the Rev. John Bednar, C.S.C., in sculpture.
His watercolor work is the result of a hobby taken up in 1937.
ing. It is a remarkable achievement that this combination, Mr. Sherwood, the Lunts, and Richard Whorf (scene designer and member of the cast), have avoided the obvious theatrical tricks and “big scenes” toward which material so
At the start of the year a new deal was proclaimed in Notre Dame radio. On next Tuesday night the listening audience will judge the results.
This program will feature a comedy written by two Notre Dame seniors, Edward Kunkel and George Thompson. Its theme was not disclosed in a two-page release sent to the Scholastic by Director Lou Bonder, but humor is said to be its keynote.
The cast includes Emily Upton of St. Mary’s • College, Jean Chambers of •‘Twelfth Night” fame, and John T. Kelley. These will be supported by Jim McDonough, Dave Curtin, John Coppinger, Bill Binet and many other fine actors.
Studio manager Bob LeJeune has announced that a studio audience is welcome to attend. But as the show is scheduled to go on the air at 8:30 p.m., it is necessary that the visual audience be in the studio on the third floor of the Engineering building at least 20 minutes before the broadcast time. WSBT. will carry the program.
Another interesting radio program which will originate from the South Bend Tribune station in the next week is a 15-minute show dealing with the founding of the Knights of Columbus. This is a professionally written and acted script being sponsored locally by Notre Dame Council of the K. of C. It will be broadcast over WSBT next Thursday at 9:15 p.m.
Radio listeners should keep in mind the change in radio wave lengths which will go into effect on March 29. - This change is taking place to eliminate the conflict with stations broadcasting from Canada.
WSBT goes on full time with this change and its new location is 960 on your dial. WFAM is being abandoned.
—Thomas F. Carty
THEATRE
In the Palace theatre next Tuesday, the Playwrights Producing company and the Theatre Guild are jointly sponsoring a performance of Robert Sherwood’s brilliant new play, “There Shall Be No Night.” As its two stars, the local audience will have the opportunity of seeing Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne, probably the most noted acting team in the American theatre today.
This is a play that sharply slices the headlines off current events by giving its audiences a living photograph of a fine Finnish family just before and after the Russo-German invasion. Mr. Sherwood was filled with a passion for his job, and did it well. Here is no sensational propaganda, but a straightforward attempt to move the playgoer, to make him pity, and to fill him with terror.
A job such as this is not simple. Mr. Sherwood had to pit his dramatic technique against the fearful actuality of current happenings. And this he has done successfully, with the aid of some beautifully disciplined direction and act-

ATTENTION STUDENTS!
ADMISSION ) 25c SKATING V CHECKING j Always
Al Wish’s
Playland Roller Rink
Make money on parties here.
Eczema, Skin Itch, Athletes Foot, Golfer's Itch, etc., yield quickly to the use of
”33" LOTION
Guaranteed
219 E. Indiana Ave.
or at
FORD HOPKINS CO.
Oliver Hotel South Bend, Ind.
Improve Your HAT-I-TUDEt with a New LEE Water-Bloc
Art Exhibit
Leo N. Bushman, art student, is exhibiting 25 watercolors and pen-and-ink wash drawings in the exhibition room on the main floor of the Architecture building. The series deals with scenes in the vicinity of South Bend. The exhibit is open to the public every day including Sunday from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Mr. Bushman studied for four years at the Art Institute of Chicago previous to his work at Notre Dame. He will receive his B.A. degree from the Art Institute in June. He is at present assisting
Look for the Lee Hat signs
THE
UNIVERSITY-GAB
S5.00
If hats could talk, The University-Gab could boast, “It takes three times as long to make me—I’m a Lee "Water-Bloc and I have a gabardine band and binding to match —ahem—all for five bucks!”
LEE also makes:
Aetna, “The Insured Hat,” $3.50. ’
LEE HATS 358 Fifth Avenue, New York
tt*REG. U.S. PATENT OFF.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
25
THE
overwhelming might easily tend if not handled with sensitivity and skill. So with a minimum of decoration, the playwright and the players make clear the implications of Finland’s tragedy, through the particular example of Dr. Kaarlo Valkonen and his likeable family.
—Vet'll Witkowski
Schoolmen Plan Annual
Philosophy Disputation
While international strife is rampant, a committee of Schoolmen are working hard on the outline of the topic for their annual disputation. The topic is “Tho-mistic personalism is true Internationalism.” As stated by Schoolman John MacCauley, “. . . It has a definite connection with present world problems.” The Schoolmen, campus undergraduate philosophical society, has tentatively planned their disputation for some time soon after Easter.
Those upholding the topic will endeavor to show that the Thomistic notion must be instilled into everybody; that “individualism” must be broken. The man must be considered not as a factor of production, but as a person with spiritual qualities — with human dignity. This can be accomplished only by the adoption of Thomistic personalism.
John MacCauley, Thomas McGee, Cyril Garvey, George Meltzer, Donald Tiedemann, and Thomas Hirschauer are the Schoolmen working on the disputation. Joseph Callahan, president of the Schoolmen, will preside over the dispute. The Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., head of the undergraduate philosophy department is aiding the men in formulating the plans.—Robert LeMense
Father Ryan Honored at St. Patrick's Day Party
At 6 o’clock in the evening on St. Patrick’s Day in the Faculty dining hall, the seniors of Walsh Hall gave a party in honor of their rector, the Rev. John Ryan, C.S.C. In addition to a spiritual bouquet, Father Ryan, who has been rector of various halls, off and on for the past 30 years, received a cash purse from the gentlemen of Walsh and their prefects.
Gus Ryan was master of ceremonies, and Joe Kaltenbach led the singing of Irish songs. A quiz program brought cash prizes to contestants. The committee in charge of arrangements included Jim Murphy, Bill Morrey, Alf Bergman, John Tormey, Ed Buddy, Al Del Zoppo and Jack Burke.
“On the Corner”
MAX ADLER
Whether it’s Arrow Shirts, Arrow Shorts or Arrow Ties . . . . you'll find the largest selection at Adler's
How To Make Every Chair An Easy Chair
*T*HE neatest way to send wriggles and squirms packing is to get yourself into Arrow shorts. They’re the most comfortable made! They don’t crawl up your legs, they have no center seam, and they’re extra roomy. Furthermore, they stay that way because they’re San-forized-Shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than.1%). Get Arrow shorts with Grippers today.
Shorts, 65c Tops, 50c
ARROW UNDERWEAR
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Consider Confraternity At St. Mary's Meeting
Plans concerning the third regional college - sponsored catechetical congress of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, to be held April 25, 26, 27, at St. Mary’s College, have been announced, following a meeting held at the college. Miss Miriam Marks, secretary of the National Center of the Confraternity, Washington, D. C., presided.
Those attending the preliminary meeting included Sister M. Magdalita, C.S.C., general chairman of the April meeting; Sister M. Renata, C.S.C., Sister M. Agnes Cecile, C.S.C., Sister M. Rose Loyola, C.S.C., student members of committees, and student representatives from St. Mary’s and the University of Notre Dame.
This will be the third consecutive year that the congress has been held at St. Mary’s at the expressed request of the Episcopal Committee on the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, and the invitation of Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C., president of St. Mary’s.
This year the theme of the session will be “The College Student as Parish Leader.” The text, which will be treated in demonstration classes and discussion groups, will be announced later. All speakers at general convocations will be student delegates of the various colleges and representatives attending.
Committee members, as at present designated, are as follows: Hospitality, Sister M. Francis Jerome, C.S.C., and Mary O’Connor; discussion clubs, Sister Marie Renata, C.S.C., Laura Froning, and Walter Brennan; demonstration classes, Sister M. Agnes Cecile, C.S.C., and Ellen Graham; exhibits, Sister M. Rose Loyola, C.S.C., and Madonna Hirsch; arrangements, Catherine Kroth and Mary Agnes Kelly; program, Justine Apfeld; registration and information, Anita Fischer; publicity, Helen Morris and Evelyn Hannon; Communion breakfast, Ramona Lynch; transportation.
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D.
E. C. BERRY, O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
Therese Keach and Jeanne Rockne; radio and stage dramatizations, Mary Driscoll, Catherine Condon, and Ray Kelly; literature distribution, Mary Mayle, Evelyn Zink, and Louis Kurtz; press replies, Louise Dolan.
"Seventeen" Scheduled as Movie on Saturday
Tomorrow afternoon in Washington Hall Jackie Cooper and Betty Field will co-star in the Paramount movie version of “Seventeen,” Booth Tarkington’s hilarious satire on youth. A March of Time will complete the program.
A little minute is long enough . for a big rest when you drink on ice-cold bottle of Coca-Cola. It brings a feeling of complete refreshment...completely satisfying. So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola.


Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
COCA - COLA BOTTLING CO. of South Bend, 1107 Beyer Avenue
Begin Taking Pictures
For Notre Dame Movie
First seen in action during the Washington Day celebrations and later during the Coach Frank Leahy inaugural “pep rally,” the motion picture cameramen who have been busying themselves about the campus of late, are the visible agents in the making of a sound picture telling the “Story of Notre Dame.”
This picture will have two editions, one with the narration in English, the second with the narration in Spanish; the latter to be used in Spanish-speaking countries next summer during the pro-
A good plan... pause and
YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY
fe-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
27
jected Pax Romana South American cruise. A few copies of the film will be left in these countries.
The picture will give a true representation of all the’phases of life at Notre Dame with particular attention to : (1) the intellectual, (2) the recreational, and (3) the religious side of the University. The deans and heads of departments have been solicited to cooperate in the choice of material for eventual filming. The picture is to be 45 minutes long. The continuity of the narration has been entrusted to the Rev. John D. Gallagher, C.S.C., of Breen-Phillips Hall, while Eduardo Alcayaga of Alumni Hall will write the transcription in Spanish.
The Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., is the chairman of the committee producing the film, while others on the committee include: the Rev. Michael Mathis, C.S.C., technical adviser; the Rev. John Gallagher, C.S.C., continuity; Prof. Stanley Sessler, photography; the Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., production. Actual photography is being done by the Warren Brothers studio of South Bend.—Mark G. McGrath
MUSIC
By John W. Larson
The Civic Music Association of South Bend presented, on March 4 at the John Adams high school, a piano concert played by Rudolph Serkin. For the first half of his program, Mr. Serkin played the Sonata in C Major (Waldstein) of Beethoven and the Brahm Variations and Fugue on a Theme by Handel. The second half of the program, considerably less satisfying than the first from the point of view of the music itself (except the encores, not listed on the program), was taken up with Schubert’s Impromptu in F Minor, Mendelssohn’s Rondo Capriccioso, two Czech Dances (A minor and F major) of Smetana, and > the Liszt Caprice in A Minor. As encores, Serkin played one of the Chopin etudes, and the gigantic Polonaise in A Flat Major.
Mere words can not describe adequately the supreme artistry which characterizes Serkin’s piano playing. Anyone who heard his concert understands, I think, that language can tell you almost nothing about his achievements as a pianist. Rather, I should say that language can tell you of his ability ___ it can tell you that Serkin has a grinding, crushing technique, that he manages the utmost tonal resources of his instrument, that his playing is a
matter of blood and murder or delicate poetry — but it cannot approach, even remotely, the nature of that ability. To do this, you must hear Serkin’s playing. There is no other way.
Serkin played all the compositions on the program with a perfection to be found only in the performance of the greatest pianists. For my own purely personal tastes, the Beethoven, Brahms, Smetana and Chopin works were most enjoyable. The Rondo Capriccioso was the least satisfying, though certainly not because it was badly played. If Serkin had to include something “popular” — and I appreciate that he must have had to do this — I should have preferred to have him play one of the Chopin waltzes, for example. Even the most popular of these is much superior, as piano music, to the Mendelssohn work.
Civil Service Offers
Engineers $2,000 Jobs
Because of the increasing need for engineers in national defense work, the United States Civil Service Commission has again announced an examination to fill junior engineer positions in any branch of engineering. The salary is $2,000 a year less a 3% percent retirement deduction. Applications will now be rated as received at the Commission’s Washington office until Dec. 31, 1941. Qualified persons who do not have eligible ratings under previous junior engineer examinations held by the Commission within the past year are urged to file their applications at once.
Further information and application forms may be obtained from the Secretary of the Board of U.S. Civil Service Examiners at any first- or second-class post office, or from the U.S. Civil Service Commission, Washington, D.C.
“FAVORITE OVERTURES” ALBUM: Morning. Noon and Night in Vienna; Poet and Peasant Overture, Light Cavalry; Overture, Merry Wives of Windsor; Overture. by the Boston “Pope” Orchestra. — Arthur Fiedler conducting and _ the_ BBC Symphony Orchestra under the direction of Sir Adrian Boult.------------$4.50
PADEREWSKI Golden Anniversary Album : Moment Musical No. 2 in A Flat Major (Schubert) ; Rondo in A Minor (Mozart) ; Polonaise in A Flat Major (Chopin) ; Theme and Variations in F Minor (Haydn).---------------------$4.50
NBC’s Chamber Music Society of “Lower Basin Street”—featuring Mademoiselle Dinah Shore, guest artist and Professor Sidney Bechet, guest artist. Dr. Henry Hotlips Levin and Maestro Paul Laval and his Woodwindy Ten.... Such titles included as Mood Indigo, Runnin’ Wild, Dinah’s Blues, Basin Street Blues, etc. 3 records-$2.00
GERTRUDE LAWRENCE in the glamorous music from the current Broadway hit, “Lady .in the Dark.” 3 records—$2.00
NEW RECORDING of “Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun”—Leopold Stokowski conducting the Philadelphia Orchestra $1.00
VICTOR—popular recordings, 50c
ARTIE SHAW: “Pyramid” and “This is Romance.”
ARTIE SHAW: “Dancing in the Dark,” and “Smoke Gets in Your Eyes.”
TOMMY DORSEY: “It’s Always You.” and “Birds of a Feather” (from the movie “On the Road to Zanzibar”).
FOUND: Unmatched fountain-pen and pencil. Losers please contact Room 213 Walsh Hall.
THAT CAMPUS MAN WITH A BAND!
Phil "Ming Toy" Foote
and
HIS ORCHESTRA
Music For All Occasions
For engagements contact LEO KEATING. Mgr. University of Notre Dame No. 6 Brownson	Phone 3-0138
A Brand New Victor Artist for
Conga and Rumba Enthusiasts
ENRICO MADRIGUERA: “Un-Dos-Tres” latest 1-2-3 hit and “Un Momento” Bolero.
•
BLUEBIRD—popular recordings, 35c
ALBINO REY: “William Tell Overture” parts 1 and 2.
TONY PASTOR: “For Whom the Bell Tolls” and Number Ten Lullaby Lane.”
ART CASTLE’S new Theme Song: “Knocking at your Door” and on the other side, “Do I Worry?”
Largest Record Dept, in Michiana 9 Listening Booths Electric Victrolas WeB-informed Clerks
OPEN TUES., THURS^ SAT. EVENINGS
HODII1S
THE order of the day is
( chesterfield
MILDER
COOLER...BETTER-TASTING
±es, the Fleet smokes a lot of \ Chesterfields... and so do millions of other smokers like yourself. You’ll find that Chesterfields are MILD, the way you want a cigarette... not flat, not strong. They SMOKE COOLER .. .with a decidedly BETTER TASTE.
Copyright 1941, Liccett &• Sirens Tobacco Co.
...ITS THE SMOKERS CIGARETTE
Signalman GRAY U. S. S. BENSON is host to
BRENDA JOYCE Hollywood Favorite