PALM BEACH HAS
COMFORTABLE
THE
• ...	r(
Select your handsome, comfortable, Palm Beach suit, sport coat and slacks now at the Campus Shop ... be ready to enjoy hot weather^ when it comes. You’ll find a large | and varied selection by the world’s largest and most famous maker of summer fashions for men.	J
* I
.1 £
PALM BEACH WASH AND
PALM BEACH SPORT COATS. PALM BEACH SLACKS . . J
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS | SHOP WAY ...	|
PAY 1/3 IN JUNE	I
1/3 IN JULY	I
1/3 IN AUGUST	I
No Carrying Charge '	B
THE COOL
SUIT FOR YOU AT
CAMPUS SHOP!
So, drop in soon while all sizes, styles, patterns and colors are in stock. You’ll find easy-to-live-with wash and wear fashions . . . handsomely tailored summer formals . . . the best in warm-weather and most-of-the-year clothes. Get it now . . . charge it the Campus Shop way.
WEAR SUITS, from . . 39.95
from.....................29.95
9.95 to 14.95
(hCtajms Mk Shulman
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf’, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis’’, etc.)
OLD GRADS NEVER DIE
In just a matter of weeks many of you will be graduating—especially seniors.
You are of course eager to go out in the great world where opportunities are limitless and deans nonexistent. At the same time your hearts are heavy at the thought of losing touch with so many classmates you have come to know and love.
It is my pleasant task today to assure you that graduation need not mean losing touch with classmates; all you have to do is join the Alumni Association and every year you will receive a bright, newsy, chatty bulletin, chock full of information about all your old buddies.
Oh, what a red-letter day it is at my house, the day the Alumni Bulletin arrives ! I cancel all my engagements, take the phone off the hook, dismiss my chiropractor, put the ocelot outside, and settle down for an evening of pure pleasure with the Bulletin and (need I add?) a good supply of Marlboro Cigarettes.
Whenever I am having fun, a Marlboro makes the fun even more fun. That filter, that flavor, that pack or box never fails to heighten my pleasure whether I am watching the television or playing buck euchre or knitting an afghan or reading Mad or enjoying any other fun-filled pursuit you might name—except, of course, spearfishing. But then, how much spearfishing does one do in Clovis, New Mexico, where I live?
But I digress. Let us return to my Alumni Bulletin and let me quote for you the interesting tidings about all my old friends and classmates:
Well, fellow alums, it certainly has been a wing-dinger of a year for all us old grads! Remember Mildred Cheddar and Harry Camembert, those crazy kids
* ♦ *
Old grads, new grads, undergrads, all agree: The best new nonfilter cigarette in many a long year is the king-size Philip Morris Commander. Welcome aboard!
who always held hands in Econ II? Well, they’re married now and living in Clovis, New Mexico, where Harry rents spearfishing equipment and Mildred has just given birth to a lovely 28-pound daughter, her second in four months. Nice going, Mildred and Harry!
Remember Jethro Brie, the man we voted most likely to succeed? Well, old Jethro is still gathering laurels! Last week he was voted “Motorman of the Year” by his fellow workers in the Duluth streetcar system. “I owe it all to my brakeman,” said Jethro in a characteristically modest acceptance speech. Same old Jethro!
Probably the most glamorous time of all us alums was had by Francis Macomber last year. He went on a big game hunting safari all the way to Africa! We received many interesting post cards from Francis until he was, alas, accidentally shot and killed by his wife and white
hunter. Tough luck, Francis!
Wilma “Deadeye” Macomber, widow of the late beloved Francis Macomber, was married yesterday to Fred “Sure-shot” Quimby, white hunter, in a simple double-ring ceremony in Nairobi. Good luck, Wilma and Fred!
Well, alums, that just about wraps it up for this year. Keep ’em flying!
© 1961 Max Shulman
BETTER CAUSES?
Editor:
The Committee on Race Relations is way out of bounds. Nothing worthwhile can possible result from their attacks on discriminating taverns; they’re stirring up a lot of unnecessary trouble. If the members are looking for a CAUSE, I’ve got a dozen better ones in my back pocket.	1
I’m sure that if they were to check on the number of colored Catholics in the South Bend area, they would be aghast. (It’s something like 400.) Their absence on the parish roll calls surely indicates a real need for missionary work downtown. Here’s a CAUSE that can make a real contribution to Catholic Action but the path the Committee is attempting to clear now will only be a blind alley.
Thomas P. Hoban
Editor:
To call Mr. Keegan’s boycott address the most impressive action of his ad? ministration must be a most subtle con- I demnation of his work this past year, f He succeeded in his efforts on the Senate j floor April 1 by using the age-old ap- \ proach “Only a fool would vote against ; this proposal.”	-*
Despite the opinion of the Scholastic, editors, the question involved was most debatable. That very evening it was defeated twice, and despite Mr. Keegan’s ' speech its eventual passage was far . from unanimous.
The very idea of the Student Senate ■ telling the student body to boycott any institution for any reason is repugnant j to the philosophy of student government \ held by some sincere individuals. Tft decision to pass the resolution before again approaching Thilman’s proprietor was certainly arbitrary, especially since three other tavern owners did relent when given a second chance before thie ! resolution was passed. And the Senate, J if the students choose to ignore its resolution, could well lose what prestige
(Continued on page 24)

The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second dasig mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special I postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The, magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly, during the school year, except during vacation! and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC faf printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscrip-s tion rate is $5.00 a year. Please address alii manuscripts to the Editors, Boz 185, NotreS Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material be-J comes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.|
' '	The ScfioZasIm

*
.1
No. 23
Vol. 102
May 12, 1961
■
J The Notre Dame



Founded 1867
featureseditor
THOMAS HANSEN
JOSEPH FINNIGAN
i
editor-in-chief
wdraWmioiir
THOMAS SULLIVAN ThomasHoobler
news editor <
THOMAS WEISS -/ : John McCabe
Jr.
associateeditor
;XlXRd$4wB£Li
g&s^i^ES?l0tROY -
- ^%>4 J	~' jw- X	f ?	; ■■*■< > • ■ •?... v
ng

Why are some girls prouder of their rings than others?
You see it in her eyes—but the reasons aren’t all romantic ones. Her diamond ring is an Artcarved. This means it meets rigid standards of excellence in cut, carat weight, color and clarity.
Nor is this simply a verbal promise. Artcarved’s written guarantee explains how the exclusive Permanent Value Plan lets you apply the full current retail price toward the purchase of a larger Artcarved anytime, at any Artcarved jeweler throughout the country. You will be proud, too, of Artcarved’s award-winning styling, like the Evening Star shown here. To be sure it’s an Artcarved: Look for the name inside the ring, and ask for your written Artcarved guarantee.
Of course, being engaged is wonderful, but sealing the engagement with an Artcarved ring makes it more 'ttfnn^Arfiil than fivfir^lnroiiprf
DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS
LAST CALL for candidates
C0LI.E6E QUEEN MMsi__________________-'
$5,000 IN PRIZES
Regional and National Winners. Coronation Pageant to be held in New York. See your Artcarved Jeweler , * today for free application blank. Contest closes
May 20. Please act promptly.
«
Famous Harry James Band Hays for Seniors: 'Something Elegant' in Navy Drill Hall Tonight
Elegant music and elegant surroundings will set the mood for a capacity crowd of 600 couples at the Senior Ball, “Something Elegant,” tonight at the {jprill Hall. The record crowd will dance from 10 to 2 under a French mansard roof, accented by chandeliers and a reflecting pool. Red, white and gold tapestries will highlight the decor.
Harry James and his twenty-piece orchestra, “The Men of Many Moods,” will accompany the dancers with their new, modem arrangements. The band has recently been playing large dances and college fonnals. This marks their first ppppearance at Notre Dame.
Blonde Linda Davis, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. B. Davis of Kansas City, Mo., will reign as queen of the weekend’s festivities. She attended the University of Missouri and is currently employed as a secretary at the Jackson County Probate Court in Kansas City.
The ball will start the seniors off on their last month at Notre Dame, and Qpeneral Chairman Jack Whitaker promises a memorable climax to their four years at the University. In addition to Friday night’s ball, where there will be special 3 a.m. permissions, the seniors and their dates will be privileged guests at the Old Timers’ Game Saturday afternoon. On Saturday night the University Theatre will present Babes in Arms, and there will be a host of private parties bringing the class together nfor a last social whirl. Finally on Sunday morning Rev. James Doll, C.S.C., will address a Communion brunch at the Pick-Oliver hotel following the 10 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church.
General Chairman Whitaker is assisted by Dave Wochner, publicity;
UNDA DAVIS For last gay fling.
Bernie Craig, business manager; Dick Lochner, entertainment; Don Veckerelli, assistant entertainment chairman; Tom Regan, decorations; Bob Brown, tickets; and Pat Hickey, in charge of the Communion brunch.
These events will be the last class activity undertaken by the seniors prior to the Commencement Exercises on June 4. According to Rev. George Bernard, C.S.C., Vice-president of Academic Affairs, the normal University regulations will be enforced. No weekends may be taken by those attending the Senior Ball, nor will 3 a.m. permissions be granted to any but those attending the Friday night dance. In general then the seniors will conclude their four years on a traditional note, a note that General Chairman Whitaker hopes will be a pleasant one.
St. Mary's Rehearses Miller's 'The Crucible'
Arthur Miller’s The Crucible, a play concerned with the Salem witchcraft trials of nearly three centuries ago, will be presented May 18, 20 and 21 by St. Mary’s College. The cast of 21 players is composed of students from St. Mary’s and Notre Dame.
One of the most provocative of Miller’s play successes, The Crucible is based on documents penned in 1692, the year of the famous trials. Many of these historical papers were taken from the dust-ridden archives of Salem itself, and are filled with the archaic phrases of early New England Puritanism. From these age-yellowed sources Miller constructed a play which opened just when journalist critics of the Washington scene were making “witch hunting” one of the most prevalent of America’s terms of reproach.
After running several months in New York’s “up town” section, The Crucible was revived with a new cast and played more than a year off Broadway with even greater success. Miller’s play was used later by Jean-Paul Sartre, France’s high priest of existentialism, in composing the script for a French movie. The resulting film was shown widely in American as well as European theaters.
Characters of The Crucible bear the names of their historical prototypes. It emphasizes that death is not too much to pay for freedom of mind and spirit. This theme is developed against a background of the horror, superstitious frenzy and religious intolerance which was to write “finis” to wholesale witch persecutions in the Old World as well as the New.
Improved 1961 'Dome1 Arrives Next Tuesday
Improvements in layout, design and photography are the distinguishing features of the 1961 Dome which will he distributed at the Audio-Visual Center next Tuesday. Students must first obtain IBM cards in the Fieldhouse today or next Monday and Tuesday.
Editor-in-chief John Flanigan, an English major from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., has incorporated a number of significant changes in this year’s book to maintain its lead among college yearbooks. A natural tan, fine grade monk’s cloth cover has been used, the first cloth cover in Dome history. Also the single word Dome appears on this cover.
I. B. M. forever. A general modernization scheme, of which the cover is part, has principally emphasized tighter layout. Introductory pages have been completely redone, design and art work have been simplified, technical changes in ink and paper were adopted and an attempt was made to keep the Dome simple, uncluttered, modern and masculine.	'
Various sections have witnessed revisions in the presentation of their contents. The introductory pages have a simpler, relaxed style which carries out the book’s theme. An essay by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., on Notre Dame’s present and future appears in the administration section. Pictures of Notre Dame’s Who’s Who for 1961 and the Dome Award recipients highlight the campus features. IBM cards were used last fall to more accurately name students in underclass pictures, which are larger and more attractive. Class identification tabs are on each page. Organizations layout employs photo essays to show members and illustrate their functions. All deparements are covered in the academics section with a pictorial explanation of activities. The seniors section features short, humorous articles dealing with certain rules in the Student Manual.
Dome's 1961 staff includes John Schuster, assistant editor; John Guzzo, assistant editor for photography; Greg Hellrung, assistant editor for design; Dick Meece, campus features; Frank O’Connell, organizations; John Osipo-wicz, sports; Bill Dodd and Frank Ober-koetter, seniors; Harry Hanson, underclassmen; and Tom Gettelfinger, academics.	'
A junior science pre-med, Gettlefinger, has been selected editor-in-chief of next year’s Dome. Oberkoetter has been named assistant editor.
High honors last year. Last year’s Dome received an All-American rating from the Associated Collegiate Press at the University of Michigan, a major judge of college yearbooks. Also, the Columbia Scholastic Press awarded a Medalist rating. This was the first Dome entered in the judging at Columbia University. Indiana Collegiate Press gave awards for best layout, best introductory pages, and best theme.
7
May 12, 1961
Student Senate Debates Civil Rights Question; Group Resolves for Boycott of Thilman's Tap
The question of civil rights has once again been raised on campus. A week ago Monday, the Student Senate went past midnight in debating on the issue. After voting nay several times, the Senate finally approved 17-12 a boycott of Thilman’s Tap, a bar in nearby South Bend.
The controversy is caused by two disputes, that between the Senate Committee on Race Relations and several suburban bars and that among members of the Senate where opinion has sharply differed.
Several weeks ago, a Negro member of the Notre Dame student body was refused service in four campus area bars. The Committee on Race Relations visited
these four establishments and tried to persuade the taverns to drop discriminating at least against Notre Dame Negro students, but they were unsuccessful.
As a result, the Race Relations Committee, though a subcommittee of the Senate, acted without Senate approval and called for a student boycott of the four establishments. This set the stage for the Senate debate.
Three of the bars, Woodward’s, Otto’s and Kubiak’s quickly came to terms, but Thilman’s did not. “I told Thilman he would only have to serve a few Negro Notre Dame students, but he wouldn’t go along,” said John Keegan, former Student Body President.
When the question was raised in the Senate as to whether or not the Senate should approve the boycott, it met severe opposition.
John Clark, senator from Walsh Hall, expressed the fear that the Senate had
8
made a mistake and that it would be ineffective in trying to bring about a settlement. “It is important for the Senate to be successful in what it attempts or else it will become a joke,” he said. “The owners would open the bars to Negroes if they thought they could, and the boycott could ruin their business.” Clark was in favor of educating the students of the facts and letting them make up their own minds -without the Senate doing it for them. “It’s not common sense to give a professional crusader a blank cross,” he said in explaining why he voted against giving “blanket approval to YCS.” The YCS is working with the Committee in this matter.
Rudy Ehrensing, YCS representative to the Senate took a different stand. “It is a Christian duty to remove injustice and insults against the colored race,” he said. “The Student Senate has an obligation to its constituents, and it must not fail them.”
Bob Mier, senator from Breen-Phillips, thought that perhaps the issue didn’t go far enough. He opposed the Senate resolution because “if there’s a principle here, we should boycott a bar, not because it refuses to serve Notre Dame’s Negroes, but because it refuses to serve Negroes at all.” He also felt the boycott was ill planned and ill timed.
Percy Pierre, a Negro student who has been refused service in these establishments and who has worked with the committee, thought that it wasn’t so important that the boycott force Thilman’s to its knees. “Notre Dame is looked up
(Continued on page 10)
Lecture Series Presents Poetry Reading Festival
Eight outstanding young American poets will recite their own works at the Notre Dame Spring Poetry Festival this Sunday, Monday and Tuesday, as pari of the Distinguished Lecture Series for 1961. In both afternoon and evening ses- , sions readings by Paul Carroll, Suzanne^ Gross, John Engels, Ernest Sandeen, John Knoepfle, Peter Simpson, John Logan and Galway Kinnell will be given in the La Fortune Student Center and St. Mary’s Little Theater free of charge.
At 3:30 p.m. on Sunday, Paul Carroll, editor of the Big Table, and poetry editor of the Chicago Review, will present selections from his works that have appeared in the New Yorker and the Evergreen Review. That evening at 8 p.m. in the Student Center Amphitheater C Suzanne Gross and John Engels will conduct a joint program. Miss Gross is noted for her success in the Sister Made-leva Poetiy Contest and the Chicago Choice magazine poetry competition. Engels is known on campus for his work on the 1952 Juggler.
Author-poet Ernest Sandeen, professor of English at Notre Dame, will read from his works on Monday at 4:10 p.m. in the Student Center. In another joint-^ program John Knoepfle and Peter Simpson will recite at 8 p.m. Monday.
In the Little Theater John Logan, moderator of the Festival, editor of Chicago Choice and a Notre Dame resident poet, will speak at 4:30 p.m. Tuesday. Concluding the Spring Poetry Festival will be Galway Kinnell, novelist and poet. Author of What A Kingdom It Was, Kinnell has received recognition for his translations of famous French^ lyrical poets.	*
Senior Awarded Scholarship For Graduate Study in Spain {
John Clark, 125 Walsh, is the recipient | of a Fulbright Scholarship for graduate study. Clark intends to study Spanish literature and culture at the University^ of Madrid during the fall and summer terms of the academic year 1961-62.
Fulbright Scholarships are available, each year to over 800 graduate and undergraduate students for advanced study or pre-doctoral research in 32 countries.^ There are two types of grants available-, for study abroad under the Fulbright^ Program. One is the complete grant'; which provides maintenance, travel, tui-. tion, and books for one academic year. ■ The other provides travel grants to sup-1^ plement maintenance and tuition scholar- / ships from different sources.	;
Eligibility requirements for all cate-J gories of Fulbright awards are: U.S.J citizenship at the time of application J a bachelor’s degree or its equivalent, ? knowledge of the language of the hostf country and good health. In addition to? these a good academic record and ca-| pacity for independent study are also! necessary.	£
The Scholastic!
/1
Beaver, Mammola Take Top Finance Offices; Group Appoints New Members to Committees
/Ul Cfnakam
Officers of the Finance Club for the coming year — 1961-62 have been announced. Replacing Tom Carpenter as president will be Bill Beaver. Beaver, a Dean’s List student from Hammond, ^Jnd., is a member of the Junior Class ^Zlouncil, the Debate Team, and this year’s Commerce Activities Council representative for the club.
George Mammola, from Garfield, N. J., will take over the duties of vice-president. This year he was treasurer- of the junior class and will be SBP Chris Buckley’s executive secretary for next year. The secretary-treasurer of the club will be Bill Mullaney. Mullaney lives in Bethel, Conn., and has had ex-£rerience as business manager of the Knights of Columbus Ball and as treasurer of the Ahmad Jamal Concert. Tim Dunigan will be the CAC representative and has been active in the club, particularly in helping to make the Finance Forum a success. Dunigan is from Pampa, Texas, and is a member I of the bowling team.
The four officers are finance majors in the College of Commerce. All the of-<cers will be seniors next year with the xception of Dunigan who will be a junior. These committee chairmen appointments were announced as follows: Boyd George, publicity; Mike Greeley and J. T. Phillips, Mardi Gras booth; Jim Olson, educational; Mammola, field trip; Tom Blair, nominations; and Dave Castaldi, Finance Forum.
The new members for next year have already been appointed and assigned to <ommittees. The year’s remaining ac-ivity includes a banquet at Sunny Italy on May 18. Prof. L. H. Eells of the Finance Department will speak on international finance. Prof. Paul Conway,
BILL BEAVER, BILL MULLANEY, TIM DUNIGAN AND GEORGE MAMMOLA “Outstanding dub in the College of Commerce”
the club’s moderator announced the club’s activity will be aimed to maintain the club as the outstanding organization in the College of Commerce, an award which the Finance Club has received for the last two consecutive years from 1958-60.
Education Dept. Names Prof. Strickler as Head
Vice-president for academic affairs, Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., recently named Prof. Robert W. Strickler as head of the Department of Education at the University.
Strickler had been serving as acting head of the department since February when Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., his predecessor, was named director of the Notre Dame Foundation.
A specialist in educational administration, Prof. Strickler has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1953. He has directed the department’s Master of Arts in Teaching Program which was inaugurated last year with the support of a $410,750 Ford Foundation grant. He has also been associated with the University’s participation in the Midwest Program for Airborne Television Instruction.
Prof. Strickler was educated at Grove City College, Saint Bonaventure University and Cornell University where he received his doctorate. His professional affiliations include the American Association of School Administrators, the National Society of College Teachers of Education, the National Association of Secondary School Principals and the American Association of University Professors.
We Owe What ?!
Student Body President Chris Buckley and his administration took over Monday night. Despite a notable lack of intelligent discussion on the part of the body, six motions were passed unanimously.
John Keegan reported on his talks with ThiIman. “I didn’t get to first base.” Chris Buckley informed the senators that the race relations committee was
no longer under the Senate.
Joel Haggard proposed the motion dealing with photo concession policy, which had been pending for five weeks. After a number of friendly amendments the motion was passed. This policy serves to elaborate in more detail the previous policy regarding the photo concession.
At this point the confusion began. Tom Colleton informed the Senate that they owed $4,900 in Mardi Gras .allocations from previous years. He then proposed a reallocation of this year’s Mardi Gras profits. Colleton told the Senators that in reality the money would be spent as originally planned and that the reallocation was only necessary to balance the books. “We are giving ourselves money to pay back into the building fund.”
Few Senators understood the problem and Colleton was besieged by questions: “Where are we getting this money?” “It seems strange that we can wipe out a debt by a simple allocation on paper.” Eventually the problem was clarified and the motion passed.
A motion was then passed providing for a parliamentarian for the Senate. Dick Meece was appointed and approved.
Tom Schlereth presented a motion recommending that the two-dollar student government fee be incorporated into the general bill. This system would assure a more universal collection of the fee. The motion passed unanimously. It remains for the administration to act on the recommendation.
The final matter for consideration was the national affiliations policy. After half an hour of quibbling over how much delegates should be allowed for “living expenses,” it was decided to leave particular cases to the discretion of the SBP.
Section five of the policy states: “The right to affiliate and disaffiliate from NSA or NFCCS rests in the body of the Student Senate, subject to a simple majority vote.”
9
May 12, 1961
Michael Smith Wins YCS Apostolate Award; Will Receive Citation for Catholic Action
Michael Smith, a senior Dean’s List student in liberal arts, has been named to receive the St. Thomas More Award for 1961, an award given in recognition of outstanding accomplishments in the field of the student apostolate. Smith is a member of the Wranglers, Bookmen and on the Juggler staff.
The St. Thomas More Award was established and is sponsored by the Young Christian Students of Notre Dame. It is intended to give special honor and recognition to that senior student who has done outstanding work in
MICHAEL SMITH
Decorated at Commencement
the apostolate and whose sense of personal dedication to this work has been a motivating factor in his life.
Selection of the recipient is based on four considerations: achievement in the apostolate, possession of a spirit of generosity and unselfishness, leadership ability and academic merit.
The sterling silver medal of St. Thomas More and a parchment citation of merit will be presented at Graduation Week Ceremonies. On May 14 the Y.C.S. will sponsor a Communion breakfast at the Morris Inn honoring Smith.
Candidates for the award are nominated by a committee of juniors representing the several Catholic Action organizations on campus. These are:
PHOTOGRAPHERS SOUGHT
The SCHOLASTIC is seeking staff photographers for next year. Opportunities to work under contract or on a free-lance basis will be available. Those interested should see Tom Weiss in 305 Pangborn, and should bring samples of their work. Final decision on acceptance or rejection will be announced later.
Young Christian Students, National Federation of Catholic College Students, Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, the Notre Dame Society of Mary and the Knights of Columbus. Final selection is made by a board of faculty moderators and is ratified by the University Award Committee.
Paul Hyer of Conshohocken, Pa., a junior science student and Lawrence Hayden, a commerce student from Owensboro, Ky., served as directors of the award program.
Killilea Head of YCS Organization in '61-'62
Filling the post of 1961-62 YCS president will be Alfred Killilea, a Dean’s List student from Andover, Mass. A group leader in the organization and a member of the Sophomore Class Council, he takes over from Rudy Ehrensing, this year’s president.
Rich Giloth and Dave Fogarty, both sophomores, were named as secretary and treasurer. Frank Courreges, a junior, takes over as editor of the YCS publication Action.
Killilea has been prominent this year for his study into the operations of the Scholastic. One of the first duties of the new president will be to represent the campus chapter at the National YCS Study Week held June 5 in Chicago.
Among the functions that the local chapter managed this year were the annual Marriage Institutes and the Leo XIII Lecture Series. It has sponsored three student retreats to the Trappist monastery at Gethsemane. The group has also participated in this year’s national YCS project, “Economics and Human Relations.”
Several individual hall groups have undertaken projects during the year. Stanford has been screening students to supervise play periods at the Northern Indiana Children’s School. Keenan is conducting a survey on reasons why freshmen leave Notre Dame after their first year of school. In Cavanaugh a section has sponsored a day of recollection for the hall. The sophomore group, in cooperation with the Scholastic, has been doing an analysis of the magazine.
According to president-elect Killilea the YCS plans to wait until the second semester to initiate freshmen into the campus organization.
Active on campus since 1949, the YCS has begun such things as Freshman Orientation Week, Victory dances and the B-X. An intense training ground for intelligent participation in the student government and campus activities, it has originated the Blue Circle and the consolidated student government. Mainly a problem center, the YCS discusses and evaluates the situations on campus, striving to better faculty-student relationships.
Navy, Air Force Sweep Military Review Honors
Two Navy companies and an Air Force company were judged to have made the best showing as over 1500 ROTC students marched in the President’s Review last Saturday. “B” company of the Navy took top honors and was followed by Navy’s “C” company and “B” cornu pany of the Air Force.
During the afternoon’s ceremonies, the Armed Forces Electronics award was presented to John Keegan. William Galvin was named recipient of the award of the Military Order of World Wars, while the American Legion prize went to Thomas O’Donnell.
Selected for the Chemical Association award was John Wilson. Claude Ceccon received an award from the Reserve Officers Association, and Ronald Szweda^ was named winner of a National Defense Transportation Award, annually given to the top twenty ROTC seniors in the nation.
Civil Rights
(Continued from page 8) to in this area,” he remarked. “The moral force of the Notre Dame community taking a stand will have the desired^ effect.”
As Keegan saw it, the Senate had four alternatives: 1) it could do nothing; 2) it could bring legal action; 3) it could picket the offending establishments or 4) it could do as it did and vote for a boycott.
In explaining, he remarked “It would be ridiculous if a Catholic community. couldn’t take a stand on a moral and civil wrong. To picket or bring legal action* could only serve to breed more animosity^ among all concerned. The Senate had only this road and it took the most innocuous stand possible.”
Keegan admitted that eliminating the discrimination only against Negroes from Notre Dame was not a completely satisfactory result, but he felt that it was a step in the right direction.
Ed Thilman, owner of Thilman’s refused to comment when asked if he wouldjb care to present his views on the contro-. versy.
This matter is not without precedent in the history of this school. Three years ago, a Negro studying at Notre Dame, was refused service at the Volcano. A subsequent boycott persuaded the management to change its policy.	.
A recent Indiana law makes it illegal; to discriminate against a person in a public establishment because of his race.! A man has the right to protect his in-^ vestment, and Mr. Thilman may have an• honest fear of a so-called “undesirable-: element” moving into his bar. However,-he cannot detract from the rights ofi others in protecting his investment. Thil- j man should realize that he may refuse = service to anyone as long as he doesn’tj discriminate along racial lines. Thus he; could obey the law by keeping only “un- f desirables out.”	I
—Joe Caspar f1
The Scholastic i\
10
SUPER SMOOTH SHAVE
New "wetter-than-water" action melts beard’s toughness—in seconds. Remarkable new “wetter-than-water” |	action gives Old Spice Super Smooth Shave its scientific
approximation to the feather-touch feel and the efficiency of barber shop shaves. Melts your beard’s toughness like hot towels and massage—in seconds.
Shaves that are so comfortable you barely feel the blade. A unique combination of anti-evaporation agents makes Super Smooth Shave stay moist and firm. No re-lathering, no dry spots. Richer and creamier...gives you the most satisfying shave... fastest, cleanest—and most comfortable. Regular or mentholated, 1.00.
S M U UT O
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
“With intelligence and sophistication, Dick Gregory has become the first Negro comedian to make the big time I”
.	TIME MAGAZINE
*A DIVISION OF COLUMBIA PICTURES
11
May 12, 1961
a
One of the best investments you’ll ever make...
You know what you invest in advanced ROTC ___two years of classroom time and outside study.
But just see how handsomely your investment pays off.
First and foremost, there’s the proud momentin Graduation Week when the gold bars of a Second Lieutenant are pinned on your Army uniform... and deep inside the warm sense of accomplishment at having made it.
There’s immediate help in meeting expenses
12
... a subsistence allowance of $535 for the two-year advanced ROTC course. Uniforms and military textbooks paid for. $117 for your six-week summer camp training, plus travel allowance. And when you’re commissioned, a $300 uniform allowance.
You discharge your military obligation with the traditional rank, pay, privileges and responsibilities of an officer in the United States Army.
And later, when you’re starting your climb
up the civilian ladder, advanced ROTC will . still be paying off. Success in the executive areas of business and industry comes earlier and more substantially to the man who can lead. Few are born leaders; but leadership ’ can be learned. And advanced ROTC is a great place to learn it.
Talk with the Professor of Military Science at your school. Learn more about advanced ; ROTC. Ask particularly about the ROTC . course In Leadership, with its practical experience in command responsibilities.
The Scholastic '}
OPENING NIGHT REVIEW:
* Babes in Im
by DENNIS KILLEEN
“Babes In Arms” is a smash! This University Theatre Production has a more enthusiastic cast behind it than a ^Notre Dame pep rally. Have you ever wanted to get up on stage and join in the ensemble? This show does it to you— wonderfully.
“Babes In Arms” is adapted from the book by George Oppenheimer, with music by Richard Rodgers and lyrics by Lorenz Hart. The story opens at the Surf and Sand Playhouse on Cape Cod. A group of apprentices are working their way towards stardom, impeded by a bad play and an impossible manager. The “Babes” have written a show of their own, and the problem lies in getting use of the playhouse long enough >to put the show on for a big-time producer. Also, as with all young, red-blooded American apprentices, love pops out all over.
Myrna Walker portrays Susie Ward, a young, sensible apprentice, who is helplessly in love with Valentine White (Joe Harrington), the leader of the “Babes.”.Her performance was professional. Myrna seems to be as at home on the stage as she would be in her own living room. This factor, combined with a wonderful voice, enables her to perform such numbers as “My Funny Valentine” with perfect control. A talented execution.	•
B Joe Harrington plays Valentine White, a boy who’s all mixed up when it conies to love. He gave an impressive performance, especially on the musical numbers with Myrna Walker (“All At Once”), and Sally O’Brien (“Where Or When,” “You’re Nearer”). Sally O’Brien played the role of Jennifer Owen, a young pampered starlet. She fit the part beautifully, floating on and off stage into Valentine’s arms. Mary Walsh, as Jennifer’s overbearing mother, makes herself perfectly obnoxious.
Jane Sazama became Terry Thompson, a little girl with i Bardot ideas. Her big eyes, wide smile, and various antics
1 May 12, 1961
really spiced up the show. As Teny, she falls in and out of love with Gus Field, played by Tom Karaty. He’s especially good at calling for help while hanging from a set of lights. As a pair in the number “I Wish I Were In Love Again,” they both seemed to give much co-operation and heart—resulting in a job well done.
Peggy Hess, with the role of Bunny Byron, makes it worth going to see her alone. This gal is tall—almost Carol Burnett-like in both stature and comedy type. Her performance of “Way Out West on West End Avenue” was almost as hysterical as her interpretation of “The Lady is a Tramp.” She also gave “Johnny One Note” just the right touch. Her various facial expressions and cuts on the manager of the Playhouse are memorable. Speaking of hysterics, Bob Oberkoetter did a short, fantastic take-off on Elvis Presley. Bob also had some quick thinking to do when a barn door came off and fell into his arms during scene four. I still have to laugh when I remember him casually pushing that door through the set while Vai and Jennifer were doing a love scene—as the bairn rocked back and forth.
The whole group is to be acclaimed for their quick thinking when Myrna Walker forgot to appear for a scene. Thanks to some excellent ad-libbing, no one in the audience noticed anything wrong.
Greg Weismantel did a worthy job as the egocentric playwright, Lee Calhoun. In the production of Calhoun’s play, “The Deep North,” Greg was very amusing as the harrassed lead. Also notable was Jim Breitenbach as Seymour Fleming, owner and manager of the Playhouse. He should be nominated “Ogre of the Year.” Bill Cook did Steve Edwards, a bellowing big-time producer. Well—he’s LOUD. Joe Gannon (the Press Agent) is memorable for his booming voice, red and white striped blazer, and sun glasses.
The rest of the “Babes” are: Joan Dorgan, Judy Durlak, Patty Ferrara, Ellen Keusch, Nadia Merritt, Susan Shalgos, Sue Stuckman, Judy Tarnowski, Ginger Tiernan, Jan Ziherle, Dave Deka, Phil Jones, George Kerin, Mark Laboe, John Lalli, Tony Mileto, Phil Ruddy, Mike Sennott, and Bill Viviano.
(Continued on page 17)
13
0
I’m sure most of you gentlemen remember our publicity stunt of three weeks ago. For those of you who were not on the planet at that time, I will explain what it was. Three months ago, a historian employed by the Space Agency noted that the first moon-shot had been fired about one hundred years ago. The Agency thought that a novel way to commemorate this accomplishment would be to re-enact the feat with an exact duplicate of our first successful moon-probe. I will not go into the details of all the problems involved in duplicating such a flimsy craft. Let us just say that the venture was completely successful and produced pictures of the back of the moon. The newspapers printed these pictures the following day.
I realize that most of you are acquainted with these facts and you may feel that you know everything there is to know about this shot. Gentleman, you haven’t heard all about it!
The Department of Public Information, of course, screened the pictures that were released to the papers. Only a very few people in the Agency know that three pictures were withheld. The analysis and subsequent investigation by the Agency is going to be the main topic of this meeting.
You may well ask what all this has to do with you. I know that many have been inconvenienced by this special compulsory meeting, but let me hasten to say that we feel it very important.
The pictures that prompted the investigation contained nothing of medical interest. Why then, is this the main topic of a meeting of the Space Group of the American Medical Association?
It is to justify our position on the matter of Captain Jord. This man achieved interplanetary notoriety when he was thrown out of the Association ten years ago. I know that most of you thought that we were too strict in our decision to remove him from the “List of Approved Space Doctors.”
As we will prove, Jord was more of an adventurer than a doctor and his revolutionary ideas were not in the interest of science, but in reality in the interest of Captain Jord.
The first three pictures revealed a crumpled Space Agency rocket resting on the back of the moon. From an intensive study of the pictures we were able to determine that this was the rocket that had been stolen from our arsenal eleven years ago. We immediately organized an investigation expedition.
We arrived at the scene of the crash about three days after the pictures were analyzed. The trip was without mishap, even though the rocket we used was overloaded with equipment. We set up an investigation quarters about one hundred yards from the crash.
It was not a severe impact crash. Rather, it was just enough impact to disable the rocket and trap the passengers without injuring them. It would have been impossible to escape the wreckage because the rocket landed on its entrance hatch. We had to use heavy sound torches on the hull to get inside.
Once inside, we found the remains of
14
two men. One, we identified as Captain Jord and the other was not immediately recognized. He had been the navigator, we later found. Jord never kept a sufficient medical log and this habit was carried over here as the flight log contained only the barest of detailes about the flight. We are not even going to use Jord’s flight log in our report as it only gives information on the pre-flight check and date of blast-off.
The navigator, however, kept a diary which he called his “personal log.” It was bound in leather and it covered five years of his life. In the lower right corner it told us in gold letters that his name was Jantis Terrann. I will now
read the personal log of Jantis Terrann.
* * *
Dec. 1 : Captain Jord (of all people!) came to see me today — he’s still work-
CONTR
ing on his theories even though they caused his expulsion from the American Medical Association. He explained! these ideas to me and even though I don’t completely understand them, I must admit that I’m inclined to believe in him.
Dec. 2 : Captain Jord visited me again today. I had a few questions for him this time. As I understand it, from his: answers, he got into trouble with the A.M.A. because of a device which he calls his “control.” Apparently, the men who build rockets are able to equip them with controls of any degree of sensitivity.! Of course, the more sensitive the control, the better the rocket handles. At present, the only limiting factor in this drive for more sensitive control is the human in- i ability to operate his hands and feet in a’ sensitively perfect capacity. If a rocket’ were equipped with a perfect control j system, a touch of a control dial by a ! relatively unsensitive human hand would: completely upset the flight path of theg rocket.	■
In Jord’s system, the rocket has a seti of perfect control devices. He has de-, veloped a method to enable the human | body to complement this sensitivity. This | is what he calls his “control.”	j
The “control” is accomplished by| amplifying and filtering brain and sen-i sory impulses by use of semi-conductor' devices installed in the arms and legs. Sensitivity of the limbs and reaction time are made perfect in this manner.^
Jord explained that 'he had presented this idea to the A.M.A. and had informed \ them that he was going to try it on himself whether or not he had their sanction. They immediately disapproved of the idea because of the “Shock-Phase Relation” which would definitely come into play in such a system. Any shock or severe mental stress changes the phase angle between the brain impulses and the arm and leg motor system. The'
The Scholastic^

by DAVID C. BARRETT
marvelous human body can automatically compensate for this in a short ©period of time. Many men have been
numbed temporarily by fear. This is one example of the “Shock-Phase Relation.” Jord told them he was going to try it anyway and they expelled him from the Association.
I guess Jord thought the whole matter over that night and came to the inward conclusion that they were correct. He
. started to work that very evening on a compensatiing system for his “control.” It took him a year to develop the device he now wears on his belt. I don’t thoroughly understand it but it is somewhat clear to me what he is trying to achieve. When his phase relationship is disturbed, the belt-worn, compensator restores it. Since phase disturbance causes a spastic effect in the arms and
^May 12, 1961
legs, Jord calls the compensator his “wobble vector control.”
Captain Jord demonstrated the entire system to me and it seems to work very well. He has asked me to meet him at his house tomorrow.
Dec. 3 : I met Jord at his house today. He presented me with what he termed “an opportunity to become famous.” He wants me to be navigator on a short flight designed to prove the “control.” The flight will be made in a rocket that has been fitted with hyper-sensitive guidance devices. He didn’t mention anything about where he obtained the rocket but I presume he got it through illegal channels. The flight will be entirely illegal from the rocket right on down to the captain himself. He has given me $5,000 in advance and promises me $10,000 more when we return. This is the biggest thing that ever happened to me and I told him I’d go with him.
* * *
As you see, gentlemen, we were correct in our estimation of Jord’s character. I’m going to skip over the next few pages of the log because they are not particularly interesting. Terrann notes the blast-off and the first few hours of the ship’s flight rather sparsely because he thinks that Jord is noting everything in the Ship’s Log. We will return to the reading of Terrann’s log at the point where he becomes more des-scriptive. It is December 11 and the ship has been in flight for three hours.
* * *
The “control” seems to be working perfectly. The Captain just put the ship through a series of difficult maneuvers that would have been quite impossible for a human to execute. So far, we are still in the earth’s gravitational field as he is just experimenting — going back and forth rather than up and down. He has not really given the “control” the acid test yet because he has never lost phase balance. He had some audio engineers make a recording of sounds that are supposed to shock him. We are going out deeper in space to test the “wobble vector control.” Jord feels that if something goes wrong it will be better to have it happen in a gravity-free area.
We are passing the moon now and. . . .
... I doubt that his log will ever be found now. We have crashed on the moon. I don’t know how much longer I’ll live. The oxygen rejuvenator device is ruined and the oxygen in the cabin is slowly leaking out — it’s very cold now. Jord is completely disabled if not dead and I’m pinned by a cabin brace that collapsed on me.
As we passed the center of the moon, Jord jumped out of 'his seat. He stood frozen, looking out the viewport saying, “damn space cops, you can’t give ME a ticket!”
There weren’t any space cops within an hour of us because, as navigator, I had made sure that our path would be free from law officers. Jord had an hallucination or was the victim of some
optical illusion because for that short period of time, he actually thought that there were space cops out there.
Whatever the cause, the effect was not too long in following. Jord’s phase was completely disturbed and he stood there with all his minute tremors being amplified into large swings of his arms and loss of control of his legs.
The ship, without guidance, was well into the lunar gravitational field. I reminded the Captain of the “wobble vector control” on 'his belt. The man tried to direct his arms to the small control band on his belt. He managed to find the control dial, but a sudden tremor caused his hand to turn the dial the wrong way. He was hopelessly out of control now and so was the ship. We were heading toward the back side of the moon.
I ran to the Captain’s guidance panel and was given a lesson on how a mere human cannot operate a hyper-sensitive machine. I touched (only touched!) the direction control stick and the rocket did a complete flip, almost tearing itself in half. When the ship righted itself, we were still racing toward destruction on the back of the moon. Jord was flailing himself with his arms in a vain attempt to reach the “wobble vector control” again. I moved over to him and took a close look at his belt. It was full of tiny buttons. I had no idea where the wobble button was.
I looked through Jord’s notebook and found a schematic diagram showing all the buttons and giving the function of each. I scanned the page for what I was looking for and after finding it I again returned to Jord. I, of course, didn’t know which way he had turned the dial and I had an even chance to get him still further out of phase.
I started to move my hand toward the correct dial but out of the corner of my eye, I caught one of the Captain’s huge, helpless arms crashing toward the belt. I pulled my head back and a second later Jord’s 'hand hit the entire panel; there was a flash of light from his belt and a sharp crackling noise.
Jord fell to the floor. He seemed to be (Continued on page 18)
15
THE KOHLER STRIKE—Union Violence and Administrative Law, by Sylvester Petro, Henry Regnery Company, 118 pages, $3.00.
In the infant days of unions, theirs was a Cinderella role in the public eye. The early 20th century saw the retreat of laissez-faire capitalism before the ai-ising social conscience, and much sympathy was given to those who were trying to restore industrial justice. This sympathy expressed itself in laws solidifying the unions’ position, until today unions are probably the most influential group in our national economy. Recent years, however, have seen abuses of that public trust, and Mr. Petro, through the example of the very bitter Kohler strike, demands that we take stock of our labor laws and the ways by which they are enforced.
The Kohler Company deals in plumbing equipment and has enjoyed for years a reputation of benevolent paternalism. Labor disputes were few and minor until in 1952 the small company union, the Kohler Workers’ Association,
voted to affiliate themselves with UAW.
A contract was negotiated with company that expired in 1954, and
the
the ne-
gotiations for a new one were begun early. The union refused to compromise on its demands and struck in April of the same year. Violence and terror reigned for a period of years as the union used both legal and extra-legal means to first, stop work at the plant, and later to rain the company by a nationwide boycott. The plant was under a state of siege, nonstrikers were terrorized, and the boycott was established; yet the company continued to prosper.
When the case went before the National Labor Relations Board in 1958, the situation was at an absolute impasse. After two years of fumbling and intense political pressure from both sides, the NLRB returned a decision essentially in favor of the union, and it directed that most of the strikers be rehired. The chief issue in the case was
whether the strike was for simple economic reasons or unfair labor practices. If the former were the case, the company has the privilege to fire, all the strikers; after an unconvincing attempt to establish the latter, the Board handed down its decision, which is currently appealed by both sides.
To Mr. Petro, the action of the Board was one of grave concern. It demonstrated a prejudice against the company and the grave consequences that will always occur when such power is put in the hands of political hacks. The pendulum has made a full swing, and it is his contention that the union boss should be curbed as was his capitalist predeces
sor. A Labor Board free of pressures would be a partial but no real solution will be until the unions are restored members, and a more active
political solution, reached to their interest
taken in union affairs by the members themselves.
—Wallace Guillaume
POPULATION M. Hauser, $3.50, 183
PERSPECTIVES by Philip Rutgers University Press, pages.
“One hundred persons multiplying at one per cent per year . . . for the 5000 years of human history, would have produced a contemporary population of 2.7 billion persons pei- square foot of land surface of the earth!” With this admittedly propagandistic exercise in arithmetic, Philip M. Hauser begins his demonstration of the effects a one per cent increase in world population per year. Believe it or not, it’s increasing at 1.7 per cent!
Are you thoroughly frightened? Even though Mr. Hauser’s book claims to be “free of propaganda and special pleading,” it certainly left the reviewer shaking.
Population Perspectives is a book of figures, graphs, and lucidly written text. One might expect it to be boring, but happily, it holds the reader’s interest like a horror story. For a horror story it is. We are taught to scoff at Malthus; well, perhaps he went off the deep end. Our lack won’t be food, but basic raw
materials. In times before us, the prejudiced American has feared the Yellow Tide. In the future we might well fear it, Communist directed.
Mr. Hauser explains that the population of the world is now expanding faster than its economy. In the Fai-East, the problem of “Lebensraum” may well force aggression. (Or has it . already in Laos?) The first chapter, an. analysis of the world problem, ends on* this chilly note. “Success or failure in this fateful contest (against Communism) may well hinge on the ability of the nations involved to decrease their rates of population growth.”
Next, the author views the particular situation of the United States. Our . rate of increase is not as great as that in many areas of the world, but it is , . still something to worry about and plan, for. By lowest estimate, the author • tells us, that by 1980, the population will have reached 230 million. This will perhaps be accompanied by a decrease in \ the relative standard of living. For; those who are almost a part of the war1, baby-boom, the outlet for employment in the middle and late sixties is not too
BOOKS RECEIVED
c
PYRAMID BOOKS (paperbacks)
An African Treasury, selected
Langston Hughes, anthology of

byf
es-’i
says, stories, and poems by and 5 about Africans, 192 pp., 50q. f The Gadfly, by E. L. Voynich, fiction,!
one	I
256 pp., 50c.
Brainwashing, by Edward Hunter, 286 pp., 50c.
His Great Journey, by Manuel Kom-roff, “retelling, in novel form” of/
the life of Christ, 160 pp., LIPPINCOTT
Dearest Kate, by Jeannette religious fiction, 172 pp.,
35c.	1
5
Griffith, | $3.50. |
Listing in the Books Received section! does not preclude the possibility of al later review.*	I
16
The Scholastic
good. In the next few years the university will be hit with a wave the like of which it has never seen. Between 1950 and 1980, college enrollment will rise 417 per cent!
In our society, the Negro has experienced a population boom too. Mr. Hauser seems very pessemistic about this, foi' the American Negro is “out-ireeding” his standard of living. The WTegro population, as a matter of fact, is increasing twice as fast as the white. A tendency to migrate to the cities has concentrated the Negro into a “blight area” in then- centers. The author is not too hopeful about the Negro’s ability to be assimiliated into the suburbian rings as were white immigrants before him.
Finally, the author- treats methods of population limitation. He complains that |^he Boman Catholic bishops ignore “the fact that the globe is finite.” Hauser claims —
Although the methods approved by the Roman Catholic Church can and do reduce birth rates, there is considerable doubt in the present state of knowledge, that they are adequate to the task of controlling rates of population growth sufficiently for effective economic development in the ® underdeveloped areas.
In his conclusion, the author somewhat redeems himself. He stresses that method and belief are widely varied enough to provide means for population reduction for all. But the more important idea is that we must get our heads out of the sand and recognize the problems. Mr. Hauser is genuinely worried about the approaching population crisis, and ^ie communicates his facts and conclusions to the reader with great force. Mr. Hauser’s book gives a very clear “population perspective.”
—Charles W. Berberich
'Babes*
(Continued from page 13) (jEach one deserves mention. The spirit of the show really seemed to catch on to these kids. You could see it in their faces when they sang; you could feel it when they danced—sheer enthusiasm.
Tom Karaty not only played Gus Field, but also did a remarkable piece of work on the choreography for the entire show. As a whole, the dancing was first-rate, although at times the dancers seemed limited by the size of the stage.
The orchestra, under direction of Dr. ^Charles A. Biondo, did an exceptional performance of the score. Particularly notable was the pianist, Charles Prawdzik. Combine this music with the singing, under direction of Rev. W. J. McAuliffe, C.S.C., and the results only make you wish they had a sound-track available.
Finally, congratulations to Father Harvey, Director of the University Theatre, for presenting a well-done musical comedy, which amounts to a truly en-< I joyable, entertaining evening.
FMay 12, 1961
At the Theaters
This is my next-to-last column for you, and as I promised I will be bringing you a surprise or two next week. That one might even reveal my identity.
The ravages of time show on Gone With the Wind, now entering its second week at the Colfax, but if the first night crowd was any indication it is even better box office now than when it first came out. Admittedly, many things happened in the past 21 years, including a world war, but it’s still genuine enjoyment to watch this marathon (3 hours and 45 minutes). If its title as filmdom’s biggest moneymaker had been seriously threatened recently, it will pull out way in front this time also. And of course the book will add to its 9,000,000 copy sale to date.
This is Clark Gable’s best role, and we think sadly how he ended his life on a low film note. Vivien Leigh has never been better either, and Olivia de Havilland and Hattie McDaniel are also tops. We could go on ad nauseam, but a simple phrase ought to do it. Go see it, even if you’ve seen it before. At regular prices, too.
The Granada is holding All in a Night’s Work over for a second week, and in case this turns out to be longei- or shorter, let me tell you that following that will be the German documentai-y Mein Kampf. Don’t be misled by the gory ads in the “SunTimes” and other papers. This is strictly a documentary put together from captured German films and from the Allied film libraries. Its frankness could change its title easily to “Inside Hitler’s Hell.”
But, anyway, there’s Nights Work. Dean Martin and Shirley MacLain try to do something worthwhile with this bedroom (I mean that) farce, but fail completely. The story starts when a millionaire publisher is found dead in his apartment (getting to be a habit) with a mysterious smile on his face. Miss MacLaine has been seen fleeing from said apartment at 3 a.m. Ergo, the complications are everything from unexpected, even when Shirley cavorts across the screen in an unsanforized bath towel. This is all very cute, but it also gets tiresome, and the pratfall in this movie is not only a figure of speech. Charlie Ruggles, Gale Gordon, and Cliff Robertson are also in it, if that’s worth anything.
In the absence of the State’s manager, you know what has happened in the past. So this time I’ll say this: if they don’t get Fred MacMurray out of that theater Pat Boone won’t be able to come in. Take your pick.
All Hands on Deck is another one in a million goodies starring the symbol of commercially-successful cleanliness. There is something extremely homey about even his name, but you still can establish quite a few gripes and make them stick. Besides Boone, this movie “boasts” Dennis O’Keefe, a leftover, as an ever fishing captain of a ship (the title is a giveaway) who never catches anything. Buddy Hackett plays an apparently punch drunk Indian who is to say the least out of place in the Navy. Anne B. Davies, whose fame comes from the Bob Cummings show on TV, and Gale Gordon (Mr. Conklin in Our Miss Brooks), are also hopelessly involved in this. Mr. Gordon once more emerges as the blubbering idiot he plays so well.
To spice up Mr. Boone it seems they needed much more than Barbara Eden, the only female outside Boone’s immediate family who finally gets a bona fide kiss from (Continued from page 18)	.
17
'Control'
(Continued from page 15) paralyzed. He was breathing well, however; but couldn’t talk or move. The explosion in his belt had caused the paralysis.
I found this out by going ovei- the schematic again. I’m no electronics engineer but I can tell you that pushing all those switches at the same time will cause a short circuit and the full power of the' batteries will be unleashed and will run throughout the body.
What had happened to Jord was clear to me now. His hand had actuated half the devices on his belt at once and the resulting short circuit caused the full power of the batteries to be directed through the brain. In effect, Jord’s brain was magnetized!
With the Captain helpless, and myself unable to control the ship, plus that we were nearing collision with the moon, I deemed it best to find the safest place in the cabin.
We hit at an angle and it wasn’t really that bad, except that we opened up some air leaks. It is already becoming hard to breath. I don’t know how much longer I can last.
I have some important matters to straighten out so I’ll have to finish this log very shortly. If this is ever found, let the person who finds it give it to the A.M.A. This is concrete proof that man should not interfere with the mechanics of the body. The body is the temple of the Holy Ghost and . . .
* * *
Gentlemen:	Jantis Terrann has
spoken.
0
'Theaters'
(Continued from page 17)
Our Hero. She plays a reporter. Doesn’t all this sound interesting? But remember, nobody’s perfect. And to err is Boone.
As a hint to the main attraction in next week’s column let me say that many of you (in Farley, Morrissey^ Pangborn, and Alumni to name a few halls) filled out a couple of weeks ago a questionnaire about your moviegoing and were promised at the time that you would see them in print soon. This is the place to look, and if you remember faces well you can guess who’s Tony Wong. More on this next week, same time, same place.
Tony Wong
When it’s time to remember
Memorable gift-pens 'I^JBapersMate]
PapereMate
LADY CAPRI $2.95
PapersMate
CAPRI MARK IV $3.50

Pape rs Mate
CAPRI $1.95
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
18
The Scholastic
Old Timer Returnees: Don Lawrence, Bill Henneghan, Dan Griffith, Pat Doyle and Bob Wetoska
OLD TIMERS BATTLE VARSITY TOMORROW
by BOB CHIAPPINELLI
Tomorrow afternoon a rugged group of old grads under the able tutelage of Bill Early attempts to relive the past for a few brief but bruising hours as it meets the spring model of the 1961 Fighting Irish. Early, a durable halfback for Notre Dame during the early 40’s, will be making his fourteenth consecutive start on the Old Timers’ bench.
Of course, the big name of this or any football game is the Green Bay packer all-time National Football Teague scoring champion Paul Hornung. The Golden Boy, last year delighting the patrons with behind-the-back passes which traveled about as far as most tosses thrown in a conventional manner, is expected to show his kicking form only tomorrow. Paul sustained a pinched nerve in December’s championship game with the Philadelphia Eagles, and the Packers do not want him to ^ake a chance of re-injury.
Veteran lineman. Gus Cifelli, second only to Bill Early in consecutive appearances with twelve, will once again be a rugged fixture in the interior of the Old Timers’ line. A star for many
JOE KUHARICH s	A return tomorrow
^May 12, 1961
years in the National Football League, Gus will undoubtedly scramble a few varsity plays with his defensive work.
Another big time star returning to campus will be Bill Wightkin, an All-Pro lineman with the Chicago Bears for several years. Despite a stomach which has caused quite a bit of trouble in recent years, Bill continues to conduct himself very ably on a football field. Wightkin graduated in 1950.
Of more recent vintage is fullback Don Schaefer, an All-American selection in 1955. Don later played with the Philadelphia Eagles, but injuries curtailed his career.
Jim Morse, a 1957 graduate along with Hornung, is also expected to play in the Old Timer backfield as are Jim Just and Pat Doyle, both halfbacks, graduated in 1959 and 1960 respectively.
Returning to the line, we find many current pro players returning for the Old Timers. The center spot should be in good hands with Jim Schraeder, 1953 All-American and current pivotman for the Washington Redskins and Bob Scholtz of the Detroit Lions, who is now taking graduate work in engineering here at Notre Dame.
In addition, Frank Kuchta, a 1958 graduate, and John Linehan, last year’s varsity center, are ready for hiking and linebacking chores.
Joining Gus Cifelli at the guard spot will be the 1960 captain, Moe Pottios, Paul. Djubasak, an alumnus since 1958, and Paul Nissi, who will graduate this June.
The tackle spot boasts a couple of active pro players in Don Lawrence of the Redskins and Bob Wetoska of the Chicago Bears, who made news late last year with a flying tackle which nearly dismantled a prowler fleeing from his hotel room. Lawrence and Wetoska were teammates on the 1958 Green team.
Lou Loncaric of the class of ’58, and Bob Pietrzak and Bob Koreck of this year’s graduating class will put in stints in the tackle position also.
Ends are in abundance. The famous names include Chet Ostrowski and Dick Royer, both scheduled to participate in tomorrow’s fray. Ostrowski was a vital cog in the Washington Redskins’ defensive line for many, many years, while Royer was a member of the end-laden
’58 squad. Ostrowski will be opposing his old Washington coach, Joe Kuharich.
Jim Colosimo, a hero in the 1957 upset of Oklahoma, and Mike Lodish, a 1960 graduate, are other ends who will compete.
Backfield depth. Members of the 1960 squad performing in the Old Boys’ backfield will be Red Mack, Bill Clark, Ray Ratkowski, Jack Castin, Frank Gar-giulo, Bill Henneghan and Dan Luecke. Mack, Ratkowski and Clark are halfbacks; Castin and Luecke are signalcallers and Gargiulo and Henneghan are fullbacks. Both Mack and Ratkowski have starred for the varsity in previous Old Timers’ games.
Al Lesko of. the 1948 roster has also submitted his acceptance card, but with the stipulation that he be used only for water boy chores.
Filling out the grad group will be a number of varsity reserves loaned to Coach Bill Early for the occasion.
Opposing Early’s charges will be the scrimmage-hardened varsity, quarterbacked by Daryle Lamonica and featuring freshman fullback Jim Snowden and halfbacks Angie Dabiero and Frank Minik.
DARYLE LAMONICA
Opens at quarterback
19
NOTRE DAME BASEBALL TEAM MEETS OHIO UNIVERSITY IN TWO-GAME TEST
Sparked by the play of second baseman George Sefcik and right fielder Dan “One-Hop” Hagan, the Irish diamondmen won their second straight game Monday, whipping Wisconsin 4-2, and boosting their season mark to 8-15.
Hagan smashed a 400-foot-plus home run with the bases empty and two down in the bottom of the first to lead off the Irish scoring. Late in the game, he came up with a sparkling play in the field, throw-
DICK O'LEARY
Holds runner on at first
ing Badger pitcher Ray Krohn out at second after Krohn had lined a sharp single to right.
The Green tallied two more runs in the third, when catcher Walt Osgood got aboard on an error to lead off. Dick O’Leary then doubled, driving in Osgood. Bill Brutvan followed with an infield hit, sending O’Leary to third. Captain Jack Gentempo then plated the second run of the inning with a sacrifice fly.
The Irish got their final run in spectacular fashion in the seventh. Sefcik, who had earlier made the catch of the game — a leaping grab of a liner — singled, stole second, and when the catcher threw the ball into center field, raced for third. The center fielder then threw wild to third, and Sefcik sprinted home.
The Irish had initiated their “winning streak” the previous Friday with a 3-1 win over the Toledo University nine at Toledo. The Notre Dame nine had dropped decisions to Northwestern, 13-5, and to Michigan State, 6-3, before the Toledo encounter.
The Kline nine faces die Ohio University team in Athens, Ohio, this afternoon and again tomorrow in single games; they then play Varlparaiso University here on
Monday, Northwestern in Evanston on Tuesday, and Michigan here on Thursday.
Center fielder Larry Thomas led the Ohio squad that defeated the Irish in the NCAA district tournament last year, hitting .363. He will return this weekend to worry the Notre Dame mound corps. Also returning will be left fielder John Holland, a .313 stickman, and first baseman Vince Scales, who hit at a .298 clip. Leading pitcher for the Bobcats is Ted Shute, who posted a 6-1 mark, and had an ERA of 3.8.
Valparaiso’s Crusaders have another strong team this season, holding a 4-1 upset victory over Big Ten Purdue at Lafayette. Junior righthander Barry Bruckner, ace of the Crusader staff, went the route, allowing one run on six hits, striking out six and walking five. Valparaiso stands 5-5 for the season, with a 3-3 mark in the Indiana College Conference.
Though Northwestern’s Wildcats dropped the Irish in their last encounter, Coach Fred Lindstrom considers this to be primarily a rebuilding year, and his 20-man squad is dominated by 11 sophomores. First baseman Don Weaver, the team’s leading hitter the last two seasons, poses the greatest threat to Irish hurlers. The Cats have only one pitcher who began the season with previous college experience: lefthander Tom Meyer who pitched 11 innings last season and had a 1-2 record.
The greatest accomplishment this season by Michigan’s Wolverines was a sweep of a weekend tripleheader from the Spartans of Michigan State. All in all, the next week will be a tough one for the Green, presently engaged in a fight to finish over the .500 mark.
—Terry Wolkerstorfer
JAKE KUNE Coach ponders field activity
Irish Host Strong MSU In Home Cinder Opener
Successful in its first dual meet of the outdoor season last Saturday, Notre Dame’s track and field team will provide a preliminary attraction to the Old Timers’ game tomorrow as the Irish thin-clads entertain a strong Michigan State team. Events on Cartier Field will b» gin at 11 a.m. and will mark the first chance local track enthusiasts have had to see Alex Wilson’s troupe perform at home since the indoor season.
Notre Dame has been on the road the past three weeks and recently returned from Wednesday’s Indiana State Meet at Purdue. Last Saturday the Irish edged Army at West Point, 72-68; on April 28 and 29 they ran at the Drake Relays; and on April 22 the Irish placed seventh in the Ohio Relays. $
In facing Michigan State tomorrow, ND will be up against a team strong in the sprints and field events and sparked by a Pakistani broad jumpei- named Solomon Akapata. This Spartan should have little trouble disposing of Irish entries Jerry Fitzpatrick and Dick Monjeau en route to a probable Cartier Field record in his event.
Captain Fitzpatrick and junioi' weightman Mike Giacinto played her* roles in last week’s win over Army. The. speedster from up in Michigan took first places in the broad jump and 220 and added a second in the 100 for a. total of 13 points. Giacinto, the burly, man from Bayside, N. Y., came home, a double winner in the shot put, (53'2%") and discus (146'10").
The bulk of Notre Dame’s scoring, came in the hurdles where the trio ofL Lou Lucas, John Mulrooney and Jin^
Sheeler swept the 220-yard lows the latter two placed one-two in highs. Frank Froelke of ND went
and. the'
13-6
in the pole vault for a first and teammate Mike Terry followed in second’ place with a vault of 13'.	i
In the half mile, senior Dan Rorke-tuimed in a 1:57.3 to lead Dennis John-, ston, also of ND. Monjeau hit a season, high of 6-2% to win the high jumpff and added a third in the broad jump.;
Probably the saddest story of this year is that of Ron Gregory, the Irisli distance star. Just before the national; collegiate championships last June; Gregory injured a disc in his back which; forced him out of the 880 final. Everi since, the Irish star who was strong* on speed and heart has been able to' train less and less, and is now at the! point where virtually the only running he does is in a meet. For a miler wh^ did 4:08 early in college, and who/ turned in a 1:50.5 half indoors last year^ it is indeed a tragedy to be relegated; to second place finishes against thq? likes of Army. Some say Gregory woul^ be down to 4:03 by now if he could; train, but it appears he will have t^ settle for something around 4:16 fori the remainder of his college running|
—Jim Higgins\:
The Scholastic?
JIM KENNY
Last Monday's hero
Golfers Seek Revenge Against MSU Monday w Notre Dame’s golf squad seeks revenge when it hosts the Spartans of Michigan State on Monday afternoon. The Irish were beaten by the Spartans earlier- this season in a triangular meet held at Wisconsin. A strong contingent of sophomores pace the Spartans, rated among the top teams in the Big Ten.
Notre Dame split a triangular meet with Southern Illinois and Bowling Green last Saturday. The Irish toppled Bowling Green, 13-5, but were edged by the meet’s winner, Southern Illinois, 22-20.
Sophomore Bob Ferrel was the top Irish golfer in the triangular meet, combining a first-round 72 with a final 76 for a total of 148. Captain Ray Patak and Tom Grace both had totals of 149.
Last Monday the Irish golfers won the championship of Indiana by whipping Trurdue and Indiana in a triangular meet held here. Notre Dame defeated the Hoosiers, 20%-15%, and edged Purdue, 18%-17%.
At the same time, Purdue won the Medalist crown which is awarded to the squad with the lowest total score of its first five players. Purdue was low with 730, Notre Dame had 736, while the Hoosiers were last with 746.
Low man for the Irish in the meet was ^race who shot rounds of 71 and 72 for a 143 total. Jim Stahl was second for Notre Dame with 146. Ferrel was low man in the morning round with a two-under par 70, but soared to a 77 in the final round to give him a 147 total. Patak shot a strong 70 in the afternoon round which, with a first round 78, gave him a 148.
Jim Kenny proved to be ND’s star of the day as he sank a ten-foot putt on the ^L8th hole to clinch the match.
May 12, 1961
TIME OUT
The 31st presentation of the Varsity-Old Timers football game will be the feature sporting event on the Notre Dame campus tomorrow, beginning promptly at 2:30 p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. For the more than 20,000 spectators, entering the turnstiles with mixed emotions of curiosity and excitement, tomorrow’s game should provide an adequate preview of what to expect next fall. Foi- the Varsity, the Game is the welcomed culmination to spring practice and a chance to demonstrate individual talents under usual game conditions. And for the Old Timers ... a chance to relive moments of the past as they once again don the Notre Dame jersey. The afternoon will be interesting for all.
THE LINEUP
As might be expected, Coach Joe Kuhai-ich is planning to start an experienced lineup, with lettermen at nine of the eleven positions. At end, Irish fans will see a new face—that of Steve Kolski, presently a sophomore. Kolski has shown rapid improvement in the spring drills, forcing two-year letterman Les Traver into a second sti-ing flank bei-th. John Powers, apparently fully recovered from his leg injury of last fall, is back to compete at the right end position. There won’t be any significant changes at tackle for the Varsity. With Bob Bill ailing, letterman Roger Wilke will assume first-line duties at left tackle; Joe Corollo is the probable starter at the other tackle post, backed up by George Williams. And at guard, of course, are Norb Roy and Nick Buoniconti, the two co-captains. Bob Lehmann, out last fall with a leg injury, should also see plenty of service at this position if his leg can survive the gruelling test.
At the beginning of the spring practices, center was thought to be a major problem. Tom Hecomovich had injured his neck last fall and it wasn’t certain that he would ever again participate. The problem wasn’t helped any when Ed Hoerster, Hecomovich’s successor last fall, suffered a back injury. But then the luck began to change. Tackle Ed Burke was moved to the pivot in an effort to strengthen the position; Hecomovich’s injury appeared fully healed as he began to participate as capably as ever; and Hoerster is now in the process of recovery. Gene Viola is another experienced performer returning to this position although he has never won a monogi-am.
VARSITY QUARTERBACK
A great part of the Varsity’s success in the Old Timer clash just might lay in the hands of the quarterback. Presently holding down the first string duties at the signal calling position is letterman Daryle Lamonica. Throughout the spring, Lamonica has demonstrated poise and ability in directing the Varsity front-line. Significant in Lamonica’s improved performances this spring is his long passing skill. But this doesn’t mean that there hasn’t been competition at the position. Frank Budka, a 180-pound freshman from Pompano Beach, Fla., has shown great promise thus far. In last week’s scrimmage, it was Budka who twice connected for long passes; his running has been just as outstanding. Norb Rascher and Clay Schulz, both experienced at quarterback, are injured and probably won’t see extensive duty against the Old Timers.
Angelo Dabiero and Frank Minik are the two expected halfback starters tomorrow. Minik, a star in last spring’s contest, will have to share his position with Chuck O’Hara, Ed Rutkowski and Tom MacDonald, all of whom have performed brilliantly at one time or another during the spring drills. Dabiero will be relieved a great part of the time by Paul Costa, the much-talked-about freshman, and highly-regarded Dennis Phillips, out last fall with a leg injury.
A POSITION WITH DEPTH
Perhaps the most interest, from the spectators’ point of view, will be directed to the Varsity’s fullback position. Mike Lind, a 195-pounder, is likely to be the starter when action is begun against the Old Timers; although bothered by injuries much of the 1960 season, Lind was regarded as the first team fullback. But then the name of Jim Snowden comes up. Snowden is the 230-pound freshman who was moved to fullback from end and he has drawn nothing but raves from all who have watched him play; thus, the crowd will have their first official “look.” There is even more depth to the position. Dick Naab, racing 65 yards for a touchdown in last Saturday’s scrimmage, is much improved. Bill Ahern, a fourth aspirant for the position, is now injured but can’t be counted out next fall.	.
Coach Kuharich’s squad is ready. Will it produce? Tomorrow should provide a partial answer to that important question.
Jay Kilroy
a
CANOE TRIPS
into the Quetico-Superior Wilderness. For individuals or groups. Write Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Ely, Minnesota.
NABICHT CAFETERIA
1415 Lincolnway West
AAA Approved Cafeteria
FREE PARKING
ARTCARVED DIAMONDS and WEDDING RINGS . . . JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
★
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
*
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St.	JM.S. Bldg.
MODEL 22AW
Victorious Irish Sailors Travel to Detroit Regatta
The Detroit Yacht Club and the rapid waters of the Detroit River are providing the setting this weekend as the Notre Dame Sailing Team competes for the Detroit Yacht Club Invitational Regatta Cup. The eleven school regatta, being sailed in Flying Scots, should provide some of the best sailing of the spring season.
Last weekend, the first string travelled to Boston, Mass., to sail at Tufts University for the Friess Trophy. Thirteen colleges raced and the Irish finished fifth behind Lehigh, Merrimack, Tufts and Amherst. The Ramblers were second for most of the regatta until both N.D. skippers, John Zusi and Chuck Finnegan, were each disqualified in one race. After the last protest had been heard, Lehigh had 229 points while Notre Dame had 197, one point behind Amherst. Hank Chamberlin and Bob Singewald crewed for the Irish.
Meanwhile, back in Hoosierland, the N.D. plebes were sweeping the Indiana novice regatta at Bloomington. Tom Fox and Jay Mulhern, with Mike Moore and John Raby crewing, each sailed to three consecutive firsts in three races in his division. As a result of this remarkable performance the Irish second team brought home the two-foot high Novice Trophy. Michigan State, Indiana, Wayne State and DePauw finished in that order.
RAH! RAH!
RALEfOH
Raleigh bicycles were made for college life and the student body. And speaking of bodies a Raleigh is measured by frame size, not wheel size.
For example: Collegemen over 5'9" specify 23" frames. Men under 5'9" specify 21" frames.
Try a Raleigh out on Campus — You’ll feel better for it — Raleigh you will!!
For all details see your campus Raleigh dealer.
ALBRIGHTS
2720 Lincolnway West Mishawaka
Telephone BL 5-8988
Triumphant Irish Sailors Southern Illinois Today
Notre Dame’s tennis team, bolstered by a difficult victory in the quadrangular held here last weekend, took on Western Michigan Wednesday, Northwestern on Thursday, and Southern Illinois today. Tomorrow, the Irish meet Ohio State.	fij
Western Michigan and Southern Illinois were unknown quantities to Coach Tom Fallon. However Northwestern, as of last Saturday, had won nine times while losing only once (to Purdue, and they avenged that one). Ohio State has concentrated more on basketball and football these last few years, and the Irish coach was not informed of their record this year.
A week ago last Wednesday the GreeX^ thumped Toledo, 7-2. The Irish lost the number one (Bill Heinbecker was beaten for the first time this season, only the second time in two years) and the number six singles. Don Ralph, the bespectacled senior co-captain, abstained from the meet because of a still-undiagnosed illness. Bill Snooks replaced him.
The Irish then upped their win total to eleven ■with the victory in the quacffl rangular. The dichotomy between Irish single and double playing was never more apparent. Ralph (still suffering from illness, his back bothering him) and Heinbecker played beautifully; each won all of their single and double matches with little trouble. But Joe Brown, Jim Bemis (a converted squash player who has an unorthodox approach to tennis), and Maury DeWald could salvage but one singles victory each. (I
The team lost but one doubles match (to Indiana) and they lost it after clinching a team victory. Final totals: Notre Dame 5, Indiana 4 (this was Indiana’s second loss); Notre Dame 6, Wisconsin 3; and Notre Dame 5, Illinois 4.
—Jim Wyrsch
_________________________________$1
PART-TIME WORK—$2.10 per hour. FULL-TIME SUMMER WORK —$108 per week. 15 — $1000 SCHOLARSHIPS given ouf nationwide. CALL:
MR. FREDRICKSON CE 2-1353 between 9-12 A.M.
Complete Optical Service . . .
• EYES EXAMINED • GLASSES FITTED
Broken Glasses Repaired
Fast Service—"Bring the Pieces”
BURKE
OPTOMETRIST 228 S. Michigan
<•
The Scholastic^ £5 ;
22
your HEADQUARTERS IN SOUTH BEND FOR
(ftcarvec IAM0ND RINGS
Rev. Hesburgh Honored By Massachusetts Group
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., was one of three men honored “for distinguished service to their fellow Americans” at the twenty-fourth annual dinner of the Massachusetts Committee of Catholics, Protestants and Jews last night in Boston.
Father Hesburgh, Secretary of Labor Arthur J. Goldberg and television personality Dave Garroway were awarded citations at the event.
The committee has been active for 25 years in the state, seeking to lessen group tensions and to improve group relations. Among those honored in previous years are Bernard Banich, Richard Cardinal Cushing and Jack Benny.
Fr. Hesburgh is co-chairman of the National Catholic Conference for Interracial Justice.
| FREE EUROPEAN TRIP
I ASL will provide you with a jet, round-trip I I ticket to Europe on the airline and departure I
date of your choice — FREE.	!
! FULL TIME STUDENTS ONLY | ■ This unusual experiment in the promotion of I I student overseas travel will not only give you the ! !free plane ticket, but also make it possible for |
you to earn S500 in cash before your European ■ I departure. We stress the necessity for your im- I I* mediate response, as this is the first and perhaps I
only time this unique plan will be offered. . . . J I For brochure of completely detailed information, |
please send 50c to cover our expenses to:	■
| AMERICAN STUDENT LEAGUE. Travel Office. | J P.O. Box 8123, Chicago 80, Illinois.	|
|	(please print)	|
i Name.________________________________________!
|	I
| Street______________________________________ |
| City._______________________________________ I
I SCHOOL.______________________________________I
lop
Evening Star Engagement Ring $475.00
Bride’s Circlet............... $ 60.00
Bottom
Emerald Cut Engagement Ring $225.00
Bride’s Circlet............... $ 30.00
Wonderful selection of Artcarved Diamond Rings from $50. All fully guaranteed for diamond quality and Permanent Value.
★
CREDIT (with no interest) AND LAY-A-WAY
AVAILABLE TO
NOTRE DAME MEN
*
121 W. WASHINGTON CE 4-1311
Artcarved
WARNER'S RENT-A-TRAILER
Rent A One-Way Trailer
TO TAKE YOUR THINGS HOME
PICK UP TRAILER IN SOUTH BEND —LEAVE IT AT HOME
901 WESTERN
AT 7-9494
COLERIDGE
May 12, 1961
I
23
PAPERBACKS
BANTAM
HAWAII James Michener
CREST
PLEASE DON’T EAT THE DAISIES
•
POPULAR
THE REMARKABLE KENNEDYS
Joe McCarthy
•
PREMIER
SERIES OF FOUR BOOKS — CIVIL WAR
•
POCKET BOOKS
BEN HUR Lew Wallace
VIKING PORTABLES
Plato	Melville
Blake	Hawthorne
Henry James Mark Twain
Matthew Arnold
ATTENTION: Faculty and Students
11 imi i Hi n nl mC nanaoooK or
Chemistry and Physics (Latest Ed.)
•
Special Price $5.85
-—.—.— ------------.
Noire Dame Bookstore on * the * campus
Letters
(Continued from page 4) it now enjoys. At any rate, realists in the senate suspect that all four taverns will be pursuing their former policy in June and even during the following school year, since the storm created by Mr. Keegan shall have subsided.
Furthermore, “lack of responsibility” can hardly be attributed to opponents of this or any other controversial resolution. From outstanding senator Joel Haggard to sophomore president-elect David Ellis, there were senators who opposed this resolution only after serious consideration. If any are to be blamed, the eight senators who were persuaded (not convinced) by Mr. Keegan’s emotionalism (not arguments) are the ones.
The general criticism of a “what if” attitude has no meaning outside the context of a particular situation. Any legislative body must consider the possible consequences of its actions.
James Haddad 337 Farley
ACTIVE ACADEMICS Editor:
I must disagree with Mr. Jungels’ criticism of Father Hesburg’s article on Catholic Education. In his article, Father speaks of the “permanent, unchanging values that have made our higher learning something special.” In reference to this, Mr. Jungels says “such values are conspicuous by their absence.” I must conclude that this statement was made without due reflection or consideration. Does Mr. Jungels really wish to deny that Catholic Education is “something special”; that Catholic schools differ radically in theory and practice from secular schools? By erasing this distinction, this “special” quality; by saying that the Catholic university’s values are not permanent and unchanging, does he wish to negate the worth of Catholic Education? I can hardly think so. Yet, this is exactly what his statements imply. Perhaps a more responsible consideration of the situation will evince to him what is so evident to me — the achievement and evident distinction of Catholic Education in sustaining and transmitting Catholic and Christian values. As to the so-called “aping of the ivy league schools,” if Notre Dame’s recent academic progress is an example of this “aping” (which it isn’t) then I am all for it.
In the matter of Father’s insistence
on “relevance,” there are several schools of thought. Some, much affected by the chaotic state of modern affairs, would . overly emphasize the university’s responsibility to the community, thus running the risk of thwarting its characteristic mission of scholarship. Others, with Mr. Jungels, feel that the university’s contribution to the community should come only as a byproduct of its scholarship, thus emphasizing the freedom of^ the university to pursue its scholarly interests without concern for the gaps in the social community which only the university can bridge.
This stand is a very real detriment to the community for, throughout history, the university has had a serious public purpose. That is — the advancement of community welfare through the enlargement and communication of knowledge. If we combine this purpose with the Catholic university’s special f function of sustaining and transmitting Catholic values, we have an inimitable combination. The Catholic university i must make use of this combination in I order to adequately fulfill its duty of ; I service. This does not mean that the . I university should accede to the commu- ; I nity’s every demand, particularly if this I would thwart its characteristic mission of scholarship. But it must supply the ; high . needs of the community. There- /QI fore, as society grows and changes, and . its needs change, the university must J I change also.	I
Whitehead, has said “Where attainable, I knowledge could have changed the issue, J I ignorance has the .guilt of vice.” In : I relatively tranquil times the university: I may be able to afford to be a hand-. I maiden to its sometimes isolationist past. ■ I In our times of turbulent change the I university must be fully aware of its^l serious responsibility toward the com-y| munity arising from its potential con- J I trol over the course of events; its power , I to “change the issue.” The university • I must deliberately diffuse its scholarship - I into new and relevant fields to better I serve the community and to anticipate I the needs of a changing world. I believe ; I that Father Hesburgh’s article is a long : I step forward. I believe that Father’s ! I insistence on “relevance” and “media-fl tion” will be most helpful in the formu- ' I
lation of a dynamic philosophy of olic education for America.
Francis Miceli Vetville
Cath
$

f tided I
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist • EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
Editor:
Last Friday, at the Library I
to get a copy of the German Ideology, j by Karl Marx. Looking in the card! catalogue, I was rather surprised tof find it listed as “I.L.P.,” customary no-3 tation for Index Librorum Prohibitorum. । Somewhat surprised I secured a copy? of the Index from the Humanities Room i (1948 edition with 1954 addenda) and! found that no works by Marx were I listed therein. Directed to a library of-g ficial by the woman at the desk, Ig pointed out the apparent discrepancy! and was informed that a book doesn’t f have to be listed in the Index to be onh
24
The Scholastics
“he Index, and that "Mao Tse-Tung and all those people” are automatically marked I.L.P.
The official was unmoved by the fact that only some works by Marx were marked I.L.P.: the Communist Manifesto, Critique of the Gotha Program, one copy (from among several) of Capital (probably an anti-Catholic bookbinder) .
Perhaps the Library, in its own ^stumbling way, has confused the Index with Canon 1399 and is unconsciously trying to enforce the latter via its own board of bright-eyed and bushy-tailed Censores Librorum?
Tom Weiss
305 Pangborn
Band Elects Officers for Next Season, Sets Alumni Reunion
Members of the Notre Dame March-©ing Band recently elected officers for next year. President Con Nolan is a junior engineering science student from Toledo, Ohio. Ivan Gradisar, science pre-med junior from Barberton, Ohio, is the new vice-president. Secretary Doug DiBianco is a music major, and Social Chairman Pete Dempsey is enrolled in AB pre-med. Tom Aldert, an English major, .is the new alumni coordinator.
0 A band alumni reunion is tentatively scheduled for the Navy game weekend of Nov. 4-5, 1961. All known band alumni will be invited to the weekend’s banquet and festivities. Accommodations will be arranged. Also, the oldest living band alumnus may be present and specially honored at the reunion, the first planned on so large a scale.
Anyone who knows of any old grad who graduated prior to 1950 and was ©L member of the University bands is asked to bring his name and address to the band office in Washington Hall so that he might be contacted. Of special interest are band alumni of any class prior to 1910.
Notice To SENIOR and GRADUATE MEN Students
who will complete their education and commence work this year. If you urgently require funds to complete your education, and are unable to secure the money elsewhere,
Apply to STEVENS BROS. FOUNDATION INC.
A Non-Profit Educational Corporation.
610-612 ENDICOTT BUILDING	ST. PAUL 1, MINN.
Storage for Winter Garments only $2.95
PLUS CLEANING CHARGES
FOR ALL YOU CAN STORE
“IT ISN’T” necessary to ship your winter garments home and then back to school again in the fall. You can store them at RUBIN CLEANERS in their SAFE, INSURED STORAGE VAULT. . . . Your clothes will be cleaned and HUNG in our storage vault. They will be ready when you want them. And you don’t pay until you pick them up. . . . The $2.95 pays for storage and insurance up to $150.00 in valuations. Excess values are 2% of additional amount.
CALL CE 4-3188
OR STOP IN FOR MORE INFORMATION AND FURTHER DETAILS AT
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFERSON	CORNER UNCOLN WAY EAST
1st comer across the river on the Bus Une
Back Page
(Continued from page 26) Latin-America. We see our goals clearly, wand, unless they are fulfilled, there can be no amicability between our countries. We want primarily the welfare of our people. For this, we are developing a number of projects, planned in accordance to the specific situations in our respective countries. We are going to need money and technical help from the outside to carry them out. But we will accept help only from those who are willing to give it with no strings attached except, of course, that it be ©payed back justly. If Americans can offer us this, we are willing to try once more. If they cannot, then we want to be left alone. If they insist on following the paradigms of the past, we shall revolt. Our struggle shall be inspired by the hatred of Yankee imperialism, and by the awareness of the lamentations of our poor people.
Your friend, a resolute Latin-American ,^May 12, 1961
Two approaches to the “man's deodorant” problem
If a man doesn’t mind shaving under his arms, he will probably find a woman’s roll-on satisfactory. Most men, however, find it simpler and surer to use Mennen Spray Deodorant. Mennen Spray was made to get through to the skin, where perspiration starts. And made to work all day. More men use Mennen Spray titan any other deodorant. How about you? 64< and $1.00 plus tax.
0
south
of the border
The letter that follows is a fictitious one. It does not necessarily represent the views of the author, who merely intends to show how many Latin-American students interpret United States policies. But it could have been zvritten by any restless fellow collegian south of the Rio Grande, where students have generated the intellectual energy of many revoliitionary movements.
My dear Puerto Rican:
So that you understand my position on the recent happenings in Cuba, and won’t be surprised about my violent reaction, I have decided to write you.
As you know, even a cursory glance at the history of the United States’ political relations with Latin-America, will show that almost invariably Americans have been faithful to the first principle of Western international power-politics: that the security and promotion of national interests is a country’s basic concern in foreign relations. American leaders have always acted in accordance with the interests of their country, as they saw or felt them, using the means which they conceived as most effective or proper at the time. When interference and abuse were the order of the day — as it was during the presidencies of Teddy Roosevelt and Wilson, the United States was protecting its investments and its trade with our countries. When American leaders realized that to be able to achieve the objectives they pursued, our friendship and coopei-ation was essential, policies such as that of Good Neighborhood resulted. But the undeniable fact, notwithstanding rationalizations and excuses, is that the gringo leaders were not moved by altruistic ideas, but by deliberate efforts to have their way. History not only demonstrates their imperialistic tendencies and their disregard for the sovereignty of our nations, but also, their sly, suspicious way of justifying their actions — in their eyes and in ours.
“AMERICAN” INTERVENTION
In 1936, as you well know, the Yankees committed themselves to the policy of non-intervention in the affairs of Latin-American countries. But, again, this commitment was nothing but
26
words on paper. Americans did not hesitate to support, on the one hand, the dictatorial regimes of Batista, Trujillo, Somoza, Perez Jimenez and Rojas Pi-villa; and intervene, on the other hand, in the economics of our countries, in the Guatemalan affair of 1954, in the recent counter-revolution of a minority of Cubans against Castro.
These and many other flagrant violations were true to the American interventionist pattern: action justified in terms of protection of national interests and democracy, followed by a gift in dollars to demonstrate Yankee magnanimity and good will towards us poor, pitiful beggars. Furthermore, this generous gift born of the commiseration of democratic Yankees usually went to the hands of the equally contemptible, dishonest bureaucrats who rule our countries. In the meantime, my poor people were starving en masse; living in hovels, structures that are no more than pigsties open to bitter winds; suffering, and getting cheated by people whom they did not even know.
When, in the middle of last March, President Kennedy announced his program “Alianza para el Progreso,” some optimistic students and intellectuals here thought that, for the first time in the history of Pan American relations, a genuine, honest plan for our mutual benefit was to be taken up as policy by the Colossus of the North. They looked upon Mr. Kennedy’s leadership with hope, and even confidence. But among my friends, whom Americans call “leftists,” the reaction was different. Some of us took a cool, skeptical attitude; others thought this plan was a new shield to hide the old imperialistic tactics, as the non-intervention policy had been; still others sneered at our new “libertador.” I myself cannot thank Mr. Kennedy. In my bitterness and resentment, I must think that he has come too late.
Try to understand our position. It is not ingratitude. It is that we all remember too well the eight or more times the Marines landed in our territories; we vividly recall how frequently the United States decorated the most hated dictators of our continent; we have all been affected by the actions of American industrialists who profit immensely from our industries while the majority of our
people starve; we are all well aware that the great centers of corruption in our exotic cities are supported by Yankee tourists. But most important, $ we have all been humiliated by haughty™ gringos who look down on us, and who think that we can be bought with their dollar. We are fed up of having Americans think that we are not people, but; a bunch of helpless creatures who must \ be taken care of by our condescending neighbors.	;
“SAFEGUARD” i
V
It may be argued that most of these j things belong to the past, or that they were done to safeguard American in-' terests, and ideals of democracy. But, I neither zmderstand nor accept such J reasons. All I know is that American; interests are not our interests; that we have not been taken into consideration in Latin-American affairs affecting us; f that we have been imposed upon by our ' “good” neighbors.	*
Although I am terribly infuriated J with what those bold American at- s tempted in Cuba, I am also glad about : it. It has shown that Mr. Kennedy, who ■ last month posed as our friend and; savior, is no more than another capital- ; ist who, concerned about his own coun-; try, forgets that we are people too; that ; we have a sense of pride and dignity; that we want to be left alone to develop^ our own political life; that we want to ■ be respected.	I
I am afraid you may think I am as communist; yet I hope you are not so? naive as to believe that in this worlds there is only pro-Yankeeism or Com-j munism. Such a view is worthy of al great McCarthian stereotype, but it is; one which I don’t think you capable off holding. In any case, beware of ignor- | ing the possibility that there can be true anti-American feeling, such as l£ share, which is unconnected with Com- , munism, and which arises from sui j generis situations.	|
In case there are some reliable Ameri- J cans who really want to protect Ameri-1 can ideals — men who are not connected j with the Government or the industrial-^ ists — let me explain, before I end| this letter, that there is a new vigor in|
(Continued on page 25) I,
The Scholastic^
6 Peace observer This is the United Nations. The man? Special delegate Walter W. Falck of Severna Park, Maryland—representing himself...seeing how peace is waged. Walter Falck happens to be a regional manager of Nationwide Insurance. He is one of hundreds of Nationwide managers who visit the U.N. each year at company expense, as
part of Nationwide’s continuing effort to bring world affairs closer to the affairs of all of us.
Career hunting? Try the company that Walter Falck represents. Nationwide is a young company (35 years old) with new and different ideas. Wie operate in 27 states, with nearly three million policyholders, over 12,000 agents and employees, over $390 million in total assets. Our rapid expansion has opened career positions for new representatives , to sell auto, fire, life, general insurance... plus the opportunity to sell mutual funds. Earn while you learn—with advancement opportunities, job satisfaction. Like to work for this dynamic organization? Write: t Dean W. Jeffers, V. R Sales, Dept. C, Nationwide, Columbus 16, Ohio.
Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company/Nationwide Life Insurance Company Nationwide Mutual Fire Insurance Company/home office: Columbus, Ohio
0
