

. ·:·:~--' 
-··· 
. ­
--~ . •· ~ . 
.. ·.·.-.•~ ~.. _!9;.,
~,,.,.
~·S~;:;J!f·:_.
~=~~-­
Congratulations to our brother in Holy Cross who professed his perpetual vows and consecrated his life to Christ forever. 
August 28, 2010 Basilica of the 
Sacred Heart Notre Dame, Indiana · 


features 

3 On Anxiety 
·8 New Rectors Find Home Under the Dome 
Five new rectors come to campus 


14 Will Work for Anyone 
Notre Dame seniors struggle to find work 


. 26 Irish Eyes On: Chris. Stewart 
Lineman and law student profiled 

34 To SayHello orNo 
How to handle greetin_g the kid that was in your Cale class Fresfiman year that you know knows you 


sections Opinion 3 News ~ Culture 
li{) . Cover li8 Sports 28 Hum.or· 31 
16 SEPTEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC l-1 



EDNOTES 
I've never marked time by January 1 -you don't close any chapters when the calendar year changes. You close a door when you move out of your house and open a new one in your first dorm room in August, or get on a plane, terrified, for a semester abroad. Each fall semester has a different feel than the last. 
For many students, especially seniors, this time of year brings worry about life after college, potential internships and graduate school applications. The career fair becomes so stressful that it is impossible to even enjoy all the men in suits. And, just for the record, studying English does not mean I have any interest in law school. 
In this issue, staff writers Katie Corr and Kelly McGauley reflect on such stress in their essay "On Anxiety" (p. 3), providing a grounding reminder that our time in college is finite and the future will happen, no matter how many trips to the Career Center you make. Chris Milazzo's report on how last year's seniors are faring in the current economic climate (p. 14) provides at least a small ray of hope for future Notre Dame grads faced with sending out resumes to reports of downsizing. 
This month's cover story, however, features a group of students who already know how they will spend the next several years: serving their country. Executive Editor Josh Flynt examines what it means to be a student soldier at Notre Dame (p.18). Though members ofthe ND ROTC program stand apart with their tactical and warfare training, they, like all students, are developing leadership abilities and skills they will use on a daily basis, the goals of higher education as a whole. 
Welcome back 
Those of us in the South Dining Hall basement would like to welcome you to another year of Scholastic, wishing you a safe and MIP-free start to the school year. 

Erica Pepitone Editor-in-Chief 
2 j SCHOLASTIC j 16 SEPTEMBER 2010 

ESSAY 

seems that as seniors progressingIt 
in our academic careers, anxiety has 
become the status quo in students' emotional, mental and physical states, and we're not just talking about your run of the mill night-before-the-big-exam or have-to-write-a-full-Scholastic-article­in-one-hour stress. We are referring to the gray-hair-inducing, can't-sleep~ at-night kind of anxiety that only the looming prospect oflife outside ofcollege induces. We're all going to get there one day, and darn it if all of us aren't acutely aware of it. Some of us have an incredibly specific plan for the next year -graduate schools, jobs, volunteering abroad. These, and all like plans, are wonderful goals, but we run the risk of developing anxiety around failure instead of being motivated by the prospect of achieving these goals. We have created an anxiety­driven regimen, giving us tunnel vision regarding our careers instead of valuing the time we have at Notre Dame. 
We are not implying that you should quit trying now -stop studying, don't turn in those papers and move into Mulligan's -though it ·can sound appealing. Bu~ we run the risk or'missing our college experiences because of anxiety about the future, whatever that may entail. Sure, the graduate school you attend, the career you end up with or the person you marry will be important parts of your life, but ifyou spend all your time in college essentially living the stress of your future, then you might as well not be here. All the professional success in the world is empty without personal fulfillment. Functioning in a state of pure anxiety sets an early precedent for missing out on valuable opportunities. 
Since the day we arrived on campus, we've been building our resumes if only through daily life. Mirfimally speaking, the resume-building aspect of our college experience will take care of itself. What won't are our memories, friendships, personal growth and passions. Our academic and professional experiences should be motivated by those ideals, not by anxiety or paranoia about looming doom and failure. If the world really does end in 2012, would you rather have spent your all-too-short life incessantly worrying about the future -which, incidentally, will no longer exist -or enjoying the time you were given? 
Plan. It's possible to be motivated and achieve things without anxiety. Figure out what you want to do with your life. Take LSAT courses, rock the GRE and apply to graduate school. Apply for your dream job. It's not that we think you should ignore the inevitable, and at this point, intimidating future ahead, but don't get so wrapped up in planning the future that you forget where you are. We just might have an amazing football season this year. (It has to happen sometime.) We've got Hip Hop Night at Legends. We've got a good shot at a Taylor Swift concert (hint, hint, Taylor). A certain amount of stress is unavoidable -no one got into or got through this university by taking it easy. But devoting four years of your life to an all-encompassing, constantly overwhelming anxiety is excessive, ·counterproductive and does not make a well-rounded individual. Relax. And, if all else fails, you'll always have Plan B: move into Mulligan's. 0 
The views of this author are not necessarily the views ofScholastic Nfagazine. 
16 SEPTEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 3 4 I SCHOLASTIC I 16 SEPTEMBER 2010 


the stories we live
. . . . . . . ~ 
16 SEPTEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC ,I 5 
=-Nelly back in the Billboard Top 10 It's notJust a Dream 
Lil' rappers ="' You're almost 30. Be a Big Boi. 
'======= Facebook Liking 
---~Do you really enjoy "hearing ~ ~something that kills you inside and acting like you're fine"? 
-=-=-Modern Family WTE Why the Face? 

Rich Cronin's death 
, _ ____ _ :=-_He liked Kevin Bacon, but hated · "Footloose" 
6 I SCHOLASTIC I 16 SEPTEMBER 2010 

-HOW TO 
Not Get Arrested 
Tara Hunt and Katie Gabriel 
It has come to the attention of the South Bend Police Department that students are partaking in illegal activities. For the safety of these students, they have abandoned their posts in dark alleys, conducting drug busts and preventing robberies to ensure that those who sip alittle late night moonshine are immediately incarcerated for their own safety. Scholastic doesn't encourage breaking the law, but if you happen to find yourself in a sticky situation, here are a few tips for how to ~afely evade the slammer so you can get back to your dangerous escapades. 
1 Ifyou don't remember it, it didn't happen: If your intoxication · overrides your memory and you can't recall the :Qight's events, _then · they didn't happen. I'm pretty sure Plato or Socrates argued this exact point, and they, too, were probably referring to their late-night, intoxicated meanderings in the bath hall. This suggestion, however, is null and void ifyou come to consciousness in a jail cell. Working your way out of that philosophical debacle is up to you. 
~ Wear the new "Sorry for Partying" tank: The gift of gab is a ~ blessing, no doubt. The gift of drunken· mumbling is valued less. 
In the event that the kind South Bend officer asks you about your festivities, stick out your bottom lip, give him your best puppy dog eyes and point two fingers (please use your pointer fingers) at your shirt. A built-in apology, and you get to ditch your staple "weekend polo." 
?) Ch~nnel your inner flight attendant: Take note ofthe emergency;;;JJ exits located throug~out the cabin/apartment: Don't li_mit yourself to doors: look for wmdows, crawl spaces, skylights or fireplaces. 
J7M Party with out-of-shape friends: "You don't have to outrun the bear, ~ just the slowest person running from the bear." Same idea here. 
~ Wear your sneaks: You may be rockin' stilettos, and you may look -;;;J} fly, but ain't no chance you're making it over that fence. 

Serving Body & Spirit 
Raising Heart Rates, Raising Funds 
Meredith Durant and Ca/ie Mohamed 
Notre Dame students and faculty have have long fostered a spirit of service on campus. Gregory Crawford is no exception. Crawford, dean of Notre Dame's College of Science, and his wife, Renate, organized "Desert to Dome: Riding for the Lives of Children," for which they biked 2,300 miles from Tucson, Ariz. to South Bend, Ind. The event raised money and. awareness for Niemann-Pick Type C Disease, a neurodegenerative disease that mainly affects children. They left Tucson on July 24 and arrived in South Bend on Aug. 23, where they were greeted by a pep rally in their honor. The couple biked between 80 and 120 miles, or over six to seven hours each day, and passed through seven states. Crawford has friends in Tucson wh,ose children died of Niemann-Pick Disease; this relationship inspired him to start "Desert to Dome" and raise awareness of the disease. A Notre Dame­sponsored van carrying the bike riders' food and belongings followed them on their journey. For those still looking to get involved with various causes, the Biology Club's Vision Walk will take place on.South Quad on Sunday, Sep!-26 at 1:30 p.m. and registration begins at noon. This fundraiser supports the Dr. Hyde and Foundation Fighting Blindness by raising research funding for children with retinal degenerative diseases: foundation Fighting Blindness is the largest non-government funding source for non-embryonic stem cell research in finding the cure for degenerating eyesight. The walk will tour popular campus highlights and the registration is $10 for students and $15 for non-students. There will also be t-shirts sold at the event and prizes for those who collect the most money._ Senior managing and consulting major Maria Sellers is organizing the Biology Club's Vision Walk. Sellers says that she hopes to help individuals who suffer from degenerating vision. She worked with The Foundation for the Blind, the largest non-government source of funding in the United States, to put on the event. All proceeds from the Vision Walk will benefit research for the blind. 0 


Li©Q2> f ~\/~ 
Thing Notre Dame Students Don't Like 
, Kids from Jersey. 
l Being wrong. 
l Being single. 
~ Cynical alumni bloggers. 
~ Sinners. 
16 SEPTEMBER 2010 SCHOLASTIC I7 
' . ' ---------~---------~ 
' ' 
---'--------------­
NEWS 




Nevv 
Rectors 
nd ome 1 Ulnder the ome 
At Notre Dame, dorm living functions as a quasi-family. Students are like siblings and rectors serve as mentors, even close friends, greatly contributing ·to the overall on-campus living experience and to the lives of many students. The selection process for these residence hall rectors therefore requires an extensive amount of time and dedication on behalfofthe Office ofStudent Affairs. According to Assistant Vice President of Student Affairs Sister Susan Dunn, O.P., advertisements for Notre Dame rector positions appear in October in Catholic periodicals and Web sites about administration. To meet the application· requirements, an individual must have a master's degree and at least tlu-ee years of 
8 ISCHOLASTIC I16 SEPTEMBER 2010 experience in a field such as education, student counseling or pastoral ministering. 
"One ofthe most obvi01,15 qualities we look for in a rector is his or her ability to be a good role model and a person who values the place offaith in our lives. We also seek someone with humor, flexibility, an understanding of young adult development, compassion and good listening skills," Dunn says. 
InJanuary, current rectors indicate whether or not they plan to return the following academic year, atwhich point the Office ofStudent Affairs narrows down the applicant pool. Last year, the university received 75 applications, which were narrowed to IO final candidate profiles, and then circulated around the senior staff for review. 
"Once_ we have chosen the final group, 
we require/each of the candidates to come in March for interviews. Interviews take place from 8:30 a.m. until 4 p.m. Potential rectors meet with administrative staff, current rectors, · assistant rectors and especially student leaders," 
Dunnsa~. 
After the interview weekend, the Vic_e 
President of Student Affairs makes the final 
decision: and the new rectors are notified in 
May. 
This year, students and . administration 
welcome five new rectors to campus. For those 
who have not had a chance to meet the new 
group, here is an introduction to the mentors 
and friends joining our home. 
. .· . . .. ,' .
·_. ! 
-. . / . ' 
. . . 
NEWS 
_,_I---------------------------------------------­
Annie Selak Walsh Hall 
Annie Selak, one of the younger rectors on campus, joins Walsh after completing her graduate studies at the Jesuit School ofTheology at Berkeley. She is already used to the female dorm setting, as she spent the previous year working at an all-girls high school in Detroit. 
"Last year was the first time I worked in an all-female environment. The job of rector entails just about everything I've learned in my previous positions, including pastoral ministry and liturgical obligations, although nothing can really prepare you for exterminating cockroaches and bats," Selak says. 
Perhaps as a result ofher love for America'sNext Top Model, Selak says she is excited for the Walsh event Mr. ND, as well as the student-run liturgies this year. 
Though her role as rector places her in an academic environment, Selak says that exploration and passion are the crucial components of college and of life. "Ifeveryone in the world did what they loved, everyone would be living out his or her vocation." 
-----. -----• ...-·•---. -... -. -... 
.__ .SisterMa:ry Jar,e. Ha6ne_l" 
..· . /, ;::·. Pasquerilla VV~sit Hall· > . ·.. 
'Sistei' Mary Jane Hahner, who describes herself as .."a smaU-· . . town girl oflrish-Gernia11descent,"joins the PW hall.staff several --·_ m9ni:hs · afteri'eceiving' hei-:.ivrastiir'ii'of Pivirui:y· from:i:li:e. Catholic:••-• -Theplogical:Un.ion in Chicago. PW ~esiderits and hall staffrefer to · 
her as'Sister MJ; known for her sense of humor and wekoriiirig spiri~.. . She \vas previously an e,ementary school teacher and prindpal)p.:cffi.¢iigo.Herfoy:~lties;J1owever; B¢ion.gtothe stltteo(I>eririsylva111a: ;­
.. }~Some.-of iriy. favq.rit.e ithings : to cio inchide watching· th~ Philadeiphi:i.Eagles, P~nnState Nit\anyLions arid Noi:re,Dame . li]glitingIris_h: playfoq!bal)," Ha~11er.~ays._ -·•· . . 
.. ·: .. . -.. •·-·-·. ··-_\, .. 
-Maria-'Hintori . 
.-..-__ .. _. _...__ c:~v~ria.ijgh Ha1f , _ __ 
--Th011gh :ne"\V to the. job, Cavanaugh rector Maria .Hinton is 
,-_ a• familiar Ja~_e: afoun.f campus;· Hip.tcm, ,~ • Double ·-Domer: from . Columbus, ph~o, gradµated .from ·_the law school in,'May, As an undergraduate, she was ,the president of Lewis Hall a;nd served as an R~Au~irig her'senjor. year. ·S_h~ saysshe:: loved her _residence ljfe experience •sfxp.~ch that sh(!liv~ci.:#:an A&sista'iit Re~i:oi-in Lyons. while ~orlanfon hergfa~riate st\ldies. ., . _ _.·•· . . .· _ -. -'"Even though I've'·_d6ne this Joi-seven· .years nchv,'I'm still 
.._~~t tired ofit;. Tliere1s scm~ething rt:ally special a~out living. in F2#imuriiry/There;s fea11}' no :;other ,plat:e. :where you can have Disney karaoke fo. the hallways ·or really greatconversai:fons with 
_ people. It's an ·amazing opportunity to shi~ejn people's lives in. _this way," Hip.fon says; .· . 
· ... •.,:·__ .· ..,.• _._ .. _., ·•·c .,.,_ ··". 

Layla Karst Lewis Hall 
Another Notre Dame alumnus, Layla Karst received her Master's of Divinity in May and served as an Assistant Rector in Pasquerilla East for two years. "I decided to stay at Notre Dame after graduation because I wanted to be involved in campus ministry. The residence life at Notre Dame is a very unique, fundamental part of the educational experience of these students and I wanted to be a part -. of that," Karst says. No stranger to education, Karst studies Arabic in her spare time. . . . 
Prior to graduate studies, she was a high school youth minister in Washington, so she is familiar with getting to know· and providing spiritual guidance to young adults. Karst says that she hopes to know all of the names of the women in Lewis by Christmas, with the help offlashcards. 
i6 SEPTEMBER 2010 1. SCHOLASTIC I 9 

10 I SCHOLASTIC I 16 SEPTEMBER 2010 

the thin.gs we do 
16 SEPTEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 

CULTURE 


SEPTEMBER 
Need something to do this month? 

Check out a few of these events! 


Bus trip to 
the Michigan 
State Game. 
Tickets are on sale at 
: Concert at the the Lafortune info desk; !Debartolo Performing 
$35 for transportation to . J Arts Center at 7 p.m.j 
and from the game, does j : : @(4'@ not include game ticket. 1 It·· ~·~·~ ~ti~\ ····················1 
. ·::s·i . 
Departs at 3 p.m. : · .._ Toy Story 3 : 
: ' Playing in DeBartolo IO I, : · Thursday the 23rd at 10 · 
p.m., Friday the 24th and Saturday the 25th at 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Admission $3 

24•················ 
Midnight: Salsa Night at Legends 

CSC Postgraduate 
120 , 
Service Fair
'·2}...................................................................: 
\.._.,., 
JACC Commons,
Pizza, Pop and Politics: Midterm Elections 20 I 0 
5 to 8 p.m. 
6p.m. to 7p.m. in the Geddes Coffee 
Representatives 
House 
from over 70 firms 
Come listen to three Notre Dame experts discuss key issues in the 20 IO Midterm 
.will present at this 
elections. Enjoy pizza and pop while adding your own opinion. Sponsored by the Center 
year's postgraduate 
--=~=====~ for Social Concerns and co-sponsored by 
service fair.
Multicultural Student Programs and Services. 
12 I SCHOLASTIC I 16 SEPTEMBER 2010 
.,.,.......----....., 
//' 
\ 
~1f0?.e_ _ I h _::;_\/omplete ~~, ~c1.£(Wbridged) 
Performed by the students of the department of Film, Television and Theatre. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, 7:30 p.m. Buy tickets on DPAC's website. Perfomances go through the I0th of October 
.················-' 

The Anneberg .Auditorium 
of the Snite 
Museum, 7:30 p.m.: presentation by Mark Randall and Andrea Pellegrino of WorldStudio about the role of desi~n in affecting social change. 

-

Chris Milazzo 
··•---------·--· --. --~-,----.----------•---------·­
. ··---------_·__;_·____,______________;__ 
! 
I • I : . I 

eading br watching the news can be a test o( endurance for college students, particularly seniors.: Reports .of high unemployment_and a shrinking ecof!omy dominate he:adlines, striking fear intd many students hopeful foi-meaningful employment after graduation. 
Even at Notre Dame, w~ere "succ~ss" in the workplate after graduatio~ is often assumed, st~dents ; _are._11:i.r_\T().1!5J_lQ_O:tJttJi.e_ir employ111e_11,_t p..[OSR(:!~r_s.J~_!l:iC:!re_any hope for_thisy_ear's graduating class?__ Examining th~ class of 2009's ex~erience with the job marke~ can indicate this year's prospects. . 
: : ! i ; l . i ; I . . I l :
1. i · I : , ,
According t9 the United State~ DeIJar_!:r~1~n~_c:>fl,abor, ahpost 10 p'.erceI!!_of_111enand almost i eightper~eiit-cif~~oineJ1over agej20 were unemployed in 2009. As of August 2010, the numbers have slightly i\nproved. If the c,lass of 2009's exP,eriences !are any indicati011, however, then Notre Dame seniors have cause ft:ir cautimis optimism. The annual survey of graduating: seniors 
: __ I_ _ _ _ I I _ .. I __ • __ -~----··-----·-----------· , __ •• 
.----compile-cl by Notre Danie's CareerCenter1reveals that 44 percent found full-tipie employment, while only fmir percent continue to seek[ it. The iest of the class was split between graduate school, volunt~er work, military service arid other plans. . ! ! 
-·~---· ---------. : -----_, . . .! I . .. ---------·--· --! 
Although m~st stude~ts who squght employment!did find it, the job search Jas strenu~us. "[A : job] was absolute ···. to come; by ... I felt the jo1b market was extr!!mely competitive! when I , 
· · ·· g·for·jcibs;" AndrewEtlwk-ras;-aclass·of2009)oufi1alism11iinor;·says:-· mnus, !agrees,: but says a Notre D~me degr1e can certainly help one's ople apflied for en~ry lev;el ~ositi~ns _wher~f I wil~ be working._ When ·• me on my resume,Jt-was·an-mstant d1scussH;m pomtand·set th,ngs off··· 
f · · , I I · I ' I 
I ! ! 
I I 
ill 
The Class of 20091s job search and the future of the job market 
l I 
____I I I
--1 -··-·· ' . ··-. ·--·----
Eveh ~ith' lengthy and difficult process,
I 
Career Center ing students:more timelto find
l 
-·-i_ _________ opporpmities t oces~," he says. Svete de~cribes ; I 2009 and 2010 ; allege reci~-iting.'' Employers : 
I 
. 1' C • bl
-w1O1ew10 I thaf ever. For example, Svete : 


says that GPA w . "Notre Danie, top school in 
' I I ---'·-------------..
·-·-------~---r-tlie counfry,-G]i>A' 
his time.it was. Ifyou're under , 
I ; • 
_ •_ _ I JO;ttooh!ot!o • _ u;ovodi"' l 
i ! i I 
I ; I . i
' 
' i' --' 
-,----~-----i···---In·order·to -a:Uevrnte-tlre·se-p·a:ms,-svete·encourag~ gain profess~onal expynence -­. i .as .early-as .possible. "More. studJnts who ltake -ad~a pfofessional ,opporthnities · : 
, , I
! •in theisummerimonths he moreisuccessful than t~o t," he says: He reco ends.
I 
1 
findinginternships,evertcif-they are unpaid;-To·assist th~ir interriship-·and·­
the fi1a~cial b4rden the~ c~n~1,l~r, the Career Cep mBer ~f furi ips.
I . 
through its Global Internship • ·· ·-GII). '.'We put intb btir i .am. -.
I . I . ··-I • . . . -• • •.• I .. 
....even if it's unp'aid.-WeLrealiz I '  neial-b\:ir •  
offer tp payfor $300,ooq word .. -i : I ..· : .  I  : '  
'  
--·  . Regar.ding_t~is_y.ear~s_job market,: Sve  ver~ity's)up  1  
[ I  !  20 percent in re~ruiting ... We're sbeing more .. .theyhhd lhst ye~r." For students; ~his is cer ainly ~:; .  .  - ortuhities than ' . : j 01  
.  .  ____. ______ !_  -·-·1­ 
!-­ ·-··.···•-11-:-----h.­·. ·. i_----­ .  ;­ >"  ·-.  -­ - •  - :  I  
11 · i . : ·-· I _••·:­·· -· · ·L_____; 14-I.ScHOLA~Tic.-,l-~16-SEP-TEMBER. 2010----11 -.-I : . : -. . I ..' . .i . -I-.  . __ __:__ :  '  . .  '  I  . -. .-­ I  


Michael Ian Black and Mike Birbiglia in brief 
By Chris Milazzo 
0ne might not expect geniuses to be dressed so modestly. They appeared unassuming in Notre Dame sweatshirts and jeans. They could have been mistaken for students, but these were not just any student look-a-likes: These men were the comedic geniuses Michae!"Ian Black and Mike Birbiglia. On Sept. 3, they performed for hundreds of students on a windy night on South Quad. Before performing, they sat clown with NDtv, The Observer and Scholastic for a joint interview. 
Michael· ' Ian Black,_;, ',.
'' .... .... ' 
"I'm to be referred to as 'Mr. Black,"' Michael Ian Black says. This statement encapsulates his comedic persona: a sardonic, self-centered, sarcastic comedian who is beloved by fans. "Well, the lovable part certainly generated from within; the self­centered part, that's pure fiction," he says. 
Son ofa store owner and an executive from New Jersey, Black has built a career on short­livecl, yet extremely popular television series that gain a cult following. Black says he feels a tinge of regret about his shows. "I don't so much care about mainstream success as I do about having a lot of money, and ... generally one follows the other. So I care about the mainstream success insomuch as I don't have a lot of money." 
After leaving New York University's Tisch School of the Arts, Black joined the comedy group The State, which later evolved into a successful show by the same name on MTV in the late '90s. From there, he has made appearances on several different comedy shows, most famously the I Love tlie ... series on VHL Recently, he was the co-star of Comedy Central's 1Wichael and .Michael Have Issues with fellow comedian Michael Showalter; the show, however, was canceled after seven episodes. He has also written and directed several comedy shows and movies, and written a children's book entitled "Chicken Cheeks." 
As for future plans, Black is keeping his goals reasonable: "I'm hoping for things that just have six or seven episodes." 
Mike Sirbiglia 
The foil to Black's sardonic humor, Mike Birbiglia approaches comedy with a lighthearted earnestness that is difficult to resist. Birbiglia describes himself as a "storytelling comedian": "I'm pretty sure ­I'm almost positive I'm a comedian. And I kinda evolved into being a storyteller because I was actually doing a lot of the college shows where I was doing an hour ... of material, and what I found is that ifyou're doing that much stand up comedy, if it doesn't have some kind of ... build to it ... it can be clirectionless." 
Deemed the "Funniest Man on Campus" at his alma mater, Georgetown University, Birbiglia spent his early career performing at improvisational comedy shows, which drew the attention of comedy greats such as David Letterman. His album, "My Secret Public Journal Live," was named one of the best comedy albums of the decade by Tl1e Onion. In addition to his stand up, Birbiglia has a successful movie and theatre career. Hts off­Broadway show, "Sleepwalk With Me," was critically lauclecl, and, most recently, he made an appearance as "Toby the Waiter" in the comedy "Going the Distance." "I've waited a lot of tables before, so it was very similar to my life," he says. 
Despite their different approaches to comedy, the two comedians were happy to assist each other in their show preparations. "I stretch. That's what I do: a lot, a lot of stretching. So before we came clown here to do this interview ... I brought my yoga mat, and I was just doing downward clogs for 40 minutes before this," Black says. "And I just stretch Michael," Birbiglia says. 0 
16 SEPTEMBER 2010 ISCHOLASTIC I15 
CULTURE 

Campus Chai:i:er 
DEPARTMENT OF FORCED INTERACTION 
I should have known from the sparkle in my RA's eye that 
Domerfest was going to exceed my expectations. As I questioned her 
about the event, she just smiled sweetly and said, "Don't worry about 
it; it's going to be fun!" Approaching the Stepan Center, I could see 
inflatables and volleyball courts filled witl1 freshmen decked out in 
their Frosh-O gear. But it wasn't until I passed through the door that 
I fully understood what my RA meant by "fun." 
Music. Loud, thumping, bumping, roaring music, worshipped by 
fist-pumping, butt-grinding freshmen eager to get their legacy at 
Notre Dame started with a bang. They were sweating and screaming 
under the swirling lights, high from sensory overload'. My dormmates 
and I grabbed hands and started to shove our way to the center. I'm 
not sure which body parts I touched, or whether I was covered in 
sweat or saliva. I caught.only momentary glances offaces, some giddy, 
some grimacing, all shouting. Everyone was closed off in his or her 
own world ofsensual chaos, but the room jumped as one, sang as one. 
As my classmates jostled me away from my friends, my mind raced, · 
at a loss as to what kind of fun I was supposed to be having while a 
Zahm freshman repeatedly jabbed me with his elbow. 
I awkwardly picked my way out of the masses and stepped out of 
the curtain of steam and sweat. The night air felt glorious, but I was 
not a fan ofthe lonely, left-out sensation that soon followed. I did that 
little trick you do when you're embarrassed to be seen alone, the one 
where you walk around like you have some kind of purpose, all the 
while desperately searching for a familiar friendly face. 
That's when I saw him. No, he was not the tall, dark, handsome 
prince come to save me from the throes of awkward college dances. 
It was an acquaintance, Brian, whom I had met once over the summer 
back in Massachusetts. Instead of a shining suit ofarmor, he sported 
the Knott Hall trademark neon-orange t-shirt and hunting hat. 
Salvation. I gravitated toward his peripheral vision, and then pulled 
the oh-no-way-I-totally-didn't-see-you-there hello. I was even more 
surprised when he greeted me with equal relief. Evidently grinding 
with strangers wasn't his cup of tea, either. 
We started off with the usual, "Hey, how are you? How was move 
in? Do you like your roommate?" conversation. When ·an those 
pre-packaged options were exhausted, I sighed and said, "This is 
awkward." His eyes lit up and he let out an uproarious, "YES!" My 
hopes soared. "Do you want to just sit down?" I nodded wearily. 
We sat on the edge of a volleyball pit, relieved of the burden of being alone and of participating in. the dance. I noticed that his blank orange shirt had a few numbers scrawled on the back. "What's that all about, trying to prove who can get the most girls? Because you're totally losing." His-face went blank. "Um, yeah, it actually is." Before I could stuff my foot in my mouth, he, gentleman that he was, chuckled, "No, it's fine, I think girls would be creeped out by some guy randomly approaching them and asking for their number. I don't care ifI don't win." Now I was both a moron and an insensitive jerk 
16 l·SCHOLASTIC I 22APRI·L 2010 
compared to chivalrous Sir Brian. I had to do something. I threw out a suggestion nonchalantly, "You know, I could help you talk to some girls from my dorm. I mean, whatever ..." expecting this offer to help smooth over my bad first impression. I did not, however, expect another resounding, "YES!" in response. 
Soon, I was Brian's wingman, lassoing in girls. I would introduce myself, nonchalantly pointing out· Brian, and say something witty about him. Then he would do the rest. He had those numbers in less than a minute. Soon his shirt was covered in sprawling, black-Sharpie numbers, even some with little hearts around them. We laughed as we counted how many he had "scored" and soon Domerfest had flown by. 
Strolling down the sidewalk back to PE, the silence wasn't awkward, but welcome. Before we said goodnight, Brian and I had agreed that we had "beat the system" and that we had way more fun than any of the people on the dance floor. As I heard my roomies regale me with their horror stories of grabbing,, grinding and hooking up, I just smiled to myself. I may have missed out on what was supposed to be the "fun" part of Domerfest, but finding a way to fight the awkwardness and make a friend seemed like the best night of all. 0 
-Meghan Thomassen 
.The views of this author are not necessarily the views of Scholastic Magazine. 

. . .· . , -. .: .· . . ­
.. I 
. . ' 
~' . , , 
CULTU 


Shelley Kim 
Jim Gaffigan -King Baby 

After minor. appearances in "The Love Guru" and HBO's Flight of the Conchords, Jim Gaffigan became a prominent figure in comedy with his most recent stand-up release, "King Baby." Prevalent themes include laziness, food and overall gluttony; anyone who has ever slept in an armchair 
,' ,­
.;_ ., . d because climbing the lofted bunk was too much effort will find him-or herselflaughing immediately. 
Although his jokes deprecate his middle-aged habits of sloth, any listener will empathize with the "evil" discomfort offutons, the glory of the snooze button and his three-minute-and-15-second track on the supremacy of escalators to stairs. Although potentially offensive, "King Baby" succeeds in producing laughs and fresh material. 

Whitney Cummings ­Emotional Ninja 
With track names like" · ~· . "Prostitutes" and "Gyne · 'ts'l'
,.,'ji''
subtlety is not Whitney cu· ngs' aim in "Emotional Ninja." I often found mymouth open inshockrather than in genuine laughter. Although her commentary on female habits is amusing, her humor often relies on 
boldness and vulgarity rather than clever presentat_ion. 
One of the biggest problems I have with this album is discerning the jokes themselves. The muddy microphone reception is worsened by Cummings' lack of vocal intonation. Audience response is loud and blaring, yet the listener cannot join them in the entertainment. Due to her predictable delivery and questionable sound quality, this considerably short, album is difficult to finish['-,~ 
.! I ._,,.;-,-.... ., f
/ /\ Jw61 
A¢i· ~r{(l\~ '} -. : 
!~~_it: /_·,•~-·._··. ':0"_
t~_:
."1\\\t~:~' .· -,i . ,.. rn. ..· \ 
''~t 
''lit~::~~-1 

Madeline Stone 
Mitch Hedberg -Do You Believe in Gosh? 
If you have ever seriously considered the advantages ofa screen door or wondered what a riqe in a cold-air balloon would be like, Mitch Hedberg's comedic antics in "Do You Believe in Gosh?" are right up your alley. Hedberg's jokes are musings that we have probably all wondered about but are too strange to say out loud. Is a hippopotamus anything other than a really cool opotamus? Isn't a burrito really a sleeping bag for ground beef? Recorded only two months before his death from a drug overdose, this third and final album by the late comic does not fail to provide the random thoughts for which he is known and loved. 

Part of what makes "Do You Believe in Gosh?" so hysterical is Hedberg's signature abrupt delivery. He matter-of-factly blurts out a series of irrelevant thoughts and jumps from topic to topic, discussing everything from the racing careers of seahorses to the life of the headless horseman. Although bizarre at times, Hedberg's collection of unrelated one-liners creates one hilarious album. 
Daniel Tosh -True Stories I Made Up 
Although he is best known for his pop-culture critiques on his Comedy Central show, Tosh.O, Daniel Tosh also happens to be quite a storyteller. As the title suggests, "True Stories I Made Up" is, in part, a collection of fake autobiographical accounts. Tosh leads the audience into believing some \i

.,
ludicrous story about his life only to 
. '/~:
turn it on its head a few seconds later. 
/' ....
·•·"'' .. , 
The effect creates_ ahig~1ly entertaining and original set that keeps the audience on its toes while making it laugh p.y~tiftcai~y. < : ::: ... ~ · 
N ~ o~_e· is ~pfr,e~,_T~s1ys; illS!J}ts in this hilarious and irrei~tt~ routme. I~ih~f:~J~{\l~:~,~l?u131,,.!os~ ad?pts the_ person~ 1j}/jj.~ arroga~t, ~~°:1;1s~~:?!,Ver¥,1,~~}le., ~ak!n~ J~bs at_ every mm~~•.,:.?: ­
Nmagmable.,J~\one rn~nwrable.~Jqlce from the album, fie . ~~pple '~btilfta~(I~~\i{ethnii: backgr~mnds. If qle \i.;;,.~titl{!t kre 1¥o~)n~~e~\tu-.i\y politically correct, 
,i. l uYf~ \\ ,~,'\ \.\ 0'o~ 0oe0,,-· 
as \ er.v unqy.~\ .
;' ooi-~,,.,.oJ_: '
U1\\ /I ,.1
\1 , ~~';:Jin.~·
I 1\_, 1,o•4}<; J.iJ-.,. rr •~-. 0:,., o•oo,!)o'O ::-.:_ !~·-, \ :•, , :. ' 00b00oo~••~, , ,1 1/\l 11 J1,-\,1 0 oa• 0o0~oll'Jl• \ \1 \ J , \A~~ 
'1 ,(
c~C:,\o'\\~l' •' ~ i. {\ b•:~ . ·'\
t-'"t~o~.i \ " ii n 1l -~~•,i ;. ~~-: ... 1-J \~~;:::-·-;tifV#;t1\lf:i\ . ~6\filltrEM~ERi-2."QtQ_ l_ SCHOLASTIC I17 



COVER 
the generaticm, some also spoke out against the idea of ROTC at a Catholic institution. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., the university's president from 1952 until 1987 and a strong supporter of the U.S. Armed Forces, however, defended ROTC when many other universities disbanded their programs. "He thought that ifROTC officers were going to be the leaders of men and women and, in combat, we should want them to do that in an ethical manner, and we should want them here at Notre Dame," Nees says. 
Today, the Naval program, which includes Marine Corps students, is the largest unit at the university, with over 130 aspiring officers in the battalion from Notre Dame and St. .Mary's College. Currently, 21 of these students are .Marine Options, while the rest are on the Navy track. Thirty-three members ofthe class of2011 are projected for commissioning next .May, including 28 Navy and five Marine· Corps students. 
The Army ROTC program is a consortium, known as the Fightin' Irish Battalion. It includes students from Valparaiso University, Indiana University-South Bend,. Bethel College, St . .Mary's College and Holy Cross College. There are approximately 90 students in the program, including 52 from Notre Dame. Next .May, 19 cadets will become commissioned Army officers. 
Like the Army unit, Air Force ROTC Detachment 225 includes students from several institutions. The Air Force program has 106 students, 17 of whom will become officers at the encl of the academic year. 
Joining the Fight 
Getting involved with ROTC often begins in high school. Like the college admissions pool, students come from a vast array of backgrounds and experiences; they have a variety of reasons for their involvement in ROTC and dedication to military service. Seniors Alex Barbuto and Eric Leis, Army and Navy ROTC, respectively, come from military families. "My father was an Army officer for 23 years and two of my brothers were involved in ROTC," Barbuto says. "It's always something that's been in the back ofmy head. I knew that I was planning to do service [for] the country." 
Leis remembers hearing Navy stories from his grandfather, uncles and cousins. As a high school senior, he considered filling out and returning a pamphlet the Army sent to him until his uncle convinced him otherwise. "He sat me clown and spoke to me about how I was from a Navy family, and made me realize how Navy was the way I should go," he recalls. 
Senior midshipman Nicholas Geraci became interested in the military as a seventh grader. "I did a report on Neil Armstrong and learned he was an Air Force test pilot before he was an astronaut, and I thought that was the coolest thing in the world,"" he says. "I also was always interested in NASA, so I thought military was the best way." As he learned more about each of the branches, Geraci ultimately chose the Navy because it focuses on more than flight. 
Some students wait to get involved with ROTC until after they have arrived on campus. Senior Air Force student Teresa Henisey had thought about the military before college, but it was not until she saw the other students in uniform and learned more about the program that she cleciclecl to join. "I didn't tell my parents until I had totally decided, so it came as a bit of a shock to them ... but they were very supportive," she says. 
Those who apply for ROTC go through a rigorous scholarship application process. Vice President and Associate Provost Dennis Jacobs, who oversees ROTC at Notre Dame, says that students indicate a list ofschools that they would like to attend and apply for the ROTC scholarships through the respective branches in Washington, D.C., not at the universities. When students receive word about whether or not they have been awarded a scholarship, they also receive a list of institutions where they are authorized to use it. "If, in the encl, they get into a school that is not on the list, they may have to negotiate," he says. Balancing the number of cadets and midshipmen in ROTC programs throughout the country is essential to ensure that the U.S. 
SEPTEMBER 2010 
Armed Forces will have qualified leaders with a wide variety of backgrounds, experiences and expertise. 
"Having said that, every indication is that Notre Dame is being held high as one' of the top ROTC programs in the country," Jacobs says. Notre Dame's high graduation rate and reputation as one of the premier undergraduate institutions in the country have also helped the program. "Although there's a cost to attend Notre Dame, in many cases, it's weU 1worth it for ROTC to pay that premium because the product of a commissioned officer out of Notre Dame is that valuable." 
ROTC Responsibilities: More Than Just PT 
A Commanding Officer (CO) who manages funds, uniform requirements and phone contracts and upholds each branch's policies and regulations, leads each ROTC unit. Nees, Lt. Col. Randy Crist and Col. Andrew Cernicky, are also the professors of Naval, Army and Air Science, respectively. As professors, their relationship with the university is similar to that of other faculty members: Theyteach courses, join committees such as Academic Council and Faculty Senate, and report to Jacobs. 
For many students, the responsibilities and commitments of ROTC cadets and midshipmen remain a mystery. "When I tell people I'm in ROTC, they'll say, 'Oh wow, I could never do that,"' Henisey says. "I think they have this Hollywood-inspired idea that we are constantly in intense battle mode." 
To some, ROTC students are those in sweat-drenched workout clothes eating breakfast together at 0700 (7 a.m.), but preparing to be an officer in the U.S. Armed Forces involves more than waking up early for physical training, or PT. "Obviously, we do have that a couple times per week, but there's a lot more to it. We actually do have a class time period. It's graded. We have homework. We have readings. We have essays," Barbuto says. ROTC stude~ts typically take one class per semester specifically devoted to their military training. 
In addition, there is a weekly lab that involves more hands-on learning. Barbuto and his fellow senior cadets are responsible for planning and teaching the lab training, which presents students with an array ofapplicable lessons. "This week, we focused on radios and how to use them in combat," he says. Students learn prt>c~dures for giving reports about the enemy as well as calling medics to treat wounded soldiers. Other lab exercises involve battle drills with squad-and platoon­sized units (approximately 10-25 cadets) led through tactical training such as setting an ambush or knocking out a bunker. 
"4we do a lot of PT 
because wh~n you're a 
leader, and in any branch of 
the service for that matter, 
your physical appearance 
is the first thing that your 
enlisted men and women 
are going to see.~ 
-NICK GERACI, SENIOR MIDSHIPMAN 
In Army ROTC, the PT test consists of pushups, sit-ups and a two-mile run. Barbuto says, however, that the one-hour PT sessions involve a variety of physical activities, which include sprints while carrying each other, squat thrusts and many variations ofpushups. "By the end of it, you have pretty much been going the entire time. There aren't many breaks. It's pretty much a smoke session," he says. 
To prepare for the bi-annual Physical Readiness Test (PRT) conducted by the Navy, midshipmen do a similar variety of exercises during a high-intensity workout. This year, Navy students do PT twice per week, while the Marine Options work out four times each week. Ultimately, passing the PRT is not considered the difficult part ofROTC, but to do their best, students must push themselves and maintain top physical fitness. Passing the test, however, is not the only reason for the PT sessions. "We do a lot of PT because when you're a leader, and in any branch of the service for that matter, your physical appearance is the first thing that your enlisted men and women are going to see," Geraci says. 
"Ifyou show up to a command and you have 20 people under you, and you look sloppy or out ofshape, right away you've lost half their confidence and trust inyou. They're going to think, 'Who's this guy? He's my leader? In a time of crisis I'm going to look to him. for all the answers and he can't even keep himself fit physically?' You have to keep all that in mind when you do PT." 
Henisey has had a similar experience in the Air Force program, where she and her fellow cadets prepare for a test which includes a 1.5-mile run, one minute of pushups and one minute ofsit-ups each semester. To keep things interesting, they have also incorporated other games, races and exercises. "We have secondary PT sessions throughout the week. I lead a swimming one and have coordinated a few water polo games," she says. 
16 SEPTEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 21 


COVER 
Community in ROTC 
Through spending time together in early 
morning PT sessions, labs and course work, 
a strong sense ofcommunity develops in each 
branch of the ROTC program. "In previous 
years, I would say I'm probably closer to folks 
in ROTC than even my own -roommate," 
Barbuto says. "You party together, you train 
together and you study together. A lot of the 
guys have a house off campus together. We 
have a lot in common inherently based on the 
commitments we are willing to make." 
"It's not like your typical class where you 
can work hard by yourself to earn a grade. It's 
so much more like a team," Henisey says. 
"I've been [a Naval officer] for 31 years," 
Nees says. "I love it. I love it because of 
the people. There are no other leadership 
opportunities like that. Getting out there with 
men and women on the deck plates operating some of the most sophisticated equipment, going around doing humanitarian work and doing things to make this world a better, safer · place, with a-great team, much like a football 
team pulling together to win a game. 
"When you're the Commanding Officer, 
it's like being the head coach. These guys 
are going to walk out there on day one and 
they're going to be assistant coaches," Nees 
says. "We give them the basic skill set to 
get them ready, coupled with what they're 
getting from Notre Dame: the academic 
and extracurricular challenges, as well as the 
moral development." 
While some ROTC students are in the 
marching band, student government or on 
athletic teams, ROTC offers extracurricular 
opportunities, as well. Recently, the Trident 
Naval Society, a service organization, hosted 
its annual 24-hour run to raise money for the 
South Bend Special Olympics. Other activities 
include color guard, rifle team, and ushering 
for pep rallies, basketball and hockey g~mes. 

Training for the Future 
While many seniors scramble to finalize their post-graduate plans in the tough economy, ROTC students have the security ofknowingtheyhavefutur~employment.Not all senior cadets and mids_hipmen, however, will begin their military duties following graduation. Some students, such as Barbuto, who would like to become an army surgeon, are planning to continue their education. "ROTC is definitely something I can put on my [medical school] applications to make me a little more marketable, a little more 
22 ISCHOLASTIC I16 SEPTEMBER 2010 
unique," he says. "It's certainly experience of leadership you can't necessarily teach in the classroom." 
In addition to the specialized skills and training that Barbuto will develop in medical school, ROTC students are exposed to practical knowledge during their summer programs. Following their freshman year, Naval ROTC midshipmen attend Career Orientation and Training for Midshipmen (CORTRAMID) where they spend a week with each ofthe four service options -surface warfare, submarines, aviation and Marines. Following their sophomore and junior years, students have an opportunity to do more specific learning related to their areas of interest. Geraci went on a two-and-a-half 
~verything we stand 
for, from human rights to 
freedom to liberty, it doesn't 
come cheap. It puts a bull's 
eye on your chest for the 
radicals that feel contrf~o 
that way of life. 'J? 
-CAPTAIN DALE NEES, NAVAL ROTC COMMANDING OFFICER 
week submarine cruise from Washington to Alaska to Hawaii, where he learned about the weapons systems ofa fast-attack submarine. 
As Air Force students, Henisey and her fellow cadets participate in Field Training following their sophomore year. She describes it as similar to boot camp, with plenty of yelling and pushups, while living in a mock deployed bunker environment. 
Like the Navy midshipmen, those enrolled as Marine Options attend CORTRAMID following their freshman year, but they participate in two to three weeks ofmountain warfare training in Bridgeport, California prior to their junior year. Before their senior years, Marine Options attend Officer Candidate School (OCS). "This is where the rubber meets the road," Marine Officer Instructor Major David Hart says. OCS is essentially boot camp, where Marine Options will be screened and evaluated to see if they possess the leadership potential to serve as officers. "Students who pass OCS retain their scholarship .for their senior year, and upon commissioning, go to The Basic School (TBS), where they are versed in doctrine, tactics and other training," he says. 
Army ROTC students may also participate 
in a variety of training programs during 
the summer, including airborne school, 
air assault school, mountain warfare and 
northern warfare. The curriculum may 
involve anything from jumping out of 
airplanes to training in Alaska. Following 
junior year, most Army students participate in 
the Leadership Development and Assessment 
Course (LDAC), what Barbuto calls the 
"Super Bowl of ROTC." 
The LDAC is a 29-day program at Fort 
Lewis, Washington, where cadets from 
across the country gather to be assessed on 
leadership abilities, tactics and the skills 
they have learned throughout their ROTC 
careers. The program plays an important 
role in determining what students will be 
allowed to do in the Army. Cadets are ranked 
against their peers nationwide, based upon 
their performance during the LDAC and 
throughout their ROTC careers, and their 
placement in the Army is largely dependent 
upon these rankings. "Based on that ranking, 
you can make your preferences for what you 
want to do in the Army. There are obviously 
a certain number of slots for each job and, if 
you are towards the bottom of the list, you 
might not be able to get your choice of duty," 
Barbuto says. 
These summer programs are essential in 
providing students with more information 
on each ofthe different service opportunities 
they may have after commissioning. "While 
our friends who want to be doctors get an 
internship in a hospital, or people who want 
to be bankers go to New York and work on 
Wall Street, our summers are spent with 
the operational fleet because that's our 
internship," Geraci says. 
·The Real World 
Following graduation and commissioning, · ROTC students will have a variety of 
responsiliilitjes, depending on their branch 
and spedalty."In the Army program, students 
are typically contracted for eight years, four 
years of active duty and four years in the 
inactive reserves, an "on-call" status. Since · he plans to attend medical school, Barbuto is prepared to .owe approximately 14 years of military service, which will include his time in residency. 
In the Navy, commitments may range from 
four years for surface warfare to 10 years for 
aviation, which includes up to two years of 
additional schooling. Likewise, the Air Force 
commitments are generally four years, but 
vary based on responsibilities and schooling. 

.• ! , ~· • _, • • • / ,' . ' 
' , . . / . . , 
COVER 
claoa {):, 2011 
As many seniors prepare for the rigors oflaw school or the demands ofcorporate banking, ROTC students face a different reality of the stresses and dangers that life after Notre Dame may hold. As commissioned officers, Notre Dame ROTC graduates will be called upon as leaders in their respective branches. "It's definitely a little humbling when you know that legally you may be in charge of someone who has years of experience and battlefield wisdom that you just don't have," Barbuto says. "But when you are deployed and leading troops into combat, you're the one making the calls and ultimately responsible for your unit." 
Many of these future officers say that they recognize that the learning process has only just begun. "We've gone through a few years of training, but we really don't know all that much about the operational side," Geraci says. "So to show up one day and start demanding these young sailors that are your age, all the way up to chiefs and senior chiefs ... They're all going to be calling you 'Sir.' They're going to salute you and say, 'Good morning, sir.' It is nerve-wracking to know that there are very experienced people out there who are going to look to you for answers and to make the right decisions based on the best information ava_ilable. It's scary, but it's also really exciting." 
As part of his class, Nees brings in senior enlisted sailors to talk to his students. The technical experts have often been in the military for more than a decade. "It's interesting because what they're told is, 'You're to come out here and be my boss. You're not here to be my friend.' 
"The natural tendency is to want to be friends with your sailors or Marines. You might graduate and find a 22-year-old petty officer that you went to high school with, but you have to learn and understand, 'I'm now an officer. I have to be his supervisor and leader.' It's a challenge and a learning experience. You have to get out there and listen," he says. 
"Enlisted are trained to be experts in specific technologies and tasks. We're trained to be experts in leadership and people," Leis says. "It's important for us to understand that we need to rely on them." 

Lead Like A Champion 
Regardless ofbranch, the young graduates willencounternewandunavoidablechallenges and be presented with difficult dilemmas in times of peril, but they say that their Notre Dame education ·and experiences in one of the country's top ROTC programs will go a long way toward preparing them to solve these issues. 
"The university aspires to create leaders. We do that in various ways and capacities. Some students develop as leaders because they're involved in student government or running.a student organization," Jacobs says. "Attention here is paid to lead~rship. Forming individuals with convictions and commitments, who understand how to lead others, understand the responsibility and accountability of leadership, and exhibit characteristics such as valor and courage.'' 
Defending the principles that our nation was founded upon more than 230 years ago has not come without a price. "Everything we stand for, from human rights to freedom to liberty, it doesn't come cheap. It puts a bull's eye on your chest for the radicals that feel contrary to that way of life," Nees says. For him and other ROTC commanding officers at Notre Dame and across the country, working with young people who feel called to stand up for wha): they believe in is one of the most fulfilling aspects oftheir work. 
"To know that there's a price that comes with that· freedom, and that these young men and women are willing to step up and assume that role is very refreshing and very rewarding.'' 0 
16 SEPTEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC 23
11 

24 I SCHOLASTIC I 16 SEPTEMBER 2010 16 SEPTEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 25 


SPORTS 
Irish Eyes On: 


CH IS 
Offensive Lineman, Law School Student 
Matt Formica 
;For the past two seasons Chris Stewart has been an integral part of Notre Dame's offensive line, a unit that has improved 
markedly during that span. This year, the six­foot-five, 350-pound Stewart opted to return for a fifth year in hopes ofleading the Irish to an elite bowl game. 
Equally as impressive as his football performance, however, is Stewart's academic prowess. The Texas native graduated with a history degree in just three and a half years, finishing with a 3.54 GPA. Stewart is currently continuing his academic pursuits at Notre Dame's law school, making him the only college football player in tl1e nation to take on tl1is unique challenge. 
Stewart boasts 24 career starts for tl1e Irish, more tl1an any otl1er offensive player on the roster. Although he's currently focused on the 2010 season and his demanding studies, Stewart hopes to go to the NFL when his college playing days are over. \Vhetl1er he's flattening his opponents, cranking out 23 pull-ups or hitting the books, Stewart always gives maximum effort. Irish fans can watch Stewart line up at left guard all season long as the quest for an elusive BCS bertl1 continues. 
How do you think you have changed as a person since you first arrived at Notre Dame inJanu:uy '06? 
I'm a lot smaller; I'm in shape; I'm tl1e old guy. We've got a totally different team. I've gone from being one of tl1e youngest players to the oldest player. I've matured a lot as an individual and a football player. 
What mentality must you have as an offensive lineman lmowing that when things are going well you generally won't get noticed? 
That's just the position. It always has been. You have to be pretty tough and really smart in today's day and age because of the defenses, and you have to just keep working. Your payoff is touchdowns and scoring, and winning in the end. 
Why is strength and conditioning coach Paul Longo's regimen so effective? 
I think it's because he has a great system. He's smart and he knows when to push people 
26 j SCHOLASTIC j 16 SEPTEMBER 2010 
hard. He knows how to push you to tl1e edge but at tl1e same time how to give you tl1e rest and nutrition you need. He has one of tl1e best programs I've ever seen as far as making strides in tl1e offseason, and, in season, continuing witl1 tl1ose strides. 
Describe what you eat on an average day. 
I wake up in tl1e morning and normally have a protein shake and an apple or orange. That's around 7 a.m. I eat every two to tl1ree hours. I eat fruit and protein tl1roughout the day. Some carbs through fruits or whole wheat pasta. My goal is to eat six to seven times a day because I'm going all day every day from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m., so tl1ree or four big meals won't cut it. 
What do you think ofthe training table? 
I think it's a great addition. It's really good for guys off campus. After practice, we don't have to go and cook food or go get fast food. It's great nutrition. And it's a whole lot easier. 
"You have to be pretty tough and really smart. .. you just have to keep working. The payoff is touchdowns and scoring, and winning in the end." 
How does law school compare to your undergraduate experience? 
The classes have definitely been hard~r in the sense that tl1e material you're studying is far more in-depth and far more dense than any undergraduate class. But in the same way, you're preparing for a professional degree whereas undergrad you're just learning about the world around you, especially since I was a history major, not a pre-professional major. In that sense, it's a very real degree; it's a very real study. \Vb.at you're doing carries a lot of weight. 
Why did you choose to attend law school? 
The fact that I graduated early and decided to come back for a fifth year. It's been almost · two years since I graduated. I'm still on scholarship and to have a chance to get a professional degree, or at least get a start on it -that was a unique opportunity. I knew I wanted to be a lawyer after football's done, so it's something that I wanted to do. 
Which,of your law classes has been the most challenging so far? 
Definitely criminal law witl1 Profe~sor ·[Robert] Blakey. He's a renowned lawyer; he's done' Supreme Court cases; he wrote the RICO' statute. That's probably tl1e most 
. intense class I have had so far. 
What are your future aspirations? 
I definitely want to play football at the next · level for however long is possible. You know,. 10 years would be nice -tl1at would be a good start. After tl1at, get into the legal field. 
How much trash tallcing goes on in the trenches? 
It depends on who you play. Some teams don't talk much. Other times when you get in rivalries like Michigan, Purdue or USC, even, it can get up there a little bit. So, hopefully ,there won't be too many mies on tl1e field. 


.Do you get involved in that trash t:alkilfg? No comment. That's the one time I'll say no comment. 
~at's the best piece of advice you've received lately? 
Probably the best piece of advice I've received is from Co;ich Kelly. Not only just in football but in life, you have to go hard all the time. You can't just decide when to go hard or when to be gciod. He says all the time, "People who are great champions learn how to be consistent." Consistency is their hallmark, so that's probably one of the best things I've heard. 
~t are your goals for this team in 2010? 
Obviously we want to keep winning game by game and we'll see where we end up at the end of the year. Hopefully, that's with a bunch ofwins and going to a very, very, very good bowl game. 
Describe Coach Kelly. 
Coach Kelly's tough. He has a very good program, a really intense program, a very smart program. The best way to describe him in a few words is h~'s a tough gentleman, like he always says he wants us to be. On the field, he's intense _unlike any other person I've ever seen. Off the field, you can easily . sit down and have a conversation with him 
over dinner. 

~t is your relationship with Dayne 
Crist like? ' Dayne's one of my good friends. I think Dayne's a little bit too friendly with me, personally. He hugs me a little bit too much. I tell his girlfriend all the time that she needs to put him in check in th~t regard, but for the most part Dayne's a goocl guy. He's very intense and very focused on the field, wanting to learn the offense. Off the field, he's really low key and just likes to relax and chill around the house, so he's kind of boring. 
Do you have any pregame rituals? Do you get really amped up before the games? 
I used to. Now that I've gotten older, I've learned how to channel it the right way. I've learned how to stay grounded the entire time until the whistle blows.for the first play, because there's no sense in wasting so much energy that you're going to need for the next three to four hours. So I used to get very, very intense, but now I just wait for that intensity on the field. 0 
"Not only just in football but in life, you have to go hard all the time. You 1 can't just decide when to go hard or I when to be good."!! 
16 SEPTEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 27 

SPORTS 





SPORTS 
.! 
Survey Says ... 
Brian Kaneb 
Apple slices My roommate Brendan The new Notre that never tum and I like to get 
: "Bed The "WPS on Fox
Mind-blowing. brown. I don't 
Dame football a good beatbox 
KING 
: Intruder" Amazing. Soccer Channel 
coach? see how it's session in before
Soccer 
possible. we go to sleep. 
l(ellie j "Right SCIACCA : Above It" by lAmazing.
j Lil Wayne 
Volleyball 
: and Drake 
Time Travel 
Ca/ie Mohamed 
Septem,ber 16, 1989 
erhaps one of the most memorable Irish victories occurred 21
P
years ago when the No. 1 ranked Fighting Irish football team 
invaded Ann Arbor, Michigan to take on the No. 2 ranked University ofMichigan Wolverines. This game marked the 25th time in history that the No. 1 and No. 2 ranked teams met during the regular season. Under Coach Lou Holtz, the Irish achieved an exciting 24-19 victory over the Wolverines. Leading the Irish was sophomore Raghib Ismail, better known as "The Rocket," who broke Michigan's 32-year streak ofpreventing any opponent from scoring on a kick-off return. The Rocket crushed Michigan's record twice in this game. "I said from the first day he walked out [onto the practice field] in shorts that he was something special," Holtz said ofthe previously underrated Rocket. Wolverine· coach Bo Schembechler was so embarrassed by the Rocket's success against his team that he wouldn't acknowledge the Rocket's accomplishments as factors in the loss. "Probably the biggest reason for us getting beat was [that] our offensive line did not do a good job ... their _line outquicked us, outplayed us." This monumental victory marked the third consecutive Irish victory over Schembechler's Wolverines. The Irish went on to have an 11-game winning streak that was broken in their last regular season game when they fell to the then-No. 1 ranked team, Miami. Notre Dame ended the season by winning a bowl game· against West Virginia, maki~g ­them the No. 2 college football team in the country. 0 
28 ISCHOLASTIC I16 SEPTEMBER 2010 
--~~----~-------. -\ ' ' ' .
-~ -\ 
·l , . ' l ( .· ~ ~ -. . / I • • , • f ; -. • •
, 


i\8S~itffiJ(5th0()1(..PasS~ordj'D~~e'26l11Jo··./·1 
.. ,accesSthe NotreDame PortraitSth~equle 
/ 
W!h(O)~ Class of 2011 Students 
Wlhcen,~ Pictures taken now through 
September 
Wlhceirce~ Lafortune 108 
Wlhy~ To be in your 2011 
Notre Dame 
Dome ·semember to
Yearbook 
,\l~>-
SigD up todagl 
www.LaurenStudios.com 
'' 
School Password-Dome 20111 




·­
Interested in playing Acousticafe? En1ai1 _1?.\i_i 1 ::.-.~_t ly_1LrJ_<J :. ::_{/ 1_1 or j~J! ~~1:_r::.~ 1__1:'f!:__!!_c}.:.'.:::"__f.1 ~1 


'f .t • .' # • , -• • ' ~/ • • , ~ -, 


And so it begins. Another year of hilarity and humiliation brought to you by the master of mortification, the sultan of scandal, your one and only Gipper! For those of you unfamiliar with me, an introduction is in order. You see, my little Giplings, since the dawn of time, dimwitted Domers have been disproving their alleged intelligence in the most unimaginable ways. Whether waking up in peculiar places or abandoning articles of clothing all across the Bend, you tiny terrors are always leaving a trail of tales for old Gipp to pick up. I am everywhere and anywhere. From the shadows of your dismal dorm parties to the backseat of the excise police car, I see all and, most importantly, report all to the world. Gossip is my lifeblood. ·Rumors are my fuel. Without your mishaps and mistakes, I would promptly perish: So please, I implore, keep me alive, my shameful little shamrocks! Not sure which dirty laundry you should air first? Read on for some illuminating inspiration. 
If Gipp were to have all of his Giplings write an elementary school essay on their summers, whatwould he get? Undoubtedly, there would be several selfless service projects, interminable internships and quite a few bros icing bros. But what saucy stories skulk beneath the surface? True to form, Gipp has caught wind of a tantalizing tale that comes to us from the campus offseason. After all, there's no statute of limitations for the likes of me, my foolhardy friends! For those daring Domers that decide . to endure duLac for an extra three, months, scandal and sin are certainly no strangers. Indeed, it often seems the summer heat brings out the most brazen side of my,typically tame little tykes! 
.Our first feature takes place not far 
bit of unsanitary, overheated relaxation. The gentleman (if you can call him that) -~ in this saga was taking a break from a long day of arduous athleticism, and found himself on the prowl for a post-practice partner. From across the bubbly brew he locked eyes with a lovely lass and knew that it was fate. Surely this was the damsel of his dreams, the heroine of his heart, his ring by spring, if you will. And if not, she 
would surely do for the night. 
With that sentiment in mind, the 
jubilant jock sifted through his mental 
playbook for the perfect plan to score. He 
eagerly enticed her to return to his locker 
room lair just down the road, offering up 
both his full name and address without any 
particular prompting on her part. Upon her 
rather rapid refusal, the (now jilted) jock 
became outraged. Back to the playbook 
he went, settling on a new strategy. Our 
persistent player declared a transaction 
of sorts -personal information for 
personal obligations. In his enlightened 
eyes, the exchange of home address surely 
necessitated some sort of services. Seeing 
right through his ramshackle reasoning, 
the little lady again abstained, and tried 
to change the subject. 
Not to be outdone by si_mple logic, the 
assiduous athlete perused his playbook 
one last time, and pulled out all the stops 
by pulling off his shorts! He knew that 
there was no denying him and that the 
lady would be his. Sadly, she was not even 
slightly swayed, and the two were ne'er to 
speak again. Gipp hates to see a summer 
romance go wrong, but perhaps this player 
should keep his moves on the field where 
they belong. 
If that saucy story didn't get your 
juices flowing, then take a gander at 
this next narrative. The start of a new 
school year means many things for my 
beloved Giplings: overpriced books, 
the humiliation of Frosh-0, nighttime 
hangovers from daytime tailgating and, 
of course, public urination. What's that, 
you say? The sophisticated students of 
this institution would dare to drop trou 
outside of a private, deadbolted stall?! It's 
true, my disbelieving Domers, and 01' 
Gipp will prove it to you! 
their glory days through the imbibing of watered-down well drinks. One such alum -a distinguished young lady with an established career, mind you -chose to spend her evening at a beloved downtown haunt with a distinctively disgusting floor (you know the joint). While standingin line with the droves ofother Domers vying for the attention of the barman, the graduate found herself in a prickly predicament. Feeling a pressing sensation from below the belt, she wondered whether or not to abandon her newly won spot at the front of the line in order to seek salvation. She briefly weighed the pros and cons, as any sensible college grad would, and realized with a great sigh of relief that she was wearing a dress. Why walk all the way to the ladies' room when you can transform the floor into your personal powder room? This fine representative of our renowned institution did just that, providing her own unique addition to whatever it is that already coats this particular pub's floor. 01' Gipp thinks it's safe to say that a few strangers' feet were victimized in the process, and his deepest condolences are extended their way. 
You see, Giplings? It doesn't take long for the scandals and secrets to start streaming in. You can run, but you can't hide. This school year comes with a clean slate, and the Gipper is just dying to cover it in raunchy rumors. But remember, my whirling dervishes, I rely on you for all things shamc::ful and embarrassing. So set down that homework and start tipping. 
Waka waka, 
The Gipper 
P.S. If the fame and glory ain't eno_ugh to get you goin', what say a little fortune? Starting this year, if you tip the Gipp and your tasty tale makes it into an issue, expect a pretty little prize to come your way! Now start digging up a bit o' dirt, my
I 
mischievous miscreants! 
from the Dome, at what you crazy kids The first football game of the year might refer to as a "rager.'' .On the evening can be a magical time, especially for 
T;PTHeg;PP
in question, several students found recent duLac graduates who flock back 
® @ a ® at g.ipper@nd.edu 
themselves flocking to the hot tub for a to town in an annual attempt to relive 
16 SEPTEMBER 2010 ISCHOLASTIC I33 

HUMOR 


To Say 

or 
Hello 

¦ ¦ ¦ 


see ya! 
Sarah Ceponis 
You've experienced. it before. Maybe it happened yesterday, or maybe it happens every day, but there cannot possibly be even one out ofS,342 Notre Dame undergraduates who has not faced that great dilemma: vVho is it socially acceptable to greet on the quad? Haven't you ever wondered ifitis appropriate to say hi to that girl you shared a cab with on the way home from Pigtostal last spring? You were best friends once, for the 10 minutes that the Jesus Cab careened toward Main Circle. How about the guy who had to pretend to attack you in your freshman year self­defense class? He had his arms around you in a chokehold every day for three weeks, so shouldn't a friendly wave be allowed these days? And then there is always the question of that random kid who is definitely in your major and definitely has been in at least one class with you each semest~r and you both know that you know this. But do you say hello when you and he cross paths in the library foyer, both holding the same textbook or do you gaze vacantly at the "Restrooms Located in the Basement" sign instead? Maybe if he says hi first. 
Perhaps as a general rule, don't say hello unless you know the approaching person's name. This strategy, however, might be oversimplifying things, because there is that guy I had my hand tied to for breakfast during Frosh-O -we're Facebook friends, and he updates his status incessantly. Not only do I know his name, but I also know his LSAT scores and the location of his roommate's 21st birthday celebration. Does he get a hello? I also definitely know the name of the sophomore down the hall who apparently has a side job as an online shopper but is never home, because UPS is constantly knocking on my door to get the coveted delivery signature. I certainly know her name; I sign it about once a week, but do I say hi to her outside O'Shag, or do we pretend not to know each other out of context? 
And we haven't even delved into that whole question of context; it is a crucial one. If you walk past Self-Defense Guy and he's with five friends and you're with your entire section, it's a no brainer that the hello can be avoided. But what about the 1:30 a.m., only-two-people­on-the-sidewalk type of encounter? You do the IO-feet-away, too-dark-to-identify-each­other glance, and the five-feet away, maybe­I-do-know-you glance, and the last minute right-under-the-lamppost glance, which gives you no time to decide what to say when it is in fact Self-Defense Guy and now you have made direct eye contact. A joke like, "Don't attack, I know self-defense!" might fall flat if he doesn't remember you. 
Another equally tough situation arises in th.e opposite context: the supremely crowded DeBartolo Superhighway at 11:25 a.m. on a vVednesd'ay. You cross paths with that girl who studied. abroad with your roommate arid who you haven't seen in a while but she emailed you about CoRec soccer and you keep forgetting tb:f'eply. Do you give a half-smile, keep walking and suppress the feeling ofguilt that you never replied? Or do you stop to talk, block traffic and exchange a few words, trying to have a non-awkward parting before you realize you have nothing more to say than, "HEY! I think I can do soccer ... And how 'bout this crazy weather?" So many questions, and so many hellos, or lack thereof. 
34 I SCHOLASTIC j 16 SEPTEMBER 2010 


HUMOR 
wee~ 
16 SEPTEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 35 

EXIT INTERVIEW 
Professor Christopher Kolda 

Caitlin Wilson 


Why didyou choose to teach at Notre Dame? 
I was doing research at [University California] Berkeley, my wife was pregnant with our first child and Notre Dame offered me a job. But more specifically, I really liked the wayNotre Dame highly values both research and teaching. I wanted to live in a place where it's easy to raise a family; it's not too expensive, and there's a great community. 
What isyourfavorite thing about Notre Dame students? 
My favorite thing is their generosity ofspirit. They are extraordinarily generous with their time, attention and hard work in the classroom. They are generous with each other in the way they build community on campus and generous after they graduate with so many students going into ACE [Alliance for Catholic Education] and working with the CSC [Center for Social Concerns], for example. They seem to have a supernatural willingness to take risks and to put themselves out for others. 
Ifyou weren't aphysics professor, what wouldyou be? 
My other love in college was history, so I had to make a hard decision about which degree to pursue. Part ofme would love to be a historian, especially of the Near East. That region has had such a huge impact, still today. But at least I get an outlet by telling my students lots ofthe history ofphysics, especially the funny and scandalous parts. 
Why shouldstudents take your class? 
I think everyone should take a modern physics course in college. So much of the modern world is based on 20th century physics, but few students learn any physics post-1800s. Ifyou want to be a real participant inshaping the modern world, it's as important to understand its scientific 
36 I SCHOLASTIC I16 SEPTEMBER 2010 
Classes like "Mathematical Methods in Physics" _and "Quarks to Quasars" may sound over:whelming, but professor Christopher Kolda's welcoming personality makes physics less intimidating. Kolda researches theoretical particle physics, considering unsolved mysteries from the most fundamental elements ofmatter to the workings ofthe cosmos. He also advises undergraduate majors and is known in the department for his intellect and approachabilif;y. 
foundations as itis its historical ones, and it's a lotmore fun than anyone thinks. It's not all inclined planes and pulleys. It's particle colliders and antimatter. 
Tell its one physicsfact that everyone needs to know. 
At the core ofmodern physics is quantum mechanics: A.n~ even though it is responsible for one-third ofour national economy; it tells ~s-th.i~gs­that are still difficult for physicists to accept. For one, it seems to tell us that there is no real difference between somethingness and nothingness, which is hard to accept at. face value. In some obscure way, quantum mechanics seems to tell us that it is impossible for nothii:igness to even exist. 
What was the most 1tsef11l thing you learned in college? 
Itseems strange, because myresearch1s entirely mathematical, buthow to read a circuit diagram. I've fixed m9tebroken electronic appliances because of that one electronics course in college. 
What arefive thingsyou can't live without? I can think ofa lot ofthings I could live without, like email, computers, but let's see. Caffeine. Snow -I need my snow fix. I'm a foodie, so I'd have to say good food. My family. And living in an intellectually stimulating environment. I wouldn't want to live without that. 
I know you went to Michigan for graduate school. Who do yoit rootfor during the Notre Dame vs. Michigan games? 
This is hard. My wife and I both went to Michigan, and we have a deal: I get to root for Notre Dame, and she gets to root for Michigan. 


breakj.Mt if served ~it 11ttU-1/ 

NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES 










