I
Cbc-
Dotre Dame Scholastic
•DISCeQVASI-SeniPCR-VlCTVRVS- -ViVG‘9VASb CRAS-MORITWVS* -
Vol. XXXVIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, May 27, 1905.	No. 32.
The Gold and Blue.
Air: 'Wy Own Unitetl States.”
EUGENE P. BURKE, ’06.
WE love our country's starry flag ’Neath which our fathers died, And through our life, in peace or strife, - It is our common pride.
But there’s another banner fair
To which we’ll e’er be true;
Where’er we meet with joy we’ll greet Our dear old Gold and Blue.
Chorus.
We honor thy colors, our dear Notre Dame, True sons we shall ever be.
In the struggle for right, ’mid the thick of the fight Thy children shall honor thee.
0 symbol of beauty, of honor and truth, Our hearts’ warmest praise is thy due;
We’ll honor thy name, our dear Notre Dame, Fair home of the Gold and Blue.
When we have left our college walls And toss about the world
We’ll hail with glee, where’er we see, Thy banner full, unfurled,
For from its folds will silent rise Sweet memories that drew Our voice to raise wild cheers of praise For dear old Gold and Blue.
Christianity and Civilization.
WILLIAM A. BOLGER, ’07.
HE word civilization brings to mind a more or less complete- realization of a certain ideal condition of human society. This ideal is different for individuals according to their
different opinions regarding the worth and purpose of life and the final destiny of man One who believes that the be-all and end-all
of man is realized in this world will have an ideal of civilization radically different from that of one who believes that life here is a great tiw-out for a perfect life hereafter. We believe with Dr. Bouquillon that “Society is a means, not an end, for- its members. Hence its highest degree of civilization is that in which or by which it can offer to the greatest number of its members the greatest facilities for reaching its true destinv. Clearlv, then, if we wish to be serious, to get at the bottom of the question, we must start with the idea of man and his destiny. Those who disagree at this point can have nothing in common bevond it.”
It is just here—by teaching the truth concerning man and his destinv—that Christianity laid the foundation of all that is noble, true, and enduring in modern’ civil-ization. It shall be my purpose to trace briefly the changes wrought in the ancient civilization by the adoption of Christian ideas concerning the individual, the family, and the state. The root idea of modem civilization, the idea which differentiates it from all others, is the value and dignity of the human personality. According to the definition of Roman jurisprudence “A person is a man endowed with a civil status.” If a man were not a citizen he was a mere thing, to be bought or sold, to be suffered
O J	O	7
to live, or to be put to death, precisely as an ox might be. From this mean conception of personality followed the slavery of the majority and the consequent degradation of every kind of manual labor. Just as we would feel degraded to be obliged to do the work of horses, so the Greek or Roman citizen would have felt himself degraded in doing the work of slaves.
But Christianity taught every man that he was created in the image and likeness
0
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of his Maker; that he was but a little lower than the angels; that before all time he was decreed to be a fellow-citizen of the saints and a member of the household of God. The fact that the Second Person of the Triune God became man vet remained God has raised human personality to a dignitv which the unaided human intellect could never have conceived. Forever after, merely to be born a child -of God with a birthright to eternal bliss was to be a fact the contemplation of which placed the 'individual above things merely temporal.
Add to the knowledge of such a destinv the belief that it can be missed onlv bv an act of his own free will and you have the highest possible motive for right living. And Christianitv offered not onlv the highest motives for morality, but also a definite standard and a perfect example in the life and teachings of its Founder.
The revolutionary character of this Christian idea of individual sacredness, worth, and responsibility; its utter novelty, and the far-reaching extent of its influence can hardly be overestimated. Of old, parents put to death a deformed child because it showed no promise of civic usefulness; the Christian unfortunate, because of its verv affliction, became the object of most tender parental solicitude. The pagan poor were neglected, the Christian pool* were gathered into hospitals, and .lovingly nursed as the little ones of God.	’
The full triumph of this Christian first principle involved the destruction of slavery. That all men are children of a common Father, to whom they are accountable for their actions, will forever militate against the distinction between master and slave. It was impossible for men believing themselves children of God permanently to remain the property of man or to hold property in man. It would of course have been highly
inexpedient for the Apostles to attack the society of the wife was the last thin slavery directly and openly. They took the sought after by the husband.”
world. as thej’- found it. They exhorted servants to be subject to their masters with all fear; and masters to treat their servants with justice and charity, knowing that the . Lord of both is in heaven. .
Slavery was tolerated by the Church, Cato divorced his wife in order to give her because man’s state and condition of life to a frierid. Women reckoned their ages by on earth, though of great importance, is the number-'of their husbands. She was a
not of first importance. But the time came when the Church attacked the institution openly. The Council of Epoane in the beginning of the sixth centurv ordained that “the master, who shall of ‘his own authority take away the life of his slave, shall be cut off for two years from the communion of the Church.” In 868 the Council of Worms subjected to a two years’ penance a master who should put his slave to death. Newly enfranchised slaves were protected against injustice and clothed with an inviolable sanctity. The ceremony of “manumission” was solemnly performed in church in the presence of Him before whom all are equal. Later on religious orders were formed for the express purpose of ransoming and freeing captured slaves. In all these ways the public opinion of Christendom was slowly turned against this survival of paganism. Though the struggle lasted hundreds of years, it can not be denied that the final extinction of slavery is the logical and inevitable outcome of the spread of gospel principles.
Another triumph of Christianity was the establishment of the Christian familv, or, as Mr. Allies calls it, “the new creation of the true relation between man and woman.” At the time of our Lord’s ministrv the social position of woman throughout the whole civilized world was more degraded and degrading than perhaps it had ever been before. “In Greece,” to quote Mr. Allies, “the woman was looked upon, not as the human creature, man’s like., and companion, but as means to an end, as an evil which could not be escaped in order that there might be house . arid children. Her intellectual education was disregarded® and so her influence on her husband was slight; even the rich and noble were not brought up in accomplishments which might form the charm of the home. Socrates admits that
I

I

sought after by the husband.
Among the Romans the husband had unlimited liberties of divorce. Cicero repudiated the mother of his children for a rich and young bride, and then after a year’s marriage expelled her in turn. The virtuous
l
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
minor all her life, first under her husband, and if she became a widow she was subject to her husband’s relatives.
Among the Jews the unlimited use of divorce had become the scourge of the domestic life and threatened the existence . of the nation. A famous rabbi records the granting of a divorce because the wife had let the broth burn. Such was the extreme laxitv of the marriage bond among the people who had been taught the true relation between man and woman.
This was the position of woman and the famih’- when Augustus attempted to place his mighty empire on a solid footing. The cultured Greek and the pleasure-loving Roman shrank from the arduous duties of marriage and the rearing of families. The childless rich man was courted and petted bj* a fickle people; what was this powerful monarch to do? The old Roman virtues which had made her the mistress of the world were gone, and their very mention was a reproach to his generation. Who would even allude to Lucretia in the court of Augustus? He did all he could. He made laws against celibacy, and such laws are the best evidence of national decay. Their necessity proves an awful state of morality and misery.
. But there came into this decadent civilization a new creative force—the Christian conception of the family. The right relation between man and woman was secured in the indissoluble unity and inviolable sacredness of the marriage relation. Here, indeed, was the foundation on which states might be built. It became the foundation of Christendom, and will forever be the corner stone of enduring states.
Woman was now what God intended her to be: man’s companion, friend, and equal; the sharer of his joys and sorrows; his spouse for time and eternity; the creator of his home; the educator of his children; and, next * to God, the object of his tenderest affection.
Besides establishing the right relation between man and woman, Christianity taught the right relation of man to man, of man to 'the state. In Greece and Rome man existed for the state, and had no rights which it was bound to respect. ‘‘They knew no higher good than the good of the human commonwealth, and its extension . and government was the highest, result of the
5f9
virtue which they contemplated. Man had in himself no intrinsic value which could outweigh or vie with this result.”
In the Christian conception the state exists for the good of its members, and it o	7
must be obeyed when commanding ■within its sphere, for there is no power but from God. Yet the individual has certain inalienable rights upon which the state may never infringe, and among these are the right to worship God according to the dictates of his conscience,' and the right to teach the knowledge of God. For maintaining these rights millions of individuals have been tortured, imprisoned, thrown to wild beasts, and killed in a thousand most cruel ways. The battle has waged from the beginning, and will perhaps continue to the end of time.
Sometimes the state has encroached upon the Church and thrust upon her unworthy ministers who disgraced her; sometimes the state has been of real service to the Church, as in the case of Pepin and Charlemagne. At other times the government of the world has been wielded by the Papacy, because there was no other power with sufficient intelligence, virtue and courage to command, as in the time of Pope Nicholas I. Each power is supreme in its own sphere: the Church in things divine, the state in human things. “Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar’s and to God the things that are God’s,” implies this truth. The difficulty arises in determining the things which are Caesar’s and the things which are God’s. This conflict -may be interminable, since human nature is what it is; vet Christianitv makes ciwil government sacred because it comes from God; and at the ■same time makes individual rights inviolable because the individual is the child of God.
A Magdalen.	.
CHARLES L. O’DOXNELL, ’06.
XX7ITH eyes macle strong a space she firmly gazed , Upon the full-fired Sun of blazing noon;
Then looked upon the darkened earth, amazed That all its beauty should have fled so soon.
Unsafe the ways she long had walked secure, False even- precept she had reckoned right,:
And all the glare of sense, ah, how impure
To her soul’s eves, drenched with the Living Light.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Night of the Storm.
THOMAS A. r-ARVIN.
Sterling enjoys an enviable position in the centre of the corn and wheat belt of southeastern Kansas along the winding course of the Arkansas not many miles from the city .of Wichita. It stands upon the west bank, the whole country sloping gently down to the stream. As a result it receives the full breath of the damp eastern breeze sweeping unbroken across the vast prairie. Upon the west is a double row of babymountains which tempers the harshness of everv western gale and shuts off the ravs of the departing sun well-nigh half an .hour before his mission is completed, giving those poor inhabitants more night than dav.
Were you to have visited this town fifteen years ago and taken a seat upon the railroad water tower on the river bank, you would have noticed close to the railroad track a square, two-storied hotel with scarce a trace of paint, the weather boarding warped and full of holes, through which the bats and sparrows streamed in sportive play; in front, near the moss-covered sidewalk, an old sidling lamp-post that, no doubt, years ago brightened the way for weary or drunken travelers seeking shelter for the night; and but a few rods from the hotel a low, flat-roofed red building with two barred windows and a single door. Here poor Jack Murphy spent many sluggish nights during the season that Dr.: -Bellcamp was the acting druggist, selling whiskey and quinine according to law.	.
As you sit upon the tower surveying the general contour of the country before you, let me introduce to you Bobby Jones the joker, his red, curly beard always parted in the middle, Billy Ball, the city marshall, and Silas Warren, the. grocer. Any evening
the wind. The elements were furiously contending,—a thundering roar as if some wild and famous horsemen had rushed together clashing steel and breaking helmets; a low this distinguished set might be found in and wailing moan as if some noble spirit Silas’ grocery store nominating presidential ’	‘	~	'	- - - - -
candidates, criticising the action of the gov
• ernor, or scoring the village school-teacher for inflicting some trifling punishment upon their children.	; nestled himself more- comfortably into
A'singular thing-about; Sterling is that it his rocker. Before long he was - asleep,
had no church; no priest to speak words of comfort to the dying, or bless the wedding feast; no Sunday-school children to mock the birds in song or play.
Such were the conditions when Dr. Patton settled down to practise in Sterling fifteen 1 years ago. The doctor was a man of medium height, square shoulders, well-built body, intelligent look,—in short, he was handsome. But he was also very poor. His office was an old frame building with no worthy mark to call the eve save the doctor’s shingle reading thus: “Dr. Patton, Specialist.”
Time passed on. Winter came. The cruel giants of the north were tearing the elements asunder, causing turmoil • and confusion, rain-storm and snow. The doctor was not vet fullv accustomed to his new life. His mind stole back into the past and freshened a thousand memories of his college days, or explored the future, erecting air castles with one thought only to see them torn down with another.
It was a cold stormj' night in February. The freakish wind in seeming madness grumbled, rushed, twisted, as if running down some deadly foe; again lying in wait to ensnare or entice him. The doctor sat by the hearth smoking his pipe. “Was there ever such a night ”? thought he, and he pulled his chair up closer to the fire. The rats and mice above his head fought, squealed, and rattled back and forth. The grunty pug dog upon the floor crouched closer to the blazing hearth, folding up his ears to catch the music of the sparks as' they chased each other up the flue in crackling madness. The smoke from the doctor’s meerschaum pipe rolled in winding columns from the bowl.
Still the snow fell fast and played about the corners of the house to the rhythm of
£

in passing from the wounded body was lamenting it in bitter tones.
The clock upon the mantel struck eleven, and the doctor shrugging his shoulders
NOTRE DAME
i while the noise of the stonn was a lullabv i in his ears.
:	Suddenly a shout pealed out in the road-
;' way, and the doctor, rubbing his eyes, -	hallooed “Who’s there?” The familiar voice
'	of Jack Murphy responded: “Say, is this
where Murphy lives?” Jack had just returned from Bellcamp’s, where he had been treating a severe cold with the druggist’s quinined-whiskey, and had lost his way. Patton, cursing the “fat lobster” for disturbing his nap, 5	fell back again into his slumbers, thinking,
■	as he dozed off, that he would rise presently
,	and retire. Soon again he was asleep, dream,	ing the happiest -little incidents, clasping his
[	hands—his lips even smacked—as if some
:	cherished hope or ambition was just about
1	to leave his grasp; again he was frowning*
and moving uneasily, perhaps he was rob-■ bing the grave of Mother Naneek, who had died of some unknown disease, and was battling with the spirit for the mastery of • the body; now his eyes were open, staring . ghastly into space, perhaps the angel- of the better man taking liberty to look about to secure some new and stronger vantage point.
The clock now told twelve. The doctor was yet asleep. The storm raged loudly on—no abatement whatever.
In the outskirts of the village, in an bld . weather-beaten frame building which allowed the wind and storm to rattle through its cracks, lived a family named Dixon. The father had now been dead three years. All that remained were the mother,—weak, sickly, unable to work—and two daughters, Bessie, seven, Beatrice scarce nineteen.
On this particular evening at well-nigh midnight, a tall girl, stately, but poorly dressed, closed the door behind her, and tucking an old red shawl around, her trudged towards the doctor’s office.
Shortly after midnight ,the doctor was aroused from his sleep by a sharp rap upon the door. It was repeated before the drowsy doctor had time to rise from his chair.
On opening it he saw a young woman - standing beyond the step, the wind cir-\ cling snow-clouds about her, which every _ now and then gushed suddenly into -the doctor’s face.
SCHOLASTIC.	C2i
“ Good -evening,” spoke the physician, with an, important air. .	. .// w:
“Good-evening. Are vou the. doctor?” . she hurriedlv asked.	'	-	‘	-
“Yes, madam.” With a curious air,.he "7-7..y' said: “Come in, it is mighty cold to stand ’	? ?
outside.”	‘ r - . / /
Beatrice slowly stepped inside and took .	\
a chair near the door, her hand still clutch-	-
ing the shawl at her throat. •	;	-
For a moment, the doctor, eyed her: her	-
face was - motionless and pale, her eyes of	b
a searching blue beneath their heavv arch- -ing brows; her 'mouth, was wide, and her : lips were tightly compressed; her voice was weak; her breast uneasily rose and .fell. Unconsciously, she . shifted her feet as her hand twitched nervously at the shawl. -	.
“Well, what’s the matter? Anvthing I	.
can do for vou?” began the doctor. '
“0 Doctor, can’t you help me? My mother is dying and my little sister is very sick,” . she almost shrieked, as her voice broke into a sob.	-
“Why, what seems to be the matter?” queried the doctor.	•'	.	~	-
“For weeks past my mother has been sick.
We had hardly anything to eat—no wood -	-
to make a fire—nd comforts at all. We can -	.
not pay you, but I know you will come?” she murmured ^brokenly, as she wrung.her . hands and looked piteously, toward him. .	• .
“Never mind that. I’ll go with you. at once,” said the doctor as he pulled on his- . great fur coat and took up his satchel, and .	.
both hurried out into the night and . the. : -blinding snow.	-
When they reached the house , Beatrice	:
led him into a dingy, poorly-lighted room.	h
The doctor went to the bedside and there 7 ‘ 7 was Mrs. Dixon dead; and close beside her,? clinging to the dead mother in childish affection, was Bessie, pale, and weak; her brown, curly locks scattered loose upon	'
her pillow. .	.	.	■
“As for your mother,” said the doctor
stroking his face, ‘.‘.she is dead.. All we can ;	_7.'
do is to restore your sister who is not sick ; 7 \ *-77 but hungry.” Patton gave her the usual 7 7;77 medical assistance/and callingBeatrice aside	’
told her that lie would see that /they ’■> 7 7 were provided with food: till Bessie was . -/ 7 w/f fully restored to health; and that,he?would/; 7 .77/ return in the morning and -prepare ? a burial ? . i
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
522
for her mother: then he hurried aivav.
J
He came at eight o’clock the next morning and finding Bessie to be improving nicely began to prepare a burial for Kirs. Dixon. As Bellcamp was both druggist and undertaker, he was by special request of Dr. Patton early on the scene, and by ten o’clock had the bodv readv for burial.
As there was no minister in the town, the doctor was selected to fill his place, and with bowed head and downcast eyes the man of medicine knelt at the grave of a poor unfortunate widow and prayed for the first time in years. '
All the while the villagers looked on with awe-stricken curiosity, and from this very moment regarded the doctor as a far greater personage than ever before: he was their counselor in business, their comfort in sickness, their minister in death.
After the funeral the doctor called upon Beatrice and her sister, onty a few times. The neighbors were kind to them and carried on the work of helpfulness that he had begun. Toward spring he received an invitation to • go on a hunting expedition with a few old college chums and .when he returned he observed that the house in which the Dixons had lived was vacated.
a.I suppose they have gone to friends somewhere. Somehow I always thought they were refined—.more so than most of the people here”—mused the doctor, as he went on his way.	'
- After about five years in Sterling, the doctor thought that he would like, a larger field for practice; some place where he would come in contact f with the great masters of his profession, and a larger
number of cases. He accordingly accepted a. position in a hospital in Butte, Montana, much to the regret of the people of Sterling, and left-them with their .prayers and best night. Beatrice; again broke the silence: wishes. He acquired great fame as a surgeon “ 0 this is! fine, doctor. How veiy different . — in. the; hospital, and soon 'everyone, sought, from that most terrible night that ! came, the services of . the great doctor who tvas a beggar, to ?your office-tin Sterling.” always so .kind and cheerful. , ; “It was an awful night,” said the doctor
He was no longer an amateur,; and the	.	gravely; “ but we will forget all those	<
days that he ; sat in his ! office in! Sterling	troubles of the past/ We will see a great	;
waiting for practice seemed■ like a far-off	deal of eacli other here, shall we not?” '
dream.	/ \.r/.y//;/:; T-	Beatricenodded assent, blushing as she '
; One',evening-. Dr. Patton was - invited to did so, for intuitively she read the. hidden ■
attend aybMl/gityn/by/the. fsocitytypeople/ m	,	;
of ;!:the-.! place, /T^	future/events"proved| she read correctly, /
gorgeouslv decorated; one end of it seemed to fade away into woodland; thousands of lights hung from the gilded chandeliers; and the vast crowd of gaily-dressed people gave the place a brilliant appearance.
The doctor during the evening saw a lady, whose countenance attracted him; he thought that he must have seen her before, then dismissed the idea as a fantasy of the imagination. Nevertheless, he sought her acquaintance, and when they were introduced they said to each other almost simultaneously:	-
“Were you ever in Sterlingj Kansas?”
Then while the others , were dancing to the low, soft rhythmical music, Doctor Patton and Miss Dixon sat apart in a cove of flowers and she told the doctor her storv.	.
“My father.was a wealthy senator. There was great .speculation in those days in Butte, and he invested all his wealth in a mine. , It proved worthless, and soon after father died, poor and discouraged. Then there came a. siege of hard times—such as all mining towns occasionally experience— food was high and money was scarce, and mother had to -leave. She took us to Kansas. God only knows the hardships we went through. Well; one day after my mother’s burial I received a letter from a distant relative saying that the mine my -father had. purchased had been reclaimed and was _very paying, and that Bessie and I were the sole heirs. Before we left Sterling we went to bid you good-bye, but you were ■ not at home at .the time.” . .
They sat in silence for a moment. The cool mountain breeze wafted softly through the window. Without laj/the great busy city of Butte—its long,'lighted streets fading away into the. mellowness of; the summer
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
|	The Reign of Peace.
< '
V/	•	(Horace, Odes IV, 15.)
I would have sung, of wars and strife, j	But Phoebus chided me
* - '
i	Lest I should set my little sails .
'	In the Tyrrhenian- Sea.	.
’ Your age, 0 Caesar, has restored
.	The crops within the field,
. And carried back the standards'bright
That Parthians fain-would shield. .
Your age has closed the War God’s gates,
?	Free from all strife are we;
:	Foul crimes have given place to arts,
.	The strength of I tali’.
:	It has increased the Latin name.
J
;	Thy fame abroad has spread .
;	From eastward, where the sun awakes,
t	Down to its western bed.
t _
’’	While thou art master of affairs
'	No war shall shake our peace;
•	Hatred, which sets unhappy states
1	At variance, shall cease.
I	'	’	'
;	Not those who drink of Danube deep
Shall break thy laws forever,
’	Not Getae, Seers, nor Persians false
Nor those from the Don Fiver.
'	'	Then let us both on festivals
And common days rejoice,
.	'	And ’mid the gifts of Bacchus gay, .
Let each one raise his voice.
[	Thus having first invoked tlie gods
।	Like our great sires we’ll sing
1	_ Of Troy, Anchises, valiant chiefs,
।	And Venus’ fair offspring.	T. E. B.
i	'
Chaucer’s Diction and Tenets.
HENRY II. KEMPER, ’05.	.
William the Conqueror and his followers by superior forces and armament defeated Harold’s brave little band at Senlac in 1066. They ruled the vanquished and maintained their rule not onk’ by right of conquest but also by the administration of superior laws. Proud of their’ military and judicial supremacy the invaders for many, generations held
523 • '
onism and native, pride divided the 'people- • -into two streams which for a century and a half ran proudly in their separate courses; and then, with the loss of French lands . . and succession, reunited in one clear channel... England awoke to find herself a nation:: - ~ The dread with which Ormins and Layamon , scrupulously shunned French words gave way to an almost complete reconstruction of our language; from being synthetic it became analytic. The inflection of nouns, ; adjectives and verbs ceased; final vowels ~ 1. were changed; some consonants became .. softened, prepositions became more numer-., ous, and French words .were more freely -employed—all combining to give our tongue a marvelous power, grace and elasticity. In . poetry, metre and rhyme substituted alliter- .	:
ation and accent. Its freedom was restricted by conventional rules and tempered by classical models.	‘ .	1	• .
Chaucer found in England a confusion .-of dialects, and by his towering, supremacy ‘ . made his own, that of East Midland, the immediate source of our literary wealth. , He is, therefore, rightly regarded as the-father of English poetry. True, he is criticised : „. for his wholesale French adoptions; but, . when all is said, he did no more than stamp . words of current usage with the stamp : of ‘ eligibility, giving’ a literarv value, to the spoken diction , of his time—a process that, has and ever will continue, to be approved. This is the more pardonable in Chaucer inasmuch as he was influenced bv French. ■ customs as a soldier and diplomat; took ’ from its literary storehouse the first sources of his poetic inspirations and early .ri . translations; and owed his readers, bv ri .virtue of his popular subjects, a: .language..	.*
that was familiar to them. “In coinpass; : flexibility, expressiveness, grace and all: the ri higher qualities of poetical diction,” says Mr.. , ri ri Marsh, “ Chaucer gave his dialect at once . the utmost perfection which the materials ri at his hand would admit of.” >. >
Chaucer, who was a devoted son of the .
aloof from the villein class in language and Church, was fond of reading and 7 writing. . customs. Though Norman traits influenced entertaining^ stories, ever striving to make; the official, military, social and clericalhis characters.:as true to. life as possible; population; the conquerors—never exceeding but, if-necessary, suiting popular prejudices . - a quarter of a million—had to combat a to the taste ofhis readers and the needs of patriotic, conservative people fully eight his “ purs.” That he wrote Tor a large audi' times as strong in numbers. Class antag- ence is evident from the choice of his subject, >'
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
his characters and manner of treating them.
It seems to have been rather fashionable in the contemporary history and literature to expose the shortcomings of the Church’s dignitaries. Walter Mapp satirizes the clergy in his De NuAs Curialium, somewhat as had been done in the Land of Cockaygne. Langland, who had been prevented from further ecclesiastic promotions on account of his marriage, expresses his prejudice concerning Church and State in a mooclv allegory. Wycliffe brought to a climax the discontent of the peasants which had been fomented by war, taxation, the Black Death and labor disputes. At a very imprudent time he tried to shake the. authority of Church and State by applying to them feudal methods. Those of his “.poor priests ” that survived till-the Lancastrians ascended the throne were given the alternative of recanting or suffering legal burning at the stake.
When Chaucer .was in his prime the Church Avas in its Babjdonian captivity at Avignon, and England being then hard pressed and asserting the Pope’s civil dependency bn the French government, rejected her feudal vassalage. At the same time the anticlerical party deprived many ecclesiastics -of government positions, just as fifty years previous the latter’s donations had been curtailed by the Statute of Mortmain. The Franciscans and Dominicans were founded only the century before Chaucer, and- considering the high ascetic standard they have set to the present day, they could hardly have sunk to such a low level as he portrays’ them. Whether the poet’s monk, -filar, and. pardoner are realistic of not, they -form a striking contrast with the exemplary characters of the .priest and of the nun.- To- ’ clay Chaucer is best. remembered. as he-was drawn by Occleve with a rosary in his hand and invoking the Blessed Wirgin:
. ’ Moder, of whom- bur joy gan to spring, ..
. Be ye mine;judge and eke my sbiiles leech !
The Return.
THOMAS E. BURKE, ,'07.
*
a'
A LITTLE blue-eyed maiden Tripp’d o’er a grassy field, Soft did the gentle herbage
Beneath her footsteps yield. .
Upon her arm a basket, . A smile upon her face, - ■ She hummed a song of Mav-time
With thoughtless, childish grace.
She went into the city, As merry as a lark.	' .
The da}- burned out, the shadows fell, She came not back at dark.
Sun after sun arose, and shone, And burned to twilight grey, And from each dving orb there fell The ashes of, the dav.
And now to-night a lady faint Conies stepping o’er the lawn, Iler eyes no longer shine with joy
Her beauty now is gone.
-The city dust has soiled her brow, • The smoke has dimmed her eyes, She longs once more to be alone
Beneath the country skies;
To hear the robin in the brake Spilling in melody
"The joys within its throbbing breast, Beneath the greenwood tree.
And in the silences; between - These happy, ringing lays, In, .fitful- fancies summon back
The hopes of other days.
ROBERT A. KASPER, ’07

Crust
Young Baker , was raised in the East, / Y ■?. And was br,ought ,up omflour, dnd-on yeast?
.. . 'Hd,was. weli-bred,.you.know;*}- ;M •. -?	'
But- he- caine.West with:’doughy.-	.
Alia there loafed, ftKbugll they needed- him East.
He loved the girl and would marry her; but his-father said “No,” and that settled it—at least for a time. .	■
Ira Reuterdahl was a fine lad of good' appearance, and hailed from an old Dutch family of some prominence. At the age of twenty-five hefinished school, where lie had?:
1 taken- a collegiate? degree, and later studied
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
525
law. His rise in the legal profession was of the match was mentioned. .Finally, he rapid, due to his own individual efforts, and decided , to try once, more, though he knew
not through any “pull,” as is sometimes the case with young men of such prominent family connections. He was out of school only two years, nevertheless, some of the oldest legal advisers of the town of Hamston, in eastern New Jersey, trusted him implicitly,
and prophesied a bright future for him. He “Father,, will you give me no chance at
had not lost a single case, though some were seemingly hopeless and often defeat stared him in the face. His father was rightly proud of his boy; but this did not in any way interfere with his attitude in regard to Ira marrving Miss Smith. The older Reuterdahl did not like the girl, but why no one could learn. The Smith family were well known throughout New Jersey, respected and beloved by all with whom they came in contact.	.
The ire of Air. Smith was somewhat aroused, since Mr. Reuterdahl objected to the match, so much so as to ^consider it a direct insult to his family. Ira with difficulty
prevailed upon the girl’s father ' give vent to his feelings, since thing would destrov all his chances claiming the girl. 0-0	-
“Father will think it over and
not to such a of ever
all will
be well,” he told Mr. Smith; but that gentleman was not as confident as the „young man. .
Ira was deeply in love, and decided that sooner than marry some one else he would live and die a bachelor. To run away and get married was too low and base a proceeding for one of his character; the thought of doing’ such a thing never even entering his mind. Nor would he marry1' the girl, .
though he loved her ever so dearlv, unless treat a heart as though it were a mere his father gave his consent. The mother lottery. What you propose is a mockery, was in favor7 of the match, and tried to We play cards for a heart? That can never
was in favor of the match, and tried to
prevail upon her husband to sanction it;
but . the latter was firm and would . not less to me; if I lose, I would be unhappy yield. Son and mother begged and pleaded all my life. If I entered into such a project; ;I for almost a year, and finding that the would-prove, myself unworthy of the one question annoyed the father without chang- '.I love. No, father, I can not;accept such a \ ing him they desisted, and the matter was -proposition. I have a chance, but. this I
dropped.	-	forbear. Aly—”
Ira, however, did not forget about it. “Enough,”-cried Alt. Reuterdahl. “The He became morose and • never . went but ? girl is yours.” Then turning to his wife he at night unless called away bh business, said with a knowing smile: “It was hard Hisfather and he often played cards until' on him; but he stood the test well and the close onto midnight, but never a word girl may be sure of a worthy husband.
it was of no avail. If he could but find' . . out what his father-had against the girl, then' he -would have something to work upon. They were playing cards as usual one night when Ira leaned forward and said abruptly: •	.
all? Make some sort of a proposition and' I shall bother you no more. I love the girl more than words can tell, and without her I shall never be happy. Propose a plan or at least tell me whv vou do not like her. I have been all that a dutiful son. could be, and all I ask in -'return is a little " consideration.” “
The father was affected bv the honest words of his boy, but he was not to be so easily moved, and called to the mother to come downstairs. Her appearance w-as the ' signal for his answer. His. voice was steady . and his tones deliberate as he addressed his wife:	.	.	•
“Ira has pleaded hath me to allow the . match to take place. He has begged so earnestlv that I shall give him one chance. Aly proposition is this: Ira, you and J will play a game of whist. If you win you may claim the girl and marrv her with mv consent; but if you lose, the girl is lost to you forever. All pleading will be useless and the question must . never be brought up again.” .	. .	.
For a long time the lad sat in silence. His head, rested between' his hands and he was the picture of despair. At Ia.st he replied? in a voice fraught:with .emotion: ..	?	.
‘ ‘Father, consider . what vou : offer. You
be. If I win, your, consent .would be 'worthless to me; if I lose, I would be .unhappy
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, Indiana. _	_
Not.e Dame, Indiana, May 27, J 905.
Board of Editors.
STEPHEN F. RIORDAN, ’04
MICHAEL J. SHEA, ’04 JOHN M. QUINLAN, ’04
HENRY M. KEMPER, ’05 CHAS. L. O’DONNELL, ’06 WILLIAM D. JAMIESON, ’05 .
JOHN F. SHEA, ’06	EUGENE P. BURKE, ’06
BERNARD S. FAHY, ’05	WILLIAM A. BOLGER, ’07
ROBERT L. BRACKEN, ’07.	'
—Durins; the week the University was honored by a visit from the Right Reverend Edward O’Dea, D. D., of Seattle, Washington. With Bishop O’Dea was the Reverend Felix Verwilghen, of Vancouver, the Reverend gentlemen being now on their way to Rome.
—Owing to lack of space we were unable to publish in this issue a detailed account of .the ceremonies accompanying the formal presentation of the Lzetare Medal which took place in Boston last Thursday night. The recipient^of the honor, Mr. Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, has already been fully sketched for the readers of the Scholastic ; therefore, next week we shall endeavor to print a full account of the function together with the presentation address of our Very Reverend President, Father Morrissey; and the reply of Mr. Fitzpatrick.
The responses have been discouraging and the contributions comparatively few. Now, why is this ? It is not because of the absence of talent among the sons of Notre Dame. Past performances eliminate such a possibility. But is it because that talent is latent or unused ? Such indeed would, seem to be the case. If so, what then is the cause of the lack of enthusiasm in this venture? True it is that men are always distrustful of the novel, or the exotic. “Be not the first by whom the new is.tried” still survives to the stinting and damnation of pioneer movement. Eet us consider, however, whether this is entirely a new . step—this dream-ship in which we have freighted our hopes. Other colleges have embarked in similar enterprises, and other colleges too numerous to mention, have succeeded. Notre Dame is as well qualified to undertake and as well prepared to make a success of this work.
And taking a closer view of it. The power of song is proverbial. There is no better way of arousing and sustaining enthusiasm and. loyalty than by truly typical and really representative college songs; songs that express the. spirit, and melodies that characterize the atmosphere of a school. Above all, the work is not near so hard as it would seem. It is well within the average collegiate and, we dare say, even the preparatory student. Then why not make a try ? There is a lot to be gained and nothing to be lost, There is the chance of vindicating self in one’s own eyes by doing some really praiseworthy work , and manifesting that manly loyalty which cheerfully accepts the . secret individual drudgery for the sake of the general goody Let this appeal not be fruitless. . The enterprise is a serious one and requires serious thought, and such we know it has
and will, receive, for. surely there are some of our alumni 'who have caried away with them. many tender and' refreshing memories which they are clever enough to translate into , rhythmical verse, and. some of our
—Sometime ago inthese columns we dis- students to whose, heart poetry, lies close ; cussed a plan which aimed at the publication enough to inspire them to sing the praises of a book of Notre Dame songs. The alumni ’ of their Alma. Mater. Those who are ’ and student body were asked to take a hand interested in this, matter, which should be in the matter and contribute parodies or a concern to every: reader of this paper, /original compositions; Notre Dame poems are cordially ‘ invited - to. write to , the that could be set to the music of bidipopulay ; Faculty; Board of Control—Box 57, Notre . . airs, ;or to music of their,; own; composition.. Dame,yindia.naj	< . b l
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Senior Law-Class Banquet.
very opportunely began the feast, of wit^ .	. v
and wisdom .by calling on Daniel L. Murphy,?:? -AAy. Ct through Mr. Steele, for the toast “Our Dean:’’ ;	:
In a few but heartfelt sentences, Mr. Murphy : 'T-'NJ. expressed in as warm a manner perhaps as	. :
words were capable of, the high respect ancl, : .; j... J esteem of the class for their learned* master,,	?
and their appreciation of his unselfish interests ? ;	?
in them and his unceasing labors to promote /- 7 J . their welfare; and to this Colonel. Hoynes 7 ?'7 ’ responded in that cheery, that kindly,, that .	/ . .
paternal way which has .so endeared him , > to his classes, and, in fact, to . all who t / k? know him. '	.	• \
Edward H. Schwab next touched upon 7.
“The Class” in a fitting and: apt. manner?	.
For his associates he had mo extravagant’ ; praise, and in that he sounded the keynote .	. ,
that had been so evident throughout. the , ‘
. career of the organization of the graduate .	.
lawyers of 1905—they have lent themselves 77. ' ';7 at all times to honorable, simple and. . ; straightforward action, never to weak: ; vacillation or tawdry display. Mr. Schwab certainly, brought credit to his class. .	. -
“The University” furnished a pleasant theme and plenty of material for Earl F..	’/ .. ’
Gruber, who dwelt with student lovaltv -upon the natural beauties and virtuous actions of owe ’ Alma Mater, betraving a filial love for the place of such intimate . associations and environments as.“ dear bld ..
-Notre Dame.” :	.. ’-47:'
It would have been impossible to have chosen one more full of his subject or better . , ; . fitted to handle “The Law”, than John J. y. . 7 O’Connor, who so well recognizes her as a jealous mistress. “Ignorance of the law	:
excuses no one; ” but, Mr. O’Connor had	/' "s
no occasion to offer such, an excuse, for. his	..	r.
tribute to that all-important subject showed	; V .
a past-master’s knowledge and appreciation ' / of “TheLaw.”	- \.	7
Beyond doubt, the hit of the evening was.	:
William J. Mahoney’s “ Infants, Lunatic, and/ ' ' / Married Women.” It was. to be expected ;	.
that even he should see in the subject prob- 7 ably more than enough for any one man’s v . natural’life; for “to be kept in the straight	.
and narrow path by day and forced to walk .	.	\ 7-^
.the creaking floor by . night leaves one but	v ?
little time to consider the - unfortunate lot of	.	77
the lunatic.” But being free from such . 7 ?>7 unnatural restraints. 7 and X inharmonious	7-t|'7x
f In. pursuance of a time-honored custom here at Notre Dame the graduating class ' in law held their annual banquet last Wednesday evening. At 7:30 p. m. the members of the class were all gathered together at the Oliver Hotel, in the Turkish parlor, from which they were forthwith ’ summoned to partake of the sumptuous feast prepared for them. In addition to the members themselves' Hon. AVilliamHovnes, . Dean of the Law Department, and Professor ■ Sherman Steele were present as guests of the class, cheerfully lending their expansive - fund of jest and anecdote to the furtherance of the sociability and good-fellowship so prominent throughout the evening. Much to the regret of the class Reverend President ; Morrissey was unable to attend, so that - extra effort was required of each man to make up for the loss of his cheering presence. The enticing, viands loosened the tongues of the erstwhile silent lawyers, as the feast progressed amid sallies of wit and' peals
' of merriment; the genial Dean’s glowing account of his multifarious and picturesque experiences as one of the nation’s gallant defenders, way back in the ’60’s, distracting ' attention from that tightening sensation o	o
- about the waist-line—the coffee and cigars being reached just as the valiant Colonel Hoynes. was charging upon the. strongly intrenched Confederate position in the battle of Prairie Grove. It was in this battle that
■ the Colonel was wounded, and the .company ■ , sat in breathless suspense while he Himself graphically narrated the events leading up
. to the injury that came so near to cutting off their beloved dean in his youthful vigor.
. . But he lived through it all, and after participating in the siege of Vicksburg, , . there was. a momentary hush while the . photographer took an, enduring record of . a scene which shall, remain in after' years 7 1 a pleasant' memory to those who sat and supped at the class banquet of: the, law - . graduates of 1905.	.
; The \ flash in the pan, however, sponta-. . neously illuminated ; minds made J dro.wsy through a sense of appetite well satisfied and ; wits hitherto dulled by; preoccupation; so
. that Dean Hoynes, acting as toast-master,.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
surroundings, the versatile wit found occasion to dwell at some length on each.
The evening’s entertainment would have o
been incomplete had the toast - master overlooked Professor Steele, who was called upon to say a few words. His-, intimate association with Colonel Hoynes, and with this, the first law class graduated under his supervision and instruction, afforded him special opportunity to maintain his firmly established and widespread reputation as an after-dinner speaker. His sincerity toward the Colonel and the class, and his cheerfully buoyant view of the future of the individual members of the “first and dearest class graduating under him,” were a delight and an inspiration to each and everyone of his auditors.
The members of the class who had not hitherto spoken were next called upon, and thejr responded with appropriate words of good-fellowship; and with the closing remarks of the last speaker, the company rose with one accord and drank (water) with a right good-will to the long life and continued health of Colonel Hoynes. Thus ended, perhaps, the most successful banquet ever given by any class at Notre Dame; and in the wee small hours of the morning, the tired, happy banqueters ' sought rest and sleep, but only dreamed and lived over again the pleasant events of the night of the 1905 Law Class Banquet.
Cuban Students’ Banquet.
Last Saturday, May 20, marked the third anniversary of Cuba’s independence. That day was indeed noteworthy for the appropriate way in which those students of the island republic who are now attending Notre Dame celebrated the event. Early Saturday’ afternoon the Cuban Club, en masse, proceeded to South Bend, where, after having had a group photograph taken, they spent a pleasant afternoon. In the evening at 7:30 every member of.'the ‘organization assembled in the parlor of the Oliver Hotel. From the parlor it was only a step - to the dining-room, where an excellent and elaborate banquet had been provided.
- The choice menu set before the young men was the next delightful feature of the
celebration. It was indeed a meal worth sitting down to. But all good things must have an end; though this- had far from an inglorious termination; for, truly, the eloquence and wit which followed the feast quite equalled it in choiceness and satiability.
Virgilio P. Revneri, who is this vear-president of the organization and presided as toast-master, opened the after-dinner program with an eloquent commendation of the work done by the members of the Club in upholding the honor and sustaining the unblemished reputation of then* native land. Judging from the present and the past he declared himself safe in presaging a bright and successful future for their organization, which is, as yet, in its infancy.
Juan. Perez M. de Oca next ffook it upon himself to touch the cheerful vein of humor which has ever been noticeable in his countrymen. His wit must have reached the right spot, for time and again he was rewarded with delighted laughter; though such success is not to be wondered at since Juan’s jocosity is proverbial.
Francisco T. Toba of Mexico, who was the guest of the evening, next rose to express his gratitude for the honor done him in thus making him one of their number on this eventful night. He spoke of the cordial relations which have always existed between Cuba and his own country.. His apt and feeling remarks served to increase the high esteem in which he has hitherto been held bv everv member of the club.
At the close of Mr. Toba’s. speech' Arturo T. Simon recited on original poem in Spanish; interpreting in a.truly poetical way the emotions awakened in him by the very thought of Cuba and the sight of Notre Dame. His effusion met with genuine and appreciative applause.
Joaquin H. Medrano then proceeded to laud his’fellow-members for the splendid spirit of patriotism which they had exhibited on so many occasions, and especially on the present, one. In closing he exhorted . them to be ever mindful of their distant but beloved native land. J	\
Eladio G. Suarez spoke at some length on the kinship of spirit which binds Cuba to the United States — love for the precious boon of liberty. His wo found a ready lodgment in the minds of his hearers, for
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
he indeed expressed the sentiments of every member of the club.
The regular program being now at an end, there was a general call for impromptu addresses; and all agreed, as with one voice, that if every annual banquet in the future could be as successful as the one of ’05, the Cuban Club of Notre Dame need have little fear but that they would be abundantly glorified, eulogized, and envied.
After the banquet the members retired to the parlor where Jose P. Gallart struck up - on the piano the familiar' strains of the Cuban national hymn, and the whole company with joy exultant in their hearts and the thought of their dear island home in mind sang as" they never before had sung. Then in honor of their guest they rendered the Mexican national air with - a feeling' almost equal to that' which characterized the preceding tribute to their native land.
The student members of the club present at the banquet were: Virgilio P. Rayneri, . President; Juan Perez AI. de Oca, Joaquin H. Medrano, Jose P. Gallart, Eladio G. Suarez, Arturo T. Simon, Miguel J. Marquez, Manuel G. Rubio, Marcelino G. Rubio, Santiago P. Ansoategui, Guillermo Gowrie, Francisco T. Toba (Mexico.)
MENU.
Cavier canape	.
Consomme en tasse
Radishes Chiles renienos Olives Planked whitefish Con mantequilla -	Cucumbers Pommes bordure
Sweetbread patties with mushrooms
Green peas
Cuban punch , Roast young turkey Cranberry sauce New potatoes New asparagus . Chicken salad
Ice-cream with strawberries Assorted cake
'	Neufchatel cheese Wafers	■
’	Coffee.
Athletic Notes.
WABASH DEFEATED BY NOTRE DAME.
Wabash, who thought they had the Baseball Championship and gave us a game for practice, met with a most deserved defeat last Saturday, for we won handily bv the score of 6 to 3.	.
We. made our first run in the first inning,
O’Connor scoring on O’Neill’s hit.. In the . * second we scored two more. Perce, first man out, knocked a slow one to the pitcher -and was an easy out. Shea reached first ; on an error to third base; Welch came next and reached first by an error of the second base man, scoring Shea. Welch went to J second on the same play , and went to third on a passed ball; Cooke drew a base.on' balls. McNerny drew the same; O’Connor flied out to centre; Welch scored on the flv.
In the fourth we scored another. Shea hit, stole second; AVelch hit, stole second, putting Shea on third; Cooke fanned.- McNernv drew another base on balls; O’Connor went from short to first, scoring Shea.
In the eighth we scored two more. O’Neill flied out to left; Waldorf struck out; Perce hit, Shea hit, and AVelch hit, scoring-Perce . and Shea. Wabash scored one run in the second, third, and seventh.	■	.
Waldorf pitched for us and let them down with four hits. Thev were well scattered, and he.surely pitched a good game; fielded . his position well and is developing into a good man. He has all kinds of nerve, a good head, and will make one of our best men in another vear.
We played first-class ball, and are now playing the kind of baseball that , wins games. The last four games have shown, wonderful improvement, and the State Championship will surely come our way if -we continue playing as we are.
Wabash	R	H P A . E	-
Thornell, c. f.	1	11 0 0
Diddle,, r. f.	0	0 10 1
Davis, 3 b.	0	0 0 2 1
Coen, 1 b.	’	0	i io b o /	.
Boulton, 2 b.	0	0 2 3 2
Spraxv, c.	.	1	1 10 1 0	.
Meyers, 1. f.	0	0 2 0 0	.
Hubbartt, s. s.	. 1	11.3 0	.
Rubush, p.	0	0 0 2 0
Totals ‘	3	4 27 11 4 ...
Notre Dame	R	HP A E	-
McNerny, 2 b.	'	0	o 12 0	.
O’Connor, 3 b.	1	0 13 1	? ;
Stopper, 1 b.	-	0	0 14.0 2	;
. O’Neill, 1. f.	0	1 0 0 0	:
Waldorf, p. -	0	1 0 2 1 .	' .
Perce, r. f.	. 1	1 0 0 0 ,	. - '
Shea, s. s. .	3	2.0 3 0
Welch, c. f.	1	2 3 0 0	/ .
Cooke, c.	, 0	o co ■'o 1 1 , <
■ Totals	6	V27 11M4	- ’J;
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Two base hit—Spraw. Passed ball—Spraw, 1; Cooke, 3. Bases on balls—Off Waldorf, 2; offRubush, 4. Struck out—By Rubush, 9; by Waldorf, 9. Umpire, Shafer.
* * .
Northwestern, 3; Notre Dame, 8.
AVe evened up with Northwestern yesterday for the game we lost to them a few weeks ago by soundly trouncing them to the tune of S to 3. AVe started in from the beginning to win; and Northwestern did not have a “look in” at any time. Their three runs were the result of errors and misplays by us, and luck is all that saved them from a shut out. We scored in every inning up to the seventh. In the first McNerny reached first on an error by Dubois, but was caught between first and second and went out. O’Connor got a hit, stole second and scored on Bugee’s wild throw to second. Stopper was an easy out. O’Neill flew out to centre.	.
Waldorf started the second with a drive which looked good for a home run, but Eiler speared it with one hand and cut off Waldorf’s chances. Shea flew out to third. Welch hit, went to second on an error by Weinberger, reached third on a passed ball, . and scored on another error by Weinberger, Cooke getting to first safely as a result of the same misplay. Cooke stole second and then third. Burns drew a base on balls; McNernv hit, and Cooke scored. O’Connor flew out to third.
Stopper came up first in the third; reached first on an error by Leischman: went to second and third on an error of Bugee’s., O’Neill reached first on fielder’s choice and stole second. 4
Waldorf was an easy out from second to first. Stopper scored on Weinberger’s error. O’Neill went out trying to come home on Shea’s slow, one to the pitcher. Shea was caught off first and went out.
■ Welch started the fourth with a hit, then-stole second. Cooke fanned. Burns went to first, AVelch scoring. McNerny struck out.
O’Connor reached first in the sixth on an error by Dubois, stole second, and in running over the bag wrenched his knee again, and was compelled to leave the game, McNerny running for O’Conno\-. Then Stopper got to first bn fielder’s choice. McNerny went to
third, but went out a moment later trying to steal.
O’Neill got to first on fielder’s choice, McNernv beating the ball home. O’Neill stole second, and Warldorf hit, O’Neill going to third. Shea then got to first on fielder’s choice, O’Neill in turn beating the throw home. Shea went out trying to steal second. AVelch flew out to centre. In the sixth Cooke drew a pass; Burns sacrificed him to second; Perce flew out to centre. Cooke went to third on a passed ball. Phalen threw to Dubois trying to get Cooke who was taking a big lead. Dubois fumbled and Cooke scored on the throw; McNernv then flew out to second.
Bugee scored for Northwestern in third o
inning, getting to first on a hit, to second on a passed ball, to third on an error of O’Connor, and home on McNerny’s bad throw to the plate.
AAreinberger reached first in the ninth bv an error to third. Dubois went to first by an error of Shea’s. AAreinberger stole third. Dubois stole second. AAreinberger scored on the throw to second. Dubois stole third. Leischman fanned. Eiler flew out to Burns. McGowan hit. Dubois scored. Phalen hit. Horn flew out to AValdorf.
Northwestern	R	n p	A	E
Barker, r. f.	0	0 0	0	0
Weinberger, 2 b.	1	0 6	5	3
Dubois, 3 b.	1	1 4	0	3
Leischman, s. s.	0	0 2	3	1
Eiler, 1. f.	• .0	1 2	0	0
McGowan, c. f.	0	1 3	1	0
Phalen, c.	0	1 2	4	0
Horn, 1 b.	0	0 4	2	0
Bugee; p.	1	■ 1 1	2	2
Totals	3	5 24	17	9
Notre Dame	R	ii p	A	E
McNerny, 2 b.	0	1 0	4	1
O’Connor, 3 b.	2	1 2	0	2
Stopper, 1 b.	1	0 11	2	0
O’Neill, 1. f., 3 b.	1	1 2	0	1
Waldorf, r. f., 1. f.	_	0	1 1	0	0
Shea, s. s.	'	-	0	0 2	2	2
Welch, c. f.	2	3 0	0	0
Cooke, c.	2	1 8	2	0
Burns, p- .	0	0 1	3	0
Perce, r. f.	.	’	•- 0	0 0	0	0
Totals	.	.	s	. 8 27	13	6
Passed balls—Phalen, 1; Cooke,	2. Wild pitch-		—Bugee,	
2. Bases on balls—Off Burns, 2;	off Bugee, 2.		Struck	
out—By Burns, 8; by Bugee, 2.	Double plays		;—Horn,	
Dubois, Weinberger. Umpire, Burton. *	-1 ’ ’ - V	.	-I ' “	_ _				

NOTRE DAME
Although the chances are against our winning the State Meet held in Bloomington to-day, we nevertheless expect to get more points than we have in the past two years. If Draper’s injured ankle will permit him to do himself justice we can count on him to carry away the largest number of points made by 'any one man in the meet. He has been unable to train property for the meet, due to his injury; but allowing him the use of it on Saturday he will win more than his share. Scales will spring- a surprise in the high hurdles, for the “ dopesters ” are not counting on him, and he is running the high fences in good form and fast time. 'Coad, who has been out of training for some time, started in a little over a week ago, and can . be counted on for points in the hundred and two hundred and twenty.
Keefe and O’Shea will run in the quarter and half, and can be relied upon to gather some points in both those events. Although Keefe is not in as good condition as he might be, he will nevertheless make anyone who beats him “go some.”
O’Connell, who was forced to give up track work, due to ill health, will be - missed, for he is a - game little man and has plenty of speed.
“Bill” Donovan will run in the two twenty and quarter, and as he has been showing up well lately he can be relied upon to make those who beat him “hurry.”	‘
Guthrie and Dick Donovan with Draper will take care of the weight events, and we are sure to have our share of points in three events. Draper is without a doubt the best shot-putter in the state, and also holds the state record for the discus; and Donovan is throwing the discus in good form and will surety win a place. Guthrie is putting the shot close to forty feet daily, and if he can do as well in the shot-put he will net some thing for us.
Lally who won third in the hundred and two-twenty in Lansing a few weeks ago, Avill run in the same events Saturday, and we mav be sure Lallv will do all he can to bring the much-coveted banner to Notre o
Dame.
Guthrie and Scales are doing over twenty feet in the broad jump, and the former can do twenty-one without very much trouble,
SCHOLASTIC.	531
so we count for some points in this event also.
On the whole the team is much better and stronger than last year, and they will at least make a creditable showing, even though they do not win. The Notre Dame entries are:
100-yard dash—Draper, Coad, Lally, Donovan.
220-yard dash—Coad, Lallj’. Donovan.
440-yard dash—Coad, Lally, Donovan, Keefe, O’Shea.
^4-miIe run—Keefe, O’Shea.
120-yard high hurdles—Draper, Scales.
220-yard low hurdles—Draper, Bracken..
Running high jump—Scales.
Running broad jump—Guthrie, Bracken.
Pole vault—Bracken
Shot-put—Draper, Guthrie.
Discus throw—Draper, Donovan.
«■
Captain O’Connor’s wrenched knee proved not to be so bad as was expected, so that he will be back again in the game bv the _time the team starts on the trip.
~	R. L. B.
P ersonals.
—Mr. George W. Lowrey (student ’77-78) is another old Notre Dame boy who is meeting with great success in the mercantile world. He is now extensively engaged in the grain business in Lincoln, Neb. o	7
—The many friends at Notre Dame of Mr. , Louis C. M. Reed (Litt. B. ’00) will be pleased to learn that he is doing well in the town of Mafeking in South Africa. In a recent - letter to Father Morrissey he said in part:
“South Africa is not the ‘Darkest Africa.’ I alwavs thought it was, and I meet many Americans in my travels. The first man I met in South Africa was a Notre Dame man (Francis W. Stevens) who was a student in 1895, I believe. He is South African Secretary for the New York Life and lives at Cape Town. Recently while up in Rhodesia at Salisbury, near the Congo Free State, I met an old mine prospector who was at Notre Dame during Father Sorin’s time and spoke of his college chum; Mr. Pinkerton, and others whom I know only by name.”
Mr. Reed is remembered particularly on account of his many excellent contributions to the Scholastic. He has the best wishes of Notre Dame for success in his far-off home.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Visitors’ Registry for the week:—A. S. Rose, Chicago; Norva L. Gibson, Danville, Iowa; B. A. Emerson, Monroeville, Ohio; Mr. and Airs. P. J. Kasper, Chas. J. Connor, Evanston, Ill.; Finnan A. Davis, F. F. Kelly, Crawfordsville, Ind.; Rev. William S. Kress, Rev. Charles A. Martin, Cleveland, Ohio; Miss Elizabeth Chamberlin, South Bend, Ind.; J. S. Jones, Mendota, Ill.; D. Miller, San Francisco; C. A. Bondurant, A. B. Wickizer, J. E. Marshall, Plymouth, Ind.; Air. and Airs. W. R. Connell, New York City.
Card of Sympathy.
Whereas, God in His infinite wisdom and mere}’ has called to an eternal reward the father of our friend and hall-mate, Paul Kelly, be it
Resolved, That in behalf of all his friends and the members of Brownson Hall, we, the under-signed, tender him in his late bereavement our heartfelt sympathy and condolence.
J. C. Quinn
. J. J. Scales \ j’ W. Kelly A. J. Cooke '
Local Items.
—Now that the porch is completed the shower-baths are next in order. It is to be hoped that the students will not have to wait much longer.
—June 1, Ascension Thursday, shall be celebrated with its customary impressive ceremonies. A large class will onthat morning receive their First Holv Communion.
. —Never since the davs of Eddie Hammer’s tame crow has Sorin Hall seen such an interesting natural specimen as the-derelict “bozine” •who drifted in for a brief call last evening. He did not stay very long, though he did amuse an appreciative audience while he chose to remain.
—Old Sol has finally loosened up and given the water in the lakes a pleasing temperature for the bathers. The natatorium, which has been the source of so much enjoyment during the cool weather, shall soon be forsaken; and those who feel the necessity of
knowing how to swim, as well as the ones who live in water, shall keep the waves on St. Joseph’s lake a-rolling.
—Last Wednesday morning the senior collegiate class invaded South Bend in a . bodv with the dire intention of having- a group photograph taken of themselves in cap and gown. According to reliable witnesses the deed was accomplished without much bloodshed and practically little shooting.	’
—There are more baseball teams and there is more real sport in St. Edward’s Hall than there is in all the other halls together. There are ten teams in this department; and each is striving for championship honors. Besides this incentive the winners of each victorious team will receive gold medals. Some remarkable exhibitions of good baseball may be seen on their campus. The teams are evenly matched, and hence the contests are exciting to the finish.
—On Tuesdav, Mav 30, Decoration Dav will be impressively celebrated. After a memorial Pligh Mass at eight o’clock that o	o
morning, the following program will be rendered down at the flagstaff:
My Country’........................N.	D. U. Band
Gov. Hanley’s Memorial Proclamation—H. M. Kemper Columbia, Gem of the Ocean..............Audience
Lincoln’s Gettysburg Address.......W.	D. Jamieson
Star Spangled Banner....................Audience
Poem........................  .Clarence	Kennedy’
Address..................Captain J. J. Abercrombie
Raising of the Flag
Decoration of graves of deceased members of G. A. R. P. Nearer my’ God to Thee.............N.	D. U. Band
—Some time ago it was announced in these columns that there would be a grand opening of the Mush Bag League. Owing to many unexpected occurrences the first game was never played. The ringleader has jumped all contracts and joined a state champion’s team. The second important and necessary evil to the game has gone to the races. He is no longer Tom Asm; he is Commodore in the “but” crew. The third and least important personage, Major Goatinski, spends the greater part of his busy. moments on his bicycle. With these three .important factors out of the game, reorganization is well-nigh impossible. Vandalia Kid may yet infuse some spirit and waste energy into the followers of the sport.