
Editorial 

Students On Both Sides Of The Law 
Off.:campus parties and off-campus crime peak in warm weather, making them major student issues at the opening of every school year. Many students have parties, possibly because of the weather and the light course load .at the beginning of a semester. Burglaries also increase, partially because students are not used to Jiving without the security provided by the dorms. When burglaries occur and parties are broken up, students encounter local law enforce­ment agencies. University officials also may, become involved. 
Students should realize there are risks .and responsibilities involved in moving off~campus. As residents of South Bend, these students are expected to show courtesy for their .neighbors, 

. some of whom may find :noisy parties disruptive to their li.festyles. Above and beyond frat<;! neighbors, a party which getsout of control can be brokenup by the police, possibly resulting in fines or. citations for the students involved. Another risk these students .face is that their residences .are more prone to burglaries than dorm rooms. Students should learn methods for preventing crime. Even the most basic practices -locking doors and leaving a fewlights.on at 
. night-can deter potential burglars ..·· · , · 
. . . The South Bend police department has addressed cdme and student parties with an infor~. mational night at the Northeast Neiglib.orhood Center last week. This was a step in the right 
. direction which unfortunately was overshadowed by poor s,tudent attenoance. The president of the neighborhood group and. the police officers· present .called for a meeting next month of permanent residents and · students:. Increased interaction .and cooperation among student residents, permanent residents and police may help students understand the concerns of their neighbors as well as make the neighborhoods safer. Police can help improve the situation in another wayby moderating the tactics. they currently use. tO break up student parties. The use of police dogs in particular should notoccui-. except in the. niost extreme circumstfrnces . 
. University officials have turn<!d their attention. to the.•~ffects of off-campus parties on . 
South Bend residents~ up to the point of.disciplining some students..As considerate as this ·. action is to the permanent residents of South Berid, it is alienating some students. To ~educe this hostiHty, fhe university sh.oJ:ilci show equal concern to students on the. other side. qf the ·... law: victims of criminal acts, .Sending·. a. representative to:the next meeting at the. Nqrtheast .. 
•Neighborhood Center \VOuld ·be agoddstart/ . . . . . 
. . .. . . , :. : ; 
; . ., ·. . 
,'o,•: • ' ... ' 
. -> 
0 -. .,._ ;;, ':: '/:.~ ;_:; 



Contents 
September 18, 1986 Volume 128, No. 2



Scholastic 

Cover Stories 


Students As Victims by Frank Lipo 

4 Police Call For Community In Northeast Neighborhood During Yearly Crime Wave 
Party Crackdown by Bud Luepke 

7 New Efforts By The Police 
To Curb Off-Campus Parties Cause Student Confusion 
Guardian Angels: Citizens Take A Stand by Greg Miller 

9 Local Organizers Are Confident 
Of Better Relations With City After Some Initial Opposition 


Student Life Departments 
13/See It At The Snite 22/State Hot Spots 

Sports 
16/A Breath Of Fresh Air 
3/Week In Distortion: Johnny Says 12/Music: They Be IIlin' 14/Coming Distractions 15/On Other Campuses: Si Pi Skycam Crashes 
Purdue Party 
20/Movies: Alien Appeal 
24/Final Word: Problems Within 'The Family' 


Letters 
Editor-in-Chief 
Maher Mouashcr 

Managing Editor 
Keith Harrison Jr. 
Design Editor Alex Peltzer 

Production Manager 
Matthew Bradley 

General Manager 
Phil Coghlan 

Editoria I 
Larry Burke/Sports Catherine Coffey/Departments Frank Lipo/Ncws Greg Miller/News Bob Winn/Student Life Aimee Starin/Copy Chief 

Administration 
Pete Cespedes/Comptroller Matt Dolan/Advertising Mike Hoban/Circulation 

Layout 
Jim Doerfler Anne Ranaghan Susan Serrato 
Steve Traubert 
Art & Photography 
Sharon Dow 
Ginny Les 
Mychal Schulz 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire edi­torial board of Scholastic or the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or student body. Editorials, unless otherwise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority of the edi­torial board. 
Scholastic is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertis­ing, Inc. Published weekly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at The Papers, Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, IN 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Copyright 1986 Scholastic. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be peproduced without permission. 

RASTA Supporter Responds To Charges 
During the summer the student organization Rally Against Starva­tion was banned from the University as a result of alleged drug and alcohol violations at the group's final fund-raising event, the May 3 Dalio! concert at Stepan Center. The group hopes that by presenting the facts and by communicating its goals, an alternative decision regarding its status will be reached. 
RASTA organized 23 events last year which provided cultural, intel­lectual, social, and spiritual opportunities to raise the a warcncss and commitment of this community. RASTA raised almost $3,000 for Afri­can famine relief last year, $2,400 of which is already at work in an applied nutrition program in Sierra Leone, funded through CODEL (Coordination in Development). All in all, in its first two years as a stu­dent group, RASTA has raised $6,500 toward African development. 
Two months after the May 3 concert, former RASTA president Cathy Ann Reynolds received a letter from Director of Student Activi­ties Joni Neal which banned the group from campus. The letter said the presence of drugs was evident "through the smell of marijuana and actual confiscation of mirrors, razor blades, a marijuana pipe, tobacco papers, etc." 
It is difficult to understand the fairness of a decision that abolishes an entire group because of reported actions of individuals at a single event. Throughout the night, Reynolds encouraged Notre Dame Secu­rity to notify her of any problems with the crowd. If du Lac rules were actually broken, security should have taken prompt and proper action. 
The alleged violations as stated in the letter are not substantiated. The letter's vague reference to the confiscation of a marijuana pipe, tobacco papers, mirrors, and razor blades allows for much interpreta­tion. Such paraphernalia easily could have been found on a single per­son inside or outside Stepan Center. If unfortunately it did happen that some members of the group misbehaved, they did so as individuals ­not in the name of RASTA -and should be disciplined as such. 
But the decision to ban RASTA does more than ignore the group's accomplishments. The decision represents a staggering blow to a young organization that was using its energies to act against starvation. It brands the efforts and ideals of a group of students as valueless and of questionable morality. How,can a cause as basic and good as feeding the hungry be so abruptly pushed aside? 
In short, members feel the action taken against RASTA was unjusti­fied. The Office of Student Activities neither offered alternatives nor considered dialogue on the issue. RASTA does not want problems stem­ming from individual action at one event to destroy the whole dream of what the organization hopes to accomplish. The group looks forward to continuing its work with the University as RASTA and to fulfilling its purpose. With the University's cooperation, RASTA is ready to explore new ideas and to make positive contributions to the whole community. 


Margaret Key 
Former RASTA member 
Letters to the editor must be typed and must include the 
author's name, address, and phone number. 


II





Johnny Says I 
By John Coyle 
ure, I read the papers; I 
heard the stories -heck, I've 

even been known to go to an off-campus party or two. I knew the police were known to break up parties even when they weren't that loud or crowded, but this was different. 

S 

This was a ten year-old's birthday party. What was to worry? It was only those big, bad, irreverent college kids who were not allowed to have any fun in South Bend, no matter how harm­less it may be. 
It was my stamp collecting friend, Tommy Beagle, who was having the party. There was just no way I could turn down all that free ice cream and cake. Besides, it was the first party I had been officially invited to since Charlie Backwasher's first communion party and the only reason I was invited to that was because his dad was a plumber and he knew all of the faucets leaked at our house. That was it. I was going, South Bend police or no South Bend pol­ice. 
By the time I got there things 


Cops Arms Are Too Long 
were already getting a little crazy. The Pin the Tail on the Donkey game was well underway and with Twister, Simon Says and Musical Chairs yet to be played, I knew the fun was only beginning. 
Get a little sugar in 16 nine and ten year-olds and you're ask­ing for trouble and that's just what Mrs. Edith Beagle got on this seemingly perfect Saturday after­noon. Two hours, three cases of soda, four quarts of ice cream and two chocolate cakes later, these kids -this big kid included -gave new meaning to the term "sugar high." 
When it was time for Musical Chairs we were running around like a pack of turkeys the week before Thanksgiving. With the "Chimpmunk Hustle" blaring in the background these little runts were no match for me. My joy at capturing the Musical Chairs championship was greeted by the loud thud of the South Bend mili­tia, er, police at the front door. 
"Okay, this party is officially over. No one leaves until they get a sugar count test," shouted the imposing sergeant. 

Standing victoriously on the winning chair, clutching 'my bag of treats, I was quickly spotted by the troops -I mean officers. Half crazed with sugar and tired of the police ruining all the good parties, I was not ready to give up peace­fully. 
"You'll never take me alive, lawman," I shouted across the room angrily. 
"Well if it isn't little Johnny Coyle. One of the biggest troub­lemakers from the that school of overgrown kindergarten students down the street. We've been look­ing for you. Your days of Musical Chairs and Twister are over," he yelled. 
"Get 'em boys," Sergeant O'Schlepski screamed to his faith­ful followers. 
Dodging the Sergeant and the rest of his Keystone crew, I hur­dled the dining room table, taking out a lamp in the process. Jump­ing out a nearby window, I ran swiftly to the relative safety of my dorm room. 
Only because of my superior athletic skills and having been a fan of "Magnum, P.I." as a youngster, I was able to escape the ever-growing long arm of the South Bend Law this time. But this all-too-common scene is getting a bit played for my tastes. If you ask me, these guys are getting a little out of hand. 

September 18, 1986 
News 

Students AsVictims 
By Frank Lipo 
Police Call For Community In Northeast Neighborhood During Yearly Crime Wave 
911 

I 
Ann Gibson returned to her Notre Dame A venue house during the first dav of classes this semester to discover she and her housemates had received visitors. Her first indica­tion of their presence was the con­tents of a housemate's purse 
dumped on the floor near the door. The clincher was a ransacked house. 
Gibson and her four house­mates, all Notre Dame seniors, were faced with a side of off­campus life they never antici­pated. Gone was approximateiy $13,000 worth of jewelry and other possessions, according to the women's estimates. Left behind· were bad feelings and fears which have prompted four of the five housemates to decide to seek a new off-campus residence. 
South Bend police say that at the start of each school year off-campus student residences face an increase in the number of bur­glaries. This is especially evident in the Northeast Neighborhood, the most common area for students to rent houses. 

Since August, five student residences have been burglarized in the neighborhood, according to police, who say the level of crime normally tapers off as the weather turns colder, only to rise again in the spring. 
But the problem is more than just a student concern. "It's not only the students who are getting victimized out there," said Sgt. John McCullum of the South Bend Police D.epartment. Mccullum said, though, that the return of students and the possessions they bring makes them potential vic­tims, leading to a mini crime wave. 
The moving-in process often allows neighborhood juveniles to see exactly what the students own, said McCullum. Also, student's regular schedules often can be easily monitored, lessening the chances that a thief will be surprised by a returning resident. 
Juveniles who have skipped school for the day or have dropped out of school permanently are the cause of much crime in the Northeast Neighborhood, accord­ing to McCullum. He said Indiana law allows 16 year-olds to quit school. .Often ~hese youths will turn to crime, he added. 
Scholastic 


News 

There arc other sources of crime in the neighborhood, according to McCullum. He said students arc not the only people who rent houses in the neighbor­hood. Next to the juveniles, he said, these "fly-by-nighters" are the largest criminal clement in the neighborhood. But despite the yearly surges of crime, the neigh­borhood is a good one, said McCullum. 
There are steps that can be taken to make the neighborhood safer, though, according to police. 
To tty to combat this yearly wave of crime, McCullum, Capt. Patrick Cottrell of the South Bend Police Department and Arthur Quigley, president of the Northeast Neighborhood commun­ity group, invited students to the Northeast Neighborhood Center last week. Six students attended the meeting. 
Quigley and the police gave anti-crime tips and handed out information about the Neighbor­hood Watch program. But there was more to their message. All three spoke of the need for better unity among students, permanent residents and the police. "Wheth,er your best support," said Capt. Patrick Cottrell of the South Bend Police Department, echoing Quig­ley. Cottrell said most arrests of burglars come from information supplied by neighbors of victims. 
There are already some positive relationships between local Northeast Neighborhood residents and students which can be built upon, according to Quigley. He said the yearly Senior Block Party, which replaces a drunken march through the Northeast Neighbor­hood by graduating seniors, builds good rapport, as do students who volunteer to help their neighbors in various ways. He said that since approximately 40 percent of the neighborhood residents are more than 55 years old, often this volunteer work targets the elderly.· 
"We (the Northeast Neighbor­hood Center) use about 60 students as volunteers each year," said Quigley in an interview before the meeting at the Northeast Neigh­borhood Center. · 
"Community is the name of the game in my book. And you can build community," said Quigley. "We want to help students become good neighbors," he added. "Most 


you believe it or not, you're part of this community," said McCul­lum. 
,, 

We've got to be the eyes and ears," said Quigley, who also works as a professor of electrical engineering at Notre Dame. Quig­ley said students should seek to build good rapport with their neighbors. "Your . neighbors are non-students haven't learned it either." 
The Northeast Neighborhood, in general, is not a dangerous one. where many violent crimes are committed, according to Cottrell. He said· that each year .. a small number of students are robbed on the street as they walk in the neighborhood, often as they return from the traditional student bars located at the Five Points. He recommended that students travel in pairs at night to cut down the likeliness of such crimes. "So far this year we've been lucky," said Cottrell, because no muggings of students have been reported. 

Cottrell said vandalism is not a big problem in the neighborhood either. 
" There are going to be some of them (students) who will be robbed," said McCullum. "Those are things we can't prevent," he said, adding that four additional officers patrol the Northeast Neighborhood each weekend. 
According to police, miscommuni­cation also is a problem which leads to misinformation about crime. "We don't know how many of them (burglaries) actually occur,'' said McCullum, because some minor thefts aren't reported by students who are anxious to avoid publicity or unnec::essary contact with the police. "They (students) are part of the commun­ity," said Mccullum. "We're not out to harass them. We're not out there to be the bad guys all the time." 
Student perceptions of police suffer when they find themselves on the other side of the law, recently because of a police crack­down of student parties. Police officials and Quigley said there often is · a surprising connection between large student parties and the neighborhood crime. 
Large student parties anger neighbors and often cause bad blood between students and the permanent residents of the Northeast Neighborhood, said Cottrell. Because of such bad feel­ings, often these neighbors will not watch out for students and their property. This breaks a vital link in the chain of crime preven­tion, say police. 
"We have lots of senior citizens around who tend to want to go to 
September 18, 1986 






News 
bed ·earlier than students," said Quigley. "We also have some peo­ple who have to get up at 7 a.m. on a Saturday morning," he said. Quigley also mentioned another side-effcct of parties which possi­bly could promote crime. 
"They (students) ought to realize that if 600 people arc at a party at your house, someone may be there to case it," said Quigley. 
But even if precautions are taken, a student's worst f cars may be realized, said the police. Gibson and her houscmatcs had seen at least two neighborhood youths loitering near the house the night before and the morning of the crime. They asked their next-door neighbors to keep watch when 
"Community is the name of the game in my book. And you can build community.'' 

--Arthur Quigley 
they left for campus. Nonetheless, the burglars entered the house through a boarded-up basement door when the house was unat­tended for 45 minutes. A heavy rainstorm helped conceal the crime. 
Gibson said she stayed at the house because she was happy with the work the landlord did to prevent future crime, including building a "wall" in front of the basement door. "I felt comfortable there after he fixed it up," she said. She also has new roommates now. 
"I wanted to start over," said Rannic Lambert, one of Gibson's former houscmates. She has since moved to an off-campus apart­ment in a location which she would not disclose. 
6 
Scholastic 





News 



Party Crackdown 
0nly a few months ago, off­campus parties thrown by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were known for the f rec-flowing beer, and for the release they provided from the rigors of the academic week. Now, however, the mention of off­campus parties conjures up images of police dogs and brcathalyzcrs. 
This quick transformation has come about at least partly because of a get-tough attitude by the city of South Bend, first revealed in a press conferenee given by Mayor Roger Parent last spring. Scrutiny of off-campus parties also has been carried out by other law enforcement agencies. 
The crackdown has led to confusion among students. Over­lapping law enforcement jurisdic­tions between the South Bend Pol­ice Department within city limits and the St.. Joseph County Sheriff's Department on the outskirts may mean the use of dif­fercnt tactics to disperse student parties, police say. The Indiana State Police and the Roseland Pol­ice Department also have been involved in some raids of student parties. 
The University has paid increased attention to off-campus· parties, adding another complica­tion to the off-campus party scene. Last weekend another wave of 
September 18, 1986 
New Efforts By The Police To Curb Off-Campus Parties Cause Student Confusion 
raids on student parties left more students ,with citations. 
A new factor in the battle between off-campus parties and the law is the Indiana State Excise Police. Sgt. Gregory Diechtley of the Michigan City chapter of the state excise police said the excise officers are working under a new policy this year in an attempt to curb what they feel is a major problem. It is t_he excise police who have been called to a number of off-campus parties and have given underage students brcathalyzcr tests. 
"We used to arrest only the conductors of the party. Now we try to surround the house and arrest everyone we can," Deitchley said. Citations result when signs of alcohol show up on the brcathalyzer test of a minor. 
Dcichtley said students do have the option of refusing the test but added that a police officer may still make an arrest based on a student's mannerisms. Whether or not a citation should be issued is up to the judgment of the officer, he said, adding that a citation is considered a non-incarceration arrest. 
One party in particular illus­trates how changing policies have affected Notre Dame and, Saint Mary's students. The state excise police issued 105 citations for 

By Bud Luepke 
underage drinking at a raid two weeks ago at a party at Ivy and Douglas roads, according to Sgt. Dennis Jay of the county sheriff's department, which also was involved with the raid. Two Notre Dame resident assistants were fired by the University after they were issued citations for furnish­ing alcohol to minors at the party. 
Jim Melluish, a resident of the house at Ivy and Douglas roads and a Notre Dame senior said pol­ice arrived before midnight and surrounded the residence, not let­ting anyone leave. Police then searched the house in an attempt to find underage students. 
Capt. Patrick Cottrell of the South Bend Police Department said that when a party is being investigated and the excise police arc called in, they first send an undercover officer into the party. If the undercover officer judges that there is probable cause, he gives the go-ahead for a raid. 
The legality of using an under­cover officer has been questioned by some students. "It hasn't been proven entrapment," Cottrell said. If there is a large student party and the undercover officer is not asked to produce an invitation, he will enter, said Cottrell. If he is denied entry, the officer will com­ply. 
Mclluish said police would let no one leave the Ivy and Douglas 

News 
party before IDs were checked. Students proven to be 21 years old were asked to leave, while those under the legal limit were ushered into the breathalyzer lines. If the instrument registered any signs of alcohol, the student, whether intoxicated or not, was issued a $43 citation. 
Students who attend parties within the city limits also face a police crackdown. "We are there to serve and protect (permanent residents) too," said Cottrell. "They have a right to peace and quiet," he said. But Cottrell also said even if neighbors don't call and complain about a party, the city noise ordinance gives police the right to break up parties, if the noise level is above 65 decibels before 10 p.m. or above 55 deci­bels after 10 p.m. 
The crackdown last spring by the South Bend Police Department was marked by the use of police dogs to break up student parties. At one such party, then sophomore Jeffrey Morgan was attacked by a dog and received multiple scars and puncture wounds. Morgan said the attack was unprovoked, but South Bend police charged him with assaulting the officer who was handling the dog. 
Morgan, who was hospitalized after the attack, dropped a law suit against the South Bend Police Department because of excessive costs. "In cases like mine you have to ask yourself what's a scar worth," Morgan said. Morgan added that for the charges against him he paid a $150 fine, worked 15 hours of community service, and is presently serving a one-year probationary sentence from the South Bend police. 
City police deny that their methods are extreme. "We have had just as many problems this fall as we had last spring," said Cot­trell. In response to the increased parties at this time of year, police 
patrols will be increased and 
paddy wagons will be used. Police 
,officers will be instructed to arrest any students blocking public pas­sage ways, littering or disturbing the peace, he said, adding the use of police dogs will be continued where students "stand in defi­ance." 

Jay said that since the imple­mentation of the University alcohol policy, there has been a steady increase in off-campus par­ties and that this year showed a marked party increase above the recent past. Jay cited the 105 cita­tions at the Ivy and Douglas party as an example of the increase, say­ing that 20 citations is closer to the norm. For last weekend's Notre Dame-Michigan football game, Jay said police patrols were increased 20 percent. 
Police assessment of student cooperation has been mixed. Cot­trell said most students have been cooperative and ha vc dispersed when warned. But Cottrell added, "If you get 200 people at a party, you're bound to have a few prob­lems." Jay, however, said most students have not been coopera­tive. "We give students the option of policing themselves. When it doesn't happen, we have to start policing," said Jay. 
Jay said his department has less involvement with the Notre Dame administration than they have ha.ct in the past. "When (James) Roe­mer was dean (of students), if a student committed a misdemeanor, we would take their IDs in to the dean. We don't presently have a working relationship." 
However, some students who have had police break up their parties have received letters instructing them to sec Ann Firth, director of residence life. Junior Peter Decler of 803 Corby St. received such a letter but he did not know what the meeting would mean. "I can't see that much hap­pening. We didn't do that much," he said. Firth was not available for comment. 
Cottrell said the South Bend Police Department, unlike the county sheriff's department, has a new agreement with the Univer­sity. Names of students who have received citations will be for­warded to Notre Dame Security. 
Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security, said security docs not report. parties outside their jurisdiction and does not report parties to other law enforcement agencies. He said they serve purely as observers when outside their jurisdiction. At the Ivy and Douglas party, said Rakow, there was only one Notre Dame Security official at the house and the nature of her visit, far from enforcing the · law, was to meet her boyfriend who is an officer for the Roseland police. 
Both the city and county police said they expected parties to decrease as the year goes on and the weather gets colder. In the meantime, area police are bracing themselves for more parties. 

Scholastic 







News 

Guardian Angels:, Citizens Take A Stand 
By Greg Miller 

Local Organizers Confident Of Better Relations with City After Initial Opposition 
Sout.h Bend resident Yvonne Varner recalled her first patrol with members of the local chapter of the Guardian Angels. They had chosen the area surrounding the 1200 block of West Washington Avenue because it had been the sight of a murder the night before. Varner, the secretary and spokesman for the chapter, said the patrol went smoothly, despite some verbal abuse. "For every person that bad-mouthed us, there were 10 applauding," she said. 
It is such small signs of appreciation from local residents that Varner says have convinced her to continue her unique and controversial fight against crime. 
This fall Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, especially those living off-campus in poten­tial high-crime areas, may have the chance to either praise or bad­mouth the volunteers wearing the the white t-shirts and red barcts. 
The Guardian Angels, an organization of volunteer crime fighters, has been surrounded by controversy since its formation in 1979 by high school dropout Curtis Sliwa in New York City. Its arrival in South Bend brought pro­test fi:-om the local police · depart­

ment, the local media and city Yvonne Varner keeps watch over the South Bend skyline officials. as it often has in its 
September 18, 1986 
9 




News 
expansion from a small subway patrol to an organization with 61 chapters in the United States and Canada. 
Varner, who with her hus­band John, responded to Sliwa's call for formation of a South Bend chapter, said the group has main­tained a low profile, patrolling at least two nights per week. She said she coordinates patrols from her home. 
The chapter does· not plan in advance what neighborhoods it will patrol. "It is spontaneous," said Varner. The group patrols where it feels it will be needed on a given day. Often it relies on phone calls from concerned citizens who suggest that the group patrol a particular neighborhood. Near the Notre Dame campus it most often patrols sections of . Notre Dame A venue in the Northeast Neighborhood. Other common patrol areas include downtown South Bend, Western A venue, Route 20 and parts of Mishawaka, according to Varner. 
patrol includes a patrol leader, a medic, and a runner, who is in charge of running to a phone to call the police when the group encounters trouble. All Guardian Angels must go on at least two four-hour patrols a week. All patrols begin with a frisking of the members for any weapons or potentially harmful objects, which cannot be carried, said Varner. 
The chapter consists of 30 members aged 15 to 44. Women make up one-third of the group, which Varner said includes whites, blacks and other ethnic groups. The group supports itself, pays for its own training and provides for its members the familiar white t­shirt which bears the logo of the winged eye (chosen by Sliwa because it is both gender-and color-neutral) and the words "Guardian Angels Safety Patrol." 
According to Varner, the desire to help fellow citizens motivated most of the members to Jorn the group's efforts. She described them as "a bunch of caring citizens." Although some, twenty-five percent decrease in crime in the areas patrolled by Guardian Angels throughout the nation, Yvonne said she hoped for similar results in South Bend. 
The local group, Yvonne said, has so far served primarily as a deterrent presence. It has not yet broken up any crimes in progress. Nevertheless, Yvonne said, neigh­borhoods become visibly calmer and safer when they patrol. Yet police and city officials remain ambivalent toward the Guardian Angels. The group still docs not have a working agreement with the city. The police department's response remains unchanged: although the department docs not think that the Angels are needed, 
it  cannot  prevent them  from  
patrolling.  
City  Attorney  Eugenia  

Schwartz explained that the city has not adopted an official stance toward the group. "We treat them as we do any other citizens in South Bend," she said, adding that there have been no problems with the Guardian Angels so far. 
The Guardian Angels evolved out of what Sliwa calls "the concept," which entails giv­ing ghetto kids the chance to become anti-crime heroes. The group exists to provide citizens protection and give the youths a sense of pride and recognition. The first groups of Angels patrolled the more dangerous lines of the New York subway system at night. On these patrols they halted crimes in progress, intimidated potential criminals, and made occasional citizen's arrests. 
Although initially receiving opposition from the police and the mayor in New York City, the group received recognition from the city in 1981 through public 
Scholastic 



Patrol groups are made up of at least four Angels, but in a high-level crime area, groups con­sist of IO or more members. Each 
10 

she said, were in it for the adven­ture, most members seriously feel that they can make a difference in South Bend. Citing an average 

. ' 

-~ -. -,~ -· ~ ->---~ -·--·--~ ---~--------__...,_ -~, ,,!tl-,.,,_~.. •"'·' _, _c,;,,.,',_ ", 

News 

support and the support of then Lieutenant Governor Mario Cuomo and other political offi­cials. A training program in basic law and proper arrest procedures was set up and an Angel-police liaison was appointed. 
As the number of chapters grew, so did the amount of work done by the Angels. Patrols moved above ground to parking lots, bus stops and city streets. The Guar­dian Angels even helped with community building projects and neighborhood tutoring programs. 
Sliwa called for the forma­tion of a South Bend chapter in late I 985. He said he received letters from local residents asking for the chapter. Sliwa said the angels would be most cffcctive in stopping lesser crimes such as bur­glary and property attacks. 

Yvonne said she and her husband became interested in helping Sliwa when they saw him on local television. Yvonne said she researched the organization and then contacted Sliwa. Sliwa met with the Varncrs and plans were set in motion. A first recruit­ment meeting was held in January. 
As in New York City and in other cities across the country, there was opposition to the group's formation. The South Bend Tri­?une editorialized against it, join­mg protests from city officials. Sliwa met with South Bend Police Chief Charles Hurley and city 
attorney Richard Hill on Jan.17, and was told there was no need for the Guardian Angels in South Bend. Sliwa left the meeting kn~~ing that the police and city off1cials were skeptical of his motives. 
Despite the differcnces, however, Sliwa and the Varners 
September 18, 1986 persisted. In accordance with trad­itional Guardian Angel pro­cedures, they determined to dis­cover whether or not South Bend residents truly felt that the group 
,--Y~•s'•<:·~ ·• •• •••• • •; • •• 
'._I/}\t H.:ti {fr~f;··~:~: i<:-:: .. 
•.•u:)\.-f...•16v~·· 



·· :•············••·•.....·~i~.~:!1riI~':t.
g. ···.• ·· .. · 

was needed. This determination was made through a formal survey prepared by the national office of the Guardian Angels. Yvonne said she supervised the administration of the survey, which consisted of person-to-person interviews con­ducted at bus stops, high schools, businesses and by telephone. 
On March 5th results of the survey were released. An overwhelming 96 percent of those surveyed f clt that there was a need for the Guardian Angels iri South Bend. Most respondents called for patrols on the West Side, down­town, on city buses, and at public housing sites. As a result of this response, volunteer interest in the group increased and enough peo­ple were recruited to begin the first three-month training 
program, supervised by John Varner. The program, which had to follow national Guardian Angel guidelines, consisted of training in the martial arts, first aid, CPR and public relations. Trainees also learned how to defend themselves against knife, stick, gun, and bot­tle attacks. 
Lisa (Lacy) Beltrame, a 17­ycar-old member of the South Bend group, spoke about the intensity of the training. She described the training as "very physical, rough and especially tough for girls," and said, "I didn't think I'd make it." 
Lacy, who grew up in Cali­fornia, knew that she wanted to become a Guardian Angel when she was thirteen. She said that she had always admired the Guardian Angels who patrolled the parking lot of her neighborhood skating rink. When the opportunity presented itself this year in South Bend, she jumped at the chance to fulfill her childhood ambition. 
Yvonne said that a new group of area residents is about to graduate from the most recent training session. She said that she is pleased with the growth of the group and hopes for continued expansion. Yvonne also feels that the group's relationship with city officials and police is improving. She said, "It is a lot better than when we first started and it gets better every month." She said she believed that most people support them privately, including police and city officials, and cited 
instances when various individual 
policemen and city council 
members have commended the 
group for its initiative. Yvonne 
looks forward to even better rela­
tions in the future and is confident 
that the South Bend Guardian 
Angels will make an important 
long-term contribution to the city. 







They Be lllin' 
Run-D MC Takes a Bad Rap For Concert Violence 



By Tim Adams 
Iconsider myself a reasonably . well informed person when it comes to music, but I had heard nothing of the incidents of violence at several Run-D MC shows this summer until I returned to campus. I found out, bit by bit, that in Cleveland, Pittsburgh, New York, Atlanta and Long Beach, California, small numbers of concert-goers got out of hand, resulting in the personal injury or robbery of other people attending the shows. The most blatant example of this occurred on August 17 in Long Beach, when various Los Angeles gang members decided to rumble inside the Long Beach Arena. At least 40 people were injured, the show was stopped during Whodini's set, and suddenly the Run-D MC back­lil.sh bandwagon kicked into gear. 
People get injured at all types of events -football games, car­nivals, soccer games, pep rallies, and yes, even rap concerts -but when you have five different eruptions on a tour that covers 65 cities, then maybe it's time to take notice. What makes Run'" D M C 's fans so violent? Tipper Gore, president o·f PMRC (Parents Music Resource Center), that luscious pillar of purity, has THE ANSWER: "Angry, disillusioned, unloved kids unite behind heavy 
metal and rap music, and the music says it's okay to beat peo­ple." Pardon my French, Tipper, but you're full of crap. I am a fan of rap music. I am not angry, disillusioned or unloved. And except for a boast by Run that if this girl doesn't dance, he'll slap her, I can think of no time when Run-D M C condones violence (and in that one case, I believe Run is joki.ng around; however, literalists may not agree). Though I can't speak for· all rap acts, I believe rap music contains some of the more positive lyrics around. 
Having twice seen Run-D MC live, I think I have a pretty good idea of what goes down at a major rap concert. Like most other shows, the bands play and the crowd has a good time. Both times I failed to see one person acting violently, which is pretty good considering each show attracted approximately 10,000 people. One difference between a D MC show and most concerts I attend (and this may be the heart of all the fuss) is that the crowd was predominantly black. Because a few jerks decide to show that they're "the baddest of the bad," the whole Raising Hell tour comes across as a "festival o' violence" and knee-jerk reac­tionaries everywhere take pot shots at rap (and, less obviously, at its primarily black audience). 
God bless the next baby that comes in this world 
The world full of hate. 
discrimination and sin 
People judging other people hy their color of skin 
I'll take this matter in my own way 
Afan. I ain't 110 slal'e 
I ain'.t bailing no hay 
We're in a tight position in any condition 
Don't get in my ivay 'cause I'm full of ambition 
I'm proud to be black 
And I ain't takin' no crap 
-Proud to Be Black 
So what it all comes down to is 

. that, yes, there arc some screwed­up people to whom rap provides the only outlet for their violent tendencies. But what limits this to rap? Or to heavy metal, for that reason? The problem lies more in educating the disadvantaged youths so that their futures at least look brighter than the alleyway down the street: It's hypocritical to slam Run-D MC for what their fans do, considering their message is diametrically opposed to that kind of destructive behavior. Rap is not to blame; society is. Until politicians, the PMRC and the PT A realize this and put more emphasis on helping these people instead of pointing fingers at them, there will always be prob­lems like this. It's like that, and that's the way it is. 
Scholastic
12 


Student Life 

See · It At The Snite 
By Diana Romano and Michelle Tripeny 
The Annenburg Auditorium Is The Home Of One Of The Most Diverse Collections Of Films In The Area 

When one envisions fall at Notre Dame, football games, tailgatcrs, and the remnants of warm wcath·cr come to mind. Amidst these assorted events, the Fall Film Series often escapes unnoticed..Sponsored by the com­munication and theatre depart­ment, these films arc shown Mon­day through Friday and offcrcd to the community at surprisingly low prices. 
Pamela Falkenberg, assistant professor in the communication and theater department, programs the movies to be screened during the semester. In her previous posi­tion at the University of Iowa, Falkenberg was the director of their Bijou, which showed over 350 films a year to the _community of 50,000. 
That experience led her to the Notre Dame COTH Department. When she began five years ago, the Notre Dame department was com­bined with Saint Mary's and showed one film per week. Since then she has been working to expand the number of films presented. 
The current film series f ca tu res five to six films a week for 13 weeks each semester, totalling more than 125 films per year. 
Falkenberg wants to encourage students to take advantage of the series as many of them have never seen the types of films offered, such as subtitled foreign films or silent movies. Although these 
September 18, 1986 
Fall Film Festival's Pam Falkcnburg 
f catures are shown in other theaters in the community, none are quite as readily accessible to the students. 
Another film series offcrcd m the area is at Indiana University at South Bend in conjunction with its cinema class. However, only one or two films are shown per week. Notre Dame attempts not to dupli­cate these films whenever possible. River Park Cinema previously had a similar program of films outside the mainstream. Lack of interest led to the program's cancellation. 
The only other places in the state where one can view these films is in Fort Wayne and Evans­ville. "You'd have to go to Chi­cago," Falkenberg said, "for a grca ter variety." 
People in the community and as far away as Elkhart and Michigan come to view movies in the Annenberg Auditorium, but stu­dents and faculty comprise the great majority of the audience. Student attendance fluctuates depending on the movies being shown. Students flocked to "The Harder They Come," which is a Jamaican cult classic starring reg­gae artist Jimmy Clift, whereas more faculty and graduate stu­dents attended "Kiss of the Spider Woman," which deals with two prisoners in a Latin American jail. 

Because the program is incor­porated in the University curricu­lum, it is not eligible for outside funding. The Snitc Museum and the College of Arts and Letters; continued financial support is con­tingent upon attendance. 
Individual admission for the films remains at $ 1.50. Season tickets can be purchased . 
sEPT-22 MON-" ·t 
th\ese Audi
"Brea nberg 50
FILM: Anne rn. $1­7·00 P· nin 
· Run . 
came Aud
••some nberg 50
'FILM: Anne m. $1­
g:00 P· 
SEPT . 23 B\acr,.,. Ties"
TUES. Wear •urn on't ditor1
"They D berg Au

ILM: Annen $1.50 
7:30 p.rn. 
WED. SEPT. 24 
f Evil" .
FILM: "Touch o Auditormm
Annenberg 7·00 p.m. 
. 'dent's Men"
FILM: "All Th~ Pre~1 Auditorium Engmeermg $1.00 7 9:30, 12:00 p.m. 
I J1 
's Last Tape
Y. "Krapp H II
PLA · · h" gton a
Was m 



Sports 
A Breath Of Fresh Air 
By Larry Burke 

Notre Dame Dropped Its Opener To No. 3 Michigan, But A Solid Irish Performance Proved That Lou Holtz Had Put The Fight Back In The Irish 



The story had a familiar ring to it. Yes, Notre Dame lost a football game to No. 3 Michigan Saturday, and yes, it was one that the Irish had plenty of chances to win. That's some­thing that has happened quite a bit over the past few years. But there was something different about this game, Lou Holtz' first as head coach at Notre Dame. It was a feeling that seemed to per­vade the Notre Dame locker­room. It was small consolation, but it might turn out to be the difference for the Irish as the season continues. 
"There was a point in the game," recalled Irish tight end Joel Williams, "when we were losing 24-14." The Wolverines had stung Notre Dame by scoring two touchdowns in six seconds. "But the difference between this year and last year was that today we knew we could do it with our backs to the wall. 

"With Coach Holtz we have a positive, winning attitude," 
16 
Scholastic 


Sports 
added Williams, the obvious implication being that there was no such attitude during the last f cw seasons under Gerry Faust. Williams' teammates agreed. "We proved to ourselves that we're together," said defensive tackle Robert Banks. Clearly, Holtz has put the fight back in the Fighting Irish. But for the new Notre Dame coach that wasn't nearly enough. 
"Notre Dame doesn't have moral victories," Ho! tz said afterward. If it did, this would have been one. After all, the Irish scored 23 points against a defense that held its opponents to 17 or less in every regular season game last year. Notre Dame ran for two touchdowns Saturday ­that's as many rushing touch­downs as the Wolverines gave up in the entire '85 regular season. And the Irish defense prevented the Wolverines from putting the game on ice by stopping them cold on their final four posses­sions and shutting them down 
over the last 24 minutes. 
"I've never been prouder of any team at any time," Holtz said of his Irish. "These players wouldn't quit, even though they had reason to. We never seemed 


to have anything bounce our way the whole game." The Irish did, in fact, get more than their share of bad breaks and questionable calls. But they also made some costly mistakes. 
September 18, 1986 
·  ''  ·•--.:~-;'\:__._';·.'  · .,,,: __..:..-_-,_..  -,··-,  
•  ' ~  • I •  - "  '  •  
,•  •·  •.••  • ~ •• :  ,  .•  '  


The first came early in the second quarter, when Reggie Ward took an option pitch and hurdled to the Wolverine six­yard line, but had the ball kicked out of his hands by Michigan cornerback Garland Rivers. Michigan's Tony Gant recovered were nonetheless on top at inter­mission, 14-I0. 
But Bo Schcmbechler spent a lot of time at the chalkboard during halftime, and it paid off for Michigan. The_ Wolverines came out in the third quarter and marched 7 8 yards in 12 plays for the go-ahead score -a one-yard 
touchdown run by Jamie Morris. Notre Dame still trailed by only three points, and with the way the Irish offense had been play­ing up until then, no one was pushing the panic button. 
Then came the first bad break. Rick Sutkicwicz' kickoff got caught up in the wind, and 

Notre Dame's James Sass stayed to stall an Irish threat. Notre back to field it on the hop near Dame missed another scoring the Notre Dame 25-yard line. But opportunity just before halftime a swarm of Wolverines arrived at when Alvin Miller dropped a the same time as the ball and Steve Bcuerlein pass at the Michigan's Doug Mallory Michigan 20-yard line. The Irish recovered. It took quarterback 
._..~~-:--•-: -~--~----,--.:::,-:.,;:<•·.:.-;,_-::._ ·.· ·:~--·-· ·,_1.;·_-;;;;_:·" ::·--:-~-_ c··.· ,-,~--·. _.•· ·, 
• t • ~ -• -• ";"~ , .,_, t • • " • • 
.' •••• I \. • • ; .,: •• • : ;;.~~'.t . t}.~,;:~ ~)t\> 

Sports 


Jim Harbaugh one play to cash in, as Morris beat Marv Spence one-on-one and made a diving catch in the end zone. 
That made it Michigan 24,. Notre Dame 14. Holtz' Irish were 
down, but not out. "We had so 
much confidence, we knew we 
could move the ball on them," 
Beuerlein said. "We knew that 
from the first series." And the 
defense was ready to start clamp­
ing down. "In the second half we 
knew we had to play." Banks 
said. "We knew we had the 
opportunity to win." It was an 
opportunity on which they nearly 
capitalized. 
"My script for us, for our way to win, was to come from behind in the second half," Holtz said. "But it just wasn't meant to be." The Irish got six points back on a Beuerlein-to-Williams touch­down flip, but John Carney missed what would prove to be a critical extra point. Carney was 46-for-49 in that category going into the game. 
Missed opportun1t1es fol­lowed. Late in the third quarter, Notre Dame's Pernell Taylor had the ball knocked out of his hands by Rivers, and Mallory recovered at the Michigan 16. The Irish got the ball back on a punt and matched to the Michi­gan eight-yafd line on their first possession of the final quarter, but Beuerlein looked for Brown in the end zone and found Arnold instead. 
The Irish kept coming, but so did the bad breaks. The worst came with four and a half minutes to play, when officials ruled Williams was out of the back of the end zone on an apparent touchdown reception. Williams and company protested, but were forced to settle for a field goal that pulled them to within one, 24-23. 
18 

"The Michigan ball boy said I Michigan 25-yard line, but his was in," Williams said of his pass fell incomplete. non-.catch. "I know my left foot 
On came Carney, currentlycame down in bounds. But there third on Notre Dame's all-time were people in the way of the list with 30 career field goals,referee and he probably fcit he and noted for his accuracy (I 5 ofhad no choice except to call me I 6 career) in the 40-49 yardout of bounds. There was some range. Long-time Irish fans hesitation by the official." 
thought back to 1980, when Harry Oliver kicked a 51-yardThe Wolverines took over field goal at the final gun to giveafter the Notre Dame field goal the eighth-ranked Irish a 29-27 . with 4:21 left, and could have win over No. 14 Michigan input the game away. But they did Notre Dame Stadium. 
something they usually don't do ­

give the opponent another But this time the luck of the chance. Michigan had a first and Irish ran out. Carney's kick 10 on the Notre Dame 29-yard sailed wide left, and the Wolver­line, but Irish nose tackle Mike ines celebrated. "I knew he was Griffin jarred the ball loose from going to miss," Schcmbechler Michigan's Bob Perryman, and said of Carney. "This was my 
:>·/< ~-~~---­

~ :_["._.)~--~:rf'/" ,.~ '\"-"• ;{\i . ­
~~.,;;1,,
~.....__.,J Q "'-'t-'-. . ~~ " ..... .
t~• 'P ~Jr·~ 
I'!. f ,., .' -~ 1, ~ 
g-. 
.c 
"" 

The mobile Harbaugh threw for 239 yards and kept Wally Kleine and company on their toes. 
linebacker Wes Pritchett turn." It probably was. After all, recovered to give Notre Dame Schembechler had been on the one last chance. Michigan sidelines when Oliver kicked his game-winner, and in
Beuerlein almost made it 1979 when Notre· Dame's Bobwork. First he hit Alvin Miller Crable blocked a Wolverine field over the middle for 33 yards. 
goal attempt with one secondThen he found Milt Jackson for remaining to preserve a 12-1016 more. An illegal procedure Irish win. 

pushed Notre Dame back five, but a shovel pass to Taylor got This time around there was no six yards and set up a third and victory for Notre Dame, but nine. Bcuerlein rolled to his there was a renewed feeling of right looking for Ward at the confidence and pride that hadn't 
Scholastic 




Sports 

Rcuerlein will try to add to his school·rccord passing yardage total on Saturday in East Lansing. 
19 

been around for a while. "I think it showed on the field that we have improved, by the way that we have been able to move the ball up and down the field," said Bcuerlein, who in the third quar­ter passed Joe Theismann to become the school's all-time leader in career passing yardage. The senior quarterback turned in one of the finest passing perfor­mances of his career, with a career-high 21 completions on 33 attempts for 263 yards. 
"I can think of at least three times that we had the ball deep in their territory and should have scored," Bcuerlein said. "If we would have put three points up any of those times we win. We just have to hang on to the ball. There is no doubt we deserved this game. Several Michigan players told me after the game 
. that we deserved the game." 
Notre Dame's offcnse was particularly versatile and effec­tive, utilizing a wide range of formations including the I, wish­bone, split backs and double tight end. The Irish outgained Michigan in total yardage, 455 to 
393. The offensive line, which was regarded as a big question mark going into the game, blew Michigan off the ball most of the afternoon to help Notre Dame roll up 192 yards on the ground. 
"Ifelt the offensive line really controlled Michigan's line," said Mark Green, who carried 12 times for 57 yards. "The guys just did a great job up front. In our offense this year we're really running a lot of misdirection and razzlc-dazzle plays. This year there is really a great variety in all of our plays." 
Notre Dame also was impres­sive defensively, especially when it counted. "We didn't do any­thing special, but we just went out there and the guys made up 
September 18, 1986 their minds that we had to stop (Michigan)," Irish linebacker Cedric Figaro said. "It's the same team from last year but now we are more together. Everybody is just going out there and counting on each other. Togetherness will help us as the season progresses." 
Saturday the Irish head to East Lansing, Mich., for a clash with Michigan State. "Today we were close, but not close enough," Brown said afterward. "But I don't think we have any heavy problems for Michigan State. We know we can play football. We didn't really know that for sure before today. But I don't think we surprised ourselves." 
Head Coach George Perles' Spartans have eight starters returning on offense, including consensus All-America running back Lorenzo White. White led the nation in rushing with 1,906 yards on 386 carries last season as a sophomore, and finished fourth in the balloting for the Reisman Trophy. 
White has a strong supporting cast, including senior quarter­back Dave Yarema, senior flanker Mark Ingram, senior 
-

fullback Bobby Morse and an offensive line that features senior guard Doug Rogers and rapidly-improving junior center Pat Shurmur. Another player to watch is sophomore wideout Andre Rison, a deep-threat receiver who also saw action with the Spartan basketball and track teams last year. 
Defensively, the Spartans are led by senior middle line backer Shane Bullough, leading tackler and a second-team Academic All-America selection last year. Michigan State also has a strong secondary featuring cornerbacks Paul Bobbitt and Todd Krumm and strong safety Dean Altobelli. 
The Spartans were ranked 20th before dropping their open­ing game on the road to Arizona State last Saturday. They are a team with a lot of offensive weapons, and they are notori­ously tough on Notre Dame. "We had a great day on offense (against Michigan)," Brown said. "And the defense played really well too. I think we'll be all right. We have a new coach and a new 
season but we have to come back and be up for Michigan State." 
tl.l 
n 
::r 
[ 0 
n'n­
:::, (D 
'ti 
::r 
0 
n­
o 
-




Ali,en Appeal 
Six years ago my brother told me I ought to see "Alien," a movie that had been attract­ing attention for its vivid special 
effects.  My  brother  has  often  
recommended films  to  me,  espe­ 
cially  science  fiction.  He  knows  

this genre does not usually appeal to me, but this one was different, he said. He promised a real thriller with an excellent plot. 
Well, I ended up seeing some­thing like "The Blues Brothers" and forgot my brother's advice until this summer. With the release 
By Alex Peltzer 



Realistic Main Character Turns Sci-Fi Horror Flick Into Meaningful Film 
effects, great cinematography and excellent symbolism. But the most surprising thing about "Aliens" is that it docs not lose touch with the present. 
A film that reflects certain aspects of today's society but is set in a futuristic environment, Aliens' central character is Ripley, a female warrant officer and the sole survivor of the horrifying events of "Alien." The audience relates to events through this char­acter, sharing her habits, fears and dreams. 
Perhaps it is this aspect of the film that makes it so frightening. Ripley and her comrades are por­trayed as being ordinary people ­not superhuman beings -coming face to face with something terri­ble, something that threatens their very existence. 

One reason this film is power­ful is because it docs not rely on futuristic gimmickry to achieve the instant mass appeal of a "Star Wars" or "Return of the Jedi." 
Instead, "Aliens" draws the viewer into the future by incor­porating the realities of our day. Ripley has a pet cat, not a pet robot. She is bothered by her own dreams, not by messages from a Jedi knight. She drinks coffee, not some space-age Kool-Aid. 
The basic premise of the movie is that a second expedition is planned to the site where Ripley 

and her ill-fated crew members behind this venture, she agrees. face to face with the monster who 
had encountered a mysterious and is laying the eggs from which the 
deadly life form. Despite her In perhaps the most powerful creatures grow. Ripley has a child 
apprehensions about the motives scene in the movie, Riolcy comes in her arms, one of the few human colonists left alive on the planet. This is more than a traditional "man battles the monster" scene, it becomes symbolic of powerful maternal instincts to protect the young. 
The position of women in society is stressed but not preached. Ripley's world shows the status of women as nearly equal to that of men. Ripley is respected by others for her strength, rather than being steroeotyped as "difficult" because she is a strong woman. But she proves herself by actions, not words, thus the film avoids a moralistic tone. 
She is conviced to return to the planet only when she is assured that if the alien is found, it will be killed. She fears if the creature is captured for study, it could des­troy her planet. On the planet the expedition comes into fierce battle with not just one creature but many of them. 
Ripley is the outsider when the expedition sets out, working with an seasoned military unit, but she goes on to prove herself as capable as any of the crew, and thus is acccepted into the fold. 
Throughout the movie the audi­ence is continuously drawn to the characters, especially Ripley. When the crew is threatened by scores of extra-terrestrials, so is the. audience. Also, by keeping 
elements of our own world in the movie we are further threatened. Ripley's courage, then, becomes that much more remarkable. The fact that she is a woman adds dimension to a film that is already well-made and gripping. 
,., ----. -­
·--, '> ---~ • -­

Student Life 

State Hot Spots 
By Catherine Coffey 
Some Helpful Tips If You're Planning To Roadtrip To Michigan State This Weekend 
It's Friday, September 19. 
You've got a car. 
You've got money (some). 
You've got friends (probably, if you've got a car). 
You've been making arrange­ments for this trip since last years' blowout at Michigan, and nothing can deter you. 
You're going to Michigan State. 
But before letting that spon­taneous urge overtake you, con­sider some practical tips. 
Finding a place to stay will not be easy. Unfortunately, all nearby hotels are already filled. Also, classes at Michigan State don't begin until the Friday after the game, so staying in a dormitory could be a problem. However, an appeal to the ever-hospitable hand of the Greek system for lodging might pay off. 
Tickets pose another problem. Despite the fact that tickets to this game were not included in -the stu­dent football packet, many State students did purchase tickets and the game is sold out. Not to men­tion the fact that this is the open­ing game of State's season and many alumni will want to see it. Therefore, be prepared to pay a lot of money if you plan on getting tickets from unauthorized sales­men. 

For good food, some of the best student spots are: 
El Az Teco -(517-351-9111) Located on M.A.C. across from B'ZAR, El Az Teco is one of the finest mexican restaurants in Michigan, offering traditional mexican fare at very reasonable 

If you are going up to East Lansing on Friday, or if you are staying after the game on Satur­day, you might want to check out some of the following hotspots: 
prices. Don't be _put off by the line at the door, it moves quickly. 

Bilbo's Pizza -(517-332-6006) Located at 213 Ann near Albert St., ·this restaurant offers 35 
22 
Scholastic 
Student 'Life 

different kinds of sandwiches as wcII as thick-crust and stuffcd pizza. The atmosphere is relaxed and cozy, with original artworks by local artists displayed. Prices arc reasonable, with most sandwiches selling for around $4. · Pitchers arc $2. 75, drafts 75 cents, and coolers $1. Bilbo's is the only restaurant in East Lansing that provides beer delivery. 
West Side Deli -(517-351­1660) Located at I 127 E. Grand River, the West Side Deli is a quick way of satisfying the mun­chies. Serving pizza and a variety of sandwiches, this restaurant pro­vides both carry-out and sit-down service at reasonable prices. 
Aftcr getting your fill of food, sample the night-life. There are great places to go in the area around the campus. A few places, in particular, shouldn't be missed: 
Rick's American Cafe_ -(517­351-2285) Located at 224 Abbot and a mere fifteen minutes from the stadium, Rick's motto is "live music for live people." For a $3 cover (ladies free before 10 p.m.) one can enjoy the new wave rock of "22 Cavegods." Friday's spe­cials include $3, 24-ounce cans of Foster's Lager. And on Saturdays Stroh's pitchers are $2.75 with five watermelon shooters for $4. Named for the character of Rick in Casablanca, this hotspot is cousin to Rick's American Cafe in Ann Arbor. Twenty-one to enteq adjoining restaurant. 
B'ZAR (517-332-2927) Located at 220 M.A.C. in the University Mall basement, this bar lives up to its name. Complete with travelling magician and live lip-syncs, servers at this establish­ment include Gumby, Batman, and Little Red Riding Hood. At some point in the evening, the cos­tumed staff does a special dance in which audience participation is 
September 18, 1986 
encouraged. Top forty music is spun by a deejay for those who care to dance, while two bars serve those pursuing other interests. Specials include $1.75 Lowenbraus from 9 p.m. to midnight, with a special shooter for $1. Hungry? From 11:15 to 11:45 p.m. pizza slices are only 25 cents. If you're 
18 you can get in with a college ID, but remember, the drinking age in Michigan is 21. Although tennis shoes are permitted, admis­sion is refused to those wearing torn jeans or shirts, muscle tees, and hats. 
P.T. O'Malley's -(517-332­2959) Located on Grand River across from the student union, it's fashioned after an Irish pub, and the perfect hangout for all the Irish who are feeling homesick, 150 miles away from the safe haven of. South Bend. The bar and grill will serve you sandwiches and 

STRDIU, 

~ 
other football fare while you watch the game on five strategi­cally placed televisions. Pitchers are $3.50 and mixed drinks are $1.60, but be there early because 
P.T. O'Malley's is sure to be packed. 21 ID required to enter. 
Dooley's (517-482-5065) Located at the corner of Charles and Albert, this bar is a favorite among Greeks. Although Dooley's encourages conversation with many tables and chairs, Sensations, located directly below Dooley's, offers dancing. 19 ID required to enter. 
Now you're set to explore the· East Lansing social scene. But beware, the Michigan State Campus Police have just as much authority as the East Lansing Pol­ice, so be sure to treat them with the proper respect. See you at State! 


Problems in 'The Family' 
By Rochelle N. Holder 
Black Student Calls For New Classes More Ethnic Art, Literature ' To Increase Awareness Of Minority Affairs 
Notrc Dame prides itself that its student body is made up 0f people of diffcrcnt colors, countries and cultures. This is all well and good, but until Notre Dame satisfies its students' racial, national and cultural interests, it can not rightfully claim that its students arc one big happy family. 

Because of the University's . apparent lack of interest in their racial, national and cultural developments, some minority stu­dents feel left out and abandoned. 
According to this year's fig­ures, a mere 235 black undcrgra­d uatc students attend Notre Dame, the majority of whom arc athletes. Although blacks_ arc the nation's largest minority group, they make up only 3.3% of the student body. Notre Dame's failure to increase its black population has caused some black students to feel ostra­cized, isolated, and neglected by their "new family." 
These students feel as if they arc left alone to battle an army. The f celing of being the only black student in a class and know­ing that whatever you do or say will be given special attention, not because others arc interested in what you arc saying, but bccaus~ you, the black student, arc say in~ it, makes some black students insecure. 
With regard to the academic scene, Notre Dame must revise its present Black Studies curriculum so that its program portrays black culture correctly. If the present Black Studies program is the 
University's attempt at educating others on the black culture, then it has failed to achieve its objective. In fact, it has not even come close. 
The listed courses do not reflect the lifestyle of most black people. I and many others, black and white alike, can attest that classes like "Poverty, Crime and 
•the Poli ti cal Process," "Social Problems" and "Criminal Justice" do not add any insight into the problems most blacks are facing. 
Not only does this show the University's insensitivity to the black experience, but it clearly demonstrates the level of concern Notre Dame has for its black stu­dents. How can the University allow these courses to be taught if they offer no education on the black culture to their students? Why not have a course on famous black American writers or some­thing of that nature? 
Unfortunately the University is presenting the black race in a derogatory manner. This is not to say that there are not problems of poverty and crime in the black community, but the positive aspects of black Americans should be emphasized as much as the negative. 
If only the negative aspects of the black culture are taught to non-black students then it seems as though the University is doing those stud en ts, as well as the black students, an injustice. 

A solution? A good start would be hiring professors who arc familiar with the black culture. After that, a revision of the course curriculum for black studies is needed -with an emphasis on the accomplishments, the struggles and contributions of the black people to our national culture. Thus, the University will be utiliz­ing its resources effectively and therefore will be providing an education of the black culture to its students. 
These problems are important and need to be resolved, but other situations demand immediate attention. One can walk through the Snite Museum and not see any representation of African art; one can go to the Memorial Library and find only a few samples of black literature -usually tattered and too old to supply relevent information on today's black population and culture. An effort in improving these areas would go a long way towards demonstrating a real commitment towards black culture. 
These are a few issues which irritate the black students, as well as other minority groups of Notre Dame, as the issues apply to them. For such a prestigious and Chris­tian university, Notre Dame has disappointed me with its lack of sensitivity for the minority stu­dent. Until the administration revises its "cultural" learning aids (library, museum, classes, etc.), the Notre Dame family will consist only of the white, Catholic, male student. 
Scholastic 




Watch For Scholastic·. Every Thursday 

-._...1ieeii;, '''')t...... ii?i&....Z1 ~......,.g;..-:;;; .... zo-•·5?"7'::'ma,:; \; --, 







