
o you want to kn w what's 
II
01ng n at otre ame? 
Subscribe to 
SCHOLASTIC 
l\1AGAZINE 
You'll find: 
• 
the latest campus news and sports 

• 
national and campus entertainment coverage 

• 
controversial campus issues 

• 
what's happening on weekends 

• 
some off-the-wall college humor 


Only $30 a year 


YES! 
Please put me on your subscription list for 1995-96 
Name.__·----------,-----­
Address:,_____________ 
Please send this fonn, with payment, to: Business Manager, Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
SOMETHING TO FIT ANY SIZE APPETITE 

oeeAND BUDGET 
. · ··_·,S_UBWA~· . 
· The Place Where Fresh is chelascc. 
-54533 Terrace Ln 277-7744 52577 US Rt.31 277-1024 



SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 137, NUMBER 9 FOUNDED,1867 NOVEMBER 9, 1995 
COVER STORY 



Up in Smoke 
Notre Dame's campus is smoke-free, at least in theory. A no smoking policy is enforced in all of the buildings owned by the university. But more and more students on campus seem to be smoking, and some dorms even allow students to smoke in their rooms. Should the university begin to consider alternatives for these students such as a smoking room or cigarette vending machines? 
................................... page 8 



Big Boys 


The Notre Dame men's basketball team welcomes its second straight good re­cruiting class, but can they face the challenges of the Big East? 
................................pagel4 
Hunter Seeker 


Silent since The Piano, Holly Hunteris positively, truly back in two new re­leases. Chris Myers re­views Copycat and Home for the Holidays. 
......._______...:.___pigel6 
FEATURFS 
The Voice ofND ........................................................ 4 
by Abigail May 
LeadingtheWay........................................................ 6 
by Michelle Hempel 
Hea.dlinesandHea.dway.~........................................12 
by T. Ryan Kennedy 
· Art Imitating Lif e ....................... _ ...........................18 
by Alyssa Peterson 
Lil>eralizingNotreDame........................................24 
by Dave McMahon 

DEPAR'.IMENTS 
From theEditor ........................................................... 2 I..etters.......................................................................... 3 CampusWatch ................................................ : ........... 7 Splinters from the Press Box ................................... 11 OutofBounds .............................................................. 19 Comics.........................................................................20 OnOtherCampuses ..................................................... 21 ComingDistractions..................................•.................22 W eekinDistortion ........................................ : ..............23 Final W ord..................................................................•24 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• NOVEMBER 9, 1995 
1 


Smoking, on the Rise 

My freshman year, itseemed like no one atNotre Dame smoked And I mean no one. The sight of a student sitting outside somewhere puffing away was as rare as the sight of a student wearing a shirt proc1aiming his homosexuality. On home football weekends, 
weused tobeable to recognize students from the away schoolbecause they were the ones filling the parties and bars with smoke. 
Since then, smoking on campus has become a common sight When don't you see students clustered around the ashtrays outsideofLaFortune? And it'srare thatyou come home from a party or bar notreekingof smoke. Although I have yetto take a drag, many of my friends have started smoking, and now I'm the one who looks out ofplace. 
Onpages 8-10, campus life writerMeghan Fitzgeraldtakes alookatthehowsandwhys ofthe increase in smoking among Notre Dame students. 
Correction 

Lastweek'sWeekinDistortioncolumnon thesocialatmospherein thelibrary, "AField Guide to Social Study," was writtenby sophomoreKate Broun, not"KateBrown," as the byline incmrectly stated. · 
Time for a Break Scholastic Magazine will not be published for the next two weeks due to budget restrictions and the Thanksgiving break. The next issue will appear on November 30, 1995. Enjoy the holiday. 
Michelle L. Crouch 
Editor in Chief 

Cover photo by Aaron Skalicky Cover Desi n b Patrick Skidmore 
34 Years Ago... 
In Scholastic's November 3, 1961, issue, an article entitled ''Husbands, Anyone" appeared. Written by agentleman namedMaxShulman, incollaboration with Marlboro cigarettes, itexpounds on the.qualities to I~for ina: husband. Hereare some excerpts: 
The question nowarises, what shouldagirl lookforin a husband. The mostimportant thing-bar none-in a husbandis health. Though he may be handsome asApollo and rich as Midas, what good is lie ifhe just lays around all day accumulating bedsores? 
The veryfirst thing to do upon meeting aman is to make sure he is soundofwindand limb. Beforehe hasachanceto sweet.:.talkyou,slapa thermometerin hismouth,roll back his eyelids, yank out his tongue, rap hispatella,palpate his thorax, ask him to straighten out a horseshoe with his teeth. Ifhefai_!s these simple tests.phone/oran ambulance and 
go on to the next prospect. · Then put him to the next test. Find out whether he is kindly. The quickest way to ascertain his /dndliness is, ofcourse, to look at the cigarette he smokes. Is it mild? Is it humane? Is it bright andfriendly andfiltered andfull ofdulcet pleasurefrom cockcrow till the heart ofdarkness? Is it, in short, Marlboro? · · IfMarlboro it be, then clasp the man to your bosom with hoops ofsteel.for you may be sure that he is kindly as asummer-breeze, kindly as a mothers kiss, kindly to his very

marrow. . 

And now, havingfound the right man, the only thing that remains is to make sure he will always earn a handsome living. That.fortunately, is easy. Just enroll him in engineering. -MLC 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE 
¦ NOVEMBER 9, 1995 \ 
Do You Have Something to Say? 
Write to Scholastic 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Wednesday, November 15 8p.m. Thursday, November 16 8p.m. Friday, November 17 8p.m. Saturday, November 18 8p.m. Sunday, November 19 2:30p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hail 

Reserved Seats.$8 Student and senior citizen discounts are available for all perfom1ances. Tickets are available at the door·or in advance at the Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa Orders call 631-8128 






The Voice of ND 
When they were elected last February, J.P. and Dennis had a host of campaign promises to fulfill. Here's a look at their progress and what they 
BY ABIGAJL MAYSplashed across the fro.nt page of the 
October27issueofTheObserver, a 
full-color photo showed three of Notre Dame's most prominent personali­ties bent over, lips puckered -a position some elected officials might have consid­ered, well, compromising. 
But these are not ordinary politicians. Student Body President Jonathan ("J.P.") Patrick, Vice President Dennis McCarthy and Chief of Staff Mark Mitchell had no qualms about planting one directly on the Ireland-shaped trophy that will travel back and forth between the winners of future 
· Notre Dame-Boston College football matchups. The trophy idea, say Patrick and McCarthy, is one example of their efforts to live up to their campaign promise to be­come ''the voice of the Notre Dame student body." "We said we'd give students the opportunity to get their opinio~s out there," says Patrick. 'The trophy idea was devel­opedinresponse tostudents' concernsabout the clashes which occurred on the BC cam­pus during last season's game. This is one instancein which we were able to hear what people were saying, and then take the next step and do something about it" Indeed, communication with the general student body was one of the main platforms of the Patrick-McCarthy ticket last spring. They promised to bring student concerns to the administration, to establish Internet ac­cess to student government ·and to help promote WVFI. Among their other con­cerns and promises were minority group issues, community action programs and campus unity. Now, halfway through their term, how well have they reached these goals? What have they done? And what are 

are planning for the future 
theyplanning to do? 

In their attempts to open channels of communication with the student body, Patrick and McCarthy seem to have been success­ful. They have cre­ated an e-mail fo­rum that can be ac­cessed at studegov.l@ndedu and a web page that canbefoundathttp:/ /www .nd.edu: 80/ ~studegov/. This page has been vis­itedmorethan 1,000 times since August The pair also hosts weekly Fireside Chats at 8 p.m. on Sundays on WVFI in an effort to inform and converse with students. 
The two contend that an unusually open, non-confrontational rapport has developed this year between student government and many university administrators. Appar~ ently, officials agree. "I have seen nothing firsthand and heard nothing from other of­fices that make me think they are doing anything except an outstanding job," says Joe Cassidy, director of student activities. He attributes this success to their ability to work well together. 'They make a good team· because they . balance each other's strengths and weaknesses, and they have a positive leadership style," adds Cassidy. 
Bill Kirk, vice president of student af­fairs, has also found working with the two a good experience. "I think they compare favorably to student body presidents and vice presidents of the past," he says. Kirk credits Patrick and McCarthy with ''devel-oping an ambitious agenda, but not one that is unrealistic." He explains, 'They have concentratedonsomeverydo-ableprojects -like the idea of a debit card, for ex­ample." 

.. Patrick and McCarthy credit Campus · Improvements Commissioner Brendan Kelly for the progress on this issue.. Kelly 
·.. has been working closely with representa­tives from university departments such as Food Services and Facility Operations all year, communicating student concerns and input on issues like the proposed debit card; which would incorporate the detex, meal card, library card and a charge card of sorts to be used in the Huddle. The details and status of the card are pending. A new project this year was the student ticket exchange which allowed students to trade in their ticket and pay an extra $15 for a general admission ticket to a home foot~ ball game. Student government staffer Miranda Sanford worked with the ticket 


officeon thisendeavor,andstudentgovem­ment officials assert that the project was a success. "It's an interim program at this point," explains McCarthy, ''but we got a lot of positive feedback on it from students and from the university, and it will be 

istration' slong-tenn goals is thequestion of· The Guide, a student-developedcomse se­lection guide with comse and professor evaluations. ''Whenweinheritedthatproject this year," says Patrick, "it was really just a hugemess and, from ourexperience, pretty much useless. 
"J.P. and Dennis are al,ways asldng Butwesti.llhave 
alotofhopethat 
me what they can do to he~ They've itwilleventually become a really 
· let the administration know that valuable tool, like the course
we do want to see WVFI on FM." 
guides at other schools."
-Mike Flood, WVFI Station Manager 
Butnotevery­
conti.nued in the future -hopefully with a 
few of the problems worked out" 
Itis theproblems thatworry someadmin­istrators, though. ''The system changed each week, it seemed. Availability did not meet the demand, and there were students buying tickets just to resell them," states Kiik. He says, "I thinkit's agoodidea, but there are still a lot ofproblems that need to be worlced out Whether it will happen in the future-I don't know." . 
Other issues, including some that were integral in their campaign platfonn, have alsorun into problems. When they entered thepi'esidenti.alrace,PatrickandMcCarthy 
· werecommittedtoworldngtowardmoving .. campus radio WVFI (640 AM) to FM sta­ms. The two admit that it became clear, almost immediately, that this was a more difficult task than they had .realized. "Inthis case," says Mitchell, "theissue is entirely centered around money. It costs to update equipment and to get the licensing necessarytogoFM. Theuniversitydoesn't -view that project as a priority right now." Despite this setback, though, Station 'Manager Mike Flood says, "J.P. and Den~ nis are always asking me what they can do to help. They've let the administration know that we do want to see WVFI on FM. Student government has cooperated with the station, but they can'tjustwave amagic wand and convert us." ''We don't expect to see WVFI go FM during our time at Notre Dame," adds McCarthy. . "But the· worlc we've been doing, in cooperation with die station, will payoffeventually. Anumberoftheprojects we are worldng oil are long-term, and will end up being beneficial to students in the 
future." . Ranking hi h among their admin-

one believes that they should be spending any time on this project "I just don't think thatpeoplecarethatmuchaboutTheGuide. ·It'snotasifwithoutitthereisnootherway to makeinformeddecisions about classes," says senior Sheila Navagh. 
Another project whicp. Patrick and McCarthy hope their successors will pick up is the Campus Community Introduc­tions program; CCI is designed to expose incoming freshmen to the service opportu­riit;ies available through the Center for So­cial Concerns. Interestedfreshmen partici­pate in immersionexperiences attheCenter for the Homeless, Dismas_House and six other area service agencies. This project 
.falls under Patrick and McCarthy's cam:­paign commitmentto establish and support organized and well-promoted service op­portunities. 
Perhaps the most widely debatedissueon theircampaignplatfonn,therecognitionof thegayandlesbiangroupGLND/SMC,has remained high on this administration's list ofconcerns."Atthe timeoftheelectionthat issue was very big," says Mitchell. "J.P. promised that he would worlc to get the group a place to meet, if not recognition. Student Affairs rejected the group, so their hands are tied for now. But the Ad Hoc committeeongay andlesbianissues, which ­bothJ.P. andDennis siton,representsabig step .in tenns ofgetting the pertinent issues on the table." 
Among the other primary goals for the remainder of their term is to host a mock presidential convention. According to Mitchell,theconvention wouldbe"anevent in which candidates can come to campus to both listen andspeaktoyoungvoters." The university has been very supportive of the plan, he adds~ and a number of student groups are collaborating to make ithappen. 
Above all, Patrick and McCarthy are hopeful that the student body will assume an even more active role in student govern­ment in the months to come, and they encourage student input, whether sugges­tions or constructive criticism, on all of their projects. . 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ NOVEMBER 9, 1995 
5 





Leading the Way 
Tour guides offer visitors a glimpse ofNotre Dame, past and present 
BY MICHELLE HEMPEL 

ith a Mountain Dew in hand and a relaxed grin on his
W

face, junior Kris Beezley seems to be the image of · the model college student Hebreaks the ice withjokes about walking backwards and treasured stories aboutFather Sorin. 
With a welcoming smile, he introduces himself to the people in his group, who have gathered in the Admissions Office. They are ready to embark on one of the first steps in the application process: the campus tour. Beezley leads his group out of the main building and stops, giving them a chance to admire the Golden Dome ­scaffolding and all. 
Beezley speaks enthusiastically about the school's history and whatNotreDamehastooffer,pepperinghisaccountwithjokesand personal stories, as they head towards the Freshman Year of Studies building. He gestures toward the grotto. 'The Grotto's glow is said to brighten during finals week and on home football weekends," he jokes. 
''People love certain stories," explains sophomore tour guide· Frank Perez. "Whenever I pass the dining halls, I tell the Cap'N Crunch story." According to Perez, during the 1980s, the dining hall discontinued Cap'N Crunch cereal, much to the students' chagrin. The students protested and the cereal was brought back. 'The next football season Cap.'N Crunch himself visited Notre Dameand led themarchingbandoutonto thefield,"Perez explains. 
"I always told the story about Crowley Hall," says fonner tour guide Luke Woods.. '.'Itused to be a three-story classroom building until a chemistry explosion blew up the third floor. Now it's a two­story music building." 
Bryan Furze, a sophomore guide, notes, ''We always comment on how the tour veers to the right in front of the radiation building and how there are five-headed snowmen there in the winter." 
Beezley's group angles towards South Quad, passing the up­and-comingarchitecture building. When one mothercomments on the many renovations around campus, Beezley grins wryly and assures her that all of the buildings aren't falling apart 
South Quad looks just like it does in recruiting posters on this cool, breezy Friday afternoon. Students are throwing Frisbees in front of Morrissey, the HowardHall football team scrimmages on the quad andplaid-cladalumni strolldown thesidewalks, anticipat­ing the next day's football game. Beezley points out thebookstore, which the families plan to visit after the tour. Walking towards DeBartolo, the group pauses between Dillon and Alumni. ''People really like the stories aboutinterhall competition," says sophomore Julie Brubaker. 'They love hearing about the donn rivalries, the sports, the dances, anything interesting." 

Being a tour guide isn't always easy, however. "I did lose a couple of people once," Perez admits. "I took my group into South Dining Hall -I was walking pretty fast When we got to DeBartolo our group was visibly smaller. That was probably my most embarrassing moment." 
Woodsalsoshareshisfavoriteblunder. "Wehadjustgottenback from Easter break, and I was telling my group how a stonn had recently knocked the God Quad statue ofJesus off its pedestal," he explains. "I was walking backwards towards it, going on and on about poor Jesus, never noticing that they had replaced the statue during break. Finally, I took a look over my shoulder and there he was. I just shouted 'Oh my goodness, He's risen!"' 
Brubaker has also had some unusual experiences while at work. One especially memorable tour was the one she gave to a senior in high school who was visiting Notre Dame with her older brother who was a graduate of the class of 1984. "After the tour he came uptomeandsaidsomethinglike, 'Iknowwhenlwasastudenthere Iloved toeatmeals off campus. Would you like to have dinner with metonight?'" she relates. "I was shocked-hewas so much older! So, I said 'umm, my boyfriend and I are pretty exclusive.' I didn't even have a boyfriend at the time!" But he was persistent, asking Brubaker to go out with him on three different occasions that weekend 
Tour guides say they especially enjoy the influence they can have on campus visitors. 'That's the best part," Brubaker says. ''What I say, my attitude and my smile really reflect on the people who choose to come here." Beezley agrees: 'This might be their only chance to talk to astudent,andifit'sgoing to beme, I might as well rriake it truthful." Brubaker remarks, "It's a big competition. Everything I say has to beat what the tour guide atNorthwestem or Princeton says." 
Having made a full circle from South Quad to the stadium and North Quad, Beezley's tour group returns to the dome. Beezley thanks them for coming and wishes the high school senior good luck on her decision. 'The end of the tour is the best part," says Perez. "I like the feeling of playing a decisive role in someone's college choice by my presentation." And if the tour guides are doing their jobs well, that choice for many of the students will be Notre Dame. D 

gipper. l@nd.edu 



Attitude, Allegations and Innuendo 
Ouch. -RonPowlus  watch enough episodes of Officer McGruff  
when he was younger, for when hereturned  
SIMPLY MARKING ms  to the last-known locale of his bike, he  
TERRITORY  found nothing. So the bikeless student gave  

Well,ladie.sandgentlemen,itwas only a matter of time before something else happenedwhich 
could.be added to the growing national list, "stupid things college football players do." A couple of weeks ago, a certain famous Notre Dame player (names will remain anonymous to protect from total embar­rassment) gotalittletipsy. Shocking,right? 
Well, as the story goes, this person ­we'll call him Rudy -woke up from a drunken stupor next to a woman he didn't even recognize. Rudy, still drunk offhis gourd, then attempted to visit the little boys room. Unfortunately, he completely over­shot thebathroomand ended upinan unsus­pecting freshman 'sroom, wherehe relieved himselfinagarbagecan. Hethensatdown on a couch and rifled through the now­arisen-and-completely-shockedfreshman' s laundry, looking for some boxers. Oh, did the Gipp forget to mention that Rudy was buck naked? 
In the end, the befuddled and confused freshman had to find the nearest available assistant rector to remove the urinating ban­dit Here is indisputable proof that less time and effort should go toward drug and alco­

. hol awareness and more should go toward solving bladder control problems. 
AND THE IIlTS JUST KEEP ON COMIN' 
Another student recently fell victim to a football player outside the Administration Building. The student was on his way to the Dome and when he got there, he felt safe enough .to leave his bike unlocked as he ducked inside. Obviously this kid did not security a report of what happened and 

returned to his dorm, down and dejected. 
It wai;' at this point that sheer luck (and 
someone else's sheer stupidity) brought the 
victim good fortune. As he was passing a 
freshman football player's room down the 
hall from his, he saw, through a door barely 
ajar,hislonglostbike. Thestudentstolehis 
bike back, notified security and justice will 
soon prevail. 
''The Gipp will take 'Things That Will 
GetYouArrested'forl,OOOplease,Alex;'' 
What do you think was going through this 
football player's head when he decided to 
steal a bike from someone down the hall?. 
One can only speculate. The Gipp has one 
last thing to say-Mike Miller wannabe. 
HEH, HEH, HEH ... COOL 

NotreDamehockeyfanshaveanewtreat 
for the 1995 season. Apparently, a Beavis 
and Butthead fan is the new organ player. 
Go to thegames and you willbe entertained 
by your "favorite" hockey game organ 
songs, including "Welcome to the Jungle" 
by Guns andRoses and "Ironman" by Ozzy 
Ozbome. What can be more traditional at 
a hockey game than hot dog, pretzels, fist 
fights and your favorite heavy metal songs 
played on the organ during a stoppage in 
play? 
Since the new stands installed around the ice rink are portable, maybe they should move them back about 10feet and make ,the area around .the rink one big mosh pit Every time Notre Dame scores, the student section could go nuts to the sounds of Motley Criie' s "Dr. Feelgood," organ style. . The possibilities are endless. So the next 
EAT YOUR HEART OUT, WALT DISNEY 

. Does anyone remember our friend Pepe Le Pew, who reportedly roamed the cam-· pus during the first months of the semester? Well, a new furrylittle friend has reportedly been slinking around in the shadows of Notre Dame recently -a black cat The Gipp can't decide which public pariah he'd rathercomeacrossin themiddl~of thenight -a skunk that, if properly frightened, could make your life miserable for days or a black cat that can transform even the most die-hardskepticintoaparanoidfreakthrow­ing salt over his shoulder. It is, however, quiteamusingtoseehowpeoplereactwhen they run across the cat, zigzagging this way aqd that so it doesn't actually cross their paths. Perhaps the cat was brought in to chase away the skunk, because the malodorous mammal was last seen somewhere in the vicinity of Turtle Creek. Personally, the Gipp would rather see the black cat kicked off campus. Maybe he's being a. little paranoid, but there has been some pretty bad luck going around as of late. Case in point? Ron Powlus. Enough said. 
Farewell, Gipp fans and, until next time, the Gipp wishes you good luck in trying to find something to do on Saturday. He knows many of you will go through Notre Dame football withdrawal. Try getting out fora change. Go bowling, watchamovieor simply throw together your own football game. Of course tailgating before any of these events is strictly optional. . 
SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E ¦ NOV.EMBER 9, 1 9 9 5 
7 





• 
1Il 


Although Notre Dame has been a smoke-free campus for four years, smoking seems to be on the rise 

BY MEGHANFITZGERALD 
group of students gathers on the steps of pus." Garlitz is one who is not afraid to express his opposition to LaFortune, discussing what they did over fall break. As they chat, smoking. "I don't understand why anyone would _consciously a pack of cigarettes is passed . breathe in something they around, and they all light up. know is badforthem," he says. 
Despitethe cold temperature, The issue of smoking on several Lyons residents huddle campus was raised during last together under the arch of their year's campaign for student dorm. Itis midterms week, and body president. Dennis they are taking a study break to McCarthy, student body vice­enjoy a smoke. president, explains thatthepro-
The pavement in front c;>f -posalto have cigarette vending DebartoloHallis filled with stu­machines installed on campus
I 
dents waitingfor theirfriends to was part of his and Jonathan 
'' 
ili meet them before lunch. Many Patrick's platform. "It was an 
ill!' ofthem have cigarettes in hand, inconvenience for students to 

attempting to ward off pangs of have to go off campus to pur­
hunger and unwind after class. chase cigarettes, especially for Junior Todd Garlitz, like freshmen who do not have many others, has noticed more cars," he says. 
students smoking on campus Efforts are currently being lately. He says he sees more -made to make this plan a real­smokers grouped together in ity, according toMcCarthy,al­front of the entrances to almost .m 5' though he wanis thatit might 
"D ' 

every campus building and also i be a slow process. "When the 
i .

observes that there are "ciga­policy ofa smoke-free campus 
rette butts lying all over cam-was drafted, it also prohibited 
QUIET TIME. Not everyone who smokes Is addicted to nicotine. Senior Scott Rudlch says he only smokes once or twice a week as a way to relax. 
unique solutions to comply with the university,~s J. h. h 1 f smoking policy. . Iilo ~ers perceive t eir a it as pl;lrl 0 Sr. Joanne Bauer, rectress ofCavanaugh Hall, 1 n . ahi h 1 J " 17 
the saleofcigarettes oncampus. So it is first a matter of seeing whether the present policy can be altered," he explains. 
Notre Dame is a smoke-free campus -at least in theory. According to DuLac, "Smok­ing is prohibited in all build­ings, stadiums and vehicles owned, leased or operated by . 
the University of Notre Dame." As those who live. on campus know.however, there is already one exception to this · rule in their own residence halls. With "prior consent of all room­mates," smoking may be per­mittedinindividualdormrooms, according toDuLac. Although most dorms have adopted non­
smoking policies, some resi­dence halls have developed 


m 
::,. 
0 
" 
~ 
a.a: 

SMOKE BREAK. Some students, like seniors Jodie Shotwell and Nicky Batlll, smoke cigarettes while relaxing during study or work breaks. 
feels that the smoking policy at Notre Dame is a tne co "delicate issue on campus." As a newly-established women's dorm, Cavanaugh was able to establish its own smoking policy when it converted last year. The residents of Cavanaugh voted to allow smoking in individual rooms; as long as roommates consent and the smoke does not enter the hallway. ''.By making it a democratic decision, I was trying to support Cavanaugh's consti.: tution, which gives women in the hall the right to determine their living situation," says Bauer. 
· According to Bauer, there was talk about the policy at the beginningofthisyear,soitwasputuptoanothervote. Despitethe numerous signs postedbyproponents andopponentsofthepolicy, residents voted to leave it unchanged. "I don't think that means ~ere' s more smokers in the dorm, just that more students support freedom for smokers," says Bauer. 
Avery different verdict, however, was handed down in Keenan Hall. According to co-president Ben Harries, there is a fine for smoking within 15 feet of the dorm. 
Grace Hallis another dorm that enforces a strict non-smoking policy. Resident assistant Ed Tadajweski supports this policy because, in his own experience, he finds that a dorm-wide policy 
ege an . g SChO() expenence. 
works much better than leaving it ·s rl. 1 up to a few roommates to decide if -ue r'lllll~ they will allow smoking in their room. "When it is left up to the 
students to decide, it is often the case that the non-smoking roommate(s) can be easily swayed to consent to the smokers even ifit is against their wishes," says Tadajweski. ''This is especially a problem with freshmen and in any situation where those who smoke are in the majority." 
Even smoker Dave Mullin finds some good in the university smoking policy, although it does force him to make a field trip to light up. "Last year when you could smoke in Alumni, our room was the smokers' hangout There was never a day when ourroom· didn't smell like smoke," he says. ''This year, we don~ t have this problem." 
Harries suggests that one way to improve the university smok­ing polici may be to designate an indoor facility on campus for smokers, which would be particularly appreciated during the winter months. Many smokers believe the restrictions placed on smokers by the university are both unfair and inappropriate, especially considering the inclement weather of South Bend. 
SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E ¦ NOVEMBER 9, 1 9 9 5 
9 




"When it's 10degreesbelow zero and there are people who want to smoke, itisnotright that they must risk frostbite to do so," says junior Jeff Hill. 
According to Director of Risk Manage­ment and Safety Bob Zerr, the university has considered designating a room in LaFortune Hall as a smoking lounge. "We couldn't do it because the cost would have been too high to modify the existing venti­lation and make the room breathable," he says. "The issue is pretty much closedright now, at least for LaFortune... The students have not suggested any other_ location and we always have to consider the rights ofthe non-smokers." 
Some students feel that the emphasis on a smoke-free campus affects how smokers and smoking are perceived at Notre Dame. "We'relookeddownupon," commeritsjun­ior Matt Casey. "Personally, I find that when I am walking across campus with a cigarettein hand,peoplelookatmebecause of it" 
But junior Allison Looker claims that 


SOCIAL SMOKING. Students enjoy cigarettes and conversation outside Stanford-· Keenan. Many dorms have benches like this one outside their entrances where smokers 
congregate. 

because more people seem to be smoking on campus this year, the stigma attached to smokers is gradually disappearing. "It's usually girls who feel self-conscious about smokingbecause they feel thatguys think it is unattractive," she says. "This attitude wears off, though, after a year or two in the socialscenehere. Yourealize thatitdoesn't matter what they think because no one on this campus dates anyway." 
manyNotreDamestudentsarelightingup. "Smokers perceive their habit as part of the college and high school experience," says junior Sue Flink. She does not think the smoking habits of college students reflect ignorance nor a disregard for the advice of medical experts and the media. 
''This is the time in our lives when we are experiencing new things whether they are good or bad for us. Smoking is one of 

---"I find that when I am wall<lng across campus with a cigarette ---in hand, people lool~ at nie 1ecause of it." --Matt Casey 


Some appreciate the smoker's bond at Notre Dame. Although she does not con­sider herself a habitual smoker, j~nior Christy Eldred says, "I enjoy bonding over a cigarette as a study break when I ani stressed because it relaxes me. Also, when I go out at night, I find myself wanting to haveasmokewithafriendbecauseitispart ofsocializing." 
Casey agrees. "IfI am out of cigarettes, Ifeel comfortable.going up to fellow smok­
m . 
5" ers, talking to them and asking them for
.,,
.,

[ one," he remarks.
.. . 
"' 

But _with all that the present college gen­eration is supposed to know regarding the dangers ofsmoking, one question is why so them," Flink says. "However, most stu­dentsrealizethatbeyondtheyearsofgradu­ation, it is not in their best interest to con­tinue a habit such as smoking, not only for health reasons, but because society frowns on it." 
The smoking policy at Notre Dame was instituted «out of concern for the health, safety and well-being of the members ofthe campus community," according toDuLac. While therestofthenation debates the issue ofsmokers'rights,NotreDameseemstobe joiningin the trend. Butas they trek outside withtheirBicsandMarlboros;manysmok­ers are left wondering where they fit in on this campus. 

SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX 
A roundup of the week in sports 
November l to November 7 
edited by Shannan Ball 
Women's Soccer Wins League, Seeded Fourth in NCAA Tourney 
The Fighting Irish shut out Rutgers and 
Connecticut to capture the BigEastconfer­
ence crown. Rutgers fell 3-0 to the strong 
Irish offense, with tournament MVP Amy 
Van Laecke scoring the first goal. BigEast 
Rookie of the Year Monica Gerardo and ·Holly Manthei also scored. 
The Irish avenged a 5-4 loss they suffered 
to Connecticut earlier in the year with a 1­
0 triumph over the Huskies in the champi­
onship game. Jen Renola recorded her 
ninth solo shutout of the season, making 
five saves and turning away a second half 
barage in which Connecticut outshot the 
Irish 7-1. 
Notre Dame is seeded fourth in the 24 
team bracket and will receive a bye in the 
first round. They will face off against the 
winner of the first round game between 
Wisconsin and Minnesota. The Irish al­
ready defeated Wisconsin, 1-0, earlier this 
season in Madison. 
In addition to their Big East champion­
ship trophy, the Irish led all other schools 
with a combined eight players on the first 
and second all-conference teams. . 
Men's Soccer Team Ends Season 
Although they failed to qualify for .the BigEast tournament, themen's soccer team defeated Big East rival Villanova 4-1 Fri­daynightto giveHeadCoachMikeBerticelli his 250th career victory. Senior Bill Lanza had three assists in his final home game. 

Notre Dame then trekked to Wisconsin, where they fell to the ninth-ranked Badgers 3-0. The Irish went 1-7on the road this year, while at home they posted a mark of 8-3. Their overall record was 9-10. 
Volleyball Prepares for Top-Ranked Nebraska 
The Irish needed only three games on Friday night to finish off the Red Storm of StJohns,defeatingthem 15-0, 15-6and 15­
4. The team returned to theJACC again to face UConn. Although the Huskies tried to fend off the Irish attack, Notre Dame was victorious 15-11, 15-8 and 15-5. Notre Dame now posts a record of 22-5. This weekend the Irish will travel to Providence and Boston College. 
NotreDamewillalsoplayhosttotheBig East Conference tournament on November 18-19. Six teams from the conference will be invited to the tournament 
HockeySeasonGetsOffto Rough Start 
When the Irish stepped on the ice this weekend, they were hoping to end their four game losing streak. Unfortunately, Notre Dame dropped two games to West­ern Michigan, 3-2 and 6-2. After giving up 26 goals in the previous four games, the team gave up only three goals to a squad averaging over six a game. The team's record is now 1-7. 
We Are ND: As the Irish ready themselves for their third service academy of the year, considerthis: ThelrishhavenotlosttoArmysince 1958, to Navy since 1%3. Thelastloss to Air Force was a relatively short 10 years ago, when the Irish dropped a 21-15 decision. 
Quote ofthe Week: "And I don't want to say he's durable, because that might be the kiss of death. But he's been very, very durable." -Lou Holtz on Tom Krug 
Schaller's Schot: ·No issue next week, so I'll have to look deep into the crystal ball. The offense manages to score points despite three turnovers. Krug and Jarius Jackson split time, and" Action" Jackson scores twice on runs. Krug, meanwhile, throws for one. The special teams comes through with a touchdown. The Falcons baffle the Irish defense, and it takes a late turnover for the Irish to pull this one out Notre Dame 34 Air Force 30 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II NOVEMBER 9, 1995 
'I 
¦11 Hii•i6JW11--------------------­



Headlines and Headway 
With new coach Dave Poulin leading the way, Notre Dame Hockey looks to make its move into the nation's elite 
BY T. RYAN KENNEDY
NotreDamesportsaremakinghead­lines in the nation's top newspa­pers. But the recent headlines in 
USA Today and The Boston Globerefer not only toNotreDamefootball andbasketball, but also to the rising Notre Dame hockey programandlrishcoachDavePoulin. Never again will Notre Dame hockey be in such a funk. With the arrival of Poulin and a wealth of talentto match, theIrish are about to make a move. 
TheNotreDamehockeypro­gram has gone through more 
.·changessinceitsinception than any program in the country. From its revitalization in 1968 under Charles "Lefty" Smith after a 41-year hiatus, to its secondstintasamemberofthe CentralCollegiateHockey As­sociation, the Irish haveplayed at almost every level imagin­able: independent,WCHAand CCHA. 
First-yearcoachDavePoulin · .is. about to introduce a new level to the Irish-that of the 

seven games. Last year, the Irish won only 
10 games, but they made strides. The 
highlight was a 6-3 drubbing of Michigan, 
somethingpreviouslyunheardof. Now,for 
thefirsttimesinceNotreDamerejoinedthe 
conference in 1992, the Iris~ will have four ·classes recruited to play in the CCHA. 
''Whenwefirst camein, wewere theonly 
class with CCHA experience," Ling says. 
"Now we have four classes and a lot of 
talent. With Coach Poulin, we haveleader­
ship. Hecanrelatetobeingaplayerbecause 
··"···,.,,,,.,,,·,·,,.,...

---------------------=-"" 
nation's elite. It is not coinci-HOT STICK. Freshman Brian Urick rips a shot on goal. The right 6'6" Davide Dal Grande, are dence that the last time that winger scored four goals against Alaska-Fairbanks this year. coming off their best offensive 
Poulin wore a Notre Dame hockey jersey was the only time the Irish played in the CCHA championship game; nor is it a coincidence that this year the 1995 Irish boast their first Hobey BakerAward candi­date, seniorJamie Ling, since Poulin was a finalist in 1982. 
Ling himself has been on a four-year roller-coasterrideatNotreDame. In 1992, he came in as a member ofthe first class to play in theCCHA,alongwithcaptainBrett Bruininks. At the time, Coach Ric Schafer and the Irish were scraping the bottom of the talent barrel, and the Irish won a mere 
12 

he just retired in May. We look to him because of his recent experience," Ling continues. 
At week's end; the Irish seemed to be staring at themselves in the mirror ofmedi­ocrity and incompetence. But there is a positive attitude as upbeat as the team's playing style. Poulin has implemented an aggressive,furiously-paced,excitingbrand of hockey that fits the Irish better than the sit-back,defensivementalityofteamspast The uptempo style has translated into an average of4.2. goals per game for the Irish, up nearly an entire goal from a year ago. 
Part of this success may be attributed to the great physical shape of the players this season. Over the past two months, Poulin has had them up early many mornings, running and working out "We still have a lotto do anda lot is going to take time," says Poulin. "Right now our focus is on making individualsbetter. Thewinningwillcome." NotreDamereturnsanexperiencedgroup in 1995.. Nine of 10 seniors have seen significant playing time in the past, includ­·ing Ling, who has averaged more than 40 pointsovereachof thelastthree seasons, and Bruininks, one of theconference'sheavybangers. Junior forwards Tim Harberts and Terry Lorenz figure to be primary scoring threats again, with junior Brian McCarthy, the team's top defensive for­ward. Harberts' specialtyis the power play, on which he scored 13goalslastyear,secondinthe CCHA. The.Irish return all six defensemen, so there shouldbe gplenty of cohesiveness amongf the blueliners. Two seniors,"' Gary Gruber and the towering, 
seasons,whilejuniorsBenNelsonandBryan Welch started almost every game in their first two seasons. While Welch plays the physical game, Nelson is a speedster who has the ability to run down opponents on the breakaway. 
Sophomore netminder Matt Eisler may be one of the best-kept secrets in the coun­try. Eisler's nine wins and .870 save per­centage in the 1994-95 season were thebest marks posted by an Irish goaltender since Greg Louder' s records, during the 1990-91 season. More important js the fact that Eisler has routinely turned away 30 to 40 . 
\ 
t l 

SLAMMING THE DOOR. Sophomore Goalie Matt Eisler turns away another shot with the help of sophomore defenseman Justin Theel. Eisler earned Notre Dame MVP and Rookie of the Year honors last year. He also posted a .870 save percentage. 
shots a game with dreadful poise. Irish goaltencling has been caught off balance so far this year, particularly against Boston College, in which the Irish failed to hold leads of3-:l and4-3 with IO minutes toplay. Nevertheless, Matt Eisler and freshman ForrestKarrwill bekey components of the future of this team. 
Add this experienced nucleus to a phe­nomenal recruiting class ·of skill and size, and the Irish could make their way up the CCHAstanclings this year. FreshmanBrian Urick has already posted a four-goal game against Alaska-Fairbank, and has seen time with classmate Aniket Dhadphale on the team'sfirstline. Both Urickanddefenseman Benoit Cotnoir have started all six games and rank among the team's offensive and defensive statistical leaders. These facts say a lot about the talent level of the incom­ingIrish; and future that lies ahead for Notre Dame hockey. 0 

SCHOLASTI_C MAGAZINE ¦ NOVEMBER 9, 1995 



With a banner recruiting class, a new conference and a new attitude, Notre Dame Basketball enters a new era. But can they compete with the ... 



BY RYAN O'LEARYEventually even the. most stubborn people come to realize that times change. Thosewhowtoteoffthings like the telephone crone torealize sooner or laterthattheywerenotonlyconvenient,but necessary. When all theremainingpower­houseindependentsjumpedshipandjoined conferences in the early 1990s,NotreDame laughed. After such great success as a football and basketball independent, why go with the trend? A conference would be unnecessary and would only take away from the school's exposure. TheIrish were bigand badenough to surviveon theirown. But after five straight years of watching the NCAA Tournanientathome and losing recruits like Bill Curley (Boston College), Ed O'Bannon (UCLA) Harold Miner (USC),andRaefLaFrentz (Kansas)toteams from the powerhouse conferences, former NotreDameathleticdirectorDickRosenthal gave Coach John Macl.eod his wish last 

JAMI· Freshman Phil Hickey throws one down during warm-ups. The Irish will look to the center to beef up the Irish middle. · 
year and joined the Big East Conference. "It's a tremendous asset to the program," says MacLeod. 
Not coincidentally, this year's freshman class is Notre Dame's best since LaPhonso Ellis and company signed on in 1988. ·The big-name conference, better opponents and a guaranteed post-season tournamentlured better players.. Gacy Bell, a 6' 5" forward from Joliet, Illinois, wasratedamongthe top 50 high school seniors in the country, and Street and Smith's named him a third team All-American.·Six.:.foot-oneinchpointguard 
·Doug Gottlieb turned down UCLA to play for the Irish, and 6'4" guard Antoni Wyche choseNotreDameoverSyracuse. Six-foot­eleven inch centerPhil Hickey is more ofan unknown quantity, buthis sizeandpotential impressed MacLeod. "Hopefully the fresh­
. men will have an impact," he said ''The exhibition games will be a goodbarometer, we'll see how they perform when the lights come on." 
In addition to a solid recruiting class, the Irishreturn most of thepersonnel from last year's 15-12 squad. Sophomore forward Pat Garrity impressed a lot of people.dur­inghis rookieseason,goingtoe-«rtoe with the likes of Indiana's Alan Henderson and 
. Duke's Cherokee Parks, both NBA first­rounders. Garrity hardly seemed like a rookie, as he became the team's • focal point, leading it in scoring at 13.4 points . pergame. He also shot an impressive 52.3 perc~nt from the floor. 
Senior guards Ryan Hoover and Keith Kurowski give the Irish plenty of experi­ence in the backcourt. Both are solid outside shooters who will help open things up for Garrity and company in the paint Hoover, who holds the school record for careerthree-pointers, averaged9.9pointsa ··game lastyear, while Kurowski chipped in 9.7; JuniorpointguardAdmoreWhitealso returns, hoping to fulfill his enormous po-. tential,asdoesformerwalk-onPeteMiller. 

A  three-point sharpshooter,  the Irish in the long run, fans  
Miller became a crowd favorite  should know better than· to ex- 
last  season  while seeing in­ pect these guys to run with the  
creased playing time.  big boys right away. The Big  
Upfront,NotreDamereturns  Eastboaststhreeofthenation's  
juniorsMattGotschandMarcus  consensus  top  five  teams  
Young, who shared the center  (Georgetown, Villanova, Con­ 
spotayearago. Gotschbeganto  necticut) in addition to peren­ 
flex  some muscle down low,  nialpowerSyracuse. Theleague  
averaging seven points and 4.3  also sent four teams, Miami,  
rebounds a game, while Young  ~  Providence, Seton Hall, St.  
led the club in rebounding with  ~ <  John's, to the NIT,  and Pitts­ 
5.3 per contest. Both come into  ~  burgh managed to haul in five of  
this season bigger and stronger,  DIRECTION. Coach John Macleod shows the team a new play.  the nation's top 100 freshmen.  
which will be necessary in the  Macleod Is looking forward to the challenges of the Big East.  Combinetheconferencesched­ 

rough Big East Also returning is small . season. Manner averaged 4.6 points per ule with games against defending national forward Derek Manner, who improved gameandwasoneoftheteam'stopdefend-champ UCLA as well as NCAA Touma­immensely last season and provided a great · ers. mentteams Indiana, Manhattan and Xavier, dealofsparkoffthe bench for MacLeodlast Whilethingsaredefinitely looking up for and things could potentially get ugly. 
"We've got a long way to go," admits MacLeod. "Butthings are goingin the right direction. I've seen a better attitude and a much better work ethic this year. We'rej~t going to try and play to the maximum ofour ability and keep improving." 
Enthusiasm across campus for the bas­ketball program has been lacking for a long time, and the move to college basketball's toughest conference was exactly what this program needed, according to MacLeod. "You'regoing to see a different A CC arena this year," the coach added: "We've sold a lot more tickets this year." 
The Irish realize they 're going to have to talce their lumps this year. After all, Georgetown, UConn and Villanova are a far cry from the three Loyolas. Othella Harrington is not Bernie' Salthe, and Ray Allen is a far cry from Kenya Hunter. The reality is that Notre Dame basketball is just not at the point yet where they can run with powerhouse schools night in and night out 
ButNotreDameBasketballalwaysseems to play to the level of their competition. Last year they managed to upset Indiana and talce most oftheir other tough competi­tors to the wire. A key to this season willbe NotreDame's ability to beat the team's they should. · 
The payback, however, may not be a long time coming. 'The program has turned the comer, and this year's freshmen should be able to enjoy a fantastic turnaround in the next four years. While Notre Dame basket­ball may notbe strong enough to stand as an independent anymore, they'll be tough· enough to handle the best the Big East has to 
· offer, maybe sooner than you think. 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ NOVEMBER 9, 1995 

nter 




eker 

Two releases ~vefilmgoers a double dose ofHunter for the holidays 
BY Goos MYERSHoily Hunter is one of the fin.est actresses working in Hollywood today, and Jodie Foster is a good director. That said, I can't help but feel let down thatHomefor the Holidays is simply · an averagemovie. Thefilm features Hunter as a hassled daughter returning home for Thanksgiving and Foster behind the cam­eraforthe second time after her 1991 debut, Little Man Tate. The premise is simple and standard ­two words · that signal possible trouble. Hunter plays Claudia Larson,. a. Chicago artist and the daughter of Anne Bancroft andCharlesDurning. Justbeforesheleaves to go home for Thanksgiving, shegets fired by her boss ( whom sheproceeds to lustfully kiss) and her daughter (Claire Danes) an­nounces she's going to lose her virginity. Add to that Hunter's uneasiness about fly­ing and_ what have you got? The Thanks­giving nightmare story. We saw this same 
Foster loses holdofwhat could have 
been a brilliant 

ensemble 
0

piece. 
16 

premise in Planes, Trains and Automo­biles, but while Steve Martin played his day-from-hell for straight guffaws, Foster has Hunter playing the events for heartfelt sympathy. Despite Hunter's best efforts (she cries, on cue, again), the result is awk­wardly unfunny. 
Once home, the film's plusses and mi­nusesbecomereadilyapparent. Thefamily Fosterintroducesis a mixed bag of nuts, but they're all familiar if you've ever seen a moviethatbringsthefamilytogether. When everyone is assembled, the movie becomes National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation 
withheart. Somemembersfarebetterthan others, including Cynthia Stevenson (The Player) as the under-appreciated daughter, and Hunter herselfas the hassled, overbur­dened Claudia. Butfor each solid character Fostergives us, thereareatleasttwo cliches. Geraldine Chaplin's eccentric Aunt Glady is weak, getting drunk and spouting out absurdlines,andSteveGuttenbergismerely wllldow dressing as Stevenson's geek-of­a-husband. 
Then there's the well-caffinated Robert Downey, Jr., who was seemingly given only one character trait (he's gay) and told toworkwithit He'sgame,havingfunwith his goofy brother routine and not going into overboard effeminate stereotype, but•.re­mains shallow and flat when all is said and done. Astheparents,BancroftandDurning have their moments when dealing with the rest of the family, but you don't buy for a minute that these two are actually married. There's also Downey's friend Dylan McDermott, who merely sits around smil­ing at the goofiness of the family and acting as Hunter's love interest. The film is based onashortstory,andit'sclearthatitslength­ening to film paled a number of strong characterizations. 
Theplot,asifitneedsto betold,involves all ofthe family secrets that come out (when else?) during dinner. In what is easily the film'sbestscene,Fosterhaseveryonespill­ing their guts at the dinner table, exposing theLarsons' skeletons-in-the-closets. It's a hysterical montage, with much dramatic 
· tension and here the film begins to gain some promise. But the central story fades away shortly after; the family affairs taking 
· a back seat to Hunter and McDermott's growing relationship. 
The film would have some substantial drama if it wasn'tforthis_incredibly annoy­ingromantic subplot McDermott, contrac­tually required to smile throughout the en­tire film and mutter insipid pick-up lines, takes overas male lead, leaving key fig~ Durning and Downey as supporting second bananas. The whole romance feels forced and holds no place at this family reunion. Foster does her best to juggle them, but it's a losing battle. The unwatchable ending is so sugar· coated, you know it had to be mandated by a studio executive. It's a complete reversal from thetoneofthemovie and Foster is too smart of a director to buy into something this formulatically fantas-· tic. The problem is, she did -and you practically want to wring her neck for it 
ButI'll bedamnedifHolly Hunterdoesn't make this film watchable. Despite the forced romance, her presence makes other scenes work. When she talks with Durning . about his fading memories ofthe family, it is in a quiet, noble way. When confronting an old high school admirer (David Strathaim)whostillhasfeelingsforher,it's a slightly humorous, but touching reunion (the type of scene Foster could have used a lot more of) and in dealing with sister Stevenson, you feel her painand frustration when the two admit they simply can't get along. Hunter carries her trademark vulner­ability, and that gives Claudia credibility and depth, but the movie only briefly con­siders these points. Foster does a nice job balancing the comedy and drama aspects, but prioritize, Jodie! Emotional moments like the father-daughter and sister-sister relationships beg for moredevelopment(so does the mother-daughter relationship be­.tween Hunter and Danes, limited to about 10 minutes ofscreen time). Instead, they're traded for light-hearted romance and ec­centric-family jokes. 



It's a pity this cast and story were wasted. Likewise with Foster's budding directorial talent WithLittle Man Tate,Fostermade a film that was clearly focused, a wonderful character study that balanced humor and drama with some deep personal touches. It's clear Foster wants to bring that same personal touch toHome, but here sheseems adirectorwithoutrealdirection. UnlikeTate, this film lacks the pinpoint focus and devel­opment that Foster brought with her to that job. This one, with its promising cast, characters and director, should have been an intimate, humorous, heartwarming fam­ily portrait Instead, it's just a charicature. 

M.uchmoreenjoyable,andsurpris­inglyso,is thelatestserial-killer­. . thriller Copycat. In this one, Hunter trades .in her charmingly lovable sweetheart role and becomes MJ., a San Francisco homicide investigator taking on the case of a mysterious set of seemingly relatedmurders . .It'sanewroleforHunter, something different, but she offers a fresh perspective. In SileneeoftheLambs(which this film, unfortunately, will be unfairly comparedto)JodieFoster'sinspectorStar­lingwasahard-bitten,matter-of-fact,work­only woman. Here, Hunter socializes with her co-workers, flirts with partner Dermont 
S(;HOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 
HOLLY­

DAZE. A 
hassled Hunter (left) In 
Jodie Foster's 

Home for the Hal/days. 
Caught In Connlck's eye, with Weaver (right) In the tense thriller 
Copycat 
Mulroney, hassles with her captain and manages to remain loyal to her work. It's a relief to see a role this formulaic get a well­deserved make over. 
The film centers on the murders and how they are related. Stumped by the pattern, Hunter and Mulroney turn to Dr. Helen Hunt (Sigourney Weaver), a former psy­chologistwho specialized in cracking serial :killer cases, so much so that she became "their pin-up girl." She's retired now, and living in self-imposed sequesteriz.ation af­ter being attacked by a convicted killer she testified against. W eaverreluctantly agrees to help thepolice with their~. and as she beings to see. the developing pattern (the murders are "copycats" of famous serial killersalaJacktheRipper,SonofSam,etc.) she seemingly becomes more of a target 
The plot is contrived, but it works. Most of the credit goes to director Jon Amiel (Sommersby) who holds this film together with master expertise. The romantic sub­plot is limited, but well developed, with a twistassparks start to flybetween Mulroney and Weaver. Amiel also keeps tight reins on Harry Connick, Jr.'s serial killer role. The role as it's written is a silly, scenery­chewing character. But Connick's screen time is limited, and he doesn't come off as annoying as he probably should. 
Ultimately Amell knows what the audi­ence came for, a suspense thriller, and he delivers the goods. Most of the time, you can see where themovie is going, but Copy­cat jangles the nerves at all the right times and in all the right places. The ending is a letdown, but onlybecause the build-up is so good. From his opening sequence, Amell keeps the killer-suspense factor intact and at the center of attention. 
Weaver and Hunter turn in brilliant per-
NOVEMBER 9, 1995 


Copycat jangles the nerves at all the right times and in all the right places. 
formances and it's hard to remember the last time Hollywood gave us a movie with two strong female characters that carry the entire film. Weaver is in top form as the victimized doctor, blending meticulous de­termination with frightened vulnerability. She creates a deep, psychological character whose motivations and actions become cleareras the movie goes on. Likewisewith Hunter, whoadds anotherpageto her grow­ing list of breakout performances. When she shares screen time with Weaver, the two interact with perfect precision. Hunter originally seems an odd choice for the role of MJ., but you'll buy into her-as the inspector instantly. AfterBroadcastNews and The Piano, Holly Hunter can stake her claim as a proven actress in comedic, dra­matic andnowcracker-jacksuspenseroles. After all, she is one of the finest actresses working in Hollywood today. . 



ii§iii•i-ii§iiii§ii 



butallofasudden they are thrust into having close we all are, some remain far apartBY AARoNNOLAN 
to deal with this person." When it is later Guare's play received such acclaim that young African-American male discovered that Paul is gay, Bain notes that it was made into a film in 1992 (above),
A

enters the upper-class New York isit''justanotherwayheconsthesepeople." with Stockard Channing and Donald 
apartment of a wealthy, white. However, Bain also notes that the play "is · Sutherland playing the roles of Ouisa and couple. Baring a stomach wound, heclaims not about homosexuality. Paul is a homo-Flan,andWilSmith(ofFreshPrincefame) to be a friend of their children, looking for sexual, that's the fact Just as· the people playing Paul. Freshman Ameen plays the help after being mugged. Taking aJiking to react to him being a black man, they also • role of Paul in the COTH show. While the well-spoken young man, the couple lets react homophobically to homosexuals." mariy may consider casting a freshman in him into their apartment-and their lives. On a deeper level, the play examines life. such a key role a risk, Bain says he's doing 
John Guare' sTony-winningSixDegrees Like the dual-sided. painting that the a fine job and is very impressed with his of Separation is the second play in the Kittredgesproudlydisplay,thestoryshows work. Eager to raise the curtain on the Communication and TheatreQepartment's the contrasts in the way these people live. show, Bain notes, "I think people will find Mainstage Season. Its title derives from the As Ouisa builds a relationship with the itanunusualplay; It'snotasimpleplay,it's theory that everyone on earth is related to enigmatic Paul, you see her marriage with a play that makes people think.'' Students everyone else through six other people (see Flan drifting apart Likewise, theKittredges will finally get a chance .to .enter the sidebar). It is based on a true story of how are closer to their friends than their own Kittredges apartment_ along with Paul be-. Paul (Ramadan Ameen), cons his way into children. The play reveals that, despite how ginning on Wednesday ,Nov.15,at8 p.m.O 
the lives of two Manhattan art dealers, Ouisa and Flan Kittredge (Kristy Zloch and Drew Rausch), by claiming to be the son of Sidney Poitier. According to director Reginald Bain, the show "is about these people trying to figureoutwho [Paul] is and why he did what he did." Though billed as a "serious comedy," the play brings up topical issues, such as race and homosexu­ality, relevant in today's society. 
Paul is a black man, and according to Bain, the Kittredges are not people who have had much contact with black people. "They may be very liberal in their beliefs, 
18 



SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• NOVEMBER 9, 1995 




'I I, 
I 
I
., 
I 
'I 
-



.....-ArJP-,ti -n-1£ M1p,, l600's1 L,rE"R/rn.18.C: 
Sf>Kf'AJ;, QulC.K.L.Y 
-nlRoUGiJ.lour E:,JG,LAN't)-. 
~,.. ­

BAK:JD POTAT0.35 
Ste.rt every_yhro.se w,th "Fir.::i-r 1 ,me ••• " 1.'11 st~r+ yoo of.f. 

Fir~t1Tme ..• ...IC\ il.9 G\i i (\.5 
•.• ihe l~:s-tt-hi~ yov re,:vicM~Gr 
jj tcu\~c:rt1n~ 

20 . SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ NOVEMBER 9, 1995
ii 

BY JOHN lNFRANcA 
. Phosphorus -the ·chewy, bite-sized chemical substance 
An MIT researcher swallowed a tiny 

drop of radioactive phosphorus this past 
August. Police and institute officials are 
wondering whether the ingestion, which 
was just recently made public, was deliber­
ate. The intake of 579 microcuries was 
discovered in theresearcher during a rou­
tine health check. While MIT officials 
would not reveal the individual's identity, 
they did say he was using the phosphorus 
for genetics research. 
While we are not yet sure why anyone 

would risk possible mutation and sickness, 
my guess is that the researcher wanted to 
run away with the circus and needed a 
surefire way to make it into the freak show. 
. Calf makes cowrageous ·comeback Goldilocks, a rust-colored calf with a white face, is undergoing a strange type of rehabilitation at Kansas State University. She is making use of the Aqua Cow Rise System,aportableswimmingpoolforcows. The device is designed for cows recovering from an illness who are well enough to eat but are still too weak to stand. Goldilocks was worried at first because 
her Blue Cow, Blue Sheep insurance does not cover rehabilitation. Fortunately, the . 
treatment does satisfy the requirements for certification as a Red Cross lifeguard, so Goldilocks should be able to pay off the bill off with tlie help of her new job. 
. Siuling Snake 
A York College student was greeted by flames when he returned from class. Golan Wolkowitz, a freshman, was trying to keep his new pet snake warm, so he put the two­footpython in his closet next to alamp with a towel draped overit. Not surprisingly, the towel caughtfire, burning the snake and the dorm room and causing smoke damage to several other rooms. Fortunately no one was injured, but seven students had to be moved into temporary residences. 
I guess Wolkowitz never realized that snakes are cold blooded anyway. Inciden­tally, sources in Morrissey Manor have revealedthattheywereinfacttryingtokeep their pet rat warm when it died in the showers last year. 
. Students fear possible fun 
Although the University of Chicago is known for publishing fine dictionaries, the word "fun" may not bein its student body's vocabulary. Trying to drum up some inter­est in the school' srenovatedstudentcenter, Bill Michel, the director of the center, de­signed a new flyer. It featured the slang namefor the main library, "The Reg" (short for the Regenstein Library), with a slash drawn across it. Apparently, students were outraged at this attack on their dedication to study. Duncan Brown, editor of The Chi-. cago Maroon, a student newspaper, said "I took great offense at that ad." Another studenton thecampusmagazinecpmplained that, "We are in danger of forsaking our excellence." · 
Letme tell you, if there is one short route by which a college can lead itself into the deep chasm of academic deficiency, then it's certainly by slandering its library. For­tunately, Michel reassured students that they "can be discussing economics over a pool tableas wellasinalibrary." I thinkthe lesson would go something like this: "If I have 15 balls on the pool table and I put one in the pocket, than how many are left on the table?" (Answer: 14) 
. A Carolfor Cleveland 
A Case Western Resef\'.e University music professor, Ross. W. Duffin, wrote a classical-music tune for Cleveland Indians fans to sing during the American League playoffs. The song is called "Come All Ye Baseball Fans," and is set to music com­posed by Henry Purcell in 1694. Duffin was asked by WCJ.Z, a local classical mu­sic station, to come up with the words. The song has been played on the radio and 500 copies have been sold at $3 .each. · 
Considering the .outcome of the World Series, perhaps the Indians need a new song. How about one set to The Door's "This is the End," or a chant based on Monty Python's "Bring out your dead?". 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• NOVEM.BER 9, 1995 
21 






~omi_ng
D1stract1ons 
November 9 -·November16 
Field, Court & Alley 
Men's Basketball 

• ND vs. Australian National Team. JACC. Thursday, 7:30p.m. 
Women's Basketball 

• ND vs. Hungarian National Team. JACC. Saturday, 2 p.m. 
Hockey 

• 
ND vs. University of Illinois, Chicago. JACC. Friday, 7 p.m. 

• 
ND vs. Ohio State. JACC. Saturday, 7 p.m. 


Cultural Connection 
Lectures and Seminars 

• 
Panel Discussion, "Indigenous Sovereignty: Hawaii and the Americas," Haunani-KayTraskand Ward Churchill. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Thursday, 7:30 p.m. 

• 
Day of Women atthe Snite Museum: "Teaching, Learning and Entertainment." Panel Discussion, "Women in the Profes­sions." Snite. Saturday, 10 a.m. 

• 
Day of Women: Panel Discussion, "Women in the Media." Snite. Saturday, 2 p.m. . 

• 
Day of Women: Panel Discussion, "Women and Music." Snite: Saturday, 3:30 p.m. 

• 
Day of Women: Receptiol'_I. Atrium, Snite. Saturday, 4:45 to 6p.m. 

• 
Bookfair, Little Professor Book Center at Ironwood Plaza (Rt. 23 and Ironwood). 15% of sales goes to scholarship fund for· ND and SMC students. 


Entertainment 

• 
Film, "Mrs. Parker and the Vicious Circle." Snite. Friday and Saturday, 7:15 and 9:45 p.m. Admission. 

• 
Play, "Steel Magnolias." Little Theatre, Moreau Center, SMC. Thursday, Friday and Saturday, 8 p.m. Sunday 2:30 p.m. Admission. 

• 
Film, "Waterworld." Cu~hing. Friday and Saturday, 8 p.m. and 

10:30 p.m. Sunday, 2 p.m. Admiss_ion. 


• 
Film, "Apollo 13." Carroll Auditorium, SMC. Friday and Saturday, 7 and 9:30 p.m. Sunday, 1 and 3 p.m. Admission. 

• 
Concert, "The Saturday Brass Quintet." Snite. Sunday, 2p.m. Admission. . 

• 
Performance, featuring Charlie Hill, Native American Come­dian. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Sat., 8 p.m. Admission·. 


.On the Silver Screen 
November 10 to November 16 
University Park West: 2n-7336. 
• 
"The Big Green," PG, 2:30, 4:30. 

• 
"Home For the Holidays," PG-13, 2:00, 4:40, 7:00, 9:20. 


. • "Never Talk to Strangers," R, 7:15, 9:30. (No Shows on Tuesday), 11 /14 
• "Ace Ventura 2," PG-13, 12:00 (Friday-Sunday Only), 2:15, 4:30, 6:45, 9:00. 
University Park East: 277-7336. 
• 
;,Get Shorty," R, 2:00, 4:20, 7:30, 9:50. • "Powder," PG-13, 2:10, 4:40, 7:10, 9:30. 

• 
"Copycat," R, 1:30, 4:00, 7:00, 9:45. 

• 
"Vampire in Brooklyn," R, 1:45, 4:10, 7:20, 9:35. 

• 
"Fair Game," R, 2:20, 4:30, 7:05, 9:20. 

• 
"Ace Ventura·2,• PG-13, 1 :00, 3:15, 5:30, 7:45, 10:00. 


Movies 10: 254-9685. . 
• 
"Now and Ttien," PG-13, 1:10, 3:25, 5:40, 7:55, 10:15. ~••iHalloween 6," R, 4:20, 9:45. 

• 
"Assassins," R, 1:00, 1:45, 3:50, 4:35, 7:00, 7:30, 9:50 10:20. 

• 
"Strange Days," R, 12:55, 7:05. 

• 
"Jade," R, 3:55, 10:05. . • "Dead Presidents," R, 1:35, 4:15, 7:10, 10:10. . • ''To Die For," R, 2:10, 4:45, 7:45, 10:15. 

• 
''Three Wishes," PG, 2:00, 4:30, 7:15, 9:55.. 

• 
"How to Make an American Quilt," PG-13, 1:20, 4:00, 7:20, 10:00. 

• 
"Dangerous Minds," R, 1:00, 3:20, 5:50, 8:05, 10:20. 





its food does anyway, but that's irrelevant now.) Second, I had lost a meal that the 


dining hall owed me. Finally, I thought as I benched five tough reps of60 pounds, I had never known about this rule in the first place.
• 
As my class ended, I headed to that
illeUIB 
basement office with new determination. 
The secretary from earlier was gone, and a cheerful lady sat in her place. "I'm here for fering from amnesia. my ID," I said, hoping she would return it 
BY Jmm lNFRANcA 
Dining Hall Lady: I don't think so, kid. with no questions asked. 
W.
hen I got off the plane my first Brother(Sardonically):Youknow,Inever "Well,sinceit'shereithasprobablybeen course of action was to find my checked. Perhaps I picked up the wrong ID confiscated (there's that word again), so luggage. After a short wait I at registration. you have to pay a fine. Letme check." Just 
grabbed it from the beltand headed outside. Dining Hall Lady (Puts card under then the Wicked Witch of the South (Dining There my magic carpet back to campus counter): Then you'll have to explain that to Hall) returned. awaited me -a huge, beat up van which the manager. I'm confiscating your card. "I'm here for my ID," I informed her, as myfellow Manoritescall the"VictoryVan." (Brother exits stage left, visibly distraught) if there could be . another reason for my Igotin, greetedmyfriends,stowedmybags "Confiscating." That sounds a bit harsh to presence. and then headed back to Notre Dame.· me. People confiscate stolen jewelry, drugs ''That will be $25." 
"So anything interesting happen while I and firearms, not ID cards. I felt like I had I inquired as to the reason for this intru­was gone?" I inquired. committed some grievous sin, and the entire sion into my wallet 
"Not really," replied Randall, the driver. time I had been nearly 700 miles away in "Listen, the ID was confiscated for ille­''The game wasn't that great" He was New Jersey! gal use, and you have to pay to get it back." referring to the Notre Dame-Boston Col­Early Monday morning I awoke from my "How was I supposed to know someone lege game, which I had missed because of slumber and headed out to regain what had elsecouldn'tuseit?Idon'tremembersign­my brother's wedding. been wrongly taken from me-well, actu­ing anything." 
"One thing did happen," my friend Scott ally from someone pretending to me. Vi-"It's in the rules."(As if they were as began slowly. "Your student ID was taken . sions ofmyself pleading my case before Bill familiar to me as the 10 Commandments.) away." Kirk· and Fr. Malloy filled my mind as I ''What rules?" 
''What? You've got to be kidding!" In­headeddown the stairs of South Dining Hall ''They were on your bed when arrived." stantly thoughts of severe punishment, let­to the manager's office. "Right next to the mint and terry cloth ters from Patty O'Hara and the words "I'm here to get my ID card back," I told robe, I suppose? Listen, I don't remember "explusion from the university" flashed the secretary firmly, intent on demonstrating any rules." through my mind. Apparently, the brother my control of the situation. "Well, they were there." of one of my roommates had precipitated "You will have to come back later," she "Ididn't get them. Rede, I don't even get the unceremonious apprehension of my ID said. "We don't have the IDs yet, and you'll my mail half the time." when he attempted to use it to elicit entry have to pay a $25 fine since the card was I think it was at that moment that she into South Dining hall, Notre Dame's pre­confiscated." realized I wasn't going to give in. I got my mier establishment for fine food and spirits. They "don't have it yet," I wondered. ID back without a fine-only a warning, 
When I got to my room I questioned my Does it take them two days to walk down­"Ifl find this ID here again it will cost you roommate and he gave me an account of stairs and bring it here? I think Ijust made it $25 to get it back," she cautioned. what had happened. ''The lady took one down in about 11 seconds, and I'm not even "Don't worry, I'll be sure it doesn't find look at the card and another at my brother, wearing sneakers. its way down here again," I thought, return­and that's when I started to worry," he Iaskedherifihadtopaysincethecardwas ing victoriously to my dorm. In reality I began. taken away from someone else. didn't save myself any money, since my 
He then toldme their conversation, which "Yes, you will, but you can't get it back roommate would have paid the $25. But if went something like this: until the manager is in," she snapped OJ. Simpson could prove his innocence, DiningHallLady:What'syournameand "How am I supposed to eat breakfast?" then so could I. 
ID nrimher? · "I'm sorry, but you can't" When I got back to my room I found A Brother: It's 011 the card, lady. "Fine," I responded curtly, and headed to Guide To Student Dining on top of the Dining Hall Lady (Frustrated): . I know my 8 am. class. Immediately afterwards I VCR. Onpage l0was the rule I had broken. 
it's on the card. had gym, during which I began to build my Inmy caseitseems that ignorance of the law Brother: Well, I don't remember. defense. First of all, the fact that I had to lift does excuse you. Dining Hall Lady: Then I guess it's not weights meant that the lack of a meal could This is a humor column. The views 
your ID. render me likely to hurt myself. So, the presented are not necessarily the views of Brother (Sarcastically): Perhaps I'm suf-· .dining hall had put my health at risk (which the editorial staffofScholastic Magazine. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• NOVEMBER 9, 1995 
. ­

-' ---. --------,, ___::·....... ~--~ 

Liberalizing Notre Dam.e 
Most people would probably not consider Notre Dame a bastion of liberalism. Rather, the dominant para­digm at this school seems to be conservatism: in thought, in worldview and in personal practice. This 

I. 
I, 
!' 
DaveMcMahon is a senior English major. He lives offcampus. 

Tounderstand this school's obnoxious conservatism, we must look at its roots. 
is quite unfortunate. Why? Simply be­cause the brand of conservatism stag­nating on this cam­pus is a particularly stifling one, espe­ciallyforfree thought -which is the basis of a university, in my estimation. 
It's high time to prove that the con­

servatives are simply wrong. Their policies, philoso­phies and stances are based uponprinciples of exclu­sion and greed. The reign of Reaganomics never ended at Notre Dame, and people from other cul­tures, viewpoints and political views are branded as outcast by their appearance, skin color and sexual preference. They are thrown out the window in the pursuit of some sort of warped modem "manifest destiny" for well-to-do whitefolks with an incongru­ous desire toremain secluded from the world around them by attending this school. 
To understand this school's obnoxious conserva­tism, we must look at its roots. The administration has remained completely deaf to pressing student concerns. They are also apathetic toward any hope for progressive liberalism, that is, open mindedness and compassion-the very root of Gospel teaching. Retaining a tightly controlled environment with little 
by DaveMcMahon 

or no interaction with the South Bend community, the administration has consistently maintained a monopoly on student life by preserving the sanctity of suburban sheltered life in the very design of this campus. I know seniors who don't know where Angela Boulevard is! 
The control over all business on campus, the murals in the Dome, the lack of reaction to women's issues, the continuation of ROTC at a school that claims to follow a pacifist philosophy, the·abysmal lack of peace-engendering scholarships, the small size of the CSC in contrast to the huge new business building, the horrendous history of affirmative-ac­tion-gone-wrong, and the stifling of.student voices through censorship are all endemic of a radical problem. Ouradministrators are ostriches, their heads so far underground they cannoteven see a glimpse of the true light. 
However, there is a vibrant scene of liberalism amidst the homogeneous nature of things around here. In music, in literature, in politics and in action, there is definitely a loosely unified liberal mentality among students and some faculty'. This is most clearly evidenced by the mutual support given by faculty and students to the administration's denial of "human being" status to the gays, lesbians and bi­sexuals ofNotre Dame and St. Mary's. 
So how can we move toward more of this liberal­ism? Band together. Use your voice. Join Amnesty International. Let the administration know that you are paying their salary, that you are the sole and soul reason for their job at Notre Dam(i. Support the struggling art and music scene here. Get off campus and into the neighborhoods. In other words, it's time to break the cycle that preserves the skewed sense of reality that penetrates life at Notre Dame. D 

BRUNO'S 
PIZZA 
rrt! 1111 

BRUNO'S NORTH BRUNO'S SOUTH 
Open for canyout and delivery only 
Accepting reservations on weekends.
4-1 Op.m. weekdays, 4p.m. to midnight weekends. 
Available for private parties and banquets. 
• 2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH TWO ITEMS 
• 2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH TWO ITEMS
OR 
OR

ONE 14-INCH PIZZA 
ONE 14-INCH PIZZA
WITH UP TO SIX TOPPINGS 
WITH UP TO SIX TOPPINGS 
FOR ONLY $10.50 
FOR ONLY $10.50 115 U.S. 31 Oust north of campus) 
2610 Prarie Avenue 
273-3890 288-3320 
'"All Homemade -100% Real Cheesen We offer FR EE D ELlVERY of our pizza right to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Campuses. 

Order Delivery For Lunch, Evening, or Late Nite 
r-
---­
$4 
Deal 
14" Large Cheese Pizza 
. Call 
1-6902 I 
------_, ... 
( or anytime 10:30am-2am ) 

..----­
.... ---­
i§·' .. ,. 
---t ·-',,
--$5
~ 
-= ;~ 

Deal
Any 14" Unlimited Topping Pizza can 

. 1-6902 
------... 

14" Pizza's and a 2liter Call 
. 1-6902 

--~. --'~,·· ---­

~f'f-:;\,~ !, . •. :: ' .• 

~·.r ,;._ .·.: .. ·•: Get Your Information f rum our
--~i ;.·-,,, .,_ : • 

·:~;;/Ji Select News Team and You Win Lead ALL the Class Discussions 
Rebecca Gerber Anne Korte 
Krista Nannery .Amanda Martin Mary Beth Heitzug t', ' Kara Spak 
Joe Villinski 
National, International; Sports, Weather 10 am, Noon, and 5 pm daily · 
640am 
News, Straight-Up 


