‘ The Notre Dame Scholastic
E Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"! at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXVIII
April 12, 1935
’ No. 23
GLEE CLUB CONCERT TO BE GIVEN SUNDAY
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT
TO BE OBSERVED ON APRIL 29
Seats in Washington Hall will be at a premium next Sunday evening when Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta leads the University Glee Club through its annual pre-Easter campus concert. The forty-eight voices will sing out at eight o’clock sharp.
Those who have heard the club this year in its previous concerts are unanimous in their praise of its many fine qualities. It has been called by a well-known South Bend critic, “the finest in the history of the University.”
Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, the able and graceful director of these caroilers, is responsible for the excellent tone balance and expression. He has prepared a program which promises to delight all music lovers—both ser-iuos and light-hearted.
The concert will open with four religious motets, will swing into three impressive part songs, and will conclude its first part with the ever-popular “Mascot of the Troop” and “Why Don’t You Try?”
Following the intermission will come several lighter’ songs, followed by the feature of the concert, a humoresque, “Italian Salad,” written in the form of the finale to an Italian Opera. William O’Brien will solo in the part of the operatic voice, while the rest of the club simulates, at times the chorus, and at times the musical instruments of an orchestra.
The concert will have its traditional conclusion with the Glee Club’s unique renditions of the campus songs. During the concert, solo numbers will be given by John Ryan, Francis Schaefer, and George Miller.
G. Cannon, New President
George Cannon, of Muskegon, is president of the newly formed Western Michigan club, the youngest of the campus organizations. Arthur Mulholland, of Kalamazoo, was elected vice-president, Caesar Kalman, of Holland, secretary, and Phil Sheilds, of Kalamazoo, treasurer, at the club’s first election held recently.
The club’s first social affair, a spaghetti dinner held Friday, April 5, gave promise of an active, interested organization.
Board of Publications Announces Call For
Editorial Aspirants
The Faculty Board of Publications will receive applications from undergraduates of the University for editorships of the following publications for the scholastic year 1935-36: The Scholastic, the Dome and Scrip. All students of Junior rating are eligible.
Applicants must state in writing theii’ qualifications, experience, academic rating, and qualitative average. Letters should be addressed and mailed to the chairman of the Faculty Board of Publications, the Rev. Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., Administration Building, not later than 4:00 o’clock in the afternoon of April 26.
Only those applications which are received by mail will be considered.
PROFESSOR LOUIS HASLEY GIVES A BRILLIANT
POETRY LECTURE
“The great poet is always difficult to understand because he deals in futurities,” Professor Louis Hasley, of the University English Department, told the members of the Arts and Letters Lay Faculty Club at their meeting last Monday night.
“Modern Poetry” was the subject of Professor Hasley’s paper. The difficult subject, handled brilliantly by the speaker, brought a barrage of comment and discussion from those present.
Professor Hasley, who was introduced by Professor Rauch, pointed out the outstanding differences in modern poetry are the complete freedom of subject insisted upon by the imagist, the more thoroughgoing pessimism in religious outlook, and the greater intellectualism of the poems, caused by the necessary incubation of the material treated, as a preparation for the emotional reaction.
BAND, GLEE CLUB PERFORM
By John A. Gillespie
On Monday, April 29, rfational and international radio-programs will celebrate the twelfth annual observance of Universal Notre Dame night.
Through the joint efforts of the Studebaker Corporation of South Bend and the National Broadcasting Company, a coast-to-coast broadcast
James Armstrong
He arranged the broadcast.
will be presented. Nation-wide clubs have made known their plans for gatherings, backed by intense enthusiasm.
At least 132 individual stations in the United States, Mexico, Cuba, and Rome will cooperate in the observance. The types of programs are varied : some stations will feature Notre Dame alumni in speeches; others will offer N. D. music or N. D. skits.
The program will include Richard Himber’s famous orchestra in the “Victory March”; remarks by Frank C. Walker, ’09, and Eddie Dowling, an honorary member of the Notre Dame Club of New York City; “Hike Notre Dame!" by the University Glee Club; short talks by Elmer Layden and the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.; “When the Irish Backs Go Marching
(Continued on Page 2)	'
eApril 12, 1935
One
D’Arcy, English Philosopher, To Lecture Here On April 26
HOLLIS, FITZGERALD, WILL TEACH AT N. D.
AUTHOR IS WELL KNOWN
By Irwin Goldman
Reverend Martin Cyril D’Arcy, S.J., M.A., well known philosopher and writer, will lecture in Washington Hall on Friday, April 26.
Father D’Arcy was horn in 1888, in Ireland, the son of Valentine D’Arcy, a barrister-at-law, and Madeline Keegan D’Arcy. His grandfather was Nicholas D’Arcy, of Bally-feran, County Roscommon, Ireland.
Father D’Arcy received his education at Stonyhurst and Campion Hall, Oxford. At Oxford where he received his M.A. degree, Father D’Arcy won first class honors in Humanities, and also received the Charles Oldham Prize in 1915, the John Locke Scholarship in 1918, and the Green Moral Philosophy Prize in 1923.
He studied theology at the Gregorian College in Rome where he was ordained in 1921. From here he went to teach at Stonyhurst and was later assigned to the famous Farm Street Church in London. Then he became lecturer of philosophy at Oxford University, and in 1923 was made Master of Campion Hall, a position he still holds.
His lectures at Oxford include: “Philosophy and Religion,” “St. Thomas Aquinas,” “Catholic Oxford,” “Modern Tendencies in Thought and in Religion,” “Blessed Thomas More,” and “Gerard Hopkins, S.J.,” Father D’Arcy will speak on one of these topics, but as yet the subject has not . been announced.
He is the author of many important theological books, outstanding among which are: The Mass and Redemption, Catholicism, Christ as Priest and Redeemer, The Spirit of Charity, Thomas Aquinas, God and the Universe, The Nature of Belief, (which book elicited praise from Dean Inge, so antagonistic to everything Catholic), and The Idea of God, which he contributed to the volume God and the Supernatural.
U. N. D. NIGHT
(Continued from Page 2)
By,” and the “Victory March,” by the . N. D. Glee Club.
Boake Carter, news commentator for the Philco Radio, and Television Corporation, will announce the event to six million listeners several days in advanace. Listeners are advised to watch local papers for verification of the hours of the broadcast, or for any further information.
Law Club Holds Banquet in Honor of Late Colonel Hoynes
By Mitchell C. Tackley
Once a year the Notre Dame law students and faculty assemble to pay homage to the memory of the man whose history is the history of the College of Law. Sixty-five students and six members of the faculty banqueted Tuesday night at the Morningside Hotel in observance of the night
Dean Thomas Konop
“I never thought it was in you.”
that is annually dedicated to the late Colonel William J. Hoynes, Dean Emeritus of the Law School.
The guest of honor and principal speaker of the evening was Attorney Dan Grady of Madison, Wisconsin. Mr. Grady is a prominent member of the Wisconsin bar as well as a close friend of Dean Konop. The attorney was called upon to speak on the topic, “The Jury System.”
Mr. Grady paid his respects to what he considers Notre Dame’s outstanding distinction—its spriit of loyalty arid devotion to the school and all /connected with it. He completed his talk by reciting a favorite poem by Charles Hansori Towne.
Louis F. Fautsch was toastmaster of the evening. The words, “I never thought it was in you,” spoken by Dean Thomas F. Konop, phrased the -thoughts of the students who heard Fautsch. His limited but fresh supply
(Continued on Page 6)
From the office of the Director of Studies there came within the past fortnight the important announcement that the active teaching faculty of the Univei’sity will be augmented next year by the presence of the Honorable Desmond Fitzgerald, noted Trish scholar and political authority, and Professor Christopher Hollis, English biographer and economist.
The engagement of these two,distinguished scholars was made by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, who has been visiting English, Irish and European centers of learning for the past two months.
Mr. Fitzgerald, who is recognized as one of Ireland’s foremost scholars will come to the University next Fall in time for the September classes. Tentative plans call for him to teach a course in Politics and to give one public lecture each week during his stay. He is a member of the Dail party arid his record well proves his ability. He held the office of Minister of External Affairs in the Irish Free State from 1922 to 1927 and then served as Minister of Defense from 1927 to 1932. Between 1919 and 1922 he edited the Irish Bulletin and had the honor of seeing one of his works, “The Saint,” produced by the Abbey Theatre, Dublin, in 1919.
Professor Hollis, who is an author’ and authority on money, is a graduate, of Eton and Balliol College, Oxford. ..At present he is a master at Stonyhurst College, Yorkshirt, England. He will teach a course in the “History of Money,” another in Medieval History,” and a third course that has not yet been deterriiined. The literary efforts of Mr. Hollis have met with considerable success and are remarkable for the wide variety of fields they cover. Among his best known works are the biographies Dr. Johnson, Saint Ignatius, and Dryden; the History of England and Glastonbury and England. His latest work ■ The Breakdown of Money, which came off the press during the Christmas season, has caused widespread discussion. Critics acknowledge it to possess a deep realization of the great importance of the monetary situation and an interesting historical explanation of the breakdown of money and the part played by the power of . money in the shaping of world history. Professor Hollis has also written extensively for English and American papers.	.
The Scholastic
T wo
FINANCIAL PROBLEMS OF HET CLUB REMAIN
Committe of Eleven Continues
Ball Preparations; Band Unknown
By Paul Foley
By a wave of the wand which was supposed to ransom her forever, the Metropolitan Club’s step-child has been changed into an ugly duckling. This week’s chapter might well be called—“From Unpaid Deficit to Unpaid Assessment in One Easy Lesson.”	.
While the voluntary assessment as such was a very definite step in the
Chairman Santulli His dues are not paid.
right direction the snag apparently is the list of men who have been accorded the dubious privilege of membership in the Metropolitan organization.
The primary objections this week are from the freshman section. The yearlings who were included on the list of members object on the grounds that they were not even students at the University, and had, for the most part, never even heard of the Metropolitan Club when a major part of the deficit was accumulated. In addition they 'were charged dues’ of SI.00, while upperclassmen were charged only $.25.
. Apart from the objections of individuals the list itself shows many discrepancies. Included among the names is the name of at least one .sophomore who has . definitely de. dined in the past to have any connection with the club, another who is an active member of. the. Capital District Club, several who had done nothing more than signify verbal intention of considering membership. On the other side of the ledger there were at least two on the campus who are active members of the Met Club, voted in last year’s elections, have attended meetings regularly and yet are not to be found in the list of members. .	..	.
Apart from its discrepancies the list reveals, many interesting side-‘	. (Continued on Paste 7)
cApril 12, 193 5
Moreau Choir Sings Over National Hookup
Monday, April 15
The Moreau Choir, under the direction of the Reverend James Connerton, C.S.C., will give a nationwide broadcast over the Columbia chain from 3:45 to 4:00 p.m., Monday, April 15. The program will emanate from the campus studio in the Engineering building.
Ever since it gave a coast-to-coast broadcast on the day of Rockne’s funeral the choir has received considerable comment and attention from all parts of the country. This appreciation of the choir’s work was greatly increased because of its excellent renditions of ecclesiastical music during the funeral services of the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Father Connerton has proved himself an able director. He has studied music under Dr. Brown, and at the Justine Ward School of Ecclesiastical Music in New York.
The program to be given this Monday includes the following selections from Holy Week music which is the high point in the fine artistry of the choir:
“Lamentation of Jeremias”---a harmonized Gregorian rhythm hy Von Bohlen.
“Improperia" (Reproaches) from the service of the Veneration of the Cross on Good Friday, hy Barnahei (16th century).
“Tenebrae factae sunt.”—from the responses to the liturgical lessons, by Vittoria.
“In Monte Oliveti.”—from the responses to the liturgical lessons, by Croce.
“Benedictus.”—An alternate Gregorian chant and False Bordoni.
Concert By Paulist Choir Is Well Received by Students
Apparently the students and faculty of Notre Dame remembered the splendid recital given last year by the Paulist Choir, for they crowded Washington Hall for- their recital Monday night.
Under the direction of the Reverend Eugene O’Malley, the widely renowned choir began the program with four 16th century compositions: “Beata Viscera,” by Byrd; “Exultate Deo,” by Palestrina; “Factus Est Repente,”. by Aichinger; and “Cruci-fixus,” by Lotti. The second number* was “Im Herbst,” by Franz, sung by George Lane. .	.
Walter Curran, one of. the best soloists of the choir, remembered for his splendid singing last yearj again drew great applause with “Vaghis-sima Sembianza,” bjr Donaudy.
TRY TO CHANGE THE DATE
No definite orchestra has been chosen for the Senior Ball, set for May 10, it was announced this week, although other plans are being carefully steered along by the eleven-men General Committee working under the Class Officers and Director of Activities Joseph Argus.
The assignments of the various
Director of Activities Argus He has his troubles.
committe members were made known this week: Ed Simpson is to handle tickets, the orchestra is to be taken care of by Edward Cullen, publicity is in the hands of William Schmidt, Ray Oakes is working on the decorations, Dick Hyde on the favors, arid Ray Broderick is in charge of the ballroom. Simpson is to be assisted by Pat Quigley and Mitchell Saleh, Walter Brown and Ray Margret are working with Briderick on the ballroom arrangements, while John Clark is assisting Ray Oakes.
In addition to the eleven-men committee, the class officers this week announced the arrangements for the Tea Dance, to be held at Chain-o’-Lakes County Club. The affair is to be under the direction of Frank Leonard, rvho will be assisted by a committee made up of Joseph Bucci, James McCraley, Bernard English, Andrew Dineen, Robert Henneberger.
In releasing the names of the committees those in charge of the entire arrangements made know that there is no possibility that the Ball proper will be held on May 3. In that event the music would be furnished by Ted Fio Rito. If the dance is held on May 10, it is likely that “Little Jack” Little will be engaged.
The Engineers’ Ball is scheduled for May 3, but according to plans made, the Seniors tried to change dates with them. It seems certain that the Engineers will be opposed to any move to disrupt the plans they have already made.
Three
Review Of Shane Leslie’s Life Reveals Many Strking Details
SHANE LESLIE SPEAKS ON “THE IRISH EPIC”
an illustrious family
By William Tourney
If a Harvard student should be introduced as an undergraduate of Yale, he would, according to the best tradition, be more than slightly annoyed. To complete this analogy, Shane Leslie, commonly hailed on the campus as an Oxford man, received his M.A. degree at King’s College, Cambridge. At the University of Pennsylvania he was once introduced as “Doctor Wesley of Oxford.” But this authority on Swift who spends his afternoons in the gym, sees the humor in the misnomer and his Irish x\nt no doubt helps him to realize just who the joke is on.
Previous to his receiving his Master’s degree at Cambridge, Mr. Leslie wore the traditional tail coat and top hat at Eton and then traveled to the continent to study at the University of Paris.
Little do the English majors and other members of his classes realize that they are perhaps listening to a future member of the Irish Senate. Mr. Leslie, being the eldest son of Sir John Leslie, of Glaslough, Ireland, will inherit his father’s baronetcy. At the present time he is a member of the Irish Academy.
Nor is this visiting professor entirely unacquainted with American womanhood. His wife is the daughter of Henry C. Ide, a native of Vermont, one time Governor-General of the Philippines and United States ambassador to Spain. He is the father of two sons and one daughter.
His daily jaunts in the gym prove that Mr. Leslie has more than a synthetic interest in athletics. He is an authority on football and rowing two of the national sports of the -British Empire, and has successfully coached . amateur crews. Already an interested spectator at Mr. Layden’s spring practice scrimmages at which he compares the rules of football with the Rugby code.
Mrs. Fitzherbert, one of his plays, is scheduled to be the concluding topic in his series of lectures here at Wash-. ington Hall; and in this respect it is interesting to know that he is, on his maternal side, distantly related to this celebrated lady, Catholic wife of England’s King George IV. In 1856 his grandfather married the adopted daughter of Mrs. Fitzherbert.
The following facts further relate Mr. Leslie to English history: The Irish branch of his family was founded by that country’s Bishop John Leslie; his great grandfather and the father of the Duke of Wellington
Four
Professor Shane Leslie Author, Scholar, Teacher.
married sisters; at the time of publication of The Passing Chapter, his grandfather was probably the one living person who had seen Tallyrand and heard the voice of Sir Walter Scott; Thackeray’s last writing was a note to Mr. Leslie’s grandmother, begging to be released from an invitation to dinner as ‘he wasn’t feeling well.’ Two days later he died.
At Cardinal Logue’s recommendation, whom he attended at the Conclave of 1923, he was made a Chamberlain of the Sword and Cape to Pope Pius XI. His brother, Captain Norman Leslie, was killed during the World war and was buried at Armen-tieres in France, between the guns of two armies.
Mr. Leslie’s publications include the following:
The End of a Chapter. Verses in Peace and War. 1916.
The Oppidan. (Eton College). 1922.
Life of Cardinal Manning. Life of Sir Mark Sykes. 1922.
Doomsland. (Ireland). 1923.
Memoir of Brigadier General Gordon Shephard. Masquerades. 1924.
An Anthology of Catholic Poets. 1925.
George the Fourth. 1926.
The Skull of Swift. 1928.
The Greek Anthology: a translation. 1929.
The Anglo-Catholic. 1929.
A Ghost in the Isle of Wight. 1929.
Memoir of J. E. C. Bodley. 1930.
The Epic of Jutland. 1930.
Sublime Failures. 1932.
The Oxford Movement. 1933.	.
Poems and Ballads. 1933.
The Passing Chapter. Mrs. Fitzherbert, a play. 1934.
The Script of Jonathan Swift. 1935.
MR. LESLIE’S LECTURES
Apr. 16, Four Ghost Stories.
Apr. 30, Historical Mystery —
May 7, The Religious Ode in English—With reference to Coventry Patmore and Francis Thompson.
May 13, Oxford and Cambridge. '
In his entertainingly informal style, Shane Leslie delighted a large audience in Washington Hall, Tuesday evening. Lecturing on “The Irish Epic,” a subject dear to his heart, Mr. Leslie entertained his hearers with a keen appreciation of the little known subject.
Mr. Leslie stated that the purpose of Iris talk was to join the memory of the Irish Epic with such sites and boundaries as still exist. To facilitate this a large map of Northern Ireland (Ulster), which Mr. Leslie proudly referred to as “his work of art,” was hung directly back of the speaker’s rostrum.
“Epics,” the lecturer explained, “may be divided into three classes— the original sagas, episodes, and those under the editorship of some great collaborator.” The Irish Epic belongs to the second classification, particularly “The Cattle Drive of Cooley” and “The Valley of the Black Pig.” The two epics contain one hundred wild, magnificent episodes associated with ancient strife, the civil wars, heroes, and enchantment.
Contained in the “Valley of the Black Pig” are accounts of the Roland of Ireland, Kahoulin. Kahoulin, as described in the grotesquely vivid epic, though a pagan ,embodied much of what we love and admire in the Celts of today. He was indeed a savage character but singularly chaste, respectful toward women, and trustworthy—a true example of ancient chivalry. That he was fearless has never been questioned. Alone he defended and championed Ulster against the attack of four-fifths of Ireland. Alone he held the fort “from the last Monday after summer time until the Sunday after Christmas.”
The death of this brave warrior, about whom the Epic is chiefly concerned, is described as a disappearance into the heavens in a phantom chariot, mourned by fifty glamorous queens.
“The Epics,” Mr. Leslie said, “were preserved by the monks, who were attracted by the remarkable character of Kahoulin.”
The Sch oltttic
SOCIOLOGISTS INSPECT INDIANA STATE PRISON
The Indiana State Prison at Michigan City was the host Monday, April 8, of 37 Sociology majors from Notre Dame’s advanced penology class. Welcomed by the deputy warden and his assistant, the students were conducted on a tour of the great penitentiary.
Among the many things of interest which they saw were the workshops, laundry, kitchen, dining halls, cells, hospital, and the solitary confinement ward. What attracted them most, however, was the electrocution chamber where each student took his turn at sitting in the chair.
Inspection of the prison was interrupted at noon while the guests were dined in the prison hospital. Entertainment was also provided by several of the penitentiary inmates who proved quite adept at playing the guitar and the mandolin. A song and dance act was put on by one of the lifers.
After the entire prison had been toured, the students were taken several miles away to the prison farms. Of greatest interest to them there was the efficiently-run dairy.
The visitors left the prison very much impressed by the clean, smoothrunning, and congenial atmosphere of both it and the farm.
The purpose of the trip was to provide the students with some practical knowledge of the running of a prison and the handling of its inmates.
Indianapolis Harvard Club Offer Scholarships For 1935-36
The Harvard Business School Club of Indianapolis is offering a $300.00 scholarship to the Harvard School of Business Administration for the school year 1935-36. Graduates of Indiana colleges or college graduates resident in Indiana are eligible to apply, and the award will be made on necessity of financial aid, scholarship, and character.
In addition, two scholarships in the field of Public Administration are offered by the General Alumni Association. Competition for these is open to students from all parts of the country, but officials of the local club will recommend candidates to the Scholarship committee of the Business School.
Applications must be in the hands of the local committee by May 10. Information concerning the scholarship may be secured from R. F. Mead, 407 Hampton Drive, Indianapolis, Ind.
eApril 12, 193 5	’
PHARMACISTS TO SPONSOR INSPECTION TOUR OF DETROIT PLANT
Robert F. Ervin, president of the Pharmacy Club, is rapidly completing plans for the annual Pharmacy Club trip. This year, the group will visit the laboratories of Parke, Davis and Company, manufacturers of pharmaceutical and biological products,
Robert F. Ervin
Leads the march on Detroit.
Detroit. Approximately thirty-five students will constitute the party which will leave South Bend at 11:00 a. m. Sunday, April 28th, and return here Tuesday evening, April 30th.
Arrangements have been made with the Grand Trunk Railway for a special car through to Detroit and return. The round-trip fare is $6.00 and lunch will be served on the train at a minimum rate. Upon arrival in Detroit, Sunday evening, the party will be met by Parke, Davis representatives who will take charge of the group. Hotel accommodations, meals, transportation in the city, and some entertainment will be furnished gratis by Parke, Davis. While in the city, the students will probably stay at the Statler Hotel.
All members of the Pharmacy Club are eligible to make the trip, then senior and junior Pre-Med students, respectively, are next in order of eligibility. Since only about thirty-five students may be taken to Detroit, the number of juniors going will depend upon how many senior Pre-Med and Pharmacy students have already signed up for the trip. Besides Dr. L. H. Baldinger, head of the Pharmacy Department, it is expected that one or two other faculty members will go.
While in Detroit, a thorough inspection will be made of the research laboratories and manufacturing units. Trained guides will show the raw materials, methods and machines employed in making different medicines, and explain the research being carried on by expert scientists. On Tuesday morning, April 30th, buses will transport the party to Parkdale, the biological farms maintained by Parke, Davis. Here the various processes necessary in producing vaccines, tox-
CLASSICS DEPARTMENT OFFERS NEW COURSES
The Department of Classics this week announced the revision of the program of classes to be offered in the next school year. The increasing attention to classical studies at Notre Dame has justified some modification of the curriculum.
The chief changes are as follows:
Freshman Latin to consist of a survey of Latin literature, with extensive reading of the chief authors representative of each period. Students will be given an opportunity to study the development of Latin as a literary instrument and as an important and significant phase of world literature. At the same time, there will be a persistent effort to develop an ability to read Latin extensively. The authors whose works are represented in this survey are those whose writings are important and significant. The acquaintance afforded by this survey will enable the student to form some estimate of* the author as material for future study. . .
I atin f<v Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors: Completion of the survey course entitles the student to select a greater variety of authors for more intensive reading and study. The classes offered will prove quite adequate for those who intend to major in Latin. Students who intend to major in other departments will also find that the classes offered are able to contribute valuable background for their chief interest. The present plan calls for classes in the following subjects: Roman Philosophy, literature, law, and history.
Next year, alternative courses ■will be offered so that Latin may be elected by Juniors and Seniors, who, as Sophomores took courses which will be offered this year. For example, under “Roman Philosophy,” Lucretius, “De Rerum Natura,” and the Latin Fathers will be taught in 193637.
It is to be noted that while most of the courses to be offered are already taught, the chief change is the fact that all classes above the freshman level are opened to students as electives on the basis of their own interest in the type of subject matter treated by the Latin authors.
In the absence of the Reverend Peter E. Hebert, C.S.C., Professor John P. Turley is acting head of the Classics department.
ins, antitoxins, etc., will be demonstrated. The group will leave for South Bend at 1:35 p. m. the same day.
Five
ST. MARY’S ORCHESTRA
IS HEARD FROM CAMPUS
In the regular Wednesday halfhour broadcast, on April 3, at 8:30 p.m., the St. Mary’s College concert orchestra presented a program of popular light classics. Opening with the stirring Hungarian March, .played in excellent fashion, the program continued with a piano selection by Elinor Ash, and with two solos by Jane Moore, soprano, who sang “My Beautiful Lady,” and “Loveliest of Trees.”	.
Friday afternoon, April 5, at 4:30, the Rev. James E. Kline, C.S.C., was interviewed by Jim Boyle, student announcer, on “Constellations in the Western Hemisphere.” Father Kline gave a brief, non-technical description of the solar system, and explained the location of several of the more important constellations.
Thomas F. Konop, Dean of the College of Law, was featured on the thirteenth of the series of campus radio broadcasts, Monday afternoon at 4:30. Tlie speaker was interviewed on the “Citizen’s Loss of Rights.”
“For sources of our rights go to history. All are derived from common law of England,” Mr. Konop said in opening his discussion. In reply to further questioning he added, “Not only are our rights mentioned, but they are given in full detail in our Federal and State constitutions.”
Jack Russell’s Orchestra To Play for Engineers
Jack Russell’s orchestra, which recently completed an engagement at the Congress Hotel in Chicago, has been engaged to play for the Engineers’ Formal, on the evening of Maj7 3. Bids to the dance are priced at two dollars and they may be arranged for by consulting any member of the Engineers’ Club.
Russell’s music was formerly heard at the Canton Tea Gardens, at the Grotto Cafe, of Chicago, and as several other mid-western resorts.
LAW BANQUET
(Continued from Page 2)
of witticisms were heartily appreciated.
John W. Locher, junior, delivered a short eulogy on Colonel Hoynes. Locher pointed out how Col. Hoynes, a graduate of Michigan, came to Notre Dame when he was known as one of the best attorneys in the northwest.
Dean Konop also spoke by way of augmenting Locher’s eulogy with several of his personal experiences with the late Dean Emeritus.
Six -
^\ibout the camPus
</ \y
Thomas Jerome “Red” Walsh comes from Elmhurst, Queens Borough, New York and has the distinction of managing four teams, sleeping through eight o’clock classes and rooming with a Pre-Med.
Thomas Jerome attended Brooklyn Prep where he not onlj7 was a delegate to all the conventions for the
Propagation of the Faith, but also made speeches and traveled as far west as Chicago. It was here that he became magnetized by the mid western culture and almost lost his New York accent.
Upon entering Notre Dame Tom became one of the tobacco chewing Freshman managers, and, as he says, his greatest blow came when licorice was substituted.
He is now manager of Minor Sports, and has the reputation of managing the only undefeated team. In fact he manges the only team that can eat at six a.m. and still win all its matches. Mr. Walsh is a firm believer in the hospitality of Kenton, Ohio, and even rates Mount St. Joseph higher than Sweetbriar.
But Tom is not only interested in the managing side of athletics as he has won the 107 handball championship and on several occasions has walked from Niles.
He has been busily studying for the Economics comprehensive and after leaving in June hopes to make the airways safe for all.
Attention
The Society of Saint Vincent de Paul wishes to call an important item to the attention of the student body for this week.
The quarterly drive for discarded clothes will be carried on today, tomorrow and Sunday. Representatives will canvass all halls, and clothing, regardless of condition, will be welcomed and appreciated. Signs in each hall specify the hall representatives.
POLITICIANS PREPARE FOR CLASS ELECTIONS
While campus political machines swung into action to prepare for the coming spring elections, candidates for the senior class presidency paused long enough in their vote-getting last week to pay a splendid, and well merited tribute to a deceased classmate, Joe Sullivan, captain-elect of the football team, who died in a New York hospital, March 20.
By joint agreement, the three leading candidates for the presidency, Henry Dendler, Joseph Waldron, and Howard Cusack, agreed to appoint Sullivan as honorary president of the class of ’36, no matter who won the actual position. The plan was proposed to the three men by Lou Hans-man, and each of the three pledged himself to thus honor the memory of his late classmate, in the event of election. All agreed that it was a fitting tribute to “Sully,” a man who had been one of the most popular students in his class.
The action taken by the three candidates is unique and unparalleled in the history of campus politics. It will be a bright spot in what will probably develop into one of the closest and most bitterly contested senior class elections in recent years.
The first wave of political doorknockers and blotter distributors in the Sophomore class are getting under way with a vengeance. At present there are three full tickets in the field with the prospect of a three cornered battle in the primaries.
“Skip” Cormier, who successfully engineered the cause of Hal Miller in last year’s balloting, is uniting with Jim Bacon and the McNally brothers in an effort to swing the presidency to Marty Burns. Running with Burns are Ed Lynaugh, and George Lane. This faction is replete with backers and seems particularly strong in Morrissey Hall.
Opposing the “Come-Back” group is a ticket headed by Walter Nienaber, a virtual new-comer to the political scene. On this ticket, for the class officer berths are, Jack Gillespie, Bob Wilke and Edward Boyle.
A third party, dark-horse ticket is running Larry O’Donnell for president, with Thomas Foy, Thomas Hayes and Dan Hennessey making up the rest of the slate. This group seems to be relying on the personal strength of O’Donnell, who is conceded a strong chance for the presidency.
The apparent lack of interest, so manifest last February, is again the political bogey-man confronting fresh-(Continued on Paste 23)
.	The Scholastic
> DEBATERS LEAVE FOR TOUR THROUGH EAST
College Parade
With Vincent Gopnan
NONOGRAM MEN WORK ON STAGE PRODUCTION
A negative team of the Varsity Debate squad went east this week foi’ a series of three debates. Professor William Coyne, coach, took John Locher and Joseph Becek to Cleveland last Wednesday where they
Joseph Becek
Three debates in three days.
remained two days and then journeyed to Pittsburgh today.
In Cleveland on Wednesday evening the Notre Dame team met an affirmative team from John Carroll University. There was a critic decision rendered by Professor Francis Grose of Notre Dame College, South Euclid, Ohio.
On Thursday, the Blue and Gold men debated Western Reserve in an audience decision contest, the results of which have not been made known.
This evening Notre Dame is debating the University of Pitsburgh in Pittsburgh. This is a non-decision debate.
The debaters undertook one of the most difficult schedules that a Notre Dame team has had in seevral years. Of twenty-two critic judge decisions, Notre Dame won fifteen and lost seven. Of three audience decisions, Notre Dame won two and lost one. There were three non-decision desbate, the results of which are not as yet known.
MET CLUB (Continued from Paste 3)
lights on the Met Club’s activities— one man was found who was chairman of the minor committee at the Christmas dance, when approached he claimed he had heard nothing about the appointment until Feb. 1. The list further reveals that the general chairman of the Christmas Dance . is not a paid member of the organization. '
eApril 12, 1935
GO-GETTERS!
The progressive gentlemen of Villanova-go places without wasting time. Not content with taking the laurel for an unusually successful Senior Ball (before Lent)—Dorsey Brothers’ orchestra at $3.50 a couple—the Juniors announced their Prom arrangements last week. Isham Jones is to supply the music—and for the benefit of those of us who had been hopeful the date is May 10! Costs— $4.00, limited to two hundred!
■ ooOoo
A North Carolina State contest for the most popular prof had to be held over for a second week because the number of votes cast was too small to be representative.
REFORM
Ohio State’s Student Senate has approved a plan to abolish the disgusting situation in class elections. It is designed to “briny about a wholesome and efficient class organization.” Only three class officers— presidents of the senior, junior and sophomore classes:—are provided for. By eliminating the other class posts which have little or no puruose except that of "bait," they hope to clean up the mud of campus politics.
And for the attempt itself we salute them!
• ooOoo
Suggests a scribe on the Syracuse Orange: “As long as Huey Long is thinking of running for president why not let W. C. Fields m against him; he’s a lot funnier.” Throw in Stoopnagle, Budd and the Marx Bros, for a real show.
SCIENTIFIC
A biology prof at Piedmont (Cal.) High School announced that all the boys and girls in his class would participate in a test to determine whether* microbes are transmitted by kissing. Enthusiasm and interest for the class was so great that rumor had it alumni were returning for postgraduate work. On the day of the test the attendance was perfect. Each student was given a little pad of sterilized cloth, instructed to kiss his pad and daub it on a microscopic slide. That was all—except that it was later announced the test showed positive results.
ooOoo
When the dean of Gettysburg college on leaving a dance found his car occupied by a romantic couple, he tipped his hat graciously and walked his wife home.
Graced by a star-studded cast and a sparkling bevy of dancing cuties, the 1935 edition Monogram Club Jamboree went into its third week of rehearsal before it treks to the historic boards of Washington Hall on
George Demetrio
He is a merry stooge.
the evenings of May 4 and 5. Im-pressario Mike Layden offers to Notre Dame and the public a carnival of song, comedy, and drama— a bushelful of amusement—in one ear-tickling musical extravaganza.
Witty lines from gifted pens contribute their share to the evenings’ marrymaking. From the pens of Prof. Vincent Fagan and Dean James E. McCarthy, annual contributors to the carnival of fun and frolic, come a skit of the same sterling caliber of other years. Prof. Daniel O’Grady pours his pungent Irish humor into several skits which are so meritorious that the Monogram Club wishes to make public acknowledgment to Prof. O’Grady.
Upon the shoulders of master of ceremonies, Chris Matthews, falls the mantle of outdoing the 1933 performance of Notre Dame’s contribution to Hollywood, Nick Lukats. With the aid of his merry stooge, George Demetrio, and one and only J. Arthur Haley, Chris has worked out a scintillating thread to keep the show moving.
Ghosts haunt Walsh’s corridors tonight as the effective Ray Keating and the bombastic T. Jefferson Foley rehearse their ghost act in the Jamboree’s version of “Hamlet.” This skit is featured not, as Shane Leslie’s version, with a triple-decker stage, but with a double-decker ghost which makes Shakespeare’s masterpiece more masterful.
Comedy subsides when the world premiere of the song composed by the Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C., entitled, “Joe Sullivan” is presented to the public. Written in memory of the late captain-elect of the 1935
(Continued on Pace 18)
Seven
NOVEL EDUCATION PLAN PROPOSED AT CHICAGO
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
REV. HUGO H. HOEVER TO LECTURE TONIGHT
College education in this country lias experienced a wide swing of the pendulum from the narrow curriculum of the 19th century, the same for all students, to the unrestricted elective system of the early part of this century in which no two students carried the same program of studies. Colleges today are trying to find the middle ground between these two extremes. The latest attempt, (the most revolutionary of all) is the Chicago College Plan, described in a recent book under this title by Chauncey Samuel Boucher, Ph.D., Dean of the College at Chicago University.
In brief, the new plan provides for the scrapping of the seventy-odd departments into which the undergraduate college at Chicago has become divided, and setting up instead, four Divisions, namely, 1. The Humanities, 2. The Social, 3. The Physical, and 4. The Biological Sciences. Course credits are done away with entirely and the only requirements on students of the lower division, the College, (what used to be called the Junior College) is satisfactory per-, formance on seven comprehensive examinations, each taking six hours, a morning and afternoon session. Four of these examinations are on the four fields of knowledge named above, one on English and the other two elective primarily preparatory for advanced work-in any of the four Divisions. •
The facilities of the College are at the disposal of the students to prepare them for these examinations, notably, four Introductory General Courses running all year in the four fields of knowledge, two of which are commonly carried by all students each year. Students, however, may take these examinations leading to the College certificate whenever" they are ready for them. - The same is true of the Comprehensive Examinations leading to the Bachelor degree, thus making provision for individual differences on both levels. One nineteen year old student is reported to have completed the work ..for a. degree in five quarters, i.e., one and two-thirds years of college study.
What is to be thought of the plan and what is its promise for the improvement of collegiate education? The first thing in its favor is. that it places the responsibility foi" education of later adolescents where it belongs, namely, squarely upon the shoulders of the students themselves. At one fell stroke, the greatest incubus weighing heavily upon Ameri-(Continued on Pasre 21) ' :
E i g 6 f
Nick’s Back Yard
In the interims between championship boxing shows, ice hockey games, circuses, basketball games, track meets, polo games, auto shows and horse shows, and in the frequent periods when the Garden’s Mr. Johnson cannot agree with the gentlemen who comprise New York’s boxing committee, the newspaper men of the metropolitan dailies assigned to do five hundred words a day on the activities centering around Eighth Ave, and 49th St. scratch their heads • in vain and then release the original six hundred words about the modern feats of engineering and master organization that can change the smooth ice of the Rangers into a steeply banked saucer for the Cunninghams and Nurmis to break records on.
Now please understand, here in the beginning, that we have no issue with the reporters in their choice of material; the point is that while reading the same stuff for the nth time last week, we casually remembered some of the recent attractions at our own field house.
In that vein of reviewing, we call your attention to the preseason cavorting of Jake Klein’s infielders, Jim Byrne’s boxers, and the Touche-ing of the victorious fencing team. Then, that very evening, a few assorted schools, in good standing with The North Central Association, will come down from Michigan and let their best, shot putters vie with Nick’s Don Elser; and if you think we guys have to stand two hours to witness the making of a sound mind in a B.R.T. body, you’re crazy: McAllister’s stooges have put the Garden to shame in their hasty erection of the bleachers.
And now,—here’s a swell chance . to make another crack at the native’s Indiana weather, but we pass it up—while the new tennis courts are shedding water from their red clay backs, a tennis net has been erected on the basketball court for the benefit of the rushing-the-season tennis team. But their’s is to propose, and Keogan’s to dispose, foi" they have to share the afternoon with the Doctor’s spring practice net squad.
So there, Mr. Johnson, we don’t think your emporium is so hot after all. And here, Mr. McAllister, is a blow for you and the gang who made this column possible.
R. S. V. P.
Dear Mr. and Mrs. Art, Jarret: You don’t know how Sorin Hall ap7 preciates your kindness to Fran Dunn
The Rev. Hugo H. Hoever, O.Cist., will give a lecture in Washington Hall, this evening at 8 o’clock under the auspices of “Der Deutsche Ver-ein:”
Father Hoever will talk on Teresa Neumann, the stigmatized girl at Konnersreuth,, a town in Upper Bavaria, Germany. The' title of his lecture will be “The' Marvelous Events at Konnersreuth: and their Interpretation.”
Five' years, ago Father Hoever spent a week at Konnersreuth and visited at the home of Teresa Neumann. He will give an account of the strange phenomena he witnessed there and explain their significance.
Fathei" Hoever came to this country from Germany four years ago and has been on the staff of the Notre Dame faculty since 1932.
Korzeneski Speaks to The
Wranglers on Polish Hero
The Wranglers Society heard an address on dictators last week when the president, Arthur Korzeneski, spoke on “Pilsudski the Man.”
Throughout his talk, Korzeneski stressed the main features in the life of the Polish marshal from his confinement in a Siberian prison camp during the war to his rise in European politics until he is now dictator of Poland.
He pointed out how this man had stormed Warsaw with his troops in May, 1926, and had ousted in disgrace a parliament consisting of carpetbaggers and mountebanks who had bankrupt the country. Pilsudski established a dictatorship de facto consisting of himself and his little group of loyal colonels who have been associated with him since the beginning of his career, but Poland will not have, a dictatorship de jure as long as he lives.
Italian Club
John Busichio, President of the ' Italian club, announced that the next meeting of the club will be held in Walsh Hall basement, the evening of Wednesday, April 10. Plans for the annual spring banquet will be completed.
and his friends. Francis is a new man since he came back from Chicago. (The others were always like that, Eleanor.) He is still wearing that pressed suit that used to be reserved, for football weekends and St. Mary’s girls. ?
: So thanks again, and we.hope we’ll . all be seeing you.
/	.	—D. D.
The Scholastic
Voice of theCampus
April 8 Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall.
Dear Sir:
. .Might an appeal be made, through the medium of The Scholastic, to those who are in charge of supplying the student body with speakers, that they find some more desirable auditorium in which both the speaker and his audience may give full attention to the matter under discussion?
I refer, of course, to the atmosphere of Washington Hall where everything seems to combine to distract the speaker and his listeners. Noise from the “rec” rooms with their blaring radios, pounding pianos, and yelling pool-players is most disconcerting. Add to this the intermittent racket of the patented ventilators, and the barn-like lack of heat and you have, to my mind, an atmosphere least conducive to any manner of education or entertainment.
It is puzzling that this situation should still exist when the University is fortunate enough to have such modern arrangements for the proper reception of visiting lecturers as those found in both the Law Building and the Engineering Building.
This may, perhaps, bring forth an answer to my problem.
Very truly yours, “Perplexed.”
Calendar
Friday, April 12
Rehearsal, Symphony Orchestra, 7:00 p.m. Washington Hall; baseball, 3:00, Ohio State vs. Notre Dame at Cartier Field.
Saturday, April 13
Movie, Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:15 Joe Penner in “College Rhythm.”
Siinday, April H
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a.m. Benediction, 7:00 and 7:30. Glee club concert, 8:00 p.m.;Washington Hall.
Monday, April 15
Piano recital, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.~
Tuesday, April 16
Meeting of the St. Vincent de Paul society, K. of C. rooms, Walsh Hall, 6:45; Economics Seminar, Law Building, 6:30; Symphony orchestra, rehearsal, Washington Hall 7:00 p.m. Lecture by Shane Leslie, “Four Real Ghost Stories,” Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, April 17
Easter vacation begins at noon.
eApril 12, 1935
THE Will
By William A. Kennedy
Tonight at Eight
White shoes may make their appearance, the sun may shine, buds may blossom, and the windows may be washed, but nothing so points the coming of warm weather, Easter, June, and vacation time as do the night-after-night shows in Washington Hall.
Now it is that the band forsakes its second floor turmoil for its first concert of the season. Now it is that the glee club, and the symphony orchestra, and any other group that pretends to entertain, takes the rostrum and gives its all for the boys who, for some vague reason might fear town.
Now it is, too, that celebrities with- . in yanking distance are roped in and put on display. In short, now is the time that professors lay on the work and Washington Hall puts on its brightest lights with a joyous “come one, come all; hey nonny nonny, and who are the professors anyway?”
Go, therefore, to the. entertainments. Go and see the band, the glee club, the symphony, the Paulists, the lecturers, the singers, dancers and players. Go, and tell your professors where you were, and see if deep down in their hearts (very deep down), they can really hold you responsible for the work of the past several and future weeks.
Actor
Mr. Charles Coburn, distinguished actor-manager of “The First Legion,” suddenly gave a lecture here Monday afternoon. Catching it in mid-air, so to speak, we followed it backstage and heard a repeat performance.
One remark made by Mr. Cobum stays with us. “There is no use in kidding ourselves,” he said, “there is no Theatre today.”
Plays are written with one eye on a movie adaptation. New York audiences, being transient for the most part, are abnormal and consequently the plays must be abnormal. That is why a successful New York production is often a flop on the road. Movies he can’t stand, mainly because he is always way ahead of the story and cannot wait for the actors to catch up with him.
9
Delayed
While all the hullabaloo goes on in Washington about Byrd’s having
54,000 letters in his pocket and forgetting to mail them when he flew • over the Pole on Jan. 30, Jim Quinn, in St. Ed’s, sits back and regards his own letter, which he received last week. On the envelope is stamped these words: This letter has been delayed one year because of difficulty in transportation from Little America, Antartica. It is postmarked January 31, 1934.
Gull Trouble
With the return of fair weather, the sea-gulls are again flying over from Michigan City and having a time of it on Brother Leo’s Farm.
Each time Brother Leo gives feed to the pigs, down swoop the gulls and eat it. Meanwhile, he stands by and rages. There is, as you probably know, a law against shooting seagulls. There’s no law against bashing their heads in, but it’s too much work.
Disclosure
“Build a better mousetrap and the world will beat a path to your door,” or something like that. Gentlemen, it’s a lie.
About ten or twelve years ago, Father Sheier taught classics here. He lived on campus, and therefore it was the most natural thing in the world that he should one day invent a mousetrap. It was a good mousetrap, too, because every time a mouse went in the first compartment, the door shut and he went into the second compartment, whereupon the second door shut and the first opened again and another mouse came in. And so on ad infinitum or the end of the mousetrap.
Well anyway, there was a better, mousetrap, and did the world beat a path to his door? Why; we don’t even know what door it was, much less find a path beaten to it.
We just thought we’d tell you, in case you intended following adages this summer. Don’t do it.
Top of the Week
Ed Van; Huisseling’s fine write-up on Marcy and the Bengal bouts. Marcy’s prolonged tour of the campus, clipping in hand, looking for the writer.
^ine
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurns Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1S65
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
JOHN D. CARBINE__________________________Editor-in-Chief
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING______________Managing-Editor
Associate Editors JOSEPH A. BUCCI-----------------------Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN._________________;____LOUIS H. HRUBY
ROY 0. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY.___________________________The Week
WILLIAM H. TOUMEY.____________________________Dome Dust
VINCENT A. GORMAN, Jr._____________________College Parade
MITCHELL C. TACKLEY----------------------Graduate Assistant
Netos Staff
JOHN J. MORAN_________________________________News Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN---------------------Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL-----.--------------Assistant Ndws Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN.---------------------JOSEPH RATIGAN
PAUL FOLEY.:------------------------IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONI--------------------FREDERICK SHANLEY
ANTHONY F. O'BOYLE.______________FRANKLYN HOCHREITER
BERTRAM SMITH----------------------------LOUIS DA PRA
LINDSAY PHOEBUS------’.-------------HARRY A. BALDWIN
JOHN A. GILLESPIE
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST______________________...Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER____________________Assistant Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER_________________...ROBERT J. DONAHUE
JOHN I. FLANAGAN_________________;__JAMES A; WALDRON
EUGENE VASLETT___________________________JOHN CACKLEY
james McMullen
Business Management JOHN F. STOECKLEY_____________________...Graduate Manager
MEMBER
Associated Collegiate $re$s 1334	1935 e-
HAXHSOH	WISCONSIN
April 12, 1935
FRIENDSHIP AND RESPECT ESSENTIAL
Campus politics is not a serious business. In the final analysis, it is little more than a glorified contest whose prizes are largely illusory. For, as “The Week” so succinctly put it, campus politics serves only to determine the “one forlorn creature who will end up behind the American flag on Feb. 22.”
As illusory as its prizes may be, however, campus politics is an activity which has attracted and fascinated many. . Its benefits over a period of years have far. out-weighedits evils. If it has .done nothing else, it has. served as a medium for getting the members of the various classes and clubs well acquainted with each other.
The spoils system seems to be a necessary evil of campus politics. If a politician manages a friend’s campaign there is no reason why, other factors being favorable, he should not be rewarded with an appointive position. The desire for appointive office should not, how
Ten
ever, be the only motive in supporting a candidate for • office. Friendship should, play an. important part, and respect and admiration of the candidate himself should be > requisites foi- support.	I
During the past two weeks a group of seniors dis- | : regarded and ignored, the peculiar character of campus > politics, and, by their, actions, intimated that it was, for them, a serious business. The president of the class was, for obvious reasons, unable to appoint to office his trusted , friends who had successfully managed his campaign.. When the myriad of political lieutenants and underlings C; saw this, they immediately set up a clamor for responsible positions which, by their very hue and cry, they showed themselves unfit to hold. Friendship and respect should be essential to the supporting of a candidate for presi,- ; dent of his class. When the man .whom these politicians ! had elected, was harassed on all sides by innumerable difficulties these men, instead of showing friendship and respect, pestered him with their insulting demands for insignificant positions and even threatened him with physical violence.
These men apparently lost sight of the fact that the purpose of the spring elections is to elect the president of the class and not the head of a political machine. The president’s first duty is to the class, and his second in- > cidental duty, if it in no way interferes with the first, is to the men who elected him. In this case the duty to the class seemed to exclude political considerations. By protesting in such an ungentlemanly manner against the exclusion of political consideration, the dissenting seniors showed that they did not understand—or did not care to understand—their own duties or the duties of the president.
A WELL DESERVED RECEPTION	*
Two outstanding examples of pleasing. one’s public came to light this week. The concert of the University ; on Sunday night was well received by a capacity audi- ! ence. On Monday the Paulist Choir gave another bne of its excellent performances. The members of the band have been practicing daily since September. The Paulist Choir is universally recognized as one of America’s outstanding musical organizations. Both well deserved the splendid reception they received.	.
Sunday night in-Washington Hall, the glee club will present its annual spring concert. Unfortunately this campus musical unit will not make an eastern tour this year, but air reports indicate that the club is up to its i usual high standard. .
•	i
- -x . 1 1
AN EQUITABLE SYSTEM
This year’s underclassmen will receive a choice of rooms, for next year in accordance with their rank.in .
. their class. The Scholastic congratulates those in charge of assigning campus rooms on at least having discovered a . system which is both equitable and efficient.
The Scholastic i
♦ SPCKTS ♦
PHNTEPS
_ '8 FROM TRE jlUgRESS BOX
IRISH BALLTOSSERS SET FOR OPENER AGAINST OHIO STATE NINE TODAY
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
BANKS AND DAY
Who will compose Notre Dame’s golf squad this spring is offering the Reverend George Holderith, C.S.C., coach of the group, no end of worry. Old man weather has prevented the candidates for the team from performing with any great amount of skill. It is generally conceded, however, that Captain Johnny Banks, Win Day, Pat Malloy, and Herman Green will be among the regular starters.
The reputation of “Toots” Banks is not limited to the campus nor restricted by the boundaries of the so-called middle west. Johnny is an established figure at the National Intercol-legiates held every June in the east. Last June he led the Irish qualifiers with a total of 151 strokes. In the match play he advanced as far as the third round before being eliminated on the 37th green by Ed White of Texas. Previously Johnny had toppled Ed Wood of Princeton and Fred Newton of Rollins College. Banks consistently shoots in the low 70s and should be one of the country’s leading collegiate golfers this spring.
The Irish captain will receive considerable aid from Win Day, another golfer of national repute. Win has dug divots on courses the length and breadth of the country. His golfing history dates back to the days when his father was the president of a country dub. Since those days Win , has been swinging and improving. Perhaps his greatest accomplishment was his performance in the National Amateur at Brookline last fall. He tied for medal honors in the Chicago district qualifying round and was thus entitled to represent that section in the finals. At Brookline he survived five rounds before bowing to Reynolds Smith, one up at the twentieth green.
. - .With two such outstanding . performers, aided as they most probably will be by Malloy and
. Green^ Notre Dame golfing his-
(Continued on Page 15)
Many Records Broken In S. A. C.’s Annual Swimming Carnival
Under the efficient and capable management of Phil Purcell, the S.A.C. Swimming Meet was successfully enacted before a large attendance, in the South Bend Natatorium, Monday night.
Because of the vast number of entrants—fifty in all—it was necessary to hold preliminary trials in the forty and hundred free style; the sixty yard breast stroke; and the sixty yard back stroke. Winners of these were judged on the basis of time, so as to eliminate any extra events.
Frank Huisking, Metropolitan 220-yard free style champion, walked off ■ with honors in the forty yard free style, followed closely by Sam Lawler, one-half second later. Marguet, after finishing first in the trials, got off to a bad start and failed to place. Last year Butler nosed Huisking out by a very narrow margin.
Fergus Kelly showed to advantage by chalking up a lead-off position for the 100-yard free style in 1:03.2. Dick Baker swam but four-tenths of a second slower than Kelly, to cop second place.
The Huisking brothers, this time Ed, New York 100-yard back stroke titleholder, came to the front again, snaring a win in the sixty yard back stroke. Jim Coon, Buffalo A.C. speedster, proved to be the ‘dark horse’ by checking in for the runner-up position— one and nine-tenths seconds behind the victor.	.
In the final individual race, Paul Doyle and Bill Farrell fought it out for laurels in the sixty yard breast stroke, with the former forging ahead in a tight heat. In ’34, Doyle upset the dope by beating Farrell to the finish with a foot to spare. ■
The team of Farrell and the two Huiskings easily outdistance that of the Baker-Doyle-Burke combine in 'the medley relay. The winning trio was clocked at 1:10.9.
In the free style relay, a quartet composed of Marguet, Baker, and the Huisking brothers established their supremacy over the - Coy-Kelly-Wil-lams-Husung crew. The former mark (Continued on Page 16)
TO BROADCAST CONTEST
Coach Jake Kline’s baseball team will initiate the Notre Dame spring sport season when they encounter the Ohio State nine on Cartier Field this afternoon. The game is scheduled to - get under way at three o’clock.
The major problem facing Kline, at this writing, is the scarcity of re-
Vic Mettler
His hitting rampage starts today.
liable pitchers. Matt Themes, who pitched some fine ball last year, and Bill Tourney have displayed the best pitching in practice sessions. These two men are expected to do most of the twirling in the early games. Other hurlers making a bid for mound service are Beech and Rydell, a pair of southpaws, and VanWagner, a lanky right hander. The catching department is unusually strong. Frankie Gaul and Joe Underkofflei-, both, veterans, assure much strength behind the bat. Gaul appears to hold a slight edge now.
In practice sessions the infield has been turning in some nice performances. Captain Dunn will -play the initial sack while Dan Cunha will be the caretaker of the keystone station. Harold Reagan holds a slight edge at shortstop and Wally From-hart, of football fame, is expected to start at third base.
The outfield is well foitified. Arnold Velcheck, Vic Mettler, and Andy Pilney are all good hitters and dependable fielders.
Ohio State opened their season with a 17-2 victory. This indicates (Continued on Page 13)
eApril 12, 1935
Eleven
Inclement Weather Hampers N.D.
Golfers As Opening Match Nears
BASEBALL SQUAD PLAYS DURING EASTER WEEK
MEET PURDUE ON APRIL 20
By John Cackley
Cold weather has thrown quite a crimp in the practice sessions of Notre Dame’s highly-touted golf aggregation. The uncertainty as to
Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C. He, too, plays golf.
whether or not there will be snow, rain, or sunshine has helped no little to retard the progress that ordinarily would have been made by Captain Johnny Banks and his mates. So far only three cards have been turned in by prospective candidates. Under the coaching of the Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., the ‘niblick swingers’ are handicapped also to a great extent by the illness of Banks and Pat Malloy—the latter being a victim of the ‘pest house.’
Although as yet no definite varsity squad has been selected, nevertheless Malloy, Banks, and Win Day are practically sure of a starting position. In addition there is Bill Cole, Greene, Marbach, Doyle, Pierce, and Harry Baldwin that, barring unforeseen difficulties, will grace the Irish first string roster. The places vacated by Johnny Montedonicc, and last year’s leader, Vince Fehlig, will have to be filled by experienced veterans.
Opening with Purdue, on April 20, - the golfers will be kept busy right
on through the Easter vacation. Incidentally Purdue is the only combination to score a win over Notre Dame in four years of dual competition. The Irish will continue through the holi-
(Continued on Page 16)
Notre Dame Netsters Start Schedule Play After Spring Vacation
By John Flanagan
The 1935 edition of the Notre Dame tennis squad will make its initial appearance on the Notre Dame courts against the strong aggregation from Wabash College Friday April 26. This is the first meeting of the two teams on the courts so that past records cannot compare their strength. Wabash, always one of the leading teams in the mid-west, should furnish considerable competition for the Irish netters.
The following Tuesday, April 30, the Blue and Gold journey to Bloomington where they meet Indiana. The Hoosiers, usually on the upper bracket of the Big Ten in the final standings, have a good team and it is probable that they will surprise the Irish in this early season encounter.
Notre Dame has several veterans to rely on yet Coach de Landero is reticent in promising a'rosy future for the Blue and Gold.
Led by Captain Frank Weldon and paced by such outstanding racquet-wielders as Cannon, Buchart, Fallon, and Waldron, the campus players should give a good account of themselves both in these two matches and the ones to follow.
The schedule has been rearranged so that the match with Bradley Tech has been postponed from April 24 to May 5.	.
BASEBALL SCHEDULE FOR 1935
April 12—Ohio State here
April 16—Purdue at Lafayette
April 17—Purdue at Lafayette
April 18—Western State at Kalamazoo
April 20—Chicago at Chicago
April 24—Iowa here
April 25—Iowa here
April 27—Illinois at Champaign
April 30—Chicago here
May 2—Mich. State at East Lansing
May 3—Toledo at Toledo
May 4—Ohio State at Columbus '
May 6—Indiana here
May 8—Northwestern here
May 11—Western State here
May 14—Wisconsin at Madison
May 15—Northwestern at Evanston
May 18—Purdue here	’
May 31—Wisconsin here
June 1—Michigan State here ■
By Cy Stroker
Within the next three weeks the Notre Dame baseball team will meet the cream of the mid-western baseball talent in an effort to better last year’s record and even the score with some of the above mentioned talent for defeats suffered last season. There are nine games scheduled for the period ending May 2, consisting of tilts with • Purdue, Western State, Chicago, Iowa, Illinois, and Michigan State.
After today’s game with Ohio State, the Irish will meet the Purdue nine at Lafayette in a two game series next Tuesday and Wednesday. The Boilermakers thoroughly trounced the Klinemen in the two games last year by the scores of 14-13 and 9-6. These, however, were played early in the season when the Irish were having a hard time finding themselves and were easy prey for most of their opponents. It is also worthwhile noting that Notre Dame held Purdue for four innings of both games before the latter forged ahead.
The ‘next team on the list is Western State, which Notre Dame will meet at Kalamazoo next Thursday. This is another aggregate that took the Irish into camp last year, to the tune of 14-7, and the men from Michigan loom as powerful opponents again this year. Western State is one of those teams which, unheralded, can cause a lot of trouble on any man’s ball field.
By April 20, the Klinemen should be hitting their stride and, if so, they •will be given the opportunity to crack back at Chicago U., whose team they will meet in the Windy city on that date. Among the first teams to defeat the Irish last year, the Chicago outfit came out on top with a 14-12 score. In the return battle toward the last of the season, however, Notre Dame swamped their erstwhile conquerors 19-6. If Jake can fill the pitcher’s box with a good hurler, the Irish should make short work of this contest. Notre Dame will play a return engagement with Chicago on Cartier Field April 30.
On April 24 and 25, Notre Dame will play host to the University of Iowa nine by playing two games with that outfit on consecutive days in Cartier Field. Iowa is another team with which the local ball-tossers split last season with the Jayhawks ■winning the first contest 7-6 and losing the second by the .impressive margin of 19-6.
For the first time since Coach Kline took over the duties of guiding (Continued on Page 15)
T w e I v e
. T h e Scholastic
UNDEFEATED FENCING TEAM GIVEN BANQUET
Purdue Trackmen Slated to Be
At Cartier Field On April 20
■ On the evening of April 4 at the LaSalle hotel the Notre Dame Fencing team closed a most successful season with its second annual banquet. The twenty-five members of the varsity and freshman squad had as their guest of honor, Elmer Layden, director of athletics at Notre Dame. Other guests included Mr. Delmar G. Roos, chief engineer- of the Studebaker Corporation; Professors Joseph H. Bott and Robert B. Riordan; Mr. John Perevilla, and director of publicity, Jo'enh Petritz.
El Senor deLandero proved that he is as fine a toastmaster as he is a coach by carrying off his duties as the former with accomplished ease. He introduced Mr. Layden as the principal speaker of the evening who, in the course of his speech, complimented the team on their fine showing. Captain C. deLandero in a short address thanked his teammates for their loyal cooperation, during the year. The speaking program was brought to a close bv short farewells from the seniors of the team: John Caresio, John Grosso, Joseph Myron, and John Ryan.
Coach deLandero rewarded the two graduating regulars, Caresio and Grosso, by presenting each with a fancy foil. Each member of the team as well as the manager, Thomas Walsh, was awarded a gold medal by their coach as a personal token of his appreciation for their splendid cooperation which made possible such a successful season.
The winners of the recent freshman tournament, Victor Mercado, Tom Doody, and Charles Morrow, were presented with gold, silver, and bronze medals respectively.
OHIO STATE GAME (Continued from Page 11)
an excess of batting power, so the Notre Dame pitchers will have to be at top form in order to turn back the slugging invaders.
Last year the two teams divided honors. With the two nines laboring under poor playing conditions here, Ohio State won 7-5. Notre Dame defeated the Buckeyes at Columbus 5-3.
In his good natured way, Coach Kline said, “It looks like a duplication of last year’s weather conditions but I am hoping that the score won’t be repeated.” He then added, “Competition for starting positions is keen. Last minute changes may find Under-koffler catching, Costello playing
WSBT, South Bend Broadcasting Station, will give a play by play account of all the Notre Dame home games this year.
cApril 12, 1935
Tennis Squad Picked of Tournament Players By Coach de Landero
Coach Pedro de Landero, Irish tennis mentor, has announced the temporary selection of sixteen men who will compose the varsity squad for the present time. This list of players were chosen on the merit of their showing in the fall tournament. For a number of weeks the racquet-eers have been working hard indoors on the gym floor and when the weather permits, on the asphalt courts behind Cartier Field. Within the next ten days it is expected to have the clay courts in shape for practice sessions.
The tentative lineup puts Captain Frank Weldon in the number one spot, followed by Buchard and Fallon in numbers two and three respectively. The latter two are both newcomers to the team and this is their first season of varsity competition. Joe Waldron, Prendergast, and Cannon, all veterans from the 1934 campaign, are scheduled to take care of the remaining three positions. Pressing closely behind the leaders are McNulty, Specht, Fredericks, Havericks, Freeley, Kauffman, Reese, Snooks, Jim Waldron, and Veeraey— all capable of giving their teammates a fight for one of the starting berths.
The season opens on April 24th, with Wabash College, who boasts one of the toughest net aggregations in the mid-west. After this match comes a series of engagements that will find Notre Dame stacking up against the best racquet talent of this section.
Interhall Softball League
Appears to be Doubtful
There has been a rather weak response to the call for hall teams in baseball and softball. These sports are so difficult to run because of the short time available, the scarcity of diamonds, and the time required to play a game as well as its dependence on weather conditions, that it is necessary to know exactly what teams should be considered in the drawing up of schedules.
Up to this time the following halls have signed for play:
If any other halls intend playing either game as a league game (many challenge games of softball are already being played), the notice should be given to the physical education department at once. Play will begin as soon as the diamonds south of the Law and Engineering buildings have been put in condition.
FIRST OF OUTDOOR MEETS
Passing up both vacation and the Kansas Relays, the Irish spike artists will play hosts to Purdue on Easter Saturday, April 20 at Cartier Field. Each team will be attempting its initial effort of the outdoor season and the result seems to hinge a great deal upon the strength of the two squads
Jack Frawley His nickname, “Barna."
in the various field events. Notre Dame piled up an enviable record of four wins and no losses in indoordual meets, while Purdue, though not quite so successful, is rightly conceded to give much trouble to the Nickmen because the Boilermakers have a team that should be highly improved in outdoor competition. ■
Irish followers will enthusiastically welcome the return of Leo McFarlane to the cinder paths in this meet. He suffered a severe wrench of his ankle last spring and has not competed in a race since. However the injured pedal has reacted favorably to treatment and the rangy junior should be back in there scoring points aplenty for the Irish tracksters.
The time-worn saying that “the proof of the pudding is in the eating” applies forcibly to the javelin throwing of the yet-untried Chick Levicki. A sensation in his freshman year, Levicki unleashed a series of startling heaves with the long thin spear, clearing one toss of 215 feet in practice to come within ten feet of the American record. Duane Purvis, of Purdue, Big Ten champion in this event for the past two years, will prove to be a great test of the giant sophomore’s power.
Notre Dame looks good for a win, place, and show in the sprints; and the quarter-mile along with the mile relay should both be Notre Dame events. In the half-mile Sheils and Ducassa will be facing two speedy
(Continued on Base 16)
T hirteen
INTRODUCING
NICK TO SPLIT SQUAD FOR PENN-DRAKE RELAYS
By Joe Prendergast
Planted among the monstrous corn fields of Iowa lies a little settlement christened Ledyard. This particular hamlet has been in existence since way back when the Sioux Indians tomahawked their girl friends and brought them home for dinner. The population at the time of the last census totaled 253 inhabitants and one street corner.
In the fall of the year 1913, two
SWINGS
A
LIKLS UIS SLLLP
TUL SLCOND N.D. MAN . PROM BRIT} IOWA
J PRIDL OF I BRITT FOOTBALL FANS
PLAYCD UIGLI-SCUOOL BASKLT-DALL-TUL SPORT ML LIKLS BLST
M -----T-O
i/U
W1CKLD BAT
Joe underkoffleF^
unprecedented events occurred which the inhabitants were sure gave indications of bigger and better things for Ledyard in the rosy future. One was the fact that for two Saturdays in a row the general store had sold twenty-five sacks of baking flour and the other was the birth of Joseph Murray Underkoffler. The stern, old residents of Ledyard may have had a wrong steer on the first optimistic charge but they picked a winner in “Little” Joe.
Joe began to show the villagers what this game of baseball was all about when at the age of eleven he
was manager, coach, captain, and second baseman on the best outfit that ever represented Ledyard. When twelve years old, Joe, although still in eighth grade, was playing second base for the high school nine. He was “the best in town” and two of liis eighth grade classmates also made the high school team. This was a common practice in the Iowa belt but the schools had to reecive special per
mission from the State Athletic Board to do this. When Joe became a freshman in high school the coach was shy a catcher so Underkoffler was chosen to fill the gap. He came along mighty fast and developed into a capable receiver.	_
He was a regular guard on the basketball team during his freshman and sophomore years at Ledyard. In the summer of 1929, the Underkoffler family left Ledyard and its surroundings to locate in Britt, Iowa—1700 population.	. .' •
(Continued on Page 24)
By Jim McMullen
Coach Nicholson has decided to throw the greater force of his present track squad into the Drake Relays. Only Don Elser and John Le-vicki are sure to represent the Irish in the annual Penn Relays at Philadelphia, which is down for decision on the same date as the Des Moines affair, April 26. The Irish mentor is counting on the eastern and western competition to prepare his men for the stiff dual meet campaign.
Events at Drake and possibly Penn, call out five of the Irish relay combinations. The baton passers have been acting up lately, and Coach Nicholson is none too pleased with their workouts. The nuarter and half mile ouartets, possible entries at Philadelphia, are at present composed of Boyle, Jordan, Moore, and Frawley. The mile and two mile teams are still open to considerable debate and alterations, though Shiels, Ducassa, Cavanaugh, and McGrath look rather certain in the latter. The four mile combination will be Gott, McKenna, Hennessey, and Leo McFarland. Leo has been responding excellently to treatment and is raring to go.
Captain Vince Murphy and George Meagher, the old dependables of Nick’s squad, will compete in the high and broad jumps this year at Drake in place of Penn. Last sea. son their efforts at Philadelphia were plenty good for the winning ribbons out west, though they onlv garnered a second and third. In the eastern meet Levicki will make his first appearance with the javelin and discus, and Don Elser will toss the shot. Don wound up fifth, several notches behind the great Jack Torrence, of Louisiana, as Des Moines last April.
Included in the annual entries to the Drake Relays are the cream of the mid and far western schools. The Irish will meet representatives from such tough customers as Louisiana State, U.C L.A.. Purdue, Texas A. & M., and Washington State. Nick’s usual optimism as to the showing of the Irish against this classy field is lacking, but he is looking forward to the Des Moines get-together as a proving ground for future meets.
Fr. Miltner Speaks
On Thursday evening, April 11, the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, spoke on “Nationalism and War versus Catholicism and Peace,” at the meeting of the Chicago division of the Federated Catholic Alumni Association.
Fourteen
Tbe Scholastic
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEN WORK ON TIMING
SPLINTERS
CAPT. M’GRATH LEADS IRISH RIFLERS TO WIN
It is an unusual sight to see some 300 well - conditioned young men working for rhythm. For the past few weeks Coach Elmer Layden has been instructing all the candidates for next year’s 'Notre Dame football team in the technique of rhythm or “timing.” The old master, Knute Rockne, developed it to its highest
Andy Pilney
He’s a nift]/ ball-hawk.
point of .efficiency and it became known all over. the country as the Notre Dame “shift.”
Realizing the value that smoothness has in developing a powerful offense, Coach Layden has been drilling his men everyday so that he will be able to produce a polished grid machine in the fall. The coaching staff is also working on the many other phases of football technique. The linemen are learning to block, to tackle, and to run interference undei* the able guidance of Joe Boland. Over in another section of the field, Tom Conley is demonstrating the fine points of end play instilled in him by the great Rockne.
Chet Grant and Bill Cerney, with Steve Banas and George Melinkovich helping out, are developing backfields for the Irish which we hope will revive the fear in opposing players which existed when the Gipps, Crowleys, Brills, Schwartzs shifted behind a powerful line. CoachLayden has held several scrimmages and is fairly satisfied with the results. Although co-ordinated blocking is lacking, fine defensive play and ballhandling have been shown.
Bookmen
The Bookmen are now receiving applications for membership. Any students interested may apply to one of the following: Roy Scholz, 303 Walsh; Al Loritsch, 307 Walsh; Thomas Cassidy, 157 St. Edward’s.
(Continued from Page 11)
tory might still be in the making. But two outstanding swingers will not keep any golf team in the running. Where the support that will bolster Banks and Day is coming from seems to be the big problem of the moment.
•
PERSONAL OPINION
The presence of Babe Ruth on the Boston roster will bring sufficient friction.to cause Manager Bill McKechnie to resign after the 1935 campaign. . . . The St. Louis Cardinals will repeat as pennant winners but the Tigers will drop from their top berth. . . . The Notre Dame golf team -will see its string of consecutive wins broken this spring. . . . The Dean brothers will not win as many games this year but their twirling will keep the Cards on top nevertheless. . . . Northwestern will cop the Big Ten basketball title next winter. . . . The Davis Cup will not return to the United States this year.
Schoolboy Rowe will suffer a slight setback in his pitching success this year. . . . Lawson Little will not win a major golf title in this country in 1935. . . . Max Baer will see 1936 come in with his heavyweight crown firmly mounted on his head. . . . Gene Sarazen will win another major golf title this year. . . . A Bradley horse' will win the Kentucky Derby if the track is dry. . . . The Chicago Golden Gloves champions will defeat the amateur boxers from Italy. . . . The Chicago Cubs will finish no higher than third place and the White Sox no better than seventh. . . . Lefty Dunn will lead the Notre Dame batsmen this spring. . . . Princeton’s Tigers will hit the skids on the gridiron next fall (yes, Bill?). . . . Dizzy Dean will not resign at the close of the 1936 baseball season. ...
A dark horse will win the Arlington Classic this summer. . . . Win Day will set a new Wm. Burke Course record before he receives his sheepskin. . . . Ted Lyons will be the leading pitcher on the White Sox: staff this year. . . . John Levicki will establish a new C.I.C. javelin record in June. . . . Lon Warnecke will be the leading Chicago Cub twirler. . . . Notre Dame will win the Indiana State golf crown. . . . OHIO STATE WILL BE THE ONLY TEAM TO DEFEAT THE IRISH GRIDDERS NEXT FALL.
The Notre Dame rifle team defeated Howe Military Academy riflers last Saturday, 861 to 802. This is the second victory of the year that the Irish marksmen have earned over the crack outfit representing Howe. John “Gunner” McGrath, captain and inspiring leader of the Notre Dame forces was high man of the meet with his total of 179. Incidently McGrath has not been defeated this school year in any meet he has entered.
On the afternoon of April 4, the Notre Dame rifle team set down the Buchanan riflists in the Notre Dame boat house, 875 to 838. The club now offers to any student who can meet certain minimum requirements, gold and silver medals. Details for obtaining these rewards can be secured from any member of the team or from the valiant captain of the organization, “The Gunner,” in his clay pig- ‘ eon gallery in Walsh Hall.
N. C. A. Meeting
The Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., and Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., were delegates from Notre Dame at the annual meeting of the North Central Association of Colleges and secondary schools which was held at the Stevens Hotel this week.
More than ordinary interests attaches to this meeting by reason of discussion of the new standards adopted last year.
COMING BALL GAMES (Continued from Page 12)
Notre Dame’s varsity nine, Illinois appears on the schedule and the game will be played at Champaign April 30. Very little is" known about the Illini so early in the season, but as usual they are rated as one of the top groups in the Big Ten conference and will, without a doubt, make the Irish work for every run.
The last team that Notre Dame will meet in the first part of its season is Michigan State. On May 2 the team will travel to East Lansing to meet this outfit which will prove to be one of the toughest that the Irish will face on the diamond this year. Considered to rate as high as any of the Big Ten teams, the East Lansing men will be hard to beat. Their ability is well shown in the fact that they defeated Notre Dame last year by the score 8-1 when the Irish were in top form.
pri I 12, 193 5
'Fifteen
On Down The Line
By Jim McMullen
The Master’s Open netted the winning fairway walker around §1500. ... but back in 1913-14 MIKE BRADY won the Bellaire Open, the Deland Open, and the St. Augustine Open golf tournaments and collected a total of $375 ... By the way, don’t forget that boy when you are rating the all-time golfing greats ... In 1917, the year the United States Open was cancelled because of the War, he won seven of the nine major laurels . . . ERNIE JONES, noted golf pro, gets a little bored with the game now and then . . . the other day he sat down and drove the white pellet 200 yards . . . ever try it? . . . There were more than 100,000 requests for tickets at 10 rubles each, for the chess tournament held recently at Moscow . . . Remember MIKE McTIGUE, the great old light heavy-• weight champion? He engaged in more than 400 bouts, but the only mark visible on his body is a slightly mashed ear . . . The amateur welterweight champion of New York City is JOHNNY CLINTON ... and Johnny’s right leg is only half the size of his right . . . JIMMY WILDE, one time flyweight champion of the world, is the president of a newly-organized boxer’s union in England. . . . speaking of unions and such, soccer is governed by the international football federation, which included nine countries when it was organized in 1904 and today represents 52 countries. . . .
Just for your private information- “JAKE THE SNAKE” PENTY is liking “Omaha” an awful lot in the fast approaching Kentucky Derby. . . . TOM ZACHARY, veteran pitcher of Brooklyn, has never pitched a single inning in the minors . . . this will be his eighteenth season ... In Yugoslavia last year, BIRGER RUUD set the record for the sky jump—301.76 feet . . . BILL BORRIES, young brother of Buzz, famous Navy pigskinner, recently failed to pass the optical tests necessary for admittance in the Academy . . . JACK ADAMS, pilot of the Detroit Hockey club for eight years, has never had a written contract with JAMES NORRIS, SR., president . . . Madison Square Carden was quite pleased with its latest hockey season . . . they have installed a piping system now, that can form an ice surface three quarters of an inch thick in only five hours . . . the late FRANK McGEE, of Ottawa, scored 16 goals in one Stanford hockey match, seven of them in three minutes ... the St. Louis Browns lost 51 games last season by a margin of only one run . . . Accurate measure
Sixteen
ments of yearling during the past decade prove conclusively that thoroughbred horses are getting larger every year . . . and the largest horse entered in this year’s Derby is Shoeless Joe. . . .
WILLIE GRIMM, veteran bicycle rider, is another leader of sports, who entered his game on a dare . . . His brother dared Willie to enter a novice race . . . that was back in ’20. . . . AL BANUET, twice United States handball champion, deserted the rebounding sphere, for professional boxing . . . Result—two fights with Al on his back, both times . . . now he is failing in his plea for amateur reinstatement . . . Probably the world’s smallest swimming pool is the one set up by ROLAND TEGT-MEIER, to get in training for the summer’s competition ... It is a twelve by five foot tank and has an old inner tube fastened at one end in which to imprison his feet and give him an “aquatic treadmill” effect . . . JACK REDMOND, the Arizona cowboy who is trying for a catching berth with the Washington Senators, yells “Yipee” every time he catches a third strike . . . TOM YAWKEY, owner of the Boston Red Sox, maintains a New York penthouse with 14 rooms, and five baths . . . TORCHY PEDEN, six day biker, eats nine times a day . . . JIMMY LON-DOS is planning a South American tour . . . some say it is probably a strategic time for the Greek grap-pler to leave . . . with the Irishman Dan O’Mahoney floating around the big town. . . .
Latest DIZZY DEAN rumors say that the New York Giants are gunning for him . .' . seems that Dizzy used the old bean ball too often at a few of their members . . . FRANKIE FRISCH broke into the big time as a “cow-handed switch-hitter” . . . meaning he batted cross handed and from either side of the final platter. . . . BIG BILL TILDEN has given up the autograph art . . . claims it weakens the muscles in his right hand . . . California has 22 native sons in big league uniforms . . . According to a Phoenix paper, SLAPSIE MAXIE ROSENBLOOM was so surprised when a recent opponent was counted out that he ran to his foe’s corner when they had revived him and inquired, “Say, you ain’t foolin’, are you?” ... GUY BUSH is said to be resenting strongly the remark of his former teammate, GABBY HARTNETT, that “Guy is losing his stuff” . . . VINES, LOTT, STEPHEN, and GLEDHILL are going to make $25,000 for three four-night stands in Russia soon . . . where’s that man Tilden? . . . Three hundred carpenters worked from midnight Saturday til! noon Sunday, in erecting Madison Square Garden’s six-day bike track recently.
PURDUE TRACKMEN (Continued from Page 13)
Purdue men, Glendenning and Moore, both members of the two-mile relay I team which barely trounced the Irish j at the Armour Relays a few weeks i ago. Elser gets the call in the shot- | putting assignment while Layden and | Link will try to outstep and outhop | the flashy Sandbach in both hurdle * races.	1
The broad jump will feature an | individual battle between George Meagher, of Notre Dame, and Chuck Hollis, of Purdue. The latter has j cleared well over 23 feet this year while Meagher, although capable of ' better distance, has not been tested in many meets thus far. “Gloomy Nick” was considerably impressed last Saturday in team trials when Vince Murphy returned to form after a prolonged slump, to climb over the high stick at six feet six inches.
SWIM MEET (Continued from Page 11)
was 1:25.5, three-tenths of a second faster than their adversaries.
Bud Hauck garnered individual honors by annexing first place in both the high and low board diving. Pat Quigley and Jack McGurl finished in the order of number two and three respectively. Hauck barely staved off Quigley on the high platform, 186.6 to 186.4 points. Bill Burns, pre-favorite in the plunge, lived up to advance expectations when, with 50 feet % inch he edged in front of Joe Messick by 5^2 inches. Bob Bryan, ex-Central High flash, placed third.
GOLFERS HAMPERED (Continued from Page 12)
days encountering Wayne at Detroit on April 22, and the University of Detroit a day later. All these matches will be on foreign links, while the initial home engagement has been carded, on a return setto with Detroit, the 27th of this month.
Wayne University provides the only newcomers to the Gold and Blue schedule. Although capturing a pair of wins from the Titans in the ’34 campaign, nevertheless Detroit is looked to furnish a real threat to the Green, when they clash in a few weeks. Purdue since chalking up that memorial victory three years ago—	,
breaking a consecutive issue of '20	j
conquests — have never been unesti-	1
mated by the Irish. From advance	(
reports, leaking out of the Boiler-	|
makers’ camp, they will again boast one of the mid-west’s top-ranking | quartets.	•
3
The Scholastic 1
“Catalyzer” Issued
This month’s issue of the Catalyzer features an article written by Dr. Andrew J. Boyle, assistant professor in the local chemistry department. Under the title “Chemical Microscopy,” the article contains an explanation of this qualitative analysis process recently developed to a high state of usefulness. Dr. Boyle points out that, contrary to many chemist’s opinion, microanalysis technique may be acquired in a short time and with a minimum of equipment.
Microscopy has a distinct advan- . tage over ordinary chemical analysis , in the determination of adulteration in starches, and also in detecting the treatment to which common textile fibers have been subjected. According to Chamos, a noted authority in the field of microscopy, some of the essentials for a microscopy expert are: a knowledge of microscopes, the principles of crystallography, familiarity with microscopic analysis methods, and a realization that physical as well as chemical causes enter into
many of the phenomena under a chemist’s observation.
An editorial discussing and defending laboratory work is another outstanding feature of the Catalyzer.
For More Information About Study And Travel Abroad See
3. iHittermaper
904 W. INDIANA AVE.
Representing all trans-Atlantic and trans-Pacific Steamship Lines.
Free Assistance in Free Service on all Securing Passports Travel Planning

What the Governor means is that crossing on a German
Bremen
Europa
first-hand observation on •what he terms "combining the Science of Navigation
The de luxe Columbus leaves June 29 — the Special Student Sailing—for Ireland, England, France, Germany, and every Wednesday Midnight a sailing of the “Famous Four”
Hew york . . Deutschland
Hamburg . . filbert Ballin
Assistance and Advice to Students going abroad for travel or study. Write Educational Service Department, in any of our offices.
special aptitude for ensemble work required of all members ... You find it on German Ships: Every steward, seaman, officer born to a part, trained by years in working in unison. Ships and equipment as fine as can be made, kept in perfect order. And a tradition that has its hand on every shoulder, day and night.
Fastest Way to France, England, Germany—
Cabin Liners St. Couis . . Berlin . . Stuttgart to Ireland, England, France, Germany.
ch a.
/> 0 *
Illustrated literature on all Ships, all Classes. IJour Coral Traoel Agent, or
> Ijamburg-flmorttan (Ine * north Berman (loyh <
130 West Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois
eApril 12,1935
Seventeen
LAST MINUTE TYPING HELP FOR YOUR THESIS!
For fast, accurate typing on your thesis or other manuscripts, phone 4-9042—you’ll find the rates reasonable and the work correctly and neatly done. Arrangements made for collection and delivery of work. Phone 4-9042—ALOIS.
TENNIS
If it’s a RACKET you want, we can’t help you.
But if you want to improve your tennis game come in and see us for that new RACQUET.
MIKE KELLY'S SPORT SHOP MICHIGAN STREET
Next to the Palace Theatre
More information on
Summer
Employment
The District Manager of the John C. Winston Co. is again in South Bend to interview students who have made application with his company for summer employment.
Students desiring profitable work during the summer are urged to see Alph J. Sampson at the Jefferson Hotel, Friday and Saturday of this week, April 12th and 13th.
The John C. Winston Co. offers a guarantee of $3.00 per day to those taking its sales training and following its methods. Earnings may run from $150 to $500 for the summer months. See
ALPH J. SAMPSON, APRIL 12-13-Jefferson Hotel
MONOGRAM SHOW
(Continued from Page 7)
football team, it is a fitting tribute of the Monogram Club to its lost member and also symbolizes the respect of the faculty and student body for Joe Sullivan.
Jack Robinson goes from player to coach in one short jump to work a new football racket with Reyman “Buddy” Bonar which is better than “Rackety Rax.” It moves with startling finality to a smashing climax.
The show goes “Dinah” with Carl Link doing the singing in his act with booming Joe Beach. Sam Sledge, in the person of Fred “Slats” Solari, ■ presents the stark realism of school boy escapades in sundry wayside taverns.
“Mr. and Mrs.” steps up the pace when Mr. and Mrs. Marty Peters go a-shopping. Richard Pfefferle and Harold Regan show their dramatic talent in “One Act in Two Nuts” while tenor Johnny Ryan hits the rafters with his golden voice. Vince Murphy leaps to new heights in a modern lampoon of the unmasked marvel.
Down in Miss Marie’ Dancing School the Jamboree’s cuties are rehearsing the intricate steps a la Warner Brothers. Eye filling beauties all of them, that’s the Jamboree chorus: Wayne Millner, Louie Dunn, Wally Fromhart, Andy Pilney, Steve Banas, Dominic Vairo, Frank Matthews, and Steve Miller.
The Monogram Jamboree is an All-American show. Music, comedy, and drama, all wrapped in one big prize package; fielled with a galaxy of stars, whole array of sparkling skits, dancing beauties, and sweet voices.
It’s not too late yet//
to enter the OLD GOLD official Notre Dame Ring Contest
Think of the opportunities you’ll have this Easter Vacation to garner Old Gold Cigarette package fronts. Introduce the lady fair to the mellow smoothness of Old Golds—do her a favor and aid your own progress in the contest.
Simply) print your name on the backs of your Old Cold cigarette package fronts and deposit them • in the Ballot Box in the Candy Store. To the ten highest men go the ten Cold Overlay Rings. Contest closes May 15, 1935.
10 STUDENTS will earn 10 RINGS!
WILL YOU BE ONE OF THEM?
PEP on ihe
COLLEGE PROM
HUTH UTTING
and her melody
RED NICHOLS
and his rhythm
Join the happy party next Friday night. Ruth Etting will be there, singing her stirring songs. Red Nichols will play the music for dancing. Enjoy all the thrills of real college atmosphere. Tingling excitement from the world of sports. Don’t miss “Prom” night — Tune in!
EVERY
ERIRAY NIGHT 8:30 Eastern Standard Time
WJZ Metuork-X.B.C.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
FLY HOME!
so you can enjoy your Full Vacation period AT HOME. We have fast service in all directions. Make reservations early! »	»
Complete information on Schedules and Rates available at Notre Dame Publications Office, Room 121 Main Building
AMERICAN AIR LINES
Passenger Terminal, Bendix Airport «	« Telephone 3-8151
»
AMERICA'S SMOOTHEST CIGARETTE
Sure.we fight., but never about cigarettes.Throat-easy Old Golds for us I «y
VICTOR McLAGLEN and EDMUND LOWE.stars of "THE GREAT HOTEL MURDER”—a Fox Picture
CP. LariBartCo.. lac.
eApril 12, 1935
Nineteen
When two is company I don’t make a crow
«9m -UOtUl
9
I*
mellow, expensive center
Copyright 1935, The American Tobacco Company.
Never a bitter, undeveloped top leaf in me. Never a grimy, tough bottom leaf.
leaves . . . the leaves ths give you the mildest, besi tasting smoke. I do not^i ritate your throat. No wdr der I’m your best frienc
LUCKIES USE ONLY THE CENTER LEAVES . . . CENTER LEAVES
NOVEL EDUCATION PLAN PROPOSED AT CHICAGO
(Continued from Page 8)
can education today, namely, the course-credit complex is done away with and advancement towards the college degree is based not upon the accumulation of units of time spent, “course-credits,” but solely upon achievement as measured by comprehensive examinations. This is certainly a boon.
In the second place, there is no doubt that the work of the Chicago group is going to do more to improve education techniques on the college level than any other single agency working in this field. This is true not only of the new type examination, the “objective,” but also of the essay type. An Examination Manual recently issued by the Chicago University Press gives the fruits of their experience during the past three years, explaining what they have done to introduce some reliability into the scoring of essay questions. Possibly, the greatest contribution of the Plan ■will be in the field of improved examinations.
The authors of the Plan are making no boastful predictions. They admit all is experimental and welcome criticism. Two immediately suggest themselves, one on content, the other on method. The first is from the point of view of the New Humanism. This movement in American education is a protest against the domination of the Natural Sciences. In the Chicago analysis of knowledge, the fields of Literature, ■ Fine Arts, Philosophy and Religion are all lumped together into one Division under the title “The Humanities” with an unnecessary splitting of the Natural Sciences into the Division of Physical Sciences and the Division of Biological Sciences.
Anyone with a leaning towards Humanism will favor rather the analysis of Nicholas Murray Butler of some years ago, the fivefold “spiritual inheritance” of mankind, namely, 1. the Literary, 2. the Scientific, 3. the Institutional, 4. the Aesthetic, and 5. the Religious Inheritance, which is being adopted by many colleges under the Group system with this organization of the curriculum: 1. The Language and Literature Group, 2. The Natural Sciences Group, 3. The Social Sciences Group, 4. .The Fine Arts Group, and 5. The Religion and Philosophy Group.
The second criticism arises from the emphasis placed on examinations. The question is whether the fact of maturation is sufficiently provided for. Those who believe that the four year liberal college has a justifiable
place in education today (following our great increase in leisure and our highly complex social organization) see that function as providing an ideal environment in which the mature personality may develop. This development process means a great deal more than the mere accumulation of knowledge as tested by any elaborate examination procedure. Newman has expressed this thought forcibly in The Idea of A University:
“I protest to you, Gentlemen, that if I had to choose between a so-called University, which dispensed with residence and tutorial superintendence, and gave its degree to any person who passed an examination in a wide range of subjects, and a University which had no professors or examinations at all, but merely brought a number of young men together for three or four years, and then sent them away as the University of Oxford is said to have done some sixty years since, if I were asked which of these two methods was the better discipline of the intellect, ... if I must determine which of the two courses was the more successful in training, moulding, enlarging the mind, which sent out men the more fit for their secular duties, which produced better public men, men of the world, men whose names would descend to posterity, I have no hesitation in giving the preference to that University that did nothing, over that which exacted of its members an acquaintance with every science under the sun. . .
“Knowledge is something more than a sort of passive reception of scraps and details; it is something, and it does something, -which never will issue from the most strenuous efforts of a set of teachers, with no mutual sympathies .and intercommunion, of a set of examiners with no opinions which they dare profess, and with no common principles. . .”
SPEND THE JUNIOR
YEAR IN EUROPE
At this interesting- moment in world history many American college students would like to have first-hand knowledge of conditions in Europe.
The “Junior Year Abroad.” a program of supervised study approved by colleges generally throughout the United States, offers highly recommended students from the departments of French. Spanish, and Italian in accredited American colleges an opportunity for a year’s study in the countries named below, with full credit toward graduation for the year’s work.
For men and women—France: Tours, summer: Paris, regular session.
For women only—Spain and Italy: Perugia, summer; Florence, regular session.
For detailed information, ask the head of the appropriate department in your own college, or address
THE COMMITTEE ON THE JUNIOR YEAR ABROAD
Institute of International Education ' 2 West 45th Street, New York City Why not discuss this at home?
Twenty-one



SOUND ADVICE

Like music with your meals? Then listen to the snap — crackle — pop of Kellogg’s Rice Krispies when you pour on milk or cream! Crisp. Crunchy. And their flavor is as inviting as their sound. Try Rice Krispies for breakfast or lunch. They’re extra tempting when you ' add fruit or honey.
And for that bedtime
snack, after an evening of study or fun, there’s nothing quite so satisfying as a bowlful of these delicious toasted rice bubbles. Light, nourishing, easy to digest. They help you sleep. -
At restaurants, hotels and grocers everywhere. Ovenfresh, ready to serve. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. Quality guaranteed.
Listen!— get hungry
COMMENCEMENT
GRADUATION INVITATIONS
Place your orders now — or soon after Easter — for the distinctive Senior Class Commencement Invitations. Smart blue, leather-covered booklets sell at 38 cents each. The same brochure with an embossed cardboard cover sells for 21 cents each.
Cash payments in advance must accompany all orders.
Production of the booklet takes time. No extra copies will be produced after the order period closes in May.
See Frank Holahan or Phil Jacobs, 213 Corby. Samples are on display and all orders will be handled by them.
Coburn Lecture
Charles Coburn, actor and director of the Coburn Shakesperean School . in New York, gave a lecture on “Audiences and Their Value in Reconstructing the Drama,” last Monday at 1:15 in Washington Hall.
At present Mr. Coburn is taking the part of Father Quarterman in the successful drama “The First Legion” starring Bert Lytell, which is now appearing in Chicago.
Plays are written according to the mentality of the average audience and for this reason productions during the past few years have been of a mediocre type. In order to improve drama we must improve the audience. Mr. Coburn compared the learning of the drama with the learning of chess and football. No matter what the game the rudiments and conventions must be well intrenched in the mind of the audience. When this goal is reached the theatre will again be in the successful surroundings it possessed in 1900 and 1910.
REVOLUTIONIZES FIFE SMOKING
This simple appearing yet amazing absorbent
PATENTED —NOS
1.919.959	1.967.585
LATEST SHAPES
FINEST BRIAR MONEY CAN BUY
filter invention with Cellophane exterior andcoolingmesh screen interior keeps juices and flakes in Filter and ont of mouth.
Prevents tongue bite, rawmouth, wet heel, bad odor, frequent X expectoration. No breaking in. Improves taste and aroma of any tobacco.
Modernistic Music
On Monday evening, in Washington Hall, a program of modernistic music for two pianos will be offered by Arthur Davidson and Hugo Melchione. Such favorite numbers as George Gershwin’s “Rhapsody in Blue,” which is being repeated after last year’s performance by request, and Serge Rachmaninoff’s “Preludes in C Sharp and G Minor” are to be included in the program. Students are cordially invited to the recital, which will begin at 8 o’clock.
TO EUROPE
TOURIST CLASS in the American manner UP HIGH in value DOWN LOW in cost
• The luxurious cabin illustrated above isn’t the only feature of American travel on the famous, modern American ships, Washington and Manhattan.	'
These great ships, fastest of their type, are the sensations of the sea! Because they offer so much for so little! For only $113 oneway; $204 round trip,you enjoy real American standards! Spacious decks, delicious food in air-conditioned dining salons (exclusive in the service), real beds in all cabins, tiled swimming pool, prerelease talking pictures and many other great features! No wonder these ships have set enviable popularity records!
In Cabin Class—highest aboard the ship—on either the Pres. Harding or Pres. Roosevelt, you enjoy the top decks, finest cabins—very best the ship offers—at modest fares. Rates as low as $126 one way; $234 round trip.
These four fine liners sail weekly to Cobh, Plymouth, Havre and Hamburg. Apply to your travel agent. His services are free.
UNITED STATES LINES^ ULa □
Associated with American Merchant and Baltimore Mail Lines to Europe; Panama Pacific Line toCalifbrnia; U.S. Lines and PanamaPacificCruises.
No. 1 Broadway, New York
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
I
CLASS ELECTIONS
(Continued from Page 6)
man politicians in the forthcoming class struggle.
Despite this, a group of gentlemen politicians, grasping for sophomore . baubles, have defied the Freshman-Carroll-Brownson combine and the situation has created a web of small factions, each trying to sieze independent control.
Boss Edward J. Cronin of Carroll Hall, who marshalled Charles Sweeney into office in February, is trying again with an all-Carroll combine of John Joyce, Peter Gay, John Kane, and John Smoljan.
Torn by dissension, Brownson’s traditional sway over frosh politics again totters. The backbone of Brownson politics, is the group led by Callahan, Elliot and McCormick who have not as yet chosen their candidate.
Freshman Hall, hotbed of February politics, will lean on the sturdy banner of Garland S. Zeller. Upon the All-American slate chosen by Ruby Rob Whitehead rests Zeller’s chances for victory. Dillon Hall refusing to change horses in the middle of the stream will sink or swim with gold-coaster Clark Reynolds and dome coaster J. T. Bourke. Popular sentiment will probably swing the election down to a struggle between Zeller, Reynolds, and the candidate supported by the Callahan faction.
New Arrow Shirts for EASTER from Arrow Headquarters
Elhniwrth's
Commerce Forum
Mr. Carpenter of the Kresge Department Stores spoke to the Commerce Forum at their meeting last night in room 202 of the Commerce Building on his experience in training young men for retail merchandising. Speaking informally, he revealed, through his personal reminiscences'in the field, the more exciting side of business to the Forum.
Primaries were held at last night’s meeting for the election of officers which will take place Monday. Members in good standing will cast their ballots for the leaders of next year’s club at Monday’s meeting.
The board of directors of the Forum met recently and laid plans for the annual commerce banquet which will be tendered soon after the Easter holidays.
> - ■ > - .............................
An artist friend sends us this—
Dear people who make Arrow Shirts:
I used to be known as the loneliest man on East 57th Street. Other fellows had dates with swell-looking girls. All I did was to draw pictures of them .... Finally I discovered Arrow Mitoga shirts, S.S.* They looked great—they fitted great. As a result, look at me now up there in the picture. See that blonde clinging to my right arm, and that vision clutching my left. That’ll give you just a rough idea of how I'm doing. And, my friends, I owe it all to Arrow Shirts.
Gratefully yours,
All the Arrow Shirts in All the Arrow Styles
at the Big Men’s Store on the Comer . . .
♦Sanforized-Shrunk.
MAX ADLER
e^pril 12, 1935
7 wenty-three
...says Tokyo
Translating the symbols, the Tokyo telephone operator says, "The connection is made—go ahead, please.” Meaning that now you can talk to Japan from any telephone in the Bell System.
Interestingly, Japanese was the first foreign language ever transmitted by telephone—when in the winter of 1876-77 three Japanese students at Harvard visited Alexander Graham Bell in Boston. These men have lived to see the day when they can talk with Boston from their homeland!
Seeking to put the whole world on such easy speaking terms, Bell System service now enables you to reach more than 93% of the world’s 33,000,000 telephones.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 14)
and reported for football. He made the eleven and for two years was the regular left halfback. Basketball saw him switched from guard to forward, at which post he played regular for two years. His team went to the state tournament when he was a senior but “We were beaten in our first tournament game. Mike Layden and his team from Davenport wofi'the tournament that year.” Joe was picked as All-District forward and received honorable mention on the AllState five.
Question: “Did you captain any teams while in high school?”
Answer: (Blushingly) “Yes, I was captain of the football and baseball teams in my senior year at Britt.”
Joe won a huge insignia blanket at Britt High for having the highest scholastic average among the athletes. He was the leading man in the class plays, captured numerous track medals—in general, “he was the tops.” His high school baseball coach attempted to talk Joe into going to Iowa University but Notre Dame was so firmly entrenched in his mind after reading of “Rock” and the “Fighting Irish” that the mentor’s efforts were futile.
Joe reported for freshman football but after waiting in line for over two hours to get a uniform, decided to confine his activities to baseball. He’ won his freshman numerals in baseball and the next spring made the varsity squad. Coach Keogan gave this sophomore catcher his first chance in the Chicago University game in Chicago. Joe went into the fray to bat for Larry O’Neil in the fourth inning. The result was most gratifying to both George Keogan and Joe, for he came through with a neat single. In his second appearance at the plate he duplicated the feat. In the next game Joe was found on the starting nine and for the duration of the season the Hawkeye lad saw plenty of service.
He won his monogram that year . as he did likewise last year. The most eventful baseball occurrence to Joe at Notre Danie was when he caught Jim Leonard in the Ohio State game at Columbus last year. Notre Dame was in the deepest throes of a seven-game losing streak and came out of the slump to down the Statesmen, 5 to 3. “It felt great to be in there and help to break our losing streak.” He is a senior in the Phy-
His one hobby is dancing—“At home once in awhile I get into a square dance and have a whale of a time.” During the summer months he plays ball to keep in shape. When asked what he though of this afternoon’s game he said, “We ought to take Ohio State this afternoon and sure will be trying hard to get Jake off on the right foot.”
The Scholastic
7wenty-four