
·IT'S .~3/\0N~nl TIME 
Anyone. who wants to .~[}{][i\[[[g th~ Literary . world can now apply for a .position on the· 
SCHOLASTIC :Editorial <Board -, 
Managing Editor· 
1 . Fiction Editor Art Director : Copy Editor Production Mgr. Layout Editor. 
News Editor Photography Editor Culture Editor Business Manager . Sports Editor . Ad Manager 
Apply Now! Deadline is April 22 
For information, call Chuck at 8302, or Dave at 288-5016 . 

Bendix Theatre 
~ND 
SMC 
. ·. CENTURY CENTER . 
THEATRE 


UNDER MILK-WOOD 
. by Dylan Thomas ·. 

APRIL 25, 26
. --. 
MAY 1, 2, 3 
8.P-M:· 

Editor 
Dave Satterfield 

Managing Editor 
Bob Southard 

Art Director 
Jim Hofman 

Production Manager 
Theresa Rebeck 

News Editor 
Lisa Hartenberger 

Fiction Editor 
Tom Balcerek 

Copy Editor 
Chuck Wood 

Culture Editor 
Greg Solman 
.Sports Editor 
Tom .Westphal 
St. Mary's Editor 
Kari Meyer · 

Layout Editor 
Clay Malaker . : 

Photography. Editor 
Ken McAlpine 

Business Manager 
Pahl Davis . 

Advertisement Manager 
Kevin Murphy 

Distribution Manager· 
Jerry Murphy 

Staff 
John Maddog Muldoon, Don Schmid, Chris Stewart, Mary Leavitt, Donna Teevan, Cathy Wisniewski, Pat Worklan, Jim Sommers, Michael Diaz, Ken Scarbrough, Maryellen Bradley, David N. ·Randall, Keith. Caughlin, Steve · Burkart, Rick Keppel, Brendan Brown, Dodee · Carney, Michael Meisch, .Ed Wimmer, Rich Marcello, Tim Tedrik, Lee Smolen, Tom Krueger, Ann Bridget Clark, Cecelia Susan Labriola, Betsy. Spinelli, Tom O'Toole, PhyUis Washington, Kevin Paulson, Joe Pfeifer 

Photos: 
Theresa Rebeck, p. 13; Eileen O'Meara, p. . 20; Brendan Brown, p. 28; ·Ken McAlpine, · p. 30, 31, 32, 42, 43; Scholastic Archives, 
p. 19, 35; Jean-Claude La)eune, p. 45. _Illustrations: . Jim Hofman, p. 16, 27,.29; Paul Monardo, 
·p. 39. ' -. . Front· Cover: Jim Hofman Back Cover: Paul Monardo· 

Advisory Board 
Jim Winters, Mario Pedi, Edward Fischer. 

_A!:'RIL 18, 1980 



SCMOL/\STC
Vol. 121, No. 8, April 18, 1980 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES 
4 T-rust the Trustees 
9 The Alternative Vocation 10 Experiential Learning 12 Poet, Teacher, Counselor 15 Workings of the HPC 18 Portrait of the Domer as a Young Man 20 Nicaragua: The Battle Goes On 26 Justice at Notre Dame: Dwelling 
Together in Peace· 

30 Our Lost Voice? 37 FLOC 40 _An Inquiry into. Ideas, Values, and Images 42 Living the Life of Lauderdale 
44 When 

REGULARS 
the Rowing Gets Tough 
. 
6 7 
·a 
22 
24 
32 34 
47 
Letters 
Perspective Perspective Perspective Gallery Books. Fiction Last Word 
Jim Sommers Jeffrey Monaghan Phyllis Washington Lucy Maloney Karen Smith Theresa Rebeck Daniel Moore Philip Gutierrez Chuck Wood 
Donna Teevan Lucy Maloney Joe Burniskas Anne M Dougherty Ken Scarbrough Gregory Solman Joe Heider ­
Lisa Hartenberger Colleen Short Paul Lauer Eileen O'Meara Tim Gulstine Jay Coleman Dave Satterfield 

The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editoriaL board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student body. 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $7.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, 'Ind. 46556. All unsolicited ·material becomes the property of Scholastic. copyright © 1980 Scholastic /. all ·rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro­duced without pern:!ission.. 

/by Jim Sommers Jeffrey Monaghan. Phyllis ~as.hingtori 
· They meet formally twice a year, Today's Board consists of forty-· Board's weekend· meeting, Friday's once in the fall, once in· the spring. .· two members. Almost half the Trust-· · session begins with the ·separate They usually ·convene on a weekend. ees are either top executives or committee meetings. Once: the coin~ They;sometimes choose to meet in board chairmen of different busi-mittees work out specific :opinions places where they can relax and en-nesses. Eight are Holy Cross Priests, on issues or individual proposals, the · joy a bit of a vacation. And they-and some Trustees are educators or whole Board meets on Saturday. Sat­the Notre Dame Board of Trustees attorneys. Only four are women. Of · urday's meeting may last "well into --direct the fate of the University; these . four, Catherine . Cleary . is the morning hours," notes Hesburgh. 
·The perspective from which the chairman of First Wisconsin. Trust On these weekends, the Board at­Trustees make their policy decisions Co., Ernestine . Raclin . is . board tends Mass together each day. is not easy to perceive: most Trust-chairman· of FBT Bancorp, Incor,-Seven standing committees pro­ees cannot be readily contacted or porated, and Martha Peterson is vide the framework for the Board's interviewed. Notre Dame's Public president of Beloit College, Wiscon-operations. Between.meetings of the Relations and Development Office sin. West Virginia Governor John Board, the Executive.Com!'.Ilittee has holds many of the Trustees' ad-D. Rockefeller also sits on the Board all the powers and ·dudes of the full dresses and phone numbers under as a member of the Student Affairs Board, except the autliority<to rec­lock and key to insure that the Committee. "Most university Boards · ommend the removal of-.a-:Trustee, Trustees are "not inundated with aren't anywhere near as · good as or to hire or• fire the University 'junk mail.'" ours,'' boasts University of Notre . President; Of the thirteen-members 
'Knowledge is available, however, Dame's President Father Theodore on-the Committee, six chair the of how:,the Board originated, how it Hesburgh. According to-Hesburgh, other committees. 
.••.· '· 

is organized, and how some decisions at least twelve Board members have are rendered. : ; ·. · earned doctorates, · six ·are· deans or Committee Chairmen Prior to 1967, a "self-perpetuat-provosts at other universities, and : Father Hesburgh, Executive iJig" Board ·of Trustees, made up of one-half are alumni. Hesburgh ad~ · Committee 
1' 

six Holy Cross Priests, governed mits, however, that some shortcom-. Edmund Stephan, Nominating Notre Dame. In 1967, these priests ings still exist; he hopes to get more . • Committee · 'joined six • laymen to form a new women and minorities .ori the Board .• Thomas Carney, Academic and body called the Fellows of Notre in the coming years .. Faculty Affairs• Dame du J..ac: _T}:ll?. F~llows adopted . Father Hesburgh. serves not only John Schneider, Student Affairs a set of· bylaws and statutes which as the University President, but by Jerome -Van Gorkom; Financial created the present Board of Trust-virtue of his office, he acts as Chair­Affairs ees, and which included the Fellows man of the Board's Executive Com-·· Robert Wilmouth, Investment within·the,new Board.· ·..,.· · mittee and ·•:ex ·officio member of -Committee· ' . . . Although· all the': Board's power· every standing committee. Accord­Paul Foley, Public Relations.· does 'not· lie in 'the hands of· the ing to one Public Relations official, · · aiid 'Development .. · ·· 
.. : .

Fellows today, the · Fellows retain the Board.· is not Hesburgh's •"rub-· ' ~ the authority to safeguard the Cath'-· her stamp," even though it would be The Nominating Committee.sub~ olic ·c:haracter'of'the.University;:and unusualfor the Board to vehemently ' mits to the entire Board ·au riomi~ to ·remove .any 'Triistee. from the . oppose him:.on inost iss_ues.. .,· .. . nations for officers of .the Univer'." ·•· Board..upon the recommendation for .·. 'Despite the fact that ·the entire ' sity and the..Trustees.· .·· · their. removal by the Board.· Also, . Board only meets about twice a year, The Academic and Faculty Affairs none of Notre Dame's physical prop-· Hesburgh claim~ he knows the Board : Committee handles "the educational erties can be• disposed of without·· :·members·do "a-lot of homework". be-·,.· the majority consent of the Fellows. fore the . meetings~. During.' the . (Continued: on page 6)' ·· ··-• 
4 : i SCHOLASTIC . 


,.-;.~ :·:-,' ­
.',ScholasticJntervi~-ws a'.Trfisfee},
, . ·-. . .,. ·. --. . .-.. 


We ·conducted this interview by mail.· Thomas P., I· am fully in agreement with a policy that says Carriey ·responded with these. answers to our ques~ :ithere must be a code:of conduct for students tions~ ~.!;(~,-.: ~ ~ 
attending Notre Dame•. The University is as:­
, 1. What are your thoughts on the current"jerruile · · suming a:responsibifity'.to'teach and to guide. ·cfaculty tenure issue?••· '. '· It'also has a. responsibility for'the orderly life ·'·_(!f a. comniuniti}>f people~ · 
Because the, female faculty tenure issue is. in 
,·;, . the courts it would be inappropriate for me to · < comment specifically, on that problem'at:the '''p'resent·time>Howevei-, I can certainly express. <the opinion that there 'should be no difference 
in 'either the procedure or the standards used :for .· determining tenure· for male and female ' faculty members. 
, 2; .What is. the. role. of th~ 'Academic and Faculty ,,c Affairs Committee in the discussion offemale ·Jaculty tenure? · · 
·: -The Academic and Faculty Affairs Com~ittee ,, of the Board of Trustees was established to act · : • as liaison between the faculty and the Board. 'It · 
.·. is not a decision-making ·committee·.· Because each member of the Board cannot possibly be 
. informed in detail about every existing problem, appointed members of the Board meet with the faculty members of the ·committee who are elected by the general faculty. If it is necessary for the clarification of an issue under discussion nonmembers ·of the committee are invited to be present for discussions. · 
•' The comrriitt~e>does not/ discuss the specific ' .. ··, issue of fem:de faculty temire. However, at.our:' ' , last meeting \Ve had an extended discussion of 
. . the procedure involved in :.the evaluation of . ·. ·. fa<iulty members and th·e'granting ofpromotion <,and tenure.·, ;_;; . .·.· . , ••.. ~ ..· , . .·.· . 
',' 3.' What is you?phifos6phy on academics at Notre
Dame? .. . 
. . . . . . .. . . ., .. 
I 'don;t know exactly. ,vhat yoi'i ·. mean by' my . "philosophy of academics',', at Notre.Dame... Ob~. . · viotisly, if the University aspires to greatness .it' must have high,academic standards•. l think; Notre Dame has been maintaining high stand~ . 
.·ards ,vhne; at the same tinie, recognizing that . b·eing educated ,means more .than just having .. ' .high ciassr<>OID~ grades. •:: ' ' . ' 

. ~ ·. ; :_. :.. .; : _. -' 

: :Som·e -of· the· rules·. interpreted as·an; "In Loco ­. · Parentis" attitude ·are'·simply'·those required · .• 'for maintaining order iJiia.:,community.:•.How.:.: 
· ever, Notre Dame believes· its"resporisibilities ··· "' go beyond the•simple maintenance of order. It . ' · believesit also· liai;' soine responsibility for the 
: moral 'and spirituallives of its· students. As.a 
:member of,the BoardTfully_stipport .that COD-' ' · cept. IfI didn't.hold such a. belief there ,vould : 'be no reason to ~vork for Notre Dame. The fact:· 
" that it is a university that is interested in both ' . ' the intellectua.l and spiritual aspects of aper:. . 'son's life ,vithout compromise ·on either stand-. 
•ard, is what makes·Notre· Dame special. : . 
. . '__•,: --~. , ' ' .. 

', 5.. What, in y~ur "opinion, are' tni/goals of the Uni-. . versity for. its students and. do ·you think that they are being fulfilled'! . • . . 
.The.objective of ;any university is to educate• .JVhatdistinguishes one university from another · is not just the quality of education but.what it .. educates for. ..· . ., 
,.•Notre Dame does not believe that it is sufficient· to teach.,only,,_the skills and knowledge. that . \Vould '· allow its •graduates t.o .become.. teachers .·. .or ·scientists· or. engineers or \vhatever profes~ ... ision' or callin1{is involved; ,·Equally important . ·. · .. is-'the. teaching of the importance of the ethical 
~ ,and :moraf consideration involved in.practicing any\profession, •· and in-living·. as ·aresponsible
.member o(society•. , .. . ..·. . •~ · . · . , , 
•a'-•,>. , <' •~ .> •:• ~ ••.•' • . .·• ~ -• . • ,• • •• • , 
'. -. ­

,· '\Vheth~r or' no{Notre Dame is meeting these . :objectives cannot be judged only by .tlie quality of.students on the day of graduation.· The real . . te·st is how the students react when .they are exposed to situations that require them to make . .. judgments and decisions involving moral· and ethical aspects of their lives... • 
On. the basis of what I observed both of stu­,.dents. and graduates I believe Notre Dame is 
·4. · What .is ,· your philosophy.·. on 
; :m,eeting its objective. D ;· · · ··. policy. "In. Loco Parent.is('?•·· . 


(Contineud on page 4) policies and plans of the Universi­ty," according to the bylaws of the Board of Trustees. Thomas Carney, President of Metatech Corporation in Illinois, heads the Committee. Provost Timothy O'Meara also sits on the Committee. 
Addressing the issue of faculty employment and tenure for women, O'Meara stated that "the problem really is with the minorities, not with women, because of the extreme shortage of minorities suitable for these positions. 

"This year we hired twelve (women), so we are obviously mak­ing progress. But it is also true that out of the five women up for tenure last year, none obtained it. Our intention is that all of our fac­ulty be promoted and given tenure · on the basis of merit." · 
At the last Board meeting in No­vember. of· 1979, O'Meara cited the University's academic priorities, . among them being the development of an "even better undergraduate education." O'Meara told the Scho­la.stic that "our basic policy is the education of young men and women -academically, morally, and spir­itually. I think we have super under­graduates, but the environment does not provide the intellectual curiosity that it should. Development is need­ed in that area." 
John A. Schneider, a former exec­utive of the Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS), heads the Student Affairs Committee. The Schola.stic attempted to contact Mr. Schneider by mail in February, and as of this printing no reply from Mr. Schnei­der has been received. The Board's bylaws state that this Committee shall "concern itself with . . . ap­praisal of the extracurricular aspects of student · life, maintaining an on­going relationship with student lead­ers and organizations." According to Father Hesburgh, Schneider does meet with students on campus. 
Jerome Van Gorkom, President of Trans Union Corporation, chairs the Financial Affairs Committee. The 'committee recommends the Univer­sity's annual budget and maintains a 

· five-year financial plan related to the needs of the University. 
University Executive Vice Presi­dent Father Edmund Joyce is .on both the Financial Affairs· and In­vestment Committees. The Invest­ment Committee has the power to invest funds assigned to· it by the Board. As of the November Board meeting, the committee kept a 75% to 25% ratio between stocks and bonds in the University endowment. 
Joyce explained that to determine 
what securities the University 
should hold, the Committee relies 
upon an advisor who deals with 
bonds, and three · equity advisor 
firms. At the close of the fiscal year 
in 1979, marketable securities at­
tributed · to the endowment fund 
amounted· to 12.2 million dollars. 
Robert Wilmouth heads the Invest-. 
ment Committee, and is Chairman 
of the Chicago Board of Trade. 
The Campaign for Notre Dame is 
currently the responsibility of the 
Public Relations _and Development 
Committee, ·under the direction of 
Paul Foley. Public Relations releases 
the proposals and decisions made by 
the Board. 'other than what is re­
leased, not much· can . be derived 
about the substance of the meetings; 
according to one Public Relations 
official, no open. Board meeting has 
ever taken place. Those who make a 
proposal or deliver a speech in front 
of the Board at a meeting. usually 

give their reports, then leave imme­.. diately. 
As if to reassure any skeptics 
Father Hesburgh says, "I want 
Notre Dame to be a great Catholic 
university and that's what the Trust-: 
ees want." No doubt, the fate of 
Notre Dame rests in .the hands of 
its Board of Trustees. D 


A Fan Reacts ••• 

Editor: One of the points in the Review Dame, maybe alone, has stood like · 
I have a day off today, and at the that took my · attention was the her Golden Dome, head,· heels and moment, my wife hasn't · found me article by . Greg Solman, "Where-proudly over the rest· of the hungry in the.basement for a job that she fore Art Thou, Fan?" I did notice · pack whose greatest desire, in some wants done, so I thought I'd do · while listening on the radio to one · cases; is to take a jealous bite out something that· has long been a of the Notre Dame games a round of . of the Irish hide. Too many boys source of joy, happiness and some­·boos that came up from the students have played their hearts 01.it for ND times sadness to me, that is,. talk on a play that didn't go too well. I to put the school where it is today. about Notre Dame. was saddened by it and the announc-Too many boys sat on the bench for 
Every word of this year's Review er on the radio was also surprised. ND, practiced against the varsity has been read by me and I want to His indirect comment and intona-thanklessly, when. they could have· say that it is the best that I've seen tion showed disappointment. Such · been perhaps a star elsewhere to since your Football Review has been conduct shouldn't be expected from help put the school where she is to­coming to my home for the past five the Notre Dame students. No doubt· day. This cannot be booed! years-I guess; But, let me clear there are inany things in life that If I were a student· at ND and with you. I have no qualifications as can be booed and justly so, but not someone booed, I'd tell him verbal­a judge in things journalistic or lit­the Notre Dame football team. ly. If he didn't catch on quickly, I'd erary. I'm writing from the point of Writing as an outsider, remember, teach him · physically'. In a sense, view of an outsider-the subway it seems to me that here is a great football is to ND'_what bingo; raffles, alumni-whose· occasional visit to university that to a large extent has etc., are to a parish school: the only the Notre Dame campus or to a grown because of the reputation and way to make ends meet. game in Rockne's stadium is a source excellence of its football team. Finally, if all that exists as ND of emotional happiness not experi­When other powerhouse.s can get today wasn't the Blessed MotQer's enced• in too many other places on .their loot through the state legisla-wish, it wouldn't be there. Best rea­the planet Earth in my life span to ture, use below-college-level players son for no booing! Sincerely yours, date. and who kriows what else, Notre Francis Paul Kaiser 
SCHOLASTIC 



·ot Domes and Dinosaurs 
Notre Dame looks more· and more like a dinosaur with every passing decade. By becoming more and more specialized, our University has been getting itself into an extremely pre­carious position. Why did the bron­tosaurus die? Because the bronto­saurus had become overspecialized· to the point where the animal sim­ply could not adapt to the changing environment. A brief glance at the case histories of defunct. human so­cieties will reveal the common cause of extinction to be the consequence of overspecialization. Our education often fosters a narrow outlook in us; we concern ourselves_ far too little with the realization, integra~ tion, and exploration of the entire University potential. Our education trains us _· to be specialists who wouldn't dream of intruding on an­other's special area. 
Why do. we resist a working part~ nership among the various academic disciplines. at the. University? We need to remind ourselves· of the in­terconnection between the sciences and the humanities. We should re­alize the University is a place to dis­cover truth..No one invents any­thing. A person discovers a general principle through an experience. Then, th_e person adapts the princi-· ple to a special case he creates. And then, the invention becomes practice. We have to ask ourselves, though, how often does the discovery of a, general principle come about-once in a great long while. We need· more people to . think in terms of sweeping general truths as adults. People are born with a curiosity about everything, the only prerequi-· site for the discovery of general 
APRIL 18, 1980 
truths. As children, people.have not yet been saddled with misconcep­tions that are passed from genera­tion to · generation through our cur­rent educational system. Children · experiment with new · associations. The advantages of a child's uncloud-. ed perspective becomes clear . -in some adults. No one will dispute the validity of the fresh association between creativity and precision in the work of Albert Einstein. For example, a ·child. can readily grasp that energy cannot be lost, created, or destroyed. But the fact is, until Einstein,· the best minds of the cen­tury were __ laboring under .the mis~ conception that the universe was running down. We want more peo­ple like Einstein-people . who think in generalities. · · 
It is not enough to leave the de­velopment of these people, who think. in general truths, to chance. Our Uni­versity should be encouraging . the development of these people. After all, once you have a grasp of the generalized principles, you can. become specialized in any direc­tion -you like. These things are ·so· obvious, I find it patently absurd to · discuss them at length. But the way I see our University developing dis­mays me. We encourage our bright · students to specialize, to become brain · slaves who have nothing to say to one another outside of a par­ticular area of inquiry. And if we continue to train our brightest peo­ple in these special areas, • whom do we leave to integrate the results of our experimentation into the general principles? The not-quite-as-bright
people. · · . Look at the way our campus_ is 
by Lisa Hartenberger 

designed. We have a separate build­ing for. engineering.· We have an­other building across campus . for architecture; we have another build­ing for math, and who knows -for sure where the building for aero­space engineering is. We have a nice. building somewhere else for • busi­ness, and, at a discreet distance, _we have. yet another building for. arts and letters. Our campus design says we don't want the interaction that­we certainly recognize as being vital to the survival of the human society. 
Perhaps it would be helpful for our University to be enclosed under· a geodesic dome with movable build­ings. Privacy can be arranged with­out library carrels. All you need to not hear, smell, or touch anyone is a little space. Rosebushes and soap bubble screens would guarantee ef­fective visual privacy, besides being more genial than stone or wooden · walls. The more mobile,. the more flexible we can become, ·the more in­teraction we cannot_ help but have. 
. Study at home. You should come to school for integrating the various disciplines, for the social experience, to design the means to make the total world's resources serve all humanity. The law of conservation of energy tells us we should do more with our invested resources. Master­ing and channeling energies-that's the key. We manage to do rather well at discovering newer and better ways to kill off each other with very little . human effort. 
This University must._ experiment. You can't learn any less if you do experiment, · and there's absolutely no way to learn more if you don't. D 
_A complaint lies in the hearts of is very famous, very famousindeed of taking pride in one's writing be­many.intellectuals on campus which ---but. I confess to not having much· cause it is representative. of on-e's · I have . often heard voiced. The in~ · sympathy wUh Wyeth's work. I inner soul. Miss Christman enters tellectual __stimulus available .at ·think he is forriby; overrated my-the classroom with a sense ofpride 1 N<_:itre Dame Is, at best, somewhat self.'' The coinments-Stritch made and dignified grace thatfwm al­
i. lacking. I contend that this accusa~ ona painting by Robert Henri would · ways remember and hope to imitate. 
' tion is false. No student is so utter~ . never be found in an American art Professor Alfred Kazin complained ly autonomous that he cannot learn'' hook: l'This i!ifithe b'est •painting he about "how earnestly students 'write from the experiences and reflections'.. ever did ill niy'opiniori:' He incorpo~ down every' trivial observation from of others: I believe tha.t person rates a happy-go-lucky.::.:..let•s~have-te·acher into _their ever:present note~: 
t who cannot -find intellectuaLstimii:.;, another-beer approach to life •'in boOk."'Furious nofo"taking seems to !lus in abundance at this university', hii( painting." Professor Sfritch is Professor Kazin to be· indicative of tis guilty of'notdeveloping and pur: operi and enthusiastic in his'appre-· the fact thafa student ispassively· f suing his own curiosity.· / _·· • •, ciation of art; WhatTfound 1to be accepting' knowledg?writing:every
l .'Simone Vey points out that ''any stfrni:i.lating and memorable: hi'the _word as fast as possible without di-,iform of study-·can be sacramental course ·is riot what 'paintings were .-gesting a· single idea. L wai.'one of l because it involves a desire to know created by which ru:tists: 'in God the worst of the mad riote scribblers [·something 0out of'.one•s·own··•ego; •it· knows· what··.year.·-These ·are•facts preseritin>hfs·•· literature·• course:'.'A' . is the subordination of. the' ego to that can be found in•any art book~ seemingly trivialobservatiofr of Mr._ the'thing•desired, to the reality be-· What cannot be found in a b'ook is Kazin's often proved fo me fo be in-· yond the self.''; ffrevelations·are to -how' to• form and state ari Opinion' spiratiOna.l "advice> r· often iporider come to :a man/he musUlisten to intelligently. The importance of'dis~ over• old notebooks. and am'fasci­
, voices outside of himself. In the uni~) covering and beinglable · to· voice· nated with the thOughts arid passing !versity setting/ the voices:·most ca_-·: one's tastes 'on any given matter· I insights I was·fortumite' enough toIpabI,e· and likely to reve!~.: trut~~.' learned through the guidance of Pro-record~nly'due·to my furious note'.,ibelongto our professors...,.-· · 'v . fessOr Stritch:', .. " . taking-on a given" day:' ,,>' · .. 

[ A ·.good :teacher · possesses · the' ::A 'camera must bJ focused prop-Fathet John-· Dunne's ::religion 
i power to awakeri>.cthe individual :1:0 erly in order to create a clearcpic~ course is·composed almost exclusive­
!the truth,of his' own soul. From·the ture;, Light : negatiyes make·· dark ·ly of: his reflections'ori tJ:fo· meaning 
[ courses Tenjoy, I acquire knowledge pictures, conversely dark negatives of human existence/l fin,d the value 
iwhich :is 'above and beyond-what I restiit in ·light pictures; These··facts' ·_ of:' his course · immeasurable . be-. 
Lexpected 'from ,the.: course ·:content;: !learned fa Photo' t t could also. cause he wasable to give expression
IThis knowledge Omost',ofteil comes', have'acquired thatvery same knowl.;' . to:feeHngs and doubts+.have ·often 
!from a teacher-'s 'reflections -i:m'his edge by reading a· beginning. book-experienced, and ·yet, n·ever,imder­

Lown life which '.he reveals. fa·the on<photography. ·. What could 'not sfood>At. the center orthe hurnan 
i,form". of_·:·fleeting/comrnents inter-have 'been learned: frorn 'a book is·: heartHe 'the 'desire and1longing to
!spersed with·'the expectedicontent' that photography rewards me by be-be-with God, which : explains' ·the
!of his lectures. A studenfmust keep:, coming a small image of the overall loneliness-of the'human position. As
lhis mind and heart open':in orderto: events in my:life.-The" pktures· I. Franz '~Kafka 'so' accurately-ex-' 
i prosper,:from· the insights ·anindi~ most.:enjoy aria which-prove'to:be . pressed: ~•There isno'orie here\vho 
I vidual •:'instructor': brings \ to : his . the most visually interesting:are•of understands me ''in full.:.:..::...If:T had
!course: · · · -·. ·. , . ,_;:' ·. : the people I love.' Theseithoughts·r. sucli, I: would 'have support•from 
, Professor Thomas•-Stritch brings learned from the personal. insights' every side/I·would have God.'; ... · .
linsight <to: •hisi,:Arts•:of}America' of my instructor, Mr. Steve Moriar--. 'After' experiencing two·serriesters 
tc1ass by expressing his' opinion of _ity; and are more important to'me' of Professor Thomas Werge, I now' 
~ each piece of:.ir! he presen!s>in the. than thetechnique for good printing. realize :thaC.the:'.ChicagO' Cubs· are 
!course; He'does ·not. ask the' student ' -:_ The writing skins I was taught in-the best baseballplayers in the coun~ 
!to accept;his opinions as.:facts/out Professor.. Elizabeth >Christina.n's try, ·or at •least the mOst interest~ < 
jrather 'to use his opinions as steP:. Writing for Publication course can' ing. What I find, however, to be 
1.·_ping-s·.•ton.es.. to form opinion.s of their._'.. be:found in the book, ·The Elements: · more : 'admirable· about . >Professor 
town. In commenting on the painting': of Style. What is not: _revealed in' Werge than his ·1rnowledge':of'the 
!OfAndrew Wyeth, Stritchsaid, ''He\ that:smalLbook is the importance Cubs· is his·love of literature;· ancl' 
.. , 
,',{--~..---·.· ..~---•,.~-•·.ds ,...__,< .·•·---·-'-'•'• '----~·....._...·••-~.,,:,•-,./'·-...,.,_.._.-...............,..._..~.... ·--;...,..c.~.....-,..,. ,, ..~~---~..;:,, 
. -_ SCHOLASTIC · 


-----------------------------------------------~~ 
:Th.e-Alternative Vocation 

1 

' "Lawyers are nothing but a bunch literature in, an effective way. In l of crooks." . 

order to be effective, language must I 
-'refer to something __ ou·tside itself, l which classic' literature does. One \ passing thought of pr ofe s s O r ' 'Werge's,' which \vas simply thrown out one day in class,· I hold dear to 
· me as an important piece of advice: "Everyday_. experiences are. never. comprehensible-:::only when we look at the events of Our lives retrospec­'tivelydo __ they make sense." How ·that comment relates to Dante's In­fernOI have completely losfsight of. -\Vhat !will· never forget,_ however, is; the significance it now holds in 1myown life; '. . . __ ._. ·_ ·-Iremember and'iim'grateful to the teachers I have encountered since my days of formal education begani Teachers should keep in mi_nd tha( their classroom decorum· -and en-_ lighteningwords can be transformed . by their students into memories. A,ny advice a teacher might give on ·a certain day>may seem insig­nificantto him, but these very same· utterings may prove to be the most 

· -. vital. schoolday memory that a -stu­· ·.dent treasures throughotit· his life. 
_·stories__ are analogous t~ reality, and the storyteller_has the. ability toreveal aspects of life a person might otherwise '.never come. to know. Taking ~to,ries seriously pre­supposes taking_ ,people seriously. .Teachers can be the greatest of sto­
·• rytellers; · and their words may some­day, giveC greater>meaning to. the 
•lives of -thei_r students. _Opposed to this• lies a:n· individualized society in which the only :reaHtyJs one's own imagination arid o·ne's own im-· -pulse: · Reminiscences · _continually . · flow throtigh the . minds _of our teachers a11d if, as' st'udents; we re­
main· open and attentive to the Hfe experiences of _our mentors, the problems )ife win present.. in the future may prove.somewhat easier to· bear; . . -_ __ _ 0 
-4,-~.,.,-,..;...-...;_.,.,,,.,. -·..., ........ ,.,,.. --~··-Y-.~. ~----~ •·1-, . .-. ...~~--·-·•--.--.-~-.,~-,~-~-_.,_ 
APRIL 18,. 1980 
"Doctors are nothing but hacks." "The_ almighty buck is the god of the business world." _ "Those scientists love to think :they can destroy the world with the touch of a button." 
Today, the professfons face a great deal of criticism, as evidenced by the overworked generalizations above. While the students at Notre Dame are career-oriented, very few wish to be labelled crooks or hacks .. The stu­dents believe the attainment of pres­
·tige is desirable, and that a Notre Dame education will lead them· to this prestige through a career: But the primary University goal is not to make all its students wealthy. The goalis to reinforce Christian values in the business world. 
To reinforce these values, students are encouraged by the University's Center for Experiential Learning to discover, while still in school, aspects of the real world they have never encountered. For example, Dave, an accounting student, took the Urban Flunge during Christmas. Along with 200 other Notre Dame students, Dave spent 48 hours in the inner city closest to his home. He saw a world far removed from his own. For some, the Urban Plunge provides an interesting experience never to be ref!ected upon again. For others, like Dave, the Plunge spurs them on to volunteer activities-. on or off the Notre Dame campus.. In Dave's in­stance, a conflict developed a few years later when he reflected on postgraduate employment oppor­tunities. The tension between accept­ing a prestigious job _and retaining : the values developed in volunteer j work presented a real problem for I Dave. His education at Notre Dame :had prepared him for a career with '. a Big Eight firm after he passed the iCPA exam. But Dave ·feared he j would be expected to adopt the 
by Lucy_ Maloney 

ethics.code of big business: one that had little -concern_ for the poverty­stricken or the mistreated minorities. Dave's dilemma mirrored -that·-of many students prospective lawyers, engineers, and doctors ­who did not want to leave their re­vised values behind upon graduating from Notre Dame. 
An answer to their dilemmas came last year, January of 1979, when six students, who had made Plunges, worked with the Center for Expe­riential Learning (CEL) to develop a new ·program as a. follow-up to 
Urban Plunge. Fr. Don McNeill, CEL's director, worked with the stu­dents,' who were Tom Gryp, Joe Madigan, Irene Prior, Andrea Smith,. Ed Anderle, and Sue Olin, to create the Career Values Evaluation Pro~ gram (CVE). Still developing, the program is a part of the CEL office. CEL is funded under the umbrella of the Center for Pastoral and Social Concerns. 
The primary goal of CVE is to explore the conflicts that personal values can create in any profession. Participants in CVE interview Notre Dame graduates already employed in each field of interest. The interviews 
· take place over school breaks, and begin with four specific questions: 
1) What part of your work gives you the most satisfaction? 
2) As· you look back on your career, can you point to some times when questions of values and ethics have been most impor­tant to you? 
3) To what extent ·can you ex­press your moral corivictions in your work? __ . _ . 
4) What positive or negative impact do you think the project decisions of your company or other· companies have _on local communities and groups· living in poverty? 
9 

The questions progress to a demands that personal ethics be put promise was probably the biggest deeper, more intimate level, often aside so that the lawyer-to-be can -reason -for deterioration· of personal asking the professional to conduct a develop a set of ethics that conform values, and, consequently, the pri­value search that can prove discon­to the established system of justice. mary cause of employee misconduct certing. While interviewing a lawyer By changing the system, however, a in some businesses. "When personal in Chicago, one student notes, "When person can resurrect those old per­values are challenged," says Fr. Wil­we spoke in generalities about the sonal convictions." liams, a theology teacher at Notre law profession, Mr. Grant {not his Failure to use values may cause Dame, "the individual's self-esteem 'I real name) was very informative. them to fade or be replaced by suffers, sometimes irreparably.'' ' But when I questioned him about others. If a person is suddenly Thus, ·the CVE program has a 
personal values and their place in his·  ·forced to change value systems when  three-part structure in encouraging  
work,  he  was  so -obviously  taken  he enters  a  profession,  the change  students  to  interview,  reflect,  and  
aback that he shot up in his chair  could prove to be unhealthy.  In an  follow  up  on  the  experience  and  
and  began  to  talk  hesitantly  and  interview,  one  engineer says, "Pro­ apply their findings in a  search for  
much  more  formally."  Negative  fessional values  are  essentially de­ a  Christian  career. "The  interview  
reactions  are  to  be expected, since  pendent upon one's own personal, in­ exposes the student to the complex­ 
most  people  will  defend  personal  trinsic values  ... the weaker one's  ities in store for· the individual and .  
convictions in front of any stranger.  own personal values are, the greater  his moral' make-up in the world of  
If each party knows the reason for  the possibility of misconduct exist­ profit-making.  Reflection  upon  the  
the interview, however, the problem  ing in one's profession will be.''·  interview challenges_ the student to  
of formality can often be alleviated.  In  every  reflection  paper,  a. re­ apply his values, to his potential ca­ 
When· the CVE program began, the  quirement  of the  CVE  _experience,  reer  and  to  anticipate  the  ramifi­ 
professionals were not aware of the  every  example of the  easy -accep­ cations.  As in -tennis,  a  game plan  
interview's direction.  In' the future,  tance. of compromise in  the_ inter­ can only be improved with practice  
CVE plans to provide a sheet of pos­ viewed professionals was noted with  and  exposure.  The  tennis  player  
sible  questions  to  be  explored by  dismay by the students.  In general,  uses . a  backboard; the student uses  
both parties before the meeting.  the  professionals  felt  that  if· per­ reflection, in the form of a paper, to  
Someone who is concerned about  sonal values detracted from  profit­ make the interview work in his own  
the place of his personal values in  able decision-making,  a  choice had  life. The student must determine the  
the job market can benefit from the  to  be  made.  The -resulting  com­ strength and importance of his own  
CVE interviews. The student who in~  promise usually meant that personal  convictions.  The follow-up meeting,  
terviewed Mr. Grant discovered that  values  lost  out.  During follow~up  then,  becomes vital  to the_faculty,  
law does have  room  for Christian  meetings in CVE, the students dis­ members of the theology, engineer­ 
values, but each individual -is respon­ cussed  this  problem  with  Notre  ing, and business departments, so the  
sible for the values he retains. "Mr.  Dame faculty members for feedback.  student's interview may alsobe used  
Grant told me that a' law education  The  group  concluded  that  com- in  the  classroom  to_ reinforce  the  

.EX"[:)e1;Ien{i~IV Js·earflirigj·· ,~ \t\. 
Tim Beaty waited -a ~eek Jor. --in Peru/the· Latiri .Afuerica~;i>r~-_-_--"dogs. _The house was· wood,_ \Vith 0<· i the ·ten::yeal'.-old· Indfan child, to gram'.· in.: Experientiaf _"Learning. ·,,\no 'electricity,· no_ flush· toiletj no/: -J "return/She had been a regular at (LAPEt.). Preparation: iricltided -_hot water, no,heaUng>or cooling. l the recreation<activities he had --writing Jwo autobiographies}and /.The priests cooked over a kero:-· -j been· supervisfng.:C-on the'' reser-_: _ being interviewed, in, five. areas: /semi stove, reacfby kerosene/lamp 1 --vation: When she returned, the --Spanish;-'.• personal . "deveiopment, __ <ari~ !:fought-their water. uThe '· : .i 
"shroud of silence a,!Jout Iler caus_~ social int~rest, spiritual f9rm~tion · :{ch~rch ,wa{ just ,four pieces":of;'.->< l him; to inquire geritly'_about her arid. academic .de~elopment.·· Tim . plywood slapped together,!' ,.Timr.·/. " absence:• "My·: father go( drunk_ was ichosenin the selecticin:pro-.. '.:ishakes.•.his· head, feeling the con/'.(!,. : one night.last week, sat in the _cess along with two other,stu-.. :trasi· ~ith .Nofre-,Dame's:.sacred{__:J;C\ _· road; and got_run,over,''she said ._dents: For the :rest "of '.the~ye11r, !'Heart/Church/ .-.x\':-. ; ··.:: .:\.,;.:: 'simply.Fo_ur years later at. Notre ·_.' the.group_ prepar~d.for, the prci-_ . Once,wliU~'Tim: w"as·:·afon;e·.af;;i::;/ .. . Dam.e,' Tim recalls the simple re--graill through :,weekli meetings the "priest's house, awomari,came·:-, . . . . spoll.Se 'of,Othis chHd !1S a tu~ing, with .; professors' 'and LAP~_L . iri with he/baby .wlfo ,was ',dyirig (:; < ; . 
point in-his: own :clarification of .veterans.. Tliey spoke Spani_sh and __ .•·_ ;from . malnutrition. The mother\ _} _:J values. ''I"wondered'at. the differ-. -./discussed th~_cu}t~,re of-Peru'.·:-___-.• ·. ·..:w,a,ritE?d ~Ile c~il~_bap'tize,d._~gTim<Oc,:' 1­ence)ni our 'drc'umst_ances.lJ, j . The.three students sp_ent eleyen . performed"the urgent request: He. > ' .l . _This turning p<>int led Tim into ·_ months· in LatifAmerica, nine of ... :_ reflects th_at.tiie 'priesfa"faces·,such:: ' .J :·a particular program of studies aL >them.in Peru .·under th~ direction , _situations· daily;_•helpingdo:pro'.'. •< '.::)Notre Da'me_.:.,-:. pursuing~aLfirsf .. ·of Father Robert_Plas~er, a Holy · :.vide hope .in 'the.'f_ace:cif;such·;:-: j a political Science major/supple.: L' Cross priest. Tim recalls vividly . hopelessriess.'The life-style ·of the.· ; ..ij mented with "experiential learri--_ the.. physical ~etting of !Father · priests was'alearni11g experience. -· ,; ing" _activities. 'Encouraged by. his .~< Plasker's house/The ,town'_\vas?an ·-. . for T,im: The. priests. tri,ed cJo be_. l Spanish teacher and the experi-:· hour's· bus ride from Limawith ' paffof 'the people's "lives by,shar-·.j . ' ences of '_friends,' Tim followed up . .. neighborhoods-:· of ' closely •-·knit' • ingthe life,;stylewhile 'miriist~ring '-: : J .··a poster he saw about a program "/;houses,·.:sandy.; roads, and:lotsr'of:{•t .·to themi: The priests' possessedia ,, . 1 
•-; ~ • , --. • -. •. -, ' ;, ·: '_ :C '.,; }, ·. -,,,, ' ,.-,.·. • .,_ -• ' '.->,.; '. '._ •1· '". • >. • ', '.Y'' • •. -, . ·. • , ,, ·• . . . '' . ' . • . ., .:i-_ :.~ ~ • · • ·. '{ 
•. SCHOLASTIC 

necessity of Christian values outside then as professionals they will be-If a student wishes to do some type the Church or the University. come the agents for change, creating of low-salary work, aside from Peace A -storeowner · interviewed by a a new value system of support in-·· Corps and Vista, for a few years 
student in Peoria thinks that the idea of Christian values in business is too idealistic, and certainly not practical: ".. ~ With competition the way it is, it would be suicide not to 
. take advantage of that which others are abusing and getting away with too." ·Yet, a married couple in real estate feels differently: "You can be a Christian and a successful business person," say Mr. and Mrs. Raymond, not their real names, of Toledo. "Being Christian doesn't mean giv­ing· the store away~ It means that you give the customer the just or fair product or service· in return for his payment." 
As Mr.. and Mrs. Raymond point out, there is room for Christian values in business, ·and CVE sup­ports their claim. CVE is not at­tempting to change students' majors or to deny the professions some truly valuable prospects. It does not main­
, tain that there are "pure" vocations for students to enter as opposed to "corrupt" business careers. CVE rec­ognizes ·that there just is not a per­.feet profession to be found. Ethical decisions must be made everywhere. The ethical issues must be recog­nized and dealt with, not ignored. If students are aware of this need, 
stead of competition. The job 
broadens into a vocation for the 
agent of change. 
In the framework of job as voca­
tion, CVE plans to expand its inter­
views to include the people who cry 
out for the agent of change. "The 
oppression witnessed by the students 
of Urban Plunge must be dealt 
with," says Fr. Don McNeill, the di­
rector of the Center for Experiential 
Learning. "We must hear from the 
hurting as well as the professionals." 
Only through diversity of interviews 
will students recognize the huge dif­
ference in · conceptions of value be­
tween those who deliver a service 
and those who are, or maybe are 
not, serviced. 
Another future goal of· CVE is to make the experience of career-based interviews a part of the curriculum of every Notre Dame student. Cur­rently, the program is purely volun­tary. If incorporated into the sopho­more year, when most students choose a major field of study, the CVE interview will allow each stu­. dent to evaluate his career choice be­fore a change of major is too late. Also, CVE would like alternative vocations to be included in the pub­licity of job opportunities on campus. 
before entering the high-power job market, then the Student Center or the Placement Bureau should have information available for that stu­dent. Central to the idea that alter­native vocations ·become a part of career searches is CVE's conviction ,that experiential learning only· has value if each person continues to use it after graduation. The Notre Dame diploma does not absolve the stu­dents from their ties with Christian concerns. 
Precisely. because of the invisible ties between Notre Dame and its graduates, CVE uses the alumni in its interviews. First, the ties at Notre Dame are strong, and a dia­logue between a student and a grad­uate reaffirms the ties. Second, the interview can be a two-way street ­both the student and the alumnus learn from the experience. When personal values are brought to the surface, the alumnus may find him­self in a unique continuing education program. Third, the student's search for the vocational career prompts him to pick out role models -the people dealing with the dilemmas he feels he will face someday. Notre Dame alumni come from essentially 
(Continued on. page 46) 



Poet, Teacher,· Counselor 
As I look back from my prfN'lent vantage point, I realize lww "the poem!' has haunted most of .my adult years. Not that I have lived my life only for the purpose of get­ting "copy" for my poetry, but ever since my. high school. ·days,. "the poem!' has always been there, tr<YUr bling me, a kind of Platonic abstrac­tion, I suppose, but always taking a concrete form: as a woman to ·be loved and to be made love to, as an antagonist to be fought with, as·· a tyrant and persecutor to be escaped from,· as a disgusting sycophant, as a relentless psychoanalyst and soul searcher, as a consoling_ and under­standing friend, etc . ... 
~ErnfN'lt Sandeen, in a letter to 
· John Matthias, June 18, 1974 
. I read these lines for the first. time· 

this afternoon, as I sat. in a small library office across from John Mat­thias. Matthias, a Professor. of En­glish and friend and colleague of Ernest Sandeen for the past twelve . years, looked at me seriously and as­
serted that, "Ernie's poetry is at the center. of his life." I glanced away, slightly unsure,· and scribbled this simplistic quote in my n~tebook. Matthias' forthright statement and Sandeen's eloquent prose told me nothing that I didn't already know; they told me nothing that I hadn't already learned through the three brief years of my acquaintance with Sandeen. And, yet, I. was unsure. I had been thinking about this article 
.for weeks; trying to decide how much space to devote to a discussion of the' man's academic career, his love of teaching, his influence· at Notre Dame ... and his· poetry, to be sure, but I wondered mostly about how to fit this "aspect" into a total picture of the man. I read these sen­tences and almost felt that I had never known aman I had learned to love as a father. _ . 
One reading of those lines con~ ·firmed my suspicion that I am real~ ly not very qualified to write this little tribute, that I will never be able to do justice to the man I am 
by Theresa . Rebeck 

supposed to write about. Still, Ernie Sandeen officially retired last semes­ter, and for the ·past 32 years he has. given his life to the students and faculty of Notre Dame. For the past 32 years, he has been a teacher, advisor, wise man and home base. to anyone who. came to him looking for help, and if anyone around here deserves a tribute, he does, so here it is. And because his. wife Eileen shares fully inanything that con­cerns him, this tribute goes to her, too. · 
.Ernest and Eileen Sandeen live in a small white house on Ponsha Street, about a mile and a half from the Notre Dame campus. They have lived there since they came to South . Berid in 1948, when Ernest accepted a position as a· faculty member in the English Department. ·In the· in­tervening years, he has taught scores· 
· of classes in the Classics, . American Literature, Poetry, and Poetry Writ­ing; he has served as.. chairman of . the English Department-"Not one of _my favorite times,,,. he admits . 
SCHOLASTIC 


He has also published four volumes of poetry and raised a family. Dur­ing · those . years; he was · hon­ored with the Sheedy Award, the highest accolade that can be given to a teacher at Notre Dame. Recent­ly, a former student of Sandeen's donated a grant to the Notre Dame English Department to establish a student· poetry· award under_ San­deen's name: 
·Of the depth and breadth of these accomplishments and honors, ·. San­deen himself says little. The com­plete absence of ariy bit of vanity within him almost obstructs discus~ sion · of his accomplishments with him; getting him to talk about him­self is like pulling teeth. "Most poets are unusually vain," observes Mat­
. thias. "And there's not a shred of it in Ernie. He always gives you the impression that he is far :more 
· interested in your work · than his 
1

own." · · · · ­
Matthias goes on to point out that, in his opinion, Sandeen is one of the three or four best poets of his gen-
Ernest and Eileen Sandeen 
eration, and that, in the years to come, Sandeen's later poetry will be recognized as some of the most im­portant work to come out of Notre Dame in the· 1960's and 70's. "But 
. the seriousness and the commit­ment invested in his poetry is· really not understood by most of the facul­ty members· ·and students here be­cause they live in another world," Matthias asserts..·· . "They really should . . . it would be a good idea for. them to enter this world, read his p'oetry." 
If the Notre Danie community has failed-to grasp the· full importance -· of Ernest Sandeen, tlie· poet, it has at least recognized the brilliance of Ernest Sandeen, the teacher: Donald Sniegowski, Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, main­tains that one of the few classes he· remembers vividly from his days as an undergraduate at Notre Dame was the American literature class he took from Sandeen his junior year. 
Sniegowski r e c a 11 s Sandeen's classroom manner as being so mild 
-'-"No matter what garbage a stu­dent gave . him, -he.· would always make the best of it." Because of his gentle manrier, •-the entire class be­came extremely lax and handed in a set' of papers at · midterm which were, he admits, "shoddy,' at best." 
"Sandeen came into the next class looking as stern as possible-which is not very stern-and, slightly raising his voice, just said, 'This wori't ·do.'" . 
Sniegowski · explai~s that after this simple admonition, Sandeen pro­ceeded to take a short, two-stanza poem by Walt Whitman and pre~ sented ·to the class an intricate, rig­orous and brilliant examination ·of the work for the next fifty minutes. "He didn't say anything else· to us about those papers,'' Sniegowski ad­mits, "but he didn't have to." He shakes his head. "I don't remember very many specifics from my time as an undergraduate, but I remember thinking at that moment, 'This is what literary criticism is.' 
· For Eileen These marigolds, petunias, dahlias, geraniums and daisies are from your planting. Their reds and yellows wear your modest intensities. I see your eyes love them below their small bright faces. Their look tingles down your arms to the roots · you fingered into place in our springtime soil. Do you know what love it is you were born for? Your care, the slumbering earth, uses your eyes to waken ·to its art of·leaf and blossom. I've loved you for forty years with fingers · that move from love in eyes down to the dark where our two lives tangle in a root of flesh. Yet I have merely secrets that I could tell of you. Your privacies are names as slow as aeons, . .they move in verbs too. deep, too long for speech.  

"Ernie Sandeen has a sensitivity backed up by a precision of thought and interpretation which is just re­markable," Sniegowski observes. He admits that this precision is some­times overlooked by Sandeen's col­leagues and students . because he is so often seen. as a father figure, an encourager of young sensitive people. "The. result of all that pre­cision is not always that apparent," Sniegowski nods, '.'but it underlies 
his gentleness." . -· . Perhaps Sandeen's role as ·• "en­courager of young people'.' is the one for which he is most widely appre­ciated at Notre Dame, and per­haps this is best. Sandeen's · sup­port and encouragement _of ~esoph­omores in their work oil.the annual lite1;ary fe~tiva1: has helped.produce sortie of. the finest literary events in
' ... ;,, ..··· .. 

the history of our University. His support of student writers has helped several Notre. Dame graduates ·to go on to distinguish themselves as poets and scholars. 'tHe has al­ways supported younger colleagues and students," Matthias claims. "As a young poet at the time when I arrived here, his support was invalu­able." (Since that time, Matthias has published many volumes:-of. poetry and edited. several poetry antholo­gies, nationally and -international­ly;) "Ernie is always willing to $Up­port people who have unconvenUomil credentials," Matthias continues, "people whose· abilities _lie. in· un~. conventional fields, who are not do­ing expected things, .but original things, the kind of people we need 
Iiere." . . . . . 

It would n~t be honest to conclude this sketch of Ernest Sandeen with­out devoting as much time to a sketch of Eileen Sandeen, but the end of the page is running up on me, and as .the best description . of this remarkable. woman. can· be found in her husband's poetry, -I •· will only suggest that you look for her there. 
By the same token, I will suggest that you .look for Ernest Sandeen there. '.'Ernie's poetry,is at thevery center," -Matthias muses, "at the most secret, profound_ cell of him. ..." If we are to give anything back to a man who has given so much to the people of Notre Dame,. perhaps it can only be by reading his: poetry, by· listening to .that . voice whi~h reaches out willingly, from '.'the .most secret, ·profound .cellu;of the man; · · ·· •., ,.:_. -0 
. ·.. •, 

., . • ''SCHOLASTiC. 
toward a new role: 

Workings Of The HPC 
Daniel .Moore, a member of last year's Hall President's Council, was commissioned by Scholastic to ex­
. plore, with an insider's insight the institutio_n of the HPC. -Ed. 
"With a squirt gun and a little determination," a close friend. once told me, "anybody could take over 
.the. Notre Dame. Student Govern­ment and nobody would know that there had been a change." 
So run·s the feeling of many un­dergraduates·at Notre Dame. It is not that students . dislike student gov­ernment, or feel it is not performing its job, it is simply that many stu­dents either are unsure of just what their government does or they be-· lieve that it is a· totally powerless organ which is obsequious to any directive originating from the boys 
. in the dome. In both cases the great majority of.· students do not seem to be too concerned. . . . 
This article will deal with one as­pect of student government at Notre 
. Danie-the Hall Presidents' ·council -and _wiH perhaps illuminate some of the problems . and possible . solu­tions facing the student government in general. 
·>As everyone. knows, : the hall council is the fundamental unit of student'. organization .and is : the ·source . from which. the hall presi­dents derive. their· power. The Han· Presidents' . Council is a. rather in­formal assembly' of all the hall pres­idents and meets ·once a week to discuss current campus issues 0 and to report . these issues back to their respective halls. At least this is what 
APRIL 18, :1980 the Hall Presidents' Council has come to be. 
No one really knows what exactly this Council is supposed to do except meet. There is no definition .of stated purpose for the HPC, nor is there any mention of it in the Con­stitution of the Undergraduate Stu­dent Government at the University of Notre Dame except to· say that it should . have one representative on the Board of · Commissioners. The HPC has no veto power over any directive, no judicial capacity, .and no official power .to do anything ex­cept pass a resolution every now and then. It might be likened to a con-, federation of Indian chiefs who meet every so many moons to see how all the _tribes are doing and figure out ways of coping with the omnipres­ent white (or golden) man. -·· 
Yet very few members of the Hall Presidents' Council will concede that it is an ineffective organization. All will grant that it is an officially powerless body, but many will em­phasize that its unofficial capacities are what make it' shine. They stress the· co-ncrete things 'that it . brings about rather than its more numi­nous role as a cog in the cranky old machine that is student government. 
For the past year Ellen Dorney has been Chairperson of the HPC and no one. ori the Couricil knows more about its. role, and purpose. According to · her, the HPC is a "vehicle for communication." It has links with all of the hall coun­cils, .• representation· on the Campus Life· Council (CLC), and repre­sentation on the Board of Com­missioners. As a result, it is unique 
by Daniel Moore 

·. ·in that it has an ear in most places where· students are organized to make appeals to the Administration. and to improve campus life in gen­eral. It has also, according to Dor­ney, . gained a great deal of esteem in the Administration as a truly campus~wide body. "We are listened to," she explains, "and the Adminis­tratiori has to respect us." When asked ·. about · specific accomplish­ments of the. HPC, Dorney noted that tlie HPC has worked as a forum for brainstorming, communication,and as a source to keep all of the halls informed_ on· campus issues of both minor and major importance. 
Practically all of the hall presi­dents interviewed echoed Ellen Dor­ney's remarks, especially .· concern­ing its primary role as a vehicle for communicating information to the hall· councils .. Paul Riehle, the pres­ent Student Body ·President, had been the president of Keenan Hall and an HPC representative . on the Campus Life Council.· . When inter­viewed, Riehle himself was ·in the . process oflooking into new ways of reforming. student government, He, too, while acknowledging that the Hall Presidents' Council had no real power-except for the. "power ·o( persuasion"-was quick to mention its effectiveness in tackling the is­sues'. as they arise on a grass-roots level. "At least" he explained, '.'we can initiate policy changes and bring, them up for consideration, even if (the HPC) does not have the power to implement them." 'Riehle went on, to point out that the HPC als_o spon­sors a few services. (He mentioned the recycling service the HPC had 

once sponsored as an example.) 
There was also some discussion of the fragmentation of student gov­ernment into many different spheres. (HPC is one, CLC, Student Union, Board of Commissioners, etc.,·· are others.)· Riehle recognized this· as a problem, which could be alleviated with the curbing of personality con­flicts which seemed to plague last year's student government. This could be brought about by bringing more students into the various branches of the government. "Fac­tionalism was a real problem," Riehle said, "what is needed is fresh blood." · 
Lewis President Pat Crowell feels that the fragmentation problem ex~ perienced last year was. the result not only of personality clashes but also of the very structure of the gov­ernment setup. · "The government structure would work with the right people-but that is always a prob­lem." Farley President Madeline Darrouzet also believes that there is some truth to the fragmentation problem .based . on the structure of the government and the personalities involved but adds that "the problem is sometimes exaggerated." 

It is no easy task to· describe a typical HPC meeting. The agenda varies each week. Some meetings are long, some are short. Some concern only . insignificant matters which are often downright boring. There are usually speakers representing sundry causes who would like the HPC's support and encouragement for their projects-but not always. There are also committee reports from those members serving as. the HPC's representatives on some other council, such as the CLC. The HPC meeting is usually recorded by are­porter from the Observer, and there is often a representative of the Stu­dent Body President if he is not there himself. These meetings are open to. the public every Tuesday night .at_ 
6:30 but very few members of the 
SCHOLASTIC 

student body attend. 
If there is a need to get campus­wide participation in some drive, the HPC is usually the vehicle by which that message is disseminated. The United Way drive, the fund for Cambodian relief, and the campus­wide alcoholic survey were all handled through the HPC. Groups which have no other means of get­ting their message across know that the hall presidents will inform their hall councils about their project and, if the hall council is · effective, each member of the hall will be inade aware of the message. The success­ful United Way Campaigns are a testament to this effectiveness. 
As Paul Riehle mentioned, the Hall Presidents' Council has also evolved into a forum for discussing campus issues. Input from the pres­idents concerning how each hall handles particular problems makes all aware of possible inequities across campus. Alternatives to pres­ent Administration policies are often discussed, and if nothing else, the Council does its best to make known its disagreement with certain poli­cies. Kegs on campus, the reform of party rules, and even the need for cable TV on campus all have been echoed in the HPC during this past year. 
It is tr\le that in these capacities the HPC is a most effective organi­zation. The record of participation in its various drives is enormously successful, and you will not find a more representative body on campus discussing the pertinent issues. Yet these functions could just as easily be carried out •by an advertising agency and a debating club. 
When, one thinks of student gov­ernment, one supposedly thinks of a government of students, and this. is just not one of the HPC's roles as it stands. · However, there would seem to be a great potential for ·carrying .:this role out • here. · It · would be the ideal body to replace the CLC for it represents all stu­dents. Ifa democratic government is our aim, why. shouldn't some body ; representing all students be able to check the student body president, the board of commissioners, and the "student· union, and make proposals and recommendations to the Admin­istration concerning ·" its policies? Presently, each sphere of govern-
APRIL 18, 1980 
· ment is divided and hence easy to conquer. The CLC, which has gained 
.status as the place where meaningful policy changes are deliberated, is composed of a smattering of stu­dents, rectors, faculty (who even show up on occasion), and members of the Administration who are in the embarrassing position of being able to veto anything they_ vote on anyway. What is needed is a central focus for student government where the voice of the student body can be heard loud and clear. 
Such a body would go far to solve the apathy problems which have al­ways plagued our student body. The government would be much less complicated, set up in a style sim­ilar to our American Government with a president presiding over the administrative agencies and a repre­sentative body which could check this power. Hence, a student would know where the power lies and where he could voice complaints. Our present system has the dubious distinction of being completely un­derstood only by those. who are involved in it. This is frustrating for many who now think of government as a set of acronyms (SBP, SBVP, CLC, HPC). 
Government majors are frequent­ly. inculcated with the knowledge that without outlets for popular ex­pression, a government will inevi­tably become vulnerable to unrest, apathy and major dissatisfaction. Our student government has no such outlets-it has only esoteric synods 
-which few are aware of and fewer care about. Is it unreasonable to make the students the source of power for student government? Is it unreasonable to break up the frag­mentation problem and focus power in one body which all have a hand in electing? Is it unreasonable for the students alone to constitution­ally organize themselves to respond to the policies of the Administra--·· tion? Certainly a University dedi­cated to the ideals of· democracy would have no objection. In fact, such a ·student govern­ment would not only be beneficial for the students, but for the Admin­istration as well. Presently the dis­satisfaction cannot be· responsibly and constructively expressed-there is no vehicle. Hence, the only out­lets for this frustraUon concerning 
social life and other matters lies in alcoholism, vandalism, and other destructive activities. Certainly, a representative student government is. not a panacea for these problems, but it could be meaningful in giving students a more concrete means of releasing this frustration. The Ad­ministration will benefit from learn­ing more clearly the needs of the students and from giving many frus­trated students a place to voice their opinions. Most importantly, 
though, it ·would put more credi­bility and respect in · the present structure which now lacks both of these important features. 
The Hall Presidents' Council is an organization with no specific goals, or purpose. The attitude that sur­rounds the Council at times was voiced, only somewhat facetiously, by one of its ex-members when he said, "If we didn't do nothing, no one would." It is a nebulous body which can only communicate effec­tively what needs to be communi­cated. Yet to enhance the quality of student government, more is needed than effective communication. It is time we considered moving toward a representative body which would encompass all of the functions of a congress or parliament-with its power derived from the students and with checks on the president and the opportunity to voice its opinion on Administration policies. The HPC is the only body which presently. has the capacity . to. carry out this role. Perhaps it is not representative enough, but to use it would at least be a start toward a real student gov­ernment. If this would entail chang-· ing the present constitution then a movement should be made to begin this process. 
We live in a community where·dis­satisfaction with the Administra­tion is rampant, and it need not be that way. Only by constructively organizing ourselves to .help the Administration by making our views known in an · unmistakable way, will we ever see progress in coping with life at Notre .Dame. The pres­ent student government seems very eager and enthusiastic about curbing the apathy and restlessness of stu­dents. Restructuring student·govern­ment with· a new role for the HPC should be considered as a means·for accomplishing this. O 
A Portrait 0/tlte Domer Asa Voung 
Man 
by Philip Gutierrez 

· ~tephen Dedalus walked quickly along the snow-cleared path on the way to a lecture. Although it was the end of March a foot of snow still remained on the ground, and he slouched low in his jacket. Glancing to his right he saw the symbol of his University, . a statue of the Virgin Mary plopped on the top of a golden dome. He thought himself lucky because everyone needed. to hate something and the object of his hate was visible_·from ·any part· of the 
campus. · · , Walking across the quad between two dormitories he wondered if Breen-Phillips ·was a woman, and Cavanaugh. a man: It didn't seem morally ,right that a group of girls should be living in a building named after a .man. He didn't give· it fur­ther thought; buildings are always named after men. . . Turning the corner, Steph~n faced a massive -fourteen-story library with a statue of Moses holding the Ten Commandments at its base. Moses stood there with his finger fo the air. Alumni agreed that it meant ."we're number one." Did they en­vision thousands of fans screaming about a triumph on a playing field or did they actually believe they 
were the number one? Others sup­posed that the finger pointed in the direction the University president travelled. When the Reverend Theo­dore Hesburgh C.S.C. died, the li­brary would be named after him. What an honor: to have the largest university library in the country named after you. · 
Stephen pulled open the glass door and walked towards the library. au­ditorium. At Stephen's left, behind large glass panes, students studied in the periodical room. It reminded him of a fish tank. That sounds like think tank. After all, something in a library should be a think tank. Stephen thought the students looked up from their books at the passers­by_ like little· fish ,,--a tropical fish tank, of course, with different types of fish: peta, goldfish, catfish, angel­fish, fan fish, and others that weren't recognizable. Stephen didn't see any guppies.. 
Finally arriving at the entrance­

way to the auditorium, Stephen 
squeezed through a crowd of stu­
dents and found a seat in the giant 
lecture hall. The room had nice blue 
padded seats. After placing his-coat. 
around the seat, he sat and placed 
his head on the collar of the jacket: 
The professor walked into ·the 

room and conversations among stu­
dents ended abruptly. The lecturer 
paced across the stage of the audi­
torium. His hands moved mechani­
cally to stress his points concerning 
the separation of powers in the 
American Government. Checks and 
balances give each branch of govern­
ment power over the other. 
A pretty -girl walked into the 

classroom and sat down· next ·to 
Stephen. She hadn't missed anything 
because she probably had a checking 
account. She had pale· skin and short 
blonde hair parted in the middle. For 
some reason, Stephen supposed she 
looked like a Mary to him. It was a 
good guess because every Catholic 
family has one Mary in it. Mary 
wore blue slacks, a white sweater, 
and grey tweed jacket. -· 
Stephen glanced back and forth from his notebook to her thighs; He imagined meeting her after class. She would have to ask him for his notes'. They could become great friends. She wouldn't want to go out -to see a movie on campus. But what restaurant could he take her to? Stephen agreed with himself that that would be too much money to spend on a first date. He'd have to think of asking her out to. do some­thing different. How about if he 
took her ice skating? Whatever ­would happen would happen. 
The longer the class went on the lower the students went into their chairs. -Nixon tried to expand the power of the presidency by claiming executive privilege. Anyone could become president. Stephen wondered what his parents ,would think if he were to become president. Maybe his mother would feel ashamed like the time she found out. Stephen's sister was living with Tim. Who respects the president anyway anymore? Presidents weren't heroic. The re­tainers respected' the warrior Beo­
wulf~ · 
Mary crossed her legs and kicked her leg back and forth. A first date is an awkward thing. When should a guyj:mt 'his arn(around a girl? Stephen had been told in a psychol­ogy class that th~ kiss was a very important part of a relationship to a girl, Why was a French.kiss called a French kiss? Was that.,the only way .Frenchmen kissed women? After all, they kissed men on cheeks, didn't they? 
. Stephen _pictured kissing· Mary. The first kiss wouldn't be romantic at all. Like putting an arm around a girl,. when's the right time to kiss a girl? Her mouth was warm, her tongue soft and smooth. 
The bell rang and the people gathered their things. Everyone filed out of the hall and Mary was lost among the other bodies. Stephen walked the same way back to his 
. dorm. He entered ',the : · dormitory and passed the rector's door. Father Lynch constantly ··played classical· music,: and today was· no exception. The music could'•be heard all ·the way down the corridor. Stephen had been in Father's room once to have some forms signed. He· remembered the-nice carpet, and 'the upholstered furniture. · Classicai :music· played that time too, from his · Kenwood system and his JBL speakers. Father made small talk about his ·summer vacation in Europe,·•while Stephen looked at his R.C.A.· XL 100 tele­vision set.· ·· . Why_ didn't the clergy" recruit vocations like the Army; Navy, Air Fo_rce and Marines? Surely these weren't. poverty conditions. "Join the Clergy, see the world!;' But what about the vow of celibacy?~Stephen ·couldn't·. imagine life.' without the prospects of sex: He· assumed that priests felt the same way and the world was full of Hlegitimate chil~ dren. They couldn't use_ contracep­tives, because the Church prohibited it. 
;. , SCHOLASTIC 


,..,...;!S?,;";;;;;::-:::::f~~~;t,S~~7 0&:;E;~{f~j}'"-·'];J]j 
"-'· 
~;-;~~~t~:~
~---~"~:-\
~:./;~?,:­
~
..... 

~-.,, 
r'/"":-'! ... .....:? -':. ·....
!:2'."'•·........,-~.......:r~&. .. --~.

•:-. .:-_~..~· :·~~L< ·b;,: 




E~{~)l 
....~. 
----:re.· 
l:,·1'>.~­
1 · 
1.i}
~l~f
~f¥;
~,-•/
=-}f~i,. -.. !!;..,~ ;;,,,~~-,,oc;;!',
li~Jr" .... ::•..:~,~
~-.,:>:',:
~;,t~-;:!,\ : 
l11-.o: -. . ". 
,~.i;:il!\ ··~~ ·H' 
Steph~~ 'cli~bed·, th~ stairs to his room. A'fter putting his books on his desk, he sat on. his· couch and de,'... bated about what to do next. Look­ing around his room, Stephen figured that if his mo_ther saw its condition, she would call him a .,disgrace to society~" The maid refused to empty the trash cans . because they '.were filled ·with empty beer. bottles.' 'The bed was unmade, -dirty. clothes were laid all over the floor, and_ piles of paper were crumpled on the _desk. The .funniest thing ·about Stephen's room; funny pecuHar • nof ha ha, was thatthe view from Stephen's window presented_ three~ thing's: the_ golden dome, the student infirmary,', and the dormitory dumpster. Stephen at one time had tried to iriterpret-the 
APRIL ,18, 1980 
~\i1I
'!_:.: ·, ... • ~ 

'k~ 
'.t.~il ¾2i.i~~ 

view .. symbolically, now •he ~ust accepted it · as appropriate.. . . . . 
He decided he didn't need exercise, and he. didn't feei Hke studying. -So without ariy other ~ alternative, he stripped to his iuii:Ierwear arid Jook a nap on the couch.:' . C , . · . Mary's lips_ were soft and her body warm. Her sweet 'pale skin was smooth. She" wrapped her thighs around his body and they moved rhythmically to the.. classical music. . He looked 'into Mary's light brown eyes. Eyes are supposed to be 'a pas~ sageway to a person's mind. Mary's eyes reflected Stephen's image. He saw· his own face. It revealed. his physical· ·satisfaction. He _·warited to know how she felt. That was impos­sible for him to know .. 
. The. phone rang. Stephen jumped from his· couch and grabbed the re,; ceiver. A dial tone· resonated from the receiver, and he cursed the per­son who .called. People always find ways of bothering others. Before the phone existed neighbors probably paraded along roads to visit one an­other. Small talk consisted on. sen­tences without polysyllabic words. That is why conversations with acquaintances are boring. 
Clocks converse· constantly: Ste­phen's clock radio told hini· he missed dinner. Tells you if you're late or on time. People's lives are always on.time -appointments; dates, class schedules, physical ability, child­birth, and on to infinity. Infinity is timeless. That doesn't make sense. Yet no one is willing .to ask a stranger, "What time is ·it?" Time is · a universal language. ·Ii you 
· couldn't speak French you could still explain to a . Frenchman the time of day. Some people refuse to giv~ you the time of day. Stephen had· met people like that. It was time for Stephen to go and study. · 
After changing his underwear and getting dressed, Stephen grabbed his American Government . text. He'd have to read. the book, because he didn't have any notes. · 
He walked along the same path to the Memorial Library. At night the dome was lit up by giant spotlights. The fish were still in the fish tank, but they had changed positions throughout -the -room.: Stephen· took an elevator. to the thirteenth floor. Students weren't allowed on the fourteenth floor. 
. Going up in the elevator, Stephen 
. wondered what was · on the -. four­teenth floor. Maybe. it was a: mo-, nastic seminary. That. was as good a guess as anyone's. The elevator door opened. As Stephen walked off,_ he noticed a plaque on the'wall: · 
Thirteenth Floor, Gift of -­General Motor Company,_; 

,:: Stephen went over: to a group of desks..He began to read.-Looking up from his book, he could see old books and empty bookshelves.-There were lots. of empty_ .bookshelves. Who could -have checked-out all the books? Maybe aU the boo~ were stored on .the fourteenth floor. That would be a funny thing, funny pecu­liar not ha ha.. 
Philip .Gutierrez·is._ a Junior·English major.. This is his first contribution\ 
to Scholastic. 

NICARAGUA: 

Last May, -Federico Tefel finished his sophomore year at Notre Dame and returned to his home for sum­mer vacation. While most of us were at home during the summer, perhaps working or merely enjoying the break, Federico was home, fighting. His home is Nicaragua;· and he fought as a member of the Sandi­nista National Liberation Front, the revolutionary guerrilla army that overthrew President Anastasio So­moza. 
When the guerrillas in the capital city, Managua, gained control from Somoza in a siege that climaxed on July 17, Federico was fighting along the South Front; This front was cen­tered around Rivas, a city ninety miles southwest of Managua where the most intense combat outside of the capital took place. 
I expected to get a "good/' excit­ing story ab~t the batfles and con­ditions that Federico lived through. However, the fighting itself seemed relatively unimportant to him. His major concern became apparent as we talked. 
Tl1e Battle Goes On 
Federico went back to Nicaragua with his brother Juan, who at the time attended the Unive1~sity of South Dakota. When they returned, the Sandinista Front, the leftist, mili­tant force at the head of a broad­based anti-Somozan alliance, was close to the climax of a twenty-year­old campaign against the corruption and repression of Somozan rule. The Sandinistas did not make much prog­ress until 1972 and a second resur­gence in 1978. . _ 
The Sandinistas took their name in honor of Augusto Cesar Sandino, a · guerrilla leader who ·fought against what Federico labels a "vir­tual occupation force" of Nicaraguan National Guardsmen and U.S. Ma­rines in·the late 1920's. Our Marines were deployed there because Nica­ragua was the original choice for a transoceanic canal before Panama. In 1934, under the pretense of a mediation effort, the leader of the National Guard had Sandino brought to him, and then executed. That man was Anastasio Somoza, the father of_the recently ousted president. The 
by Chuck Wood 

elder Somoza became president him­. self in 1934, founding the Somoza 
dynasty. · · 
Somoza established and main­

tained that dynasty on economic and 
political grounds. The family "pains­
takingly built to perpetuate its rule 
over Nicaragua."1 The Somoza fam­
ily owned about one-third of the 
valuable land in the country, as well 
as most of the major industries and 
import licenses. What they did not 
directly control, their close asso~ 
ciates did; thus, the Somozas had the 
domestic support of the upper class. 
They kept control of the government 
mainly through the ·support of the 
United States. "The U.S. installed So­
moza's father ... and supported the 
dynasty for decades because of its 
staunch . anti-Communism .. Somoza 
still has powerful friends in the 
U.S."2 -. Although Nicaragua may have been vital to· our government's Latin American foreign policy, it rarely made the news· in this country until the destructive earthquake in 1972. That quake nearly leveled Managua 
. SCHOLASTIC 

and surrounding areas. Large amounts of relief aid came to that coun.try from around the world. 
"Somoza used most of the relief funds for his own good," Federico says. "We could not believe that he could become more corrupt· than he already was." After taking control of the cement and construction in­dustries, Somoza named himself head .of the national reconstruction effort. His actions outraged the up~ per class (because of. his refusal to share the ''fruits of his plunder". with them as he had in the past3), as well as the.poor and the middle class. 
, This tension of distrust between Somoza and the :Nicaraguan. busi­nessmen was important for the Sandinistas. As the Liberation Front slowly gained support from church, business, and less radical political groups, Somoza .,i ri cr e a s e d the strength of his rule. ·He .tightened control over· the: media. He also bombed any villages and cities sus­pected to be Sandinistan operation centers; this destruction was part of the undermining of Nicaraguan in­dustry. . "It was this 'Reign of Terror' that led to . support from Cuba, Costa Rica, and Panama,". Federico ex­plains. Domestic -support, especial­ly from the more cautious business­men, increased.when Pedro Chamor­ro, . a conservative anti-Somozan publisher, was assassinated in Janu­ary 1978. ·. · 
During that year, Somoza refused to make any serious ,effort, atmedia­tion with' .his opponents concerning his political repression. and the con­centration. of wealth, both of which crippled the economy as well' as the spirit of the country. Instead he re­lied on his National Guard.· This army, trained by the,' U.S.' Army in the Canal Zone,4 attempted to· con­tain and. destroy the . mounting op~ position. Federico remembers one example of this effort too well: So­moza orice had all the nien between twenty and twenty-six .. years' 'old, who .lived. on a certain street, indis­criminately executed. · 
At the end of May 1979, the San­dinistas began what would be their final offensive in Managua: . When the danger became. extreme, Federi­co's father, . who attended Notre Dame in .the .early 50's, took ·the family to Costa Rica.. It ·was then that Federico arid Juan· contacted the Sandinistas. And after four days of training at the end· of June; they separated to join.the fi_ghting.. . · 
The fighting. He was finally get­ting to the fighting and the "spec­tacular' story I was looking for. I wanted him to talk about being in combat; many people would be· in­terested in reading about the excite­ment and the terror. 
"My experience in battle? I don't know what you want," he says. "Well ... there was one time when I was in a house with all the leaders of the South Front opposition. We were attacked by low-flying Na­tional Guard jets. There were al­ways raids by machine guns from the jets, and napalm and mortars ...· they told me, when it was all over, that my brother Juan was killed in a mortar attack-just five days before Somoza was finally overthrown." 
His brother's death has deeply af­fected Federico's attitude toward the fighting. He seems detached from the experience; not because it is unimportant to him, but because it actually means so much to him. Yet his combat experiences, however important, do not matter as much as the purpose and the outcome of the fighting: Only realization· of the ideals behind the fighting can give "meaning" to Juan's losing his life along with the tens of thousands of Nicaraguans who died in the rev­olution. . 
Juan Tefel joined the Sandi_nista Front to help end the corrupt, often despotic Samoza rule. The. Sandinis­ta Front is a leftist group but, Fede­rico says, Juan was not a Commu­nist himself. Furthermore, most Nicaraguans are not Communist by ideology, but the Front may be.able to use experience of the nation since the 1920's to cause, a swing to a Communist form or government, This is possible since· Nicaraguans cannot forget the close link between Washington and Managua, between the Somozas and their "powerful friends" in the U.S .. That is why thereis a strong anti-American sen­
timent. , , . Federico says that the reasons he; his brother, and . others did-not sup­port, a Communist order are now be­coming facts of ,life. First, .the San­dinistas have virtual control of the country, and in many ways, they have proved to be as repressive 'as Somoza. For in.stance, they now have control of the national army and the media. .··Secondly, the . Sandinistas have·always been the most extreme political group in the nation. Now they are not making promised .con­
cessions, either within the country or with other Latin American coun­tries. The only country in the area giving aid and support to the Sandi­nistas is Cuba. So, much of what is presented to Nicaraguans, aid and propaganda, has a Communist tag on it. 
The U.S. supported Somoza partly to keep Communism out of Nica­ragua, which is in a strategically valuable location in Central Amer­ica; Juan and Federico Tefel fought against Somoza to end the repres­sion and economic instability there. Juan's death becomes meaningless if, as appears likely, Nicaragua's poverty and repressive atmosphere remain. The fighting will only have made a domestic change. If the Sandinistas do establish a leftist state, the U.S. policy of maintaining the Somoza dynasty (because of i_ts anticommunism) becomes ironic and senseless: the Sandinista Front ~ay be able. to turn the nation's anti-American sentiment into an anticapitalist one. 
. "I can tell you this about my ex­perience: while I . was fighting," Federico says, "I was angry at the 
U.S.... because of the ignorance of the long, terrible repression prac­ticed by the Somozas, · as much as any 'active guilt' in supporting him.I' 
Now, Federico is afraid that the direction his country will follow will take away the only consolation he may have found . in his brother'.s death. And that is what is impor­
tant to him. · · · 
The ignorance that angered Fed­erico still prevails. The, reasons for this are many, but one major cause is that Nicaragua has once again faded from public notice. The coun~ try is poor, so we do not focus our economic attention on it. Political­ly and morally, it s1wuld concern us, and yet there is little media cover­age of the present state of afjairs. Perhaps this is so, unfortunately, because .there is no "spectacular" vi_olence, no sensational story. . 
! Kinzer, Stephen, "Somoza's Fina­le," New Republic, July 21; 1979.. 
2 

Anonymous,. U.S. News and World · Report, July 2, 1979, p. 3. 3 ·
Kinzer, op. cit. 4 Ibid. '. 
-~~-----------~---------------------------------¦

.by Paul Lauer  
How does  one find  new words to  has sung out loud approval.­ to  ; a · perceived  threat,  precipitate  
say this?  That at no time has the  The  Cold  War  is  an  emotional  that very action that we fear.  With  
future seemed less secure. (How can  reaction.  It is not a form of foreign  that in inind, we must be unsparing  
one hope to understand the death of  policy but a narrowing of its scope;  in  our· pursuit' of  a  proper under- 
a  world,  when  our  own  death  is  The  vehemence  of  American  re- standing.  _  
beyond our comprehension?  And if  sporise  to  the Russian  invasion  of  A  critical  understanding  begins  
one  cannot  understand · the  meta- Afghanistan, which goes so far be- with  America  after  the  Second  
physical truth of God, how can man  yond the called-for response, led me  World .War.  With Europe in ruins,  
hope to grasp the apocalyptic truth  to consider this state of affairs from  Japan decimated, and Russia suffer­ 
of a thermonuclear explosion?)  ·  a  historical  and psychological per­ ing losses  of  twenty million  dead,  
I  am  sickened  by  the· senseless  spective.  I wanted to find what lay  we  found  ourselves  quite literally  
rhetoric  of  the  presidential  cam­ ·  behind this outburst of emotion and  alone and on top of the world. Un­ 
paign. (George Bush, I am told by the New York Times, thinks a nu­ . rhetoric.  *  *  *  *  damaged, economic  we·0 easily established an and military hegemony.  
clear  war  "winnable."  What  can  Ideology is the false consciousness  That  predominance  went  unchal­ 
that possibly mean?)  I wonder, will  of political and economic realities. It  lenged for some  twenty years.  (In  
it be Carter or Reagan who will first  is  a  half-truth,  at  best  a  mystifi­ 1963  we  were ·able  to  bluster the  
lurch  toward Russia, blindly grap­ cation.· In America, ideology is per- Russians·  out  of -Cuba  by  words  
pling for afew moments before fall­ petrated  both  by  the  government  alone.)  
ing in  a  grotesque tangle that will  and  by major  news  media.  News  The  1960s ·  are  curiously  am­ 
obliterate the world?  .  reporting is ideological when 'it pre­ biguous; ori the one harid, it was the  
, . Make no  mistake, for. all depends  sents  events  divorced · from  their  "golden age" of American capitalist  
ori it, the operiing moves have been  social  and  historical  context.  In  democracy.· Between 1961 arid 1967;  
made.  For America the time seems  selecting  among  events  ·  judged  per capita :income and consumption  
ripe;. we are readying for war. Car- worthy of being riews,  a variety of  expanded dramatically, arid the New  
ter describes the Russian invasion of  forces come into play, including the  Economics seemed to· meet its test,  
Afghanistan as "the greatest threat  interests of news corporations them- for  Jull  ' employment  ·and  stable  
to world peace since World War II,"  selves.  The uncritical acceptance of  prices  were  achieved; -(Wilber and  
and so he introduces World War ill.  the; tenets  of·_ capitalism,· the  de:  Jameson) The rate of inflation gent­ 
.  His  words  in  the  State  of  the  marids of the market and the need  lyincreased from less than one per­ 
Union Address were met with wide  for advertising supportare examples  cent to tnree:  !twas the.New'Fron­ 
approval;  by  solidly winning  the  of such interests.  ·.­ ·  tier/the Great Society aridthe Peace  
Iowa ·caucus;  he  showed  Congres- The need for a critique of ideology  Corps;  .On-the; other·: hand;· it was  
sional leaders that he had the back- is the theme of this paper; for the  also a time of militant protest; some  
ing of America.  If that support is  Cold  War.  mind-set  is  essentially  saw thaiour:foreign policy was im­ 
diminished today, it is by the pres- ideological; it ignores present real­ perialist arid life one of vacuous con~  
ence  of  a  more  militant candidate  ities and is· itself the result of  an  surription: :·' Full;: employment  and  
for the presidency, Ronald Reagan.  unrecognized past.  (An aphorism:  stable prices' were maintained by the  
Carter leads  the rush back  to  the  orily possessing knowledge' of  the  war in Viet Nani and massive deficit  
50's ·and the Cold War; back to .the  past may we act in the present with~  spending.  .  · •  ·  
good· old days.  - .  - out fear of the future.)  .  The  facade  was  rotted  and  fell  
The  Carter  Doctrine  points  the  Furthermore, "Ideology is  to  so:  aparfquickly in the early 70s.  The  
way:  an increase in military spend­ ciety what rationalization is 'to the  antiwar  movement' attained  legiti­ 
ing (at the cost of social programs), a freeing of the CIA from account- individual. As in the psychology of .the mind,· past events, if cut off and  macy (and, with Kent State, sym~ pathy),···and a:· strong effort to end  
ability to Congress; the freezing of  repressed,  retain their po·wer  ove:r  the war surfaced>:.::  ·  ·­ ·  
detente;. the lapse of_. the '.Salt .II agreement (here Republicans call  the present." (Habermas, Knowledge and Human Interest)The Cold War  '. In 1971 the Brettori Woo·ds system of exchange of currency ended, ·and  
for  rejection),. a  partial trade ·em­ mind-set is, in spite of mi.ich· hyper- so  America's. economic .\hegemony  
bargo (high technology and grain),  bole to the contrary, psychologically  ended as 'Japan' and West Germany  
and the suspension of cultural  ex­ . ·.the path of least _resistance.  I argue  moved to the;fore.  . .  -.  _.  .  .  _  
changes  (the Olympics  and  scien­ that  the.. Russian  threat.  ha~ .bee_n  · In  1973,  the.  OPEC  boycott  
tific programs).  .  ·  ·  _  manufactured .to  prevent .:.us  from  brought.America tc>her knees; With  
.There is a curious eagerness in the taking up of the call to. arms, in  confronting very real problems;'* * * *  . .  grim irony,.· we... saw_ the .tables turned; no longer could _we:.-exploit  
unfurling . the  banner  of  the. new  .  The. gravest ~ danger  now  is. that.  a vital resource and. its. owners with  
patriotism. The national voice (care- the Cold War mind~set will be self- impunity;  . The  '­ hunters  '· became  

fully con_ducted by the news media)· fulfU~i_ng; we,.. maY,.-~r:_our re~p~nse :.. hunted... · 
22 : ; . SCHOLASTIC 
In Chile, in that same year, Kissinger-Nixon-CIA overthrew a democratically elected government, demonstrating America's fierce com­mitment to, 'if 'no't a free world, a free market. 
In 1974, as the sordid tale of Watergate was slowly teased out, Richard M. Nixon resigned from the I, office of the presidency of the United 
States. ­
In 1975, we saw the last Ameri­cans somewhat ungraciously leave Saigon. For us, the war in Viet Nam 
was over. 
1976 brought the year of our bi­centennial celebration. America was , just beginning to recover from the greatest recession since the Depres­sion; for the nation,· unemployment stood at 10%. For. some though, it was much higher. 
The end of American hegemony is crystallized · in ·. the events of these years; they came one after the other in stunning succession. fn foreign policy, in domestic politics, and in the believed viability of the capital­ist system, the promise was broken. • The failure was devastating. One could look to no quarter for relief. Now, five years later, I find our col­lective memory short; we have largely suppressed the meaning if not the events of these years. 
Failure is a time to learn. "The experiences from which one learns are negative. The reversal of 'con­sciousness • means .the dissolution of identifications, the breaking of fix­ations and the destruction of projec·~ tions.''. (Habermas) 
America failed, and Jailed to learn. •The challenge was simply too fundamental. We proved unable to grasp the fullimport of these events. (For example, . Nixon· became a scapegoat to maintain:the belief in· the soundness ·of our political estab­lishment. New developments in Watergate reported in Harper's, De­cember 1979 expect to be ignored, etc., etc.) 
* * * * 

What I want to argue is essen­tially this: America, rather than confront these failures and learn, has suppressed or distorted their memory in an ideological fashion. Deeply troubled and frustrated ­yet allowed no understanding of the apparent failure of democratic capi­talism -we have been led to exter­nalize our failure. By locating the threat '.'ciut there," we avoid con­frontation with our own self-image. The result is a bellicose posture to-· ward the world that has indeed dis­tracted our attention from internal problems. (OPEC is blamed in a major presidential address for the energy crisis, . inflation, unemploy­ment, etc. The Seven Sisters and the problems of monopoly capitalism are never seriously confronted.) 
What I am pursuing here is how an ideological understanding of the world and ourselves allows us to be 
· manipulated. The Cold War in the fifties was an attempt to protect foreign investments which were needed to fuel our consumer econ­omy -investments quadrupled be­tweeri 1945 and 1965 (again Wilber and Jameson). Communism had to be opposed to prevent socialism from 
· closing off these markets. ' America's corporate needs de­
crisis" showed to what extent we would go to fabricate a threat. Though it was eventually seen as a travesty, it demonstrates the shal­lowness of a pretext needed to justify what were becoming ap­parent interests. (Salt IT was nearly wrecked, and a Caribbean Task Force was created, satisfying the military-industrial complex and pro­viding a medium for intervention.) A note of desperation is heard; un­able to look inward, we turn out­ward. 
It is the Iranian crisis, through, that showed clearly how much vehe­mence was suppressed. Incredulous that once-mighty America could be held hostage by a "ragtag band of 
mand a · foreign policy of interven-· . · students," we howled with anger 
tion. The experience of Viet Nam, · 
· though not fully understood as im­perialist, prevented such a policy for much of the.70's. The new Cold War is a reason for renewing that ability (a three-ocean. navy and rapid de­
ployment force) and to justify a policy of intervention (geopolitics or realpolitik). 
Intervention secures corporate in­terest (which is called in the press "vital U.S. interests"). It does not, as Peter Walshe has argued, secure America's long-term interest. Indeed it endangers our very existence. (Will another war bring us out of the coming recession, will it van­quish ·inflation, resolve unemploy­ment?) Frustrated and distrustful, we nevertheless do not see the hand in the puppet. Until we,do, we will not tie able to understand whether 
. or how Russia poses athreat to us much Jess react intelligibly. There are three events within the last year that demonstrate aspects of our ideological self-understanding and at the same time show our antic­ipation in finding an enemy. The "Boat people crisis" was most incredible in that we never acknowl­edged our own guilt. Instead we self-righteously attacked the • Viet­namese government. I mean quite simply, we had fought an unjust war· in Viet .Nam for ten yea.rs, taken countless lives, dropped well over six . million tons of bombs. We napalmed her and defoliated her countryside; we sowed landmines in her fields; we refused to pay promised recom­pensation and did everything within our power to subvert the newly formed government. And then we have gall, the sheer, audacity, to make: moral postures. The Seventh Fleet becomes agrotesque parody of the Angel of Mercy. · ·· · The "Russian .. brigade in Cuba 
and frustration. It was the sound of a people confused and frightened. For a time, our own Iranian stu­dents took the brunt of our confused anger; at last it seemed the enemy had taken a tangible form. 
We have yet to understand the genesis of the Iranian crisis; for to admit our part, to try the Shah, is to try American foreign policy for the last quarter of a century. Our president cannot admit wrong with­out allowing a dangerous line of questioning. 
Our search for an enemy ended with the Russian invasion of Af­ghanistan. With something akin to relief, we found a familiar shape for our fears. ..· There are many, many things one must say to understand the Russian invasion of Afghanistan and the American response. The first, of course, is to acknowledge (I fear my sympathies are now suspect) that I am in complete sympathy with the 
·Afghan people; that I despise all intervention, especially when it brings pain and suffering· of this magnitude. This does not excuse our own response which· does very little to help the· Afghan people. 
Saying this, I will confine my re­_marks to the following. Russia did not revive the Cold War when America invaded the. Dominican Re­public in 1965/ I think Russia's reac­· tion is understandable· (not justi­
· fiable), to a CIA-backed Moslem rev­olution in a country bordering their own. After the Iranian revolution, one might be apprehensive about the effects of an .Afghan revolution on the fifty million Moslems · in one's own country. 
Our response to .the Russian in­vasion is grossly exaggerated. Our imaginations run wild luxuriating in 
(Continued ,on page 46) 

I 

eil_een o mear 



Justice.at Notre Dame: 
Dwelling Together in Peace 
by Donna Teevan and Lucy Maloney 
pellate Hearing Board consists of a If a student is not satisfied with All excerpts quoted in this article faculty member, Dean Kathleen Rice, Roemer's decision, or if he feels his are taken from the University Rules and a student. : The third level of · rights, as _outlined in Du Lac, have and Regulations as set out in "Du the process culminates in a hearing been violated in the procedure, .he Lac" 1979-1980. before St. Mary's President, John can appeal to the Judicial Review 
Duggan. Board. The Review Board consists 
If the Hall Director judges an of-of 12 'members: six from the faculty, "A college campus suffers little fense too serious to take the normal and six from the administration. The violent crime aut, more reckless route, as in the case of drug offenses, Faculty Senate chooses 12 nominees, treatment of property and thought-St.· Mary's has the Dean's Hearing and the Vice President for Student less aause .· of one's fellows, more Board made up of the offender's Hall Affairs chooses 12 nominees. The cheating and more bad manners. In ·Director, a member of the. faculty, Student Government pares this a university, concern for the social Dean Rice, and Judicial Coordinator, group of 24 down to 12, subject to order and for personal growth is a Martha Boyle. Ms. Boyle believes President Hesburgh's approval. If function of education.. . . . The so-. that the smaller community at St. the accused student decides to ap­ciety of a private university is volun-· ·Mary's "enhances the student role peal, the hearing board will only tary. . . . In a voluntary society, in the judicial process. · It's.· impor-consist of five Review Board mem­members possess a bond of loyalty . tant to have the student perspective hers. The student selects one mem­and commitment that cannot be on every level possible." ber, the Dean picks a second, and the taken for granted . ... Another ex-Notre Dame, however, distin-final three are chosen at random: pectation in a voluntary society is · guishes between hall and university "Out of a hat," according to Roemer. that offenders will be dealt with pa-offenses. Three years ago, the Notre The Board must be made up of at tiently and personally more to help· Dame judicial process on the univer-least two administrators and two and correct than to punish." sity level had students involved at faculty members. The · decision 
the first two levels also. An accused handed down by ·the Review Board 
The preceding excerpt is taken · student had three options presented can only be appealed to_ the Presi­from the Preamble to the University to him at the · first · level. He could dent. Rules and Regulations, a document appear before the Dean, a second There are two'very important rea­that is only three years old. The uni~ hearing officer other than the Dean, sons for excluding students from the versity judicial procedures at Notre or he could appear before the Disci-procedure ·today. First, students Dame were changed in 1977 by the plinary Board. The Disciplinary already have an opportunity for in­Board of . Trustees. Beginning this _Board had six members: two faculty -volvement in the. judicial process in year, St. Mary's College implemented members, two administrators, and · their · dormitories by serving on the a new system, too, and the two pro-two students. On the second level, hall judicial . boards. . Second, and cedures differ in one major aspect: the Appeals Board had the same most important, the past system re­student involvement. ratio of faculty; 'administrators, and vealed serious flaws when an accused 
Both Notre· Dame and St. Mary's· ·students. ·Once again,. the final ap-student's offense merited expulsion represent, as the Preamble states, peal culminated with an appearance from the University. Most of the voluntary, private communities. The before the President of the Univer-students who served on the Discipli­system adopted by St. Mary's this sity, Theodore Hesburgh. nary or Appeals Boards found it year is similar to the system rejected Today,. no student is involved in very difficult to sit in judgment of a by Notre Dame three years ago. the university-wide procedure, ex-peer who had committed a serious In this system, two of the three cept as · counsel to the accused.· At offense. '.'Students are very reluctant levels in the judicial process use the the first. level, the accused has no to dismiss other students from· the offender's peers. The 'first level : choice of hearing officers; the Dean University," states Roemer, "because allows the woman offender to choose of Students takes the case automati-it is difficult to deal with the friends between a hearing before the Stu-. cally.._ Dean James Roemer.. em-of an expelled peer. Serious offenses dent Relations Board or her Hall· • phasizes that this hearing is primar-.. leave student judges with a heavy Director. ·There are no hall judicial <.ily designed to determine whether or conscience." boards at· St..Mary's, because there not· a· violation has occurred. "Just As. the cases became more difficult are no distinctions between hall and · as in a court, of law, each student to deal with, the University decided college offenses. ·The Student Rela-· • conies into this ·hearing with.. the · it had to change the judicial process. tions Board consists of · eight stu-presumption of innocence," says The :Board of . Trustees came out dents. At the second level, the Ap-· Roemer. ·. with the new policy in 1977. As it 
SCHOLASTIC 

stands today, the judicial process has increased the number of offenses that can be dealt with on the hall level, which increases the jurisdic­tion of the hall judicial boards. Also, on the university level, the hearings on the Dean's level and the Appeals level are distinct. In the past, evi­dence presented in the first hearing was used on the Appellate leveLThe first decision was also taken into consideration. Roemer points out, "Now the student is given two full hearings." On the Appellate level, the Dean is no longer a hearing of­ficer; he becomes a Universiy repre­sentative and must argue against the accused student. 
Dean Roemer ·argues that the Dean of Students is now a much more visible figure, which adds pres-­sure to his position, but he says, "I'll take on that -pressure, because _I know I affect students' lives, but I don't have ·to live with the friends of those people I judge. In that respect, it is a little easier for me to dismiss a student, if he deserves it, 
. ._.,,. ,, 

than it is for one student to expel another." 
Both the systems at Notre Dame and St. Mary's have their merits, but each has problems too. At St. Mary's, Judicial Coordinator Martha Boyle feels that the new system is beneficial to students "concerned 
-with upholding justice in the com­munity. But," she says, "there are 
•-still a lot of bugs to work out. We have to set up training procedures for all •members to help them learn what questions to ask, and how to make their decisions." The system has yet to be tested to the extreme of dismissing a fellow student, so only time will prove the benefits of the new system. At Notre Dame, the. system is three years old. Dean Roemer feels it has· proved successful, but the stu­dent reaction is not so universal in i_ts support.-· "And that," says Dean Roemer, "is to be expected. We have a ·diverse group of people here at Notre Dame, and no one process will satisfy everyone."· ., 

"The Univer$ity rules and regula~ tions come under. the jurisdiction of the Dean of Students. AU violations are at the disposition of the Dean of Students.. . ." 
Dean Roemer -has been the Dean 
of Students for five years. He has seen the system working · in two ways, and -he much prefers today's version of _the judicial · process; He has great respect for the power ,he holds, but he also has great respect for the -students with whom he · deals: "If a Dean is conscientious, he -will deal .with the students that come into his office fairly, and try to help them learn from their experi­ences." Dean Roemer understands the extent to which he can carry a punishment, but his overriding con­cern is "to make the person look at himself, and at what he. has done wrong, because Notre Dame is a pri­vate community, and we must gov­ern its peace and order not by 
punishing, but by helping." 
Roeiner's alternatives in,choosing a sanction for a rule-breaker_ range from levying a fine to permanent dis­missaL He does · riot like fines. "To force a student to· pay a fine can be detrimental in one of two ·ways. If a student is well off, all he has to do is call his father and tell him he needs $50 for a big party he's going to. The punishment is no punish­ment at all for such a student. On the other hand, there may be a stu-. dent who simply cannot afford $50 for anything. I very seldom impose fines because they are so dispropor­tionate," states Roemer. 
The Dean-believes that work sanc­
tions are the most appropriate for 
the Notre Dame community. ,A.stu­
dent can opt to do 10 hours 'of some 
type of volunteer work· at Logan 
Center or with -the. Neighborhood 
Study_ Help Program. The sanctions 
are imposed so that a student can 
do something to_ benefit others, since 
his 'violation generally has hurt the 
community in some way. "Most ·,if 
the students I ·deal with want to do _ 
something for somebody ---else," 
Roemer -says. "I've --been-pleased 
with_ _how people . accept the_ work 
they do."· · 
The unfortunate aspect of dealing with students and the offenses they commit is revealed by a few statis­tics. :Dean Roemer says,· "Alcohol abuse is a_ seriotis problem here, as it is on most college •· campuses. I would have to··say that 60-70% of all the cases I deal' with stem from alcohol ·abuse. In good conscience, 
27 

• I 
I can only say that I will have to continue to take tough positions on offenses involving alcohol abuse." Permanent dismissal cases are rare for the Dean, because his philosophy is so geared towards helping stu­dents. Generally, the more serious the case, the more likely he will con­sider himself unqualified to deal with the student, and he will refer the offender to Psychological Services. 
Overall, however, Dean Roemer says, "I love the job I do, it's a chal­lenging opportunity for me, and I like working with students, helping them build a peaceful community." 
"Viola'tions of hall rules and regu­lations are considered within the hall. Students subject to disciplinary action may clwose to have their cases considered by the rector or by . the hall judicial board.'' 
The functions· .. of hall judicial boards vary widely from hall to hall. The degree and. type of activity by a hall j-board reflect both the philos­ophy of the rector and the problems of the hall. Some j-boards have never met to hear a case, while others meet frequently to consider matters ranging from cheating in interhall athletics to stealing among room­mates. 
Keenan Hall has one of Notre 

Dame's most active fboards. Fr. 
Richard Conyers, rector of Keenan, 
lets the j-board decide most cases of 
alleged violations of residence hall 
rules because "all matters should be 
handled on the lowest· level where 
they · can be . competently handled. 
Why should the rector or the Dean 
of Students handle something . the 
students can handle themselves?" 
Conyers says he is convinced that "a 
j-board will workif the rector allows 
it to work." 
A rector's use of the j-board often 

reveals his attitudes toward resi­
dence hall life and his role as rector. 
For example, Fr. Conyers states that 
the foundation· of hall life in Keenan 
is "the basic premise of . mutual 
trust." A violation of this trust is an 
offense against. the entire hall com­
munity. The offender, therefore, is 
called before the representatives of 
that community, the j-board. Fr. 
Conyers says that although he is the 
rector, he likes to consider himself 
just another member of the Keenan 
community who can depend on the j­
board. He. believes that rectors and 
hall staffs should not lord over 
students, but "should be free to lead 
28 

Dean Roemer: Helping build a· peaceful community 
as role models. They should lead by example and gentle persuasion." · 
Bro. Pete Mahoney, rector of Flanner, expresses views similar to those of Fr. Conyers. As in Keenan, 
· the j-board of Flanner handles most cases of alleged infractions. It has issued major penalties, such as ex­pelling a student from the hall, as well as minor ones, such as forcing a student to perform maintenance work for the hall. Bro. Mahoney states that he has had to reject "the models of the smaller, older halls in which the rector is in charge of everything. Flanner is so big that I have to delegate authority so that the students can run the hall them­selves. 
However, in Grace, the only other hall as large as Flanner, most cases go directly to the rector. Grace's rector, Bro. Charles Burke, estimates that he deals with two-thirds of the cases of alleged rule-breaking. Most of the cases he hears involve exces­sive noise or property damage. Ac­cording to Bro. Burke, most students prefer to go to the rector because it takes more time to convene the j­board. Fr. Matthew Miceli, Cava­naugh's rector, also points out that assembling a j-board may be dis-; proportionately time-consuming for · dealing with minor disturbances such as "problems of. annoyance." However, violations of . the party rules, such as excessive drunkenness or damage, are almost always han­dled by the j-board in Cavanaugh. 
Farley's j-board, among others, has never met to consider a case. Sr. 
·· Jean Lenz, rector of Farley, says that she "wants the j-board to be active" and would use it "if there were a major noise or damage prob­lem." She suggests that the j-board could be a more vital part of hall life by assisting in matters that do not strictly involve violations of resi­dence hall rules. sr:Lenz commends the j-board's work in conducting hall elections and . proposes that the j­board could also serve. the hall by. revising the often ambiguous hall constitution. 
The rector of Lyons, Sr. Marietta Starrie, also recommends ways in which the j-board could serve the community other than in its disci­plinary ·· role. She. called for more j-board involvement in · policymak­ing, since the j-boards must enforce all policies made by the University. "The j-boards could be used to can­vas opinions about policies under considerations," Starrie suggests. 
Although most rectors and stu­dents do not favor a radical change in the present judiciary system, almost all of them recognize defi­ciencies in the present system. One of these problem· areas is a lack of uniformity among the various hall procedures. Du Lac outlines the basic requirements for a hall j-board, but leaves the procedure up to each hall. 
Several j-board chairmen have ex­pressed concern over the sometimes great differences between the halls in ·the number of cases handled by the rector rather than by the j-board. In Lyons, where the j-board has never heard a· case, the rector, Sr. Starrie, says that she handles ·cases that are "peculiarly pastoral" in order to maintain the student's pri­vacy. Many times students prefer to talk to the rector rather than to reveal their personal problems to their peers on the j-board. 
Frequent meetings· of the judicial 

council, made up of :the j-board 
chairmen from every .· hall and the 
judicial coordinator, could lead to a 
SCHOLASTIC 

lessening of the differences between halls. This year the j-board chair­men have had few opportunities to exchange ideas. Even this year's judicial coordinator, Jim O'Hare, has little knowledge about the opera­tion of each hall j-board because there is no established system of communication between the coordi­nator and the individual j-boards aside from the judicial council meet­ings. There were several meetings of the judicial council this year, but these were called sporadically and often consisted of workshops about campus problems such as . alcohol abuse. 
A few rectors and j-board chair­men cite the enforcement of punish­ment ·as a problem with using a j­board. Grace's rector, Bro. Burke, points out that there is "no system for monitoring punishment." In nearly every hall, the j-board. is re­sponsible for enforcing its own rul­ings. The Flanner j-board "works with the hall life commission in de­vising and enforcing · penalties," 
,7TAf2_1 
You AR~ 
'E:NT -ro 
YouR. ~ALL ... 
-
J2.ECTOR. 

I 
1)ec.1s10H

I 
. 
.APPEALED 
PEAN OF 
_5TUt>ErtTj 
ALL 1>ec.1~10Nj 
F'iNM... 
' ' 

APRIL 18, 1980, 
according to· Flanner j-board chair­man John Schafer.· In Cavanaugh, Fr. Miceli said that the j-board has not had any trouble enforcing penal­. ties, which usually consist .of fines. The lack of a uniform system of en­forcing punishment allows each hall to adopt the method best suited to its 
needs. 
Some students who are disturbed 
by the differences in hall judicial 
procedures and the lack of student 
input in the University's policymak­
ing process, propose that a campus­
wide j-board like St. Mary's be estab­
lished. Patty Hackett, j-board chair­
man at Farley, states that she favors 
a campus-wide j-board because "it 
would make the judicial council 
more influential. Right now they 
are not a decision-making ·body." 
Bro. Mahoney of Flanner says that 
he "would be comfortable with a 
campus-wide j-board because stu­
dents should have control over their 
environment and be able to set 
standards for themselves." 
Other rectors and j-board chair-
J -8oARD  DEC.1$10N Ac.C.E'PTED  
J)Kl~ION APPOLll:I>  At.TION  5,0PPED  
pe,,~IOH A«~P'TEI> Ac-r10N S,oppe.p  

Hall Procedure 
men are not so enthusiastic about establishing a campus-wide· j-board. Grace's Bro. Burke criticizes the pro­posal because "it would just create ariother bureaucracy for students to deal with." Many rectors and stu­dents want to retain the hall j­boards because the hall boards are more sensitive to the needs of their own halls, which may be different from those of other halls. According to Donald De Gral, j-board chairman of Cavanaugh, "the individual hall j-boards offer a. personal touch and have better knowledge of the person charged." Sr. Lenz of Farley points out ·that another disadvantage of a campus-wide j-board is that a stu­dent's membership on a campus-wide j-board · would be time-consuming and involve much responsibility for his peers. She said that many stu­dents ·would not have enough time or would not .want to accept the responsibility for the futures of their fellow students. 
J~board chairman Hackett noted that "j-boards ·are becoming more organized and are handling' more cases." It appears that this trend might ·continue into next year with John Plunkett as the '80-'81 judicial co-ordinator. Plunkett states that he hopes "to make j-board proceed­ings a little bit more uniform and to help the j-boards become more effec­tive within the halls." · 
Plunkett also stresses the need for providing students with ·more infor~ mation about the judiciary system. He says many students are not aware that the judicial co-ordinator can arrange for a knowledgeable stu­dent to act as counsel to someone accused .of · a University offense. Plunkett plans .to use hall j-board chairmen and articles in The · Ob­server to better inform the students: He says he also hopes to help stu­dents who are charged with civil violations by informing them about their rights and .referring them to organizations that might help them, such as Legal Services. . · 
Though· rectors and . students. rec­ognize problems with· the current judiciary system, most are reluctant to suggest major changes in it. Notre Dame students. can • expect little change in the system within the next 
-year, but might notice better organ­ization and uniformity among the halls. Whatever the various hall judicial procedures m·ight be, now or in the future, the foundation for all of them is the same: "If scholars are · 
to_ dwell together in peace, they will 
have to live under. the law." -.D 
29 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
OUR LOS·T VOICE? 
According to this past year's Stu­dent Body President, Bill Roche, the goal of student government is to "effectively articulate student con­cerns to the administration." This is accomplished mainly through meeting with members of the ad­ministration to discuss various top­ics of student concern such as housing and academics. But Student Government is relatively powerless in implementing these concerns. Student Government can draw up various proposals by itself, or in con­junction with the CLC or HPC, but the administration has . the final word. 
"The best we can -do," stated 

Roche,. "is to make the .students' 
voice known. We can't change their 
(the administration's) minds." But 
Roche does not view this as a prob­
lem, ·nor does he. believe that Stu­
dent Government needs more .power. 
He feels that much is accomplished 
viewpoint. ' 
merely by presenting the .students' 
Roche sees the recent decision by 

the University to. house women in 
the new dorm·as a "classic" example 
of how Student Government can be 
effective in this limited role. The 
University. had · originally intended 
to put men in the new dorm and put 
women in one. of the· towers. He 
added that the intervention of Stu­
dent · Government . probably influ­
enced the University's decision, but 
that it was. impossible to tell just 
•how influential . this · intervention .was~. . . . . . 
_In fact, : it appears as if Student Government has been most·success: ful in the area of housing: Bill Vita; this past year's Vice-President, at­tributed-the success to the excellent relationship between Student. Gov­ernnient and Fr: Michael Heppen, Director of Housing.· -A sum ·. of forty thousand dollars was allocated for improvements in hall social space. Furthermore, the. money. was parceled out according to the recoin­mendations of Student .Government. Roche considers this fo .be .among Student Government's most impor.;, tant accomplishments. . . · . .· 
Another area in. which . Student Government feels it has been sue~ cessful is in academics, speciflcaliy concerning the issue of tenure. Beth 
30 
by Joe Burinskas 

r, .·... .··. . 
' .-~ 
'<"'),,. ,,!' 
,-~ ·,1t4.;:,,,~ 
. ~ 
., ... 

~•..;. -,_,_ .. ,r/4::li,.--~v<; ~ ~~""-t"?:· -~;1/ ' '., :•, 
<< '• • 
e v~ • ~) 

~.: 
11£;, ' ;:,.;:,~ 
Student Body President Paul Riehle 
Imbriaco, Academic Coordinator perienced good working · relations stated that the tenure issue was with members of the . administra­their most important concern. As it tion, particularly with Dr.· Timothy stands right now, there is not a stu­O'Meara, Provost ·of the University, dent representative on the Commit­with whom she coines into contact tee on Academic Promotion, which quite often. She further stressed that· evaluates those who are up for ten­.although Student Government is ure. Imbriaco admitted that she powerless to directly implement the couldn't say whether or not the work students' concerns, ·.the administra­done will improve tenure process tion takes Student Government seri­because it is too early to tell. "Most ously, and listens to their views of our work has been pretty much carefully; _ foundational," she said. "We did a · · Most members would agree with lot of research and interviewing into this view, at least to some extent. areas ·that had not been touched be­However, so-me contend that the ad­fore." . ministration will · only listen to 
-Imbriaco stated that she has ex-'. Student Government in a perfunc-
ScHOLASTIC 

>I' 

tory manner. Jose Marrero, one of 
the executive ...coordinators,· stated 
that he believes Student Government 
needs "more honest respect from the 
administration, rather than merely 
nominal respect." Marrero explained 
that the University does not seem to 
want the students to become in­
volved in many issues. "No matter 
what, their [the administration's] 
attitude towards us is that we're 
only students and we'll be gone in 
four years-so don't worry about 
it." . 
This attitude came through clearly 
in the recent controversy over the elimination of scholarships for hock­ey and other non-revenue produc­ing sports. Marrero and other ·Stu­dent Government representatives met with Fr. Edmund Joyce, Execu­tive Vice-President of the Univer­sity, before the public uproar had · begun. Marrero stated that the meet­ing was "somewhat informative," but the administration had obvi­ously made up its mind. He further added that the main purpose of the meeting was "nothing more than to sedate us" in order to calm the 
student reaction. 
Throughout the entire . situation, 
the University has kept the same at­
Utude. Marrero explained that the 
petition to ·save hockey, which col­
lected well over . three ·-thousand 
names in only twenty-four hours, 
was a "spur-of-the-momerit. thing" 
because·the University had· decided 
to hold a Trustees' meeting the up­
coming weekend. to decide ·the fate 
of minor sports. Student Government 
was not informed of the meeting. 
The petition was presented to 
Father Hesburgh that Wednesday 
night in Grace Hall, but the meet­
. APRIL 18, 1980 ing did not appear to be very fruit­ful. "There was no meeing of the minds," explained Vita. "Hesburgh 
. just came there to explain the situa­tion and not to really take anything in." 
Student Government is further stifled by the fact that they are not even in a position to make recom­mendations to the University. Vita said that it would be "ludicrous" to make recommendations for "we don't know the whole situation." 
The administration has refused to disclose its finances to Student Gov­ernment. Vita added that he be­
lieves they have a right to know exactly what's going on, but are powerless to obtain this right.
Another area in -which Student Government has been thwarted is the proposal to get kegs on campus. 
. Student Government __ spent' five months on the proposal, which began in April of last year. Marrero stated 
that "every little consideration" was examined. Yet the proposal was op­
posed by the rectors on the CLC 
whos·e objections he termed "self­centered." The proposal was passed by the CLC, vetoed . by Fr~ Van Wolvlear, overridden, only to be.ve­toed by Dr. O'Meara. This second veto was also overridden, but final­ly the proposal was vetoed by Fr. Hesburgh. · Vita termed the'entire ordeal "ex­asperating." "We spent a great deal of time on it. We had· what I be­lieve to be rational . and well­thought._out arguments but we could · never get by the fact that the ad­ministration believed .that kegs· on campus would lead to increased drinking on the part of the students.'' 
It would. not be accurate to,say that the inadequacy of Student .Gov' ernment is entirely due to an· unre­sponsive administration. In some re­spects,. the administration has been receptive to Student Government. According to Marrero, jlunbelievable progress" has been made ih the rela­tionship between Student Govern­ment and Dean of Students, James Roemer. Before he issues any direc­tive, Roemer advises Student Gov­ernment as to the contents of the directive, something that had not been done previously. Moreover, at the beginning of the school year, both Roche and Vita were invited to sit in on the interviews and selec­tion process for a new director of security. "Just to be included in the decision-making process,'' said Vita, "is a big step." 
Part of the problem may lie with the student body. Maureen Murphy, Alumni Coordinator, sees an apa­thetic student body as part of the problem. Concerning the. situation of ·non-revenue• producing. ·sports. Murphy said, "Let's face it, if this were the sixties, there'd be students out carrying· signs." · 
The student body at Notre Dame has never beeri known for its politi­cal activism. Yet at thts year's Mar­quette game, a protest organized by Paul Riehle arid Bob Carey; who were both campaigning _for Presi­dent at the time, was quite success­ful. A large portion of the students held up_ "Save Hockey and ·mirior 
:sports" signs during the time-outs and: a few made sheet banners with similar messages. 
·· · ­Although there was a unified stu­dent protest, its. effects' might riot have been very positive. According 
to Marrero, it appeared as if the University had made an agreementwith NBC not to show the students. He further added that the adminis­tration probably looked down on the 
students.for the protest. -. Another reason keeping. Student Government from being very effec­tive this past year.seems to·be. the ·reluctance on the part of the leader­ship to admit that there is a prob­l~m.-Roche described all of Student -Government's relationships with .members· of the administration as "superb,'' while .• other members were not as enthusiastic. Roche was somewhat optimistic -that the· keg proposal would pass on its second -try. "When .Fr. Yan vetoed it the first time, h·e gave the reason that he didn't want to run two experiments at the same time. Now that party rooms have been successful, the keg 

proposal has a better chance. It's not dead yet." · 
Yet the keg proposal did die.. This time it failed to even pass the CLC. The proposal is obviously a major concern of Student Government since it was a part of Roche and Vita's platform and five months were spent trying to get it passed the first time. Roche, however, responded quite matter-of-factly that the defeat was of no great consequence, for the keg proposal was merely a "little thing.'' 
Furthermore, it appears as if Roche overestimates the influence that Student Government has on the decisions made by the Administra­tion. Roche said that the allotment of $40,000 for improvements in hall social spac·e was "one of our most important achievements" this past year. But Roche also stated that the money was "totally unexpected." Al­though Student Government was working to improve hall social space, the $40,000 was more of a gratui­tous act on the part of the Univer­sity, rather than as a result of active intervention by Student Government. 
Paul Riehle, who took over · as 

Student Body President on April first, sees one of his major responsi­bilities as President to not only pre­sent the students' viewpoints to the administration, but also to "mobilize . student support rather than just re­act.'' He believes that Student Gov­ernment under Roche's administra­tion lacked the ability to coordinate the student viewpoint. Riehle stated that it appeared as if Student. Gov­ernment drew up a petition to save hockey only as a response to an Observer ·. editorial urging Student Government to take a positive stand. Riehle· stated that this coordination is needed because "most students are concerned, but they're not in a 
'position to act." ' 
Riehle hopes to accomplish this 
coordination mainly through .better 
communication between Student 
Government and the student body. 

This improved communication would 
help Riehle to achieve his most im­
portant goal: to gain the respect of 
both the administration and the 
student body. "If you gain the re­
spect of the students, the adminis­

.tration· has to· respect you if you 
have a lot of popular support," said 
Riehle. 

It is too early to tell whether .or not Riehle can gain this respect that · was· lacking in the previous· admin­. istration. Perhaps if Riehle imple­ments innovative programs to co­ordinate the student concerns, his goal can be realized. D 
tOO\J 
Matthias in Crossi~g 
l 
• ,T' • 
;(.: \JJ• .. : 
by Tim Gulsti~e, 
--~-«7 

~··:-_;.--.,-·.0 :~---.._,--,,,_-r-.,~ ·---r:';-1~7'~',,...... -.. --:-·••r..~:;--·,~..•r -~~-·'?'',.,.."'~~~·::~-:--~ "V't·.~-~"".":'J'~"1
r·--,.c;;;;sing, the' most recently'pub-t:sting,'miint'words:zfo,r:.the first I , lished miscellany of poems from time,·. explormg them. ·..as chan!lels ; ; .Johri Matthias, is'as apUy .labelled for.. n_ew' experien~es. "The rea~er l i, polyglot arid,:eclectic as any of his 'sepses.· th'.1~he .shoul~ be;,taken to ; ~ previous works, but the negative the ~as~ _as:\VelL W:e .8:r~. mean_t. to l ; connotations of these words may be be, ·as ..1s the author .m ,.J:>oem .for 1 I dispensed \Vith. in this case. Erijoy-Cynouai;'\ pursuing anyone: or<anY,­f:ment· of Crossing requires· neither thing. that lllay. insist. upon atte11­t 'elaborate research "nor multilingual 'tibn;, fo: tha(;partic:ular, \VOr~, 'an [ capacities: It. may. require only the , epistolary: Ipo.em, it·. is: a . grO\y~ng i' inclination to savor Ianguag~ at face dimghter. 'Yh() both .1nv1tes and de-J 
l value. ' · ' . . . . . · fies the ccimprehensionof her father.l;: ..In,'Cros~i?ig,Matt~ias appears to b'e St_riiinin~. fo,r s,ome. unders_~.:ridi~~-j
t• •,,•h .:-,. •·.-,•......._ .•.. •••,-_., .-,.....-..·,:.,·_.,,.,,,,.,,~~-,....._,,.~:~~•••.__.~,,~.._.-,__,___,._ :.,. ,'.~;'.,,;;~,.--._~__..;_,"-;'"-.,:-~ '-'··: .-~--....,,,,.->--¥•..,__••-·•·• 
SCHOLASTIC 

r-~-------------------------------,-----------------­
of his daughter, whose interests tov poems ,he 'writes:· "Wenn Sie enjoy and which/Defoe did not ...."5 move. quite independently of his sich_ unwohl fuhlen, mussen Sie sich \Vhether it _be a chunk of land guidance, the author writes "...I im Ferien in der frischen Luft be-or cheese, the dead have left it try to learn new words/like any wegen, ·_mit . etwas beschaftigen, und charged with meaning. England en­child-/I say flank, hock, heel, hoof;/ wenn Sie irgend konnen-etwas es-gages the poet. · · . I say fetlock, gaskin, thigh, stifle, sen.''.4 All. this may be lost upon the Still, the living often ·seem to 
' sheath . ...4 The reader is compelled reader, but the textur_e of the Ian-make their presence known_ back in to mouth these words, too, with the guage is evident despite· even acute America. Matthias illustrates his same awkwardness 'and persistence. unfamiliarity with German. Lest the response to this in Part Four of the New words and new experiences are reader be alienated by this passage, "Stefan Batory Poems": · "I am, as necessary nieans to the author's end, the presence of an ungrammatical . Peter thought I would be,/Going worth savoring even when in vain. wording reflects Matthias' own lim-.back. But slowly./The journey takes 
Sometimes itis the familiar.word, ·ited familiarity with the language. nine days./. Unanswered ·letters­or group of words, which generates If his comprehension of the language his and ·Ernie's,/Kevin's, Mrs. Har­a new, _effect. T,he elegy is .an .anti-· is not so far removed from our·own, · ris's-'-/They · weigh 'on ·.me./My quated poetic ji.onventiori, but. iFis , why should his fascination with it • friends, my gifted student,/ My used so . carefully . .in ~'Elegy for be much greater? : . .. . .·. daughter's much beloved nurse... .''6 i Clara'' · that · the overall . effect is Inevitably, there is much more. ·America is kinetic,· riot so much . as fresh. This poem opens gracefully than. surface beauty to these. poems, ; _in the p'ast, but active still. As · one with the lines "I ·remember milk-· should the reader choose to exam-friend writes and is quoted,as say­weed at the shore/ and cattail stems ine them. The structure of the bo.ok ing; " '..·. you will/Be coming back which I was/ lacing absent-minded-is apt to trigger speculation. Parts ..because although/You consider ly through oarlocks/ of ,the' dinghy . I and II, involving American and_: yotirself:no gringo, John,/ You are: when I noticed you ... .''2 Traditional · English subject matter, respectively, · and this is where/ The gringo fight­manners of incantation are revital-.are .entitled Remainders and, Sunis. ing. is./ Or gringo baiting./ . Or: ized 'when special care ·is exercised One wonders what motivates the a.u-whatever the conditions will allow./: for the language: In a wholly differ-. thor to .arrange his material such I'll expect you here in August.' 1~7 -· enf.vein, Part .Nine. of the_ "Mihail that the remainders, normally super~ · The underpinnings in Crossing are 
[ Lermontov P_':)ems" furictioris in. the flitous residuals, should precede the · as varied as the tones, and even more ; same fashion ·as "Elegy. for Clara.'' . stims. If section headings. and. ar-, difficult to :encompass. Political and f In places itseems to echo the rev~ . :rangements . are indicative ..of the · . social concerns surface. ,frequently, [ eries c,f an English historian,.At one author's. attitudes towards England , justifying the claim that Matthias' 1point the language bristles. evoca~ and ·America,. some ambivalence· is .work is notably eclectic. The sum i tively: "... for Winston spot the · afoot. There is, indeed, ambivalence effect of this diversity is rewardingIdoodlebugs and buzzbombs/ pluck . expressed throughout Crossing . in .for the; reader. Too many. of the !. out mines. off Cliffe/· outfox De. Ruy~· this area_:::_far too much of it. to table .. · poetic miscellanies published by au­iter beat that prick Napoleon/ prop ·here for complete explication. Part ., thors today are not miscellaneous atIon some dark night/ a poo·r unlucky · ill involves two sections. The sec-· all. The diversity of Crossing lends [ scapegoat in· the new foundations . tions are named for the two ships .the reader hope; if you happen not lmy fair lady/ of the bridge/ and upon which Matthias travelled be-. to erijoy the poems on one page,i bind him there; . . .''3 Language is tweeri England and America several . turn to the next..The prospect is ithus a channel for .affirmation and · years ago (the Stefan Batoiy and better. than usual. _Matthias enjoys treassertion as well a.s .investigation. .the Mihail Lermontov).. an assortment of forms and idioms, I Its funcUons vary greatly' in Cross-.. These voyages seem to represent •and his enjoyment is infectious. . iing· but a "harsh surface beauty" is elaborate vacillations ·between :the fpervasive. . . . . · . lands of Parts I and n. England: is · Quotes: t · Certainly there is a newness to it heritage ,and ·character, a paradise · 1. p. 26, 11. 218-224 f all, and the wide scope of language · for ,the historian . in Matthias. His : . , 2. p. 18, 11.1+ ·· ·iin. Crossing: encompasses·. foreign affinity is clear iri the· simple, dis-·'. 3. p. 115, 11. 75-82 : •· 1torigues ii). places. StHUhe principle: . cursive lines •of "Mostly Joan Poul-4. p. 101, 11. 27~29 ; is. intact; language· at simple .face .son's Recipes, Etc.": ''... After lunch 5. p. 51, 11. 46-53 f value may_ suffice. When· Matthias we walk: past.the .moated/grange 6. pp. 80-81, ·u..28-35, -· [ assures you that his.favorite record-· in ·Parham' which was/once the 7. p. 81, 11. 38-45.: ·. · ; ing of poetry is in a language which grand estate of .first the Uffords/ · . . .. t · ·1 !he.doesn'Funderstand; his own ad-· and then the Wilioughby d'Ersby's./ . . .,_....._ ._ _. . , (herence to the. principle becomes . We pass _dun cows/which _still pro-•· · ,-·• ..· . , • .· •_·. . '. · . ; 1evident. In Part Five of the Lermon~-duce ,the Suffolk· cheese/which we > ·· · -. . ..·.· . · . : -• . . . . . ·· . : J
L---· ..., --·-·--·-· ....·-·--•--···-'-·"·~--·---·»•-·--·-··-·-•...•.............-·.--·-.. ···--· ----•·••--·-·---··-···· ···-·~--... "-~· ....... -... -~ --·--··---~ 
APRIL· 18, 1980 33 
fCTOn 
Show a little faith, there's magic in the night. You ain't a beauty, but hey you're alright .. 
· -__:_Bruce Springsteen 
Christians ­

People die. The day Tom Wilson died the emer­gency room was crowded with little Negroes, big Jews, and a man who had sliced his hand on a lathe. In the corner was a big man, a priest, who was Tom Wilson's best friend and the finest priest in the diocese. ·He was also a priest who did not believe in God. 
Tom Wilson always was suspicious of minor-league religions, and let people know it -a mistake in a small New England town. Possessed of a ferocious ·energy, he was the kind of person who made a lasting impres­sion on all he met. Brutally honest, but with. a fierce capacity for warmth, people either loved him or hated him. The priest had loved him, for he loved all good people. 
The truth about his life -was horribly simple. His father was Canadian and had died at Iwo Jima.. Tom never knew him. His mother was an alcoholic who loved him intensely, and had brought him up to believe in the Almighty. But Tom never could accept any pie in the sky; he knew damn well that people were good not for the sake of good but to get that pie. He had thought God lived next door to Santa Claus and the 
Easter Bunny, and by the age he gave up on the rabbit 
he had given up on God. Religion was merely a club 
to make sure he ate his peas and didn't play hooky. He remembered when he was little ·and they told him he would burn if he sinned. Tom had been too sharp for that;: he had learned early that if that was true then ­the world would have been ashes long ago. By the time he was twenty he knew that the world was designed to screw you. 
: Tom had been a loner in grade school, an intense little -guy.who always seemed preoccupied with other things. Teachers found him insolent, and by the time ­he reached high school, Tom had been suspended three times. He had spirit though, played soccer and-made All-State, emerging as aboy of convictions-somewhat unorthodox, but. nonetheless . likable. 
-by Jay Coleman · 

--decided to do something about it. Ever impulsive, he got , himself -elected to the Board of Education. His com­bination of naivete and intensity got things done too; he was impatient with those who passively bickered over politics and accomplished nothing. If something was right, do it; if something was wrong, don't do it. They all made simple things seem so complicated, and Tom's narrow but powerful view of public education 
'Served a rieeded function.· 
Tom met the priest in a bar the night after his youngest son was crippled skiing. Bob -had had much promise as an athlete, but none now. Tom was pissed 
off at the world, and took it out on the man sitting at the end of the bar by the TV. When the guy switched the channel from the Celtics game to the news, .Tom growled something about the world going to hell any­way and who wanted to hear about it. The guy put the Celtics game backon, bought Tom a beer, and told him there wasn't a hell to go to anyway, that life was ulti­mately.. nothing so why bitch about it? The world spit on you and you wiped it off and stood up and went on 
and that was all. A father's g·def for_ his son is a ·powerful one, ~nd 
the priest soothed it. Not by· offering sympathy, but by agreeing that the world made sure you didn't win~ Torn Wilson liked him .immediately, ·and they talked far-into, the cold Massachusetts night~ ­
. They spent much time together that winter, skating, drinking, playing tennis in.the high school gym. Some in town were shocked at their friendship, but the more perceptive citizens understood. Both were intense and moral men who cared deeply about somethingr Tom for his children,· the priest for his parish. They took serious things seriously-but neither regarded many things as serious. Each was secretly amused by the world, and laughed inside_ at most people they met. Both dis-. dained pretentiousness and·_ complacency. They got 
· He graduated and· got a job at the lumberyard. A · · along very ..well, and their,-friendship grew as they year later he married Susan. He loved her so much it learned more about each· other.· made you wa~t to cry; and they had three kids, won-· The priest was an Irishman, full of romantic de­
-derful kids. Tom may have been a bad student and a fiance, arid Tom wondered why in hell he ever became sporadic worker, but he was a damn good father. His a priest. Priests generally were losers who couldn't do kids were good students, young Tom got a scholarship -anything else with their lives. A few were hearty men to Tufts eventually, and Mary-the youngest.::..:.:was a· who could have done almost~anything, had any woman, whiz in the junior high. _When Susan_ felt Mary wasn't · made good money, but chose to serve God instead. They getting the proper fundamentals in grade school, Tom commanded respect and got it, but Tom never could 
34 :-: , : SCHOLASTIC 
quite figure out why a winner would· want to hand out bread every Sunday. 
Wheri a man loses his faith it does not happen suddenly, rather, it is slow and gradual. But the priest had never really lost his true faith. He still believed in the intrinsic worth of man; he just rejected the meta­physical crutch so many used. He was stronger-for it; he didn't. believe in God, but he did believe in man. God was man's invention, but Christianity-true Christian­ity-was man's refusal to submit to a cold reality, and that was why the priest was a priest. You could, he felt, be a saint and believe in neither God nor Church; 
The priest became a priest because he was ari ideal­ist without illusions; he believed in the potential of man yet recognized the ultimate futility of all human en­deavors. He had sort of believed in the Big Man until he was ordained, and then no magic hit him and he knew it was a false bill. God did not exist for. hirri; but Jesus did-the man's teachings were correct. Ariyway, the priest felt the question irrelevant-man·could never, given his limited epistemological fram~work, know for sure if God did ·or did not exist, so why waste time worrying about it? 
Even if God did exist, the Church had no control over God's favor, no monopoly on his grace. All men, even pagans, were eligible. People should spend their time actively helping others and not passively worship­ping at proscribed times every week. Much of the Church was superfluous ritual, and if that' pie was up there he was confident that ·a good pagan would get a piece .just as much as any man. If you were good, the Big Man would cut a piece for you whether you be~ lieved in him or not. Action mattered, not words. God probably "didn't exist; it would be superfluous to posit one. Most likely he was man's invention. Even if he did exist, it wasn't absolutely necessary to believe in him to attain salvation. But the priest was no raving nihilist; he kept his suspicions to himself and began his career as a self-confessed atheistic humanist. 
He rapidly discovered that the Church hierarchy was composed of bozos, and he wanted nothing to do with clowns in collars. Throughout·history the Church . 
had been inconsistent. The Indians were going .to'hell for worshipping the sun, now they may not burn after all. You could eat 'meat. on Friday and then you couldn't; you had to fast before Communion and then you didn't. Christopher was a saint and then he wasn't one anymore. It was never really clear whether Jesus wanted to establish ·a formal Church, and now there was this massive and absurd country club deciding who could get salvation and who couldn't. 
Yesterday's heretics were today's saints. The priest knew damn well that.the heretics were the true saints, willing to blaspheme· papal convention to develop a better truth. Only the perspective of history demon­strated their worth, a great and noble worth that their contemporaries never saw and if they did _they killed them for it. The priest was continually frustrated by Church politics, by fat bishops who said.much·and ac­complished nothing.· He tolerated them though, be­cause he knew that his cross and chalice were a license to help good and real people. 
He urged people to live now, ·and not to put too much hope in the pie in -the sky; Too many people he knew were brooders, of that strange breed that thinks of unpleasant realities, reflects on unpleasant realities, and sleeps on unpleasant realities. All too often their lives are unpleasant realities. People who thought· too much were unhappy, ·as were people who took them­selves too seriously. Taking too many things seriously was inviting the world to destroy you.· Men should ac­cept the harsh facts of life and move. on. Man was a temporary phenomenon, he knew, but nonetheless a worthwhile one. The priest strove to bring out the best in men, and he did. 
He saw two kinds of Catholics when he looked out at his congregation on Sunday mornings: One type hid from the world behind their faith, ·weak and gutless cowards cringing in the face of their;contingency. The others were strong, holding fast to their faith through all adversity and to the very end, usingit not to hide from life but to confront. it. The priest changed the former to the latter, ·making complacent Catholics aggressive, 

He left alone the simple ones, the smiling old wid­ows who came to Mass every day and confession every week. They insisted. on using the confessional. Their sins were petty, he often thought they manufactured them to.have an.excuse to speak with him. But he gave them their penances, and when he,would emerge from the confessional they would still be there praying. The old women would look relieved and embarrassed as they left and say "Bless you Father." Then they would shuffle off, and the priest would smile and think that he had made them very happy.:They were blind but won­derful, and if it made them happy to believe in God, why not? People. with a strong faith were so damn happy. 
Just as Tom Wilson loved his children, the priest loved his parish. He got ·involved. with all of them, shoveling snow for Mrs. Fitzpatrick and playing basket­ball with the kids. When the New England snows melted and the crocuses came, he coached a Little League team with Tom Wilson. The Lions were a terrible team with no pitching, but they had more fun than any other kids in the league. Their coaches had cookouts for them, and took them in to Fenway Park to see the Red Sox. 
When the littlest kid on the team, Tommy Shannon, who had_ tried so·damn' hard all year long, struck out in the last. inning of the final game of the year, thus eliminating the team from the playoffs, his father yelled at him. Right in front of everybody--:teammates, par­ents, the other team, and the umpire----:---he told his son he was worthless. Tommy started crying. The priest walked over arid took Mr. Shannon behind the back­stop and decked him. There's not much you can do when a priest hits you either, especially one who weighs a solid 215.-Mr. Shannon got up, .·took his son, and left. The priest piled four kids-into his station wagon, drove them home, and went to mow Mrs. Fitzpatrick's lawn. He knew the parish would understand. 
They did. So he gave them their wine and their bread and they were happy. And he told stories to them, and they were even happier..The priest gave sermons because he believed in the efficacy of words, in their power to convince men that the good was right and the ethical expedient. "Listen to me because I have some-. thing to say," he always started his sermons..This separated him from most other priests, not because he. said it, but because he really did say something worth­
while. · · 
They~his seimons.:..:...were always blunt_ and to the point. Occasionally ·he offended,· but he did not care.. People needed a·cold shower to wake them up, to shake 
their complacency: The priest hated. smug Christians, those who did not question.-Even if the Deity existed, you never really knew you had faith until it was tested. . Most ·often he told his parish· to live.in this world, because· it was the only world that mattered. He knew that theirs was a" metaphysical thirst that could ·not be satisfied in our physical world; He urged them to drink in this world, the here and now, to trulylive fully.­
.He certainly did, spending more and more time with Tom Wilson. It was summer now, and-they would bring To.m's family. to the beach• for clambakes. Children loved the priest; he would lift young Bob out of his. wheelchair and carry him· into the surf. Bob's upper body. was remarkably strong and he could still swim well. The priest·and hewould race out through the surf,. past the breakers and into the Atlantic a quarter~mile out. Tom would join them, and the three-small dots from the shore-would lift and sink with the gentle undulations of the ocean and talk. Then they'd ride the breakers in. They were vigorous men; and· Bob was a · · 
vigorous boy, ; and they would play in the surf like 
colts. When they returned, dripping salt, Susan would 
just smile-she·often wished that the priest had mar­
ried them. · 

Tom had started going to Mass with Susan and the 
kids,-just to liear·his friend speak. The first Sunday he 
walked in the congregation gasped and stared, but soon 
grew accustomed. He and Susan brought their children 
up Catholics;. Tom felt they should have _the oppor­
tunity to decide for themselves if· the Big Man really 
did live next to the rabbit. He had no faith in God, but 
he. had that father's faith that his eldest. son would 
take the car and return it intact, that it would be there 
in. the morning in the same place he had left it. He 
would sit in the wooden pews listening to_his friend's 
powerfuland convincing voice, and smile at the irony 
of their shared secret; · · , ._ 
. They played into fall, and then· the kids returned to 
school and the priest settled into a routine. He would 
rise at. 7:30, run on the_roads or-swim at the high · 
school. He'd eat breakfast at the Flagship Diner, then 
go to the parish house -and J:VOrk. He'd say Mass three 
days a week, or else he'd confer with all those who came 
to see him. Many did. Before lunch he'd open his mail 
and do whatever was required of him, and then head 
over to the parochial school.to teach his religion and 
history classes. Then he'd talk to the nuns about the 
children-play disciplinarian if needed-and then stop 
by C.Y.O. football practice. ·He usually, ate dinner at 
one of his parishioners' houses. At night he'd read, 
watch TV, then slee~sometimes he sat in on Tom 
Wilson's Board of-Education meetings. . 
So it went. Indian summer yielded to a cold Novem­
ber, and the priest walked to his small town,cstopping in 
at various stores to say hello and ask if he could lend 
a handif things weren't going smoothly. One day, open­
ing·his mail, he got· a·letter-from the bishop, who felt 
more collection money · should go to the guild, and to 
new statues for the church. The priest habitually had 
taken the collection money and given it out directly, 
driving out to the poor farms with groceries and beer. 
He felt some men worked harder than others, and· de­
served more-they should get the money rather than 
some statue of people dead and gone. He was reading 
the bishop's letter over again and thinking how true 
it was, that life really was a bitch, when he got the call 
to go out to State Road 6, three miles south of town. He 
should bring the Big Book, because Tom Wilson's truck 
had gone off the road. . . . . 
. _He arrived in five minutes: It was a stark grey day, a shitty. one that the Lord did not create for happy · times: The wind was gusting mightily over the desolate cornfield, :·barren of-life. and awaiting the -first cold snows. The shattered truck lay overturned in the middle of the field; it had gone off the road at seventy M.P.H., flipped twice, and landed in Jerry Patterson's cornfield eighty yards from .the road. The body lay ravaged beside it, torn apart by numerous gashes, but the priest expected as much. Good people never did died cleanly, they ·cut._ and bled. ·_Tom. was .still alive, para­. medics were frantically working on him as they put him into the ambulance and.roared away. It was not easy to say good-bye to Tom Wilson",father of three, especially 
when he knew it was good-bye for good. . 
The priest walked away and· climbed into his car. 
·The corn stalks crunched mightily under his tires as he drove away towards the hospital. Trees stood tall, and leaves drifted· down to a· cold hard earth. A Christian _had died; but the wind kept howling, for a cruel world had rammed its final point home. . 
SCHOLASTIC 


by Anne M. Dougherty 

It's the fourth day of spring vaca­
tion and I can't stop thinking about 
all the students enjoying the warm 
Florida sunshine after another cold 
winter in South Bend. Here I am on 
my way to Purdue University with 
three of my closest friends. It may 
be cold· ·. here in Indiana, but I 
wouldn't trade this trip to. Lafayette 
for a week in Florida. 
After months of hard work "for 
the Ohio Farmworker Support Com­
mittee at Notre Dame, I am finally 
going to meet the man who is the 
head of the farmworker union· 
(FLOC) in Ohio. · Baldemar Velas­
quez. What will he say? How will 
people at Purdue react? In twenty 
minutes all of my questions will 
begin to be answered. 
Upon our arrival at Purdue, I 
noti~e how big the campus is. Com­
pared with Purdue, Notre Dame is 
more compact, built on a smaller 
scale. Another difference that really 
strikes me is that while Notre Dame 
has'a lighted Golden Dome, Purdue 
boasts a lighted brick smokestack. 
I wonder if that is any indication of 
things to come. 
It is very easy to find the room in 
which Baldemar Velasquez will be 
speaking. Posted outside the door is 
the symbolic . black and red flag and 
a· woman wearing ,a red FLOC T­
shirt. As we approach, members of 
other support committees congratu­
late us on the boycott victory ·at 
Notre Dame; we remain the center 
of attraction for a while. 
"Here comes Baldemar!" I hear . someone shout. In unison, everyone 
turns around. A short man in his 
late twenties or early thirties comes 
up to us and immediately congratu­
lates us. I find myself feeling at ease 
as a result of his· friendly manner. 
Baldemar asks us to come in and sit 
down as he takes care of some·last­
minute preparations. 
"Viva 1.a Huelga!" Baldemar 
shouts and he launches Jrito his 
speech about.the farmworker situ~ 
ation in Ohio and the.union he has 
helped to initiate. , A few seconds 
into the speech, all the conversations 
die.· Everyone's attention focuses on 
the former Mexican-American mi­
grant worker as he describes; from 
personal experience, the life of the 
farmworkers who journey to Ohio. 
The plight · of the migrant farm­
workers is harsh. Th4?y come to Ohio from the Rio · Grande Valley in Texas.. Since minimum wage laws are not extended to cover agricul­ture, the migrant workers are forced 
. to work for low pay. Farmworkers are subject to the piece-rate pricing system. They receive 25 .· cents for every thirty-three-pound hamper of tomatoes picked. Not only is the migrant's wage uncertain.but he also has no guarantee that there will be work every day. The migrants bear the risks of the harvest and of the weather. Women, children and other relatives join the head of the family out in the fields because the earnings of one person cannot support the entire family. Because the children, too, .must pick tomatoes, the un­settled life the family must lead deprives the children of an edu~ cation. 
The condition of the housing pro­vided for the migrants is deplorable. Families with five or six members reside in one-room shacks which have no indoor plumbing. In addi­tion to the unsanitary living condi­tions, the farmworkers ·are exposed to unhealthy . working conditions. They suffer from the· bad effects of chemical : sprays and pesticides. As if all of this isn't enough, migrants receive no medical or retirement benefits, no pension, and little social security. An illness wipes out the family sayings. 
Baldemar paints a sad but true picture of migrant life for us. I am very impressed by his articulate, emotional . speech. Baldemar moves on from the details of the conditions that the migrants live and work under. ·Now he begins to talk about the union and the· organization of the strike effort. 
In 1968, the Farm Labor. Organ­izing Committee · (FLOC) of Ohio was formed and, in 1970, this union decided to concentrate its efforts on .the ·tomato· industry. The farm­workers tried to get the growers ·to join with them in or~er to be recog~ nized by the tomato canneries. The growers refused, automatically put­ting themselves in the middle of the struggle between the farmworkers and•· the canneries, i.e., Campbell's and Libby's. FLOC did get some growers· to sign contracts with them, but the next year the canneries re­fused to buy the crop of any grower who had contracts with the union. 
The canneries are . the primary focus of FLOC's efforts because they set · a preseason crop price which they dictate to the growers they con­tract with. Out of the price paid for 
· the crop must come the wages which the farmworkers receive. The com­panies also stipulate to the grower when the crops must be planted, what kind of chemicals must .. be used, and when· the crop must be harvested. 
In August of 1978, FLOC organ­ized the largest agricultural strike ever in the Midwest. Tomatoes rotted in the fields and the growers were powerless. Because so much of the: crop was lost, the canneries would not sign contracts with any grower who did not buy a mechani­cal harvester for the next year. This 
'attempt to break the strike was un­successful because the excessive amount of rain made it impossible to use mechanical harvesters in August of 1979. 
In January of 1979, the Farm Labor Organizing Committee decided to initiate a boycott of. Campbell's and Libby's products, the two largest canneries in the Midwest. The boy­
. cott can , be an effective means of economic pressure if it is . successful 
· and for this reason it was chosen in combination with the harvest-time strike.. 
After providing us with this back­ground · information, Baldemar 
· pauses and smiles, gauging the reac­tion of the audience. He . decides· to narrate some of the techniques em­ployed to encourage workers to join the strike. 
Singing strike songs, Baldemar and the strikers would · go beside a field where· migrants were picking tomatoes..· They would also visit the migrant camps in the area to per­suade the workers to join the strike. Baldemar knew from experience that the sheriff would show up to ask the migrants if . they wanted the union people to .leave. So, as soon as he arrived, Baldemar would tell the mi­grants· that the police would come and ask ifthey wanted the strikers· to.leave. He would then advise thein 
·.. to ·say no because they, shouldn't allow gringos to interfere.·, In that : way, FLOC would not be trespassing· and could talk to the workers for:a while.· Nevertheless, . the · sheriffs 
. would always stay close enough to 
try to intimidate everyone.• crosses over to the other side of the 
Baldemar and his crew would street when he sees a FLOC member divide into two groups;• One group coming, and he no longer eats in one came during the day and stood be-restaurant because strikers frequent-side the fields as the migrants ly go there. · worked. The other group stood out-After· relating the stories about side the farmworkers' shacks at the difficulties of organizirig, · Balde­night. They would stay there silent-mar addresses the whole question of ly, holding candles .. This aroused in-mechanization and puts the issue terest among the workers, also in-in very practical terms by discussing furiating the crew leaders. Several whom mechanization affects · and groups of strikebreakers were won whom it benefits. over to the FLOC side in this According to Baldemar, mecha-· manner. nization imposes a social cost -it 
The growers became so frustrated affects ~the average citizen, not only as a result of all FLOC's efforts that the migrant worker. Mechanization they hired recruiters to get workers · only benefits the corporations and to. replace the strikers. This ploy growers who own large farms. failed as soon as FLOC was able to . Baldemar explains how the system make the workers aware .. of the currently operates: The government 
, strike and convince them to join. subsidizes the research that land-The growers then chose a new grant colleges do in perfecting har­tactic. They planted 20 rows of corn vesters and varieties of tomatoes around the. tomato fields so that capable of being picked by harvest­Baldemar would be unable to find ers. The taxpayer finances this sub­the workers. Baldemar decided .. to sidy. The machines thenreplace the try something unusual. He chartered farmworkers and force the small a plane and hooked. up a loud~ . growers who can't afford the ma­speaker in it. In this manner, he chines out of business. These workers was able to see the workers and he and growers· must look for other had· the pilot keep the plane ·above· jobs -many end up on welfare and them as he played the .guitar and unemployment. Thus, the taxpayer sang strike songs.. The sheriff also foots this bill while the corpo­thought he had finally caught Baldes rations reap the benefits.· The tax­mar breaking the law . because. he payers· are essentially subsidizing was flying the plane too low. · The mechanization that brings undesired sheriff cut in ori the CB channel that social consequences.· the strikers. were using .and said, Baldemar adamantly demands that ·"Baldemar, you're under arrest!" corporations be held responsible for The union leader just laughed and workers displaced by mechanization. kept flying. A trust fund should be set up for Baldemar and his fellow strikers, tuition and retraining purposes by in. an attempt to. get others to. join the canneries if they must mechanize them, · crossed ·the farm·, of one farmworkers out of jobs. Training 
· grower and talked with the farm-programs should .not be selected by workers. Twenty-seven of· the the companies because the migrants strikers were arrested for trespass-can determine their own future like · ing and · put in a fenced-in area. everyone else. The trust fund would When the· FLOC lawyer came.· to · enable the migrants to inake their talk to them, the sheriff and his men own choices when the time comes. beat ;him and cracked. his : skull. The current welfare-type pro­Several ·people. witnessed this beat-·grams that deal with· the poverty­ing. As a result, FLOC. filed a suit stricken have their limitations. What against the sheriff. One. judge or-welfare programs essentially do is to dered an · immediate injunction give an agricultural subsidy to cor­against the sheriff because there was porations. The programs merely in­sufficient evidence of violation of the stitutionalize. exploitation. A trust workers'. civil rights. According to fund would not have • these limi­this injunction, the sheriff and his tations because it would.provide the men . must ·stay at least fifty feet farmworkers with the opportunity away from any FLOC member from to choose what is right forthem.. Be­-now on. The sheriff · interprets the ·. sides, we must realize that migrants court order.: so literally . that he don't want a handout. They want 
SCHOLASTIC 


what is · rightfully theirs :.._ what 
they have worked so hard for-the 
opportunity to reap some of the 
benefits that most. of us enjoy. . 
·­

. FLOC requests· that· the farm­workers receive a . minimum wage and that they receive a minimum of 28 hours of pay per two weeks. The union also asks that transportation costs to and. from Texas be paid · (15¢ per mile), as well as medical benefits. These demands would greatly improve the present condi­tions under which· migrants work. However, before they can · be con­
-sidered, the union must gain recog­nition. ­
. Baldemar ends his talk by playirig 
the guitar and singing a song about 
a migrant worker trying .to decide 
whether or not to join the strike. 
He dedicates it to Notre Dame and 
the successful boycott effort which 
has meant so much .to FLOC in 
terms of publicity. 
So what does all this mean for 
you and me? Itmeans that we need 
to recognize and correct the injustice 
the farmworkers suffer. _ How can 
we do this? By boycotting Camp­
.._. .,_. ·...,.-.<~ 
; 

bell's and Libby's products, by in­forming others, by · getting grade schools to stop their Campbell's Label Programs, by forming boycott committees · in other places, by dis­tributing information and/or by giv­ing our _time, money or . ideas to FLOC's cause. Only through united effort can.the union gain recognition, and the conditions that migrants live and work under change.·QUEVIVA LA . HUELGA! •HASTA LA VIC­TORIA!.! ! . , _0 
This is Anne M. Dougherty's first contribution to Scholastic. ­
. APRIL· 18, 1980 
AN INQUIRY INTO IDEAS, VALUES AND IMAGES: 
WHAT HAS CORE COURSE EVER DONE FOR ME? 
Last year, James ·Haddican, "wit­ticist" and writer with the New Orleans Times-Picayune, character­ized the core curriculum recently instituted at Harvard University as a "glorified high school curriculum." The course of study that Haddican belittles is one example of a trend· towards synthetic, holistic educa­tion that has reemerged in the United States recently. Of course, the idea of liberal education has · existed for centuries; the prepara­tion of astute and aware thinkers who can synthesize ideas, effectively perceive the validity of opposites, and express ideas lucidly has been part of the task of liberal education. · On a higher level, liberal education has aimed toward the development of the student's personality. How­ever, to believe that the emphasis on liberal education .in American· schools has switched to professional training is a truism; Nevertheless, Haddican's inability to perceive Harvard's core curriculum as more than a glorified high school educa­tion illustrates the general malaise that caused the administrators at Harvard to reconsider their institu­tion's educational philosophy. 
Much reconsideration of educa­tional philosophy has occurred with­in the College of Arts .and. Letters at Notre _Dame this year. Although the . College possesseda core of re­quirements . which aimed at the expansion of the student's aware­ness of .his relation to the past, his cultural tradition, the influence of science and technology on man, and current international problems,. the College had not possessed a defini~ tive core course. Instead, each junior was required to take the two-semes­ter Collegiate Seminar~a seminar that involved the reading of some of the great works in, mainly,the.West­ern Tradition. Sadly, many students found the course an experience in frustration. Some of the texts were· ponderous, rigorous, or simply im­possible. Many students with exem­plary rhetorical ability were· able to escape full reading of the texts. Etc., etc. Therefore, the Collegiate Seminar was seen as archaic and onerous. 

This year, the Deans of the Col­lege of Arts and Letters have · replaced the. Collegiate Seminar with a core course for sophomores. This course attempts to encapsulate the various approaches . toward learning found within the College. The course, taught by faculty mem­bers (not graduate students) from .the various departments in the Col­lege, was conceived by Dr. Donald Sniegowski, an assistant dean of the College. Though· primarily serv­ing as an introduction to the Col­lege, the course, "Ideas, Values, Images,'' also endeavors to provide­a general, but pertinent, picture of the state·of the "human condition." The course investigates the various changes in .man's perception of and relation to nature. It reflects on present societies. The course ex­plores the role of the individual in society. H examines the possible relativity of morals and values. The course also .attempts to . define the function of art in civilization. 
.Through this, the student may gain a holistic and integrated view of riot only American society, but also other societies. · Of course, not all sophomores have either complacently or blindly accepted this requirement. The course's. existence as a requirement has proved· loathsome to many sophomores; others reject .the class either because it is too general, or because they perceive the course simply to be an ineffective sham. Also, as, in all seminar courses, those students who do not feel at ease in discussions are at a disad­vantage. However, because the em-' phasis of the course is upon ideas . and the clear expression of them, the reading material compared with the 
by Ken Scarbrough 

Collegiate Seminar's reading mate­rial is neither ponderous nor im­possible with the possible exception· of Thomas Kuhn's The Structure of · Scientific Revolutions, a work that many have found dense and "slight­ly" difficult. Therefore, it appears that one of the "evils" of the pre­vious seminar course has been elim­inated. 
The general approach to the core course thus far has been "experi­mental." Because the course's suc­cess depends on student participation and acceptance, it is under constant evaluation: For any instructor or student to complacently accept the course as absolute would contradict what I perceive to be one of the 
. goals of the course: the development 
·of a sense of critical discernment that allows one to question the exist­ing structures of society, etc. .:_ One of the most provocative elements of the course is a · book that questions the whole form of Western, industrialized society, Rob~ ert Heilbroner's An Inquiry Into the Human .Prospect. Identifying the major problems facing mankind today to be the population explosion, the ominous threat of nuclear war, 
. and industrial society's encroaching upon the environment beyond its limits, Heilbroner asserts that man­kind can survive only if ·industrial -society changes its ethic of unlim­ited growth, its faith in unrestrained economic development, and its con­fidence in the exploitation of natural resources. Heilbroner · believes that man can survive only through pain­ful change. Unfortunately for mah, Heilbroner does not believe indus­trial man will take responsibility for future generations and change. The book "paints" the picture of a very dour future for mankind. . · · . In response to Heilbroner's dour prognostications, Fr. Hesburgh de~ livered a lecture on October 11 to a full house of core course students and instructors in the library audi-
SCHOLASTIC 

torium. Stressing his hope that man can and will survive, Fr. Hesburgh discussed the need to view the world as interdependent: "If we can view~ all the facets of the world as bound togetlier, theri we can begin to gain the vision necessary to solve prob~. lems_ in a global way." Based on his experience as U.S. Ambassador to a 
U.N. council. on food and develop­ment,.· Father Hesburgh further as-· serted, "there is no way today of solving' problems in a global way because of' the absorption of each in his · owri' country." Fr. Hes burgh· presented.ten important world prob­lems ·that included world popula­tion, impairment of the biosphere, superfluous worldwide military spending, worldwide lack of po­litical'and/or moral leadership, arid the rampant social ills of injustice, 
intolerance, and alienation. However, Hesburgh differs from Heilbroner in his faith in man's, 
-especially tlie American ability to "pull in our belts when necessary." For Fr. Hesburgh, .the chance for the survival of humanity exists if we would only view the world as one-a step toward · gaining "the . political will to organize in a way' never seen . before." Whether one agrees or disagrees with Fr, Hes­burgh or ·with Robert Heilbroner, the core course presented an. oppor­tunity last· October for its .students to transcend . the limitations. of their­academic -lives and-ponder answers ­to questions that.they may one day be forced to vote on. ' . . Therefore, the promise the core course shows· niay help to fulfill the· hope~ ·Loren Eiseley· expresses·· in• 

• · ·, 
' "Many other schools across the country are doing.:· ~' the same thing. A few have core courses like ours, ' ·:or are striving to establish them, and others have· 
core programs." . . 
''!I am not naive enough to believe that every:student
: is -going to be· turned on to something by this ­, course, but I hope that some of the students will · .: . indeed find·that it is a course that helps them to _ -locate themselves in the whole liberal arts tradition." 
_:_Dr. Sniegowski, AssistantDeari ofArts and Letters . . 
• 
1. 

::"Though I thought the books were often too long_-.. : and-boring, I enjoyed many· of the ideas that were pie~ented.''. _. --. -Anonymous student 
• 

The Firmament of Time: 
We must. never accept utility as the sole reason · for education. If all knowledge is of tlie outside; . ~f none is tur~ed inward, ifself­awareness _fades into the blind acquiescence · of the mass man, -· · then· the personal responsibility by which democracy lives will fade also.·• · 
Hopefully, the core course will de­velop into an ever-changing means· to enhance the student's awareness of the world's problems, as well as 
.the basic problems of human exis­tence. Certainly, the core course at Notre Dame defies James· Haddican's belittling characterization of a "glorified high school course." D 
·_:. 
•"Overall, I find the course very worthwhile in that -it exposes•me to various aspects of the College of .Ai-ts and Letters. However,-I do.think that-the · 
· reading lists should ,be revised for riext year. At : least the nature ·section because, let's face it, it was dull." -. 
~Jeff Mousseau,·student 

''It is a noble purpose to analyze niari incontext of :economic, scientific; and__sociological realms, but . it.seems that:too often this.can degenerate into an 
. exercise iri semantics and rhetoric.J' . . ­
-. quotes compiled by.Joe Pheifer. , 
APRII,:'18, 1980 -41. 
Jeiving the Jeife of Jeauderdale 
by Gregory Solman 

Spring Break, 1980: H~11 started, significance of those T-shirts that the phenomenon of the college stu­predictably, at The Button.. · proudly prod11imed, · "I survived dents' yearly migration to vacation 
There-the clingirigly clad colle-Spring Break, 1980." For my part,· along Sunrise ..(not .Sunset) Strip, gial cliques, the denizens of dirt-I shall demand at· least partial ath-flocking yearly to this hallowed town, with their long hair and black letic scholarship before again sub-ground .like swallows returning to and silver Ted Nugent T~shirts, the mitting myself to such a brutal beat-Capistrano. Or, does the weather ad­gold-laden and guilt-ridde.9-: glitter-ing. I half expected Steve Ruben. to equately explain it? · ati, replete with thei0.ags and jump out at me. from behind to Psychology Today iri a recent arti­
1 Mercedes,. 1and th( n~.own-up crush my testicles'. . cle entitled,· '.'The Essential Hang­~ ghosts fr~m t9t...,.sixfi~~~Pll_:Sh-they But,. then, such is life. in Lauder-. out," described-the neighborh~od i! all gl}therM anil~restl~ hope-dale .. That is, .life surrounding that tavern "Third Place" .as .being "im­:• ..._,,}.\Jul c;ind\'qfl~~it~& s)~ to the obscene, concrete entity known a:s· por.tant for what it symbolize~-to us, . .'.:,' · -doors{o:(}tht:f;-r.audecclale(version of "the Strip." Here, where sun, sand, that is, a kind of freewheeling so­-~~-'-Corby's~. :.-.:-~ _'{-:: surf and Solarcaine are ubiquitous, ciability, uncontaminated by status,...-f \' Ar/d: '>fo =fue,faisapp~intment of is where they all come to play-the special purpose or goals. If. there is :;,;, -\man1,l_a11_ thJr:::;fp_tl~when and if sensual sycopha~ts of.sun an~ sym-a mala!s~ in America,. we believe it 
, /,~ 11. they got if!.s!aeJl(\.W~'\t_I?-emselves. -metry, the harbmgers of heholatry can partially be attributed to the 
, /--.' \.Inside, thit.:.'.-1.t~nis• 'are incanted and hedonism, the masses of heav-lack of such places." 
: 1 ,lik~1a mantca~!vh]I.e~~~¢~~ss--be¥ enly bodies lying prostrate in solar Fair enough. Lauderdale general-
I ·-/.successfully. 1,_mclei:~lnesfa.1l'-'ifr'tempts.~upplication. Here, decadence is de ly lacked malaise, I'll admit. But, 
: . ; 'to punk: ~Glasslm~ State College~~g,(!Ur?, regale is righteous, diver-strictly defined, most of the hang­
: p1: {!hump, t~inp)::Un!ver:sit~of Ver-tiss,ment is "damned straight." outs or "Third Places" that students 
:~ ,. /,nVmt, Nic~o!~~_State ~allege {t~~~P, . _It\~~ an odd and paradoxical inhabit in Fort Lauderdale undercut 
• 
:!',-thump) Mount Sr...:Mary's, (thump) \'place lt.o,he during Holy Week, to be ~,,,their own sense of escape by playing . \ 
1 , ' , • • ,.,_,~ \ • \ l ~ \\ \' '\I\ \ If 1,..,\1 1\ '"II ' 
,'/.· ~..... , .and Notr(! ·name."·1'I;he games in-isu~~among the palm ti;ees on P:\4_:,\, musi11too loud for people to converse aa·,
1:i,j · · dude such~:.mindle~\ di~ersio'h\ ·~~ \ S1inc1ax-M At the beacheS;.•\thbusand~ , aim/'o:¼ being so crowded that-manY... 11ir_,,J;j'. ;v,tf.tJ-shi~s Shci'f~~hart&~elt~~t'~iJ.-•~,1ay1 ln' perfect crucifol'lJl:l1~~tl'~~-feei _G'~omfortable and copj~e\ie1h9·_:,''\'. I 1/i '/~ ;f, t~stsV {aila)"ful· tlimg to •do ~~...sµch:k beneath the orb of{clay.,O~?,ptl,Fr,i~ mo\;i(11!9ng to another baz;/ -~~::..~. \' 
·, 1 ' h:rg\-eat fr:uit))1 j:lrtd·,ot~et;s,uch·.basi~~ay as if nailedAo' th¢:.~.b~.-~oine . Which/may explain why there'1s . , ' J Ja11y .har~ie'sst,M¥tselle'r)i;:, ;;;-,t'\:~~~powerful and .;iJlvisibie··0 ,Roi:nans. so mulh~mov'eme'nt alonw ,tne Strip.' •.. ! 
/They aJ.!!1.-.fe{1"9eq(/o/~ei:iJ~f•. tre~~'ven the ~uy )Vitl}.;;:,the·~~( bla"de Whic~· m~);;:\fn__-. t~ro/.~plain. -.~hy-'. , ! c~owd sway~T),._r/ as1 or{e:7a-q1f'W~1 9,Q~ would fit _m on.ft:h~~F,1ppme: ls-there are-!-O--~~l!Y, pohce~ep ~!!~:es-" · ' ,: p\us-?egre,e h'ef ..tthat was genir;ate,d~ l~nds durmg thei_r 1.n~ual ,,Easter sary to keeP.__order durm~,:-~.7il,lf' _:_. ! b~virtue of;navmg doubled the ,9~1 ritual__ ~lf-flagellat10ns:'~ ', Break. ·• ----. ~ \~ -.:;~ ·t-.,;f !J( I~-'! cupant c;4~a~i$J_of the room by t}ie ..-II} t_he 1;1-eantime;--1,f~d!\hat life Pafr(!l!ll_an !ohn~'nc;>~~E;\ 'i(Jpne 'f ,f'1,j infamouS\)?~sq\and-shove technique.__, -~~Y.~i f,tefrr{ ;'lf_e' ~t7ip" was',.a~1~9od · suc.p.:_ p~licem~J.~\1:1i1\1~\\eventeen: I · Just outs1pe.~the door, the wave~(Nf peo_pl~1had 91~imed. No~her~:was year:.$· with\the'For~ 1;,mgerdale po-I rhythmicah'y;'\ crash the Easternf-l~.\r~r1J:>e.el,h5',b~~bc{ught for lesJttia~ ~· lice,··toften working ~stin"¥Ise Strip shore; in¥iie, it is people battering· ·$1l50, ·out 'to tlqi thei:e. was',Iitlle(\dUI'1~ Br~a!c, he has~~r.?it all­people. :~ comparison !!.ril,f!Jass/ar1;¢/s{y'J.e\be:-•"from' amgators in swimming pools 
Meant:vR,~1f, Blondie ~lared "Call tween '!'h~n4~rn1/Alfir;1pgtJp Roo~, to dr~~ef(,~P,i~t~i ~l~~>flagpoles." Me" and_1ffl~n w~ose b.rams were_ n~t The 1:V"n<l,JC!'efim,erb?Blagµ!;{I_ all week I wa\~ ,with_ him o,\1~!:US ~eat for a worth tli~ff weight m masochistic by high ~~t)ppil~irls, and younger) few ip1;1;1tes andf;ask him some macho, 'cut themselves across the and the Jq_cean Mist and great bars questidns\ · . chest witM~azor blades and ate light like Trali.er Jack's (which plays only Thefa'tiswers are not unexpected. bulbs onfjtage while the crowd bel-fiftiesand sixties music) Dirty Nel,-The police force remains the Same lowed .ilfj unison for the . first time . lies (one can actually converse size Wuring Break, but, as Loe_ffier that day'.~t"You're fucked up!" there), B. Flanigan's and my favor-adds,W4no one goes on vacation this 
By thi~ time, I had my doubts ite chain of drinking and dining time ef year." Reason: they .make about··bofh the entertainers and the establishments, T.G.I. Friday's. Yes-an average of fifty arrests per day, entertainees. terday's, if you had the money, is . about \~,000 over the six~ to seven-
I left after an hour, after having even better. week period, Most busts are for dis~ been mercilessly pounded like bis-But, then, there are those who tin-orderly conduct, drinking in public cuit dough, and feeling embarras-derstandably had their fun along or possession of marijuana. He af­singly old for my age. By the time "the Strip." It's not hard to compre-firms what I suspected all along­I had made my escapeinto the fresh, hend if you've been at the Senior most of the arrests (he estimated clean cooler air outside, I had a full Bar before a football game. Besides, about a 60/40 ratio) are not college can of beer in my · hair, my sun-who doesn't have fun in 90-degree students, but "townies" who have glasses had been contorted beyond weather along the beach? It's very taken advantage of the looser atmo­repair, and my shirt 'stretched be-hard to be a grouch languishing in sphere to "live it up.'' But Loeffler yond further use. -·. the warmth of the sun. says that it's gotten better in his· 
O,nly then did I realize the full And that may, in itself, explain nearly t\Vo decades of patrol. 
42 SCHOLASTIC 


Is Lauderdale Life Dead? "No/' say the (above) "masses ... lying in solar supplication" "No," say the 
"(below)lf-sycophants of sun and symmetry." 
"The young people have gotten back to beer and have gotten away from hard drugs. That's made our job much easier," he relates while motioning to a student. holding a Heineken to put. awaythe bottle. "You can rationalize somewhat with someone who is drunk, but back in the sixties we were up against a lot of people ·who were too spaced out to deal with." · · 
Loeffler claims that the respect for what the police are trying to do in Lauderdale has increased over the years. 
Proof is not long in coming. On the -way down the street, a college student is pulled aside. 
"I saw. you dancing in the streets back there,'.' Loeffler says calmly. "Any niore of that, son, andit will be disorderly conduct or impeding traffic." 
The kid doesn't show merely re­spect . . . he virtually grovels in apology. 
He is still, however, atypical of those who nightly ·line the· Strip. Most of the nien there were obnox­ious and immature, yelling blunt ob­scenities out of car windows and propositioning · women at every op~ portunity. · ·· The women there were not much better. Many of theni seemed un­concerned with·relationships per se, and were instead seeking some sort of crude affirmation of their physical beauty from the men· around them more than eager to give it.. • In discos like The Windjammer and the Ocean Mist, for instance, it seemed that to many patrons, it was not the dancing that counted, but the having been asked that was important. 
The Notre Dame men and women there were several cuts above such behavior, for the most part. In fact, some seemed so strangely out of place along the Strip, it was almost as if they were voyeurs gazing in as a Third Party into this strange and admittedly fascinating Third Place along the beach. 
-News that a vacation spot is no longer "in" travels slowly some­times. However, it is my hunch that 
.within the next decade, ·the yearly plunge .from the Ivy Towers will land elsewhere. For Notre Dame stu­dents, many of whom found. other, perhaps better places to go over-· Spring Break, it may already have started. D The author dedicates this article .to _ "Taki'' of· Esquire. 
-----, 
1 
I I 
! 
When Th~ Ro~ing Gets Tough 
It's a great art, is rowing, other sport where a person can be It's the finest art there is. down field, out of the play. It is im­It's a symphony of motion. . perative to do everything together." And when yoU:re rowing well, Getting to the. •. point, however, Why it's nearing :perfection, where eight rowers· can work as one And when yau. reach perfection,.·· to move.the boat through the water You're touching the divine. · does not come without practice. The -George Pocock Notre Dame Rowing Club, which -consists of 50 to 60 men and women, 
The eight rowers are anxious to starts its year-round practices in start the race. Their eyes are· fixed -early ·fall. They· row on the Saint on the coxswain, who sits in the Joseph :River untiLit _freezes some stern of the boat with· his arm up, _time in November. During the fall signaling that his crew is not quite season,· they have only one regatta, · ready. As the. Notre Dame crew .the Head· of the Charles. in Boston. team prepares for the . start, the But at this one race, . 60,000 spec:-. oarsmen are already rowing the race .tators watch 300 crews compete. in their minds. Then, after the cox­Last season Notre Dame made its swain lowers his arm, the .starter strongest showing ever; the men yells, "Sit ready, ready all,"_and the finished 8th and the women 33rd. ­arms and the faces-of the oarsmen After .the ·. fall .season, with· the tighten.. When the starter shouts, · river frozen, the rowers begin "ROW!" there is a great release of· weight lifting and running, some­tension and an. explosion of frenzied times ten miles a day. This training motion -eight pairs of arms, mov:. . is in preparation for the spring sea­ing as· quickly as possible, yet mov­son, •· during which they .. have an fogin unison. Water is spfashing all average of eight races. Finally, in 
·around the Notre· Daine boat;·•··the early March, the river thaws, arid spectators' voices fill the air, and the the crew team ·is ·eager. to· get back· boat beside them has a sligh( lead. on the water. · Butthe rowers seem oblivious..,to it It is 5:00 a.m.~ and a group ·of all; their eyes stray neither to the four people stand• huddled close. to­right nor to· the left... The intensity · gether at the .Notre Dame guard·. of the race has• overcome them.· The house -on Juniper .Road . .Darkness eighf rowers must :concentrate on'· still ~covers the Notre•Dame campus, staying together as'orie boat for the but it is time for the crew team to · entire 2000-meter :race. The cox:.' begin their .morning practice. Most. swain barks out, "settle,'' and . the o( the rowers are· still yawning and oarsmen settle to a steady pace · stretching; trying to shake the. tired-­which, they 'will maintain -for mos( ness out of their· bodies. Finally, of the race. Through the first 1000 when all fourteen oarsmen are pres:. meters of .the race, Notre Dame ent, they begin piling into the two holds a boat-length lead,. but the . cars and the bus, and head toward other crew ·is beginning to "walk" ·the river. · on them-. With every stroke, the At the boathouse on the St. Joe opposition is gaining "a half a seat" River in Mishawaka, the sun is be­on them.· Now, although the oars­ginning to rise. The rowers pick out men are exhausted, they must some­an eight-man and a four-man boat, how row· even harder. This is the and they bring them down to the most difficult part of the race. river. The club owns 2 four-man 
·Jane Wagner, a sophomore oars­boats and 4 eight-man boats which woman from -Birmingham, Michigan, they keep locked up all year. Many explains, "In a· race, I've felt like I of the rowers prefer to practice in couldn't take another stroke, but I the morning. Being part of a select just kept going because I knew the group that experiences the quiet seven others in the boat were feeling ·beauty of a morning sunrise is a the same way. · In crew, you can't -satisfying feeling. Jane Wagner do without anyone. It's not like any says, "There_ must be something in 
by Joe Heider 

it. When my alarm.rings at five in the morning, I. hop out ·of· bed· and am ready to go. But it takes three ·alarms to ,wake me up for an eight­
o'clock ·class." · 
·Out on the water, Coach Clete 
Graham instructs the varsity· eight 
to do their warm-ups, and says that 
h.e is going to spend the first part of practice. with the JV, who are in the four-man boat. Warm-ups start with the oarsmen rowing only .with their arms, and gradually, they add body motion to their strokes until they are using almost every muscle in their bodies to propel the boat through -the. water. From a. motor~ boat called a launch, Clete runs the JV through their warm-ups, and he watches how each rower fits in with the motion of .the rest of the boat "Sean, your catch is a little late," he yells into the morning silen.ce. He explains that it takes 100% of each rower and intense concentration for four or E?ight people to. make· the exact same motion at the exact same time. Hisjob as coach is, of course, to develop that singular motion in the boat. , . . . , _, _ · 
. When practice is over at 7:30 a.m., while the oarsmen put the • boats away, Clete prepares for work. He puts on his Ue and. changes his shoes, and he is ready-for the.day at a South Bend engineering.firm ·where he works full time.. "Boy, it's hard going' to work these days,11 :he says with a laugh. But crew is worth the· sacrifice ' for Clete,· a Notre .Dame graduate who was involved in ·crew _. for.four years in high school as well · as four years at Notre Dame..· As the coach of a club sport at Notre Dame, he. does not get paid. But, «Coaching crew is fun, I wouldn't 
be here if I didn't enjoy it." · 
Women's crew coach, JiU DeLucia, also enjoys crew enoughto,volunteer her time. Like Graham, a Notre Dame graduate, she also works full time. Both .Graham and DeLucia , have goals of improving the caliber of crew·at Notre Dame. In the past, steady improvement has been diffi­cult. Besides ·the obvious financial limitations, -there -are other pr~b­lems. Crew has one of the · highest 
SCHOLASTIC. 

turnovers of any sport at_ Notre 
Dame. On the women's team this 
year, for example, there are only 
four returning rowers. In addition, 
no one on the team came to Notre 
Dame to row, and many of them 
just stumbled on to the team. For 
instance,· Mark Davis, a junior Gov­
ernment major from · . Lancaster, 
Pennsylvania, initially intended· to 
go out for lacrosse as a freshman. 
But during the lacrosse beginners' 
workshops, he had class: Still want­
ing to get involved-in a sport,· Davis· 
noticed ·a sign announcing· a crew 
meeting. He decided ·to check it out 
arid has been on the team ever since. 
Although most rowers join crew 

almost ·by accident, senior captain, · Dick O'Malley, points out that "any­one involved in crew for any length 
of time has• deep personal ties with 
it." Dick is no· exception. 'His official 
title is "Captain ·of men and boats." 
Off the water, he works closely with 
. Coach Graham on' training, that. is, getting the· men in shape. Also, be­fore morning practice, • he has the unpleasant-task of calling those who· are late to make certain that they are coming. In the boat, he must use his knowledge and experience as leader of the team. "Captain of boats" simply means being in charge of equipment. O'Malley enjoys his · job as handyman as much as his role as team leader. After morning prac­tice, he often stays to work. on the 
· boats · until . noon, : and· · sometimes donations, and the University itself, after classes he returns to the boat-,· :but· the rest of it comes out .of their house to do more work. own pockets. 
All of this work, of course, is in Besides money, the rowers must preparation for the races: Every also. give up plenty of study time. spring break, the entire team, both Dick O'Malley says, "Anyone who women and men,· make a self-joins crew is giving up points on financed trip to Jacksonville, Flor-his GPA." But the benefits they ida. In Florida, they compete in gain from crew are worth the sacri­a race or two and get a lot of time flee. Camaraderie is the first thing on the water which helps them to most· crew members speak of. train for their spring season. After O'Malley quips, "Any time you're an spring break,. they have races every oppressed . minority, your. team weekend until finals;· The high point·· grows close." And by its nature, of the season is the Midwest Rowing · · crew develops close friendships. A Championship held in Madison, Wis-successful boat must have eight indi­consin. Last · year Notre Dame · viduals working as one, striving for 
finished fourth behind two teams · a common goal. . · · from Wisconsin and the Wichita State crew. Their goal for this sea-. Just as the opposing crew begins son is to improve last year's time by to pull even with Notre Dame, the ten seconds. Notre Dame coxswain calls for a 
These races, • however, do not power ten, which mearis that for ten magically appear on the calendar, • strokes the rowers have to find some and being part.of a club sport, the reserve energy and row even harder students themselves must arrange than before. . To keep this· pace up, their schedule. This, among other . each· racer looks for inner moti­things, is the duty of Club President · vation. They think of the hard win­Jay Ferriero, who is a senior busi-· ter workouts, the early-morning ness major from Wharton, ·New ·practices, and the trips to _Boston Jersey. With assistance from Vice and Florida. The Notre Dame.rowers President Steve Malloy · and secre-• hang on •through the stretch, and taries Jane Wagner and Kevin Mui-·· with a burst of energy, they sprint lane, · Ferriero must organize the across the finish line, a second ahead trips· and also raise money. Crew is of · their opposition. ·Although not an expensive sport; the members of every race ends in victory, the ones the team get a good portion of their that do add a special satisfaction to money from fund raisers, alumni an already special experience. . . . 


1

In Retrospect: A Tribute To 11Moose1 
· 

INTRODUCING . . . Ed Krause II-IC ;In The Last Second ••. 
II 

'AD•Allllllricu, fooU.11 pla,-n lff BJ the ti-M ... Uteea ha had 
Ed "Moose" Krau.se needs.no more

M-1lJ'at.Not:eDa-. But .. , pined AD-CU7 -l'llltloa In Cli.lca­AIJ-Amuicaa bNkflkll enr,tff la lJ• htp lehool drelu u a tadle. Nllllfthiu Wt m(pt attnd. a llttM Duffll&' h1I walor Jffl' or durinc Ui. 
"introducing'' as he did way back· 
&tt.eJltia,alathONpl&elHf~te,d ae-be wq al&tMn and -.teea h,,.,.,c~All-OtJChJ<:al'Obu­
in the January 13, 1933, Sclwlastic 
ketballiruard.andall-touma11'ffltat Lo,-ola'a N•tloul Catholic JINP IDff\ which De t.San, -twlcti I¦ a 

~rom whi<:h this is reprinted· . . . 
now, "Moose"..;retires as one. of the
nr.&Stria11'ad:la~Year 
Darin~ putklpated in >,i,:b .-hool eonipo!titiOII Dlldin t\e dl.-eetlon of' 

most respected : at:td beloved sports 
N-,"" 8"'""1· fa-.1 Not,.~-Wk of H--.J J",n ap and a tnm­

figures in Notre Dame's history.. 
11\llte .t ~ CIPII. Xnw--. •"tar­all7 ...-. to Notr. Da-. When lae 
The Sclwlastic staff of 1980 loves
._"Vil..._ tn t\e Arta aai JetW'II col­lue rrf t•,i,. lnot.ltuUOII .• had alfllo.t iral..thbfllllnowtllbeln"llxfeet. 

"Moose'' . no· less .than it did in 1933 
\t,TN bt'"hes h.Q u11I wela:hln" ¦ boat 220 110Uad1,. But tl1•re b rtlU room 

,when he was •a: twenty-year-old two 
f~ l""'Jff'OVllllffll fnr h¦ h¦¦ .nenJ "'cr-owinl:7u.re•J,tt. 

sport All-American>'Moose" is.class. 
N¦ t11...U7, belnc-nc:11 a bl"t fellow, M wmt out f~ foot.bal.L Ha .ada Ula ftm tea111 hla i,ophOffl-"'"' ¦ nd 

"Moose" is-a legend who will be re­
wu-c-'-n An-A-""'11 kt\ t-1ekle -t\a JUd-Wetk PHori'1 ¦,elrlknl 

ferred to.in the pages of-Sclwlastic 
' fort\,¦--of 11132, hbn-,ondln Yar¦it7 C11IIIJ)ftlU011. 

as long as·she continues· to exist. 
Bvt t'-•l AD-A-rk¦-11 .elffliflll i.. ba•ketb&ll cn~u WH tlla bll' thillg, 

· We at Scholastic· wish Edward
W>-ea I-a made hi ¦ ftnt apr,e ¦ra­by bon,d. -.phl&tlcat.d CUlpu;I com­
111 Dr. ICNoP11'1 IU>t'-t1p a J'Hl'S 1go, just ~fnN Cbrbt!l'lH holM1¦ 11, bu­

''Moose" ,Krause and his family the
-~-keUi¦.11 fans didn't; know just bow to
tab him. 

oenter 1ut yn.r. III• ---a. .:.!ward verybest in the future. • 
Walter Kra11941 •ho n.ted \hat. ltonor llq:111 Wi¦ 11l1111: Struk 
on U.. Christy Wallh Nl1-::t.!011 tor fl• 111-bered out M\ha fl"IOI', took For nearly a.half a century-Scho­
ht. pla.7 durins Ula lffl.J12 --. lals po-t•i. ¦t toter, cot th ¦ Up-off' Knue will be, twentJ fUl'II eW. la fromhl,opponeat,4ropr,,,dbeckto Febrv.a:rJ. DllriRC U.-few 1un. 'Ula foal line whila N1whold, ~ 
lastic has followed "Moose" Krause's 
u aationally DOWD. alhlde iro. M ..,,teom,pa ¦J9ffeWorklntU..ball. hu cr.wded -aiderabl1 KtMty into ¦ 11 oll'n1iYe poa;itloa. Ha took 
career., May memories of what he
........... the paq tow-ard tha plYot position. lwl'•a At~et!Q Al Tlilrt­
tumed ,M dropped In a one-handed. has done for Notre Dame continue
......... 
Ha am~ lib at.blaUc endea-r­
•wen.• t.b01111:ht John r.11, "'be 

on for another hundred.,
on at Da Lt.Sane bid, Kltool IA Cbi­looked prett7 irood on \Mt pla7, for U.1'0 at the ag1 o! thlrtMa J..J"Slt 
• fooltM.ll pl.¦ ~•r. But It wa¦ "prob,.

0111' eakulaUOIIII aNI rla-1,t. TbeJ tu. 
abl,-t'GCL•

Ultoeonaideratlon\hefadt.hatbeha1 
lla7beitwaal11ck blltKra11•to.

bee11 Jff,1'1 •h.kli
1a eon.,. th"" tlnaed the ¦am1 kind of pla7 for ab.­

WOl.l1d make hUII NYe.i,WI• ,r,bn, be teen p.mu. And It bu rone ~ 
.., rrad-ut. from hick Kbool. Con­
In U.. neord book \Mt Notre Dame

llidforinC fOlll' Jtan of pr,,p dool 
had a wumlq ¦treak of ab:t.a

ffvc:atloa, the •x'" of t.ba eq,aUon 
11:¦mesthat--¦--IIONOftl',he

equ.i. •thlrtws" or the an he 
,c.ni,..... r-n,

.tartecJtohlaha:boel. 

Eo ..MOOSE,. Klivn 

WA. ktW i• cA:1 """"iolg ktb:t 1111~1 CAnU,i, 2"ffA Wmudor ..,,\t fut aa T-.lupw 11•~•, r• _,.., t.\¦ ,......_ B11 W. f-t lu,J.f ~ qrn, ·-_, tAt ,-, •f tAt lf'Vla llo NMA lOIJ poi,,llo Uti, · ~ ...,_,'"v..,.-lt 11o flat •o:rk •• dod ~O .,.,..,._ 
(Cont. from page 23) ~an poi~ts out, is the return to Cold democracy. fantasies of an apocalyptic end; in War. The world is likened .to a Walter _Benjamin in Reflections re­one, Carter plays the acquiescing chessboard to be played upon by two calls a Brechtian maxim: Do not Chamberlain before a Russian Hit-grand masters. Yet this, as Tuchman build on the. good, old days, but on ler. In a spastic fashion, we call out goes on, has been precisely the cause the bad new ones. D wild accusations and then pout at of our problems, for we then neces­the l_ack of support from our allies. sarily ignore the "local." We ignore Better judgement is perceived as an the needs and aspirations of those unwillingness to share th~. costs. we would use as pawps. 
America .postures as a helpless The Cold War policies of the gov-giant drugged by the "Viet Nam ernment exploit the frustrations of (Cont. fram page HJ syndrome," ·and so proves· we have the American people; they distort •the same background, better able to learned nothing. The war was a events in interpretation to · disguise . understand the student's need to in­failure in foreign policy. Now, some hidden ends. Surely this is the lesson corporate Christian ethics into big dare to attribute failure and so the of Viet Nam, Chile, Iran and Water-business. · outcome of the war to "lack of will" gate. Although students were distressed and not its fact. * * * * by some of the professional attitudes 
By invoking the great Russian The interest behind communica-expressed in the interviews, every-bear, world peace, and our own tion is to reach an understanding .one came through with a sense of mythic past, we justify a foreign that will guide action to rational : purpose as well as a conviction that policy that has only served .corpo-ends. But this interest is undercut· changes would be made; that hacks, rate ends. The need for a "three-· when communication, serving as the crooks, and self-appointed gods are ocean navy" and. a "rapid deploy-. rationalization of other. hidden in-not the rule in every profession: ment force" is, in obscene °Kis-_ terests, becomes ideology. · "We must get to the·base of our singerese,11 the need to · "project . Until we develop a critique of society's , problems and change the power." · · · ideology we will not have the vision system if necessary...." ·...._ 
· Such a policy cannot succeed. In-, to· see that the values that we hold · "Ethics and morals ·should be in~ deed. if we refuse to acknowledge -those of freedom, democracy and-corporated into the business deci­parity with Russia we begin a most social justice -are being used to sion. • • •" · deadly game. That is obvious, yet masquerade a Hobbesian interest in . "It is impossible to be truly moral today we move in that very direc-power. We will not be able to move · and have two sets of standards ...." ticin. A policy of interventionism is significantly toward our real in-. 0 a return to "geopolitics" · (again Jerests until we bring control of our Kissingerese). That, Barbara Tuch-economic system into the fold of 
46 · SCHOLASTIC 
. . . . . . -. : 
:by Dave S~tterfield 
. ·•.;-

TMl L/\ST \!vOQD 
. ·..... 

·· If inspiration demands experience, .Cummings inust wished him a good day and walke~ on. Chi,drer{ every­
have_ been there. The place was not "mudluscious" and the balloon·_man was not goat-footed, bi.It it was just spring. And if spring is universal, then .this small town · 
· in northwestern Saskatchewan, Canada; is the· epitome of spring. Hands down. 
Visiting relatives in the area, I drove into the town . · (I don't even. remember the name) on abrilliant blue.: ·green morning. The royal Canadian sky was cloudless ·and the fields were just beginning to reach the bright 
green· hue usually seen only in more moist, sunny re­gions. The town was small and clean. None of the build~ . 
. . . ings. or homes werelarge. The architecture was :simple; .. ·. unpretentious and efficieht. The "business district" was all of one city block, contained four: old red-brick build­ings. Surrounding· this "business districtll was .a -large, open park area. An·d on the particular ·day that I _drove into this town, a week-long spring. festival was. coming to a close. Two··long banners · announcing ·the festival ·. hung above the _highway at each end of town. The· . banners flapped__ recklessly in the breeze which swept.· off the lake north of town. . · · I had no real'. mission in the town so I parked the · car and .began to explore. · The park area was packed with a variety· of people· but despite th~ variety, they all had one thing in common; they knew that spring had arrived. · . · ·Children ran everywhere, carrying balloons .. It was · virtually. impossible to count the number of little heathens because they never sat still. -Or kept quiet. 'This . peaceful town was only peaceful I'm very sure, when school was in session, when the TV was on and when the sandman was' out. I soon realized that not · everyone holding a balloon _was' able to bite your knees without bending over. Bright red, yellow, green and orange balloons. filled the usual void above our heads, held by young and-old alike; These balloons had no ad­vertising on· them:· the ony speaking they did was vis­_ual; dancing.in the warm breezes; they sang of spring. ·_ I came to:a booth.where an'older, probably retired, man .was selling ridiculously expensive and rather . poorly· crafted paperweights, coffee· cups, coasters and _·wallets. After expiaining to him that I was not .in~ . terested in buying any of his souvenirs and that I was .just passing through town, he asked me what I thought .·. of his town. I.. told him the buildings were nice, -the · weather· was. nice,·: the people were nice, "All in all, a nice ·town.". He then explained, "Yes, son, we've' had this-spring festival for as long as I can remember. It's always on _the first three days i~ May and this ain'fno lie, but I swear to God on a stack of Bibles, the weather · has always been like this right here on those ·three days. It's never rained, snowed, sleeted.o·r hailed. Let me tell you, this is the best spring town in :the world. ·I don't mean to brag, but the facts speak for themselves. You know, most of YQU people from the States, I have found, think of Canada as a fall place. Big yellow-brown· trees, lots of deer and moose, good ale arid sriow. You never realize that where there's fall, there's also spring. I don't know w~o ·it was, but . somebody once said .that God left his fingerprints on Canada in the fall. I like to think that that's true, and if it is, then spring was the crime .he>: committed..... And .there's 'no. doubt thatc it's the best 'damn. crime that's ever been done'.'' . · · I smiled at the man's enthusiasm and sincerity, 
. . . . . --. 
APRIL-18, ·1980 ·. 
...... ..._-.-·~-. . . ,·. 

.. ..-~-.. :...... .... .::.• :.. J';,,.:_·, ' -· ~:;' . ·. 
where were . playing: hopscotch, .Jump fope, . marbles, tag and whatever else it is that .children:.play. Tlleir shrill, obnoxious voices, .teri·_; tim·es Joo large for .their bodies; .made me· want to napalrri the lot -of them, I suddenly realized wha,t .it felt .. like:being ac~ns~rvative Republican.· But the. spirit.was· co~tagious ,and Jn no time, I found myself involved in a ferocious gaine of marbies with two kids, Eddie arid ·;Bill. .. In less.than five minutes, .. the game. was· over .. -~or sure this time, I 
·had lost my marbles: .. . . . . . . _.· . . . . . . I walked on and foimd::one of :the culprits ;of this ·wonderful hedonistic festival standing . on .the; corner, tall, bearded, a rubber band: of a frame, holding count­less number of balloons in his.J~i::ge hands. As J ap~ proached, he' handed ine a'.:i-ed: baµoon and said·:_''Bon­jour, .stranger" in a thicksouthern'accent . .I laughed and we tal){ed. His namewas Marki-he.was a:draftdodgerin the. war, a ·transplanted Ainericari_ and avery happy . orie at that. "Yea:, my number came up in: the early winter of '68 and therewas no.wayJ could go.Icouldn't .kill arid I couldn't stay:so:I came :up here. !found a job with this· little town_ doing outdoor· work,. mostly landscaping, lawn. work, clean-up :and : stuff _like : that, · found a ·wife ·and made -me ;twoiJittle kids. They're ·over there." His wife; :a very attractive woman, stood at .a booth selling baked. goods and:l1is two·,sons, :Eddie · and Bill, were-in .the process of beating another sucker at a game of marbles. "I guess now that the war's over, I made the right decision.; ·The. atli:tude ·in the States' · was so bad at the tiine, Thad to come·up-here .. !settled down and in· May of '69, this festival rolls around. I had never felt.better in my life. I finally came to·know. what spring was actually about, when you think.you're dead, when you've got no place to turn; there's always a spring somewhere. For me,it's here:" We talked ori ·· and I asked him. about .the situation ·now;. "It's really· .. frightening for a kid.to be growi~g up now. I can't give any advice either. Everything is different now and · evecythirig changes ..All I can say is do what you· gotta do and keep hoping for springtime and places like. this. With a town like this, you ·know somebody's got to be up there watching over us." With that, he laughed and winked at a young girl walking by'. · I asked him for directions to a· good ·restaurant and he invited· me to -· eat with him and his family. I accepted and we ate and talked for quite some time. As we talked, children ran ·by, screaming and giggling, men arid Women chuck­led over good coffee and gossip, and .I began to under­
stand that spring involved much more .than melting snow and . greening trees. · · · . R grew late quickly -and I had to be off. I thanked 
Mark and his wife for their hospitality and walked out · into.a universe that had·never exposed so much ofitself to the. hi.Iman eye. Stars ·I hadn't dreamed of· glowed in the. dark, cloudless· sky and a· half-moon hung tightly 
. above .the spot where the old man's booth was. · As I reached the_ outskirts oft9wn;-Inoticed a young 
couple, holding hands, slowly walking beside the road. .He carried a big : blanket over. his shoulder arid she . · carried a large, empty wine bottle:. Two . people, a ·. blanket, a bottle.and a clear Canadian.night. The·man 
in the · moon winked, Orion· blushed ..' The festival was . 
riot over. · . · · · · . · · · Oh yes, the crim.e has been committed. · D 
.·47 









