CHESTERFIELD’S RIGHT COMBINATION WORLD'S BEST TOBACCOS ^^hesterfieldW
^he ^otre ^bame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
College Parade
... By Harry Walters
Indiana University conducted its annual Dames Ball, a sort of super-duper Sadie Hawkins dance. A list of rules of etiquette to be followed for the occasion was published in the Daily Student.
"HINTS TO COEDS"—
Dates: Since the Danies Ball is the woman’s big chance, she should select the most eligible of her male friends to escort to the dance. Dating may be done in person or by phone. The more shy may use the written invitation, although much of the eagerness of the inviter is lost on the printed page.
Time: The coed must arrange a time to call for her date
then remember that she will be expected to wait until her
THE STAFF
date is fashionably late. While doing so she may chat politely with the chaperon or exchange greetings with other coeds
AL LESMEZ Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
also waiting.
Other rules give the coed valuable advice on the vital subject of buying appropriate corsages, and taking cabs. She is told that if she wishes her date to make an impression, she should not object to carrying such paraphernalia as
GENE DIAMOND
ROBERT- RIORDAN
BILL WADDINGTON BOB, O'TOOLE -
Navy Associate Editor - Managing Editor -	- Sports Editor
Circulation Manager
combs, shoe brushes, electric razor, (Continued on page 23)
Turkey...
and Holly...
COLUMNISTS
rLIEUT. S. L. BEATTY
■JOHN POWER -
HARRY WALTERS
GEORGE KRAUSER
ART WAGNER -
-	-	- Observations'
- The Green Banner - The College Parade
Splinters from the Press Box
-	- Swabbies Log
CONTRIBUTORS
GEORGE DESPOT FRANK GRIMALDI HARRY SIEMONSMA ROBERT MOLNAR JACK McGRANE
BOB COCHRAN GREG HALPIN ENRIQUE LULLI JACK MILES TOM McNALLY
RON BYERSMITH MICHAEL MORANG JOE BRESLAW JIM CAREY JOHN FEENEY
PHOTOGRAPHY
Christmas Seals
"|*HEYonlycome once a year— 1 turkey and holly, carols and cranberry sauce!
CHARLES RENAUD
DON WHITE
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C.
Faculty Advisor
And only once a year do you get a letter enclosing the seals that save life — Christmas Seals.
Answer the letter! Christmas Seals make possible the year-round fight against Tuberculosis and are your gift to all humanity.
What better way to remember His birthday?
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript tn the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana. U
BUY CHRISTMAS SEALS!
The National, State and Local Tuberculosis Associations in the United States
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 83
DECEMBER 15, 1944
No. 5
TELLS OF LIFE IN CONCENTRATION CAMP
N.D. Endowment Described as Pitifully Meager
Figures Show University's Need
By AL LESMEZ "Scholastic" Editor
Notre Dame’s endowment handicap, which is reflected largely in the graduate school, and in research, is revealed in a few new figures of comparative endowments, taken from the World Almanac of 1944. The schools listed below, taken from the Almanac, are just a few, varying in size and location and nature, but sharing with Notre Dame the high educational objectives which demand substantial resources.
A check of the figures revealed that there are 156 American colleges and universities, including five Indiana institutions, that have endowments of $2,000,000 or over.
Notre Dame’s endowment fund stands close to $1,200,000, a figure that has been described as pitifully meager considering the wide scope, influence, and rating of the University.
NOTRE DAME ..............$	1,135,000
Amherst ...............   18,710,595
Calif. Inst. Tech........ 13,400,000 Carnegie Institute....... 17,031,893
U. of Chicago............ 71,350,268
Columbia U..............  89,135,728
Cornell U...............  32,922,580
Dartmouth ............... 19,667,788
Harvard ................ 154,140,303
Johns Hopkins ........... 30,082,848
Mass. Inst. Tech......... 37,266,000
U. of Michigan........... 15,860,469
Oberlin ................  20,158,582
Princeton ............... 35,000,000
Stanford ..............   30,800,000
Western Reserve ......... 13,483,985
Yale ................... 106,153,510
The Indiana schools with endowments of two million dollars or over are Butler University, at Indianapolis; De Pauw University, at Greencastle; Indiana University, at Bloomington; Rose Poly Institute, at Terre Haute; and Wabash College, at Crawfordsville. It is to be noted
that the only one mentioned above that outnumbers Notre Dame’s peacetime enrollment of about 3,200 is Indiana University.
Notre Dame’s meager endowment has not prevented her from becoming one of the leading Universities in the nation, attaining for- herself the proud distinction of being the largest boarding school in the country, and gaining fame in technical research on aerodynamics, metallurgy, chemistry, and engineering technique. A small endowment has not prevented a national acknowledgement of the excellent liberal education which is given the student here.
But all this has been done with a decided handicap. There is no end to the imaginings of even greater contributions to science and the liberal arts and to the students who come here, had the endowment figure been more favorable. It stands as a sort of miracle that Notre Dame has been able to accomplish so much with so little; it stands as an immovable monument to her ingenuity to have accomplished so much.
A lack of a sizeable endowment fund has handicapped the University in many ventures, but students and graduates have, in the past, been inclined to shrug and pass off one of the greatest problems confronting Catholic education today. The University’s large enrollment, outstanding contributions in the fields of arts and letters, science, engineering, and commerce, and its many outside influences, when considered in respect to other* colleges and universities, make the present endowment figures seem appalling. Those queried have stated emphatically that men of Notre Dame should realize the problem and attempt, in some concrete way, to recognize it, and educate others to the University’s needs.
Father Gagnon Speaks Tonight at Washington Hall
“Experiences in Three Concentration Camps” will be the topic of an address by Rev. Eustache Gagnon, C.S.C., in Washington hall tonight at 8:00. A prisoner of the Germans from June, 1940, until just before the Norinandy invasion by Allied troops, Father Gagnon was released through an exchange of prisoners with the Germans.
The talk will be illustrated with moving pictures and will cover Father Gagnon’s experiences in three different concentration camps in which he was held prisoner during his four years of confinement.
A holder of doctorates in philosophy
Rev. Eustache Gagnon. C.S.C.
and theology, Father Gagnon, until 1937, was professor* of philosophy at the University of Montreal when he volunteered to go to France. There, he was pastor of a new parish, the first church the Congregation of the Holy Cross ever maintained, which had just been returned to (Continued on page 21)
3
V-12 Ball and Weekend Slated for Jan. 26-28
The V-12 Executive Committee has announced that the Regimental Ball for the winter semester will be conducted on Jan. 26. The week-end of Jan. 26-28 has been arranged for the “V-12 Winter Frolics,” consisting of the ball on Friday night followed by an informal dance and a floor show, “Sailors on Parade,” on Saturday and a tea dance in one of the South Bend clubs on Sunday. The Ball and the show will be held in the Navy Drill hall.
General chairman for the week-end is Edward Brown and assisting him on the various phases of the week-end will be a staff of 11 committee heads. In charge of ticket sales and printing will be Ray Michols. Gene Diamond will direct publicity, and Bill Kornblum will head the
V-12 students dance in an appropriate setting in the Navy Drill Hall
Fr. Kenna Appointed
Director of Studies
Rev. J. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., has been appointed acting director of studies, it was learned this week in an announcement from the office of Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. Father Kenna succeeds the late Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies for 14 years, who died Nov. 21, 1944.
It was also announced that Rev. John J. Lane, C.S.C. would be assistant director of studies, a position he will hold in addition to his duties as head of the Office of Veterans Affairs.
Father Kenna was ordained at Notre 4
orchestra procurement for the ball. Other ball committees will be headed by W. H. Comstock, finances; J. J. Cahill, housing; F. H. Link and S. J. McConaha, transportation; R. A. Carter, favors; and J. M. Kays, checking. Saturday activities will be under the direction of E. N. Gunn who will compose the script and staging of “Sailors on Parade.” M. B. Crask will be in charge of the Saturday night dance. The Sunday tea dance chairman will be D. R. Caplan.
Announcement will be made as soon as possible as to the sale of tickets and only a limited number will be available. Arrangements are being made to garner a top flight orchestra for the ball and announcement of the choice will be made in the next issue of Scholastic.
Dame in 1930 and taught mathematics at Holy Cross Seminary for three years after his ordination. From 1933 until 1936 he took advanced studies at Johns Hopkins University, returning to Notre Dame in the fall of 1936 to become graduate head of the Department of Mathematics. A former superior of Moreau Seminary, Father Kenna had been assistant to Father Carrico from August 1943 until the latter’s death.
Father Lane was ordained here in 1934 and taught at Columbia Preparatory School, Portland, Ore., for several years. In 1936 he became vice president of St. Edwards’ University in Texas, where he remained until 1941, at which time he returned to Notre Dame. He was named director of the Office of Veterans Affairs last June.
Since the beginning of the war, 153 Notre Dame men have made the supreme sacrifice for God, Country, and Notre Dame. There are 25 missing in action and 24 more are known to be prisoners of war. Of these, the latest reports acknowledge the following:
★	148 Lt. (j.g.) Eugene P. Golden, ’40, Richmond, Va., was killed in action in the South Pacific on Sept. 13, 1944. He was attached with the U. S. Naval Air Corps in the South Pacific flying a dive bomber.
★	149 Lt. John Lagrou, ex. ’45, Detroit, Michigan, was killed in action in the Central Pacific on Nov. 21, 1944.
★	150 Pfc. Lawrence Patrick Leonard, Jr., ex. ’46, Toronto, Canada, who was killed in action in Holland on Nov. 5, 1944. He had had a part in the capture of Brest, when he received his first ribbon.
★	151 A/C William J. McJunkin, US-NR, ’42, Winnetka, Illinois, was killed in a crash while training as a naval aviation cadet at Corpus Christi, Texas.
★	152 Lt. Bartholomew D. O’Toole, ’39, Chicago, Illinois, was killed in action in France as a member of the Armored Division. He was a brother of Bob O’Toole of Sorin hall.
★	153 Jerome T. Witzman, ex. ’45, St. Bernard, Ohio, was killed in action somewhere in Germany on Oct. 12, 1944. He was serving with the U. S. Infantry.
Pvt. John A. Reilly, ex, ’46, from Elmhurst, N. Y. has been reported wounded in Italy. He is recovering from his injury in a base hospital, but expects to go back into action shortly. Word from him states that he is “resting nicely,” and that his wound is “responding to treatment.”
The following have just been reported missing in action:
Lt. Donald R. McKay, ’36, Fargo, North Dakota, missing in action somewhere in the Southeast Pacific.
Flight Officer Charles Joseph Farrell, ’41, Okmulgee, Okla., missing in action over Holland.
Ens. Roy James Grumbine, USNR, ’44, Cincinnati, Ohio, reported missing in action.
Robert Leslie Hengel, ex. ’42, Pierre, South Dakota, missing in action over Los Negros.—Harry Siemonsma
Fr. O'Donnell and Fr. Lane Speak in New York and Detroit at Alumni Communion Breakfasts
“The entire structure of American education needs to be rebuilt,” Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, declared last week in an address before the New York Notre Dame club. Speaking at the annual Communion breakfast of the club in the New York Athletic club last Sunday morning, following Communion services in Our Lady chapel in St. Patrick’s cathedral, Father O’Donnell attacked present day so-called “progressive education,” stating that, “the truth is that some years ago too many schools went on a pedagogical joyride.
“Not until God-fearing parents again rear God-fearing children will we have a sound foundation upon which to build for the future,” he declared.
“Insofar as Notre Dame is concerned, there can be no doubt about where she has always stood, or where she stands now. Hers is the true Christian, and American, philosophy. She believes .in sound progress, but always with basic principles as a point of departure. Notre Dames chases no will-o’-the-wisps. There has been, and there can be, no compromise with truth. Today, as always, Notre Dame is a citadel of western culture. To preserve this citadel, to strengthen it, and at the same time expand the sphere of its influence is the end to which we of Notre Dame rededicate ourselves.”
Father Lane Speaks
Rev. John J. Lane, C.S.C. spoke the same day at the annual Communion breakfast of the Notre Dame club of Detroit on “What Universities Are Doing to Assist Returning Servicemen” Father Lane also celebrated solemn Mass in the Cathedral of the Blessed Sacrament.
Father Lane stressed the fact that the universities are obliged to give to the
MASS CLUB PRESENTS
A Series of Informal Talks
2nd Presentation Subject—Liturgy and the Laity Place—Rockne Memorial Lounge Speaker—Mr. Willis Nutting Date—Monday, Dec. 18 Time—7:30 pan.	.
All are invited!!
returning veterans the best education possible and to avoid making compromises that may ultimately lead to the detriment of the veteran. Father Lane emphasized that there are a number of things that the universities can do to help without, in any way, lowering the academic standards or impairing the value of the degree which is offered them.
Experimental programs have been set up to assist the veterans in their entrance into their proper and qualified fields and to start them at the levels in which they qualify. Through careful counsel and guidance, the purpose of these programs is to assist them in obtaining the maximum benefit from the
Ensign Hummon Replaces Lieut. Stanfield
Lieut, (jg) Stanfield Explains the Various Duties to Ensign Hummon
Ensign Byron E. Hummon, USNR, has been appointed to replace Lt. (jg) John M. Stanfield as drill officer, communications officer, insurance and war bond officer, and trainee aptitude reports of the Notre Dame V-12 unit.
Transferred from Camp MacDonough, Plattsburg, N. Y. where he was company commander, Ens. Hummon reported for duty here Nov. 25. Formerly a leader in the YMCA in the West Central area around Kansas City, he then was se
studies in which they are engaged.
“In addition to these programs,” stated Father Lane, “there is the Vocational Placement Bureau which will aid them in making the proper industrial and business contacts when they have completed their course of study.”
Major Hagerty Honored
For outstanding bravery in action in the China-Burma-India theater of operation, the veteran 64th troop carrying group to which Major Leo Hagerty, ex. ’42, of Buffalo, N. Y. is assigned, has been cited by the Twelfth Air-force.
Major Hagerty is now entitled to wear the Distinguished Unit Badge for his meritorious service as pilot aboard the group’s planes in India.
He is also the proud possessor of the coveted Distinguished Flying Cross.
lected general secretary of that organization. He received his commission on Dec. 7, 1943, the second anniversary of Pearl Harbor Day.
He replaces Lt. (jg) John Stanfield, USNR, former principal of Fairbanks High school in Alaska, and later superintendent of Belle Center Schools in Ohio. While in the navy he was personnel education officer, V-12 unit at Gustavus Adolphus College, St. Peter, Minn. Lt. Stanfield left the station last Wednesday.
5
CO'S G AND B WIN HONORS
On Monday, Nov. 27, a drive was conducted among V-12 trainees for contributions for the United War Chest Uund. Men in Alumni and Dillon Halls contributed a total of $291.33. The total was distributed as follows: Company A, $17.50; Co. B, $39.23; Co. C, $33.65; Co. D, $20.93; Co. E, $24.82; Co. F, $20.25; Co. G, $40.51; Co. H, $38.05; Co. I, $29.39; Co. J, $27.00.
. A national campaign is now in prog
ress to raise $125,000,000. Fifty percent of the fund will be used for local organizations such as the Service Men’s Center, Y.M.C.A., Society for Crippled Children, and the county chapter of the Infantile Paralysis Foundation. An appropriate amount of the proceeds will be used to support War Relief Agencies which act in behalf of the people of the United Nations or members of our armed forces.
Gl Bill of Rights on Education Explained
First: It extends the right of vocational education for service-incurred disabilities to those who served during the period of Sept. 16, 1940, to Dec. 6, 1941.
Second: All veterans whose education was interrupted or interfered with by reason of their entrance into the service will be eligible for one year’s education at any school or institution of his own choice and in any subject or subjects desired for which he or she is fitted. He must start the course not later than two years after either the date of his discharge or the termination of the war, whichever is later.
In order to make these opportunities widely available, it is stipulated that anyone who is under 25 years of age at the time he or she entered the service “shall be deemed to have had his education or training impeded or delayed.” This means that if the veteran was under 25 when inducted, then the solid presumption will be that this did cut into his education, whether or not he was in fact going to school or to college at the time. If he is over 25, then he or she must show that his education actually was interrupted.
Third: Every veteran- can have a year refresher course. Every person tv ho has served 90 days is entitled to a refresher or retraining course not in excess of one year. This is entirely irrespective of age and all veterans have to do is to prove that they had been in the armed services for the required time.
Fourth: The veteran may select any approved educational institution in any State in the Union whether he resides there or not. An educational or training institution is defined to include all public or private, elementary or secondary schools, business schools, and colleges, scientific and technical institutions, vocational schools, junior colleges, teachers’ colleges, and so forth, and also technical training-on-the-job schools. It amounts to complete freedom of choice.
Also, an employed veteran may take part-time study under certain rules:
Fifth: The training shall be for a period of not to exceed one year, but it may be extended for another three years, except in respect to refresher or retraining courses. In brief, the requirement for getting the additional years is that the student fulfill satisfactorily the educational standards of the college or school at which he is studying. However, the greatest length of time which anyone can spend in college will be the length of his or her service after Sept. 16, 1940, and before the termination of the war, excluding the time spent in completed
(Continued on page 7)
6
Christmas Holidays Postpone Dr. F. Simon's Guest Appearance with University Band
BY OCTAVE EMOND
Because of the recently announced policy of the University concerning the permissibility of class single “cuts” before and after the holidays, the Christmas Concert which had been prepared by the Notre Dame Band for the twenty-first of December has been cancelled. It has not as yet been determined whether Dr. Frank Simon, who was to be guest soloist and conductor, will be available for a later appearance with the band.
Mr. Hope has announced that the added time will be used to advantage in the development of a seasoned symphonic band. It is his desire to attain full symphonic instrumentation so that the best possible interpretations of the conceit selections may be accomplished. The band will continue its rehearsals each week day evening at 5:10 in the band room at Washington Hall. Only on those days when the V-12 men are granted liberty will the band fail to meet.
Special attention is being directed by Mr. Hope to the development of refined
G. I. BILL OF RIGHTS
(Continued from preceding page) courses in the Anny and Navy college and school training programs, as modified by the following paragraph:
Anyone who has spent 90 days in the armed service, (excluding time spent in completed Army and Navy college-training programs) is entitled to one year’s education. If the veteran has been in the services for 90 days or more, then he is also entitled to Government-provided education equivalent to the full amount of time he has spent in the Army- This is in addition to the one year. For example, Pvt. John Doe has spent one year in the Army. He is entitled to one year’s education in return for his first three months service. Assuming he has satisfactorily passed his course, then he is entitled to 12 months additional over and above the year awarded to him by virtue of the first 90 days’ service. This 12 months is to compensate him for his entire period of service and the first three months counts as part of this time of service. Note that the original three months count as part of this time of service. Note that the original three months’ period counts double:
(a)	It entitles him to one year’s education.
(b)	It counts as part of his full time spent in the service in computing the
musical techniques among the men of the band. As a result of the daily practices, the organization is much improved.
Dr. Frank Simon
amount of Government education which will be given to him.
Sixth: The Administrator pays the institution the tuition and also the laboratory, library, health, infirmary, and similar fees. The Administrator may pay for books, supplies, and equipment. However, the total of such payment shall not exceed $500 for an ordinary school year.
While pursuing a course of education or training, the veteran will also be paid a subsistence allowance of $50 per month if without a dependent, or $75 per month if he has a dependent. Any sums paid to the veteran in appreritice’schools, and so forth, for work done will be proportionately deducted.—Spindrift
Mass Preparation Talk
On Monday of last week, a very interesting talk on the Liturgy was given by Father Michael Mathis, C.S.C., at the first of an informal group of discussions held in the Rockne Memorial lounge by the Mass club. He spoke on the “Preparation for the Mass.”
Father stressed the importance of making a preparation foi- the Mass, no matter the length. He mentioned that in order to get the full benefits of the Mass, we should know the lesson taught by it. and in order to do this, a preparation is necessary.—Harry Siemonsma
Hazing and Paddling
Banned by Colleges
All forms of hazing involving mental or physical torture, including paddling, will be banned officially and absolutely by all colleges and universities throughout the country and offenders, both individuals and organizations, disciplined if the request of the National Interfraternity conference is followed.
A resolution declaring such forms of hazing a menace to the welfare of educational institutions and the various organizations which are a part of the institutions, as well as to individual students, was passed unanimously at the 36th annual meeting of the National Interfraternity conference, held in New York City.
While such forms of hazing have been condemned in earlier sessions, this is the first definite request made for action by the administrative officers of educational institutions.
Yuletide Service Offered
The local Railway Express office will be open on Sunday, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., for the convenience of Christmas shippers, according,to an announcement by Mr. Tom Hartman, agent. This action has been taken to provide students a better opportunity to ship packages and assure their arrival before Christmas.
Cmdr. Eddy Stresses
Importance of Radar
Commander William C. Eddy, one of the United States Navy’s leading radio experts and head of a naval material school in Chicago, spoke on naval radar training and its future when he addressed a large gathering last Friday at the University.
A 1926 graduate of the U. S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Md., Commander Eddy was one of the Navy’s youngest submarine commanders. He later was a television engineer for a Hollywood film company and reentered the Navy when war broke out. He is credited with numerous inventions used in submarine sound receiving.
Speaking principally to prospective servicemen, he stressed the importance of radar in the post-war world and outlined the importance of radar in our armed forces.
Upon successful completion of the Eddy Test, given at any Naval Recruiting Station, one receives the rating of Seaman first class. Candidates for training should have a sound knowledge of high school algebra plus aptitude for scientific subjects.
Any student desiring further information can apply at the Naval Recruiting Station, Postoffice Building, South Bend.
7
NROTC Yearbook to
Appear in February
The second graduating class of the Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps of the University of Notre Dame will receive their commissions in the latter part of February, 1945 and in honor of the class the Irish Pennant Yearbook is being prepared by a staff of NROTC men for release during the first part of February. This will be the first graduation annual published by the Naval ROTC whose Irish Pennant has ranked high in publication circles of the 26 other NROTC units throughout the United States.
Establshed on the campus during the pre-Pearl Harbor days of September, 1941, the Notre Dame NROTC graduated 81 men in February, 1944. These men are scattered on naval officer assignments over the world.
The book, now well on the road to completion, will have the same general size as the University’s Dome which ceased publication during the war. An attractive leather binding with more than 100 pages of information concerning the members of the graduating class, the unit, Notre Dame and the many activities of the Naval ROTC, provide the most pertinent data released by the editors and staff.
Every effort has been made to cover completely the various phases in the life of Naval ROTC men on the campus of the University. Because of the fact that many of the members who receive commissions in February, came as civilians to Notre Dame, the Irish Pennant Yearbook will be a pictorial tribute both to the United States Navy and to the University of Notre Dame.
Prof. Kuntz is Named
Grad. Record Examiner
Notre Dame has recently been made a center for conducting the Graduate Record Examination in this area, and the President of the University has named Professor Leo F. Kuntz as local Examiner. The Graduate Record Examination is a standardized examination sponsored by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching since 1936. It has steadily become an increasingly important credential for students applying for admission to graduate and professional schools, and not a few colleges are beginning to require it of undergraduate transfer students. The Graduate
This Christmas, Notre Dame’s Christmas gift to the parents of the Notre Dame war dead, and also to the parents of those missing and captured, will be a spiritual bouquet to them “for the boys.” It will consist of the offerings made by the students for these boys who have done so much.
The masses number 3,025; Communions 2,579; rosaries 2,222; visits to the Grotto 3,094; and periods of adoration before the Blessed Sacrament 867. Spiritual bouquet cards enumerating all these offerings will be sent to the parents next week.
School at Notre Dame is now urging applicants to present the results of this Examination as a valuable auxiliary credential.
There are two major divisions to the Examination. In the first division, the tests cover the usual subject matter included in a general education. In the second division, there is a “verbal factor” test together with an achievement test covering a particular subject, such as Chemistry, Biology, Literature, etc., chosen by the examinee.
With the establishment of Notre Dame as a center for this Examination, and the appointment of Professor" Kuntz as Examiner, it is now possible for students who are looking forward to entering a graduate or professional school, which is requiring it as an admission credential, to take this Examination with the minimum of inconvenience. The first two students to take the Examination under Professor Kuntz are: John A. Arcadi and John E. Dockweiler.
Later, regular dates and places for the holding of the Graduate Record Examination will be announced, but in the meantime anyone interested may arrange special date with Professor Kuntz at his office in the Law Building.
❖	❖
❖	IT'S COMING:	❖
❖	IN NEXT	ISSUE —	THE	BAND ❖
❖	FOR	THE	V-12	BALL!	❖
♦	♦
Plans Under Way For
Student Hall Dances
Plans for a series of informal dances on Saturday nights before Lent begins were discussed at the regular Student Council meeting last Monday night. As a result of these discussions, a committee headed by Jim Retter was appointed to supervise these dances, with the details being left in the hands of a different hall for each dance.
It will be the job of this committee to outline plans, secure the hall, and coordinate the work, while men from the halls will handle ticket-sales, publicity, and other incidentals necessary for the success of the dances.
Also discussed at the meeting was the special problem presented to the University by .the men returning from the armed services. Although a committee was set up to arrange for a meeting of all ex-servicemen to provide an opportunity for them to bring their problems before the administration, it was later x found out that these problems were or could be handled satisfactorily through the Office of Veterans’ Affairs.
At the next meeting plans for a revision of the present constitution will be presented for consideration. A committee of James J. Clynes, Jim Donnelly, and Robert Riordan has been appointed to supervise this undertaking.
A scholarship fund has been planned as a “living memorial” for Allen Shafer, Jr., University of Wisconsin quarterback who died of injuries suffered in the recent Wisconsin-Iowa football game.
8
BOOK REVIEW:
"THE ROBE." BEST-SELLER FOR TWO YEARS
BY GERABD HEKKER
Out of the world of literature has come a book that can take its place at the head of the list of best-sellers which includes many of the so-called gems of literary mastery, but which are only gems of obscenity.
Telling in graphic measures of the time of Christ, Lloyd C. Douglas’s The Robe, is written with an excellent sense of understanding of the customs and traditions of the era. The story is told of the fulfilment of all the prophesies. The Robe is the story of the soldier who won the garment that Christ wore at His Crucifixion.
Marcellus, a Roman centurion is the winner of the beautiful seamless robe woven by the Blessed Virgin. He is deeply affected by the robe, which leads him to journey through the Holy Land in an effort to gain more knowledge of the new religion. On these journeys he is accompanied by his loyal slave Demetrius.
V-12 Winter Recreation Program Released
The V-12 Executive Committee, which will be in charge of all trainee recreation and entertainment for the winter semester has been announced by Lieut. James H. Northrup, recreation officer for the V-12 unit at the Notre Dame Naval Training School.
A broad and well organized recreation program has been arranged for this semester due to the enthusiastic cooperation of the various dramatic and choral groups from South Bend and vicinity as well as the utilization of trainee talent in the now traditional “Nites and Daze” shows. The program has been instituted for the purpose of supplying interesting and skilled entertainment for seamen on the Wednesday liberty on station.
Wednesday Night Entertainments
Dec. 20. Bendix Girls’ Glee Club' and Mixed Chorus.
Dec. 27. Basketball—Purdue vs. Notre Dame.
Jan. 3. Wrestling tournament.
Jan. 10. Univ, of Notre Dame Band Concert.
Jan. 17. Nites and Daze Show.
Jan. 24. “Mystery at Green Fingers”— Melodrama by Riley High school Dramatic Club—Riley High School Orchestra.
In these journeys, Mr. Douglas uses many incidents and persons who are mentioned in Holy Scripture. The story is climaxed by the martyrdom of Marcellus and his sweetheart, Diana, when they are put to death by the emperor because they refuse to give up their newfound religion.
The plot is simple, but the presentation is so complete that it can be called a masterpiece. Mr. Douglas makes fictitious and historical characters live in a brilliance of color and grandeur. His treatment of the beauty of religious characters is a thing of tender affection to every reader.
Douglas has written a book that has been acclaimed a best seller for nearly two years; it is a book with a truly fascinating and interesting background.
If seeking a few hours of real entertainment, don’t neglect reading The Robe. It is a book of religious beauty and abounding simplicity.
Feb. 7. Studebaker Girls Glee Club and Studebaker Mens Chorus.
Feb. 14. Basketball—Iowa Navy vs. Notre Dame.
Feb. 21. Spanish Fiest; Play and dancing by members of Riley High School Spanish Club.
Dances
Jan. 6. Alumni Hall at Rockne Memorial.
Jan. 26. V-12 Ball at Drill Hall.
Jan. 27. V-12, Sailors on Parade, Informal dance and floor show.
Feb. 10. Dillon Hall at Rockne Memorial.
Need Christian Attitude
Says Fr. Cavanaugh
“Catholic Action in the Post-War World” was the topic of a talk by Rev. Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, as he spoke to a gathering of 300 at the annual banquet of the Catholic Laymen’s League of Gary, in the Gary hotel last Sunday evening.
Emphasizing the position of the Catholic layman in the post-war reconstruction period, Father Cavanaugh stressed the need for a Christian attitude by the American people toward the problems of returning servicemen.
NFCCS Reorganizes;
5 Colleges Represented
The Fort Wayne region of the National Federation of Catholic College Students was virtually reorganized at its Fall meeting last Saturday afternoon in the Rockne lounge. Representatives from five colleges were present to give reports of activities and outline plans for further expansion of NFCCS activities within the region.
Following the reading of reports, the proposal of merging with the present Chicago region was discussed and voted down unanimously. It was decided that the region as organized at present will best suit the purposes of the Federation.
Emphasis was placed on having regional commissions dperate on a regional basis rather than local. Commissions already established include: Student Councils, Notre Dame; Liturgy, Nazareth; Student Missions, St. Mary’s; Sodalities, Nazareth; and Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, St. Mary’s.
Feeling that commissions were not established to cover the entire field of activities which could be served, the following new commissions were set up: In- . ternational Relations, Economic Roundtable of Notre Dame; Press Commission, Saint Joseph’s; Catholic Action, Saint Mary’s; and Victory Commissions, Nazareth.
The manner in which these commissions operate is unique—no similar arrangement is to be found elsewhere. As an example, the Notre Dame Student Council is the regional commission on Student Councils, and as such will receive from the Student Councils of other colleges in the region, any ideas or suggestions concerning student governing bodies. These ideas and suggestions will be compiled and sent to all members of the region. Thus is an exchange of these ideas effected without each Student Council corresponding directly with the others.
The over-all purpose of the Federation is a unification of activities of Catholic College Students throughout the country in order that each may benefit from the work done by others. From all indications at the meeting last week, the Fort Wayne region will again become very active in this work, and Notre Dame will again take her rightful place among the most active.
The average American loves to commune with nature but he’s afraid to say so and he tells his friends he’s going fishing.—Bits Out of Life .
9
Commission on Inter-American Action Attracts 120 Delegates; Dance Successful
The week witnessed the second meeting of the Commission on Inter-American Action, which was attended by 120 representatives of the Catholic colleges of the Chicago area, for the purpose of celebrating the feast-day of Our Lady of Guadalupe.
On Saturday, registration started at 4:30 and half an hour later, when the entire group had registered, the first session was opened by the president of the Commission, Mr. Joseph Menez. Following this, Miss Jean Ann Tobin from St. Xavier College read the minutes of the last meeting which was held in Chicago. Then Mr. Enrique R. Lulli, president of La Raza club delivered a speech of welcome followed by the reading and adoption of the by laws of the Commission which were made by Mr. Robert Hassett of Loyola university, vice-president of the Commission.	.
At 5:30 "p.m. the group had the privilege of hearing a talk by Miss Delfina Vegara, Bogota, Colombia, Rosary College, River Forest, Ill. Her theme centered around the “Need of Catholic Social Workers in Colombia,” after which the first session adjourned and the group went to the cafeteria where supper was served.
Inter-American Commission Dining in Local Cafeteria
At 7:15 p.m. all the representatives were directed to Washington hall where two interesting shorts were presented about Mexico and Brazil showing beautiful and modern scenes of the two neighboring countries to the south.
However, the highlight of the Saturday meeting was the Inter-American dance held at the Rockne Memorial. The civilian orchestra of the campus furnished a well varied program which contributed to its complete success.
On Sunday, at 8:30, Mass and Holy Communion was served by Rev. Leopoldo Creoglio, Merida, Mexico. Rev. Jacobson of Loyola university, Chicago, gave an inspiring sermon and the Moreau Seminary Choir sang several religious songs in Spanish.
Then the second session stalled at 10:30 in the Law building auditorium. The president of the Commission, Mr. Menez, introduced as the first speaker of the day, Mr. Luis Beltranena, member of La Raza club, from Guatemala City, Guatemala, who gave a very informative talk over the present political conditions of his country.
Following this speech, Miss Bianca Curzio, from Mexico City, member of the History club, St. Francis College, Fort
Wayne, Ind., read a paper, “Synarchy in Mexico.” Finally a guest of the Commission, Rev. Castiello, S. J., director of the department of Thomistic Philosophy in the National University of Mexico, gave an enlightening talk on “The Catholic Youth Movement in Mexico.” Father Castiello is at present teaching a course in Latin American History and Culture at Loyola university, Chicago.
The final feature of the program was Benediction in the Sacred Heart church offered by Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C. after which the meeting adjourned.
“The whole program presented,” stated Mr. Menez, “was a complete success for it fulfilled its purpose, the union of the Catholics of the Americas in a Spiritual Inter-Americanism.”
Nearly 230 V-12 Men
Have Seen Active Duty
Of the 835 men in our V-12 Unit this semester 228 have seen either active sea duty or extended shore service. This number of fleet men represents 27.3% of the trainees stationed here, and is an increase of more than 3% over the total in the unit last semester.
Broken down, these figures show that 152 men have served in the American Theatre, .113 in the Asiatic-Pacific Theatre, 28 in the European-African area, and 10 in the Atlantic.	,
Edward E. Hannah of Company H has the longest service record, having been in the Navy since October of 1938. Prior to entering V-12 Hannah was a Machinist’s Mate First Class. He wears the Asiatic-Pacific Theatre ribbon with four stars representing his thirty months of duty in that area, and ribbons for the European-African theatre and the Atlantic theatre. Hannah also has the PrePearl Harbor bar with star, the Good Conduct Medal and a Captain’s citation upon the sinking of the USS Blue in August of 1942.	'
Second in length of service is Robert S. Elliott, also of Company H, who enlisted on December 11, 1939. A Signalman First Class before coming to Notre Dame, Elliott spent thirty months in the Asiatic-Pacific theatre and eighteen months in the European-African area, as well as a year in the American theatre.
William C. Gaus from Company G ranks third, having entered the Navy December 27, 1939. Gaus formerly held a Signalman’s rate and his service record includes action in the European and American theatres and in addition to these bars he holds the Good Conduct medal and a commendation from his Commanding Officer.—John McLaughlin.
10
Professor Wilcox Back From Yukon
Chief Engineer of Huge* Northwest Project Describes the Norman Wells.
In harried Washington during the summer of 1942, a memo issued by General Brehon Somervell of the Army Service Forces set in motion a $200,000,000 finesse against the Japanese. The Japs’ long-planned offensive went tearing up and down the Pacific; the sting of Pearl Harbor and the prick of the Aleutians were keenly felt throughout the United States. Selected to head this gargantuan project was a Notre Dame man—Prof. C. C. Wilcox, head of the department of mechanical engineering of the University.
This huge, expensive finesse is known as Canol, and was only part of an immense overall project outlined for the Northwest—Western Canada and Alaska —as a result of the scare aroused by the Japs. Attu and Kiska were invaded by the little men, shells from Jap submarine guns had fallen on U. S. soil facing the Pacific. The Northwest was destined to become a main cog in our war against the Japs, and oil was needed to make the machine roll.
In the frozen north there is a local oil source, but the source—the Norman Wells—is located in the wildest country on the North American continent. Getting oil from Norman, refining it, and distributing it was the job of Canol.
The huge Northwest project that had to be quickly done consisted in finishing the Alcan highway, establishing air bases and getting Canol into operation. Called in to be chief engineer of the consulting engineers on the Canol job, Prof. Wilcox left Notre Dame two years ago for the Yukon, a country he describes primarily as “a land of silence.”
At a recent meeting of the Notre Dame mechanical engineers Mr. Wilcox told of his strange job in the strange land. The project, he said, got under way with blinding speed. The Norman Wells are located within 100 miles of the Arctic circle, the ultimate in remoteness on the Western Hemisphere. At the time Prof. Wilcox was called in, the army was not sure Norman would produce oil, and if it would the crude oil had to be piped 100 miles across the most treacherous. terrain in North America, refined, and then piped another 600 miles to Fairbanks for distribution.
The chief problem of Canol was transportation. Some 500,000 tons of equipment had to be moved up, and until road building got underway, dog sleds and
By FRANK GRIMALDI "Scholastic" Feature Writer
airplanes were the only means of moving it. Dogs were small, slow and temperamental, and airplanes were few and hazardous. The problems and difficulties supplementing and sometimes out-doing those of transportation are innumerable.
The Mackenzie Mountains, across which the first 600 miles of pipe was to be laid, had never been crossed by anyone. Prof. Wilcox was in the singleengined plane that made the first flight over them. Frankly admitting that he was scared, he reported that merely flying over the mountains was an ordeal. The task of laying a pipeline across a wild and frozen land that thawed into an ungodly mire during spring would cause the mind of any normal person to spin. But the engineers and the army moved in.
Routing a pass across the proposed line was a headaching job in itself and surveying the route expended nearly two
Carl C. Wilcox (right), head of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, tells Raymond J. Schubmehl. acting dean of the College of Engineering, about those allimportant pipelines in the Yukon for the construction of which Professor Wilcox was recently the chief engineer.
million dollars, hundreds of exhaustive man-hours and unbounded perseverance. Barometers and compasses in the frozen, magnetic North were described by Prof-Wilcox as being the most “erratic feminine things you ever saw.”
“We had to calculate every foot of the route,” he reported, “and calculations involving the location of the pump stations had to be made to a very discouraging accuracy.” In his address Prof. Wilcox touched on the huge number of technicalities ranging from the viscosity of the oil to the disposal of sewage, each a problem of considerable proportion. Displaying charts and maps marked “Confidential,” he presented a clear idea of the overall plan, and in true professorial style, scribbled and scratched on the blackboard some of the supplementing technical troubles comprising Canol.
Hundreds of detailed drawings had to be made for every phase of the project. Fifty of the best draftsmen in the nation were called up by the army for the prodigious job. Huge architectural problems involving the housing and feeding of
(Continued on page 20)
11
Irish Basketeers Begin Season in High Pitch;
Win First Three Games by Large Scores
BY JOHN FEENEY "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Notre Dame’s scintillating basketeers, paced by the accurate offensive play of Johnnie Dee and Vince Boryla, snowed under the willing but hapless Alma Scots, 71-30, on the Irish hardwoods Tuesday night. Coach Bill Lear’s lads fell behind in the opening seconds on Boryla’s ringer and never recovered sufficiently to be even a mild threat to the high-flying Blue and Gold. N. D. has now annexed three triumphs with consummate ease and has amassed 228 points for an average of 76 a game, while holding three opponents to slightly more than 30 a tilt.
After the opening fielder, Boryla added a free toss and Frank Gilhooley, veteran guard, made it 5-0 with his swisher from the side. At this point the Scots showed signs of life, Flascher’s bucket bringing the count to 5-2. Then it was 5-3, 7-3, 9-3, 9-5, 9-6, 11-6, 13-6, 13-8. Here Clem Crowe’s proteges really began to click, getting 25 consecutive points to race the score to 38-8 before “Moose” Krause momentarily halted the farce with a set shot for Alma. N. D. came back immediately to pot nine more points for a 47-11 half-time margin.
The Irish reserves saw duty during the final 20 minutes with George Batter-man, Jim Kartholl, and George Benigni
Hardcourt Action Has Been Heavy in the Fieldhouse of Late
notching seven, six, and five points re-specively. Alma played on almost even terms after intermission. The Scots netted 19 digits as against 24 for the Irish shock troops who lack the polish and dexterity of the regular five.
Krause, the losers’ captain, shoved in four field goals and three gift shots for a total of 11. Bill Hassett, N. D.’s flashy ball hawk, turned in a brilliant defensive game and in addition accounted for four points. Neither he nor the other four starters appeared during the second half as Crowe mercifully attempted to avoid an astronomical score.
Irish 64; Miami U. 32
Clem Crowe’s unbeaten Notre Dame eagers notched win no. 2 Saturday night on the local maples by racing over and around Miami University’s hardwood repeat performance of the Kellogg Field hopefuls, 64-32. The game was almost a tilt in many respects. The Ohioans showed more class than the Flyers but N.D.’s aggregation was much smoother than in its opener and raced to an early advantage which was never endangered. Half-time score stood at 39 to 8 for the Irish.
As usual, the Golden Domers started fast, employing a fast break and an (Continued on page 20)
Lanky Wisconsin Five I of Irish Winning Strfr
BY LOU
Sports Editor, W
NE ns
It is too early in the season to make any definite statements about the University of Wisconsin’s basketball team. It won its first game against a Lawrence college outfit that didn’t resemble a good high school quintet, and Marquette’s fine club went down to defeat because three men—Forward Bay Patterson with 25 points, Center Don Eeh-feldt with 14, and Forward Des Smith with 6—did all of the Badgers’ scoring.
Patterson, shifted to forward because the six-foot, six-inch Eehfeldt towers four inches above him, may take the Big Nine scoring championship. If he performs as well as he did against the Hilltoppers, when he hit on hooks, pivots, and one-handers from the side—11 field goals and three free throws—he will be a menace to any and all of the Badgers’ opponents.
P v t t f
C v v s b f a Z P v
I a
Eehfeldt was All-City center last year in Chicago, and is slowly becoming accustomed to Coach Harold “Bud” Foster’s system of play. With him or his replacement, six-foot, four-inch Bill Bachman at the center post, the Badgers are certain to control the rebounds.
e
Eehfeldt’s scoring shot is a pivot and throw with his left hand, and, if he can learn to throw with his other hand, he will cause plenty of trouble for opposing teams.
Forward Des Smith has been “off” so far this year. The Badgers’ scrappiest ball player scored 135 markers in conference competition last year*, and was doing very well in practice. In games he has driven hard, but his shots have not been accurate at all. It seems that he can’t hit with a set-up shot off of the backboard, for he has missed countless numbers of them so far. Wisconsin fans are looking for him to get back on the scoring trail against the Irish, Saturday.
At the guards Wisconsin has the veteran Bill Johnson and rookie Bob Kline. Johnson is one of the best defensive guards in the conference, but he hasn’t been shooting well this year. Kline has
V:
,s it
Ji
k zi P' m S c c
B m
12
p as
* I lady to Attempt Halt rii । of Decisive Victories
OU
, w
NDMAN
r.sin "Cardinal"
ke fill. >v-le rat it-h-th g-
se rs ne re le
s, Id ae ■s’
ir c-sis ill rs
id .ii le
;o si 3v
1-LS ie )t ie te
;s IS e
paired up very well in the back courts with Johnson, but he takes so few shots that it seems he is afraid to shoot. Thus the burden of the work goes onto the forwards and center.
For replacements, Foster has Kurt Grimm and Gene Mathews, both of whom saw some action last year, at forwards; and Bob Hollinger of 1943-44 squad at guard. These are his veterans, but newcomers Forwards Vince Goering, formerly of Dartmouth, Hossie Dahl, and Maurie Rhude have looked good. Bill Zorn and Vernon Krueger are guard replacements, while Bachman and Bill Levine are substitutes at center.
The Badgers’ starting lineup of Smith, Patterson, Rehfeldt, Johnson, and Kline averages six feet, two inches in height.
McKeever Names Thirty-Three for Monograms
Coach Ed McKeever announced this
week that 30 players and three managers would receive monograms for the
football season just con
cluded. Subject to the approval of the faculty board in control of athletics, the following are to receive the awards:
Pete Berezney, Tom Guthrie, George Sulli
van, John Adams, Bill O’Connor, Ken .Schuster, Doug Waybright, Bob Skoglund, Art Mergenthal, Ralph Stewart, John Mastrangelo, George Martz.
e
s
Capt. Pat Filley, Fred Rovai, Jim Dai-ler, Joe Westenkirchner, Bob Kelly, Nunzio Marino, Frank Dancewicz, Joe Gas-parella, Marty Wendell, Elmer Angs-man, Steve Nemeth, Jim Brennan, Frank Szymanski, Mike Davlin, Johnny Ray, Chick Maggioli, George Terlep and John Corbisiero.
The three managers include Ernie Rauscher, John Graif, and Ted .Rade-maker.
Campus Poll Shows "Football Number" a Just Tribute to Great Team; Cover Makes Hit
BY GEORGE H. WEISS
The Scholastic staff received a vote of confidence from the student body by its 100% approval of the Notre Dame Football Issue. It was found to be a just tribute to a great team which exemplified the spirit for which the school is so famous. The students were particularly impressed by the attractive cover, organization and manner of presentation. A cross-section of the campus speaks:
Of special significance is the fact that a few thought the “Issue” could
have been a little more attractively planned, and others noted the errors in type-setting; however, all agreed that it is one of the best they have seen.
Jim Coleman, civilian junior from Westfield, N. J.: “The Scholastic ‘Football Number’ represents a neat job by the staff. It is truly a fitting tribute to a fighting team.”
Bill Dickson, civilian freshman from Pittsburgh, Pa.: “Scholastic’s annual football issue is one of the most comprehensive I have ever read. It presents an overall picture of the season, and a personal insight to the coaches and players who make Notre Dame football what it is.”
Mike Garry, civilian junior from Fairmont, Minn.: “The Notre Dame coaches and the team of ’44 deserved and received the best N. D. football Scholastic ever issued.”
❖
Tom Mulhern, NROTC senior from Brooklyn, N. Y.: “The ‘Football Number’ was really tops—well-written, good coverage and something worth saving for the future.”
Dick Porter, civilian freshman from Racine, Wisconsin: “In the last Scholastic I enjoyed the summary of the games and also got familiarized with the players’ faces. On the whole it was very interesting from cover to cover.”
❖
Bob Woodhouse, civilian senior from Grand Rapids, Mich.: “The football issue is an extensive coverage of a successful season— in all a job well done.”
Jim Madden, V-12 junior from Saint Paul, Minn.: “A true-to-life picture of a classic season of football at N.D.”
❖
Bill Bracken, NROTC senior from New York: “This was by far the best ‘Football Issue’ I have seen since coming to Notre Dame. It’s a great souvenir of a great season.”
Frank Foss, civilian junior from Toledo, Ohio: “The Scholastic’s 1944 ‘Football Number’ expressed the opinion of every Notre Dame student in its lavish praise of our fighting eleven. Moreover, it covered every aspect of the gridiron season. It really makes a great souvenir.”
❖
Dick Sayers, V-12 junior from Hackensack, N. J.: “This issue struck me as a fitting climax to another great season for the fighting Irish.”
❖
Dick Raul, V-12 sophomore from Jacksonville, Fla.: “The ‘Football Issue’ was a tribute to a scrappy team. I believe some of the pages could have been made more attractive, but all in all, the issue was a successful production.”
(Continued on page 14)
13
Interhall Basketball Already Underway: Handballers to Have Big Event This Term
Action started last Wednesday night in the Rockne Memorial basketball league. In all, 21 teams have entered the competition which will go on during each night of the week, four teams playing each evening in a four team league with the exception of Monday which is assigned five teams.
. get the rebound!!"
While this is not the largest number of entries ever to appear in the winter interhall event, it represents a larger percentage of men playing than has been true in the past. The ease of entry into the league accounts for this. Whereas only hall teams were entries in past years, now there is a number of teams from the same hall. In a few instances some of the teams entered have been due to the merger of men from different halls, but primarily, the individual aggregations all come from under the same
roof. Breen-Phillips holds the tops in numbers with five teams while Zahm and St. Ed’s both follow closely with four apiece.
The two games played each night are scheduled for 7:00 p.m. under the supervision of a member of the physical education staff. One complete round of play before the Christmas is hoped for by Dr. John Scannell, dean of physical education. The campus civilian championship will be determined by play between the five league winners.
Handball Call
A round robin in handball with four man teams will be played this semester. Each match will consist of four singles and two doubles. Games are booked for 7:00 p.m. on the courts in the Rockne building. Those interested should appoint a manager at once and have him contact Mr. Scannell in the Rockne for details. Interhall medals will be awarded the winners.
The University open championships in handball will be held in February on the Rockne courts. Both singles and doubles play will be run on the basis of elimination tourneys.
Wrestling in Season
A list has been placed in the freshman gym in the fieldhouse, where wrestling classes are held, for the purpose of signing up those who would like to engage in mat competition in the very near future. Periods of instruction will be conducted for those entered in the various weight classes, and all interested are urged to register their names. Interhall medals will be awarded to the class winners and runners-up.
CAMPUS OPINION POLL
(Continued from preceding page)
Bob Clement, V-12 freshman from Pasadena, California: “Aside from the omissions and small errors that always creep into a magazine, I believe that the ‘Football Issue’ was one of the best I’ve seen. It is a shame that that wasn’t Arch Ward.”
❖
Dan O’Neil, civilian freshman from Buffalo, N. Y.: “My hat goes off to a hard working staff that put out such an enjoyable, well-worth keeping ‘Football Issue.’ It seemed to be a true representation of an excellent season.”
NROTC Chalks Up Third Basket Win at Season
Notre Dame’s Naval ROTC, continuing on in the local basketball wars for the third consecutive year, have annexed three victories in the infancy of their season. Opening a week ago Wednesday against the Varsity Reserves as a preliminary to the Notre Dame-Kellogg Field game, they took the game, 29-21, holding the lead throughout. In their encounter with the Holy Cross Brothers of Dujarie Institute last Friday, they gained their second triumph, 54-41.
For their third success to date, the ROs overwhelmed the Varsity Reserves Tuesday night in a preliminary match to the Notre Dame-Alma game, 32-16. The Navy boys got off to a big margin after the reserves opened the game scoring with a bucket, to lead 22-8 at half time.
Leading scorer for the Walsh hall contingent in their last two games has been Jim Cassidy from Peoria, Ill., getting 27 and 11 respectively. Assisting him in the point column have been center, Al Wade, forwards Harry Gilligan and Jim Griffin, and guards, Denny Scully, and Vince Laurita.
The ROs are scheduled to play the Knights of Pythias on the varsity court at 7:30 this evening.
ATTENTION!
Dan Hanley, Clashmore Mike's trainer, wishes the students would please refrain from feeding Mike as he no longer comes back for meals and consequently leaves the campus for three and four days at a time.
14
By GEORGE KRAUSER
As all good things must come to an end, so too, the 1944 pigskin season has been folded away in the record book to be gazed, upon by future generations.
With each passing year the Irish add some feat of football supremacy to their record, and this yeai‘ was no exception. For the first time the Blue and Gold defeated a Great Lakes’ eleven and they did it in such a way as to win the plaudits of all.
Frank Dancewicz added 72 yards to his already impressive total to finish the year with 999 yards gained as a result of his aerial efficiency. By completing 72 out of 153 forwards, “Boley” showed a .471 accuracy rating.
Bob Kelly crossed the goal line 13 times during the year and added 6 conversions to rank high among the nation’s pointmakers with 84 points. Steve Nemeth successfully converted on his last 10 tries to bring his placekicking total to 12 in 14 tries. These efforts were matched by only a handful of this year’s gridiron gems. Just a parting salute to our great team!
With the coming of the snow and cold our eyes are now turned indoors to the basketball court where our cage five has already made an impressive start. With no regulars back from last year’s quint, Coach Clem Crowe has had to start from scratch to mold this season’s squad.
With the net season just under way, it might be helpful to look over the nu-celus of the Blue and Gold outfit.
Only three players have had previous experience in college ball, and none of these at Notre Dame. Bill Hassett, who hails from New York City and packs 182 pounds on his 5’10” frame, pastimed with last year’s high-stepping Georgetown team and has filled one of the opening guard slots on the Irish quint. A very nifty ball handler, Bill adds the experience necessary to hold the young unit together.
At the other guard post is Frank Gil-hooley of Toledo, Ohio, and a graduate of Central Catholic of the same city. The six-foot Gilhooley sports the same weight as Hassett and plays a good floor game, though he, too, possesses point-making possibilities.
In the pivot position, and the tallest player of the opening five, is Big Vince Boryla from Washington high school of East Chicago, Ind. In the first two con
tests Vince used his six-feet four-inches to good advantage in tallying 30 points to pace the Irish attack. Besides being the tallest of the first five, Vince is also one of the youngest members of the team, being 17.
The corner positions are occupied by Paul Gordon and Johnny Dee, Johnny having cavorted on the Loyola of Chicago five. Gordon, 17-year-old, 6'1", 175 pounds, is a civilian from Mt. St. Joseph’s of Baltimore, Md. Paul showed excellent form in nudging the netting on 5 of 10 tries against Kellog Field. Johnny, 5'7" and 160 pounds, set the pace in the Miami game when he swished the draperies for 15 counters.
On the reserve list are forwards George Ratterman from S. Xavier of Cincinnati; John Mullen of Central Catholic, Toledo, Ohio; Norm Mirring-ton from La Salle of Niagara Falls, N. Y.; Tom Kennedy of Rochester High of Rochester, Minn.; George Benigni from Mt. Carmel of Chicago, Ill.; and Floyd Magnusson of Fort Dodge, Iowa, and of Iowa University. Substitute centers are Bill Roberts, giant 6'7" player from Fort Wayne, Ind., and Bill O’Connor, 6'4" from Bear Mountain, N. Y.
Backing up the starting guard duo are Jim Karthol of Central Catholic of Fort Wayne; Andy Sobek of Hammond High of Hammond, Ind.; Harry Goheen from Huntington, W. Va.; and Leo Murphy of Buffalo, N. Y.
Looking forward to oui- opponents of the coming weeks, the first that catches the eye is the Badger five from Wisconsin, whom the Irish meet tomorrow night. Last week the Badgers stopped Marquette, 45-40, to serve notice on the Notre Dame quint. Great Lakes, a January foe, was edged out twice by a young Illini five by scores of 44-40 and 56-53.	.
The Lakes team boasts of a galaxy of stars including Jackie Dean, former De Paul forward. De Paul, by the way, has breezed through five opponents and recently polished off Wyoming, 69-28. Iowa University, Dec. 23rd opponent, which has the sensational Dick Ives as a mainstay, burst loose with a deluge of points to swamp Macomb, 101-23. Other noteworthy opponents, the University of Kentucky and University of Detroit, both eased through opening opposition to account for future trouble.
Parting Notes: Clem Crowe, N.D. ’26, starting his first year- as coach of the Irish, has had previous coaching experience at St. Vincent’s college, Latrobe, Pa., and Xavier university, Cincinnati. . . . Andy Sobek, second stringer, is the third of the Sobek brothers to play on the Irish squad.
Army Eleven Best This
Year—Only This Year
For nearly three months the Army mule ran roughshod over the nation’s gridirons and sent every sportscaster scurrying for his thesaurus to discover the glowing adjectives which would best describe the potent precision of the Cadet attack.
After a season highlighted by a bruising victory over the Fighting Irish, the accumulation of 504 points, and a climactic victory over Navy, attempts were made to measure the new champions against the norm of previous grid powers. Coach Earl Blaik of the Point claimed for his team the nebulous distinction of “greatest of all time.” In doing so, Colonel Blaik calls upon the vastness of a past which is likely to supply far more competition than the war-depleted teams of the nation were capable of offering.
Davis and Blanchard have yet to achieve the greatness of Stuhldreher, Crowley, Layden and Miller; although it likely will be theirs after a few more years of competition.
For that matter, the 1930 backfield of Savoldi, Brill, Carideo, Elder, and Schwartz or the Bertelli, Miller, Mello, Rykovich-Kelly combine of ’43 have yet to be proved inferior. The Minnesota team of 1934 and the 1939 Southern Calif. Trojans exhibited an offense based more on power through the line and less on breakaway sprints than the 1944 edition at Army, and accomplished this power at the expense of teams of their own calibre rather than against underage, undermanned wartime teams.
Army’s telephone number scoring total is an outgrowth of the wide open running and passing of the T-formation and can not be successfully compared to totals compiled by teams using a more cautious attack like the single wing.
The 1944 Army team was a good team and a great team and will deserve tribute for years to come as one of the smoothest functioning offensive units in many a moon. That they were best of all is a matter of controversial opinion and opinion in this quarter runs along negative lines.—Gene Diamond
15
The Green Banner
. ..By John Power
TIN PAN ALLEY
They call her Meat Ball Sal,
. The Notre Dame Dining hall gal, With ham and ivith gravy She’s good to the navy;
She’s the Swabbies best pal.
II
LETTER TO LIZZIE
Christmas draws near or at least that’s what the snowstorms keep telling us. That’s the nice thing about Indiana weather—you are always warned about four months ahead of time that Dec. 25 is coming, by the snow. Then by the time Dec. 25 arrives, the snow is too deep to get out. So what’s the difference? As the lads dream of wandering home for the holidays, the puzzling question remains, “Is she is, or is she ain’t my baby?” With this question on the minds of everyone from Hector Panneslaivtzz to yours truly, letters scurry from the Post Office so fast that the airplanes on the airmail stamps are taking off by jet propulsion. And the subject is always the same:
Dear Liz:
Thought I would drop you a “line” but couldn’t decide which one. All these lines at Notre Dame are the same, anyway, and besides, no one believes them but the Barat girls.
I’ll be home for Christmas, so you may as well break all your other dates. Wash your bobby socks and be ready to hit the neon trail as the Irishman is on his way. The students are deeply indebted to
the University for this vacation as it is four times as long as last year. Big four days, this time. (96 hours) Oh Joy! Believe me, take it on my word that we have no time to lose. To reach you as soon as possible and to get my first good meal since Nov. 5. I have made reservations on the South Shore Stratoliner (which is a reasonable facsimile of the roller coaster at Coney Island and a horse drawn Rapid Transit car rolled into one). The nice thing about the Stratoliner though, is that it doesn’t set a wheel on the track between Michigan City and Gary but the ties are rather rough so that at Randolph St., the passengers pick themselves out of the baggage rack and depart. Reservations were rather hard to get but after giving the ticket agent my last pack of Rameses and promising to marry his daughter Olga, he came across. In closing Liz, let me add that during my stay in South Bend, I have constantly thought of you; and only the other night, while I was out with Minerva, I kept repeating: “Somebody loves me!”
Yours till the Stratoliner sidetracks,
Hector
When dishing out potatoes or beans.
She ivas ever so siveet to Marines
But with civilians she’s sparing,' Just stands there a’glaring, She’s Meat Ball Sal.
FAME OR FORTUNE
Jack and Chuck went up the hill, Each had a buck and a quarter.
Jack came down with two and a half;
They didn’t go up for water.
Souds like gin rummy was taught to Chuck Sartore at his expense by John Dockweiler. Hi roomie! Crack my skull will you?
Is it true that Frank Gilhooley tried to date Alma after the game?
DOROTHY DIX
Rumor has it that Richard G. for George Miller will become engaged to Miss Louise Dunn of Memphis in the near future. It was romance via Uncle Sam but still romance—Congratulations little barrister! The idea that Dick got a Wave for a present from Santa at the Lawyer’s Christmas Party is unfounded.
Also in the line of lush love—John Bresnahan, the mayor of Dogpatch, is being thwarted by snowdrifts — Better buy a plow, John, long winter ahead.
"Only three day's vacation! Oh you Notre Dame fellows tell the biggest lies!"
16
Last Home Game Leaves Everlasting Memory on Fans of Hard Snow and Good Marksmanship
BY SEAMAN GENE DIAMOND "Scholastic" Associate Editor
As the last strains of the national anthem drifted off on the chill autumn air, came shades of Shiloh and Charleston as
civil war broke forth again in all its fury. The civies and V-12’s were intent on preserving that Union, that union of aim and spirit that has bred football success for half a century and has set Notre Dame teams apart from all others in matters of zeal and fight.
From across the quadrangle came a group of “rebels,” waving enemy banners and extolling the glories of old Tulane, of Wisconsin, of Northwestern, and finally, of Great Lakes. This was treason and treason cannot go unopposed. For almost the entire season, there were attempts at mediation as the secessionists were upbraided verbally, usually with a chant composed of a pair of meaningful initials.
Notre Dame’s detached coeds from across the Dixie soon joined in the chant but it was becoming increasingly apparent that the rebels were not to be argued and cajoled into submission.
The time was ripe for action and the elements played right into our hands. Jupiter Pluvius and the falling mercury supplied the ammunition and the pre-
game spirit for the Great Lakes game supplied fever-pitch incentive. At 1:46 p.m. on the afternoon of Dec. 2, the battle broke in all its fury as the civie-V-12 heavy artillery sent up a barrage.
The sky was full of the flak from exploding snowballs as Diz Deans and Bob Fellers on both sides scored with deadly accuracy; and several direct hits were scored on Middie ranks and replacements by union-bombardiers. At 1:59 the battle subsided and as the game progressed, the middie rebels soon became
aware of the hopeless folly of their cause.
Now that the 1944 season is over, and alive only in memory and in the annals of sports history, order has been restored and the harmonious, cooperative association between students and the Midshipman school continues as before. To the Middies we say that the Notre Dame spirit is made of the stuff that craves competition and opposition and we have enjoyed your opposition which has enabled this spirit to readily manifest itself. Your cheers would bring a thrill to the hearts of the alumni of Tulane or Wisconsin or Northwestern but—look at the record. We are sorry that your season here was so poor.... You lost all four games against us.
GREEN BANNER (Continued from page 16)
Jim “The Fox” Better manages to keep going, only by sleeping through his classes and doing lots of that talking between them.
CONGRESS IS WORKING ON IT— WHERE IS THE STUDENT COUNCIL?
We knew the cigarette shortage hit the campus hard but we almost died when Pat Wagner pulled out a package of “Argentinos,” and after having one we did die. But it was pre-meditated murder on Pat’s part—we won’t do it again Pat, honest.
Tom Culyer, Sorin hall addict, got on the end of what he thought was a cigarette line. Well, as the story goes, before he knew what was going on, he had signed up to help shovel snow out of the stadium.
WHO'S WHO IN THE "SCHOLASTIC"
A picture entitled “Mr. Arch Ward” appeared in last week’s Football Issue. It was a swell picture of a very distinguished looking gentleman. But there was one slight error. It wasn’t Arch. All of the Arch supporters on campus are up in arms.
Rumor has it that reportei- Pete Brown slipped it in as a part of a campaign to have his dad elected “The most handsome sports writer in Chicago.”
At present, the “Ignorant Sanctum” is hard at work trying to find out whose picture it really is. Is it the man who designed Washington hall? Is it our famous Western Union Loy? Even Scrap Young doesn’t remember his face.
All-Navy All-American
Picked by V-12 Trainee
With such an abundance of All-American material romping the nation’s gridirons each Saturday afternoon; with so many stars basking in the light of their own brilliance as described in the Sunday edition of the Collegeville Express, the man who picks an All-American team for 1944 is likely to meet some serious opposition from such notable institutions as Pro-Skunk university and Joe College whose sequels to Creighton Miller have remained unrecognized.
No restriction is too small to serve those eager sportscasters who are desirous of pleasing each student and diehard alumnus at even the. most obscure of the many spots of higher fields of
The Famous Navy Goat
learning which sponsor our great American game of football.
Despite the fact that All-Boy Scout and All-Polish Extraction teams have been chosen annually, we have failed to notice any scribe’s version of an AllNavy All-American—a condition which will not exist henceforth. For to remedy this unhappy situation we present (fanfare) your All-Navy All-American team for 1944:
Ends: Tinsley, Georgia Tech; Walker, Yale.
Tackles: Sullivan, Notre Dame; and Whitmire, Navy.
Guards: Kapter, Seahawks; Chase, Navy.
Center: Martin, Navy.
Backs: Mello, Great Lakes; Jenkins, Navy; Graham, N. Carolina Pre-Flight; Weise, Michigan.
Any of you who wish to insert Notre Dame’s Bob Kelly in place of any one of the above named backs may do so since he is technically still a Navy man.
—Bob Cochran
17
FOOTBALL ET CETERA . . .
During the football game between the Tulane Green Wave and the Notre Dame Fighting Irish, played here October 7, one of the Tulane eleven was injured on a play and had to be helped from the field. One of our “late” marines yelled scoldingly, “John Adams, did you do that? You big bully!”
There were so darn many disgusting fights at that game that occasionally, if you allowed yourself to forget you knew better, it was rather difficult to tell exactly which was the main attraction of the afternoon—the football game or the fisticuffs.
The Notre Dame middies practically monopolized the Northwestern Yell Leaders’ time; in fact to the extent they began yelling for “Sharkie” (feminine yell leader) instead of for her team. When she finally led them in a yell for the team, they got all flustered and had a tough time spelling-out, correctly, “Northwestern.”
Some R. 0. T. C. humanitarian was helping a small boy sell football programs by yelling, “You can’t tell. the football from snowballs without a program! Get your official program here!” This all sounded rather ridiculous at that moment. But as time went on its merry way, the Lakes team entered the snow covered stadium; and with it pandemonium quickly broke loose as the Great Lakes cheering middies became the target of myriads of snowballs hurled by the Notre Dame adherents. Before long, to everyone’s surprise, it became difficult to tell the difference between aforementioned “football and snowballs” even with the invaluable (apparently in meaning not in this instance) aid of the official program.
Snowballs flew so thick and fast that anyone sitting in the upper bleachers was unable to see the playing field. As a matter of fact, they didn’t dare try for fear of being snowed under.
Hats were swished from heads, and the unprotected faces of both middies and civilians absorbed the bite of the -
cold and the sting of a “plague” of wildly thrown snowballs.
Where were we during all this excitement? Well, it seems that the V-12 sailors and the N.R.O.T.C.’s, incidentally, sitting between the “Martins and McCoys,” had drawn the worst of the bargain. They were bothered by a pesty conscience which kept repeating the recent order to the effect that there was to be no snowball throwing. However, being in the very midst of the battlefield, every wild or short shot from either side struck the hapless sailors. So, easing conscience with “purely in self defense,” the sailors countered both ways from the middle, peppering civilians on one flank and middies on the other.
The ferocity of the bombardment rose by leaps and bounds, and would probably still be raging had not the playing of the “Star Spangled Banner” brought the respect due to it and the cessation of firing. .
Soft Music and Long Liberties. . .
Minor casualties, such as red eyes, sore noses and ringing ears, were common, but no gold star deaths were reported.
PICKED UP IN CLASS:
The feature, “Picked Up in Class,” has been laid to rest after dying a quick and nearly painless death.
Having told a favorite story or joke, professors had begun to add, “. . . and this is not for Scholastic publication.” As a result your columnist has willingly brought about permanent retirement of this feature to save professors the trouble of “weighing their words” and to allow them to return to their former “freedom of speech” without fear of being quoted.
THE LATEST SCUTTLEBUTT
This latest scuttlebutt comes to you through the courtesy of your local “Scuttlebutt Manufacturing Co., Inc.” We make no rash statements about our product. We’ll tell you this much however—this is the straight dope obtained directly from a special “informer” friend of mine who has a second cousin who knows a WAVE who is engaged to a yeoman who is in on the “know.” (I may have omitted a few minor characters of details, or perhaps added a few, but “mainly it were so” and you get the idea of the validity).
There are three schools of scuttlebutt concerning the same subject—they are equally authoritative so take your choice:
*0ne—the Navy V-12 Unit at the University of Notre Dame is to be discontinued in March, and all trainees will be transferred to other V-12 schools throughout the country.
*Two—The entire Navy V-12 program is going to crack in March and all trainees will be sent to the Lakes or to Frisco.
*Three—The entire V-12 program will begin to break up in March, and all who have not completed their training by July will be absorbed into the N.R.O.T.C.—either here or elsewhere.
Pre-Meds Organize Club
A new club, designed to encourage fellowship and to further and promote the common interests among pre-medical students in the University has been formed and has drawn up its charter.
The new group has been named the Aesculepian club and fulfills a great need for a representative organization among “pre-meds,” one of the dominant and most important groups on campus. The Aesculepians will meet on alternate Wednesdays; the meetings to be highlighted by the appearance of speakers to address the club on the various phases of medicine, chemistry, and biology.
18
Menez Writes on Brownson for Ave Maria
In commemoration of the first centenary of Orestes Brownson’s entrance into the Catholic Church, The Ave Maria Catholic Home Weekly at Notre Dame, Ind., will publish an article called “A Character Sketch of Brownson.” This article, which treats with the many interesting accounts of America’s greatest Catholic convert and philosopher, is written by a transfer student from Harvard university, Mr. Joseph F. Menez. Menez is a senior in the department of politics and teaches history and Spanish at St. Joseph Academy. He has already contributed to The Ave Maria an article on “The Jesuits in Paraguay” which was subsequently reprinted in the Catholic Digest.
Orestes A. Brownson, after whom Brownson hall was named, was born in Vermont in 1803. Despite the fact that Brownson never had a formal education he managed to read most of the philosophical works found in the home of his foster-parents. Brownson, who had a religious character, joined successively the Presbyterian, the Universalist and Unitarian churches. At this time so discontented was he that, Menez says, “he subsequently rejected Revelation altogether and even became an unbeliever.” As an independent preacher he continued his ministry but more as a social reformer than a minister of the Gospel.
About this time he discovered the writings of Boston Unitarians and when he was offered an independent pulpit in Boston he eagerly accepted it. Realizing he needed an education to mingle -with literary Boston “this self-educated thinker. .. steeped himself in theology and philosophy and armed with a dictionary and a powerful memory he learned French and German.”
In 1836 he astounded his Boston congregation with his radicalism. Not infrequently he would shout down his audience and drive them into a corner with his powerful logic. So independent was Brownson that even when George Bancroft, the historian, offered him a job, he accepted only when assured that he could continue to write as he pleased. In his first book, The Neiv Views on Christianity, Society and the Church he proposed a new church, The Church of the Future, “which would synthesize the partial truths of all other churches.”
Feeling the need of an organ of opinion, Brownson in 1838 founded the Boston Quarterly Review which surprised and bewildered Boston and which was instantly supported by men like Thor-
Famed Convert is Topic of Excellently Written Essay.
BY ENRIQUE R. LULLI
eau, Ripley and Bancroft. “... It is high time that we know where to look for an expression of American thought,” said Thoreau. In an article entitled, The Laboring Classes, Brownson shocked the democrats by saying that the evils of capitalism were no worse than those of slavery. Van Buren, who was a presidential candidate blamed the laboring classes for his defeat and John Q. Adams, voicing the opinion of Boston, was “horrified.” Arthur Schlesinger, Brownson youthful non-Catholic biographer, says of the article that it is “the best study of the workings of society written by an American before the Civil War.”
Brownson defended the Church with the same zeal that had characterized all his thinking. But because he had tasted' a half-dozen religions as well as denied Revelation his friends thought that his recent change was but momentary. “Where will he jump next,” they wondered? “I have been jumping until I found something to stand upon,” was Brownson’s indignant protest. “Now that my feet rest upon the rock of Peter they have found solid ground and I am satisfied,” he said.
Because Brownson untactfully accused the Irish of “Americanizing” the Church
Clarence E. Brownson, A/S, at the burial place of his famous great-great grandfather in Brownson Memorial Chapel on the campus.
as well as making the word Irish and Catholicism synonymous, the Bishops in Ireland prevented Newman from inviting Brownson to lecture at the University of Dublin, of which he was the rector. At this time too, he became involved in quarrels with the Jesuits and with the Catholic public who supported the monarchy of Napoleon Bonaparte. “Despite these differences with- Catholics” writes Menez, “Brownson always put the interests of the Church first.” And in the pages of The Ave Maria Brownson showed his devotion to Our Lady by his series of articles on Her.
At the time Darwin’s Origin of Species shook the faith of millions, Brownson’s innumerable articles showed that true religion has nothing to fear from tine science, since truth cannot contradict truth.
Refusing an invitation of Father Sorin, founder of the University of Notre Dame to spend his last days here, Brownson lived with his daughter. Now an old man, he suddenly took ill and died in 1876. A decade later, Brownson’s body was brought to the basement of Our Lady’s Chapel.
As Mr. Menez states, “Brownson’s passion was the quest of truth. From this quest he never rested. . . As a journalist he had no equal and there is hardly an important topic of the day upon which his brilliant mind did not shed some light.” As Arthur Schlesinger has rightly said, “He is a part of our national heritage.”
19
Foreign Policy Discussed
A business meeting of the Economic Roundtable was held on Dec. 30. Harry Walters, Commerce Junior and native New Yorker, was unanimously voted a member of the Roundtable.
On Dec. 7, the NROTC cadets, Art Connors and Joe Fisher were speaker and chairman, respectively, at the Roundtable’s meeting. Mr. Connors spoke on “Collective Security.”
Mr. Connors showed that the basic issue involved in this war can be found in the nature of the battling countries themselves.
Immediate steps that should be taken by the Allies toward the establishment of an international organization and police force were pointed out by Mr. Connors. “Systems for maintaining peace, as the balance of power and the alliances systems, have both shown their inadequacy and the time has arrived when an international organization is the only answer to the problem of avoiding costly wars and settling disputes peacefully. In order for such a system to be successful in the post-war world, immediate action should be taken towards its development while the cooperation developed between the Allies during the war still exists.
“To this end, the uncertain foreign policy of the United States has proved a stumbling block and caused our allies to defer the adoption of any such policy, for fear that the absence of the United States would result in failure; as was the case in the League of Nations.”
Mr. Connors concluded that the world is anxiously awaiting definite action by America, for victory or failure in the post-war world, rest with the American people speaking through their congress and executive.
Jim Clynes, president, presided at the meeting with William Downey, professor of economics, as faculty moderator.
—Mike Garry
PROF WILCOX BACK FROM YUKON (Continued from page 11)	-
men had to be solved. The “access road” paralleling the pipeline can be compared to Alcan and surpasses it in some respects. Mr. Wilcox declared that two huge caterpillars were actually lost in the mire of the spring thaw, buried beyond recovery. The wild Mackenzie river, which may well be described as a traveling lake, is crossed by Canol at a point where it is four miles wide, 35 feet deep, and moving north at seven miles per hour.	-
Returning from his Canol assignment Prof. Wilcox has resumed his comparatively serene post as head of the Mechanical Engineering department here.
20
IRISH BASKETEERS BEGIN SEASON (Continued from page 12) almost impregnable defense to great advantage. Big Vince Boryla and little Johnnie Dee set the pace with 15 and 13 points respectively. Hasset played his usual bang-up game; he was slightly hurt just before intermission and was replaced by Jim Karthol.
Shortly after the beginning of the second period the other regulars left the scene of action and George Ratterman, Andy Sobek, and George Benigni and others picked up where they left off.
Miami staged a short-lived comeback with ten minutes left to play as Jerry Evans led the attempt. He was Miami’s main cog, getting four fielders and a like number of free shots.
So completely did the Irish dominate the game that for one period of better than 12 minutes they held Miami scoreless and rammed home 22 counters themselves.
The loss was Miami’s second in four games.
Irish 89; Kellogg Field 28
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish inaugurated their 1944-45 basketball season and smashed the all time record for points scored in a single game by an N. D. five as they steamrollered an outclassed, impotent Kellogg Field team, 89-28, in the University Fieldhouse Dec. 6. The old scoring mark, which was chalked up against the Kalamazoo YMCA in 1908, stood at 78.
Coach Clem Crowe’s charges led all the way and even liberal substitutions
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
failed to halt or even partially to supress the high-geared pace. From the time Freshman Paul Gordon opened N. D. scoring by connecting for the first of his five swishers, the Irish were the obvious victors. Johnnie Dee was next to hit the mesh; then came center Vince Boryla’s bucket; seconds later Gordon repeated; Dee sank another, and so on, in rapid fire order. All told the first quintet, which played the initial period and no more, poured home 18 field goals and seven gift shots for a staggering 43-7 half-time advantage. Boryla was credited for 17 digits, Gordon for 13 and Dee for nine. Guards Billy Hassett and Frank Gilhooley formed an effective defense and Hassett dropped in two fielders for good measure.
After intermission other Irish stalwarts took over and did almost as well. The three new front line men—Jay Mullen, George Ratterman, and lanky Bill Roberts—hit for nine, seven, and six points respectively but it remained for guard Jim Karthol, who got 12 points all told, to drive home the record-breaking basket. The third string finished out the game and potted three additional fielders.
Ernie Weaver was high for the Flyers with three buckets and a brace of free tosses.
Marriage, according to census bureau statistics, is the best insurance in the world against crime, insanity, poverty and premature death. Single persons lead by a large percentage in all of these misfortunes.—Bits Out of Life
Francis Tatnall Speaks to Local ASM Chapter
At the December meeting of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society of Metals held Wednesday, Mr. Francis G. Tatnall, manager of the Testing Equipment Department, Baldwin Locomotive Works, Philadelphia, Pa., was the guest speaker. The meeting was a technical session and was held in the Engineering Auditorium. The subject of the address by Mr. Tatnall was “Physical Testing, Present and Future.”
The address covered the significance of present testing methods; interpretation and use of stress-strain graphs; present and future fatigue testing; static and dynamic stress analysis; aeronautical aspects of testing; post-war treating methods, making structures stronger by making them lighter; and the unification of metallurgical principles with design, for dynamically loaded materials and structure.
Mr. Tatnall is a man of considerable note in the field of physical testing. His academic degrees are from the University of Pennsylvania—bachelor of science in mechanical engineering in 1920 and mechanical engineering in 1925. Until June, 1926, he served as assistant to the president of the Riehle Testing Machine Company, following which he formed the Emery-Tatnall Company which is now a unit of the Baldwin Locomotive Works. His relations with Baldwin culminated in the business of manufacturing testing machines. He is still manager of this division. One of the more recent activities of this work is the development of methods and equipment for dynamic testing.
Mr. Tatnall’s activities in technical societies, which includes the ASM, are very numerous—too numerous to be detailed here.
The January meeting will be National Officers’ Night, and it will be held on Wednesday, Jan. 10, 1945. Dr. Kent B. Van Horn, Research Metallurgist, Aluminum Company of America, and president of the American Society for Metals, will be the guest speaker. His subject for the meeting will be “Metallurgy of the Aluminum Alloys.”—Robert Molnar
LIFE IN CONCENTRATION CAMP (Continued from page 3) them. Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., now at the University, was his assistant.
At the outbreak of hostilities in 1939, Father Gagnon was still pastor of the parish, and remained at his post until the invading armies of the Wermacht engulfed all of France, and placed him in the first of the three concentration camps in which he was to be confined.
Commerce Forum Meets
The bi-monthly meeting of the Commerce Forum was held Wednesday evening, in the Rockne Memorial Lounge. Harry Walters, Commerce Junior, presented a paper on “The Railroad Industry After the War.”
The honorary guest of the evening was Mr. Bender, acting head of the Business Administration Department, who added much information.
In his address, Mr. Walters stated, “One of the most important problems which will require much advance thinking and preparation is the rehabilitation of the railroad system as a basic transportation agency adjusted to the postwar economy.
Mr. Walters stated that the government would take a great part in the reconversion of the industry by removing certain restrictions and by providing financial support.
Jim Donnellly, president, had charge of the discussion period following the talk. Edmund A. Smith, professor of business administration was the faculty moderator.—Mike Garry
Inter-American Club
Elects Menez President
Last semester, a group of serious-minded students gathered in Science hall to form a new organization, the Inter American Affairs club.
Officers were elected and a committee was appointed to draw up a set of bylaws for the club. There were two meetings that semester and they were devoted exclusively to the complete organization of the club.
The purpose of this club is to foster relations between the three Americas by striving for a more complete understanding between them.
As the new semester arrived, the club prepared for the numerous activities which lay ahead. Officers were elected and Joe Menez, AI Lesmez and George Despot were elected President, Vicepresident, and Secretary-Treasurer, respectively.
The membership of the club is limited to twenty.
There are nineteen regions and each member must speak on a particular region to which he is assigned. Talks have already been presented by Joe Menez, the President, and by Jaime Velez, from Colombia.
Three Louisiana sweet potato dehydration plants have been recognized with the first agricultural “A” awards in the state and among the few in the entire South. The development of this industry is credited greatly to the efforts of Dr. J. C. Miller, head of Louisiana State University’s Horticulture Research department.
Second oldest college publication in America is The Round Table at Beloit College, founded in 1853.
How to recognize your best friend
By your pet Arrow Tie, of course.
Your best friend’s bound to be tempted sooner or later by your rack of swell-looking Arrows.
Best way to keep him from borrowing your Arrow Ties is to take him down to your Arrow Dealer’s and let him buy his own! Si and $1.50
ARROW TIES
21
AIR WAVES
BY GEORGE DESPOT
SCHNOZZOLA STARS
Tonight Garry Moore and Jimmy Durante are in Hollywood at 9:00 with a program filled with jokes, songs, and nose. Georgia Gibbs provides the songs, Garry Moore the jokes, and Durante. —
Moore: '‘Jimmy, where are you?”
Nose: “At a drug-store, eating a fudge sundae on rye bread.”
Moore: “Jimmy—only an idiot would order that!”
Nose: “Hey clerk! Change that to pumpernickel.”
SHORTLY AFTERWARDS
Or at 9:30, there is the “Stage Door Canteen,” presented by leading stars of the stage, screen, and radio. Bert Lytell is the master of ceremonies and music is furnished by Raymond Paige and the Canteen orchestra.
"SCHEHERAZADE"
At 4:00 on Dec. 16, the Philadelphia Orchestra, conducted by Eugene Orman-dy, presents an all-Russian program which consists of the prelude to Mous-sorgsky’s opera “Kovantchina,” “Sche-herzade” by Rimsky-Korsakov and the Polovetsian Dances from the opera “Prince Igor” by Borodin.
SATURDAY NIGHT SERENADE
Jessica Dragonette sings the ballad “Strange Music” from “Song of Norway” at 8:45. Bill Perry is featured tenor on the program and assisting the soloists are the Serenaders and Gustave Haenschen and his orchestra.
STATIC
Announced Bud Collyer, on the “Billie Burke Show,” told Billie: “You leave me speechless!”
“Oh, no, Mr. Collyer,” giggled Billie, “you’d better leave me speechless—if you’re speechless, who’s goiing to read the commercial?”
READER'S DIGEST
The dramatized feature of “Radio Reader’s Digest” on Dec. 17 (8:00) will be an old fashioned Christmas in Maine. Also on the program will be a review of the talk that Eric Johnson, of the U. S. Chamber of Commerce, had with Josef Stalin.
STAR THEATRE
James Melton, Alec Templeton, and Grace Moore combine their talents at 8:30, Sunday, to bring you a program of laughs, piano wizardry, and music and your half hour will be an entertaining one.
ABILITY
New Yorker magazine profile on emcee Martin Block of “Music That Satisfies” says of his persuasive powers over the mike, that Block once got 109 people to rush out in a blinding snowstorm.... to buy refrigerators!
FOR THE DINING HALL
Well girls, or at least those with their bobby socks on, you can look forward to Monday night and 7:30, to be exact, for the “Voice” is on. Of course, he will be slightly assisted; Eileen Barton will be his nurse and do a little singing on the side and Axel Stordahl’s orchestra will be on hand to act as a riot squad and to furnish music, if necessary.
DOMESTIC COMEDY
George Burns — Gracie Allen — Bill Goodwin—Jimmy Cash—Felix Mills’ orchestra—laughs—songs—listen in—8:00 —Dec. 19—
THE WEAKER SEX
Gracie Allen was unpacking her suitcase in her hotel room during her program. “Let’s see,” she murmured, “cold cream, night cream, vanishing cream, chin strap, girdle.... George! Where did you put my things!”
HE DOES IT AGAIN
Orson Welles, the man all Hollywood talks about, is at it again. Whenever something comes up, Orson has to put on a great show for it. Well, Christmas is • near, and Orson is the star in “The Plot To Overthrow Christmas.” The only odd thing about the play is that one man is the author, producer, and director and it isn’t Orson, it’s Norman Corwin. It is on “This Is My Best,” on Tuesday, Dec. 19, at 8:30.
Fr. Connerton Elected to Head Registrars
At a recent meeting of the Indiana Association of College and University Registrars, Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C., University Registrar was elected president. Rev. John J. Lane, C.S.C., director of the Office of Veterans Affairs at Notre Dame, participated in a panel discussion on the subject, “Evaluation of Military Experience,” with regard to the veterans returning to school.
HOLD THAT HAIRLINK!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP.. .TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS S1.OO.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
PUBLICATIONS OFFICE
Notre Dame, Indiana
CAMPUS CENTENARY PUBLICATIONS
$5.00
THE SET
Notre Dame—100 Years" and "Collected Poems of Charles L. O'Donnell"
A Christmas Suggestion for a Notre Dame Gift
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
22
COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from page 2) whisk broom, nail file and other small objects. No lady, the rules add, should walk along puffing a cigar or cigarette.
"TIPS FOR THE MEN"—
(1)	Don’t be self conscious. A boy getting ready for a party should see that he is so dressed that he can look in his mirror and say “you look fine.” With this assurance he will not have to worry about a shiny-nose or mussed hair during the evening.
(2)	Don’t keep your date waiting. (At least not beyond that certain limit).
(3)	Ask for information—if it’s merely the name of those big airplane motors, or how to pronounce some word.”
The Ohio State Lantern carries the interesting information that apple polishing is now being practiced by the instructors. At the close of a session in a class in chemistry each student received a big red apple with the compliments of the Dean and the teacher.
We wonder if it is the start of a trend. If so, we would like to inform our teachers that we prefer tangerines.
Some lucky coed is going to be the proud possessor of a relative of a close friend of President Roosevelt. A pedigreed scotty pup, relative of the world famed Falla, -will be presented to the prettiest coed in the Sophomore class of Indiana University.
The Daily Kansan admonishes all students at the University of Kansas that silence is golden, especially in the library:
“Screaming, laughing, giggling, whispering, and whistling—could this be a library? Often thoughtless students forget to cease their conversations when they enter the front door. Between classes. for ten or 15-minute periods, scores of noisy students swarm in and out of the building, not realizing that they are causing a commotion.
“Those library loafers who go to the study room to meet their friends have a misconception of the purpose of the place. Just a little cooperation on the part of everyone would change the atmosphere of the library from a social gathering place to a serious study room.”
If Kansas can’t get cooperation, they should give up the study idea and put in a coke machine.
VITAL STATISTICS
The old ratio of ten men to seven women has disappeared at Colorado University, and according to latest registra
tion figures, the new ratio will be 14 men to 20 women. These figures do not include members of the Japanese language school or the Navy Radio School.
IN PASSING
From the Miami Student, comes a choice definition of sociology by an economics professor: “Sociology is the study of drink, drainage, and divorce, dealing with subjects much too dirty for economics to mention.”
WE'RE GRATEFUL
Now that the wave of Sadie Hawkins Days on campus, throughout the nation, has reached a climax, we note in the Varsity News (University of Detroit) that one poor fellow suffered a sprained ankle jumping out a window in an effort to elude a female pursuer.
The only appropriate comment is that Notre Dame should be thankful that the St. Mary’s Sunday socials are held on the ground floor.
4eros Show Film on P-38
Last evening the Aero club held its second meeting of the semester featuring
a film on the P-38, and one on the va
rious steps need-
ed in construction of a modern bomber.
Presiding over the gathering
was Al Lesmez, senior, chairman of the local chapter of the American Institute of Aeronautical Sciences. Among the several plans discussed were those of having an open meeting in conjunction with the other engineering societies on campus for the purpose of having Mr. H. E. Linsley, lecturer for the Wright Aeronautical Corporation, present a movie-supported program.
The tentative plan schedules this nontechnical discussion of aviation in the
“high output” category for the end of January.
The meeting closed after refreshments had been served, and the usual aerodynamic jokes and comments exchanged. Another meeting is scheduled for Jan. 4.
—Bob Schnieder
Group Hears Prof. Smith
Edmund A. Smith, Associate professor of Business Administration in the College of Commerce, addressed the monthly dinner meeting of the Northern Indiana Chapter of the Indiana Motor Truck Association on Thursday evening.
The meeting was held in the Bronzewood Room of the LaSalle Hotel in South Bend. “The Primary Post-War Task: Reconversion” was Mr. Smith’s topic.

❖
— Compliments
of
Krauss Jewelry Co.
207 N. Michigan St.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-566!
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND S1NGLER
DENTISTS 503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D.	M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
023-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
406-40* TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2S74
23