Dotrc Dame Scholastic
di see- 9VAS1 • sc m pgr • victvrvs •
• VIVG ^VASI- CRASMORITVRVS*
Vol. XXXIX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, June 2, 1906.	No. 32.
REV. JOHN T. O'CONNELL Who is to preach the Baccalaureate Sermon
53
XOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Drama.
^^"ry*-*-** t*-*
was, at first, denounced and derided, but it was difficult to deny’ his strange power and deep influence. His plays serve as models to the writers of every country'-, and twenty’ or thirty’ years have given abundant evidence that the drama is not dying out, but rather rising wonderfully’ in the esteem of every thoughtful man. Verga, Sudermann, Pinero, Rostand and Phillips are not to be neglected by anyone who wishes to understand the trend of modern thought.
The drama is nowadays as vital as ever, and we who stand on the portal of a new century may gaze. forward with assurance that it is not losing ground. On the other hand, the taste for prose fiction seems to grow less and to give place to the theatre. In England, Italy’ and France, young writers, understanding the right aim of the drama, have, ’ sought to embody’ in it their own .vision of life, with its •trials, its ironies - and its problems. Who has not seen or heard of “Cyrano of Bergerac,” “L’Aiglon,” and other similar plays whichZ are performed at the four quarters of the. globe ? They’ represent the new tendencies: of the theatre of to - day, that is, its “cosmopolitanism.” The better instruction of the world of to - day, the easier communication existing between distant nations, have brought about, as it were, a unity in literature. As in the Middle Ages the English, Italian or Spanish dramas .were, similar in their essential lines, so now /the. forms of the drama are insignificantly’ different throughout the world.
Another important and interesting feature ; of /the twentieth century drama is that it has practically disentangled itself from the “non-dyamatic element” with which it had blended in the past. A play above all deals with some exertion of the human will, a determined will, resolute in seeking its own end, and the playwright must strive to present his conflict without admixture of anything else. The Greek drama, retained to the end the evidences of its origin in the lyrics" of the chorus and in the music.- The Elizabethan drama, which kept up some traces of the mysteries and moralities, was not wholly exempt from incongruities; the theatre was sometimes in the course of a single play made
JEAN' LECROO, ’06.
JkJLwfrHE drama, a most attractive ^ranc^ °f literature, has existed 1° aU times and places under f	some form or other; germs of
it> however faint they may
ZC seem, are found among every people on the globe. It was cultivated, unconsciously, perhaps, by the Indians of this country, as well as by’ the ancient Greeks, and Romans; even now:some of its traces are found in the most savage tribes of Australia. Slowly’ evolving through long and dark ages of barbarism! and intellectual starvation, it has shaped , as in , a mould, every people and race. Tt is onlyyafter centuries of struggle thatyThe drama^was consciously recognized^ asV^an . important factor in refining morals andjnyraising up the spiritual standard of / life. 1 From., the moment the ancient Thespis "leaded a company of strollers, ane‘action/^ith* a plot was possible, however elementary; and a struggle essential toTlie true dramatic form could be represented! beforCy the people. Once adopted as a branch of literature—an art in the strictest, sense 'of the word—it did not cease to flourish, and a notable fact is that when a nation was most prosperous the drama became most--- dominant and influential.	..	- -
At the end of the nineteenth century, the drama was in a most. critical situation; it seemed- to. sink down, under the wild flow of fiction. Some hovel writers wrent so far as. to; assert that it had' its day and was irrevocably sentenced To disappearance. Their sweeping statement<-was, however, groundless the drama was not on its death-bed as they rashly declared. If it was borne down for a time, it was to revive some Twenty years afterwards with new-born ardor, not in England or. in France which was theft bent low by the powerful hand of the1 German empire. A new nation, Norway, was undergoing rapid progress and development, and there, too, was going to appear the great Ibsen. The strong impulse which he gave to the drama
NOTRE DAME
to serve as a pulpit for a sermon. Likewise under Louis XIV., the great tragedians did not exclude all accidental superfluities; there is found not infrequently, and especially in Corneille, oratorical tirades which have little bearing with the action of his plays.
“The more literary a play is, the more elevated its quality, the more .carefully we expect it to avoid incongruity and to . conform to the type of its species.-’ ..
Besides this elimination from our modern plays of all non-dramatic elements. and extraneous matter, changes have been made in the physical conditions of performance, and especially in the shape, .size and situation of the theatre itself. Those times are now past when the playwrights, as. Sophocles, depended on the daylight to play, and Moliere performed his comedies by “candlelight in a stuffv hall.” Our more modern drama profits by the wonderful, discoveries of science in light, in electricity,, in sound. No spectacular device is neglected; all the arts, pictorial and plastic, are made .use of to reach the soul through the eves as well as through the ears. The utilization of the “picture-frame ” in our twentieth century drama is widespread, and its results are indescribable. The playgoers of to-day, generallj’- speaking’, are far more interested in what is done on the stage, than what is said. A sudden pause, an.abrupt change of expression convey’ to them what is passing in the minds of the characters more directly ‘'than the most brilliant dialogue. The younger Dumas pointed out how an effect produced, "in the theatre is sometimes so unlike any produced by a good narrative read at the fireside, that a spectator seeking to recover, by means, of' the printed page, the emotion that had stirred him . as he ■saw the play performed, is sometimes unable not only to find the emotion again in the written words but even to discover the place where it’ was. A word, a look, a gesture, a moment of silence, a purely atmospheric combination, has held him spellbound.. It has been objected that this extensive use of scenery, decoration and illumination, will make the drama of the future less literary than it. is.	.
Brander. Matthews, in one of his essays,; answers this question accurately.: “Literature, The says, “goes deeper than style or
SCHOLASTIC.	531
even than poetry. It includes invention and construction; it is concerned with the meaning and with the propriety of the thought contained. It deals with philosophy and with psychology' also. Now if we take this larger interpretation of literature, we need not fear that the drama is likely to be less literary because the' stage has receded behind a picture frame. But it is likely to be less rhetorical, less oratorical, less Ivrical, less epical, more purely dramatic.” . .
The drama is not, as some pessimists assume, dying out, but rather rising and growing stronger and stronger. Eminent writers, as Pinero and. Fervien, show that it still deals adequately with many of the problems of life .. which present -themselves to modern society.■ It is a duty on our part to appreciate the- serious efforts that are made to improve the theatre. We must never forget these words of Victor Hugo: “The theatre is a place of human communion; it is in it- that the public soul is formed.” ,	•	.
It is a mistake to imagine that the theatre exists to'amuse only. It has a higher aim: it lives to elevate, to cultivate virtues, lofty . ideals and high standards. It has power to work a revolution in the manners and tastes of a people, and, moreover, it is an important factor in shaping the external character of the nation. Not only might the stage help in the improvement of the minor things of life, but it might be a medium for the elevation of the<popular taste and for inculcating the principles of right living. The theatre should; not be o	o
considered merely as a'place of amusement, to which the flippant or fatigued turn to recreate their minds or gratifv their senses.
“As the theatre exists in this country,” says a writer in the Atlantic Monthly; “it is a creature of haphazard growth, kicked and petted by turns, in whose present formation there has been at work so many ill-advised influences, that it is like an over-indulged and spoiled child, with too many relatives who do not care for its future, if only they can get from it the moment’s pleasure. But . if we grant to the present situation a more careful consideration of the theatre and a greater discrimination in our theatre-going we can do much to make the theatre really worth while as an American institution.
532
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
•	I
Varsity Verse.
.	RETROSPECT.
ynE happy hours of college life are past, And one by one we go into the world, And as we gaze into the future vast, Our strong, undaunted spirits are unfurled.
We labor with delight For truthfulness and right, Unmindful of the glory’ and the fame;
And tired with the quest In the evening when we rest Our spirits wander back to Notre Dame.
O when, from out life’s roaming, In the shadows of the gloaming, We turn our weary’ eyes to childhood’s home, We feel her solemn blessing Like a mother’s sweet caressing, And we long to rest beneath her golden dome.
T. E. B.
REJECTED.
There once was a gallant young suitor, Of the harp and the flute he was tutor, But his clothes were not new, So the girl said, “Skiddoo!”
For the suitor’s old suit didn’t suit her.
'	R. L. S.
THE OLD.
Over the last grey sandbar Onward to meet the dawn, Alone, all alone, We are crossing the Zone, Where the friends of our youth have gone.
. A. E. T.
DEPARTED.
Where are all the friends of youth? . Where the sunshine and the truth .
Shining in their happy eyes Bright as opals in the skies?
All are gone, away, away, ■ Fading like the host of day, All are gone across the bar, Guide them on 0 evening star!
T. E. B.
BRIGHT LIGHTS.
•In sunshine we can never tell The’meh of strength and might, ’Tis in the darkness that we see The lustre of the light. .
W. B.
REFLECTED.	.
Violet of softer hue
Than the deep eternal blue Of the'sky; "
All of nature’s mystery Mirrored on the earth I see .
In thine eye.
E. T. B.
The Other Symptom.
EDWARD J. FINNEGAN, ’06.
“Hah chew!”
Mr. Barton, the banker, had arrived in Mackinac with the hav fever.
“Hallo, Mr. Barton!” a young man in a white duck suit cried out.
“Well, well Dalton, you down here still?” Mr. Barton surprisingly asked, shaking hands. “Going back to the hotel?”
“Yes, came down to the train to meet some friends from Chicago,” replied Dalton evasively, looking around disappointedly, at the same time glancing at a young lady by the banker’s side.
The three turned from the station toward the lake some hundred yards off, where a small resort-steamer waited for passengers.
“ You have met my daughter Grace, have you not?” the banker inquired in a somewhat defferential tone, when the steamer backed out from the landing.
“Certainly, certainly. Glad to see you down our way!” exclaimed the young man, seemingly confused at this late introduction.
“Oh, yes, father, you remember I mentioned Mr. Dalton as one of the finest dancers at Billing’s Ball.”
“ Hah chew! ”
. Mr. Barton punctuated his daughter’s friendly response with one of his halfsmothered, half-choked sneezes.
He had left his busy life in a Chicago bank to seek relief in the bracing air at Mackinac. In early married life he had lost his wife, and Grace, his only child, had endeared herself to him in such a way that in after-life she seemed indispensable to her father’s happiness. Mr. Barton was a good man, broad-minded, liberal and in no way peevish. Yet a certain peculiarity in regard to his daughter’s company became more evident as she passed her ‘teens.’ Indeed at twenty he showed in his bearing and courtesy toward Grace’s associates a marked antipathy.
George Dalton had seen this coldness of nature manifested on several occasions. He understood it as a danger signal, and . approached only sb far. It was the expla
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
nation of the banker’s late introduction .to his daughter; it was the reason of the pretended distance between the two young people at the station. On the contrary, unsuspected by Barton, there existed for the last six months a strong, sympathetic feeling between them. Indeed Dalton was on the point of returning to Chicago when he heard of the banker’s intended visit to Mackinac, and accordingly had lengthened his own vacation indefinitely.
“Hah chew!”
Mr. Barton’s sneeze fumed all faces to him as he passed across the veranda into the large hotel to arrange for a cottage. Another hay-fever victim had come to town.
A week passed quickly at the resort, not to say pleasantly and merrily for Dalton and the banker’s daughter. For the banker’s peace of mind, perhaps the rest he sought and anticipated, was broken into more frequently, at least there was occasion for him to sneeze oftener to the heart-scare and nervous shock of two young persons. Dalton, indeed, owed much to that dangersignal as the days with all their joy and happiness dawned and closed.
Barton was not slow to realize the halo of attention arid respect that was gradually radiating about his daughter. That such was the case was easily seen by the morning mail which daily contained invitations to this and that “ social ” at the many dwellings and points of interest along the lake. Often Grace was forced to decline a pleasant evening on the excuse “that father was feeling ill.” Those evenings were gloomy and uninteresting to George Dalton, who always suspected the shaky excuses of the banker as pointed directly at him.
Yet Dalton was a frequent, almost nightly, visitor at the Bartons’. The evenings were passed in playing whist. . Dalton usually played against the banker and some friend, and with Grace as partner was most successful. Friendly acquaintance gradually merged into intiinacy. Dalton was a cashier in a large banking firm in Chicago and had a good head for business. Old Barton was not long in seeing this capacity which always strenuously showed itself in their coriversations and conferences on financial questions. Before many evenings that cold
533
ness which kept Dalton at a safe distance warmed a little. This was evident when the formal whist party softened into a more family-like gathering, and Dalton and Grace had finally got to the hammocks outside.
Not to forget the sneeze. There slowly came a change in the banker’s symptom. Perhaps Dalton was getting used to it, yet he thought there were less nervous prostrations than formerly. This very thought was passing through Daltori’s mind one night as he and Grace were on the veranda. “It seems,” he mused, “a good omen. Was Grace’s father really getting better?”
“Hah chew!”	.
There was just time enough for a change in conversation and a more suitable posture when the danger signal sounded, and Mr. Barton came to an open window.
“Ah, Mr. Dalton, there’s something I’d like to talk over with you in the library,” interposed the banker, a little serious. “Grace,—ah—ah—you know the picnic tomorrow requires a good night’s rest, and then—ah—”
“Yes, father, you are right. I must say good night and go to my room,” Grace interrupted, fearing that Dalton’s nerve, already shaken, might break before the coming interview, if her father should say more.
The library encounter did not last long, but Dalton sought his room in a disappointed mood. He had expected to prove his colors by some daring test; but whether it was by fire or water he was determined to go through it, for future happiness was at stake. However nervously he had closed the library door that night he could hardly resist kicking it open when Mr. Barton hade him good night after an hour’s talk oh some new banking system.
The picnic came. Dalton, of course, was there, wearing a somewhat haggard expres^ sion; but the morning was almost over before he could report to Grace the outcome of the night’s conference. Even when they had seated themselves beneath the shade of her parasol at the edge of the quiet lake, Grace failed to interpret Daltori’s pensive mood.	,
“And he didn’t even mention our names!” Grace angrily exclaimed, when Dalton had told the unsatisfactory result.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
“No, not even to-day’s picnic,” replied Dalton dejectedly. -
“Hah chew! I say, Mr. Dalton, I’m come down to tell you the dinner is ready. The women have been calling you for the last ten minutes—there must be something rather interesting.” It was impossible to make an excuse, no place for an explanation, so they turned in the banker’s steps toward the dinner-spread.
Dinner! how could-the most sumptuous picnic.dinner be enjoyed! Picking .flowers down in the meadows or hunting Mav apples in the woods would be far more enjoyable. Well, the meal came to a finish; the baskets were set aside for another unappetizing meal, but a stroll was not to be contemplated, for from a short distance away the danger signal was sounded.
“Hah. chew!”
“ I sav, Mf. Dalton, let us take a row. There’s room for three in this boat,” shouted out . Mr. Barton, to the disappointment of his daughtersand Mr. Dalton.
There was nothing to be done but express how kind he was and what a pleasure rowing was. To Dalton’s mind in after years, however much he preferred dry land that day, that boat-ride unlocked the way to future happiness. Anxious‘as he was the night before .to stand the test of loyalty and sincerity at any cost, he 'unexpectedly, came face to face with that- test Avhen . a few rods from shore. It was, indeed, bv water that he was tried: ' '	-	’ i
Three in a little rowboat' means a certain amount of risk. There were only a few inches between, the: water and the top of the boat-side as Daltbn Avith "a stroke sent The trio off shore. Save for old Barton, conversation lagged. He admired Dalton’s agility and form, spoke about the 'picnic crowd, some fresh news from the bank, and took away the breath of the' young fellow when he mentioned •'! his intended return home within the next week. As they were returning shoreward Dalton turned in his seat to catch a whisper from Grace, but . to drown out even this pleasure the danger signal again gave warning.
“Hah chew!”	'
Whether it was the vibration of that sneeze, dr Dalton’s quick turn, or Grace s nervous jump, or all three, that dipped one
side into the water, Dalton-never tried to solve. But before they could reach land, Mr. Barton’s end disappeared under the water. In the next moment all three were in the .lake.
“ For God’s sake, Dalton,” cried the banker as he struggled toward the boat, “save mv daughter.”
That cry was indeed needless, for Dalton was already making for the shore with Grace easily in tow. He knew old Barton could swim, and with his own reputation as a swimmer, he enjoyed the experience and actually saw in it a bright prospect, and long afterward he often wondered how far out the shallowness of that lake extended. A quick drive in a two-horse rig brought 'the drenched picnickers to their lodgings.
While Dalton was in the hotel changing his clothing, Grace saw her chance and did not let a grand opportunity pass unheeded.
“How grateful we must be, father, to Mr. Dalton for his courage and calmness. I am sure I could never have got safely to the shore without him.”
“A gallant. voung fellow, indeed,” her father enthusiastically replied, “I can never forget' his coolness; I must repay him some way.”	'
After a hastv change of clothes, Dalton hurried to Barton’s cottage trusting to assist him, but was met at the. door bv J	s
Barton and his daughter attired in evening dress.
Dalton’s eye was quick to catch the unusual geniality of the banker’s welcome. It warmed a resolve that he had made that day; -it lent courage to proposing a proposition ’which he meant to lav before Grace’s father that night.
The usual game of whist that evening resulted in victory for Dalton and his *>
partner, though his mind was seldom on his cards. There was the accustomed smoke during which Grace and her rescuer withdrew their presence and gave Mr. Dalton an opportunity he desired. .
" Dalton had realized from Barton’s statement on the lake that time permitted no delay. He had often wished for some opening in his frequent conversations with the banker to speak of Grace’s future, but so far that topic had never been mentioned. Yet-', what right had , he to broach such a
NOTRE DAME
subject? Would not such a move counteract all confidence and intimacy ? So Dalton had thought, so he had waited.
“Grace, your father intends to leave for Chicago next week,” Dalton began, as they seated themselves in the library—the exposure that day forbade the hammocks— “and my vacation, you know, ends within a fortnight. We have talked over our future, we have agreed upon what alone can make the future happy; do you think that to-day’s accident might have changed your father’s mind toward us? His consent is all that is wanting.”
As Dalton balanced himself on the arm of Grace’s chair, he saw in her face a slight hope that her father felt different toward him. She remarked her father’s expression of deep gratitude. She recalled that he had spoken of a reward.
“You know, Gra<e,” continued Dalton, “the time is short, the hope of—”
The unexpected, unannounced appearance of Mr. Barton in the doorway left Dalton’s sentence unfinished.
“Mr. Dalton, ah—ah—I realize the great debt I. owe you for saving my daughter’s life to-day, but—ah—this unsuspected intimacy with my family demands an explanation.” There was a look of scorn in the banker’s face, a tremor in his voice.
Dalton felt keenly his situation. What excuse could he make. For a moment he was unnerved; the sting of rebuke smarted. Suspense likewise burned red. But as he raised his eyes to the banker to blunder out some excuse, he detected the lines of seeming hatred softening. His face brightened.
“Ah—ah—Mr. Barton, my only excuse is, I didn’t hear you sneeze.”
It was a risky explanation, so Dalton afterwards thought, but he had played the right card. He had proved to Grace’s father that he understood the nature of his hayfever symptom.
Night.
- The night winds sigh,
And in reply
Chatters the cricket shrill;
While o’er the lake,
Through the silent brake,	. , .
Chirrups the whip-poor-will, W. J. D,
SCHOLASTIC.	535
■ Come and Gone.	_
||P from the perfumed bosom of the South.
The golden warblers wing their flow’rv wav, Spilling upon the fields their melody	\
Through the long happj- day.	'
Gone like the fading of the morning sun -
Behind the shades of evening in the west, . ' When the first frost crystals the drop of dew . .
Upon the flower’s breast.	' ’
T. E. B.
-------«*•»■------ - ■. . _■
The Purpose Novel, Daniel Deronda.
WESLEY J. DONAHUE, ’07.
The novel should be a picture of life; its author should aim to portray life in an artistic and at the same time' truthful manner. Such, however, is not the aim of the writer of rhe purpose novel. He endeavors rather to inculcate some moral, ethical or' social lesson; in everv case he has conceived some new system of philosophy, some new plan for the bettering of man . or the abolition of some existing evil. The question which concerns him. most is not “How can I most faithfully picture life?” but “How can I best prove my proposition ?”'Thus at the very outset the purpose novel Tails from an artistic . standpoint—that'..which should.be the true end of the novel is -subordinated to the proving of the author’s proposition. As a result, in many purpose novels the characters are mere automata, acting, not as real men and women, but along certain fixed lines of conduct; they are not so much images of life as creations of the author’s mind. But while this is frequent it is not always the case. Thus the characters in Paul Bourget’s recent novel are not less lifelike because “A Divorce” is a treatise against divorce, nor is his novel any less a picture of life. -
Likewise flesh and blood are not lacking to the characters in that great purpose novel “Daniel Deronda.” Grandcourt,-Gwendolen Harleth. and Deronda: are as true specimens of humanity as those that live and move in the pages of Eliot’s, earlier works. Why then are Eliot’s earlier works valued so much more highly as works of art than her later ones? The question is easily answered. In all her later writings George Eliot has
536	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
portrayed only two classes of men, those entirely unselfish or those entirely selfish. On these two types she has lavished all her care. Thus while in her earlier novels she held the mirror up to life and gave us the reflection undimmed and almost as real as life itself, in her later novels she gives us only two classes of mtn and woiiien. Consequently, her writings are not truthful pictures of life and human. nature, but only of two special types of men and’ women. . Now. we may. criticise Eliot for her selection; we may find fault with her for writing novels in which none but entirely selfish or entirely unselfish people are portrayed; but here our criticism must end, and we are silent in. admiration before the reality and life with which she has clothed her characters.
The lesson which George Eliot would teach us in “ Daniel Deronda” is that the religion of Humanity is the only religion. George Eliot was still young in life when she threw off the shackles of Calvinism in which she had been brought up, and turned with all the fervor of her soul to the teligion of the Positivists. Filled with a strong anti-Christian feeling, influenced by such men as Darwin, Huxley and Spenser,, she felt that she had a mission to perform, and a.s a result her novels were no longer .written primarily to represent life, but as a means by which her beliefs and doctrines might be disseminated, With this purpose .was Daniel Deronda written in which George Eliot makes her strongest plea for altruism?
In this wonderful, novel there are three principal characters; Sir Hugh Grandcourt a perfectly selfish man, Gwendolen Harleth a.repentant woman, and Daniel Deronda, a man with a mission. Around these three characters George Eliot weaves her story, and according to . her own pet theories answers the questionIs life worth living?” The first character we iheet is “Gwendolen Harleth, a spoiled child of society whose better nature . is overlaid with., several layers of selfishness,” one whose only ambition was to enjoy life. From a child, she shirked everything that might cause her pain,or trouble; to her the voice of duty was unknowii; , she weighed her acts and their consequences only, in connection with her own comfort or happiness; she lived for herself. So
Gwendolen grew up, and when the great crisis of her life came, when duty pointed out the. path of right, a path that of necessity meant humiliations and sufferings she faltered and chose the easiest way. Despite the existence of circumstances forbidding the union, Gwendolen married “Sir Hugh Grandcourt,” a character whom Sidney Lanier has styled “ the greatest ever drawn;” and .then came the awakening. Instead of happiness she found only misery; she . had gratified her every wish, she had done nothing save through selfish motives ; she had omitted nothing which she conceived would make her happy, but unhappiness and misery were her only reward. .
In this, plight she goes with her trials to Daniel Deronda—Deronda the altruist, a man as unselfish as Gwendolen was selfish. Then comes a change. Placed in the presence of his unselfishness, and meditating on. her past experience and selfishness, she sees .as Deronda does, that life is worth living, that “she may yet live to be the.best of women who make others glad that they were born.” Life would be worth living, but only a life of unselfishness, a life marked by love and sacrifice for her fellow-creature. But love and sacrifice not rising out of love for Him who made the greatest sacrifice,—no, not for any such reason. In Daniel Deronda it is not the Christian that loves his neighbor. Behold Grandcourt, Gwendolen Harleth, and all the rest of the Christian rabble; see their vanity, their levity, above all, their selfishness. Then turn to Deronda, Myra, Mordecai and all the other children of Israel, see their spirituality and unselfishness. What is the only conclusion Eliot would have us draw? Simply that it is not Christianity that makes life worth living, not Christianity that ennobles and uplifts a man, but altruism; not loyalty to God, but loyalty to humanity. “ Daniel Deronda,” with all its powerful characters is but a plea for altruism; in it we find the philosophy of George Eliot’s life.
Active Life.
Let me live amidst the toil of busy, men, Where I can,-know^their, struggle .and^their strife, ... Where I can .share their sorrow .and their joy And cheer by word or deed a comrade’s life., W. D.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	537
Beheld.
l/JSSED by the wanton wind, A blossom blushing red
Smiled with joy at the greeting, Then sadly hung her head.
For the birds upon the treetops
And the flowers in the vale,
And the ■ blossom’s artless blushes
Soon told her simple talc. *	•
W. J. D.
---------■•••■-------
The Bob Whites.
FRANCIS T. MAHER, ’OS.
“Bob—White! Bob—White!” Sweet and clear "came the call from the thicket not far from the orchard-gate where Farmer Jones and I were discussing the merits of a roan colt of his in the hope of striking a bargain. There was nothing peculiar, in the call, for it is a common one in these Central States, and may be heard at any time.during the spring and summer months; but when it broke on the ears of my companion he ceased speaking and a smile spread over his genial features as he exclaimed:
“That’s the prettiest note I’ve ever heard; I hear it ’most every day, and whenever it comes I just drop whatever I’m doing, and my mind slips out of these present surroundings as quick and as easy as a boy slips out of his clothes at the old swimmin’ hole in the hottest dog days. It takes me ’way back there, ’bout forty years, I guess, when I was a lad of twenty going to school ’way up in Miami County.”
He put one foot upon a stump, and his face assumed a look of reminiscence which I encouraged by asking how a Bob-White’s call reminded him so forciblv of his school days.	, .	.	\
“Well,” he said, “there were eight other fellows of my age in the school and all the rest were little shavers. Because of our superior age and, maybe, our superior wisdom also, we were allowed many privileges that the other boys didn’t get; and the best of these privileges, to our mind, was the permission to. smoke at recess and at the noon hour. We had to do it on the quiet, though, for the teacher was very
particular that the small boys should not be influenced by our. example; at first it was mighty hard to dodge the inquisitive little fellows, but we managed to hit on a plan that worked to perfection. When one fellow felt like taking a smoke and wanted . company he would whistle out ‘Bob—White!’ just as correct as that little bird in the thicket yonder; then you’d hear ‘Bob—White!’ answered back from eight different directions, and the boys would start off in various ways and would finally round-up in the graveyard under the hill. Here in one corner under a big, lordly sycamore was the meeting place of the BobWhite Club; and here, sprawled out on the grass, we would smoke and talk and laugh with hearts glowing like the tobacco in the pipe when you puff real hard,' and spirits as light as the smoke that curled in rings above dur heads. Everyone was ready with a joke or a story that never had been told before and never could be told as well again. The good things said by the Bob Whites were never recorded, but thev should have been. One day in particular, I remember, when the boys were jokingly picking out the spot in the graveyard where they’d like best to be laid, when it came ’round to Lem Wilson he said:	.
“ ‘Boys, there’s only one spot in this whole graveyard where I’d rest content; and that’s beneath this old sycamore, just below; the centre of this circle. Then when vou fellows gather out here on Sunday mornings after service to smoke a pipe and talk and laugh over old times, I’d be right with you to relish your stories and smile at your jokes; and. when * younger generations of ‘Bob Whites’ make this their gathering place; I’d be an honorary member and take part in all their fun.’
“And sir,” said Farmer Jones, after a moment or two of silence, “it’s back to those days that I go whenever I hear Bob White. And now let’s go up to the stable and take a look at that colt; and if you want him, I guess we won’t quarrel over the price.”
As we walked up the long lane I heard Bob White calling more faintly as he flew across the meadow; and I knew by the smile about the corners of Farmer Jones’ mouth that he also heard him.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
tntered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, Indiana.	'
Notre Dame, Indiana, June 2, 1906.
Board of Editors.
EUGENE P.
CHAS. L. O’DONNELL, ’06 WILLIAM A. BOLGER, ’07 THOMAS E. BURKE, ’07 WESLEY J. DONAHUE, ’07 CORNELIUS HAGERTY,’06
WALTER O’DONNELL, ’06
BURKE, '06
JOHN F. SHEA, ’06
JOHN M. RYAN,’06
JOHN C. MCGINN, ’06
LEO J. COONTZ, ’07 EDWARD F. O’FLYNN, ’07
ROBERT L. BRACKEN, ’08
—We have pleasure in presenting to our readers of this issue a portrait of the Rev. John T. O’Connell of Toledo, Ohio, who will deliver the baccalaureate sermon at the students’ Mass on Sunday, June 10. As the next number of the Scholastic will be an athletic number we introduce Father O’Connell to the students a week earlier than usual. A rare treat is in store for all who hear the baccalaureate sermon.
—In the June issue of the North American Review Dr. .G. Woodruff Johnston gives some remarkable statistics concerning the health of school children. Investigation shows that nervous diseases are remarkably prevalent among school children, and that the per cent of these diseases is larger as the number of study-hours becomes greater. He shows by. experiment how susceptible the brains of school children are to fatigue, and points out the remedy. Not the “professional athleticism which is now in vogue, for in this it is evident we are merely substituting for one form of fatigue, another no less injurious,” but rather “a completer comprehension of the school child as a young animal at work and play, and a rational adaptation of _ work and play to his capacities and needs.”	/
The Memorial Day exercises for 1906 y ere . held in Washington Hall, Wednesday morning. The programme was as follows:
Governor’s Proclamation...............Patrick Malloy “ America”...........................;......Audience
Father Corby at Gettysburg..............E. P. Burke
“Nearer, My God, to Thee”.................Audience
Lincoln’s Gettysburg Address.......G. A. Farabaugh “Dropping from the Ranks One by One”—Glee Club Address.............................Colonel	William Hoynes
Following is the address of Col. Hoynes, Dean of the Law Faculty:
On the 5th of Maj', 1868, Geh. John A. Logan, of Illinois, who was then Commander-in-Chicf of the Grand Army of the Republic, issued what is known as General Order No. 11, designating May 30 as an appropriate time for “strewing with flowers or otherwise decorating the graves of comrades who died in defence of their country during the late war.”
No form of ceremony was prescribed, posts and comrades being directed to arrange the matter in their own way, according to circumstances. It was said that
“We should guard their graves with sacred vigilance. All that the wealth and taste of the Nation can add to their adornment and security is but a fitting tribute to the memory of her slain defenders. . . . Let no vandalism, .or avarice, or neglect, or ravages of time testify to the present or to the coming generations that we have forgotten as a. people the cost of a free and undivided Republic.	.
■ “If other eyes grow dull, and other hands slack, and • other hearts cold in the solemn trust, ours shall keep it well so long as the light and warmth of life remain to us.”	.
The National Encampment, held May 11th, 1870, at Washington, formally sanctioned the order, and fixed upon May 30 as Memorial Day, recommending that it be observed annually by the Grand Army of the Republic in commemoration of the patriotic services, heroic deeds and death in battle or hospital of the comrades that had marched and camped and shared with us in the shock of battle. No comradeship could be stronger or closer among the truly brave and manly—the chivalric and honorable—than that which glowed in the fervor of patriotism and was welded in the clash of steel on the gory fields of war.
The 30tli of May is now observed as a national holiday'. And how beautiful the season for its observance, as the .month of flowers merges into the month of roses! Meet time for the impressive ceremony -	-	‘ When alb the meadows wide unrolled,
/ Are green and silver, green and gold, .’	, . " When buttercups, and daisies spun •
” Their shining tissues in the’sun.
' On this day meet . our. Grand Army Posts in'all the towns and .villages of the country, where still able;, in., lingering membership to maintain their . organization, and send .. out details to visit the
RGTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
various cemeteries to decorate with flags and flowers the graves of comrades mustered out. Flowers are emblems of love and devotion, and we place them with mingled feelings of affection, reverence and pathos on their graves—loyal graves in the cherished keeping of the Nation saved by their valor and selfsacrifice.	,
It affords me pleasure to behold and acknowledge the broadening observance of this beautiful custom. .It is gratifying to witness how citizens generally now enter into its spirit and come laden with flowers to decorate not only the graves of their own dead, but also, those of our soldier brothers. There is an assurance in the fact that our trust in this respect will fall to faithful hands, and that hallowed and honored will remain the ground where our comrades .rest in the solemn peace of eternity. They shall not be forgotten. Their heroic deeds embellish with unfading lustre the record of our country’s triumph and glory.
'■	A tomb is theirs on every page, -
•	,	- An epitaph on every tongue;
'Die present hours, the future age,	-
For them bewail, to them belong. '
The custom of honoring those who die in defence of their country is not new. It reaches in continuity .unbroken to -the cradle of the human race. Nations come and go,, dynasties rise and fall, institutions are .created and .subverted, the pendulum of events swings .to and fro and the ceaseless march of time is not always forward, but different is it with a custom rooted in the heart of humanity, and such is this custom. Let the historian Rollin describe for us how it existed and was observed even in the ancient days of Greece: .	•
“The first year of the war of Peloponnesus being now elapsed, the Athenians during the winter solemnized public funerals according to ancient custom,... in honor of those who .had lost their lives in that campaign, a ceremony which they constantly observed during the whole course of that war. For this purpose they set up, three days before, a tent in which the bones of deceased soldiers . were exposed, and. every person strewed flowers, -incense, perfumes and other things of the same kind upon their remains. They afterward were put on carriages^ in coffins made of cypress wood, every tribe having its particular coffin and carriage; but in one of the latter a large empty coffin was carried in honor of,those whose bodies had not been found. The procession marched with a grave, majestic and religious pomp.. The people assisted at the solemnity and orators spoke at the graves.”	.
The most famous oration of Pericles was in.honor of the Athenian dead. It is still customary’, though .two thousand four hundred years later, to make short addresses on these occasions. This year the call to serve an humble part in that way comes to me from our local post of religious—the only one of the- kind in the entire country. While there are posts in New York and elsewhere that have a secular membership, with like religious affiliation, yet the post at Notre Dame enjoys the unique distinction of being the only one in all the country’ whose members “wore the blue” in the Nation’s service before donning the. sombre garb of religion.. It was but a step from selfsacrificing service to country’ to self-sacrificing service
539
to God. The sentiment “For God and country ” may .well, appeal , to the heart and inspire the soul of the. ' bravest, tenderest and truest.	-	.
And from the perspective of that high ideal we. may. . view with a just- sense of complacence the honorable and patriotic record of Notre Dame. The services of Fathers Corby, Cooney, Carrier, Dillon and others with the armies of the East and the .West; -the zealous ministrations of-the'good Sisters ,of Holy Cross in the hospitals; the actual service on the firing / line of members of G. A. R. post at Notre Dame; the , enlistment pf students in exceptionally’ large percentage, and the unhesitating response of professors to the call to arms, combined to make a record unsurpassed by* that of any other educational institution in patriotism, self-sacrifice and devotion to an exalted sense of duty. It fills an inspiring chapter of the = period of our greatest stress and trial. It is a record . of which through all the mutations and vicissitudes . of time Notre Dame may well feel proud, for it exemplifies in a high degree faithful and unselfish services to God and country.	.	.
It may be surprising to hear that the students who left these halls to enter the army and go to the front were old enough to> enlist and be mustered into the federal service as soldiers. -It may' consequently’ be said that a large majority of those who took part in the war were mere, boys dr young men, averaging hardly more than twenty years , of age. The students of Sorin, Corby, and Brownson ' Halls average about the same age as “the boys in blue” that through four long, dreary, bloody and destructive years of war fought their way to ultimate triumph.	.	.	.	'	...
The thoughts of those who participated.. in. that . fierce and prolonged war often, return to the. gloomy days and memorable scenes -attending it. In this y. reminiscent view they see again the fields, plantations, . towns, hills, groves and valleys along the line oF march. They recall a creek or river, with bordering woodland, as the shades of evening fall, inviting them to rest in the offer of an available camping ground. They’ behold in the varying aspects of hill and valley> . ■river and town, forest and field, prairie. and grove, the memorable scenes of marches, bivouacs and battles. Distinct as the mirage to the weary traveler, the old soldier sees again in the appearance of the landscape . the scenes of his battles and skirmishes and guard duties. - He observes the thronging hosts in armed conflict on the swamp-lined banks of the Chickahoming. He joins his defeated comrades in the retreat from Manassas. He stands again on the blood-soaked ground where Antietam Creek winds its devious way -to the Potomac. He crosses the Rappahannock under the fire of sharpshooters, passes through the town of Fredericksburg, and faces the. storm of shot L and .shell from Marye’s heights and the sunken’road. The discouragement , of defeat wears away during the winter, and in the spring he marches to Chancellors-ville, meeting the enemy’ in the timbered region back . of Fredericksburg. Though again defeated, his courage • does not abate, and soon afterward he delivers on • . the blood-soaked-heights of Gettysburg a blow that . turns the tide of war. Again he. is in the Wilderness . . and at Spottsylvania, Cold Harbor and Petersburg,
54°
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and secs the diminishing number of his comrades as by thousands they disappear in death, or fall helpless from disabling wounds, or succumb to the privations and sufferings of active warfare. He rides with Sheridan in the Shenandoah, and an army of the enemy is broken into fragments at Winchester, Fisher’s Hill and Cedar Creek. With Sheridan, too, he rides to Appomattox, and Lee’s retreating army is intercepted, surrounded and compelled to surrender.
From the Potomac let us turn to the Mississippi, and follow as in dreamland the footsteps of comrades in the West. The Anuj- of the Frontier distinguishes itself for courage and pertinacity’ at Wilson’s Creek, meeting the enemy’ on the oak-covered hill where Lyon fell, and on flank across the valley. Its courage and fortitude y’ield not in defeat, and the following spring it strikes a victorious and d cisive blow in the rugged region where Elkhorn Tavern marks the stubbornly’ contested field of Pea Ridge. A few months afterward at Prairie Grove—on the prairie across the creek, and in the grove beyond on the ridge where the enemy’ waits in the protection of the timber—it establishes with manifest finality’ the supremacy’ of the Union arms in the Trans-Mississippi country, and then becomes disintegrated, as its regiments leave to reinforce the armies of the Cumberland, Tennessee and the Gulf. But to follow these even to the mention of their campaigns and battles would require far more time than is at my* disposal. Their fame is secure in the unfading laurels they’ won at Fort Donelson, Shiloh, Corinth, Stone River, Vicksburg, Chickamauga, Mission Ridge, Resaca, Kenesaw Mountain, Atlanta, Savannah, Franklin and Nashville, not to suggest even the engagements of minor order, such as those of Baton Rouge, Chainpiori Hill, Perryville and -Arkansas: Post. .	-
The- noteworthy battles and skirmishes of the Civil War exceed in number 2000, while the total of those who were killed in battle or died of wounds, accidents and disease does not fall far short of 400,000.
This stupendous aggregate can be better comprehended by’ comparison with the losses sustained in our former wars. For example, in the Revolutionary War, the killed, wounded, missing, captured or surrendered on the American side numbered in the aggregate 21.109; in the war of 1812 our total loss in killed and wounded was 5614; in the Mexican War it was 4977, while in all our Indian wars it was approximately 1500. Our losses’in single battles of the Civil War frequently’ exceeded 15,000. In the -‘Seven Days’ fighting” on the Chickahoming the federal losses were 15,849; at Manassas and Chantilly, 16,054; at Chancellorsville, 16,845; at Gettysburg, 23,049 ; at Chickamauga, 16,170, and in the Wilderness 17,666. In several battles the Confederate losses were greater than our own. Added together, „ the total losses of the war would approximate 700,000. Such battles as1, those indicated, not to mention others, were destructive enough to have brought wars in other countries to a termination. And so of the surrender of Vicksburg, with its army’ of 30,000.
As these scenes are revealed again to reminiscent vision we see the soldier comrades of those trying days as they appeared in the fullness of life and vigor oh the march, in the camp, in- the excitement and
exuberant spirits of* the sounded charge, in the grim determination and unflinching courage. of battle, in the rigidity’ of death on the field of carnage or dying of wounds or sickness on the field or in the hospital. We sec them as they’ appeared in happy’ youth, and pride of strength, and emulous powers of endurance. They’ come back to us in association with the scenes made historic by’ their courage, tenacity’. and. selfsacrifice. Who can wonder that the survivors of the war find an attractive theme in .its incidents, a source of gratification in their relation to its determining events and a pathetic interest in recurring in appreciative thought to the comrades that never returned ?
Still .o’er, those scenes the memory wakes, • And fondly broods with miser care; Time but the ■ impression stronger. makes, ’ As streams their channels deeper wear.
Once a soldier of the Legion who had gone to the war with his two brothers, and seen one die of wounds and the other ,of sickness, returned years afterward to the little village of his youth, and as he approached it the mysterious power of association stirred the • memory and brought them ’ again to his side. A peculiar exultation filled his heart in the awakened sense of their presence, and a new joy- thrilled him as he boarded the little ferry’ at the crossing of the last river that separated him from the home of his boy-hood. On paying his„ fare he offered to the surprised ferrymran thrice the amount, bowing apologetically’ to the pathetic creations of his fancy’ on either side. How suggestive the lines:
Take, oil, boatman! thrice thy fee, Take, I give it willingly;	’
For by my side, unknown to thee, . Comrades twain have crossed with me.
And so in the associations of memory’, as the mind returns to the • ensanguined and . historic fields in the land - of - the -magnolia. The comrades beneath the sod come again to dur eager vision in the fullness of life arid the light of day, as we hope they may’ be in the immortal life and the light of-eternity’.	-
The men who fought for the Union arid offered their lives in its defence may well be regarded as the most earnest, insistent and uncompromising of all classes of citizeris in . seeking to protect. and safeguard it from environing dangers and the insidious perils that constantly rise in the way of free governments. Woven into the warp and woof of its fabric are years of their lives, privations, wounds, sufferings and memories of kinsmen and comrades fallen. In this view, it is not remarkable that they appear peculiarly . sensitive to apprehend and aggressive to denounce and avert the evils in government and public policies as well as in social conditions that come in disguise or in mutable. and perplexing forms as a menace to our free institutions. But age has come even to the youngest, and they are going fast. Dr. Holmes’ notable poem on The Old Continental will soon have renewed application in its reference to the last survivors.
In transmitting their trust to other hands they look hopefully to the young, coming year by year -into the sphere of civic duties -and responsibilities. They fervently’ wish and hope that a high and uncompromising spirit of patriotism may dominate the hearts of the youth of the land and be effectual in averting
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
harm and corrupting influences and degrading avarice.
In this light permit me to say that the country' needs as high a type of integrity' and civic worth in peace as it needs courage and fortitude in war. It so happens that on account of negligence and-lack of vigilance during periods of peace there may' then be greater danger to free institutions than in the storm and stress of war.
' As all have observed, weeds grow most luxuriantly on neglected soil. So abuses subversive of government grow apace when citizens’ are careless, lacking in vigilance and so absorbed in seeking the attainment of personal ends as to have no time or thought for the fulfilment of civic duties. Whatever service you render the State, let it be given'in the spirit of selfsacrifice that marked the services of the “ boys in blue.” If you desire to acquire wealth, enter not the public service, for this should be kept scrupulously free from cupidity and greed, and its legitimate compensation assures its incumbents simply' of a comfortable living. If you would make service to the public creditable and honorable, it must be unselfish. Stand unwaveringly for patriotism,’honor and truth; and thus in peace, not less than m war, you can discharge the functions of upright, courageous, respected, worthy and loyal friends, men, citizens.
’	Life may be given in many ways,
And-loyalty to truth be-sealed. . As bravely in the closet as the field, So generous is fate.
But then to stand beside her	-
"When .craven.churls deride her, To front a lie in arms, and not to yield;
Methinks this shows God’s plan And measure of .a stalwart man.
After the address, the members of the Notre Dame G. A. R. Post went to the Community cemetery and decorated with flags and flowers the graves of their deceased comrades.	'
Twelfth Victory in Debate.
Invincible Notre Dame, we are moved to exclaim when we look on our debating record, presenting a total series of twelve debates, twelve decisive victories. This year we repeated the successes of last year, winning on both sides of the same question. Not the easiest won of these triumphs was the contest, Wednesday of last week, in which we defeated De Pauw at Notre Dame. De Pauw sent up the strongest team their university could put forth, Messrs. Gibson, Pike and Benson—all experienced debaters. Notre Dame, supporting* the negative, was represented by Messrs. Boyle, Cunningham and Bolger, the first two named making their initial appearance in the forensic field. Added to this, the fact that Notre Dame
541
supported the unpopular side of the question, the side which two of the judges afterward confessed they had been pesonally opposed to, but to which they were persuaded by the Notre Dame debaters, makes the victory a signal one, even though the decision of the judges was not unanimous in our favor; as it was, however, we missed a unanimous decision only by a fraction of a point in the marking.	.
The question for debate was: Resolve that a commission be given power to fix railroad rates. In supporting the affirmative of this proposition Mr. W. Stanley Gibson of De Pauw, spoke chiefly of the evils that attend the present system of rate-making and stated that these evils could be remedied only by governmental regulation of rates.
Mr. Boyle, for Notre Dame, pointedly insisted that the issue of the. debate was not the existence of evils but their cure. He then enumerated grave abuses which the proposed system could in nowise regulate, namely, the secret rebate, private car, etc. -He showed that the defect of present methods is the law’s delay; the obvious remedy for -which is to expedite iustice. He then outlined President Hadly’s plan of a special transportation court to deal with railroad abuses.
Mr. Pike, opening his argument for the affirmative, called attention to an apparent misstatement of fact in the speech of the last negative. He then attempted to show that the plan the affirmative advocated was commended by experience; that the interstate commission continually fixed rates and that the reversals of their decision were. s on points of law. He furthermore tried to. prove that their plan would retain all the advantages of the present system, • and that rigidity of rates would not result, as the railroads would retain the power of fixing initial rates. Mr. Pike was the best speaker for De Pauw, handicapped as he was with a brief that embraced too much of the question.
Mr. Cunningham then made things look brighter for Notre Dame by demonstrating that the plan advocated by the affirmative means in practice general rate-making power, resulting necessarily in rigidity of rates, prohibiting emergency and experi-
542
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
mental rates and stopping the normal decline of rates.
Mr. Benson, for De Pauw, anticipated objections that the negative did not make to the system he supported, namely, the charge of political corruption as affecting the commission, and publicity as a remedy. Much of his earnest effort was lost because it went wide of the mark. In conclusion he advocated the adoption of Judge Noyes’ plan.
Air. Bolger, the imperturbable, set the debate squarely on its feet bjr a brilliant impromptu speech before his main argument, showing that the plan proposed by the affirmative was far more radical than they had dared to emphasize, that the Hepburn Bill was only a mild expedient compared with their system. In his main speech he showed that it is impracticable and unwise for a governmental commission to fix differentials between localities, because this is primarily to determine the relative commercial prosperity of such localities. This, he went on to show, would mean the restriction of inter-regional competition which has been the most potent factor in developing the resources of the country and in causing our low average freight rate. M. Bolger’s was a magnificent effort, and when he had finished, the audience felt if De Pauw could snatch a victory from the situation as. it stood they were debaters indeed.
In rebuttal Mr. Boyle showed that the affirmative plan would mean general ratemaking power and appealed to the experience of the commission to substantiate his argument. Mr. Benson maintained it would not entail general rate-making power because the railroads make all rates in the first instance. Air. Cunningham refuted the elasticity argument of the second affirmative and pointed out that the negative had not grounded their position in the least on the fact of the reversal of the commission’s' decisions. '
Air. Pike called attention to the fact that elasticity was neither an unmixed good nor an unmixed evil, and that as the negative does, so could the commission, distinguish between the two kinds. He asked the negative, with great emphasis; to cite a case in which all the rates in the country had been complained of. Mr. Bolger made capital of the question asked
by the last speaker, and showed, to the । amusement of the house and to the ruin	j
of the negative argument, just how far the	|
power of the commission to fix rates would g extend. He then pointed out how little the commission had been able to accomplish | during the ten years it claimed and exer-	|
cised. the power to fix rates. In closing he	|
strongly emphasized the issue of the debate | and summarized the negative argument. |
Mr. Gibson closed for De Pauw by point-	t
ing out what he considered an inconsistency	I
m the affirmative line of argument, and, in I attempting to answer the negative’s chai-lenge to cite a single instance of nominal ■ compliance with the commission’s orders, said there were cases , where orders were not complied .with at all. He then .summarized the affirmative argument.	:
This finished a debate as close and inter-	|
esting as perhaps was ever fought on home	|
grounds. The De Pauw men were clever	I
talkers and rapid thinkers—decidedly a fast	g
team. Notre Dame was 'great in soliditv 1 of argument, and each of our three men in g voice and manner stood forth as powerful g speakers.	g
While the decision of the judges was pre- ft paring, the orchestra, under Prof. Petersen,	g
delighted	everybody by their customary	I
superior music. After a few minutes, Judge | Howard,	who honored the occasion as	|
chairman, announced the decision of the	I
judges, as two to one in favor of the	I
negative.	There followed congratulations	I
for the team and for Professor Reno, under | whose direction such phenomenal work in	I
debate has been done in the last two years.	J
Many visitors were present at the debate	I
and all expressed themselves as very favor- ; ably impressed by the splendid showing	!
made by both teams. After the contest	j
the debaters were taken to the Oliver where	?
a .'modest banquet—though the hour was	i
late—fittingly crowned the success of the	|
evening.- It is all over with debating for	I
this year; it only remains for Notre Dame	I
debaters of the future to. live up to their	|
inheritance, the unique record of twelve sue-	i
cessive victories.- The judges of the debate	I
were: "• ’ ?	‘	■	I
Hon. W. E. McEwen, Chicago, Illinois.	|
Hon. W. C. VanFlect, Elkhart, Indiana.	I
Professor Isaac E. Neff, South Bencl, Ind.	I


54+
HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Book Review.
Personals-
Lysias, Selected Speeches (xii., xvi., xix., xxii., xxiv., xxv., xxxii., xxxiv.). With introduction, Notes and Appendices by C. D. Adams. American Book Co., 1905. Pp. 400. Price, $1.50.
For matter and form, this book is a valuable and timely addition to the “ Greek Series for Colleges and Schools.” In the general introduction, including the life of Lysias, his works and style, and the revolutions of 411 and 404 B. C., the author manifests a comprehensive vision with the faculty of presenting the results of special study briefly and clearly. The same may be said of the separate introductions to each speech of the selection, followed by an outline and comments on the argument and style. This feature in the edition is most helpful to a student entering upon the study of Attic oratory, and will, no doubt, be welcomed by students as well as by teachers.
Tn the preparation of the notes on the grammatical and rhetorical usages, the author has constantly kept in .mind the college freshman, for whom the book is primarity intended; He has, of course, unavoidably drawn on the stores of material in the great editions of Frohberger-Gebauef, ' Rauchenstein-Fuhr, and F. Blass (Attische ' Beredsamkeit). In difficulties of the text he follows chiefly Thalheim’s critical edition of 1901. The notes are free from such references as the student ;at this stage of his college training could not be expected to verify. On 'the contrary, the notes are encouraging, suggestive and stimulating,— helpful to the teacher as well" as to- the student. References are;given to the grammars of Babbitt, Goodwill (revised edition),. Goodell and Hadley (.revised by Allen).
' Another feature *. of great help to the student is the Appendix, (pp. 327—389), in which the author gives a chronological, table of events included in .the speeches ; an ; account of the Athenian Legal Procedure; a short resume of the three types of prose composition; the “running style” and the “periodic style,” rhetorical figures, money and prices at Athens, the Manuscripts, Bibliography and critical notes. The work closes with two brief indices (Greek 390— 395; English 396-400).	M. 0.
—The manv friends of Dr. J. B. Berteling (B. S. ’80,.M."S.\’84, A. M. ’89), our University physician, were pleased to hear that he ^as one of the four delegates chosen by the /Indiana State Medical Association to represent- their body at the.meeting of the American Medical Association which will be held at Boston June 5—8. Dr. Berteling, it will be remembered,- was signally honored by this same society three years ago when he was unanimously selected President for a term of two years. His many friends here wish him a very happy stay in the East.
—Dr. Charles P. Neill whose report on the stockyard conditions has aroused the country is an alumnus of Notre Dame, and was for many years a member of the faculty. The selection-of Dr. Neill for so important and confidential an errand is proof that he enjoys the confidence of President Roosevelt in a very high degree.
Local Items.
—A friend of the University, Rev. Father Moench, was so well pleased with the result of the Notre Dame-Georgetown debate that he has deposited $50 with the President to be divided equally among Messrs. Fara-/baugh, Malloy and Cosgrove on Commencement morning/' .
' —The prospects for good boat races this year are very bright. The crews are well matched/ahd the earnestness and enthusiasm with wfiich they have practised promise an interesting contest. ;The crews are as follows:
13, 10 a.m. '	•
Golden 'Jubilee	senior, race. Silver Jubilee
/E. A. Rush/./......./......No.	1.............F. J. Oelrich
;S..W.'Applegate......../.../No. 2...H. E. Altgelt J. S. Brady.................No.	;3^.........A. C. Dent
. A.H.Hervey................No.	fkn...........J- T. Miles
M.	J. Marques/.............No.	5..........E. J.	Monaghan
J/M. Whalen...............No.	,6:r..;......F. P. Kasper (C.)
W. M. Carroll (C.).....Coxswain..............W. L. Joyce
Sorin Boat /.- junior rAce.	Corby Boat
L;: A.‘AIangari.....:.L.......No 1.........L.	J. Hannon
;C. :Gurratyx.;..././;'M^	2..........J. F. McMahon
:J; 'fDinener..;No.’ 3..:...................P. W. Kelly
-■W.\tyjSctyiitt.../..^	4.............A. J. Mertes
jLj3arfy<(GM..^ 5.............................C. H. Baer
N.	-M.^Doyle..........No.: 6..   ;.F. T. Collier ,F. -X Culk/../„;..;/.:...Coxswain.:..............H. L. Papin.
Yosemite ~ L • sophomore race. Montmorency G. k krost (C.)..............No. LL;.„G. L. Trevino (C.) G. E. Kinney............/.../No. 2......  C.	H. Johnson
C. H. Kelley..............No. 3.......H. V. Donovan E. L. Symonds........./....No. 4.........;F. 1/ Dupen
J. L. Kinney./;.;..........Coxswain /...R. E. Anderson