May 15, 1931
847

COMMENT
Since the announcement of the winners of the Camel cigarette contest was made, many of our demon smokers have changed brands. The hopefuls who sent letters to the tobacco company telling them just why their cigarettes were better than Blue Boars are now disgruntled because they didn’t get the $25,000. The very idea! Not a Notre Dame man among the prize winners. Tsk, Tsk. As it happened, a milkman from Boston carried away the lion’s share of the money. Who said there was no future in the dairy business!
As a means of awakening ourselves after a very sleepless week-end, we cancelled other engagements in order to attend the “boxing show” last Tuesday night. We thought maybe there would be enough action to open our eyes, but after the first few bouts, which weren’t at all bad, we nodded and closed our eyes. Not until the jeering crowd disturbed us in the frantic effort to escape the farce presented to them, did we come to and find out that the terrific slugging matches had almost mussed the contestants’ hair. Just imagine that!
It was a keen disappointment to look at games of tag being played in the ring, for it was nothing more than that. We had expected a good show but we could have seen more action had we got a balcony seat in the Palace and watched a snappy tap dance on the stage.
No doubt the S.A.C. will be severely criticized for the whole affair but the fault doesn’t lie there, if one will look at the matter fairly. It was the object of that organization to provide entertainment and their efforts, at least, were sincere; the mistake was in letting the opponents have a tete-a-tete before the bouts. Everything was arranged before many of the “boxers” went into the ring. “You tap me and I’ll tap you” was the slogan, with a “ ‘for goodness’ sake don’t hurt me” thrown in as a parting word.
One of the local dancing teachers has promised a much better show before school is out. She said that her pupils were willing and eager to match their strength and wits against the best eight freshmen in school. There is to be “no fixing” because the winners will get an extra copy of the Undergraduate Manual . . . just for keepsakes.	—W. V. B.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
J. Albert Smith
James H. Rorkb, Advertising Manager
JOHN F. STOECKLEY—Graduate Manager of Publications Merle Baldwin, Publications Office Manager
Vol. LXVI
MAY 15, 1931
No. 27
The Week—Paul J. Hallinan--------------------- “Dome” Issued Monday—Emil L. Telfel----------- Giorgio Elected S. A. C. President------------ Scribbler Prize Winners Announced------------- Monogram Formal to Be Held Tuesday------------ Glances at the Magazines—Edioard R. Brennan--- Director Al Kelley Interviewed—George Belting- Men About the Campus—William Knox------------- A Man You Know—T. Edward Carey---------------- College Parade—William C. Blind--------------- The Wink-------------------------------------- Editor’s Page--------------------------------- Trackmen Conquer Midshipmen—Edmund Moriarty-Introducing Larry Moeller—James S. Kearns----- Navy Falls Before Palt’s Pitching—James McFeely_. Splinters From the Press Box—Henry B. Asman--- On Down the Line------------------------------
848
849
851
852
853
856
857
858
859
861
862
863
865
868
869
872
876
THE srnrnT.ASTTC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame, Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Maia Building.
Entered m second-clam matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3. 1917. authorized June 25. 1913.
Tan Advbbtwbrb in Notre Damb Publications Deserve thb Patronagb os All Notbs Damb Men.
I""".......................................         ««..>«	num	i.u,,„„„<	nnmnummminnnnmiMtn    ........................  ..................... .........................................................................
EMIL
L. TELFEL—Editor-in-Chief
Assistant Managing Editor Neil C. Hurley	Managing Editor John E. Bergan Associate Editors	Assistant Managing Editor John A. Kiener
Edward E. Brennan	James J. Kearney	Edward R. Brennan
Austin Boyle	James Carmody	Paul J. Hallinan
John Pick	William W. Corr	Lloyd Teske
The Week	Make-up Editor	College Parade
Richard J. O’Donnell	Walter V. Beesley	Daniel C. Williams
Music and Drama	Feature Editor	Campus Clubs
Frank E. Seward	James K. Collins Netos Staff William C. Karl, News Editor	W. Leslie Raddatz
Edmund Stephan, Assistant News Editor		
John Conley	Anthony R. Schreiner	Joseph Degnan
Myron Crawford	F. Granger Weil	Lawrence Dunda
Richard Molique	Walter Johnson	Lawrence Prybylski
William Knox	James Colvin	William Bund
Walter Kennedy	John Rusnak Sports Staff Henry B. Asman, Sports Editor	J. Don Sullivan
Clevb Carry	George Belting	T. Edward Carey
James E. McFeely, Jr.	James Kearns	Irving B. Halper
Edmund Moriarty	Joseph Kurth	Harry Burchell
Raymond J. Naber
John P. Hess
Frederick Bauer
Business Staff
John B. Blanda, Local Circulation Mgr. Andrew McGuan, Foreign Circulation Mgr.
Daniel E. Brennan
848
The Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
TT HE course in Radio Broadcasting, 19b,—department of Blare and Blurbs, College of Glorified Publicity,—took a renewed academic spurt Monday with the announcement of the Student Activities boxing show. Joseph Addison Wilk, who admits that he invented the musical signboard, and Joseph O’Hora, who confesses that he operates it at times, are determined not to let the institution die. Other members of the department have been quoted as saying:
“The Lawyers’ Ball, the Senior Ball and the ‘Blue and Gold Revue’ have been ‘put across’ in a ‘live-wire’ manner ■with this ticket-selling, interest-arousing, sure-fire, two-fisted, heart-stirring machine. It is the greatest publicity stunt at Notre Dame since the Big Fire of 1879.”
A faculty member and a sophomore from Lyons hall have withstood the .various appeals for the past month, and are plotting, it is rumored, to blow up the entire west-end of the Engineering building.
Plans to have the sign-board announce the graduation exercises, with a McNamee-like running commentary on the festivities are being launched. The only hitch seems to be the possible demolition of the only three victrola records which the operators own.
—o—
T
1 HE pasty concrete which ■will soon be the entrance to rejuvenated Badin is resting calmly. Speculation is rife as to whether the side-walk will dry without the initials of some of the campus play-boys inscribed. Most adolescents argue that such an act is anything but vandalistic. It is “making history,” or “perpetuating the present,” or “just a good old boyish prank.” The rector, however, . with a vigilant eye, prefers the aesthetic delight of an unmarred pavement and an unscathed porch.
The possibility of juniors next September wandering into Badin, instead of their intended Alumni hall, is growing less remote. Badin has had its face lifted, its entrance redecorated, and its windows washed. If the ivy could only be persuaded to cover the ancient walls, the residence of many a club president would be preserved by nature, if by nobody else.
—o—
T HE preface to politicians penned by the irate editor of the Scholastic became rather surprisingly a farewell to politicians. To be sure, the dyed-in-the-wool vote-snatchers snorted ominously last Friday afternoon and evening. It was embarrassing. The victors who had planned to send the magazine home found themselves in the odd position of proclaiming their own machinations. Some tore out the Editor’s Page, and chanced the parental discovery of an emasculated Scholastic.
The lower type of politicians, — who fortunately are seldom the men elected, — stopped snorting when the rational faculty began to function. The Scholastic did not need to say, “If the shoe fits, kick yourself.” The boys knew that if they appeared offended, they tagged themselves as the original offenders.
To those good men who were elected, — and their conscience and the campus judgment are the criteria, — the Scholastic extends congratulations.
R.ACKETEERS’ Union, Notre Dame chapter, is asked to look into something which it must have overlooked. ' At no time of the year are the halls more infested with . prospective roomers than the past few weeks. Freshmen y speak reverently of St. Edward’s, sophomores sniff audibly at a year’s existence in Badin, and juniors hope anxiously for Walsh, try for Sorin, and finally go to Corby.
Which reminds us of the aforementioned racket. Every man who now lives in one of the rooms of the desired ; halls should be approached, and asked to join the association. A tum-stile would then be installed at his door, and -when "wandering room-seekers knock, a nominal charge “ of fifty cents is made. The room-seeker can then come •. in to view the room.	‘
A subsidiary business could be done by selling pictures of the various aspects of the new Alumni hall. A south- , ern exposure can mean many things. Many a present -i sophomore would like to know how much view he will have and how close he will be to the Notre Dame’s famous, noiseless car-line.	>
—o—	".-I
C AIN once showed a drawing of a horse to Father £ Adam. “That’s great, my boy!” replied Adam, “but is it z?r Art?”	f
With this Nathariesque critique of criticism, Adam -showed his potentialities as a reviewer. That was long < before art had to be postulated as being for the sake of . someone or somebody. Ars gratia artis means little and X excuses even less.
A much-maligned topic arises here, the old A.A. book picture affair. Rumor has it that the beautiful custom is to be foisted on the students again. Consideration of art is here waved aside.	’ 4
The photographer who snapped those things should be $ deprived of his badge, and confined to his dark-room for x life.	'£
But the question of “whose sake” still remains. It is trite to repeat that it isn’t the fifty cents, it’s the principle that matters. Any photographer would have “shot” the entire student body for less than $100.	&
It will be a pleasant relief to have the charge ineluded in the blanket fee next fall. But the indignity of the sitting, and the insult of the finished product still ^'f remain.	■
T HE imagination is challenged and the soul is dared, when it is casually mentioned that only three weeks re- t main of school, and there is no campus song to celebrate the fact. Short-story writers and song-writers the cam- if pus has certainly had this year, and in abundance. Each of the dances stirred the musical cerebrum of some lyricist, and most of the major events were nicely covered with a rhythmic panegyric.	§ ?
We want no shy laureates here, who write only when ? the inspiration strikes them. We need minute men of music, who can dash off a song on the slightest provocation, be it the tearing down of Freshman hall or an impromptu ducking party down by the Boat-house.
May 15, 1931
849
“D OME” ISS UED MOND A Y
ELECTRICAL EXHIBITION TO BE FEATURED BY
BELL SOUND EXPERT
GRACE TO SHOW TWICE
Speech Scrambler, Automatic /	Words, Delayed Transmission
/	Will Mystify Students.
A speech “scrambler” to prevent eavesdroppers from listening in on trans-Atlantic radio conversations is the newest wrinkle in telephony.
This device, as well as many others, will be demonstrated by Sergius P. Grace, assistant vice-president of the Bell Telephone laboratories, in Washington hall on May 19 at an afternoon and an evening performance. Mr. Grace’s exhibition is being brought to the University through arrangements completed by Dr. Jose Caparo of the electrical engineering department, while the lecture and presentation will be under the auspices of the Notre Dame student branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers.
The speech “scrambler” consists of an electric “transmitting brain” which produces a language spoken by no human being. It distorts the natural speech frequencies of tones so as to make the result unintelligible to any one listening in on the ordinary radio. As an example, “telephone company” when scrambled, comes out “playofine crinkanope.”
This is but one of the features of the “Science Review” as staged by Mr. Grace. Delay of speech transmission will be exhibited when a sentence spoken into a telephone transmitter will not be heard until two seconds after the last word has been uttered. The amplified electrical vibrations put into it are converted into mechanical vibrations and fed into a long, coiled spring which runs along over the heads of the audience. The sound literally creeps along this wire in the form of mechanical vibrations. After a matter of several seconds it reaches the end of its path, where it is changed back to electrical vibrations and fed into a loud speaker.
Continued on Page 876
“Hallinan’s Year-Book Is Finished, Craftsmanlike Product/’ Says Telfel
“DOME” DISTRIBUTION WILL BEGIN MONDAY
Joseph A. Wilk, circulation manager of the Dome, announces that distribution of this year’s yearbook will begin at 4 o’clock Monday afternoon, May 18.
The schedule of distribution will be as follows:
Seniors—Monday, 4 to 6 p. m. Juniors—Monday, 6:30 to 10 p.' m. Sophomores—Tuesday, 8 to 11:30 a.m. Freshmen—Tuesday, 12:30 to 5 p. m.
The Domes will be given out in the archway at the rear of the Main building to those students presenting a card issued previously by the circulation manager. Those students who have paid for their copies of the yearbook may obtain these cards, entitling them to an annual, at the Publications’ office.
About one hundred copies of the Dome will be available for cash sales. Students intending to purchase a yearbook should do so as soon as possible. Only 2,500 copies of the book were printed this year and demands from outside the University are unusually numerous.
Dignified Junior Section and Excellent Photography Are Praised by Editor.
By Emil L. Telfel
The editor of the Scholastic has many privileges. Not the least of them is the right to pre-view the Dome before any one else except the Dome editor sees the book. It is a sort of tradition, a gesture of courtesy from one editor to another. So when Paul Hallinan invited me to his room last night to look over the first completed copy of the 1931 yearbook, fresh from the presses of the Peerless Press, I went with keen anticipation. I had seen some of the page proofs and knew that the finished product would be well worth seeing. I was not disappointed. Gentlemen, Paul has turned out an excellent Dome, the best I have seen since I have been looking at year-books, and that was a long time ago.
From cover to cover the 1931 Dome is a finished craftsmanlike job, dignified in tone and edited with reserve and originality. The theme is Irish, but not the typical Irish of Shamrocks and “Erin go braghs.” Scenes from ancient Irish life are shown in the main-division pages, to pay tribute “to a race that has lived, fought, and learned with an intensive courage and imagination, — the men of Ireland,” to quote from the theme page. The book is dedicated “to those men of Notre Dame who have expressed the Irish courage and the Irish imagination.” There is also an Irish sub-theme developed in the sub-division pages, showing scenes from Irish folk-lore, with elves and leprecauns as the characters.
One of the finest sections in the book is the dignified junior section. For once the junior photographs do not look like as if they had been chosen at random from among the most disreputable characters in the rogues galleries of various police headquarters. The panels are arranged in groups of three, a distinct Continued on Page 876
850
The Scholastic
SCHOLASTIC STAFF APPOINTMENTS FOR NEXT YEAR ARE ANNOUNCED
Henry B. Asman Heads List of Selections; Many Promotions Are Made
Appointments to the various Scholastic editorships were made known this week by Neil C. Hurley, editor-in-chief for next year. Selections were made by the editorial board of the Scholastic and approved by Hurley.
Henry B. Asman, of Louisville, Kentucky, a junior in the College of Science, has been appointed assistant managing editor, after working this present year as sports editor. He has been a member of the Scholastic staff for three years.
Edmund Stephan, of Chicago, will handle the news section. This year Stephan was assistant news editor where he demonstrated his ability as an administrator and as a writer. F. Granger Weil, of Port Huron, Michigan, has been selected as next year’s assistant news editor. For two years Weil has been a consistently faithful staff member.
The sports section will be edited by Edmund Moriarty. The past year he has covered general sport assignments very capably.
The desk editors for the various sections will be James McFeely, Lloyd Teske, and T. Edward Carey. Teske will supervise the news copy desk, while McFeely will have charge of sports. McFeely has been a member for two years, while Carey and Teske have just completed their first year of service.
Walter Johnson, a sophomore, will
Summer Course In Boys9 Work Announced
The prospectus describing the eighth annual summer course in Boy Leadership has been sent during the past week to parish priests throughout the middle west. The 1931 course will be held from July 7th to 16th under the direction of Professor Ray Hoyer, head of the Boy Guidance department. He will be assisted by Charles J. Ducey and Stephen M. Murray of the Knights of Columbus Boy Life bureau, both graduates of
be features editor. Johnson, who so efficiently covered the University debating team this season, has not only demonstrated his ability to write well, but has also shown a keen ability as an executive.
Much thought was given to the choosing of the column conductors. Paul J. Hallinan, associate editor this year, will write The Week, a post left vacant by the graduation of Richard J. O’Donnell. College Parade will be conducted by John Pick, who has completed two years of Scholastic work. Pick, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, is the conductor of the Book Reviews section of this year’s Scholastic.
John Conley, a freshman in the same college will be the campus clubs editor. It is the policy of the Scholastic editorial board to always appoint a sophomore to this post. Conley’s work this year shows that he is well qualified for the promotion. Other columnists include Lawrence Dunda, of Joliet, Illinois, who will take care of the Campus Opinions column.
The associate editors, who are to be the editorial writers and advisors to the editor, have been carefully chosen. After much deliberation William Corr, Myron Crawford, James Carmody, Leslie Raddatz, and Louis A. Brennan, who is editor of Scrip this year, have been selected. These men will advise the editor in regard to editorial policies.
the Notre Dame Boy- Guidance department. Representatives from national boys’ work agencies and members of the regular summer school faculty will assist.
Enrollment is limited to Catholic men who are at least 18 years of age. It is expected that a number of priests will again be in attendance since the problems of conducting parish recreation are thoroughly described during the ten days.
NEW JERSEY CLUB HOLDS FAREWELL BANQUET
LAST WEDNESDAY
The New Jersey club held its annual farewell banquet last Wednesday evening in the Joan Tea Room in South Bend. President S. A. Bon-tempo gave an introductory speech in which he announced the toastmaster for the evening, Professor John Connolly of the department of philosophy.
Mr. Connolly spoke on the ideals and training that a Notre Dame man should carry away with him after graduation. He stressed the place of the college man in the world and then introduced the graduating seniors who gave short farewell talks.
Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic, Robert Massey, expresident of the club, William C. Karl, news editor of the Scholastic, John Sullivan, William Gadek, and Richard Connelly were the graduating seniors who were the guests of honor. All gave short talks.
The chairman of the dinner was William Harrington. As guest the club had Joseph Deeb, president of the Presidents’ council, who spoke briefly.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MUST BE IN BY MAY 20
Joseph Deeb, president of the Pres-idents’ council, announces that the fi- /’ nancial statements of all campus A clubs must be made to the office of the prefect of discipline before May A 20. Forms for this statement may be secured from Mrs. Leyes, secretary .. to the Reverend Raymond M. Murch, A C.S.C., in her office.
All club elections must be held be- f fore May 25. Those clubs which have jz not as yet elected officers for the next year must do so before that date A < in order to secure recognition. The J election of officers in the Presidents’ "J council will be held in the south room of the library on May 26.
Boy Guidance Speakers A
The students majoring in Boy j-Guidance were addressed during the past week by the representatives of two national boys’ work organiza- X -tions. Mr. J. R. Batchelor, of the Na- A?: tional Recreation association, spoke on Wednesday, while Dr. Herbert *5-Williams presented the program of > the Big Brother federation on Fri- gA
May 15, 1931
851
BOYLE AND PHILIPP RELEASE “CARRY ON” SONG TO UNIVERSAL
GIORGIO IS ELECTED PRESIDENT
OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES COUNCIL
The marching song, “Carry On for Rockne,” with music by W. Franz Philipp and words by Austin Boyle, which scored a notable hit in the Monogram club’s “Gold and Blue Revue” a few weeks ago, has been released to the. Universal Pictures corporation by the youthful composers. It will be used in the 1931 sport series filmed by Universal at । Notre Dame this spring, and possibly ' also in a feature picture with a Notre Dame locale which the movie company is anxious to make later.
Professor Joseph Casasanta, head of the music department, is busy arranging the chorus of the piece for rendition by the University band and Glee club. The authors have but recently finished the verse, which was not heard in the Monogram club’s revue. It was originally intended to dedicate the march to the Monogram club as their song, but at the death of Knute Rockne the words were hurriedly changed. Director Albert Kelly, who is making the present sport series for Universal at Notre Dame, heard the song in the monogram show and was so impressed by it that he asked the student composer to release it to his company for use in their pictures of Notre Dame life. They agreed, and also plan to have it published soon.
John Higgins Receives Treasurer’s Post, While James Gerend Is Named Secretary
INDIANAPOLIS CLUB TO HOLD BANQUET MONDAY
The Indianapolis club will give its final banquet of the school year next Monday evening at the Rose Marie tea room in South Bend. This afffair will climax the activities for the season, and will give the members an opportunity to select officers for the ensuing year.
The arrangements for the banquet are being taken care of by John Scanlan, Robert Kennedy, and Lawrence Sexton. As guests of the evening, the club has invited Brother Bernard, C.S.C., a former principal of Cathedral High school in Indianapolis, and Brother Agatho, C.S.C., formerly assistant principal; both now located at Dujarie, at Notre Dame.
Herbert P. Giorgio, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected president of the Student Activities council last Wednesday evening in the journalism room of the library. James Gerend, a sophomore in the College of Commerce, was named secretary, while John Higgins, a junior in the same college, was chosen treasurer.
The new president comes from Hollis, New York. He. was elected into the S.A.C. last May for a two-year term to represent his present class. In the election this week he defeated John Connolly, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, from Toledo, Ohio, by a ballot of 12 to 6.
“The S.A.C. next year will endeavor to foster more and varied activities,” said Giorgio after his election. “We will do away with the sham and hypocrisy that has sometimes existed in the past and we will try to make the organization a council for better student activities. This will be our guide next year.”
Poor Economy
A fine of §500 on a counterfeiting charge imposed by Judge Baltzwell in Federal Court at Terre Haute last month is likely to make some persons think twice befroe using metal slugs instead of money in coin collector telephones. An oil driller who saved $1.95 by using slugs to make a long distance call from a hotel booth in Sullivan, Ind., found it poor economy when the Federal judge fined him $500.
The arrest was made by a deputy United States marshal on a warrant charging the use of counterfeit money. The prisoner pleaded guilty and Judge Baltzwell warned him that he was lucky to escape a prison sentence in addition to the fine. With a federal charge of counterfeiting staring them in the face, a nickel that is a nickel is likely to be dropped in the slot by those persons who have heretofore indulged in this petty thievery.
The other two officers, Gerend and Higgins, have promised their cooperation to the new president.
Although no definite program for next year has been prescribed, it is understood that the organization under Giorgio will endeavor to foster student spirit by other than synthetic means, which may result in a better system of “pep” meetings and abolition of “Hello” week. The new president made no statement in regard to silent cheering, an activity that was sponsored by the S.A.C. this year. However, the Scholastic learned from an authoritative source that'" this will be discontinued, because of the wide-spread criticism that it received this year.
The elections were presided over by Timothy Benitz, present chairman of the S.A.C.
Giorgio has not yet made public his appointments in regard to the chairmanship of the Blue Circle, dance and other sub-committees. These, howevre, will be announced in the Scholastic at an early date.
Engineers Meet Monday
Election of officers of the Engineers’ club will be held on next Monday evening in the old Law building at 6:30 p. m. Attention is called to the following excerpts from the club constitution: the qualification for office is that the candidate must have been a member of the club in good standing for at least six months previous to the election. It should also be noted that the offices of president, vice-president, treasurer and secretary are to be held by seniors.
Lost and Found
The following students have articles in the Lost and Found department on the second floor of the Main building: Herbert Meyers, Walter Barlow, Paul Fergus, Bob Measer, Donald Bulger, H. B. Denman, and Robert Haight.
852
The Scholastic
McCABE AND LASKOWSKI WIN FIRST
PRIZES IN SCRIBBLER CONTESTS
Telfel and Spalding Tie for Second in Short Story; Carey, Pick Take Second, Third in Poetry
Joseph McCabe and Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., were awarded first places in the Scribblers’ short story and poetry contests, according to announcements made yesterday by Richard J. O’Donnell and Frank E. Seward, chairmen of the two contests. “Hero” is the title of the story which secured the $15 first prize for McCabe. The winner is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters and a member of the Scribblers. His literary talent has already received recognition through his appointment to the editorship of Scrip for next year.
Laskowski, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, received first prize in the poetry contest on his poem, “Penitence.” For the past two years he has been a regular contributor to Scrip.
George M. Spalding and Emil L. Telfel tied for second place in the short story contest, and as a result the second prize of $10 and the third prize of $5 will be divided between them. Spalding is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters and is a member of the Scribblers. During the past year he won national recognition by receiving first place in the Ladies’ Home Journal national short story contest. His winning contribution to the Scribblers’ contest was “Calls.” Telfel is a senior in the same college, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic, and . president of the Scribblers. He was awarded his place on his short story, “Obsession.”
Other stories that received honorable mention were: “Hump,” by Joseph Payne, C.S.C.; “Seven,” another contribution by George Spalding; “Nerves,” by the winner of the first prize, McCabe; and “A Realist Looks At Christmas,” by Louis A. Brennan, editor of Scrip and a Scribbler member.
The short story awards were made on a point basis, the contribution receiving the fewest points winning the first prize of $15. McCabe’s “Hero” was awarded first honor with a total of six points.
John Angus Burrell, professor of English at Columbia university, New York City; John Farrar, president of the Farrar and Rinehart Publishers; and Arthur McKeogh, associate editor of Good Housekeeping, acted as judges for the contest. The Scribblers’ short story committee in charge of the contest was composed of Richard J. O’Donnell, chairman, and George M. Spalding.
Charles Carey, C.S.C., of Moreau seminary, and senior in the College of Arts and Letters, was awarded second place in the poetry contest on his poem, “The Pieta.” His “Miracle” also ranked high. John Pick’s contribution, “The Valley of Lost Men,” received third honor. Pick is a sophomore in the Arts and Letters college. Joseph W. Carroll received honorable mention for his poem, “Chatterton.” The prizes for the poetry contest are $15, $10, and $5 also.
Gerald Holland, Sister M. Eleanore, C.S.C., and Professor Henry C. Staunton acted as judges of the poetry contest. Mr. Holland is a Sunday editor of the South Bend News-Times, an alumnus of the University, and a former member of the Scribblers. Sister Eleanore is a member of the faculty of St. Mary’s college and has won a reputation as a poet. Professor Staunton is a member of the department of English at the University. The committee in charge of the poetry contest consisted of Frank E. Seward, chairman; Francis X. Nulty, and Joseph W. Carroll.
Senior Ball Success
The Senior Ball which was held last Friday evening at the Palais Royale ballroom was a success, financially and socially, according to class officers. The choice of the orchestra and the tasteful decorations of the ballroom were very favorably received.
In spite of the rain, the Tea Dance was also well attended.
“ALUMNUS” TO FEATURE MEMORIAL TO ROCKNE
The Rockne Memorial issue of the Alumnus will appear next week, according to word received from James Armstrong, alumni secretary. The issue will be the largest that the magazine has ever issued, containing 64 pages.
Many columns are devoted to the best in editorial comment and telegrams of condolence sent to the University. One section of the number is devoted to the most outstanding poetry written for the memory of the late Knute Rockne. The story of the accident, the return of the body, and the funeral are included. All accounts related to the death of Rockne were carefully conned and only the best was chosen for incorporation into ; the issue.
The announcement of the donation -of $300,000 by John F. Cushing for the new engineering building is also £ printed. A description of the building is included in the story.
The sports department contains the story of the appointment of Jesse Harper as athletic director, and An- I derson and Chevigny as coaches. Joseph Petritz, a junior and director of | sports publicity for Notre Dame, " wrote the stories. Book reviews, and • an interesting department, “Around the Campus,” conducted by John A. Kiener of the Scholastic staff, are ) included in this issue.	‘
PROMINENT ENGINEERS ADDRESS LOCAL CLUB
Mr. Roy V. Wright, president of the American Society of Mechanical En-gineers, and Mr. A. A. Potter, dean of the College of Engineering, Purdue J university, were the speakers at the r banquet of the St. Joseph Valley £ branch of the A. S. M. E., which was held in the faculty dining hall Thurs-day, May 7.	gf
Mr, Wright directed most of his * speech to the student members of the | A. S. M. E., who were guests at the banquet. Dean Potter spoke on “Answers to the Critics of the Machine Age.” Both speakers emphasized the importance of the fine arts courses in f the engineering curriculum.
At the close of the formal meeting	;
an open forum was held, during	£
which both Mr. Wright and Dean Potter answered questions of interest and importance to the engineering confraternity.

May 15, 1931
853
Monogram Formal Next Tuesday
“Jugglers” to Play for Athletes’ Annual Dance at the Progress Club
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS HOLD ANNUAL PICNIC AT INDIAN LAKE
Committees, Led by John F. Saunders, to Introduce
Dance Novelty.
The Monogram club will hold its annual ball next Tuesday evening at the Progress club on West Colfax avenue. Chairman John F. Saunders announces that everything is in readiness to make this dance a distinctive and memorable one for the athletes and their friends.
The “Jugglers” have been chosen by William Sullivan, chairman of the music committee, to furnish the music for the occasion. Led by Al Stewart, the “Jugglers” are among the best of the local orchestras. They have recently concluded an extended engagement in South Bend, where they proved most popular to local and out-of-town listeners. The “Jugglers” are distinctive in that they are composed wholly of students of the University. Formerly purely a campus organization, this orchestra has risen to such heights of popularity that it is called upon to fulfill engagements not only in South Bend but also in surrounding cities.
In accordance with the usual custom, there will be no favors for this dance, but the programs are to be especially attractive. They will be of fine leather and will be bound with a blue and gold cord. Patrons and patronesses, Monogram club officers, and chairmen and the members of the various committees are listed on the programs. As a further novelty for the occasion, the dances will be distinguished by athletic terms instead of the usual numbers.
Miss Mimi Farabaugh of South Bend, as the guest of Chairman John Saunders, will be the queen of the ball. Arthur McManmon, president of the Monogram club, will have as guest of honor1, Miss Theresa M. Edwards of South Bend.
The patrons and patronesses for the dance will be: Dean and Mrs. James W. McCarthy; Mr. and Mrs. Heartley Anderson; Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Casa-santa; Mr. and Mrs. J. Arthur Haley; Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Borland; Mr.
and Mrs. Charles Andres; Mr. Jesse Harper; Mr. Paul Fenlon; Mr. John Chevigny; Mr. George Keogan; Mr. John Nicholson; and Mr. Frank Kelly.
In keeping with the usual custom, this dance will be limited to members of the Monogram club and their invited guests. Each member is allowed to issue one invitation. This year,
T. Arthur McManmon President, Monogram Club
however, incoming senior candidates for the Monogram club will not only be allowed to attend, but will also have the privilege of inviting a guest. Members of the club who have graduated have been invited to be guests by Arthur McManmon, president of the Monogram club. From the standpoint of attendance this Monogram ball will be the best ever given, according to the men in charge.
The chairmen and members of the various committees are:
HALL—Lawrence Mullins, chaii-man ; Thomas Yarr, Haskell Askew, Alvin Culver, Joseph Quigley, and Kirby Shafer.
RECEPTION—Clarence Donovan, chairman; Martin Brill, Thomas Conley, Joseph Lauer-man, Clarence Kaplan, and Charles Mannix.
MUSIC—William Sullivan, chairman ; Frank Carideo, Edwin Kosky, Richard Mahoney, Daniel Halpin, and Joseph Gavin.
PROGRAM—John O’Brien, chairman ; Dennis O’Keefe, Kenneth Fishleigh, Allan Howard, Albert Tuohy, and James Slattery.
PATRONS—Harry M. Vezie, chairman; Carl Cronin, Frank Leahy, John Lisicki, Bernard Leahy, and Henry Johnson.
Indian lake, outside of Dowagiac, Mich., was the scene of the annual picnic of the Notre Dame council, No. 1477, Knights of Columbus, held yesterday. One hundred and fifteen Knights attended.
Busses left the campus at 10:00 a. m., and carried the men to the lake. Lunch was at 12:00 o’clock, and the afternoon was taken up with golf, tennis, swimming, and races, including the traditional trustees’ race.
In the evening there was a banquet at which the chaplain of the council, Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., presided. Grand Knight Louis Buckley presented gifts to the officers of the council for the past year, including Treasurer Francis Flannery, Warden Malcolm McVean, Lecturer William O’Malley, and Trustees Reverend Thomas Kelly, C.S.C., and Raymond Hoyer.
Grand Knight Buckley also presented to Father Reynolds and to the financial secretary, Nicholas Bohl-ing, checks to cover their expenses to the state convention of the K. of C. They will accompany the elected delegates.
Following the banquet, the Knights again boarded the busses and returned to the University.
James Murphy, general chairman of the picnic, was assisted in the arrangements by James Collins, Maurice Goodeve, Arthur Bergen, Raymond Naybor, Francis Marley, John W. Burke, Robert Streb, William Judge, and William Taylor.
Observatory Moved
The Notre Dame observatory, formerly located behind the postoffice, and long a landmark of that section of the campus, has been moved to a hill east of the University tennis courts, to make way for the Edward N. Hurley, College of Foreign Commerce which is now being erected.
The observatory is equipped with a modern telescope, the lens of which was donated by Napoleon III, emperor of France.
854
The Scholastic
Campus Opinions
Question: “Do you think that there is too much importance placed upon campus politics?”
Felix G. Frank, off-campus, junior —“No. I do not think that there is too much stress placed on politics at Notre Dame. In fact, there isn’t enough. It is of vital importance to the school, and particularly to the class members, that their representatives be capable men. Due to the fact that these prospective officers are not known to all the class members, promoting and politics are quite necessary.”
Hugh F. Fitzgerald, Howard hall, freshman—“Absolutely not. The only social activities are the dances and these do not receive a great deal of publicity. I think it is really a credit to Notre Dame that her activities are conducted in a straightforward manner. There is none of that petty political chicanery so noticeable in other universities. I do think, however, that a little more campus politics might stimulate the otherwise indifferent students.”
John Neubauer, Lyons hall, sophomore—“I do believe that the students, particularly those interested, place too much importance upon campus politics, campaigns, and promises. During the recent class and club campaigns,there was an unwarranted outlay of money for campaign purposes. I do not deem this a wise, nor even a necessary practice. The most serious grievance I have against politics is the almost unavoidable chance of losing. friends and creating enemies during the heat of the vote soliciting season.”
Robert G. Tischler, Badin hall, senior—“During my four years at the University politics has become more and more important on the campus. This activity has developed a great deal because it helps the student to be able to associate himself with the politics he will encounter when he leaves here. For this reason, I do . not believe there is too much importance placed upon campus politics.”
Harry A. Moss, Walsh hall, junior —“The importance placed upon cam-
NOTICE!
There will be an important meeting of the news and sports staffs this evening at 7:00 in Room 222 of the Main building. The regular 6:30 editorial staff meeting will be held in the Publications office. All members are required to attend.
VILLAGERS WILL HOLD SPRING PARTY JUNE 4
Plans are under way for the annual Villagers spring dinner dance which will be held at the Hotel Whitcomb, Saint Joseph, Mich., on June 4. The affair this year will be in the form of a dinner-dance and will be open to Villagers and their guests.
Officers for next year elected last Monday will be made known at this affair. Charles Weiss is in charge of arrangements.
Cushing Gets Science Award
Thomas H. Cushing of Evansville, Ind., a senior in the College of Science at Notre Dame, has been awarded the Notre Dame DuPont award for research in science, according to Prof. H. B. Froning, head of the chemistry department.
The award enables Cushing to reside at the University for the period of a year where he may follow a course of research under the Reverend Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., professor of organic chemistry. Cushing has assisted Father Nieuwland in his research with acetylenes for two years.
pus politics is, at present, in proportion to the demands of the offices for competent men. Were these matters to stand unemphasized, a small group of self - centered pseudo-politicians could handle the issue at every election. They would then not only publicly represent a group of classmates with higher ideals, but would be able also, through clandestine practices, to appropriate class funds for their private use, if they so desired to grasp the opportunity. Whatever the condition of campus political affairs at present, they certainly would not be bettered by a laxity on the part of the students in their manner of choosing candidates for administrative offices.”
COMING EVENTS
Dates subject to change without notice.
FRIDAY, May 15—Scholastic staff meetings, editorial board, 6:30 p. m., Publications* office; news and sports staffs, 7:00 p. m., 222 Main building — Pre-law club meeting, 8:00 p. m. Law building.
SATURDAY, May 16 — Engineers’ picnic, 8:00 a. m.; Busses leave post office—Track, Indiana State meet, Lafayette, Ind.—Golf match, Pittsburgh vs. Notre Dame, 8:15 a. m. and 2:00 p. m., William J. Burke Golf Course—Movies, “The Fighting Caravan,” 6:40 and 8:15 p. m., Washington hall.
SUNDAY, May 17 — Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church—Utica club meeting, 10:00 a. m., old Law building.
MONDAY, May 18 — Italian club meeting, 6:30 p. m., Room 2, Main building — French club meeting, 6:30 p. m., Room 3, Main building —Engineers club meeting, 6:30 p. m., old Law building.
TUESDAY, May 19—Baseball, Northwestern at Notre Dame, 3:30 p. m., Cartier field—Electrical exhibit by Dr. Grace, afternoon and evening, Washington hall — Spanish club meeting, 7:00 p. m., Science hall— Press club meeting, 7:00 p. m., journalism room, library.
WEDNESDAY, May 20 — Scribblers meeting, 6:30 p. m., Howard hall “rec”—Wranglers meeting, 6:30 p. m., Law building.
THURSDAY, May 21 — Spectators meeting, 6:30 p. m., journalism room, library
Pre-Law Club to Meet
The last regular meeting of the Pre-Law club will be held tonight in the new Law building at 8:00 p. m. Election of officers for the coming school year will be held- at that time. All students who plan to enter the Law school will be eligible to vote, according to Thomas Tobin, president.

May 15, 1931
855
SPECTATORS’ ELECTIONS
Ed. Stephan Chosen President;
Xelowski Is Secretary.
Edmund Stephan was elected president of the Spectators for next year at the regular weekly meeting held last night in the journalism room of the library. Thaddeus Xelowski, the defeated candidate for the presidency, was chosen secretary of the club.
Stephan, who is news editor of the Scholastic for next year, is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters and lives in New York City. He has been a member of the club for the past year and has shown an active interset in the affairs of the Spectators. Alfred Stepan, the retiring president, welcomed the new officers.
Xelowski, the new secretary who succeeds Timothy Benitz, comes from Chicago, is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, and has been an active member of the club for the past two years.
Temporary plans for the annual banquet were discussed by the club members. The banquet will probably be a testimonial farewell to the graduating members. It will be held some time within the next two weeks.
Applications for membership in the Spectators are still being received. They may be secured from the new secretary, Thaddeus Xelowski, in Morrissey hall.
E. J. O’BRIEN SENDS LETTER PRAISING “SCRIP”
George M. Spalding, senior in the College of Arts and Letters and member of the Scribblers, received recently a very interesting letter from Edward J. O’Brien, editor of The Best Short Stones series. The letter came from Oxford, England, where Mr. O’Brien lives. Mr. O’Brien sends word of the Reverend Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., former merber of the department of English, now studying at Oxford university. The letter follows:
“Thank you very much for sending me Scrip which interests me very much. I shall be glad to consider it regularly for The Best Short Stories if you care to add my name to your mailing list. I have had much pleasure this winter in the society of Father Leo L. Ward of your university.
“Sincerely yours,
“Edward J. O’Brien.”
SNAPSHOTS
Those who submitted snapshots to the Dome may get them from James Dubbs in Room 13, Morrissey hall, on Friday, May 22.
TEXAS “ROUNDUP” HAS
EXCELLENT PROGRAM
The Texas club held its second annual “Roundup” last Wednesday evening in the K. of C. room in Walsh hall. The affair was well attended and the audience expressed great pleasure at the variety of entertainment offered.	■
“Red” McLeod and his orchestra furnished the music and the elevenpiece band of campus musicians did very well. The club chaplain, the Reverend George O’Connor, C.S.C., spoke and showed some tricks with the lariat. The Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., was the guest of honor for the evening and spoke highly of the entertainment.
The feature act of the evening was tap dancing by Miss Donnabelle Parvis, who conducts her own studio in Elkhart. Fred Rahaim and John Perone did some numbers and were followed by a boxing matching between Louis Godoy and Louis Szabo. The going was fast and furious in the three rounds and was far better than the entire card at the S.A.C. show last Tuesday.
George “Pat” Mangan entertained with several banjo selections after which he responded with an encore. Russell O’Shea and Pete Troelio opened the program with a blackface act.
Next “Juggler” Progressing
Work on the Commencement Number of the Juggler has already begun and many contributions have been received, according to Editor Dempsey. The issue will be ready for sale shortly before the examinations. The number promises to be very interesting and the advanced stage of the work is a good indication of the excellence of the final issue of the school year.
Presidents’ Club Keys
The Presidents club keys are on hand and may be secured from Joseph Deeb in Room 419, Badin hall. There are still a few left.
WRANGLERS’ ELECTIONS
Hurley and O’Meara Receive Executive Posts.
Neil C. Hurley, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected president of the Wranglers, honorary forensic society, at the annual elections held last Wednesday evening. Thomas O’Meara, a sophomore in the same college, was named secretary.
The new president, who comes from River Forest, Ill., was recently appointed editor-in-chief of the Scholastic for next year.
New members were also admitted into the organization. From eighteen applications for membership, the Wranglers selected four to be admitted. Those chosen were Arthur Sanduskey, William Darrow, J. R. Boyle, and Donald McIntosh.
John Wilson was chairman of the membership committee which interviewed the candidates for admission. He had as his assistants Thomas O’Meara and John Driscoll. Upon their recommendations eight candidates were requested to address the club last Wednesday evening. From the combined recommendations of the committee and the oratorical ability of the candidates, the decision to admit four was finally agreed upon.
“The present group of candidates were the finest that have ever been before the club,” said Edward Phelan, president. “This made it exceedingly difficult for the club to make a selection. I congratulate the four men who successfully weathered the elimination.”
An initiation banquet will be held next week at the Rose Marie tea room for the new members. This banquet will also serve as a farewell dinner for all the graduating seniors. Frank Cawley, a sophomore in the College of Commerce, is in charge of the arrangements.
Senior Pins Are Ready
Beginning today juniors may get their class pins from Leonard Donoghue, 106 Lyons, by paying the last installment on the pins, and by remitting the class dues. Mr. Donoghue will be in his room from 3:30 to 5:30 in the afternoons, and from 7:30 to 10:00 in the evenings to take care of the applicants.
856
The Scholastic
Glances at the Magazines
There is a very interesting article in Columbia this month by Phillip Burke. He calls it “A Job for Our Colleges.” Mr. Burke notes that in this country there are very few Catholic authors. Last year only seventy-five Catholics published books. That is a small percentage of the twenty million of our faith in the United States, which means, he says, “that American Catholicism is comparatively inarticulate.
“But our neighbors are not inarticulate. This is a generation given to self-expression. Book-making in these days has become a giant industry; book-writing, a common indulgence. All around us book clubs multiply and authors flourish. Over the desert of our wanderings, geniuses fly in flocks, dropping books of the month like manna. Among our intelligentsia, a man without a book to his credit is tolerated but uncomfortable, like a father at a christening.
“Books these days are easy to make. A learned book can always be made out of two others. A modem biography can be made out of three compromising letters and an old photograph or two. Any mortal sin is an idea for a play, although adultery, in three acts, remains the preoccupation of playwrights. And today all one needs for a novel is a typewriter and an urge to tell all.
“Thus, while Catholic literature is a little anemic, non-Catholic literature is robust and loud. We Catholics are a minority among people either indifferent to our way of living or opposed to it. That indifference and that enmity find expression in literature. In paper, book and magazine; in drama, story and essay. Our eyes grow tired and our minds heavy with the wisdom of our enemies . . .
“A flourishing literature of our own is the best defense against that sort of thing. Catholic visitors in our minds, sharing the lamp with us in quiet hours. Why, then, are such visitors few? What is the matter with them and with us? Why aren’t the lives we live and the Faith we live by reflected in a vigorous literature of our own?”
The trouble with us, in Mr. Burke’s opinion, is that we are too far “separated from the great Catholic tradition of art and letters. We look back to that tradition, but we don’t live in it. And because we don’t like the art
of those who surround us, we have grown a little indifferent to art.”
By Catholic literature he does not mean simply diocesan papers and the like. “Catholic literature is not confined to such papers,” he says, “nor is it confined to the lives of the saints and collections of sermons. It is the expression in literature of Catholic living. Catholics, like other men, struggle and love and suffer, and learning by pain and experience grope towards God. In Catholic books there may be good and evil, but never good and evil confused. Sinning—but never sinning made pretty.
“Catholicism was never afraid of the truth, and yet some • of us are afraid of the truth in letters. We are distressed by the salty tang of reality. We want no admission of vulgarity and ugliness . . .
“The truth is this: We can be unafraid of the truth. When the truth is told in literature about ourselves and our priests, the reading of it will not hurt ourselves or others. We are a clean people, clinging to the eternal verities and struggling with the problems of human nature.
“The lives of the saints should be written, too, but not by people who write dully. Saints are adventurers, heroes on perilous quests, great fighters and lovers. Some of the most stirring pages in literature will be written when our young Catholic writers have learned how to get into print the glorious reality of the saints . . .
“Neither do some of our Catholic critics help. Those Catholic critics who ask nothing of an author but that he be Catholic . . . Some of them, under the illusion that piety is the only thing an author needs, find it impossible to condemn any tedious book sprinkled with pious ejaculations and prayer. The trouble with that sort of criticism is that it defeats its own ends. The man, who on the strength of it, buys the book and finds it dull, is being inoculated against Catholic literature. This refusal to condemn any book written by a Catholic is a mental confusion. If a man put his pen to the service of God, it ought to be a good pen.”
To help young men with a talent for writing to develop that talent is the job Mr. Burke proposes to the colleges.
BIOGRAPHY OF ROCKNE BY WARREN BROWN
IS PRINTED
The first biography of Knute K. Rockne, an intimate story of the greatest figure in American sports, written by Warren Brown, famous journalist and close personal friend of the lamented coach, has been released by Reilly and Lee Co.
In the introduction, written by Rev. erend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., the president of the University says: “In these pages Knute Rockne lives.”
It is an absorbing, dramatic account of a personality and a career that captured and held the imagination of the country. The author reveals in a pungent, anecdotal fashion well suited to the striking character of his subject, the nature of the sustained dynamic force that inspired the most spectacular feats ever performed on the gridiron.
A valuable appendix, containing a record and analysis of Notre Dame football relationships with other schools and a classification of Rockne’s coaching achievements, is one of the assets of the book.
The book contains 234 pages, with twenty-four illustrations, and stampings of blue and gold. The price will be $2.50.
STRING QUARTET TO PLAY HERE TONIGHT
The Notre Dame String quartet will present its annual recital this evening in Washington hall at 8:00 p. m. The quartet is composed of Mr. Richard Seidel, first violinist and director; Mr. George Z. Gaska, second violin; Mr. Willard T. Groom, viola; and Mr. F. H. Ingersoll, violincello.
Three musical programs connected with the course, “Musical Knowledge and Appreciation,” are given each semester. The program for this evening, consisting of chamber music, illustrating the sonata form and salon pieces, through the medium of the string quartet, is as follows: 1. Quartet No. 2 in D minor......Mozart
a. Allegro moderate b. Andante c. Minuet and Trio d. Allegratto ma non troppo
2.	Two numbers from String Quartet—
Op. 192, No. 2............Raff
a. “Declaration of Love” b. “The Mill”
3.	Two Minuets:
a.	Barberini’s Minuet........Hasse
b.	Minuet from Quartet E.
major ..............Boccherini
4.	Two Folk Songs:
a.	“Carry Me Back to Old
Virginny” ................Bland
b.	“Drink to Me Only With	(
Thine Eyes”................Art. by Pochon 5. Finale from Quartet in G. minor—
Op. 74, No. 3............Haydn

May 15, 1931
8-57
DIRECTOR AL KELLEY, ON LOCATION AT N. D„ TALKS ON SPORT SHORTS
Tells Of Picture Featuring Campus Life, To Be Called “Spirit of Notre Dame”
By George Belting
If perchance you strolled over to the stadium during the past week and caught sight of the gridiron you would notice that it was littered with cameras, floodlights, sound-recording apparatus and other instruments significant in the filming of a “talkie,” you were witnessing the Universal Motion Picture corporation “on location.” And if while gazing about, your attention was attracted to a well-dressed man, who was giving orders from atop an elevated platform on which the cameras were placed, then for your information, the. man giving those orders was Mr. Albert Kelley, director of the shoi’ts which are now being taken.
We had never interviewed a motion picture director before, and we were a trifle nervous as we approached him. As soon as our mission was explained his good-natured manner immediately dispelled all fear. It was unnecessary to ask him many questions, for in answer to our first one he launched into the whole story concerning the making of the film.
When word was passed around that a contract had been signed to take football shorts at Notre Dame, every one of the directors, cameramen, electricians, sound engineers, etc., was hoping that he would be sent on the job. Finally on the morning of April 21, Mr. Kelley and a complete staff were told to pack up and be ready to leave for South Bend that evening. There were hurried preparations and at 6:30 p. m. Mr. Kelley and nine other men left Universal City, California. Besides the director, the staff consists of Messrs. Philip Karlstein, assistant director; Willard Cline and Fred Eldridge, cameramen; William Dodds and Lloyd Ward, assistant cameramen; Ross Saxon, chief electrician; Ralph Johnson, carpenter, and Harold Smith and Clarence Cobb, sound engineers. They arrived in South Bend on Sunday afternoon and started to work on the first short Monday morning.
When asked how many shorts were being made, Mr. Kelley replied, “We are making four shorts at Notre Dame which explains the Rockne system of football. Four sets of pictures are also being filmed at Stanford
Albert Kelley
university, explaining the Warner system. These shorts will be released at the beginning of October. They will be released intermittently every week or so, in order to stretch them out through the entire football season.”
When questioned with reference to the feature picture, Mr. Kelley said: “A feature picture will be made. The tentative title is, ‘The Spirit of Notre Dame.’ We are not making this picture in order to put Notre Dame on the map, for she is already there. Our purpose is to show the world the spirit that exists among the men of Notre Dame, and to transfer to the screen the beauty of the campus. There is such a spirit of democracy that exists at Notre Dame, that it would be sad not to let the outsiders know of it. None of the snobbery that exists on the usual college campus is evident at Notre Dame, and it is our intention to portray as far as the screen permits, Notre Dame as it really is.”
CHEMICAL SOCIETY TO
MEET HERE WEDNESDAY
The final meeting for the yeai- of the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical society will be held on the evening of Wednesday, May 20th, 8:00 p. m. (fast time), in Chemistry hall. The dinner will be at 7:00 p. m. (fast time). Dr. Robert J. Moore, of the Bakelite corporation, and secretary of the Paint and Varnish division of the American Chemi-cal society, will be the speaker. He will address the local section on the subject, “The Changing Varnish Industry.” This will cover in general the changes that have taken place in this industry during the past ten years giving special attention to synthetic resins.
All industrial men interested in the paint and varnish industry, students, and the general public are cordially invited to attend this meeting.
Dale Van. Eberey, the scenario writer, arrived at Notre Dame, May 6, and will spend' several days here acquainting himself with the campus, the students, and the scenery so that he might write the stoi-y for the feature picture.
Mr. Kelley also stated that he was very grateful to Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, for the wonderful way in which Fr. O’Donnell co-operated with him. “I am also extremely grateful to everyone who had anything to do with making our visit to Notre Dame as enjoyable as it has been. To Coach Anderson and the managers I want to say thanks for your considerate and whole-hearted co-operation. You have done everything in your power to make a good picture and I assure you that I will do my part.”
We were assured by Mr. Kelley that he enjoyed his work at Notre Dame, for he said: “I considered it an honor and a privilege to be assigned to direct the series contracted for by the late Coach Rockne, and if I am able, even in a small measure, to transfer to _the screen the purpose of Coach Rockne’s idea and the spirit of Notre Dame itself, I should be extremely happy. I regarded Knute Rockne with unbounded devotion and only hope, with the assistance of Heartley Anderson and his splendid aggregation of players, to deliver a product that will do justice to Mr. Rockne’s memory.” ‘
The Scholastic
858
Men About the Campus
Joseph Yoch
Clarence J. Kozak
The shortness of the scholastic year and the overwhelming supply of candidates deserving of an appearance in this department is to Editor Telfel no problem at all. He solves it quickly by ordering two write-ups in each issue. Here goes for the first.
As prexy of the Law club Joe Yoch can look down upon all undergraduate offices as unworthy of serious consideration. But he does not. In spite of his adult appearance, his conservative clothing and his bare room there is a pleasantness in his St. Louis accent that banishes all ideas you might have of his rigidity and strictness. When he remembers that he once accomplished something in ten seconds, no matter what his age at the time, he will feel young again.
A thumb-nail list of his activities includes: six year’s attendance at the University; three years residence in Corby, a faithful Wednesday afternoon goer; one of the best liked lawyers; frequenter of the library; handball player; captain of the indoor baseball team; secretarial worker; associated with the Notre Dame Lawyer; after-dinner speaker for the Law club; organizer of the Pre-Law club and drives an old Ford home to St. Louis. So you see how he has managed to keep out of things.
There may be more publicized men on the campus, but there are very few who have so many good friends. Even after only one meeting with Joe you feel quite certain that he is as fine a fellow as you have ever encountered.
To arrange the events of a person’s life in a faithfully chronicled manner invites monotony. It is better, by far, to recall incidents here and there which have vividly remained. Clarence Kozak remembers — most vividly—how long ago in his freshman year the fleet figure of Christy Flanagan veered toward him. And he remembers a little proudly that he was successful in tackling this galoping back. Because of the handicap of his diminutive stature (he is but half the size of his younger brother George), Clarence ended in the Interhall football league as a member of the all-interhall team and captain and coach of the championship Off-Campus team.
Clarence’s duties as Off-Campus prefect include the driving of the official Off-Campus "Black Maria.” It is strange in view of this fact that he completely enjoys operating an auto and drives home to Cleveland during vacations in an easy six hours. At home he has the vice-presidency of. the Cleveland club to keep him busy.
After giving several schools a severe test, Clarence is now definitely and happily situated in the College of Law. In two more years he will be fully prepared for the opening he hopes to find in Cleveland. His aptitude in legal technicalities, his glibness of tongue and his altogether believable falsehoods are encouraging additions to his qualifications.
DEAN KONOP ATTENDS NATIONAL LAW MEETING
The American Lay Institute composed of judges of state supreme courts, deans of law schools, and prominent lawyers of the country convened for its ninth annual meeting in Washington, D.C. on May 7, 8, and 9, with Dean Konop representing the Notre Dame Law school.
Under a voluntary committee, with Elihu Root acting as chairman, this institute was first organized in 1923 for the purpose of preparing a restatement of the law. Since its establishment at that time its activity has been constant.
Among the attitudes adopted this year are: that judges and councils may comment on the failure of the defendant to testify in a criminal case, and that an action for trespass to real estate may be brought in a jurisdiction outside of where the real estate is situated. The last decision is a reversal of the old common law rule. Restatements on torts, contracts, conflicts of the law and agency were also considered.
Chief Justice Hughes addressed the convention on Friday, and at 5:00 o’clock on the same afternoon the members of the convention were entertained at the White House by President Hoover.
ENGINEERS TO PICNIC
AT CHRISTIANA LAKE
The Engineers’ club will hold its first annual picnic tomorrow at Christiana lake, twenty-five miles north of the University. All the engineers are invited to attend.
The picnic will be an all-day affair, buses being furnished for transportation, and leaving at different hours of the morning. For amusement there will be track and field events, playground ball games, golf and rowing. It is planned to make this outing an annual feature of the Engineers’ club activities.
“Juggler” Staff at Dance
About twenty-five couples attended a dinner dance given at the Progress club last Saturday evening by members of this year’s Juggler staff. The music was furnished by the Notre Dame Jugglers, who helped greatly to make the affair a success. Editor Jack Dempsey of the Juggler was in charge of the arrangements for the dance.

May 15, 1931
859
CLASSICISTS TO HOLD LAST MEETING OF YEAR
A Man You Know
The Classical association will hold its final meeting of this year on Thursday, May 21, at 7 p. m. in the Classical room of the Law building.
Francis J. O’Malley will read a paper on “The Grek Affinity of Matthew Arnold.” James T. Meehan will present the second part of his treatise on St. Thomas Aquinas, and a discussion of “Classical Influences in Modern Literature” will be given by John Pick.
After the literary program, plans will be discussed for the year 1931-32, including the adoption of a new name for the organization, and the selection of a permanent insignia. New applications for membership will also be considered at this time.
It is the wish of the officers of the association that all members be present at this meeting. Those who have dropped for lack of interest and for absenting themselves too frequently from meetings will be notified before the meeting on Thursday.
The committee on membership will interview all applicants for admission on Tuesday, May 19, from 2 to 4 o’clock in room 230, Morrissey hall.
SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS ARE WARNED
The student who is expecting to be graduated at the commencement in June is hereby reminded, if there be need, that his financial account with the University be settled in full before he may receive his degree or take part in the commencement ever-cises. The student who puts off this matter to the last minute will not get his name on the commencement program, which must be printed in good time.
Chemists Take Trip
Juniors and seniors in the department of chemical engineering left Tuesday on an extensive trip through chemical plants in and about Chicago. The first of these, that of the Inland Steel company, was visited on Tuesday. The trip, which is a required one for juniors and seniors in chemical engineering, is in charge of Professor H. H. Wenzke. The party will return to Notre Dame tomorrow.
If any of you are ever sent to interview James E. Armstrong, executive secretary of the Notre Dame
alumni, the first thing you should get
is a pair of roller skates. Mr. Arm
strong is a very active man. After two days on the trail we finally caught up to him, only to be assured, “Yes, I know, my secre t a r y has a copy of all the informa-tion.” Efficien-c y? Certainly, but after look-ing over the brief list of facts we are in
James E. Armstrong
dined to credit
a great deal of it to modesty. Jim Armstrong does not like to talk about himself. On any other subject he is quite congenial, but when it comes to self-accomplishments he is, well, what type of shellfish is used in making clam chowder?
As alumni secretary, his duties are manifold. He is editor of the Alumnus, a monthly publication for Notre Dame alumni. He is director of the Living Endowment fund, a recent undertaking of Notre Dame alumni, which provides for a yearly voluntary donation of alumni members, instead of the customary bulk contributions, of which only the interest is used. The chief duty of the alumni secretary is to maintain
Senior Ball Number Arranged by Jones
Member of the senior class and their guests at the Ball last week were enthusiastic in their praise of the 1931 Senior Ball song, “Romance by Moonlight,” written by W. Franz Philipp, Katheryn Ullmen, and Austin Boyle. The professional arrangement and orchestration given it by Isham Jones rang sharply effective changes on its slow waltz rhythm which served to make the tuneful melody all the more memorable.
contact between the University and the alumni and the sixty-three alumni clubs, which the Alumni office
sponsors. Besides this, the general
supervision of the annual Universal
Notre Dame night is in the hands of Mr. Armstrong.
He was born in Jackson, Michigan, in 1902. He entered Notre Dame in 1921 after being graduated from the Niles, Michigan, High school. H e augmented his journalism course with work on the
Notre Dame Scholastic, Juggler and Dame. He received his degree in 1925 and went into newspaper work, being connected with the South Bend News-Times. During his years in college he was associated with the South Bend Tribune and Niles Star.
In January, 1926, he suceeded Alfred C. Ryan, first lay alumni secretary, and took over the editorship of the Alumnus. He has occupied both positions ever since.
Mr. Armstrong is married and has one son, Jack, two years old. At present he is busy making plans for the annual reunion of alumni at Notre Dame during commencement week.
Local orchestras featured the song over the Ball weekend and greeted the Ball guests with it throughout South Bend. Walt Philipp obtained Isham Jones’ orchestration of the number after the tea dance, and it will be played from now on by orchestras in that form. Sale of the sheet music downtown and on the campus. Further copies may be obtained from John Dorschel in 120 Sorin hall.
860
The Scholastic
BEGIN TO LAY BRICK FOR COMMERCE BUILDING NEXT WEEK
Book Reviews
Forms have been completed and most of the concrete foundations have been laid on the new Hurley College of Commerce, while work on the brick superstructure may be expected to begin soon, according to those in charge of construction operations. The building is expected to be ready for occupancy when school resumes in September.
The new commerce building will be two stories in height. It will be of a color which will harmonize with surrounding structures, probably tan face-brick. There will be a basement along the front of the structure. The building will be U-shaped; with the base of the “U” facing the law building. The eastern extremity of the building will be about twenty-five feet from the front of Chemistry hall and will not necessitate a change in that structure.
The new commerce building will face the proposed plaza upon which will face the dining halls, the law and engineering buildings, and the new dormitories. The front of the commerce building will be on a line with the southern side of the postoffice.
“MERCHANT OF VENICE” REHEARSALS UNDER WAY
The University theatre, under the direction of Professor Frank Kelly, in the near future will present “The Merchant of Venice.” The cast has been chosen and has been in rehearsal during the last week. Two performances will be given, one for the students .before the end of the term, and the other as a part of the commencement exercises.
Judging from the serious tenor of the rehearsals, this play will excel in merit and in cast all others given by the University theatre.
Devore Earns Award
Hugh Devore, a right end on the freshman football squad, by a vote of the coaching staff, was awarded the final Hering Medal for 1931. Devore was named as the most improved member of the spring squad. This medal and others for proficiency in various departments of play were awarded at the final football meeting held last week.
Opus 7. By Sylvia Townsend Warner. Viking. $2.00.
Filled with the same charm, touched by the same whimsicality, the same wise irony and delicate pathos that made felicitous reading of Sylvia Townsend Warner’s various novels, Lolly Willowes, Mr. Fortune’s Maggot, and The True Heart, her new book, Opus 7, offers further and deeper evidence of her unique and utterly delightful talent. Opus 7 is a narrative in verse, a longish narrative, the tale of Rebecca Random, a charming old sinner who might be all sinners of all ages, despite her harmlessness, and the comprehensive sympathy and sly humor of Miss Warner’s portrait of her.
Rebecca Random had one enduring passion: Gin. And she had one real and natural knack: A manner with flowers which made her blooms the envy of all her neighbors. When she learned that flowers might be sold for money, the yard about her gay little cottage became a luxuriant mass of posies. She valued her* blooms only for the number of bottles of gin they would buy.
How Rebecca, through her flowers, became a figure and a power and a sort of mysterious priestess in the community, and how she came to her death one -wild and stormy night as she poured with compassionate generosity bottle after bottle of gin upon the churchyard grave of the thirsty dead. That is the story in Miss Warner’s Opus 7, a narrative poem so charming, so delicately amusing and ironic, that no one, least of all those who have enjoyed Miss Warner’s previous prose and poetry, can afford to forego knowing its wisdom and its pleasure.
White Fawn. By Olive Higgins
Prouty. Houghton Mifflin. $2.50.
Bo’rn of a family which for years had lived within the shadow of the gilded dome of the Boston State house, Fabia Vale, arrived at the moment when she is to make her debut before Boston society, finds herself hemmed in by the generations, old traditions, and restrictions of her class.
The night of Fabia’s debut, she, as if by magic, emerges from awkward ' adolescence to charming young wom
anhood. Her debut is a success and she is a success. Despite her* boredom Fabia takes her post in society like the Vale that she is. She might have married a son of the bluest of blue-blooded Bostonians, except that she meets a young actor who is far removed from her in wealth, breeding, and background. Theii' love for each other quickly becomes a fact, though both struggle against it, she because she knows that her family will object to such a union, he because he is no fortune hunter, no seeker after social position' and because he wants to obtain eminence in surgery completely on his own.
Thus, the story of Olive Higgins Prouty’s White Fawn is a good story, a popular story, one which will not disappoint the readers of Stella Dallas. It is credibly written, well written. It readily arouses sympathy for and interest in its characters and it ends, as all novels of this type should, •with happiness for all assured.
Can These Things Be? By George
Seldes. Putman. $2.50.
Once more it is the news behind the newspapers that George Seldes offers in Can These Things Be? The book is by way of a sequel to his You Can’t Print That and, like the previous volume, tells in a frank, journalistic manner the truth‘behind the propaganda which comes from Mussolini’s Italy, the bloody facts of red terrorism in Russia, the secrets behind an international combine of dictators to wage a war “to end democracy,” the sullied truth about the final years of Isadora Duncan’s life, the nauseating details about how “psycho-analysis charlatans” wreck lives in Vienna.
Nor does this catalogue exhaust the contents of Can These Things Be? George Seldes, super-journalist among American foreign correspondents in Europe, writes revealingly of many other political, economic, and social phases of continental life. Because of his position to see all and know all, one is inclined to accept what he has to offer as factual. Certainly he is not guilelessly misled by propaganda. As important to the reader, certainly he produces a book startling enough to engage anyone’s attention and interest.
May 15, 1931
861
COLLEGE PALACE
MUD AND POLITICS
Politics here aren’t so bad after all. From the Silver and Gold, the University of Colorado’s daily paper, we read that just before elections mud slinging was more than oral. On several nocturnal excursions political opponents peppered each others houses with over-ripe eggs and daubed the university buildings with not-so-decorative epithets. The result—seventeen students facing suspension.
AH, FOOD!
Only those who gripe about the food should read this:
“There are always new foods on the market. Some of this year’s additions are volcanic earth, skunk steaks, fried ants, roasted caterpillars and grubs, fritters from locust blossoms, and chrysanthemum salad. Not all of these are accepted foods in America, but somewhere in the world they are rare delicacies.
“It is in Japan that the volcanic earth is eaten. It is a product of Mount Asama. It tastes like unsweetened gelatine and is said to be nutritious and capable of sustaining life indefinitely.
“A skunk steak hardly sounds appetizing, but in Argentine it is a rare treat. White ants are a favorite dish in Brazil, just as roasted caterpillars and grubs are tasty to the people of Java.
“China has quite a variety in addition to the famous century-old eggs. Its chrysanthemum salad and fritters from locust blossoms are said to be delicious; and biscuits there are made from flour made from water lily bulbs.
“We accept tomatoes, potatoes, and grapefruit now as good foods. They used to be considered poisonous. Tomatoes were grown in flower gardens for a long time after they were introduced into this country and were called ‘Love Apples,’ and now we eat them for vita-mines. Perhaps we will be adding other of these items to our bill-of-fare.”
—University Daily Kansan.
WE MIGHT TRY IT
This is even better than the honor system :
“Professor H. E. Smith of Brown university has recommended a lottery system of examinations for American colleges.
“He calls his plan the ‘comprehensive sys
tem.’ On the day of the final examination the student goes to the proper classroom and draws from a box a slip on which is indicated a subject within the limits of the course. Twenty-four hours later he must turn in a complete report on the subject, consisting of material from any source, a bibliography indicating the source, and his own original comments and ideas. The subjects are so chosen that a passing grade is hopeless unless the student has possession of abundant facts and ability in organizing and presenting them.
“The plan as a whole is little different from the present methods in use here, except that the question are drawn from a box instead of being passed out in two sets for the odd and even numbered seats, as is often done with just as great a factor of chance.
“If properly executed the plan would put a premium on native ability and would eliminate the circumstance in which a question involves the one equation which the student forgot to learn. Yet the local Minimum Essentials scheme would not need to drop by the wayside, assuming that it is desirable.
“Professor Smith does not expect American colleges to seize the plan eagerly, for it is only another change in methods which already seem good enough. However, the system is in use in a number of European universities and has met with approval of students and faculty alike.”
 —Purdue Exponent.
COLLEGIANA
A woman’s polo team was recently organized at Syracuse university . . . There’s a notice for expert gunner candidates in . . . you’re wrong, not in a Chicago paper, in the Purdue Exponent . . . Sixty-two cents was the total profit at the University of Denver Junior Prom ... At the University of Utah a professor locked out students when they came to class late. But the worm turned, the other day when he was late, the class locked out the professor . . . An alumnus of the University of North Carolina would establish a Chair of Slang at that institution . . . Twenty applicants have already been enrolled in a course in canoeing at Oregon State college. Another section is already fast filling up . . . Students at the University of Toronto recently petitioned that the sale of beer on the campus be permitted . . . Indiana university has an annual Table Waiters’ Hop.
862
The Scholastic
♦ THE WINE ♦
Fore! Fore!
Please Mr. Sheedy, Call your shots
When driving from the tee.
SHORT STORY DEPARTMENT
Our short short story department has been pretty well swamped with manuscripts sent in from all sections of the country in the annual Ladies’ Home Laundry contest. After the usual amount of log-rolling we have selected the winner, who no doubt will feel just dandy when he sees his name in print and receives from us a big fat check or something. The story:
LAND SAKES
(Reading Time: 9 1-2 seconds—practically a world’s record established by Jojo Lookie, Notre Dame, 1906. A new record might have been made in 1928 by Lopski of Notre Dame, had he not faltered tearfully on the last paragraph.)
I knocked on the door.
“Come in,” I heard.
I went in and sat down on the floor beside Charlie.
Charlie was crying . . . Poor Charlie . . . “Poor Charlie,” I said.
“Hello,” said Charlie.
“Hello, Charlie,” I said.
“Why are you here?” he sobbed. “To torment me . . . about her? It’s you she loves, you old smartie.”
“I know,” I said. “But we should not quarrel, pal.
What is one girl between two friends?”
“Not enough.” Charlie was bitter . . . angry like an egg frying or soup being swallowed.
“Poor Charlie,” I said again and again. And Charlie was soothed.
“D’ja want a drink?” he said.
I wanted to refuse, but saw his eyes, hurt, pleading . . . like twin lumps of sugar melting sadly in a cup of coffee. . . . And he had a bottle ... a big bottle ... I said, “Yes ... a little one. . . .”
We talked about things . . . “War is swell,” said Charlie. “Another?” . . . “A little one,” I said.
“Life is ugly, too,” he said, “like a long, long whiff of sewer gas or gravy spots on a white waistcoat.”
“Now, now, Charlie,” I remonstrated . . . But I treasured his words, for Charlie is wise, having suffered much at many a senior ball.
“Life is ugly, life is ugly,” he repeated till we both became melancholy, sad. . . . But we were friends again . .. there was no mention of Her . . . now.
We sat there a long while . . . talking . . . and drinking. . .
But after a time . . . we quit talking . . .
.	—Sinclair Screwloose.
HEH, HEH, HEH, DEPARTMENT
Little Margerie, who is only six years old and loves her mommy and poppy very much, is a very wise little girl, although she has just started to school.
One time Margerie’s Uncle Frank thought he would play a practical joke on her. In the presence of several
visitors and the child’s parents, he drew a handsome gold watch out of his pocket, and calling Margerie to him, said: “Now, Margerie, maybe you can tell us whether it is half-past nine or a quarter to twelve?”
Determined that no one should make her look like a fool, you betcha, Margerie studied the timepiece attentively. Finally she replied, “It is a quarter to twelve, Uncle Frank.” He, poor fellow, was dumbfounded at having the tables turned so unexpectedly. Because Margerie was right, the little dickens. And oh, what a laugh the visitors did have.
This rarely humorous little story, chuck full of human interest, should be a mighty big favorite with afterdinner speakers, men who address publications’ banquets, and such—men who must put themselves over with a bang right at the start if they are to keep those present from cracking nuts and poking forks in one another’s eyes during their speech. “That reminds me of a little story about a niece of mine,” the speaker may begin, “who is only six years old . . . .” If his audience is finicky, he may even make the relation a nephew—that is, have Margerie a boy, and call her Ralph. Among friends or at Rotary luncheons, the hero of the piece may be indefinitely referred to as “a travelling salesman.” That is one of the advantages of this story—the opportunity for variation. For example, Margerie may tell that it is half-past nine and who would know the difference. Or she may be said to be wrong and get a darned good spanking, and who’d care. Even the times suggested to Margerie may be varied a few minutes, or daylight-saving time used, and the story would still lose nothing of its point. But whatever form the speaker decides to use, he should stick to it, remember.
TO JEAN
At night when fires are burning low, And, happy memories haunt me so, I curl up on the carved divan And dream of Mary, Helen, Anne, And though I try—my heart will go To thoughts of—
Wouldn’t you like to know?
To days gone by and dances past, To that sweet hour we met the last— When Easter leave was in full swing She promised me a telephone ring But soon forgot and loves anew— And now she dates—	.
I wonder who?
She thinks I’ve found another one— And all our dates were only fun. They were for her—but ah, poor me— Is it quite fair—how can it be? And did you say, “Who left you so?” Why it was—
Wouldn’t you like to know?
—Lone Star. Anyway, Lone Star, it rimes.
—The Weary Bumper.
MW
May 15, 1931
863
EDITCK’T I A< t
MORE POLITICS
Last week’s editorial criticizing campus politics elicited a flood of counter-criticisms directed against editors in general, and that of the Scholastic in particular. Although some of the politicians were irritated enough to make the Scholastic’s charge the subject of class talks and heated informal discussions, as yet none of them have appeared with a substantial rebuttal.
On the contrary the Scholastic received more food for thought (and material for editorials) with the receipt of evidence that certain candidates for offices in one of the larger campus clubs have found it in accordance with their political principles to pay the dues of disinterested members in order to make potential votes actual, and favorable to their cause.
But we do not want to'be entirely destructive in our criticism; and we propose to advance a suggestion which may be of some value. It is true that some of the campus clubs have taken steps to prevent corruption in administrations by establishing boards of trustees and similar comptrollers, and it would appear that something of this sort is needed to sit in upon the class elections. Without doubt, the class elections are those which need the most control, and, strange to say, they are the only political operations which are so controlled. To the S. A. C. this task has fallen, but that organization has shown distressing incompetence. The reason for this, we believe, is that this students’ organization is itself a “political machine,” suffering from an over-dose of politics. For example: one S. A. C. member made charges that two prominent cam- ' pus officers intimidated men under them to vote the “right way” at the election of the S. A. C. chairman held this week.
A recurrence of the orgy which reached its climax last week in the class elections will finish politics here. A clean-up is forced upon the class officers themselves, and upon the body which should lead the way, the S. A. C.
Are we presuming too much when we express the hope that the incoming officers,—especially the newly-elected presidents, and the newly elected members to the S. A. C., will immediately take steps to make decent every phase of political procedure at the University ?
AN OBITUARY
The boxing show at Notre Dame is dead. It was killed last Tuesday in the gymnasium, where some eight hundred students paid admissions to swell the coffers of the S.A.C. Presumably, the bouts were held as athletic encounters, but obvious frame-ups on the part of the wind-up principals, poor officiating, bad timing, and unsatisfactory management all aided in making the show a most decided farce.
The boxing show had prospects of becoming an annual event at Notre Dame—one that would be looked forward to every year, which would be enjoyed by the student body, and which would be a lucrative source of income for the Student Activities council. Apparently, the last motive was the only one that proved of interest to that organization.
The Scholastic was sincerely in favor of the boxing bouts. In fact, the Scholastic has ever favored minor sports of all kinds, and. it believes that the S.A.C. had an excellent opportunity to make a success of this undertaking. But the S.A.C. failed. And the boxing show is dead, for no one will ever again pay admission to see such obvious burlesque.
In pursuit of its own financial gain, the S.A.C. failed to consider the important fact of perpetuating the boxing show for next year. The Scholastic finds it almost impossible to believe that anyone in attendance at the demonstration held this week will again waste money or time upon an evening’s entertainment which was so obviously flavored with lack of effort and sincerity.
The evening’s performance was so bad that the customers, to a man, rose and walked out on the principals, leaving them in the ring, fighting their fifty-second rounds, and tapping one an-another playfully on the cheek.
The Scholastic is referring almost entirely to the supposedly important closing bouts. In the preliminary rounds real fighting was exhibited— fighting of the type one might expect from Notre Dame boxers. The crowd applauded them and their efforts. To those men, who strived hard' to make the show a success, the Scholastic has only the highest of praise, but for the other principals, and the men in charge of the bouts, it has nothing but condemnation.
864
The Scholastic
CAMPUX CLUB/
SCANDAL
On the heels of the Scholastic’s editorial on crooked campus politics comes a report of vote buying in one of the largest clubs at Notre Dame. During the week both tickets have been going about among members offering to pay their dues if they will vote “right.”
* * ♦
RETROSPECT
The office of campus clubs editor is supposed to have as one of its advantages the opportunity of meeting prominent campus figures. Here are a few of them:
The fellow who cannot say a complete sentence without making a grammatical error, who admits reluctantly that “you can probably write this up better than I can.”
The fellow who is afraid that this page is making a joke out of his club, while he is doing more toward achieving that goal than this page could do in years.
The fellow who was going to punch this writer’s nose because he quoted the opinion of the majority in insinuating that the officers were a bunch of grafters.
The fellow who wants the names of all the officers included with each writeup.
The fellows (nearly all of them are this way) who want the news about their club to appear in the Scholastic’s news section because it is so important.
There they are!
* * * .
NEW ONE
As successor to the defunct WEST VIRGINIA club, last week was formed the WHEELING club. Prime purpose of the club, according to new President Edmund A. Sargus, is to cooperate with the newly formed Notre Dame club of Wheeling, an alumni organization.
Besides President Sargus, other officers are: William E. Ackermann, vice-president; Barrett Beltz, secretary; James Harris, treasurer.
Noteworthy will be the WHEELING club next year for it will number no seniors.
ELECTION	* * *
Last Wednesday evening the CLEVELAND club met in the Lay Faculty dining hall, and with ice cream and cake in the offing hastened to elect its officers for the coming year.
President is Myron Crawford; vice-president, George Kozak (his brother Clarence held the office last year); secretary, Ted Collins; and treasurer, Cleve Carey.
Said President Crawford, “. . . most active club on the campus next year.” Said Vice-president Kozak, “Well, men . . .” Said Secretary Collins, “. . . confidence you have shown in me.” Said Treasurer Carey, “Thanks for the blow.”
Retiring president John Raleigh announces a farewell banquet for graduating members to be held soon. .
FAREWELL
Announced at a meeting on Thursday evening, May 7, and held last Wednesday, the NEW JERSEY club farewell banquet to senior members was a success. Under general chairman William Harrington the affair was held at the Joan Tea Room.
At the meeting on May 7, Emil L. Telfel was appointed chairman of a NEW JERSEY club spring dance. Plans are not as yet complete.
A new constitution and a membership card system for next year were also decided upon at the meeting.
* * *
FIRST AND LAST
At a meeting Tuesday evening in the old Law building the IOWA club planned its first and last banquet of the year for next Tuesday at the Rose Marie Tea Room.
* * ♦
MEXICO IN FRENCH
Mexico was the topic of a talk in French by recording secretary James Colvin of the FRENCH club. The meeting included also brief talks by the club’s officers: William Dreux, Michael O’Hara, and Frederick MacBeth.
* * *
ANOTHER ELECTION
Elected to lead the BOSTON club next year were Leo Schiavone, president; Don McManus, vice-president; Robert Monahan, treasurer; Harry Rockett, secretary.
President Schiavone now joins that select campus group of men who head two clubs; last week he was elected president of the ITALIAN club for 1931-32.
* * *
PLANS
Substituting for absent president Leo Schiavone, Adam Sferra, ITALIAN club vice-president, spoke at the first meeting of the club since the election of new officers. Three members read papers, and Adam Sferra discussed plans for next year.
* * *
NEW PRESIDENT
President of the MINNESOTA club for 1931-1932 is Gerald Conway.
* * * ■
AND ANOTHER ELECTION
The METROPOLITAN club held its election Tuesday evening. Chosen to lead the club next year were: Edwin Kosky, president; John Colville, vice-president; George Rohrs, secretary; Frank LaBome, treasurer. Watching the newly chosen officers will be three trustees: William Willigan, Albert Butler, and James Dunnigan. Watching trustees and officers will be the Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., faculty advisor to the club.
May 15, 1931
865
Trackmen Conquer Midshipmen
Notre Dame Runners Surprise With Overwhelming Victory Over Navy
Gain Firsts in Track Events and Four of Six Field Contests.
When Coach Jolin P. Nicholson and his Blue and Gold team entrained last week for the meet with the Navy at Annapolis, there was perhaps an atmosphere of gloom and pessimism prevailing among the whole squad, because even the most enthusiastic one of them refused to predict a victory for Notre Dame. Whether Coach Nicholson used a bit of the well-known psychology or whether the boys were inspired to a fighting pitch, will never be known, but the fact remains that the Navy was sunk, and by the decisive margin of 76 5/6 to 47 1/6. Led by Bill McCormick and Alex Wilson, who shared the individual high scoring honors of the day with two firsts apiece, the Blue and Gold triumphed in every cinder path event in addition to capturing four out of six of the field events. Six Academy records fell by the wayside in the course of the afternoon and five of these were scored by Coach Nicholson’s men.
The Century proved to be the feature race of the day when Bill McCormick stepped the required distance in one-tenth of a second less than the existing world’s record. Gough and Kelly followed him to the tape to insure a slam in the event for Notre Dame. McCormick also won the 220-yard dash, closely followed by Kelly, who placed second. Alex Wilson had little difficulty in winning both the 440-yard dash and the 880-yard run and in doing so, cracked the previous record in both events. Brant Little won the mile run over Gibson of the Navy, and Bauer of Notre Dame, while Gene Howery recorded his first win of the outdoor season in the two t mile. Blouin of the Navy, and Ewing of
Notre Dame placed second and third.
Captain Johnnie O’Brien and Roy Bailie, both of whom have been bothered with leg injuries, served notice that they have returned to form by winning the 120 high and 220 low hurdles respectively. O’Brien breasted
Bill McCormick Sprint Star
the tape in the excellent time of :15.1 to break the existing Navy field record in that event. Bailie’s injury has been most persistent and his return to competition will greatly aid the Blue and Gold cause in the remaining meets.
Bob Darling and Ralph Johnson were the other Notre Dame men to break Academy records in the afternoon. Darling exhibited the best form of his career to make a leap of six feet two and one-eighth inches— his best mark so far in competition. Johnson was not forced to extend himself in the pole vault and was content with thirteen feet even to break the old mark by a quarter of an inch.
The Midshipmen scored their two firsts in the weight events, Underwood winning the shot put and Kane the javelin throw. In the former, Underwood bested his own mark by more than a foot with a toss of 45 feet one inch. “Nordy" Hoffman won the discus throw with a heave of 141 feet 6% inches and also placed second in the shot put. Notre Dame scored her other points in the field events when Branford placed third and the discus and javelin, and Brill garnered a third in the shot. Gough of Notre Dame made a very creditable showing by winning the broad jump and placing second in the 100-yard dash. This versatile sophomore star has proved to be a tower of strength to the Blue and Gold squad this year and has been a consistent point-getter in every meet. Other Notre Dame point winners in Saturday’s meet were MacBeth, who placed third in the 440; Reiman, who tied for third in the high jump; and Fish-leigh, who gained a tie for second in the pole vault.
In the meet Saturday Notre Dame exhibited the best form they have shown in this present outdoor season and proved that they have the “stuff.” It is hoped that they have found themselves by this time and will give an excellent account of themselves in the important meets that remain on the schedule.
100-YARD DASH — Won by McCormick (ND) ; Gough (ND), second; Kelly (ND), thir3. Time :09.6.
220-YARD DASH — Won by McCormick (ND) ; Kelly (ND), second; Coleman (N). third. Time :22.9.
120-YARD HIGH HURDLES — Won by (Continued on Page 876)
866
The Scholastic
BADGERS DEFEAT N.D.
IN RAGGED CONTEST
Four Errors, Bad Baserunning Help to Beat Lisicki.
Four errors and a bit of erratic base running behind John Lisicki in Wednesday’s contest against Wisconsin, at Madison, aided in severing the Notre Dame pitcher’s hitherto unbroken chain of victories forged during his three years of work on the slab. The Badgers were quick to take advantage of the breaks as well as the ragged ball displayed by Notre Dame at times and won the game by a score of 2-1.
Wisconsin’s win evens the season between the two schools, Notre Dame previously handing a severe lacing to Poser, who was also on the mound Wednesday, when the Big Ten appeared on the local field in the opening game. At that time, Notre Dame, in early season form, found no difficulty in solving the shoots of the opposing pitcher; nor did they Wednesday when they garnered nine hits, but those hits did not produce the runs.
Russo, batting for O’Connor in the ninth frame, came through with a screaming triple, but was called out on trying to stretch the hit into a home run. The first Wisconsin run fell in the second when Winer singled, advanced to second on Schendel’s infield roller and scored on Lusby’s timely triple. In the following inning the Badgers counted again, this time when Lomasney allowed Schneider’s double to bound away from his, and the Wisconsin third baseman came across the plate.
Scoring the first run of the game in the second inning, Kolski rapped out a single, went to second on a fielder’s choice, to third on O’Connor’s infield hit, and bounded across the last station on Lisicki’s roller through third. Three of Notre Dame’s runners were caught off the bases during the game.
Lisicki, nicked for seven hits in the five and one-third innings that he pitched, was relieved by Mannix, who allowed the Badgers but one blow in the remainder of the contest. Following the removal of Lisicki, Wisconsin shifted their twirlers by replacing Poser with Sommerfield, the
latter a gentleman who romped in the outer gardens when his teammates visited here. Two double plays were executed by the Notre Dame infield—O’Keefe to Askew to Sullivan, and O’Keefe to Sullivan. Four errors, some of which proved costly, were committed by Coach Keogan’s squad, while Wisconsin was fortunate in having only one chalked against them.
NOTRE DAME	AB	R	H P	A
Askew, 2b___________________  3	0	116
O’Keefe, 3b 4	112	5
Lomasney, If._________________4	0	1 JI	0
Sullivan, lb_______.__________4 0 2 3 0
Koiski, c___________________  4	0	2	3	0
Mahoney, ss.__________________4	0	0	1	0
♦O’Connor, cf_________________2	0	13	0
Cummings, rf 4	0	0	0	0
Lisicki, p.___________________3	0	10	0
Mannix p______________________0	0	0	0	0
Totals --------------------33	1	9	24	11
I WHIST,ES ■ 1
.	• oil .whensan^ ■
w H be we’re off or to, «|0M 9oodb,e | pl.nhr rumble	hom to P'«w 1
hom:. I SICA is '“0,"7X in ‘h«	1 k 1
.bout S20C round tt P colkse people third Cabin	'dX„od.«o.s tot inetoe the
o'-
■ dam end **	new St-**- . ■ •
. Cabin of to «er on	libran«. I
1	fortoeolesewv	_
I the sanSpUn* • •
I	{
1	309 Mot"—* HaU „„
I CAB1W ASSO . Dearborn St., I Holland-A"'®"68 Lin'' Chicago _
* Russo batted	for O’Connor in ninth.
WISCONSIN	AB R H P A
Winer, cf.			 4	0 12 0
Schendel, ss			4 0 0 0 0
Lusby, If			3 12 3 0
Smilgoff, rf			4 0 0 0 0
Cuisnier, 3b			4 0 13 2
Schneider, lb.........		 	3 12 9 0
Griswold, c—..........		 		3 0 17 5
Poser, p, If.				3 0 10 2
P-Jankey, 2b			 	3 0 0 2 2
Sommerfield, p			1 0 0 0 0
Totals ____________________32 2 8 27 13
Score by innings:
Notre Dame__________________010 000 000—1
Wisconsin 011 000 OOx—2
Summary—Two-base hits—Schneider. Three-base hits—Lusby, Russo. Stolen base—O’Connor. Struck out—by Poser, 2; by Sommerfield, 3; by Mannix, 1. Bases on balls—off Poser, 1; off Mannix, 1. Hit by pitcher—Askew (by Poser). Double plays—O'Keefe to Askew to Sullivan. Hits—off Poser, 3 in 6 innings; off Lisicki, 7 in 51-3 innings. Losing—Lisicki. Winning pitcher—Poser. Error—Smilgoff, Lomasney, Sullivan, Mahoney, 2. Passed ball— Griswold. Umpires—Schuler and Moore.

May 15, 1931
867
C. I. C. NET TOURNEY BEING HELD IN CHICAGO
The fourth annual Central Intercollegiate tennis meet will be held at the Chicago Town and Tennis club tomorrow. As in the past years this meet is sponsored by Notre Dame. Manager Tom Ashe has received ten entries from colleges and universities throughout the middle-west, signifying their intention to compete in the meet. The list of entries follows: Michigan State Normal; City College of Detroit; Loyola of Chicago; Western State Teachers; Drake university; Kalamazoo college; University of Detroit; Butler university; St. Louis university; and Washington university of St. Louis.
Two Knute Rockne memorial trophies will be awarded to the winner of the singles and doubles matches respectively. It was the late Coach Rockne who instituted the annual tournament three years ago, and at that time presented the awards to the winners.
The defending champions, Western State college of Kalamazoo, Michigan, will be on hand to defend their laurels, which were won last year. And it is very likely that they will succeed, for Captain “Skinny” Byrum is once more favored to come through in the singles and return to Kalamazoo with his second successive C.I.C. championship. Sorenson appears to be the most likely candidate in the doubles matches.
NORTHWESTERN MEETS BALLTOSSERS TUESDAY
Northwestern university’s baseball team will come to the Notre Dame campus next Tuesday to play the Fighting Irish for the second time. Notre Dame suffered defeat at the hands of the Wildcats in the first encounter. Northwestern boasts a well-balanced squad with plenty of offensive power. They stand well up toward the head of the Big Ten schools, with Ilinois and Chicago the only schools leading them.
Notre Dame should stand an excellent chance to take this game; the Blue and Gold team has been improving at every game and if the hitting is at all consistent with the effective hurling the team should win a greater percentage of their remaining games. Palt and Lisicki have been carrying the burden of the Notre Dame mound duties, and they have produced in an effective manner.
The hitting of the Northwestern team has been very good, but the hurling of the Wildcat pitchers has not been as effective as that of the
The Spiro
"Two-Pants Suit
at
$25.00
thoroughly proves our old maxim that high quality and low prices walk hand in hand at
SPIRO’!
This may seem a paradox to you but it’s an everyday reality to us. We’ve been tailoring fine quality into our moderate priced clothing for so long a time that the old bugaboo about sacrificing quality to low prices never scares us at all. Smartly tailored and designed in every line, yet durable, these suits will afford maximum wear and lasting satisfaction.
Sam’l Spiro & Co.
Home of Hart Shaffner & Marx Clothes
Notre Dame moundsmen. The two teams in their clash next Tuesday should put up a very interesting battle.
868
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING— a LARRY MOLLER
“Introducing” Larry Moller to Notre Dame men is hardly the exact word. The headlines of last summer’s papers did a pretty fair job of introducing him to the sporting world of the country. “Moller Wins Medal,” “Moller Beats Finlay,” and many others told the story of his great golf in the National Intercollegiate, at Oakmont. Then at the end, there was a fine one that read “Moller Elected President.”
That, then, is the man we are supposed to “introduce” — the holder of the Notre Dame course record at 71; the runner-up and medalist in the last year’s college golf- classic, and the present head of the national college golf assoiation.
Lawrence Frederick Moller was bom in Quincy, Illinois, twenty-three years ago. He went to high school in his home town and played almost every sport that existed there except golf. Along in the spring of his third year in high school, that was ’25, he played the game for the first time with any seriousness. Just to demonstrate his ability, he entered his first tournament that summer and finished in second place in the Central Illinois meet. The next summer, having finished high school, he launched his tournament career in earnest. He went to the finals in the Western Junior tourney before dropping a match.
That fall found him at Notre Dame where he dropped all of his athletic activities except golf and some bowling in the winter. That was about all the time that he could spare from an engineering course. During the next summer he went after the Western Junior crown again and battled his way to the last four before being eliminated. The season of ’28 saw him expand his field a bit as he returned to the scene of his golf debut to capture the title in the Central Illinois championships. He entered the Western Amateur that year, too, and won through to the semi-finals in a fine field. He repeated this feat in 1929 and added more victims to his list in the Trans-Mississippi Amateur where he also reached the second last bracket. He rounded out the year by copping the championship of the St. . Joseph Valley. That year marked
Larry’s only appearance in the National Amateur where he joined the legions that are labeled “Victim of Jones.” The great Bobby eliminated the Blue and Gold representative in the second round.
Larry Moller
President, Intercollegiate Golf Association
Last year was undoubtedly the climax in Larry Moller’s carrer as a golfer. As captain of the first Notre Dame golf team to enter the National Intercollegiates, he blazed a brilliant path for the rest of the squad to follow. First he won the medal. Then he opened up with some of the most brilliant shot-making of his entire golfing life. He downed opponents with a brilliance that seemed unstoppable. He fought his way to a great victory over Captain Finlay of the Harvard team, and earned the right to face Dunlap of Princeton, in the finals. It was only by playing the most inspired and phenomenal type of golf that the easterner annexed the championship over the Notre Dame captain.
He returned to school to win the fall tournament last September and has played fine, steady golf in all the matches this spring. He’ll be graduated from Notre Dame this June as an Architectural Engineer, and says that he’ll be about through with tournament golf at that time. Before he winds up his collegiate golfing, though, he will have one more shot at the highest honor that a collegian can win.
In a way it will be his tournament; he’s the head of the executive committee and the president of the association. It would be more than fitting if he could win this last one in those circumstances. It will be a mansized job to keep him from doing just that. .
GOLFERS WIN ANOTHER
Michigan State Loses By 17^ To 3^ On Burke Course.
Notre Dame golfers won their sixth consecutive victory of the season last Saturday when they defeated Michigan State, 17% -3% in a return match. Notre Dame also won the previous match played at East Lansing. Russ Beaupre took low scoring honors when he shot the William A. Burke golf course in 74, one over par, to beat Disantis, of Michigan State, 3-0 in the No. 3 singles match.
Scoring heavily in the doubles matches Notre Dame took a 5-1 lead in the morning round. Captain Fran Beapure and Bill Redmond won 2-1 from Duffield and Minier, dropping the one point on the second nine when the Michigan State boys were low. Notre Dame swept the singles in all the matches but the No. 5 in which Bill Burke, who supplanted O’Shea at this position as the result of the weekly tournament, broke even with Jones of Michigan State.
Russ Beaupre’s Card
Out:
Beaupre___444	444	445—37
Par________444	543	445—37
In:	•
Par________543	443	535—36—73
Beaupre___544	445	534—37—74
Singles Matches
F. Beaupre (ND) defeated Minier (MS), 3-0; Redmond (ND) defeated Duffield (MS), 2-0; R. Beaupre (ND)


May 15, 1931
869
NAVY FALLS BEFORE
PALI’S PITCHING, 5-2
bedtime
Lefthanded Ace Takes Third Victory In Four Games.
After allowing the Middies to stack up a two-run lead in the first inning of the contest played last Saturday on Cartier field, Notre Dame came from behind to tie the score in the fifth, and drove in one run in the seventh and two in the eighth frame to cinch the contest. Behind the steady pitching of Charley Palt, the local lads hit timely, Palt letting the Midshipmen down with four lean hits. Notre Dame recorded only six blows, but they were well bunched in order to pile up the score.
Coombs, who started on the mound for the Navy, held Coach George Keogan’s boys to foui’ hits in the six innings that he worked upon the mound. He was replaced by Davenport, a long, lean lad, who possessed an extremely complicated delivery. The Notre Dame batsmen found it difficult to control their emotions while facing this-chap, but he succeeded in filling the bases in the eighth by virtue of some loose pitching and fielding, thus allowing the winners to increase the lead.
Navy scored their two runs in the first inning when Palt’s error helped Ashworth to second after the latter had been given a pass to first. Bill Sullivan, at first base, erred on Hodgkin’s hit, allowing Askworth to advance again. Following this, Hurley, visiting catcher, connected to send one into the center section, which hit was sufficient to score both Askworth and Hodgkins. Byng’s sacrifice bunt pushed Hurley along the paths, but Bunce fielded out to O’Keefe to end the turn at bat and the Navy scoring for the day.
Notre Dame’s first run came in the third when Askew singled, advanced on the shortstop’s error, went to third on a wild pitch by the Middie port-sider, and came home on Lomasney’s
defeated Distantis (MS), 3-0; Moller (ND) defeated Mayne (MS), 3-0; Burke (ND) tied Jones (MS), 1%-1%.
Best Ball Matches
F. Beaupre and Redmond (ND) defeated Duffield and Minier (MS), 2-1; R. Beaupre and Moller (ND) defeated Distantis and Mayne (MS), 3-0.
suggestion
A BOWL of Kellogg’s Corn Flakes and milk makes a wonderful late snack. Delicious. Refreshing. And so easy to digest, it promotes healthful sleep. Order it at the campus restaurant tonight!
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include ALL-BRAN, PEP Bran Flakes, Rice Kris-pies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets you sleep.
high fly to left field. The Navy flinger found himself in a hole in the fifth inning after Palt hit safely, advanced on Askew’s sacrifice bunt, and O’Keefe and Lomasney walked to fill the bases. Kolski then came through with a clean single to center to push Palt across the plate with what proved to be the winning run. With the bases still loaded, Bill Sullivan struck out, and Mahoney forced O’Keefe at third to end the scoring.
The only hit for extra bases was recorded by Lomasney, who stretched his hit in order to beat a slow relay into the middle station. Four errors were credited to the Navy shortstop, while Sullivan muffed two and Palt one for the Notre Dame outfit. The contest was the second played of the four game series for last week, the other two having been called on account of rain.
The lineup and summary:
NOTRE DAME
Askew, 2b ......
O’Keefe, 3b.....
Lomasney, If ....
Kolski, c ......
AB R H PO A E
.4 2 1 2 4 0 .401160 .311100 .401410
CORN FLAKES
CORN hakes
Sullivan, lb ...............4	0	0	13	0	2
Mahoney, ss ................3	0	0	1	3	0
O'Connor, cf ...............4	0	0	3	0	0
McGrath, rf ................3	0	0	1	0	0
Palt, p ....................3	2 112 1
xCummings, rf...............1	0	1	0	0	0
Totals .....................33	5	6	27	16	3
x Batted for McGrath in eighth. NAVY	AB	R	h	PO	A	E
Fitzgerald,	If ..............4	0	1	2	0	0
Ashworth,	2b ..............1	1	0	1	4	0
Hodgkins, ss ..............4 10 12 4
Hurley, c................  -.4	0	1	4	1	0
Byng, cf ................-	- .2 0 0 2 0 0
Bunce, rf....................3	0	0	1	0	0
Kirn, 2b.....................4	0	0	1	1	0
Hunter, lb .................4	0	1 12	0	1
Coombs, p .........-....   .2	0 0 0 6 0
Davenport, p ...............0	0	0 0	1	0
Leaf, rf.....................1	0	1	0	0	0
xWhite ......................1	0	0	0	0	0
Totals .....................30	2	4	24	15	5
Score by innings:
Navy...............2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0—2
Notre Dame.........0 01 010 12 x—5
Summary: Two-base hit—Lomasney. Sacrifice hits—Askew, Lomasney, Ashworth, Byng. Wild pitch—Coombs; Base hits—off Palt, 4 ; off Coombs, 4 in seven innings; off Davenport, 2 in two innings. Struck out—by Palt, 3 : by Coombs, 4. Bases on balls—off Palt, 3 ; off Coombs, 4; off Davenport, 1.
870
The Scholastic
S. A. C. BOXING SHOW BEGINS WELL BUT PATRONS WALK OUT BEFORE END
Feature Bouts Are Farces After Preliminary Fighters Show Much Ability
The S. A. C. boxing tourney ended in a farce last Tuesday evening when the paying customers walked out on the main attraction. “Kitty” Gorman and George Kozak, fighting in the windup, staged one of the most laughable frame-ups in Notre Dame boxing history, all of which did not agree with those who had paid the admission pi-ice.
It took until the third round for either of the “fighters” to raise a sweat, although it is doubtful if even this was discernible to the few who remained for the finish. The fight, after three one-minute rounds, was called a draw.
The semi-final was a fast affair but lacked fury. Bart “Stumpy” Cronin and John “Bug-eye” Connelly displayed a good deal of speed and
occasionally a bit of boxing skill, mixed in with some nice body blocks and strong man stuff. Connelly possessed a nice jab and kept flicking it in Cronin’s face, but Cronin’s hard (?) rights to the body earned him a draw.
The remainder of the card brought out plenty of fighting and skill. Billy Magarall, South Bend Golden Gloves featherweight champion, and Jackie Fisher opened the show and staged a pleasing bout. Fisher was not discouraged by Magarall’s reputation and at times showed much aggressiveness. Billy had too much class, however, and won the verdict in easy fashion.
Art Cline and Lou Godoy, welterweights, put more action into three rounds than many a professional fight
contains in twelve. From the opening gong to the end of the third round they stood in the center of the ring and traded punches. Referee Cy Collins and Judges Tom Yarr and Butch DeVault, all cast their ballots for Cline although the spectators clamored for an extra round.
Sig Sluzska scored the lone knockout of the entire card when he sent his opponent, Sid Steinberg, to the floor for the count of three in the third round and followed it up a minute later with a barrage of lefts and rights to the head and body that floored Steinberg for the count. Up to the time that he was counted out, Sid had been in front, due to his first frame margin.
Len Dunn, who holds the light heavyweight title of the University, successfully defended his crown in a fast bout against Jim Fitzpatrick. Both fighters were quite skilled in the art of fisticuffs. Dunn almost scored a knock-out over Fitzpatrick in the second round with a hard right to the chin that sent him through the ropes. Jim managed to get back into the ring before Cy Collins decided to count, however, and the fight went on.
All in all, the show might have been a success. The first four fights were
PALACE
LAST TIMES SATURDAY
Vaudeville Jubilee
STARTING SATURDAY
ART HENRY and
“The Unfinished Act”
ROYE & MAYE REVUE “Moods in Steps”
You’ll like this Grand Old Duffer whose heart was bigger than his bank roll.
It’s Arliss in a modern role of sparkling romance!
GEORGE ARLISS
“THE MILLIONAIRE”
With his matchless cast FLORENCE ARLISS DAVID MANNERS EVALYN KNAPP	• NOAH BEERY
JAMES CAGNEY	TULLY MARSHALL
FORTUNELLO & CIRILLINO
The Famous Italian Clowns
Murray & Fane Dixon-Rigg Trio
Song-Comedy Treat Acrobatic Novelty
On the Screen
‘The Lawless Woman’
Vera Reynolds—Wheeler Oakman
STARTS SUNDAY
Gala Vaudeville Treat
The Original “Kathie” of “The Student Prince”
ILSE MARVENGA
A Beautiful Voice—A Charming Personality
JACK FLYNN	WILFRID DUBOIS
Jest a Nut	Jongleur Distingue
OTHER RKO ACTS
On the Screen “THE GOOD BAD GIRL” Mae Clark—James Hall

871
May 15, 1931
worth the admission price and the noise made by the 800 odd spectators at times must have outdone the 40,-000 who were in Soldiers Field, Chicago, for the International Golden Gloves fights. Especially pleasing was Corby’s own, Johnny Perone. Perone, as announcer, had every one, from the fighters down to the youngsters who were admitted free, roaring at his amusing announcements.
Gough and Vejar in the broad jump; Bowers in the mile; Howery, and Grimes in the two-mile run; Johnson and Fishleigh in the pole vault; Hoffman, Branford and Shaeffer in the discus; Brill, Hoffman and Branford in the shot; and Branford, Christman and Artman in the javelin.
The steady improvement of the weight men and the return of Roy Bailie, stellar hurdler who has been
bothered with injuries all season, has added much strength to the Blue and Gold ranks and a fairly well balanced squad will await the starter’s 'gun Saturday. Notre Dame should garner quite a few first places with her individual stars, but whether they win the meet or not will depend on the showing of the other men, who are being counted upon to provide that necessary margin of victory.
NOTRE DAME DEFENDS TRACK TITLE TOMORROW
Nicholson Takes Large Squad To Lafayette.
This weekend finds Coach John P. Nicholson and his Blue and Gold track squad down at Lafayette, Indiana, where they will compete in the Indiana State meet. Notre Dame is the defending champion but will receive plenty of stiff competition from the other teams this year and according to Coach Nicholson, the meet “will be a tough one.”
Among the most formidable opponents that Notre Dame will have to deal with are Indiana, Butler, Purdue and DePauw. According to their showing last Saturday in a triangular meet held at Bloomington, Indiana will probably offer Notre Dame her stiffest competition. The Hoosiers have a well-balanced squad and in Jim Hatfield, their star timber-topper, they have a performer of the front rank. In Saturday’s meet he took the measure of Lee Sentman, the speed merchant from Illinois, and should provide most interesting competition for Captain O’Brien and Bailie. Butler will have Nelson in the high jump, Sivak in the mile, and Elser in the weight events. These men need no introduction to local followers as their performances in past meets here were all too prominent. Biddinger, Indiana’s star weight man will also bear watching.
Coach Nicholson plans to take a large squad with him to Lafayette for he is anxious to gain every point possible in the defense of the championship. Bill McCormick, Gough and Kelly will be entered in the 100; McCormick, Dilling and Kelly in the 220; Wilson and MacBeth in the 440; Wilson and Little in the 880; Little and and Ewing in the two-mile; Captain O’Brien and Poredon in the 120 highs; Bailie and MacBeth in the 220 lows;
Think what the Sound
of Your Voice Means to the Folks at Home!
MEMO
Charges may be reversed if you desire
The Economical Noice of Millions
Indiana bell Telephone Company
872
The Scholastic
Splinters From the Press Box
“BASEBALL WEEK”
“Baseball Week,” something new at Notre Dame, seems to have been rained out. Old Jupiter Pluvius took matters into his own hands and necessitated the calling off of two of the games as well as causing the
HELLO MEN!
Smith’s Cafeteria
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame
other two to be played on perilously slippery diamonds. It was unfortunate. Four games with first-class teams had been arranged and Notre Dame followers were about to be treated to a real program.
Purdue, although having been beaten several times in the Big Ten thus far, has a strong team and boasts of two of the best hurlers in the conference. Hosei would, by the fact that they came from Japan, have been one of the largest drawing cards of the season in their two-games series. In the one game that was played they showed just about the smoothest-working nine yet to appear on Car-tier field this year.
The Navy clan found Charley Palt again in top form and it -was just too bad. Although the game was almost as tight as could be, it would have been much more interesting if played on a drier field. It is a mental as well as physical handicap for the players to have to pastime on a diamond where the footing is so uncertain.
JIMMY O’CONNOR
Of the new-comers on Coach George Keogan’s baseball team, Jimmy O’Connor, the wee centerfielder, is playing about as good a brand of ball as one could ask. Besides being a sure fielder and the possessor of one of the best arms seen around here this season, Jimmy is also making his presence felt by his timely hitting. The Massachusett’s ball-hawk seems destined to make a name for himself in the national pastime.
BILL McCORMICK
Another Blue and Gold performer who is rapidly coming to the front is Bill McCormick. “A better-than-aver-age” sprinter last season, in his sophomore year, McCormick lacked just one thing which detracted much from his value to the team. That was consistency! He ran many good races during the course of the season but it was next to impossible to guess just when one of these good races was going to come.
This year Bill seems to have acquired that quality. Especially since the opening of the outdoor season has he been running good races near
ly every- time he has been on the track. Not always has he been a winner, but never more than a yard or so in back of the first man. The times with which he has been credited are the best of his career—his 9.6 seconds on Saturday being but one-tenth second slower than the world’s record.
THE TRACK TEAM
Coach Nicholson’s squad of track and field performers seem finally to
IF YOU'RE HAVING YOUR FORTUNE TOLD
And the Cards Say You' re Going On a Long Journey
Phone the South Shore Line ticket agent, 3-3111, and have him make reservations for you. He’ll probably arrange it so you can have a few hours be-. tween trains to look around Chi-cago—and you won’t object to that.

Every hour on-the-hour to Michigan City, Gary, Hammond, Chicago.
May 15, 1931
873
have awakened. After a series of disappointing exhibitions since the outdoor season opened a month ago, the Blue and Gold thinlies came through with a neat victory over the Navy last Saturday. - Twelve first places out of fourteen events were recorded by Notre Dame, leaving, however, not even 17 of the 76 5/6 points coming from second and third places.
This inability to garner more than one place in many of the events may work a hardship on the team down at
Lafayette tomorrow afternoon. The competition will undoubtedly be much keener than it was against the Midshipmen, and with from ten to fifteen teams in the running, the seconds, thirds, and fourths will count heavily in the scoring. This is not an attempt to disparage the chances of the local squad, for they should be successful in the defense of their title and everything points to just that thing. Everything points also, however, to the fact that they will have a good, hard fight on their hands in order to accomplish the feat.
Navy Team Entertained
Following their defeat at the hands of the varsity, the Navy baseball team were the guests at a dinner held Saturday evening in the lay faculty dining hall. J. Arthur Haley, George Keogan and Jesse Harper represented the athletic association at the affair. After the' dinner, the Annapolis boys were taken on a tour of South Bend and vicinity. The team left by train at 12:00 o’clock Saturday night. The trip to Notre Dame constituted the Navy’s only baseball trip this year.
AND A
NIGHT
FAST TRACK
TRACK man will tell you that records are broken when the track is fast. Think of this setting—a cool evening, the stands overflowing, the whole spectacle brilliantly lighted with G-E floodlights, and a fast track — a record simply couldn’t stand the “gaff.”
Nighttime, when people naturally turn to diversion, is the logical time for a track meet. Lack of support will be a thing of the past. And just watch the athletic fund grow.
JOIN US IN THE GENERAL ELECTRIC PROGRAM, BROADCAST EVERY SATURDAY EVENING ON A NATION-WIDE N.B.C. NETWORK
G-E floodlighting projectors, largely the development of college-trained men, are easily adapted to any occasion whether football, track, tennis, commencement, receptions, or plays. Efficient G-E illumination promotes athletics and builds school spirit.
For further information address Publicity Department (E). Ask for GEA-1206— “The Light That Started Sports at Night. “
95-S29
GENERAL O ELECTRIC


874
The Scholastic
Interhall Sports
BASEBALL
In the lone encounter last Sunday, Sophomore hall sprang a big surprise and downed Morrissey by the overwhelming score of 12 to 4. Batting a ball heavy with mud all over the lot and being aided by the errors of the Morrissey players, the Sophomore haliers gathered enough runs early in the game to cinch their victory. Kennedy and Saunders led the Sophomore batting attack; Kennedy starred in the box. Jack Gandour was the one bright spot in the Morrissey lineup.
GOLF
Although Larry Kral, playing for Badin, shot 81, and together with Frank Consolati defeated Tom Taro-sovic and Bob Powell, 5 to 4; it wasn’t quite enough to beat Walsh in the championship flight of the Interhall golf tournament. Walsh, led by Clem Powers and Don Nehnes, who allowed their opponents not a point, eked out a 13 to 5 victory.
Summaries:
Consolati and Kral (Badin) beat Tarosovic and Powell (Walsh), 5 to 4. Powers and Nelmes (Walsh) defeated Chas. Powers and Salmon (Badin), 9 to 0.
In a closely contested match Morrissey nosed out St. Edward’s, 10 to 8. O’Brien was the Morrissey luminary, shooting an 80 and togethei* with Carl Bansbach beat Ed. Sporl and Fred Snite in the first foursome, 9 to 0. Marvin Huot and Dick Meade of St. Edward’s shot some pretty golf in the second foursome and defeated Sullivan and Dick Melchione of Morrissey 8 to 1.
Summaries:
O’Brien and Bausback (Morr.) beat Sporl and Suite (St. Ed.), 9 to 0.
Huat and Meade (St. Ed.) beat Sullivan and Melchione, 8 to 1.
Ceding nine points without an argument when two men didn’t show up, Off-Campus lost their match in the consolation flight to Lyons, 14 to 4.
Freshman bested Carroll, 11 to 7, in the second consolation match. Vince Fehlig led the Freshman haliers by
turning in the best card of the day, a 79.
Summaries:
Fehlig and McMonagle (Fresh.) beat Galbraith and Moscow (Carroll), 8% to
Bowkamp and Landers (Carroll) bested O’Connell and Devine (Fresh.), 6% to 2%. ’
Schedule for Sunday, May 17:
Consolation flight—Off-Campus vs. Carroll at 1:30; Freshman vs. Lyons at 1:40.
Championship flight — Walsh vs. Morrissey at 1:50; Howard vs. Badin at 2:00. St. Edwards drew a bye.
V
fl
FORDHAM UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW
NEW YORK
Case System—Three-Year Course
CO-EDUCATIONAL
College Degree or Two Years of College Work with Good Grades Required
Transcript of Record Necessary in All Cases.
Morning, Early Afternoon and Evening Classes.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
<
CHARLES P. DAVIS, Registrar 233 Broadway, New York
1
i The South Bend Clearing
I	House Banins
1 Invite Your Patronage
UNION TRUST COMPANY	i
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK	I
CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS	I
BANK	I
FIRST NATIONAL BANK	I
INDIANA TRUST COMPANY	I
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS	I
BANK	I
ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST	1
COMPANY '	I
AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY	I
2 uuMaaaaaaaaaaaaoaaiaouaaiuaaaauuoimaaaaioiiiaaaaaaaaiaiiiaamiaaaaaiiaaaiataaaaaaaaauaaaaaiiiaaaaaMQ
QMMaaaiaaaaaaaaaMiataaaiiaaaaaaiiaiaaaiiaaaiaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaiaiaiaiaaiaaaaaiiiaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaaaaaiaaaaaiaaaaaaaaiaQ
I	Buy Your Kodak Film	[
I	and have them DEVELOPED	|
J	at the NEWS STAND in the	|
J Notre Dame Cafeteria I
I	When in town visit our store	|
I	with a complete line of Photo-	j
I	graphic Supplies	j
|	Schilling’s Photo Supply	|
|	329 S. LaFayette Blvd.	I
1	South Bend, Indiana	I
I PHOTOSTAT COPY SERVICE I
<
May 15, 1931
875
NETMEN BEAT ARMOUR
TECH 5-2 AT LEEPER
Matt O’Brien, Kendall Lose In Singles; All Others Win.
The Notre Dame tennis team scored its second victory of the season last Tuesday afternoon in defeating Armour Tech 5-2 in a dual meet staged on the Leeper Park asphalt courts.
Mike O’Brien, the modest Tampa racqueteer, was the outstanding player of the afternoon. In the singles he defeated Timmerman 6-3, 6-4. His work in the singles was by far superior to that of Tech- players. Mike played an important part in clinching the doubles match in which he took part and which resulted in another two set victory 6-3, 6-4. Frank Sullivan played excellently as partner to the sensational Mike.
Captain Matt O’Brien took a trimming from Eddy, Armour’s number one man, in two straight sets 6-4, 6-4. Bob Kendall was also handed a defeat in his three set tussle with Streb, of Armour, taking the first 6-2, and losing out 6-4, 6-2 in the
next two sets. Kendall, however, has not had a racquet in his hand for at least two weeks and was not quite in shape to do justice to his playing of the past. Despite the defeat handed to the two Blue and Gold men in these singles Matt and Bob came through in their double match. It took Bob and Matt three sets to beat Streb and Eddy, losing the first set 6-3, but taking command in the other two by 6-2, 6-2.
Joe Borda displayed some of the Atlantic Coast Junior championship form in taking Cone of Armour, in two sets 6-2, 6-2. Business it was all through the game with Joe and the results are sufficient evidence. Cone was practically helpless under the speedy volley of shots made by Borda. Bill Reaume, having also been inactive for a couple of weeks was more successful and took Shirmer, Armour’s “Bill Tilden,” for the worst defeat of the afternoon, taking both sets, 6-0, 6-0.
Notre Dame was never in serious danger throughout the whole afternoon. At the end of the singles series Notre Dame was in the lead 3-1. In the doubles the Blue and Gold harnessed the situation so that
defeat was almost impossible for the winning of the meet depended upon Notre Dame’s winning but either of the doubles.
The students here seem to favor cigarettes to cigars as the cafeteria reports that there are four hundred and fifty packs sold to every one hundred and fifty cigars.
COLLEGE MEN:
* EARN BIG MONEY during All or f Spare Time •
HIGH-GRADE DIGNIFIED OPPORTUNITY NOW OPEN
_ Here’s ready cash every day. Take Jet orders for -wonderful, new line of -V BUSINESS and SOCIAL stationery . . . business forms . . . advertising novelties. Our LOW PRICES undersell local competition. Our guaranteed quality -will please the most particular. Represent this big printing house.
Write for complete details
NO OBLIGATION
PRINTRITE Inc.
FREE SALES KIT AND CUT SERVICE FURNISHED. MAKES SELLING MERE ORDER TAKING. WRITE TODAY
Student Employment Dept. 20-C
Northwest Terminal, MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.

I Meyer’s Fountain I
I Luncheonette I
NEW YORK JOBBER
CLEANS UP
Men’s $6 Golf Shoes
$2.99
Special From Old Virginia
Devilled Smithfield Ham and Sliced
Tomato Sandwich
20c
I I * STORE
Corner Michigan and Colfax
ALL
SIZES
SPIKE or RUBBER SOLES
Built in the good looking, practical styles we know real golfers like best. ..Moccasin types and in blacks and whites, with grocord rubber or rivited spike, leather soles.
GIL-BRO’S
Formerly—U. S. ARMY STORE • 330 South Michigan Street
876
The Scholastic
TRACKMEN BEAT NAVY
(Continued from Page 865)
O’Brien (ND) ; Frazer (N), second; Cox (N), third. Time :15.1.
220-YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Bailie (ND) ; Frazer (N), second; Cox (N), third. Time :26.1.
ONE MILE RUN—Won by Little (ND) ; Gibson (N), second; Bauers (ND), third. Time 4:35.1.
440-YARD RUN—Won by Wilson (ND) ; Evans (N), second; MacBeth (ND), third. Time :50.
TWO MILE RUN—Won by Howery (ND) ; Blouin (N), second; Ewing (ND), third. Time 10:02.6.
8S0-YARD RUN—Won by Wilson (ND) ; Hardman (N), second; Little (ND), third. Time 1:56.3.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Darling (ND) ; Conway (N), second; Freshour (N) and Reiman (ND), tied for third. Height 6 ft., 2% ins.
POLE VAULT—Won by Johnson (ND) ; Miles (N), Stewart (N) and Fishleigh (ND), tied for second. Height 13 feet.
DISCUS THROW—Won by Hoffman (ND) ; Wright (N), second; Brantfort (ND), third. Distance 141 feet, 6% inches.
SHOT PUT—Won by Underwood (N) ; Hoffman (ND), second; Brill (ND), third. Distance 45 feet, 1 inch.
JAVELIN THROW—Won by Kane (N) ; Kirn (N), second; Brantfort (ND), third. Distance 175 feet.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Gough (ND) ; Frazier (N), second; Kim (N), third. Distance 21 feet, 3 inches.
"DOME” ISSUED MONDAY
(Continued from Page 849)
improvement over the full page horrors of previous years. Each photograph is clear and distinct, and the subject looks like a college man instead of a gangster.
The view section is a work of art. There are full page views of the Lyons hall chapel, the cafeteria, the dining halls, the Grotto, the library, and the Main building, and a doublespread view, of the stadium during the dedication game with the Navy.
There are many other features about the book which deserve mention, but space limitations forbid. However, look for these things when you get your copy Monday: the new arangement of the sports section; the desk pictures of the various officers of the administration and editors; the faculty section; the eight introductory essays before each section; and above all, the Satire section, “done by that sturdy lineup of Writing Irish—Boyle, Sullivan, O’Donnell, and Raddatz, (who isn’t Irish, but was sneaked into the book through the back cover.)”
You’ll like the Dome of 1931. If you don’t you’re more critical than I am —and that’s impossible. Ask any Scholastic staff member.	'
On Down the Line
. . . BUZZ ARLETT played thir-ten years in the minors before being demoted to the Phillies this year . . . KARCIS, Carnegie fullback, recently broke the school discus record . . . LEN MACALUSO, Colgate’s AllAmerican fullback won his first pro wrestling bout last week . . . RAY RICHARD, Nebraska gridder, is another collegian making bid as a grap-pler . . . The ST. LOUIS BROWNS are to play a double-header every Sunday at home this year . . . PHIL BALL must need the cash . . .
. . . DICKEY of the Yanks picks EARNSHAW as the best right-hander in the league . . . EARL COMBS likes WES FERRELL . . . BILL TILDEN says that tennis and golf should be on the same plane as football in college . . . MAYBE! . . . EARL AVERILL once hit four home runs in five trips to the plate . . . Princeton’s GRADUATE SCHOOL has a varsity Crew... BILL CISSELL batted eighteen times last week without a hit . . . RICHARDS took four straight sets from JOHN DOEG last week and then TILDEN took RICHARDS . . .
. . . SAM JONES of the Senators is starting his seventeenth season in the American League . . . DIZZY DEAN celebrated his return to the minors by promising a pennant to Houston . . . MID-SEASON form . . . STRIBLING has to keep out of airplanes till after the Schmelling go . . . MORSTONE, the Derby prospect, may be the first son of a winner of the classic to cop the race . . . MOR-VICH, his sire, finished first in ’22 ... The UNITED STATES didn’t drop a single set in the DAVIS CUP play in Mexico recently . . .
. . . CHICK HAFEY finally signed with the Cards, but he’s practicing at Danville ... The THREE-EYE should be a bit slow for a hitter like CHICK . . . MRS. VIOLET DOEG, mother of JOHN DOEG, is to be a tennis pro at a woman’s club in New York this summer .. . LITTLE PANCHO, brother of the late PANCHO VILLA, won the flyweight boxing title of the Orient last week . . .
PITT GOLFERS TO ENGAGE BLUE AND GOLD HERE;
SAM PARKS TO PLAY
The University of Pittsburgh’s long-driving golf team invades Notre Dame tomorrow for what promises to be the classic match of the season. Pitt will present the strongest team to face the locals this year; Notre Dame is undefeated in six matches. Collegiate golf followers will have their eyes on the match between Captain Fran Beaupre of Notre Dame and Sam Parks of Pitt. Parks was runner-up in the recent North-South tournament, losing in the final round to George Dunlap of Princeton, national intercollegiate champion.
Pittsburgh comes here ■with a fine record and should give Notre Dame the hardest battle of the year. Both teams are strong contenders in the intercollegiate tournament to be held in Chicago next month, and the result of tomorrow’s match will be very interesting. The best ball matches are scheduled to start at nine o’clock, with the singles beginning probably at one-thirty.
ELECTRICAL SHOW HERE
(Continued from Page 849)
Still further experiments with sound have produced words and music from the blazing arc between two pieces of charged carbon, while another feature of the display is the spectacle of a piece of cobalt steel floating in air. So it goes; the extent and variation of Mr. Grace’s bag of tricks is practically unlimited. The exhibition has been presented in cities from coast to coast with tremendous success, but the display in Washington hall next week will be the first public demonstration in this part of the country.
Probably the one piece of apparatus which adds more to the effectiveness of his lecture than any other is one which is no bigger than a quarter, and which the audience may never see. It is the vest-pocket transmitter worn by Mr. Grace. The transmitter takes the place of the usual bulky microphone which is so common on auditorium platforms today.
Thus the marvels of the modern scientist are unfolded. It would be • an outstanding performance if carried out by the dullest, dreariest individual, but Mr. Grace is not only a great engineer, but also a great showman.