:KW<MNE&wigsrK
•PISQE-QV^SI •SC/V£*V>/* QVI^/S • VlVt* Q^VSi • ^AS y*\0 f^TV^S ’
Vol. XXIX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, June, 27 1896.	. No. 37.
Life-Memories—The Class Poem.
WILLIAM P. BURNS, LITT. B.
OME hearts for wealth or glory pine, Some hearts for what must never be; . While others fathom Wisdom’s sea,
■ As men drink deep of wine.
An end must each one strive for; each Would some great mastership attain;
Though what he wastes his life to gain May tower beyond his reach.
We view this life in Fancy’s guise;.
We sketch it from our own brief past,— A panorama shifting fast, A sunburst in the skies.
The Old World ranges broad and grand;
Bedecked with hopes, it greets our sight, As on God’s Chosen, from the height, Burst fair the Promised Land.
The Past is dead beyond repair;
The Present teems with vague unrest;
To manhood’s goal of toil and quest, The Future guards the stair.
Yet we who stand with eager heart,
Before the open door of life, Impatient till the narrow strife Will single us apart,—
We yet may turn a yearning gaze
To this same past which time endears, And long to pawn the. morrow years
For these fair yesterdays.	■
- “ Memory is the companion of man’s tedious hours of solitude and wakefulness.”
Memory is the only paradise out of which we cannot be driven. Indeed our first parents were not to be deprived of it.—Richter.	.
The Foundations of Collegiate Education.*
I. - Literature in the Formation of Character-
ARTHUR' W. STACE, LITT. B.
HAT wise educational critic, Professor Laurie, says of literature: “Whether we regard the discipline of intellect, the substance of morality and wisdom, or the growth of the distinctly spiritual life, language as a
formal or logical study, as a real study, is, and must always be, the supreme subject in the education of a human being, the centre around which all other educational agencies should range themselves in due subordination.” In other words, the foundation and support of education should be literature.	.,
The object of a college education is to impart culture. Culture, itself, has its origin in the desire of perfection. It aims to make reason and the will of God prevail. Perfection in this connection is the harmonious expansion of alt the powers which-make up the beauty and worth of human nature. It is not consistent with the development of any one power at the expense of the remainder. Philosophy, alone,, strengthens the-intellect; the natural sciences make the student a theorist, or abnormally practical in a material sense; history forms the statesman ;or the politician; but literature, the most universal of all studies, unites philosophy^ : history, and the natural sciences in itself, arid, gives its client a sound, liberal education.
* The. Class-Day Symposium.. "	* .
602	NOTRE DAME
It has often been said, and with truth, that an intimate knowledge of the works of Shakspere is an education in itself. He poured forth all his being into his works. To the one who rightly reads him he gives his thoughts, his feelings, ' his very inmost self, his heart and spirit. If the works of one man can do so much, what is the educational strength of thousands of men, learned in every science, art. and philosophy known to man? It is infinite; and such is the strength of literature.
’ The first step towards culture is the formation of a correct taste. Taste is the perception and appreciation of artistic excellence, espe-■ cially of the finer qualities of art, in. human productions and performances. The knowledge * of good and evil is the common heritage of man; but the more delicate distinction implied by the word “taste” is a quality which must be refined and cultivated.
Literature, which has for its true object the . Beautiful and, in indirect conjunction therewith, the True and the Good, forces Beauty in its various forms upon the attention of the student, until his sensibility increases and his capacity , for beauty is enlarged. A man cannot live in beauty without awakening to a realization of .its finer qualities: he soon becomes sb sensitive to the artistic that all which is not morally good or beautiful disgusts him, and he appreciates art only because, as art, it aims at the beautiful which is fundamentally good.
In the second step towards culture, the student’s mind is broadened; he arrives at a better knowledge of himself, the world around him and the world above him. It is a well-known fact that the citizens of a nation which is wrapped up in itself, isolated from other nations, are ignorant, narrow-minded, prejudiced, impractical. With the conceit common to all mankind, they think that the entire world is contained within their own petty frontiers: Their-own customs and manners are the best; their laws are the most just; their ideas and opinions the most reasonable. .All that is exterior to them is despised. All that they do not understand is condemned as senseless and absurd. But when literature sheds its light upon them, and their darkened minds are . enlightened by its refulgence, a flood of revelation sweeps oyer them. They realize their own insignificance; the magnitude of the world dawns upon them. Their minds are broadened; contact with other nations polishes their rough manners, refines their senses, and they become enlightened, civilized—a people -progressive
SCHOLASTIC.
in the true sense. So, too, does literature take the student beyond the narrow limits of his own experience, and make him a broad-minded, practical citizen of the world.
Literature gives the Englishman, the German and the Frenchman a common ground on which they can meet and agree; for it obliterates the barriers of prejudice which for centuries -have kept them apart. They all unite in praise and admiration of Shakspere, Goethe and Moliere, and they who were before hostile, change contumely to compliment.
In the same way literature draws different classes of society into a closer union of sympathy and affection. It takes us’ into the very hearts of men, and, revealing their feelings and inmost secrets to us, rouses our sympathies,,, enkindles charity in our hearts, and fosters forbearance and good-will. If we know intimately the people of a nation through their literature we can judge what their action would be in a particular crisis. Thus we acquire the prudence and forethought of a statesman. Who can doubt that a great part of Gladstone’s success as Prime Minister of England was due to his literary training? Would Richelieu have been so skilful a Minister of France if literature had not developed his shrewdness and. sagacity? ’
Philosophy and history give the statesman a plenty of theories, but it is literature that teaches him how and. when to apply them. Experience teaches, but the successful man must use the experience of others as presented to him by literature. The training of the intellect is the third step towards culture, and here literature has clearly proven itself superior to all other studies.
Between the years 1870 and 1880, the professors of the faculty of Philosophy in the University of Berlin compared the work done there in scientific and other subjects by the students from the high technical schools, with the work done in the same Jine by students from the humanistic schools of the same rank. The result was that in March, 1880, they submitted to the Minister of Public Instruction a report signed by Helmholtz, Prof. A. W. Hoffman, and other distinguished scientists. It shows that while the students from the technical schools started with an advantage in knowledge of facts, the humanistic students came with a better trained intelligence and so caught lip with, and frequently passed, their compfetitbrs even in the very subjects to which the latterhad formerly devoted much more time.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
603
We cannot gainsay the testimony of these learned men, and it therefore remains a demonstrated fact that in developing the intellect, • literature takes precedence of all other educational agencies. It enables the student to take ideas from fields foreign to his special vocation and to apply them in further perfecting himself in.his particular branch. It makes-him alert -and quick to grasp anything that may be useful ।
to him. And in these days of active competition,-it is the man quick to seize opportunities, who is the leader in social, business, and even college life.	.
But the highest, the noblest, work of literature, as an educational factor, is to form the character of the student, to make him a better, a riobler, and a purer man; to elevate his thoughts, his aims, his aspirations, to a higher end, to brighter ideals. The companionship of a pure, high-minded man tends to make us imitate his virtues. The beauty of his soul enkindles admiration in our hearts and a desire of emulation. But in our libraries we can become the most intimate companions of the pure, noble, high-minded men of all ages. We can daily converse with them. They pour out upon us their choicest thoughts and show us the truth and priceless worth of their natures. And in the end we cannot help becoming like them—true and generous men.
What man can resist the bettering influence of a Milton, of a Homer, or of a Dante? What man is^not impelled towards high ideals by the works of a Thomas a Kempis, a Faber, or a Newman? What spirit is not strengthened in
the right by the dramas of ^Eschylus, of, Christianity to be our national characteristics, . Goethe, and of the greatest of all dramatists,
the duty of . literature to encourage him and strengthen his will. If it does not do this, literature is unfaithful to its calling, and becomes a panderer to vice. Consecrated to, virtue, purity, taste and intelligence, literature, when it stoops to baser ends, turns traitor , to its calling and should be cut off like a traitor.
We shun a leper arid loathe corruption; but an immoral work is a literary leper, a mass of foulest corruption. This corruption is often veiled by great literary skill and an exquisite 4 style, arid then it is doubly dangerous; for the innocent never suspects its foulness until he has become polluted by it. Art for art’s sake is the weak excuse of a writer whose heart is rotten. Art and literature as an art must either be for God or against God; it cannot be neutral.,
■ When it has its object in the true, the good, ’ and the beautiful it is true literature. When it loses sight of these high ends it is unworthy of that sanctified name.- .	'
True-art is always ennobling, and it is the . basest of base lies to say that works like those of Zola are works of art and can be called literature. The morality of a nation can be’ . judged by the writers it produces and tolerates, and the proudest boast of an American should be that the people of our Fatherland have never produced, and will not tolerate, an immoral writer. And God grant that it may ever be pur proudest boast and glory. The Germans have a proverb to the effect that whatever we wish to appear in the life of a nation we must first put into its schools. Now we want nobility of character, trueness of heart, patriotism, and
so we must put literature, true literature, the . exponent of these virtues, into our schools and universities. ’	.
Patriotic and religious literature stirs the heart of man and arouses his emotions as only one other power on earth, eloquence, can do. The heart is dead that does riot leap at the sound of the national hymn, and the' soul is :
Shakspere?
From time immemorial, literature has shaped the characters and ruled the lives of men and of natioris. The Greeks of old modelled their - lives according to the heroes and heroines of the .
“ Iliad ” and “ Odyssey.” The Chinese take their moral maxims from the works of, Confucius.
The Sacred Vedas of India still rule millions. . dead that the poetry of religion cannot touch. Romans were guided in their great enterprises by The noble deeds and heroic characters that the Sibylline Books. The Old Testament was the literature presents to us would ipove the basest . sacred command of God for the Jews, and both heart to worship God or to die for his country.
the sOld and the Nevy Tesfa.ment mould the life; What American is riot roused by the speeches ' of a Christian; for he believes with St. Pau! that of a Webster, or of a Patrick Henry? Whatman
“AH Scripture inspired of God is profitable to is not fired ..with a greater love of country when teach, to reprove, to correct, to instruct in he reads in song or story the tale of a Leoni- . justice, that the" man of God may be perfect, das, a Horatius, a* Regulus, a Sobieski, a Pam furnished to every good vyork.”	Revere, a Washington or a Lincoln?
It is a hard, task for evert a virtuous .man to ‘ Literature has a sacred mission. Its original keep reason supreme over passion, rind dk is dignity is attested by the fact that the all-wise
£
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
God chose it as one of the great instruments to perpetuate His revelations to man. In its sublime work of raising man’s soul to a fuller knowledge of the True, the Good, and the Beautiful; in broadening his mind, banishing ignorant prejudices, cultivating his intellect, giving him high aims and high ideals; in forming his character; in helping him to carry out the command of Christ—“ Be you therefore perfect, as also your heavenly Father is perfect” ; in making him a better Christian and a better citizen;—it is Religion’s greatest ally, God’s . faithful worker. Oh, may literature ever go on in its divine mission! And may the good God, who watches overall his children grant that, through this noble medium, all men may be brought into a closer union of one heart, one soul, one
faith, one last end serving the same God in	_	.
the same way, forming one sublime concord of specialism, the old notion, that a liberal educa-
praise to the Creator and Object of all knowledge and of all art!
Day-Dreams and Reveries.
I.—AT NOONDAY.
LOWLY the path of gloom hath shrunk Up to the tree-stem which, with light, Doth give it being. .A golden-rod In tljis dark spot doth sway and nod, And finds but heat and glare to left or right.
’Tis thus my dreams do backward creep .
From out the unknown boundless sky, . Futurity—and fade away
Into the thoughts of real to-day, .
Where peaceful in the love of God I lie.
But I, unlike the golden-rod,	-
Am happy in the shadow of His hand.
To-morrow, yesterday, are dreams; -' To-day alone is great, tho’ it seems, In Time’s Sahara, but a grain of sand.
.	., II. AT TWILIGHT. .	.
And now;'the crooked stream of shade .That cleaves the golden, light-bathed mead, . Is lost in slow-encroaching night.	/ .
„ Which puts the last faint glow to flight; < And o’er the hills sunset-doth twilight lead.
. And longer, longer, grow my thoughts,
- .Till dreaming comes like an after-glow, . , ; And gilds the,happy past with gold f . Which fades as I think on the days’ of old, And deep in ages, dead, adreaming go.
<The deft and withered cotton-wood
r 5 . Stands lone in night’s abysmal deep, - ,	,
C j. And my idle dreams in the past are Jost: -. t = s" This 'day hath the border of .yester crossed,
. And slow in hushed silence I lapse, to sleep, v
H.—The Dignity of History.
JOHN G. SHANNON, B. A.
VERY noticeable tendency of education during the last quarter of a century has been towards the development of the'technical school. In all parts of the country great institutions devoted to a
single science have grown up rapidly, and even the staid old universities are fast becoming mere assemblies of independent professional schools.
In the light of the manifest advantages of
tion was an accomplishment which no one could well despise, has gradually faded away. Now, although it is undeniable that specialism affords many advantages; that, in fact, it is the end of all education, it would not be wise to close our eye* to the many evils with which the new system, as applied in this country, is fraught. A grammar-school boy cannot without serious injury be metamorphosed into a specialist. The rarity with which any ;young student rises above mediocrity, and Ilie crowded condition of all the lower orders of the professions sufficiently demonstrate the necessity of avoiding this method of attaining the fruits of specialism.
The explanation of the popular love for specialism is doubtless to be found in the well-known propensity of Americans for acquiring money easily and quickly. Parents seem to look upon as wasted all time spent in pursuits other than those which give a pecuniary remu- . . neration; and students are sb eager to begin life that they gladly neglect the few opportunities for real education which the commercial
spirit of their parents may have allowed them. ' And neither is willing to see that short-sighted-v ness produces extremists, one-sided men, whose society is as unpleasant to others as their own lives are to themselves. But American parents and American students have yet to learn that material progress and financial success are not all of life; that peace of mind and contentment of soul are not to be found in wealth alone.
History, as one of the studies which go. to make a person truly learned, seems-to me well worthy of serious consideration. Political econ; omy and the kindred sciences. merit attention because they satisfy the material wants of men; ,
s	•	,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. ;	605
mathematics because they train the understanding; literature because it .develops the imagination and the other artistic faculties, and philosophy because it strengthens the intellect and the moral sense. But history is almost the foundation of all these, since it is the record of their actual application in human life, the test of their worth; and it exceeds them all in this, that while their influence is limited, its scope is not bounded even by the confines of civilization. It leads by example where precept Would be of little avail. It penetrates to the ignorant and neglected; it shuns no one; all men are recipients of its bounty—to each man a friend, to the state a guide and to humanity a kind protec-' tress. With good reason then does Cicero exclaim: “History is the life of the world, the contemporary of the whole human race, the guardian of events, the witness of truth, the great adviser and oracle of the life of mankind, the messenger and interpreter of past ages.”
A little child was stricken deaf, dumb and blind. After years of suffering, a certain noble woman strove with cpmparative success to bring her again to a participation in the delights of material creation. Now the state of o
that poor afflicted one is paralleled by the moral condition of most men. They are almost entirely unconscious of the ;beauty and excellence of the spiritual creation. History does for them what, the noble woman did for the child. To spend life with, only the grosser senses of touch and smell must be an undesirable existence, but: to live only in the animal part of our nature is worse than death. Of the-thousands who die daily, tell me how many in the whole course of their lives have been aware of the perfection of their souls, conscious of their dignity in possessing free will, or felt their great honor in standing before God as the perfection of the earthly creation.
On the contrary, most men groan in the pain of their affliction and cry out in the agony of their hearts: “Would that I had never been!” “ Never been!” Yet Augustine judged life worth’ an eternity of torments. It is to such as these dejected ones that History comes, and over their bed of sorrow sings tales of heroes who did and dared in days gone by. And to the despondent ones it tells of Regulus—how he trembled at the danger of dishonor, how he ridiculed pains and; torments, how he drew admiration from ■ his persecutors, and how he raised himself above the flesh, above the trifling things of life, and shed his blood rather than suffer the taint of dishonor. And to the weak-hearted ones who, ’
knowing truth, dare not follow it, it pictures that intellectual giant of the nineteenth century, the noble vanquisher of error, Orestes Browiison. It shows him battling against a sea of error during twenty long years, never faltering, never resting, till his keel was grounded on the beach of truth. AH this and more does history tell. Fired by the ardor of her exemplars, men awaken to a realization of the dignity of their nature, and become ambitious of living worthily.1
In 1855, Carlyle wrote an article on America, and in it he prophesied the downfall of our government. “ For,” he wrote, “ a nation cannot long exist which has not a history.” Yet, since that time, our Civil War has certainly done much towards giving us a history. But the purchase was so dearly bought that some Americans cannot be brought to think that the advantages which will accrue from it will be at all commensurate with the price.
In what is a country the better because it has a history? In everything that makes lifeworth . living. It §ives deeds to hallow localities; events to sanctify days, and'memories to stir the hearts of the people. It makes the grand states of Europe possible. France, Germany, and Austria—not one is larger than many of our states, yet they are probably the most powerful nations the world has ever seen. Their people willingly give up their sustenance, their limbs, and their life-blood for their Fatherland. They: are overtaxed in peace, they are pillaged, in war; yet they think it a privilege to die for their country, and all because the nation has a story full of noble deeds. •	’
But furthermore it is history that tells' to nations their unwritten constitution. Every nation has a mission to perform, and though -ages be required it will be fulfilled in the end. Laws and men may oppose, but they are as naught against destiny. Now-what this mission is, what its object may be, history alone can tell. And are hot the. great English-speaking peoples animated by one spirit?
Out on the plains of Runnymede, under the ' giant oaks of old England, gather from far arfd near Britain’s rebellious lords. The King is there, ill concealing his ire, and quiet churchmen, too, seeking benefits for their orders; and around them a sullen, determined band of doughty barons fighting for their ancient privileges. Through that selfish crowd walks one worthy of his title as a churchman and a Briton—Cardinal Stephen Langton. He spurns the’King’s court- -iers offering personal preferment; he reproaches ’ the clergy seeking to Buy advantages at the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
606 nation’s expense, and he reproves the barons for their selfishness. Then standing before the king in the midst of that assembly, he gave expression to the destiny of the English-speaking people; he gave to liberty its watchword: “ Churchman and citizen am 1, Cardinal and humble servant of my king; but first I am a man! Here stand I for the rights of mankind.”
, These words founded America, caused the thrones of European tyrants to totter, and opened the way for the universal Christian democracy yet to come from Heaven. They inspired all that is true and noble on earth today; and in after ages, when a better and a more perfect civilization will have, replaced this imperfect one of ours, still down the corridors of time will ring the voice of Stephen Langton, “ Here stand I for the rights of mankind.”
When history has aided the individual and the state, is then, its work done? No; for men are as planets, revolving in systems called states, and around and embracing these is the immense siderial system of humanity. But the slightest tremor of this great system is felt in the smallest satellite; and if history is concerned for the individual, surely then it is concerned for humanity. And, truly, humanity never stood more in need of friends than it does to-day. Through these lands, wherein virtue and religion once were wont to dwell in their beauty, where God Himself found pleasure with the children of men, now wan irreligion and hideous immorality stalk wantonly. Entire nations are sunk in error, and few lovers of virtue are to be found. All men seem turned into beasts, and humanity plunges madly to destruction. Then history, rising from her throne on high rushes to ' the front, stems the furious tide, and cries out to mankind: “Tools! desist from your mad design! It can bring you naught but evil. Why will * you seek Happiness where none have ever found it? Rome,f he virtuous, conquered the. world; she now lies in ruins, conquered by immorality. Napoleon carried in his hand the destinies of nations; he despised the command of God,and saw. the arms fall from the frozen hands of his soldiers. A like fate awaits you. - Turn, then, turn from vice and irreligion to piety and virtue, to happiness and prosperity.”	,.
History, thou art numbered among the real friends of mankind. Guide of states, guardian of individuals, protectress of humanity, gladly, do I name thee.queen of the sacred Muses. On, in thy noble .task; and wherever learning is esteemed, may men hot' fail to recognize thy ’ worth divine!. . -	. .	.	; ..	.
HI.—Philosophy in Actual Life.
JOHN GRIFFIN MOTT, LITT. B.
ANY of us remember the splendid myth in which Plato connects the position of men in their early life with theirexperiences in an earlier and higher existence: “He who has seem and remembers most is
born a philosopher; he who has seen and remembers least is born a despot.” There are two weighty truths hidden beneath this myth: Plato held that the vision of the eternal makes us men, and in proportion to our power of receptivity, this insight elevates us in the scale of humanity, since the eternal law energizes within us and upon us in a ratio commensurate with our response to grace.
Man stands midway between the two great orders of beings, the animal and the spiritual, gifted with the greatest of faculties, mind, which develops and strengthens knowledge, love and freedom, the. spirit that is enshrined within him is a reflection of the divine perfection. Well may we say with Archbishop Ireland: “ Mind, conscious, intelligent, potent to put into action thought arid wish, differentiates itself absolutely from matter, rises above it to immeasurable heights, dominates and moves the unthinking world.”
Is it the tendency of the times to give that mind growth and grandeur? No; rather to narrow men’s views down to the transitory life and the fleeting shows of sense. Men viciously tend towards matter, and admire it. Wedded to the things of this world, virtue and intelligence are subverted by the dominant passions—desire for wealth, honor and pleasure. The wheels of trade, in their merciless rotation, annihilate the purity and happiness of human souls. Eternity is lost sight of. When convinced that virtue is material utility, will then only men become virtuous? We are forced to repeat the poet’s warning:
“Ill fares the land to hastening ills a prey, When wealth accumulates and men decay.”
Though in our present composite state we use the senses; as portals through which the truth is brought to the home of; the higher, faculties, we must riot forget, that the instinct of the beautiful, which is essentially opposed to the material, is deeply imbedded in the heart of man—beauty is in the unseeri and in ,the spiritual; iri the material only by participation.
\ ' z
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	6o?
Berkeley would have us confound the palpable phantasm of the imagination with the intellectual concept. But all universal concepts are beyond the capacity of sense or imagination. We decry the theory which reduces all things, even the noblest thoughts and aspirations, to a mere difference in molecular composition, and to a mere difference of mechanical activities, and makes the sum and substance of lite to be the senses and their respective objects. We embrace intellectualism, that middle way between the extremes of sensism and subjectivism, recognizing the dual nature of man in an unextended spirit and mechanical organism.
All that is noble and capable of perfection in man lies in his soul. There is a capacious intellect energizing at will, a memory to cultivate throughout its potential vastness, an imagination to enrich with all the graceful forms of human and physical beauty. Are we to make a science like Public Economics solely the means to develop a youth’s mind, cultivate his imagination and ennoble his heart? -■ No; after religion, which is the blossom upon .the work of man, and instils the sublime fragrance of the thought that God reigns, that he is the Alpha and Omega of all things, comes the true philosophy which teaches that the spirit is not matter, the material form is not the idea that man is the golden link which binds together heaven and earth, that he is primarily an intelligence, his mind a workshop of ideas, where thought in friction with thought incites the spirit on to higher flights and rises on to broader vistas of truth!
Led through scenes of past ages, we bow in obeisance before the Patricians of human intelligence—Aristotle, whom Newman calls “ the oracle of truth and of nature',, the analyzer of the’thoughts,. feelings, views,jand opinions of human kind;” before those sublime passages of Plato that light up a whole world of thought; before that master-mind, the Angelic Doctor, and the best thinker of modern times, Bacon. By such acquaintances do we acquire accuracy of judgment; by their clear ideas and sound principles are we enabled to refute sophisms that would destroy. In a word, philosophy is a reasoned knowledge which casts white sunlight upon the shadows that cluster about the essence of things created and their laws, which connects consequences with their principles— “the knowledge of things by their causes.” Touched by its magic, mind towers above mind: as it mounts higher in the region of principles, and arrives at last at its loftiest height/and
grasps imits infinite simplicity the first Principle of all things.
Man is a being who fashions ideas. He elevates his sentiments by noble aspirations towards anything true, pure, strong and refining. But, after all, there is but one ideal— that which answers to the truth of things. Philosophy tends to quicken and sustain ideals. The loftiest aspects of man and nature are brought into view. Thought and action are established in that liberal freedom which corresponds with the sense of absolute law. The highest aspirations and most generous impulses well up in the heart beneath the vivifying dews of its divine grace. Beneath its light and warmth, positivism, which is but despair and practical pessimism, is burnt away in fire of joyful light. It develops, strengthens and expands the intellect by truth, and enables it to mount on the wings of love through nature up to nature’s God. This is the true philosophy embracing within its view nature, man and God. With the heart unfolded early to the beauty of the ideal world, breathing the atmosphere of the infinite, warmed in the sunshine of beautiful thoughts, the plastic soul reflects the impress of God’s image in its moral character: “We live within the mind and heart alone, and whatsoever is not there, for us need not exist.”	’
Through the study of philosophy we pass from the vague delights of generous impulses to the assured joy of manly principles, we realize that strength of correct moral convictions is the basic principle of all true character. A pure heart and a sound head through the purifying inter-action of spiritual and mental verities will make man the temple of an immortal soul rather than the tomb. Recognizing a higher power than public opinion, a higher and a better life than the present one, joy will be found in duty; its foundations will be immovably laid in the heart and mind, whence it starts to rapture and flights of ecstasy—“ A joy,” in the words of an old divine, “which will put on a more glorious garment above and be a joy superinvested in glory.”	‘	.
Thus the true philosophy, which Brownson calls “ religion subjected to the human mind,” loves and seeks the truth. It analyzes the mind, and has for its object the soul and God. This noble and conscientious education-blossoms, into public virtues, and bears for others' fruits of benediction. Need I mention a type that has already suggested itself to you?—a; man admired nd lessfor his brilliant intellectual attainments than for the purity of his life,
6o8
XOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
humility and faith? In an age of skepticism, one who never doubts; in an age of vacillation, never wavers. Whatever- is organic in him becomes moral, rises to religious elevation, . breathing forth the superlative principle of reason and right, the glorious hero of philosophy, theology, letters and science, the “standard-bearer of peace, light and civilization”—the venerable Leo XIII., pontiff, king, prisoner for Christ
For public life, philosophy brings forth the true business man and loyal friend. In him reason, justice and truth, regal^ and militant, stand encamped and fortified. He dwells not in the narrow, valley of material advantages and’soul-wreckage, but rather seeks the bracing air upon the heights of integrity, esteem and unblemished reputation; inspirit and.purpose keenly alive to the responsibilities implied in the name of citizen. z
Philosophy raises the statesman who, by his moral and spiritual influences, prevents the people from willing what they should not will. He must be taught that international relations should be based on ethical principles; that the social relations of men are anchored deep down in the granite of the eternal principles of justice; that authority should influence the heart, the mind and the conscience of the people. The true statesman realizes that morality in the form of justice is the same for nations as for individuals. With such a man guiding the.hopes and aspirations of the children of men, just, moral ideas will dominate, and not the force of numbers, disguised as public, opinion. :
Guided by the light of philosophy, the peerless stateman, Gladstone, has .set forth his projects on moral heights where he alone can guard and defend them. “He.has given jewels to the crown of England that shine through its sombre veil like stars.”
Then is raised a generation of patriots, not of party men; a noble band of conscientious citizens, mindful that they are answerable to. their Creator, who know the right, and, “ knowing, dare maintain it,” with a loyalty based on 1 the love of divine law and purified with the. hyssop of sacrifice;" living to make themselves ' more virtuous, their country more respected, and their fellow-citizens happier; lovers of civil liberty and a free. conscience, plucking from beneath the fair rose of freedom, the last withered thorn of religious.bigotry; attaining to the only aristocrasy—loyalty of heart; and the only imperialism—God-made distinction: of brain. Patriots, who as they gaze on; the
majestic emblem of their national sovereignty blooming forth against the blue sky, reflecting its splendors from, the depths of the glittering waves, utter with the poet: “ ’Tis sweet for native land to die.” ....
Oh! light of philosophy, divine inspirer of men, the heavenly ray that, penetrating into the deepest recesses of the soul, awakens it to visions of truth, of goodness and of beauty; visions that, seen in the proper Christian spirit, recognized and grasped as beauteous means to still more beauteous ends; means that remain no longer mere abstractions, but become concrete facts in the life and conduct of the true Christian and in the politics; of the patriot. Philosophy and religion! mighty ministers of heaven, teachers, of the aim and end of life, ever urging us upward to the fountain-head of the true, the good and the beautiful,—these are the trumpeters of ideals that make life . better and nobler, give plenitude to existence, and fire the soul with that enthusiasm which causes it to sally forth . and show to all the world the divine impress of its Maker.
Valedictory.	'
RICHARD SPALDING SLEVIN, B. A.
HERE are few men who have not felt, at times, the strangeness of a last farewell. From the day that the Creator first set this. world of man.in motion, to play its mysterious part in this wide universe, there is nothing that has been able to
defy Time in his destructive course. The life
of to-day is the. death of to-morrow. The
scenes, the associations that we hold the dearest
in the days of our boyhood and our youth, too quickly vanish like a shadow, and ere the man has reached his prime, they are only a page of his life’s history, the sadder from its very brightness. For us, that page is completed. Ill or well, we have performed the * task that is but. a prelude to the weightier
task of life. It is not for us to commence the journey, lamenting the fields of our boyish labors. And yet, who can blame the traveller who stops a moment at that bend in the road that hides from him forever the spires of his native village—who can blame him if he turns to give a last farewell to the friends that wish him God-speed on his journey to other lands!
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
This is the privilege that the Class of ’96 now asks. On leaving Notre Dame, we are leaving scenes that four years of companionship have almost converted into a second home; in leaving Notre Dame, we are leaving friends that years of companionship have bound together by links of steel. . And yet, we have eagerly looked forward to that day that would summon us to take our place among, the Alumni of the University. It has come at last, but we find that it brings with it its sorrows as well as its joys. 'A college home is never so dear as when it is about to pass from one’s life forever.
And even as we shrink from seeing our youthful dreams converted into a changeless past, so do we draw back when we consider the responsibilities that we must accept. Our Alma Mater has guided our faltering footsteps along the paths that led to these honors, but she now bids us follow in the way of those she has sent before us. It is when we would obey this last injunction that we feel our weakness. For the sons of Notre Dame are known far and wide throughout this broad land. Their names adorn the pinnacle of every profession; their deeds speak of their greatness. As journalists, as lawyers, as scientists, as statesmen, they are to be found in the foremost ranks of their profession. Their words have been borne over the waters, of two oceans; their names have been honored on the shores of two continents.	,
Gentlemen of the Faculty:—If we imitate but in a slight degree these" men that have preceded us,—if we but battle half as well as they have done,—if one of us, perchance,who has learned to appreciate the value of dime and of ceaseless labor, is able to mount to where they now stand, let him look back to *you as the men who showed him the way. If he succeeds, it will be because the principles which you have planted in his youth will have blossomed in the manhood of his age. If he fails, it will be because he will have turned a deaf ear to your. teachings of truth and of morality. “ But truth hath better . deeds than words to grace it.” And thus it is, gentlemen of the Faculty, with hope and still with regret that we bid you farewell. . ■	•
Fellow Students of the University:— This day is even of greater significance to you than to us. Our college days are completed, and for hours we may have wasted there is ho redress. The clock in yonder tower that strides for our departure is even now toll
ing away its moments for yours. -Eearn the lesson that those two hands would teach, and you will be masters of the here and the hereafter., For a time our. paths have been side by side, and though necessity now compels us to part, recollect us as we will recollect you— comrades at college—strivers for; a common cause. Fellow students, it giyes me much regret that I must say the word—Farewell!	■
Members of the Class of ’96:—It is only when we look for the last time bn The halls that have been the scenes of Our youthful triumphs and defeats, that we can fully fathom the mystic meaning of the days'that are no more. Let their memory not weaken, but rather make stronger, the love that our Alma Mater rightly claims from us. And as for friendship, let the memory of that which we have cherished here shine outjnto the future to be ever a sweet consolation. ,It is better not to call up the recollections that have brightened our college days. Rather would I say:	.
“Let’s not unman each other—part at once,	,
All farewells should be sudden, when forever, :	'
Else they make an eternity of moments ..
And clog the last sad sands of life with tears” And so—farewell!
And now with us the task of our Alma Mater is completed; may she live to’ be an Alma Mater to generations , that are yet unborn! May she live and thrive when the united nations of a warless world gather together to celebrate the ten thousandth commencement! May her praises still be sung when this earth, as dead as her sister satellite, shall have put on her last cold mantle;—when the astronomers of worlds yet uncreated shall point the lens of a Galileo to the spot where she once raised her proud towers on . high as an emblem of truth, of liberty, and of religion. Notre Dame, Farewell! .
Some Fly-Leaf Verses.
1. — in a copy of “old-fashioned roses. . dusky splendor of. the Jacqueminot, The golden glory of the Marechal Niel, We borrowed, just a year ago, '
To telbthe love we feel. -!	•
And if, to-day, you fain would guess	, -
Why scorn we roses liked of yore,—
’Tis not that'we love Treanor’s less,' ■ • : . ?
But Whitcomb Riley’s more. .	■	- . ;
If. IN HOPE’S “COMEDIES OF COURTSHIP.” : '
':a •
■ If life were just a little book of sketches—	• '
. Prose:dramas full of joy and grief and fun, : ' I would that we might ever stand shelf-comrades, - > Through Storm and shine until the day were done. ..
Or if, when Time,"the merciless, had tarnished .
The gilded bravery our noon-time spun, . . -
. ’Twere rare delight to figure in the book-lists
,As“ Twin Antiques—two volumes bound in one.” -
■■ '	. ■	- . b.v:c. :
610	MOIRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
MEW SEN W.
Notre Dame, June 27, 1896,
PuMtsfjrto c&rrn Saturtoan touring Errih Ctmc at £1. D. Sni&frsitn.
Entered as second-class matterat the Post Office, Notre Danie, Ind
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address:	THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
ROTHING gives greater pleasure than the consciousness of having done your work carefully and well. Perhaps this applies more particularly to students than to others, for time . spent well or ill determines for them success or failure. For students there are no opportunities but time and application. Study is not strategy, but perseverance, the faithful employment of unreturning moments.
To those, then, who have no lost moments to mourn, there is happiness unqualified; and if public honors have not fallen to their share, the feeling that study, like virtue, is its own reward is paramount. The primary object of study is not to receive honors, but to acquire knowledge. If honors have not accrued, there is, at least, the satisfaction of being at . peace with self, and this in itself is a great reward.
Nothing is left for the laggard and the idler to do but to reform. There is yet time for atonement, but the time is not greater than the need. There are, indeed, few who have wilfully wasted their time during the past scholastic year; there are many who have won “ golden opinions from all sorts of people.” It is gratifying to all concerned to see how many; have held along in the path of duty and have striven to improve the present.
There has been during the year a happy co-operation between the students and the professors—a confidence in each other that is indispensable in the acquirement of knowledge. It had been the hope of the Faculty to raise the standard of scholarship, and the students of ’95-96have cordially responded to their efforts. The bi-monthly competitions gave to. the students a broader, more extensive, view of their . subjects, and trained them to grapple more effectively with the difficulties in their way. One important effect of this plan of competitions is the death-blow it has " given; tp ; the system of “ cramming,” hitherto too iquch in ;
vogue. To master the daily task and leave no arrears of study to the end has been the effort of most of the students.	.
Reviewing the year just gone by, the Faculty and students have reason to congratulate themselves and each other, Let not those who have won the race rest on their oars, but pull within the limit of their strength; and let those who have lost through their own neglect pull a steadier stroke in the harder race of life; it is a duty they all owe to themselves.
- ---------------—-------------
The First Scholarship Established at Notre Dame.
\ I/O the large spirit and generosity of Col.
John R. Fellows, District Attorney of New York City, is due the establishment of the first “Scholarship” at Notre Dame, than which no other more desirable thing could be brought about.	.	-
Since the present President, Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C., assumed the management of the University, he has labored unceasingly, and by radical methods, to elevate the standards of study and investigation at Notre Dame in accordance with the demands of the time, and with the intention of bringing Notre Dame into the foremost rank among the great institutions of learning in America.	.
The work has been steadily progressing, and with a rapidity surprising when the limited means of the College are considered. In the fifty-four, years of the institution’s existence it has been dependent,for its growth and development entirely upon the fees received from its students, never, until the present time, having enjoyed the benefits of any kind of endowment.
Father Morrissey, realizing1, that the attendance of earnest, talented students is one of the , most important steps toward the end in view, and knowing that this is the class of young men who would be attracted by the existence of such opportunities, has long hoped for the innovation which has now come about. Previous to the Golden Jubilee, which occurred last year, an .attempt was made, by co-operation between Faculty and Alumni, to found the first scholarship, but owing to several reasons, the undertaking was not a success, at least for the time being. ’	.	.
.With this disappointment in mind, the unsolicited and open-handed munificence of Colonel ■Fellows is especially timely, and no more inspiring response to the President’s efforts could be
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	611
devised. In addition to its nominal value, the gift has an especial importance in being the pioneer of its kind at Notre Dame, and will, undoubtedly, inspire a similar generosity in the minds of others, thus leading to the establishment of a series of scholarships. Too much good cannot be said of a noble work of this nature, which, above its faculty of advancing high-spirited and deserving young men to * prospects of a career, and of contributing to the course of enlightened Christian education, cannot fail to reflect upon its author the blessings which truth and beauty bring to all who seek them. .
A strange and rather significant phase of the matter in question—related closely, no doubt, to the ada^fe “A prophet is never appreciated in his own country,”—is the fact that'Colonel John R. Fellows is neither a Catholic by religion, nor was he ever a student at Notre Dame. But that he is catholic in his love of mankind and his desire for its betterment, there can be no doubt; and to such a man all worthy institutions are an Alma Mater.	,
-----------------
The Fifty-Second Annual Commencement.
fT is difficult to be anything but superlative in speaking of Notre Danie’s fifty-second Commencement. To say that it was in every way successful, is stating merely the plain, unvarnished truth. As a matter of course there was less pomp and grandeur than attended j?fie jubilee celebration of last year, but there \yas just as much earnestness; and if the enthusiasm was df a quieter sort it was still hearty and unmistakable. The sessions of ’95-96 have been signalized by great achievements in the line of education; they have also been signalized by a very fitting closing.	.
On Sunday, the 14th inst., Solemn High Mass was sung by the Very Rev. President. The Rev. E. B. Kilroy, D. D., Class of ’52, preached (the Baccalaureate sermon and spoke wisely on the question of “ Christian Education.” Dr. Kilroy. is the oldest living son of Alma Mater; it was gratifying to have him amongst us in the capacity of pulpit orator for the Alumni Mass.
. During the whole of Monday and Tuesday , up to the morning recess of Wednesday, Commencement ceased awhile, and the examination of undergraduates took place. When the last r paper had been handed in, a gay procession of students and visitors filed down to the banks
of St. Joseph’s Lake to witness the regatta. Two races were rowed this year, both in six-oarbd shells. The Blues Minnehaha, who were the first to.appear, took their positions as follows: R. Fox, No. 1; E. Moran, 2; L. Healy, 3; B Fitzgerald, 4; J. E. Boland, 5; Stuart McDonald, captain and stroke, E. C. Reilly, coxswain. The . Reds JEvangeline} were seated thus: G. Stuhl-fauth, No. i; J.Ducey, 2; R. Barry, 3; G.Cypher, 4; J. Howell, 5; O. Tpng, captain and stroke; L. Brincker, coxswain. The Blues were the first to get off, and they had almost completed the turn before the Reds came up to the first buoy. Both crews pulled a splendid stroke on the home stretch; and had not the Blues obtained such a big handicap at the start, there would still be some doubt as to whom the anchors would go.
The second race was neither ..close nor exciting. In the Golden Jubilee sat E. Reilly, No. 1; T. King, 2; C. Flaririigan, 3; O. Tong, 4; L. Hesse, 5; L. Brincker, captain and stroke; T. Finnerty, coxswain. The Silver JubJee had L. Wheeler, No. 1; J. Mullen, 2; E. Gilmartin, 3; J. Davila, captain and Nd? 4; C. Niezer, 5; A. Chase, stroke; G. McCarrick, coxswain. The Silver Jubilee men were neveriri danger of defeat. They won by two lengths, and reduced the University course-record six seconds. \
In the afternoon field sportswere held on Brownson Hall Campus. Some of the events; are worth recording. The hundred-yards dash was taken by William O’Brien who sprinted the distance in 0.10%. J. C. Burke broke, the college record for the mile run in the fast time of 4.56. The five-mile bicycle race went to J. Blackman who reduced the figures for that event to 13.58. J. McCarthy was victorious in three different contests: he threw the hammer 93 feet 7 inches, put the shot 33 feet 2 inches, and did 43 feet 6 inches in the hop, stop and jump.
, At 2.30 the Minims performed calisthenics in St. Edward’s Gymnasium to the entertainment of every visitor who obtained admission. Besides this exhibition of physical strength, however, the young studerits showed their progress in declamation and music, and it is the verdict of all that they are stronger in their intellectual than in their muscular accomplishments. Perhaps the chat with. which Dr. O’Malley that morning concluded his series of delightful conversations. added zest to the efforts of the young performers. Perhaps it was the thought of going home that cheered them to their highest endeavors. At any <
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
612
rate, the Minims never appeared to better advantage. Two of the recitations—“ Heart Blossoms” byJ.M. Quinlan,and “The Betrothal of St. Thomas ” by W. Finnerty—were exceedingly meritorious. For Instrumental Music L. Raschc on the violin and J. Morehouse at the piano carried off the honors. A feature of the entertainment was the choral singing. Though there are more good voices than one among the boys, it must have required careful training to bring them to the degree of perfection which was manifested on Wednesday afternoon. At the conclusion of the exercises came the awarding of medals and certificates - and the distribution of premiums. Nearly five scores of youngsters were made happy, and as they went trooping down the halls, exulting over their well-earned prizes, the Senior heaved a sigh of longing for the days that are- gone, and even the Junior cast a wistful glance at St. Edward’s Hall as though he wanted to get back.	•
Just before the exercises in Washington Hall, the Band gave a concert on the college lawn. Those who heard Prof. Preston’s men for the first time were somewhat more than pleased with the rendition of the programme—they were really astonished. They wondered at the degree of perfection attained by students who had only their recreation hours to devote to practice. Perhaps their wonderment is justified in fact, also, for the boys have worked hard, and it is safe to assert that Notre Dame has never had a better Band. During intermissions the college lungs emitted college cheers. Hall sallies were indulged in amid murmurs of applause and laughter from the visitors. .
After the last note of the concluding number had died away everyone turned his steps towards Washington Hall. The Commencement exercises proper were about to take place. The beautiful odeon was filled to its utmost capacity when the University Orchestra began the overture from “Robin Hood.” The music altogether was of a high order of merit, but two numbers are deserving of special mention. These were a flute solo by Mr. Edward J..Rauch and Prof. Preston’s “ Sea Fairies,” performed by the University Mandolin Club.
The . theme of the Bachelors’ Discourses Was. “The Foundation of Collegiate. Education.” ME Arthur W. Stace discussed “Literature in the Formation of Character.” His thought was clear and happily expressed; his delivery, too, was marked by considerable earnestness. “The Pignity of History” formed the subject of a
well-written address by Mr. John G. Shannon. Mr. John Griffin Mott concluded this portion of the evening’s programme with his oration on “ Philosophy in Actual Life.” Graceful and forceful speaking comes easy to Mr. Mott at all times, but he quite surpassed himself on this occasion. What must have impressed the visitor most favorably during these Bachelor Discourses was the confidence in their own powers which the young men displayed. Too often college orators convey the notion that they talk because they have been advertised to do so by the authorities. The graduates of ’96, on the other hand, seemed to have an interesting word to say on their several topics, and they said it with animation and praiseworthy assurance. .	•
The orator, of the day was the Honorable Thomas A. Moran of Chicago. He proposed to himself the question, “What is the contribution of a University like this to the nation?” He answered it in part as follows:
“We have many problems to solve in this great young land of ours. There is abroad at this hour a spirit of deep unrest; there is alarm in the minds of thoughtful men. Questions have come up within my life-time which the men of my generation have not been able to settle. Now that the men of my generation are passing away, these questions have assumed an importance which they never held- before. They must be settled, they must be settled speedily, and to whom can we look for their solution but to men of University training?	t - .
“We find the labor problem no nearer solution; indeed we find it farther, from solution than ever before. We hear mutterings against society; we see men moving to attack the very foundation of social security. Individuals of pretended learning are challenging every truth; the laws are ignored, the Sunday is profaned, and there is no one to step forward and cry‘Halt!’ :
“ In this condition of things there is much to make us pessimistic, much to make us tremble. We boast of our material prosperity, our actual wealth, our possible resources; and yet what are these if we cannot give answers to the problems I have briefly indicated!
“ Do not misjudge me; I am not striking a note of despair. I have a hrm confidence that these questions will be settled to the peace and contentment of all. It is'our duty to hope that our country is able to meet every difficulty that may arise. Though we have no history to look to for precedents, we are justified at all events in hoping for the best.	t .
“ The immense growth of corporations within the past generation points out another evil which you, university men, will have to grapple with. Capital in the hands of an individual partakes of the humanity of the individual, ' of the Christianity of the individual—is governed by his charity. But in the.hands of a corporation it operates against labor to deprive it of its just reward. The capital of a trust, whether it is in dollars of gold or in dollars of silver, becomes as hard as the' metal which goes tp make it up. In the discharge of its contracts, corporations deal with the labor they command with all charity and humanity removed from the,transaction. The settlement •of this growing evil requires intelligence—requires that kind of intelligence which is produced s by an institution like this; that.zkind of- intelligence which- submits the desire and the will of a man to his1 conscience; that kind of intelligence which .has been built up by men of holy -livesarid ofGod-1 ike moral ity.	\	, ‘
“What does a young man gain in a university? He is
V
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
placed in contact with scholars and men of ideas. In his college years character is formed. Association with men who teach and think, and not the inculcation of classics, is the thing that forms character. Few men, indeed, make scholars. , But leave out character and conscience and morality, and be he ever so leanied, the man who enters society is worthless in the solution of such questions as come up in the struggle of life. The object of a university is n.ot to make men scholars, but to make scholars men.’ '
“Now to the young men who graduate from Notre Dame I shall presume to give a few words of advice. I have observed a tendency on the part of university graduates to flock into what’are called the learned professions, such as law and medicine. There is about the profession of law a certain glamour to the young student. By engaging in it'4he hopes for applause, fame, possibly notoriety. Actuated perhaps by a more charitable motive he seeks the medical profession. But these walks of life are already overcrowded. There' is not the opportunity for the professional man that once existed. There are too many at the foot of the ladder and too few at the top. I would not decry the learned professions sweepingiy; but the time has come in this country when the business man is of more account and exercises more influence on the affairs of the nation than either the lawyer or the physician. The lawyer and the physician are really servants of the-business man. And if we had more university men in the ranks of business—men with not only a university education,.but with a university conscience—there would be less need of lawyers.- A nation of business men governed by the intelligence of college training presents- a spectacle of magnificent possibilities in the solution of our great problems.
“To you,graduates, let me say in conclusion that when you leave Notre Dame with the knowledge of science and the arts, do so with a purpose. You leave it with a character formed and placed on a solid foundation. Wherever you go you must carry this character with you. Go forth, then, you men with a purpose and with a conscience, and in whatever life you engage you will do good to humanity, reflect credit upon yourselves and upon your University, and become that crowning glory of a nation—good citizens.”
Judge Moran was listened to with marked attention and was- frequently interrupted by applause.- His oration closed the evening’s programme.	•-
On Thursday morning the final exercises were held in Washington Hall. “ Home Sweet Home” was rendered in a very touching manner by the Varsity Quartette, who, by the way, have distinguished themselves all through the Commencement by their clever singing. ■ Mr. William P. Burns read the Class Poem and Mr. Richard Spalding Slevin delivered the Valedictory. Both of these gentlemen did unusually well.
Then followed the conferring of Degrees and the awarding of Honors and Prize Medals • by the Rt. Rev: Bishop Rademacher. Judge Howard, of the Supreme Court of Indiana, was present on the platform, and. admitted the law graduates to practice at .the bar of this state. When this ceremony had concluded Bishop Spalding, at the request of Very Rev. President Morrissey, arose to announce that Col. John R. Fellows, of New York, who acted as one of the judges in the oratorical contest last week.
613
had endowed a scholarship in the University. The announcement . was greeted with great enthusiasm. Bishop Spalding took occasion to speak with his customary energy'- about “Fidelity in Education.” His address was. short, but it carried conviction with it. He concluded with this characteristic statement: “ For parents to send their sons here simply because they have the money to do so is to fill the college with infidels, with those who do not believe in education. We want more scholarships, because we want more boys who have faith in their ability to achieve.”
. CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The Degree of ■ •■ Doctor of Laws was conferred on Rev. Maurice J. Dorney, Chicago, Illinois; Hon. Thomas A. Moran, Chicago, Ill.
The Degree of Master of Arts in course was conferred on Joseph Just, Luxemburg. .
* The Degree of Master of Arts in honoreni was conferred on James M.Dinnen, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Joseph Walter Wilstach, Lafayette, Ind.
■ The-; Degree of Master of Science in honorem was conferred on John A. Gibbons, Streator, Illinois'.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts in course vas - conferred on Richard Spalding Slevin, ?eoria. Ill.; John G.Shannon,‘Kansas City'Mo.; Thomas A. Crumley,. Cincinnati, Ohio..
The Degree .of Bachelor of Letters in course was conferred on Arthur W. Stace, Grand Rapids, Mich.; John Griffin Mott, Los Angeles, Cal.; George F. Pulskamp, Celina, Ohio; Francis E. Eyanson, Columbia City,Ind.; William P. Burns, Michigan City, Indiana:
The Degree of Civil Engineer in course was conferred on John B. Murphy, Vancouver Barracks, Washington, Walter W. Marr, Chicago, Illinois.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science-was conferred on Joseph A. Maguire, Chicago, .Ill.
The Degree of. Bachelor of Science in Biology was conferred on Francis W. Barton, Danville, Illinois. ,	. '
The Degree of Master of Laws was conferred on Ryell T. Miller, South Bend, Indiana; Louis Bastrup, Chicago, Illinois.	.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on Daniel P. Murphy, Lewisburgh, Penn.; John H.Gallagher, Chicago, Ill.; James B: Barrett, Los Angeles, California; Francis P. McManus, Charlestown, Mass.; Albert Galen, Helena, Montana; Louis C.‘. Wurzer, Detroit, Mich.; Michael F. Hennebry, Ritchie, Illinois.
SY
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
COMMERCIAL DIPLOMAS.
Alphonsus J. Ball, Plymouth, Ind.; Arthur J. Farley, Utica, New York; George H. Keefe, San Francisco, Cal.; Roy A. Murray, Chicago, Ill.; James B. O’Malley, Albany, Missouri; Rudolph G. Singler, South Bend, Ind.; Edward P. Moran, Fort Madison, Iowa; James I. Powers, Galena, Ill.; Albert J. Schoenbein, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Edward J. Hierholzer, Celina, Ohio; Charles T. Cullen, Indianapolis, Ind.
Certificates of Telegraphy were awarded to John E. Howell, Alexander Pietrzykowski.
SPECIAL PRIZE MEDALS.
The Mason Medal for the student of Carroll Hall having the best record for the scholastic year was awarded to Edward C. Brown, Sheldon, Iowa.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory was awarded to John Griffin Mott, Los Angeles, Cal.
The Ellsworth C. Hughes Medal for the best record in Mathematics for the scholastic year was awarded to John B. Murphy, Vancouver Barracks, Washington.
The Grand Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Brownson Hall, First Course, was awarded to William C. Kegler, Bellevue, Iowa.
The Sorin Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll Hall, First Course, was awarded to Francis B. Cornell, New York City.
. SENIOR CLASS—CLASSICAL COURSE.
The Quan Gold Medal was awarded to Richard S. Slevin, Peoria, Ill.
COMMERCIAL COURSE. '	,
The Gold Medal for proficiency in the Commercial Course was. awarded to Albert J. Schoenbein, Fort Wayne, Indiana.	.
SPECIAL COURSES.
The Barry Elocution Medal in Brownson Hall was awarded to George P. McCarrick, Norfolk, Va.
The Elocution Medal in Carroll Hall was awarded to William W. Scherrer, East St. Louis, Illinois. *	. '	-
The Medal for Christian Doctrine in Brownson Hall was awarded to Edward J. Hierholzer, Celina, Ohio.
st. edward’s hall.
The Sorin ‘ Elocution Gold Medal was awarded to William J. Finnerty.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine ’ was awarded to Edmund F. Swan.
The Gold. Medal for Letter-Writing was , awarded to Thomas D. Sexton. .	.
The Gold Medal for Penmanship was awarded to Robert F. McIntyre.
The Gold Medal for improvement in Piano was awarded to Edwin E. Elliott..
The Gold Medal for Violin was awarded to Leo J. Rasche.
The Silver Medal for Penmanship was awarded to Francis D. Breslin.	.
The Silver Medal for Letter-Writing was awarded to Francis S. Cottin.
The Silver Medal for improvement in Piano was awarded to Noel L. Freeman.
The Silver Medal for improvement in Vocal Music was awarded to Jay E. Morehouse.
The Silver Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to Joseph A. Coquillard.
FIRST HONOR AWARDS.
[First Honors are awarded to students of Sorin and Brownson Halls who have attained an average of at least 90 per cent, for scholarship and deportment during the scholastic year. The first honor awarded for the first year takes the form of a diploma; that awarded for two years of satisfactory work is a gold medal. This medal may be renewed from year to year.]
SORIN HALL.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to Martin J. Costello, Chicago, Illinois; Jesse W. Lantry, Chatsworth, Illinois.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to Charles M. B. Bryan, Memphis, Tenn.; Thomas B. Reilly, Sing Sing, N. Y.; Paul J. Ragan, Maumee, Ohio; Arthur W.Stace, Grand Rapids, Michigan.	.
BROWNSON HALL. '
First Honor Gold Medals, were awarded to Julius A. Arce, Arequipa, Peru, South America; Eugene A. Delaney, Lykens, Penn.; William F. Sheehan, Hancock, Mich.
First Honor Diplomas wfere awarded to Edward J. Mingey, Philadelphia, Penn.; Thos. A. Steiner, Monroe, Michigan; John M. Thiele, Monterey, Indiana; F. Henry Wurzer, Detroit, Michigan.	.
DEPORTMENT PRIZE MEDALS:
[Gold Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll and St. Edward’s Halls who have spent two full years at .Notre Dame, and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
CARROLL HALL.
E. J. Gainer, W. T.< Morris, W. W. Scherrer.
RENEWALS.'
William P. Monahan, Thomas A. Lowery.
st. edward’s hall.	'
George T. Moxley, Jay E. Morehouse, Leo J.. Kelly, Daniel Bi. Spillard, Charles Kelly, Henry . Sontag, -	. .	- ,	.
SCHOLASTIC.
NOTRE DAME
[Silver Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll and St. Edward’s Halls, who have spent two full years at Notre Dame, and whose deportment has given general satisfaction.]	.
’	CARROLL HALL.
George W. Leach, Thomas E. Noonan.
ST. EDWARD'S HALL.
Arthur Allyn, Robert J. Catchpole, Robert A. Kasper, Frank W. Waite, Francis Welch, Maurice A. Joriquet.
DEPORTMENT CERTIFICATES.
[Certificates are awarded to those pupils of Carroll and and St. Edward’s Halls who have followed the courses of the University at least two terms and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
CARROLL HALL.
E. Brown, L. Beardslee, W. Berry, J. Berry, E. Cave, P. Curtis, F. Druiding, E. Darst, W. Dinnen, R. Garza, E. Hake, L. Hake, F. Kasper, A. Klein, J. Koehler, Wm. Land, C. Moss, J. Meagher, A. Merz, J. O’Malley, W. Page, F. O’Brien, W. Ryan, F. Summers, A. Schoenbein, J. Walsh, R. Weitzel, H. Weitzel, R. Wilson, V. Welker.
st. Edward’s hall.
John Quinlan, Harry Giffin, William Maher, Percy Cotter, Charles Bode, Charles Marshall, Grover Davis, Thomas Fetter, Arthur Phillips, Ivan Bergeron, William Plunkett, James Van Dyke, George Van Dyke, Ralph Van Sant, Leport Van Sant, Joseph Pyle, William Bullen, James Polk, Miles E. Flynn, Arthur Flynn, Maurice Brissenden, George Kopf, Buell Davis, Dennis Rasche, Lawrence Hart, George Quer-tinmont, Graham Dugas, Francis Bode, Paul McBride.
:	MILITARY.
Commissions and Warrants were awarded to Captains W. Burnett Weaver, Miamisburg, Ohio; Albert E. Loomis, Chicago, Ill.
First Lieutenants Joseph V. Sullivan, Chi- ' cago, Ill.; Henry Pollitz, Chicago, Ill.; Edward T. Gilmartin, Fort Wayne, Ind.
Second Lieutenants F. Howard Pim, St. Louis, Mo.; George T. Moxley, Chicago, Ill.
Sergeants George W. Nevius, Chicago, III.;* Henry C. Stearns, Chicago, Ill.; John M. Marr, Jr., Frankfort, Ky.; Adam J.Kasper, Jr., Chicago, Ill.; Vincent B. Welker, Gambier, Ohio; Albert V. Long, Lacrosse, Ind.
Corporals Charles J. Shillingtori, Chicago, Ill.; William P. Lovett, Chicago, Ill.; Ernest L. Dugas, Chicago, Ill.; Herbert J. Moorhead, Terre Haute, Irid.; Charles D. Wells, Jr., Chicago, Ill.
Premiums.
SORIN HALL.
Bennett, H.—ist Premium in 3d Latin; 2d premium in 1 st German.	’
Burns, W.—2d Premium in Belles-Lettres.
Barry, J.—ist Premium in 2d Latin, Criticism and 3d Greek; 2d premium in Christian Doctrine; mention in Logic.
Bryan, C.—ist Premium in Criticism, English History and 2d French; 3d premium in Christian Doctrine; mention in Logic.	_ -
Barton,:F.—ist Premium in Human Anatomy; 2d premium in Advanced Botany; 3d premium in 2d German and Advanced Histology; mention in Bacteriology.
Costello, M.—ist Premium in 3d Greek and Christian Doctrine; 2d premium in Logic and Elerhentary Chemistry; mention in 2d Latin.	'
Eyanson, F.—ist Premium.in ist German; Mention in 3d Latin, Astronomy and Belles-Lettres.	.
Fagan, W.—ist Premium in Mineralogy, Geology, Advanced Botany and Bacteriology; 2d premium in Human Anatomy, Metallurgy, 2d French and Advanced Histology; mention in Analytical Chemistry' and Organic Chemistry.
Gaukler, A.—ist Premium in Instrumental Music; 3d premium in Logic; mention in Literature. ,
Lantry, J.—ist Premium in 2d German; 3d premium in Criticism; mention in 3d Greek.
Marr, W.—ist Premium in Civil Engineering; mention in Mechanics of Engineering.
Murphy, E.—2d Premium in 3d Latin; mention in Natural Philosophy, Criticism and Christian Doctrine.
Miller, J.—ist Premium in Calculus and Descriptive Geometry; mention in Geology, Mineralogy, Chemistry' Elementary' and Civil Engineering. .
Murphy, J.—ist Premium in Astronomy, Civil Engineering and Mechanics of Engineering; 2d premium in Natural Philosophy; mention in Logic.
McNamara, J.—2d.Premium in_2d Greek; 3d premium in Criticism.	"
McDonough, W.—ist Premium in Zoology and Composition; 2d premium in Modern History’.	.	'
Ney, M.—3d Premium in 3d French.
Palmer, R.—ist Premium in Metallurgy, Natural Philoso- -phy' and Industrial Drawing; 2d premium in Mineralogy.
Pulskamp, G.—Mention in Moral Philosophy'.
Reardon, P.—3d Premium in Natural Philosophy; 4th premium in Botany; mention in Logic.	.
Rosenthal, J.—ist Premium in Analytical Chemistry, Advanced Histologyand Organic Chemistry; 2d premium in Bacteriology and Geology; 3d premium in Human Anatomy and Mineralogy.	-
Ragan, P.—ist Premium in 2d Greek; 2d premium in Elementary' Chemistry'; 4th premium in Natural Philosophy; mention in Logic, Criticism and Christian Doctrine; premium for Instrumental Music.	_
Reilly, T.—ist Premium in 3d Greek; 2d premium in Natural Philosophy, Criticism and 2d Latin; 3d premium in Logic; 4th premium in Elementary' Chemistry' and Botany.	-
Sullivan, J.—Mention in Logic, 2d Greek, Botany arid Criticism.	.
Slevin, R.— ist Premium in 1 st Latin,_ist Greek and Instrumental Music; 2d premium in Moral ..Philosophy.
Shannon, J.—2d Premium in Political Economy; mention in Moral Philosophy' and ist Greek.
Sanders, J.—Mention iri Logic arid Criticism.	-
Stace, A.—ist Premium in Moral Philosophy, Political Economy and Belles-Lettres; 2d premium in Astroriomy; mention a n 2d Latin. ,
Steele, S.—3d Premium in English History.
Weaver, W.—3d Premium in Botany; mention in Human Anatomy, Bacteriology, Advanced Histology. •
Wilson, H.—ist Premium in Logic and Vocal Culture; 2d premium in English History; mention Tn Natural Philosophy; premiuin for Instrumental Music.	-
6i6
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
BROWNSON HALL. ,
Arpin, A.—ist Premium in General Machine Work.
Arce, J.—ist Premium in Botany, Christian Doctrine and Industrial Drawing;. 2d premium in Surveying; 3d premium in Elementary Chemistry and Analytical Geometry; mention in Natural Philosophy and 2d French.
Anders, A:—Mention in Geography.	.	’
Anderson, J.—M ention in 2d Grammar.
Armijo, J.—Mention in 4th Algebra; 2d premium in 2d Book-keeping and ist Spanish. ■
Atherton, C.— 1st Premium in Industrial Drawing; mention in Surveying.
. Byrne,-J.—ist Premium in 6th Greek; 2d premium in 4th Latin.1
Ball, A.—3d Premium in ist Book-keeping; 5th premium in Type-writing; mention in Christian Doctrine.
Browne, J. HN—3d Premium in ist. Christian Doctrine.'
Brinker, L.—3d Premium in Physiology; mention in Zoology; premium for Instrumental Music.
Browne, Ji W.—Mention in Christian Doctrine, 7th Latin and 4th Algebra.	;
Blanchard, C.—ist Premium in Instrumental Music.
Blackman, J. ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d premium in 2d Grammar and Christian Doctrine.
Bowlin, E.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic and ist Orthography.
’ Berthelet, R.—2d Premium in 2d Book-keeping; mention in. ist Arithmetic, ist Grammar and Special Orthog.
Brucker, S.~ ist Premium in Composition. .
Campbell, M. 2d Premium in 3d Greek; 3d premium in Rhetoric; mention in 3d Latin.	'
Campbell, E.—ist Premium in Physiology and 2d Geometry; 2d premium in Composition and Modern History; 3d premium in 7th Latin and Christian Doctrine.
Chase, A.—2d Premium in Instrumental Music.
Cypher, G.—Mention in ist Grammar and Christian Doctrine.
Corby, John Mention in Literature.
Carney, A.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Grane, J.—2d Premium in Penmanship; mention in ist Grammar and 2d-Bobk-keeping.
Cullen, T.—Mention in:ist Arithmetic, ist Grammar, ist Orthography and Christian Doctrine. -	:
Cullen, C.—Mention in Special Orthography, Christian Doctrine and Type-writing.	'
Confer, F.—ist Premium in Rhetoric;' mention in
Christian-Doctrine.	- '	’
1 Daly, B.—ist Premium in Histology; 2d premium in
- Physiology arid Zoology; mention in ist Geometry.
Delaney, E.—ist Premium for Surveying, Botany, Analytical Geometry and Industrial Drawing; 2d premium in Natural Philosophy, 2d. French arid Christian Doctrine."
Ducey, J.—ist Premium for Vocal'Culture. / ‘
- Daly, M.—2d Premium in ist Arithmetic." .
Duperier, A.—3d Premium in Ancient History; mention in 4th Algebra.	'	" . ’	"
Duperier, A.—3d Premium in Ancient History; mention . in 4th Algebra. . .	'	.
‘ Dukette, F.—ist Premium in ’ 4th Algebra and Instrumental Music.....	’
. Fofbing, J/- ist Premium for Spanish and Music. J’
. . Foulks, C.—ist Premium in-2d Book-keeping; premium in.7th Latin.	-----	•	.	....	- /• •/
* /Follen, P. - 2d Premium iri Christian Doctrine;'mention
. in"4th.Algebra. ,	1 .	-	' .	’
- Fitzpatrick, W.—ist Premium in. Microscopy; 3d pre-: miiini iri Zoology arid General’Biology; mention in 7th
- Latin and Physiology? ’	?	.' ? ?■’•'-/ ?.	?
/ Flannigan, C./-2d Premium/in'2d Arithmetic; mention
. in 3d Grammar and Tst Reading; . ' ?'/?.* 1
\ Fox, R.— ist' Premium1 in Artistic Drawing?? -Fehr, A.—2d 'Premium iri Tnstrdmental /Music.	..
. FarreH/N:—Mention in 3d Grammar/ - ;	* -/
'	: Fera, Al—ist Premium iri" VocaL Culture arid Artistic ;
*■ Drawing. ■	;,/’'7/■///:/? ■/- -	/^///v ./ - .
.. - Farley,A. ist Premium iri ist?Bbok-keeping;’inention .
* in Penmanship. .	<' " /	-. A"	/; -* .
' -• J Ferguson, C.—3d Premium in .Penmanship.	// .?	..
?. / ? Goeke,'Jr-^ist^Premium in/Composition;.3d/premium,-/ ? in Penmanship; mention in.ist’Bobk-keeping. ? / ‘ ■
Gibson,. N.— ist Premium for Christian Doctrine and General Iron-Work; 2d premium in Industrial Drawing; mention in Electricity. .
Gihriartin, E.—ist Premium in 3d German.
Geoghegan, W.—3d Premium in Rhetoric; 2d premium in 3d French.	.	‘
Golden, W.—2d Premium in Botany; mention in Christian Doctrine, Logic and Criticism.
Galen, A.—Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Gilmore, J.—3d Premium in ist Reading; 4th premium in Type-writing; mention in 3d Arithmetic.
Hay, E.— ist Premium in 3d Algebra.
Hesse, F.—ist Premium in Industrial Drawing.
Girardi, L.— 2d Premium in' Type-writing; mention in ist Arithmetic.
Hayes; J.—3d Premium in 6th Latin.
Healy,—L. Mention in-Electricity. ‘	'
Hoban, T.—Mention in ist Book-keeping.
Hanhauser, G.—ist Premium in 3d Algebra; 2d premium in 6th Latin; mention in Christian Doctrine. ’
Hanhauser, A.—Mention in ist Book-keeping.	‘
Harrison, J.—ist Premium in Physiology, Zoology, Gen’l
Biology and Music; 2d premium in Microscopy and History; mention in Elementary Chemistry.
Haley, J.—2d Premium in 4th Algebra; 3d premium in 8th Latin; mention in Christian Doctrine.
Hierholzer, E.—ist Prerhiuni in Christian Doctrine.
Heniiebry, M.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; mention in Logic. „	‘	.
Howell, J.—ist Premium in General Iron and Wood
Work and Telegraphy. ‘	■
Hindel, W.—2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; mention in
Special Orthography.	.	1
Hesse, F.—2d Premium in Trigonometry’.
Hesse, J.—3d Premium in 2d Orthography and ist
Arithmetic; mention in 3d Grammar.
Henry, H.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar and Instrumental Music; mention in.ist Arithmetic and Special Orthography.
Hinde, J.—Mention in.General Biology. .
Johnson, J.—2d Premium in-Industrial Drawing; 3d premium in 2d Algebra.	■	.	.	.
Kegler, W.'—3d Premium in Analytical Geometry and Modern History; mention in Elementary Chemistry and Natural Philosophy. .	\	.	-
Kidder, T.—Mention in ist Geography, History and 2d Arithmetic.	. r	‘	'
Kelly, E. ist Premium in Microscopy;,2d premium in Physiology; 3d premium in Histology.
King, T.-^ ist Premium in Iron and Wood-Work; 2d . premium in Instrumental Music. , ■ .	' .
Kerwin, T.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine. .
. Kearney, P.—ist Premium in 8th Latin; mention in Type-writing.
Minge.y, E. - 2d Premium in Literature. ,
Mattingly, H.—ist Premium in Instrumental Music;
mention in 4th Algebra. :	-	■.	,	,
Medley, T.—Mention in 5th Greek, Natural Philosophy and Literature. . . , ’	; ’	1
Moran, E — ist Premium for.Instrumental Music; mention in Telegraphy and Book-keeping./ -	.
Meller, H.—ist Premium in 2d Algebra. .
1	Monahan,’B,—3d Premium 'for Vocal Culture; mention in 3d Grammar.	.. . . . -	. .	■
,Monahan, R.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine;.men-, tion in Ancient History." ’	- T?-- , . •	> '	■
/ Maurus. E.—Mention in Christiari Doctrine. .	.
Meyers* J.—ist Premium for Vocal Culture.	.
Mullen, J.—Mention in 7th Latin'.	:	"
Mueller, H.—ist Premium in 2d Reading;; mention in :
Orthography. ..	. ./- ’	.	’	/	.	,
McGinnis, J.—2d Premium in 5th Latin and Rhetoric;
, mention in 6th Greek and 4th Algebra. : c	.	-
McCarthy, W.—Mention in 2d Grammar, ist Arithmetic .
. .and 2d Book-keeping. * ‘	'; "	/
, Mehig,F.—Mention in Penmanship.'. ,	\
McPhee,. C.—Mention in Christian Doctrine.'...	• - 1
McCormack, Mi—Mention in 7th1 Latin and Christian. <
Doctrine;-, ist premium in 2d Book-keeping, ' /■ ' - ’/• :
McDonald.S.— ist Premium in Electricity; 4thpremium ; . ..
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
7
Elementary Chemistry; mention in Natural Philosophy.
McGuire, F.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic, 3d Grammar, ist Reading and ist Orthography. ,■
Niezer, C.—ist Premium in ist Reading; 2d premium in Physiology and Modern History; mention in 2d Geometry.
Naughton, J.—3d Premium in Composition.
Neeley, H.—3d Premium in 2d Reading; mention in 3d Arithmetic.	.
O’Brien, W.— Mention in Literature, in Modern History and Christian Doctrine.
O’Brien, T.—2d Premium in Reading, Orthography and Geography; 3d premium in 2d Arithmetic and 3d Grammar; premiumxfor Instrumental Music.
O’Brien, J.—ist Premiurti for Cornet; 2d premium in 3d Grammar; mention in Reading; premium for Instrumental Music.	*"
O’Malley, R.—3d Premium in English History; mention in 5th Greek.	. -	-.
O’Malley, F.— ist Premium in Rhetoric.	Christian Doctrine.
Powell, R.—ist Premium in ist Grammar; 2d premium in 4th Algebra; 3d premium in 8th Latin; mention in Geography and History. .	. ■.	-.
Pietrzykowski,A.—ist Premium inPenmanship; 2d premium in Telegraphy; mention in 3d Grammar, 2d Reading and 3d French.	. .
Putnam, J.—Mention in Orthography, 4th Algebra and Christian Doctrine. . "
Piquette C.—2d Premium in General Biology; mention in Microscopy. .	.
Pulskamp. E.—ist Premium in Locomotive Building;
4th premium in Botany; mention in Christian Doctrine.
Phelps, J.—Mention in ist Arithmetic and Penmanship. ■	.	.	■
Paras, C.— 2d Premium in Reading, General Machine
Work and Penmanship. -,	’	•
Ryan, J.—M ention in 2d Book-keepingand Penmanship.
Rowan, J.—2d Premium in Composition; 3d premium in Christian Doctrine. •	,	,
Rauch, E.-jst. Premium for Flute'; 2d premium in
Arithmetic.	" -
San Roman, J.—2d Premium in Spanish.
Sammon, A.—2d Premium in 7th Latin and Vocal Culture; mention in 3d Algebra and Rhetoric.
Smith, F.—3d Premium in Composition; ist premium in ist Book-keeping.	.	.
Strauss, N.—2d Premium in Vocal Culture; 3d premium in ist Arithmetic; mention in ist Grammar.	-
•Speake, H. Mention in Geography, History, Book-
keeping and Type-writing.
Steiner, T — ist Premium mist Algebra, 2d premium-
in Analytical Geometry ahd Drawing; 3d premium in Rhet- -	_
oric and Christian Doctrine.	'	raphy. ■	.	' . ;	???'’■?	'-/";??*??’
. Spaulding, R.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic, 3d : Druiding, E— ist Premium -in ..Special German; 2d ‘ Grammar and Orthography.	.	• premium, in Christiari/Ddctririe; ;3d premium in Special
Sheehan, W.—ist Premium in Elementary Chemistry, Orthography; merition-in 1st1 Arithmetic. ’	’ ? . >
Natural Philosophy, Literature and 2d German; 3d pre- Donovan, J.—3d Premium in 2d Book-keeping; men-mium in Christian Doctrine.	' tion in ist Grammar.	\
Shultz,. S.—Premium for.Instrumental Music.	. .	Erhart, A.—3d Premiuni in Christian Doctrine. ?
. Scott, F.—Mention in ist Geometry.	—	_	.	. .	. «-
Stuhlfauth, G.—ist Premium in Trigonometry and
Ancient History; 3d premium .in ist Geometry; mention
in-ist Algebra.	..... .keeping. .	- .	. ' . .
Smoger, F.—ist Premium in 2d Algebra; mention in	Flynn,; J.—ist Premium in ist.Geometry; 2d premium
. Industrial-Drawing and Special Orthography.	» in ist.Algebra and Electricity. :	‘; 'v
Thiele, J.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic, Orthography Fennessey, J.—ist Premium!instil Latin, 2d French
and Christian Doctrine;'.2d premium in 2d Grammar; and 2d Geometry; 2d premium in yh Greek and Litera- ? - mention in 2d German;-premium for Instnimehtal Music? ture. . \	.	.?	,	? .	/
Thacker, F. - Mention in ist Grammar and 2d Book- Fisher, L—Mention in Geography, Reading and Pen-?.
keeping. *.•	■	‘	* ’	. '
-	Tong,O.—2d Premium in 2d Algebra and Instrumental
Music. .	. '	.
. ..Taylor, H.—ist Premium'in Instrumental Music. ’	,
Tuhey.C.—Mention in "ist Arithmetic and ist.Grariimari.,. Grammar. Wheeler, L.—ist Premium for Vocal Culture; 3d pre- -Foster, H
mium in Ancient History; mention in 2d Arithmetic.:
.	Wigg/M.—3d Premium in.Composition: •	, .
.Wagner,'F:— ist Premium in Locomotive Building,.
! general Machine Work, Instrumental Music and Drawing.
'	' Wade, E:—Mention in ist Arithmetic and istGrammar.
. . . Wallace, T.—ist Preminin in General Machine. Work.
CARROLL HALL; ,	;'
Abrahams, G.—2d Premium in Geography; and ist; :;
Orthography; Mention in 2d History. .	' ???
Armijo, P.—3d Premium in ist Orthography; mention;} ; in 2d Arithmetic.	.	.	:	c \
Beardslee, L.—ist Premium in. ist Geography,^ist'V Grammar and ist Reading; 2d Premium in ist History • and ist Orthography; 3d premium- in 2d; Arithmetic.1 < ~
Brown, E.—ist Premium in Modern* History and. 3d
German; 3d premium in Rhetoric; mention in Christian
Doctrine and 4th Latin.	:	!
Burke, E. —Mention in Special Orthography.
' Berry/W.—3d Premium in 3d Grammar; mention in ist Geography, ist History and Penmanship. '	• <
Berry, J.-—Premium for Catechism; mention in Gedg-raphy, History-and ist Orthography. . ;	•	- ' : .	. ,
Burns, T.—3d Premium in 8th Latin; . mention' in ’

Begley, J.—Mention in 4th Algebra. :	.	’’ .
Bernardin, A.—Mention in Composition, 5th Latin and .
Christian Doctrine.	.	.
Curry, J.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; mention -in 3d Arithmetic.	> - ’ “ -
Cottin, DJ—2d Premium in 4th Algebra and yth Latin. - ..
Cornell, F.—ist Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d. -Premium in 3d French; mention in Trigondmetry'and? . ist Geometry; premium for Instrumental Music;- < ’ " "
Crowdus, C.—ist Premium in 2d History and 2d Arith- '??
metic; mention in 2d Geography.	* \	5
Cave, E. — Mention in Arithmetic, Book-keeping and 5 Penmanship; premium for Instrumental Music. ' ; ;
Cuneo, J.—Mention in Geography, Christian Doctrine. and ist Orthography.	.	:	\	*
Coquillard, A.—2d Premium in ist Geography, History and Christian Doctrine; 3d premium in ist Grammar and Special Orthography; mention in ist Arithmetic and . Penmanship! .	;	\ :	!.
Curtis, P.—Premium nr Christian Doctrine; mention: ?f?
■ in ist Orthography. 7	'	; ,	‘ .
Crepeau, F.^2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; mention in 2d Reading. ’	*	’!'"?•/
’	Cowie, G.—Mention in Reading, Orthography, Arithmetic and Geography. '	.
Darst, E.—Mention in .Grammar and Catechism!-???
-Devine, M.—Mention, in Christian Doctrine,. Reading and Drawing; premium for Instrumental Music. ? ? 1 . . Dugas, E.—3d Premium in 2d Reading; mention“'in 2d Orthography and Christian Doctrine. - ?..	V-??
Dinnen, W- - 2d Premium in ist Reading; 4th premium in ist History; mention in istGeography and ist Ortliog-
Erhart, A.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.;:. '?? ?;
Franey, R.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; men-
. tion in Latin. •	.	\	. X?’?1
Fuhrer, M.—Mention: in r.st Grammar and 2d?Bo6k:
vCUpill^. -	'	- * t -.	", ’I?	> I"? - v“*'
Flynn, J.—ist Premium in ist.Geometry;,2d.premium ■.

Fisher, J;—Mention in Geography, Reading and Pen- . manship. ;	; ,?/?"-•'■ ?"?-? .	.
Frank, L.—ist Premium?in .:3d Arithmetic; mention in ist Orthography. :■	..	,	\	~
. FoxVA —ist''Premiumin 4th Arithmetic ’and 4th

„ _ , -Mention in Penmanship, Orthography and . Catechism.; .	’/	.	?
•- •. Girardi, J—2d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d premium . in 3d Arithmetic; mention in 3d Grammar.	/
r Girsch’, C.—dd Premium in 5th Latin and 2d. Algebra! ' : Gimbel,-E;—-Mention in ist Arithmetic!	??
Gainer;E—2d Premium in 7th,Latin and Zoology: 3d
7.
6iS
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
premium in Modern History; mention in Physiology and Composition; premium for Instrumental Music.
Goldsmith, H.—Mention in Grammar, Geography aod Penmanship.
Garza, R.—ist Premium in 3d Grammar and Spanish.
Hermann, W.—3d Premium in 1 st Arithmetic.
. Herron, E.—4th Premium in 3d Grammar.
Hagerty, W.—4th Premium in ist Arithmetic.
Hake, E.—ist Premium in Industrial Drawing; 2d premium in Penmanship; 4th premium in ist History; mention in Christian Doctrine and rst Geography.
Hake, L.—ist Premium in ist Arithmetic, 2d Bookkeeping and Christian Doctrine; mention in 2d Grammar.
Hayes, A.—2d Premium in Instrumental Music.
Healy, W.—Premium in Elocution and Christian Doct.
Hoban, M.—Mention in Reading and Spelling.
Hunt, M.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d premium in 2d History; 4th premium in 2d Grammar.
jelonak, A.—Mention in Arithmetic, Reading and Penmanship.	.
Krug.G.—Premium for Type-writing and Instrumental Music.
Keefe, G.—ist Premium in Penmanship; mention in ist Book-keeping.
Kuntz, P.—ist Premium in Christian Doctrine; mention in Special Orthography.
* Kuntz, J.—Mention in Geography and Christian Doct.
Kuntz, C.—2d Premium in ist Reading.
Klein, A.—3d Premium in 1st History; mention in ist Geography,
Kasper, G.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 4th premium in 2d Geography; mention in Reading.
Kasper, A.—ist Premium in Vocal Culture; mention in Christian Doctrine.	'
Kasper, F.—Mention in Music and Geography.
Kirk, M.—ist Premium in 7th Latin; 2d premium in Special German and ist French.
Koehler, J.—3d Premium in ist Grammar; mention in 2d Book-keeping and Special Orthography.
Landers, J.—Mention in Ancient History. ■
• Lovell, W.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; mention in 2d Geography.
Leach, G.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Long, A.—ist Premium in 2d Algebra; 2d premium in 3d French; mention in Composition; premium for Instrumental Music.
Lowery, T.—ist Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d premium in Rhetoric; 3d premium in 4th Latin and 5th Greek; mention in Modern History.
Land, W.—Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Loomis, A.—2d Premium in Instrumental Music.
Moorhead, H.—Mention in 2d History.
Meagher, J.—Mention in Book-keeping.	.
Moss, C.—Mention in 2d Grammar; mention in Bookkeeping,	•
Mohn, A.—Mention in 2d Orthography and Reading.
Monahan, W.—2d Premium m Christian Doctrine; premium in Latin; mention in Algebra and Rhetoric. •
Murray, R.—Mention in ist Book-keeping.
Morris, W.—3d Premium in 4th Algebra.
Monarch, M.—Premium in Elocution.
Merz^A.—ist Premium in 6th Latin and ist Grammar.; mention-in^d Algebra; premium for Instrumental Music.
Massey, W.—ist Premium in Vocal Culture.
Meagher^-.L—"ist Premium.in Christian Doctrine; 2d premium in Instrumental Music.
McNamara, G.—ist Premium in ist Spelling and ist History; 2d premium in.ist Reading; 3d premium in.ist • Grammar and .ist , Geography; mention in Christian Doctrine. -
McElroy; Ei—3d Premium in Instrumental Music; mention in ad Geography. .	.	,	.
. McKinney, F.—ist Premium in 2d Reading and 2d Orthography; mention in 3d Arithmetic, ist Geography and History.	. .	:
. McNichols, W.—2d Premium1 in 2d Reading.J 7
McNicfabls, F.— ist Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d pre-niium in ist Reading; mention in ist.Geography," History and Spelling. .	. . . :	,: < . s .	. .
Mulcare.T—Mention Geography and History. -
McCorry, H.—ist Premium in 2d Grammar; mention in ist Reading, ist Geography and History.
Mooney, F.—Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Noonan, T.—2d Premium in ist Spelling; 3d premium in ist History and 4th Geography; mention in Christian Doctrine and Penmanship.
Naughton, J.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d premium in Special Orthography; mention in ist Arith.
Naughton, D.—Mention in Reading, Grammar and Christian Doctrine.
Naughton, T.—Mention in Arithmetic and Catechism; premium for Instrumental Music.
Newell, A.—Mention in 4th Grammar.
O’Brien, F.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic and 2d Christian Doctrine; 3d premium in Special Orthography; mention in 2d Grammar.	.
O’Malley, J.—i£t Premium in Advanced Arithmetic; 2d premium in General Wood and Iron Work; mention in ist Book keeping.	.	"
Plunkett, F.—Mention in Catechism.
Pendleton, A.—ist Premium in Instrumental Music; mention in Christian Doctrine.
Page, W.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 3d premium in ist Reading.
Pulford, C.—ist Premium in ist Reading; 2d premium in ist Geography, and History; 3d premium in ist Spelling; mention in ist Arithmetic.
■	Quandt, O.—Mention in 3d Grammar and 2d History.
Rasche, H.—3d Premium in ist Spelling; 2d premium in ist Grammar.	'	"
■	Regan, P.—ist Premium in Catechism; 3d premium in 2d Arithmetic; mention in 3d Grammar and 2d Geog.
Ryan, W.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; mention in ist Orthography and Christian Doctrine.
Ryan, A.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic, 3d Grammar and History; 3d premium in 2d Orthography and 2d Geography; mention in 2d Reading.
Reuss, C.—Mention in Christian Doctrine, 2d Grammar and Special Orthography.
-. Reinhardt, E.—ist Premium for Instrumental Music;
2d premium in Christian , Doctrine; mention in ist Grammar.
’ Shipp, E.—Mention in Grammar, Catechism and
Reading.	:
Shiels, J.—2d Premium in ist Geometry and Christian Doctrine; mention in Rhetoric.
Smith, F.—Mention in Arithmetic and Orthography.
Stearns, H.—4th Premium in 6th Latin; mention in Physiology and Rhetoric..
Scott, H.—Mention in 2d Book-keeping.
Schoenbein,A.—1 st Premium in Special Orthography, 2d Premium in ist Book-keeping; 3d premium in Advanced Arithmetic, Christian Doctrine; mention in Composition.
Summers, F.—ist Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d premium in Book-keeping, Penmanship and Special Orthography; mention in ist Geography and History.
Shillington, C.—Mention in Geography, History, Christian Doctrine. .
Scherrer, W.—2d Premium in Catechism; mention in 3d Arithmetic, ist Geography, History and Reading; premium for Instrumental Music.
Sheekey, J.—ist Premium in 2d Geography; 3d premium in 2d Orthography; 4th premium in 2d History; mention in 3d Arithmetic.
Scherrer, J.—Mention in Grammar.
Spillard, A.—Mention in Christian Doctrine and in Penmanship; premium for Instrumental Music.
Sanford, B.—2d Premium in. Instrumental Music. . .
Saul, E.—2d premium in 3d Arithmetic; mention in 3d
Grammar, 2d History and ist Reading..
Szybowicz, L.—2d Premium in 7th Latin.
Schaack, C.—2d Premium in 2d History; mention in 2d Arithmetic. .	.
Stare,. T.—2d :Premium in Instrumental Music; 3d premium in 2d Grammar; mention in ist Arithmetic. .
Thams, J.—2d Premium*,in General Wood and Iron
Work'. .. . - .	;	. •
Tescher, F.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic and 3d Grammar.
Tuohy, J.—ist Premium in Instrumental Music. . “
Watterson, T.—2d Premium in 6th; Latin.	'
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
619
Walsh, J.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine, 4th Algebra and 1st Grammar.
Wimberg, J.—Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Weitzel, R.— 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d premium in Composition.
Weitzel, H.—1st Premium in 7th Latin; 2d premium in
•6th Greek and Composition.
Wilson, R.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th premium in 1st Geography and History.
Ward, F. W. -2d Premium in Rhetoric; mention in Advanced Arithmetic and Christian Doctrine.
Wells, C.—Mention in Arithmetic and Latin.
Welker, V.—1st Premium in 6th Latin.
Webb, J.—2d Premium in 4th Grammar.
Weadock, G.—2d Pemium in Sth Latin and 1st Grammar.
HOLY CROSS HALL.
Boerner, A.—Mention in 1st Grammar and 3d German.
Carroll, P.—3d Premium in Literature.
Coyne, C.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; mention in 2d Geography and History; 3d Premium in 1st Reading.
De Lorimier, A.—1st Premium in 1st French.
Drejer, F.—Mention in Ancient History; 1st Premium in Industrial Drawing.
Gallagher, H.—2d Premium in 4th Latin; 3d Premium in Natural Philosophy and Analytical Geometry; 1st Premium in Rhetoric.
Heiser, L.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar.
.	Hennessey, J.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 3d Pre-
mium in 1st Reading; 1st Premium in 1 st' Orthography.
Hollander, G.—Mention in 3d Algebra and Composition; 2d Premium in 5th Latin.
Iwaszewski, B.—Mention in Physiology.
Kelleher, J.—2d Premium in 3d Algebra.
Long, E.—3d Premium in 5th Latin; 2d premium in 3d German.
Marr, G.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic: 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Geography and History.
Marr, W.—3d Premium in 4th Latin; 1st Premium in 1 st French.
Moynihan, P.—Mention in 5th Latin and 1st Algebra. _	Nieuwland, J.—1st Premium in Physiology, Zoology, 3d
French, Industrial Drawing and Modern History.
O’Connor, E.—Mention in Natural Philosophy.
Oswald,M.M.—1st Premium in 5th Greek and 3d Latin;
2d premium in Literature.
Oswald, M. J.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar and 1st Orthography; 3d premium in 1st Reading.
Powers, D.—Mention in 5th Latin.
Ritter, P.—Mention in 3d Algebra; 2d premium in Ancient History.	.
Schumacher, M.—4th Premium in Botany; 2d premium in Modern History and Trigonometry; 1st premium in 3d F rench.	-- •
Stennule, J.— 1st Premium in 1st Grammar; mention in 3d German.
Szalewski, M.—Mention in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in 1st Reading and 1st Orthography.
Trahey, J.—1st Premium in 4th Latin; 3d Premium in Physiology; 2d premium in Zoology and 2d Geometry.
Vennent, A.—ist'Premium in 1st Grammar; 3d premium in 3d German.
Weisbecker, J.—2d Premium in 3d Algebra.
ST. JOSEPH'S HALL.	’
Bouwens, S.—1st Premium in 2d Orthography and General Machine Work; 2d premium in 2d Grammar; mention in 1st History.	,
Burke, W.—3d Premium in Rhetoric.
Clarke, J.—Mention in 1st Grammar.	.
Clifford, J.—4th Premium in Arithmetic.
Corr, J.—Mention in Literature.	.
Curran, R.—Mention in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Dwyer, V.—2d Premium in Modem History.
Dwyer, F.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d premium in 1st Orthography; Mention in 2d Geography and History. •	-
Dorian, F.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; mention in
Special Orthography.	.	.
Fredell, G.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; mention in ‘ Special German, Reading and Spelling. -
Frahlich, P.—2d ^Premium in 1st Geography and History; Mention in 1st Grammar and Type-writing.
Jones, V.—1st Premium in 1st Geography and History; . mention in 3d Algebra, and 1st Grammar.	'
Jones, R.—1st Premium in 2d Geography and History; ’ 3d premium in 1st Grammar; mentionin 4th Algebra.
Jameson, W.—3d Premium in Special Orthography; mention in 1st Grammar.
Kelly, J.—1st Premium in 1st Geography; mention in 2d Arithmetic and 1st Orthography. "
Kachur, A.—Mention in 2d Geometry.
Lyons, F.—2d Premium in 3d Algebra; mention in
7th Latin.	"	.
Loshbough, W.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar.
McElligott, P.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar and
Special Orthography. r	'
McIntyre, ].—2d Premium in 1st Grammar, 2d Geography and History; 3d Premium in Penmanship; mention in 3d Algebra and 3d French.
Neville, M.—Mention in 5th Latin and Surveying.
Oberly, A.—2d Premium in Advanced Arithmetic.	.
Powers, J.—3d Premium in Special Orthography and rst Book-keeping; Mention in Advanced Arithmetic.
Sauter, J.—Mention in 3d French.
Sullivan, J.—1st Premium in Zoology, Physiology, Composition/Modem History; 2d Premium in 3d Algebra and 7th Latin.
Singler, R.—2d Premium in 1st Book-keeping; mention in Advanced Arithmetic.	"
Van Hessche, L.—2d Premium in Special Orthography.
Wolf, A.—3d Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d premium in'ist Grammar; mention in Advanced Arithmetic.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Allyn, A.—4th premium in Arithmetic; 2d premium in in 2d Orthography; 2d premium in 2d Geography;
Atkinson, j. W.—2d premium in 2d Orthography; 2d in 2d Gegraphy.	.	’ ,
Abrahams, L.—5th premium in Arithmetic; 3d premium in 2d Orthography; 2d premium in 2d Reading.,
Bode, C. H.—3d- premium in Arithmetic; 1st premium ’ in 2d Reading; 2d premium in Orthography.
Bode, F. J.—2d premium in Arithmetic; 3d premium in
Orthography; 2d premium in Grammar.	.
Bosworth, A.—3d premium in 5th Arithmetic; premium in Reading.	.
Breslin, F.—1st premium in Arithmetic; 2d premium in Grammar; premium in Piano; premium in Vocal Music. .
Bullen, J.—1st premium in Orthography; 2d premium in Reading; 4th premium in Arithmetic.
Bullene, J.—2d premium in Arithmetic; 1st premium in
Grammar; premium in Orthography.	r
Brissenden, M.—1st premium in Orthography; 2d premium' Grammar; 2d premium in Geography; 4th premium in Arithmetic. .
Brissenden, F.—1st premium in Geography; 2d premium in,Reading; premium in Arithmetic. • *	.
Bergeron, I.—1 st premium in Orthography; 2d premium in Geography; 3d premium in Arithmetic.
Blanchfield, W.—2d premium in Grammar; 3d prem- -ium in Orthography; 3d premium in Geography.
Cunnea, J.—1st premium in Arithmetic; 1st premium in Orthography; 2d premium in Geography; 2d premium in Reading
Cottin, F.—2d premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st premium in Orthography and Geography.
Campbell, C.—1st premium in Arithmetic; 2d premium in Grammar; premium in Geography.
Cotter, P.—Premium in Arithmetic; premium in Piano; premium in Vocal Music.	'
Catchpole, R.—Premium in Arithmetic; premium in '
Grammar; premium in Piano.	:
Coquillard, J.—2d premium in Orthography; premium " in Arithmetic; premium in Piano.
Cressy, C.—2d premium in Orthography; premium in ;
Geography; premium in Grammar.	"
Casparis, K.—2d premium in Reading; 2d premium in
Grammar; 1st premium in Orthography..	.
Caruthers, J.—Premium in Arithmetic; premium in Grammar; premium in Vocal Music. ' A
620
DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Caruthers, F.—Premium in Reading and Arithmetic.
Davis. B.—2d premium in Reading; 3d premium in Arithmetic; 2d premium in Geography.
Davis, G.—ist premium in Reading: 3d premium m Arithmetic; premium in Mandolin.
Davidson. A.-—Premium in Arithmetic; premium in Grammar; premium in Flute.
Dugas. G.—Premium in Reading and Arithmetic.
Dowling. R.—5th premium in Geography; 4th premium in Reading.
Elliott, E.—2d premium in Grammar; 3d premium in Arithmetic: premium in Vocal Music.
Ernest. E.— 1st premium in Arithmetic: 2d premium in Orthography; premium in German.
Fetter, T.—1st premium in Orthography; 1st premium in Geography; ist premium in Arithmetic.
Finnerty,	.—1st premium in Grammar: 3d premium
in Arithmetic: premium in Orthography.
Fitzgerald. P.—2d premium in Arithmetic: 3d premium in Grammar.
Flynn, A.—ist premium in Reading: 2d premium in Grammar; 2d premium in Arithmetic.
Flynn, M.—2d premium in Arithmetic: 1st premium in
Grammar; 1st premium Orthography.
Freeman, N.—2d premium in Arithmetic; 3d premium in Grammar; 4th premium in Piano.
Goff, D.—3d premium in Orthography;‘3d premium in Geography; premium in Arithmetic.
Giffin, H.—1st premium in Arithmetic; 4th premium in Grammar; premium in Vocal Music; premium in ist Geography; premium in Orthography.
Giffin. R.—1st premium in Arithmetic; 1st premium in Grammar; 2d premium in Geography.
Hall, W.—3d premium in Arithmetic; 2d premium in Geography; ist premium in Grammar.
Hart, L.—Premium in Orthography, Arithmetic and Reading.
Hubbard. L.—Premium in Orthography; 6th premium in Arithmetic; 2d premium in Reading.
Jonquet, M.—2d premium in Orthography; 2d premium in Reading; premium in Vocal Music.
Kune, M.—2d premium in Reading; 2d premium in Grammar; 3d premium in Orthography.
Kasper, R.—2d premium in Orthography; 2d premium m Geography; premium in Piano.
Kelly- L.—Premium in Arithmetic; premium’in Gram-’ mar; premium ia Vocal Music.
Kelly, C.—ist premium in Orthography; 2d premium in Reading; premium in Arithmetic.
Kopf, C.—ist premium in Orthography; 2d premium in Geography; ist premium in Arithmetic.”
Lawton, J.—2d premium in Arithmetic; 2d premium in Grammar; 3d premium in Geography.
Morehouse, J.—Premium in Piano; premium in Arithmetic; premium in Grammar.
Maher, W.—Premium in Arithmetic; premium in Grammar; premium in Vocal Music.
Moxley, G.—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and Christian Doctrine.
Manion, P.—2d premium in Reading; ist premium in Orthography; 3d premium in Geography.
Manion, E,—2d premium in Orthography; 4th premium in Arithmetic.
Marshall, C.—ist premium in Arithmetic; ist premium in Orthography; premium in Violin.
Mulcare, J. — Premium in Arithmetic; premium in Grammar; premium in Piano.
McMaster, H.—ist premium in Arithmetic; 2d premium in Geography; ist premium in Grammar.
McIntyre, R.—ist premium in Grammar; 2d premium in Arithmetic; premium in Vocal Music.
McBride, P.—3d premium in Orthography; 4th premium in Geography; ist premium in Grammar.
McBride, L.—2d premium in Arithmetic; 4th premium in Orthography.
McBride, J.—Premium in Orthography.
Pollitz, W.—3d premium in Orthography; 5th premium in Geography.
Pollitz, H.—2d premium in Reading; premium in Grammar; premium in Arithmetic.
Plunkett, W.—1st premium in Orthography; ist premium in Geography; ist premium in Arithmetic.
Phillips, A.—ist premium Orthography; 2d premium in Geography; premium in Arithmetic.
Polk, J.—ist premium in Grammar; 2d premium in Orthography; premium in Geography.
Pyle, J.—ist premium Orthography; 2d premium in Geography; premium in Arithmetic.
Patee, L.— ist premium in Grammar; ist premium in Arithmetic; premium in Piano.
Quinlan, j.—Premium in Arithmetic; premium in Grammar; premium in Vocal Music.
Quertimont, G.—Premium in Orthography and Reading.
Quertimont, E.—2d premium in Orthography: premium in Arithmetic.
Rasche, L.—Premium in Arithmetic; premium in Grammar; premium in Vocal Music.
Rasche, D.— ist premium in Orthography; ist premium 4th Arithmetic,
Rees, H.—5th premium in Grammar; 3d premium in in Orthography.
Swan, E. — Premium in Arithmetic; premium in Grammar; premium in Reading; premium in Orthography.
Spillard, D.—Premium in •Arithmetic; premium in Grammar; premium in Vocal Music.
Sexton, T.—Premium in Arithmetic; premium in Vocal Music; premium in Geography.
Sontag, H. — Premium in Arithmetic; premium in Grammar; 1st premium in Orthography.
Terhune, L.—ist premium in Arithmetic; 2d premium in Reading; premium in Orthography.
Van Sant, R.—Premium in Arithmetic; ist premium in Orthography; 1st premium in Geography.
Van Sant, L.—2d premium in Arithmetic; ist premium in Grammar; premium in German,
Van Dyke, J.—Premium in Arithmetic; 1st premium in Orthography; ist premium in Geography.
Van Dyke, G.—Premium in Arithmetic; 2d premium in Orthography; premium in Reading.
Weidmann, G.—Premium in Arithmetic; premium in Orthography; premium in Geography; premium in Arithmetic.
Weidmann, F.—Premium in Arithmetic; ist premium in Orthography; premium in Reading.
Weidner, L.—ist premium in Orthography; 2d premium in Geography; premium in piano.
Waite, F.—Premium in Arithmetic; premium in Violin;
2d premium in Orthography.
Welsh, F.—Premium in Arithmetic; premium in Violin;
2d premium in Orthography.
Wilde, G.—2d premium in Orthography; 3d premium in Grammar; premium in Piano.
Weber, A.—2d premium in Arithmetic; ist premium in Grammar; ist premium Orthography,
Weis, I.—1st premium in Orthography; 3d premium in Geography; ist premium in Grammar.
AKTZCE.
The following compositions by Professor N. A. Preston, the popular leader of the University Band, Mandolin Club, etc., should be in the hands of all who have heard their tuneful melody on the campus or in the Hall, as well as others to whom good music appeals. The “Gold and Blue March” in particular should be owned by every ’95-96 student. “The Gold and Blue March” for Piano, 50 cents; “Pompey’s Double Shuffle”—A Characteristic Negro Dance, for ist and 2d Mandolins and Guitar, 75 cents; “The ,Bells,” Waltz, for Mandolins and Guitar, 40 cents. On sale at Students’ Office.
