THAT TOP-OF-THE
WORLD FEELING!
Nothing gives a man that top-of-the-world feeling—or look—like the right clothes at the right time . . . and the Campus Shop has those clothes for you—by America’s finest makers, Hickey-Freeman, GGG, Society Brand, Eagle, Burberry, Alpagora—they’re all here from which to make your selection. Right now, see one of America’s finest selections of Ivy models—in suits, topcoats and sports clothes—plus all of the popular Ivy accessories.
On the Campus—Notre Dame
AS A NOTRE DAME MAN.
YOU CAN CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
PAY 1/3 IN JANUARY. 1960
PAY 1/3 IN FEBRUARY. 1960
PAY 1/3 IN MARCH. 1960
No Carrying Charge
Your. charge account is open at the Campus Shop! Get what you need, when you need it and charge it the Campus Shop way. Designed especially for you men who live on a budget, this handy way to charge your clothing needs make it possible to get what you want now and pay 1/3 in January, 1/3 in February, and 1/3 in March. No interest or carrying charges, of course.

On Campus MgSHman
(Author of “I TFas a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
STUDYING CAN BE SCREAMS
If studying is bugging you, try mnemonics.
Mnemonics, as we all know, was invented by the great Greek philosopher Mnemon in 526 B.C. (Mnemonics, incidentally, was only one of the inventions of this fertile Athenian. He also invented the staircase which, as you may imagine, was of inestimable value to mankind. Before the staircase people who wished to go from floor to floor were forced to live out their lives, willy-nilly, on the ground floor, and many of them grew cross as bears. Especially Demosthenes who was elected Consul of Athens three times but never served because he was unable to get up to the office of Commissioner of Oaths on the third floor to be sworn in. But after Mnemon’s staircase, Demosthenes got up to the third floor easy as pie—to Athens’ sorrow, as it turned out. Demosthenes, his temper shortened by years of confinement to the ground floor, soon embroiled his countrymen in a series of senseless wars with the Persians, the Visigoths and the Ogallala Sioux. He was voted out of office in 517 B.C- and Mnemon, who had made liis accession possible, was pelted to death with fruit salad in the Duomo. This later became known as the Missouri Compromise.)
But I digress. We were discussing mnemonics, which
are nothing more than aids to memory— catchwords or jingles that help you remember names, dates and places. For example:
Columbus sailed the ocean blue In fourteen hundred ninety-two.
The sponsors of this column make Alpine, Philip Morris and Marlboro Cigarettes. Pick what you please. What yon pick will please you.	.
See how simple? Make up your own jingles. What, for instance, is the important event immediately following Columbus’s discovery of America? The Boston Tea Party, of course. Try this:
Samuel Adams flung the tea
Into the briny Zuyder Zee.
(NOTE: The Zuyder Zee was located in Boston Harbor until 1904 when Salmon P. Chase traded it to Holland for Louisiana and two outfielders.)
But I digress. To get back to mnemonics, you can see how simple and useful they are—not only for history but also for everyday living; for instance'
In nineteen hundred fifty-nine
The smoke to look for is Alpine.
“Why Alpine?” you ask. Taste that fine, fresh flavor. Enjoy that subtle coolness. Until Alpine you needed two cigarettes to reap the benefits of Alpine—one
for flavor, one for high filtration — and smoking two cigarettes is never graceful; in fact, with mittens it is nigh impossible. Now you need only one cigarette— Alpine. Get some. You’ll see.
© 1959 Max Shulman

COBRAS OF NOTRE DAME
Editor:
We would like to send our congratula-'X-tions and thanks to the “Notre Dame men” who so courageously knocked over and stole our Homecoming display. It will be a pleasant task to inform the owners of the stolen uniforms that you struck fast and daringly in the only night available. How naive of us to think our property might be safe from “ you “Pirates of the St. Joe Valley” once darkness fell. We realize it was not “Hall Spirit” that prompted your selfless action, since the judging of the displays was long past. The stellar motives of vandalism and sneak-thievery must have been your only stimulus. Perhaps if you punks can organize properly,'*' you can eventually branch out into South Bend itself and begin shop-lifting (daring daylight robberies, of course) and causing disturbances on busses and in movies.
Heartfelt congratulations to the brave adventurers who accomplished this marvel of intelligence and fearlessness. * Enjoy your booty, bold Soldiers of Fortune.
Jere Vandewalle Bob Meuleman Paul White Larry Pahl
(Villagers) u
LITTLE SUBSTANCE
Editor:
I noticed by your last issue the Scholastic has sunk to the lowest of depths in its quest foi" news. It is a , sorry state of affairs when you attempt I to pass off objectivity in biasness, but this is exactly what was done in an article called “Loosely Defined Shadows.” 6 This was no doubt the first breakthrough by you into Saint Mary’s Theater in three years, and it suffered the same fate as did Carousel. Under the tense and terse eye of your reviewer, who no doubt sought a Broadway production for a pittance, a short piece of pessimism on the production was again 5 the result. From the soundings of his article, there could be no question by the reader, that the audience of this atrocity swung into a rousing chorus of boos for the cast at its termination.
The last time I spoke with Miss Haydon she was completely unaware that her appearance at Saint Mary’s had * netted only a superb acquital of her (Continued on page 33)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185. Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
No. 5
Vol. 101
OCTOBER 30, 1959
1 I
Founded 1867
RONALDBLUBAUGH
OSaOCKHv. •onw»>	/ •- <; i
E. (TED)THOMPSON CHARLES TAUSCHE
news editar and staff ROY RUBELU \?•* Wade Clark * ? ■ • Arthur Graham < v . Thomds Wmss XU
features editor and staff
CHARLES RIECK Francis Smith <
\ Thomas Sullivan 7’r \
William Sweeney \ William Veeder <
sports editor and staff THOMAS ROSE
' William Cary / : t; J J. (Jay) Kilroy ;: t ;.
copy erfitor and staff \ WALTER RUDGE .:
' •; George Casey
. ;\Pe»wi^hm$e;'' ’’	?
: Thomas Marciniak ;
artedtar X -X?'X>X JERRY FLORENT 5^4
photographer X' ■ XX-?' WALTER DALY, Jr.
business Manager and staff ROBERT HORN
arcuiGnoncRKinagvr^ ? ; :x LAWRENCELEACH

THE DOME: This week it was announced that John Thurin’s 1959 Dome has won the “All-American Award” of the Associate Collegiate Press, a national association of college papers operated by the University of Minnesota. The award, given in a class of yearbooks containing over 100 annuals, is one of three awarded each year. This is the first time in the history of the Dome that such an honor has been bestowed on our fine yearbook. Under the editorship of Pat O’Daly, and with the able assistance of Ken Murphy, the managing editor, the 1960 Dome promises to be equally as well done. Our congratulations to the publication on the other side of the Center for a job well done. We are looking forward to seeing the next issue in June.	■

r
ABORTIVE AND UNWARRANTED CRITICISM: Immediately after last Saturday’s Northwestern game we heard a student expressing over the air his dissatisfaction with the coaching wisdom of Mr. Joe Kuharich and the proficiency of one of the players. Before vilifying either the coach or any of the players, every one of us must realize that the Notre Dame team was playing last Saturday with five first stringers out of the line-up. The coaches and that inspired team, hampered immeasurably by inexperience and especially by injuries, gave everything they had. Many of the players played much better than anyone could have expected. They all played a game of which every member of that team, every coach, every alumnus and every student can be proud. Let no one forget that.
J
WASHINGTON HALL REVISITED: In the past few years there have been many complaints about the conduct of the students in and around Washington Hall before, during, and after the Saturday movies. This criticism warranted investigation. Last Saturday at the 8:40 show we observed the students. Their performance was certainly well-mannered by past standards. Sure, there were a few sustained cheers and a few vociferous replies to well-constructed forms, but these outbursts were not prolonged, hardly irritating and not in bad taste.
Other than during these few, short-lived cheers, the so-called- “Washington Hall mob” was very well-behaved during the movie and especially on entering and leaving Washington Hall. As long as the students continue to behave as they did last Saturday, they will not provoke any such condemnations as have been so frequent in the past.	.
REV. CHARLES CAREY, es c.
Philip Larrabee JohnOhala x Thomas Schelereth William Sparks ’■ Michael Woods
Thomas Barthel 1 JotinBechtald Richard Corso .	• *	-.2
BATHROOM ANTICS: Once again last Saturday the football stadium was filled with cheering fans, much rain and toilet paper. The use of this paper product at football games is hardly suitable, and we are certain that its display on past Saturdays has not demonstrated the more refined aspects of life at the University of Notre Dame. In the future let’s confine our streamers to crepe paper, and toilet paper to the bathroom.
MIXED RESULTS: The first Student Forum of the current school year is now history, and in view of our last “Commentary” it is appropriate that we add one note. The forum was rather good. The discussion became lively even though some of the speakers went to unnecessary lengths to defend their views. At one point there was quite a heated exchange which brought more than the usual amount of interest to the audience. Unfortunately, however, the discussion was not stopped after a stipulated length of time and one witnessed the usual distracting spectacle of people leaving more frequently and in greater numbers as the forum moved past the 90-minute mark. If this can be remedied, from all appearances, this year’s series of Student Fora will be as its chairman indicated, “bigger and better-” than in the previous year.

QUESTIONNAIRE OF INTEREST: At its bi-annual meeting last week end, the Notre Dame Advisory Board for the Arts and Letters school was confronted with a most interesting survey conducted by the sociology department. The questionnaire dealt with the reasons for the usual antipathy of liberal arts students for careers in the business world. The results are enlightening and rather amusing. Of the 170 students picked at random, 27 found business careers too boring. Other common reasons given for shunning the world of commerce were lack of security and non-satisfying jobs. Four students insisted that industiy was too authoritarian and one insisted that his reason for disliking a business career was that he didn’t like people. (He made no mention of what career he was considering.) The ironic part of the survey though, is that while only 7 per cent of A.B. students intend to enter a commercial career as opposed to a much larger percentage in the School of Commerce, the number of Liberal Arts students who actually do enter business is rather- great.
— B. T. & T.
Sv*?5'?"


ri
by D. JIM AUSUM
what’s
r*
in an initial?
I am writing this from somewhere in Indiana, a few hundred yards from a . sort of concentration encampment which could most accurately be described as a training camp for social climbing bar. maids. It is reported that many a finger has been bloodied from hanging on the rungs of the ladder while obviously trying to support too much baggage. I do not complain loudly, except in private, for it would hardly be consonant with .. my profession. I am a camp follower, 1 although I occasionally also sell racy J post cards. As far as I know, I have the finest line of cards available, featuring one style in which I take a picture of the actual sender. I call this one “for those who bare enough to send their very . best,” and it is definitely not for those : under ten years of age. What’s more, I am thinking seriously about broadening I my line to include a canine section, which = may be sponsored by the makers of Red Heart. Nor are the cards devoid of j prose, and prose of a really Platonic ' sort, because I have found a man who | specializes in risque paragraphs. He f calls himself the ethereal scurrilositer.
' PRELUDE TO A MISS
But anyway, back to Saint — oh ex-1 cuse me — the training camp. Part of | the normal follower’s procedure includes \ a Tuesday night call to CE 3-9391. I believe this all came about when one of a the nearby pizza houses erroneously list-■f ed their telephone number, along with > > what turned out to be an oxymoronic phrase, “We deliver.” But however it . started, Tuesday night (unfortunately £■ no relation to Tuesday Weld, girl of the I month in any man’s book) between 7:00 I p.m. and 9:30 or 10:00 or 10:30 or what-■/ ever time it is when they close the kennels is the beginning of a charity (by this I mean non-profit) bicycle race .
' ■ ■ *
I October 30, 1959
which continues for six days with Mondays off for listening to WSND and writing lettei*s to the Scholastic in an effort to display a gelded sense of humor.
When, after the usual two-hour waiting period during which you have the feeling that someone is using a plunger on your ear, you finally get through, you usually wish you hadn’t. But you did, so you tell the voice that you would like to speak to Pauline Wasserman, and it asks you if you know which floor and you tell her no, so .it tells you the extension and you ask to ring it for you and it says no, it won’t, what do you think this is, anyway, and you fight off the impulse to say what you think. Instead, you plead, and finally the voice breaks down and places the call.
When Pauline answers, you are thrilled right down to your toes, thinking you are the first man to discover that garlic travels through telephone wires, but you aren’t really the first one, let me tell you, because why do you think they have to repair the telephones so often, from overuse? But you ask her for a date, and after she clears her throat she tells you that she already has four of them for Friday and five for Saturday, and that she is really much too cool for you, but that she will give you a break and cancel the other dates just for you. Good-o, you tell her; oh . boy oh boy.	:
You would like to talk to her just a litle longer, perhaps just to hear the fascinating clatter of her stainless steel braces against the mouthpiece of the telephone, but “it” breaks in again and says “please limit your call” and then cuts off the connection anyway, making sure that you won’t offer to smuggle Pauline a carton of cigarettes or a . chocolate bar. You hang up .the
phone, already atingle with lethargy, and run back to your cabin to wash out; your mouth. While doing this, you think'; what a good idea it would be to give* Pauline a piece of stick deodorant disguised as candy, but you realize that Old Spice costs a dollar-nineteen, and Kleenex in each nostril costs nothing except a shortage of breath, and the Shultbn Company loses another, sale.	.
THE LONELIEST NIGHT OF THE WHK
It’s 7:30. You’re glad you didn't, take your bath this week. You meet her in the same shadowless reception room, collect your “pool”. winnings, and immediately use them to pay for one whole Dixie Shuttle bus..	She /
squeezes into it, and you and the others board another bus. You get to the Student Center, and you discover that, she’s a singer, which would be all right except that she climbs up on the piano. Well,/ Wally Jones was. at the piano, and now you’ve lost a friend, and the Lettermen have lost a leader, and the Student Colter has lost one piano, and two floors.
SV
YOU NEED THIS LIKE A WART ■
Sunday you are free from her, Yree/^j^g free free, so you go to Frankie’s and two hours listen happily to; ;“TKank:;/§^^ Heaven for Little Girls.” .Theret^yott|>^^ meet this girl you know, who is and you. want to date her, but die has^®^^ date. But wait, she’s got a ‘frii^ you can’t turn her down. You kiiow ter, but the friend has red 'hair,and7red;./’|O// hair is your weakspot. But. Gee ’ did it have to be on the soles ofherfeet?/ You wouldn’t mind so much, but if it comes off . on the grapes, youTlhaye/to drink the Mogen David throughaconabis •v— 1_____-________'___•- XV-L.-,
her friend be a boy.
i
The Scholastic
CHRISTINE GREENE First lady in “Paradise”
California Dean To Speak On Chemistry Next Week
Prof. Kenneth S. Pitzer, dean of the >* College of Chemistry at the University of California at Berkely and former director of research for the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, will be present at the University next week to deliver a series of three P. C. Reilly Lectures on > chemistry. The lectures will be held in 123 Nieuwland Science Hall at 4 p.m. i on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. The ■ subjects of Pitzer’s talks will be “Car-•*■ bon Vapor,” “Spectroscopy of Hydrogen Bonds” and “Molecular Strain Energies.”
The annual series of lectures by out-f standing chemists and chemical engi-j neers was established in 1945. The late < Peter C. Reilly, of Indianapolis, Ind., I industrialist and a member of Notre * Dame’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees, established the series with a gift of over one million dollars. Last week ;Dr. Fred Basolo, professor of chemistry at Northwestern University, gave a I series of Reilly lectures on “Mechanisms i of Substitution Reactions of Metal Com-j^plexes.”
i Pitzer has been honored many times for his teaching, research and service
i - to his country. Among the recognitions ' he has received for his work are the 1 Clayton Prize in 1958 and the Society Award in Pure Chemistry in 1943. He was named one of the ten outstanding * young men in the nation in 1950 by the r U. S. Junior Chamber of Commerce and • she following year he received a Guggen-? neim Fellowship. In addition to his <work at the Berkeley campus, he is a trustee of Harvey Mudd College, Claremont, Calif., and Mills College, Oakland, Calif.
October 30, 1959
WINDING BAND TO BACKGROUND COTILLION TONIGHT AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER
Group to Feature Trombonium Sound of "Articulate" Leader; Navy Game, Communion Breakfast to Round Out Week End
Kai Winding’s “Trombonium Sound” will background the dancing at the Sophomore Cotillion, tonight, in the La-Fortune Student Center. The dance, which is the first formal of the year will be held from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. amidst the colorful atmosphere of a “Pastel Paradise.”
Secretarial Queen. Miss Christine Greene, who lives in Toledo, Ohio, will be crowned Queen of the Cotillion by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of the University. Miss Greene, a graduate of Ursuline Academy, is now engaged in private secretarial work for the Owens-Corning Fiberglass Corporation.
Chairman Schlageter, who also hails from Toledo, is enrolled in the combination Arts-Engineering Program. Last year he served as business manager for the Freshman Formal.
The orchestra .of Kai Winding is rapidly becoming popular* throughout the college circuit these days. He comes from Sweden and is probably best known for his jazz albums with J. J. Johnson. Kai’s use of four trombones, two tenor and two bass, plus a rhythm section, make this seven-man group sound twice its size. Winding’s “Trombonium Sound” includes everyone’s favorite steps and tempos, old and new. During intermission there will be a jazz presentation by the maestro himself.
Articulate Modernist. Winding is described in the Handbook of Jazz as “the most articulate of modernists on his instrument” and an artist who achieved his reputation while working with Stan Kenton in 1946-47. His last appearance at Notre Dame was at the Mardi Gras Ball two years ago.
The Student Center has been transformed into a “Pastel Paradise” through the creative efforts of decoration chairman, Tom Agnew. Accentuating the general theme will be a water fountain placed in Caron Court. A “danceable” atmosphere will be provided by the soft, colorful lighting scheme of the. main ballroom. A revolving mirrored globe suspended from the ceiling will also add to the impressive lighting effects. Completing the decorations will be an artistic backdrop illuminated from the rear by “celestial light.”
On Saturday afternoon the Fighting Irish will play host to Navy in the
Notre Dame Stadium and on Saturday night a Victory Dance will be held in the Drill Hall. Wally Jones and the lettermen will be on hand to provide music for the dance, which begins at 8:30 pjn. Tickets for the dance may be obtained for $1 at the entrance to the DriU HaU.
On Sunday morning the, sophomores and their dates will attend 8 aan. Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Father Hes-burgh win be the guest speaker at the Communion Breakfast following the Mass.	-
Aiding General Chairman Schlageter are: Paul Biitrus, assistant chairman; Rich Jalovec, business manager; Joe Bracco, tickets; Walt Doyle and Greg* Premo, accommodations; Jim Clark, entertainment; Ed Barton, Communion -breakfast; Thomas Agnew, decorations; and Greg Weismantel, publicity.
Accommodations and tickets to the Navy game have been provided for the dates of those students attending the dance. Guests of the University at the game will include Fred A. Bantz, Undersecretary of the Navy, and Superintendent of the Naval Academy Admiral Melson.
Cotillion goers will have 2 a.m. permissions and car permits will extend from noon Friday until noon Sunday.
"The Hasty Heart" Initiates 1959-1960 Season; University Theatre To Begin This Thursday
The Hasty Heart, an impressive comedy-drama by John Patrick, will initiate the University Theater’s 1959-1960 program of dramatic presentations next Thursday.
The moving story will be presented at 8:30 p.m. each evening at Washington Hall in two series of performances. There will be three shows next week beginning on Thursday and running to Saturday night. The following week (Thursday, Nov. 12 - Saturday, Nov. 14) the play will be seen again three times to complete the traditional six performances offered by the theater group.
For Only A $1. Although quite a few season tickets have already been sold, individual tickets are still available daily from 4:00 to 9:00 p.m. at the Washington Hall box office starting Monday. Individual tickets are being sold to faculty, students and employees at the price of §1 for the orchestra and the center balcony and §.75 for the side balcony.
An entertaining blend of heartwarming comedy and poignant drama, The Hasty Heart is the moving story of a young Scottish sergeant whose stubborn pride causes him to reject rudely the friendship offered him by his fellow patients and an equally sympathetic hospital nurse. Just as the soldier learns how to take and give friendship for the first time in his isolated life, he finds out that he has only a few weeks to live, and is plagued by the feeling that what he is really being offered by his companions is pity.
JOE HARRINGTON, MARY ARMBRUSTER, JOHN SMITH
Veteran performers polish scenes for opening performance
Although the action of the play is set in a British army hospital in Burma, and most of the characters are soldiers, the play is not essentially a war play, but rather one about a group of soldiers of many nationalities who just happened to meet because of a war.
Joe Harrington will be seen as the overproud Sgt. Lachlen MacLachlen, who believes that “sorrow is born in the hasty heart.” Harrington will be remembered for his lead role as Johnny Pope in last year’s University Theater production of A Hatful of Rain.
The Buddy. In the supporting role of the American who wins MacLachlen’s friendship will be John Smith. Smith is also well known to Washington Hall audiences since his portrayal of Tony in last year’s spring musical, The Boy Friend. Mary Armbruster, from St. Mary’s College, will be seen as Margaret, the nurse who accepts the dour Scot’s proposal of marriage. Jack Peh-ler and Rudy Hornish will be seen respectively in the roles of the Australian and the New Zealander soldier-patients, and other roles will be characterized by Bill Fleherty, Don Zeifang, Jack Curtin and Fred Trump.
Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., is the director of the play. Fred Syburg of the drama department has coached the performance, while design and technical direction have been in the care of Gil Rathbun.
The stage manager, is Greg Rogers, (Continued on page 32)
Green Hats Net Profit On Annual Derby Day
Notre Dame’s Marketing club an- ' nounced that its annual Derby Day was v, a tremendous success this year. Bob Toland, green hat sale chairman announced that more hats were sold this year than in any other previous year. -Part of the credit for the record-breaking sale was due to the fact that the ; weather for the week end of the Northwestern game was inclement and the f cello-foil hats stood up very well in the ; rain.	’
The sale on the campus was conducted by the ninety members of the Marketing club while the sale at St. Mary’s was managed by Ann Lord with the cooperation of the Dean of Women and the Dean of Freshmen. There were over twice as many hats sold “across the road” this year than in any other previous year.
A dual purpose of providing the club members with actual selling experience and of raising funds for the Bengal Missions and the club’s operating expenses motivates the yearly project.
Throughout the year the Marketing club has bi-monthly meetings where a guest lecturer talks on different phases of marketing. The club this year will sponsor two banquets each semester and a field trip to either Cincinnati, Cleveland or Detroit, according to Drew Barton, club president. In all of these ac- ”” tivities the club absorbs either all, or the majority, of the expenses incurred.
Photoflash To Receive Test At Soph Cotillion
Professionally arranged backdrops and -* the flashing bulb of an electric photoflash system will direct this year’s students to “Candidly Yours,” a new photographic concession at the University dances. The concession, under the direction of Duey Kerper, assisted by Walt Wittenberg and Pete Peterson, will receive its first large scale initiation at v the Sophomore Cotillion tomorrow night.
The pictures, which will be taken at two identical set-ups at the dance, will be 3%"x5" taken with Kodacolor film. 1 The group has received special handling privileges from Kodak’s main processing center in Rochester. The pictures will not go through the usual mass pro- M duction at the center.
Black and white pictures are 5" x 7" and are taken with German Agfa film. The special film, because of a particu- 1 larly fine grain, allows better tones for close shots. Polaroid shots are 4" x 5" and will, of course, be immediately * available. The other pictures, which are developed in pairs, will be delivered to students within 10 days to two weeks of the picture taking date.
It is hoped that engraving of the name ’ of the dance, the orchestra and the date, will also be available.
10
The Scholastic
Mock Political Convention Slated For April 3-6; Academy of Political Science Arranges Affair
Cries of “Mr. Chairman!/’ “All those opposeci. . . ,” and other such political terminology will be freely bandied about at Notre Dame this spring at the mock political convention sponsored by the •Academy of Political Science to be held April 3 to 6.
This year’s convention will be a simulation of the National Democratic Con-* vention and arrangements for the affair are well under way, according to Larry Turner, Academy president and chairman of the convention.
Coming To Order. Within a very few weeks, state delegations will be formed under the guidance of Bill Mapother, > delegation chairman for the event. Prospective delegates will attend a meeting of the Academy at which they will be oriented on the techniques which will be used in the formation of the state delegations. Notices will appear on hall bulletin boards and literature will be distributed explaining how an individual h can participate in the convention as a delegate from his home state.
Each Democratic candidate for the presidential nomination will be represented by a student campaign manager. The campaign managers for the various candidates should have some contacts with the man they wish to represent or know someone close to him to better obtain publicity material. Those who wish to run the campaign for a pai-ticular candidate should submit a letter* to Bill Leser, 31 Sorin, stating who they wish to represent and why they are qualified to manage his campaign.
National Prominence. Nationally prominent speakers as well as student t leaders will address the three-day session which will culminate in the nomi-
Radio Station's Debut Delayed By Nation-Wide Steel Strike The much publicized steel strike, al-ready a firmly established topic for debate and argument on the campus, has finally hit Notre Dame in a more direct way.
Target date for the proposed radio station, Channel 2, about which much has been ’ said, but comparitively little known, has been moved back 10 days, * because of the strike. Equipment for the station is being held up through lack of production materials.
Channel 2, which apparently will be devoted to classical music, lectures and discussions, was originally set to begin broadcasting on February 5. The new broadcasting date is February 15.
* The steel strike, which has now lasted । over 100 days, apparently will only slow 1 the production of the ordered equipment and not stop the planned production indefinitely. This is, at least the idea that the manufacturing company has con-. veyed.
; October 30, 1959

POLITICAL SCIENTIST TURNER “Mr. Chairman ...”
nation of a Democratic presidential candidate. The first night of the convention has, in past years, been shown on WNDU-TV and broadcast by WSND. Also, prominent national magazines have been invited to cover Notre Dame’s convention.
In past conventions the girls from St. Mary’s have occupied a few delegation seats, but this year the Academy hopes to enlist at least 300 St. Mary’s girls to sit as delegates from their various demonstrations.
Every nominee of past mock conventions has received his party’s nomination and all but one have become President of the United States.
Student Foundation Operates Again for Emergency Needs
The John A. Morrissey Student Loan Fund is in full operation again this year. It was established to service the emergency needs of Notre Dame students during the academic year.
To obtain a loan from one to $50 for a period of one month, a student should visit the student loan office in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center. He will be asked to fill out a questionnaire of pertinent information. The questionnaire is then reviewed by a committee of students. If approved, the student may pick up his loan the next day. A service charge of 1 per cent on the face value of the loan is the only interest payment to be made.
The office, under the direction of Jerry Gould, is open from 10:30-11:30 and 3:30-4:30 on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, and from 3:00-4:30 on Tuesday and Thursday. The student loan is strictly a confidential matter, and transacted here on campus, with no references made to the student’s home.
Morrissey Captures First For Decorations
Morrissey Hall won the first place award in last week end’s Homecoming decorations contest, while Dillon Hall took second and Walsh Hall captured third. A special award, for outstanding freshman decorations, went to Keenan Hall.
The judges for the competition were Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C., assistant to the vice-president for student affairs; Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., associate professor of art; Frank Montana, head of the department of architecture; Bruce Babbitt, student body president; Tom Scanlon, chairman of the Blue Circle, and Ken Walpuck, senioi- art major.
Entries were judged on the basis of appropriateness to the theme, “Notre Dame’s Pigskin Past,” originality and workmanship.
Morrissey’s first prize winner, built by Bob Hamilton, Tom Weber, John Studebaker, Louis Padberg and others, featured an Irish terrier pulling on a rope tied around the neck of a treed wildcat. Pennants, with the scores of previous Notre Dame-Northwestern grid encounters hung from the rope.
Second, with its animated cutout figures of seven mules (symbolizing the linemen of the “Four Horsemen and Seven Mules” team of the 1920’s) kicking a wildcat with their hind legs was Dillon. Peter Murphy, Tony Mileto, Paul Fleming, George Brennan and Bill Keck set up the entry.
Walsh’s third place display consisted cf an outdoor stage, with an Irish hunter shooting at a wildcat (labeled ’59) in a tree, while other wildcats lay in a pile on the ground. Mike Ehlerman, Wayne Sullivan and Dick Fremgen were among those who built the entry.
Keenan won the freshman award for its “Mount Irushmore,” a take-off on Mount Rushmore National Monument. Dick Juckneiss, Frank McDonald and Joe Kelly built the display, which pictured Notre Dame’s football greats of the past — Rockne, Gipp, Lujack and Leahy — already carved in the stone of a mountainside, while a sculptor was chiseling out from the stone the face of Coach Joe Kuharich.
Miller, Stuhldreher To Speak At Middie Pep Rally Tonight
Tomorrow’s game with Navy will occasion another pep rally in the Field House with the usual 7:30 p.m. start. Speakers at the rally will include the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., Uni-, versity president, and two of the famed “Four Horsemen,” Don Miller and Harry Stuhldreher.
Miller, who was halfback and Stuhldreher, a quarterback, played under Knute Rockne in the days of “golden football” at Notre Dame. There will also be student speakers at the rally, which will be officiated by Tom Scanlon, Blue Circle chairman.
11
1. Otte
Peaceful and Uneventful
The Senate meeting this week, held Tuesday, was most peaceful and uneventful. Nothing of significance occurred, but this is because people are getting their various tasks done and orderly reports are being made. It’s just a temporary dormancy. A chronology of events might be interesting to those who have never been to a meeting.
After the call to order and the prayer, the executive reports were made. Vice-President Jim Naughton named the committees that will operate during the year, some volunteered, some not so volunteered. He reported that all the campus religious groups had met, and the need for a religious commissioner was felt; one will be appointed.
John Christen, Social Commissioner, said there was a profit on both the Shangri-la and the Victory Dances this past week end. Ed Butler, Student Affairs Commissioner, mentioned that less money was spent on the Bonfire Pep Rally than expected, even with the two burnings. Thanksgiving buses to the airport and train stations, and beginning bridge lessons are being made available by Butler in the near future.
Bill Scheckler, chairman of the Scholarship Fund Improvement Committee, said that an article in the Notre Dame magazine would tell how the students raised the $19,000 in the fund, and what was being done with it. This publicity, it is hoped, will encourage others to contribute to the fund. Rev. James Moran, C.S.C., Director of Admissions, is the administrator of the fund.
Next, John Keegan presented the Student Discount Service Plan. It came complete with a history, the results of the sample survey, a logical rationale, list of duties, and a sample contract. He told of the merchants who went along with the idea, and those who didn’t, and why. It was a thorough explanation, and was pased unanimously with much hope of the plan being extended. No difficulties were envisioned with the University Council.
The Confraternity of Christian Doctrine requested and received $100 to carry on its operations for the year. An appropriation of $550 was made for the United Fund of St. Joseph County. Both hunks came from the Campus Charity Chest.
Dennis Murphy and Keith Hauge sponsored a motion that would allow the Commerce Activities Council to spend some of the money that had earlier been appropriated. The Finance, Labor-Management, and Propeller Clubs will get some financial help as a result.
12
Senate OK.'s Student Discount Service Han; Service To Provide Big Savings For Students
At its past Tuesday evening meeting the Student Senate gave its approval to an important proposal concerning a possible student discount service to aid N.D. students. The “Student Discount Service Fian” has its purpose to understand the financial problems of Notre Dame students and to help alleviate their overall cost of education through some type of discount service. The plan also has as its goal to stimulate and encourage good relations between the community of South Bend and the Notre Dame community.
Council Must Approve. The plan was presented to the Senators in a brochure form which completely outlined its organization. When and if the administration confirms it the plan will go into effect.
John Keegan, Student Senate secretary, and a twelve-man Cummittee wrote the brochure and did the preliminary organizational work. The SDS is actually a project that Keegan came in contact with as a delegate to the NSA’s annual convention last summer.
It was pointed out by a poll that 60% of the total student expenses were spent on campus and the remainder off campus. However, those surveyed said they would
Debaters Capture First In Two Forensic Tourneys
Twice in the same week the Notre Dame debate team captured forensic honors. Last week end the team emerged, from a field of 16 schools, to win the “Thoroughbred Tournament” of the University of Kentucky in Lexington. Earlier that week, Marquette University was defeated in an individual meet in Milwaukee.
In addition to the large marble first place trophy won at Kentucky, the team placed two men among the top speakers. Of the 54 debaters present, Jay Whitney ranked third and received an individual trophy. Jerry Goudreau was fourth. Goudreau debated with Joel Haggard on the Affirmative and Whitney was with Guy Powers on the Negative.
At Milwaukee, Whitney and Powers successfully defended the “Coffey-Mart-zell” trophy which was won by Notre Dame last year. This debate was held before an audience of 2000 people and is an annual affair, alternating between the Notre Dame and Marquette campusses. With two consecutive legs on this trophy, the Notre Dame team can retire it by winning the meet next year.
With two victories in their first two engagements, the team is preparing for a coming engagement next week end at Texas Christian University where they will be represented by a two-man team of Richard Meece and Maurice O’Sullivan. The following week four men. will debate at Wayne State College in Detroit.
change this to 69% off campus if the plan goes into effect. Eighty-two per cent said they would be willing to change merchants if one merchant whom they patronized refused to join the plan and his competitors did.
Having established sufficient student support, the committee then approached the South Bend merchants as to their part of the plan. Of those businessmen ' contacted so far, the Palais Royale bowling alleys have consented to reduce their prices 5 cents a game; the Williams furniture store ■will grant a 10% discount; the Reco Sporting Goods company, 10%; Eddies Restaurant, 10%; and the Flamingo will sign a contract that will state that they will not raise ' their prices. Rubens, a cleaning shop, will grant a 15% reduction while Lou’s Tux Rental will furnish formal wear at $7.50 a tux or 30% off the regular price. For off-campus students, the Portage Sunoco Station will give a 1% cents discount on every gallon of gas and 25% on all auto repairs.	’
Hot Prospects. Other merchants that the SDS has as good prospects include; the Nichola’s pizza shop, Hertz Car Rentals, Wallgreen’s drug store, Frankies, a shoe repairing shop, the cabs and buses and the local movie houses.	x
Merchants will be selected to participate in the plan on the basis of bids. The best bid (highest discount reduction) in a particular type of business will be given the right to be a member of the plan. All the merchants must be approved by the Student Senate and the University.
In return for the discounts, the stu- : dent government will-grant certain ad- 1 vertising benefits to these businessmen J through WSND and the Scholastic. I The names of the participants will ap- | pear on the back of the SDS cards. i
—Thomas Schlereth 1
Lawyers Present Ball Tonight] At South Bend Country Club I
This year’s annual Fall Law Ball will | be held tonight, at the South Bend | Country Club. The band of Ken Morris 3 will play for the prospective lawyers y and their dates from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. 1
The Communion Breakfast will be held 1 at the Morris Inn, on Sunday after the E 9 o’clock Mass at Sacred Heart Church, fi Tickets will be available at the doors of I the Breakfast for $1.25 per person. 1
This year’s dance was organized by a Mason D. Sullivan a second year law v student from Chicago, Ill. and John S. I Kubiak third year law from Niles, Mich.l
Queen of the ball will be Miss Anna Sweeney from Oak Park, Ill., fiancee ofl Mason Sullivan, one of the co-chairmen. H She is a 1956 graduate from Rosary n College in River Forest, Ill. PresentlyM she teaches first grade pupils at Ben-S jamin Franklin School in North Lake, 111.0
The Scholastic^*
RENEW YOUR SCHOLASTIC SUBSCRIPTION NOW!
AQUINAS LIBRARY aid BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend
A Nonprofit Organization
OUR COVER: It’s a pretty safe bet that the creatures pictured on today’s cover peering over the eerie horizon would frighten the wits out of anybody except the unusually apathetic creature lumbering slowly homeward with studies in hand — the Notre Dame Student. Totally ignorant of his surroundings, he is equally undisturbed. Artist Gerard J. Welling was unavailable for comment when this was written as to who the prototypes for his ghouls were; probably colleagues, no doubt.
S to
S 3
3I9B3
&
wyx 3
S 3
IS SEE
3M313ini
3 3AB33dS

ME
OLH9H0M1
a 3 3
s
to 3
y H
N
M
H 31 IM VH a y MN
ISE
IBE5
3
sMato a

J 3
V d
3 9
9 s v
d n a. .3 K K n a
9 &
3
s
1
9
‘tflMSNVlGDM
KQDL KROSSWORD	No. 5
ACROSS
1. Talk about your victory
5. Perches in churches
9. Clair de la’s last name
48.	To be (Latin)
49.	Queen Elizabeth I
DOWN
io.
.Kool is
the best kind to smoke
11.	Swedish gal’s name
12.	An arbor graduate
13.	Goofy
Mortimer 15. French lady saint (abbr.)
16_____Aviv
17. Competitive kind of woman
19.	Eric is a little short
20.	Motors, waves and lions do it
21.	King of
Norway
25. It’s common to airports
27. Walk with a roll
29.	Raps backward
30.	Graf .__
(German ship) 32. Almost a Veep 33. Discerning 35. 2ndPersonsheep 36., 39. What makes
Kools so enjoyable?
41. Not the kind of town for a race track
43. Speak highly of 44. Dental degree 45.'Act like an onion
46. Little America 47. This suffix is the most
1.	Is very hot
2.	Second man
3.	Girl from L.A.?
4.	It’s shifty in a sports car
5.	One man’s caressing hand is another’s-----
6.	His ale (anagram)
7.	Play obviously not by Somerset Maugham
8.	A bum one misleads you 14. Classical dumb gal
18. Good places for dolls
21.	Either's brother
22.	Tennis skunking sounds romantic
23.	Fish, not beerloving spouses
24.	Crooks who could be soft touches
26. This is madness
28. Meet up, in the rain
31. Hand holders
34. A type of line
36.	Fashion
37.	What the British call cigarette butts
38.	Tree house
40. Fellow who could probably use a Kool
42______out (earn a scanty living)
1	2	3	4		5	6	7	8
9					'0			
11								
13				14	■			
16			1	17	18			
19				20				
25			26				27	28
29					30	31		
			33	34				
36	37	38					■	I39
41							42	1
44			1	45				
47								
46
’are you kodl ENOUGH TO KRACK THIS?*
22
32
35
40
43
49
k®l
When your throat tells you its time for a change you need a real change...
YOU NEED THE
o^kgdl/ j
'A W
A’
MILD MENTHOL KING-SIZE
C1939. Brown * Williamson Tobacco Corp.
14
The Scholastic
The Jacket Insulator—
Lobund.
.. Space?
by Bill Veeder
Lobund stands off the road. It is surrounded by coin and with the iron gray of an Indiana autumn as a backdrop, ; Lobund is drab and quiet and resembles a blockhouse. Here .	a war is fought. Not with guns or against men — but there
i	is war nevertheless. For the men at Lobund fight against
germs and disease and Soviet supremacy in space. Lobund stands off the road.
v Lobund, Laboratory of Bacteriology University of Notre Dame, was begun as part of the Biology Department in 1932. ! Its purpose was to perfect germfree animals. Doctor Renier was in charge. In 1952 Lobund was made an Institute and ’ continued in this independent state until Dr. Renier’s retire-■ ment in 1959. Professor Trexler replaced him. And this summer Lobund was reincorporated into the Biology Department.
Perfection of germfree animals is the goal at Lobund. And to perfect these gnotobites, a sterilization chamber is needed. The men at Lobund first experimented with steel cylinders. ; Rubber gloves were built into the sides of the drum to facilitate the handling of the animals inside. A plexiglass observa-vation dome was mounted on the top. A major breakthrough ; occurred in 1947 when, for the first time, gei-mfree rats re’ produced within the sterilization chamber. However, there i were drawbacks to this type of steel dnim. Its size limited ’ 1 the number of animals it could hold. It was too expensive. So : Lobund looked farther. And, on September 3, 1959, Professor ■	Trexler announced to the Symposium on Space Age Microbi-
■	ology at Penn State University that Notre Dame, after- 27
> years of research, had perfected a large, inexpensive steriliza-i tion chamber — The Jacket Insulator.
To the advantages of low cost (no expensive materials are i required) and high efficiency (ten times previous capacity) is added mobility (light weight plus ease of assembly). With these assets, the potential of the Jacket is unlimited.
; Though only in the experimental stages, Walter Reed is : considering a Jacket type operating room. Thus each patient would be insured completely germfree surgery. His entire re-cuperatory period could also be spent in a similar sterile room. Post-operative infections would become a thing of the :	past. However, such ideas are only tentative. The men at
' Lobund are really looking toward space. For “we live in the i . age when men left the earth.” Yet suppose they returned con-। * taminated by foreign bacilli? Supose these germs were uni known to our scientists. Suppose we were overrun. This is not merely fanciful conjecture. Three centuries of sickness on i both sides of the Atlantic followed the discovery of the New World. Martian organism may, for example, need less mois-II ture for growth than those on earth and their metabolism may render our poisons ineffective. If their moss would begin F to grow on our lumber and food. . . .
I* Equally serious would be earthly contamination of another 1 planet. One germ could overrun an entire world.
Thus a system of purification must be worked out.
To prevent our projectile from contaminating other plan-i* ets, the entire package must be completely germfree. Lobund’s I J Jacket Insulator makes this possible. All the parts could be ' assembled in the sterilization chamber. Undoubtedly the sur-’ ■ face of the probe will become contaminated as it is placed * upon the launching pad and as it makes its way through the
। । atmosphere. There are several approaches to sterilization at 1 this stage. The probe could be housed in a pod in order to I preserve the sterility of its surface and its contents. The con’s taminated pod could then be discarded after leaving the bio’ sphere. Secondly it may be possible to coat the surface of 7 the probe with a protective .layer which could be destroyed
at a predetermined distance. Some derivative of a solid propellant might serve as the basis for such a coating. Or the exhaust gases from the rocket engine could be used to raise the skin surface to sterilization temperature without harming the contents. Finally, a technique using radiant energy of the sun might be devised.
The pollution of the earth by extraterrestrial life must be prevented. In elementary probes, a robot could place samples in a sealed container, pack them into the return vehicle and then the space port could be seared by the exhaust gases of the rocket. This container would then be carried to a quarantine satellite station. Here, within a Jacket Insulator, the samples would be checked. If no contagion is discovered, the probe would continue onto earth where, within Lobund’s sterilization chamber, the entire re-entry capsule would be torn down. The flight is over. If no contagion is discovered, the earth is safe.
In more advanced flights, entrance and exit from the rocket will pose difficulties. The exploration of the planet would require the crew to leave through a decontamination lock similar to those now used in sterile rooms. The return lock would be traversed by a split seam transfer. In this unique device, a sterilized package is heat sealed to the wall of the plastic film insulator. (The fused seam serves to immobilize all contaminating organisms.) A passageway is then cut with a hot wire cautery. After entrance, the opening can be sealed with heat sensitive tape.
Besides the Jacket Insulator, Lobund will also furnish germfree animals for experimental work. These are invaluable since they are a simpler biological system than their conventional counterparts and therefore are better experimental animals for the same reason that a pure grade of a chemical is preferred as a reagent over the crude source material.
What is in the future for the men at Lobund? Continuing the perfection of germfree animals? Yes. Acting as advisors? Yes. And about space? To this question the men at Lobund only smile.
Experimental Jacket at Walter Reed
— U.S. Anny Photograph
13
October 30,\1959
A GLIMMER
by Dr. Vincent DeSantis
IN ANALYZING the results of the visit of Premier Khrushchev to the United States we must exercise caution and restraint. There have been a number of statements such as the official communiques and the press conferences of both Eisenhower and Khrushchev which have summed up the result of this visit. But no one can be absolutely certain of any one result, and all that one can do is to attempt to speculate. And for the historian this is both a foolish and dangerous thing to do.
Perhaps it will long be debated whether the decision to have Khrushchev come here was wise or foolish, but it seems like a natural and logical thing for our government to do. In the period of modern diplomacy, and especially since the end of World Wai- II, there have been frequent personal meetings of heads of government and chiefs of state, and it was inevitable, and only right, that the heads of government of the two most powerful nations in the world today should meet with one another and should see each other’s country. No letter, no telephone conversation, no intermediary can take the place of such a personal and face to face meeting. In a general way this has been the most worthwhile feature of the Khrushchev visit to the United States.
But the visit has been worthwhile in a number of specific ways. The essential problem here is whether Khrushchev was sincere in his protestations of wishing to ease international tensions or was simply making propaganda aimed at wringing unilateral concessions from the United States. On this the two crucial tests were the Berlin issue and the question of disarmament. The general impression among American officials is that Khrushchev was sincere in his assurances and that he did seek peace. The feeling is that at the Camp David meeting, President Eisenhower decided, for the time being at least, to give the Soviet leader the benefit of the doubt on this. But here we must exercise caution. Will words be followed by deeds? The real importance of Khrushchev’s visit to this country will be measured by future success in reaching and implementing mutually satisfactory agreements. In this connection many observers are recalling the ei-a of good feeling that followed the Geneva Conference of 1955. That era ended rather rapidly when it became apparent that Soviet deeds were not matching the words of Geneva. Will the new era begun at Camp David suffer the same fate?
YET for this uncertainty, Washington officials feel that the Khrushchev visit reduced the danger of the Berlin issue and created a promising atmosphere for further easing of the cold war tensions. This was accomplished when Khrushchev removed the time limit of one year on negotiations over the Berlin issue. Eisenhower had insisted that there could be no real progress on this issue until the time limit was lifted, and Khrushchev agreed to this. At a news confer
16
ence the day after Khrushchev left the United States the President said, “We agreed . . . that these negotiations [on ' Berlin] should not be prolonged indefinitely but there could be no final time limit on them.” The next day in Moscow, Khrushchev said in public, “President Eisenhower has given a correct account of the agreement we reached. We have in- , deed agreed that negotiations . . . [on Berlin] must be re- *j sumed; that no time limit should be set for them, but that | they must not be delayed indefinitely.”	!
Those who argue that this did not represent much of an accomplishment and that the substantive issue on the Berlin and German question remains as far from solution as before should keep certain things in mind. The Eisenhower-Khrushchev meeting at Camp David was no formal negotiating session or even a formal talk. It was just an informal con ver- * sation about a crucial technical point on proceedings, and in this respect the result was encouraging. There is also the feeling that by getting Khrushchev to lift the time limit on the Berlin negotiations, Eisenhower was buying time. And while no one knows for a certainty what the President will do with the time he has bought, there is a general relief about the reduction in the tension ovei- Berlin, and a better political climate prevails.	r
AS FOR disarmament the issue that has blocked agreement
■ on every recent proposal has been controls. Since we distrust the Soviet Union we insist upon rigorous inspection techniques and related controls as the price for even partial disarmament let alone the complete disarmament which Khrushchev urged in his speech at the United Nations Assembly. Russia has made it clear on many occasions that she regards the presence of foreign non-Communist inspectors on her soil as nothing more than a Western intelligence movement directed against the Soviet Union. But on the day he left the United States, at a news conference in Washington, Khrushchev had this to say. “We believe that . . . each stage of disarmament . . . should be accompanied by the development of inspection and control.” This suggests a change in Soviet policy, which < up to now has been that controls should follow each step instead of preceding or coinciding with it, as the West has insisted.
The Khrushchev visit has been worthwhile for other reasons. Just as important as the personal meeting between Eisenhower and Khrushchev has been the impression that Khrushchev made upon the Americans and Americans upon Khrushchev. The visit opened the eyes of Americans to the toughness and resourcefulness of Khrushchev. He was no longer the incomprehensible, wild man, but a very capable and * therefore dangerous opponent. He did not take back his threat to “bury” us, but instead he promised to overwhelm capitalism with the superiority of communism. While he seemed to ease the tension of a possible hot war in Berlin, he challenged us ' to a peaceful straggle for the world. He pitted his political system and his economic plans against ours. On his trip through America it was plain to everyone who watched him that he was determined to execute his plans. He manifested * a great pride for his system, and every difference between us became an opportunity for him to emphasize the superiority of communism. And his demonstration of physical vitality has not been seen here for a long time. Such an astonishing exhi- ' bition of single-minded purpose and immense vitality should cause us and our friends to look to oui- own purpose and vitality. This benefit would be almost more than one could have expected of Khrushchev’s visit.	M
The visit has also caused a change in the Communist line of attack against American capitalism. It is hard to know whether- Khrushchev liked what he saw in the United States, but in the future it will not be quite so easy for him to believe some of the nonsense about Amei-ica which his own propaganda machine projects to the rest of the world. Soviet propaganda has held that under American capitalism the poor J were becoming constantly poorer. Since Khrushchev’s visit I this line has already changed. Now Communism admits that I capitalism produces an abundance for the masses. We are now I told that the trouble with our capitalism is that it is wasteful, I and that communist planning will also bring abundance but I with less waste of effort and natural resources.	I
(Continued on page 22)	I
The Scholastic I
CON:
BETRAYAL
by Father Stanley Parry
If you ask me whether the visit of Khrushchev was a good thing, I answer with an unqualified no! It was evil from every point of view. In inviting him as a guest to our country we violated every principle we stand for; we weakened our position of moral leadership in the world; we undermined our own position in international relations, and we brought ourselves one step closer to the war we are selling our souls to avoid. This is my position, unqualified, stark and despondent. I see no good in the visit considering it from any point of view, whether from that of moral principle or from that of pragmatic advantage. The invitation was wrested from us by threats. It was delivered in fear. And it was accepted with triumphant arrogance. We will live to regret the weakness that made it possible.
Let us consider this strange event for a few moments. But before we do, let us be clear about the dialectical situation in which we are involved.
THE BURDEN of proof in this issue lies with the pro position. The question of Khrushchev’s visit cannot be stated neutrally. Indeed if the question could be so stated, there would be no question. We do not debate the visit of Queen Elizabeth to our country. We know it is right and good for nations to express friendship by such visits. Why is the visit of the head of the USSR an object of debate. Simply because we are presently in a tense relationship with the USSR? Of course not. Tensions of that type obviously call for com
promising and mitigating diplomacy. No the visit becomes an issue and a problem because we all know that at the very best it can be justified only by adducing some reasons that justify our compromise with our general moral obligation not to connive with murder, tyranny, and heresy.
Let us not be unclear about this. Khrushchev is a murderer of long standing ranging from the destruction of the Ukrainians to the murder only yesterday of Hungarian students.
He is at this moment an absolute and merciless tyrant over millions of helpless people. And his power is consciously based on a diabolic party whose ideas constitute a heresy not only against Catholic teaching, but even against the mind of man itself. He is the self-proclaimed enemy of every civilizational benefit the Western World has won. He stands ready to thrust us into the predicted grave of history. Therefore, we are not asked whether we should forget and forgive past evils better forgotten. We are asked whether we should treat as a friend the conscious and avowed representative of a totally evil powerin the world.
I will pass over the consideration of moral principle, leaving it to debate on the floor. Let me simply illustrate the point to be made. There was a time when we were clear about these things. No one would have dreamed of inviting Hitler to our shores. We knew the murderer of millions of Germans to be evil. Now what is the difference between Khrushchev and Hitler? None at all. The hydrogen bomb cannot change the issues at stake, even though fear can evidently change our response to them. It is the fate of nations that they must cope with evil on a minimal level and frequently permit the evil they cannot cure. The distinction between a prudent estimate of alternate evils and a cowardly retreat in the face of danger can at times be made only by a discerning mind. But here the issue is simplicity itself. No magnitude of evil can justify extending the hand of friendship to the embodiment of the evil itself.
But what of the factual pragmatic situation? Let us examine the idea that pragmatic considerations justify conduct which, however distasteful, at least have the virtue of easing tension and lessening the probability of war. To this I say nonsense.
The Berlin crisis was created by the Soviets. Our first stand, strongly taken, was that we would not agree to a meeting of the two heads of state until our ministers had first reached some minimal basis for agreement. But such preliminary,
agreement was
never reached; and because of this, we had agreed to no formal summit conference between the heads of state. In extending our invitation to Mr. Khrushchev, we capitulated on the point we had first strongly taken — not only in thus agreeing to a meeting of the heads of state, but also in offering our hospitality to the representative of a totally evil state.
BEHIND this cleverly created Berlin crisis was an attack on NATO. The questions arise, Will we fight over Berlin? Will NATO? Surely France doesn’t want to fight for Germany, her traditional enemy. Will she then fight over Berlin? And will the English fight for anything?
A division between France and Germany means the death of NATO. And the death of NATO exposes Europe to occupation at the very moment when the danger of infiltration is beaten down. The occupation of Europe means a hydrogen war. There is no other possibility. The Berlin issue is thus seen to be a skillful choice of the weakest link in NATO. And to give in on Berlin is to give in on Europe.
How far will we back up? The USSR wants to know whether or not we will use the bomb. And although we are leading them to believe that we won’t, I am afraid that we will be forced to. A weakness now on our part will cause a war, not prevent it. The visit of Khrushchev was itself a maneuver in the Soviet’s relentless attack on our will to resist. It marks a clear victory for the Soviets in the Cold War. And as such constitutes a step in the dir ection of the ultimate war.
The real question to which our invitation to Khrushchev gave a shameful and cowardly answer to is: whether there does not exist some tensions that ought not be relieved; whether there does not exist some tensions that cannot be re-, lieved, for to relieve them is to capitulate. I speak of the ten-
(Continued on page 33)
October 30, 1959
17
Points... Mostly Counter
J. Michael Kelly
(Ed. Note: The statements in this critique do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editors.)
The question would seem to have been resolved “con,” at least on the merit of the Student Forum — if not by a clearcut resolution of two poles of thought, then by the triumph of a political position over a historical void.
In accepting responsibility for the defense of a question “pro” or “con,” one is expected to stand for the side he has chosen to defend, to enumerate the points in his stand, and then to prove the points he has enumerated. Acceptance is thus tacit affirmation of the fact that one has a position to defend. But, with all respect due to the eminent Dr. DeSantis, he seemed to have no position. One cannot retain completely the viewpoint of a historian — waiting, always waiting, to see definite facts and ultimate results — and still hope to successfully defend a position taken on the value of a very recent event.
Dr. DeSantis’ attitude may be more than adequately covered by quoting him when he says that “No one can be certain of any one result of Mr. Khrushchev’s visit.” If one cannot feel fairly certain of any results whatsoever, how can he possibly attempt to substantiate the beneficial results of the visit?
Another “point” made by Dr. DeSantis, is what he calls a “general feeling” now prevalent in Washington, to the effect that the informal talks held at Camp David did do much to ease the tension of the Berlin issue, inasmuch as Khrushchev did lift the Soviet’s pre-delivered ultimatum of a one-year time limit for negotiations on that issue. May I say that a “general feeling” is hardly sufficient basis for a value judgment in the field of diplomatic relations?
Father Parry, on the other hand, defined and successfully substantiated a strong position. Our invitation to Khrushchev, and his subsequent visit to the United States, together constituted an unqualified evil on both moral and pragmatic grounds.
Any extension of hospitality to tne head of a state which is rooted in beliefs diametrically opposed to our own, is surely unnecessary and is a definite violation of the principles for which we stand.
The pragmatic evils of the visit are also clearly defined by Father Parry, for he says that the visit was a maneuver on the part of the Soviets which won them a bout in the Cold War. He also cites the harm to NATO which has been caused by Khrushchev’s visit, saying that our extension of the invitation “indicates a serious breach in NATO’s unity.” The second pragmatic point which demonstrates the evil inherent in Khrushchev’s visit is the obvious confusion among our people and our allies — confusion as to what stand the United States is taking, confusion as to what support can be depended upon from the United States, and confusion as to just how far the United States will back down before taking a final stand against the onslaught of the Soviet state.
The Russians are seeing us in a false light, because we 'will use the bomb if we are pushed too far. Our hospitality to Khrushchev, however, has led them to believe even more strongly that we will continually yield to their aggressive tactics, and that they need only keep pushing us back. In this light, then, says Father Parry, the visit could well have made

x
more certain and perhaps even hastened the coming of ultimate war.
Father Parry’s was a stand strongly taken and well fended. He showed clearly the moral and pragmatic evils curved by the Khrushchev risit. And he raised one of
an
dein-the
most important moral questions of our time in saying that perhaps the tensions between good and evil ought not to be relieved, if the relief of such must mean our capitulation on matters of principle.
After the above-reviewed initial speeches, the forum opened up to a series of pertinent and well-formulated questions from the floor, directed to one or both of the speakers.
Dr. DeSantis, haring spent much time defining the nature of today’s diplomacy, was asked if there was a difference between the diplomacy of the 19th century and that of today, particularly a difference in the validity of the agreements reached. In answer to this, he said that today’s diplomatic relations are more public than were those of the 19th century. And, as to respective degrees of validity, he felt that today’s truce is much more effective than were the solemn but unkept treaties of that period. This brought him under direct fire by Father Parry, who questioned whether the present relations between the USA and the USSR could even be called diplomacy. “What Khrushchev says,” stated Father Parry, “is not (Continued on page 22)
* i
Little
by Edward P. Kearse
I HAD an old friend when I was small. In fact my friend was eighty. I was four. Every day we’d put on our rubbers and walk to the park. He used to say that the park was the special place for old fellas and young fellas like him and myself. I remember him best when the air was warm and the tree leaves were still green. The sun would shine on his swanwhite hair and I never got tired looking at it. We’d cross Fifth Avenue and go in the Sixty-Fifth Street entrance. My friend and I would stop to buy two balloons, red ones if we could, and a bag of peanuts. Then we’d go down the walk with our red balloons bobbing up and down in the sun-filled air. I used to think it strange for him to have a balloon too, but he said that it was all right for an old fella like him with a friend like me to have one. Sometimes, on our way to a secret place that we knew, we’d step in a puddle and watch the ripples as they rolled out toward the puddle-rim. Then we’d laugh because we knew what my mother would say if she saw us. “Middle people are usually too smart to do the things that old and young people do,” he would say. Around the brown rocks, under the big oak, where the Indians used to meet, and between the lilac bushes, this was our place. Through the trees we could see the white swan drifting proudly across the pond with her two swanlings and talk about the time my friend was a pirate. His stories seemed exciting and even the
18
squirrels would listen. He’d also talk about me. I was a pilot . . . well, at least I was going to be, it really doesn’t make much difference. I was going to save the girl that lived downstairs, after the Nazis had captured her. Her parents had been killed by them and she was in a concentration camp. My friend and I would fly over to Germany. He’d keep the motors warm while I sneaked into the camp and got the girl. Then we’d bring her back to my house since she didn’t have parents any more. Sometimes we wouldn’t talk at all. My friend used to say that real friends don’t have to say anything to each other. They could just sit on the grass feeding the squirrels, listening to the birds, like we were, and think about what they were going to do or what they had done.
When the sun got to the tip of the Indian oak it was time to go. We could stop for just a minute and give Mr. Spinella’s monkey a nickel. He played a song and then we’d go on down the walk. One day just after we’d left Mr. Spinella my friend told me we couldn’t take our walks for a while. He said an old pirate friend had asked him to come for a visit. My mothei' had told me that he had to go to the hospital on Twenty-Third Street but I didn’t tell him so he wouldn’t worry.
I’m seven now and I’m pretty busy. School is hard and the girl downstairs bothers me a lot. I have lots of friends now so even if he was around I wouldn’t have much time. But once in a while, when the air is warm, the leaves light green and the puddles are in the park, I miss the brown rocks, the old Indian tree, the lilac bush, the squirrel and most of all, I miss my friend.
The Scholastic

HOMECOMING
photographs
by WALT DALY
ROCK - WILDCAT
October 30, 1959
19
TCS
by Joseph Keyerleber *
The Young Christian Students at Notre Dame are part of a world-wide movement that is striving to apply the principles of Catholic Action to student life. The students who form this movement, in answer to the call of the last several popes for greater lay participation in the Church’s mission in the world, attempt to bring student life closer to Christ, in any way possible. YCS is committed to the complementary aims of social action on the campus and the personal spiritual formation of its members.
With YCS groups on approximately 150 campuses in this country, the national movement of YCS is coordinated by a staff of full-time workers at YCS National Headquarters in Chicago. However, YCS was first started in the United States when Father Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., the present chaplain of Notre Dame YCS, introduced the movement on the. Notre Dame campus in 1940.	*
YCS members see that their four years of college are not just a period of study and book learning, but a way of life, a vocation, that must be pursued seriously and zealously for their own happiness, for the benefit of mankind, and for the glory of God.
COMMUNITY AND UNIVERSITY
Community awareness is a dominant theme in YCS. Motivated by charity and held together by a mutual interest in aiding the University to fulfill its goals, the YCS members at Notre Dame form a community within a community. The constant aim of YCS is to develop and further the Notre Dame community in whatever way possible, whether it be concerned with the academic life, the spiritual life, or the social life. Finally, the YCS members are conscious of their vital role in the entire Christian Community—the Mystical Body of Christ.
YCS tries to serve the students of Notre Dame in many ways, both in spiritual and secular affairs, because of a sincere desire to make the four years at college as happy, meaningful and profitable as possible for all students. YCS operates a tutoring service to provide help for students having difficulty in a particular subject and the Book Exchange to enable students to save money on textbooks. Last year a series of retreats open to everyone interested in the student apostolatewas inaugurated; this will be continued this year, supplemented by a new series of study days on various phases of Catholic Action.
The most important unit in YCS oiganization is the group, composed of five to ten students in the same hall or the same college. The groups make use of the social inquiry, which is essentially the prudential method of St. Thomas Aquinas adapted to the solution of social problems through application of Christian principles. The social inquiry involves a three-stage process: Observe, Judge, Act. To illustrate the “observe,” let us suppose a group decides to inquire into the spare-time reading habits of the students. The “observe” would probably begin with a general discussion of what the members think are the reading habits of students. This would be followed by a more scientific investigation of the facts, perhaps including a questionnaire passed around to a portion of the student body or a check on the library statistics. Depending on the problem, the “observe” can last anywhere from two weeks to a year or more. When the group feels that they have an adequate understanding of the real situation, they begin the “judge.”	.	.	•
The “judge” is a comparison of the existing situation with the ideal or most truly Christian situation. The members ask
20
themselves, “What would Christ want?” To answer this question, the Gospels and Epistles are studied for guiding principles. Encyclicals and other modern writings are used to help the group understand the application of these principles to the problem at hand. If the “observe” in our sample inquiry indicated that most students were reading only mystery stories and sports magazines, it would be quite obvious that this was r not the ideal situation, but usually the “judge” is not so simple. The purpose of the “judge” is to find out if the subject considered is a real problem, a detriment to the ideal of a Christian environment, and if it is, to decide whether there is any action that the group could take to improve the situation.
Any social inquiry, to be successful, must be completed with some form of action. In the years after the war, when the campus was not nearly so well organized as it is now, * YCS groups came up with actions like setting up the Campus Press and the Book Exchange. More recent actions were the Advent Symposium, the tutoring service, and the Leo XIII Lenten Lecture Series. In the sample inquiry, possible actions might be a drive to sell subscriptions to the high quality Catholic and secular magazines, or a move to start discussion groups in the halls to read and discuss current books. Often the action will be of a more subtle nature. Through an in- < creased awareness and understanding of a particular problem, the group members may find it possible to work through other organizations to which they belong, such as the Student Senate or their own hall council. Another possibility is that YCS will come up with an idea, and then turn it over to another organization which is better equipped to handle it, as was the case , with the Freshman Orientation program, a product of a YCS social inquiry, which is carried out by the Blue Circle. Action I is the real test of a YCS group, for it is the most difficult part of the inquiry, but some form of action, however small or * seemingly inconsequential, is absolutely necessary in order for YCS to fulfill the purpose of its existence.
TRANSITION WITH DISINTEREST
YCS is going through a painful transition period at this time, characterized by a lack of interest on the part of many intelligent, responsible students, and a feeling that YCS is 4 gradually fading out of the picture on the Notre Dame campus. Actually, however, YCS is now on the threshold of greater than ever fulfillment of its time purpose — Christianization of the student world. The difficulty lies in the fact that the t shape of the problem has changed. During the years after the war, Notre Dame had few institutions such as student government, lecture programs, the Book Exchange, the Advent Symposium and the Campus Press. At best, if these institutions and others like them actually existed, they were inefficient and poorly organized. The needs of the student and of the entire campus were rather obvious and YCS did something about them. While it is true that the present situation is still far from perfect, the fact remains that there are existing organizations and institutions to provide for almost all student needs. ,
This transition, though difficult to make, should in the ; long run be beneficial to YCS, for the movement can now v devote itself primarily to its basic concern — student attitudes and values.
To a large extent, present student attitudes and values do not reflect the fact that the university is essentially an intellectual community. If Notre Dame is going to move towards perfection, towards God, students must participate more ac-
The Scholastic
tively in this intellectual community. To develop this participation is the challenge that YCS must face in the years to come.
This shift in emphasis, from initiating and improving services and physical institutions on the campus, to an attempt at developing student attitudes and values, can be seen in the YCS program for next year. The new program deals with two main areas for study and action: the International Community and Liturgical Paiticipation, as related to university life.
With the menace of Communism, the rise of political consciousness in the more primitive parts of the world, and other international problems urgently needing solutions based on Christian charity and the social doctrine of the Church, it is more important than ever before that the student community make itself aware of the complexities of these problems and form an intelligent opinion. Although large-scale direct action may be impossible or limited, YCS can certainly accomplish a great deal of good by striving to deepen the understanding of international problems by the student body, particularly with emphasis on the concept of the Mystical Body and the community of man.
The area of Liturgical Participation offers a vast possibility for action next year, both in educating the members of YCS and the entire student body to the true value of community worship and in actually working to further community participation in the public worship of the Church.
' Parallel to the program for social in:	quiry will be an increased emphasis on
student spirituality, a necessary but , sometimes misunderstood prerequisite to :	social action. The Gospel discussions, al-
► ways an important part of YCS meetings, are the primary means by which the members try to learn the mind of Christ, as pertinent to their own lives and to their* place in the lay apostolate. The conferences at the retreats next
ROCCO'S NEW Restaurant . * STEAKS - SEAFOODS 1 Also the Finest Italian Dishes
MODERN PRIVATE ROOMS AVAILABLE Call for Reservations
4	*
’ Open Sundays	CE 4-7224
i	18142 South Bend Ave.
Still Operating at Our Old Location
537 N. St. Louis
October 30, 1959
year will deal with various aspects of the spiritual life and their relation to the active apostolate of the layman. In conjunction with the Liturgical program for next year, YCS will cooperate with the Spiritual Commission in setting up a program of community worship in the various halls.
By posing important questions concerning the problems of the university and of the outside world, YCS hopes to interest thinking people in the need for social action and personal formation through the student apostolate.
OPTICAL REPAIRS
CONTACT LENSES INQUIRIES INVITED EYES EXAMINED
PHONE CE 4-5737 207 W. WASHINGTON—OLIVER HOTEL
Young Man With a Date
No matter what your educational background—the arts, the sciences, business or engineering—make a date to talk with a Bell interviewer when he visits your campus.
Wide range of job opportunities with:
INDIANA BELL
ILLINOIS BEU
LONG UNES DOT. - A. T. & T. CO.
WESTERN ELECTRIC
SANDIA CORP.
Check with your placement officer NOW	.
OUR REPRESENTATIVES Will BE ON CAMPUS
NOVEMBER 10 & 11
21
BARNES & NOBLE OUTLINE SERIES
*	ANCIENT HISTORY
‘ HISTORY OF THE MIDDLE AGES * HISTORY OF EUROPE 1800 -1848 * HISTORY OF EUROPE SINCE 1815 * U. S. HISTORY TO 1865
*	U. S. HISTORY SINCE 1865
‘ BIOLOGY
*	CHEMISTRY
*	CHEMISTRY AND PHYSICS PROBLEMS
*	MARKETING
* FRENCH, GERMAN, SPANISH GRAMMAR
•
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE on - the - campus
NOTICE
Award Jackets
GOLD STEERHIDE LEATHER SLEEVES 24-OUNCE WOOL NAVY MELTON BODY IRRIDESCENT RAYON LINED BLUE AND GOLD TRIMMED
Special $17.95
MINKOW'S
303 So. Michigan St.
NEXT TO PLANTERS PEANUTS Home of Adam Hats, Massagic Shoes, and Campus Sports Clothes.
Pro
(Continued from page 16)
The Americans who traveled with Khrushchev found him to be greatly impressed with what he saw and heard in the United States. It is hoped that what he and his companions saw for themselves will explode some of their preconceived notions about America which have come from doctored reports by Soviet representatives in this country to fit the Kremlin’s conceptions about us. As a result of this trip Khrushchev seems to have accepted the obvious truth that the United States is both strong and peaceful. After speaking with the leaders of the two major parties he has discovered that they both support the same basic foreign policy. This alone has perhaps caused him to revise his notions of American policy and determination. When now speaking of those Americans who seek war the tune has
A Decision:
(Continued from page 18)
necessarily what he means.”
Directed to Father Parry was a question as to whether he would not agree that Khrushchev’s visit to the United States was a step on the road to peace. To which he answered, “We cannot discuss with Russia whether we will give her three million souls (Berlin). Therefore, when you discuss the Berlin issue, any agreement is bad. And every move toward capitulation is a reduction of what we’ve got to capitulate with!”
Dr. DeSantis here interposed that there are no written agreements between the United States and the USSR on the matter of Berlin. But a distinction between oral and written agreements is meaningless, said Father Parry, for “between us and Russia, treaties are as scraps of paper.”
Again, Father Parry was asked, “Is it a principle that we should never negotiate with an evil man?” To which he answered, “The fact of evil in the world is not a moral obligation for other nations to declare war on that evil. It was immoral and unnecessary for us to invite Khrushchev. It was the visit of an arrogant man to a fearful nation.”
Many times, Dr. DeSantis was heard to answer such things as “I’m sure we cannot know the results of the visit until we see definite, black-and-white results.” It was much the view of an exacting historian who would rather not express an opinion until he was absolutely certain of its truth. We must admit, however, that his was an extremely difficult position to defend; and therefore we must commend him on even undertaking to do so.
To Father Parry, we can only direct congratulations on. a stand well taken and successfully substantiated. And to Senate Academic Commissioner Andrew J. Lawlor and Moderator Michael Bird, we must offer compliments on a well-organized and well-conducted Student Forum. May we soon see many repeats of the same.
changed to “certain elements” rather than the old one of “ruling circles.” The Russians used to say that if war came they would not be hurt but all the democratic countries would. They no longer say this, for Khrushchev said only a madman would want war. To someone f in San Francisco who disagreed with him Khrushchev remarked, “Well, you have your system; I have mine. You like roast beef, I like borscht, and you have yours, and I have mine.” Speaking about Eisenhower, Khrushchev said, “[He] has displayed wise statesmanship in assessing the present international Y situation ... I got the impression . . . that he sincerely wanted to liquidate the cold war and to improve relations between our two great countries, to pro- -mote the improvement of relations among all states.” And Pravda, which for so long has castigated the West, had this to say, “People of goodwill expect v that the statesmanship and wisdom shown by President Eisenhower . . . will serve as a positive example for other Western statesmen.” Now this is not what used to be the Soviet line, and the change has been a most significant one. Perhaps a new form of relations between the United States and Russia has * 1 set in. Perhaps a new procedure has begun whereby there will be more personal talks and visits. Perhaps there will be a revision of Soviet policy so that international crises will become fewer. If all this should occur it would' be almost more than one could have expected of Khrushchev’s visit.	< '
New New New
CASA • PIZZ
on the campus
i
DELICIOUS PIZZAS by Luigi Rappelli
Try One Soon!
Bring your date for a late snack!
HOURS
MON.-THURS. 5:00 P.M. to 11:00 P.M.
FRL-SAT 5:00 P.M. to 12:00 P.M.
VETVILLE REC. HALL
22
The Scholastic

UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME
PRESS
KEATS
Diplomacy in a Changing World
Edited by Stephen Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons
The problems and resources of diplomacy in a world characterized by a radical departure from the past are surveyed in this volume, which holds forth the hope that with sacrifice, perseverance, and imagination, diplomacy may be flexible enough to tame the furies of the contemporary world.
Dag Hammarskjold, George F. Kennan, Sir Pierson Dixon, Hans Morganthau, Jacques de Bourbon-Busset,. Raymond J. Sontag, and Philip E. Mosely are among the distin* guished diplomats and scholars who have contributed to the volume.
$7.50
on Life Savers:
On sale at the Notre Dame Bookstore and all leading booksellers
ccWhy not
live sweetly?”
from The Done, line 10
CHEMISTS
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
Are now available for Organic, Physical, Analytical and Biochemists.
*	Match your interests and training to challenging programs in Research
and Development. See our “RESEARCH OPPORTUNITIES” Booklet — now at the placement office.
„	Campus Interviews will be held
Thursday, Nov. 12
, THE TONI COMPANY
1	A Division of The Gillette Company
456 Merchandise Mart, Chicago 54, Illinois
- October 30, 1959
23
;	A Campus-to-Career Case History
।
I found I could be an engineer and a businessman, too”
I	«c
I I 1 I I I I I
j William M. Stiffler majored in mechani-i cal engineering at Penn State University I —but he also liked economics. “I wanted j to apply engineering and economics in [	business,” he says, “and have some adi	ministrative responsibilities.”
{ Bill got his B.S. degree in June, 1956, ■	and went to work with the Bell Telephone
I	Company of Pennsylvania at Harrisburg.
।	During his first two years, he gained on}	the-job experience in all departments of
|	the company. Since June, 1958, he’s been
I	working on transmission engineering
i	projects.
« Today, Bill is getting the blend of engi-i	neering and practical business-engineer}	ing he wanted. “The economic aspects of
}	each project are just as important as the
technical aspects,” he says. “The greatest challenge lies in finding the best solution to each problem in terms of costs, present and future needs, and new technological developments.
“Another thing I like is that I get full j ob-responsibility. For example, I recently completed plans for carrier systems between Scranton and four other communities which will bring Direct Distance Dialing to customers there. The transmission phase of the project involved almost a half-million dollars—and it was ‘my baby’ from terminal to terminal.
“Telephone engineering has everything you could ask for—training, interesting and varied work, responsibility, and real management opportunities.”
Bill Stiffler and many college men like him have found interesting careers with the Bell Telephone Companies. There may be a real opportunity for you, too. Be sure to talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus—and read the Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
24
The Scholastic
. KUHARICHMEN FACE THRICE-BEATEN MIDDIES
by BILL CARY
Tomorrow afternoon in the Stadium the Irish will attempt to bounce back from last week’s heartbreaking defeat by Northwestern as they host Navy in y a top intersectional clash. The Middies bring a 2-3-1 record to South Bend as against the 2-3 standing of Notre Dame. Kickoff time is 1:30 p.m. (CST).
Navy, after successive wins over Boston College and William & Mary, has failed to achieve their third win of the campaign in the last four games. SMU, Syracuse and Miami of Florida have triumphed over the Midshipmen. Last Saturday Navy, behind at one point 19-7 against the Quakers of Penn, rallied to tie their Ivy League opponents, 22-22.
New Coach. Navy is taught by a red-headed coach who has been an assistant at the Naval Academy for the * last four years. Wayne Hardin succeeded Eddie Erdelatz on April 18 of this year. He is 32 years old and is the second youngest coach in the Academy’s
WAYNE HARDIN
Successor to Eddie Erdelatz
’ history. He won eleven letters at College of the Pacific to rank as the greatest letter winner in the school’s history. He is also a fine golfer and at one time gave serious thought to becoming a professional.
Cudgel and Rapier. Navy’s T forma-p tion attack is headed by capable Joe Tranchini at quarterback. Tranchini, a two-year letterman, gives Navy a good air arm. When the Middies go by land, they usually travel on the swift runs of Joe Bellino and the bulllike rushes of Joe Matalavage. Bellino and Matalavage are both juniors. Bel-
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UPS
Notre Dame	Navy
Stickles (80) ...de Albershart (80) Carollo (73 ...It..... Boyer	(71)
Sabal (65) ____lg_____Thomas	(69)
Scholtz (55) ....c..... Dunn	(54)
Adamson (67) ..rg..... Solak	(61)
Williams (76) ..rt... Erchul	(76)
Lodish (74) ...re..... Bezek	(89)
Izo (3) .......qb Tranchini (16)
Sefcik (22)  Jh.... Correll (40) Scarpitto (37) ..rh.... Bellino (27) Gray (33) .....fbMatalavage (38)
Game time-. 1:30 p.m. CST, Notre
Dame Stadium
lino gave the Irish fits in last year’s 42-20 Irish win. Bob Correll, a 159-pound senior, rounds out the backfield.
Bellino is a great all-around athlete. He missed all but ten days of spring practice to play with the baseball squad. He is a catcher and has received bonus offers in excess of $50,000 from the major leagues. Small at 5-8, 183, he has tremendous leg power which enables him to drive for the extra yard. He showed the Irish his speed 'when he bolted 98 yards on a kickoff return in last year’s game. On this run he crossed the goal untouched.
Matalavage is the power man for the Middies. This 194-pound junior won a letter last year as an understudy to the since graduated Ray Wellborn and Dick Dagampat. He is especially effective on trap plays which Tranchini will use to keep a hard-rushing defense honest.
Tranchini is a senior. Last year he connected on 50 per cent of his passes. He is supported by another senior who also excels at the overhead game, Jim Maxfield. With these two Navy has a powerful aerial game to test any opponent. More important, this fine passing game makes them dangerous from any spot on the field.
The Navy line is led by Captain and center Jim Dunn. Dunn, from Folsom, Pa., is considered by the coaching staff as an excellent leader. He is a 195-pounder and has won one letter.
Flanking Dunn at the guards are Doug Falconer and Tom Solak. Falconer is 5-10, 189 pounds. Falconer is a junior and was a squad member last year. Solak is 5-11, 187 pounds. He won a letter last year and is a senior from Chicago. He prepped at Weber High.
Lettermen man both tackle spots. These tackles are big and rugged and should give the Irish forwards a good workout. Larry Boyer (6-3, 224) hails from Annandale, Va. He has won letters the past two seasons and is a senior. Ron
Erchul is from West Allis, Wis., 6-3 and 230 pounds. He saw considerable action last year in the absence of Bob Reifsnyder due to the heel injury of the latter. He is a junior and attended Nathan Hale High in his hometown.
Tom Albershart and George Bezek are listed as starting ends. Both are seniors and both won their first letter last year. Albertshart is from St. Thomas, Ky. Listed at 6-0, 200, he is a leading pass receiver and also a strong blocker. Bezek comes from Johnson, Pa. He is an inch taller than Albershart but not quite as heavy at 188. He also is a senior.
Stunting Defense. Navy uses a defense that counts on the element of surprise. The Midshipmen stunt a lot which means that the entire line moves in the same direction with the linebackers ad-
JOE TRANCHINI
Director of Navy air power
justing to the situation as the play unfolds. The thinking behind this is that more times than not the Middies will guess right and thus be-in a better position to defend the play. The linebacker must be alert and cover- up the area left vacant by the stunting linemen. Army used a similar defense in their win over Notre Dame last year. While the Irish caught the Cadets going the wrong way a few times, they were unable to mount a successful drive and often had ball, carriers stopped before they could get running room.
Both teams are in their first year under new coaches. A win for both teams is a must if a successful season is to be realized. Thus tomorrow should see two hungry teams trying to right themselves and get back on the winning track.
October 30, 1959
25
Zahm Retains Eastern Lead; Western League Underway
Zahm Hall’s unbeaten, untied, un-scored-on interhall football squad retained its lead in the Eastern division of the interhali football program by defeating Cavanaugh 20-0 last Sunday. Zahm, led by Coach Mike Minelli, goes after their fourth victory this Sunday on the road to the championship. The championship game will be held in the stadium late in November.
Three TD’s and a successful two-point conversion against Cavanaugh brought victory to Zahm. Quarterback Frank Phelan passed to end John Tidywell for a final score from 20 yards out in the final 20 seconds of play. Jack Bradley scored on a 15-yard end run and Chuck Shumaker blocked a Cavanaugh punt and ran it ten yards for a tally.
Dillon, last year’s winner, leads in the Western division with two victories. The Dillonites overcame the Off-Campus squad last Saturday by a score of 20-6. The week before they beat Howard 6-0.
The Western division has just begun its race. Only four teams have played two games. Dillon has won both of theirs and Off-Campus has lost two. Alumni defeated the Off-Campus 6-0 on Oct. 17. On the same day Morrissey beat Walsh by the same score. Last Sunday Walsh and Howard tied 8-8.
On the other side of the campus, Keenan holds the number two position by virtue of its two victories and one defeat. The defeat came at the hands of Zahm which triumphed 14-0 on Oct. 10. Since then Keenan has smashed Cavanaugh 22-0 and St. Edward’s 8-0.
Farley tied Cavanaugh in their first game 0-0. They also outplayed St. Edward’s by an unusually high score of 28-0. Breen-Phillips has played one regular game so far, beating St. Edwards 14-0. Zahm’s second victory came from a 16-0 shutout over Stanford.
A new foe has been added to the interhall ranks this year. So far three ND teams have made the trek to Michigan State Prison. Morrissey was the first to encounter the inmates and returned with a 30-9 victory. The following week, October 17, Dillon was beaten, 20-12. Last Sunday Breen-Phillips brought a second victory to Notre Dame. This time the prisoners were wallopped 34-6.
The Standings so far:
EASTERN DIVISION
W. L. T.
Zahm________________3-0-0
Keenan ............. 2-1-0
Farley--------------1-0-1
Breen-Phillips______ 1-0-0
Cavanaugh-----------0-2-1
Stanford_____________ 0-1-0
St. Edward’s _______ 0-3-0
WESTERN DIVISION
W. L. T.
Dillon ------------- 2-0-0
Morrissey-----------1-0-0
. Alumni ______________ 1-0-0
Howard------------..... 0-1-1
Walsh---------------0-1-1
Off-Campus _________ 0-2-0
Sunday Mixed League Offers "Social" Bowling
For those who are more interested in the social, rather than the competitive aspect of bowling, the ND-SMC mixed league will meet for the first time this Sunday at 12:30 p.m. Dan Halloran, who will run the league this year, asks that all who have signed up to bowl and anyone else who wishes to bowl in the mixed league, be at the Notre Dame Lanes by 12:30.
Considerable interest has been shown in having the Sunday night Area Club league again this year. If there are any geographical clubs that would like to enter a team in competition against other geographical clubs, the officers should contact Ed Silliman at CE 3-6482 or the Notre Dame Lanes as soon as possible.
A pat on the back goes to Bob Mid-dendorf for picking up the 4-7-8-10 split last week. Our “crying towel” award goes to Bob Krug who pounded out eleven strikes in one game for a score of 226. It seems that two of those strikes came in the third frame when Bob fouled on the first ball, which was a strike, and then struck again for the spare, right in the middle of a five-bagger. Bob counted nine strikes and three spares on the score sheet.
Classic League Brunswick Shop ............... 9	3
Pete Glovna’s ................ 9	3
Averages: Ray Stefani, 193; Ted
Nekic, 190; Dan Halloran, 185.
Kampus Keglers—Red Rochester Club .............. 11	1
5-J’s ....................... 10	2
Averages: Don Dvorak, 182; Hill, 171; Dan Halloran, 170.
KIMBROUGH JARS WHITE WITH BONE-CRUSHING TACKLE
Elbert Kimbrough, talented Northwestern end, was in the Notre Dame backfield all afternoon as the Wildcats staved off the Notre Dame's plucky gridders to win 30-24.
Irish Sailors Journey To Indiana Invitational
Last week end the Notre Dame sailing team journeyed to Ann Arbor to participate in the University of Michigan Invitational Regatta. Notre Dame finished a distant sixth place in the seven team meet, the poorest showing by the Irish this year. Michigan, defeated by the Irish in a dual meet last week, took first place with ninety-five points.
Frank Bohlen skippered “A” division and Ed Bukowski “B” division in the sloop-rigged Jet fourteens owned by the Michigan Sailing Club.
Light, fluky breezes prevailed in all but the last two races, and were the main reason for the poor showing made by the Irish. Other factors were the inexperience of the all-freshmen crews and a series of poor starts.
This week end the team will compete in the Indiana Invitational Regatta at Bloomington, Ind.
Kampus Keglers—White Sixty-Niners ................ 10	2
Offbeats ..................... 9	3
Averages: Ted	Nekic,	184;	M.	Kubiak, 181; Denny Panozzo, 171; J.	Con-
nolly, 171. Kampus Keglers—Blue Detroit Club “A” ............ 11	1
Detroit Club “B” ............. 9	3
Averages: Ted Middendorf, 172; Don Prairie, 169; Earl Mossner, 168.
Kampus Keglers—Yellow Shady Grove All-Stars ....... 12	0
Lucky Strikes  .............. 12	0
Averages: Ed Tejeira, 171; Fred
Hoey, 169.	—Ed Silliman
The Scholastic
I
ODDS and ENDS
L Duffy Daugherty might have finished in ' the Big Ten cellar last year but he still ' ranks first when it comes to humor. At a ) recent practice session he explained to anyone who would listen: “I have a couple of ' big freshman linemen preparing for a special job next fall. At the end of each game, j win or lose, they are to hoist me to their । shoulders and carry me off the field. Then H fans in the stands will say: “Look, there ■ goes old Duffy again. He might not be I y- much of a coach, but his players sure like J him.” . . .
Dan Lanphear, the bruising tackle from , Wisconsin, was a one man wrecking crew in the Badgers 12-3 win over the Buckeyes at Camp Randall last Saturday. He sent All-American Bob White to the sidelines ! with a shoulder separation which may force the big fullback out for the season. Later on Bob Ferguson asked to be excused for the rest of the afternoon after being massaged by Mr. Lanphear. Dan also blocked a punt to set up the first Badger score and recovered two fumbles. If he keeps up his vicious play he will certainly get top conI* sideration when the All-America voting comes up in December. . . .
Jim McCann, the outstanding performer on the freshman track team last year, has remained in his native Australia instead of returning to Notre Dame. He is one of the main hopes of his country in the 1960 ■ > Olympics. . . .
Wisconsin coach Milt Bruhn has scored two firsts in the current campaign. Iowa and Ohio State were defeated by the Badgers this year for the first time since , Bruhn took over the head coaching reins in 1956. It was also the first Badger win > over the Buckeyes since 1946, although tie games were played in 1951 (6-6) and last year (7-7). . . .
Yale is still unscored on during this season. The Bulldogs are heading toward a i head-on collision with Penn which will in all probability decide the Ivy League championship. Last week Yale whomped hapless - Colgate 21-0. The Bulldogs are led by i junior quarterback Tom Singleton. . . .
Notre Dame mentor Joe Kuharich has had only two days of actual contact work r because of the many injuries suffered by the Irish this year as of the Northwestern game. . . .
John Henry Jackson of Indiana has . 1 passed for at least one touchdown in each of the five games played to date. In the Michigan State game last week at East Tensing, Jackson passed six yards to Earl t Faison as the Hoosiers bowed to the re-■ ■ surging Spartans 14-6. . . . .
Joe Carollo, sophomore tackle on the T- Notre Dame varsity, a starter in the first ; four Irish games this year, and a native of | , Wyandotte, Mich., was a member of the < varsity rowing crew at Roosevelt High I School in Wyandotte. While at Roosevelt, | Carollo’s crew won the junior heavyweight j Central State Regatta championship. . . .
i I October 30, 1959
TIME OUT
The almost universal reaction to last week’s Northwestern game among the students and other Notre Dame partisans was a feeling of pride in a group of young men who gave all they had in the way of effort but were turned back at the door of victory by the superior poise and experience of the Wildcats.
EXCITING GAME
It was a splendid game from the spectator’s point of view, but as Coach Kuharich said afterward: “It’s tough for a young team like this to lose a game after the way they played.” The game developed in such a manner that an intense emotional situation was gradually created. The prominence of Northwestern in this year’s national football scene heightened the excitement. When Stickles came in and sailed the ball through the goal posts for a 32-yard field goal, memories of the 1957 Army game flashed expectantly across many people’s minds. An upset seemed to be imminent. But then the hopes were expertly and almost arrogantly wrecked by a poised and catlike interception by Elbert Kimbrough, one of the best ends this writer has ever seen. Poise and experience carried the day. Hustle and determination lost. Notre Dame gave all that it had to offer, but unfortunately it wasn’t quite enough.
INCHES AND SECONDS
Football games are won or lost by inches and seconds and not by yards and minutes. A first down try that fails by inches, a pass that dribbles off the fingertips of an outstretched hand, a fake that causes a linebacker to lean the wrong way, a field goal or extra point attempt which hits the crossbar and richochets off to the side, a moment of hesitation as the defensive end decides to charge or wait, these are the crucial aspects of a football game. They are determined by a combination of skill, experience, poise, desire and luck which is of its very nature unpredictable. About all that can be said is that the team with the greatest amount of skill, experience and poise will win most of the time.
Last Saturday this turned out to be the case. Northwestern is by common agreement a squad with more skill, experience and poise than Notre Dame. There was plenty of luck, both good and bad, involved in the performance of both teams. In the end Northwestern won because they are a better team. But the Wildcats won by inches and seconds.
For instance, early in the second quarter George Izo threw a fourth down pass to Rusty Wilke who caught the ball and was immediately hurled to the ground by the Northwestern defender. The official marked the spot . and brought the chain into measure for a first down and Notre Dame was about three inches short. Northwestern took over on their own three-yard line. Or take the 54-yard pass play from Talley to Purdin. Just previous to this an Irish penalty had given the Wildcats a first down after an incomplete pass on third down had created a punting situation. Then on the next play Talley’s brilliantly executed fake combined with the inexperience of the Notre Dame secondary caused the defense to pull up and in a split second Purdin was all alone waiting for the touchdown pass.
PRECISION ONLY WITH EXPERIENCE
Poise and experience were lacking in the Irish performance but this is only to say that Notre Dame is a young team. Two years ago Northwestern got bounced around the Big Ten like a rubber ball with many of the same players that are now among the best in the country. It is unfair to expect flawless execution from players who have played in only four college games. In a press conference last Friday Coach Kuharich stated that he and his staff have to expect strictly on the law of averages that Notre Dame will make many more errors than the opposition because of their inexperience. All that can be expected is that as the season progresses these mistake^ will occur less frequently.
If the Irish play as well against Navy tomorrow as they did against the Wildcats, they should chalk up their third win of the year. This is how it looks on paper at least. But when the game arrives, this theoretical ability is not important. The game must be won on the field. Seconds and inches will decide the outcome.
— T.R.

The Two Mosquitoes I
by JAY KILROY	j
When the 1959 football season rolled around, all press releases emphasized that the one Notre Dame position with more than its share of veteran talent was halfback. Admittedly, Jim Crotty had been moved to fullback, but even this was no reason for alarm. Halfbacks were still three deep.
However, there were two young men up from the freshman team who had no
GEORGE SEFCIK
Hard-nosed Irish seatback
regard for such news. By the time the North Carolina game rolled around, sophomores George Sefcik and Angelo Dabiero had more than proven their ability. And from that time on the rise of the “two little mosquitoes” has been followed closely by all Notre Dame fans.
SMALL BUT TOUGH
Sefcik and Dabiero, it must be admitted, were very impressive as freshmen. However, both were small and it was thought that perhaps it might be expecting too much for them to be fighting for top halfback berths because of this lack of size. Given a chance by Coach Joe Kuharich to prove their ability in spring practice, Sefcik and Dabiero did just that. And it is not merely chance that both are playing outstanding football now.
Sefcik, a 5-8, 170-pound physical education major from Benedictine in Cleveland, played his high school football under ex-Notre Damer, Auggie Bossy. Earning eight letters in his high school career and captain of the football team in his senior year, George distinguished himself by gaining All-State and Honor
able Mention All-Cathche All-American honors. Scouts from every section of the country came to watch him play. But they might as well have stayed at home. George Sefcik was bound for Notre Dame. Ex-teammate Tom Bini, a halfback, was there. So were Don Lawrence and Ron Toth, other outstanding players from the Cleveland vicinity. And with Auggie Bossy coaching, the decision was almost inevitable.
Benedictine won the Ohio State championship in football in 1957. Winning this state title and also a scholarship to Notre Dame plus playing in the first game this season have equally thrilled George.
ALL-AROUND ABILITY REQUIRED
When comparing high school and college football, George feels that the major difference between the two is the better all-around ability of the college players. One reason, of course, is that they are bigger and faster. However, when running with the ball, it’s apparent that this fleet halfback does not ponder such thoughts. In the Purdue game for instance, he ran 25 yards of a 42-yard run without a shoe. And to add insult to injury, he caught a pass on the next play, also without the shoe.
A consistent performer all season long for the Irish, Sefcik was particularly effective against North Carolina and Purdue. In the Carolina game, he repeatedly kept the Tar Heels deep in their own territory with his booming punts and was also one of the game’s outstanding runners. Against Purdue, George proved to be the main running threat that the Irish could offer, and on more than one occasion was almost clear for the long touchdown.
In the five games thus far this season, Sefcik is the third leading rasher on the squad with 92 yards in 18 carries for a 5.1 average. He is the Irish leader in punt returns and is also tied for the lead in kickoff returns with Dabiero. George has punted 19 times for a 37.4 average and has intercepted two passes and returned them 20 yards. An alert defender, George has also pounced on two opponent fumbles.
165-POUND “SWEET PEA”
Angelo Dabiero, a 5-8, 165-pound speedster known by his teammates as “Ang” or “Sweet Pea,” hails from Donora, Pa., the home of ex-Notre Dame lineman, Bob Gaydos. Upon graduation from Donora Senior High, Angelo left an athletic record that would be difficult to equal. Winning twelve monograms in sports, he captained the football, basketball and baseball teams his senior year and also found time to ran the dashes
in track. For his stalwart football performances in 1957, “Ang” received AllState and Honorable Mention All-Catholic All-American honors. He feels that one of the most outstanding players he played against in high school was Moe Pottios, the now injured Irish guard.
Dabiero, too, was a sought-after player. But he chose Notre Dame to “receive the best possible education.” And it is true that he uses his physical education major to good advantage, for during rhe summer months he is a baseball coach.
Dabiero’s outstanding performance this year was in the North Carolina game. Utilizing his swift speed and deception despite the poor weather conditions, he completely confused the Tar Heel defense and was a thorn in then-side the whole afternoon, both offensively and defensively. Again in the California game, “Ang” flashed his brilliant running form. In seemingly “nogain” situations, he would break away from the Bear linemen for long gains.
Having played in the first four Irish games, Dabiero ranks fourth in rushing with a total of 86 yards and is tied for first with Sefcik in kickoff returns. A battling defensive ball player, “Ang”
ANGELO DABIERO
"Sweet Pea” ripened quickly
has made eleven tackles from his halfback position.	V *
If the past peif ormances of these two speedsters is any indication of what is to come, Notre Dame fans can expect nothing but speedy, tough, electrifying performances from these “two mosquitoes” in the next two years.
28
The Scholastic
;	Soccer Team Organized;
;	Play 2nd Match Sunday
j An international soccer team has been .	organized at Notre Dame. Last week
\	the team played Carleton College of
\ k Northfield, Minn, at Chicago and won
: ?	2-i.
i There are twelve countries repre-j sented on the team comprised of grad-ii uate and undergraduate students at • Notre Dame. The team is captained by 1 Hugo Ryan, a junior from Argentina.
i This Sunday at 11 a.m. the squad 8 hosts Lake Forest Academy. The game . will be played on the soccer field behind I the tennis courts. It should prove to be an unusual experience for those witnessing a soccer match for the first time.
Countries represented on the team are: Chile, Panama, the Philippines, . Argentina, France, Austria, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Puerto Rico, Uruguay and India.
2?
- k
Why are so many college
lIm switching to pipes?
SICK CALL
The following players were on the football casualty list as of last Tuesday. Their injury and expected status by Saturday is listed below: Name	Injury Status
Adamson .....ankle strain, probable Bill ........bruised knee, doubtful
Buoniconti .....bruised left foot and sprained right ankle, probable
Carollo ....pulled thigh muscle most likely
Crotty ....sprained ankle, doubtful Gargiulo ....pulled thigh muscle, probable
Gray .......bruised knee, probable Mack .......ankle strain, most likely Schulz ....bruised shoulder, doubtful
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
ANSWER IN 25 WORDS OR LESS
SEND YOUR
Campus Yacht $4.95
WIN 4 YEAR WARDROBE
261 PRIZES IN AU
1st prize—A famous Botany “500” wardrobe every year for 4 years (2 Suits, 2 Sport Jackets, 2 Pair of Slacks, and 1 Topcoat.)
Next 5 prizes—Ultra-precision imported Sony Transistor Radio
Next 5 prizes—World-famous pocket size Minolta “16” Camera
Next 250 prizes—Kaywoodie Campus Pipe
Pick up an official entry blank at your regular tobacco counter, or write Kaywoodie Pipes, Inc., New York 22, for one.
HINTS TO WIN: Why men smoke pipes—
There’s a rich, fulfilling, “all’s well’’ feeling that a man gets only from a pipe. A relaxed, calms-you-down contentment that’s associated exclusively with pipe smoking. And you get all the pleasure of smoking without inhaling.
omom -
Bill j
Why pipe smokers choose KAY WOODIE
Kaywoodie Briar is imported, aged, selected, hand crafted, hand rubbed, tested, inspected, and only then does it earn the coveted Kaywoodie Cloverleaf. That’s why Kaywoodie hefts airily light; always smokes cool and sweet. The exclusive Drinkless Fitment inside the pipe condenses tars, moisture and irritants as nothing else can. Try a Kaywoodie. One puff is worth 1,000 words.
CHOOSE YOUR KAYWOODIE
from the famous campus collection.. .*4.95
other styles and shapes *5 to *50
ARMY-NAVY AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Gendel's Surplus Sales
SPECIAL—K Used Alpaca Lined
Parka—Only $7.95 YOU SAVE EVERYDAY AT GENDEL'S 512 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND
KAYWOODIE
accents the male look
; October 30, 1959
STEAK SPECIAL...$1.50 Tuesday and Thursday FRANKIE’S
SPECIAL RATES FOR PARTIES
Serves 1 to 100 in Spacious Party Rooms
BEAT THE RUSH Make reservations today!
Nobody but nobody undersells:
Tyler Jr.'s Picks of the Week
Tonight
Miami over Kentucky Tomorrow
Georgia Tech over Duke Purdue over Illinois Northwestern over Indiana Tennessee over North Carolina Wisconsin over Michigan Notre Dame over Navy Holy Cross over Colgate Syracuse over Pitt Southern Cal over California Penn State over West Virginia Auburn over Florida Clemson over Rice Arkansas over Texas A&M Iowa over Kansas State Michigan State over Ohio State Oklahoma over Nebraska Army over Air Force
Game of the Week Texas over SMU
Upset of the Week .
Mississippi over LSU
Last Week
12 right, seven wrong, one tie 63.2 per cent
Totals to Date 51 right, 24 wrong, five ties 68 per cent
Have a WORLD of FUN!
Sous
Travel with IITA
Many tourt include college credit.
Orient
43-65 Deyett£^
Europe .,^,^$675
Alto low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $599 up and Around the World $1199 up.
TtW	Your Travel Agent
W Unbelievable low Cost
■	332 Se. MichijM Aw.
■ ■ WAaiceae 4, NA 7-7557
WORLD TRAVEL
Senior engineering students nan------------
Kearfott will be on campus, Nov. 10
Check your placement office for complete details
KEARFOTT CAPABRJT1ES INCLUDE:
interviewing for
ASSISTANT PROJECT ENGINEERS
Responsible training-program assignments offer varied experience, and a chance to select the work you prefer for long-range growth. For example, let’s examine the present training of Larry Wood, class of ’58:
Larry chose the Navigational Systems Laboratory for his initial assignment. Here, he is working on the inertial guidance system for the SUBROC missile; he selects components such as networks and gear trains, specifies parameters such as amplifier gain, and is studying possible alternates to the present system.
If Larry requests permanent assignment in this Lab, he will write design specifications, sketch originals, and supervise draftsmen in the preparation of final prints. He will coordinate the efforts of engineers from supporting groups, supervise technicians performing final systems tests and developing required
Larry Wood, BSEE, University of Maine, June, 19M
supporting test equipment.
Larry is helping Kearfott grow, and he is growing with it. Similar opportunities exist for this year’s EE and ME graduates. Please see your Placement Director for additional information and for an appointment.
	A GENERAL PRECISION COMPANY
Kearfott Company, Inc.
1500 Main Avenue, Clifton, N. J. A wMAin st Steeral ProcisiM Egaipnaat Cerparatiea
30
The Scholastic
ND Thinclads Host MSU In Cross-Country Final
In their final dual meet of the 1959 season, Notre Dame’s cross-country men host Michigan State’s Spai-tans this aft-y ernoon on the Burke Memorial course over a five-mile distance.
Exactly a week ago on this course, the Irish thinclads, despite Ron Gregory’s second straight winning performance, :	came in second behind Western Michi-
gan in a five-team meet.
Gregory’s blue-ribbon time of 20:11 represents a half-minute improvement for the Irish junior over his first race of the year two weeks ago. He beat out Jerry Ashmore of Western Michigan by a tenth of a second for first place hon
ors, but Ashmore’s teammates, Carl Reid and Art Eversole, came in right behind their first man to keep Western Michi-gans’ score down to only 28 points and give them the meet.
. Notre Dame captain Galen Cawley finished fourth, Dave Cotton placed fifth, and sophomore Tom Dempsey took sixth to hold the Irish score to 32 points, good enough for second place. Kentucky finished third with 73, followed by Central Michigan at 110 and Bowling Green with 112.
Todays’ opponents, the Spartans, have faced Western Michigan twice already in dual meet competition, winning once and losing once. In last year’s National Collegiate finals, Michigan State took first and Westei-n Michigan second.
Classified Advertising
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
GRUMMAN AIRCRAFT ENGINEERING CORP— November 10.
THE TONI COMPANY—November 12- —
INDIANA BELL, ILLINOIS BELL, LONG UNES DEPT.—A. T. & T. CO., WESTERN ELECTRIC, ' SANDIA CORP.—November 10 and 11.
KEARFOTT. CO.—November 10.
All interviews are held at the Placement Office.
after every shave
Splash on Old Spice After Shave Lotion. Feel your face wake up and live! So good for your skin... | so good for your ego. Brisk as an ocean breeze. Old Spice makes you feel like a new man. Confident. Assured. Relaxed. You know you're at your best when you top off your shave with Old Spice! JOO oiuttai

AFTER SHAVE LOTION by SHULTON
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
i October 30, 1959
■I
31
"ALL IS NOT GOLD"
Seems like everybody had a crack at this piece of homely philosophy, but the originator seems to be Geoffrey Chaucer, in "The House of Fame", Book I:
"Hyt is not all gold that glareth”
"COUNT 10...”
Was there any limit to the talents of Thomas Jefferson? Statesman, scientist, architect—he also authored this admonition:
"When angry, count ten before you speak; if very angry, a hundred. ’ ’
* ■ * »
Jockey T-Shirts
BRAND
The most respected, creative name in underwear is Jockey brand. It stands to reason, then, that Jockey brand T-shirts are unmatched for quality as well as styling. You can choose from standard crew neck T-shirt, "taper-tee" shirt, sleeveless l-shirt, and V-neck T-shirt models. Every man needs a drawer full of T-shirts—and the label to look for is Jockey brand. Let it guide you to the world's finest underwear.	J t
'Hasty Heart'	I
(Continued from page 10)	I
the assitant stage manager, Joel Phillip- i pi, and the assistant to the technical director is Eudy Hornish. Kevin McCar- \ thy is the assistant to the director. '•
In charge of lighting are John Brann, i Jr., Dan Omilianowski, and Louis Whittemore. The properties will be handled ( by Dan Luparello, and John Sharpe. Bruce Cosacchi is taking care of public- L ity, Pat Potenziani and Lois Zehule, the || wardrobe, and the construction of the 1 sets is the work of Joel Phillippi and ■ Jack Schober.	,
The play itself draws heavily upon ’ the actual war experiences of its author. Patrick creates his main character, Sgt. MacLachlen, from a personal association with a similar Scottish officer during the past war. While recuperating in an army hospital in Burma, the hospital room struck him as a pei-fect setting for a play because of its wide range of nationalities and personalities. And the Scottish sergeant whose friendship had been so hard to win by Patrick, seemed the perfect central character for such a play.	,
New York critics have hailed The Hasty Heart as “the best play to come out of the war” and “one of the merriest pieces on Broadway.” One reviewer wrote that, “plays seldom come closer to perfection than The Hasty Heart!”
After a run of 204 performances in New York, this comedy-drama enjoyed a successful country-wide tour and was later a hit when presented in London.
—Thomas J. Schlereth
Dr. Graham Delivers Speech About Inflationary Practices ।
The College of Commerce presented the first of its Cardinal O’Hara Lectures in the Engineering Auditorium recent- . ly. Doctoi- Willard Graham, professor ' of accounting at the University of North Carolina, lectured on the topic: “If I Were Khrushchev.”
A main theme of the lecture concerned how American inflationary practices are playing right into the hands of the Russians by destroying our capitalistic system.	’
Dr. Graham attacked financial reporting, utility regulation and income taxation for ignoring the obvious effects of inflation to such an extent that it has become dangerous. He accused accounting firms and various government agencies of taking into account only the inflated dollar values of such things as income, depreciation, and credit.
In concluding his cleverly arranged i speech, the affable Dr. Graham asked for an awakening to the facts and effects of ! inflation. He warned that we are headed for trouble if economic thinking does not lend itself to the qualities of price stability.
—Ron Bukowski	I
The Scholastic
32
utaaai
a Swingline Stapler no
SWINGLINE “TOT
Millions now in use. Unconditionally guaranteed. Makes book covers, fastens papers, arts and crafts, mends, tacks, etc. Available at your college bookstore.
(Including 1000 staples)

SWINGLINE "Cub" Stapler $1.29
INC.
LONG ISLAND CITY, NEW YORK. N. Y.
SHIRTS EXPERTLY
I*

r

V
LAUNDERED
5
for
$1.00
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus Line
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 39 Years!
FOR COOPER UNDERWEAR!
Rasmussen
Men's Shop
AAAIN & WASHINGTON STS.
October 30, 1959
I
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4)
reputation in being associated with this production of Shadow and Substance. Perhaps she should be told of this, but then again perhaps some things should be left unsaid.
Fred Gade 223 Fisher
(ED: Mr. McElroy, winner of the Mitchell award for the best student play, ivrites under his own name. We are quite certain of his competence in these matters.)
BLASTING BENDERS
Editor:
In youi- October 16 issue, you speak of the apathy of the students in the upper-class elections of October 8. Jim Lekin’s estimate of the turnout as less than 50% is appalling, but the Off-Campus election was by far the most disgraceful.
An attempt by the Off-Campus Senator to encourage a larger turnout by Villagers by moving the polling place from the bus shelter to the Rathskeller was only moderately successful; a telephone campaign to encourage a greateiturnout of Off-Campus students was a complete failure. In the three hours provided for voting, only 68 students voted — at a liberal estimate, 13% of the electorate.
It is, perhaps, time that Villagers and Off-Campus students became aware of the fact that their living off campus does not mean that they must forfeit their right to representation, nor that they may shirk their duty to vote.
'	Richard T. Bohan
306 E. Ewing South Bend
OMISSION
Editor:
The article concerning the “Lettermen” in your otherwise edifying October 16th issue neglected to mention the delightful damsel who holds forth with this group, Miss Karen Koehnemann, Saint Mary’s senior, to whom song seems to come naturally.
Proper credit must be given to a tunefull thrush who gives her all in a voice of great clarity and gaiety.
J. Francis
Betrayal
(Continued from page 17)
sion between good and evil. I would not like to conceal the absoluteness of my thought on this point. Whatever good still survives in the Russian people, the Soviet state is organized on an evil principle. And whatevei- evil and defects may be discovered in our own country, it is organized on a principle that is good.
MITCHELL TRAVEL SERVICE
All Airline Reservations Anywhere at No Extra Cost
•
LA SALLE HOTEL SOUTH BEND CE 2-2253 — PHONES — CE 3-1181 Open Saturdays
DIAMONDS - JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
*
For: Hamilton - Elgin Butova - Longines and Wittaauer Watches
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Menn St.	J JAS. Bldg.
“Variety is the spice of life." Enjoy
GOOD—WHOLESOME DELICIOUS & DIFFERENT CANTONESE FOODS
Steaks - Chops Fried Chicken Sea Foods
Reasonably Priced
W
MARK'S CAFE
SEN SAI GAI
134 N. Main St.
33
Rack Pofe	I
steelworkers and the president I
by THOMAS M. GANNON I
Senior Thomas Gannon, author of this week's “Back Page," is a Dean’s List history major from Philadelphia, Pa. He is active in the Blue Circle and has contributed regularly to the SCHOLASTIC.
In this article Gannon views the current steel strike from a rather liberal point of view. His personal thoughts on the strike serve to bring the issue more sharply into focus.
The headlines in the daily newspapers lately have been filled with reports of the current steel strike. “Steel talks Collapse,” “President Invokes Taft-Hartley Law,” “Union Fights Injunction.” Statements like these leap out of the paper at us. Now that this strike has dragged past its one-hundredth day, certain questions come immediately to mind: What is the strike all about? What has it accomplished so far? What does the intervention of the President mean? This article is an attempt to answer them.
The negotiations between the major steel producers and the United Steelworkers have centered on the fact that profits in the steel industry are higher now than ever before. The union leaders, representing over five hundred thousand wage-earners, feel that the workers are entitled to share in this increased prosperity through higher wages and improved fringe benefits. The steel companies contend that the cost of such increases would compel them to raise steel prices and lead to new inflation in the economy.
THE BASIC ISSUE
Yet the most basic issue, it seems to me, is not inflation or production costs or higher hourly wages but the welfare of the human beings whom the strike has affected. This issue has certainly been obscured. The union leaders are thinking of votes in the next election, the members of management, many of them completely ignorant of conditions in a steel mill, regard the workers only as a necessary production cost appearing on an accounting ledger; while the President of the United States pledges enduring devotion to a “kill or be killed” economic system which proved its utter worthlessness in 1929. Seldom, if ever, do we see any concern for the half million strikers and their families who have had no income for the past three months. That which should be uppermost in the minds of the men responsible for settling the strike has consistently been rejected or ignored.
One cannot say that the union men or their leaders desired this strike; time and again, as the strike deadline approached, they appealed to the President
34
to use the power and influences of his office to bring about an equitable settlement. When normally pro-Democratic union leaders call on a Republican president to settle a strike issue, it requires a more than vivid imagination to label them “strike-happy.”
On the other hand, management’s stubborn refusal to bargain with the union (and this is exactly what their pre-strike position amounted to) made a walk-out inevitable. Fortified by steel reserves equal to three months’ production, the steel executives waited quietly for the strike, confident that the United Steelworkers could not withstand the tremendous economic pressure exercised by the strike.
They were right about the harm the strike would do the steelworkers. Perhaps its only tangible result thus far has been the gradual impoverishment of the strikers and their families. Assuming that most of the strikers are married and that most of the married men have children, we can safely estimate that nearly iwo million people have been deprived of their normal income by the strike. Some of the men, it is true, found other jobs almost immediately, but most of them have not. In order to keep their households together, in order to provide minimum needs of food, shelter, and clothing, they have been forced to draw on their often meager savings, to borrow from friends and relatives, to rely on the credit of sympathetic merchants, to increase their indebtedness by taking loans from finance companies, and to accept state relief funds. There are no other avenues of financial assistance: the union strike fund has long been exhausted and strikers do not receive unemployment compensation. The steelworkers have suffered through a period of acute financial distress. With little more to lose, they are prepared to see the strike through to its conclusion.
CHANGING PICTURE
Until now the steel companies have hardly felt the effects of the strike. The surpluses accumulated during long periods of peak production have carried them safely through the first three months. But the picture is changing: the tremendous reserves have been de-» pleted; the income of the steel companies has stopped; they are now beginning to feel the pinch.
Only with these conditions in mind, the relative strength of the steel producers at the start of the strike and the present strength of the strikers, can we properly evaluate the President’s course of action during the dispute. Before the strike began, when the industry was in
a favorable position, the union called for intervention. The President, mouthing the pious platitudes diligently prepared for him by a host of speechwriters, refused. Now, when the union is ready to stick things out, when for the first time the steel companies begin to feel the effects of the strike, the President rides on a great white horse to the defense of the “national health and safety.” Certainly the steel strike has created a national emergency but it was just as great an emergency three weeks ago, for three weeks are required to return the mills -to full production. And was it not an emergency when two million Americans were reduced to near poverty, some dispossessed of their furniture, others evicted from their homes?
WORKER HELPLESS
The individual worker is helpless in these great industrial struggles, his destiny is decided by men far removed from his control who are unaware of the difficulty of making a living, of feeding and clothing a family. In a dispute like this one, where the individual easily becomes a pawn used to further the ambitions of union officials, or a mere production cost figures in the mind of management, there is only one person with the power to save him from being crushed. This of course is the President of the United States who, if he so desired could have forced a settlement of the disputes before the strike began. Yet he did not I act and, not heeding the totally unnecessary privation it caused, allowed it to continue, a strike desired only by steel company executives who hoped to weaken the steelworkers union itself. 1 The President’s inaction (he terms it an attempt to allow “free collective bargaining,” though there has been none in the six months since negotiations began) 1 can only be taken as a definite siding with the steel industry. It is not mere coincidence that former Secretary of the Treasury George Humphrey is president of the National Steel Company, one of the films involved in the present negotiations. The President has listened to Humphrey and men like him and has K acted on their advice.
It is time that the President realized that, as chief executive, he is responsible to all of the people, not merely to the heads of certain corporations who feel that heavy campaign contributions give I them the right to run the government, i The fundamental question from the very 1 beginning of the strike has been the wel- i j fare of human beings, not inflation or wages or production costs. This question the President has ignored. He has failed utterly to fulfill his responsibility to all of the people.
The Scholastic
-/I/MW-
Each Saturday *«• the NCAA football "Game of the Week—NBC TV—sponsored by ARROW.
THE SHIRT THAT LOVES TO TRAVEL...
Great for a weekend—travel light with an Arrow Wash and Wear “Time-Saver” shirt— just wash, drip-dry, and you’re ready to go. Lasting fit in wrinkle-resisting 100% cotton oxford, broadcloth, or Dacron/cotton blend — all with the famous soft roll buttondown collar. $5.00 up.

FOR A LONG WEEKEND— Take Along an Arrow “Time-Saver"
See our selection of Arrow Wash and Wear “Time-Savers”—the shirts that give you perfect styling with more wearing time, less caring time. Superb in 100% cotton or Dacron-cotton blend.
Your favorite collar styles in white, solids, stripes. $5.00 up.
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St, South Bend

Still vouhq and beautiful at aqe 75!
THEYS
ITCOULDNTBE DONE
A cigarette that’s Low
THEY SAID IT COULDN'T BE DONE
But America's most famous lady does it!
No Paris design of ’59 is more lovely than this ageless beauty, a gift from France 75 years ago. Miss Liberty has welcomed millions to these shores with the words, “Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free ... I lift my lamp beside the golden door.:

But KM does it!
When you’re in New York, be sure to see Miss Liberty. And right now, enjoy an UM — Low in tar, with More taste to it. That free-drawing, pure white Miracle Tip is so advanced, KM can use the light, mild premium quality tobaccos you need for full, rich tobacco taste. That’s why KM is Kindest to your taste!
Live Modem with BM
KINDEST

TO YOUR TASTE!