/S / as
THIS DOOK 15 uuv **” taken fro® the Library
J
-' f
The Notre Dame Scholastic
[vkSSomM
IS CTS. A COPY $2.60 THE YEAR
JANUARY 12 Nineteen Thirty-four
The manly art of self-defense
. .. now applied to telephone cable
Western Electric, manufacturing unit of the Bell System, now makes a tape armored telephone cable ready to meet all comers. When laid directly in the ground, this cable defends itself against moisture, grit, corrosion and other enemies.
Besides the usual lead sheath, the tiny copper wires in the cable are guarded by seven layers of paper, jute and steel tape—all saturated or covered with asphalt compound.
In pioneering and producing improved apparatus, Western Electric contributes to the year ’round reliability of your Bell Telephone.
BELL SYSTEM
WHY NOT TAKE A TRIP HOME BY TELEPHONE? — TONIGHT AT HALF-PAST EIGHT
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	k I	| I	B
I he Notre Dame scholastic
of Notvo Dome* ^Lddrcss man- T~» •	.	TT*	• Z—I	"I
uscnpts to editor, ii9 Sorin Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Monturus
Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.	FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns...
Mitchell C. Tackley.
___Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Associate Editors
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD_______________EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN..................   JOHN	E. CONLEY
Departmental Editors
THOMAS J. STRITCH__________________________The Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK_______________________College Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL________________________Staff Artist
Sports Staff
JOHN D. CARBINE..............)	o
£........  Sports	Editors
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING_____ NICHOLAS J. CONNOR___________HOWARD T. WALDRON
Neivs Staff
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD__________________________News Editor
THOMAS G. PROCTOR--------------------Assistant News Editor
JOSEPH A. BUCCI----------------------Assistant News Editor
ROY O. SCHOLZ------------------------.ROBERT F. ERVIN
MICHAEL F. WIEDL_____________________JOHN W. WALKER
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY______________________PAUL J. DOYLE
GEORGE P. LEYES_________________________LOUIS R. HRUBY
FRANK KELLY	'
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY__________________Graduate Manager
VOLUME LXVII
January 12, 1934
No. 13
2/' PROFESSOR CHARLES PHILLIPS—
NOTRE DAME MAN
He was a Catholic gentleman. He was an eminent scholar. He was a successful author: a writer of sound, honest literature. His was an humbleness that was sincere and admirable anti inspiring. That he was a charming and hospitable and lovable character was obvious, for despite the varying impersonal fads of collegiateism and youthful cynicism toward things and persons of scholastic importance, legions of undergraduates affectionately knew Professor Charles Phillips as a friend.
Professor Phillips was one of that rare type of instructors whose courses are, principally, the men themselves. His own knowledge of and enthusiasm for the drama, the classics, and the works of Dante, so marked his teaching work that it was consistently noticeable in student conversations that individuals were not taking English 127 or English 243. Rather they were taking “Phillips’ drama class,” or “Phillips—the Dante seminar.” Such reactions are accurate indications of the strength of the man’s personality. He had something very definite to offer beyond the limits of strict professorial information. He gave generously of himself, his time and efforts and enthusiasms.
His sudden death was a distinct and a great loss to Notre Dame, for, in the finest sense, above the limitations of merely being oi' not being an alumnus, Professor Phillips was a Notre Dame man.
KNOW YOUR NOTRE DAME
A Christmas vacation incident, recently come to hand, causes us to alter our opinion of the current crop of Notre Dame undergraduates. Previously we were complacent in our blanket appraisal of them as intelligent, reasonably mature persons. It now seems that notion ’ was not wholly true: there are still a few individuals who insist on speaking ex cathedra out of the profoundness of their ignorance.
A senior in the College of Science spoke to a friend in his home city of the excellent work done at Notre Dame in bacteriology and allied fields. The friend, in
J anudry 12, 19 3 4
terested and a bit surprised — knowing Notre Dame as “the team that lost five games,” was impressed. He passed the information on to another individual who was likewise interested. Shortly the story reached the ears of a Notre Dame freshman (not in science). The senior’s name was still attached to the tale as the original authority.
Backed by the accumulated wisdom of three months and eight days at Notre Dame, the freshman pronounced in effect: “That fellow’s crazy. Why all they have at Notre Dame are bum meals and a lot of rain. A Science school? I never heard of it.”
Naturally the outburst carried only slight weight. But it carried some. Listeners concluded that the senior had, at least, overstated his case when a school-mate was so vehement in denying it. Thus a valuable and an accurate comment on the real Notre Dame, made by a student intelligent enough to offer something worthwhile when questioned about his school, was checked by the babbling of one who didn’t know.
The moral should be obvious: know your Notre Dame. Or, failing that, have the grace and good sense to say nothing.
BASKETBALL GAMES, NOT SMOKERS
Prior to the renovation of the Notre Dame gymnasium last year, large NO SMOKING signs were prominent in the decorative motif. If the removal of those notices from the walls was the cause of this year’s wide-spread smoking habit at varsity basketball games, we urge an immediate re-employment of the sign painters.
The practice of smoking in the stands, either during the progress of the play or in the intermission between the halves, has grown to a proportion that necessitates some sort of rule enforcement. Smoke-laden air is conducive to neither health nor comfort, for players or spectators. The blue haze over the floor at last Tuesday’s Notre Dame-Marquette game unquestionably worked a hardship on the contestants, needing all the fresh air they could get. '
One practical method of control: let the student body stop smoking at the games. The general public will soon follow suit.
One
THE WEEK
By Thomas J. Stritch
Toast
Somehow or other, we just can’t enter into the spirit of the new year. To us it just doesn’t represent a turning point. January first is New Year’s to everybody but people connected with schools — for them September twentieth is the first of the year, and it’s not such a bad idea at that. Of course, January first is not the beginning of the ecclesiastical year, nor of the Jewish year, but both these New Years are so near the beginning of the calendar year that the season at least, is the same. It’s only we who are set apart.
Suppose, for instance, we should attempt to review the past year, in our modest fashion, after the manner of the Associated Press. To go back to the spring term would seem like trying to shake some life into the dead.. We had rather forget exams, commencement and the rest; and does the thought of last year’s track or baseball team melt you? Hardly. Summer doesn’t belong, of course; and that leaves us with fall, which is so near' that it doesn’t need reviewing. There isn’t much to review, anyhow. So that leaves that out.
It is expected, too, that we have some comment on lurid stories of vacation exploits. So far we have encountered a decided reticence on the part of the local Don Juans on the subject of their conquests. Can it be that Reign of Flaming Youth is actually gone? Ah, well; progress means change. What next? Possibly we are entering on a new era of devotion to study.
One final word: examination begins definitely two weeks from today.
Vacation Story
This story might be entitled the emancipation of the parent, or the triumph of child psychology; it illustrates just how far the parent has come up during the last few troubled years. Some of us can remember when this would have been impossible; but we are holdovers from the gin age, when parents were unconcerned about such. Makes us align ourselves with two distinct periods of history, to feel that the Century of Progress exposition marked something after all. But to our tale.
A Dillon man, who belongs to the school which persists in thinking there’s something devilish about going home three days early, did just that. He put in at home the weekend before the vacation officially began. But he was not received into the bosom of his family with unreserved joy. His father tricked him into admitting that education was a
T w o
priceless boon, that the son meant to make the most of it, that studies were important. This gained, he sent him posting back to stick in there till vacation, secundum Father Carrico, should begin.
Ah, progress 1 And youth with some of the gilt scraped off.
Hear Ye
There’s something about basketball that brings out the lyric quality in a man. Add this year’s bulletins announcing the games to last year’s outpourings of a soul in torments— a spanking pair. A tradition is being continued in great style. Ah, the informality of basketball! No room for frivolity in the super-efficiency of conducting the destinies of the football team. Baseball is too settled to be gay. But basketball has a place for a sensitive man.
While in entire sympathy with the program — resplendent program, we should say — we suggest a mite more attention to the grammar. And something especially elaborate for the return game with Michigan State.
Artful
The charming lecture by Mr. Loredo Taft Monday night recalls the time he visited here some years ago and, during the course of his lecture, modelled in clay on the platform. Few artists are as entertaining as he in describing his work: like every genuine devotee of art, he is so familial' with sculpture that he can pinch his statues now and then without loss to his own dignity or the importance of his work.
A Case of Identity
This was in a class. One of the professors was conducting it for the first time.
“What is the essence of drama?” he asked. “You, there in the back row with the gray sweater on — I don’t know your name.”
“Conflict,” said the guy.
“Mr. Conflict,” quoted the professor, “what is the essence of the drama?”
As you can see, this could be carried farther, but the principals didn’t see it that way.
Gentleman
Around the corner now they are dismantling the. rooms of Mr. Phillips; and we cannot help feeling that something is gone from Sorin Hall and Notre Dame that helped make both distinguished. We would like to say that whatever else he may have been, he was a charming gentleman; and that we would like to remember him chiefly for that.
To Fete Grid Squad, Layden On Monday
Wearers of the Blue and Gold on - the gridiron, past and present, will join the common hand of college fellowship when alumni, friends, and classmates of the 1933 Notre Dame football team gather to honor that team at the 14th annual testimonial dinner sponsored by the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Club to be given Monday evening, January 15th.
So the famous Four Horsemen and Seven Mules of 1924, the team that won a national championship and the Tournament of Roses game, have been called back. Ten of them will be here. One of them, Johnny Weibel, plucky left guard, died three years ago; but he will be remembered. A vacant chaii' will honor him at dinner. Elmer Layden, director of athletics and head football coach at Notre Dame, will be a principal speaker. His teammate, Jimmy Crowley, Fordham coach, has again been called upon to carry off the honors as toastmaster. Harry Stuhl-dreher, Don Miller, Rip Miller, Noble Kizer, Chuck Collins, Adam Walsh, Joe Bach, and Ed Hunsinger are all returning to attend the banquet.
Extensive Speaking Program
Many other celebrities are included on the extensive speaking program. Among these are the Honorable Paul V. McNutt, governor of Indiana, Mayor Edward J. Kelly of Chicago, former Mayor Joseph V. McKee of New York, the Hon. E. L. Hammer, ’04, supreme court justice of New York, Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, the Hon. W. Riley Hinkle, mayor of South Bend, Harry Miller of Cleveland, president of the National Alumni Association, and others.
Invited guests include prominent almuni of this locality, St. Joseph Valley high school coaches, Thomas Courtney, Cook County state’s attorney, prominent newspaper men from New York, Chicago, and Boston, and others. Students and faculty are invited to attend both the dinner in the west dining hall and the speaking program. To take care of the overflow crowd tables have been placed in the faculty dining room above the banquet scene, tickets for which may be procured at the Athletic Office todav. Tickets are $1.50.
In addition to the speaking program, which will also include an introduction of team members by Thomas Conley, ’29, assistant coach, there will be special band and glee club programs, decorations, and a raffle of the autographed Army game ball. Station WSBT, South Bend, is broadcasting the banquet and program to radio listeners in the vicinity.
'	The Scholastic
Calendar
Friday, January 12
Mass for Professor Phillips, Sacred Heart Church, 6:25 (Cracow club); Scholastic staff meeting, editorial board, 6:30, news and sports staffs, 7:00.
Saturday, January 13
Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Butler, University gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.
Sunday, January 14
Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00, Sacred Heart Church; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p. m., for freshmen and students in Lyons and St. Edward’s halls, 7:30 p. m.
Monday, January 15
Collegians rehearsal, 6:30 p. m., Music hall; Academy of Science meeting, 8:00, Science hall.
Tuesday, January 16
Symphony orchestra practice, 6:30, Music hall; Educational seminar, Law building, 6:30 p.m.
Wednesday, January 17
Collegians rehearsal, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.; Irish club meeting, Carroll rec., 7:45 p. m.
International Relations Club To Reorganize This Week
A reorganized meeting of the International Relations club was held last night in the Journalism room of the library, with Professor William E. Farrell, of the Department of History, in charge.
Sponsored by the Carnegie foundation, Notre Dame’s club is organized along similar lines to those in most of the universities and larger colleges in the United States. •
All students interested in the club should see Professor Farrell for infomation concerning membership, activities, meting schedules, etc.
' Rifle Club Notice
The Notre Dame Rifle Club met Wednesday night, January 10, and decided that the club should become affiliated with the National Rifle Association. The club expects to be recognized within the next two weeks. The boat house has been cleaned and the rifle range is almost complete.
It is to be opened formally the first of next week. The members will have lockers in the power house for all their equipment and range officers will be elected to take charge of the range when it is open. All prospective members should see John McGrath in Alumni Hall at the earliest opportunity.
J a n u a r y 12, 19 3 4
Award R. C. Sullivan Scholarships To Tobin, Wiggins and MacDonald
Symphony--
The first annual concert of the Notre Dame Symphony orchestra will be presented next Thursday evening at 8 p. m. in Washington hall. Professor Richard Seidel, who formed the orchestra four years ago, will direct the performance.
Included in the program is the larg-hetto of the second symphony by L. von Beethoven and the Overture, Martha, by F. Von Flotow. From the Sleeping Beauty suite of Peter Tach-aikowsky Professor Seidel has chosen the tuneful Dornroschen walse which was received with much favor last year.
The program and personnel of the orchestra is as follows:
Overture, Martha ______:...F. von Flotow
Larghetto (2nd symphony) „..L. von Beethoven Grande Parade ................ P. Laeome
INTERMISSION
Suite, Ballet of the flowers._H. Hadley 1. Red Rose. 2 Marguerites. 3 Heather.
Dornroschen from Sleeping Beauty
—.......................P.	Tschaikowsky
March of the Priests from Athalia
........................F.	Mendelssohn
Director Prof. R. H. Seidel.
First Violins—J. Petritz, R. Klaibcr. G. Barber, Bro. Linus, C.S.C., D. Draper. J. Desmond.
Second Violins—M. Yriberry, M. Hendele. L. Grosso, W. Page, F. Karl, F. Barbush.
Violas—J. Beyrer, J. McNeill.
Cello—Prof. F. H. Ingersoll.
Bass Violin—F. Joyce.
Trumpets—J. Murphy, R. Scholz, W. Ellis. E. Theis.
Clarinets—E. Zimmers. P. Halbert. R. Trousdale, T. Carroll.
Flute—W. Burns.
Oboe—E. Kilmurry.
Trombones—J. Carey, C. Fiore.
French Horn—Prof. L. H. Eells, Piano—J. Sharpe.
CONTENTS
Editorials ..................... 1
“The Week” ..................... 2
Football Banquet................ 2
Sullivan Scholarships........... 3
Junior Prom..................... 4
English Program Changes ........ 4
Prof. Charles Phillips ......... 5
K. of C. Formal................. 6
“News of the Week”.............. 7
“Man About the Campus” ...1..... 8
Catholic Action Club ..........'	9
Dome Photography .............. 10
Marquette Game ................ 11
Butler Game.................... 12
Interhall Basketball .......... 13
Varsity Track Schedule ........ 13
“Introducing” ................. 14
$250 TO EACH WINNER
Winners of the Roger C. Sullivan scholarships were announced to The Scholastic today by the Reverend William H. Molony, C.S.C., chairman of the board of scholarships and prizes. Richard Bernard Tobin, Cyril Angelo Wiggins, and Joseph Vincent MacDonald, are the recipients of the awards in the senior, junior, and sophomore groups respectively.
Percentages
Tobin, a senior in the College of Science, is a resident of Rochester, N. Y. The percentage of increase between his grades of the first and second semesters of last year is 46.11%, with a total average for both semesters of 88%.
Cyril Wiggins, junior Science Student, lives in Portsmouth, Ohio. The percentage of increase in his marks is 57.06%, with a total average for both semesters of 86.85%.
Joseph MacDonald, a sophomore A.B. student, is a resident of St. Albans, Vermont. MacDonald showed an increase of 40.8% over his first semester’s grades of last year. The total average of his grades is 89.5%.
Established 1922
The Sullivan Scholarships, established in June 1922 by a gift from Mrs. Leo Sullivan Cummings and Mrs. Thomas Sullivan Brennan, of Chicago, in memory of their father, consists of three annual awards of $250 each, given to three applicants, one from the senior, junior, and sophomore classes respectively for the greatest improvement shown in scholarship during the year. The jnethod used in determining this improvement is the calculation of increase in percentage between the grades of the first and second semesters of the past current scholastic year.
A. I. E. E. To Hold Meet
Next Monday, January 15
There will be a meeting of the Notre Dame branch of the A.I.E.E. on Monday evening, Jan 15, at 8 o’clock in Room 22 of the Cushing Engineering building.
The speaker- of the evening will be Mr. W. E. Gutzwiller, of the electrical department of the Allis-Chalmers Co., of Milwaukee, Wis. His subject will be “Mercury Arc Power Rectifiers.” All members are urged to attend, and All members are urged to attend as the lecture is expected to be of unusual interest.
. Three
Ted Weems9 Orchestra to Play For Prom;
Complete List of Committees Announced
Changes In English
Program Announced
TICKETS ON SALE JAN. 22
By Thomas Proctor
Ted Weems and his orchestra, fresh from an engagement in the Walnut Room of the Hotel Bismarck in Chicago, have been selected by the class of 1935 for the Junior Prom
Ted Weems
Juniors go big time.
to be held February 9th in the Palais Royale Ballroom. The announcement of this selection was made by Chairman William Miller shortly after the holidays, and has been met with approval from all who are interested in this colorful event.
Miller Names Committees
Committees as announced by Chairman Miller deserve special mention for the work done during the past weeks. These are: Music: Ray Oakes, chairman, Louis Hruby, Thomas Thompson; Tickets—William Cole, chairman, Ray Margrett, Robert Henneberger; Programs—Thomas Walsh, chairman, William Lord, James J. Sullivan; Hall—Carl Esser, chairman, John Annas, Dale Pillars; Decorations—Francis Leonard, chairman, Eugene O’Brien, Francis Dunn; Patrons — Walter Brown, chairman, Ray Martin, Joseph Kaley; Reception — Edward Simpson, chairman, Joseph Knapp, Jefferson Foley; Arrangements—Ted Santaniello, chairman, John Van Etten, John Carbine; Publicity — Richard Prezebel, chairman, Arthur Korzeneski, William Burkhardt; Tea-Dance—William Gui-mont, Edward Cullen, Lincoln Wur-zer, Walter Sheehan, John Jordan, James J. Sullivan, William Daust.
Tickets for the Prom and also for the Dinner Dance the following Saturday evening will be sold to Juniors
Arctic----
Vilhjalmur Stefansson, the noted Arctic explorer, is scheduled to speak in Washington Hall, January 22 at 8:00 p. m. He is generally recognized as a leading authority on Arctic life and people.
Captain Sir Hubert Wilkins recently called Stefansson “the greatest living polar explorer.” His ideas, based on some thirteen years spent in the far north, have revolutionized many of the prevailing conceptions. In other words, he has done much to “humanize” the Arctic. He holds degrees from three universities and five national geographical societies have conferred high honors upon him.
Stefansson lived with the Eskimos the greater part of eleven years and acquired a more intimate knowledge of their language and their lives than has ever been possessed by any other white man. He has made three Arctic expeditions, the last extended from 1913 to 1918, when he mapped over 100,000 square miles of hitherto unknown territory.
Sympathy
The Scholastic extends the sincere sympathy of the student body to the Reverend Henry Bolger, C.S.C., whose father died at Watertown, Wis., and was buried there last Tuesday. The funeral was attended by the Reverend Thomas Irving, assistant superior general of Holy Cross. Father Bolger is now a graduate student in Physics at the California Institute of Technology. . He was a professor of Physics at Notre Dame and rector of Sophomore Hall, 1931-32.
Steel Treaters Meet
The Notre Dame group of the American Society for Steel Treating met in the auditorium of the Engineering building last night for its January meeting, with oxyacetylene welding the subject of discussion and demonstration.
Welding technique and processes were demonstrated on the stage and in moving pictures.
and a restricted number of Seniors beginning Monday, January 22nd. The place and orchestra for the dinner or tea dance have not as yet been chosen. Another event of interest for this weekend will be the track meet on Saturday afternoon between Notre Dame and Marquette universities.
The following alterations in English courses of the University were announced in a bulletin issued Jan. 9 by the Department of English: ’
I.	To the end of the Semester.
Eng. 119 — (Literature of the World) will be conducted by Prof. Ronay.
Eng. 127—(Technique of the Drama) will be continued by Fr. McDonald.
Eng. 233—(Classics in Translation) will be conducted by Fr. Carroll. Fr. Carroll will lecture on the Irish classics.
Eng. 243—(Dante Seminar) will be conducted by Professor Smithberger.
II.	Second Semester
English courses which were conducted by Professor Phillips, except Eng. 127 (Technique of the Drama) will be discontinued at the end of the current semester. A new list of electives will be introduced. Students of courses formerly conducted by Professor Phillips will be allowed to elect courses for the second semester from the list of new electives and electives already in the program. The student will of course lose no credit in the courses discontinued. Examinations in the courses to be discontinued will be given by the Department.
New Electives: Eng. 109—Browning. Taught by Prof. Engels, at 9:00 TTS, Room 105 Commerce; Eng. 117 —Main Currents in American Thought. Taught by Prof. Frederick, at 11:00 Tuesdays and Thursdays (2 hours of semester credit). Room 219 Main building, tentative.
Other electives of the regular program:
Eng. 3r. — The Romantic Period, 1784-1837 (Prof. Smithberger).
Eng. 23—The Short Story (Prof. Fenlon).
Eng. 3dx—Shakespeare (Semester course) (Prof. Rauch and Prof. Engels) .
Eng. 101—Elizabethan and Stuart Literature, 1558-1642 (Prof. Rauch)
Eng. 105—The Restoration, Age of Pope and Johnson, 1660-1784 (Prof. Myers).
Eng. 107—The Victorian Period, 1837-1900 (Prof. Staunton).
Eng. Ill — Shakespeare (English major course) (Prof. Rauch).
Eng. 113—Contemporary American Literature (Prof. Frederick).
III.	Readjustments made necessary by the alterations listed above.
1.	Eng. 1, sec. 22, taught by Prof. Campbell will be absorbed by other sections taught at 3:15 MWF. Prof. Madden, chairman of the committee
(Continued on Page 10)
Four
The Scholastic
Ideal Community Life Described By Pexler
Sudden Death of Professor Charles Phillips Saddens Legions of Friends at Notre Dame
In his lecture Wednesday, January 10, on “The Depression Unfelt,” Hilary D. C. Pexler, London publisher and critic, told his Washington Hall audience the fascinating story of a small English community group which has successfully combined in an unusual way its collective abilities and resources in order to gain economic security.
Located at Ditchling, Sussex, 50 miles from London, with a membership of approximately 70, the group is an entirely Catholic one, open only to married couples. Eric Gill, eminent writer and philosopher, is numbered among its adherents.
Self-sufficiency is the unit characteristic of the group, composed of artisans and farmers, emphasized Mr. Pexler. Each adult individual is proficient in some form of production. They trade among themselves, basing costs on the number of work hours and the difficulty of production. Trading of surplus outside the group is practiced.
Even in economic crises, the members may be entirely independent through their farming activities and land holdings. The group is not only economically self-sufficient, but is self-sufficient in religion, education, and recreation. It has its own school, its own teaching methods, its own recreational facilities, Mr. Pexler brought out.
Beside the regular Catholic services, the members use a simple office and plain chant as part of their religious services.
In the opinion of Mr. Pexler, the religious life of the community has been the chief unifying agent during trying times. Organized just prior to the world war, the community has grown steadily to its present size.
Cracow Club To Offer
Masses for Prof. Phillips
At the last meeting of the Cracow Club a resolution was drawn up stating the club’s sincere appreciation of the assistance given them by the late Professor Charles Phillips, club adviser, who died Dec. 29. The resolution was presented to the family of the deceased after a memorial mass on Friday morning. This was the first of a series of masses to be offered by the club in remembrance of Professor Phillips.
Discussion of tentative plans fostered by Professor Phillips and at present under consideration by the club has been indefinitely postponed.
All members are requested to attend the next meeting which is scheduled for Monday evening, Jan. 15.
Sympathy---
Among the many expressions of sympathy reaching the University after the sudden death of Professor Phillips were the following telegrams:
From Titus Sbyszewski, Polish Consul General, Chicago:
“ . . . I hasten to express to you, Father President, my deepest sympathy on account of the loss of the very illustrious and remarkable professor, who was also a great friend of Poland. The memory of Professor Phillips will always be deeply revered by Poles.”
From Mr. and Mrs. J. V. Mitchell, Rockville Center, Long Island, the donors of the William Mitchell Memorial Award fox- Playwriting at Notre Dame:
“Notre Dame is not alone in hex* sorrow because the whole world has suffered through the passing of Charles Phillips whom everyone loved.”
From Miss Margaret Anglin, noted actress and Laetare Medalist, Louisville, Ky.:
“My profound sympathy to the University in the loss of beloved Charles Phillips.”
From Henry Noble MacCracken, president, and Stephen P. Mizwa, secretary, the Kosciusko Foundation, New York:
“Having worked with the late Professox- Phillips on the publication of his latest work, Paderewski’s Biography, news of his untimely death was a great shock to us. Please accept and convey to youx- University and his relatives oux- sincere condolences.”
From General Josef Haller, Polish general, at present in the United States:
“While travelling in this country, I was shocked to hear of the untimely death of youx- distinguished teacher, my friend, and sincere friend of Poland, Charles Phillips. In my own name, and in behalf of thousands of my countrymen who came in contact with the late Profesox- Phillips in his benevolent work in Poland and latex- fox- Poland, I am sending to you and youx-University sincere condolences.”
FUNERAL HELD ON JAN. 2
The news of the passing of Professox- Charles Phillips, beloved teacher and friend, of all Notre Dame students, was a great shock to all who knew him. Mr. Phillips’ death took place at St. Mary’s Hospital, Minneapolis, Minn., Dec. 29, 1933. He had
Professor Charles Phillips R. I. P.
been ill scarcely more than a day. Notre Dame mourns the loss of a scholar, a gentleman, and a great friend.
Professor Phillips was 53 years of age. He left the University Dec. 21 for the home of his sister in Minneapolis, Minn. He spent Christmas there and was stricken ill Wednesday night, Dec. 27 and was immediately rushed to the hospital. He never regained consciousness. The funeral was held in the Church of the Immaculate Conception in New Richmond. He is survived by his brother, Frank T. Phillips, and a sister, Mrs. James Donahue, both of Minneapolis.
Career was Brilliant
The funeral of Mr. Phillips was held Tuesday, Jan. 2, in New Richmond, Wis., where he was born. The coffin was draped with a Polish and an American flag, representing the two countries which played such a vital part in Professor Phillips’ life. The Rev. Patrick Carroll, C.S.C., preached the funeral sermon.
Professor Phillips attended La Salle College, Toronto, and received his M.A. degree from St. Mary’s college, Oakland, Calif., in 1914. He came to Notre Dame in 1924 as a professor in the Department of English.	■
The brilliant career of the late Mr. Phillips is marked by many distinguished accomplishments. From 1901 to 1903, he served as editor of the Northwestern Chronicle, St. Paul, Minn. He was editor of the New Century for three years. In 1906 and (Gontinuned on Page S)
January 12, 19 3 4
F i v e
K. C. Formal To Be
Held Friday, Jan. 19
K. of C. News
University Players Present ‘The Shrew’
Henry Busse and his nineteen piece Granada Cafe orchestra will be the. musical attraction at the Knights of Columbus annual Formal which is
Grand Knight Sexton 1^7/ keep ticket sale open.
to be held next Friday night, January 19th at the Palais Royale. Busse has long been one of the outstanding radio artists and his coming assures the Knights a musical treat.
The K. C. Formal is the first of the formal school dances which is open to the lower- classmen. The ticket committee has appointed a representative in every hall, so that tickets may be purchased with great convenience. Tickets are $2.50.
Grand Knight W. Lawrence Sexton, with General Chairman Frank W. Honerkamp is in charge of the arrangements. Sexton reports a large advance sale of tickets and has made known that tickets can be purchased right up to the day of the dance.
University Band Is Engaged For Annual Football Fete
The University Band and Glee club, two of the most popular campus organizations, will provide the musical entertainment for the annual Football Banquet, sponsored by the St. Joe Valley-Notre Dame Club next Monday evening, January 15, in the Dining Halls.
Thirty-five members of the band will cooperate with a Glee Club ensemble of 40 men in furnishing a lively group of stirring songs and vocal selections. The Glee Club will feature John Ryan, tenor soloist, and George Menard, baritone soloist, both of "Thanks For The Blow” fame.
The musical end of the program will be under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the organizations.
Six
By Ray Martin
The council- bowling league has swung into stride again, but it is more serious now, and promises to be more competitive than it was before the Christmas recess. The scores made now will be the ones which will count toward determining the team to be sent to Milwaukee, probably sometime in March. The games bowled before Christmas were simply practice rounds for the experienced rollers, and educational ones for the more inept. From now on every ball will count heavily. The next bowling night will be Thursday, January 18. There will be no bowling while examinations are in progress. Date of resumption of the tournament will be announced here as soon as it is decided upon.
Basketball Team Formed
One of the interesting sidelights of the short meeting last Monday night was the talk of Jim Collins, Grand J Knight of Notre Dame Council in! 1931 and 1932. He expressed his' pleasure at being able to appear before the council again, the first time since he left school, and wished to tender his gratitude to the council for sending him as a state representative to the national convention in Washington in his last year here. According to some of the faculty members, Jim was one of the most popular G. K.’s the council evei' had.
Owing to strenuous effort on the part of Walt Kennedy and John McLaughlin, the council basketball team will make its debut shortly. A game has been secured with Wakarusa high school for the near future, and several other games have been booke^ for, as yet, undetermined dates. With such outstanding veterans as Jim Sullivan and Larry Sexton forming the nucleus, and some new members who, it is assured, will scintillate, this year’s team should have a very successful season. Because schedules have been arranged and so forth, however, no member who has latent capabilities in this line of athletic endeavor should bury himself in the council without letting anyone know about his ability. As in everything else, basketball is conducted for the benefit of every man in the council. One of the purposes and aims of the Notre Dame council is to get everyone interested in some beneficial pursuit.
Staff Notice
The regular meeting of The Scholastic staff will be held in the editorial offices at 6:30 and 7:00 this evening.
Twenty-three University Theatre players took part in Shakespeare’s “The Taming of the Shrew” presented in Washington Hall December 17 and 18, being the first production of the Notre Dame actors. Professor Frank Kelly, director of the play, used the Leland Powers’ version, “Katherine and Petruchio,” with the “Induction.”
Eugene Blish as Petruchio, the lover, played his part brilliantly. He will be remembered for his graceful exit from the stage with the shrew, Katherine, on his hip. Katherine was played by Miss F. Teresa Chisholm, St. Mary’s. Her portrayal of the bad tempered daughter of Baptista was particularly commendable.
Stritch Is Excellent
Thomas Stritch, confronted with perhaps the most difficult role in the comedy, gave a performance as Baptista, paralleled only by Blish. Joseph McCabe, veteran University player, was cast as Grumio. McCabe’s problem of portraying this famous Shakespearian character was accomplished by over-acting. Frank Cane appeared as the tottering Biondello.
Others appearing in the cast were Daniel Youngerman as the music master; Robert Ward as Curtis; Leonard Goldman as the tailor; Daniel Brennan as the cook; John Galla-gher as Nathaniel; Joseph Alten as Gabriel; John Kirsch as Gregory; Andrew Hufnagel as Adam; Wayne Thurm as Ralph; Harold Miller as Walter; Arthur Hoffman as Tranio; Lawrence Burnett as Lucio.
The play was divided into the Induction, the Wooing, the Wedding, and the Taming, seven scenes in all. Those taking part in the Induction were Robert Ward, John Sweeney, James J. Boyle, Irwin Goldman, Joseph Mansfield, Robert Rainey, William Hoffei-t, and Leonard Seike-meyer.
German Club Holds First
Meeting Wednesday Night
The German club held its first meeting after vacation Wednesday night in the Carroll Hall recreation room.
Mr. Wack, associate professor of German, was the speaker. With the aid of slides he illustrated his talk on the scenic beauties and historical places of interest in Hamburg, Germany. Mr. Wack had journeyed in and around this part of the country extensively.
German songs of the members provided the rest of the entertainment.
The Scholastic
Glee Club Personnel Reduced This Week
Aftei- several more weeks of daily rehearsals, the University Glee Club, following the elimination policy, has been reduced from 95 members to the present total of 58.
The final cut will be made within a month, according to Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the Glee Club. The remaining fiftyeight members are working their hardest to survive the forthcoming final cut, after which preparations will be made for the Club concert trip during the Easter holidays.
“Because of the abundant material and the range of voices,” states Professor Casasanta, “this year’s group promises to be the best since 1929.” At present, the Gleesters are preparing for the first of the winter concerts to be presented in Washington Hall in about six weeks.
Following are the men who have withstood the present cut:
First Tenori—Adamson, Schleuter, E. Butler, Casazza, Fromm, Fefer-man, Corrigan, Gervasio, Vogt, Cassidy, Carey, Rowan, Bolerjack, Belte-macchi, and Ffrench.
Second Tenori—J. Ryan, Gill, Devine, Schwartz, Goldman, Lynch, Phoebus, Henry, Hart, Jahr, Egan, Wenz, Stemper, Gorman, Ducey, and O’Brien.
First Bassi—Quinn, Brett, Tompkins, D. Ryan, R. Butler, Menard, Ott, McNichols, Finnochiaro, Ross, • Reidy, Schenkel, and Cahill.
Second Bassi — Marohn, Scholz, Flynn, C o r d a r o , Kirsch, Prapp, Hughes, Miller, Reeves, Austin, Lewis, Sickmeyer, and Geertz.
Father O’Hara To Speak At Catholic Action Banquet
The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., will speak at a Catholic Action banquet in Waterbury, Connecticut, on Jan. 17. The subject of his speech will be “Catholic Action.” The banquet is sponsored by the Knights of Columbus in Waterbury.
Other speakers on the program will be John Robinson, A.B., A.M., class of ’28, who is the Grand Knight; Bishop McAuliffe, Auxuiliary Bishop of Hartford; Governor Cross of Connecticut; Dr. Stephen H. Maher, Lae-tare Medalist; and James Crowley.
Friday night, Jan. 19, Father O’Hara will speak at a Notre Dame dinner in Providence, Rhode Island, and Saturday noon at a Notre Dame luncheon in Boston.
Notice!
The regular meeting of the Spanish Club scheduled for Jan. 11 has been postponed until Jan. 18.
January 12, 19 3 4
News of the Week
By George Leyes
A new chapter in the colorful story of our great national drama began when Congress met in an atmosphere of marked contrast to the last three years and listened to the President’s message. The sectional feeling so marked in most sessions was replaced by a national feeling which reflected a determination to push the recovery measures in a united effort and to further the gains made in the wise policies already inaugurated.
The President’s speech was given in the typical Rooseveltian self-confidence. He laid down no orders, made no requests for legislation, but in a heart to heart fashion appealed for non-partisan cooperation. The speech was conservative and assuring to those who have heard the cry of “Mussolini” “Stalin” that he considers himself no dictator.
Admiral Byrd and his companions flying around at the bottom of the world send the message that about 200,000 square miles of previously unknown area can be eliminated from our maps and be designated simply “Pacific Ocean.” This world of ours is undergoing so many changes that we will soon not know it.
Catholic Action Study Clubs are being recommended and formulated in all the Catholic churches in the United States in which young people may participate and study doctrinal, moral, social, and economic problems. The formation of such a club at Notre Dame is a step in keeping with the new deal which has given recognition to the constructive social program embodied in the Pope’s encyclicals.
A nine billion dollar deficit reveals the cost of the fight for recovery. Ten billion must be borrowed or nearly twice the amount of money now in circulation — a terrific reminder to our smug complacency that our government is the greatest business in the world and that we and the next generations will pay for’ our indifference during the heydays.
No Movie Tomorrow
Because of the basketball game tomorrow night, there will be no movie in Washington Hall. The next scheduled film wil be shown Jan. 20. This production is “Charlie Chan’s Greatest Case” starring Warner Oland. The short subjects to be exhibited in conjunction with the feature are Pathe News and a new type cartoon entitled “Beneath Our Feet.”
McMahon Writes For Catholic U. Magazine
In his “Drinking from the Fountains of Knowledge,” published in a recent issue of the Catholic University of America’s Alumnus, Professor Francis E. McMahon of the department of philosophy writes of his scholastic study in Europe during 1931-32.
Quoting from the Alumnus, Dr. McMahon writes, “This is partially an answer to an earlier article in “The Bulletin of the Graduate School’’ of the Catholic University of America for April, 1933, entitled “On Studying Abroad,” which, to use the current slang expression, took foreign study for a ‘ride’.”
Professor McMahon was granted a Penfield Scholarship for foreign study in 1931. In this article he describes study at Louvain; Oxford; the Angelico, the Dominican university in Rome; the city of Siena, Tuscany; and the University of Munich.
The writer tells of his study of Neo-Scholasticism under the luminous philosophic minds of Europe. Some of them are as follows: Msgr. Leon Noel, epistomologist; Professor Balthazar, metaphysician; cosomologist Renoirt, Pere Marechal, Pere Kremer; all of Louvain. At Oxford he came in contact with such thinkers as Fathers d’Arcy and Walker. The distinguished Father Garrigou-La-grange was Dr. McMahon’s teacher at the Angelico. At Siena and Munich the writer studied under France’s most prominent Neo-Scholastics, Father Valensin, and Dr. Geyser.
In the conclusion Dr. McMahon states, “The entire experience was as thrilling as it was profitable. I had studied philosophy through the philosophers. ... In knowing the man, I was surer of comprehending the idea . . . Travel is study, and study is travel. Travel makes one sympathetic and understanding — and you may put upon the latter word the most technical meaning you wish.”
Professor McMahon received his Ph.B. degree from DePaul University in 1927, his A.M. from Catholic University in 1929, and his Ph.D. in 1931. The Alumnus states: “He is the author of one book, “The Humanism of Irving Babbitt,” and of several magazine articles and book reviews.”
Father Bolger To Talk
The Reverend William A. Bolger, C.S.C., head of the department of Economics, will speak on “Citizenship” at the annual Crosier Club dinner held at Tulsa, Oklaoma on Jan. 15. The other speaker will be the Most Rev. Francis Clement Kelly, D.D., Bishop of the Oklahoma City-Tulsa diocese.
Seven
Death of Professor Phillips Saddens N.D.
(Continued from Page 5)
1907, he edited the Republican Voice, New Richmond, Wis., and from 1907 to 1915, he was editor of The Monitor, San Francisco.
Mr. Phillips was co-founder and coeditor of Pan, Poetry, and Youth, and associate literary editor of the Catholic World Magazine. He served in France and Germany with the K. of C., in 1918. He worked with the American Red Cross in Poland from 1919 to 1922.
He was a member of the American Delegation to the International Congress of Young Men’s Societies in Rome in 1921 and was special commissioner to the National Catholic Welfare Conference in 1925. He was also a member of the national council of the Kosciusko Foundation and of the Poetry Society of America.
Perhaps the greatest of his many works in drama, fiction, poetry and biography, is his latest work, Pade-■reivski—A Story of A Modern Immortal, which Professor Phillips completed immediately prior to his death. The biography is the only one of its kind and has already appeared in a special edition for the Kosciusko Polish Foundation. The regular edition of this book will apepar Jan. 23. Mr. Phillips spent over a decade in the collection and writing of the material in this biography, sacrificing his very health so as to complete the work.
His first published material was a small volume of poems called Back Home—An Old Fashioned Poem, in 1913. This volume had five editions. “The Divine Friend,” a poetic drama produced and presented by the celebrated Miss Margaret Anglin, in 1915, Laetare Medalist, is perhaps one of the best known of his plays. “The Shepard of the Valley,” another drama, was produced in 1918. The New Poland was published here and in London; The Teacher's Year appeared in 1924.
The Doctor's Wooing, the only novel written by Prof. Phillips, came out in 1926, and was followed by a volume of verse, High in Her Tower. Young Lincoln, a biography of Abraham Lincoln, appeared in 1929.
A requiem Mass for the repose of the soul of Professor Phillips was said in Sacred Heart Church Monday morning. An anniversary Mass is being planned by the Cracow Club of which Professor Phillips was faculty adviser. Charles Karnasiewicz, secretary to Mr. Phillips, arranged the data concerning his life.
As Father O’Hara wrote in the Religious Bulletin, “He enriched the literary traditions of Notre Dame, and will be remembered along with Maurice Francis Egan, Charles Warren Stoddard, and Austin O’Malley.”
Eig h t
Probably the first bit of information that we should put out about our Mr. Paskwietz is that his name
isn’t Pete at all. David Joseph, Jr., is correct, and there are those back in Whiting who still call him Dave. But no one here does. He’s been Pete for four years.
Like a lot of other good lads he got his start in old Freshman hall, a member of the vast generation who survived
a full year in that wind-swept stronghold of virility. And in that first year' the full-cheeked Whiting youth started a lot of things he’s been doing pretty regularly ever since.
L	Basketball Plus
There is interhall basketball for example. Peter has been a pillar of the system since the early 'winter of 1931 when he was wont to tape up his Whiting high school knee and careen around for the shop-worn glory of Freshman. The next year he played with the Lyons team that won the championship and last season he hoisted his shots for Howard’s quintet that didn’t. Now, if Sorin’s calm indifference and varied allied influences don’t quench his fire, he’ll probably be at it again in a week or two. And assuming the same conditions, it is probable that the Dujarie gym is in for some Saturday visits.
But there have been a lot of things other than basketball in Pete’s existence. He’s a bear on history notebooks, on term papers and clipping essays. He’s run a gas station or two, and manufactured, advertised, and sold a new stainless sweeping compound that was pretty much his own product.
Proms and Cotillions
And then the social side. There have been proms and cotillions. There was last year’s prom for sure; but there’ll be no more just like that. He knows many leagues, however, and always bats well, so he’ll probably get along.
He’s an all-around lad, this one. It’s really a pity there aren’t more like him. A pleasant soul and a capable one. And regular.
Debaters To Meet Chicago Law School
Notre Dame’s varsity debate teams, under the supervision of W. J. Coyne, are opening the 1934 season with a radio debate, a new question, and some new men. Tomorrow afternoon at 2:30 William Kirby and Hugh Fitzgerald will be heard over station WJAD, Chicago, arguing with Chicago Law College on the question, “Resolved: that the powers of the president should be substantially increased as a permanent policy.” This is a broader statement and interpretation of the question debated by Notre Dame during the past two months.
On Saturday, February 10th, New York University comes here to meet a local affirmative team on the same question. In addition to this debate there are about fourteen other contests tentatively scheduled by Coach Coyne.
John Locher and John O’Connor, 2nd and 3rd speakers of Sorin Hall’s victorious debate trio have been added to the negative teams of the varsity squad since vacation. This addition increases the number of men on the squad to fourteen.
Six Notre Dame Men Attend Philosophy Meet
Six members of the University faculty, headed by the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Ph.D., attended the ninth annual meeting of the American Catholic Philosophical Association at Pittsburgh, December 28th and 29th.
Father Miltner, retiring president, discussed “The Realistic Philosophy of Society” in his presidential address. Father Miltner also delivered a radio talk on “Optimism and Pessimism in Philosophy” from station KDKA at Pittsburgh. The Reverend Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., Ph.D., professor of philosophy at Notre Dame participated in a seminar on “The Philosophy of Values.”
The others who attended, but who did not take part in the meeting -were: Rev. Norbert C. Hoff, Rev. Julian P. Sigmar, Dr. William Roemer, and Dr. Francis McMahon, all of the department of philosophy at Notre Dame.
This meeting, said to have been the liveliest and most interesting of any of the conferences held, did not have a very large attendance. The society, however, received many new members at this time, and it is felt that the influence of the organization is becoming more pronounced in the country. Next year’s meeting will be held at De Paul U. in Chicago.
The Scholastic
Large Addition Made To Library Book List
The following books have been added recently to the University Library:
Religion—Jaeger, Rev. Leo Arnold, The Administration of Vacant and Quasi-vacant Dioceses in the United States; Ambrose, St. bp. of Milan, S. Ambrosii De Tobia; Baskfield, Rev. Gerald Thomas, The Idea of God in British and American Personal Idealism; Dawson, Christopher, The Spirit of the Oxford Movement; Dignan, Rev. Patrick Joseph, A History of the Legal Incorporation of Catholic Church Property in the U. S.; Gallagher, Denis Maria, Pringle-Pattison’s Idea of God; Hbgan, Michael, S.J., The Ecclesiastical Review on Morality of Hunger Strike.
Philosophy — Boas, George, The Happy Beast in French Thought of the Seventeenth Century; Cohen, Morris Raphael, Law and the Social Order.
History and Description—Bell, Mrs. Margaret, A Journey to Ohio in IS 10; Beriaev, Nicholai, The End of Our Time; Croce, Benedetto, History of Europe in the Nineteenth Century; Greene, William Chase, The Achievement of Rome; Kwei, Chungshu, Plain Speaking on Japan; Brebner, John, The Explorers of North America; Foreman, Grant, Advancing the Frontier; American Jewish Committee, The Jews in Nazi Germany; Royce, Mrs. Sarah, A Frontier Lady.
Economics — Fallon, Valere, S.J., Principles of Social Economy; Douglas, Paul Howard, Collapse or Cycle?; Gigeonse, Harry David, World Depression; Kolb, John Harrison, Meeting the Farm Crisis.
Economic History—Crowther, Samuel, America Self-Contained.
Business and Industry — Haynes, Benjamin, Problems in Business Education.
Political Science — Loretta Clare Feirtag, Sister, American Public Opinion on the Diplomatic Relations Between the U. S. and the Papal States (1847-1867).
Education—Beach, Fred, The Custody of School Funds; Brown, Marion, Leadership Among High School Pupils; Brown, Ralph, Mathematical Difficulties of Students of Educational Statistics; Lindsay, James, Annual and Semi-annual Promotion; Doyle, Rev. John, Education in Recent Constitutions and Concordats; Fleming, Children and Puritanism; Hartshorne, Hugh, Standards and Trends in Religious Education.
Literature—Stephens, James, English Romantic Poets; Blake, William Harold, A Preliminary Study of the Interpretation of. Bodily Expression; Boone, Lester, One Hundred New De-(Continued on Page 10)
January 12, 1934
George Myers Is Speaker At Seminar in Education
George Myers, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, addressed the members of the Seminar in the Philosophy of Education at the regular weekly meeting Tuesday. “Structuralism and Functionalism” was the subject of his talk.
These two phases of the seven psychologies of Heibreder as described in his book “Seven Psychologies” were compared and discussed by Myers. He cited Edward B. Titchener as the foremost of structuralists giving sensation, feeling, and images as the three elements of his system. The purpose of structuralism, says Titchener, is to study by exact observation and experimentation all phenomenon of consciousness.
In functionalism, Angell and John Dewey were named as the leaders. Functionalism and Structuralism agree on feeling, sensation, and images, except that the former classifies them as activities and the latter as parts of a larger structure.
Article on Father Nieuwland
Featured in New ‘Catalyzer’
A follow-up article on Rev. J. A. Nieuwland’s discussion of acetylene research which appeared in the November issue of the Chemistry Department’s Catalyzer is the feature article in the December number which was distributed just before the holidays. This one is by Richard R. Vogt, Ph.D., ’20, assistant professor of organic chemistry in the University. Dr. Vogt traces the usese of acetylene in the making of organic compounds in his article entitled, “The Significance of Acetylene Research.”
An editorial, “Keeping Up With The Times” by C. J. Schwarz, news of club meetings, and Personals complete the book.
Armstrong on Tour
Mr. James Armstrong, Alumni secretary, has been absent from the University this week, being engaged on a speaking tour. He addressed student bodies of Harrison, Lindbloom and Senn High schools in Chicago on their “College Days” programs. On Jan. 12 and 13 he will attend the American Alumni Council meeting of this district at Indiana University.
Sympathy
The mother of Rev. Francis Maher, C.S.C., died Monday at Kokomo, Ind. She was buried from St. Patrick’s Church there on Wednesday. The Scholastic joins the University in extending its sympathy to Father Maher.
Catholic Action Club In Formation Here
A Catholic Action Club is now being formed at Notre Dame under the direction of Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., head of the Department of Economics and Politics. Assisting him in the formation of this club are Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., and Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Assistant Prefect of Religion. Father O’Hara states the aim of the Club is “to prepare men to present effectively, in speech and writing, the Catholic position on the burning industrial, social, and religious questions of the day.” Applications are now being received by them and information and advice given to the applicants.
Club To Be Small
The club will not have a large membership but a few with real perseverance and ability. Most of the members will be juniors or seniors. When and where the Club will meet will be announced later when the members have been selected from the applications received. The work of the Club will be based mostly on the encyclicals, Rerum Novarum and Quadragesima Anno.
Father Bolger is an active, charter member of the Catholic Association for International Peace and the Catholic Conference on Industrial Problems. Father O’Hara says of him, “Besides being a professor of national reputation in the fields of Economics and Politics, Father Bolger was for 17 years an eminently successful director of debating at Notre Dame. No one is better fitted to direct the important activities lying ahead of the Catholic Action Club.”
Plans For Annual Banquet Discussed by Wranglers
Wranglers, honorary forensic society, inaugurated the new year with a short business meeting last Tuesday night in the Law Building. President Arthur Sandusky congratulated the group for its cooperation during the extensive interhall debating season, commenting particularly on the work of Arthui* Korzeneski and John Hayes.
The annual banquet and the acceptance of new members were discussed briefly by the society. There is a possibility that a banquet held soon after the final exams will honor both the winning interhall debate team and new members taken in.
Various letters of commendation for the society’s work in the field of debate were read by the president. At the next meeting John Hayes will address the club.
N i n e
LoradoTaft Lectures On Sculptural Art
Lorado Taft, internationally recognized sculptor and art instructor, presented an illustrated lecture on sculptured art Monday night, Jan. 8, in Washington Hall.
“My Dream World” was Mr. Taft’s lecture title, referring to his long-planned idea of arranging museums of reproductions of famous works of art, both in sculpture and painting, for every college in America. Plaster reproductions of the sculptural works and copies of the masters in painting would be used.
Americans are shamefully neglectful of art and miss much of value in failing to pay more attention to aesthetics in their educational plan, the speaker brought out. Much talent is being stifled in America through the lack of sympathy and training facilities, he added.
The illustrated part of the lecture gave Mr. Taft’s hearers a chronologically arranged presentation of the most beautiful and best known sculptures in history, ranging from Egyptian art 2000 years before Christ through the Renaissance, including pictures of the best in Greek and Roman sculptures and architecture.
Mr. Taft used word and picture to cover the comprehensive survey of most of the history of sculptured art in a compact, absorbing way, enabling his audience to secure a unified idea of the periods covered.
The famous scultor praised Notre Dame’s art collection during the course of his lecture.
ENGLISH COURSES
(Continued from Page 4)
of Freshman teachers, will make the proper distribution of students.
2.	Professor Campbell, who has been conducting Eng. 1, sec. 22, will teach English 2, sec. 2, in place of Prof. Smithberger.
3.	Prof. Smithberger, who has been conducting Eng. 2, sec. 2, will go to English 3d, sec. 1, in place of Prof. Engels.
4.	Prof. Engels, who has been conducting Eng. 3d, sec. 1, will begin Eng. 109, Browning, a new elective.
These arrangements are effective at the beginning of the second semester.
Shay Speaks to Bookmen
Frank Shay, librarian of the Bookmen, addressed the organization on “The Works of Peter Ibsen,” in which he analyzed the more notable of the author’s works and presented the views of several critics.
The next meeting will be held Monday evening at 7:45 in the Law Building.
Ten
‘Santa Maria’ Will Appear Next Wednesday Evening
The Santa Maria, official publication of the campus council of the Knights of Columbus, will make its second appearance of the school year next Wednesday night. Walter Kennedy, editor of the Santa Maria, announced that this issue will be known as the Winter Number.
Several new features, including a page of Knights of Columbus Formal guests, will add a “different” tone to the publication. The usual routine news will provide an organizational background to the issue.
It is expected that the cover will be of white and blue. A fitting tribute to the late Charles Phillips, who was an ardent supporter of the local council of the Knights of Columbus, will be the leading article of the magazine.
Prof. Langwell Attends
Modem Language Meeting
The 50th annual meeting of the Modern Language Society of America was held at the Jefferson Hotel in St. Louis bn Dec. 28 to 30. This meeting was attended by approximately by 2,000 professors representing nearly every college and university in the country.
Notre Dame was represented by Prof. Earl Langwell, of the French department, and Prof. John Frederick department of English, who delivered a paper on “Robinson Jeffers and Others” in the department of Contemporary Literature.
LAW NOTES
Dean Konop will attend a meeting of the Indiana State Bar Association in Indianapolis next Thursday and Friday, Jan. 18 and 19.
Dean Konop, who is a member of the Committee on Education, will attend the meeting of that committee on Thursday. At this meeting there will be a discussion of the proposal for raising the educational standards for admission to the Bar in Indiana.
Dean Goodrich, of the University of Pennsylvania Law School, will be the principal speaker at the banquet on Friday, Jan. 19.
Francis J. Vurpillat, Notre Dame alumnus, ’95, and an assistant corporation counsel for the last ten years has been appointed as counsel in the public works administration at Washington. Mr. Vurpillat was dean of the Notre Dame law school from 1915 until 1923. He has served as a state’s attorney in Indiana and also served on the Circuit court bench while at Notre Dame.
Senior Photographs Are To Be Resumed
Sittings for senior pictures for the 1934 Dome will be resumed Monday, Jan. 15, in the Walsh Basement Studios. The time will be from 1:30 to 5 o’clock exery afternoon except Saturday. Seniors are urged to have their pictures taken immediately to avoid a rush the week preceding examinations and those seniors who still have their proofs are asked to return them to Walsh basement in the afternoons.
Group pictures of clubs, both campus and city, will also be taken starting Monday, Jan. 15. These group pictures will be taken on the stage in Washington Hall from 12:30 to 1 o’clock every afternoon except Saturday. Two groups will be assigned to an afternoon and notices will be sent to all the club presidents notifying them when the pictures will be taken thus enabling them to have their members present. It is essential that the club members be present in Washington Hall at the times assigned to them as there will be no reassignments or retakes owing to the limited time.
Club presidents who do not receive notices are urged to see William Burkhardt in Alumni Hall to arrange for their pictures.	'
LIBRARY BOOKS
(Continued from Page 9)
clamations; Cook, Elizabeth Christine, Reading the Novel; Krutch, Joseph, Experience and Art; Knight, George, The Christian Renaissance.
Fiction—Borden, Mrs. Lucille (Papin), Sing to the Sun; Spearman, Frank, Hell’s Desert; Williams, Valentine, The Clock Ticks On; Williams, Valentine, Fog.
Biography—F e r r e r o, Guglielmo, The Life of Caesar; Belloc, Hillaire, Charles the First, King of England; Kennedy, Julia Elizabeth, George Watterson, Novelist; Longworth, Mrs. Alice (Roosevelt), Crowded Hours; O’Grady, Rev. John, Levi Silliman Ives.
Mathematics—Fagerstrom, William Henry, Mathematical Facts and Processes Prerequisite to the Study of the Calculus; Kells, Lyman Morse, Elementary Differential Equations.
Medicine and Psychiatry—Krantz John Christian, Fighting Disease with Drugs.
Physical Education — Lindwall, Robert, Intramural Activities.
Fine Arts—Gardner, Helen, Understanding the Arts; Rank, Otto, Art and Artist; Gill, Eric, Beauty Looks After Herself; Browne, Margaret, Portrait Painting.
Physics — Clemenson, Mrs. Jessie (Williams), Study Outlines in Physics
' The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Irish Beat Spartans In Overtime Game
------ : ;
i By Nick Connor ‘
Last Saturday night’s 34 to 33 victory over Michigan State gave Coach George Keogan’s Notre Dame basketball team their twentieth consecutive victory. The game was a rough and tumble affair that stretched into three hectic overtime periods. In fact the game was so nerve-racking that the lead changed eleven times during the course of the game.
The play during the first half was about on par, both teams missing numerous under basket shots that ordinarily they would have never missed, but the strain that the teams were playing under was more than noticeable in these first thirty minutes of play. The score was deadlocked at 15-all at the close of the half.
Battle Of Centers
The battle of centers between Krause and Buysse was again resumed with the start of the second half, but before the game had progressed very far, Maurice Buysse, State’s pride and center, was banished from the game via the personal foul route.
The lead sea-sawed back and forth in the second half with Notre Dame making a basket from around the foul circle, then Michigan State would retaliate with a long shot and then vice versa. Both teams kept playing in this fashion until the end of the game found the score once again tied at 26-all. The score at the end of the first overtime session was tied at 28-all.
At the outset.of the second extra period Leo Crowe crashed under the basket for two points, and for a time it appeared that Notre Dame would emerge victorious. But as the three minute period was rapidly drawing to a close Herrick tossed a long shot that again tied the score, this time at 30-all.
Krause To The Rescue
The third overtime began with the score tied at 30-all. Vander Roest sank a long field goal that put Michigan State in the lead, and then to make matters worst Van Fassen added one free throw in two attempts. State was leading by three points with but a minute to play when the Moose pivoted at the foul line for two points. By this time the
(Continued on Page 14)
J a n u a r y 12, 1 9 3 4
Keoganites Whip Marquette 30-28 For 21st Consecutive Cage Win
Arizona —	?
Despite an uncanny accuracy from the free throw line, the basketeers of Arizona University were no match for Notre Dame’s powerful quintet last Thursday night and went home with the short end of a 46 to 24 score.
This was the 19th straight win for the Irish and moved them a step nearer the record of 22 in a row made back in 1908. So strong was the Irish defense that the Arizona men couldn’t break through for a field goal until after 25 minutes of the game had been played.
Coach Fred Enke had drilled his pupils in a fast-breaking offense but they didn’t even garner a percentage of their shots. Their defense was weakened by the fact that two men were appointed to guard the great
Irish center, Captain Ed Krause, on the pivot play.
Notre Dame (46)	FG FT- FTA PF Pts.
Voegele, rf 	 3	13	2	7

Hopkins, rf 	 11113
Peters, If-c 	 4	0	2	4 S
Alberts, If 	 10	0	12
Mettler, If 	 1	0	0	2	2
Krause, c 	 3	110	7

Ford, rg 	 0	0	110
Allen Ic 	 2	0	0	2	4
Newbold. Ig 	 0	110	1
Wade, 1g 	 10	0	12
1 *	—■ —	■ ■■■-	——
Totals 	21	4	10 IS 46
Arizona (24)	FG FT FTA PF Pts.
Abbott, rf 	 2	0	0	0	4
Schlotzhauer, If 	 0	112	1
Poosford, If 	 0	0	0	0	0
Stewart, rf 	  0	0	0	0	0
Jack. If 	 12	2	14
Byrne, c 	 1	3	5	2	5
AVarnock, c 	 12	2	14
Johnson, rg 	 0	3	3	3	3
Kelleman, rg 	 0	0	0	0	0
Filburn, 1g 	—	0	3.4	1	3
Vickers, Ig 	 0	0	0	0	0
	 	 	 	 ——
Totals 	 5	14	17	10	24
Officials: Referee, Travnicek (Armour
Tech) ; Umpire, Kearns (De Paul).
NOTICE
Spectators at Notre Dame home basketball games are reminded that smoking in the gymnasium is strictly forbidden. Flagrant violation of this rule at recent games has contributed a severe handicap to the players on the floor.
KRAUSE LEADS IRISH
By John D. Carbine
In a rough and tumble, sensation loaded basketball game which brought a constant torrent of applause from the capacity crowd of 5,500, Notre
Johnnie Jordan
He steadied them.
Dame defeated Marquette Tuesday night, 30 to 28. The bristling Hilltoppers kept the Irish 20 game winning streak in constant jeopardy but, in the final minute of play, George Keogan’s men came through to snatch away the verdict by the margin of a single field goal and thus kept their victory string intact.
The score was Notre Dame 28, Marquette 28 with but 80 seconds of play remaining. Joe Voegele captured a rebound from the Marquette backboard, dribbled down the floor, and passed the ball through the Hilltopper’s defense into Moose Krause. There was not a chance for Big Ed to shoot. Back came the ball to Voegele standing just outside the free throw circle. This time Joe heaved an arching long shot straight for the basket. The ball never touched the rim, and as it swished through the cords, the Irish shot into a 30 to 28 lead.
Play from this point on was furious. Rubado got the tipoff from Ku-kla and tried a long shot. He missed (Continued on Pace 16)
Eleven
Irish Cage Squad Seeks New Victory Mark In Game Against Butler Here Tomorrow
Cagers Take Measure Of Bradley And N.U.
HINKLE’S SQUAD STRONG
By Howard T. Waldron
Basketball, so the experts say, is a game of percentage and it’s impossible to continue a long winning streak because of this factor. On certain nights the ball hits the rim and drops off, rolls around it but won’t go in and the other team can’t miss with anything it throws up at the backboard.
Notre Dame has rolled along for twenty-one consecutive games and Irish fans are speculating on the team that will end this streak. Purdue was given first consideration, but they fell by the wayside. Marquette and Butler were the next choices. Marquette has fallen, but Butler might be the team of the hour against the Notre Dame victory string.
Experience, Skill And Size
With a record of three wins and three losses, Coach Tony Hinkle will bring his Butler Bulldogs to the Irish fieldhouse on Saturday for the first of their annual home and home series. Experience, skill and size are essential factors that Coach Hinkle’s men posses together with a careful drilling in a quick-breaking offense.
Last year, their first in the league, Butler won the Missouri Valley Championship and split even in games with Notre Dame. They won the first contest on the Irish floor by 27-25 score and dropped a nip-and-tuck 41-40 session the last few seconds on their home grounds. The Irish have won eight of twelve games played since 1928, but the alltime record registers ten wins apiece in twenty-five years.
Five veteran lettermen and three reserves have formed the nucleus of the new Bulldog aggregation. They dropped their opener, by one point to an Indiana Central team that had won four games, beat Franklin, Pittsburgh, and Indiana State, but lost close games to Purdue and Wisconsin.
Trouble For Krause?
Captain Ed Krause, Notre Dame’s All-American center, should have his hands full with lanky Gene Dem-mary, who towers 6 foot 7% inches. Demmary made five points on Krause last year before he fouled his way out of the game. He is better than ever this year and waiting for another crack at the Irish captain.
Little Bert Davis, one of the fastest breaking players in collegiate ranks, holds down one forward berth with Frank Reissner, an excellent shot, at the other post. Davis is 5
T iv elv e
Fencing----
The final schedule for the coming season of the fencing team has been recently announced by Mr. Pedro de-Landero, coach of the group. Although several bouts had previously been arranged, they were for the most part tentative. The following dates have been definitely set:
Jan. 27—Chicago, here.
Feb. 9—Michigan State, here.
Feb. 16—Ohio State, here.
Feb. 23—Michigan State at East Lansing:.
Feb. 24—Illinois and Wash. U. at Urbana.
March 3—Purdue at Lafayette.
feet 10 inches tall but looks small beside the rest of his teammates who hit over 6 feet.
Frank Baird, the best dribbler on the team, and Ben Parrish alternate at one guard while Toy Jones, a sophomore sensation who has scored in every game to date, plays the other defensive post. Jones is a rugged lad and a fine defensive player despite his inexperience in fast company.
Despite then* seasonal record, the Butler Bulldogs will more than show their teeth when they play the Irish. This is one game that they want to van because of Notre Dame’s fine record and the great rivalry that has existed in the past. For years both coaches have put out consistent winners. Butler won the National Championship in 1928-29, and a victory adds much to the already enviable record of the winning mentor.
Book Baffles Bill
Student inefficiency had Bill, the accommodating barber, stumped this week. It’s long been a habit of his, on finding books forgotten, in his campus shop by student patrons, to see to the return of the tomes.
But this week he found a volume that carried no clue to its owner. Not this year’s owner, nor last year’s, nor even the owner during the ’31-’32 period had chanced to inscribe his name so much as once.
So Bill’s hands are tied. But he’s keeping the book at the barber shop (Badin hall, west side), and hoping that someone will appear to claim it.
Freshman Track
Candidates for the Freshman track squad began practice in the fieldhouse Wednesday, Jan. 10. The yearlings were directed by Jake Bowers.
Vacations notwithstanding, Notre Dame continued its unbroken string of victories when it traveled to Peoria on December 22, to play Bradley for the second time in twelve years and won 34-27, thereby adding the consecutive scalp to the string, and also avenging somewhat the baseball team’s defeat at the hands of Bradley last spring.
Notre Dame held the lead for the entire game, though it was never on ice. Jordan led the victors in scoring, garnering nine points during the evening, and being eclipsed only by Corbin of Bradley who played his specialty of an overhand hook shot to score ten points for the home team.
Crowe and Ireland were outstanding at guard positions playing a tight and heady game that kept the ball well away from the Notre Dame hoop. Overanxiety at playing in front of the home town crowd, Voegele left the game via the foul route, though not before assisting materially in the victory.
The lineups:
Notre Dame (34)	FG’	FT	FTA PF		Pts.
Peters, rf 				0	1	3	6
Jordan, rf				 4	1	1	2	9
Voegele, If 				 1	3	6	4	5
Ford, If 			 0	0	0	1	0
Krause, c (C) 				 1	6	6	3	8
Crowe, rg 					 0	0	0	0	0
Newbold, rg 		..... 0	0	0	1	0
Ireland, 1g 			 1	4	6	0	6
	—-				—	—■	—
Totals 					10	14	20	14	34
Bradley (27)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Getz, rf 		..... 2	0	2	0	4
Sayles, rf 				 0	1	1	0	1
Harms, If 				 0	0	0	4	0
Cunningham, If 		..... 0	1	2	2	1
Corbin, c 			0	1	4	10
Davis, c 			 2	2	2	1	6
Zimmerman, rg 			 0	1	1	4	1
Handley, 1g 			1	2	4	2	4
	—	—	—	—	—
Totals 			10	7	13	17	27
Referee: Kearns (DePaul). Umpire: Young (Wesleyan).
N. D., 37, Northwestern, 21
Notre Dame’s cagers met and defeated the Northwestern Wildcats at Evanston on Dec. 30 to run their string of wins to 18. Before a capacity crowd of 5,000 Captain Ed Moose Krause gave his Chicago friends an exhibition of basketball that they won’t forget. The big Irish pivot man scored 13 points to lead his team to a 37 to 21 victory. Co-captain “Nellie” Culver was the sparkplug of the Purple attack, scoring four long shots.
After a slow start the Irish pepped up a bit and held a 16 to 11 lead at (Continued on Page 13)
The Schelastic
Practice Opens For Interhall Cage Men
Announce Track Schedule; Irish Thinlies> In Five Appearances At Home Including C.I.C.
Now that the Christmas holidays are over the Interhall athletic teams have turned to the hardwood, and every night one or more teams may be seen diligently going through their plays in preparation for the opening of the school net season in a few weeks.
The department of Physical Education will have charge of the interhall basketball, whereas in former years the Athletic Association has always been in charge of the Interhall leagues. E. R. Handy, instructor in the school, will supervise and name all of the coaches for the hall teams. He has selected all of his young coaches from the Phy-Ed school.
Schedule Out Soon
Practice started for this season on last Sunday. Several of the halls had as many as fifty net aspirants turn out at the first call. Practice will continue from now until time for exams. After the exams are over the games will begin. A schedule for the games will be posted within the next few days.
Two new features have been added in the practice schedule. First: each team is allowed the full use of the whole floor for practice. In the past a big difficulty arose because two teams would try to practice at the same time. The Physical Education department also is introducing a new system of inter - division practice games.
Each team of each division will play two practice games with teams of the other division. The first games will start Sunday. In this way the coaches of the teams will have a better chance to find their outstanding players and it will also give them a better chance of organizing the team.
J
Coaches Are Announced
Mr. Handy has appointed the following students in the Phy-Ed school to act as coaches for the various hall teams. The heavyweight coaches are Gaul, Sorin; Gafney, Corby; Novak, Walsh; McGrath, Badin; Davis, Howard; Cullen, Carroll; Foy, Brownson; Brown, Morrissey; Bonar, Lyons; Kelleher, St. Ed’s; Morrissey, Alumni; C. J. Smith, Dillon, O’Hara, Off7 Campus; and Bowdren, Freshman.
The selected lightweight coaches are Ronzone, Sorin; Underkofler, Corby; Maxwell, Walsh; J. R. Connors, Badin; Carter, Howard; Lynch, Carroll; Giol, Brownson; Pettingill, Morrissey; J. L. Novak, Lyons; O’Brien, St. Ed’s; O’Neill, Alumni; Pillers, Dillon; Rennekamp, Off-Campus; and Palkovic, Freshman.
Equipment —
In explanation of his new policy on the issuing of track equipment, which requires that all sophomores, juniors, and seniors who desire to obtain indoor track gear first obtain his personal sanction, track coach John P. Nicholson this week made the following statement:
“I am more than willing, I am anxious, that every man who is really interested in track receive equipment. But because in the past many upperclassmen applied for equipment in order to use it for handball and other individual sports, it has become necessary to keep a closer check on those applying for suits.
“This rule is in no way intended to keep interested students from turning out for the varsity track squad. Nor will it be enforced that way. Any student, whether experienced or not, is urged to report for the squad, provided he has interest and industry enough to stay out for practice.
“The new policy on equipment has been adopted merely as a precautionary measure to insure having varsity track suits issued only to members of the varsity track squad.”
NORTHWESTERN GAME
(Continued from Page 12)
intermission. Buckets by Krause, Peters, and Ireland at the beginning of the second frame made victory a certainty. Coach George Keogan substituted freely in the latter half of the game and the reserves had a degree of success in penetrating the demoralized Wildcat defense.
The lineups:					
Notre Dame (37)	FG	FT	FTA PF		Pts.
Jordan, rf 			..... 1	0	0	1	2
Voegele, If 		..... 1		4	2	5
Krause, c (C) 		..... 5		5	3	13
Crowe, rg 		.... 1	1	1	0	3
Ireland. Ig 		.... 2	1	1	2	5
Newbold, rg 		.... 0	0	1	0	0
Peters, rf 		,	 2	0	0	2	4
Ford. If 		.... 1	1	1	1	3
Mettler, If 		.... 1	0	0	0	2
Totals 		—.14	9	13	11	37*
Northwestern (21)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Manske, rf 		.... 0	1	o	3	1
Prendergast, If 		._. 0	2	2	2	2
Kopecky, c 		.... 1	1	1	1	3
Culver, rg (C) 		.... 4	1	2	2	9
Kawai, 1g 		.... 0	0	0	1	0
Fisher, c 		.... 2	0	0	1	4
Rosenfeld, If 		.... 0	9	9	1	9
Spoerer, 1g 		.... 0	0	0	0	0
Totals —				 7	7	10	11	21
Referee: Kearns (DePaul). Umpire: Schommer (Chicago).
SQUAD RESUMES PRACTICE
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
Official approval of the 1934 indoor and outdoor track schedule was given by the Athletic Board of Control and the card released for publication last Saturday.
A tempting list of dual meets, as well as the Central Intercollegiate Conference Meet, will be run off in the Notre Dame field house. Marquette, Illinois, and Ohio State will bring strong squads here to face the Irish in tw’o way affairs. The indoor card also includes the annual running of the C. I. C. meet and appearances for the local thinlies in the Butler and Armour Relays.
Marquette Here Feb. 10
The Butler Relays at Indianapolis will bring the outstanding performers of track and field to the state capital. Invitations have been extended to more than 200 schools. Only schools which have an outstanding performer in one or more events have been invited to participate. The Armour Relays, held annually on the Midway in Chicago, will draw the best material in the Middle West.
The Hill toppers from Marquette will inaugurate the indoor season in a dual meet here on Feb. 10. (Prom dates, please copy)! The highlight of this event will be the final appearance of Ralph Metcalfe, sprint sensation, in dual meet competition here.
Illinois, which is to Notre Dame in track what Purdue is to Chicago in football, will appear here on Feb. 24 and will be followed by Ohio State on March 2. The Buckeyes are also on the outdoor card, being met at Columbus on the night of May 4.
State Meet At Lafayette
Two other outdoor dual meets have been carded. Michigan State will proride the opposition here on May 12 while the Irish runners embark for the east to engage Pittsburgh a week later. The Spartans from Lansing, headed by Tom Ottey and a host of other good men, will be out after their second victory from the Irish in as many starts.
The outdoor card will begin with the local thinlies competing in the Kansas Relays at Lawrence on April 21. The state meet, awarded to Purdue, will be held on May 26 and the annual running'of the outdoor Central Intercollegiate Conference-Meet will again occur in Milwaukee, June 1. '
After a two week layoff the entire track squad was back in the fold (Continued on Page 15)
• January 12, 1 9 3 4
Thirteen
Albion, Purdue Fall Before Irish Quint
Notre Dame registered its fifteenth consecutive win at the expense of Albion College on Dec. 15. The final score read 48 to 25. Captain Ed Krause, playing little more than half the game, led the scoring with 13 points. Marty Peters and Fred Rutman tied for second honors with four field goals and a free throw apiece.
After taking a 12 to 3 lead midway in the first half the Irish stepped out and widened the margin until they had compiled a commanding 22 to 10 advantage at halftime. Shortly after the second period got underway Krause made three baskets and Johnnie Jordan added six more points to turn the game into a rout.
The lineups:
Notre Dame (48)	FG	FT FTA	PF Pts.
Voegele, If 			 1	1	3	0	3
Peters, rf 					 4	1 1	2	9
Ford, If 			 2	1 1	0	5
Alberts, If 				1	0	0	0	2
Jordan, rf 			 2	2	3	0	6
Hopkins,' If			1	0	0	0	2
Krause, c (C) 			 6	1	2	0	13
Ireland, 1g 				 0	2	2	2	2
O’Neill, Ig 				 0	0	1	0	0
Crowe, rg 				 2	2	2	0	6
Wade, rg 			 0	0	1	0	0
Totals 			19	10 IG	4	48
Albion (25)	FG	FT FTA	PF Pts.
Smith, If 		o	2	3	3 G
Chapman, rf 			 0	1 1	0	1
Rutman, rf 				 4	1	2	1	9
Berner, c 			 3	1	3	2	7
Gearhart, ]g 		..... 1	0	0	4	2
Schuler, 1g 		..... 0	0	0	1	0
Fisher, rg 				 0	0	0	1	0
Totals 				10	5	9	12	25
Referee: Warren (Chicago). Umpire: Stonebreaker (Wabash).
Notre Dame, 39; Purdue, 28
Before a crowd of 7,000 which jammed the Irish fieldhouse, Notre Dame’s basketball team did what no other Irish quintet has been able to do—they beat Purdue. The score of the game, played on December 19, —was Notre Dame, 39, Purdue 28. Those figures, however, fail to indicate just how close the game was.
Purdue threatened constantly during the second half and time and time again the Boilermakers sifted through the Irish defense with their peculiar fast breaking pivot, dribble and shoot offense. Purdue failed to overtake the Keoganites not beause they failed to work the ball into a scoring position but because the alert Irish hurried their shots and made most of them futile.
It would be impossible to point out an individual star for the Irish. Joe Voegele took the high scoring honors with a total of twelve points.
(Continued on Page 16)
Introducing...
By John D. Porterfield
Having avidly read the closing paragraphs of “Diplomatic Modes of Attack,” we waylaid Joe Voegele on
Iris way to class (Yeh, Princeton, our athletes go to class!) and shot the question:	•
“Where were you on the night of January 6, 1927?”
Never dropping a stitch—stride— Joe mused a space.
“Well, let’s see . . . Oh, yeh, I was on my way to St. Louis that night. Spalding played McBride. We won 24-19.”
AU of which just goes to show. . . . ■ Joe Voegele, playing his third season in the gold and white uniforms of Notre Dame, knows his basketball. It would not be toying with the pure truth to say that Joe was teethed on a basketball; a miniature one, of course, but nevertheless a basketball.
Third Year On N. D. Squad
Spalding Institute of Peoria, Joe’s home town, was the first scene of his hardwoods activities. At Spalding, Joe was chosen All-State forward in his junior and senior years, and in addition in his senior year' received the state tournament cup as the most valuable man to his team. Going from state to national competition, Spalding competed in the Loyola National Catholic Tournament at Chicago and there Joe was chosen AllCatholic forward in his senior year. He played basketball and football
for Spalding too, but his guiding star was basketball.
At Notre Dame, Joe has been a most valued player for three years. Last year he was second only to Krause in points scored, his total falling just short of the two hundred mark. In the Albion game last year Joe alone tied the Albion team with 20 points when he and his teammates downed the gallant outfit, 41-20. This established Joe as record holder for individual scoring honors at Notre Dame.
Points are of value in a basket- . ball game, but as important in getting them is good teamwork. Notre Dame is noted from Army to Arizona for their teamplay, and right in the middle we find Joe Voegele. Back with the guards, up with the forwards or under the basket in a wild scramble it’s a good bet that Voegele will come out with the ball. The cigarette ads. have overused the word, but from the bleacher seats one word strikes our mind watching Joe function, “smooth.” In the famous highhat affair, the vacation Northwestern-Notre Dame game at Evanston, on a free ball it was 3 out of 5 times on the statistic book that Voegele recovered.
Not that he looks for pot stots, but when he is given them he takes them; Joe had the highest average for free throws in last season’s games with a numerical value of .532.
MICHIGAN STATE GAME
(Continued from Page 11)
.fans were all acting like maniacs. On the tip off the ball went to Ireland who passed to Crowe. Leo seeing that Krause was open heaved a long pass to the Moose, who shot for two more points and a well deserved victory.
During the course of the game Buysse, Reck, and Herrick were sent to the showers for having too many personals, while the only Notre Dame offender was big Joe Voegele.
The lineups:
Notre Dame (34)	FG	FT FTA PF			Pts.
Voegele, If 			.... 2	0	0	4	4
Ford, If 		.... 0	0	1	Q	0
Peters, rf 		.... 1	3	4	3	5
Jordan, rf 		.... 1	0	1	2	2
Krause, c (C) 			1	3	3	11
Ireland, Ig 		.... 1	0	1	0	2
Crowe, rg 		.... 3	4	7	0	10
	—	—	—	—	—
Totals 			....13	8	17	15	34
Mich. State (33)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts-.
Vander Roest, If ....	.... 2	3	3	2	7
Van Fassen, rf 		.... 2	3	5	2	7
Buysse, c 			...	9	1	9	4	
Reck, Ig		0	2	2	4	2
Herrick, rg 		.... 3	2	2	4	8
Patchett, rg 			.... 2	0	o	o	4
					
Totals 			....11	11	14	16	33
Referee: Lane (Cincinnati). Umpire: Reese (Denison).
Fourteen
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
TWENTY-ONE	.
Tuesday’s 30-28 victory over Marquette not only boosted the' Coach George Keogan’s Irish cage squad into undisputed possession of the longest modern Notre Dame winning streak, but it put the fast moving net men in a position to set an all time Notre Dame high if they can get by Butler tomorrow night.
Back in thel908-09 season the Notre Dame squad, coached by Bertram G. Maris, and captained by Raymond J. Scanlon of Syracuse, N. Y., bowled over* 21 opponents in a row between December 23rd and February 9th. During that season, which started December 2nd and ended February 27th, the Irish played 39 games, winning 32 and losing seven.
The long winning streak was launched with a 49-22 victory over Fairfield on the night of the 23rd, and eight days later, on New Year’s Eve, the Irish won their seventh straight. Included in that burst of wins were two games played on the 29th against Nashville A. C. and Birmingham A. C. as the Notre Dame squad swung through the South.
Opening the New Year, the Irish captured one victory on January 1st, two on the second, and one on the fifth, before knocking off for a ten-day rest with eleven straight triumphs already chalked up.
Playing intermittently, they ran the string to 16 before the month of January closed. Another spurt brought the final group of five triumphs in the first nine days of February. And on the 10th the crepe went up on the locker room door.
Tackling the Buffalo Germans that day the Irish went under, 34-22. The next day they came back for more and got it, 31-18, from the same club. And on the 12th, the third straight loss went into the books, 2625 at the hands of the Syracuse Pastime A. C.
On the next day, February 13, 1909, the winning habit was resumed as Cornell was beaten 32-13. Three more victories followed on the 15th, 16th, and 17th, and the eastern swing finished with the Irish possessing a record of 25 wins in 28 starts, and a mark of 29 out of 34 since their season had opened.
Two more defeats, by Tiffin and the Detroit A. C., and a group of thre wins, over Miami, Armour, and Wabash, completed the card. 39 games in 88 days — one every two and one-fourth days — and 32 of them victories. Rather a busy winter.
TRACK SCHEDULE
(Continued from Page 13)
when practice resumed late last week. Coach John P. Nicholson, in commenting on the recently released schedule, stated that some of the best track squads in the country were included. He restated the fact that his team this year would be a good team, a vast improvement over the 1933 edition of thinlies. Practice has been light during the past week but starting Monday things will be underway with full blast.
The schedule:
INDOOR
Feb. 10—Marquette, here.
Feb. 24—Illinois, here.
Mar. 2—Ohio State, here.
Mar. 9, 10—C. I. C. meet, here.
Mar. 17—Armour Relays at Chicago.
Mar. 24—Butler Relays at Indianapolis.
OUTDOOR
April 21—Kansas Relays at Lawrence.
May 4—Ohio State at Columbus (Night meet) May 12—Michigan State, here.
May 19—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
May 26—Indiana State Meet at Lafayette. June 1—C. I. C. Meet at Milwaukee.
June 15-16—Nat. Colleg. Meet at Los Angeles.
Notre Dame Priests Attend Catholic Federation Forum
An alumni forum of the midwestern section of the Catholic Alumni Federation was sponsored by the Notre Dame club of Chicago at the University club there, December 19.
The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., the Reverend William A. Bolger, C.S.C., Dean James E. McCarthy, and Dean Thomas Konop were the University faculty members included on the program. James E. Armstrong, Notre Dame alumni secretary, served as chairman at the sessions.
The central theme of the forum was “What is Social Justice? How May It Be Attained in This Country?”
French Club to Elect New Officers At Monday Meeting
President George Menard of the French club announces that the next regular meeting of the group will be held in the Carroll Rec room at 7:45 p. m., Monday, January 15. Elections of officers for the second semester will be held at the meeting.
Hoyer Speaks in South Bend
Professor Raymond Hoyer, head of the Department of Boy Guidance, spoke to the Social Workers’ Discussion Group on the effect of proper play on child character development, at the Central Y. W. C. A., Monday night, January 8.
Found
A suit coat closely resembling the one taken from the train at Buffalo on January 3. These coats were evidently exchanged by mistake. The owner of the missing coat may have his property if he calls on Bill Ca-sazza in Alumni Hall.
Wilson at Loyola
Alex Wilson, ’33, Notre Dame track captain for 1932, has returned to Loyola university in Chicago to resume his duties as varsity track coach and instructor in the physical education department.
Good Cards make the game more interesting
.	Peau-Doux
i'	(Po-Do)
j	CARDS
W 29c L 55c
! Here are cards that everyone enjoys playing with! Fine qual-: ity linen-finish stock, well sea-■ soned for ‘snap’ and durability. ' Beautiful multi-color modern-1 istic backs.
li ___________________ I'
h	Centaur
| Playing Cards » 19c '	55c
b	Old Fashioned
I RUFFMADE r Chocolate Creams
ji 33c Pound
jj Made in our own spotless candy kitchens by expert candy cooks.
I> Nothing is used but the finest I' ingredients—and each candy is l! hand-dipped in the most deli-i cious chocolate you ever tasted, j Your first taste will prove how i delicious really good, fresh candy can be. Take some home
I; tonight.
! Walgreen i DRUG STORE
208 N. MICHIGAN ST.
- L. Newman, Mgr.
January 12, 1 9 3 4
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By Nick Connor
During a recent broadcast PAT O’BRIEN of Hollywood, told the radio world that he once played football with Marquette against Notre Dame'. . . CHARLEY HORNBOSTEL of Indiana U. defeated GENE VENZKE of Pennsylvania in the recent K. of C. games by 10 yards . . . Do you know that PUEBLO JIM FLYNN was the first and last and onlv man that ever scored a knockout' over JACK DEMPSEY? ... DR. J. F. DONAHUE, team physician of W. and J., has not missed a game of the Presidents in the last 20 years . . . ERWIN RUDOLPH, world’s champion pocket billiard champ, started out in life to be a concert violinist . . . The post season playoff between the CHICAGO BEARS and the NEW YORK GIANTS drew $21,-138.52-less the government tax . . . Leo Crowe’s young brother, Mike, is the leading scorer of North Central high school basketball conference with 46 points. Mike attends Jeff of Lafayette . . . HARVARD’S football team used 134 footballs this season. They were valued at $1,000.’
PETE BARRY, veteran of the famous old New York Celtic basketball team, is now 40 years old, but he still plays the game. During some 22 years he has participated in more than 2,500 games . . . MEL OTT of the Giants led the National League in 1932 and 1933 in getting the most bases on balls. Last season he walked 75 times . . . Prizefighters in Australia have a union. Recently a group of boxers went on a strike and walked out on the promoter because he signed a mauler who was not a member . . . Nine years ago CONNIE MACK paid $150,000 for LEFTY GROVE and MICKEY COCHRANE and won three championships and a couple of world series with them. Then he sold the pair for $225,000. Not bad, eh? ... A movie which will be called “Derby Day,” said to have been inspired by the late TOD SLOAN, will soon go into production . . . PAUL PARDONNER, Purdue’s quarterback for the past three years, will probably be the freshman coach at the Lafayette school next year.
JOE KURTH, playing with the Green Bay Packers, was the lightest tackle in pro football last year . . . Phillip’s U. has a better center on the basketball team than last year, although it is the same individual. “SLIM” GREEN is an inch and a half taller now pushing the measuring rod to 6 feet 5^4 inch. He weighs
Sixteen
208 pounds . . . CLIFF MONTGOMERY, the Columbia hero, was given a screen test while in Hollywood. Who knows maybe he will be the next heart breaker of the flickers? . . . AARON ROSENBERG, Southern California’s All-American guard, will serve as an assistant movie director in Hollywood as soon as the present school term is over . . . Princeton will again meet Cornell on the gridiron during the 1934 season . . . HUNK ANDERSON intends to start spring practice at North Carolina State U. about Jan. 15th.
MARQUETTE GAME
(Continued from Page 11)
but Morstadt recovered under the basket and failed to convert a follow up attempt. Peters finally grabbed the ball, and the Irish succeeded in holding it until the final gun sounded.
Marquette was one of the best teams to invade the Irish court for a number of years. Their follow through plays in which a guard would pass the ball through the Notre Dame defense to a forward, and then rush in to take a return pass for a step shot were perfectly timed and failed to produce more points only because the in rushing player would miss the shot.
The Irish played their best basketball of the season. Their passes, especially those of Jordan, were fast and accurate. While Marquette frequently penetrated the Irish defense, the Hilltoppers, once through, were forced to sacrifice accuracy for speed in making their shots and as a result, a large percentage of them were futile. Captain Krause led the scoring with five field goals and a charity toss. Joe Voegele scored nine points and his clever guarding was a constant menace to the Marquette players. Johnnie Jordan, who entered the game with the Irish trailing, steadied the Keogan machine with his brilliant floor work.
The game was close all of the way. The score was deadlocked six times, and the lead changed hands on five occasions. At no time during the game did more than four* points separate the two quintets.
A Marquette play with Rubado doing the scoring worked perfectly on the opening tipoff and the Hilltoppers shot into a 2-0 lead with the game hardly five seconds old. A basket by Peters and three free throws by Voegele gave the Irish a 5-2 lead. Krause added another two points, but baskets by Morstadt and Rubado and two free throws by Gorychka and Mullen gave the Hilltoppers a 8-7 advantage half way through the period.
The lead zigzagged back and forth with Notre Dame holding a 19-18 advantage at the half.
The score was tied at 21, 23, 26, and 28 all in the second half. Voe-gelc’s basket with 80 seconds of play remaining shot the Irish into the lead which Marquette could not overcome.
The score:
Notre Dame (30)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Peters. If 			 2	0	0	9	4
Jordan. If 			1	1	1	1	3
Voegele, rf 			 3	3	5	1	9
Alberts, rf			 0	0	0	o	0
		1	9		11
Ireland. 1g 			 0	1	1	3	1
Crowe, rg 			 0	0	2	9	0
Allen, rg 			1	0	0	0	9
	——	—	—	——	—
Totals 			12	6	11	12	30
Marquette (28)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Gorychka, If 			 1		4	9	9
-Morstadt, rf 			 4	1	9	9	9
-Rasmusen, rf 			 0	0	0	o	0
Kukla, c 			 0	2	2	o	9
		0	0	9	6
	9	9	3	9	6
-Blask, rg 				 0	0	0	0	0
Scott, rg 	.			 0	0	0	o	0
	—	— ■ —	—	—	—
Totals 			10	8	11	11	2S
PURDUE GAME (Continued from Page 14)
Marty Peters came through at critical moments with points which helped put the game on ice for the Irish. Ed Krause was invaluable under the baskets and chalked up ten points. Leo Crowe not only played a great defensive game but also scored three baskets on beautiful long shots.
Notre Dame scored first when Voegele tipped in a follow up shot but halfway through the first period the score was tied at 10-10. Here the Irish forged ahead while brilliant guarding kept the Purdue score down. The Irish led 20 to 11 at half time. During the second half, Purdue kept pace with Notre Dame but failed to cut down the Irish lead.
The score:
Notre Dame (39)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Voegele, If 					2	4	9	12
Jordan, rf 				 0	1	1	3	1
Peters, rf 		.— 1	3	4	2	5
Krause, c 			-4	s	9	10
Ireland, 1g 			 1	0	3	4	9
Ford, 1g 		— 0	0	0	1	0
Crowe, rg 			3	3	3	9
						
Totals 				.—13	13	23	17	39
Purdue (28)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Eddy, If 			 1	3	3	9	5
Cottom, rf 				 0	1	1	0	1
Lesslef, rf 				 1	1	3	•0	
Harmon, rf 			 0	0	1	0	0
Dornte, rf 		.— 0	1	2	0	1
W. Fehring, c 		.— 0	0	2	4	0
Elliot, c 					 1	1	1	o	
Lowery, 1g 			— 6	1	4	3	13
Moore, rg 			— 0	0	0	4	0
Shaver, rg 		...... 1	0	0	3	9
Meade, rg 		.— 0	0	2	0	0
F. Fehring, rg 		...... 0	0	0	1	0
	—	—	—	—	—
Totals 		......10	8	19	17	2S
The Scholastic
Phone ;O®'ce 4-5661 e Residence 3-4041	X-RAY
DR. E. S. LUCAS DENTIST	
702 J. M. S. Building	South Bend
Opposite Oliver Hotel	Indiana
Established 30 Years
LEMDNTREES
OPTOMETRISTS 222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
•
Patients all over the world.
Now If Your Eyes
Require Glasses
they will be properly prescribed, correct in styling to be inconspicuous — yet enriching your personal appearance. Always painstaking craftsmanship — regardless of the amount you prefer to expend, and unvarying quality of materials so you may find Better Vision with Greater Comfort.
•	REASONABLE
•	DEPENDABLE
•	PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES
DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
Opera Broadcasts Hailed by Students
New Saturday Radio Programs from “Metropolitan” Held Boon to Undergraduates.
The vast American college student body will be better enabled to understand and appreciate the works of the great French, German and Italian operatic composers and singers as the result of the weekly broadcasts from the stage of the Metropolitan Opera House in New York which are heard over both nationwide networks of the National Broadcasting Company each Saturday afternoon during the winter.
Seventy-seven key radio stations in all parts of the country make it possible for thousands of undergraduates to discuss the respective merits of the world’s foremost operatic figures, with a greater degree of familiarity.
In addition to influencing the academic group, it is generally conceded that the series will have a marked cultural effect upon the country at large and raise the status of Americans as a music-loving nation to a plane higher than ever heretofore.
The series is regarded as a definite boon to those taking music and music appreciation course at the various colleges and universities since it will acquaint them with the voices, rarely heard, of more than a score of the leading internationally famous artists associated with the Metropolitan Opera Company including Lily Pons, Nino Martini and Rosa Ponselle.
The first of the series, .“Hansel and Gretel,” was broadcast on Christmas Day, and others are to be heard on the thirteen succeeding Saturday afternoons thereafter, the duration of the New York opera season. Each opera is broadcast in its entirety direct from the stage of the Metropolitan Opera House during the regular Saturday matinee performance. Usually about two and one-half hours of radio are required for the complete opera. Throughout the broadcast explanatory remarks are contributed at intervals by Milton J. Cross and John B. Kennedy, of the National Broadcasting Company, who speak from a strategic point in the Opera House.
Is Your
A Little Bilious?
Now is the time to have Dr. Rockwell look over that Radio of yours—he’ll give it a complete physical (and audio) examination without charge. Perhaps it only needs a bit of tonic (or a tube or condenser) to put it in first class shape again, at slight cost.
There are big things on the air these days and nights. Faulty reception, distorted tone, lack of power — these things will cheat you of the many pleasures from out your loudspeaker.
Incidentally, our radio hospital is the most complete in Northern Indiana. Come in and inspect our equipment while we inspect your Radio.
Consultation Hours:
12:30 m. to 1 p. m.
6:30 p. m. to 7 p. m.
Harvey P.
Rockwell
The Radio Doctor
155 Alumni Hall
January 12. 1 9 3 4
Seventeen
Modern Radio Tubes Make Possible
Fine Entertainment in the Home
By Harvey P, Rockwell, Jr.
Recently Owen D. Young expressed his great surprise that the radio industry had become such an integral part of our daily lives. Probably the greatest reason for this is because of the efforts of Dr. Lee DeForrest. It is, of course, hardly fair to give the credit to any one man. but the more recent developments have come about as a result of his auction bulb. Probably, there could have been a small communication business, principally ship to shore, but it is the radio tube which has made possible voice communication, and, therefore, the millions of dollars worth of entertainment for the home.
In 19 0 4, while associate editor of the Western Electrician, De Forrest noticed a gas burner mantle flickered every time he operated a large spark coil. This might be the solution, he thought, to the much - needed detector, and could replace the old style crystal. Hence, a bunsen burner was used to heat two electrodes the whole serving to detect incoming w a v e s. However, since the principal
use for radio at the time was on shipboard, and since no gas was available there, DeForrest decided to heat the element by electricity. The difficulty of burning up the heater too quickly was partially overcome by adding a glass envelope from which the air was exhausted.
nter Leaves
This in itself was a distinct improvement over the crystal, but his greater glory came after he added the grid to the original tube. This grid-shaped wire enabled the flow of electrons, which boiled off the filament, to be controlled as they travelled toward the plate.
Having the tubes manufactured was quite a difficult task, for large lamp companies were too busy to experiment on anything new. Today, several have turned to making radio tubes, since they now see the value of the industry. A producer of miniature electric lights, by the name of
McCandless, was finally induced to make vacuum tubes. The tube was then supplied in an individual cabinet which housed the control switches and batteries.
The early tubes used tantalum filament with two loops, so formed that when one burned out the other could be put in service. The tubes were, however, very delicate and quite unstable.
At first, of course these tubes were used only in the laboratory, then, the American Telephone and Telegraph Compan.v saw their advantage, and in 1915 the first transcontinental telephone conversation took place by means of DeForrest’s tubes. Several years later the first broadcasting station, KDKA, was put in service, and then development became more rapid. Today finds over one hundred different tubes on the market, all developed ‘from DeForrest’s original. Some tubes actually enclose two units in one glass envelope.
When the tube has passed through the many processes in its construction, accurate instruments are used to indicate a short circuit, open circuit, as well as plate current, cathode activity’, gas, or leakage. The better the tube used in a radio, the closer is the tolerance in each of these tests.
The importance of the accuracy of the tube may be shown by several examples. In testing a man’s tubes, we told him the filament of the rectifier tube was badly burnt, and the tube should be replaced. Since the
(Continued on Page 20 >
Dr. E. J. Cain Dr. H. H. Rogers
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
213 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective
Residence Phone 4-6354	Shoes
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist Foot Ailments
432-34 Associates Bld?. South Bend, Ind.
Freshmen!
Sophomores!
Bagby, the “Dome’s” official photographers, will now make your portrait, too.
•
Same styles, same prices, same careful personality portraits that pleased hundreds of upperclassmen this year.
•
Drop into our studio or phone 4-8941 for an appointment.
BAGBY’S
110 W. Colfax Ave.
Twenty
Notre Dame Men Aid Local Roosevelt Party
Father John Cavanaugh, beloved former president of the University, has been invited to serve as a member of the South Bend general civic committee that is sponsoring the local Birthday Ball for the President, it was announced yesterday. South Bend is one of five thousand cities throughout the United States that are cooperating with a national committee in an observance of the fifty-second birthday of President Roosevelt, Tuesday, January 30th. The proceeds of this national event will be presented to the President to endow the Warm Springs Foundation, so that it may carry on its nationwide work for the relief of sufferers from infantile paralysis.
Impetus for the start of South Bend’s Roosevelt Birthday Party and Dance came from the Young Men’s Democratic Club of St. Joseph County, which numbers many Notre Dame men as members. Correspondence with the chairman of the national committee which is composed of fifty prominent Americans, including Patrick Cardinal Hayes, General Pershing, Owen D. Young, and Henry Ford, suggest that a city chairman be appointed by the national chairman to coordinate the civic participation with the sponsorship of the local club. John F. Stoeckley, graduate manager of publications, has accepted an appointment as general chairman for South Bend from Henry L. Doherty, national chairman.
The affair will be nonpartisan in nature and prominent South Bend citizens, regardless of party affiliations, have signified theii* willingness to serve on the various civic committees. Other Notre Dame men who are co-operating in this charity affair include Professor Clarence Manion, Professor William Coyne, Professor Louis Buckley, Edward OMalley, Thomas LaLonde, and Notre Dame members of the club.
An effort will be made to dispose of 600 tickets for the affair to be held at the Palais Royale, January 30. Of this number 300 will go to patrons and patronesses. The other 300 will be sold to the general public.
A feature of the evening will be the rebroadcast at the ballroom of the address of President Roosevelt over a nation-wide hook-up of both the National and Columbia broadcasting systems. This will be but a part of an extensive Birthday radio program arranged for listeners-in at home between 10:15 p. m. and 11:15 p. m., Central Standard time.
Modern Radio Tubes Make Possible Fine Entertainment
(Continued from Pa?e 19)
set would operate, however, he did not feel this was necessary. About a month later he came back saying the set would not work. Inspection showed that the filament of this tube had broken and touched the plate, thus shorting the power transformer. The expense of repair was nine times the cost of the tube, and could easily have been avoided by replacing the tube.
Another individual, when told he needed a new output tube, chose to buy* a less expensive tube rather than a good one, and inside of two months the set failed to play. The reason was that by careless manufacture, the tube drew excessive current and burned up the plate supply resistor. Again, a few pennies saved in buying a poor tube resulted in dollars’ loss later on.
Several have asked why the silver appears on the inside of the tube. The reason is that when the air is exhausted from the tube, some still remains which cannot be pumped out. This is burned out by making it combine with barium and mangnesium, which is placed in a small cup inside of the tube. The oxide of these metals deposits on the glass giving a mirror-like appearance. Many people question the fact that a tube will not work even though a tube appears to light. The reason here is that the tube has used up all its emitting surface and can no longer perform the function of amplification.
These are only a few of the sidelights which can be considered in the radio tube industry. It is safe to say, however, that the vacuum tube is the heart of the radio.
Burke’s Eye Service
Assures you properly FITTED GLASSES EYES EXAMINED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY Optometrists ft Manufacturing Opticians
228 S. Michigan St. Established 1900
The Scholastic
What Arithmetic Applies to the Youth Market?
HERE is a square below that graphically pictures the Youth market in terms of 122,693,391 population of these United States—this is a grand total of youth and aged. If you buy magazine advertising to reach youth on this basis your brain reels at the cost:
First, the square must be shrunk to the total number of adolescents near the buying age—in other words the boys and girls attending the colleges and universities of the country—803,000 students in 936 colleges:
Then shrink it again to the 320,000 students concentrated in 38 of the largest colleges in the country, so that you can take advantage of centralized distribution and ready turn-over—like this:
Finally shrink your square once more to represent a market that is compact, respon
sive and cosmopolitan—a university whose undergraduates and alumni come from every section of the nation. Seek out men, students tho’ they be, who have ample current money to spend, like this:
It is the little square, advertisers, and merchandisers, that we ask you to ponder over. Here is the successful way to enter the Youth market------:a bull’s-eye at which you may direct the guns of a selling campaign to youth—which will be served.
It does not represent all the business, of course, but it does represent the cream of it.
May we present your story to the men of Notre Dame? As for results—ask those leading merchandisers, the cigarette manufacturers of America, the bus lines, General Foods, clothing manufacturers, and a score more whose belief in our pages causes them to continue telling their story, here, week after week, month after month, year after year.
May we send you rate-cards, and other essential data?
—The Publishers.
BOARD OF PUBLICATIONS
At The University
»
Notre Dame, Indiana