Disce qnasi semper victurus : vive quasi eras moriturtis.
Vol. XVII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 8, 1S84.
No. 26.
Sonnet.*
Eliot, this is pitiful! The brave, Adventurous spirit drenched in liquid fire! Haggard and quivering, how should he aspire
To pace the heights of poesy! How lave In purple blue of heaven, or roseate wave, Aurora-loved, his wings of sweet desire! The pall hangs o’er fair youth, while memory dire— Grief melodious—wails above the grave.
This is that morbid beauty which has caught The admiring sorrow of the world. You hear The cry, the spirit’s song of pain: not fear
Is there, nor hope; but agony distraught,
Yet beautiful. E’en so, through maddening thought And pain of loss, the Poet doth appear! H.
* Written on receiving from a friend a copy of “ The Life and Poems of Edgar Allan Poe.” Poe is reckoned by some critics as the greatest of American poets. Had he been master of himself, especially had he not yielded to the demon of intemperance, he might, perhaps, have been our greatest poet. As it is, the true sunlight of poetry often bursts through the clouds of passion, sin and suffering in which his morbid muse is almost constantly enveloped. In some of his verses Poe has playfully concealed the names of his friends in the lines of the poem by an acrostic of his own invention, formed by taking the first letter of the name for the first letter of the first line of the poem; the second letter of the name for the second letter of the second line of the poem, and so on. The writer of the foregoing lines has indulged in a like fanev.
Parliamentary Practice *
THE CHIEF RULES GOVERNING PROCEEDINGS IN DELIBERATIVE ASSEMBLIES.
All deliberative assemblies recognize the right of the majority to govern. But this right is qualified by the rule that opportunity for discussion must be allowed. The organization of a meeting is begun by calling it to order. A popular assemblage may be called to order by any person present. But when a meeting is incidental to the exercise of constitutional rights, greater formality is required. This remark is particularly applicable to Congress, a State Legislature, a convention, and the like. It
* Substance of a Lecture delivered by Prof. W. Hoyne before the Literary Societies of the University.
, applies also to meetings that occur regularly under ! the provisions of a charter or by-laws, as in the : case of municipal corporations or joint stock com; panics. The persons authorized to call such bodies ! to order and preside are usually designated by the । constitution, charter or by-laws.
• After a popular assembly has been called to : order, a motion is usually made that some one : oresent act as chairman. If it be carried, the person named takes the chair. Thereafter a sec-
' retary is nominated and elected. For popular gatherings, political meetings, etc., this is generally
; deemed a sufficient organization. But for meet> ings of special, importance, conventions, and the I like, it merely completes what is known as the | temporary organization. Under such an organiz-! ation no general business can be transacted. At! tention should be restricted to preliminary work, I such as reading the call for the meeting, taking a ' | list of the members, and resolving to proceed to • permanent organization. To effect these obj'ects, committees on credentials and permanent organization are commonly chosen.
I A motion must be seconded, though it is not essential that a nomination should be thus formally supported. But if two or more persons be nominated for the same office, they stand upon an equal footing, without reference to the order of nomination. Therefore, such nominations should be submitted at the same time to vote, the choice being determined by ballot, division, or roll-call.
The president or chairman is the chief officer of the meeting. It is his duty to preserve order, direct business, put questions, announce votes, decide points of order, and maintain the dignity of the body over which he presides. The secretary has specific duties, many of which are incidental to those of the president. It devolves upon him to keep the minutes, or record the transactions of the meeting. He enters upon his j’ournal minutes of all the proceedings, though he may omit unseconded motions and ineffectual appeals,'if there be no special rules to the contrary. But in no case should he introduce into the minutes any expression of his own views as to whether certain speeches are eloquent or pertinent, or whether particular reports are wise or otherwise; nor may he compliment the president or any member in respect to what is said or done. The minutes may be corrected or changed by the assembly; inasmuch as the secretary merely writes for the mem
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
bers, actino- as their servant; though he takes most of his orders from the presrdent. It is his duty also, in certain cases, to call the roll, read papers, and assist the president in various wavs. Whenever the purposes of the assembly so require, one or more vice-presidents, an additional secretary, a treasurer, sergeant-at-arms, censor, etc., arc likewise selected.
Assemblies are so differently constituted that parliamentary rules and usages exhibit great variance. The'most marked differences in this respect appear between an assembly comprising a single body or house and one composed of two houses. • Under the forme’’ head come a convention to adopt or revise the constitution of a State, a city council, a board of county commissioners, a school board, etc., not to mention political committees, eleemosynary corporations, literary, philosophical and scientific associations, temperance societies, and the like. All special rules for the guidance of the officers and members of such organizations are contained in their charters or by-laws.
A State Legislature, like Congress, is composed .of two houses—the Senate and House of Representatives. The usual order of business in both may be outlined as consisting- in the call to order; prayer; reading and disposing of the minutes; reading communications; announcing bills, joint resolutions, messages, etc., from the other house; presenting petitions, bills, reports, and the like; attending to unfinished business; special orders; general orders, etc. Standing committees are appointed to facilitate the transaction of business. The Vice-President is presiding officer of the Senate, while the Speaker, who is elected by the majority of his .associates, presides in the House of Representatives.' In like manner, the, LieutenantGovernor of a State is presiding officer of the State Senate, while the Speaker, chosen by his fellow-Representatives, presides in the House. The Senate and House constitute the Legislature or General Assembly. It devolves upon the Speaker to select the House committees, and hence his position is a very important one. He may, in fact, so form the committees as measurably to influence leg--islation all through his term of office. The office of clerk of the blouse corresponds in rank, power and duties to that of Secretary of the Senate.
A motion may be defined as a proposition made in a deliberative assembly. It is the first step toward action. Unless brief and of a simple or routine nature, it must be in writing, providing any member so requires. If foreign to the purposes of the assembly, it must be ruled out of order. To second a motion signifies to support it. When a motion 'has been made, any member may rise in his place, and, on being recogniged by the chair, express his purpose to support the measure by saying, he seconds it. If it receive no second, it is dropped and treated as though it had never been made. But when seconded, the president so announces, and repeats it or has it read by the secretary. He then asks what is the pleasure of the assembly in the. premises. Having been stated, the motion is in possession- of the assembly and subject to its action.
When a main or chief motion has been stated? subsidiary’ motions may follow. It may, however, be postponed or subjected to consideration under special rules; and motions calculated to produce that effect may- be called declinatory motions. A motion to amend may’ be made, or even a motion to amend the amendment; and, naturally enough, motions of that class are called amendatory. Motions to commit, to'defer definitely, and to lay’ upon the table, are designed to postpone immediate action, and to them the name dilatory is applicable. Motions to fill blanks with names, numbers, amounts, etc., may be styled complemental. Incidental motions are those made to suspend rules, divide resolutions, withdraw motions, read papers, dispose of questions of order, and the like. Motions in reference to voting, as the call for the yeas and nays, the motion to reconsider, that for the previous question, etc., are commonly styled motions relative to voting.
All these motions may be regaided as subordinate or subsidiary to the main or original motion. Should it be desired to object to entertaining a main motion, the objection should be made before debate and prior .to the making of any motion of the subsidiary’ class. A motion indefinitely postponed is practically’ dropped altogether. It cannot be called up again except as new business. A motion to postpone indefinitely is not amendable. A main or chief motion is amendable as soon as it has been stated bv the president. An amendatory’ motion yields to a dilatory’ or incidental one, a main one of the privileged class, or one ordering the vote. The amendatory’ motion is intended to correct or befriend the antecedent proposition and render it worthier of adoption. Sometimes, however, its use is greatly’ perverted.
Amendments arc made by addition, elimination and substitution. Great care should be exercised in preparing an addition, inasmuch as after its adoption it can be reached by’ nothingshort of a motion to reconsider. . An amendment by7 addition consists.in amotion to amend a resolution or. bill by inserting words, phrases, sentences or-sections, or to complete it by supplying what the mover believes to be wanting-. Elimination consists in a motion to amend a resolu-. tion by striking some part of it out, or to improve it by removing superfluous, improper or objectionable matter. Substitution' signifies to strike out some part of a pending proposition and insert in its place something more consonant with the views of the assembly. Whenever the proposed amendment shows want of congruity with the main motion, it should be ruled out of order on the ground of irrelevancy. A resolution is introduced by the word “ Resolved,” while “ Be it enacted ” is the proper introductory’ term of a hill. The body' of -a motion or bill, or all that succeeds the introductory’ term, may’ be stricken out, new matter being substituted, providing such new matter is an amendment and germane to the subject. Besides, the entire motion or bill may be retained and new matter’added, providing .it be congruous. To-the same extent" it is permissible’'to strike out-matter
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,.
without making any addition or substitution whatever. But it is not permissible so to use the word “ not” in an amendment as to put the negative or the main motion to vote in advance of the affirmative. The inhibition, however, does not extend to cases where the negative word may he employed without destroying the affirmative character of the motion. If an amendatory motion be pertinent, it will ordinarily be received by the chair, even though its ultimate object be to render the main motion improper or absurd. But if the amendment itself be frivolous or ridiculous, in the opinion of the president, it should be ruled out of order; for in such a case it would not be within the range of “ privileged abuses.”
Whenever it appears necessary, an amendment to an amendment may be made, but that is the limit, and further it is not permissible to go. A motion to amend an amendment supersedes the consideration of everything before it and demands immediate action. Its consideration is. governed by the rules applying to amendments. When submitted to vote, the presiding officer, or the secretary at his instance, should state the main motion, the amendment, and the effect of the second amendment upon the whole. Should it be lost, it would be removed from further consideration, and another amendment to the amendment could be entertained in lieu of it. If carried, it ’becomes merged with the first amendment, leaving but one for consideration. Hence another motion to amend that amendment would not be out of order. Within the limitations indicated, the rule is of indefinite application.
When a resolution is defective in any material particular, it may be well to refer it to a committee . for revision. The effect of a motion to that end is to supersede and put in abeyance the main proposition, and debate turns upon the question of commitment. The effect of commitment is to remove the main proposition from consideration till the committee reports. But if the motion be lost the main proposition resumes its place. Where there is danger thatan original motion will be indefinitely postponed and lost on account of defects, its friends usually seek to have it referred to a committee. If reported in proper form by such committee, little or no ground may exist for the former objections to it, and it may be adopted.
Where there are standing committees, as in Congress and State Legislatures, motions relating to the business of which they respectively have charge are referred to the appropriate committees. But if there be no regular committee to which reference can be had, the motion may provide for the creation of one. In such a case it may be in the form, “Mr. President, I move that the resolution be referred to a committee of — persons, to be appointed by the chair;” or, if it be preferred, “to be selected by the assembly; ”,orto consist of A., B.;'C.” ’The adoption of such a motion makes it obligatory to appoint the committee. The person who makes the motion is generally named first in the order of appointment, and this entitles him to the chairmanship of the committee. The time for
reporting the resolution may also be specified, as “Mr. President, I move that the resolution be referred to a committee of — persons, to be appointed by---------, which shall report on or before -------------------.” When reported by' the committee, the resolution resumes its former place and rank in the consideration of the assembly. Themotion to refer must yield to motions to lay on the table and to defer definitely; but to it must yield motions amendatory7 of the main question and to postpone indefinitely. When themotion to table or to defer definitely is pending, it would not be in order to move that the question be referred to a committee.
If a member object to entertaining a resolution, the objection, when not at once fatal to the proposition, must be made and voted upon without debate as soon as the motion has been stated. A motion to commit cannot be postponed indefinitely, as such a postponement looks to the future consideration of the question. Nor can it be postponed definitely, for iris more direct to vote upon the question of reference than upon that to postpone to another time. Nor can it be laid upon the table, since to do this would accomplish no more than to arrest debate and cut off the right to amend—all of which results can be accomplished by' ordering an immediate vote on the motion to refer. In short, the motion to commit is not susceptible of qualification by anv of the declinatory7 or dilatory7 motions. It is, however, amendable. The amendments must relate to the organization, nature and power of the committee, or to the substitution of one committee for another, or to the instructions to be followed by such committee in dealing with the question. The motion to commit is debatable. In fact, it may be laid down as a rule that all amendable motions are debatable. Into the necessary latitude of commitment a few abuses have crept. ! An instance is supplied by the motion to commit at a time and very7 near the close of the session. This, customarily defeats the measure, as it is practically impossible for the committee to report it in time for action by the assembly7 before adjournment.
A motion to postpone to a definite time is in order when none of superior rank is before the assembly. In making this motion a member may*say, “ Mr. President, I move that the question be postponed till Thursday, at 2 o’clock p. m.” Or he may-say, “ I move that the question be postponed and made the special order for to-morrow, at 10 o’clock a. m.” The form of the motion is not a matter of special importance, though it is essential that the postponement be to a time certain. In the order of consideration it takes precedence of the .main question. It supersedes likewise a pending motion to’ postpone indefinitely, to amend or to commit; for it clearly provides for. the consideration of the main proposition by the assembly7 at some fixed time in the future. It may- be amended, as in ordering the vote, or postponing action to some other stated time.
If the members do not think it advisable to discuss a question, or think it their duty7 to make way7 for urgent business, or feel actuated by any ' other motives, they may7 take summary means to
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
get rid of the main motion or question by moving to lay it on the table. This demands immediate attention. It arrests all discussion, and it must at once be put to vote, not being debatable. If it be lost, the main question again presents itself for consideration and discussion. If carried, it takes the main question with it to the table, and there it lies for a time indefinite, or until the assembly think fit to take it up again, a motion to that end • being made. The ordinary motions for tabling main questions and resuming the consideration of them are: “Mr. President, “I move to lay the question on the table;” and Mr. President, I move to take from the table the question on the resolution,” specifically indicating the resolution meant. To table a motion often compasses its defeat. But not so where it is “ tabled subject to call.” In this case any member may call it up for discussion and action when the way appears to be clear of other business, and the time propitious for considering the measure. The motion to table may be made at any time, as it outranks and supersedes all other subsidiary motions. If carried, none of the inferior motions can arrest its operation. But it does not affect the preceding amendatory motions, as these attach to, go with, and share the fate of the main question. If the motion to table be lost, all the available subsidiary. motions come to the front again in their regular order and force.
In parliamentary proceedings no ’ person can properly undertake to deal with a “ whole subject,” so to speak. It is not permissible to say, “ Mr. President, I move .that the whole subject be committed,” or “ be postponed,” or “ be laid on the table.” .Motions, resolutions, questions, orders, bills, etc., are properly brought forward for consideration and action; but a “whole subject” is never considered as such—or never dealt with in its entirety.
Gaudia Terrena.
BY W. H. JOHNSTON.
Oft around us see we faces
Radiant with some new-found pleasure— Eyes and lips seem all unconscious
Of the smallness of joy’s measure.
What is Happiness,'this blessing?
What is Joy, so sought on earth?
What is this we call Contentment?
What is Pleasure? what is Mirth?
Happiness is but a phantom
’Neath a gaudy Cloak concealed, * Which, removed by curious searchers, Lo! a spectre stands revealed!
And this cloak is Expectation, Fringed with Future Joy around;
Or, again, ’tis Hope of Pleasure— Pleasure hoped for—never found.
Live we mostly in the future, Though in present we exist, And Contentment’s the withdrawal Of the cares we’d fain resist.
Joy is but a sudden breaking
On a life of toil and care
Of some new and short-lived pleasure, By a contrast doubly lair.
Pleasure, Mirth, are merry sunbeams Which a path, pei chance, have found
Through a foliage dense and tangled To the drear and shaded ground.
Happiness we ever seek for—
Happiness we ne’er obtain: Pleasure for the moment only
In the things of earth we gain.
And Inconstancy’s a rival Of the quicker, keener far,
Disappointment, whose sharp arrow Wounds, indeed, but leaves no scar.
Earthly happiness is fleeting— As we near it, grows it less;
Still we live in expectation, ■ Thinking hope is happiness.
Man’s immortal soul’s an arrow. And the bending bow our deeds.
Which, if true and firm of texture, Swift and sure the arrow speeds—
Swift and sure it speeds the arrow To its destiny on high ;
Or it breaks—the shaft falls trembling, There forgotten e’er to lie.
Then, as mortal joys are fleeting, Let us seek for joy supernal;
Happiness is but in future, Let us seek for peace eternal.
Elocution—Oratory.
A word at home on a subject which is now going the rounds of the college press may not be out of place.
Elocution is a combination of science and art. According to Aristotle, an art works only by “ rule of thumb;” elocution is partly governed by rules of this kind, but besides these rules it is based on recognized laws, thus fulfilling the requirements of a science. Declamation—suiting the action to the word, the word to the action—I would call art, and oratory, in its full meaning, a science.
Great orators, like master musicians, have been few. They require a similar combination of genius which instinctively reproduces the emotions confined to their -sensitive, delicate and highly-strung natures. Fire flashes from the orator’s eye and thunder or music is in his voice, as the occasion requires. His emotions are quick and suscep-.tible of the slightest touch. Elocution is .the
THE NOTREPAME SCHOLASTIC;-
meins of developing and cultivating these in-born faculties to enable the orator to appear to the best possible advantage.
Elocution is allied to rhetoric, and the orator must be master of both. While rhetoric teaches how, elocution teaches the most befitting manner ’B	of presenting one’s knowledge of the subject he
g v treats. What will sooner gain the audience of a I ' . speaker than a good, cultivated voice, accompan-i V ied with comfortable, easy and natural gestures?
Elocution is a means, not an end. In no way is it possible to be made a substitute for intellect. If a person has ordinary intelligence, elocution will be of great benefit to him, but it will never take the place, nor does it provide for want of intellect. It is presupposed on advocating the study of this important branch of science and art that you may on some occasion have cause or opportunity to address an assemblage of people, and it merely serves as a drill—a training for you to know how, not what, to speak
In Shakspeare’s dramas are found the highest and best types of elocution. Herein, too, we find the ’ best examples of oratory ever written. I refer to the speeches of Brutus and Antony over Ctesar’s body. Here we see appropriately represented an essential requisite for a truly great oration, viz., the audience must be wholly in favor or directly opposed to the speaker. It is natural it should be thus if a lasting impression is made.
,	The orator possesses a peculiar magnetic power
over his fellow-men, which comes chiefly from his innate knowledge of man’s nature. He has the power to impart his thoughts and feelings in such a manner as to inspire his audience with emotions
; similar to his own. He forces his hearers to see i . and accept his thoughts by means of his language |	and manner of expression. These are irresistible;
Ihe carries the most obstinate; of victory he is confident.	'
The drama, 1 would say, is the best means of 'cultivation in the line of elocution. To be free and easy on the stage causes the audience to feel comfortable; you immediately rivet their attention, and, proportionately as you enter into the spirit of the character.you represent, impart the same spirit ।	to them. It is a means of enlarging this magnetic
i	power—which nature gives to all of us, in a more
I	or less degree—and prepares the boy at college,
!	not for an actor, but for a broader and wider field
for him to display his powers when a man.’ The 1 pulpit and bar are blessed by any number of learned men; but why has not the pulpit better speakers and the bar more true orators? Simply because they have not practised, and many know absolutely nothing of elocution.
Some men there are who not only oppose the students’ rendition of the drama, but condemn the waste of time given to elocution. We can pardon their ignorance on the plea that they have never had the advantage of its instruction. In the I	case of these objectors, what can be said about
their style in speaking? Is their appearance engaging and their manner elegant? In every case I ’ venture to say no!. Ridiculous gestures and awk-
wardness can only be gotten rid of bv means of this study.
It must be admitted that elocution is a subject well deserving of every college boy’s particular attention. The reasons are too obvious to need enumeration. You know it will be beneficial to you in years to come. Then why not devote some time to it? It can never be learned to any degree of perfection when old. Why not, then, while young study and practise it? Learn by imitation. Select some person whose manner of speaking pleases you, make his address the object of your study.	.
Our doctrine on this subject is embodied in terse and digestible form in the old proverb, Practice makes perfect.
C. A. T., ’84.
• Art, Music, and. Literature. '
—The reception hall of Hans Makart, the famous Austrian painter, has been destroyed by fire, and with it many priceless pictures by the Dutch masters.
—The new editor of the London Tinies has just passed his thirtieth year. He is reported to have won many prizes at Oxford, and wrote the prize poem.	-
—The Current says that -phonography is proving a blessing to women compelled to earn their own living.” About 1500 persons make a livelihood by the art in Chicago alone, the majority of whom .are young Women.	■
—A strong effort is making to secure for the Boston Exhibition of 1885 a splendid collection of watercolor art, and a letter is published in the London Athenceum from Gen. Loring, extending cordial invitations to English artists.— Current.	■
— The Current is our authority for the statement that among the’ English authors organized for the purpose of securing an English-American copyright Law are Blackmore, Wilkie Collins, George Augustus Sala, Charles Reade, Charlotte Yonge, Cardinal Manning, and Walter Besant.
—Signor Dino Mantovani is preparing for publication the unedited correspondence between Goldoni and the San Duca Theatre of Venice, accidentally discovered there a short time ago, and which covered id-years of the literary history of his time. The publication is expected with considerable interest on account of the extreme rarity of Goldoni’s letters.	,
' —Marv Anderson is reported very busy in London—playing at the Lyceum theatre, refusing clamorous managers desiring her services, having a bust of herself made for the Princess of Wales by an eminent sculptor, and popularizing herself bv arranging performances at the Drury Lane theatre in aid of the Stanley Institution for the Training of Nurses.	.	’	'
—In the year 1843, King Frederick William IV, of Prussia, in commemoration of the one thousandth anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Verdun, founded a prize of one thousand thalers, to be awarded every five years to the author of the best historical work published within that term. This prize was awarded last month' to Heinrich von Treitschke, for his two volumes of “History of Germany in the Nineteenth Century.”
—Probably the first archaeological publication ever attempted in Turkey by a Turk, has just made its appearance at Constantinople. This is an illustrated account by Hamdi Bey, the keeper of the Constantinople Museum, of the strange Greco-Persian sculptures and inscriptions belonging to the tomb of a king of Commagene, * which were discovered last year by a company of savants from Berlin on a high mountain near the southern portion of Armenia.
—John Boyle O’Reilly has written a stirring poem on Wendell Phillips. As a poem, it is a work worthy of the poet—of fire and force; but we read it with the regret that so much fervor, beauty of imagery and fine art should be wasted on Wendell Phillips. Admirers of John Boyle O’Reilly hope that he will one day return to the methods and objects of his poetry that made the “ Song of the Southern Seas” echo through the world.— Wetu Yorii Freeman's Journal.
—On the elevation of Julius II to the Pontificate, he invited Michael Angelo to Rome, and engaged him by the most liberal offers to form for him the design of a sepulchral monument. The gieat artist had now found a proper theatre for the display of his powers. His mind labored with this favorite subject, and for several months he is said to have brooded over it in silence, without even tracing a line. But the meditations of such a mind are not destined to be fruitless, and the result of his deliberations appeared in a design which far exceeded in elegance, in grandeur, in exquisite ornament and abundance of stature, every monument of ancient workmanship or imperia] splendor.
Colleg-e Gossip.
—A Banjo Club has been formed at Columbia.
—There is a demand for better fire-escapes at Yale.
—The Class of ’86, at Columbia, is $635.15 in debt.— Cornell Sun.
—There are eighty American’ students at the University of Berlin this winter.
—The Harvard Annex has forty-one undergraduates this year.— University Magazine.
—It is said that Bishop Chatard will have a classical school in Indianapolis at the opening of the next scholastic year. ■
—The late Mrs. Charles H. Northam, of Hartford, Conn., leaves about $100,000 to Trinity College and the Hartford Hospital.
—The first public session of the Marquette Literary Society was held at Marquette College, Milwaukee, on Friday evening, Feb, 22c!.
—-The Dartmouth says that sixty per cent, of
the students in American colleges are skeptics. Not much- to the credit of the students.
—It is found that there are now over 3,000,000 scholars of both sexes in the schools of Italy. This is the ninth part of the whole population of the
’ kingdom.—Pliorh-School Index.
— The Catholic University of Louvain has, since its restoration, conferred 5,292 diplomas in law, 5,837 in medicine, 3,352 in philosophy and letters,, and 3,112 in other sciences—a total of ’
; UU93 diplomas.
1	—President Porter, of Yale, has ordered a new
; text-book on Moral Philosophy, to take the place
; of Hopkins’ “ Law of Love,” for the Seniors. It i‘ is a translation of a French work made for the ■ use of Yale College.—Princetoniau.
।	—There lives iri the retirement of St. Francis
j Xavier’s College, St. John’s Hill, Bangalore, In-
1 dia, a venerable priest—Father Jarrige—who has
i labored in India from the year 1819, and is now
• in his cightv-cighth year and blind.
1	—A colored student applied for and gained
• admission to the College of Pharmacy in Washing- ’ i ton. A large part of the students have entered a i protest against the action of the directors in receiv-, ing him, and have left till their protest be honored.
j	—Mgr. de Harlcz, Professor of Oriental Lan-
i guages in the University of Louvain, has been
> elected a member of the Royal Asiatic Society, j London. The fame of the Monsignor as an Ori! ental scholar is, deservedly widespread.— Catholic Standard.
—The University of Louvain is preparing to celebrate the golden jubilee of its restoration in 1834. Although this famous seat of learning receives no assistance from the State, it stands at the head of the Belgian universities. The? students number 1600.
j —A grand oratorical contest took place recently.
j at Manhattan College, New York, an institution
1 under the control of the Christian Brothers. The
| prize was a gold medal and the judges were dis-j tinguished citizens of New York, headed by Archbishop Corrigan.
—The universities of Vienna offer better inducements for the study of medicine than those of anv other place in Europe. Those of Berlin rank second, yet there are many smaller ones whose degrees rank higher than either those of Vienna or Berlin.—Student World.	'
—It is reported that eight students of the University of Upsala, Sweden, have abjured Lutheranism and embraced the Catholic Faith. M. Schnull, a Professor of Theology in the. Univer-
• sity, seems to think that.the Lutheran Church in Sweden is fast going to pieces.
—An Alumni Association has been formed bv the students of St. Joseph’s College, Buffalo. Rev. Dr. Quigly, rector of the Cathedral in that .city, has been elected President of the new organization. The association offers a medal to be o	-	- .	-	.
awarded annually- to the student of St. Joseph’s who writes the best English essay.	.

-497
f
F
Exchanges.
£ f
I

3
I

A
§
I
— The Hamilton College Monthly reflects no little credit upon its fair editresses.
— The Astrum Albert;, from Belleville, Canada, is principally distinguished by a well-edited exchange department.
— The Fordham College Monthly has at last . come to hand for February. The essays on “ Gold-‘smith” and “Dickens” are both deserving of praise, though the author of the latter production seems too timid and apologetic. The continued essay on “American Journalism,” we opine, might have been omitted without taking awav from the general excellence of the paper.
—From somewhere out in the Western States a paper called The North-western—principally distinguished, we believe, as the organ of an obscure college, bearing a similar name—seeks notoriety thus:
“ Mrs.------and Miss----received 100 in all their lessons this week.”—Notre Dame Scholastic. “We congratulate the young women on their good marks, but is not this rather a provincialism for a paper which arrogates to itself the superior right to the censorship of the western college press ? ”
For the benefit of third parties we say that the Scholastic arrogates no right; and, moreover, does not confine its censorship to the Western college press. It is the right of any college editor possessing brains and common sense to pass an opinion on what appears in other college papers,— a right which the Northwestern University editor has, unwittingly perhaps, confirmed by exercising it against the Notre Dame Scholastic,—whether creditably or not we leave it to others to decide. We have not been egotistic enough to suppose the Scholastic possessed the “superior right” of censorship alluded to; strength and correct judgment in criticism alone constitute the basis of such a right or privilege, and justify the length to which’it may be carried. As to the remark criticized by The Northwestern, wc arc not shoddyites, ashamed of what some people may call a provincialism.
—The Notre Dame Scholastic for Feb. 10. in the height of its narrow conceit, imagines it has dispatched the Academica. Thanks. Scholastic, your vituperation is more welcome than your praise could ever be. Verily, the blame of some is highest commendation. We refrain from re-•marking its general contents; religion is .very good, but we cannot stand Saints, “Rolls of Honor,” and Sectarianism.—Academica. Uuiversify of Cincinnati.
The “raw hand ” that wrote the foregoing item, evidently knows as little about the meaning of the word “Sectarianism” in this connection as he and some of his confreres do of English in general and geography in particular. We are not surprised to learn from an editorial in the Academica,'itself that “ among parents and educators there has heretofore been a prejudice against the University of Cincinnati,” and. that boys and girls arc sent to the East “to obtain a liberal education.” It-is not enough to be told of the “vain attempts of some of the Labs, to acquire moustaches,” or of “one of our C. E.’s, Walker, for instance, in the far West? standing, alone, “around him the Texan plain;”
the youthful readers of Academica are further treated to a burlesque on the “Father of His Country,” the immortal Washington, in which we are told that “ no corner grocery is considered complete” without the companion pictures of George and Martha Washington—a fitting supplement to the disrespectful and blasphemous utterances of a correspondent of Academica when speaking of the person of Christ as depicted by one of the great masters of painting. If such be its representative writers the “ University ” of Cincinnati is run down at the heels and out at the toes.
—There has always been a tradition among college journals that the Exchange-editor, under no circumstances, should be a good-looking man. The reasons, of course, are obvious. In the first place, a good-looking man is apt to be too good-natured; and, at any rate, his photograph could never begin to assume the diabolical expressions familiar to us all from the - photographs of the (Tourier and the Polytechnic. Another cogent reason may be that an editor a la dude would be' tempted to soft-soap our Western editresses, and even try his blandishments upon the intellectual giantesses of Vassar. Be this as it mav, the tradition still remains, and it is with a heartfelt regret that the Scholastic has been compelled to ignore it. But the truth is that all of our Staff excel in various types of beauty; and therefore, though lacking the above-named qualification, we one day received the exchanges. From that unhappy hour our strength has wasted: our eye has Lost its wonted brightness: our appetite its old-time fierceness. No more our joyous laugh resounds through room and-corridor; instead, the solitary sleeper hears discordantshrieks of half hilarious madness as wc read the grav-haired jokes now slowly wending westward, but doomed with next September to start o’er their weary route again. Who can read with tearless eves that macaroni verse, made, doubtless, in a moment of forgetfulness by the Venerable Bede, and running thus:
“ PTon paratus dixit freshie
Cum a sad and doleful look:	•
Omne rectum. Prof, respondit.
Et5 nihil' scripsit in his book? ”
Or who that has an aged grandfather can but feel aggrieved to see old age dishonored by the Cornell Era, thus:
“Prof.: ‘ Has anyone any question to ask?’
“ Freshman (who doesn’t know the lesson and is getting uneasv): ‘ What time is it. sir?’”	.	■
There is something irresistibly funny about this joke when read for the 935th time; it makes one pause—however thoughtless he may be—and ponder on his latter end. The Era. otherwise such an excellent paper, carries this imbecility to its limit, as witness the following:	’
“Prof.: ‘ Mr. N.. what is a node?’
“ Mr. N.: ‘ I don’t know (sits down, and adds,.w//o voce): never knowed.’ ”
But stale jokes are far from being alone responsible for the Ex.-editor growing gray; still they are much to blame. The Scholastic, we know, . is open to the charge of being too heavy; but of.. two extremes (pardon conceit) we prefer our own. .
408
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame. March. S, 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre i Dame and others, is called to the' fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains: | choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art. Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.	j
Students should take it: parents should take it: and, ; above all,	’	!
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.	j
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff.
T. Ewing Steele, ’84.
J. A. McIntyre, ’84. Elmer A. Otis, ’84. James Solon, ’84.
*	C. F.
W. H. Bailey,’84.
C. A. Tinley, ’84.
W.H. Johnston,’ 85.
TER, ’Sv
Bishop Spalding-’s Lecture.
The great event of the week was the Lecture on Wednesday evening bv the Rt. Rev. J. Lancaster Spalding, Bishop of Peoria, Ill. A large and intelligent audience was assembled, composed not only of the students, but numerous members of the clergy from abroad, and distinguished ladies and gentlemen from South Bend and other cities. The following is a substantial report of the discourse of the learned prelate, who took as his subject
’ “Modern Physical Science”:
It is in the progress which we have made in the knowledge of physical nature that our superiority over all former epochs in history is to be sought for and found. For there can be no doubt that a real superiority over all past ages can be claimed by this 19th century in which we live.
We have not indeed surpassed the ancients in the highest sphere of human activity; it is not to be imagined. that in philosophy, in poetry, in architecture, in painting, in sculpture, anything has been achieved in our age which surpasses, which equals the conquests made in long gone .ages by
our race. The most wonderful structure on the face of the globe to-day is the oldest, the great pyramid of Egypt,—the largest, the highest, the most wonderful of buildings erected by human hands. The poetry of the Greeks is forever the best; their language is, bv an almost incalculable degree, a finer and more delicate instrument of human thought than any modern tongue. In mere speculative philosophy, we have produced no mind in modern times to be compared to that of Plato. And all of our architecture is borrowed from the Greeks—with the exception of our religious architecture, which comes to us from the Middle Ages. Eloquence is almost a lost art. No man can call himself an orator who has even a faint knowledge of what Demosthenes was able to do with his gift of human speech. So it were a childish fancy to imagine that in many things we are in any way superior to our prdecessors on the stage of life —to those who lived two thousand years ago. Nor do I believe that another age will give us credit for having produced one great man, one supreme mind,—we have produced no great poet, no great orator. Certainly here in America, where the chief study is physical science, we have produced no great man who will be ranked higher than second or third class in the category of science in future ages. We are disciples of foreign thought. But not to dwell too long upon this subject, I say that our age possesses a superioritv of a most real kind, and in its striking prominence and characteristics this superiority is to be attributed to our better, wider, and more thorough knowledge of phvsical nature. Of course we are in possession of another superiority—a moral superiority, growing out of our Christian religion, which develops itself into a thousand different forms,—justice, charity, purity, into human excellence of every kind.
But I omit this view of the subject relating to the one on which I speak, in order'to insist more on the great fact that what we call the modern work in its great, legible, manifest characteristics has been organized upon modern physical science. This great continent has been made possible by physical science. The steam engine, the telegraph, the steamship have been evolved from the elements that had been shown possible bv physical science. By its agency the lower classes have come up and spread throughout the conti- ’ nent; by its agency modern warfare has been revolutionized— modern warfare, that has beaten down the temple of European chivalry, and shattered it into the dust. The printing press, worked by steam, has brought education to the door of the poorest family, and has made it possible for all men to read and write. These are the practical outcomes of our modern physical science. This science has given to the world a radical view of nature different from that which ever before prevailed. All modern sciences rest upon fundamental bases. The first characteristic which marks the modern scientific view of nature is the
mechanical quality
of all material substances. All of our modern
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	, 409
scientific men look upon matter as force,—a mode . I mean is that what we call the properties of mat-of motion, if you wish. That is what we know ter, as hardness, color, etc., are not in the matter
g	of matter in the end,—it is a force. What we call j
I	light is not ligfht in itself—it is light only as a I
s	human sensation; in itself it is a mere form of mo- I
? t'on-	i
There are certain general principles known , ’ * to every man who is intelligent, and can ob- ; j V serve. All modern science accepts the fact that heat, i ;	\ light, electricity, arc modes of motion. In fact, |
t	we have no knowledge of a body at rest. Our
;	idea of a body at rest is erroneous; it is not at all at
*	rest, but is moving at a rate which is simply incon-
|	ceivable. This earth, which seems to be stationary,
I	is moving with incredible rapidity through space,
i	Things are not what they appear to us. The sun
|	which rises to us, as a matter of fact is stationary
|	so far as the earth is concerned. Modern science
|	shows us that we cannot rely upon our senses. In
|	a stone, for instance, apparently at rest, there is a
|	motion—a motion more rapid than we can con-
l •	ceive. Take again, for instance, a glass of water,
(which seems to be quiet in the tumbler—chemistry .	tells us that it is in constant motion. Water is a
|	compound of two gases, oxygen and hydrogen,
J	which, mixed, liquefy almost instantaneously. But
|	try to liquefy them separately, and a pressure of
|	twenty tons to the square inch is not sufficient to
I	produce the effect. The moment 'their chemical
।	affinity is brought into play they become a liquid.
\	In a pound of water there is as much force as is
developed by allowing a ton to fall from the height j	of 20,000 feet, or, which is the same thing, to lift
£	a ton of matter 20,000 feet high. So it is in all
j	nature, for in nature there is hardly a simple sub-
I	stance. One-half of the crust of the earth is oxy-
I	gen; one-fifth of the air is oxygen; and so on.
The base of all stone is a metal. The clay of the earth is a union of silicix and aluminum. In one hundred parts of air we have twenty parts of oxygen. The active principle in nature, oxygen, through chemical affinity produces heat. This oxygen is also necessary to combustion.
All impressions are produced by manifestation of physical force. To account for the phenomenon of light, we necessarily suppose the existence of a substance which cannot be seen, cannot be weighed, and which pervades all space. Four hundred and fifty million million vibrations a second give us . . red; 700 million millions, violet. The difference in color is merely one of difference of rapidity of vibration. You hear my voice: the motion of the voca] organs produces waves in the air, which act on the tympanum of the ear. We have learned from habit to classify these vibrations, to attach a definite meaning to them, and make them signify certain ideas. Modern science looks upon all physical phenomena and physical processes as mechan-Seal. Vibrations falling upon the eye give us a j variety of color; those falling upon the ear produce a variety of sound.
The next view of the nature of material substances is that	’
MATTER IS ONE.
Not that all material substances are one; what
itself, but in the form of the motion, and in the manner it affects us. All matter is form and motion. The idea connected with sugar is that it is sweet. What is sugar but charcoal and water? . Sugar is a compound of carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen—three chemical substances which in their atomic nature are without the properties of taste, color, etc.; consequently what we call sweetness is 1 not in the sugar, but in the wav it acts on our or-
gans.
There is nothing more important than the essential difference between psychical and physical qualities. Matter is one thing, the human mind another. Matter affects the mind. What affects the material body in its manifestations, also affects the mind. The world, which is in itself but matter and form, coming into contact with the human soul, produces delight and pleasure, another form of unity of matter.
The third characteristic is the
TRANSFORMATION OF FORCE, or the transference of motion. Take a machine and set it in motion, and you develop electricity. Electricity may be obtained by mechanical motion, but vou need not resort to that: anv friction will develop electricity; electricity, in turn, will develop heat and light, thus converting motion into light and heat. Apply a burning coal to water, and you produce steam; apply that steam to the piston of the engine, and you can be carried to New York or across the ocean, thus giving a tremendous manifestation of power. Here we have heat converted into motion. If a train moves rapid!}’ enough it will fire the boxes—a transfer of motion into heat. So that we find in nature a law which governs the transformation of one kind of motion into another—light into heat, heat into electricity, etc.
The fourth modern view of matter grows out of this—the persistence of force, or the
INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
Modern science says matter is indestructible. We see our idea of destruction comes from combustion. A piece of wood undergoing decay is undergoing exactly the same process as when burning. Decaying wood is undergoing combustion. These . two, decay and combustion, are one and the same . thing. The wood in either case is not destroved: the chemical atoms are simply liberated and take another form. All wood is composed of carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen. When you burn wood the carbon unites with the oxygen in the air and forms that poisonous gas known a» carbonic di-oxyde; the nitrogen is simply liberated, and goes into the air; the other parts, form water; so that nothing is destroyed,—not an atom. The atoms are simply liberated in the reuniting of the chemicals. There js no such thing as the destruction of matter or force. When I say matter and force I say the same thing—a something that moves, and by moving makes an impression.
I The fifth and the final characteristic is the
4io
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
MATHEMATICAL expression of matter, and the whole tendency of physical science is to reduce, all .our knowledge of the material world to mathematical expressions. The theories of light and heat are purely mathematical theories. The scientific expression for the different colors is so many waves in a second, beginning with the red and ending with the violet. Thus it is possible to calculate mathematically every tone of the human voice, every tone of every instrument constructed by human ingenuity, bv the number of vibrations in a ; **	• I •	j
second. This is the whole tendency of physical science, bringing it all to number, wave, form:— the higher mathematics aiming to get a complete mathematical expression of the universe. All vegetable and animal matter contains the same proportion of constituents. In such a number of months the earth goes round the sun. There is, of course, descriptive astronomy, but the science of astronomy is purely mathematical. The science of chemistry is becoming- more and more mathematical. Mathematics arc fixed, eternal; God Himself cannot change them. Two and two make four, and three angles of a triangle are equal to two right angles, are truths fixed and immutable from eternity. All science rests upon the principles that I have told you.
Since our whole
EDUCATION IS AFFECTED BY SCIENCE,— since our view of the world and religion and everything else is brought into contact with science, we should deal with it and not avoid it as dangerous. It seems to me that all who are called upon to address others should speak upon it. I don’t see why any man should shrink from it. Certainly there is no danger in it. Geology, biology, astronomy, all the possible sciences of the world, deal with matter, and they recognize the attributes of matter. Therefore it is best to go to the root of the question. If these assumptions, hypotheses, theories, arc not true, no physical science is true. If not true, wc know nothing of nature,—and yet, if you look a moment, you will see that all these qualities are mysteries,—that we cannot know them thoroughly well. As I have said, nature is revealed to us as a mode of motion—a force. We have no idea of what force is, dissociated from matter. All these hypotheses and theories suppose atoms; all modern science supposes the existence of ether. Nobody ever saw ether; it cannot be weighed, cannot be touched. So all our view, of nature rests upon assumptions,hypotheses, theories, which may be shown to be very probable, but never proved by scientific experiment. Our knowledge in itself is as mysterious as our knowledge of God and of the soul. Men ask—IC What is God?—what is the soul?—who ever saw God?—the soul?” Has any human being ever seen an atom of matter? What matter is, what an atom is, what force is, what motion is, God only knows. We only feel our thoughts—we only feel our impressions. God is as unfathomable as the nature of the human heart. Our
knowledge of nature is not more immediate than the knowledge of the soul. We know our own thought, our own feeling, and through that only wc know . the world. It seems to me, and I know it, that the contact, or what is called the conflict, between religion and science is inevitable. The whole resuit of scientific research shows more and more the universal prevalence of law, a system regulating nature. Now, what are all these but the evidences of a will, a mind working in nature and through nature; and. the more we know of the laws of matter, the more firmly wc believe that there is nothing accidental, that nothing happens by chance. Throughout all the wide universe of God there is a manifestation of order, of law, of ha rm on y.
Moreover,
OUR MODERN SCIENCE HAS NOT GROWN OUT OF THE, MINDS OF INFIDELS.
The truth is that it has come from believing men, who sought to popularize religion. AH the great discoverers were religious men. To whom do we owe our knowledge of the heavens, of astronomy? The very name of the system, itself tells us—to Copernicus,—who, opening up to our minds a view of the universe, gave us an idea of God’s infinite omnipotence, of God’s all-wisdom, that could never have been possessed without astronomy. Copernicus it was,—a Catholic, an ecclesiastic, who dedicated his book to Pope Paul III.	■
A common impression which prevails almost everywhere is that the Catholic Church condemns the teaching that the sun stands still and the world moves. They say that the Church stands in the way of science. Now, a hundred years before Galileo a Catholic minister of the Church, a canon of the Church, taught this-theory and dedicated his book to the reigning pontiff! As a matter of fact, Galileo merely elucidated what this man taught. A little canny man, he tried to bring to his aid texts of scripture to prove.his theory by them. They took hold of him, and made him retract some things; But it was not the general idea of astronomy, hut the little petty controversies into which science and the Church were induced.	’
Kepler, the greatest expounder of astronomy-after Copernicus, was equally religious. The great founder of all modern science in general was Des Cartes, a Frenchman;—Bacon is held to be superior by the English only. Des Cartes was a Catholic, a pupil of the Jesuits, a man who gave up honors, home and money for the pursuit of science; and in his dvi.ng moments he spoke only of God and faith- Bacon was also a religious man,—not a Catholic, but a Protestant. Read his best book— his “ Moral Essays”: there he says, a little science • takes a man away from God, but much science brings him brick again. Bacon says, “I would rather believe all fables ever dreamt of, than believe that this universe is the product of mere chance.”	'
To come nearer our own time—Faraday, the greatest modern German chemist; Newton, who
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
41r
first applied mathematics successfully to the motion of the heavenly bodies, and who explained the laws of gravity, were most devout men,—men walking before God as little children before their I mothers. Newton, after spending a lifetime of | usefulness, said of himself, t;I am like a little child ; walking on the sea-shore, picking up a pebble here 1 and there; these pebbles are mv knowledge,— mv j ', ignorance, the vast ocean which spreads before ■ me.” Newton was a man who studied science: ' who saw how little we know: who saw that our ( further researches bring us into deeper and deeper mysteries.	i
Not to detain von too long, 1 can say that our ; knowledge of the whole material world rests : upon assumptions, hypotheses, and theoiies, which, . however probable, can never be absolutely proven— i which we can never know moie perfectly than we know God and our soul. And yet we are forced I to believe that forces which we call atoms are at ' work: and the more perfectly we study them, the ; more we ^ee everywhere perfect harmony and un- ! changeable law. This universality of law makes the j world intelligible, Intelligence and intelligibility 1 are convertible terms that may be transformed into ; one another. A thing- is intelligible because there is an intelligence capable of grasping it. We know that I if we do not know everything- that is to be known, i the defect is in our mind. And if it be universally : intelligible, it must be the work of a Universal In- ! tclligence. If there is order everywhere, there i must be One who has created this order.
' The whole	I
TENDENCY OF HUMAN SCIENCE	i
is to confound human pride,—pride, which rises up ! against God, and is completely annihilated by a J knowledge of science. Here we are, a little globe • sailing around the sun. Every ray of light, every I ray of heat, every kind of motion, everv form of 1 force, comes from the sun. The sun makes coal: ; the sun causes water to rise to the clouds, then to : fall in the form of rain back' to the earth. And ! vet what is the sun itself? The sun is but an in- !’ significant body compared with Arcturus, Aide- • baran, Sirius, and the numberless other fixed stars; I the sun is but one of millions of systems; and the systems our telescopes reveal are a very small part of those actually existing.
Then, we say, what are we? O God! what are we? Living a day, and ending here on earth! The earth is nothing compared with the sun, and the sun nothing compared with the millions of I other systems. Our sun, much more our earth, is I utterly invisible' to many stars. So when God j looks upon us from His omnipotence, can He see l us? And yet we doubt God, and say “I will not I adore Him, nor comply with His commandments.” I
I would encourage you, young gentlemen, to take i ad vantage of thesplendid opportunities here afforded 1 you. Eear one sin more than the'knowledge of all j mankind on earth. Be true, be pure, be noble, be ; generous, and no knowledge can hurt you. But if i you sink, oh, then, the feeblest ignorance would be j argument enough, to make you doubt. As long |
as you remain, true to God, no amount of knowledge will hurt you; but ever keep your heart pure, before the Eternal Love.
•	Personal.
—James Cunnea, ’69, paid a flying visit to the College on last Sunday.
—Joseph E. Marks (Com’l), ’67, is cashier of a prominent banking establishment in Chicago, Ill.
--Bro. Francis Regis, C. S. C., the genial Prefeet of the Minims, returned last Wednesday from a visit to Chicago, and, we are glad to say, is much improved in health.	•
—Rev. T. L. Vagnier, C. S. C., of ’59, formerly Professor of Physical Science in the University, and now the efficient pastor at Leo, Ind., spent a few days at the College during the week.
— Among the audience which greeted Rt. Rev. Bishop Spalding on the occasion of his Lecture on Wednesday evening last we noticed : Rt. Rev. Bishop Ireland, of St. Paul; Revs. T. L. Vagnier, C. S. C., Leo, Ind.; A. Oechtering, Mishawaka; D. J. Hagerty, C. S. C., P.’ Johannes, C. S. C., M. P. Fallize, C. S. C., Judge and Mrs. Stanfield, Mr. and Mrs. Howard Stanfield, J. Cassidy, M. D., L. G. Tong, Mr. and Mrs. P. O’Brien, Mr. and Mrs. J. N. Fasset, South Bend; Mr. E. Amoretti, Wyoming; Capt. and Mrs. Cusack, and manv others whose names we did not learn.
—Signor Gregori. formerly of the Vatican, and now Director of the Art Department of Notre Dame University, has made portiaits from life of the following distinguished personages: Pope GregoryXVI; His Holiness Pius IX; Cardinal Barnabo; Cardinal Mezzofanti. the great lin^u-ist; Cardinal Franchi; Count de Montalembert; Countess de Montalembert; General Lamouri-ciere; General Oudinot; Princess Borghese (/zee), Gundalenc Talbot; Professor Checarelli, medical adviser to Pio Nono; Cardinal Altieri; Vincenzo Gioberti: Cherubini, the great musician; Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland; Bishop Pellicier, of San Antonio,' Texas; Fathers Sorin, Corby, and Le-monnier, Presidents of Notre Dame University; Judge Stanfield, of South Bend; and our own brave little General Sheridan, of the American Army.
Local Items.	'
—Hot water cure!
—The “ Deacon ” is around again.
—A public debate is now in order.
-—The “ Sii-pe1' was not to be found.
—What is the -poco curante process?
-—The snow-plows did good work this week.
—The double windows will soon be removed.
—The Gvmnasia are much patronized this weather.
—The Columbians are rehearsing for St Patrick’s Day.	.
412
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The ice still than it was degrees be-
—The Philopatrians are engaged in holding a Moot Court.
—The lantern has been recovered, and everybody is happy.
—The Band serenaded the visiting Prelates on Thursday morning.
—Navigation has not opened yet. remains on the lake.
—The sleighing was never better for the past few days.
—-The thermometer registered ten low zero last Saturday.
—The St. Cecilians are having air exciting debate on “Free Trade.”
—The Junior Billiard Association has procured new sets of balls and cues.
—The grand main entrance to old Science Hall has been removed further west.
—The Columbians will give a very interesting entertainment on St. Patrick’s Day.
—Yesterday, the feast of St. Thomas Aquinas, the Philosophers enjoyed a special “ rec.”
—A very large audience assembled last Wednesday evening, to hear'Bishop Spalding’s lecture.
—It was very difficult to comply with the directions of Almanacs on last Tuesday.—March 4th.
—The Juniors are under obligations to Prof. Edwards for a handsome painting for their study-hall.
—Prof. W. Hovne, xA.. M., was elected an honorary member of the St. Cecilia Association at their last meeting.
—The interest shown b}’ the Class of ’84 in promoting the success of the lecture on Wednesday night is a sufficient proof that they realize the truth of the old. maxim: Noblesse oblige.
—St. Joseph, who is the Patron of the “ Palace,” is especially honored by its inmates during this month devoted to him. His statue—the most beautiful at Notre Dame—is elegantly decorated.
—The Senior reading-room, under the skillful direction of Bro. Charles, is rapidly assuming a finished appearance. The room when retouched by our artists will be more durable—if not prettier —than if adorned with paper and wall flowers.
—For the very pleasant hop engaged by the Seniors last Saturday evening, they are under obligations to Prof. Edwards, who, not only on that occasion, but frequently during the year, has entertained his Senior boys with like enjoyable meetings.
—At the 18th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association, which was held March the 3d, Mr. Amoretti gave an interesting account of his trip to the East, his visit to the Capital, etc., etc. Compositions were read by Masters Morrison, Scherrer, Bunker, McVeigh, Grunsfeld, and O’Kane.	.
—Very Revi Father General has presented the Minims with a rare and beautiful picture of St. Joseph. . leather General is very desirous of inspiring his young proteges with devotion to St. Joseph, securing for them the protection of the great Saint
who was the guardian of the Holy Child. The Minims return their sincere thanks for the lovely picture.
—The statement in last week’s Scholastic concerning the celebration of the 11 th by St. Thomas Aquinas’ Academy, we are requested to state, was merely the prediction of an individual and not the report of a committee. Subsequent action on the part of the Academy has proved that the aforesaid individual can prophesy like an astrologer.
—Right Rev. Bishop Spalding’s Lecture on “ Modern Physical Science,” as published in the Scholastic this week, is from stenographic reports made by Mr. W. H. Johnston, of our Staff, and Mr. Chas. C. Kolars, of the Law Department. The Lecture was an extemporaneous one, delivered without manuscript or notes of any kind; consequently we had to depend upon our amateur stenographers for the report. The lecturer’s utterance was fairly rapid, and we think the report, on the whole, as good a one as could he expected under the circumstances. If there he any mistakes we are confident the learned lecturer will kindly pardon them.
—On Thursday morning, at half-past eight o’clock, a reception was tendered by the students to the :Rt. Rev. Bishops Spalding and Ireland, who were visiting the University.
The College Orchestra opened the exercises with a finely-executed overture, after which Mr. James Solon stepped upon the stage and, in a well-written and well-delivered address, formally welcomed the distinguished prelates to the Uui-versity, complimenting each of them upon the distinction attained—the one by his zeal and labor in the cause of Christian education, and the other by his .noble efforts for the amelioration of his fellowmen, in advocating the great cause of Total Abstinence. Upon the part of his fellow-students, he assured them of the pleasure their presence afforded, and the good wishes of all at Notre Dame for continued success in the causes in which they were engaged. Mr. Neal H. Ewing read and presented a well prepared address in Latin to Bishop Spalding. Mr. Elmer A. Otis delivered an oration upon “St. Thomas of Aquin,” considering his,subject under the threefold aspect of the man, the Doctor, and the Saint. The subject was well treated and delivered in an eloquent manner. He concluded by expressing the hope that the Angelic Doctor would be the model for the imitation of all: that while like him storing their minds with knowledge, their hearts would be kept pure and devoted to God.
The next thing on the programme was the presentation of the Greek Drama, the
“CEdipus Tyrannus”

of Sophocles. The following is the “ cast of characters ”:
CEdipus, King of Thebes....................W. H. Bailey
Jocasta, his Wife.... ................  W.	J. O’Connor
Creon, her Brother......................S.	j. Dickerson
Priest of Zeus.....................     T.	Ewing Steele
Teiresias. jhe Blind Prophet.............Elmer A. Otis
Messenger from Corinth..................F.	Wi Gallagher
Messenger frorh Within the Palace..........N. H. Ewing
THE NOTRE NAME SCHOLASTIC.
Servant of Laius.... ..
Choreutes.............
Attendants on GEdipus,
Attendants on Jocasta,
xA.ttendants on Creon, Boy, Attendant on Teiresias................ Antigone) Youthful Daughters Ismene )	of CEdipus,
.....W. W. Gray Florian B. Devoto ( E. Gerlach . } II. Foote ( G. S. Schaefer / T.J. Cleary ( W. Schott / J. Devine
.... W. D. Henry $ B. Arnold C. Metz
Procession* of Suppliants:
(Consisting of a •priest of Jupiter, certain aged companions, a few chosen youths, and several children—all -wearing ■woolen fillets zvith olive branches.)
T. Ewing Steele, Priest; C. Kaufman, H. Porter, Geo. ’ O’Kane, B. Scholfield, W. E. Ramsay, B. Arnold, W.
McPhee, M. Loescher, W. Henry, Jos. Garrity, R. Papin, R. Devereux.
Chorus of Theban Old Men:
F. B. Devoto, J. Murphy. A. Coll, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, C. Kaufman, W. J. Guthrie, W. E. Ramsay, L. Kavanaugh, J. Gallagher, B. Scholfield, W. Mahon, J.
Wilson, G- O’Kane, T.J. McKinnery, L. G. Gibert, H. Porter, W. Burke.
Messrs. F. B. Devoto, W. Bailey, W. O’Connor, S. Dickerson and T. B. Steele especially distinguished themselves in the rendition of their parts, not only by the faithful reading of their lines, hut also by the spirit and energy with which they were spoken. The music of the chorus was very fine, though at times it wavered—a defect which was no doubt due to the limited time allowed for practice. However, as a whole, the drama was very successfully presented and re-, ceivcd with marked favor, all of which reflects no little credit upon the Hellenists, of ’84., and it especially redounds to their credit when it is remembered that the Drama was prepared after only a week’s notice. Master W. D. Henry, a Greek Prep., in a graceful manner delivered the following neat little epilogue:
wt 3'ddazaltK za'i elint mp-liaftrivai, yfLptr<L<s bjuv we ztistava^ ti-nbliini).^ fis bp.-vl-naq ztpnanyfi^ xdt flspa~sia<?.
On the conclusion, Bishop Spalding arose, and after complimenting the performers and expressing his thanks for the reception, spoke, in his own eloquent mariner, golden words of advice.
The speaker’s remarks were received with great applause. When he had concluded, calls were made for Bishop Ireland, and in response he arose* and spoke substantially as follows:
“ I am very glad to have had the opportunity to see this play, and I thank you for the pleasure you have afforded. I was expecting that Bishop Spalding would have addressed you in the Greek tongue, but as he did not I shall follow him and keep in the modern language in order to accord with him. This entertainment brings me back to my college days and reminds me of my studies, and in this lies a pleasure. I congratulate, indeed, the University on this entertainment, f see in the production of this tragedy an example of the nature of the education at Notre Dame, that it is not merely theoretical but practical; and I think herein consists its excellence. In this play the students become more familiar with the language and customs of the Greeks, and I am sure all the other studies are taught according to a system equally as good.
“ I take this opportunity to express my great regard for the ‘ Total Abstinence’ Society of Notre Dame. There is
. no Total Abstinence Society in the country for which I have a greater regard. For this society .will extend its influence to all parts of the country. The young men coming here from all parts will extend the good influence of their example through the various parts of the country from which they come. And it is an excellent thing. It is for you to avoid all stumbling-blocks in your career through life and one stumbling-block is the taste for intoxicating liquors. The young man' who is able to say ‘ No ’ to a glass of wine is a victor. As a rule, those who have the courage, and manliness, and self-command to say ‘ No ’ to a glass of wine will have the courage to withstand stronger temptations when they come across them. Then we must live for God and the great works of charitv: to teach others by example the great good of total abstinence, and the cause will receive a new, worthy and memorable impetus from Notre Dame.
“ I hope your Total Abstinence Society' will always prove strong in numbers—that it will always be kept up, alive and vigorous, to strengthen temperate habits, and to spread abroad the influence ot itsexample.”
The visit of the distinguished prelates was the source of much pleasure to all at Notre Dame.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
•
Messrs. Anchondo, Ancheta. Baca, Banigan. Bowers, Barron, Becerra. Bailey, Browne, F. Burke, V. Burke, Coll, Carbajal, Cass, Jos. Cusack, Jno. Cusack, Crawford, Callaghan, Creel, Dunn. Delgado, De Groot, DeWolf, Dolan, A. Dennis, Ewing, Feltz, Farrell, E. FenIon, T. Fenlon, P. Frain, J. Frain, Grothaus, Gibson, Gooley, Gonser, Goulding, Gonzalez, Guthrie, Geiser, Gutierrez, Gray, F. Gallagher, Hyde, Howard, Hel-lebush, Hausberg, Johnston, Jackson, Kelly", Kavanaugh, Kaufmann, Kolars, Kleiber. McGinn, McCarthy, Mc-Erlaine, W. Mahon, McKinnery, Marquez, C. Murdock, McIntyre, T. McNamara. J. McNamara, Jno. McCabe, McLaughlin, Mahoney", Madden, Muller. W. P. Mahon, G O’Brien, Ott, O’Dea, O’Rourke, Orchard, Otis, O’Kane, IL Paschel, C. Paschel, Pour, Porter, Quinlan. Rudge, Ryan, Rogers, Reach, Solon, Steis, Slattery", Scholfield. Spencer. Steele, Saviers, E. Smith. Sanchez, Tinlev. J. Uranga, F. Uranga, Whalen, J. Wagoner, F. Waggoner, Warren.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	‘
Masters Adler, Arnold. Anchondo, Borgschulze. Berth-elet, Barela, Brown. Baur, Barclay, Breen, Cohen, D. Cartier, Courtney, Curtis, Chaves, Cavaroc, Cleary, Clarke, Costigan, F. Combe, Coleman, J. Devine, Dorenberg, Dexter, C. Dennis. Ewing, Eisenhauer, Fehr, Fierro. Finckh, H. Foote, Fendrich, Garrity, Gerlach, Gimbel, Grunsfeld, Hagenbarth, J. Halligan, W. Henry", Houlihan. Hagen, Houck, Hetz, Holman. Hagerty", Jensch, P. Johnson, E. J. Howard, J. Kelly, Loescher, Luther, Lane, Muhler, Monschein, Mullane. Miller, Menig. J. McGordon C. Mc-Gordon. G- Moye, A. Moye. McDonnell, C. Metz. Murphy, Mug, McCabe, Major, Martinez, O’Brien. E. Porter, C. Porter, Rogers, Reynolds, Shea, Sedberry, M. Sche.uer-man, Schott, Schaefer. Stubbs, Saunders, Strauss, Shields, D. Taylor, Terrazas, G. Tarrant. Trepanier, Uranga, .Wab-raushek, Weiler, Wright, Williamson.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Amoretti, Boose, Butterfield, Benner, Brown, Comins, Crawford. Costigan, Cummings, F. Coad, M. Coad, Dirksmeyer, Devine, Dungan. Devereux, Ernest, Fitzgerald. Fulwiler. W. Grimes, Garrity", Grunsfeld. Henry. C. Inderrieden. R. Inderrieden, Johns, Kraus, E. Kelly, La Tourette, Landenwieh, Lewis, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, Loya, W. McCourt, M. McCourt, T. McGuire, E. McGrath. McPhee, Manzanares. Meehan, Morrison, F. Mullen. A. Mullen, F. Nester, A. Nester, Noonan, Nusbaum, O’Kane, O’Connor, Otis, W. Prindi-ville, D. Prindiville, V. Papin, Padden, Quiggle, Quill, Studebaker, Sumner, Stange, Schmitz, Spencer, Schbne-man, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, Servis, Uranga, West,*. A. Welch, Wright, Weston, Muessel, Perkins.
* Omitted last week by" mistake.	’
414	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint Jftary's Acabemy.
One Mile JKest of Notre. Dante University.
—The Minims offer their thanks to Mary Paul I for the pretty silver hell presented to their department.	■
—The Misses Alary Hetz, Sybil Jackson, and I Ada Malboeuf, each received too in lessons this ! week.	-	;
—The Juniors who drew for the Roman mosaic । Cross were the Misses H. Jackson, Cox, Snow- i hook, Dillon, Bailey, Sheekey, Schmidt, S. Jack- । son, Keyes, Fehr: Miss Bailey won the prize. (
—In the Second Senior Composition Class, test ’ exercises were written, and the Misses M. Mun- l ger, AL Hclpling, C. Udall, L. English, and P. j Keating, are worthy of special mention for their J successful efforts.	,
—The competition in the Second Senior Rhe- ! toric Class found everyone prepared. Not a i question was missed. The answers were prompt j and exact, and each one seemed to understand the lessons thoroughly.	'
—The opening of the penitential season of the year is marked by more frequent visits to the Blessed Sacrament on the part of the Catholic pupils, and fuller attendance at the public offering of the “ Way of the Cross,” also at the daily Mass.
—The sleigh-ride, consisting of three large sleigh loads of Senior pupils, was the event of the week. Saturday was the lucky day; Mishawaka was the terminus, and many of- the young ladies brought home with them photographic groups as souvenirs of the occasion.
—The beautiful badge painted and presented to the French Classes by Afiss Kate Young, of Chicago, has not been called into service for some weeks, but on Sunday the Alisses Bruhn, Call, Duffield, O’Connell'and Sheekey were entitled to draw; the last named winning the prize.
—On Monday, at the regular reunion, “ A Card from Father General,” in the Scholastic, was read bv Eva Roddin: “Ash-Wednesdav,” bv Flora L. Stanfield, in The 11 Ave Maria'' was read by Helen Jackson, and “Somebody’s Alother” was recited very cieditably by Rushia Bailey.
—The members of the Second Senior Class have kindly presented a graceful and unique flowerstand to the Library. It was intended .as a gift in honor of the patrohal festival of the Librarian. It is placed so as to conceal the column upon which rests the statue of the Angel Guardian.
—The members of the Graduating Class accepted an invitation to the First Preparatory Grammar Class on Thursday. Having heard reports of the proficiency of this Class, their expectations were not only met, but they were surprised at the ready and comprehensive replies given to difficult questions.
In Memoriam.*
Affectionately inscribed to the afflicted mother, Airs. Dr. Bigelow,of Detroit, Alich., to Airs. M. M. Phelan, her devoted aunt and godmother, to the . *	O	3
wide circle of her distinguished and bereaved family. and all her numerous friends, bv
The Pupils of St. Mart’s.
Like a sun-burst through the rain, From a heart in mortal pain
Came the smile that told of Heaven, Of a young life sweetly riven; And the golden accents fell o	_
Like a Sanctuary bell :
I will die for loye of Him Who hath died for love of me! ”
O’er and o’er, as wind-harps moan— Tn the same mellifluent tone—
As if all her hopes were crowned In the music of the sound,
In the bliss hei- soul must gain, ■
Rose the tender, deep refrain:
•• I will die for love of Him ■	.
. Who hath died for love of me! ”
Sister Blanche! Ah! ’twas for this—
Just to win the priceless bliss—
• Thou didst turn from earth aside And become of Heaven the Bride. .
i	Mystic Sfottsals now are scaled,
■	And thy Bridegroom's love revealed I
Thou hast died for love of Him Who has died for love of thee!
Mother, brother, sister, friend,
•	O how glorious is the end •
Of a life that was laid down
Just to win the heavenly crown!
Earth was nothing in the scale—	’
For God’s promise cannot Fail.
She hath died for love of Him Who for love of her hath died! '
* Died at St. Alary’s Infirmary, February 25th, Sistek Mary St. Blanche (Maty Rose Bigelow), happy to have fulfilled the arduous duties of a Sister of the Holy Cross. Long associated with the pupils as teacher, Directress of the Children of Alary, and Librarian, she had won the warm love of all -by her unobtrusive virtues, and her loss is deeply lamented. But what faithful heart would wish "to rob the dear departed of the gain which must be hers? This tribute embodies the beautiful expression which, through her long and painful illness, was ever upon her lips.	’	'
Obituary.

On Wednesday, at 12 30 p. m., Sister Mary Rosa, the Prefect of the Juniors, and for a ,number of years a cherished teacher in the Academy, rendered her pure soul to God. It is the lot of few to depart from this world 'more universally beloved and lamented. May she receive .the.reward promised those who “ instr-uct-others unto Justice!”. •
May she rest in peace!	’ , -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Too much, of a Good Thing-.
Crowding in education like crowding- in a parlor or in a pew at church, is not good—quite the reverse. The gluttonous feaster loses his health, and the student who takes a greater number of studies, or longer lessons than he can manage well, will find in the end that he has gained nothing, but that he has lost everything.
The thoroughly educated are “men of one book.” By this expression it is intended to convey the idea that they are not su/perficial. It is well to possess a general knowledge of many things, and a sprightly intellect can secure this with comparatively little effort, but general information is not always the proof that the possessor is thoroughly educated. We are quite safe in the declaration that when a Miss of eighteen years sets up to be perfect in all the sciences and arts, she at once appears to honest people as a smatterer,— not a scholar.	•
Reading many books when one has plenty of time is also good, provided, of course, that the books be good; but she. who devours whatever printed, or written matter may chance to present itself, receives a heterogeneous mass that can never digest well, and which will surely disorder the operations of her intellect.
Even in the memorizing of history, discrimination is to be used. Narrations of the past, like those of the present, though given by very competent persons, often contain many things irrelevant to the main points of interest. To be ignorant of these is not a proof that you are ill-informed.
Whether Patrick Henry wore black or blue slippers, silver or brass knee buckles; or, whether he had on top boots when he made the famous speech in the House of Burgesses, is a matter of little actual importance, except to artists and play costumers; and yet, in a thoughtless, hap-hazard method of memorizing, to omit such a trifle might appear to some as grave a fault as to leave out the recital of the political results which followed upon the remarkable speech. Learn main facts, learn ideas, words will come, whether those of the book or not.
The great advantage to be derived from manuscript papers and literary societies when they are properly superintended can scarcely be ox errated. A personal responsibility is assumed by pupils who engage in these literary efforts, which produces an interest not to be awakened in any other wav. Subjects are brought up which do not enter into the ordinary routine of scholastic branches, and a vivacity is impiirted to the intellect, which is not easily attained by simple class exercises. The more .care and attention bestowed upon the work, the higher the standard to be reached, so much the better will be the results. Experienced educators are the most enthusiastic friends of manuscript papers and literary associations.
It is no longer a matter of pride to have a high forehead. A cow has that, and she is very low-ly.
♦ Boll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT. AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Adderly, Ashton, Beal, Black, Bruhn. A. Babcock, C. Babcock, Burgher, Cummings, Campbell, Carnev, Cirkel, Dunn, J. Duffield, M. Fisk, F. Fisk, Ginz, Gove, Gavan, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon, Horn, Hack, Hale, Keenan, Kearns, Kenny, King, Kearsey, Legnard, Lint-ner, Munger, A. Murphy, M. Murphy, McHale, Mooney, McNamara, McCarthy, Neu, O’Connell, Peak, Quill, J. Reilly, Rosing. Ramsey, Ryan, Reynolds, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, Sheridan, Sheekey, Scuily, Stackerl, Tynan, Taylor, Thomas. 2d Tablet—Misses Danfoith, L. English, Fendrich. Heckard. Hetz, Kearney, Johnson, Leahigh, Sear. Steele, Todd, Udall.
‘ JUNIOR DEPARTAIENT.
ist Tablet—Misses Bailey, Fehr, H. Jackson, E. Jackson, S. Jackson, Keyes, M. Otis, Richmond, Roddin, Schmidt, Stumer, Sheekey, B. Snowhook. 2d Tablet—Misses Dur-lacher, M. Eldred, Lord, Metz.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
ist Tablet—Misses E. Chapin, J. English, V. Johns, M. Lindsey, B. Murray, M. Paul, G. Papin, M. Reynolds, S Van Fleet.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN IXSTRUMEXTAL MUSIC
(For the month of February').
Advanced Course—Miss Laura Fendrich.
Graduating Class, ist Course—Misses Beal, Reillv. ist Class—Miss M. Cummings.	"
2D Division—Misses B. Gove, E. Neu.
2D Class—Misses Bruhn, Keenan, Shephard.
jd Class—Misses Crawford. Ginz. Hale, Keating, E. Sheekev, Tynan.
2D Div.—Misses M. Adderly. Carney. Dillon, E. Horn, H. Jackson, Scullv, Todd, Van Hom.
4TH Class—Misses A. Babcock, Campbell, M. Ducey. Evarts, L. English, K. Fehr. Morrison, Ramsev.
2D Div.—Misses F. Castenado, J. Duffield, K. Ducey. A. Gavan, B. Kearsey, Lucas. Munger, Moshier, Malbcenf. A. Murphy, Sears, Snowhook.
5TH Class—Misses Call, Dunn, A. Duffield. Fitzpatrick, Platte. Quill, L. St. Clair, Stackerl, Wolven, Williams.
2D Divs—Misses Chaves, Cirkel, Cox, Danforth, Agnes English. F. Fisk. .‘Mice Gordon, Addie Gordon. E. Jackson, Keyes, Regan, Sheridan.	'
- 6th. Class—Misses C. Babcock. Biliings, Brown, M. Barrv. B. English, J. Fogerty, Hetz, Hack, B. Hanev, A. Legnard, Lintner, Mooney, M. Murphy, Otis, M. Reynolds, Roddin, Richmond, Steele. S. St. Clair, Schmidt, Stumer. Classed—Miss E. Taylor.	.
2D Div.—Misses Best. Bailey, S. Jackson, Kearsey, M. King, Kearns, McEwen, McCarthy, O’Connell, Peak, E. Sheekey.
7TH Class—Misses I. Allen. J. English, Ewing, Help-ling, L. Johns, Kenny, Leahigh, McHale, McNamara, A. Ryan.
Sth Class—Misses M. Ducey. Metz, Schmauss.
9TH Class—Misses Chapin, Lindsey, Murray-
10TH Class—Miss Mamie Reynolds.
Harp.
30 Class—Miss M. Dillon.	.
2D Div.—Miss E. Neu.	.
5TH Class—Miss D. Fitzpatrick.	'
6th Class—Classed, Miss Crawford.
Guitar.
Misses M. Beal, A. English.
Violin.	.
-Miss E. Carney. _
..	...	.	. Organ. •	. *
Miss C. Sheridan.	•	’
416
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
BUCKENDORF,
FLORIST.
RARE and BEDDING PLANTS
ALWAYS ON HAND. ‘
ALSO,
CUT FLOWERS, DESIGNING, and DECORATING.
GREENHOUSE, 217 JEFFERSON ST
SO UTH BEND, IND.
Toe Minim Department.
■This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.	.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
EUGENE F. ARNOLD (Class Of’78). W. H. LANDVOIGT.
ARNOLD & LANDVOIGT,
WHO ts UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THjS COUN-
Attorneys and Counsellors at Law.
470 Louisiana Avenue. N. W., WASHINGTON, D. C.
L 8. & M. 8. Railway.
On and after Sunday. Nov. 18, 1883, trains will leave ■ South Bend, as follows:	;
GOING EAST:	:
2.04 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.22 a.m.: Cleveland, 1.57 p.m.; Buftalo, 7.36 p.m.	’
10.54 a.m.. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.07 p'.m.; Cleveland. 9.44 p.m.; Buftalo, 3.31 a.m.
S41 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.17 a.m.: Cleveland, 6.37 a.m.; Buftalo, 12.46 p.m.
11.53 a.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.12 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.42 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.
5.54 p.m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.00 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.07 a.m.; Buftalo, 6.41 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.04a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.56 a.m., Chicago, 541 a.m.
4.28 a.m., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22 a.m. Chicago, 7.51 a.m.
7.11 a.m. Limited Express. . Arrives at Laporte, 7.52 a.m.
Chicago, io.ii a.m.	.	.
1.02 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte.
2.02 p.m.; Chesterton, 2.47 p.m.; Chicago, 4.31 p.m.
4.07 p.m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte.
4.54 p.m.; Chicago, 7.31 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt, South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P..P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland. “
. JOHN NEWELL. Gen’l M’ger, Cleveland.
TRY WILLSES BY EXAMINING T HIS M AP THAT THE
CfflCA80,R0CKISLARDIPACIFlCR'Y Calls the attention of travelers to the central position of its line, connecting the East and the West by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, Atchison. Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union Depots with all the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches. Magnificent Horton Reclining Chair Cars, Pullman’s Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Best Line of Dining Cars in the World. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri River Points. Two Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St. Paul, via the Famous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.” .
A New and Direct Line, via Seneca and Kankakee, has recently been opened between Richmond, Nortolk,Newport News, Chattanooga, Atlanta. Augusta, Nashville, Louisville, Lexington, Cincinnati, -Indianapolis and Lafayette, and Omaha, Minneapolis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
All Through Passengers Travel on Fast Express. -Trains.
Tickets for sale at all principal Ticket Officesin the United States and Canada.
Baggage cheeked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that ofier less advantages.
Fer detailed information, get the Maps and Folders of the
* GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE, At your nearest Ticket Office, or address
Ft. R. CABLE,	E. ST. JOHN,
Vice Pres. & Gen’l M'g’r,	Gen’l Tkt. A Pass. Agt.
CHICAGO.