.. 
•.. 
... 
..... 
... 
... 
o. 
.. ... 
... ' .• 
.. .... . 
:..
.--·.. 0 •• 
.. 
, 
. 
1./0i..,lll .NC·.2.D 
This issue is given to all those men and women who have died in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia; and to Allison Krause, Sandy Scheuer, Jeffrey Miller and William Schroeder, killed at Kent State College on Monday, May 4, while demon­strating so that the killing might stop. 
editor-in-chief: steven brion managing editor: phil stark/ art direction and photography: gary cosimini associate editors: carolyn gatz, bill mitchell assistant editors: steve dixon, jack fiala, rory holscher, john stupp. assistant managing editor: greg stidham sports editor: don kennedy/ research coordinator: bob fulton business: howie sutto·n/ circulation: cliff zmick public relations: jeff noonan/ faculty advisor: frank o'malley staff: phil glotzbach, tom macken, ed maccartin, steve novak, bernie ryan, martin siravo, bill wilka/ business and circulation: mike casanova, dan hogan, william pelletieri photography: jim hunt/ artists: john downey, ginny maloof 
cover photo by gary cosimini 
The opinion-t"Xp1essed iu tht' Sc IIOL\-.TIC an· tho,e of tht' authors and t'ditor, ol tin· Scuo1 ,,nc .,nd I<> 
not nccc~,.iriJy 1t•pre~t•nt the opinion:; of .:'\nt1t• D~ttnt•. it.., adn1ini...ir::1tion. facult" or ,tuclt nt h«,ch 
Second cla,, po,ta,;e paid ,tt :\'otre D,unc. Ind. •lli55ti. Th,· ma<;,t7int• is n·pn·"·ntecl for 11,,tinn.d .,ch, rti,,m: hy National Eclncational Acln-rti,in,; Ser\'ic<"s, 360 Le"-ington Awnue. Xt•\\ York. Xt•\\ York !(l()J 7. 1'11li­li,lwd \\t·ckly elm ing the school )'t',lr except dnring \"a<",ttion and <""-amination p,·rimk th,· Sc11ot ,,TIC 1, p1 intt·d at Ave ~!aria Press, Xntre D.1mt·. Ind. •Hi55ti. Th,· ,uh,rription r.ltt· i, $5.ll\) :, \t",1r I incluclim: all i,sue., :wd th,• Foon,u.1. Ri:vn.w). Ple,Lse addre,, all manmrripi, to the Sc11or hfW. Xotr,· D.11111. Indiana 4fi55(i. :\II umolicit,-d mattcrial becomes tht• propt•rt, of th,· Sc1101.,,nc 

Prologue 
It is a commonplace, and a dangerous one, that states categorically, "Those who remain neutral in times of moral crisis are the greatest sinners." Things are not that simple: the tension between action and meditation is much more difficult to re­solve than such absolutes would indicate. This is especially true in a community that cherishes learn­ing and the reasoned search for wisdom. 
We had not planned to run this kind of issue: Monday night, a very confused but otherwise normal Scholastic was in process. However, the span of events stretching from last Thursday's Cambodia declaration to Monday's call for a nationwide stu­dent strike, and culminating, at least symbolically, in the deaths of four Kent State students ... all these forced us to reevaluate our position. 
The essays and poems that follow are born of and reflect that tense uncertainty. The prose at­tempts to explore three possible reactions to the moral anarchy of the President's address, the deaths at Kent State, and the recent Justice Depart­ment characterization of campus radicals as "sick kids.·· None claim to be right. None attempt to supply finished responses to what is swirling around us. What they do attempt is a perhaps Quixotic ordering of a chaos that must be met now. 
And ultimately what is most central is exactly this collision with all those incomprehensible forces, within and without us, that would deny the sanctity of human life and the possibility of the beautiful. Viewed from any greater perspective, these affirma­tions may be minimal, futile, and delusive. But they must be made anyway. If minimal, Quixotic tilting at windmills is all that is allowed us, we must at least tilt with all the energy and nobility we have. 
The responses are communal, because we need to share each other's strength and love; and in­tensely personal, because the revolution, if it is to be anything but the cyclical hell of Weiss's Marat/ Sade, must be built on just those kinds of personal sacrifices and affirmations. What I am trying to say is that we do stand with our backs to the wall. That is by no means a melodramatic or heroic statement; that is fact. That kind of realization is the first step toward answering Dan Berrigan's question: "What can a few men and women offer to a few others by way of alternatives to the general, indeed universal reliance on death?" 
We are in shadows. The forest is everywhere around us, and it is confusing. We begin to despair of ever finding our way out. To reject that despair necessitates action, an offering. And all we can offer is our lives. I find myself returning to Camus, and his simple truth: 
I only know that one must do what one can to 
cease being plague-stricken, and that's the only 
way in which we can hope for some peace, or 
failing that, a decent death. This, and only this, 
can bring rnlief to men and, if not save them, 
at least do them the least harm possible and 
even, sometimes, a little good. steven brion 
~. --i,~.$· 
{.,'.· jj:."-.\~¥~" •;:! 
,. . 
.... 
~~~-~ ii,~ .. 
....ri'7 ~ :.. .1';· 
--~ ,. 
,:,;,~
,u £>.-;!•. 
. ;., .; . ,.,
,.-!-;.~· 
~ • •l:0-,­
.11 . ,r•):\::,.\:. '•. ,,f{~ 
,{ : 
, . 

the cossacks:1917 
from our fence we watched them in the early morning stirring the still air with their dust we saw their locust hooves moving like a huge cloud of bees across the steppes the wind increased an ominous chill in the air closer they came rank upon rank proud sabres sheathed faces marked with skull-bone masks of the dead passing before us in the silence of the sun and then gone in the temple gods are eating brave men into air 
-John Stupp 
The Scholastic 
To be born, to create, to love, 
to win at games is to be born 
to live in a time of peace. 
But war teaches us to lose everything 
and become what we are not. 
It all becomes a question of style. 
-Albert Camus 
:'·: 1 ~-'• 7 · 
t : .:;,~ -~ ~ ' ; ... ~ -;' .~;. 
·: ·­


Insidious Normality ,,
! ... ~ ."' . 
Alas, my brothers, Helen did not walk upon the ramparts, 
she whom you cursed was but the phantom and the shadow thrown of a reflection. 
From the mythology of war flows war. The idols placed upon the altar of the spirit of man are the most profound roots of the present. The present is crisis. Unless the roots are altered, the future will follow in the same mode. At this point in history, that implies no future. The heroism of The Iliad, that first great legend of war, records the destruction of Greek and Trojan civilizations; they dealt only with the war of the sword. The present deals with the war of cataclysm, of napalm, of germ, of uncontrolled strafing, of nuclear holocaust. 
Examine the idols in this mythology that began with Troy. A less heralded legend also recounts that war made great in the poetry of Homer; and this legend tells that the cherished posses­sion for which the Greeks destroyed, the beautiful Helen, did not walk the ramparts of Troy, had been transported to Egypt by the 
· god Zeus. Understand that the Greeks destroyed for a phantom, an illusion. The potency of the truth within this legend must re­place the romantic zealousness of that other mythology that sees ariy honor in war, that sees anything but futility there. 
And Helen, as happens to all causes of suffering, was cursed by the dying. Yet she, as the legen:d goes, was but "the shadow thrown of a reflection." She was not the cause of a man lifting his arm to sever the head of another, the cause lay within him, reflected upon the walls of Troy. 
The present is crisis. United States foreign policy, in lndo­China and analagous situations, pursues a phantom grail. The elements that conjure that phantom lie within the conjurer, who need not carry the armaments of war, those who see the phantom as real, as sacrosanct. Further, this nation has involved itself in violence continuously through this century. The element of war has wound its way into full acceptance in human culture; its prongs pierce all realms of the present society. The course of any normal events contributes to our war, because those idols legend­ized with Troy are firmly entrenched in normality as we know it. The present is crisis; it is the point where the peoples of this nation must face the potency of this truth. Immediate withdrawal of U.S. troops from Inda-China is essential, but it is an ephemeral resolution. It will not preclude repetition; repetition is almost insured. Usurpation of the idols demands absolute halt to mes­merization in normality, regardless of how fine that normality may be. Thus, a student, a people's strike. Simply because as stu­dents we contribute to the path our nation takes. 
To face realities: we are a powerless people, disenfranchised, to ignore for a moment the dubious power of the franchise. Powerless; yet our normality is as great an underpinning for horror as the sighting of a village from ten thousand feet. If a strike affects national policy, a monumental victory. But ephemeral. The creation of an alternative, of new idols, a new mythology, these are the responsibilities of the less totally en­snared, the less fully mesmerized, those in the privileged position where rejection of idols is possible. The urgency of this attempt lies in the fact that we do not fight war of the sword, or of terrify­ing modern weaponry only, but of less easily recognized forms of violent oppression as well. 
. . . . ·--:--. . · :; 
.. 
. . ,,_ . 

Suite for R. H. 
Prologue: "Sometimes human bones, that must have been at times before many feet from the top of the dune, are exposed by the winds. At the mouth of the Devil River, in Alpena County, an entire cemetery with large numbers of human skeletons was ex­posed. The same phenomenon happened at Cross Village and at other places." 
Land: 
gives back the snow 
it can no longer hold; 
picnic tables have been leaned vertically 
against trees to keep 
the snow from settling there; 
we drive down a dirt road 
that wanders toward 
the lake's shore, toward the edge of this bowl, 
carved and filled how many thousands 
of years ago by ice moving slowly south to melt in Indiana. 

The frozen water in rough, high piles now circles 
Lake Michigan. 
It has been this way (exactly) since 
Time: 
These sand hills that dance with the water as it moves were once the home of fishers and hunters. 
Here, where the Devil River loses itself in Lake Michigan, the Miami built with bark their homes, they took for their families from these marshes and conifer woods: birds, 
aquatic animals. 
Each winter they hid deeper in these hills from winds that shift the sand and sting, and drive toward shore · lake waves now dead piled white, & waiting to be born again. Potawatomi, the peoples called them­
selves: Pokagon. Miami. In villages that touched the lake they hunted & fished, ate, lived ritual lives, fought wars, hated, they lay with women. 
In homes built within these hills they raised their children. 
They taught them to celebrate these 
Distances: 
We lay beneath two blankets, beneath the trees that have stood here watching this ritual as now one Annamese mah lies beside his love beneath tal I trees, beneath the oblong shadow of death disseminated mechanically by other Asians, by Americans. He must 
raise his children beneath 
the death we daily bring him. 
He has not known for one hundred years the safety that shades us now, yet 
he knows the distances 
within which love must move he knows 
it makes us one, all these peoples, 
all of us who 
I ive inside these rituals 
and eat of these dreams for our children's 
peace, 

who Iie beside someone to celebrate 
a mirrored Michigan winter 
Sun: 
moves ·1ower now. Settling into the mounds of ice, thrown :·---~--;.)_1_ 
' -..,;

toward us by this gorged & cratered mirror .• it . ··~,,. gives birth to shadows advancing toward these high sand hills. 
We are in shadows. Planning for a time when the wars will end.
i 
l ' 
The ice that circles this shore will last long after we have gone long after we have passed into these distances long after the fires of Asia have burned us all. 
-Steve Brion 

Tt,e Form of Dissent 
This is the first time in its history that the United States has been forced to consider seriously the rightness of its actions. We are a very moralistic nation, so the shock has been severe. Opinion is polarized, and the intellectual community finds it­self at one pole, facing the industrial and current political establishments at the other. The consider­able tension that exists between these elements of the society extends beyond the question of the war: they oppose each other over most important ques­tions. Since the intellectual community's ability to effect things physically is limited, it must impress its feelings upon those who do possess that ability, the polis and its leaders. 
Because of the great tensions working now, the usual means of communication, such as drafting statements and holding demonstrations, have failed to impress, and ~o a stronger means must be found. A University strike seems to answer that impera­tive, but at the same time it can imperil the com­munity which uses it. The problem is this. The tone, of Agnew'$ anti-intellectual pronouncements, and the way that tone has been generally applauded, suggest that some of the forces behind the political establishment oppose even the existence of a gen­uine intellectual community. The community should be aware of this pressure against it, and of the strength of the structures from which that opposi­tion proceeds. The community isn't usually both­ered by the pressure because it is sustained by its own solid structures, which are those of the Univer­sity. But when those structures are abandoned, as they are likely to be during a strike, the balance is destroyed, and the community becomes vulnerable. Perhaps that is what happened at Kent State. 
The forms of the University have advantage: they mean education, and education has come to be esteemed by almost everyone in the country. When dissent occurs in conjunction with something so valuable as education -when it occurs within the system -the public is willing to listen to and tolerate what it otherwise might not. But when edu­cative functions cease, or even when the public thinks they have ceased, dissent loses the advan­tage of the conjunction, and public response be­comes negative. 
For these reasons, University structure is im­portant. Of course finding an effective means of communication is important, too, but whatever that means is, it should recognize the need for a durable structure. The duration and form of a strike should be planned very carefully, and those of us involved should proceed with the idea of incorporating the energies now displayed into the University system. It can be changed to accommodate them. 


The Scholastic 

~­~­
May 8, 1970 

The Mylai Ode 
Thank God William Calley I am still breathing 
I 
have come to remeasure the unvarying distance between two stars to remeasure 
my breath By some grace I have paths 
endless about me fed by streams of cool water: to remeasure my breath and dispose my prayers, if I pray, my thanks made to no one Thanks to God William Calley I am still breathing here first to dispose of love 
and your place, William Calley. * If any man 
William Calley is lucky enough in prizes or wealth and doesn't let it go to his head he is fit to be wedded 

to his townsmen's praises. 
I call the people of the city: 

Honor him, be happy and rejoice.-longer. Remember still, I say: Don't flirt with twisted minds but honor him and rejoice, sing of him, I sing of him, in return for his glorious doings. Thus the first measure 
of my breath. * Then I 
found out that an act like murder could be done 
by just about anybody So Michael Bernhardt. * He has given us 
iife together William Calley sanctions you holiest of men William Calley Water is best of all and the light alone at night shines more than all a rich man's money William Calley Water is gone You are receiving fire It is hot 
William Calley Ernest Medina Michael Bernhardt Heat flames down upon the kiss You are receiving fire Flames down draws you toward it The second measure of my breath tells this: the zone is hot and is consumed by momentum. Water is vaporized. My breath grows dry. The paths once fed by streams of cool water continue but the streams give no reflections now tar, William Calley, black bitumen it is the rot of the ice age You are receiving fire. The zone is hot William Calley Water is best of all Heat is drawn to heat consumes the space between. My third measure: after the heat has fulfilled itself I am breathing bitumen. 
Michael Patrick O'Connor 

May 8, 1970 
To Reflect & To Decide 
It is difficult, perhaps impossible, for any man to know what response is appropriate in the face of an intolerable breach of what he believes is right. And yet, as Father David Burrell offered in October, "it is our glory as men precisely to reflect and to de­cide." Today, the words of the prophet Zephania are worth considering: 
Woe to her that is rebellious and defiled the oppressing city! She listens to no voice, She accepts no correction. She does not trust in the Lord, She does not draw near to her God. 
In the face of such a nation, a man must live and respond. He must understand his fellows and meet them where they are. In faith, we offer th is re­sponse: 
President Richard Nixon 
The White House 
Washington, D.C. 
Dear President Nixon: 

Enclosed please find our draft cards. Please consider our reasons for sending them to you. We acknowledge the complexities of your making de­cisions for an entire nation. We acknowledge, too, that democracy demands that each citizen take part in, or at least be represented in the decisions which determine his fate and the fate of his fel­lowmen. In refusing to recognize the authority of our elected representatives in the Senate and the House of Representatives, you have denied us the rights upon which our democratic obligation to so­ciety rests. Your decision to escalate the war into Cambodia is not our decision, nor is it our repre­sentatives' decision. It is your decision, and be­cause of your abandonment of the Constitution, it is your decision alone -it can in no way be con­strued as a decision representative of or binding upon your countrymen. Your decision would have meaning only in a totalitarian state. We refuse to accept America as such a dictatorship, and act accordingly. We believe the continued merciless killing in Southeast Asia is immoral. Now you have made America's part in that fighting illegal as well. As we realize that foreign polio, decisions are not made in a frame of reference of morality, we con­front you legally: we cannot obey the laws of a nation whose leader prostitutes the basis of those laws, i.e., the Constitution. Please keep our draft cards until such time as your decision to continue and expand the war becomes a decision of the representatives most of us were denied the right to help elect. Obviously, we have no pretensions to power; rather what we ask of you is justice for all. We send our draft cards to you not in defiance, but in personal efforts for peace. 

{/:~}\·. 
v< ~ '> ' ,.., ' >' 
i -~ -• ,, 
,'; .. ~ ~ ~ :·:~~..-:·-­



Bf~fi~gJ:}}{1)!i~,l~I;:;;1}:li 

Trains 
These days pass without rain, and I no longer welcome a train's dry thunder as a voice of April, nor do I rejoice as we often did, to see its wheel sparks burning in the dead siding brush. 
It moves out, carrying soldiers who were my friends. Soon they will fight across new ground, where the enemy is boiling and without trains. My friends and I lose each other when their soldiers'· hair becomes like his, a cage of fire. 
-Rory Holscher 

. .. .. 
... 
'
... 
I o . 

•., C 
0 


