OFFICIAL DISTRIBUTORS OF
THE NEW REGULATION
U. S. NAVY UNIFORMS
We carry complete stocks, at all times, of the new regulation uniforms, furnishings, caps, braid, insignia and devices.
PRICES ESTABLISHED BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
Commissioned Officers Service Blue $40
Aviation Winter Work Uniforms $50
Commissioned Officers Overcoat $50
Commissioned Officers and Warrant Officers Raincoat-Overcoat (with removable wool lining) $37.50
No Charge for Minor Alterations—
Other Alteration Charges as Approved by Navy Depa/rtmehf
MAX ADLER
“ON THE CORNER" . . . Michigan at. Washington .
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Viturus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Oliver Coffee Shop, Sunday, 8:10 . p.m.—The war is nearly over. Our favorite blond is tipping her last coke for the week-end, Deadly Dudley has collapsed in booth two, and we are hunched over our portable trying to make that Sunday night deadline — for Friday’s paper.
The world’s largest crystal ball is still spinning before our eyes, but we’re still alive. And the strawberry blond in the next booth is dabbing at the mustard on her chin. It goes well with that blond • hair and strawberry nose, she ought to leave it there. But, then, she isn’t anything to what we saw at the victory dance. They still grow ’em tall and rangy in the Ozarks.
But enough of last night. We’ve a deadline to meet, and Bob L. is probably tearing his carrot locks waiting for this valuable copy. The management has graciously lent us a slightly used fourthfloor . waste-basket, into which we will now reach for our first item.
A.W.O.L.
Those sad lads from DePauw are at it again: This time they chased after a forest fire, did their bit to put it out, then hopped on a truck for home. Strange, they thought, that all their truck companions should be dressed alike. But they rode on unquestioningly and soon passed through a large gate which closed quickly behind them. “All out for the Indiana State Penal Farm,” and the truck was unloaded.
They had forgotten to take midnights too!
THOUGHT OF THE WEAK
The fire in some girls’ eyes is quenched by the water on their brains.
THINGS ARE TOUGH DEPT.
We would herewith like to sympathize with Pat Canine, a man whose persever-- ance is more than we can understand. Pat is a student at St. Mary’s College, California, and he has been one since 1930. But they won’t give him a degree. Pat started out by taking the wrong high school subjects, and for the past 12 years he has been taking the wrong . college subjects, at least he hasn’t been getting the right credits.
When questioned about his predica
ment, Pat’s only comment was: “But look at all the algebra I’ve got.”
Said officials: “Don’t worry, Pat, you will make a good night-watchman.”
KENTUCKY CULTURE
The census taker was inquiring of the mountaineer how many children he had.
“Four,” was the answer, “and, by gosh, that’s all I’m gonna have.”
“Why?” asked the census taker.
“I’ve just read in this here almanac that every fifth child born in the world is a Chinaman.”—Queen’s U. Journal
THIS IS WAR DEPT.
They’ve got a training table for blood donors over at Swarthmore in Pa. The school is doubling for a blood bank for the duration, and the boys and girls want to be in top condition. Of course they work in shifts, but the more you give the better you eat.
The way they bleed ’em at N. D. some of the boys can barely make it from the caf line to the table.
HOME SWEET HOME
Henry answering the phone in a high voice: “I don’t know; call the weather bureau.”
“Who was that?” asked his wife.
Henry: “Oh, some fellow asking if the coast was clear.”
FIRST AID
The Daily Californian reports it about one of the school’s first-aid course grads.
Her story is: “The other day I came upon an awful accident. The man was pinned under his car and his head was bleeding profusely, but I knew just what to do. I put my head between my knees to keep from fainting.”
Just cover the body with a sheet next time.
WILLIE AGAIN
Our favorite blond has been scribbling on the menu for some time now, and it all adds up to another Willie verse.
Willie in a thirst for gore
Nailed his sister to the door.
Mother said in humor quaint,
. “Willie, stop, you’ll spoil the paint.” .
Robert D. LeMense, Editor
Daniel DowNEY............Manapinp Editor Ted Weber_______________Campus Editor
Bill Reynolds___________Sports Editor
Jack Denniston......................Admin. Editor Robert Lonergan..........Promotion
Walter Krawiec________._______—Art Editor Al Schaefer.----------Staff Photographer Gail Fitch, Jr---------Advertising
Rev. C. M. Carey, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertis- -ing by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue. New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame, Address all manuscript to Editor, 267 Alumni Hall or 121 Administration Bldg.,. Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p. m.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS
Operetta "Patience" _________— 7
Woelfle Threatened _____________12
Jeffers at Commencement ________13
ADMINISTRATION
Centenary Mass „.l----------   5
"I Have Work to Do"—Sorin_____16
SPORTS
Dillon- Interhall Champs _____—18
Irish Meet Trojans__________  19
Basketball Begins ----------- 21
FEATURES
College Parade ....___________ 3
The Week ____________--------.— .4
Telescope -------------------L—- 6
Man About Campus_________1-----11
Short Shots -------.-----------124
The Ears Have It-----.----------.25
Strictly Instrumental ______—..27
Introducing -------------.„„.„28
Pressbox Splinters ____.29
TOP OF THE WEEK
“A pretty girl is like a melody.”
OLD KING COAL
Corn a-la-King is still struggling with Strictly Incidental. Incidental because we could get along without it. Mr. King-forgot to tell the whole story about his little sojourn to the McAlpin two weeks ago. Frank swaggered in at about 11:30, took one look at the minimum, and staggered out at 11:35. He was just a little peeved when the head waiter took a look at his bank-roll and directed him to the nearest automat. Save the hot air for the French horn, Francis. It is rumored that Strictly Accidental will be the guest of Mrs. Reilly’s shopper’s guide in the near future. We don’t think that Frank is absent minded, maybe a little on edge, but when last seen in the caf he was pouring syrup down his back and scratching his pancakes.
JUNIOR COMMANDOS
The N.R.O.T.C. lads have been taking quite a pasting lately. The latest means of torture t is making the lads walk off their demerits on Sunday afternoons behind Rockne Memorial. It’s really nothing new. A lot of lads have been doing the same thing for years a little farther back. (We aren’t allowed to mention that “place” any more.) Each Thursday afternoon finds the R.O.T.C. boys wandering around the quadrangle looking for some unsung hero, in the Irish Pennant, named Chief Jablonski. Jab, we call him “Jab” for short, (in fact, we could call him “Shorty” for short), is referred to by the potential sailors as “Jab.” In true navy style, the R.O.T.C. Ball will be held in the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Oliver this year. Special bowling alleys will be constructed in the lobby to make the girls feel at home. Midst.cries of: “Set ’em up,” (we mean'pins), the balls will gp rolling along. Mr. King at this point would probably say: “Let’s get on the ball.” For shame, Francis!
❖
YOU'RE AN N.D. MAN IF:
You shave for a date; clean your teeth twice a day; see your girl friend twice a year; never use a pay phone; come from either New York or Chicago; twirl a key chain till it breaks, then wait for the -little lady to buy.you another; ask for a “blow” every five minutes; always need.
another guy for a cab; walk to breakfast with your hands in your, pockets; call the mail man when he doesn’t leave a letter; are always at the end of the line in the caf.
LA DE DA
There’s a course taught here known as Davis’ Dollar Day, or, How to Smoke a Pipe in the Classroom and Get Away With It. . . . Notice has been given to all stockholders that the Bookstore has declared its annual dividends. Teachers in universities all over the country are busy changing the dates and the colors of the covers so a revised edition of their texts can be published. . . . The College Parade really started a new cheer.
EVOLUTION
In the caf it can be truly said that one man’s meat is another man’s croquette.
A WEEK AGO
Dear Teddy:
I wanted to write sooner, Teddy, my little honey bear. Get it? Teddy bear! 0, ain’t I the Scream? You should hear me do a take off on the five o’clock whistle. The Prom was intoxicating and I had such an excruciating time! Your room was really very pleasant—after we all got breathing together. The snack in the cafeteria was delicious, too, but why do they tie the meat to the tray? Mine hardly struggled. Wasn’t that pip rally a pep-Get it? Ha, Ha! I feel so gay. Almost as gay as the night paw cut off my legs and called me baldy. Paw is always get-ting his jokes mixed. Well, I have to gallop off now, . It’s my turn to pull the plow. I thought it was cute when the students gave a “He’s a man” for little old me.
Yours till the cows get out of the house. They came home right after my last letter.	Belinda.
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
“You wait here. I’ll sign in and be right back.”
HOMECOMING
There was about as much campus enthusiasm for the Northwestern game. as “Fearless Fosdick” doing a Maypole dance. Sorin took it easy for the .second year in a row. Tradition isn’t the only
thing those lads are steeped in. Dillon was the only hall to show some real interest in the decorations, though attempts u were made by Alumni, Zahm, Walsh, St. Ed’s, and Breen-Phillips. Evidently the Brownson and Carroll boys were too busy doing a Harry Nicodemus on their water-pipes and Cavanaugh, — well there is a rumor about being patriotic, but it’s only a rumor. Tsk, Tsk! Two Walsh wolves were kind enough to pose for their exhibit. It’s rumored that some girls put the snatch on them though and that they are to be presented as trophies at the x next horse show over “there.” Man, what restraint!
v	A
ANIMAL CRACKERS
He’s a bare.
Who’s a bare?
He’s a skinny bear._ Bearskin, etc.
BETWEEN 18 G 19
. Oswald wasn’t playing post office, and the postman didn’t ring once, or twice, but three times. Oswald rolled out of bed, rubbed his eyes, looked at the clock, and dashed for the door. There it lay on the cold, dirty floor, right next to the tooth- x brush he dropped the night before while he was scrubbing his molars after lights. ’Twas a letter. It read: “Happy birthday, dear Oswald.” It was signed: “Local draft board No. 314.” Oswald felt patri-otic. He rigidly snapped his big toe to attention. Now it wasn’t Oswald the student; not Oswald the playboy, referred
. to at old N.D. as “The Dirty Stayout”; ’i* no sir, it was Oswald the fierce, Oswald the magnificent. He wasn’t afraid. He looked again at the piece of white paper, held his chin high, glared into the mirror right over the dried up shaving-cream, and said: “E.R.C., here I come.” Welcome, brother Oswald!
HAVE you NOTICED?
That “place” hasn’t been mentioned ' once in this column. Restraint, or restrained?
RAMBLING
A lot of college lads come from poor families. The only reason the families are poor though is because they’re sending the lads to college. . . . Notre Dame men are notoriously known as lady killers; They starve them to death.. . . One fran-tic mother was afraid her little Willy .was in an insane asylum when she re-, ceived her 'first letter from Notre Dame.
He wrote: “They serve soup to nuts.” Oh, Mr. King! . . .
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Tough apples, old boy!
4
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing	,
at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 77	NOVEMBER 27, 1942	No. 8
Notre Dame's Founding Commemorated With Solemn Pontifical Mass Yesterday
-
National Hookup Carries Sermon by Msgr. Sheen
On Nov. 25, 1842 a weary band of French religious arrived in the wilderness of Northern Indiana and muttered the prayer that gave birth to the University of Notre Dame.
Notre Dame commemorated that event in honor of the Founder, Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., and his six devoted Holy Cross Brothers this Thursday, Thanksgiving Day, with a solemn Pontifical Mass in Sacred Heart Church.
Indiana and Notre Dame Church dignitaries donned the new centennial vestments for this formal opening of the local religious ceremonies of the Centenary Celebration. Amid the splendor and the liturgy of the Church; with the massed voices of Moreau Seminary and the Notre Dame Glee Club all under the direction of Rev* George C. Hager, C.S.C.; and with the stately main altar decked with appropriate flowers and glowing candles, the Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, celebrated the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass. He was assisted by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, who acted as the assistant priest. The Deacons of Honor were the Rev. Bernard J. Ill, C.S.C., and the Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C. The Deacon of the Mass was the Rev. Joseph Maguire, C.S.C. and the sub-Deacon was the Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C. Master of Ceremonies was the Rev. William Connor, C.S.C. and the assistant Master of Ceremonies was the Rev. Leo Gorman, C.S.C. Chaplains attending Bishop Noll were the Rev. Patrick J. Carroll; C.S.C. and the Rev. Lawrence Broughal,. C.S.C. Assisting Bishop Ritter as chaplains were the Rev. William Bolger, C.S.C. and the Rev. Louis Kelley, C.S.C.
The Blue network of the National Broadcasting Company carried the sermon of the Right Rev. Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen^ D.D. of Catholic University of America, and the outstanding pulpit orator of the day, to the nation; His ser
mon: “Keeping Faith With God and America” was delivered with all of Monsignor Sheen’s eloquence and perfect diction.
After the Mass the Most Rev. Joseph E. Ritter, D.D., Bishop of Indianapolis, dedicated the. commemorative plaque of the Centenary in the vestibule of the Church. The plaque, designed and sculptured by Eugene Kormendi, Budapest artist and sculptor, will hang permanently in the vestibule of Sacred Heart Church.
Following this there was a procession, composed of the student body, the student representatives, the lay faculty and the clergy, to the monument of the founders at the site of the old Log Chapel. This was near the exact spot where Father Badin, first priest ordained in the United States, had his parish; and where Father Badin is buried. Here the Very Rev. Albert F. Cousineau, C.S.C., superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, conducted the service for the deceased members of the faculty;
The Magnificent Solemnity of the Mass in Sacred Heart Church
as well as praying for Father Sorin and his faithful helpers. The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C. concluded the ceremonies by giving a short talk, in the for of an eulogy, praising the founder of the University.
During the coming year other events commemorating Notre Dame’s founding and Centenary will take place. Included among these will be a series of meetings of national and regional societies, a gala music festival, a reunion of Sisters of the various orders and congregations, and many conferences on current affairs. The executive committees for the Centenary, headed by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice president of Notre Dame, is in charge of the arrangements for the various affairs.
A list of the executive committee, as well as those serving on the various Centenary Committees for Commencement, September, 1943 follows:
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE FOR CENTENARY
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, chairman.	.	.
. Rev. William Carey, C.S.C., assistant to Father Cavanaugh. ’ .
Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Rev. John Lane, C.S.C., assistant to . Father Carrico. :
5
Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C.; Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C.; Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C.
Rev. Francis Cavanaugh, C.S.C.; Rev. Janies D. Trahey, C.S.C.; Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C.; Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C.
Rev. Kerndt Healy, C.S.C.; Rev. Janies W. Connerton, C.S.C., secretary; Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C., assistant to Fr. Healy.
Rev. Bernard J. Ill, C.S.C., budget; Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C.; Rev. Arthur Hope, C.S.C.
COMMITTEES FOR CENTENARY
COMMENCEMENT, SEPT., 1943
Committee on Invitations and Literature
Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., chairman.
Rev. John J. Lane, C.S.C.; Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C.; Rev. Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C.; Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., Brother Justin, C.S.C.
Mr. Frank J. O’Malley, Mr. Henry F. Staunton, Mr. Joseph S. Petritz, Mr. James E. Armstrong, Mr. Paul R. Byrne.
Committee on Academic Affairs
Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., chairman.
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C.; Rev. Henry J. Bolger, C.S.C.; Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C.
Mr. Karl Menger, Mr. Henry B. Fron-ing, Mr. Edward G. Mahin, Mr. James A. Reyniers.
Committee on Arrangements in Field House and for Student Participation
Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., chairman.
Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C.; Mr. J. Arthur Haley, Mr. James Armstrong, Mr. Herbert Jones.
Committee for Alumni Participation
Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., chairman.
Rev. Bernard J. Ill, C.S.C.; Mr. James E. Armstrong; Mr. Paul I. Fenlon; Mr. Clarence E. Manion; Mr. Clarence Harding, Honorable Harry F. Kelly.
Committee for Reception and Housing
Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., chairman.	-
Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C.; Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C.; Brother Patrick, C.S.C.; Mr. Clarence E. Manion.
Mr. J. Arthur Haley, Dean J. E. McCarthy, Mr. James Armstrong, Mr. Herbert Jones.
Committee for Sacred Services
Rev. Kerndt M. Healy, C.S.C., chairman.
Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C.; Rev. William R; Connor, C.S.C.; Rev. Leo Gorman, C.S.C.; Rev. G. Carlos Hager, C.S.C.	.
Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C.; Brother Boniface, C.S.C.; Brother Crispin, C.S.C.
6
COMMITTEES FOR ARRANGING
OBSERVANCE OF NOV. 26, 1942
Committee in Charge of Pontifical Mass, Unveiling, and Procession and Ceremony at First College Building
Co - Chairmen: Rev. Kerndt Healy, C.S.C., and Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C.
Rev. William Connor, C.S.C.; Rev. Leo Gorman, C.S.C.; Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C.
Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C.; Brother Boniface, C.S.C.; Brother Crispin, C.S.C.
Committee in Charge of NBC Broadcast Nov. 25
Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., chairman.
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C.; Rev. Arthur Hope, C.S.C.; Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C.; Rev. J. Powers, C.S.C.
Mr. Pedtke, Mr. Birder, Mr. Haley, Mr. Jones.
Fall "Scrip" Scheduled
To Appear in December
Clad in the rusts of autumn, the fall issue of Scrip is scheduled to appear about Dec. 15. Reviews of the latest faculty books and new types of art display will characterize the centennial issue.
The publication will present more student art work than in the past. A pencil point sketch of renaissance architecture —the Palace of Fontainebleau by Joseph John Sherer — as also his steel plate engraving, will be mounted on smooth paper inserts. The pen and ink sketches of George Barrett will be continued.	-
Summer After Summer by Richard Sullivan and The Road to Vichy by Yves Simon are among the prominent books by Notre Dame professors to occupy the review section. This section will be devoted entirely to recent books authored by faculty members.
John J. Gilligan, editor, emphasized the fact that Scrip will pursue its established policy: giving expression to student thought in both fiction and essay. In this issue, he stated, the professors also will be given a voice—through their reviewed publications. “Scrip is a means of getting young ideas into print, a sounding board of thought on the campus,”. the editor explained.
Among the outstanding features of the issue will be the poems and story of J. H. Johnston, and stories by Kelly Cook, John D. Hunt, and George Kelly— all members of the editorial staff. Essays on war and peace by Edward Meagher, on Catholic Action . and • the University by Al Sommer, and on the Entertainment Industry by Robert Cullen, as well as freshman characteriza-tidns, are other highlights. . , ... ’ >
.	—F. J. Pequigney
TELESCOPE	g
George Bariscillo	r
FRIDAY, Nov. 27: “One week ago tonight-------”; Stratoliners to Southern t Cal game leave the South Bend airport every hour on the hour.
SATURDAY, Nov. 28: Southern Cal.-N.D. game from Los Angeles via > WSBT teletype re-play; “News and Previews” with Vail Pischke, WSBT, • 12:30-12:45 p.m.; Downey, Cooney, and the N.D. Quiz Show from the	f
campus studios over WSBT, 5-5:20	>1
p.m.; WSBT certainly “made” this	&
week’s Telescope; Introducing: The	t
Notre Dame 1942-43 basketball	>
squad in the season’s opening tilt	£
against Ball State in the Field House, 8 p.m.; Henry Fonda, Joan ( Leslie, and Olivia deHaviland on Washington Hall screen in The Male 'J Animal, also “March on America”	j
and News.	|
SUNDAY, Nov.	29:	“Notre	Dame	I
Forum of the	Air,”	WSBT,	10:05-	1
10:30 a.m. with William “Senator” Bodden moderating, plus a special $ guest; Afternoon Tea Dance at St. -* Mary’s postponed—we wonder why?
MONDAY, Nov. 30: “N.D. Sportscast,” Lee Raymond and Bill Boss at the mike, 3:30-3:45 pan., WSBT; Student-Professor meeting with Mr. J Ervin, of the Biology department, at 7:30 p,m., in the Rockne Lounge, j ■ Al Sommer, promoter; Opening night in Washington Hall: The	I
Notre Dame Savoyards presenting	a
Gilbert and Sullivan’s comic opera,	i
Patience, at 8:15 p.m.	f
TUESDAY, Dec. 1: The Last Lap; > Patience continues in Washington Hall — performance for Navy V-7	’
and R.O.T.C. only.
WEDNESDAY, Dec. 2: Commerce Forum election of officers; Economic Round Table joint meeting with St. • Mary’s at Hoffmann Hotel (Economic Round Table members only) ; An- <*4 . other performance of Patience for
Navy V-7 and R.O.T.C.
THURSDAY, Dec. 3: Wrangler’s membership meeting and election of offi-. cers; Students impatiently await “i
Patience, see it at 8:15 p.m.	u
FRIDAY, Dec. 4: First Friday; “Notre j
-Dame Musical Show,” 3:30-3:45	<
p.m., WSBT; Latest date for sub-.mittihg manuscripts for National Intercollegiate Radio Prize Debate (see _ bulletins) ; dosing tonight in Wash- i
; ington.Hall: Patience; “The Grand
‘ ' Exodus” to Chicago, begins; odds at J 7-5 for no classes tomorrow.	«
"Patience" Opens Monday Night;
Five Shows in Washington Hall
AL SOMMER
Monday night Notre Dame and the Navy will begin swaying for five days to the lilting hits from Gilbert and Sullivan’s operetta, “Patience.” This is the fourth Gilbert and Sullivan presentation on the campus, and every indication ,is that Mr. Cecil Birder, the director of the series, has scored another hit. Sunday night the cast will hold dress rehearsal, and Monday will swing into the first performance for the Community, faculty, students, and guests. They will repeat for this group Thursday and Friday; on Tuesday and Wednesday the cast will perform before the Navy and the campus N.R.O.T.C. unit.
Owen Donley, a freshman will play Colonel Coverley. Owen is from Sioux City, Iowa, and lives in Breen-Phillips hall. He did some solo work in high school and is studying voice at Notre Dame for the first time. In the role of Major Murgatroyd is Herbert Clarke, a junior from Chicago. Herb had roles in “H.M.S. Pinafore” and “Trial By Jury” when they were performed here.
William Murrin from Butler, Pa., will play the Solicitor, which for him, incidentally, is his seventh Gilbert and Sullivan role. He is a senior politics major. Lieutenant the Duke of Dunstable is ably portrayed by William Brady, another Gilbert and Sullivan veteran. Bill
“One, two, three, etc." Background men look interested.
is from Oak Park, a Cavanaugh junior. He was soloist with the Glee Club at the Oak Park High school and has continued as glee club soloist at the University. He is studying voice at present.
Milenko Zorovich of Flushing, N. Y., plays the role of Reginald Bunthorne. “Mike” has played many a Gilbert and Sullivan role prior to this one. He is a sophomore commerce student, and plays with Veet Cappello’s Cavaliers. Kevin O’Toole, a senior from Chicago, is cast in the role of Archibald Grosvenor. Kevin stars with the glee club and is in the arts and letters college.
The title role is in the able hands of Miss Mary Francis Kabel. Miss Kabel is at present attending St. Mary’s. She is soloist with the St. James Choir and the Studebaker Glee Club. Previously she played in Notre Dame’s presentation of “The Gondoliers.”
Miss June Anderson portrays the Lady Jane. Miss Anderson graduated from Hanover College and studied under Maurice G. Ivins in Chicago for five years. This is her fourth Gilbert, and Sullivan role. She is starred in “Rud-digore” with the Alumni Glee Club in South Bend and played on the campus in Trial by Jury and Pinafore. Miss Agnes Haney is the Lady Angelo. This,
too, is her fourth Gilbert and Sullivan portrayal. She attends Riley High School and is studying voice.- Her grandfather, Damus Paul, taught music on the Notre Dame campus for 35 years.
Libretti to facilitate the appreciation of the operetta will be sold for 20 cents to students and faculty. These libretti contain the complete score of “Patience.” The Notre Dame Symphony orchestra is being prepared by Director Frederic Ingersoll.
This operetta is a satire on the aesthetic cult which centered about Swinburne and Wilde during the 19th century. As usual, the operetta will be highlighted by some of the inimitable Gilbert and Sullivan songs.
Dillon Again Captures Hall Decoration Award
Last year Dillon Hall, with its giant trojan horse, barely nosed into first place for hall decorations over such opponents as Morrissey’s “modern, design” and Badin’s “plug.” This year Dillon again captured the decoration award, but with virtually no opposition.
Spirit and student initiative seemed lacking last Friday, the day before the “homecoming” game. The Dillon hall sophomores were diligently erecting their mighty shamrock, but a quick survey over the rest of the campus showed little of the hustle of former years.
Ventura Gonzalez, a Dillon Hall sophomore from Dallas, Texas, was the main factor in. the winning, hall’s . elaborate design. Though an engineering- student, he showed remarkable artistic talent, painting the figure of the football player and the crushed wildcat. He was also instrumental in erecting' the decoration. The sophomores cleverly worked in the centennial year by completing the giant shamrock with 1842 on one arm and 1942 on the other. For capturing the decoration title again this year, Dillon Hall will be given a “smoker” by the Student Council.
It was a toss up for second' place honors. Walsh, St. Edward’s, and Zahm all had decorations in the same class. The juniors from Walsh had a forest scene, with a wildcat and a dog circling for a fight. The dog, which evidently was supposed to represent Clashmore Mike, looked much more like Dan Dunn’s “Wolf.” St. Edward’s had a model “T”
7
Ford, representing the “T” formation, dragging a wildcat on the end of a long rope. Zahm’s freshmen cooked up a domestic idea and pictured a wildcat being dropped into a boiling pot for an Irish stew. Alumni Hall came through with an out-of-proportion figure of a football hero de-whiskering a wildcat. The other hall that was decorated was Breen-Phillips, with the centennial featured in “T” style.
Sorin came through for the second straight year with no decoration. Last year a pepper shaker was ironically displayed on one of the towers with the sign, “We’ve got the pepper.” This year they forgot to swipe a shaker from the dining hall and hence had no display to offer in campus competition.
Father Muckenthaler’s men in Cavanaugh decided to put their decoration money into war stamps in an effort to boost themselves from third-last place in the campus war stamp standings. The Brownson and Carroll men deciding the halls looked well enough completed the list of four out of ten halls deficient in decorations.
Walsh Continues to Lead
K. of C. War Stamp Drive
Despite football games, proms, victory dances, and just dances, the war bond campaign sponsored by the Knights of Columbus and headed by Tom Rolfs of Cavanaugh keeps rolling along. Every Thursday, chairmen canvass the halls, and usually by some method, clever or otherwise, manage to sell enough stamps to keep the second front going. Total sales are usually in the neighborhood of S300, but this is not satisfactory to the campaign leaders. When interviewed Rolfs said that “there is no logical reason which should keep the weekly sales under $500. If every student were to put 20 cents into war stamps each week we
Father Ryan's Stronghold Keeps Ahead of Field
COMING
Watch the SCHOLASTIC'S next issue for the detailed description of the newly formed Red Lonergan Rangers, a licensed salvage group.
could make our goal with plenty to spare. The individual student should consider himself responsible for his own quota and not take the point of view of thinking that the fellow across the corridor will take care of his share. In that manner the quota will be reached and perhaps surpassed by the extra purchases of some students.”
Thus far in the individual hall sales, the gentlemen of Walsh, led by Jim Danaher, are the only group to hit their quota consistently. Every week the average sale of this hall is graphed on the bulletin board and it is given in comparison with the records of other halls. This gives competition, and the Walsh boys like nothing better. Twenty cents per man each week is excellent proof of this.
The Decoration committee for the Northwestern week-end used the money collected from their hall to buy war bonds. Then they held a giant raffle among the hall members and the winner took over the bonds. It is just possible that this move will hit at the spirit of Cavanaugh and make them conscious of Walsh. If another rivalry can be developed in the war bond field between these two natural rivals the fire should get so hot that the Huddle will have to close shop at noon because of a scarcity of money.
One of the best arguments on the campus for not buying stamps each week has been the fact that most of the students are members of one reserve or an
other and they claim that since they are going to be in the service in the near future there is no good logic in buying bonds now. This is a fallacy because it has been shown that service men as a group have an excellent average in purchasing stamps and bonds. Bonds are a rather safe investment. And ten years isn’t a long time.—Tom V. Dougherty
Final Rally Features Seniors and Bearskin ■>
Sixteen senior football players were honored at the pep rally last Friday night in the court between Dillon and j Alumni on the eve of their last home game of the 1942 season.
He was there 50 years ago
Captain George Murphy was master " of ceremonies and introduced his team mates. Each man was given the valued “He’s a Man” cheer by a capacity crowd » of students, Prom guests and escorts. The presence of the heralded “Bearskin,” attired in a genuine brown bear robe, caused a mild sensation in the week-end crowd. “Bearskin” emitted several words of wisdom concerning the team and the outcome of the game.	J
Musical numbers by the band and the glee club topped the rally as last minute Prom men scurried to their rooms to prepare for their night.
Seniors who played their last game in the stadium last Saturday are: Captain George Murphy, “Dippy” Evans, Harry ' Wright, Bob Neff, Bill Earley, Bob Dove, Lou Rymkus, Tom Brock, Wally Ziemba, Tom Miller, Dick Creevy, John Peasen-elli, Larry Sullivan, John Lanahan, Jack Warner, and Bob Walsh.—Phil Keen	:
8
Juniors, Seniors Rest
After Successful Prom
Friday afternoon the last sophomore loaned his black shoes to a frenzied upperclassman, juniors and seniors drove into the forbidden part of the city to \	meet the Pacemaker,
|	~ 1	and the junior prom
S -) Q In week-end began.
v "'	while the EJLC-
Y •	boys stared through
their bifocals the 400 promites stopped off at Cheerleader Joe Tracey’s outdoor pep rally Friday night, heard Dan “Bearskin” Downey, and then- dashed for for-mals and tails. (By Sunday night only 31 prom men had failed to make the little lady understand the Bearskin situation.)
The 400 passed the gauntlet of gaping Benders in front of the Palais, and traded bids for white kid evening bags. Coats came off to disclose $2,000 worth of flowers which the unwar-conscious males would have done well to have spent on war stamp corsages.
Husky Mitch Ayres and Co. were given the okay by 99% of the guests, and shapely vocalist Meredith Drake was 100 percented by the escorts. There was a crystal ball swinging around but whether it was the “world’s largest” (as advertised) was a question.
The Palais’ balcony found the hard drinking juniors and seniors downing cokes right and left, and the dates resting crushed toes. Said one smiling Eastern beauty, “It’s very nice to have a brother in the ski troops, especially when we wear the same size shoes.”
Covering the Notre Dame scene for the third time in recent months was topflight news camera man Andy Pavlin, and his feature writing partner, Eleanor Nangle. The dancers will see themselves in a coming edition of the Chicago Tribune’s “Youth on the Campus.”
One a.m. saw the band quitting, cloak rooms attacked, and mass confusion at the Palais’ doors as the 804 (including chaperons Profs. Langford and Bartholomew and wives) moved to take advantage of the last hour. *
The evacuation of Dunkirk was reenacted on Colfax avenue, with the rain shooting down out of the sky, cars roaring up to the Palais’ front, people jumping in, and the South Bend police department trying to take charge of the disorder.
For what happened during the last hour, see any upperclassman. For what the girls wore, see Saturday’s South Bend Tribune. For what happened Sat
urday night, see Father Burke. For what happened Sunday night, see any stationmaster.
Alumni, Dillon Commandos
Continue Fierce Battles
Today marks the 12th day that the factory wing of Dillon has held out against the Alumni Comman-dos, and Alumni is now no closer to victory than when the siege began.
(With Scrip at the Battlefront) The Dillon hall vs. Alumni battle continued this week as the Straightshooters and Commandos met in skirmishes that promise to lead to the final showdown.
Alumni, after finding a clean sheet in the hall, pictured a football warrior, of the Jim Thorpe era peacefully strangling a starved alley cat. To the side of the display, (the player looked for all the world like a copy of the “Send this boy to camp” advertisements,) was a facesaving caption pointing towards Dillon —“You’ve seen the best, now see the worst.”
Dillon, undaunted by the tactics of the Commandos, erected a gigantic shamrock with a football player trampling a cat, and demonstrated masterful strategy by blacking-out the display Saturday night.
In a communique, the Alumni headquarters said: “In the past 24 hours we have opened a new offensive against Dillon. There is furious fighting in the factory district of Dillon and most of the Ball-Band workers have been annihilated. Our side has captured Dillon chapel, although the Straightshooters remain in possession of the Bulletin board. After a terrific struggle we have proceeded to unplug the electric clock in the Dillon hallway. The battle of the clock is still in progress.”
The Dillon communique, issued at 12 o’clock last night, did not comment on the loss of the chapel, other than pointing out that the neutral Religious Bulletin had repeatedly reported the Dillon chapel to be unoccupied. The Dillon communique further read: “We have contacted the enemy at various points in the court and have established a beachhead at the South entrance. During the week-end past we captured several prom dates and their escorts. The escorts were annihilated.”—Dave Condon
Science Work Encounters
Delay Because of Fire
..For an hour last Friday the fire fighters of the Notre Dame fire department and squad car No. 1 of the South Bend chemical unit fought flames in the 20-
ton steel, tank of Notre Dame’s giant atom smasher. Firemen who entered the tank wore gas masks. The fire started during an experiment being conducted with the machine.
Mr. Bernard Waldman of the physics department said that the damage was of minor consequence, though it will delay work with the smasher for about two weeks. According to Mr. Waldman, the fire occurred when the belt in the machine caught fire.
The smasher is capable of generating 8,000,000 volts. It is twice as large as any other electrostatic generator in existence and is capable of holding pressure eight times that of the atmosphere. The smasher tank weighs 20 tons, stretches across the back of the science building for 40 feet, and is eight feet in diameter.
JI
Orders of the Month—
Classes on December 5
Another Notre Dame rumor has died a gory death. According to Father J. J. Burke, prefect of discipline, there will be classes as usual oh Saturday, Dec. 5, the day of -the Great Lakes game. When a Scholastic reporter interviewed Father Burke, he had just received notice of this from the office of the director of studies. Father Burke added that unfor
tunately there will be no deviation from the policy of the University in regard to cuts being excused for that day. No cuts will be excused that Saturday.
For those fortunates who have cuts left, there will probably be a rally in Chicago the night before the game. For that week-end the indications are that Chicago will become Notre Dame territory. Of course, in keeping with government policy, there will be no special trains for N.D. students, but as in the ’ past when they wanted to go somewhere, the students will find their own way to Chicago.
But whether there is a Friday night rally or not, officials of the Notre Dame Chicago club have made certain the plans for Saturday evening. They have planned a Victory dance for the Medinah Athletic Club, with dancing from nine until one. Will Back and his orchestra are to furnish the music. The dance will be informal, and bids now cost $2.50 plus tax but will be raised to $3.00 plus tax for door tickets. Officials of the Chicago Club are Bill Sullivan, president; Roger Cummings, vice-president; Bill McCaughey, secretary; and Joe Farmar, treasurer.
9
Students Working in Defense Plants;
Main Exodus to Ball Band in Mishawaka
DAVE CONDON
The Notre Dame extension school has
become a reality this past month as large
numbers of students,
visioning quick riches and fabulous w e a 11 h', have flocked out t o Mishawaka to do or die for dear old BallBand.
In plain words it means that the Ball - Band, a part of the United States Rubber Co., is employing many Notre Dame
students in war industry. The students work the four to mid-night shift and have half an hour off for lunch, the company paying for the lunch time.
The ball started rolling about three weeks ago when a couple of students were employed by the company. Immediately everyone with two cuts left hied themselves over to the factory and applied for a position. (To get to the factory follow the scent.)
At the factory there is a formal process of standing in a line longer than a double-feature at the Palace. After waiting for the gang in the industrial relations department to deal around once, you are ushered in to meet the employment man. He greets you with a bevy of questions:
“How long have you attended Notre Dame? Answer yes or no.
“Do you smoke? What brand and why? Do you know Lucky Strike Green has gone to war?.
“Are you going home for Christmas? No? Good.	,
“What kind of a position do you want? I’m sorry, we have no vacancies for vice-presidents right now. Next.”
Should you be one of the fortunates hired to start at 60 cents an hour, ■with chances of advancing faster than the Chicago Bear backfield, you are told to report at seven o’clock the next morning.
The next morning you go up to the Ball-Band infirmary.. Before being examined by the doctor you draw up your will and write letters to’ your dearly beloved. Then the doctor comes out and
asks who has two tickets for the Great Lakes game? You are taken to the next room and given a mental test. If you are still alive after the nurse hits you over the head with a mallet, you go in to see the doctor. You sit very still while he pretends to be reading. But from behind the pages of Captain Marvel he is studying your reactions. Then, thinking to catch you off-guard or off-tackle, he questions:
“Smoke? Keep late hours? Date often?” You answer in the negative. The doctor tells you that you are missing a heck of a lot of fun. Then he gives you a slip
of paper and you come back that evening for your job.
But it isn’t as simple as that. You have to catch the bus and arrive there
by four o’clock. Ordinarily the bus is as bulging as last year’s socks, and you
are lucky if you can even stand.
When you get back to the industrial relations department you meet another man who asks more questions than a senior law student. He fills out green, pink, yellow, jade, and black cards, asks you if you want insurance, and gives you a sales talk. Then he recommends you to a comely little secretary who flashes a wedding ring and asks you how much you want to have deducted for war bonds. Ten percent is customary.
After leaving the secretary you go into another room. Here a man snaps a picture that makes you look like the

10
missing link. Then he fingerprints you and asks how are all of your folks. A secretary hands you your badge which signifies that you are no. 16348 in the happy, happy Ball-Band family.
Then you go up to your foreman and are introduced around, meeting the gang and getting acquainted with a time clock that has taken more punches than King Levinsky. You start to work on production.
That night, after 12 o’clock, when you head back to N. D., you are tired. You flop down on something very soft and start to dream. It is too soft and you find that you have been sleeping on the floor.
The next day you start to figure it up. Sixty cents an hour. And on the debit side of the ledger, 20 cents per for bus fare, ten cents per diem for cab fare, about 50 centavos for supper, ten per cent for war bonds, one per cent for social security, insurance payments, and miscellaneous expenses. And don’t forget the three beans you plunk down for joining the union.
All in all, it looks like you will be making a lot of hay. But take it from one who tried, it will be a long time before you can feed a horse.
THE COVER
The sailor who was shanghaied for this issue’s cover picture is Midshipman George A. Hoffman. He hails originally from Texas, has a southern drawl and is now a resident of Morrissey Hall. He is a V-7 trainee at the local Naval Indoctrination School.
The picture was planned for last Fri-' " day but was postponed until Saturday because of bad weather. Arrangements were made with Head Librarian Byrne so that Photographer Schaeffer could get into the library after closing time Saturday noon. Reason: a full schedule of morning classes.
To the dismay of all concerned the window from which Schaeffer planned to get an angle shot was stuck tight. The picture, hence, was shot from the ground. And the weather was still bad.
Get Your "Dome"
Any student who is entitled to a May, 1942, "Dome" and has not received it must pick it up in the Publications Office 127 Main Building, within the next two weeks, according to William R. Dooley, business manager of publications. It is essential, Mr. Dooley said, that all such annuals be -distributed before the new "Dome" is received in mid-December.
Dan Downey
. . . h. claiborne adams (small “h,” small “c,” small “a”) hails from El Paso, Texas.... north of the border.... “Tex” manifests Latin ways, dreamy, easy going. — looks Latin, even down to the black “widow’s peak”....
Notre Dame’s no. 1 undergraduate philosophy major came here from the Christian Brothers Cathedral High.... decided to major in the “deep stuff” way back when he was knee-high to a Navajo .... Had a surprising knowledge of Thomism before he ever saw Brownson Hall as a Freshman....
“Tex” likes to discuss philosophic problems over a coffee in the caf.... can be seen there anytime after 10 in the morning. ... never wakes up before 10, never has seen the sun rise.... expects to do graduate work in philosophy after shaking hands with Uncle Sam in December.
A tower room in Sorin, small, crowded, disorganized, is shared with “Tex” by Jack Finnegan.... “Tex” and “Finn,” inimitable pair. . . . Thomas Aquinas and James Joyce make up “Tex’s” library. ... writes realistic short stories in his spare time, laughs because none has ever been accepted for printing, not even in Scrip.
“Tex” is on a part-time scholarship, has a magnet, cum laude average.__________ strictly an academic man.... appropriately president of the Bookmen and
prominent member of the inactive Schoolmen. ... was one of the 21 seniors nominated for this year’s Who’s Who among students in American Colleges and Universities.
“Tex” hasn’t indulged in sports since his senior year in high school.... was third string forward on the state championship basketball team._______went over to the “Rock” once, dressed in a “t” shirt and a three day beard.... he hasn’t been there since._______________"
Seniors Coach Sophs In Philosophy Debate
Notre Dame students, in addition to thinking about the war and the football season, are hard at the books these days.
A group of students are preparing for an inter-class debate in philosophy. Interest on the campus is being aroused by this revival of the famous disputations of the .... wv medieval universities. JAMES UVn'M>I
- The debate will take place on Dec. 9 in the Law auditorium. The contestants are sophomores, and each team, made up of two men, is being coached by a senior majoring in philosophy. H. Claiborne Adams, of El Paso, • Texas, senior, is coaching Leo J. Buchi-gnani, Memphis, Tenn., and Alhonse A. Sommer, Gulf, Ill. The other two contestants, William C. O’Connor, Peekskill, N. Y., and H. John Smith, St. Louis, Mo., are being coached by senior James C. Downey of West Palm Beach, Fla.
The subject of the debate will be concerned with the character of finite and created reality, one of the most famous problems in philosophy. The faculty moderator is Dr. Francis E. McMahon, associate professor of philosophy at the University.
Wranglers Announce Membership Meeting
Applications for membership in Wranglers, campus honorary forensic club, are in charge of James O’Dea, junior member of the club, President Jack Ryan announced this week.
Those who pass an interview committee will appear before the club next Thursday and those accepted will be guests at the annual farewell membership meeting the following Thursday.
Applicants who have had campus forensic experience are advised to contact James O’Dea in Cavanaugh Hall.
At the banquet, to be held off campus, three seniors will attend their last Wrangler meeting as students. They are Jack Ryan, president; Mark Ues, secretary, and Robert LeMense.
n
Columnist Woelfle Threatened by Thugs;
Writer of "The Week" Hires Bodyguard
DAVE CONDON
For quiet, peace loving Jack (Oswald is angry) Woelfle,- there is no thought but peace on earth and kindness toward his fellow men. But this week Woelfle is worried. He has been threatened by an anonymous group of students guised as the Knights of St. Mary’s, in all likelihood a congregation of highly idealed freshmen operators who have yet to learn that the lower regions have no fury like a blind date at Sweetbriar.
Last week Mr. W. was seated in the “Caf,” troubled with nothing other than the mastication of a bit of material interchangeably called steak by the chef and synthetic rubber by Father Nieuw-land.
From the shadows of a waiter’s beard jumped two of the toughest characters ever encountered in these parts. Speaking in the vernacular of the Sweetbriar choir, one, (Butch) said:
“Hey youse, you Woelfle.”
“I’m not Max Adler!”
“Well,”.chorused Butch and his associate, Spike, “we’re here to tell you that the stuff you write about St. Mary’s isn’t funny. It isn’t true and you had better cut it.”
Woelfle chuckled and asked the ruf-fiians if by any chance they were St. Mary’s students.
“No,” Butch giggled, “we had our faces caught in a meat grinder.”
“No,” Spike blushed, “our voices always sounded like bulldozers climbing upgrade.”
Then the thugs told Mr. W. that they had thought they would drop by and tell him that he had better not write anything else about the girls of Saint Mary’s or he would be responsible to them..
At this point Mr. W. was so taken aback he nearly missed the rest of his dinner, which was being handed over the rail to him while no one was watching.
And the young gallants, definitely the Sweetbriar type, went down the line, reminding Mr. Woelfle of occasions when he had said that the St. Marys had “the sophistication of an apple pie and were twice as crusty”; when he had called them “more charming than athlete’s foot and less in demand than plucked feathers,” and numerous other remarks and actions, such as the time he sent the Lifebuoy salesman over to the campus.
Then the thugs, explaining that s they had to hasten or they would be late Tor scout meeting, warned Mr. W. that- in
the future such writings would lead to bloodshed. They left Mr. Woelfle very much in the dark as to their identity.
Mr. Woelfle, fearful lest the villains appear again, is escorted to class by a naval escort. He is still in doubt as to the identity of the men. At first he thought they might be representatives of the National Boilermaker’s Association, at the present time organizing a
Woelfle is cautious these days
union chapter at St. Mary’s. He discounted this theory and at present he believes it might have been Bearskin and Red Lonergan, famous ghost writer for Static. The possibility that the gentle-, men might have been seniors was disproved by Woelfle’s own statement that they were wearing clean shirts.
The hard socking columnist has been approached by the gentlemen but once since the “Caf” meeting. He saw them coming across the campus and fearing for his life, disguised himself behind dark glasses, pencils, a tin cup and a seeing eye dog. The thugs, thinking him to be the. referee of the Northwestern game, passed by without molesting the disguised writer.
Woelfle came to N. D. from New York State. He was born a wit and showed signs of early talent by voting for Roosevelt, which all started out as a joke. He was a quiz kid from birth and by the time he was in the third grade he was . reading Winchell, an honorary contributor. to the Police Gazette, and could count as high as the number of floors in , the McAlpin. Ten years later, still in the third grade, he found that his life was merely a revolving door, arid he deter-
mined to make New Yoork proud of him. He hr.d early ambitioned to write the. “Week,” a Scholastic column, and received his chance after J. Q. O’Connell graduated last spring. O’Connell, whose* Week read like a radio dramatization of the South Bend telephone directory, had been hindered by the fact of having a sister over in the neighboring institution. Woelfle, unhandicapped, revolutionized the column.
In his maiden issue Woelfle pointed out that there were pretty girls at Saint Mary’s, but that it was rather difficult to date the maids. Then he sponsored a “what do you. think, of St. Mary’s” contest in his column and received 137. answers—all unprintable, from 23 states and Tokio. Woelfle, by sending the Lifebuoy salesman to Sweetbriar, was rewarded with a copy of the Sweetbriar student directory. He immediately sold it to Bela Lugosi, Boris Karloff and Humphrey Bogart, in search of a fourth for bridge.
After last week’s warning, however, Woelfle toils with dread in his heart. He might meet his end at any minute. And he did so much want to live to see the Galloping Gals, of St. Mary’s meet Boston College in the Sugar Bowl.
Architects Win Awards
In Beaux Arts Contest
Notre Dame student architects participating in the Beaux Arts competition entered 20 solutions and came away with 16 prizes including a first-mention place.
On Nov. 17, when 13 Notre Dame entries on a Class C or Elementary Design problem of “A Control Entrance to a Zoological Park” were judged, one. coveted. first mention place was awarded Ventura Gonzales, one first mention to-Raymond Zando, three mentions to William Griffin, James Hirsch, Thomas O’Brien, seven half mentions. Total: 12 awards for 13 entries.
At the same time, seven other Notre Dame contributions to a problem in Class. B or. Intermediate Design of “A. Servicemen’s Center” merited four /- awards—for John Andres, John O’Connell, William Sherer, Edwin Sochalski.
Total: four awards for seven contributions.
What the Pulitzer Prize is to. American writers, the awards made by the Beaux Arts Institute of Design in New York are to college architects. Founded some 50 years ago by architects schooled in France, the Institute yearly conducts seven contests on design problems for the 30 major architecture schools in the
12
United States, Cuba, Canada and the Philippines.
From the Institute come programs be-fore each of the contests. Sufficient data is given about the design problem, the type of building, its purpose, and its po-sition in relation to a pictured, specified terrain. The construction on paper is left to the student’s imagination and ability. All contributed drawings are r judged by experienced visiting college instructors and architects from the Beaux Arts staff. The chief award is called “first mention , placed”; only two ' such honors are given. Other awards are referred to as first mention, mention, half mention—in that order of super-* iority.
When Ventura Gonzalez chalked up his first mention placed, it was the third successive year that a Notre Dame archi-■' tect won one of those honors. Complete totals show that our architects took 16 awards for their 20 entries, 16 awards, k that is, in competition for architects all over the United States, Canada and Cuba. That’s a percentage.—Noel Digby
Five Engineers Enter
A. I. E. E. Essay Contest
Last Tuesday the A.I.E.E. (American Institute of Electrical . Engineering), held a joint meeting -with the civil engineers. Movies were shown on a new type of flooring, “Q” floors,, a common interest to both of the clubs.
On Friday the A.I.E.E. held a meeting. The club began a contest that is being-held by the South Bend branch of the A.I.E.E. Prizes of ten dollars and five dollars will be awarded to the best two papers on any topic concerning engineering. The winner will present his paper at the district meeting of the A.I.E.E. which is held in May of every year. Those who entered the contest were Richard J. O’Neill, John M. Denny, Richard C. • .Cornwell, Joseph E. Duquette, and Vincent P. Slatt. The judges are from the South Bend section of the A.I.E.E.
—Bob Sinkle
Wm. Jeffers to Deliver
Commencement Address
Another class of Notre Dame men will step forth into a world of war and chaos on Dec. 20th. On that Sunday the graduates and their parents will assist at a pontifical high Mass offered by Bishop John F. Noll, D.D., of Fort Wayne, and hear Bishop John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., former president of Notre Dame and present bishop of the diocese of Army and Navy, deliver the baccalaureate sermon. In the afternoon at three o’clock the graduates, relatives and
guests will gather for the conferring of degrees. At the commencement ceremony Mr. William M. Jeffers, formerly president of the Union Pacific Railroad and now rubber administrator for the government, will deliver the key address. As yet the location of the ceremony is not definitely determined, though there is a strong possibility the new Navy field house may be used.	•
On Saturday, Dec. 19, the traditional class day exercises will be held. As has ■been the custom for many years, the graduates and their parents will make their last visit together to Sacred Heart Church. A new feature of the class day exercises will be the presentation of the flag by- the senior class. This is normally a feature of Washington Day, but due to the new program at the University, it has been included among the activities of Class Day.—Al Sommer
Cleveland Club Aids
In U. S. O. Service Work
The Cleveland Club held a Halloween . Party at the Rockne Memorial Nov. 17. Griff Allen gave a report on the Victory Dance that the club sponsored at the Navy game. Plans were then discussed for a Christmas Dance to be held sometime next vacation at the Artist Club in Cleveland. This is an annual dance free to the members and their guests.
A U.S.O. fund that was begun last summer will be used to buy cigarettes and candy for the Notre Dame alumni
Walgreens comer. 1890. Identifications not available
from Cleveland who are now in the service. The students will cooperate with the alumni in distributing the presents.
The elections of the officers for next year are to be held Thursday, Dec. 10. Formerly the custom was to have an officer from each class but due to the lack of seniors this year, juniors are allowed to hold both the president and vice-president’s office. —Bob Sinkle.
Band, Glee Club Plan Two Campus Concerts
Mr. H. Lee Hope, director of Notre Dame’s stellar band, announced this week that there will be a performance on the" campus before the end of the. semester. On Tuesday, December 15th, the band will give a concert in the field house before the faculty and students. The Midshipmen of the Navy school on the campus are also to be invited to the concert of classical music. In anticipation of the holiday season, the band will present a “Christmas Fantasy,” composed by Clifford Lillya, band instructor at the University of Michigan.
Mr. Pedtke also made announcement of a special concert sometime before Christmas to be given by the glee club in Washington Hall. The program will include special arrangements of seasonal numbers. The Glee club will perhaps give several other concerts locally before the semester ends, but, as yet, nothing definite has been decided.
...James C. Clark.
LOG CHAPEL WAS BUILT IN 1831; INDULGENCES GRANTED FOR VISITS
DICK GRANT
One hundred years ago, the University of Notre Dame was founded by Father Edward Sorin, C.S.C. At this time it consisted of one building, donated by Father Stephen Badin, a missionary. Father Badin was ordained by Bishop Carroll in 1793 and had the honor of being the first priest to be consecrated in the United States. In 1831, he built a log cabin on the banks of Saint Mary’s Lake, which was to serve as a chapel and mission house, and later to become the famed Log Chapel of the University of Notre Dame. It is hidden behind larger structures that have sprung up during the years, and stands directly behind the University Library, (between the present Mission House and Morrissey Hall.) This Shrine is in use throughout the year for daily Masses and also weddings; for hundreds of alumni return with their prospective brides to be married in this appealing little church.
The Chapel is a rectangular structure of logs, in exact imitation of the original edifice. The inside of the building contains three altars, a tablet, a painting and a tombstone. In the front of the chapel is the main altar and hanging before it are numerous sanctuary lamps in which burn candles that are votive offerings of visitors. On the left wall is a stone tablet which gives the facts concerning the life of Father Badin. A painting hangs from the right side, depicting Father DeSeille, successor to Father Badin, administering to himself, his last Holy Communion.
The back of the building has two altars, one on either side of the entrance. The altar situated on the left has an historical background. It was formerly a bureau constructed of wild cherry wood and built in the year 1725. It was transported overland to Knox county, Ohio, and then to Elwood, Ind., where it became an altar. The University of Notre game received it as a gift from Mrs. J. P. Magers, of Elwood, whose father was baptized by the great missionary, Father Badin. In the center of the chapel, between the rows of kneeling benches is the tombstone of Father Badin, whose body was brought from Cincinnati, Ohio, and buried here where he had spent most of his life among the Indians.
The painting on the right wall is historic. Father DeSeille came to the mission in 1832 and five years later he became gravely ill ; so much so that he sent
14
two Indian messengers in search of a priest to administer to him the Last Sacraments of the Church. A few days later the Indians returned without a priest, so Father DeSeille called upon the only white person in the group, Benjamin Coquillard, (whose son, Alexis, was the first student to attend the University of Notre Dame), to support him while he received his last Communion. This being-done he was then removed, by the Indians, to the other half of the chapel which served as his house, and within a short time he passed to his eternal reward. The successors of Father DeSeille were Father Benjamin Petit, and Father Edward Sorin, founder of the University of Notre Dame.
One special feature about the chapel is the indulgences that a person can receive by making visits. The indulgences are granted from Oct. 28, 1938 to Oct. 28. 1945. They consist in: a plenary indulgence is granted for visits on Christmas, Epiphany, Feast of Our Lord Jesus Christ, Easter Sunday, Ascension Thursday, Corpus Christi, Immaculate Conception, Nativity, Annunciation, Purification, Assumption, the Feast of Saint Joseph, (second Wednesday after Easter), and the First Friday and Wednesday of each month. A partial indulgence of 300 days is granted for each visit made with a good intention and a contrite heart. These privileges were granted by Pope Pius IX.
Just outside the Log Chapel is a monument erected in memory of the founders of the University of Notre Dame du Lac (now the University of Notre Dame), namely, Father Edward borin and his helpers, Brothers Vincent, Joachim, Gatien, Anselm, Lawrence, and Francis Xavier.
Economics Round Table
Accepts Six Members
Six new members have been accepted by the Economic Round Table, John Utz, Walsh junior of Rochester, Minn., announced. Those accepted are G. V. Funk, Fred Funk, Jerry Skofronik, Charles Montrie, Leo Buchigmanii and Charles Pickhardt.
The. paper at the meeting was given by Jhn Kelly, Dillon sophomore.
Next Wednesday’s meeting of. the group is slated to be a joint one with a -group of St. Mary’s girls. The meeting will be held in the Hoffman Hotel.
PRAYER AT LOG CHAPEL
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 26, 1942
By VERY REV. ALBERT F. COUSINEAU, Superior General
Congregation of Holy Cross
(Folloioing is a portion of the beautiful prayer of thanks offered up by the Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross on the occasion of the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the University of Notre Dame.)
Our Lady of the Seven Dolors, Patroness of the Congregation of Holy Cross, behold us assembled in prayer in the Log Chapel where the Very Reverend Edward Sorin knelt a hundred years ago. To Thee he consecrated himself, his successors and all the future students of the institution he was about to found. His consecration was a pledge that we, his followers, should dedicate our lives and all our activities to Thy glory under Thy benevolent protection. We have seen to it that Father Sorin’s word was kept so far as human frailty has allowed. In return. Most Holy Mother, Thou hast ever watched over us from Heaven with unfailing kindness.
In my own name, and in the name of my spiritual sons, I return Thee thanks on this centennial morning for the many favors granted in this Country which is so dear to our hearts. Mayest Thou be forever blessed, O Sweet Virgin, Mary, our Patroness and our Mother!....
This morning, O Lord, on the very spot where Father Sorin solemnly promised to glorify Thy Blessed Mother, we renew our pledge to love her, so that Thou mayest be better known and loved. Look with favor upon our consecration to Thy all beautiful Heavenly Mother, who is also our mother, a mother honored here for the past century under the magnificent title of Our Lady of the Lake.
"For all our beloved dead who rejoice in spirit with us on this memorable day, for us who must remain at our tasks, with lively faith, with hearts full of hope and love, we mingle our voices with those of the other members of the Congregation of Holy Cross throughout the world and repeat with the Church the prayer which is ever new and always appropriate:
“De profundis clamavi ad te, Domine."
> ’
■
f £ L
Annual Navy Ball Moves From Rockne to Oliver
The beginning of a tradition — that’s the way the 1942 Dome described the first Navy Ball held last winter. The continuation of that infant tradition, but in a new setting, will take place Dec. 11 when members of the University-Naval R.O.T.C. will swing out at the mezzanine Ball-room of the Oliver Hotel.
A nautical setting

Carried over from last year are plans for flowers, favors and decorations. Once again the decorations will lean heavily on the “Navy” theme. “They’ll be strictly nautical ... in a big way,” said General Chairman “Tex” Crowley. Charles Ur-ruela, junior unit member from Miami 'Beach, is in charge of the decorations. The custom of having the unit buy uniform corsages will be continued; each girl will receive her flowers at the door. Jack Herlihy is chairman of the flowers and favors committee. Other committee chairmen include Tom Reyburn, refreshments; Joe Hickey, ways and means; and Paul Rooney, orchestra.
Announcement of an orchestra will be made next week.
Obtain Draft Release
Order For Reservists
Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C. announced this week that all students seeking E. R. C. (Army Enlisted Reserve Corps), or Army Air Corps enlistments must obtain a release from their* Draft Boards. And the necessary forms for the release can be obtained from Father
Trahey’s office in the Engineering Building. (Room 12,B)
Father Trahey also stated that the Air Corps enlistment board will examine and enlist all those who have their papers complete and in readiness. The dates of the examination will be Dec. 13, 14, and 15, here on the campus.
The necessary papers are: birth certificate; application blank filled in and notarized; three letters of recommendation ; statement from the director of studies office regarding applicant’s status at the University; and a release from Draft Board.
The classifying examination for all Navy V-l men will be given in March, 1943. The test will be so arranged as not to be too difficult for those V-l men who haven’t as yet completed their math or physics courses. Upon successful completion of the examination the applicant is placed into class V-5 or V-7 in the Navy Reserve.
N.y.C. Warns No Tickets
After I O-Day Deadline
“It’s the war” is reason for a multitude of new rules, actions and traditions on the Notre Dame campus. Latest effect of the present struggle was voiced this week when campus authorities released the following statement concerning rail transportation over the Christmas holidays.
“The New York Central railroad has, informed the campus authorities that Notre Dame students will not be furnished special equipment or rates nor guaranteed any seat space unless the ticket has been picked up at least ten days prior to departure. Students are advised to buy tickets at once at the station.”
In view of the above information, students are further reminded that there no longer exists a student travel service on the campus. The service, under the direction of James Byrne, was discontinued at the end of last semester.
Extraordinary emergency demands made by war-time economy on the railroads, lack of available equipment for civilian travel, and the impossibility of securing new equipment have combined;' to create.the acute problem as it exists today.
N. D. Symphony Gives Concert at St. Mary's
The Notre Dame Symphony orchestra with Professor Frederick Ingersoll as conductor presented a program at St-Mary’s College last Wednesday, Nov. 18. The 28-piece orchestra presented five pieces, again featuring Rocco Germano as soloist. Germano was accompanied by Prof. Daniel Pedtke.
The orchestra, which rehearses Sunday mornings between ten and twelve, will furnish the accompaniment for Patience next week. Consequently, it appears unlikely that a concert by the orchestra will be presented before Christmas.
The program follows:
Overture, The Magic Flute____IV. A.' Mozart
Hehjre Kati-------------------------Hubay
Finale from Concerto in E Minor—-Mendelssohn Rocco Germano, soloist
Prof. Daniel Pedtke, accompanist .
Largo from the New World Symphony_A. Dvorak (for strings)
Ballet Suite .............  Ramean-Mottl
(a)	Minuet
(b)	Musette
(e)	Tambourin
Selections from Show Boat____—Jerome Kern
Officers of the orchestra are Bart Ramsour, president, Felix Abaldo, vice-president, Pat McShane, secretary, Brother Leonard, C.S.C.; librarian, and Rocco Germano, concertmaster.
Hall Debates Tourney
Reaches Semi - Finals
Three negative and one affirmative hall debate teams have qualified for the semifinals of the annual interhall debate tournament. The semi-finals will be staged in the Law Building next Tuesday and the finals have been tentatively set for Monday, Dec. 7. The negative teams are Brownson-Carroll, St. Edwards, and Cavanaugh. The lone affirmative team is Dillon. Of the four, Brownson-Carroll and St. Edwards are undefeated, Cavanaugh was defeated by Dillon (forfeit) and Dillon lost to St. Edwards.
The negative teams will, decide by a flip of the coin which will :become an affirmative for Tuesday’s. battle. Dillon, will remain on the affirmative side of the question concerning a permanent, world union after this war. * ’ .
Breen-Phillips and Walsh were represented in the competition but lost two tilts each, eliminating them from the tournament. Zahm, Sorin, and Alumni were not represented in the competition.. Bill Talbot, Wrangler junior of Cavanaugh Hall, is chairman of interhall : debate.
15

« —Fathfc
fn
■ *
Father Sorin's Epic V
Radio Play Hig]
This week a nation-wide radio pro- ■] gram, commemorating the arrival of A Father Edward F. Sorin and six relig-^,1 ions Brothers at Notre Dame, marked the formal opening of the Centennial year.
On Wednesday evening, via the blue network of the National Broadcasting . Company, a dramatization of the arrival of Sorin at Notre Dame was presented. :! The script for this great drama was written by one of Notre Dame’s own pro- . fessors, Mr. Richard T. Sullivan, popu- I lar novelist and prominent short story*! writer. The music score for the script $ was written by Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, ! head of the department of music at-* Notre Dame.	f
The drama traced Fr. Sorin’s humble J landing in America on the schooner Iowa in September of 1842 to Notre Dame in -World War II.
Father Sorin wandered to Vincennes, . Indiana early that fall and remained . there until middle November of the same’5 year. As he said: “I have work to do—I , have to start a college.” So on Nov. 10, 1842, Fr. Sorin, with his faithful relig-^ ious Brothers, started for a plot of land near the elbow bend of the St. Joseph River in the northern part of Indiana. '7
The program brought out the early ’ trials of the University: How the ma-?, laria epidemic of 1852-56 took many lives, and the hardships caused by the Civil War. During that War many nuns-went as nurses; and some of the priests served as chaplains. Among these was Father Corby, famous chaplain of the * Fighting Irish Brigade. It was he, who,
16
Sorin »
V 'ds Came True;
jhts First 100 Years
o- , n July 2, 1863, stood on a high rock in
if lettysburg, just before that historic
nttle, and granted absolution to every
ie aldier.
r.
The sketch also portrayed the untimely ie re of April 23, 1879, when Notre Dame
g ■
il
1/’
i her 37th year burned to the ground, ■ith the exception of the Church. Father orin called his community together in
is
’’ I y )t
5 e, ! it"*
Ie ? a , n ~
ie Church and told them very calmly nd confidently a new Notre Dame would ise.
And a new Notre Dame did rise, and ipidly, too. In the 1880’s there was rofessor Albert Zahm experimenting ith the first wind tunnel and trying jveral test runs with his glider from ie top of the Science Hall down on to rownson Field. During the 1890’s Pro-jssor Jerome Green sent the first wire-
ss message. In the early 1920’s saintly
d . ie*t -I ,
ather Nieuwland was experimenting ith ways of producing synthetic rubber ith a young chemist, Knute K. Rockne. 11917 over 2,000 Notre Dame men were i uniform. And famous Father Matthew
ralsh served as a chaplain in the (l ’enches in France. During the twenties v, otre Dame rode on the football band-7 egon. The Four Horsemen, National
hampions, and Knute Rockne became y monymous with the rising Indiana
diversity. Father Charles O’Donnell’s y mching sermon on the observance of e ockne’s tragic death on March 31, 1931, tS" as recalled by the program. ;S
is The drama concluded by touching
* tiefly on Notre Dame in the present
J, rar and Notre Dame in the future.
17
—-	_	_	_	*	new
> > - > >	SaMii , , , , ,
uM>—	--	.—	_ _	■"■—	_	-	.._	_	-_	_	-	-	.	. i— ■■ J	.	. . _	.__
Dillon Defeats Walsh in Stadium Battle To Capture Interhall Championship
BILL WADDINGTON
Dillon Hall gave a shining example of their gridiron prowess as they bested a stalwart Walsh team in the season’s heavyweight championship playoff of the interhall circuit by the narrow but decisive margin of 6-0 in last Sunday’s classic in the Stadium.
During the first two periods neither team would succumb to the drive and punch of the opposition. Dillon interrupted the stalemate in the late stages of the third quarter as they started a sustained drive from their own 37 and down into paydirt territory.
Wrong Way Ticket
It’s all the story of a pass that got into the wrong hands, namely, playercoach, Bill Cuddigan who grabbed John Murphy’s intended pass for Ley on his own 30 and scooted up the gridiron until he was brought down seven yards further.	.
The effusions then took place as Dillon ultimately marched 63 yards for what later proved victory. After gaining only one yard on three downs following the interception, the Dillonites elected to kick and Mahoney’s boot was taken by Walsh’s Mahoney on his 33 but a ferocious, tackle by Ames saw the ball pop into the air and land on the 29 where it was eyed and pounced upon by Dillon’s
Milliman. .	.	.
After having put the horseshoe and the four-leaf clover away, the Dillonites reeled off eleven,yards as Murphy carried the ball for gains of four and three with Cuddigan making an intervening gain of four markers. With the ball resting on the 18, Vince Oppenheim lugged the pigskin off left tackle on the first play for three, followed by a reverse, Murphy to Cuddigan, that netted three more. The'latter combination was again employed off. the right tackle spot, this time putting the hide only , three yards away from eventual success.
' Murphy then plowed; into the Walsh forwards, was halted on the six inch line, but on the succeeding play of similarity “Murph” lugged the coveted oval across .for_the score.. Cuddigan’s. attempted conversion was blocked.
•	Almost a Tie*
Although beaten, the Walshers made a decided rally in the last portion of the final period. Mitchell’s kick to Yoklavich of Walsh on the Dillon 40 was returned to the 20 by the dexterous maneuvers of Mr. Yoklavich. At least a tie was on the lips of the impatient Walsh affiliates.
Baum was stopped cold on the first experiment and Yoklavich’s aerial was no good. Pat then heaved .one to Mahoney who slashed through for three at the center opening, but a second try of the same endeavor netted nothing. Yoklavich then intended a pass for Malloy but it was the case of the little man who wasn’t there.
On the desperate fourth and last move, with all eyes tensely on the field of play, a miscue at center had the ball rolling back to the eleven where Mahoney fell on it but to no avail as the Dillon boys took over on downs.
Dillon employed two running plays and a punt to move the ball up to their own 48 and out of scoring range for the Walsh lads. Walsh, down but not out, retaliated with a seven yard gain, an incompleted aerial, and two fumbles which turned the pigskin back to the opposition who held it for four plays and the final gun.
Statistics
Dillon Walsh
First Downs .................. 7	2
Rushing ...................  5	1
Passing ...................  2	1
Total Yards _________________189	74
Rushing ...................145	45
Passing  44	29
Pass Attempts ............... 11	18
Pass Completions _____________ 4	4
Pass Interceptions ........... 3	.	1
Punts ------------------------ 5	5
Average Distance ..........—	27.1	23.1
Fumbles	 5	8
Fumbles	Recovered ___ 2	6
Fumbles	Recovered by Opp. 3	2
Penalties	_  45	25
Dillon Close at Half
Dillon’s most spectacular play of the afternoon came just prior to half time as they wrested the ball from Walsh on their own 45. Cuddigan’s sprint around the right flank was good for 23 yards . and a first down. Oppenheim then pitched one to Mahoney that was good to the two. With both teams determined, time was rapidly diminishing.
As a result of over-anxiety, the Dillon boys were penalized for backfield in motion, followed by a Mahoney catch of Oppenheim’s toss that brought them to the one. The nervous tension again , caused a setback of five and Oppenheim’s intended throw for Mitchell was batted down . in the end zone as the horn sounded.	'
Defensively Colossal
Dillon’s heavy line, which ran in the close 200’s, was staunchly matched by the smaller but definitely effective Walsh
18

aggregation. Neither team was willing to let the opposition penetrate and thus much of the contest was played on a defensive angle.
Both backfield’s operated with well-employed maneuvers, however, fumbles amassed on the Walsh squad and many breaks were advantageously received by the victors.	'
Walsh punting often kept the Dillons from penetrating too deep into their territory. Yoklavich’s boots were well executed and came when they did the most harm.
Lineups
Walsh (0)	Dillon (6)
J. D. Murphy ........L.E.......... W. Mahoney
Lardie L T.............................. Pojman
Dunn ................L.G............... Griffin
Fighting Irish Meet Trojans in Coliseum;
Records Favor N. D. in Colorful Contest
BILL CAREX
The power-laden, green and gold ‘Mod
el T’ tomorrow will rumble onto the carpet turf of the Los Angeles Coliseum. The ensuing clash, between the Irish of Notre Dame and the Trojans of Southern California, strikes another link in a tradition-dripping, intersectional rivalry. Since 1926, these behemoths of the gridiron have slugged it out toe to toe in free scoring debacles. Never has the total score dipped below 13 and the average result adds up to some 24 points per game.
Seasonal records are forgotten, for this is a battle of brain and muscle, not of newspaper clippings. Tradition demands that only the bravest and the strongest on this one day may drink of victory. October and November will be forgotten, for this is the Notre Dame-Southem California game. Nine times the football fates have smiled upon the Irish, while the wooden horse of Troy has had its hour of triumph after six wins. A 13-13 deadlock in 1936 stands as
, the only tie. U.S.C. quaffed 10-6 and 20-18 defeats ‘in ’40 and ’41. No Irish team has ever won more than two in a , row. Can Leahy’s brawny lads wipe out this jinx and make it three straight to- morrow? Can the men of Troy turn back *~the Green tidal wave that already has engulfed six foes? These questions will be answered in America’s greatest inter-
sectional football classic.
The Irish are victory hungry. They tasted the blood of the Northwestern
Metzler ______________C._____________ O’Neill
Bowling --------------R.G___________ Milliman
Goldun --------------R.T.______ O’Shaughnessy
Ley __________________R.E___________ Mitchell
Lane ----------------Q.B___________ R. Murphy
Yoklavich ___________L.H___________ Cuddigan
J. Mahoney __________R.H___________. Alexander
Baum ________________F.B___________ Oppenheim
Walsh _____________________ 0	0	0	0 — 0
Dillon ________:___________ 0	0 t> 0 — 6
.Touchdown: R. Murphy.
Substitutions: Walsh — Ends. J. E. Murphy, HupC; tackles, Vignola. Ziegler; guards, Doyle, Englert; center. Carpenter; backs. Dowling. O’Brien, Malloy.
Dillon — End. Horning: tackle. Ames ; guard. Rohan; center, Dwyer; backs, Hoban, Thomas.
Officials: Referee—John Lanahan. Umpire— John Peasenelli. Lineman—Robert Ryan.
Coaches: Bill Murphy. Walsh: Bill Cuddigan. Dillon.
Wildcat, but the shadows of the Michigan game still hover dark on the horizon. At last the “T’’-formation has become an explosive keg of dynamite that tears off yardage in sizeable chunks. More balanced, now, with a sharp, crackling ground game, the men of Notre Dame will match offensive strength with any eleven in the nation. On the march, the right arm of Bertelli has softened up the enemy for the knifing thrusts of Clatt, the Miller boys, Livingstone, Dick Cree-vey, Ashbaugh and Cowhig. The intri
Start here. Finish—some 35 yards downfield
cate deception and murderous offensive blocking of the “T,” has finally blossomed into a fertile scoring punch. A rockbound defense, however, has been a minus quality in the Notre Dame tilts of late. The tendency toward wide-open play has proven the Irish capable of outscoring anyone—provided they can get the ball. Tomorrow they meet the team that uses the most daring attack on the coast this year.	•
Southern Cal boasts in its new grid mentor, Newell “Jeff” Cravath, the first alumnus in its history to head the coaching staff. Quiet-spoken, bespectacled, and an inspiring speaker, he succeeds Sani Barry, now a Lt. Commdr. in the Navy. Cravath was line coach under Headman Howard Jones, and later guided the pigskin destinies of the University of San Francisco. Jeff is a staunch disciple of the late Howard Jones, and an outspoken admirer of colorful, offensive football. At San Francisco his boys were the highest scorers west of the Rockies. Cravath employs a single wing, complete with flankers, that often explodes in lengthy touchdown gallops or payoff passes.	-
In their pre-season forecasts, the pigskin predictors named U.S.C. the darkhorse, of the Coast Conference; a big, veteran club, four deep and studded with luminaries. Then, however, it seemed that every draft board on the Pacific wanted one of Cravath’s tackles. When the Questionnaire blizzard had cleared, Captain Don Wilier and five other hearties, all tackles,* were gone with the draft. All well made plans crumbled, and the -team got off on the wrong foot. A loss to Tulane was followed by a stalemate
19
with Washington, and a killei* with Ohio State, that the Buckeyes took 28 to 12. Washington State was steam rollered 26-12, but the Trojans were in turn scalped by the famed exponents of the “T,” the Palo Alto Indians of Stanford. Against the powerhouses chosen by the Conference coaches to finish one-two, U.S.C. emerged the clear cut victor. They trimmed the California Bears, 21-7, and • slaughtered the Oregon Webfeet, 40-0.
An open date last Saturday has given the Trojans a valuable rest, and a chance to sharpen the sights of their big guns on the boys from the Golden Dome. Thus Notre Dame will face a team tomorrow that hovers in a threatening position for the Coast championship and a Rose Bowl bid.
The Southern Cal backfield combination is one of the pass throwingest quartets west of east. Three starters are definitely air minded, with Mickey Mc-Cardle, left halfback and signal caller, the ace aerial artist. Mickey, christened Leon, is a swift sophomore, and is death with his on-the-button tosses. From a famous line of football Musicks, comes fullback Bob Musick. Notre Dame remembers him as the passer who almost defeated the Irish last year. From quarterback, Bob was switched to full, where his running abilities might be fully realized. Paul Taylor, a southpaw passer, is a consistent threat at right half. Quarterback Mel Bleeker, the Coast’s best broad jumper, is a devastating blocker and a rugged tackler. Backfield replacements include Jack Trout, Howie Callanan and Dick Browning, the Bledsoe brothers and Hal Finney.
On the vangs, Ralph Heywood, an outstanding kicker and Joe Davis are lanky lettermen, well over six feet who specialize in pass snatching. The tackle problem was solved when 6 foot 3 inch Fred McCall and 232 pound Norm Verry developed into steady performers. Bill Sexias and. Don Clark in the guard slots, and Steve Bianchi at center, complete a topnotch Trojan frontier.
Probable Lineups
Notre Dame	Southern Calif.
Dove-----------..... L.E_________Heywood
Rymkus --------L.T............... McCall
Filley------------L.G....-------- Sexias
Brock ------------C.---------Bianchi Wright ----------------------....... R.G-. Clark
Neff _____________R.T______________Verry
Murphy ____________ R.E........._.... Davis
Bertelli  -------— Q.B........... Bleeker
T. Miller___... L.H.     McCardle R. Creevy _____R.H............... Taylor
Clatt.........----F.B........;___ Musick
Third Time is Charm;
Hunter Wins Nationals
Notre Dame didn’t win the National Collegiate cross country meet but our boy, Ollie Hunter, did run off with all the glory of the meet. Ollie ran the Michigan State College course in 20 minutes and 18 seconds, knocking 14.1 seconds off the meet record set by Fred Wilt of Indiana in 1941.
National Champion Hunter
Tony Maloney finished sixteenth, and the rest of the Notre Dame harriers were spread out over the course enough to get Notre Dame 145 points and sixth place in the meet.
Indiana and Penn State finished in a tie for first place honors with 57 points each. Rhode Island State, last years winners, finished in third place with 79 points.	.
Indiana’s Earl Mitchell finished some 300 yards behind Ollie to get second and about 150 yards behind was Leroy Schwartzkopf of Yale.
Hunter had a bit of trouble at the two. mile mark when he wandered off the course, losing the lead to Mitchell and also about 20 seconds time. Mitchell gained about 300 yards on Ollie before he got back on the course but that didn’t seem to bother Ollie; he.regained those yards and added 300 more of his own..
The condition of the course also added to Hunter’s • glory., It was in -anything, but record-breaking condition. A heavy rain the night before left the track more, in readiness for a swimming meet than a track meet.
Winning the race meant a little more ' . £ to. Hun ter than it ordinarily would. In sl two previous attempts'in. the. Nationals .£ Ollie finished second both times. The win •. •' f also gave Ollie an undefeated season in cross-country competition.—Bill Brown ? .
Four Leagues Operate
In Hall Basketball
J. D. Usina
Interhall basketball splurged ahead and now is foremost in campus sports with four leagues functioning snappily on the shiny floors of the Rockne Memorial gym. Both Heavyweight and Lightweight sections in turn, split into a pail' of leagues each to accomodate those with basketball talent. Enthusiastic competition has been the dish four nights a week for the past two weeks.
' These pre-season hostilities are slated to continue until December 10th, and then after the Christmas holidays the action will start in earnest.
At present writing the Walsh outfits are more than holding their own in the heavy light leagues. Sorin seems to have a tough crew lined up in the heavies and should be the team to beat. Naval ROTC hasn’t been licked as yet and will bear watching in this downhill race which has reached the halfway mark.
Leading scorer in the Heavyweight bracket is Sheehan of Carroll with 18 followed by Vignola of Walsh and Nix-son of Cavanaugh with 17 points each.
The Dillon and Walsh aggregations look good for the lights and seem to have the possibilities of fine squads. To date, Van Dyke of Walsh and O’Brien are deadlocked for top scoring honors with 12 tallies each.
s

I
Tommy Mills, director of interhall basketball in the Rockne, announces that the
tilts are on tap each Monday, Tuesday, • Wednesday, and Thursday night. Lightweight scraps, two of them, start at 7:30 * o’clock, and the other divisions slip into gear at 8:30 o’clock.
Standings as released by W. R. Amann, physical education major, taken through November 19th follow:
HEAVYWEIGHT DIVISION
League I W.	L.	League II W.	L. .H
Sorin 	 3	0	Walsh 	  3	0	1
Dillon 	 2	1	N.R.O.T.C	2	0
Cavanaugh 	 2	1	Alumni 	 2	1
Carroll 	 1	2	Zahm 	 1	2
St. Ed’s 	 0	2	Brownson 	 0	2 3	M
Breen-Phillips 0	2	Off-Campus .... 0	
LIGHTWEIGHT DIVISION League I	League II W. L.	W.			i! L.
Cavanaugh .... 2	0	Walsh 	 3	0 1
Dillon 		 2	1	N.R.O.T.C	2	0 J
Carroll	— 1	1	Alumni 	 1 -	2	.1
Sorin'.	 1	1	Brownson	 1	2 -
St-Ed’s	’	1	Zahm 	 0	1 f q
Breen-Phillips 0 '	3	O fl-Campus .... 0	2 Ml
20
I INTERHALL SCORES (THROUGH NOV. 19)
I	Heavyweight Division
' ’	League I
i' Dillon 33, Breen-Phillips 14; Carroll 42, St. Edward’s 14 ; Dillon 31, Carroll 22; Sorin 40. Cavanaugh 12: Cavanaugh 35, Breen-Phillips 30: -- y Sorin 39, St. Edward’s 17: Cavanaugh 39, Dillon 34 ; Sorin 25, Carroll 22.
League II
Alumni 20, Brownson 15; N.R.O.T.C. 2, 011-Campus 0 (F) ; Walsh 59, Zahm 20; Alumni 2, Off-Campus 0 (F) ; Walsh 33, Brownson 27; *?. N.R.O.T.C. 34, Zahm 24; Walsh 44, Alumni 34: J Zahm 37, OffCampus 31.
L -
'	Lightweight Division
League I
Cavanaugh 22, Carroll 15; St. Edward’s 2, Sorin 0 (F) ; Dillon 35. Breen-Phillips 19 : Carroll 33. Breen-Phillips IS : Dillon 24. St. Edward’s 19:
:■ Basketball Season Opens Tomorrow Night;
Keoganmen Face Ball State on Local Court I.	t
'	BILL BOSS.
It’s getting colder now. And with the
opening basketball tilt scheduled to be staged tomorrow evening George Keog-an’s head droops a little beneath the down turned hat rim. Yes, things look rather glum for the masterful cage mentor.
Lost from last year’s competent hardwood outfit are five men who regularly flipped an extra score on the board. But scanning the replacement list and seeing such names as: Faught, Bonicelli, Kuka, Curran and Brennan, the able coach should be able to smile just a little.
V
I
_JBalking into the Centennial schedule, which is spliced into two divisions, the Irish will open on the local court against a small but capable Ball State five. The
evening before the Great Lakes-Notre Dame grid clash in Soldier Field, Dec. 4, Notre Dame tangles with Western Mich-
igan here. The annual New Year’s strug-
'' gle with the Purple of Northwestern has 1 • been moved up to Dec. 12 when, the Irish f and the Wildcats resume hostilities at
_ the Chicago Stadium. Wisconsin and | ; Purdue visit Notre Dame before the holi-p days. The Badgers, will be in town-Dec. i |	14 and the Boilermakers on the 19th.
There has been a five year lapse in relations with Purdue and the Irish will
i?
<4
& meet DePaul of Chicago for the first K~-‘ time since 1912. One of Coach Keogan’s S ablest pupils, Ray Meyer, an All-Amer-^7' ican and later assistant coach here is the & current mentor of the DePaul quintet.
S ‘ After a brief Christmas lay-off the ® Irish will resume play on Jan. 16 when k they again, meet Northwestern’s Wild-B cats in Chicago Stadium.
$
Cavanaugh 31, Breen-Phillips 27 : Sorin 27, Dillon 24.
League II
Walsh 64. Zahm 5; N.R.O.T.C. 2, Alumni 0 (F) ; Brownson 2, Off-Campus 0 (F) ; Walsh 21, Alumni 19: N.R.O.T.C. 27, Brownson 12.
SCHEDULE Heavyweights
Nov. 30: Breen-Phillips vs. Carroll; Off-Campus vs. Brownson. Dec. 1: Dillon vs. St. Edward’s, Alumni vs. N.R.O.T.C. Dec. 2: Sorin vs. Breen-Phillips, Zahm vs. Brownson. Dec. 3: Cavanaugh vs. Carroll. Walsh vs. Off-Campus.
Lightweights
Nov. 30: Sorin vs. Carroll, Alumni vs. Zahm: Dec. 1: Cavanaugh vs. St. Edward’s. Walsh vs. N.R.O.T.C.; Dec. 2: Dillon vs. Carroll, Brownson vs. Zahm; Dec. 3: Sorin vs. Breen Phillips. Alumni vs. Off-Campus.
With an assortment of fine floormen to pick from Coach Keogan has been guiding his lads through strenuous workouts during the last week to have them at the peak of physical condition for the opening affair tomorrow evening.
Molded around the brilliant performing center, Bob Faught, who smashed the Madison Square Garden scoring record last year, are Rensberger and Kuka, a pair of competent guards; Captain Char
Faught Goes Up
lie Butler, Niemera, Curran and. Vince-guerra, a quartet of high scoring forwards. It is quite a task for Coach Keogan to decide from day to day just who will be given the starting forward assignments. Lanky Tom Brennan, the point-per-minuie man, is giving Bob Faught a torrid race for the starting pivot post. Quite a few members of last year’s Frosh five are in the midst of the tangle for varsity assignments.
Wartime transportation curtailments have fostered a more concentrated game schedule in the Midwestern area but the Irish will hit the'Atlantic seaboard once during the oncoming campaign. Returning from New York where the lads meet New York II. in the annual . Garden struggle they will drop by Buffalo for a fracas on the Canisius IT. court.
The 1942-43 schedule.
Nov. 28—Ball State at Notre Dame .	-
Dec. 4—Western Michigan at.Noti-e Dame .Dec. 12—Northwestern at Chicago Stadium Dec. 14—Wisconsin at Notre Dame
Dec. 19—Purdue at Notre Dame
Jan.16—Northwestern at Chicago Stadium ■
•Ian. IS—Pending	:
Jan. 23—Kentucky at Louisville
Jan. 25—Butler at Indianapolis
Jan. 30—DePaul at Chicago Stadium
Feb. 2—Marquette at Notre Dame
Feb. 6—Michigan State at Notre Dame
Feb. S—Pending	■
Feb. 13—New York University at New York
Feb. 15—Canisius at Buffalo. New York
Feb. 20—Great Lakes at Chicago Stadium
Feb. 23—Butler at Notre Dame
Feb. 27—Michigan State at East Lansing • ■ ’ March 2—Wabash at Notre Dame	-
March 6—Marquette at Milwaukee
March S—Great Lakes at Great Lakes
March 12—Detroit at Notre Dame .
Over the Quota	,
The Commerce Forum, selling government bonds and stamps at the - home football games, closed the season three hundred dollars above the mark. They had their goal set at one thousand dollars. The members who were responsible for putting this activity over so well are president Gail Fitch, J. Thomas O’Reilly, Theodore T. Toole, John O’Toole, James E. Madigan.
At the next meeting plans for a banquet will be considered and officers will be elected. Bonds will probably be sold at the basketball games next semester.
Election of officers for the coming semester will be held on Dec. 2. Jim Madigan is chairman of the election committee. Tom O’Reilly and Ted .O’Toole head the banquet committee, the-event being scheduled for Dec. 10.	. ■
—Bob Sinkle^
21
Si
There is a difference
in uniforms!
tailored for the Modern Gilbert’s
By
HICKEY-FREEMAN
In South Bend
’60
upwards
OFFICERS of the Navy insist, and rightly so, upon fine uniforms. Not only do they want style, fit and serviceability, but individuality as well. Many officers already, know that these qualities are found in the uniforms
Call Us
We'll Deliver
to Gilbert's
You see the difference, you feel the difference the moment you try on a uniform at the Modern Gilbert’s.
GILBERT’S OWN OFFICERS’ UNIFORMS, $42.50
THS MODERN
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
22
Dobbs Officers’ Caps — the finest!
I PRODUCED by famous Dobbs craftsmen, * these are the finest officers’ caps made. You can have complete confidence in your Dobbs. Officially correct in style—with an extra measure of smartness and distinction—
exclusively — the Modern Gilbert’s
By DOBBS
$105°
including 3 covers
They come by their dashing good looks naturally — because of the wide experience of Dobbs • experts in headwear craftsmanship.
Can Us — We'll Deliver.
In South Bend — Any Taxi Free to Gilbert's.
OPEN EVERY EVENING UNTIL 9:00
4

THE MODERN
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.

23
SHORT SHOTS from SPORT SPOTS
Bill Reynolds
Here is a quote from a letter received from the sports editor of the Southern California Daily Trojan: “As for the game, you might as well warn the Irish to be ready. We’re going to murder ’em. After a slow start we are finally rolling. You can throw that Stanfard defeat back to the Japs. We wuz robbed.” That is their opinion ... as for the Irish, when they left early this week, they were ready. . . .
It is said that Norm Verry, the Trojan’s 230-pound right tackle, is the best lineman on the coast. ... Jeff Cravath, the Southern California coach, captained the 1926 Trojan team which played the inaugural game of the series against Knute Rockne’s Notre Dame team. The Irish won, 13-12, in the last quarter. Notre Daine has beaten Southern Cal five times on extra points. The series stands at nine won, six lost, and one tie for Notre Dame. . . .
Well, that Georgia-Georgia Tech game has popped up again. ... Is Frank Sink-wich better than Clint Castleberry, Ed- • die Prokop, Davey Eldredge, Jimmy Luck, at al.? Personally, I’ll take stock in the numbers but I wouldn’t bet on it. . . . The Great Lakes basketball roster contains the names of three of Notre Dame’s recent stars: Eddie Riska, Duster Hiller, and George Sobek. ... Other prominent names on the list are Sprowl and Caress (Purdue); Schumacher and Dietz (Butler); Huffman (Tennessee); Soderquist (Iowa) ; Davies (Seton Hall) ; Klien (Northwestern); Anderson (Stanford) ; and the prize package of them all —George Glamack, two-time All-American center from the University of North Carolina. . . . They called Glamack the “Blind-Bomber” in college . . . the question is how did he get in the Navy. . . . Maybe he wasn’t so blind after all. . . .
Fielding H. Yost’s Michigan teams scored more than IGO' points in a single game four times within four years but have never accomplished the feat since. . . . Buffalo fell to the Yostmen in 1901 by a score of 128-0; the 1902 team beat Michigan Aggies (now Michigan State), 119-0, and Iowa, 107-0. In 1904 the Wolverines edged out West Virginia, 130-0. . . . That is pretty good scoring says the lad from Georgia, but Georgia Tech beat Chattanooga, 222-0, and the quarters were cut short, too, so as to hold the score down. ...
The University of Hlinois freshman football squad not only went undefeated'
24
in three games but also won recommendations for 49 numerals, the largest number in Illini history. ... In the fall of 1939 there were close to twice that many winning their numerals here at Notre Dame. ...
Congratulations on a fine race at East Lansing, Ollie Hunter. . . .
Undefeated Zahm Wins .
Hall Lightweight Title
The lightweight interhall football league failed to have the success the heavier league had. Zahm Hall won the league championship with five victories in their five games. In their final game the “Zombies” defeated Breen-Phillips, 57-0.
NAVAL OFFICERS
Fine serviceable leathers and approved design are just a part of these Mansfield Military Oxfords. It’s their superb friendly fit that makes Mansfields the preferred shoe by men in the Service.
The final standings follow:
TEAM	WON	LOST	TIED
Dillon ............ 0	4	1
Zahm............... 5	0	0
NROTC ............. 2	11
Cavanaugh ......... 2	2	0
Main Building ..... 2	2	2
Breen-Phillips .... 0	2	0
In rolling- uj> their undefeated season Zahm conquered in succession, Cavanaugh, 6-0; Dillon, 19-6; NROTC, 6-0; Main Building, 6-2; and Breen-Phillips, 57-0. This gave them a total of 94 points to 8 for their opponents.
Coached by Al Swan the personnel of the Zahm team is as follows: ends, An-kenbrick and Kunkle; tackles, Haig and Murray; guards, Heigal and Walker; center, Roney; and backs, Brown Bennett, and Voitik. Line substitutes were: Toole, Ludwig and D. Mallon; backfield reserves were Cleary and Kleffman.
Mail All Gifts Early
Avoid Disappointments
The Post Office Department now is starting the most gigantic task in its history—the movement of a deluge of Christmas parcels, cards and letters while maintaining the' regular flow of millions of pieces of mail daily to and from our armed, forces all over the world.
Indications are that the volumes of Christmas mail will be the largest on record. Already in September, latest month for which figures are available, retail sales had reached a' level second only to the record month of December, 1941, according to the Department of Commerce? And sales are rising. Such heavy purchases always presage heavy mailings.
If thousands of our soldiers, sailors, marines and civilian friends are not to be disappointed at Christmas time, the public must cooperate by mailing earlier
(Continued on page 30)
military blucher oxford, black Alpine leather and rubber heel.
MANSFIELD’S
FAMED FOR FIT $5.95
BOSTONIANS, $8.95
M*X ADLER
Michigan at Washington
THE EARS HAVE IT
Vail W. Pischke
> Yesterday radio tempted us away from a luscious leg of turkey to ear-in on the big two-hour- Thanksgiving Day show for servicemen the world over . . . darn nice work by Ginny Simms, the Bergen-
, McCarthy crew, Dale Evans, Red Skelton, Jive-man Gene Krupa, Allan Jones, v Jose Iturbi, Lou Silvers, the intentional corn of Suike Jones and his Hammsters, ” Judy Canova and plenty of other stars.
As usual, Orson Welles’ first sustaining shot on his “Hello Americans” series on
• CBS rang the four-bell class and ranks henceforth as 1A. . . . Too bad he doesn’t really do all that writing, directing, producing, acting, and a thousand other things he is supposed to be doing at the same time—shows what a good manager and publicity man can do for a guy with
- real talent. Jack Benny’s show still can’t rank with Orville Foster’s “Faster (?)
-A With Foster.” . . . Benny goes deeper and deeper into joke books for those worn-out gags every week. Best Improvement of the Week: Dr. I. Q. finally got wise to the fact that quizz shows eventually - drag if something isn’t done to keep them going, so he added a girl to his group of theater-floor announcers Monday night. T.ot better to hear: “I have a cute little gentleman in the balcony, Doctor!”
“ PRIZE BONER OF THE WEEK: Announcer: “The livestock usually heard at this time are not available: so we now
• return you to our main studio (WLW, Station KOL).
TIMES WHEN I WOULD LIKE TO YELL, “CORN CENTER!”: When the comedian said: “I thought I had a date { with a WAAC, but she turned out to be v a cold WAVE”; or, when the dope answerer the phone at 3 a.m., received “I’m sorry if I got you out of bed,” and yawned out with: “Oh, that’s all right, I had to get up to answer the phone anyway!”	.
y LOCAL RADIO DOPE: Next Thursday, Dec. 3, brings another campus radio
' meeting in the Engineering building at 7:15. . . . Watch Warren Dana on the
- “Views and Previews” show, good man . . . more improvement will list the campus quizz show, with Downey and Cooney, as a plus to the local reputation— then again, Raymond and Boss shine on the “Sportscast,” too. Prof. Richard Sullivan deserves another orchid (from the nearest Junior Promster, of course) for; his fine script work on the show heard on NBC yesterday. It depicted ND at its . best and we hope the 200th celebration will be half, as successful—if it is, it’ll .
... be O.K.	.
MAX ADLER
“ON THE CORNER” . . . Michigan at Washington
It's Adlers for Arrows!
You’ll find Arrow formal-shirts and a huge selection of Arrow whites and patterned at Adler’s — a collar style for every man.
Nothing can beat a harmonizing Arrow shirt, tie, and handkerchief ensemble—especially designed to be worn together. You’ll find your favorite collar style in a large assortment of patterns and fabrics—and ties that everyone will admire.
Arrow Shirts, $2.25 up Arrow Ties, $1 up.
Arrow Handkerchiefs, 35c up
7- ; < • * BUY U. S. WAR BONDS AND STAMM' ★><
ARROW SHIRTS
TIES • COLLARS • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR • SPORT SHIRTS
25
Irish Backs Go Marching By Northwestern;
Cornie Clatt Leads Attack as Irish Win 27-20
PHIL KEEN
Northwestern’s ferocious Wildcats, slightly tamed by six straight defeats, rode to their greatest heights Saturday in a futile attempt to halt the Notre Dame T-men, going down, 27-20.
The injury-riddled Irish unleashed a sparkling ground attack, fronted by Cornie Clatt, that effectively nullified any
F
right on
the
that delicious and refreshing taste this side of Coca-Cola. Nobody else can duplicate it.”
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
It’s
beam”
Drink
elicious and Refreshing
Hi. Recognize me? I’m one of your crowd. You see, I speak for Coca-Cola, known, too, as Coke.
I speak for both. They mean the same thing. The gang say I look just like Coke
aerial gains Otto Graham and his boys could muster. Picking up 17 first downs to 14, the green-jersied men ground out 297 yards rushing and 72 yards passing for a 369 total. The Purple got 95 rushing and 174 with passes to trail the Irish 100 yards in total yardage.
From the kickoff it was strictly a give-
V f
and-take proposition with offense definitely having the upper hand. Waldorf’s warriors struck first with Hirsch driving over center for the touchdown. Elmer Pick, placekick artist, made it 7 to 0. The .< Irish countered with a 60-yard drive. A Statue of Liberty play, Bertelli to * “Creighty” Miller, was good for 27 yds.; Livingstone picked up 12 and then five in two more smashes; Clatt went the remaining 16 yards with two cracks through guard. Bertelli’s kick failed by inches.
An Irish fumble on the Northwestern 30 set the Wildcats rolling again. , Hirsch’s running and Graham’s passing . ate up 55 yards. Graham passed to Kean for the score. Yonakor smashed in to *. block Pick’s attempted placement. Highlight of the march was Motl’s brilliant -• over-the-shoulder catch of Otto’s 35-yard heave. The Irish tied it up seven minutes later. After an exchange of punts gave , them the ball on their own 39, Tom Miller got four and Bertelli passed to Dove for a first down. Moose Clatt broke through for 13 yards and then repeated ’ the stunt for 13 more. Here, Livingstone took up the goalward surge with a 14-yard drive. C. Miller and Clatt moved to . within an inch of the goal and Cornie forged over. Bertelli’s conversion tied the score at 13-13.
The Irish • got rolling again shortly after the second half kickoff. This march * covered 79 yards. “Creighty” Miller, Clatt, and Livingstone moved down field with clock-like precision to the four < where Bertelli lateralled to Livingstone for six points and then added the place- L ment.
f
Clatt’s interception of a Graham toss on the ’Cat 41 touched off another spark in the Model T, this time striking through the air on the strength of Bertelli’s right arm. Two of Bert’s completions did the job. Paul Limont made a circus catch of the first one, good for 16 yards. “Creighty” Miller grabbed the other one. right out of the hands of two Purple defenders and raced for the ' . touchdown. “Bootin’ Bert” tacked on the single pointer.
Five straight completions by Graham -set up the Wildcat’s last score. Hasse grabbed the last one on the Irish four and Hirsch -went over on the next play. Pick’s placekick completed the day’s scoring.	.
Dick Creevy and a gang of blockers . gave the crowd their thrill of the day when he tucked away the next Northwestern kickoff and raced 59 yards to the — ’Cat’s 39. Dick’s swivel hips left several would-be tacklers lying prone on the
26
ground. Sharing the spotlight were Harry Wright and Cornie Clatt. Wright consistently laid the secondary low as Clatt came storming through. Harry was a marked man Saturday, but came through with one of his most brilliant games. Center Tom Brock, tackle Jim White, and left end Bob Dove were also outstanding in the line.
Here’s one that drifted into the office in the morning mail:
To stop the wearing of short skirts, I wouldn’t if I could!
The wearer has a perfect right, And her left is just as good!
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
Telephone 3-42S9
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Shetland Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-2574
A
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Shetland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D. M. J. Thornton, M.D.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY . Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
STRICTLY INSTRUMENTAL
Frank King
The Junior class fooled around long enough to get the band for the Prom but they didn’t make too bad a choice when they did get someone’s name on the dotted line. Mitchell Ayres brought his fashions in music to the beautiful Palais .Royale last Friday night. On the whole Ayres didn’t have a bad outfit. However, whether it was due to bad musicianship or bad technicianship, that trumpet man of his sounded like Donald Duck with a mouthful of Tobasco Sauce. His tenor man’s interpretation of a sax ride was to play the melody of the once popular “Johnny One Note.” His female vocalist was certainly trying hard. . . . She was desperately attempting to attain a vi~ bratto but the result sounded like she was singing with a shimmy reducing machine attached to her throat. The male vocalist was as good as most of the male vocalists are . . . average. In fact, except for a few occasions during the night the whole band smacked of the average.
One of those occasions was when he played Fashions in Blue. That was a very smooth blues serenade which featured the Donald Duck trumpet man and the Johnny One Note sax man, but in spite of these two characters it was done fair to middlin’.
Velvet Moon is the song to watch but if Al Durwin, who does all the male warbling for Les Brown doesn’t try singing the song in the same key that. Les and the boys are playing it in ... it won’t get very far.
The band to watch is Jerry Wald and his outfit. His rise to fame has been as spectacular as his clarinet. He started out in a Child’s restaurant in New York City with nothing on the ball except that he played a great clarinet. He soon acquired a good collection of musicians. He went to the Hotel Lincoln and there he stayed for months. Just recently he went on the road and is now at the Meadowbrook. ... He is to fill a good share of Claude Thornhill’s engagements which went hanging when Claude left to slap Japs instead of piano keys.
Bob Chester’s Wait 'Till the Sun Shines Nellie is really sump’n.
The annual poll conducted by Doumbeat is still in its early stages but here are a few of the results for what they are worth. (After all I have to fill this space with something, don’t I? or do I?) Leading trumpet man is Tommy Dorsey’s Ziggy Elman. T.D.’s ace skin-beater, Bud-by Rich is well in front, Hodges is the prime alto man in the race, tenor honors
are split up among many such as Musso, Corcoran, and Capello. Helen Forrest leads the girl vocalists and another Helen, O’Connell begorry, is second. By some strange error Guy Lombardo, not Jack Woelfle, is the reigning “King of Corn.” Oh! well, those things will happen. Harry James is second, Kay Kyser is third, Tommy Dorsey is fourth, and Spike Jones is fifth.
Leading in the rumor department this week ... is the rumor that there is no rumor.
* * * ’
Today’s best definition: A husband is what is left of a sweetheart after the nerve has been killed.
CURB SERVICE AND DELIVERY WELCOME MIDSHIPMEN! Special Prices to Students and V-71 American Shoe Service New, Modern Repair Shop . All work guaranteed
Phone 2-4830	613 N. Michigan
(Two blocks South of Bridge)
iio-n<>*rt nun Mm ie», muu
Bruggner's in the J. M. S. Building have a fine line of Tobaccos, Cigarettes, Pipes —Novelties—Fountain Service — Billiards.
Mai/n a/nd
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Bruggner's News Comer has your home town papers — or will get them for you — also magazines — books, maps, and greeting cards.
27
students in the men’s room, Mr. Leahy?”
INTRODUCING
JACK DENNISTON
The Student Managers take care of the thousand and one details that aid in the smooth running of the Irish grid m a c h i n e. Like the R.A.C. boys, they are the un-sung heroes of Notre Dame football.
Senior John Lawson Wiggins of Chicago, Ill., heads this efficient group of hard workers. John, who was
JOHN WIGGINS born in Cincinnati, Ohio, on June 26, 1921, fulfilled a childhood ambition in coming to N.D. A foreign Commerce major, he is quite active in campus life, holding memberships in the Propeller Club, the Monogram Club, Chicago Club, and the Commerce Forum.
Wiggins cites an amusing incident from his freshman manager days. It seems George Blackmore, Alumni hall student, reported to Cartier Field with a new red sweater the first day of football practice in his freshman year as a student manager. Coach Layden called for some water for his heated warriors; so George grabbed a bucket of water and tore for a group of players standing near Layden. Big Milt Piepul scooped a ladle of water from the bucket and swished it around in his mouth. Well, “Moose’s” eyesight not being chart perfect, spit the water out all over Blackmore’s new sweater. Since then George has never gone near Cartier Field. Ceithaml, Michigan; Kuzma, Michigan; Negus, Wisconsin; and Engel, Illinois, are listed as standouts in his opponents “star” book for this season.
William Arthur Keating, senior equipment manager, was born in Pittsburgh, Pa., Oct. 27, 1922. Keating is an Accounting Major who expects to be a C.P.A. in South America or.on the west coast. At present he is awaiting a draft call. Art, like Wiggins, recalls one of the older managers for his story. Elmer Layden was down near the south end of the gridiron on Cartier Field one afternoon three years ago during spring football drill. He called over to the equipment rack for someone to trot down to him with a football. Joe Kearney picked up a pigskin and threw a tremendous 60-yard pass to Layden. For a moment Layden thought he had discovered another George Gipp. Keating spends most of the game time down in the, locker room, but
28
JAMES MURRAY
from the quick glimpses he has caught of the games, Good, Illinois; Kuzma and Franks, Michigan; look like this year’s standouts to him.
❖
James Carroll Murray was born May 20, 1922, in Yonkers, N. Y. Jim is a journalism major and would like to write “sports” for the New York Times, but his want will probably be held up for a few years because of the war. At present he has a 2-A classification from his Draft Board.
Jim still blushes
when they tell how he “skived” to Baltimore for the Navy game last year. While Frank Leahy and the team were having their meal on the train, Murray and Heinie Schrenker sneaked into Leahy’s compartment and hid in the men’s room to avoid the conductor, who was bearing down on them in a hurry. Leahy, and Joe McArdle, assistant coach, knew about it though; and when they returned from dinner McArdle disguised his New England accent and came into Leahy’s compartment. The conversation ran something like this: McArdle: “Are there any
Adfor-Roekasicr Tailored
Authorized Navy Uniform Tailors
PREPARE FOR THE HOLIDAYS
Shetlands, Tweeds and Flannels by
AtUeb - Hocltedtoi
Custom made or ready to wear Suits, Sport Coats and Topcoats
FULL DRESS AND TUXEDOS FOR RENT
PARKER-WINTERROWD
115% - 117% N. Main Street (Upstairs) North of Oliver
BOB KUIPERS	CAPTAIN GEORGE MURPHY	EDDIE DORE
114 Alumni	130 Alumni	238.Alumni
Leahy: “No, conductor. I don’t think so. You can. look in there if you wish.” McArdle cracked the door just enough to slip his hand in and start waving his hand around. He slipped his hand only through the opening because he had a dark blue suit on; and to this day Murray will say it’s the closest thing to a conductor’s suit he has ever seen.
McArdle: “All right, you birds. Come r on out here!” They did, and there were McArdle and Leahy laughing, and Murray blushing. ...
Kuzma and Wistert, Michigan; Hirsch, Wisconsin; Good, Illinois; and Bolger, • lowa-Pre-Flight; look best from where he saw them this year.	>
William Edward Boss was born in Waltham, Mass., on June 22, 1922. An English major, Bill is very active in extra-curricular activities.
He broadcasts the N.D. Sportscast with Lee Raymond on Monday afternoons; is campus editor of the Dome; writes for the sports department of Scholastic; and spots for football announcer Dick Bray (WLW) during the football season. Bill’s current football thrill came immediately after the Stan-ford game when the Notre Dame student body cheered Marchie Schwartz -with “He’s a Man,” after his warriors had been smothered by the Irish 27-0. Schwartz, the true gentleman, doffed his hat in recognition of the students’ sporting gesture. This Navy V-l junior, who would like one day to be a sports an-
with
nouncer, rates Negus, Wisconsin; Bruno Banducci, Stanford; and Wistert, Michigan, as top linemen N.D. has faced this season; while Griffin, Illinois; Studer, Navy; and Ceithaml, Michigan; drew much praise from the Franklin, Ohio, “scooper” for their backfield ability.
Emmit Martin Jennings is best known as the tracer of lost persons—he being the lad that found Angelo Bertelli in the Chicago mix-up before the Wisconsin game this past September. Bert missed his Madison train by five minutes, so Jennings was detailed, by Leahy, to get Bert to Madison in time for the. game. He found Angelo coming up the train ramp; procured transportation to Madison in time for the game—via another route—and Jennings and Bertelli arrived only a half-hour behind the team.
Emmit was born Oct. 12, 1922, in Tucumcari, N. Mex. He is a Pre-Medical student and a member of the Biology and Chemistry Club and maintains an 85 average. He regards N.D.’s opposition as of the highest caliber and still marvels at Army’s defense against Bertelli’s passes.
Nicholas Joseph Amata, history major from Kingston, N. Y., was born May 20, 1922. Nick would like to become a history teacher after graduation. He has been classified 4-F because of chronic heart trouble; so probably he will be able to continue studies after graduation or go out and teach.
His biggest surprise in three years of student managing was the inco-ordination of the water-logged (so-called invincible) Iowa Pre-Flight School. He says: “The Notre Dame spirit that day was the greatest L’ve ever seen, and Notre Dame could have stopped any team in the country that afternoon.”
Buy WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend's Leading Jeweler
Lau)?nn;5
A wide selection of Desirable Xmas Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Amato has all praises for Griffin, Illinois; Jankowski, Iowa Pre-Flight; Maz-us and Hill of Army; Kuzma, Ceithaml, Wistert and Pregulman of Michigan; and Hennessey, Navy.
|	SplinteM, |
"Red" Lonergan
WE SALUTE YOU
Notre Dame is one team that had more than its share of injuries and bad luck, especially injuries. Injuries have stood in the way of many a man on the road to fame, but they climbed all over the road Dippy Evans picked. It is sad to see any man deprived of his most valued treasure, but it seems more tragic when it happens to a superman. Dippy is a natural at every point of the’ game. Because of his love for sport he is a leader in every game into which he enters. Fundamentals which come hard to many are routine stuff and he wades through them with no trouble. He is one of the hardest runners and most punishing tacklers we have seen, though he does it all without the build of Nagurski or. Nevers. His kind of ball is like that the Cards played against the Yanks in the last World’s Series, always there when called on for solid delivery. What a difference he would have made in that game with the Wolverines. It has been a tough dose for Dippy to take on the sidelines, many times with tears in his eyes, knowing how the team needed him. Helpless to do anything - about it no matter how much he wanted to get in. We, the student body, wish to let you, Dippy, know that we appreciate what you have done this year. The team has felt your presence and the boys have felt better because of it. We give you our schoolwide condolences.
THE BENGALS
Now that the basketball schedule has been published we can give at least a tentative date for the Bengal Bouts. They will be held in the latter part of March if all goes well. This year the promotion department is planning on giving the bouts a bigger blow than ever, so watch for announcements.
Congratulations to Jackie Hayes on his marriage to Miss Jane Stanton of Kansas City, Mo. He was acclaimed as the nation’s youngest coach when he took over the team at Bockhurst College of Kansas City, Mo. At present he is in the athletic and recreation department of the Navy yard at Newport, Rhode Island.
William D.' Revelli, one of the directors of the Michigan band and professor of music at that university, taught our own Mr. Hope much of what he knows
about formations. It’s too bad he didn’t give Mr. Hope a chance to demonstrate a few of the tricks that he has picked up since he left Michigan.
While we are handing out .the con-
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
413 City National Bank Bld?.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
IT B NOT TOO LATE; MEET THE GANG AT THE
SUNNY ITALY
. i°r
ITALIAN STYLE SPAGHETTI
Under the new . management of
Leonard and Bob
Sunny Italy Cafe
601 N. Niles Avenue Phone 3-0678
29
gratulations, let’s hang one on an exNotre Dame great for doing a swell job. He is Harry Stuhldreher who has brought his Badgers through a tough schedule in a style which Madison is not used to. This team was expected to be an also-ran in the Western Conference,
Notre Dame HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES CANDY
TOBACCO PIPES
CHRISTMAS CARDS and Christmas Wrapping
OFFICIAL N. D. JEWELRY (Limited Supply)
N. D. NOVELTIES
RELIGIOUS ARTICLES
Rosaries, Medals, Missals, and Crucifixes .
Notre Dame Bookstore
Badin Hall
yet, if they had played one more game in the conference, they would have been up with Ohio State for the conference championship. This team has also three potential All-Americans in its membership. Not bad for an also-ran.
THE WINTER PROGRAM
The winter intramural program will be getting under way very soon with the opening of the basketball leagues, and the swimming, handball, boxing, wrestling, and, for the first time, fencing meets. It is the hope of the Intramural Department that the students will keep up the same lively interest in the winter program as was shown in the fall football program. Our last report from Coaches Commisa and Dudley on the tentative game with the Purdue “B” squad brought nothing definite, but if any breaks come, the game will be held tomorrow.	.
It was odd and most peculiar to watch Kevin or “Caruso” O’Toole leading jeers in the stands at the Northwestern game. We always thought that screaming was hard on the throat.
We wonder which thrilled the prom dates more, the band with its latest formations or those two snappy teams with their smart playing.
MAIL ALL GIFTS EARLY (Continued from page 24) than ever and by addressing letters and parcels properly. The best efforts of the Post Office Department alone cannot be enough, in view of wartime difficulties faced by the postal system. The public must assist.	.
About 25,000 experienced postal workers already have been taken by the war services. Arrangements are under way to add thousands of temporary personnel to postal staffs, but this man power is hard to find and is inexperienced. Facilities of railroads and air lines are heavily taxed by movements of huge quantities of war materials and personnel. Extra trucks are almost impossible to obtain. Winter weather, hampering transportation, is beginning.
The free-mailing privilege granted to members of the armed forces has raised their mailings some 30 per cent, it is estimated. Expansion of those forces also is adding rapidly to the postal burden.
The deadline already is past for mailing gifts to Army and Navy personnel overseas with assurance that the parcels will arrive by Christmas. The New York post office reports that in late October, 350,000 such parcels were handled daily in that office alone.
The Post Office Department is making strenuous efforts to avoid such a terrific jam as it faced in 1918 under- similar conditions, during the First World War. It can succeed in those efforts — and avoid many heartaches for its patrons -—
if the public will cooperate by mailing early.
All Stars vs. Dillon Is
Next Tuesday's Top Event
The All-Star interhallers versus the champion Dillon team. This is the announcement that came forth from Commissioner Commisa’s abode early this week as a proposed game between the All-Stars and the Purdue “B” squad was called off. Vince said that the Purdue ‘ team had turned in their uniforms before they received our challenge.
The conflict is scheduled for next Tuesday on Cartier Field at 4 o’clock. Dillon, fresh from their win over the powerful Walsh squad escaped with no 1 serious injuries. With the return of Lou Horning, left end, the Gold Coasters will be at full strength. Sorin-ite Bob Madden’s passing and Walsh’s Pat Yokla-vich’s running are expected to battle player r coach Cuddigan’s running and Vince Oppenheim’s passing right down ■to the final gun. Two lines, composed of veteran gridders, can be counted on to limit any probable land attacks to a definite minimum.
Enthusiasm has reached a new high this fall in the interhall set-up. Several teams are asking for post-season games and would like to continue playing up to vacation. Alumni has issued a challenge for a grudge battle with Sorin’s “sensations” and are anxiously awaiting a reply.
Starting line-up for the All-Stars will be: Ends, Breska of Sorin and Quinlan of Cavanaugh; tackles, Rice of Alumni and Degenhart of Alumni; guards, Lo- A gan of Breen-Phillips and Casey of Cavanaugh; center, Carroll of Alumni; quarterback, Kremer of Sorin; left halfback, Madden of Sorin; right halfback, Yoklavich of Walsh; fullback, Baum of ; Walsh. Alunmi-ite Vince Commisa will coach the team.—Phil Keen	T
. •	• A
GRADUATION PORTRAIT of you makes an IDEAL GIFT for your friends and family.
We have your DOME picture negatives.
BAGBY PHOTO COMPANY 110 W. Colfax Ave.
y
A
->
30
This is serious work—what's on the board?
t	Radio Debate Contest
|	Still Open to Students
f This week the American Economic j Foundation announced its second series 1 of national intercollegiate radio prize " debates. The subject to be debated this . year is, “Should American youth support i the re-establishment after the war of * competitive enterprise as our dominant i economic system?”
On the campus the department of ? speech is sponsoring a contest in connec-, tion with this nation-wide contest. Those who wish to enter should submit their manuscripts in final form before Dec. 4 V to some member of the speech depart-| ment. The contest is in charge of W. J.
Coyne, director of debating on the ? campus.
The contest is open to any full-time undergraduate student now working for a bachelor’s degree. Each college or university can enter one speaker for each side of the question. Before Dec. 4 each candidate must file with some member of the department of speech an outline of not over 500 words of a proposed seven and a half minute speech.
The 16 affirmative and negative speakers later judged best from the outline filed with the Foundation will be informed that they are to debate over local stations of the Blue Network of the National Broadcasting Co. At each of eight stations, two affirmative and two negative speakers will compete. All traveling expenses of these contestants will be paid by the Foundation. These local
radio debates will be held between Feb. 15 and March 15, 1943. The best speaker will receive a §50 award and the better speaker of the opposing side a $25 prize. Then these winners in each local debate
People are judged by the company they keep!
Home of:
Hart, Schaffner & Marx Clothes
Manhattan Shirts
Stetson Hats
Inter-woven Sox
Hickok Belts
Town and Country Sports Apparel
Nunn-Bush Shoes
SPIRO'S
121 South Michigan ■
will submit full manuscripts. From these two affirmative and two negative speakers will be chosen for the National Championship. The final nation-wide debate will be broadcast over the Blue network. These four speakers will be entertained in New York during their stay at the expense of the Foundation. The winner of this final debate will receive a $1,000 war bond and $250 in cash; second prize will be a $500 war bond and $125 in cash. The winners will be determined by a nation - wide poll of the listening audience.
19 TRAINS DAILY TO CHICAGO
No guesswork, just remember this - easy schedule: the first two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning with the third, at 7:30 A. M., and until 9:30 P. M., there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at I 1:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too.
For information call
C. W. VEACH
Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111
NAVY MEN!
Ask about special furlough rates
31