

Recognized as one of the finest all-male collegiate choruses in the United States, the University ofNotre Dame Men's Glee Club has a rich history of singing and brotherhood spanning eighty-one years. More than 2,000 young men have sung with the Glee Club over the years, combining the rich traditions of Notre Dame with the high standards of artistic excellence. 
Since 1915, the members of the Glee Club have enjoyed the advantage exciting fraternal organization combined with an intensive study of vocal technique and musical styles. Last year the group had national tour stops in Washington D.C., Denver, Chicago, Cedar Rapids, and New Jersey among other cities on its East coast and Plains states-tours. This summer, the group had an exciting tour of several European countries including Ireland, France, Spain, Italy, and Germany. As musical ambassadors of the University of Notre Dame, the Glee Club has always been received with warmth and enthusiasm. 
Don't miss your chance to become a part of one of the most exciting traditions on campus! Sign up in Crowley Hall for an audition. Auditions will be held August 25,26, and 27. For more information contact the director, Daniel Stowe at (219) 631-9457. 
:Notre (]Jame CJ{ee C{u6 

SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME138,NUMBER 1 FOUNDED 1867 SUMMER 1996 
FEATURE STORY 


The Freshlllan 15 
No matter how excited you are to leave home for the first time and to embark on a four-year adventure of work and play, you probably have some lingering questions aboutdaily life atNotre Dame. Here are 15 tips to helpmakethetransition smoother . 
.............................. page 10 
How to Do South Bend 

Answering the. eternal question, ''What is there to 
do in South Bend?" this 
guide compiles some ofthe 
best and worst activities 
around town. ....••..•••........•....••••.page 24 

Going for the Gold 

SomeofNotreDame'sfin­est athletes have Olympic ambitions. Meet four of them on their journey to Atlanta. 
...•...............••.•••••.••page18 

FEATURES 
Notre Dame News Briefs ........................................ 4 
by Matt Szabo 
Faltlily Portrait ........................................................ 6 
by Michelle Crouch 
Dark Side of the Dome ........................................... 8 by Mark J. Mitchell W · Packing 101 ...............••.............•...........................•. 12 
by Kristin M. Alworth 
A Y ea.r To Remember ..................................... ~.... 15 
by Brian Hiro 
Athletes of the Y ea.r.•...•......•.................••........•.....20 
compiled by Brian Hiro. 
Prerequisite Film ...............................•......•.........•.22 
by Chris Myers 
DEPARTMENTS 
From the Editor .......................................................... 2 Campus Watch ..... : ..•........... ; ...................................... 9 Out ofBounds ...............•.....•.................................... 28 Weekin Distortion ............................ .-......................30 Final Word .......................... : .................................... 32 
1 

. . . . , :-,_ :,.r--, --.--i ' , 
..,. -----·' ·-----~~---~--~ -... ,-. -. 


Words ofWisdom 
By the last day of Freshman Orientation weekend three years ago, my parents andI needed a break from the rush to unload, unpack and attend every event on the itinerary, . Walking around campus, we chatted about the buildings, people we had met and speeches we had heard. Interspersed with these first impressions were bits of advice from my parents. As we approached the dorm, my mother asked ifI had remembered to buy a thermometer. When I told her no, she said, "Well, ifyou ever feel like you have a fever, go to the infirmary. They have thermometers there." .. 
Luckily,mymother'sadvicehasimprovedoverthepastsemesters.Wheniwasanrioyed with my roommates, she told me to have patience and remember that there were probably things about me that annoyed them too. When I was frustrated with the weather, parieta).s · or a particularly heavy workload, she reminded me why I came to Notre Dame and told·• me not to take for granted all the things that this school offered me. · 
It has been this advice, more than any other, that has stayed with me. And at times, this advice has been the hardest to follow. As a freshman, I had no idea how many all-nighters, . tedious papers and excruciating study sessions I would endure. But I also had no idea of themidnight walks around thelakes, the long talks with myroommates over orders of Papa John's breadsticks and the view of the sunrise above the Dome I would enjoy. 
You are about to embark on four years of similar ups and downs at Notre Dame. Undoubtedly, there will be days when you will wonder why you ever came here. But there will also be days when you will never want to leave. You will make lifelong friendships, you will find your favorite spot on campus and you will have your own store of memories. So enjoy every moment of it and try not to take it for granted. And ifyou forget your thermometer, borrow one from your roommate. It beats a trip to the infirmary. 
About Scholastic 
Scholastic Magazine is a student-run weekly magazine that offers the Notre Dame community news about campus events, issues and personalities, as well as entertainment and humor. We are proud to be the nation's oldest collegiate publication, and this fall we begin our 129th year. 
This is a special issue published for incoming freshmen. Itis our attempt to help answer some of your questions and quell some of your fears about life at Notre Dame. We hope itis helpful.Enjoy the rest of your summer and we look forward to seeing you on campus. 
Bridget Bradburn 
Managing Editor 
Cover Photos by Stan Evans 
45 Years Ago: Timeless Advice 
The editors of Scholastic ran an editorial in the September 10, 1951 issue to welcome. the incoming freshmen. The advice they gave then still holds true today: 
... beware ofthe campus cynic. Take things as you.find them here. Learnfor yourself and keep in mind that like anything else; college is what you make it. What you get out ofthe years spent here is entirely up to you. 
There's certainly a wonderful opportunity infront ofyou. And there are obligations, too.NotreDameisagreatschoolandit'suptoyoutokeepitthatway... Andkeepinmind that it won't be too long before your'class is running the student end ofactivities here. · Itwil/besquarelyuptoyoutoputNotreDameontop.Timepassesquickly,sodon'twake up somefa/I and.find that you've missed the boat. 
Welcome, Class of 2000. 

-BSB 
2 
SCHOLASTIC 



It's time to call 




DOMINO'S! 
The New 

Number on 271-0300 Campus... 
Open every day for lunch! 
For a great job, drop in and deliver pizza to Notre ·Dame and sur­:rounding areas. 



AnOld Giant 

Grows 
BY MArr SZABO
Tradition-awordsynonymouswith Notre Dame. Now, one of Notre Dame's longest-standing and most recogruzabletraditionsisundergoingalong­awaited and much-anticipated renovation. Notre Dame Stadium, also known as "The House that Rockne Built," is in the middle of a two-year restoration and renovation process that will add 26 rows and 21,915 seats, bringing total stadium capacity from 59,075 to 80,990. Bythetimestudentsarriveoncampusfor 

SNEAK PREVIEW. An artist's rendition of the completed stadium, to debut In 1997. When finished, the stadium will also have a new natural-grass field and new goalposts. 
the fall semester, nearly all the framework for the expanded stadium will be in place. However, the new seating will not beavail­able until the 1997 season. This might cre­ate the illusion of 21,000 empty seats this year, although every Irish home game since 1966-with the exception ofthe 1973 Air Force game, which fell on Thanksgiving Day -has been a sellout Between the 1996and 1997 seasons, the expansion crew will focus on major internal restoration work, including 28 new concession stands, nine permanent novelty stands and larger and more numerous restroom facilities. 
When theplans for the expandedstadium were announced, there was some specula­tion thatthenotorious studentsection would be moved. However, according to Denny Moore, director of public relations, the stu­dent section willremain where itis, occupy­ing the first SO rows, beginning at the north­wes_tcomeroftheendzoneforthefreshmen and stretching to the 40-yard line below the press box (or the seniors. 
NotreDameStadium currentlyranks44th in seating capacity among the 106 Division IA football facilities. It will rank 14th after the $50 million expansion. The expanded stadium is scheduled to debuton September 6, 1997, as the Irish take on Miami of Ohio. 
· Since the stadium opened in 1930, the Fighting Irish have played318 games there, accumulating a record of243-70-5, a win­rung percentage of .773. D 





Ready for Action 
New student leaders Seth Miller and Megan Murray stress open communication as they prepare to make good on campaign promises 
BY MATT SZABO
0 n April 1, 1996, senior-to-be Setli Miller and junior-to-be Megan Murraywereinauguratedaspresi­dent and vice~president of student govern­ment. Murray is the first underclassman to be elected· to an executive office in the history ofNotreDamestudentgovernment. As the heads of student government, Miller and Murray are the primary voices of stu­dents on virtually all issues pertinent to campus life. They have created two new divisions within their administration: the Athletic Resource Department and the Information Technology Department. The Athletic Re­source Department will handle such issues as student seating in the stadium, re-paving of the basketball courts and more flexible hours at student athletic facilities. The de­partment has already implemented a new football ticket exchange system (see article opposite page). Miller asserts that these issues are atoppriorityin his administration because "one of the things that makes Notre Dame unique is that we have a very athletic student body." 


The Information Technology Depart­option ofusing their meal card to eat lunch ment, which will focus on expansion of at the LaFortune Student Center. Internet-based resources, is a product of Miller insists that every item on the plat­MillerandMurray's "Get Connected"cam­form will be achieved by theend of his term. paign theme. "We really want to enhance Students can look forward to an ATM on communication with the students," says Murray. To combat the high cost of textbooks, the Information Tech­nology Department has established a cam­puswidebookexchange via a Web page on the Internet.Itshould be op­erational for the fall se­mester. 
As many new stu­dents arealready aware, allon-campus residents purchase a mandatory 21-meal-per-w~kplan. 

These meals may be THE NEW GUARD. Megan Murray and Seth Miller review the eatenateitherofthetwo day's accomplishments. Though Murray Is the seventh female dining halls on campus. vice president, no woman has ever served as president. 
However, Miller stresses the importance of Mod Quad and improved academic advis­"greater meal plan flexibility," citing a plan ing, athletic facilities, computer resources in progress that could g1ve students the and gender relations. . 

i ! 
i l
I: 
I. 
i 
'!I 



BY MICHELLE CROUCH 
"Monk" 

Rev. Edward A. "Monk" Malloy, CSC, isinhissecondfive-year tenn as the 16th presi­dentofNotreDame.For­merlyamemberofPresi­dent George Bush's Ad­visoryCouncilonDrugs, he was recently appointed chainnan of the new Commission on Substance Abuse at High Schools. Heis also afounding director of thePoints ofLightFoundation, anational initiative to promote community service. 

Father Malloy has been a faculty member in the Department of Theology since 1974, and he continues to teach today. He resides in Sorin Hall, and is one of very few univer­sity presidents in the country who lives in a donn with students. 
Ted the (former) Head 
Rev.FatherTheodore M Hesburgh, CSC, re­tired in 1987 after serv­ing as Notre Dame's president for 35 years. He spends much of his time traveling, making speeches and fulfilling his obligations as a member of a number of international organizations. 

Despite these obligations, Father Hesburghisstillinvolvedwith Notre Dame students. He can be found making guest appearances, lecturing in classrooms and presiding over liturgies in the residence halls. In addition, he chairs the advisory committees of two of the university's aca­demic institutes. · 

Father Hesburgh is probably most well­. known for his public service career. He has held 15 presidential appointments over the 
years, involving him in major social issues such as civil rights and atomic energy. Heis also a leader in the field of education, as reflected in his 127 honorary degrees, the most ever awarded to a single individual. 
Contrary to the rumor that Father Hesburgh lives on the 14th floor of the library named after him, he actually resides in Corby Hall. 
PattyO' 
The vice president of student affairs, Profes­sor Patricia A. O'Hara makes many ofthe deci­sions that affect Notre Dame students. She sets the agenda for campus ministry, campus secu­

rity, student activities and residence life. 
Consequently, her relationship with stu­dents is bittersweet, as many students asso­ciate the Department of Student Affairs with discipline and punishment "That comes with the territory," says O'Hara. "Part of our work is with rules and expecta­tions, but there is so much more to what we do,fromCampusMinistrytostudentactivi­ties to counseling." 
O'Hara tries to maintain contact with students, spending time in each dorm at least once a year, and working personally with theresidentassistants and studentgov­ernment She also teaches two law classes . 
O'Hafa was awarded this position in June 1990, becoming the first woman to serve as an officer of the university. 

''Lou" 
When Lou Holtz came to Notre Dame to takeoverastheheadfootballcoachin 1985, no one knew for sure what was in store. It did not take long to find out 
After only two years under his guidance, the Irish earned an invitation to the Cotton 
Bowl. It was their first New Year's Day ap­pearancein seven years. The next year, in 1988, Holtz produced a na­tional championship. · 
Indeed, in his 10 sea­sons at Notre Dame, Holtz has repeatedly proven that he has made the Fighting Irish squad one of the bestin college football, and the future looks promising for football. This year's fresh­man recruiting class has been billed as one of the top in the nation. 

ProbablythemosttellingaspectofHoltz's success as a coach is the students' undying loyalty and respect for him. This is evident 
. between the third and fourth quarters of every football game, when thousands of students hold up their hands to form the letter ''L" and chant the name "Lou" over and over, as the marching band plays ''The 1812 Overture." 
Dean Eileen 
Dean of the First Year ofStudies Eileen Kolman spends most of her time doing every­thing she can to make the adjustment to college_life easier. 
UnderKolman'sguid­ance, the First Year of Studies assigns each freshman an adult advisor and a peer advi­sor. Kolman is theadultadvisorforabout50 students herself. 

The department offers sessions in test preparation, note-taking and time manage­ment Moreover, they will find a tutor for any freshman who is having trouble in a class. Through these and other programs, Dean Kolman helps make the transition to college much easier. . 
6 



ANTHONY TRAVEL The Official Travel Service ofthe University ofNotre Dame r STUDENTS PARENTS +Spripg Break Packages +Discounted Airfare to Notre Dame on +Discounts on International Travel Special Weekends (football games, etc.) +Experienced Travel Consultants +Great Packages for Away Football Games +Passport Photos +Rooms Reserved at South Bend Hotels Anthony Travel, Inc. LaFortune Student Center University of Notre Dame 1-800-DOMERS-2 if (219) 631-7080  
*Intercollegiate Competition *Nationwide Travel ·*No Experience Necessary -*Women to become Varsity in Fall 1998 *Open to Everyone _Look for Informational Posters Around Campus in Au.gust  

7 




The Dark Side ofthe Dome 
Tales ofha,unted halls, supernatural bells and secret tunnels shroudNotre Dame in mystery · 
BY MARK J. MrrcHEIL NIf you have a grandfather who gradu­ated from Notre Dame, there is little doubtthathesparkedyourimagination withstoriesoftheuniversity.Evenifyoudo nothaverelatives to regale you with univer­sitylegends, a campus tour will supply you with several bits of university lore. While these tales add color to the university's history, some ofthem bend the truth a bit. Scholastic has tried to get the stories behind the legends and the secrets. 
Hauntings Some of the favorite Notre Dame tales revolve around the reputed ghosts of the campus.Themostpopularstoryisaboutthe GhostofWashingtonHallwho!lassuppos­edly haunted the old theater since 1886. In that year, a steeplejack was killed in a fall from the fly lofthigh above the stage. Since then, students and professors have reported hearing voices, loud thuds and music com­ing from the stage area, according to Tom Barkes, the manager of Washington Hall. Barkes adds that he puts no stock in the · haunting tale, saying that all the noise is probably attributable to echoes and pipes: 
Supernatural Forces SacredHeartBasilicaisalsothecenterof a popular campus legend. According to legend, one of the Basilica's bells named after Saint Anthony of Padua weighs over three tons. When it was first rung in Sacred Heartin 1875,itreportedlybrokethewooden· beams supporting it. It was then hung with 
metal beams, and itpulled thebeams out of the wall again~ 
So the SaintAnthonybell was allegedly left resting on a platform high in the tower, never to ring again. But its famous low ring can be heard from time to time across the campus. Supposedly, the great bell rings only when Saint Anthony ofPadua 

Both the Main Building and Washing­ton Hall are veiled In mystery. 
emn occasions. Because it is the loudest and largest bell in the Basilica's tower, when it does ring, it can be heard across the campus. 
·, 
Secret Tunnels 
Various legends surround the secret tun­nel system that runs all over the campus. The tunnel system provides every building with heat,. electricity and phone service. 
· Exits to the tunnels are scattered around campus. Students are prohibited from en­tering the securely locked tunnels because of the danger ofelectrical shock from the wires and the chance ofcollapse in some of the older sections. 
Hidden Floors 
The Main Building carries with it many legends of its own. Most of them center around its reputedly condemnedfifth floor. · Though visitors cannot go up to the fifth floor, it is only closed, not condemned. 

g There is no access because, without an 
im .. 
The ringer of Saint Anthony's bell ls rumored to be the saint himself. 
himself strikes it, and ifyou hear the deep gong of the bell and you say a prayer to Saint Anthony, your prayer· will be an­swered. 
In reality, there is such a bell in Sacred Heart. It weighs 7,000 pounds and hangs . on its own rack. According to Brother Dennis Meyers, the Basilica sacristan, the Saint Anthony bell rings only a few times each year on the most important and sol-elevator, it is too. difficult to put offices up that high. After the main Building renova­tions are complete and elevators are in­stalled, the fifth floor will be reopened. 
The fifth floor also holds the entry to the hidden staircase to the balcony inside the Dome. Hidden ladders lead all the way up to the pedestal under Mary's feet. 
The catalogue of legends about Notre Dame could stretch on indefinitely. You will hear hundreds of tales in your four years here; and you'll probably tell ihem all to your grandchildren. · . 


r.1111r1m;151;1,~111;111111-______________.c..______ 
la---------------eluded in the tuition. So leave the Chanel 
and Drakkar at home.
gipper.1@nd.edu 
Welcome to our warm, arid climate. Fr. 

CamFus Watch 
BY THE GIPPER 
Attitude, Allegations and Innuendo 
Ah, sweet inn.ocents! C.ome, sit on Uncle Gipp's lap and hear tales ofrevelry and ribaldry. Oroppres­sion and vice, if the main character is an administrator. But you'll learn that soon enough. First, let's get some details out of the way. 
THESCOOP 

. The Gipp would like to introduce you to 
theGipp.HeprecededJimmyonSeirifeldin 
referring to himself in the third person. 
Legend has it the Gipp is descended from 
royalty, and he has shed all royal custom 
except eccentric self-referral. 
Anyway, good people like you and your friends tip the Gipp, through e-mail (gipper.l@nd.edu), phone messages (1­7569), or the Bat Signal (spotlight trained on sky with bat silhouette), about interest­ing occurrences and insidious rumors on campus. After confirming the tips, the Gipp passes the information on to you, the home viewer. Also, due to his royal heritage, the ' Gipp feels comfortable copping an attitude with anyone who invades his metaphysical reality. Needless to say, the Gipp isn't ex­
actly friends with the folks in the Dome. 

YOU'RE NOT FRESHMEN 

The Gipp received a press release in April that the Freshman Year of Studies willberenamedthe"FirstYearofStudies." Freshman Year is where you will receive expert counseling on your classes and love life. Ifyou're lucky, like the Gipp, you'll be in Freshman Year for a couple of years. The dean of Freshman Year says the name was changed to make it more inclusive. In our language, .that means that political corre.ct­ness has struck again. Get used to it Also get used to the fact that ifyou don't choose your math and science classes carefully, you'll either severely limit your major op­tions or spend an extra semester in South Bend, which has been found tocausecancer in laboratory rats. First Year of Studies, Freshman Year, whatever. You'll still have an8a.m.calculusclasstaughtbyamanwho resembles a pear. 
THEY DON'T TELL YOU THIS DURING FRESHMAN 0 
The following is information that will separate you from the rest ofthe kids carry­ing maps and compasses around campus the first w~k. Don't feel bad-the Gipp got lost returning to his dorm from the stadium after his first home football game. Maybe the disorientation was artificially induced, but regardless, he was lost 
Lights out Until you make the walk to Turtle Creek and Campus View a regular part of your Friday nights, you will be 
cursed with parietals, the from sprained ankles to the university'sunofficialbed­flu. Ifyou smile big, they'll time when students can­treat you to amoxycillin. not be in the rooms of Backin the '80s, they gave members of the opposite everyone salt tablets and sex-unlessthey'rehook-. told them to gargle saltwa­ing up. That's just a joke. ter. Hark -the medical But the real punchline is, revolution is at hand! By it's true. By the way, pari­the way, if an old nurse Sorin should have gotten the hint when he discovered in the spring there are actually two lakes here -one lake had been com­pletely frozen over and covered with snow when he arrived. But he didn't, and neither did you or the Gipp. So buy a warm parka and prepare to suffer through months of subhuman cold. You'll form an attachment with your bed on those cold fall/winter/ spring mornings you thought you would only form with your firstborn. But don't worry. At least you can't drown in a frozen lake, though you might drown on South Quad during monsoon season. The climate is also goodpreparation for future residence on the moon. The dark side. 
South Central South Bend. South Bend also sponsors a teeming crime scene, which explodes during fall, Christmas and spring breakswhenapartmentcomplexesholdopen houses in students' apartments for up-and­coming South Bend thieves. Living oncam­pus, however, you won't have to worry about this. Your bike will be stolen from the bike rack outside Flanner, and your books will be stolen from the library during finals, but your room will only be ransacked by your roommate. 
Get well before you get here. As far as doctors at the infirmary are concerned, peni­cillin is a wonder drug, good for everything 

etals were used in English workhouses dur­ing the Industrial Revolution to prevent the poorfrom breeding. See, the Gipp is educa­tional and fun! 
"Eau de South Bend." You'll also notice an indescribable smell at times, a combina­tion of death and old cheese. It comes from the mysterious ethanol plant, part of South Bend's tribute to foul-smelling Gary, Ind. The ethanol smell is worst during cold and rainy weather (i.e. every day), and is in-wants to stick a needle in your butt to stop the vomiting, don't let her. 
Bitter? Sure. But look at it this way: the Gipp is bitter so you don't have to be. You're free to go to classes and football games in relative comfort When you feel the need, turn to the Gipp for a cathartic release of bitterness and cynicism. Just emember, there' salittle bit of the Gipp inall ofus. So share some of your portion and tip the Gipp. O 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SUMMER 1996 
9 

. , , . . .,,, ' ' 
• ' ' • ~' I 
~--_,_ ----__ _::..:....... ____~ ~­
RAM•iliil•l=¦f-----------------------­



The Freshman 
This survival guide will answer all ofyour questions about life as a Domer, except how to fit Friends, Seinfeld, ER and a 15-page paper into one night 
BY BRIDGE!' BRADBURN ou've packed your entire life_ into six boxes and a couple
Y 
ofsuitcases. You've heard all the advice you can handle 

from yom well-meaning parents and all-knowing older friends and siblings; But, no matter how prepared you are and no matter how anxious you may be to embark upon four years of unlimited fun and equally unlimited work, questions about daily life at Notre Dame undoubtedly still linger. You are not alone. In an attempt to provide some of these important details, Scholastic hascompiledthislistofalltheanswersyouseektohelpyousurvive your first year at Notre Dame. 
1. Storting Out 
Freshman Orientation will be your most entertaining, carefree and hectic time atNotreDrune. Between the Graffiti Dance, where you meet other freshmen by signing their shirts, the "beach" party, cookouts, Mass, moving in and saying good-bye to your parents, there is little time f9r homesickness. Enjoy every minute of this chance to socialize and meet new people before classes start. 
2. Brovlng the Elements 
No matter what comer of the world you come from, you will not be prepared for the weather at Notre Dame: The days ofFreshman Orientation and moving in have ttaditionally been hot and humid, so take advantage of the opportunity to dress in shorts and sandals, to sunbathe and to enjoy outdoor activities. This summer weather ends soon, though the days of the fall are often pleasant You will quicldy learn to be always prepared for rain, however, no matter whattheweatherreportssayorwhattheskylookslike.Don'tforget to pack an umbrella, and if.you do not own a pair of watelJ)l"oof shoes or boots, now is the time to invest When winter am.ves, it settles in for a long stay. The first snow fall can occur as early as November, and the campus usually does not thaw out until March. Agoodpairofwarmsnowbootsareimperative,andit'salsoagood idea to bring along all the long underwear, wool sweaters, gloves 
· and scarves that you own. You will need them sooner than you think -no one wants to get frostbite while cheering from the student section at the football games. 
.3. Food· for Thought 
Soon after settling into your room, you will no doubt wonder about the means of satisfying that basic college student need: food. There are two dining halls on campus -North Dining Hall and South Dining Hall -each making valiaht attempts to offer a variety ofculinarydelights. You can eat at either location, but most students choose to frequent the one closer to their donn. You will quickly learn your way around the salad bar, pasta bar, deli line, pizza line, dessert display and cereal counter. Although the choices are not endless, and certainly not always appealing, the freedom from parental judgment ofl~s-then-balanced meals is a definite bonus. Andifyou happen to miss the dining hall hours, various fast foods are available at the Huddleand at the Allegro sandwich shop in LaFortune Student Center. In.addition, most donns have some fonn of food sales during prime study hours each mght Unfortu­nately, students are not permitted to use their meal cards at these locations; cash must be used instead, . 
4. Dining Out Inevitably, you will get tiredofthe loud atmosphere andinstitu~ tional food in the dining hall and find your way to the local restaurants.Macri'sDeliisapopularandaffordablesandwichspot In addition, TGIFriday's,DonPablo's, Chi-Chi's, OliveGarden and Colorado Steakhouse are close to crunpus. South Bend has a few nice restaurants as well, such as The Landing, The Emporium, The Wharf and Tippecanoe Place. Most students wait for their parents to visit these restaurants so they do not have to foot the larger bills. Of course, ordering in is always an option. Papa John's and Bruno's are two favorite pizza places that will deliver to your 
donn, and other restaurants ·a1s9 have delivery or carry-out ser­vices. ·· 
5. Weekend Escapes 
Weekendsoffertheperfecfopportunityforstudentstoescapethe tedium of schoolwork. In the fall, bus trips to the nearby away football grunes offer students the chance to visit other colleges. Once the football season is over, many students travel via the relatively affordable South Shore Railroad to Chicago and to 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SUMMER 1996 
Michigan City, where an outlet shopping mall is located. 
6. Shopping Around 
· Speaking ofshopping, the University Parle Malliscloseby, and there is a bus that runs from campus to the mall every half-hour during theday. The24-hour Meijerisalso afavorite shoppingplace for many students, offering everything from food and household products to hardware, music, books and electronics. On campus, there is a convenience store in LaFortune Student Center, and the bookstore has a limited amount ofdrug store products, as well as various school supplies and anything you will ever need with the Notre Daine logo on it 
7. Hitting th.e Books 
No matter how anxious you may be to get a jump start on your readingforthefirstsemester,itisagoodideanottobuybooksuntil you have attended your first class, as professors may make last minute changes to the syllabus. Butbeforeyou go to thebookstore, check posted lists of used books for sale. This will save you time and money at the bookstore, but make sure that the used books are the right editions before you pay for them. When you do finally brave the bookstore, be prepared to wait in long lines and to spend mostof yoursummerearningsinone trip. Thebookstoredoes offer used books in certain titles, however, and lines tend to be shorterin the morning. 
8. Dollar Sense 
Ifit sounds like you will be spending a lot of money in the first few weeks of school, don't worry. It slows down after you have bought your football tickets and once you have everything you need for your room and your classes. What to do with the money 
· leftover? Thereisa branchofKeyBankinLaFortuneanda branch oftheNotreDaineFederal CreditUnionjustnorthof campus, both ofwhich offer several student savings and checking options: And forthoseinstant-cashneeds,therearetwoATMsoncampus-one in the basement ofLaFortune and one at the bookstore. 
9. Keeping in Touch One way_to sav'e money is to activate your e-mail account All students receive theiraccount infonnation in the mail, and activat­
, ing your account is as easy (and free of charge) as talcing that infonnation to a computer cluster, where a friendly computer consultant will help you with the next steps. Ifyour high school friends do the same thing at their respective colleges, and if your family has an on-line service, you can reduce your long-distance phone bill to practically nothing. E-mail is also a great fonn of procrastination when that huge paper is looming. 
10. Getting Involved· 
Other sources of diversion available to all students are the various cl~bs and organizations at Notre Dame. Watch for signs within the first few weeks ofschool advertising theannual Activi­ties Night This is an opportunity to meet representatives from many differentorganizations, and to sign up for those that particu­larly interestyou. Thereis something for ·virtually everyone, from the musical to thedramatic,themulticultural to thepolitical,andthe athletic to the soci.a!. . 
11. A Sound Mind in a Sound Body 
For those who are concerned about keeping in shape, there are several exercise options on campus. Th~ Rockne Memorial offers a pool, weight room, :racquetball courts and a basketball court for students to use, free ofcharge. There is an indoortrack inboth die Loftus Sports Center and the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center (JACC). The Rolfs Aquatic Center holds a·relatively new Olympic-size pool with a diving well. There are also various playing fields and jogging routes across campus. The Eck Tefuiis Pavilion and the nine-hole golf course are other sporting options. Forthose lookingfor organizedexercise, RecSports offers various classes and plans interhall competitions in a variety of sports. 
12. The Baloncing Act 
No matter what diversions you choose, schoolwork cannot be neglected. There are several services available specifically to · freshmen tohelpbalanceallofthedemandson theirtime. TheFirst Year of Studies provides free tutoring for those who are having trouble in a class, and they alsohave an advising program to assist freshmen inpickingclassesandthinkingaboutamajor.Ultimately, ofcourse, it is the responsibility of each student to maintain his or her grades. 
~3. Taking the Night Off 
Central to social existence at Notre Daine are SYR (screw your roommate) semi-formal dances and formal dances. Each donn typically has one SYR and one formal each semester. The decora­tions and preparations that precede the dance are entertainmentin 
themselves, providing a memorable day of bonding with your section-mates. Men usually bring flowers, and many women buy small gifts for their dates. Typical SYR attire at Notre Dame includes khaki pants, a Qutton-down shirt, tie and a blazer for the men, and a short, solid-coloreddress for women. Butoriginality is always encouraged as well. 
14. ·Lights Out 
If you haven't heard the term "parietals" yet, learn it now. Parietals are the visitation hours atNotre Dame. Students must be out of the opposite sex's dorms by midnight on weekdays and by 2am.on weekends. There are24-hourlounges in all of the dorms, however, so that co-ed studying and socializing don'thave to end. Thesystemistaken seriouslyatNotreDame,andtheconsequences for violations can be severe. It is not a good ideato test these rules. 
15. The Joys of Communol L.ivlng 
Despite all of mom's advice and warnings, no student escapes getting sick while at school. The combination of little sleep, less­than-balanced meals, stress, bad weather and close contact with other students typical ofstudent life at Notre Dameleads to many colds and flus that make their way through the student body every year. While the infirmary has both doctors and nurses on staff, as well as a phannacy, there is often along wait to be seen, due to its walk-in policy. Unless you are seriously ill, it is probably a better idea to keep your own supply of various medications, stay in bed when you do get sick, and call home if you need a little more attention than your roommates are giving you. 
' 
Obviously, there is no one experience common to all Notre Dame freshmen. Everyone's first days here involvea great deal of explorationand a lot of trialanderror. However, themorequestions thatcanbeansweredbeforeyouarriveoncampus,themoreexcited you can become about embarking on your first of four years at Notre Dame. . . 





Packing 
101 

i 
l 
I 
,i 
A crash course on the basics you will need to survive yourfirst year at Notre Dame 


BY KRISTIN M . .ALWORTIILists. Theyconsumedeveryopeninch of my desk, dresser, mirror, and even my car dashboard the summer before I left for college as I planned what to pack. Unfortunately, when the time came to transport my belongings, I quickly learned that all the items I had listed would take up two cars and about three dorm rooms. It is tempting to bring all of your earthly possessions tocollege, butmostdormrooms are downright tiny, not to mention that you will be sharing that room with at least one other person. Scholastic has some packing tips and a little common sense to offer as you prepare to make the great migration from home to college. 
Furnishings 

Figuring out how to arrange furniture in a minuscule dorm room often requires a magician. Many students make extra space by constructing lofts. A loft is an elevated bed that leaves space open underneath for furniture like dressers, desks, chairs and sofas. Lofts can be a pain to construct, but many students find that the space they gain makes the trouble of assembly worthwhile. Loft kits can be purchased relatively inex-
PACKED TO THE BRIM. Students struggle to cram all their earthly belongings into small boxes when packing for school. Despite careful planning, though, everyone forgets something, and everyone brings something that will never be used at school. 
pensively at hardware stores. The univer­sity doesregulate whatkind oflofts you can have in your room, so you will want to look into them before constructing one. 
Many students bring some furniture for their dorm rooms. All dorm rooms come equipped with beds, desks, and a wardrobe or dresser to store your clothes in. Book­shelves or crates are a useful addition to a room because they provide storage space for items from stereos to food to school books. Couches, bean-bags and futons are also popular items, since they are much more comfortable than sitting on the floor. 
Carpeting is another necessity in the dorms, unless you want to live with hard tile floors all year. Again, you will probably want to wait to buy carpet until you have seenyourroom,asNotreDamedormrooms come in all shapes and sizes. 

Electronics 
Electronics are an important source of entertainment in dorm rooms. It is a good idea to bring a stereo or some other type of CD or tape player with you, but stock up on CDs and tapes before you come, because students generally find South Bend radio lacking. ATVand a VCRareniceadditions to a dorm room, but they are not absolutely necessary.AllofthedormshaveTVlounges, so you can still catch your favorite pro­
. grams without having to make an expensive investment in electronics. Other electronics area great convenience and comfort for any dorm room. Most stu­dents bring a refrigerator, which is useful for keeping beverages and late night munchies cold. A coffeemaker is a nice addition, too, since it can make everything from hot chocolate for cold winter days to tons of coffee for the occasional all-nighter. A fan, or even a couple of fans, is crucial during the fir~t few weeks of school ifyou aregoingtobelivinginanolderdorm,since they are not air-conditioned and are stifling in hot weather. Many students also consider investing in a computer. There are numerous computer clusters on campus with both Macintoshes and PCs, some of which are open 24 hours a day. The cluster computers are connected to the Internet, and many have CD-ROMs. However, if you plan to use the cluster computers, expect to wait for a computer during the busy hours at the clusters, par­ticularly during midtenns and finals. Ifyou intend to pursue a major that involves a lot of computer use or essay writing, a com­puter can be an valuable, but not a neces­
12 
S C H O LA S TI C M A G A Z I N E • S U M M E R 1.9 9 6 


READY TO ROLL Cars are Jam-packed as students make the great migration to campus In August. 
sary, convenience. You might try the clus­ters for a semester· before purchasing a computer. 

Decorative Touches 
Though you probably will not care if 
your room resembles Better Homes and 
Gardens, some skilled decorating can per­
sonalize a dorm room and make it much 
more inviting. The overhead lights in Notre 
Dame rooms are dim and will make the 
room look like a cellar, so pack some lamps 
before you come to school. A desk lamp is 
a must for studying, while floor lamps can 
brighten a room tremendously. Free-stand­
ing halogen lights are very popular. 
A dorm room also looks pretty bleak 
without something on the walls. Postersand 
pictures, whether they are of your favorite 
music group or by a beloved impressionist 
artist, add character to a room and help 
muffle echoes. Creative touches likeChrist­
mas lights and plants also jazz up a room. 
Curtainsmakearoomfeelmorehomey, but 
many of the dorms already have curtains on 
the windows, so you will probably want to 
see your room before buying anything for 
the windows. 
Odds and Ends 

Apart from furnishings, there are a vari­
ety of miscellaneous items that you will 
need for dormitory living. Since you will 
have to trek down the hall to take a shower, 
a robe and a shower caddy are also impor­
tant items. Many students also wear flip­
flops in the showers, because they are not 
always the cleanest place to put your bare · feet. As far as bedding and linens go, you will 
need to bring sheets, towels, and probably a comforter. The university provides a blan­ket, a mattress pad and a pillow, but these items are often old, worn and stained, so you will probably want to buy those items for yourself. · 
A big laundry bag or basket, a stain stick, laundry detergent and lots of quarters are necessary if you plan on doing your own laundry. A laundry drying rack is also a good idea, since many of the driers on campus aren't top quality. For those of you who have yet to conquer the washing ma­chine, St. Michael's Laundry service pro­vides an on-campus service that will pick up your laundry each weekifyou opt topay 
1 for their semester­
long service. St. 
Michael's also has a 
dry cleaning service 
available to all stu­
dents. 

Crates and other 
organizers are also 
useful for increasing 
storage space in your 
room and can be a 
good place to stash 
heavy winter clothes 
during the off-sea­
son. You will also 
need to bring hang­
ers, unless you plan on folding all of your clothes. An alann clock, preferably a loud one, is necessary to wakeyouupforthosedreaded8 am.classes. You will probably also want to stock up on toiletries before traveling to school. Toilet­ries can be purchased on campus, but at more expensive prices. It is more economi­cal to purchase shampoo, soap and other items at home, where you can also find a better selection than at the bookstore. 
If you forget something at home or want to wait until you arrive at Notre Dame to purchase something for your room, South Bend has plenty of discount stores where you can purchase furniture, electronics and other items at reasonable prices. On cam­pus, the Student Union Board sponsors a ''Fall Mall" at Stepan Center at the begin­ning of the semester. They sell everything from furniture to posters to plants at re­duced prices. You can also rent a refrigera­tor for the year at Fall Mall. In addition, there is usually a poster sale each fall at LaFortune Student Center. 
There is really no need to agonize about forgetting something as you prepare your own list of things to bring to school. Your neighbors will probably be happy to loan you that obscure tool or reference book on the one occasion you need it And your parents are only a phone call and a care package away. D 

and meet people ' we1re located on the with similar interests! 2nd floor of Lafortune. 

Welcomes the Class of 100 
w,;· ••,, 
:[wow.,,-,; m,•.:-,"m½} 
vii "' 
' 
·, 
k= 
~; 
·.fa ·t1:;1, 
. J.:t:ft
Jdf 
To Join Notre Dame's environffiental movement, come visit us at Activities Night! 
Peace. 


Irish Gardens 
the number one on-campus Florist at Notre Dame 
Open Monday -Saturday 12:30 to 5:30 
Located in the LaFortune Student Center 
(219) 631-4004· ·, 




A Year to Remember 
Scholastic reviews the good, the bad and the ugly of 
the year that was 
BYBRIANHIROThe 1995-96 year in sports at Notre Dame was, as they say, one for the books. It was a year of historic beginnings (construction on Notre Dame Stadium) and historic milestones (the sil­ver anniversary of Bookstore Basketball). It was a year of one joyous celebration (women's soccer national championship) and one big pain in the neck (Lou Holtz's injury).Hereareourpicksforthetopsports events of the past year. 
1. Women's Soccer Wins First Na­tional Championship. It took an acciden­tal goal scored by an opposing player in the semifinal game and a· controversial pen­alty-kick goal in the final, but coach Chris Petrucelli' s squad finally reached the pin­nacle of the sportafteryears ofknocking on the door. To do so, the Irish had to over­come their old nemesis North Carolina, a team that loses about once every presiden­tial term. Clearly, the same gods that look with favor on the football team were in 
. attendance; as a Tar Heel defender headed the ball into her own goal, sealing the outcome and sending the Irish on their way to history. 
2. Notre Dame Enters Big East So long, Midwestern Collegiate Conference. Hello, big time. Except for football and 
· hockey, Notre Dame's teams began play in the national conference famed for its bas­ketball and:proceeded to dominate almost 
every sport but,......,.._..,.....---,.--,---, 

3.Football Loses to Northwestern. 
•Thelrishdidn'teven give their followers a chance to get ex­cited about the 1995 season, dropping a heartbreaker to the hapless Wildcats in the opening home game. If only we knew how not-hapless the opponent would turn out to be. Can you say Rose Bowl? 

4. 
Lou Holtz's Injury. As it turns out, our beloved football coach is notinvincible. The week before the Vanderbilt game, doc­tors announced that Holtz had a serious compression of the spinal cord in his neck. But after five hours of corrective surgery and watching two games from the press box, he was back mprowling the sidelines -neckbrace and all -at Ohio State. 

5. 
25th Anniversary ofBookstore Bas­ketball. What began in 1972 as a 53-team diversion has evolved into the world's larg­est outdoor five-on-five tournament, with 631 teams competing last year. Defending champion Models, Inc., won a number of thrilling games before losing in the semifi­nals to Showtime, who proceded to lose 21­19 to the second-seed Dos Kloskas in the championship. 

6. 
Stadium Expansion Begins. Knute Rockne probably would have groaned at the sight of construction workers showing up on campus to add 20,000 seats to his creation. Begun after the final 1995 home game, construction will continue through next summer, stopping only for the 1996 football season. There has been one inter­esting by-product "StadiumCam," a daily video camera update on the progress of the construction available on the Notre Dame Web page. 



7. Freshmen 

,.,,.__.......,rr.--..,,,..,,,,-.----.~ Phenoms. Forget Rookie of the Year -in Notre Dame athletics, 1995-96 · was the Year of the Rookie. Autry Den­son and Kory Mi­nor displayed talent and maturity rarely seen in first-year football players. Monica Gerardo led the women's soccer team in scoring and was named first-team all-Big East Jennifer Halladvanced to thenumber-· one singles spot for women's tennis and ended the season ranked 20th in the nation. And Sara Walsh finished second in the foil attheNCAAFencingChampionshipswhile earning All-American honors. Now ifthey 

8. Women's Basketball Breaks Out 

While the men were floundering against the likes of UConn and Georgetown, Muff et McGraw's basketball team had its bestsea­son ever, tying the school record for victo­ries with 23 and winning its first NCAA Tournament game in history, a 73-60 upset of Purdue. 
9. 
Two Varsity Sports Added. In an ongoing effort to achieve gender equity under the NCAA's Title IX legislation, Notre Dame raised women's lacrosse and women's crew, previously club sports, to varsity status. Each sport will provide 11 scholarships. Lacrosse will begin play next year while crew won't start until 1997-98. 

10. 
Fragile Quarterbacks. First, start­ing QB Ron Powlus suffered a broken humerus when he was sacked in a Novem­ber game against Navy. Then this spring, with Powlus still in the healing process, his backup Tom Krug, who had filled in admi­rably in the Orange Bowl loss to Florida State, discovered that the base of his skull and his first vertabra were fused, ending his football career. D 


15 





STUDENT CHECKING PACKAGE 
Checking with no monthly service charge! 
. 
No minimum balance requirement 

. 
No per-check charges 

. 
FREE initial order of 50 checks 

. 
FREE ATM card 

. 
FREE Touch-Tone Teller service 

. 
FREE wire transfers into the Credit Union 


MASTERCARD/VISA 

. 
Agreat way to establish credit 

. 
No annual fee 

. 
Fixed 14.92% interest rate 

. 
25-day, interest-free grace period on purchases 

. 
No co-signers required on the student VISA/MasterCard account* 

. 
Students may qualify for a credit limit of $500 or more


1 l 
,,.Must be 18 years of age to applyfor credit 

ATM 
• 
EASY 24-hour access to your account through the CIRRUS and MAC networks. 

• 
Cash advances from MasterCard and VISA at our ATMs. 

• 
Two ATMs on campus -one at our Main Office, the other in the heart of campus, in front of the­Notre Dame Bookstore. 

• 
No charge for ATM transactions made at one of our Credit Union ATM machines. 



TOUCH-TONE TELLER 
FREE direct telephone access to your account. You can perform many transactions, including transfers and balance inquiries, all by telephone. 
STUDENT SAVINGS PACKAGE 
• 
Our Regular Share Savings account plus instant access through the Touch-Tone Teller and the ATM Card. 

• 
With Share Draft Checking, there's NO monthly service charge on the Regular Share Savings account. 


Ireland Road Branch: (219) 299-2220 17950 Ireland Rd., South Bend, IN 46614  St. Joseph's Medical Center: (219) 237-7288 801 E. LaSalle, South Bend, IN 46617  
Mishawaka Branch: (2f9) 256-2361 125 S. Mill St., Mishawaka, IN 46544  Saint Mary's Campus Office: (219) 284-4614 The Center Building (Clock Tower), Notre Dame, IN 46556  

VourtaVlngl Fedlroly lrmHd lo $100,000
NCUA 







iugfor 
Some ofNotre Dame's finest are on 
Freshman Sara Walsh is the youngest DomertryingoutfortheU.S. Olym­pic squad, but don't dismiss her be­
cause of her age or small stature.Walsh led thefencing squad toa second-place finish at the national championships with an amaz­ing regular-season record of80-2. 
Walsh has had her share ofsetbacks this 

·year, due in part to the South Bend winter. She took some Sudafed to fight a cold, unaware of the consequences. AB a result, she failed the drug test at her next Olympic qualifyingmeetandwasbannedfrominter­national competition for three months. 
This did not slow her down, however, as she continued to fence with Notre Dame and is currently in fifth place for the U.S. team, which will talce three foilists and two alternates to Atlanta. Walsh has had to attend nine Olympic trials: five domestic and four World Cup competitions. 
Taking a year off before attending col­been really supportive." lege,Walsh concentrated solely onfencing. Because ofthe unique nature of fencing, "I trained in Italy for half a year before I Walshdoesn'tneedtotrainasmuchasother came to Notre Dame," she ==,..,....., Olympic-boundathletes. "In says. fencing, it's in the mind, 
But she has been at a building on the past You disadvantage since she de­have to know what your op­cided to go to school. "Ev­ponent is thinking," she ex­eryone else in the top 15 is plains. training at Rochester," she Whilehopefulthatshewill says. "It would be great to make this summer's Olym­go [to Rochester], but I pic squad, the Mishawaka, hadchosentogotoschool." Ind., native is prepared for 
Although the fencing whatever is in store: "It seasonisover,shestillcon­would be incredible. My ul­tinues to train at Notre timate goal would be to rep­Dame. "Allthis yearIhave resent our country, ifnot this trainedtwohoursperday,fourdaysaweek, year, then in 2000." D withalessononFriday,"Walshsays. "Notre Dame has been so helpful. They pay for the -Jeremy Dixon trips[to tournaments] and my teachers have 
LoriMillerisnotyour_ averageOlym­pic athlete; in fact, you won't see her name in the program of any 
varsity sport on campus. Miller is blind, 
training to participate in the Paralympic 
Games held after the traditional Olympic 
Games. . Miller plays goal ball, a game involving three-person teams. Using a hard rubber ball with bells in­side, one team passes the ball between team­mates while the opponents at­tempt to block goals by joining together at the goal line. The 

offensehas onlyeight seconds to shoot be­fore it turns the ball over to the defense. 
NotreDamehasno goal ball team, so Miller must travel an 

hour and a half every week to Western Michigan University to play with its team. She has also played in four tournaments during the last year, as well as individual conditioning, which has been difficult for Miller. "It's tough to find people to work out with since people have different schedules and homework to do," she says. 
Not associated with the Special Olym­pics, theParalympic Gamesinvolvespeople with all disabilites and talces place every four years with over 100 countries partici­pating. "I could have gone to Barcelona, but 
SCHOLASTIC 

Itoremyrotatorcuffandhadtositout,"says Miller. 
Millerisconfidentshewillbeselectedfor the goal ball team which features 16players andtwo alternates. She is ready torepresent 'her country. "It would be a great honor. It... demonstrates that disabled people can be athletes," she says. 
"I try to be an inspiration for everyone, to show people that they can set goals and reach them with motivation and determina­tion." D 
-JD 
MAGAZINE ¦ SUMMER 1996 



the 
old 
aquest to go to Atlanta this summer 
Erin Brooks' dreams of competing in Atlanta may be over, but the effort to get there was well worth 
it The junior swimmer qualified for the 
U.S. Olympic Trials, held in mid-March in Indianapolis. There, renowned swim­mers suchasJanetEvans, Kristine Quance and Brooke· Bennett were all· vying to make the squad. Brooks knew the trials would test her abilities. 
Unfortunately, Brooks did not qualify for the Games in Atlanta; she finished 

Beinginvolvedinintemationalcom­petition is nothing new for Holly Manthei. The sophomore soccer sensation was amemberof the U.S. World Cup team last year before trying out for the Olympic squad this year. She hopes she can contribute once again to the national team. As part of that quest, Manthei took the spring se­mester off from school to be part of the 24-woman training squad. Leavingthe coldofSouthBepdto work out in suriny Orlando has been exciting for the Min­nesota native. "It's been intense," she says. "We have as many scrimmages as we can with other teams and have played eight to 10 10th in the backstroke, but insists it was a wonderful experience. "Itwas great I had a lot of fun and swam very well." 
This was notthe first time that Brooks has swum in the trials. She also qualified in 1992, but once she went to the trials, she wilted under the pressure. "I was really nervous," she recalls. "I put too much pres­sure on myself and I just cracked." 
Since thetrialswerein-seasonfor Brooks and the swim team, her practice schedule did not differ much from normal workouts. 
But normal weekly 
training for theNewJer­sey native includes 10 two-hour workouts and lifting three times. "I didn't do anything out of the ordinary. It was just another big meet," she says. 
Brooksstilllooksfor-
international games also." 

Only 16 women will make the final team, and the left midfielder admits that making the team will be difficult "With such small numbers, it will be hard. I only play one position, which is a drawback." · 
Despite being thousands of miles away, 
Manthei still remains in close contact with her.friends and teammates at Notre Dame. Every month, she gets a week off 
.to yisit friends and family. "Knowing at the end of the month that! cancome back here has kept me going," she says. "I get to see ev­eryone without having to worry about school or soc­cer." 
Manthei is ready to ac­cept the challenge of repre­
wardtonextsea­
son and is intent 
on returning to 
the U.S. Cham­
pionships and 
possibly the 
2000Olympics. 
"I've thought about 2000, but it' svery difficult to train out of school when youhaveajob," she says. 

The swimming star would not trade her experience in Indianapolis for the world. Although she did not succeed, Brooks tries to keep things in perspective, and has ad­vice for future Olympic hopefuls. "Stay ·calm and look at it like another meet You 
can only do so much." 0 
-JD 

senting the U.S. "It's a big weighton your shoulders, but what better one is there to have?" she asks. "You havepride when you play for your school, but this takes it to a whole other level." 
Knowing the chances of making the team are difficult has not taken away from Manthei's experience, though. ''Whatever happenswillhappen.I'llhaveabetterchance in 2000 if I don't make it this year." 
-JD 

-Compiled by Brian Hiro 

Fall 
Marc Edwards: Game in and game out, the junior fullback was the most consistent per­formeron the football team in 1995. He led the team in scoring with 12 touchdowns and ranked second in both rushing and receiving with 717 and 361 yards, respectively. 
Jen Renola: The junior goalkeeper was the equivalent of a brick wall for the women's soccer team last season. She recorded shut­outs in 18 of her 25 games and allowed just 15 goals all season. In the NCAA tourna­ment,Renola blanked both top-rankedNorth Carolinaandundefeated Portland in the final two games. 
Winter JamieLing: Theseniorcenterwrapped up his spectacular hockey career by leading the team in scoring for the fourth straight year. His totals of 12 goals and 19 assists would probably have been higher if not for an ankle injury near the end of the season. 
Katryna Gaither: Part of a potent inside­outside punch with Beth Morgan, Gaither averaged close to a double-double for the basketball team, posting numbers of 20 points and nine rebounds per game. She has scored in double figures in 56 consecutive games, a school record 
Spring 
JimmyKeenan: The sophomore midfielder was the catalyst for Notre Dame lacrosse's success.Heledthellth-rankedlrishinpoints with 29 and in assists with 15. Keenan scored a career-high five goals in an early­seasonrompofMaryland-BaltimoreCounty. 
Meghan Murray: StarpitcherTerriKobata got all the attention, but no one was better than Murray in the best season in Irish soft­ball history. The junior became the first Notre Dame player to bat over .400 for a season while also leading the team in hits, RBI, triples and home runs. 
Top Newcomer 

Monica Gerardo: This fresh­man led the soccer offense all year. Starting with her record­breaking four-goal perfor­mance versus Indiana, shewent on to tally 16 more. 
Top Newcomer 

Doug Gottlieb: The Califor­nian stepped in at point guard for the basketball team and started all but four games. Gottlieb dished out 154assists, almost three times as many as any other Irish player. 
Top Newcomer 

Jennifer Hall: The freshman emerged as the star on the ten­nis team, playing her way into 
· the number one singles spot, compiling a record of29-9 and finishing ranked 20th in the nation. 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SUMMER 1996 


ATTENTION FRESHMEN! 
Consider participating in a 




FRESHMAN RETREAT 
>An overnight retreat for freshmen >Guided by students, faculty and staff >An opportunity to: 
-deepen your understanding of yourself, -ease your transition to life at Notre Dame, ·-and share your hopes for your life at -Notre D·ame and beyond. 
~ign-ups for the first retreat begin in September! 
For pi.ore information, contact the Library Campus Ministry office at 219-631-7800, or see your rector. 



Can you recite Ezekiel 25:17 verbatim1• Do you know the relationship between Carl and the Gopher1• What film did · "win one for the Cipper" come from1• Who are the knights who say "nee?" • And what does "Coo-coo ca-choo, Mrs. Robinson" mean, anyhow? 


If you're stuck on any of these questions, Scholastic recom-. mends taking this crash course 
fM t 'S M •· • d t 

BYCmusMYERS0 us ee 0\/leS ID or er O ;::_:;__w==-::..:..·:an==hesf..:::.......ti~~~-c~/:--:~sc-ar:o~-~:~-~ll~-e~;-!~ess-yo: 
• 111 possible. We've provided you with all the infonna-
D

sUr\fI\Ie at II otre a m e tion on :what to bring, what to leave at home, ~hat to ~xpect wh_en 
· • you arnve and now, what to watch. Yes, seemg the nght movtes before yougethereisessential for campus social survival. Tobe left speechless after someone asks your favorite scene in Holy Grail is more than a mere conversational faux pas -it could forever seal your fate as. a social reject While we don't recommend you go overboard and start renting arthouse movies named after colors or containing the word "Papaya" (God forbid you start to sound like a film school dweeb), we do suggest that you check out the following list of movies over the summer so you can be prepared to answer such pressing questions as, "Who's cooler, White or Pink?" Our top ten choices: 

The Star Wars Trilogy George Lucas' sci-fi, intergalactic epic should be at the top of your list Multiple viewings of it in dorm rooms throughout the year spark some of the most identifiable film talk on campus. Disregarding the now-retro special effects, those dopey Ewoks in Jedi and all of Mark Hamill' s "acting," the trilogy presents topics and ideas that can easily be incorporated into any theology, philosophy or literature class. With there-release due out in theaters in 1997 along with the long-awaited prequel soon after, Lucas & Co. prepare to introduce a whole new generation to the Force. Not to be missed. 

National Lampoon's Animal House Sophomoric humor at its primitive best. From the opening motto, "Knowledge is Good,"this senseless, panty-raiding, beer-guzzling, food-fighting filni plays closer to Notre Dame than any administrator would be willing to admit 
' Caddyshack Another senseless, sophomoric comedy dealing 
with the complex relationship between working toward a college · 
scholarship and golf. Rodney Dangerfield has yet to play a better role than the obnoxious, insult-spewing Al Czervik, and the interplay between fellow hackers Chevy Chase, Bill Murray and Ted Knight sets a classic example for ensemble comedy. Crude, .offensive and funny as hell. Why women don't get this movie is 
beyond any man's comprehension. 
Rudy Hoosiers on the football field -at Notre Dame! This saccharine-sweet, beat-the-odds story is strictly of the been-there, done-that variety, but the footage of campus makes for fun repeat viewing. A must-see to understand the "now he's a janitor" jokes at every mention of the narrie "Ruettiger." 
Dead Poet's Society Peter Weir's preppy Shakespeare movie is perfectly suitable for every taste. Robin Williams has since reduced himselftodressingindrag,buthisdramaticturninDPSearnedhim a deserving Oscar nomination. Literate, stylish and smart, this is a thinking person's date movie. You '11 laugh, you'11 cry, etc., etc .... 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SUMMER 1996 

Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction Too complex to explain in one paragraph. Hollywood Golden-Boy-of-the-Month Quentin Tarantino's one-two cinematic punch has caused pages of the Internet to swell with idle chatter on how Mr. Pinkwas killed to the symbolism ofEzekiel 25:17 to the explanation of Fiction's glow­ing briefcase. The ear scene, the adrenaline shot, the tipping debate, the foot massage conversation ... if you don't get it, it's just not worth trying to explain. 
Monty Python and the Holy Grail Possibly the highest laugh­per-minute ratio of any existing movie. From knights who say "nee" to deadly rabbits, every scene is instantly recognizable at the first drop of a line. Arguably the troupe's funniest film, some consider it high comedy, others a pointless waste of time. You decide. 
The TNT Late Night Classics At 2 a.m. every Saturday, TNT shows one of two movies: Strange Brew or Clash ofthe Titans. Both are bad, have cheap special effects and more camp than aBoy Scout Jamboree. Face it though, Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels have nothing on Rick Moranis and Dave Thomas, and Titan's Crackon makes Jurassic Park's T-Rex look like a housepet 
The Graduate This is the story ofBenjamin Braddock, a college student who "comes of age" over the summer (read between the lines on that one). Dustin Hoffman's genius-turned-slacker plays closer to Generation X-ers than Ethan Hawke and Matt Dillon ever could. Unceremoniously spoofed in Wayne's World 2, the film is just as funny now as it was 25 years ago. Simon and Garfunkel's score hasn't aged a bit, and watching Anne Bancroft put on her stockings is reason enough for the rental. 

Knute Rockne, All-American Beating Rudy to the punch by decades, this is the original Notre· Dame, "Win One For The Gipper" movie. Classier and more nostalgic than the recent Irish football film, Knute is a worthwhile rental for any college football fan. Greatest difference between the two: Rudy went on to do Encino Man with geek-boy Pauly Shore, The Gipp became presi­dent with geek-boy George Bush. The rest, as they say, is history. D 
23 

Scholastic's editors searched high and low for the Best ofthe Best And the winners are: 
Video Store Morris Classic Video gives you two movies for two days for two bucks, even new releases. (51333 US 31 N.) 
Jazz and Oysters on the Half-Shell The Madison Oyster Bar serves up the best of both, oftendrawingjazz andbluesactsfrom Chi­cago. (421 E. Madison) 
Carnivore's Dream Come True Eddie's Steak Shed is great if you enjoy steaks the size of your body in a hardy Hoosier atmo­sphere. (12685 Adams Rd., Granger) 
Quintessentialltalian Food Sunny Italy Cafe's homemade fare shows why the small restaurant has been around since the '20s. (601 Niles) 
Fries CJ's spicy fries are the idealafterlifefor potatoes. (417 N. Michigan) 



omrH 

JENJIJ) 
A few hidden hot spots of the town 
so make sure you plan ahead. There are hundreds of BY AARON NOLAN things to see and do here, including the 360-degreeThose of us who have attended this university · theatre where you'll feel likeyou are part ofthe game; kmg enough realize that South Bend is nei-The Hall of Champions, where you can view displays ther the Spring Break capital that Daytona of the inductees and interactive kiosks; and the Beach is nor the cultural Training Center where meccaofLondonorParis. you can test your agility,
m ·9 In fact, one might say that . 21· § .· ·practice passing at targets besides the occasional and hit tackling dummies monstertruckrallyorBilly and blocking sleds-just RayCyrusconcert,theen-about everything e~cept tertainment potential of suitupforagame. "Going this city is virtually nil. ...........c.....is the area's totheHallofFamereally The fact of the matter, gave me a chance to look however, is that under-equiv al ant to back on the rich tradition neath the daily hustle and of the sport," says rising bustle of this small Mid-C::: • d , sophomore John Mc­western city lies a latent 1 .Tl en S Carthy. All told, the Hall partytowri;Theonlyprob-is a great place to soak up lem is trying to pick and Ce n tr a I perk· some football history with choose from among the a couple of sport-nut bestthatSouthBendnight friends. (111 S. StJoseph life offers. This is why we at Scholastic have as­St) sembled this list of things to do in South Bend in the Check out Lula's Cafe. It's practically right on hopes that you can get an idea of the unlimited campus and is a more laid-back alternative to the bar possibilities Michiana has to offer the next time you scene. Lula's is a carbon copy of Friends hangout 
go out for a night ( or day) on the town. Central Perk-but don't expect to find Monica and Chandler hogging all the couch space. Instead, a jolly Trythebrand-newCollegeFoofballHall ofFame. constituency of latte-guzzling Domers can be found This place can keep you occupied for the whole day, there playing checkers, reading poetry or just engag­
you'll call home 
ing in friendly banter. This is a great place to unwind after a long week ofclasses, and the coffee isn't that bad either. (1631 Edison Rd.) 
Check out the Saint Joseph's County Public Library. It sounds crazy, but it's amazing what a nice, quiet library can do 
to calma student' sfrazzled nerves -not like the 


Hesburgh Library, which , is a constant reminder of 

JP)({)).

how much work you have to do. Kick back in one of the library's 57 Barca­

fans will
Loungers (themostofany public library in Northern Indiana) andleisurelyread · the newspaper or maga­zine of yourchoice. Andif he's around, strike up a conversation with Dan Napoli, the director of the library. Ask him how his 
appreciate the College Football Hall of Fame 
lovely wife'Caroi and the kids are. A silent refuge away from the bustle of school. (304 S. Main) 
TheMorris Civic Auditorium is great for seeing touringBroadway shows,buttry oneofSouthBend's numerouscharmingfringetheaterssuchastheWagon Wheel Theatre, Dunes Summer Theatre or the Canterbury. These theatres offer the most for your money: a good view, comfortable seating, and qual-
BEST OF THE BEND. (From left to right) The College Football Hall of Fame, St. Joseph's Library and the Morris Civic Auditorium all are worth a visit. 
ity entertainment including a variety of musicals, comedies and dramas. In last year's season, these theaters presented A Chorus Line, Jesus Christ Su­perstar, OurTown,GuysandDollsandmany others . . Overall, they're a much more entertaining and eco­
. nomical way to enjoy an 
evening at the theater than 
trekking out to Chicago. 
Relax at the Golden 
Gate Spa in Michigan 
City whenever you're 
feeling the pressures of 
classesandexams.Letany 
one of the spa's profes­
sional masseuses rub you 
back to a healthier you 
with an American or Ori­
ental massage. This den 
of delicatedigitswillhave 
you moaning for more. 
With theinteresting hours 
of 8 a.m. to 4 am., this 
massage parlor is sure to please any guest (1304 Franklin)
Hopefully this little list has hel.ped you get. an idea of what the Greater Michiana · area really has to offer. The good news is, this is 
only a small taste of the cultural smorgasbord that is South Bend, Ind. 0 
Ambience and Beer 
The MishawakaBrew­ingCompanycombines a cozy, rustic atmo­sphere with good food and, of course, bever­ages (especially the homemade brews). (3703 N. Main) 
Beach The secluded Lake Michigan Beach makes the 40-minute drive to New·Buffalo worth it 
Thin Crust Pizza 
Rocco's offers the best pizza surrounded by pictures of the Pope. (537N.StLouisBlvd) 
Deep Dish Pizza 
Rathskellerisoneofthe best-kept secrets in town. Thespinachpizza rivals Chicago's. (100 Center, Mishawaka) 
Late Night Hangout 
Meijer -where you can get bulk food, lawn furniture andplumbing supplies at four in the morning. (5020 Grape Rd.) . 
Getaway for the Physically Uninhib­ited SunnyHavenRec­reation Park Inc. is Granger' soneandonly famUy nudist park. For more info, write Box 100 SB, Granger, IN 46530. . 
-by Chris .Blanford and Miranda Sanford 


N /J-St11C GYfflN,4S7/CS 
ClUl3 
;-----fh-e Notre Dame -St. Mary's -, i ;Gymnastics Club provides an opportunity 
I 
1or both men and women to compete in !gymnastics against other club teams 
I 
!around the nation. The club attracts 
I 
\people with all levels of gymnastics 
I 
;experience as well as those just picking it \up for the first time. A fun but challenging !atmosphere enables members to work out : 
I 
lat a rate with which each person feels ! 
j I 
(comfortable. ! 
I I 
~-----------------------------i 

:f,JN~~eNt>,;:ieN -~ 
. ON c~Mp\JS 
:: COUNTRY HARVESTER 
'tA Great Little Gift Shop!
/' 
.. ­
t" Discover delightful surprises id" .. our quaint country store here t"' 
... 
t on campus. We carry a variety ,.. of items: cards, candles, teas., ' cocoas great gifts and unique toys for unique people.t" 
Monday thru Friday 10-5 Saturday 12-3 
LaFortune Student Center Lower Level UPS 219-631-6714 Visa/MC 
• Service Gladly l' Daily Accepted ,..
. .
lf~fr1f'N~~--;,.,,11..,;;-;-,.., 

Huddle Deals 
r--I r-
-------­
..\ $5.99 
I

I Deal 
Any Two

1411 Large Any 14" 14'' Pizza's 
-Unlimited Topping

Cheese Pizza 
and a 21iter 

-. Call Pizza
. Call . Call
!-6902 1-6902 
Coupon Expires 8-2-96 1-6902
Coupon Expires 8·2·96 
Coupor; Expires 8-2·96 ·

L 
L 

..---------
r-----· ----
L ·¦ :Wf!I ll!Ni)t)\I 11rn111J!I
S~ents 50 ~nts 50 Cents 
I Off
I .

I , . ! ·. 
1 Any $1.99 I Fillecf Bread Sticks 
-··-··--•------) .

,~:A~y:1Esp,:-~sso ,-,.:~·s-riack At~ack Deal I . . Mozzarella filled or Nacho'~, Battered Cheese Sticks Pepperpni &-Mozzarella Filled 
I Bev~rage I or Br~ild.ed.SJ:>icy Chkken Wings I 
i 

/·· . .. · Lower Level of I /. at the 
. . /-.

....... ---..... --.... ·. La I · · ··· ·. . After 2pm ., ..:. Pizza Area 
Coupon Expires 8·2-96 • Fortune Coupon Expires 8-2-96 at the Pizza Area L Coupon Expinos 8-2-96
--------L ----L. ... --.............. ..,.. .... 
26 . SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SUMMER 1996 


. I



Are You a Child of Mary? .­
Excited about the next four years at Notre Dame? You should ./ 
be, Notre Dame has tons ofgreat things to do, an.cl the most / 
rewarding; the most joyful, and the most interesting involve! / 
Our Lady. Does this sound strange? Weird as· it may sound it's 
true. There are many wonderful things in life: sports, fun times 
with friends, great food, sunny days on a beach (not many of 
these in South Bend), and many, many othefs. But the most 
wonderful thing ofall is our God. He's more fun, more loving, 
more beautiful, more exciting than any ofthe other good things 
in life. So The Children ofMary, and The Knights of the 
Immaculata, two student groups on campus, try to make the 
most cifthe amazing gift ofour God, while also enjoying the 
many other good things in life. And the best way to get to know 
God is to ask Our Lady to help us. 
So, we get together iri many different ways to spend time with Our Lord and Our Lady. Sometimes we pray together, other times we simply have fun together, and still other times we do service work tog~ther. Some people come to activities almost every 
. day and others come as infrequently as once a semester. We meet daily to pray the rosary and celebrate the mass, to spend time ~ith Our Lady and to receive the amazing gift of our God within us in the Eucharist. We also have other times for prayer, including Eucharistic adoration, weekly discussions ofMarian spirituality, including the book True Devotion to Mary, stations ofthe cross during Lent, and a weekly prayer meeting at the house ofthe Nolan's (Mr. Nolan is an expert on Medjugorje and travels there regularly). In addition, we hang out as friends and do lots ofthe other things at ND together: watch movies, play basketball, go to dinner, do homework (not especially fun), eat Jeannine's baking ( especially fun), etc. So, ifany ofthese things interest you, please join us. Life at ND is usually good, but when.you live it with Our Lord and Our Lady it's pretty incredible. No knowledge of the rosary or anything else is necessary, just look for information on The Children Of Mary and The Knights of the Immaculata when you arrive in the fall.-Until then, may Our,Lord ~d Our Lady grant you abundant peace and joy! · 
"Dear Children, I invite everyone to start living in God's 
love. ~-I am your mother and therefore I want to lead you all 
to perfect holiness. I want everyone ofyou to be happy here 
on earth and everyone ofyou to be with me in heaven. " 
-Our Lady at Medjugorje, May 25, 1987 
27 


Do You Want Experience in Communications? 

Join Notre Dame's student run, fine arts radio station as an on-air announcer or news anchor! 
With a broadcasting radius of over 30 miles, WSND serves the Notre Dame community and the greater Michiana area. 
NO PRIOR EXPERIENCE NECESSARY! Look for us at Activities Night this Fall. 
If you have any questions feel free to call tis at(219) 631-7342 

WASHINGTON HALL--BruceAuerbach, Director of Theatre of Notre Dame Communication and Theatre, has announced that the annual reception for students inter ested in theatre will be held Wednesday, August 28, at 
6:00 P.M. in Washington Hall. Students interested in acting, directing, sets, costumes, lights, management, or theatre as a major are encouraged to attend. 
Theatre at Notre Dame is open to all students--majors and non-majors--who wish to participate. A wide variety of activities is available including: acting, scenic design and constuction, costume design and construction, lighting design and execution, marketing, directing and stage management. There are theatre opportunities to fit every schedule and level of talent. Ifyou have a willing­ness to learn, you are qualified. 
Becoming involved in theatre is an excellent way to meet new people, make new friends, and have a great time while involving yourself in the creation of some­thing special on campus. 
This season, the Department of Communication and Theatre (COTH) will present a mainstage season consisting of four plays as well as many other acting and directing projects. Mainstage productions this season will be: 

Barefoot in the Park A Christmas Carol The Grapes ofWrath 
In addition, COTH will host a residency by DYNAMO 'THEATRE of Montreal, Canada, sponsored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholars Series. · Acting and directing projects are showcased at the end of each semes­ter. All of these projects will need a great amount of student support. There are positions for all who wish to participate. 
Auditions for the first two plays of the season will be held Wednesday, August 28, and Thursday, August 29, at7:00PM. 
Ifyou cannot attend the reception, but wish to be . involved or have questions about the program, please call Bruce Auerbach at (219) 631-5957. 



What You Really Do at ND 
Contrary to what your parents believe, the only thing you'll be studying is some girl or guy in your seminar 

BY JOHN rnFRANCA Most people believe college is a long progression of parties oc­casionally punctw!ted by a test or the odd afternoon when you choose to go to your 1:15 class.Inactuality,it'snot You will soon learn thatthereareonly five things that happen at college. Much to your par­ents' chagrin, these activities are what your tuition dollars really pay for. 
Sleeping 
Although you will probably engage in little ifany physical exertion, college will call upon you to.find time for an ungodly amountofsleep.Mostofthisrestwillcome during classes, and the remainder during a bad SYR or one of the Washington Hall drama productions. At Notre Dame you will learn to sleep through fire alarms, loud musicandmostofyourclasses.Don'tthink ofthis as a bad thing -think of it as a skill. As for what use it has, I certainly don't know. 
college, and you have nothing better to do.

Watching Football Games Movies 
Although they only happen six times a 

During most of the year, home football games are why most oddhoursyoudospend students come to Notre Dame. During all awake, you will be . four quarters of every game, you will be watchingmovies.Over · forced to stand about three miles from the the course of your field; balancing on a "bench" about two NotreDamecareeryou · inches wide. The mornings before thegames will watch movies ap-are spent grubbing food from alumni in proximately 2,000 funny pants who bring enough chicken to times. In fact, the uni-· feedtheentirecampus.Ifwewin,you'llgo versity has considered offto party. Ifwe lose, well, you'll have to offering all students a be content going offto party. In reality, the film degree. Unfortu-games are little more than a way to kill time nately,youwillnotend and maybe get a tan. 
up being Siske! or Exercising
Ebert. Despite all that . time spent in front of Whether running, playing basketball or the TV you will only simply walking to class on the other side of see about 11 different campus, four years at Notre Dame will put 
movies. Most of these will be horrible, but · you in terrific shape. Why that's good, I you will learn not to care. In fact, you will have yet to figure out About half of the enjoy theagony of watching ConanlnNew. student body engages in some sort ofexer­York again and again. Few words you utter · cise; the other half of us lie on the couch, will fail to come from the dialogue of some sleeping or watching Oprah. They tell us film. Ifthere is one thing college will teach that exercising and eating well will make you, it's not to be creative in what you say. them live longer; we say we're afraid ifwe Checking E-mail go running, wecouldbehitbyacar,making 
any health benefits null and void. In addi­d ·s f. th N t tion,·as freshmen you will be coerced into 
an . Uf Ing e e .participating in a.year of physical educa-Notre Dame has computer labs for the tion. In this program you will learn how to sole purpose of e-mail, not classwork. If play four sports which you will probably you don't know what e-mail is yet, look it never play again. (How many people go out up; I'm not here to explain it to you. Papers for a game of fencing?) willtakeabouttwiceaslongtowriteasthey There you have it, the five most impor­did in high school because half your time tant things you will do here at Notre Dame. will be spent sending messages to friends or For those ofyou on financial aid, please be playing with Netscape. Where else but on advised that none of these count for work­the World Wide Web can you find episode study. If you worry that you don't have previews of Baywatch Nights? And cool enough movies, don't The bookstore sells pictures of David Hasselhoff? (As if a some. Rumorhas it they also sell books, but picture of Dave could not be cool.) Your I still don't know why. D friends back home willwonder why, in the . This is a hwnor column. These views are time they send you one message, you are not necessarily the views of the editorial able to reply with six. Tell them you're in staffofScholastic Magazine. 
. 

Don't TrustYour Son or Daughter? 

~ ~[µ~@~ ~[µ~ e. 

Then find out what they're up to with a subscription to
277-1166 

SCHOLASTIC 

For just $1.50 an issue you'll get the latest in campus news and sports, as
12 Beds 

well as national and campus entertain­ment, crazy college humor, and the
No 

specialyear-endfootball revie"'Y. _ 
~-----------------7
Appointment 
WALKING D1$TANCE FROM 

I. YES! Please putme on your·· I
CAMPUS
Needed 

I subscriptionlistfor 1996-97. I 
I Name: ____________I
Great Student 

I Address: -----------1
I City: _____ State: _Zip:___I I PI_ease send this form ScholasticMagazine I
Specials! 

I with a check for $30 to: 303 LaFortune StudentCenter I L ______ NotreDame,IN46556 ___J 
Are you organized? Do you enjoy working with people? Have you ever seen a grown man naked? 


If you answered YES to any of these questions, then you should consider joining the 
.Club Coordination Council. 
The Council works to· serve the needs of many different student organizations on campus. _Among these are a wide range of academic, athletic, ethnic, social service and special interest groups. 
If;ou want to. learn about student clubs and organizations and work with one of the most exciting -and unique organizations on campus, then stop by room 206 in the LaFortune Student Center or call our office at 631-4078. For more ·information stop by our table at Student Activities night. 
lliiit+itl't'·'i'•1i1,11i11•1¦•----------------------­

ast 
ummer 
by W.PatrickDownes 

(9ne year ago, I was in your position. The elation that accompanied my letter of acceptance to Notre Dame quickly turned 
to worry. 

My last summer at home was filled with anxiety, as many crucialissues clouded my mind. Forthe first timelwouldhavetoworryaboutmoney.Mysavings from my summer job would not last long when the Hammes Bookstore and Cincinnati Bell Long Dis­tance started digging into my pocket Grades, which had always been a matter of simply staying awake (occasionally) during the school day, would require actual work. Through all this worry, however, one 
----------------concern was foremost in ''Remember everything my mind: friendship. 
I would only have aabout Notre Dame, couple more months to hang out with the guys.because living together in There were only a few . . z·k h. . shortweekstospendtimean environment l et lS lS with my girlfriend and an opportunity you'll never ·!~: ~::n ~ 0:s:~ 
PatrickDownes is a rising soplwmorefrom Schererville, Ind. He resides in Flanner Hall and is the copy editorfor Scholastic. Hisfriends have used his e-mail address, WilliamPDownesl@nd.edu, to keep in touch with him during the past year. 
have again.,, working, I spent that 
summer at the beach, at 
birthday parties, just 
driying around or going out to lunch to chat I did 
anything to maximize my time with those people. 
As the third week in August approached, I busied 
myself collecting phone numbers and e-mail ad­
dresses. I had heard horror stories of childhood 
friendships falling by the wayside as the pressures of 
college left no time for correspondence. I was deter­
mined never to lose touch with the gang. 

Sucidenlymyidyllic summercame to a screeching 
halt My circle of friends scattered across the state 
and country, and I found myself at Notre Dame. 
But my worries soon dissipated. Much to my 
surprise,'my roommates and I hit it off immediately. 
After our parents leftand we moved the furniture around a bit, we talked about the upcoming football season -a not uncommon topic at Notre Dame­until we went to bed. Over the course of the year, our conversations would range from the philosophical to the inane (mostly inane). Brian, Adam and the rest wouldbecome just as much fun, and just as caring, as my old friends had been. While not all may have the same luck with roommates that I did, I found that making new friends was as easy as keeping an open mind during the seemingly pointless Orientation Weekend activities. It was then that I discovered that thereisnolimittothenumberoffriendsonecanhave. 
My new group offriends has become important to me. When I'm not working I spend my time with them, playing video games, shooting hoops or just talking as the list of fun activities in South Bend dwindles to nothing. 
One school year has passed since that summer. And, yes, I still keep in touch with those friends from home. But, to be perfectly honest, it hasn't been easy. Phone bills tend to add up quickly and there is always plenty of work hanging over our heads. 
Ourresolve to staymtouch hasn'trelaxed, though. One year later-largely due to the convenience of free e-mail accounts-I have confidence that, when our paths cross again, our friendships can pick up where they left off. 
Philosophy Professor Paul Weithman sums it up nicely, "Aristotle says that the best condition for friendship is to live together. 
''Freshmen are going to spend the next four years living with interesting, caring people in an environ­ment that is stimulating, both spiritually and intellec­tually .... They should treasure their friends· and remember everything about No.tre Dame, because living together in an environment like this is an opportunity they will never have again." 
On many levels, the people you'11 meet here are what can make your time at Notre Dame the best of your life. But only ifyou keep your mind open. . 
. . ~ \O \N\n Underthe lJ 
"(\C) 'OIJJ(:}
Written by a graduating senior Includes parents' views 
HOW TO GET: 1".'\ 
,.. ; \ 
• Better grades it,_,,~.\ _• The classes you want ; 
't. ·: ··, • l 
• Extra football tickets ' .J;i \ 
• The best prices when buying or sellin 
TIPS ON: . 


• 
What to bring and what to buy once you get here 

• 
What to bring if yo_u__ plan to -loft your bed \ ·\ 

• 
Using University Health Services \ · ·., 


ALSO INCLUDES:(~~.. 
-• Annual events you donJ want to miss _ . · 

• Easy to read map of campusanctSo-uTh-Bend . , ~, 
• Local hotel and restaurant numbers (and when to nt::i.ke reservations) -• Best way to do summer storag_e __:·.;;;;;F;.n :; 1-';;-'-. .f' _ • B:ief des~ripUon of each dor~_-1~. _ / \_ 1 . __-_· · •1 
• Pizza delivery numbers L:,ff-__ . _·;-· . ~ _ 
_•Much Much More!!!(', j 1 ri ~--~--'.. ·. f -o· · 1
l u I ' ~ I I _j__ _j_ ; I ' . ' I ·IYou will probably figure out most of these tips by 
' .
' the end of your senior year, but why wait until then. 
l ~ -c-'t]-: I : . t
'I 
!"'. _r, ·-~ :t : ' I n . A'l 
.. , ' -, ·. 11,·, I
0 /. · i, 1 ·-....... -· ·. "\ · ·. • , 


-"\.-~--i--",>-"MONEY B_ACK GUARANTE_E­
_.,.. -------J , :: t I ..,,,I_; I • ; .•-~'"lo y 4~ · . 1 -~t · · -~-­
. " -If you don't feel that the information contained in "How to Win Under the Dome" is worth $10 Just send it back to us and we'll send you back your money 
Send $10 cash or check and your home address to: H.T.W.U.D. 115 Belmont Road Apple Valley, MN 55124 

Qllality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality · COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 


LaFortune Student Center University of Notre Dame 
Phone (219) 631-COPY • Fax (219) 631-FAX1 
WfLCOMf CLASS OJ 20001 
the last class oJ the second millennium 
The Copy Shop on the lower level of the LaFortune Student Center is Notre Dame1s student copy center. The Copy Shop offers a wide selection of products and services. 
High Speed Copies • Binding • Fax Service Color Copies • Resumes • Course Packets Pr.inting • Thesis & Dissertation Copying Overhead Transparencies • School S~pplies Laminating • Carbonless Forms • Diskettes 
Wf'Rf OPEN fARLV, LATE, &WffKfNDS 
Quality Quality Quality Quality Quality Quality Quality Quality Quality Quality . 
COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES 
Quickly! Quickly! Quickly! Quickly! Quickly! Quickly! Quickly! Quickly! Quickly! Quickly! 

Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 








