
Bruno's Pizza 
ONE 18-INCH PIZZA WITH 3 TOPPINGS FOR $12.00 EVERY DAY 
119 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) Open for carryout, delivery & dine-in 11 :00 to 1 :30 Lunch 
4:00 
to 10:00 Sunday to Thursday 

4:00 
to 11 :00 Friday arid Saturday 


273-3890 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVERY to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 
Flex points run out already? 
Get a job now. 

Cover: Play It Again 18 Thursday nights atLaFortune showcase the campus's musical talent. Scholastic reviews some of the acts that have made Acoustic Cafe a huge success. 
__ The End is Near (maybe) 10 
End of the world? Second coming of Christ? Nuclear missile malfunction? It seems as though everyone _has a theory about the beginning of the third millennium. A group of professors share their views on a crop of new millennialist movies. 
by Bree A. Austin 

All For the Rush 14 
Dorm parties and nights atO's are exciting enough for many, but there are a few good men and women whose hearts long for a little more. by Sarah Childress 
An Offensive Stronghold 25 
New this year, Kevin Rogers brings vast experience to the field, and hopes to smooth out the problems of the first few games. Scholastic talks to Davie, Jackson, Fisher and Rogers himself to learn ~he story behind the man. by Joe Loscudo 
'' 
Smoking Gun by Lies/ Marx 7 Classroom Riots by Michael Moran 8 Where Everybody Knew Your Name by Kimberly Blackwell 12 Flying High by Courtney Kerrigan 16 Back in Action by Alex Grunewald 27 Tales of a Story Weaver by Kara Zuaro 28 
Departments 
From the Editor 2 Editorial 3 Listening In 4 ND Notebook 5 Campus Watch 17 Splinters from the_ Pressbox 23 Out of Bounds 29 Week in Distortion 30 Calendar 31 Final Word 32 
Up, up and away 
f you ask most'people to describe me, they go for the obvious: Scholastic 
editor. English and government major. Short (even in heels). And most of 
my friends know that one of my favorite ways to fritter away an afternoon or evening is to curl up with a good book and a cup of hot chocolate. 
What many ofmy friends don't know is that I adore hot-air ballooning. During my summers, I go to balloon festivals and crew for pilots. I've helped launch and land balloons, I've ridden in the chase vehicles, I've even flown in a couple of balloons. My claim to fame is crewing for the eagle balloon when New Jersey Governor Christie Todd Whitman was a passenger. 
There's no easy way to explain what I enjoy so much about ballooning. I have to get up long before sunrise to be in time for the morning launch. Landing and packing the balloon are physically exhausting, and chasing in the van inevitably leads to a cramped neck. Working on the sunset launch means I won't get back until at least 10:00 p.m., when my stomach's growling so loudly they won't let me into most restaurants. During one festival, I got three hours ofsleep throughout 
the entire week­end. 
But I would give up any amount ofsleep to watch a sun­rise from the sky, ortoseethewon­der and thrill in a four-year-old' s eyes the first time a hot air balloon lands next to his house. And that's why it strikes me 

as odd that so few ofmy friends know about my hobby. 
At Notre Dame, there are tons of people like me. Perhaps they don't hop into Land Rovers in muddy fields at twilight to chase a balloon all over the country­side, but they have hobbies and talents that even some oftheir closest friends don't know about. That guy who falls asleep in the back of your sociology class goes home and spends hours writing stunning poetry. The dedicated athlete steals into her'dorm's chapel during her free time to play piano concertos. Your next-door neighbor blasts his stereo so you can't hear him practicing the harmonica he just bought. 
Some ofthese talented students take the initiative to show offtheir skills at what has become a Thursday night tradition, Acoustic Cafe in the Huddle. Students sing or play music -much of which they write themselves -or recite their own poetry to a steadily growing and loyal audience. With the increasing popularity of Acoustic Cafe, Scholastic sent several reporters to review the student acts. Their findings are on page 18. 
And when I can figure out how to fit a hot air balloon and two propane jets in the Huddle without killing anyone, you can bet I'll be there, provided someone else shows up with a chase vehicle. 
2Scholastic From the Editor 




Scholastic 

Editors in Chief Brian Christ Meredith W. Salisbury 
· · Managing Editor .> . -Assocl~te Editor 
Zachary W .. Kulsrud James J. Pastore, Jr. 
News . Jared P. Marx, editor . Campus Life Kate L Jacques, editor ·... 
KimbE:}rly A. Blackwell, assistant .. Sports Christopher E,· Hamilton,editor Entertainment Kara·~-Zuaro; editor ·..•..• 
· · Kathleen M: Corte, assistant . Departments. Kara S. Zuaro, editor . 
Layout · Michael P. Griffin, editor; Heather J. Hogan, assistant Mitchell A Rees Christina M. Mose; Aggie K Noble Susari $; Varnum Alliso·ri L. Werner 
.Photography Michael 1 McNary, editor · Benjc:imin K:"Wojcikiewicz, assistant Graphic Arts David,B. Leeney, editor .. 
· Caroline M. Wolf,:'a_ssistqnt · · Distribution Mich_ael ). McNary, manager W~~ Design Michtjel J._Gonzales 
http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ...scholast . 
, Published biweekiy at ~he University of Not;e Darrie and .: printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, I rid:; 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine is copyright ©1999. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole 
.. or in part, may be reproduced in anY. mannei' without' written consent of the publisher. ScliolasticMagazinedaes riot assume liability for unsolicited manuscr.ipts or material.. All correspondence should be. serif lo Scholastic Magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 'Scholastic Magazine is·brought to you despite the number 46. To be ·. published in the next issue, letters must be ~eceived by 5:oo Cp.m; fvloriday before the issue. All.:letters niusl indude·the · . writer's name, address and phori·e riumbei. All letters must be signed. Names will_ b.e withheld upon request in certain instances; Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters fcir space.The subscription rate, including the annual football review, is $35 per year; Available back issues are $1.50 per copy;_please specify volum_e and number, or date. Copies of ·. the arint,1al footbaH revie\O{·are available at ,s per copy. Advertising ratesavailableori request. The.opinions expressed in _Sch~lastic Magazine <!re not . necessarily those of the . University of Notre _D_ame or..the student body.. . . <..·· · 
.Cover photci ofDa~'P~c~i~i by Mike MdNary . . Coverdesign by Michael Griffin . .·. 

EDITOR.BAL 

People Respond: Keep the Gipp 
n our last issue, we asked for your opinions on our Campus Watch by the Gipper column. The response was overwhelmingly positive. 
Our motivation for the survey was a series of grievances against the Gipp from the administration. At the time, we were not given 
the opportunity to defend the Gipper's column or our decision to continue publishing it. And now that the results are in, we're going to let our readers provide most of that defense. We thank everyone who filled out the website survey: students, grad students, faculty, staff and alumni. The following are excerpts from your responses sent to our survey. (Some respondents asked to have their name withheld.) 
"The Gipper exposed for the students a glimpse of the ND administration's occasional lapses. I sincerely hope that the Gipp's column stays put." -alumnus 
"The Gipper is hilarious! He is also careful about not disclosing the names ofthose he watches. Ifthey want to make it known to the whole campus that they were the ones mentioned in the Gipper' s column, that is still their business." -freshman 
"The Gipper's column is one of the only things this university has to show that we are not as anal as other schools think we are." -Alison Sparks, sophomore 
"The Gipper is awesome. People need to stop taking themselves so seriously." -Amanda Reyes, senior 
"Ifstudents or university leaders are not willing to answer to someone like the Gipp, then maybe they need to examine who they are truly serving." -Edward Foy, junior 
"The Gipperis about the only thing I read in every issue." -Pete Shaw, staff 
"I'm a '98 graduate and loved the Gipper while I was at ND .... Having the Gipp around will jolt us into remembering that everything about ND isn't always golden." -alumna 
"You must keep the Gipp! Ilook forward to reading Campus Watch by the Gipper eve1y time I see a new issue ofScholastic." -faculty/staff "Do not take the Gipper away! It's the only thing that makes me feel better after reading all those griping and whining student letters in the Observer. If you discontinue the Gipp, ND will have Jost one of the only things that shows campus life in reality instead of through blue­and-gold tinted glasses." -Andrew Hughes, senior 
"I honestly enjoy reading the Gipper's column -it's hard to find someone who will poke fun at life here and say all the things I want to say about stupid things that happen .... I think it's all in good fun, and I support the Gipper all the way!" -freshman 
"It's the only section of Scholastic I make sure to read. In fact, I only saw the notice about this survey by accident-otherwise, I would have skipped right to Gipp." -sophomore 
"I think that Campus Watch by the Gipper needs to remain part of Scholastic -it is always funny and highlights the unusual and amusing happenings of campus life. Since it doesn't give any names, it is not a matter of publicly humiliating people." -Nichole Meyer, junior 
"We mustn't take ourselves so seriously atNotre Dame that we cannot laugh at ourselves and enjoy the crazy things that tend to happen." ­sophomore 
"The Gipp is a student voice. Anyone who wants to lessen the volume of the student body's voice by even one isn't thinking in the best interests of the students and doesn't quite grasp the concept of a university." -Charlie Kanz, alumnus 
Our sole vote to cut the Gipper came from a sophomore who said, "By its nature, the Campus Watch column provides humor at the expense ofothers, which is fine when done in the proper spirit. When people do boneheaded things, it's okay to laugh. However, the Gipp too often resorts to base, mean-spirited attacks." This respondent, though, felt that if the Gipp could be humorous without being mean, the column should stay. 
We offered this survey as a chance to show the administration -historically, ardent opponents of Campus Watch -how the student body views the Gipper. Maybe part of the reason the administration is so opposed to the Gipper is that they hear the few complaints about the column and never hear the good things people have to say. 
In response, we offer this editorial to those administrators who are so vocal in lambasting the Gipp, and who question the integrity of our magazine and our staff because of our decision to run the column. The people quoted here, as well as the dozens ofothers who replied in support of the Gipper, are the reason that we run the column year after year, in spite of repeated threats from the administration to cut Scholastic funding. There is demand for it. It does have a place on this campus. It serves an imp01tant role in a huniorous and harmless manner. 
Long live the Gipp. 
Editorial Scholastic 3 


"High school doesn't count as a legitimate life "You're forgetting that we can ransom the Irish 
•

experience.II mojo for a hefty sum of one million flex points." -overheard political theory professor -Dr. Evil at MSU pep rally 
"We realize that the hardest working students "I let her choose if she still wants to be friends. I on campus are graduate students." have never heard from her since." -Tom Barkes, -Notre Dame student's journal entry, Washington Hall Subscription Manager reprinted on his web page 
"Yes, it is real. ... ABC pays me enough money that if it weren't I could afford something better looking than this." 
-Ted Koppe'1 alluding to his toupee during last week's Red Smith lectur_e in journalism 
"Office hours at Coach's every Thursday night between 9 p.m. [and] 1 a.m." 
-campaign poster of a candidate for first-year MBA representative who went on to win the election 
"Try not to get any more of them shut down or we townies won't have any­where to go." 

. -professor discussing underage bars with students 
"The way to a man's heart is through his W2 form." -Lynn Martin, HIDING IN THE FRAY. A hula dancer Secretary of Labor for Pres. Bush and a frog appear in the fringes of the 
at a Iuncheon on Tuesday
giant murals on the second floor of Main Building. 
4 Scholastic Listening In 


ET TU, KEOUGH? 

Kangaroo Coliseum 

The 'Roos build supportfor what they hope 
will become a campus-wide tradition 
ho says the new dorms have no supply a chariot, four people to pull it, and
W

tradition? Certainly not Chris one person to ride in it. Because this year the 
Anderson, president ofKeough Hall race is a brother/sister dorm event, organiz­and one of the founders of the Keough ers are encouraging teams to include mem­chariot race, perhaps the newest tradition bers of both sexes. this side of the Dome. The race, which The chariots entered are required to have debuted last year, is slated to notch a second plywood casing around the riding area and year in its history this Saturday at 2 p.m. on use 2x4 boards as the pull rods, but the rest the fields behind McGlinn. 
Says Anderson, "In planning the race last year, we were trying to think of a way we could leave our mark on campus. ... This year our main focus is justbigger and better." 
Like the more established Fisher Regatta, the Keough chariot race is open to entries from across campus. While last year saw only two of the seven chariots entered come from out­side dorms, organizers this year are planning on a bigger :r: turnout. Says Anderson, "Morissey has already made a TOGA PARTY. After the chariot race, Keough holds an statement that they plan to take SYR where dorm residents are encouraged to dress in the title." togas. 
Not ifBrendan Kelly, Keough's treasurer is left to the creativity of the builders. Says and a member of last year's winning team, Anderson, "Some are more into the design can help it. Says Kelly, "I'm in a new than others. I've walked around my dorm section now, but I'm confident we can do and heard people talking about force vec­something even better this year." Either tors." way, Kelly seems sure he'll have a good As for tradition, Anderson says, "We are time, noting that among other things, "you looking for this event to continue through have guys and girls running around in bed the ages and set a precedent for good pro­sheets." gramming." 
A team entering the competition must -Jared Marx

Ifft~;;~i~}~~:tt~;1f;:~t,f;I1~~~t~ttrt.~!''~i~1i•i .•· 
1 . . . • •-·'11i~·;~zt~;-ttot:t~~~~;;·~~:-;z~!~·-is";';as~.Ea;y. ·• \. .·• i i·ecampus.com++ Cheap." The company's sales to SaintMarg's I } < ·._ .•. ·• < have be_en high. . .. _._· > _· .. __ ·.· _· _. _ > ____ _.. ·.. _ _ : 



(ij!~~![jci,,~iJif!lf~lil~ltii~~~~~il~Z~ 
I New Riley I Maybe Riley's new sculptzu-e is designed -----· ------·-_., __ LPlayground + toattractchildprodigies. 
-·-·-···-~,,____,~-----··--·--·-~•-•-··· ----··•------....... ···-···--•----~--·' .-,,;_·______ ··-··-· .. 
Q&A 

10uestions with 

Legend ofthe Links 

Noel O'Sullivan was a sergeant in Korea before enrolling atNotre Dame in 1956.He joined thefaculty in'61, reportingfor work eve1y day until March ofthis year when he had heart-valve surge1y. Prior to becoming an instructor/or eve1y activity in the physi­cal education department, he was ND' s golfcoachfor 15 years. Scholastic recently had the pleasure of talking with Coach O'Sullivan.Here is afraction ofthat amaz­ingly entertaining conversation. 
What brought you to ND? 

I wanted to teach and coach. I came to ND with some pretty good farsight and insight into what career I wanted to follow. Notre Dame, at the time, in 1956, was considered one of the top phys. ed. schools in the country, and graduated teacher-coaches for all 50 states, certified to teach any subject, just about. I graduated with a B.A. in PE and an M.A. in testing and guidancy. 
What are your feelings on the new War­ren Golf Course? 
I think it's gonna be wonderful. The green fees might be high for downtown people, maybe alumni, faculty, staff, but for the students, they will be very low. There's three priorities: the first being students, then faculty, then staff. Students are one. 
Have any of the freshmen in your class ever seriously injured themselves with the clubs? No. I say that honestly, and I thank God for it. Once, a girl got stung by a bee and she was allergic. Boy, did that swell. 
What is your favorite golf movie? 

Caddyshack. continued on next page -. 
Notebook Scholastic 5 

DOMELIGHTS 
on· the Hunt 

Whatever you're trying to find, the new university web site can help 
When the university redesigned its website earlier this year, it added a comprehensive search tool that can search all ofthe Notre Dame web pages. To test its prowess, Scholastic searched for "ramen" -a word frequently on the lips of many Darners. Here are the top 
matches: 

1. 
Matthew Trujillo's web page containing "Noodle Delights: The Ramen Story by Arthur Slod," a story espousing the history and benefits of ramen noodles. http://www.nd.edu/~mtrujill/ramen.html · 

2. 
Junior Daniel Furfari's page of wacky links, including links to sites about ostrich farming, strange uses for bananas and the ramen homepage. http://www.nd.edu/~dfwfari/index2.html 

3. 
A page about "doing absolutely nothing" maintained by graduate student Ashwath Kakhandiki. He's 


making ramen in one of the site photos. http://www.nd.edu/~akakhandlhorsing.html 
4. A list of the top ways to spot Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, managed by junior Jose Cuellar. 
http://www.nd.edu/~jcuellar/spots:htm 
6Scholastic Notebook 
Q&A 
continued from previous page 
Ifyou could have anyone come and teach your class for a.day, who would it be? David Ledbetter. [Ledbetter instructedNick Faldo and many others to compete in golf] 
Have you ever hit a squirrel with a golf 


ball? 
No. Hit a chipmunk once, and another time a mole took my ball down the hole. The whole class stopped to watch. Must have thought it was a nut. 
What is the secret to a good putt? Rhythm. By that I mean smooth backswing, smooth follow-through, no jerky parts, and constant acceleration. Think about it. That's awesome. Be smooth. 
What do you think about Ryder Cup play­ers getting paid? I thought that it was inappropriate at first, but when they said that the money would be going to charity, I thought it was appropri­ate. G-O-L-F is magnificent to charity, they donate more to charity, I think, than any other sport. 
What do you think of Payne Stewart's knickers? 
Never liked 'em. I love Payne Stewart, he had tremendous devotion to charity and his father, who has passed away, but I've never liked his knickers. 
If the Pope and Pat Robertson played golf, who would win? The Pope, definitely. He has Jesus Christ on his side. No one can hit a one-iron like Jesus Christ. 
-Jason Hammontree and Jeremiah Conway 
POLITENESS POLICE 



Searching for Chivalry 
Psychology students mourn the death ofthe old courtesy 
Knights on white horses don't exactly run rampant around campus and dam­sels in distress are few and far be­tween, but no one wants to believe that all traces of courtly love have completely dis­appeared. So when David Parker, lab instructor of the Research Meth­ods in Psychology class, re­quired his students to conduct . an observational study on / campus, one group of stu-t dents decided to find out for sure where all the knights have gone. "Our group was predomi­nantly female," says Annie Hazlinger, "and after · brainstorming on · the probable ar­eas ofstudy at Notre Dame 


:~~:/n~:~-~~
we settled on the frequent \\ topicofdiscussion-so-. , cial interaction. One of the broad­est categories was the idea ofchiv­alry." 
For the purpose ofthis experiment, the group defined chivalry as a male holding open a door for a female. "In order for the action to be chivalrous," Mignon Montpetit says, "the male must stand aside, outside of the doorway proper, and allow the girl to pass by him through the entryway." 
After coming up with this definition, the group split up and staked out North and 

South Dining Halls, LaFortune and 
DeBartolo with high hopes of seeing chiv­
alry in action. "I just sat down under a tree and pretended to read a book, but watched 
instead," Montpetit says. Some of the observations were puz­zling. "There was this one guy who held the door until the girl almost reached it and then let it slam in her face," Montpetit recalls.Butthere­sults overall con­firmed what the group had already guessed: chivalry, at least at Notre Dame, is dead. Of the 106 males observed, 44 blatantly did not attempt to hold open the door for the female and 39 either went in first and held the door after them or else held the door from the entryway. Twenty-three males actually held the . door for the female to 
-Kathleen Corte 


Sinoking Gun 
Ex-tobacco researcher Victor DeNoble got more than he bargained for from a job with tobacco giant Phi lip Morris 
BY LIESL MARx 
r. Victor DeNoble is no ordinary 
anti-tobacco speaker. His story, 
which comes offaspartJames Bond 
and part X-Files, is frighteningly real life. On 
September 13, Dr. DeNoble came to campus 
and told the story of his experiences as a 
researcher for the Philip Morris Tobacco Com­
pany in the late '70s and early '80s. DeNoble 
was a key witness in the federal government's 
case against Philip Morris in 1994 and has 
made appearances on such primetime power­
houses as Dateline and 60 Minutes. 
DeNoble begins his talk by recalling that in 
1979, he was working as a research analyst at 
the University ofMinnesota. He was making 
$11,000 a year studying alcohol addiction in 
monkeys when he was approached about a job 
opportunity at Philip Morris. 
DeNoble recalls that he went in.with the 
mindset that he was interviewing for a job. 
However, it turned out that the company al­
ready knew everything about him -his dad 
was a plumber, his mom worked for the Salva­
tion Army, and he was the first person in his 
family to graduate from college. 
·In the description \:if his possible new job, 
DeNoble was told that Philip Morris knew 
that the nicotine in their cigarettes was causing 
the heart to beat faster, and thatthey also knew 
this was what kept people addicted. Theprob­
lem was that about 138 people were dying 
every year from heart disease and the com­
pany didn't like this. Says DeNoble, "They 
wanted me to create an addictive drug that 
didn't kill people at the same time." 
Thinking this sounded like an interesting research project, he accepted the job. He ex­pected only a 40 percent raise and a research budgetof$750,000. Thecompany gave him a · 140 percent raise. Also, they would buy him a car, set him up with a house and give him a 
research budget of two million dollars. 
Soon DeNoble was working daily in the 
Philip Morris research lab. He notes, "The 
first thing we found out was that animals don't 
smoke." He had a drug-addicted monkey 
named Sarah who would wake up every mom-
D 
ing and inject herself with any kind of drug. But when given a cigarette, she refused to put the smoke into her lungs. So DeNoble changed the experiment, shifting his focus from mon­keys to rats and providing these rats with a device to pump nicotine directly into their blood streams. 
After 35 days, the rats were "smoking" the equivalent of 90 cigarettes a day. 
DeNoble states, "[The rats] were smoking so much because nicotine addiction is no different from any other drug addiction. It changes the brain. But when I told Philip Morris the rats were smoking 90 cigarettes a day, they hadadifferentexplanation." DeNoble recalls that Philip Morris claimed that the rats simply liked the taste of the nicotine. 
DeN oble relates that he continued his work for Philip Morris and that in 1981, he found a molecule that would keep people addicted to cigarettes but have no serious side effects. 
minded of his legal secrecy agreement with the company. He was told to destroy his rats and leave the laboratory for good. But before leaving, both DeN:oble and his partner ille­gally took lab files from the laboratory that documented their experiments. 
Believing that he was being followed, DeNoble and his partnerwentto a lawyer who worked in Richmond. DeNoble says that the lawyer told them that the stolen documents would be safest in his personal safe. Two weeks later the documents were lost in a robbery. 
In 1994, the federal trial against Philip Morris began. DeNoble states that he knew that his former colleagues were going to lie about their cigarettes, but felt that there was nothing he could do about it. But when his wife informed him that she had taken some slides from the lost lab files and had stored them in their basement, he realized he had 

"They wanted me to create an addictive drug that didn't kill people at the sam.e time." 
-Dr. VictorDeNoble 
Then in 1982, he designed a cigarette that contained an "accuaua hoppa" filter which would remove approximately 70 percent of the tar from a cigarette. This, he believed, would decrease the occurrence of heart dis­ease as well as cancer. He believed the com­pany could make these new cigarettes for about an extra five cents a pack. 
ButDeNobleclaims thatPhilip Morris chose not to produce the safer cigarette because it "might actually work," and it would make the other 160 types of cigarettes Philip Morris produces "look defective." States DeNoble, "In essence, the Philip Morris Tobacco Com­pany chose money over lives." 
On April 5, 1984, DeNoble was fired from Philip Morris, but not without being first re-another option. Since his secrecy agreement preventedhim from going directly to the FBI, he took one ofthe slides, put his thumbprint on it, and mailed it to the FDA. In three days the FBI was at his door. 
On April 14, 1994, DeNoble was released from his secrecy agreement with Philip Mor­ris. He and his wife spent two weeks living in a warehouse in Washington, D.C., protected by the witness protection program. DeNoble notes that the police had estimated that the odds that someone would try to kill him before he testified were 85 to 90 percent. But he beat the odds, and two weeks later he testified against the Philip Morris Tobacco Company, in what became one of the most significant civil suits in recent history. . 
News Scholastic 7 



c,a~~tOOtn Riot~ 
Students conduct hands-on research in a new study on historic riots by Professor Dan Myers 
BY MICHAEL MORAN ssistant Professor of Sociology 
Daniel J. Myers is conducting a 

research project that not only at­tempts to set new standards in sociology, but also provides students with invaluable research experience. The new study, which focuses on rioting, has its core in the social turmoil of the 1960s and 1970.s. 
Myers got the idea for a project about rioting from a story about the lost archives of a research laboratory. The frequency of riots in the '60s and '70s led the laboratory to collect newspaper clippings about the riots. The goal was to prevent future riots by setting up a database of these riots and analyzing their causes. Between 1967 and 1972, they collected an immense number of clippings, inter­views and surveys. But as the riots died down, so did interest in the study. Soon the project lost its fund­ing and those in charge had to stop the collection process. As the years passed, many sociologists believed that the ar­chives had become lost. But Myers re­mained confident that he could find this invaluable data and use it for his own analysis. And, as for­tune proved, he was right. 
However, Myers failed to realize how large the laboratory's archive was. Within 
A
where data was collected, the previous re­searchers had collected more than 600 inter­views, 6,000 surveys and a seemingly infi­nite number ofnewspaper clippings. Myers realized that from this wealth ofarchives he could set up a database that would surpass any current or previous database. Whereas the current largest collection of data on rioting contains around 750 entries, Myers' new collection already has more than 1,500 entries, and it's still growing. 
Although Myers' primary goal was to set up this database, he also had another motive in choosing this research. It allowed him to actively involve undergraduate students in data collection while stimulating their inter­est in the study of riots. 
Tony Perez, a student involved in the 
~<, . 
./~!.. 

~(-l ~t}~i~y 

project, notes that Myers "has an incredible drive to get undergrads involved with re­search." Myers originally recruited five stu­dents from his Introduction to Sociology class to help him with his research. Myers says that the students he chose displayed an interest both in race relations and rioting, and that he wanted to develop that interest and give them the opportunity to experience a research setting. He designed a three­credit course that is treated as both a project and a classroom learning experience. In the classroom, the students learn the concepts and theories relevant to the study of both rioting and general sociology. From this, Myers gives them a chance to apply what they have learned in their analyses of the archives. Students are allowed to test ideas 
. . ~., ..
,,.,_7~,-~,.-,..,...,.,,. ·.. --~~ ~}~
--i~Jt"-.. ·-,'." ··. ~:•~,.,ti)?
I'-> ·.,·.~~ ~ ::,,.,. •,-,,'!,.!,''~i....~~...-/ 
·-..:;._ --~ ....c: -'"""...)::::~,~ 
the 10 target cities 
CROWD CONTROL. Students Matt Baggetta and Jen Ptacin work with Dan Myers on his new research on rioting. 
8Scholastic News 


Myers' study is that students are given 
The mo§t meaningful learning i§ thst which you
freedom to focus their energy on a 


www.n 
u 
~sc 

oast 
that interest them or even those that they doubt. 
Perez refers to Myers' teaching style as "not your typical classroom [experience]. There's real-world application .... [The learn­ing] is very hands-on." This approach not only helps the students enjoy learning, but also reinforces what they learn in the class­room. 
One of the most notable aspects of 
specific area ofthe study in which they 
csn mske you, own. 
are interested. Not only does Myers encourage the undergraduates in his study to develop their own topics for research, but he also urges them to apply for funding to conduct the research. In the past, Myers' students have been successful in securing these funds. 
Kimberly Berg, another student involved in the research, comments, "The research team has essentially been given free license. We have a task to do-code the riot data­but any way we can improve uppn our current methods is always considered." In contrast to other undergraduate research projects, Myers' project strongly empha­sizes this freedom. Berg notes, "Working with Professor Myers has shown me that while there needs to be some basis for learn­ing, in this case sociological theory, the most meaningful learning is that which you can make your own." 
Myers encourages his students in this way because he wants them to gather more than information from the project; he also wants to prepare them for graduate school. Myers notes that he selects students that he 
feels have the potential to succeed in gradu­ate school. Perez applauds Myers' confi­dence in his students, noting that "contrary to popular belief, undergrads can do gradu­ate-level work." By going through the re­search developing process, getting funding, conducting research and drawing conclu­sions, students experience what graduate school will be like. Moreover, most stu­dents in his study gain the opportunity to present their research at professional con­ferences -the same ones at which Myers presents. For example, Berg and Perez will submit their collaborative paper to the Mid­west Sociological Conference. If the paper is accepted, they will present it in Chicago in the spring. 
Because of Myers' innovative and excit­ing approach to teaching, many students have become a part of his research team. Berg states emphatically, "Professor Myers is amongNotreDame'sfinestfaculty [mem­bers]. The effort that he puts forth into 

-Kimberly Berg 

teaching and research are extraordinary, but more notable than that is the time Professor Myers makes for his students. I hope the university realizes what an asset they have in Professor Daniel Myers." 
Myers currently has 16 students working with him, but he encourages anyone.from all years and from any major, who has an interest in studying riots to become a partof his research. For more information on his study look at his webpage at www.nd.edu/ ~dmyers. . 
Open 24 Hours 
News Scholastic 9 



New series ofniovies at Snitefocuses on niillennialfever 
BY BREE A. AUSTIN
A 
while others associate the change of the millen­nium with fear and anxiety. What will happen on December 31, 1999, as 
11:59 p.m. to 12:00 a.m.? Will the world ex­plode, evaporate or destruct? Will there be riots, violence and complete chaos? While some people are in panic mode about the new millennium, others find all this hype non­sensical and disregard any notions of the end of the world, the coming of Christ or mass confusion. Regardless of all the talk, the truth is that no one really knows what will happen when the calendar changes from December 31, 1999, to January 1, 2000. All we can do is predict, guess and discuss the many possibilities, which is exactly what Notre Dame has decided to do. 
The Research Development Office is sponsoring a series of movies that encom­pass ideas of millennialism. These movies will be shown once a month. throughout the academic year. After the film screenings, an informal discussion group convenes to discuss vari­ous points ofview towards the movie and the new millennium. 
The first night of this series took place on September 16 and featured the movie Strange Days. This movie, directed by Kathryn Bigelow and written by James Cameron, is set in the last two days of the year 1999. It tells the story of an ex-cop who deals with problems caused by data-disks that contain memories and emotions. These disks can contain any type of human experience, and any person with the proper technology devices can play the disks to experience the memo­
]0Scholastic News 
ries and emotions as if 
they were their own. 
These disks lead to a 
whirl wind ofevents that 
encompass sex, murder, 
rape, blackmail and love, 
and it is all centered 
around the countdown to 
the new millennium. 
After viewing the movie, a group of about 20 people join in the loft of O'Shaughnessy and discussed their views on the movie and the com­ing year. Three Notre Dame professors -Jes­sica Chalmers (film, tele­vision and theatre), Rich­ard Pierce (history) and Matthias Scheutz ( computer science and engineering) ­head off this discussion by of­fering their knowledge and per­spectives on the film and the new millennium. Those in the discussion group display a wide range ofviews on the movie and the different millennium themes that the film is trying to communicate to its audi­ence. Some people feel that the movie's use ofhighly advanced technology was a way of predicting the technological pos~ibilities that lay ahead in the new millenium. Others think that the movie is trying to warn the world against the continuation of advanced technology by making technology one of the major forces of evil in the movie. "Are we running technology or is technology running us?" asks Scheutz. 
The discussion grqup continues to search · for underlying messages and millennium themes that the film Strange Days is trying to send to its audience. Some see the chaos and violence shown at the change of the millennium to be the most relevant message in the film. Yet, Strange Days seemed to reassure some of the other viewers simply because it didn't predict an absolute end of the world. 
One of the main characters in the movie states that the world is definitely going to come to an end when the year 2000 arrives because there is not anything left for hu­mans to accomplish, create or do. 
Another millennium theory presented by the movie Strange Days is the idea of racial peace. At the end of the film, the two main characters, who are of different races, real­ize how much they care about each other, and they kiss. Since this kiss takes place at the tum of the millennium, the film seems to strongly suggest that racial cooperation is the key to saving the world from potential disasters that could be brought forth through the new year. "When Americans think about issues that really tear at us as a society, they almost always seem to [revolve] around race more than other issues," says Pierce. The history professor feels that people are afraid of race more than most things, so he does not find it surprising, but rather inter­esting, that the film uses race as a major issue at its turning point of the millennium. Since the world does not fall to ruins at the strokeofmidnight in the film, maybe through the interracial kiss, the movie is trying to send a message to its audience that the joining of separate races is the means by which the world can be saved. 
Another point that Pierce raised was the role of history. He feels that the story that history tells, regarding the changing of the millennium, is important. "Historians are the worst people to ask about the future," 
comments 
Pierce in a humorous man­ner. But he still acknowledges that people look to the past for guidance in"the future. He invokes the old cliche: If we ignore 
history, we are doomed to repeat it. Of 
course, the lesson that history teaches is that the last time the millennium changed according to the Christian calendar, the world did just fine. 
Whatever messages the film attempts to communicate, the fact still remains that no one knows what will happen at the change of the millennium. As the year 2000 ap­proaches, everyone seems to be making plans and deciding on where and how to spend the eve ofthe new year. Some people are planning and anticipating eventful va­cations, plush parties and big celebrations. At the same time, others, like Richard Pierce, are playing it safe. Pierce says, "I don't know about you all, but I'm going to be home New Year's Eve!" 
News Scholastic 11 






Where Everybody Knew 
Coming home after a study abroad pro grani Your Name should be the easiest part, but for some participants, it's almost as hard as going away 

hard for parents to comprehend how inde­Ryan has tried to keep in touch with the 
BY KIMBERLY BLACKWELL 
pendent they've become." students he went abroad with -several of
The decision to spend her junior year Kselman adds that sophomores often have them became roommates for the last two in Nagoya, Japan, wasn't a hard one a harder time returning to campus as jun­years. Because many of the people on the for senior Amy Becker. She had iors. "Sometimes they feel that their friends program graduated this past spring, Ryan 
studied Japanese for two semesters and was have forgotten them," she explains. "Also, says it has been difficult, but he adds, "Our interested in learning more about Japanese friends who haven't gone abroad can't re­group e-mail list is always busy." culture. Though it was difficult at first to ally relate to their experiences." Junior Katie Kearney, who spent her adjust to life there, eventually she fell in Senior Maria Perez went to Toledo, Spain, sophomore year in Angers, France, thinks love with the country and the people. This for her sophomore year and experienced she can identify part of the reason that summer, the challenge became readjusting some ofthis frustration. "Socially and emo­reverse culture shock can be such a chal­to life in America. "It was so hard to get tionally, it was very difficult," she says. lenge to overcome. "Going over, the back on the plane to come home," Becker "Going to Spain was the best thing I've ever people involved with the programs help says. "Life here is still 'normal,' but I've done in my life and I wanted to share it with you a lot to get used to life there," she changed." my friends when I came back, but we had says. "But there isn't much help coming 
Becker is not alone in her feelings. Notre just grown in different ways." Perez found home." To feel more at home, Kearney Dame sends approximately 300 students that her best friends when she came home has kept in touch with the group she trav­abroad each semester, including more than were those she had come to know in Spain. eled with in France, meeting with them 100 to London. Most of them have ex­''It's been hard to stay together as a group, every weekend. She also works in the Inter­tremely positive experiences during their but we're all still close," she says. national Study office and enjoys talking time abroad; after overcoming the initial Senior Dan Ryan, who traveled with the with other students there who have gone or culture shock that can come from adjusting Saint Mary's Semester Around the World are planning to go abroad. to being surrounded by other languages, program during the fall of his sophomore Students coming back from countries customs and even kinds of food, most stu­year, also remembers feeling reverse cul­where other languages are spoken aren't the dents come to feel completely at home. ture shock, but it happened more at the end only ones who experience reverse culture They also can become very close to the of the semester abroad than immediately shock. Senior Clare Pistey, who recently students on the program with whom they __ after returning home. The students had spent returned from a year in Ireland, _often finds have shared their experiences. When they about two return to life on campus afterward, they can months in feel out of place, slightly alienated from India, where, their friends and overwhelmed by their according to schedules. This is usually called 'reverse Ryan, "Every­culture shock.' body seemed 
According to Dr. Claudia Kselman, asso­pretty happy, ciate director of International Study Pro­but the poverty grams, reverse culture shock is fairly com­was striking." mon. "The schedule of daily life is very Before coming different abroad," Kselman says. "Thehard­home, the group est thing for students to do is readjust to the stopped in Eu­demands of classes at Notre Dame." rope. It was 
Students may also experience a good deal strange to see offrustration with their families and friends. and use tele­For most people, going to college increases phones and TVs a sense of independence, but study abroad again, says students gain even greater feeling of inde-· Ryan,buthewas ffl pendence. "They make all their own meals able to readjust 
FLAVORFUL MEMORIES. Alumni of the Semester Around the World 
and travel plans," Kselman says. "Ifthey're 
before actually program frequently meet at the Malabar, an Indian restaurant located in Europe, especially, then t~ey'll travel all coming back to across the street from the Linebacker. Over Indian cuisine, they catch over the continent by themselves. It can be the U.S. up on what has happened since they returned from abroad. 
12 Scholastic Campus Life 
I . ' . ---' . \ , . . .. • • \
I ', • • 



;;,'::.-·.·: 
·,•'. 
~-· 


~::,.~ 
::;;8" V




~.-.· \: 
~ 
JUST LIKE HOME. A student who spenta semester in Spain makes sa,ngria for an 
evening fiesta. 
herself comparing life in the two countries. Pistey, "My attitude on time changed com­"I notice even silly things like spelling," pletely in Ireland," where businesses would laughs Pistey. "I spent a year trying to fit in often close for two hours for lunch, leaving few students actually feel that life on cam­pus is something of a letdown after the places they lived. Senior Nathaniel Marx spent last semester in Israel, where the political situation was hard to escape. "There was a lot of real tension between Palestine and Israel. Every day you were reminded of where you were," Marx re­members. Though he always felt like an outsider, he grew to feel very comfortable in Israel, even staying to work on a service project during the summer. "It was a won­derful experience," he says. "Notre Dame is a pretty amazing place, but life is just a little less exciting here." 
Monica Gomez is also trying hard to get back into the spirit of things here after spending last semester in Mexico, but at times she feels overwhelmed. "I loved Mexico," she explains, echoing other students' observations that the pace of life was more relaxed. "I didn't feel as stressed there. I think that I've changed a lot because of my experience, and it's hard to get enthusiastic about being back here." 
The university does try in small ways to help students readjust to life here, though, says Kselman. There is a welcome-back pizza party at the beginning ofeach semes­ter for all of the individual study abroad programs. The International Study office also tries to involve students like Kearney who have already been abroad, in recruit­ing and orienting new students for the programs in future semesters. 
Though for some students reverse cul­ture shock does last awhile, most seem to 
"It was so hard to get back on the plane to come home. Life here is still 
'normal,' but I've changed." 
by spelling words the British way, and I still catch myself doing it here." Like other stu­dents, she believes that academic life is far more challenging here and life in general is more hectic. She misses the way oflife and the people in Ireland, even more so because she doesn't know if she'll ever be able to return. She puts a positive spin on her nos­talgia, however: "Ifyou don 'twanttoleave," she explains, "it's a sign that you've had a good experience." 
One thing that most students agree on is that life in America moves at a much faster pace than elsewhere in the world. Says plenty of time to socialize. Senior Greer Vespa observed during her time in Austra­lia that life seemed more relaxed there as well. "Everyone is more laid-back," she 
notes. "They just have a different way of thinking about time." 
A major challenge, says Perez, is learning to blend the different approaches to time. "I try to take the appreciation for life I found in Spain and fit it into my busy life here," she explains. "I don't want to forget to notice the simple pleasures." 
While some find life here on campus more exciting and fast-paced than abroad, a 
-Amy Becker 

feel that coming home wasn't nearly as difficult as they had feared. They are also adamant that despite having experienced reverse (and initial) culture shock, they wouldn't exchange their time abroad for anything. "I definitely wouldn't do any­thing different," affirms Perez. 
Becker also notes that being a study abroad student from Notre Dame is dis­tinct from being from other schools. "This school is so spirited," Becker says. "I wish everyone would want. to go abroad, be­cause it makes your other three years here that much more fulfilling." D 
Campus Life Scholastic 13 



,nov1c
•7£.'f,4V:­
reg:,.f; 
1\\i,fl:~i1r 

•· '<,; :1: 'operatorslsfartedexplaihing.wha'f.Wouldhappeh'whilettlis..w:omari• ,':an'dthe';:oth:ef 60'ofso member~fofthe·Notre Darile Rbck'. ,:­
:. _•:_~.'. •: •-.~ _:-,.:..··,.•,:; :_ .~; -~ ~.; ·~--•~-~ •. _-:-·.·.:· •.,: i:• _ . ,~: ·__ :·~. · '•I,-~· .. ~• ••·._· ·.~ \. _• -.. ,-·:,.:. ·,-_.~ -a. • ·' ···.•..• ,..·_ ·:;:•-.;·,':-• ••• '··.:· •••': '. , •• :{• ,:: •• _·, _• ,~ _' _f ,.;,.• . , -·_.'." •,¥·•.::. ·'" , .,,: •.-, r"r•.. ' • •_:.-•. .-.• ,•", • 0 ·; , , J ~ ,".•• •.' '.. ','. ,," '• ,.,·, ,'. ." ·. .,: ~. ••. ,,' •. ,•.• ':~ 1 '·,' ', ,•· ': ••• _• ', •• 
. :r.:·:_,'( :sJi;ap}?(?CL.I!t~'._Up,\~.°-·the~l~as:i;~~d.y-Jo..g9,rw1t11,~e1g}its s~rapp~cL:/,Gl1µ1bmg :qubnt.SOU!l~S _Jik~ JUS~ anoth(l,r cme.· 9ft:pe gia.nY .. \.;, 
:;~••. \. ;. '•··fa\ije,r.feit/;:;w1~1tk~· \Va$.t?~d n,ot,~0,.10.~~ aow*\,:~flh~/~.~UAd;f~_i·· ·/ti~ps thF,(akeA~r~gt11~:f e,~;,'Yjtl{iips;fr~m•N~}~rr~ef aiict .:'....;', '::· ,:: '" .'1Jef<n:e ~fi.eJV{tsrea,dy. Then; eve,cyo_ne c9unte.d_dc;,,wn;_fro111l1v:e; agd_ '<·fne,nds, ~.GhoetHer l:leg1;1n cl1mqmg. at .16.· and ·. has s1~ce scaled· 

1 I \\:\liiif~Ei;ft!i~t~il'"!tlt!\tftt~;:;,:;s~~;~.· 
to Fairchiid, diving tandem is more spontaneous and more fun. He recalls feeling little fear until he stood in front of the door of the some dirt-covered rocks and.~~rigf!-.(Me,h.~Pf9,§S)f@f~c'ii:of;t:Jie 
p!Me, ready to jump. But before he had a chmce to thlnk abo:;;;••••· T.oun:;Iiii~::::::,,,~l1~\:;2r.••'' S•• 
;_\aJ~endanrm,et,a.ri.d·~congratulated her::._!'l·would definitely do .it . 
. • again/' sh,e:says·, a~dirigthafshe iriightjusfjump backwards next time. . .:. . ......·. . . . . . . . . . : . . <~omp~red to biiilgeejumping,_slcydiving is thought to be more danger6uipursuit.°Consequentiy, skydivintis seldom done on a whim or. by beginners. Senior Mike Fairchild was spending a semester in Fremantle, Australia, when he and his friends decided to skydive during a trip to nearby Caimes. They were given a 15­minute "crash course" on what they were to do and then boarded a tiny plane. 
In order to skydive alone, more intensive training is required. As a result, Fairchild and his friends dove in "tandem," attached to a professional skydiver who pulls the parachute for them. According 
Schoettler, like most members.of the club, climbs in pairs, ·with one persori climbing andthe other acting as_ belayer, the person on the ground or above holding the rope. The belayer is also the one 
who lets the rope slip slowly as the climber comes back down. Schoettler stresses the importance oftrusting the belayer, because should he or she release the rope or be unable to hold it, the climber would fall to the ground. 
When equipped with good rope and a trustworthy belayer, Schoettler does not consider his sport to be particularly d~ngerous. However, he was once caught in a perilous situation in which he was climbing at Red Rocks, Nevada, unaware that a gypsum mine was being blasted nearby until he felt the effect ofthe blasts. "Yeah,. that was scary," he admits. In another incident in Kentucky, while he was climbing about 50 feet above the g~oun<:l, hfsJipped_ on 
. . 

· lliskiug,lif,e ·and limb for· 
: . . ~ ·. . ' . 

extreme sport. 
down on the town from a cliff 500 fee_t high. Sample and his friend moved further down the moun­tain and decided to climb down from about 100 feet­without ropes. "My friend and I were pretty experienced and we figured we could handle it," Sample says. And they might have been able to, had the rock Sample was holding onto 
not pulled out from the face of the cliff when he was still 60 feet · above the ground. He fell and broke his leg, cracked his sternum and severely damaged his knee. 
Interestingly enough, Sample is ofthe same opinion as Schoettler when it comes to the sport. "Yes, there are freak accidents, but you'll always be pretty safe," he says. Sample has not allowed his accident to instill a fear of climbing. Ironically, he says that experiencing a fall can actually increase confidence in climbing ability. Sample always encourages beginners to intentionally fall 
· a short distance on their first climb to get the feel offalling. "Once you have your first fall, you realize you 're safe and you 're not quite as nervous," he explains. Apparently, Sample has taken his own advice. He began climbing again as soon as he was physically able and on even more difficult terrain. 
It is easy to see why so many people become invol'{_ed in _such ; daredevil sports: the nervous excitement before and· the thrilling ·_. · rush afterwards comes with knowing you have jiis(clQne whaf\•. o~hers would can ~razy. But these sports appeat)o be qliite safe 1f. 
. . .. . done.correctly -barring any fre* a,ccidents. . . . . . An avid rock climber for about twoyears now, and_ also a Regardless of the risks; thriU~sieiki~g:i:d:rin to those who crave memb~r of Notre Dame's climbingdub; seniorJohri.Saniple had exciteme11t. Moslpftli~jim~;/p1,iyicfos training isn't required, _.... 
•;:,, • · :~ acd_decy_i whiledimbing wi_th afriend i~-the Swis·s Alps. The pair which)nci-eases die sptiniarie1ty faqtor and doubles th~ furi/Y:tju'• . ~-: .· _._:, )jad c\imb_ed' 1:? .tJie. top,,of a mountain and staye~. until it· was .. ·ca0:#6.jfforpersonal fulfillmeni;~ithagroup offriends_'forkiciKs})t .-' beginning to get dark, when they deciaed .to_ h~a:~--fy_~ck to town.. ; ._01: tOjtist impress other people and look_cool :......,just'.sQ1Qng as yo~ 
Unfortunately, they lost theirv.,~y;~;;,~~~%~%~m.w~~g1~~i§q~~~-/\· ~~~n't afraid of heights. . · 0 

BY COUR1NEY KERRIGAN 
rts and Letters majors often get snide remarks about post­
graduation plans, but senior Alyssa Hellrung's plans prob­ably provoke the most unique responses. "I'm going to join the circus," she says. 
For Hellnmg, joining the circus is much more than a passing fancy. "I tried the flying trapeze for the first time when I was 16 at Club Med, and !fell in love with it." Years later, the excitement still hasn't left Hellrung, who has decided to pursue work as a circus trainer at Club Med when she graduates. Club Med has the world's largest organiza­tion ofcircus teachers, with training centers at tourist facilities around the globe. 
Hellrung has taken the necessary steps to fulfill her dream. She spends her summers at the San Francisco School of Circus Art, one of the most complete circus schools in the United States. "I took flying trapeze classes, static trapeze classes, Chinese acrobatics and trampo­line.... I juggle too, but I concentrate on aerial stuff," she says. "[Flying trapeze] takes you away from everything, it takes you away from all the petty, stupid problems around you." Currently she's working on getting an intern training position at Club Med over Christmas vacation in either the Caribbean or Florida. 
Swinging around all summer may sound like fun and games, but Hellrung explains that although she loves it, training for the circus is not always easy. "At circus school I was training for at least four hours a day, six days a week. It's very hard to train while I'm at Notre Dame," she adds. "I try to train for an hour and a half a day doing weight training, balancing and lots of stretching." Hellrung explains that she does not waiit to lose the flexibility she gained training this summer. 
AH this work is not just for a brief stint in the circus. "After this summer, and I think even before that, I realized that this is my life passion, this is what I want to do more than anything else in the whole world," Hellrung says. She hopes to tour with a company somewhere, but is quick to explain that joining Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus is not in her future. "Americans have a really shady picture of the circus, they imagine Ringling Brothers.... It's a spectacle, but it isn't art," she says. Hellrung has more respect for some foreign circuses, like Cirque du Soleil. "They tend to really take it like art, to a whole new level ... they're really respectful of circus artists." Although this work appeals to Hellrung, she says it would take much more training to get to that level. 
But after spending more than $100,000 on a Notre Dame tuition, what do her parents think of this career choice? According to Hellrung, her parents support her decision and are enthusiastic about it. "IfI did somehow end up in a job it would be really hard to cut out and go teach at Club Med for a couple ofyears," she says, and her parents understand this. 
Hellrung refuses to be something she's not, and says Notre Dame 
A 

16 Scholastic Campus Life 
isn't always supportive of those people with unique dreams. "It was really hard to come back here after the summer," she says. "I was doing something Ilove so much, and I was absolutely joyful all the time. I was just so healthy-physically, spiritually, emotionally-everything was so great there." For Hellrung, the support she received from her trainers and others in­volved was encourag­ing, but the fact that shewasdoingwhatshe loves was the most im­portant thing. Many Notre Dame students are under pressure from parents and friends tojoin cor­porate America and be fmancially well off, ac­cording to Hellrung. "It's hard for people here ... to follow their passions because we're so used to being cookie-cutter gradu­ates, and I refuse to be a cookie-cutter gradu­ate." 
For Hellrung, circus life provides a com-~­fort zone. "Having a ~ conversation with an-!I!~,;­other circus person is Zl like coming home, or :;;! > meeting your best is friend for the first ffli>· 
1-/
time," she says. §) "There's1·ustthiscom-8i 
Oi 
mon thing, and I don't !5, 

think it's something if, learned, I think it's something irmate, and it's cool that I found it in myself." 1 

Alyssa may not be a typical senior, but she is definitely one who has discovered her passion and is boldly following her dreams. "I used to be embarrassed to tell people whatlreally love to do ... butthis year I'm being true to myself ... and if I have to answer all the questions that people usually ask about it, that's okay," she says. "You can do what you love, and it's okay, even if you don't make a lot of money, I don't worry about that. As long as I'm doing what I ab:,;olutely love, I think it will be fine." 0 

TIP THE GIPP. GIPPER.l@ND.EDU 

(_})ffiP{(s 
4(~
·.. 




ffla,c~ 
"I also say it is good to fall, battles are lost in the same spirit in which they are won." -Walt Whitman "Freak! We can't LOSE! Go long, you freak!" 
-angry Irish fan standing behind the Gipp at the Michigan State game who came close to receiving a personal beating from the Gipp, on account ofhis overuse ofthe word "freak" 

The Gipp's nursing a broken heart this week as he mourns the state of the football team. But in spite of the 
tear stains on his Fightin' Irish pillowcase, the Gipp will not go so far as to launch any personal attacks on individual foot­ball players andcriti­cize their athletic performance. The Gipp leaves that kind~ 1of thing to freshmen from Zahm who write top 10 lists for the Observer and manage to insult Tony Driver, Joey Goodspeed, Bob Davie, Jim Sanson and Jarious Jackson all in one sh(?t. The Gipp salutes any such act of boldness, but fears for this young nian' s life. Ifthe author of the top 10 list is out there, the Gipp has a message for him: Perhaps you've been spared by the footballers this time around because they know you 're still a young buck, wet behind the ears. But next time, Tiger, they might not be so nice. Take heed and channel your anger into a Gipp tip. After all, what good is the Gipp if he can't protect the students' right to make incendiary statements without consequence? 
Crime and Punisl1ment: Beer Embezzlement at Heartland 

Last Thursday, one of the Gipp's cohorts was spending the evening at Heartland, when a couple of youngsters managed to steal a couple of bottled beers from the bar. The devilish youths were well into their celebra­tion when a Heartland employee approached them and asked how much they paid for their beers. Good question. Once their evil deed was discovered, the employee scolded 
them: "Getoutofhere, and don't 
come back! ... Atleast, not until 
next week." 
Football Coaches Get Plau 

Oneofthegirls' interhallfoot­ball teams was having a tough time recruiting male coaches, and desperate times call for des­perate measures. So, the female football commissioners ap­proached the young men they wanted for the job and struck a deal: If the fellows agreed to coach the team, they were guar­anteed a little hook-up action from team members. The Gipp knows that the hope ofgetting some off-the­field play is always in the backofan interhall football coaches' mind. After all, girls' foot­ball is not really one of those sports one coaches for the love of the game. But for these lucky men, their dream has become a promise -the ladies in charge of theteam signed a contract guaranteeing that if none of the other team members offered some affection to the coaches, the signees would 
personally provide the lovin' at the end of the season. Awww, yeah. 
Oipplettes 

A The Gipp likes a friendly rector as W much as the next guy, but the Gipp does his best to avoid getting within arm's reach of a certain rector, famed for greeting the residents of his hall with a friendly pat on the rear. Apparently, this gesture is also offered as a sign of peace at dorm mass. Well, this rector has upped the ante, so to speak, and has recently initiated a new ten­der gesture-a friendly rub on the tummy. The Gipp doesn't want to mention any names, but instead will refer to this affec-:-_ tionate rector as "Father That's-A-Bad­Touch." A A game ofcups at St. Pete's Street took Von new and naughty dimensions when the losers of each round were required to remove their shirts. The Gipp heard an on­looker say, "It's almost not worth seeing a hot girl in her bra when you've got to look past all those nasty shirtless guys to see her." Another spectator said that the shirtless lass was the first person he ever saw wear­ing one of those W.W.J.D. bracelets, but they seem to have gone out of style now. Still other witnesses discussed cup size, though the Gipp is sure they were talking about the cups from which she was drink­ing. The Gipp wondered, "WhatwouldJesus do ifthere was a girl playing shirtless cups?" Probably just say a prayer for her salvation, repent for checking out her goods and put that W.W.J.D. bracelet back on for good measure. 
A One freshman baseball recruit bragged 
V to the Gipp that he never has any trouble getting into Finnegan's -one senior base­ball star who doubles as a bouncer there on weekends always lets his teammates in. The Gipp has news for you, rookie. No other underagers have any trouble getting into Finnegan's, either. 
The Gipp would like to say thanks to 
all those who wrote into the web 

feedback form. The Gipp thinks you 're all real swell. Only one person sent in a negative response, and that someone knows who he or she is. The Gipp hopes that the person will read this and realize that some­one needs to loosen up. 
Be good, be bad, keep those tips coming, 
send fan mail if you wish, take heed of the 
sprinklers and be sure to catch some interhall 
football action, on or off the field. 
Campus Watch Scholastic 17 

'... ----~----~-----~ -------~­
----.•--­

tanding wedged between a trash can and the Huddle Mart checkout counter may not sound like a particu­larly appealing way to spend a weeknight, but that's exactly where I found myself last Thursday at 10:30 
p.m. However, the diverse music and atmosphere of LaFortune's Acoustic Cafe more than compensated for my less-than-stellar seating arrangement. Students filled the Huddle's tables and overflowed into the hallways, sipping Edy's milkshakes and talking as student bands performed on stage. 
Never having frequented the Acoustic Cafe before, I was surprised at how noisy and busy it was, and I spent almost as much time accidentally eavesdropping on unsuspecting stu­dents' conversations as listening to the music. The first few songs were drowned out by a loud girl to my left who was animatedly pointing out to her friends a certain guy she had inexplicably nicknamed "Goat Boy." 
In the end, though, I left the hot, crowded Huddle extremely impressed with the musical talents of our fellow ND students, as well as with the high-quality flavor of the Huddle Mart's milkshakes. I'm definitely heading back next week, with hopes of further Goat Boy sightings and maybe a better seat. 
-CarolynSweeney 

ii ' 
\ ! c~~~,.i,~:rn11~.·ii l1tlfj1·1.1j~~ij 1DI a
1 .. .. 
i 
MJ~~hJ11M~t) r,~ti1~~b.\'.lu
1 I dJ:lt~1,rl! 1 '1/,(lllr.' nii X
'! 
i urruuu.B'J ·HBtfuu ·LJ. 
It's all blues to me," says Christian Parma, decked out in a black leather blazer, purple shirt and tie, black slacks and shiny patent leather shoes. 
!1 ! "It's all about this," says Scholastic's own Jared Marx, pointing to his heart. Sporting ! more casual yet equally dashing attire, Marx plays harmonica to accompany ~ Parilla's piano and vocals. As the duo discusses their upcoming set, Marx expresses concern that the C Acoustic Cafe audience is not very well versed in their musical style. "I'll walk them through," Parilla assures him. "Like, this is the blues; this is how it's done." They take the stage. Parilla brings the piano to life as he shimmies on his bench and croons with a voice of caramel and sandpaper, "Rock me honey I Why don't you rock me real slow." Marx taps his feet and blinks his eyes in concentration as he sounds his silver accompaniment. "The blues are never positive," Parilla alternately sings and speaks as he plays. "Everything' s going wrong. Your girl just left you. Your dog just died./' ve got the blues I Crawling all over my shoes. Itdon't matter ifit don't make no sense because it's just the blues." The set ends with hearty applause, including a little scream. Parilla and Marx beam, but try to hide 'their smiles as they brew up another round of blues. 
-KaraZuaro 

18 Scholastic Entertainment 


1r=~ 

II 
II ii 
Ii 
After a noisy hour 
ofwatching people swarm through the Huddle, I at 11: 15 p.m. !"was finally able to block out all the conversations I flying around me in time to hear Two Burley Women (a.k.a. Beth 
I 
Marino and Laura Wolfe) sing the Indigo Girls' "Closer to Fine" and Bob Marley's "No Woman, No Cry," among other tunes. Their sweet voices impressed even my musically-ignorant ears and elicited some of the loudest cheers ofthe night from the full house. They even seemed popular among the male population, which I had expected to scorn any piece by the ultra-feminist Indigo Girls. Even more surprisingly, I actually saw one young gentleman singing along, word for word, to "Closer to Fine," which I felt was particularly notable. Accompanied by a guitar and drums ( courtesy ofChris Goddard), the Women proved that their renditions ofclassic songs would definite Iy make the original artists, as well as the large crowd, smile. -Carolyn Sweeney 
PF.i}.rn~~, tijr-~r~.r"-1... -~l...
§ii~ ~i~~JE}~® s L ... f.r•. ·frr.'1 CJ.. t\1J. tW.·,[l... ~I.. 1fl
111~JJ\l 6•~~tru
The night was moving sort of slowly, to be honest. A few more drinks and my table was ready to get back to Theology 100 homework. "Okay, we'll give these guys one shot -one song," says one. Looking down at my watch, I see the little hand on the 10. Fine, one song. The piano begins to play-jam, rather. It's Billy Joel's "Only the Good Die Young" and suddenly the crowd is alive. Our piano player -obviously engrossed and fully unaware of the atmo­spheric change taking place around him -blasts away with force and vigor. He is Billy Joel, it seems. Little groups at tables begin to chime in, "Only the good die young!" 
Fortunately for us, we stay. Paul Ricketts and Logan Foley continue their musical eloquence with a rendition ofJimmy Buffett' s "Margarita ville" -obviously a favorite of the crowd. The vocals are great. There is a back-and-forth vocal harmony between Ricketts and Foley. They flow and capture the audience with energized tones and beats. Not only does our Mr. Foley sing, but he also plays the piano with his own jazzy style at the same time. (Very impressive, especially for those of us lacking any degree of hand­eye-voice coordination.) Ending the night with a cover of Tom Petty's "Free Falling," they capped off a perfect performance that was definitely a crowd pleaser. Ricketts and Foley left us all waiting in anticipation for their next appearance at Acoustic Cafe. May they be back in full action! I'm glad I decided to stay for that "one song." (Though the theology work never did get done. Oh, well.) 
-Jared C. Jodrey 

A~l~r.&f@..I~ffl ~fmiijf,i~rd
L.:,l:iuut':i~lL0..,,.aJU\.:l £1B lJLfl:iwlJ '.~JGuJui..:.:..iWhen asked what song brings out the best of American Stan­dard, Holly Hoffman responds, "Sweet Child of Mine -the Guns & Roses edition. We stole it from Axl first, and Sheryl Crow stole it from us." One might expect as much from the. lead singer of the band formerly known as Sarcastik Bite, but in last Thursday's perfor­mance at Acoustic Cafe, Hoffman was the antithesis of the bur­lesque. Hoffman and rhythm guitarist Dan Puccini, in a reduced appearance by the five-member band, opened with an impressive rendition of Sarah McLachlan's "Building a Mystery." Hoffman's voice is among the best of Acoustic Cafe's regulars, a voice that is complemented well by the undulat­ing rhythms of Puccini's guitar. · 
n 

Puccini, who writes originals, struggles to define the~ band's sound. "It's difficult to pinpoint it. We're a kind of band that would play Go Your Own Way and Welcome to the Jungle back-to-back." However one chooses to de­scribe their sound, one thing is certain: Hoffman and Puccini's engaging, humbly spirited performances at Acoustic Cafe pique an interest to check out American Standard in full: -Zac Kulsrud 

S ~~~WJIWi11n t@i1Q(ji)jfil@. ; I l(fiJ t
e~~,wU~,Julb~: .} ~~ e 
exual Chocolate was originally organized by
S
lead vocalist John Tab is and guitarist J.P. Montufur in the fall of 1998. Recruiting their bassist Mickey McGarry and drummer Kevin O'Bryan, the four set out to learn a few show tunes and popular '80s hits that everyone would recognize. One year later, the band is still ~ going strong. Releasing a CD last spring of C:: their best acoustic performances, the quar­tet has expanded to include a chorus used to perform such crowd pleasers as "Build Me Up, Butter­cup" and "Sweet Caroline." Although the chorus mem­bers, who call themselves the Pralines, are the only members who have no formal musical training, they still know how to add a little spice to a performance. 
Classifying themselves as "unsophisticated musicians," the band's main purpose in a performance is having a good time and entertaining the audience. While they lately received a lot of attention from the media for their song "Why Can't We M~ke Out," written by Tabis and 
performed at the Dillon Pep Rally before the Kansas State football game, the band has no immediate plans to pursue a career in music. Sexual Chocolate will continue to perform at Acoustic Cafe and possibly lo.ok into performing at bars or at a female SYR next semester. '(Call fast...they've already received offers!) 
-Heather Hogan 
Carrying 
his guitar and wearing a smile, Justin Dunn stepped ont<? the stage of Acoustic Cafe to a familiar crowd. The traffic through LaFortune slows as long-time fans of the Thursday night jam session recognize Dunn and stop to listen once again. A regular at Acoustic Cafe, Dunn began playing guitar his freshman year at Notre Dame. He perfected his skills as a sopho­more by performing with his brother, and now as a senior he plays solo for the crowds that jam the Huddle every Thursday night. Dunn began his performance with a rendition ofJack O 'Pierce's "Rain," which he sang with John Tabis of Sexual Chocolate. Such foiksy, alternative songs make up a lar_ge part of Dunn's repertoire including songs by Sarah McLachlan and Dave Matthews, as well as a few pieces Dunn wrote himself. Dunn continued his show with "Lie in Our Graves" and ended with a sing-along version of"Ants Marching." A familiar and respected performer at Acoustic Cafe, Dunn is certain to attract new fans to his Thursday night shows while continuing to draw back old fans as well. -Kathleen Corte 


ofiliJi~!: e
~J~t1~~ ~ll
While many performers have come and gone over the past three years, one name remains familiar on the Notre Dame campus: Geoff Rahie. In his three years as a Notre Dame student, Rahie has shown his versatility and showmanship on the stage of Acoustic Cafe and with his band "Who's Yo' Daddy?" Whether jamming with his band or flying solo, Rahie has that unique stage presence that captures the attention of his audience and feeds the listeners' emotions. What other musician can give you a melodious guitar groove, a sweet flute solo, and a furious violin jam all in one song? Rahie' s wide range of musical talent also displays itself in his song selections. In his most recent performance at Acoustic Cafe, he entertained the crowd with a variety ofmusic genres: a mellow rock song, Gala po gos, by Smashing Pumpkins; a soothing original "Cap­tain of My Ship"; a peaceful version of Phish's "Velvet Sea"; "Elderly Woman Behind a Counter in a Small Town" by Pearl Jam and an original ballad, "Marcy and Me 2." The most exciting aspect ofGeoffRahie is that he is just beginning to fully tap into his musical talent. With his musical growth have come more complex originals that span the sound ofjazz, rock and funk. His fusion of musical influences has created a new and exhilarating sound. With Rahie in only his third year, Notre Dame students will have the privilege of listening to this versatile per­former for two more years. When asked what keeps him playing, Rahie simply responded, "I do it for the nookie." -Dan Laughlin 
Entertainment Scholastic 21 

----------~------------~ -----­


This January, Scholastic will publish its first-ever issue devoted entirely to fiction. We are looking for student submissions of short stories, essays, poetry and visual art. They can be placed in the box outside of the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall or submitted via the Internet at http://www.nd.edu/~scholast All entries must be received by Monday, November 22, 1999. 
If you have questions, contact Zac Kulsrud at zkulsrud@nd.edu 

22 Scholastic Announcement 

The senior walk-on split end from Houston, Texas,joined the team in 1997 and went on to earn a monogram in 1998 due to his extensive contribution on special teams. This season the mechanical engineering major remains a consistent performer on special teams, making appear­ances with the kickoff return and punt return squads. Last week against Michigan State, Hebert had arguably his best game in an Irish uniform when he blocked a punt and recorded two tackles. 
I first took up football when I was: in the fourth grade. My most memorable moment at Notre Dame off-the-field oc­curred when: I went on the Notre Dame Encounter. My favorite professional football player growing up was: Walter Payton. The greatest team moment I've experienced was: when we beat Boston College last year. My greatest personal athletic moment was: when I blocked the punt last weekend (against Michigan State). 
My favorite person who came to talk to the team before a game was: Joe Theismann. 
The team I like most to compete against is: Michigan. 
The number of hours a day, on average, I dedicate to football: six. 
Which is the better college football video game, EA's NCAA 
.-~. Football 2000 or 989 Sports' NCAA Gamebreaker 
-~, 2000? NCAA Gamebreaker 2000. 
My favorite memory in Notre Dame football 
history occurred when: the Rocket returned 
· -two kickoffs for touch­downs. 
The toughest class ,,.I've taken at Notre 
& 
'?., \Dame is: Heat 
. ,,,., .) 

"~·•"''''.,~f Transfer. 
,: ·-· \1~\'.:'.'\, 
\',,\~\ 

"This weekend, Oklahoma, which is Notre Dame's next opponent, again wins in con­vincing fashion to improve to 3­
0. Next Saturday, the Irish shut down the Sooners' pass-happy offense en route to crushing Oklahoma, 45-17 ." 

Chr~s Hamihijn 

"Keenan, with the experience of its senior player-coaches, will find a way to go unde­feated for a third straight year in interhall football:" 



"Sitting on the disabled list for a few weeks and taking a few games off seemed to be the best cure for Cal Ripken, Jr. He'11 finish this season with his high­est average in years and more than 3,000 lifetime hits." 
Bri(O] nChrist 
Sports Scholastic 23 



The 1995 Nafiornrnl (hampionsip Season 
As the blistering summer of 1995 was coming to an end, the 
seven-year-old Notre Dame soccer program, headed by 1994 
head coach of the year Chris Petrucelli, had just one goal: win 
the national championship title. Just one game short of their 
coveted glory taken away from them by the North Carolina 
Tarheels in 1994, the Irish were reminded constantly of their 
shortcomings. 

What most die-hard soccer fans recall from that unfortunate 
season was the 5-0 rout to North Carolina. The Irish had this 
game on their minds all summer long, sweating away the pain, 
in order to endeavor into what would become the most excit­
ing season in their history. 
Led by All-Americans Cindy Daws,· Holly Manthei and 
Kate Sobrero, the Irish roared into their 1995 season with the 
sport's leading analysts predicting they would finish again as 
the runner-up to the Tarheels. Their predictions gave the Irish 
the extra motivation they needed to overcome powerhouses 
like the Tarheels in the upcoming season. 
Such a feat, however, would be a hefty challenge. That year, 
the talented squad began their first year as member of the Big 
East Conference. The added pressure of winning the Big East 
Tournament along with the NCAA Tournament was intimidat­
ing. Despite their lack of Big East experience, the Irish were 
still expected to win the tournament, proving their reputation 
preceded them. 

Petrucelli anticipated a challenging freshman season in the 
Big East, warning the team that they wouldn't "be able to 
coast through any games this season. We're going to have to 
earn all of our victories." 

The attitude of the coach grounded the team, allowing them 
to seriously concentrate on teams like No. 1 North Carolina, 
No. 4 Duke, No. 3 Stanford, No. 6 Connecticut and No. 10 
Santa Clara. 

On September 17, 1995, knowing that their first real chal­
lenger of the season was the third-ranked Stanford Cardinal, 
the Irish had to prove a point that they were mature and skilled 
enough to overcome their first great obstacle of the season. 
Without the leadership of All-American midfielder Cindy 
Daws on the field, the Irish knew a struggle loomed. 
Shannon Boxx, a quiet, reserved player, more familiar to 
standing in the shadows of Daws, played the hero, breaking 
out with a quick goal and two assists that slowed down the 
explosive Cardinaloffensive momentum. The Irish ultimately 
shut out the Cardinals 3-0, increasing their confidence that 
they could indeed win the national title with or without their 
most prominent player, Cindy Daws. 
Petrucelli said, "It was a great weekend. Hopefully we'll 
have more like them." 

PetruceUi was given plenty mor:e amazing weekends as the 
Irish went on to win. the national title in the 1995 season. 
Presently, with the momentum, depth, and talent of this 
season's soccer team, hopefully the present team will mirror 
that of the dedicated squad assembled in 1995. 
-Jennifer Perry 

24 Scholastic Sports 



foo I(1-3)
Key Stat: Notre Dame went 0-3 against Big Ten opponents this season. Prime Time Performer: Sophomore line­backer Tyreo Harrison tallied 10 tackles, three ofwhich were for a loss, and broke up two passes last weekend against Michigan State. Next Game: The Irish host Oklahoma Sat­urday, October 2, at 1:30 p.m. 
Key Stat: SMU handed number six Notre Dame its first shutout in 55 games after a 1­0 victory. Prime Time Performer: Jenny Streiffer scored one goal a piece in recent victories over Texas A&M and Butler. Next Game: Notre Dame travels to Seton Hall this Friday. 
Mer{s


Soccer (3-2-1) 
Key Stat: In its past four games, Notre Dame has been forced into overtime three times, going 0-2-1 during that span. Prime Time Performer: Goaltender Gerick Short has allowed only four goals through six games this season. Next Game: The Irish travel to Moraga, Calif., to compete against St. Mary's and San Diego in the St. Mary's Tournament this weekend. · · 


Wo 1s Volleyball (3-1) 
Ke_y Stat: Notre Dame seeks to attain its fifth straight Big East title this season. Prime Time Performer: Sophomore Kristy Kreher had 11 kills in the 3-0 win against Miami (Ohio). Next Game: This Friday Notre Dame trav­els to Wyoming for a 7:00 p.m. contest. 

An 

Offensive Coordinator Kevin Rogers' reputation precedes him, and he has already brought more to the Irish than just a new playbook 
BY JOE LoscuDo 
s offensive coordinator at ~yra­
cuse, Kevin Rogers knew what 

pressure was. For that matter, he also knew what success was. But there are few, if any, places where the pressure and expectations of success are as intense as at Notre Dame. It is an institution saturated with tradition, icons and desire for excel­lence. Rogers, however, has not been in­timidated by these facts. "There is tremendous pres­sure here," Rogers says, "but I am just here to do a job." 
If anyone has the quali-,. fications and experience to fill the offensive coordi­nating position at Notre Dame, it's Rogers. His im­pressive coaching resume includes defensive line coach at Ohio State, run­ning backs coach at Will­iam and Mary and quarter­backs and running backs coach at Navy. Rogers is best known for his eight-year term at Syracuse, however, where for varying stints he worked as quar­terbacks coach, recruiting coordinator, assis­tant head coach and offensive coordinator. 
Rogers resume also shows that he can produce results. As the defensive line coach at Ohio State, the Buckeyes earned trips to the Sugar and Cotton bowl. While at Syra­cuse, the Orangemen went to six bowls, including two Fiesta and one Orange bow 1. 
So what does Rogers hope to do at Notre 
A
Dame? For now, his answer is simple: To win the rest of the games this season. Rogers hopes to do so by improving the Irish offen­sive scheme. He calls this year's offensive "more wide open, and less conservative than in the past." The changes have evoked excitement in the players, which, Rogers says, "is natural for any player because he wants to touch the ball more often." 
One player receiving the benefit of in­creased touches is running back Tony Fisher, whom Rogers has worked -closely with in the execu­tion of the option. "Coach 
backs and

Tl1e1·e is t-.·emendous 
systems

press1u·e here, b11t I am they sub­
scribed to.

just he1·e to ,Io a job. The Irish 
then went

lI{€l~\VElill Hogen"§ 
after Ro-

Rogers brings a lot of ex­plosiveness to our offense," Fisher says, "and he gives us the chance to put a lot of points on the board." When asked how Rogers' style differs from that of former Offensive Coordinator Jim Colletta, Fisher says, "Coach Rogers is willing to take more chances, and he is more willing to go for the home run play." Head Coach Bob Davie has found that Rogers brought from Syracuse more than just new ideas for the offense. "He brings a lot of credibility to our players because of where he's coached, who he's coached and the success he's had." Davie emphasizes 
that credibility is important because of the confidence it brings to the players. 
Davie also speaks ofthe continuity Rogers brings to the team. Rogers is not revamping the offensive scheme, but building upon an offensive foundation set down last season. Rogers hopes to enhance . that offense's growth and productivity. 
Davie adds that "Kevin was hired be­cause it was kind of a natural evolution for us." Much research went into developing the current offense, Davie says. Irish coaches investigated offensive programs at Kansas State and Syracuse because of the types of 
quarter­

gers, who seemed to fit perfectly with their plan. 
Davie also comments on the sty le ofcoach­ing and play-calling Rogers prescribes. "I think, without a doubt, Kevin would be more open, more likely to take a calculated risk [and would use] more deception in the offense," Davie says. He admits, however, that turnovers inevitably increase with a more aggressive offensive philosophy. But with the new up-tempo offense, Davie says Rogers is still committed to running the football. "Kevin Rogers believes in a power running game with some option," Davie says. 
Davie stresses that he has confidence in Rogers' ability to handle the extreme pres-
Sports Scholastic 25 



sure and expectations of Notre Dame. He believes that Rogers' experience will be central to his success here, and that Rogers is "not an ego guy." 
Another noted strength ofRogers' coach­ing skill is his ability to find and enhance talent. In his final two seasons at Navy, Rogers coached quarterback Alton Grizzard, Navy's all-time total offensive leader. At Syracuse he coached Marvin Graves and Donovan McNabb. Both quarterbacks set numerous offensive records at Syracuse, and McNabb was the second overall pick in last year's NFL draft. 
Perhaps this is why fans expect Rogers to significantly improve the performance of starting quarterbackJ arious Jackson. Rogers hopes he can meet expectations. "Jarious is a quarterback who doesn't have a lot of experience and sometimes gets in bad situ­ations," says Rogers, "but he gets better with improved technique." 
Rogers adds that Jackson played behind a much more experienced offensive line last year, providing difficulties for Jackson to ad just this season to the new players in front of him. Rogers is confident, however, in Jackson's ability to improve. 
Jackson is similarly confident in his of­fensive coordinator. When asked what Rogers brings to the offense, Jackson said he was struck by the offense's improved versatility. In terms of his personal perfor­mance, Jackson commented on the improve­ment of his arm-strength and passing abil­ity. "Coach Rogers has helped me to be­come a better all-around player," Jackson says, "because he works with me and helps me stick with it." 
Rogers also has worked with Notre Dame's future starting quarterback, Arnaz Battle. Rogers believes Battle has plenty of talent but needs confidence to achieve his full potential. 
Rogers' goal is to win the rest of this season's games, yet he remains realistic about his abilities and his goals for Notre Dame football. He is a man with the confi­dence and experience to produce results, evident in his performances in the places he has coached and in the way people speak of him. With these expectations, it is now a matter of putting points on the board. 
If Rogers is to perform well again, Notre Dame is the place to do it. As Rogers and the rest of the Irish coaching staff have found already this season, the spotlight is bright. D 

Kevin Rogers is credited with the success of Syracuse's and college football's geatest quarterbacks. Irish fans hope he can turn Jarious Jackson into the same type of star. 





Back in Action 
Team captain bounces back after injury to lead Irish in '99 
BY ALEX GRUNEWALD
For student-athletes, who seem todedicate all their time to practicing and competing, noth­

ing can be more frustrating than getting injured. Senior co-captain of the women's volleyball team, Mary Leffers, knows this all too well. 
one on the team recognized it." 
Leffers chooses to recall the positives that resulted from her injury. "I learned a lot more about contributing in other areas of the game," she says. 
Leffers would like nothing more than to put her injury-riddled season in the past and focus on the final season of her colle­giate career. "We're looking at this season her imposing presence and strong work ethic, she has also earned the admiration of her teammates for her leadership style. 
"Mary is the ultimate role model," _com­ments teammate Denise Boylan. "She is the most compassionate person I know. Ifanyone has a bad day, we tell her to go see Mary because she is so funny and she cares so much about everyone. On the court, she's a great leader and she also has a great attitude." D 
STRIKING. During the first week of the season, Leffers was
for ourselves. 

named Big East Co-Player of the week, after recording 47 killsYEAR:senior Every day we on .406 hitting and 1.58 blocks per game. have a goal,
MAJOR:Accounting 
whether it be in practice, a


HOMETOWN:Tampa, FL 
game or ourHEIGHT: 6'4" daily routine. We're taking

POSITION:Middle Blocker 
this season one 
as a task," says Leffers. "We set 
daily goals


NAME: Mary Leffers 
In the spring of 1998, Leffers tore an ACL during a scrimmage and struggled to regain top form the following season. However, she has wasted little time getting back to prime form during the first seven contests this year. Thus far, Leffers leads the team in kills (70), blocks (40) and hitting percent­age (.360). Leffers' early brilliance has not gone unrecognized, earning Big East Co­Player ofthe Week honors while leading the Irish to a 5-2 record. 
Leffers' injury affected her both physi­cally and mentally. "I probably should have waited before I got back into things," says Leffers. "I went into last year's season at about 80 percent, when I probably should 've taken a little more time and gone into the season at 100 percent. But because I didn't, l' finished the season at about 50 percent health." 
Leffers wasn't the only one affected by her injury. "It was devastating to the team," says head coach Debbie Brown. "Her enthusi­asm and intensity were definitely missed on the court. I think her rehabilitation was an inspiration for the whole team. She worked so hard to get back into the game and every-step at a time." 
With matches against top 25 teams such as Colo­rado State, Michigan, BYU and Pacific, the Irish will once again look to Leffers with the hopes of earning their eighth con­secutive NCAA Tourna­ment bid. 
Unfortunately, Leffers and her teammates must contend with a recent rash of injuries that have put many valuable con­tributors on the sidelines. "It motivates you to do more than you would normally do in a game or practice, but it also makes you wonder about who is going to be next," says Leffers. "The next day it just might be you." 
While Leffers demands the respect of opposing teams on the court with 


Publication leaves al uni Toni Coyne on the verge ofcatching his dreams 
by Kara Zuaro 
There are two types ofpeople in a Catholic school world-view: sinners 
Iand saints. Be good, be bad, or be nobody and, sometimes, when in your best interest, be both," Tom Coyne reads to a tightly packed crowd before the fireplace in the Hammes Bookstore. Seeing him read with his crisp blue shirt tucked into freshly pressed khakis, with his neatly cropped red hair and glinting class ring, makes "Between Sharp Branches," his recently published story about growing up Catholic, seem all the more real. He reads at a table stacked with paperback copies ofVirgin Fiction 2, the anthology in which 
that the publisher of Virgin Fiction "takes a their literary chance on people who have never been agents. Mean-published." Coyne encourages writers to while, Coyne queried agents who worked look at the submission guidelines in the on books h~ liked, in hopes that they would back of this year's anthology: the authors of like his novel as much as he enjoyed the the selected stories receive a cash prize, and novels they had worked on' previously. there is no reading fee for entries -a rare Coyne's networking paid off when he met convenience for student writers. Daniel Mandel, an agent from Sanford J. 
Coyne adds that he is working toward the Greenburger Associates. "He's a great publication of his master's thesis, a novel young guy," Coyne says. "We met at a party about golf entitled A Gentleman's Game. in New York when I was kind ofschmoozing 
28 Scholastic Entertainment 
up young editors. Dan read the manuscript in a day and called me and sent the contract overnight. It's really, really exciting." 
Next, the editing process began. "Your agent is your biggest editor," Coyne ex­plains. The editing stage happens with the help of the literary agent so that editors are presented with a "market-friendly" manu­script. Mandel helped Coyne target a mar­ket for his novel, a work of literary fiction with a sports angle. Though the target audi­ence is mostly male, Coyne explains that it's not just a man's book. The manuscript was sent to 20 publishers last Thursday, and Coyne has already gotten offers from Grove/ Atlantic Press and St. Martin's Press. "We are waiting on a couple more publishers, but these two are in the bank, so naturally I am very excited." Coyne says. "It is all a little weird right now, as ifthis is all happening to someone else I sort of know." 
Even before the book was picked up by publishers, Coyne consulted his west coast representative about a possible film based on the book idea. "The film stuff is going ahead easier than the book," Coyne says. 
In a sense, Tom Coyne is living every English major's dream. Still, he is cautious aboµt his optimism. He explains, "I'm on the verge of something very, very exciting. But as exciting as all this is, very easily, nothing could happen." Now, all he can do is hope thatall those forced prayers from his own days of Catholic grade school will finally pay off. 

by showing the DRAMATIC READING. Tom Coyne's reading of his short story attracted a crowd last Thursday at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Coyne's first novel has already been accepted by two publishers. 
. ASK REESY BABY 


Beyond Date Week 
Guest columnist Larice Woods holds the key to social success 
Dear Reesy Baby, 
I'm trying to get this girl's attention. 

What should I do? 
Alone in Alumni 

Sweet Gent, 

You may want to try one of many different forms of body decoration, such as earrings, tongue rings (for those that are not squeamish), nail polish (she will think ofyou as a clevergender bender) or shaving. Yours truly becomes very ex­cited when she is peepin' young, wiry men with smooth and hairless bodies. I perfectly understand that men grow hair (hell, I grow hair too), but the thought of sliding my hand on smooth skin sends all kinds ofbewitching thoughts to my mind. It's a mystery to me how anyone can observe swimmers in competition and not grin at all the pieces ofeye candy on display. Mmmm, To be a Gillette razor that glides across slender and sleek bod­ies, bodies that glide in and out of wet­ness with powerfui, !'.leep and long strokes ... oh my!! I forgot where I was. 
To Reesy Baby, What's the secret to finding a great 

party? ·Desperately Seeking Affair to Remember 
· Grasshopper, 
Raised in the South, my family taught me to pay attention to "the signs." When looking for a venue where one may raise a ruckus, "the signs" will ensure one a night of mirth and merriment. 
On your way to a party, if you notice three young men peeing on a fence, get ready for the time ofyour life. Three young men is a sign from the divine forces that govern the chaos of night telling you to be prepared for serious rebel-rousing activi­ties. Remember the number of urinators must be three, but the fence can be chain linked or wooden. If by any chance it is electric, there might be a problem. 
Once you have gotten to the party, if you notice four or more members ofthe lacrosse team, take caution. DO NOT UPSET ANY OF THEM. Even if one of them becomes belligerent, I guarantee when the hour of midnight strikes, the players and the keg will disappear. 
Every now and then mix tapes and beer do not fill the void in the heart of a carouser. One needs drama to make the night com­plete. What do you do? Put on a dress, paint your face and strut your stuff. Show up at a theater party looking fabulous. You can throw a drink in someone's face, give drunken soliloquies, have a Joan Crawford moment, re-enact]esus Christ Superstar or just vogue to your heart's desire. There will be no fear of judgment because everyone else at the party will most likely be follow­ing your lead. And if getting some hot love action is your only goal for the night, you can leave your sexuality at the door. Getting some action and not caring who gives it to you can work for your benefit at a theater party. In fact, one time I actually witnessed one of my friends make his way around the room, locking tongues with all willing par­ticipants. By the end of the night he scored 14. 
Five boys and nine girls. What an over­achiever. 
Dear Reesy Baby, Ifa boy lends you an article ofclothing, 
how and when should you give it back? Is it acceptable to return it to him during 
class? Concerned Jacket-snatcher 
My Child, Because Michiana has weather similar 
· to Hell's third circle (See Dante's Inferno, Canto VI, 7-13) and Notre Dame has at least a handful of gallant stock, a young lady may leave a party with a coat that is not her own. The young lady will have possession of a coat for a number of days, and the condition of the returned item will depend on the status of her relationship with the courteous gentlemen. 
Status 1: Dude, guy friend or acquain­tance. Return coat as given to you. Do not leave any traces that you even wore it.Next time it's freezing he may not lend it to you, and that would really suck. 
Status 2: ''Little brother," "son" or 
"charity lover." This boy most likely has a difficult time taking care of himself ­buying toiletries, cleaning his room, etc. Just wash his coat. Mostlikely itwill be the last time the coat will see a washing ma­chine until break. 
Status 3: Flirting buddy, baby doll, crush. Men urinate outdoors to mark their territory, and you can do the same. Sprinkle your bath powder or a spritz ofperfume in the coat lining. Leaving your scent behind places your flag on the mountain top. It lets other women know that he loans his coat to you regularly. 
Status 4: Jerk. This is your chance for revenge. Place a melted candy bar or a snot-filled tissue in the left-hand pocket of the coat. Then return it with a cutesy smile and giggle. 




by Larice Woods · 

Entertainment Scholastic 29  
.  ' -­ ---------­ --­ 
-- --­ ---~­ 

Mr. Collins' Wild Ride 
Alcohol and Punjabi just don't mix 
BY MATT CREMER 

o, Tom, you can't eat the pizzas. We didn't pay for them!" I yelled over the mix of strange music and 
the bellowing ofan irate pizza deliveryman. 
"But I'm hungry." He said in a matter-of­fact tone. 
"Please, sir! Refrain your friend from eating the pizza, they are not his." The deliveryman was trying to keep a civi­lized tone to his broken English. The vibrations in the car were getting nasty · again. Soon, all means of communica­tion were going to collapse between the three of us and total chaos would take over. I was beginning to panic. Where had we gone wrong? What kind of help­less, irresponsible, depraved lunatics would try to bum a ride to Turtle Creek . with a deliveryman? All these horrible questions forced their way into my con­sciousness at such a speed that I could no longer process simple rational thoughts. 
The night started normally enough. My associate Tom Collins and I drank a few shots of Jim Beam, had a gin and tonic and a few bottles of Guinness while we listened to some 311 to get into the proper mood. We didn't need to drink that much before going out, but once we made up our minds to get seriously twisted, we became a binge-drinking juggernaut. 
Ten-thirty approached and we were com­pletely wasted. Good. Time to head to Turtle Creek with the rest of our friends. We had one problem, though. Tom and I were the only ones without bikes. In retrospect, that really didn't matter. We were in no condi­tion to ride them anyway. 
Suddenly, as if a sign from the heavens, a Domino's Pizza delivery car lurched to a stop directly in front ofus. Tom and Ilooked at each other and knew immediately: we· must get in that car! 
"Take us to Turtle Creek!" I blurted as I jumped into the vehicle's back seat. Tom followed along as if this kind of action were perfectly natural. Paul, the deliveryman, 
30 Scholastic Week In Distortion 

just stared at us and we gave no explanation for our actions. He started to move only after I offered him a five-dollar bill. 
Soon after, Tom broke down completely and started jabbering at Paul in a mix of Spanish and Punjabi. Paul, who is originally from India, thought that Tom was making fun of his heritage. Paul was starting to get angry, but Tom was oblivious. Normally I some strange sitar music. At that point I had assumed all the power in the car. They were my captives. 
"Just shut up, both of you. Tom, you can't speak Punjabi. Paul, he is drunk; don't lis­ten to him. Just take us to Turtle Creek and we won't start any more trouble." . 
He timidly told us that he was vety sorry, but he did not know where Turtle Creek 
fr 
was. Great, I thought. 
.• '-During the entire time that I was talk­~r3)'·-_·ing to Paul, Tom was trying to eat the 
· ·
* 
----• 

would just sit back and enjoy the chaos, but I was sensing personal danger. I was trapped in a moving vehicle with a beer-soaked crazy who thought he was a linguistics ex­pert, the driver was getting more and more angry at the two of us, and all this driving on campus roads was beginning to make me feel ill. 
I needed_ to silence Tom before he got us both killed. 
"Shut up!" I screamed over the anarchy. The two in the front apparently had become so engaged in their own conversation that they had forgotten about me. I startled them both, but achieved silence. The only noise came from the stereo, which was playing 
pizzas that had not yet been delivered.. The small break of silence was only the 'eye of the storm. Suddenly, Paul saw · Tom reaching into the pizza box and the 
entire car erupted with agitated voices. "What are you doing to my pizza?" Paul yelled. "Nothing," Tom replied. 
~-"No, Tom, you can't eat the pizzas. We didn't pay for them!" I yelled over the mix ofstrange music and the bellow­ing of an irate pizza de.liveryman. 
"Butl'mhungry." Hesaidinamatter­of-fact tone. "Please, sir! Refrain your friend from eating the pizza, they are not his ..." 
The. conversation continued to dete­riorate in that manner until my associate resumed speaking in Punjabi. Tom thought that speaking in the man's na­tive tongue would bridge the communi­cation gap. He was wrong. Paul finally 

lost it. 
"Get out of my car!" he snapped as his brakes screeched the vehicle to a stop. We got out in silence. As Tom shut the door, he once again tried to explain himself, but I simply kicked him in the stomach. It wasfor his own good. 
Paul drove off hastily and cursed us as he went. Even in my drunken frenzy, I knew tha_t I had caused enough trouble for one night. Both Tom and I could not have been more intoxicated unless we poured vodka directly on our brains. We stumbled back toward campus where we passed out on our beds -too drunk to count how many du Lac codes we had shattered. 


G 
,,/ -, ... 
_,....,----"-, ',, 
• 
"Save a,Lif~,,;;·Giye·~19oq.~-Blood\drive at RSRC. Call RecSport~ at) f.:6100 to \egister. 

• 
Contemplative m/edit]ltionpr~~~fun/9~00 AM -4:00 PM, Mary!s ~olitude Prayer ye~ter. 

• 
Lecture: "J]iIGo~eringfDiµite in ,Pe~·arch," 


4:30 PM, J02 Hesburgl' Library:--//
-------------~ ,, _....
• 
Acoustic Cafe, 9:00 PM, Lafortune 

• 
Go, 10:30 PM, Cushing . 





THURSDAY 

•· Tom Fallon Invitational, men's tennis, . Courtney Te,.lis..Ce~er, all day /I 
• fatercultyr~.Cente5G~and_Qpe~n~aJ1dOpen 11~use, ~:00-PM -5:°'0 ,M, L~o~nF . . . 
•. American CulturvThrough1Mus1c Senes, · 
. / / ,: I I l

. 5:00 PM, Alumn~S~niorClub; · • · -•:A Bzeg's_Li.fe;J=30 P'1)1,{ Carroll! A di1torium, SMC f ___:__r_~I · . . . LJ~ 
~ Umbo, 7:15 & 9:'f5 PM, Snite . 
• G,Q, 8:00 & 10:30 PM,.Clishing
. . ,• . -_ ·.. 


FRIDAY 

DISTRACTIONS 
_,.,,.-,,../ -~;
,/ ,,,....---~-,..._"·. -.\ ,• ," 

• Tom Fallon InvitaJiopal,,111en:1s tennis, Courtney Tennis Centifr, .all day· .
/ / 1 .,.... ··, \ 

• "Quink," a 9utsh a 9aPiella voe~\ ensemble, noon,and 8:'00 PM, Hesblirgh
/ ,' \ ', ,, .' 

Library Auditoi'iffrrc··: '·,, , _j 
---,--.---------------·· "--...----,/ 


SUNDAY 

•· . L~z
. ·1~~-.
~ \ ·.• _'-.. ·· \· ·.· 

• Singin' in the Raii7:00 PM, Snite


/L// 

MONDAY 

• El Norte, Selena, Mi Familia, film screeni~gs of screenwriter and director Gregory Nav,;t;·t,ii~M..~ 
v=,5~ \ 

Intercultural Center in :Lafortune \ \ 
··---) :·i \ . ! 

• 
Campus Bible Study, 7:00 PM a,8:00 PM, · 

• 
Lecture: "CorpQrat~'Etqi~'s,,and.~ie,


I , I , . -. ' 

Federal Senten_cih~ Guid~lilies," 7:?0 rM, 
• Jordan Audi~oriumiil.COBA1·,_ ·./ 
. ~~------~ ! ---,~~-.~-· 


TUESDAY 
:wr··~Qi)··

·•··. ~J-~-1!,~Lr~ 

.·... {f(1_1lfOO~.~-,

U~c1~-::1JLI 

..·.··?'NOW SHOWING. ,: s~ptem~er24-3o: 
.... . . . . . . . -. -.. -· 

:Urtiversity Park West ·.· 
:C Z77-7336: in UP M~ 
All Sho,vs in Stereo . . 
RunawayBride {15 3:45 ·InspectQr Gadget · ·1:00 3:00 . . >7:10 . 9:00
~ 

The Muse C 1:30 4:00,. 7:00 . 9:10 
Sh~~s afterioo'PMsho1un F1'(& Sat. only 
.· .UliiversityPark East 
C277q336 · .o· · · ·· ·. . · ··.• · All shows in Stereo.: . •, Mumford . · .. 1:30 4:05 . 6:45 9:15 \i1;30 Blue Streak ·• 1:05 2:00 . 3:30 4:30 6:15 
. --i,):00 8:30 . 9:20 11:00 : 11:25 6tliSense :-1:15' 4:oo· 6:30 9:0o' it:15 · DudleyDollight 1:00 2:45 . 4:45 
(Dudley Do Right Will not be showing on Fiiday) Blair Witch Project . . 7:05. 9:10 11:05 .. 1110rrfas Crown Affair 1:45 4:15 7:10 .·· · 9:25 
. . 
. ' . 
·s~owsafterJ(J:O~ Pllf shown Fri.· & Sat. only 
. Moviesl4 

(2.54-9685
All Showsin Stereo AmeriC'dllPie , _ 
Bowlinger : ...: 
DcepBlueSea .· ·: ·. ···. DoubleJeopardf .· 
Forlo\reoftheGame"' 
In Too Deep . .• '.Jakob-theliar ,.•:. 
0 SlarWars:~'i-
Stigmata ' · .,;, : ;, Sir ofEchoe, :, .: . : 
TlieHih Warrior' •· , :. 12:so 3fo5 5:30 7:50 io:15 11le~aui1ting ' • .1:00 .4:00 7:1019:00 . i*S,a,dittm_SeaU.ngAvailab!e · 
Calendar Scholastic 31 
--·. 
. :-·· 
12:55 3:10 5:25 7:40 10:05, .12:55 3:l5 5:35 7:55 10:10 ·7:05 9:40 · · 1:05 2:10 4:10 5:00 7:15 8:00: 9:45 10:30. ·. 
12:50· 1:35 3:50. 4:35 7:00 7:40 9:55 10:35 2:00 4:30 · 1:40.'4:20 7:00·9:50 
1:30•4:15· 7:00·•9:50 
1:10 2:05 3:35 .4:45 ... 7:05 7:45.9:3510:15 . , : 12:45. 3:00 5:15 7:35 10:10 
i . -·: 
6:45 9:15 · 
4:50 . 




unanswered Prayer 
byFrnnFeeley'9o 

The university administration does not wish to traffic with outcasts, at least not in plain view of the donors. 
Fran Feeley, an officer ofGALA-ND! SMC, is a school psychologist and computer programmer living in Chicago.  
ffI  
32 Scholastic Final Word  

My freshman year I made a devotion to the Blessed Mother. I visited the Grotto every day. More than once I realized late at night that I hadn't made my visit and had to get out of bed, dress and go. I prayed that I would stop having the feelings that scared me so much. Throughout my childhood I experienced a vague senseofbeing different. The difference became clearer to me in high school. By the time I arrived at Notre Dame in 1986 I was consciously at war with my own desires. The messages I received loud and clear about gay people had been loathsome. A vast amount ofmy energy was wasted on running away from myself and on playing it cool. And I suffered immensely for it. GLND/SMC (now OUTreach ND) existed at that time. The debate about the presence of gay students was under way, as the group had already been denied university recognition. The fact that the group had been forced underground reinforced my images of a desolate, desperate gay underworld. I didn't begrudge the university at the time for its failure to recognize the need for affiliation among its gay and les­bian students. I had no reason to believe that the "real world" would be any different. If anything, I suspected that the real world would be less educated than a university community, and consequently less tolerant. So I proceeded with a very bleak vision of my future. I had no expectation that I would ever encounter a community where I would be welcomed or valued as an openly gay person. Semester after semester, I was disappointed when my psychology texts failed to offer adequate answers to my questions. Upon graduation, to my surprise, I discovered that the rest ofthe world was not like Notre Dame. I found a rich and vibrant community with whose help I became a whole, honest person. In June 1994 I returned to South Bend for. the first reunion of Gay and Lesbian _Alumni/ae of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GALA-ND/SMC). On campus for only a few hours, I had the good fortune of a chance meeting _with Father Hesburgh, who was widely regarded as a progressive thinker and a kind spirit. We met at the Grotto, the place where I wished the hardest that I could be somebody else. I was thrilled to tell him why I was there and about the newly formed group. He was cordial and seemed comfort­able with our discussion. We exchanged letters for nearly a year after that. My hopes were high that change at ND was possible, and that perhaps I could contribute to ushering in that change. I have served in various positions in GALA-ND/SMC. I spoke about my experience as a gay person at my five. year reunion. I participated in meetings with representa­tives of the Alumni Association and with President Malloy and Father Warner. 
And to what avail? Five years later, the Notre Dame administration continues to dig in its heels against an authentically inclusive university commu­nity. The most recent absurdity -the banning of GALA-ND/SMC ads from campus media -is just the latest in a series of calculated maneuvers to stifle a true dialogue with gays and lesbians. The university administration -the self-appointed guardian of morals in, this matter -does not wish to traffic with outcasts, at least not in plain view of the donors. 
As fate would have it, I find myself grateful for the current administration's qetermination to keep gays and lesbians out of the window. It has resulted in a years-long debate which has educated much of the campus community. . 
In recent years, the 11dministration has acted in spite of the wishes ofthe overwhelming voice ofthe campus community, which has become increasingly, and justifiably, exasperated with the university's deaf ears, excuses, dodging, legal jargon and seman­tics. 
I, too, am exasperated. I have seen the hopes of many, many people ofgood will -students, faculty, alumni, staff inside the Oome, and myself -dashed time and again. What is completely astounding is the lengths to which the administration has gone to hold its ever-shrinking ground on this issue. And why the latest swipe at our dignity? Why this fixation? 
Clearly I was more forgiving as a student. Now I know better, and so does the university. Neither the Church nor the university community mandates our exclus_ion. Fortunately, my prayers at the Grotto were answered only when: I realized that I was praying for the wrong thing. The university failed to spare me the agony in between with a clear, unqualified message of acceptance. They continue to fail me and people like me. The time to be true is long past due. 
Twir1s bu Michael McNaru 


Have you listened to WVFI lately? It's got" a new loo.k and a new sound. 
'\\• '· 

'-' r 
'f,"·.,
:,,Kl'·
·t;J~~} ~:
ttfYl;­
.,­
r­
;~ 
I 

0 ye of little faith! I never miss it. It's my first provider of new college music. I listen in my dorm · and in the dusters. 
0 







