Home of British-R, Eagle, Hickey-Freeman, Society Brand, Alpagora, Burberry, and Style Art Clothes — Nationally advertised Flqrsheim, Jarman Shoes; Arrow, Van Heusen Shirts — Sole agency for Dobbs Hats.
TTTE WANT you to see this fine store, the home of famous names in quality ’ ’ clothing. Both Civilian and Navy students are entitled to TAXI FREE to the Modern Gilbert’s. Hail any cab down-town or call a taxi at Notre Dame and ride with your friends free to Gilbert’s. We pay your fare on arrival.
/CONTRARY to rumors on the Notre Dame campus, students have never been restricted from going to Gilbert’s. Your rector will authorize your visit to the store. Permission has never been refused.
A Notre Dame Man is Always a Guest Before He is a Customer
^GILBERT'S
813'- 817 S. Michigan Street
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
VOL. 84
MAY IL 1945
NO. 8
Student Personnel Bureau Established
BY GEORGE DESPOT
University officials have announced the establishment of a Student Personnel Bureau to assist Notre Dame students and graduates to obtain jobs for which they have been trained.
The purpose of the Personnel Bureau is to maintain “an adequate cumulative record of information about the students for the purpose of counseling, placement, and reference; this record to be made available to the proper persons,” and to assist “in finding appropriate employment for the student when he leaves school, and as often thereafter as may be of true benefit to the student and to the institution.”
The University receives numerous inquiries from employers concerning the aptitudes of students, their work experience, and their extra-curricular activity — none of which are now a part of the permanent records. Since the students are the sole source of this information, they are being asked to fill out the Personnel Form.
Almost 200 Navy and civilian students have already been interviewed. For the present, the upperclassmen are being interviewed, but the program will soon extend to all students.
Six University officials are heading the bureau. Father John J. Lane, C.S.C., and Mr. Edward R. Quinn are in charge of counselling; Father Frank P. Goodall, C.S.C., and Mr. William Dooley head of the Placement Bureau; Mr. Robert H. McAuliffe is directing civilian personnel and Father Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., is in charge of records.
Aircraft manufacturers, industrialists, engineers, bankers, and Alumni groups are being interviewed by Father Goodall to line up positions for Notre Dame-trained men. The Alumni Association through its various city clubs is cooperating and committees have been set up to assist in the project.
The personnel form now being filled
out concerns the student’s personal history. It includes vital statistics, a record of preparatory school courses, type of work desired after graduation, the service record of veterans, references, extracurricular activity, and work experience.
The cumulative record which the University will have after the students graduation will include vital data, health, physical record, extra-curricular activity, and interest record of the student, the program of studies for the four- years, vocational counseling record of the student, interest and aptitude test records, and comments by professors and rectors. On the basis of the cumulative record, each graduate will be given a rating dependent on his participation in all the phases of college life.
The counseling service of the bureau will include “provision for a service which helped the student to discover early his abilities, his aptitudes, his objectives, and his limitations; assistance to the student throughout his college residence to determine upon his courses of instruction in the light of his past achievements, his vocational interests, and his economic resources; assistance to the student in the clarification of his occupational aims and of his educational aims in relation to them; and coordination of the financial aid and part-time employment of the student.”
An announcement was made by the Director of Student Accounts that registration for rooms for the forthcoming summer semester will take place on May 16 and 17. Individual slips will be sent to students specifying registration time. Time preference will depend upon college rating and scholastic average.
As yet there has been no official notice of any changes of residence halls for civilian or navy students.
Student Council Plans
2nd Annual Field Day
The Student Council in its regular meeting last Monday night approved the proposal that a council-sponsored Field Day, similar to the one held last fall, again be backed. Council secretary Jack Allen was appointed by President Linehan to head the committee in charge of the event. June 3 was tentatively decided on as the date for the occasion.
It was also decided at the meeting that arrangements should be made now to rent the Indiana Club for the two' suitable dates for Victory Dances next fall. This step was suggested and approved because of the difficulties encountered recently in obtaining a dancing site.
A proposed War Bond Carnival consisting of gyp games and similar money makers was found to be unsatisfactory with University officials because of the difficulties of organization and obtaining material for building booths. It had been intended to sponsor the carnival to support the summer bond campaign of the Treasury Department.
Plans were laid for a showing of the film of the 1944 football season. It is hoped that the film will be available for the student exhibition sometime in the near future. At present, according to the report at the council meeting, the film is being shown throughout the East.
Wranglers Add Five Students to Membership
The Wranglers last week admitted five new members to their ranks following interviews of a number of prospects. The men admitted were three civilians, Frank Buckley, Bill Carey, and Frank Grimaldi, and two from the NROTC unit, John Phipps and Stan Idzerda.
Plans are now being made in the group for a banquet honoring the new members to be held in the near future.
3
^he SKotre Qiame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moritanis -
FOUNDED 1867
HHIIIillllltlllllllllllllHIIIIIHHIHHIItlllllllllHIIHIIIIIHIIIIItlHlItinilltllllllHIIIIIHIIIHIIIHHIIItllllllll
THE STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN, Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND GEORGE DESPOT JAMES REGAN -james f. McCarthy AL KUENZLI -RALPH HAYMAN BOB O'TOOLE
Navy Associate Editor Managing Editor
-	Sports Editor
-	Feature Editor Advertising Manager Circulation Manager - Promotion
College Parade
.. . By E. F. Gillespie
ACROSS THE CAMPUSES
Kansas University has the second largest circulating film library in the United States. The library contains 4,000 reels, and if the films were joined together, the movie would last 24 hours a day for a whole month.... The Chicago Museum of Natural History has requested a rare fossil, a maxillary containing five cheek teeth, which is part of a collection made by Dr. Joseph F. Joor, for Tulane University.... Ava Hamilton, photographer and explorer, recently lectured and presented official war department pictures and other colored films of North Africa at the University of Minnesota. . . . Indiana University has established the Ernie Pyle Memorial Fund, which will provide scholarships and lectureships in expanded training in journalism and allied fields. . . . Georgia Tech’s number one tennis man is Frank Willett, Georgia State champ. . . . Col. Oveta Hobby recently inspected the School of WAC Personnel Administration at the University of Indiana. . . . Don Currivan, All-American end on the 1942 Boston College football team, has returned to B. C. as its new end coach. Fifty-six Heightsmen gridiron candidates greeted the new assistant coach when he assumed his duties at the start of spring practice.... V-12’s at DePauw University have signed Al Kavelin for their spring ball. Tentative plans call for the dance to be held on the university tennis courts, weather permitting.	.
QUEENS
Almost every college and university has its multitude of queens. There are queens for practically all campus activities. Ohio States is in the process of	(Continued on page 17)
COLUMNISTS
POWER - WALTERS -	- The Green Banner
E. F. GILLESPIE -	-	- The College Parade
ART WAGNER -	-	-	- Swabbie's Log
TOM McCAUGHEY -	- Man About Campus
FRANK GUIDO -	-	-	- Photography
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. - Faculty Adviser
SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS
FRANK GRIMALDI JACK FREESE GERARD HEKKER JOHN DEFANT PAUL WEYRAUCH
JOHN FEENEY J. J. TENGE DAN DAN1SZEWICZ TOM RYAN JOHN THOMAS
JOHN MILES OCTAVE EMOND ROBERT J. SHAW DAN McGUIRE LOUIS HAFNER
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los-Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Thanks for the Bengals
The SCHOLASTIC takes this occasion to express sincere thanks to all those who gave so generously of their talents and themselves in behalf of the SCHOLASTIC'S annual charity show—The Bengal Bouts. We are especially grateful to those men who insisted upon offering their services without remuneration, thus typifying the true nature of any charity enterprise. This is especially true of the officials, the ushers, the men who worked in the box office, the men who engineered the ticket campaign, the manager of the concession as well as his assistants, and the Phy-Educational department of the University.	.
At the same time, the SCHOLASTIC regrets the lukewarm reception accorded the bouts by the student body, both Navy and civilian, believing that the motives which inspired the show, plus the .very obvious excellence of the entertainment, merited a degree of interest on campus larger than the one-fourth of the enrollment in attendance. For the same reason, the SCHOLASTIC looks askance at the large group who insisted on "Annie Oakley's" and is somewhat puzzled at the Service Center's failure to sell a single ticket for an enterprise in whose proceeds the Center is to share, believing that a charity venture should be accorded a wider participation than was exhibited in this particular instance. The SCHOLASTIC is proud of this occasion to help others, and mentions these things in an effort to improve on the work it has done.
4
Seniors Send Out the Call—Nation's Most Beautiful Young Womanhood Answer "Yes"
Things are beginning to look like the forthcoming Senior Ball, scheduled to be held in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel on May 26, will display the greatest collection of feminine pulchritude ever gathered in any single spot since Hollywood produced “Cover Girl.” Word has come in from all over the nation that the most beautiful girls from New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Mich-
igan, and Illinois, in addition to Indiana, South Bend, and even St. Mary’s, will be on hand when the first course of the dinner is served.
The boys have really gone all out, and the one-and-only’s have been asked.
Haley Returns From Showing of N.D. Movie
Mr. J. Arthur Haley, head of the public relations office, has just returned from a University business trip on which he spoke at various gatherings and showed the movie The University of Notre Dame.
The journey took Mr. Haley to Kansas City where he was entertained by Mr. Henry Massman, ’28, and Mr. Jack Whitaker, ’38, both of whom made arrangements for the Alumni meeting at the Kansas City club. After successes in Kansas City, next stop was Tulsa; there Mr. Joseph A. Lafortune, ’18, trustee of the University, made possible the showing of the picture to the Tulsa club.
In Dallas a showing of the picture to a Jesuit High school was feasible only through the aid of Mr. Pat Buell, ’24, and then later a dinner at the Texas Room in the Baker Hotel with Mr. J. Haggar, an influential citizen, as host. Mr. Haggar has a son Joe, V-12 senior in engineering at N.D., and another, Ed, a graduate of 1938.
•Although it will be the first Senior Ball in about three years, the lads are still going to make this one a memorable occasion in the annals of Notre Dame social history.
Reservation handlers, Tom Bergin, 130 Sorin, and Frank Pendarvis, 201 Dillon, have reported that a few reservations can still be made by seniors who will not be graduating in June. Co-chairman Elmer Gillespie stated in regard to the reservations, “We are making every effort to accommodate all of those seniors who want to attend this dinnerdance. Many of them may not have another opportunity for any kind of a Senior Ball and we want to do everything we can to make it possible for these fellows to attend this one.”
Walter McDermott, chairman of the committee in charge of the dinner, has reported that the dinner will bear no resemblance to dining hall fare. The meal will consist of real food, served on plates, in an atmosphere conducive to pleasant eating.
Those seniors, Ro, V-12, or civilians, who wish to make reservations for the Ball, should contact either Bergin or Pendarvis immediately before the limited number available is exhausted.
The last two stopping points were Beaumont and Houston. A dinner in the Hotel Crosby by Mr. Clyde Broussard,
Mr. J. Arthur Haley
’13, of Beaumont and a dinner with a large group in the home of Mr. George Strake, trustee of the University, ended Mr. Haley’s long and pleasant business trip.—Dan Daniszewicz.
Students Buy Bonds
Student war bond purchases in the seventh war loan drive on campus have reached the total of $768.75. These sales allow the bond buyers to attend the War Bond Show starring Bob Hope, in the Notre Dame stadium, on May 28.
Among the purchases listed by halls, only two present favorable showings. Zahm hall leads all with a total of $392.75. Cavanaugh hall is not far behind with $325.00 wortK of bonds. Together these two halls have bought $624.75, more than three-fourths of the campus total.
Fr. Goodall Speaks
Af K. of C. Meeting
The Rev. Francis Goodall, C.S.C., who was a leading figure in the early years of the Knights of Columbus at Notre Dame, spoke briefly at the council meeting held Tuesday evening of this week. Father Goodall was recently elected as council chaplain after his return from missionary work in India.
In recounting some of his experiences in the campus club, dating back 30 years, Father Goodall stressed to the members the importance of the high objectives of the Knights- in their work as a council of Catholic laymen. At the mentioning of the Bengal Bouts which were being staged last week on the campus, the council chaplain told the meeting of his work in the Bengal missions, which were the beneficiary of the proceeds of the bouts until the war* prevented the missions from continuing. Transportation was a major problem in India and upon writing to the Notre Dame K. of C. council, Father Goodall secured suitable mode of travel — a horse which he promptly dubbed “Casey.”
The Notre Dame Knights attended mass in a body Sunday, May 6, at 7:30 in the Walsh Hall chapel, reviving an old and commendable practice of the council. The corporate communion at the mass has been voted as a monthly event for the club.
Nine men on the campus were initiated into the First Degree of the order Monday evening, April 30. The ceremonies were held in the South Bend council -chambers with a South Bend team reciting the rites. Second and Third Degree ceremonies are scheduled for May 19 and 20.
A report on the spring outing being planned was given by Dick Martin, chairman of the committee. The affair is set for Sunday, June 3. The next council meeting is Tuesday, May 15, in the basement of the Law building.—F. V. G.
5 .
Notre Dame Observes V-E Day
Throughout the world this week peaceloving people rejoiced and gave thanks as word was received from Europe that hostilities there had ceased. V-E Day had been officially declared.
Tuesday morning a solemn High Mass was offered by Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University. The 1:15 classes on Monday and the 8 and 9 o’clock classes on Tuesday were dismissed.
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, president of the University made the following statement after the official announcement:
“There is great rejoicing throughout the United States because of the victory the Allies have won in Europe. Yet there is an underlying note of sadness as we recall our thousands of fine boys who did not live to see the day of victory. They
gave their last full measure of devotion in order that the homes and altars they loved might be kept safe for their dear ones.
“Instead of celebrating as the world generally does on news of victory, let us repair to the sanctuary of the Lord and offer to God genuine, heartfelt prayers in thanksgiving and petition. Thanksgiving for what our armed forces have accomplished up to the present; petition that God may have mercy on the souls of our valiant American boys, and that we, as a nation, may be deserving of God’s benediction by a fidelity to His precepts as we go forward in the progress of the war and in the planning of a peace based on justice and charity. As a nation we must have God ever with us, for as the Psalmist says, “Unless the Lord buildeth the house, they labor in vain that build it, unless the Lord keepeth it.” This is the important lesson of V-E Day.
“We have a sacred obligation to our heroes, living and dead: an obligation to make very sure that their hard-won victory is made complete, and that our cherished American institutions are protected from enemies from within as well as from without. We must be worthy of our American heritage of democracy
6
which is founded on the eternal truth ‘that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights.’
“At present, as I see it, however, two philosophies are at work in American life, as they have been at work throughout the whole world: the philosophy of God and of anti-God.
“On several foreign fronts Americans have been fighting with the zeal of crusaders to preserve the God-given rights of man. We have just won an important stage in our fight against an ugly ideology which brought sorrow and desolation to the world because it forgot God and glorified man as man—the supreme, the omnipotent. Our victory will be • hollow indeed if in our hour of triumph we sacrifice the very things we have been fighting to save.
“Let me put it this way. It is historically true that a nation’s strength—its spiritual strength, which is the only kind that counts—may be gauged by its fidelity to God. The God-fearing nation enjoys the fruits of its fidelity. All other things that make for strength are added to it: reverence for womanhood, a Christian family life, and schools that teach men how to live well here on earth so that they may live forever hereafter. On the other hand, it is also historically true that a nation that denies God and defies His will, sows the seeds of progressive and inevitable decay. For proof, examine the intellectual and spiritual bankruptcy of the dictator-countries. They are literally the horrible examples.
“In passing, I might say that thus far many of the plans for a postwar world are not very promising. They have the same fatal weakness that got us into the trouble we are now trying to get out of. They are not based on religion; they do not recognize God and the natural law with its concepts of rights and duties as they apply to nations and individuals. A new and better era will come only when we return to the faith of our fathers as found in the American credo, the Declaration of Independence. ■
“If we are to be worthy of our American' heritage, we had better start putting first things first, before it is too late. We must get back to God. We must remember that this war is a means to an end; that the end is the preservation of a Christian way of life; that we can preserve a Christian way of life only by living Christian lives ourselves, not in some postwar utopia, but here and now.”
On the campus, navy men formed in front of the Rockne Memorial building Monday noon and Captain J. Richard Barry, commandant of the naval unit at the University, delivered the following address to the assembled men:
“Gen. Eisenhower has announced the cessation of organized resistance in Europe. A thrilled and grateful nation is justifiably proud of all who made this accomplishment possible.
“But, this, was total war—a global war. We are but half way to complete victory. There remains to be conquered the entire Japanese nation. Men are still fighting and still dying and will continue to fight and die in the hard push to Tokyo.
“The casualty lists tell the story, tragic yet glorious of the fighting men’s will to win unconditional victory no matter what the cost. We have a solemn compact with these men. The road that lies ahead demands from each of us a matching determination and unity of effort that will shorten the time during which such sacrifices must continue.
“Today every man and woman in any
uniform, and every worker on the home front should rededicate himself or herself to the task of providing all the fire power that is needed to smash the remaining enemy. To delay now in celebration of past successes would be fatal to carefully laid plans. We cannot—and must not—pause in discharge of our duties so long as a Jap remains a threat to the life of a single soldier or sailor.
“Let each one of us get on with his job.”
Metallurgy Club Plans
Joint Meeting May 30
The Metallurgy Club, one of the campus’ most active engineering groups, which was formed at the beginning of this semester and now claims the membership of every undergraduate student in the department of metallurgy, has announced the sponsorship of a joint meeting of all engineering and other interested clubs on campus for May 30.
The occasion will be a forum to discuss the problem now confronting all preprofessional men as to the eventual unionizing of engineers, chemists, and other white collar workers. Doctor- Boski, formerly a member of the University Biology department, will address the session on “Collective Bargaining in Industry.”
The officers of the club are Edward Faust, president; Jerry Wayno, secretary and treasurer; and George Jeshke, publicity representative. The social committee in charge of arranging for* speakers and other arrangements for meetings is comprised of George Sippel and Al Gougler, upperclassmen; and Lee Nehrt and Tom Landig, lowerclassmen. Greatly instrumental in the inception and organization of the club was Doctor Mahin, head of the department.
Frank Hering's Work for Mother's Day Attributed to Inspiration Received at N. D.
Sunday, May 13, is the day set aside throughout the world as Mother’s Day. The movement to establish a date on which to honor mothers began early in this century, and one of the men most responsible for the success of the movement was Frank E. Hering, a former professor of history and economics at the University.
Although not a Catholic, Mr. Hering was profoundly moved by the inspiring devotion to the Blessed Mother on the Notre Dame campus. And it was while he was a member of the faculty, here in the shadow of Our Lady of the Golden Dome, that he first conceived the idea of an organized observation of a day devoted to the mothers of the world.
Frank Hering died July 11, 1943. He had been a national leader of the Fraternal Order of Eagles for 35 years, serving twice as its national president, and it was through his efforts that the order worked to bring about legislation for the setting aside of a date for Mother’s Day, for mother’s pensions,
Plans for V-12 Regimental Ball Proceed as All Committees Report Satisfactory Progress
The sixth Regimental Formal Ball has drawn to a fortnight from reality, and late intense preparations are being made in rounding out the schedule for the May 25-27 weekend.
General Chairman Jack Schneider, overseer for all preparation and preball frenzy, is currently overtaxing his own and the company’s carburetors in arrangements toward making this ball the semester’s outstanding social event. The various committees are completing their respective phases of the program and the synchronization is expected to produce one of the best balls ever held since the inception of the unit.
The decorations committee under Chairman Waterhout is expected to do big things in the smaller and more adaptable surroundings of the Service Center in contrast to the small-scale decorating which was used at the last ball in the Navy drill hall. A complete renovation of the ballroom is planned with an eye toward equipping Mabel with whatever incentive spring has failed to supply.
and various other acts related to the family group.
Much of his time was dedicated toward the promotion of these ideals. The American War Mothers decorated him as the first sponsor of a nation-wide Mother’s Day. Upon him they bestowed their Victory Medal bearing the words on the attached ribbon, “Father of Mother’s Day.”
In accord with his activities, he was given the honor of delivering the principal oration at the first Mother’s Day exercises held at the tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Alexandria, Va., on May 10, 1925.
While at Notre Dame, he acted as the head football coach and the first director of athletics. He served for years as a member of the University’s athletic board and, in 1930, presented the dedicatory address at the opening of Notre Dame’s new stadium.
At the time of his death, he was serving his 15th year as a member of the Board of Lay Trustees at the University.
In order to insure that out-of-town guests will not have to pitch camp in Leeper Park while delegates to the third annual Polish Sausage Makers Convention occupy all of South Bend’s inns, Housing Chairman Schubert has reserved a block of hotel rooms suitable to meeting the requirements of all transient socialites from the home town who caught your eye back in the marbleplaying days of yore. All who are interested in keeping their guests out of the Indiana weather for the weekend are advised to contact Chairman Schubert as soon as possible.
R. E. Harrington is aping the Barnum techniques in promoting the sale of pasteboards for the big night. Bids and formal invitations are being exchanged for five-spots at a rapid rate, and a capacity attendance is expected.
In order that Mabel might carry away a suitable memento for herself and the girls at the Pi Phi house, the favors committee is working up something distinctive. Chairman Toddy and the committee promise a unique and lasting favor scheme for this semester’s ball.
Publicity propaganda is being distributed at random by Wagner, Diamond and Vosberg to insure the fame of weekend arrangements from New Carlisle to Osceola.
The Saturday night arrangements are under the supervision of Bill Bevington and Joe Haggar, and early indications indicate that the second day of activity will be far from an anticlimax to the formal ball. The V-12 Commanders are prepping for their command performance and promise the best in sweet and swing for the Rockne informal.
Financial Secretary P. W. McDonald is gradually accumulating blue digits to match those in red and a pinch-penny routine from here in should result in the ball becoming a financial as well as a social success.
Chief Le Page, a man of many opinions since his advance in rank, advises all to purchase bids as soon as possible to avoid the last-minute scramble that might result in disappointment or dust on his new uniform.
7
. . . By Harry Walters and John Power
Mamina and Lou Barsotti, who arrive at the Caf at 11:00, select a ringside table, and take in the scenery.
SONNET ON SWEET BRIAR
TOP OF THE WEEK
V-E DAY
Some were dazed . . . some stopped and prayed—and some made whoopee— as the Associated Press scooped the end of the war with Germany. That means a lot of the gang we knew so well who left Notre Dame, are on the way back; for which we say, “Thank God.”
QUESTION OF THE WEEK
What did Jake Kline say to the umpire in the third inning of the Bunker Hill game, Sunday? That is the first time we have seen an ump call a man out on the unimpeachable word of a third baseman.
EVEN THE MIGHTY MUST FALL—
The political machines in Sorin continue to fall apart. The Bresnahan machine collapsed this week as John met defeat in his campaign for reelection as mayor of dogpatch. Despite the “Fox’s” financial backing by the multimillionaire of the bookstore, the best he could do was gain recognition by his election as “Warden of the Rock.” John expressed his regret that the inmates of said institution have not been hindered in their boot-legging of nylons, but said that precautionary measures under his personal supervision would be put into effect soon.
LINES FORM TO THE RIGHT—
Those personnel men are on the campus again, prowling into classrooms,
"Sports Day" brought everyone out at St. Mary's. Matilda's eligibility is being questioned by the Board of Control. Matilda was a regular for three years on the Notre Dame Dining Hall championship team.
hiding in labs, and looking for potential production leaders. The Goodyear man drew a rather large group of applicants; General Motors attracted a satisfactory group; but the man from Seagram’s broke all records. Some wiseacre started the rumor among the Seniors that he was distributing samples of “7-Crown” to all applicants. At this writing Jim Schaeffer and Tom Bergin are anxiously awaiting the arrival of the Calvert and Schennley’s searchers.
PINKIE, PINKIE, WHO'S GOT A PINKIE
They’re out again—those Midsemester mashnotes—and they’ve caused sorrow and gnashing of teeth in Sorin City. The slip is pink; Mom is blue; Pop is purple with rage, and the future is black. And Junior’s face is red. What a color scheme!
CHUG-A-LUG
The men of the Commerce Forum held a “Social” the other night. “Social” is an old English word which at Notre Dame means, “Have a Coke.” A good time was had by all the Yacht Club boys until the coke ran out. Then (perish the thought) they had to drink some substitute called “Hoosier.” Jim Donnelly, Notre Dame member of the WCTU, was shocked, but he was thirsty, too.
WATCHING THE WAVES COME IN
That’s .the favorite pastime of the off-campus operators Dick Sadowski, Ben
Some are blessed with voice superb;
Some can work a Latin verb.
Then some are given form so neat, Or with a face so very sweet: But what about St. Mary’s?
Now some can dance the waltz divine;
Others are graced with a darn good line. Some can write a lilting verse,
And a few are blessed with a fat, thick purse.
But what about St. Mary’s?
Then there are those who really can cook
And make your home a cozy nook.
But as for the girls across the way There’s nothing now for us to say— We’ll wait until another day!
—J. B. F.
The Seniors get car permissions for the Ball
TALENT AT THE ROCK
“Frank Leahy has been assigned to St. Marys.” At first when we saw this headline we thought that someone had finally realized that there is a wealth of potential pigskin talent across the Dixie. We know a few two hundredpound tackles and one plunging fullback who call “Sweet Briar” home. But then we were doomed to disappointment. Coach Leahy has been assigned to the California branch.
❖
OPTIMISTIC SQUIRT—
The lad who bought a tube of Pepso-dent in the Bookstore and asked Brother Conan for a ticket to the Bob Hope broadcast.
❖
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
A 3:15 class on V-E Day.
8
N. D. Town Meeting
Hears Prof. Langford
Mr. Walter Langford, professor of Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American History at the University, said in his discussion of the Argentine Problem at the fourth of the N.D. Town Meetings last Tuesday evening: “The solution is perhaps to allow Argentine to work out her own internal destiny within the framework of the inter-American agreements and the world peace organism to be created at San Francisco.”
In outlining the historical and characteristic background of Argentina’s. present attitude he stated, “Argentine, once our close friend, has allowed her later antagonism, for which we were in good part responsible, to turn her not only away from us but also from inter-American cooperation. In most recent years hei- small ruling class, in its desperate determination to maintain itself in power, has resorted to some forms and measures of fascist hue. It is the latter trend which differentiates the Argentine dictatorship from others in Latin America and which is viewed with genuine concern in some circles.”
Mr. Langford concluded, “If her trade difficulties are settled effectively after the war, the internal tension in Argentina would be eased and the way back to political moderatism, if not democracy, would be made much smoother.”
Vaughan Talks at Forum
Last Wednesday evening, May 2, the Commerce Forum met and held one of its liveliest meetings since its reorganization in 1943. This was due to the controversial nature of a talk delivered by John Vaughan, senior member from Wellesley, Mass., who spoke on the need of “Peacetime Conscription in Postwar America.”
Following a rather heated discussion, the usual business was disposed of, including final plans for the coming social.
CONCERT CANCELLED
A special spring concert by the Notre Dame Concert Band, Mr. H. Lee Hope conducting, originally scheduled for Friday evening. May 18, has been canceled indefinitely due to a conflict with other activities. Although the concert was almost entirely prepared, the cancellation did not come as a surprise since the band's schedule of activities has become one of the most disregarded formalities here at the University.
MOTHER
You have taken me the germ of life beneath your heart and have nurtured me to birth and for this I call you blessed.
You found me wan and weak and you succored and protected me and for this I call you strength.
You aid me to sleep and made me to eat and for this I call you comfort.
You led me to God and showed me His bounty and for this I call you truth.
You were the light that lit my schoolbook's page and the glow of my reason and for this I call you wisdom.
You reconciled my failures and assuaged my sorrow and for this I call you hope.
You gave substance to my dreams and meaning to my fancy and for this I call you faith.
You fondled my growth and tinged it with courage and for this I call you guide.
You lent me your spirit, your grace, and your self and for this I call you beauty.
O let me find your virtue in countless different names.
Let me taste your charm in a thousand terms or more.
Still, let me call you Mother for your life and my love have made me the richest of all men living.
—G. F. D.
University Officials
Travel with New Film
The first public showing of the newly completed technicolor picture of Notre Dame to the South Bend Rotary Club, on May 2, brought forth a proclamation of praise. “South Bend is proud of Notre Dame and the part it plays in the education world,” acclaimed the Rotary Club’s bulletin. “It is well that a picture like this can bring to others the real Notre Dame as we at home know this University.”
Puljlic announcements of this film were made through the Alumnus. Requests are already swarming into the office of the Alumni Association for the use of one of the eight prints in existence. Distribution, provided a date can be arranged when a print is available, is from the office of public relations. The picture is for distribution to Alumni Clubs, Civic organizations, high schools, and other groups from coast to coast.
Traveling with the film in the east until May 13 is Mr. William R. Dooley, assistant alumni secretary and director of alumni placement. Besides showing the
movie to alunmni in Cleveland, Pittsburgh, Baltimore and Washington, D.C., Mr. Dooley is making contracts, according to Alumni Association plans, to find adequate job opportunities for Notre Dame service men.
Rev. Francis P. Goodall, C.S.C., vocational counselor and alumni relations office of the University, is also traveling to present the movie. Included in Father Goodall’s itinerary is the Notre Dame Club of Wright-Patterson Field in Dayton, alumni clubs in Toledo, Albany, Bridgeport, Conn., New York City, and numerous schools and the Congregation of Holy Cross houses in New England.
—Dan Daniszewicz
Bishop O'Hara Installed as Bishop of Buffalo
Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., former president of the University, was installed last Tuesday as the eighth bishop of Buffalo, N. Y. Archbishop Francis J. Spellman, of New York, officiated at the installation held in St. Joseph’s cathedral before a large gathering of the Catholic hierarchy which included Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., Provincial of the United States Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross of which Bishop O’Hara is a member, and Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
Bishop O’Hara had served as auxiliary to Archbishop Spellman in his work with the members of the armed forces. He took over his new duties as bishop on the day victory was declared in Europe, thus ending his work with the aimed forces on the same day when the fighting job on the continent was ended.
Trustees Appointed to Charity Posts
Two trustees of the University have been appointed by Bishop Stritch as president and vice-president of the Catholic Charities in Chicago. The newly selected president is Mr. Edward J. Doyle, president of Commonwealth Edison of Chicago, and the vice president is Mr. Byron Kanaley, ’14, president of Cooper-Kanaley & Co.
Prof Louis Hasley to
Address Faculty Club
Louis Hasley, professor of English and assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, will read a paper before the Arts and Sciences faculty club in the Rockne lounge at 7:15 next Monday evening, May 14. His subject will be “The Humorist in Society: Mark Twain.”
Meetings of the club are open to all members of the University faculty.
9
Klinemen Win Two
Tie One Over Week-end
A combination of mid-season hurling and heavy hitting marked the efforts of the Notre Dame baseball team as they won two games and tied one in play May 5 and 6. Western Michigan suffered its worst defeat in history in the first game of a doubleheader in Kalamazoo Saturday May 5 as the Irish slugged out a 26 to 10 victory. The two teams deadlocked at 2-all in a five inning second game. Notre Dame returned home Sunday to take a clean cut decision from the Bunker Hill Naval Air Station, 7 to 2 behind Jack Stewart’s six hit pitching.
Just what got into Notre Dame at Kalamazoo has not yet been determined but at least it was good for 26 hits and 26 runs in one game. During the frolic, Western garnered ten runs but couldn’t match the victors onslaught. Billy Hassett and Neil Kelly fattened their batting averages as they made four and five hits, respectively. Koluch, LeBrou, and Martin made three each. Captain Frank Gilhooley came through with a three bagger while Koluch, LeBrou, and Hassett connected foi- doubles. Johnny LeBrou coasted all the way on his big lead after his mates got off to an eight run lead in the first inning. Four Bronco pitchers could not stem the wave of hits by Notre Dame. The second game ended after five innings of play to allow Notre Dame to catch a train for home. The score was tied at two all. Jack Barrett had allowed four hits in that time while the Klinemen made five.
Jack Stewart turned in a masterful
©ROOPLEY
JK I l f $ T
job on the mound at Cartier against Bun-kei- Hill, Sunday, scattering six opponent’s hits while Notre Dame pounded two veteran hurlers for 12. Bunker Hill started off fast when Bohonko, lead off man, christened the ball game with a triple. He romped home on Thurnbalo’s sharp single. Stewart then bore down and retired the side. The airmen scored again in the eighth when Kelley lost a fly ball in the sun, giving Miasek a triple. He scored on an infield out.
A walk to Kelly started the first Notre Dame scoring session in the second inning. Barrett got life on an error. Martin sacrificed the runners to second and third to set up the play for Tracy’s hit, scoring Kelly and Barrett. Schneider polled out a long double but Tracy was called out for not touching third base. In the third, Jack Barrett drove home Gilhooley and Kelly for another pair of tallies.
“Lefty” Hoover, Bunker Hill pitcher, held Notre Dame in check until the seventh when two more runners scampered home on a walk to Gilhooley, a single by McGurk, and Kelly’s timely single. Hassett drove in Tracy for a good measure run in the Notre Dame half of the eighth. Jack Barrett had three hits in the ball game. Schneider, Hassett, and Tracy registered two each. Schneider also turned in some fielding gems at second base.
Three Tennis Matches
Scheduled for Week-end
Coach Walter Langford will have a busy week-end ahead of him as he leads his tennis team into a three-way meet against Northwestern and Wisconsin at Evanston, Ill., this afternoon, and then journeys home for a match with Indiana here tomorrow.
None of the three teams appeal- to be capable of giving Notre Dame ‘much trouble, but Coach Langford does not want to take the chance of suffering another loss this year, so will try to be at full strength against all of them. He has all of his boys lined up for this afternoon’s matches, but may be without the services of George Ratterman tomorrow, as he may be needed by the baseball team. If this be the case, Coach Langford will readily do without him as the coach would be glad to see one of Michigan’s teams go down to defeat after the beating the tennis squad received at Ann Arbor last Saturday.
Thinlies Enter I. C. C.
Meet Tomorrow
Notre Dame’s varsity track team will make their fourth appearance of the outdoor season tomorrow when they travel to Bloomington to compete in the Indiana state meet. Their major opponents will be Purdue and Indiana universities, rated third and fifth, respectively, in the Big Nine. All schools who are members of the Indiana Intercollegiate conference are also eligible to take part, but only Depauw university is expected to entei-a complete squad. The Irish will be at full strength for the morrow’s rivalry with Bill Tully back in harness. If the contest lives up to expectations, close and spirited competition will be provided with Indiana’s Big Three leading the
way. Coach “Doc” Handy gave the Hoosier state’s changing atmosphere another knock when he remarked. “We can’t expect to be in top shape with the weather- we’ve been having.
The Iowa Navy Pre - Flight cinder squad captured last Saturday’s triangular meet, with Notre Dame placing second and Wisconsin a close third. With only the discus remaining on the 15-event card the Irish and the Badgers were tied, but Joe Kelly’s winning heave let the Handymen slip into the runnerup spot. The Seahawks scored in every event and figured in seven first places for a total of 71 points, and though the Irish were able to match the Navy team’s number of firsts they were a little weak in reserve strength and finished with 48 points, four markers ahead of Wisconsin. Poor officiating cost the Irish another blue ribbon in the century when Dave Murphy crossed the finish line ahead of Ross, Pre-Flight dashman, but lost the decision on the judge’s error.
10
New Records Established in 1945 Bengal Bouts; Three Kayoes Highlight Evening's Boxing Card
Two new records were established in Bengal Bout competition last Friday before 1500 fans who flocked to the Notre Dame field house to see champions crowned in seven divisions in the finals of the 14th annual event. The records set were three knockouts in final bouts and the shortest knockout for a Bengal bout.
Bob Pasquarella, member of the NROTC, broke the record for the short
est knockout in a Bengal bout when he put Bill Summerlin to the canvas for a 10-count in 19 seconds of the first round. By virtue of this knockout, Pasquarella was crowned the champion of the 135-pound class; he is the first member of the NROTC to gain a Bengal championship.
The other two knockouts occurred in the lightest and heaviest divisions. Gene Sterrett, a civilian, opened the program in rapid fashion by downing Don White via the knockout route in 1:43 of the first round to acquire the 127 pound crown. Big John Trave experienced some diffi-
o o
o QO o O
o
culty in defeating Tony Cash but his powerful blows and his ability to “take it” enabled him to wear out the New Orleans lad. Cash managed to weather it out until 28 seconds of the third round had elapsed before he succumbed to Trave’s blows.
The greatest comeback of the evening was staged by Bill Bevington against Ralph Deem in an all-V-12 final in the 165 pound class. Deem had succeeded in thoroughly outclassing Bevington in the early stages of the fight, but Bill came back strong in the last round. Deem had piled up a sufficient number of points however, and he was adjudged the winner and champion.
The other three fights were keenly contested and the winners barely eked out decisions. John Groves, a V-12 boy, won
his second fight ovei- a former champion to annex the 145-pound title. Groves had gained the final round by defeating Jack McGrath, 135-pound winner last year, and won the title Friday when he defeated Kermit Rousseve, a 1942 Bengal champion. Pete Hamill was awarded a close decision over John Caron in the 155-pound class to give the V-12 unit a total of three winners. In the final bout
of the evening James “Harp” Dougherty managed to gain the decision over Joe Owens in the 175-pound class to account for the civilians’ third win.
Kosnik Awarded Sportsmanship Trophy
The Sportsmanship Trophy annually awarded to the boxer who displays the most sportsmanship during the bouts was won this year by John T. Kosnik, a member of the V-12 unit. Presenting the trophy to Kosnik was Stanley Link, creator of “Tiny Tim” and “Ching Chow” of the comic strips. Link was substituting for Elmer Layden, commissioner of the National Professional Football League, who was scheduled to be the honorary judge but was unable to appear.
Refereeing the bouts were Georgie Nate and George Vanderheyden. The judges were Albert Doyle, William Lubbers and Elmer H. Tepe, and Cecil Wallace was timer. Bob O’Toole, promotional manager of the Scholastic again announced. The University Band under the direction of H. Lee Hope entertained the crowd before the bouts and during the intermission.
FINAL SPRING SCRIMMAGE HELD LAST SUNDAY
Hugh Devore divided his 1945 football team into two squads as evenly matched as possible and sent them out on Cartier field for the final scrimmage of spring practice Sunday afternoon. The “Green Shirts,” handled by Gene Ronzani and Harry Jacunski, were victorious over the “Blues,” tutored by Ken Stilley, Wally Ziemba, and Lieut. Cary Brewbaker, the score being 13 to 6.
The “Greens” got off to an early lead, scoring in the first quarter on a series of line plays ending with a touchdown by Emil Slovak. The conversion by Ed Stel-maszek made it 7-0. In the second period the “Greens” were held on the ten yard line and lost the ball on downs; but not to be denied twice in a row, they scored the next time they laid their hands on the ball. This time it was Slovak again going over aftei- taking a pass from Roger Cadieux, thrown from 30 yards out.
The count stood at 13-0 until the mid-
NOTRE DAME WEEK END SPORTS SCHEDULE Baseball: Friday. Michigan University at Ann Arbor; Saturday, Michigan University at Ann Arbor.
Tennis: Friday, Northwestern and Wisconsin at Evanston; Saturday, Indiana at Notre Dame.
Golf: Saturday, Wisconsin at Notre Dame.
Track: Saturday, Indiana State Meet at Bloomington.
Indoor Matches Baffle
Netmen at Michigan
The Notre Dame tennis team bowed to Michigan University’s fine squad 9 to 0 at Ann Arbor last Saturday, but the Irish are convinced that had the weather not interfered, it would have been a much more interesting battle.
The first four matches were going well for Notre Dame, to put it mildly, with Charles Samson, Bill Tully, Jim Griffin, and George Ratterman all winning their matches, when the weather man interfered. Forced to continue inside on wooden courts and with poor lighting, Notre Dame promptly lost their lead and could not win a match.
Coach Langofrd expected to win five or six matches and even on the indoor courts, five of these matches went the full three sets, and the sixth, Griffin vs. Hersh, looked as though it were going in favor of Notre Dame on the clay courts, but it was Hersh all the way after they moved inside.
dle of the fourth quarter when George Ratterman stood on his own 20-yard line and heaved the ball 20 yards to Bill Gompers who was in the clear and went on to score the only counter for the “Blues.” The plunge for the extra point failed. The “Greens” controlled the ball until the final gun sounded.
Stand-outs for the winners were Slovak, Frank Ruggiero, John Agnone, Jack Fallon, and Pete Berezney, while the losers were paced by Ratterman, Gom-pers, and John Mastrangelo.
And so the curtain falls on spring practice with bright prospects in store for Irish football fans. One must remember that besides the men participating in this game, such stalwarts will be back as Frank Dancewicz, Elmer Angsman, Bob Skoglund, Frank Szymanski, and Fred Rovai, to mention a few. Yes, it looks like another good season for the fighting Irish.
11
Golfers Finish Lost
Against N.U. and Minn.
The Notre Dame golf team finished last in a triangular match at Evanston, Ill., last Saturday, against Northwestern and Minnesota, two of the better teams in the Big Ten this year. A five man team was used, playing two rounds, and paired according to rating. Five single matches were played in each round. Northwestern took top honors.
Coach Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., had no excuses to offer, and said that his boys just were not shooting as well as hoped. Tom Kennedy was the only man for Notre Dame to break 80, posting a 79 in the afternoon round.
The match was played on the Wilmette Country Club course, now the official Northwestern course. The links were in good condition, and though it was a little chilly in the morning, the weather was nearly perfect in the afternoon. The greens were somewhat heavy, but true. Par for the 6605-yard course is 71.
Lowest score posted was a 74 by Atten of Northwestern, a promising freshman, while his team-mate, Cooper, followed him in with a 76 in the morning round. Minnesota’s Knuteson took low score for the afternoon round with a 76.
Irish Baseball Team to Meet Michigan
Jack Barrett and John LeBrou or Jack Stewart will be on the mound for Notre Dame this week-end as the Irish baseballers seek revenge against the University of Michigan in two games at Ann Arbor. Single games will be played this afternoon and tomorrow afternoon.
Early this season Notre Dame dropped two tilts to the Wolverines by scores of 6 to 1 and 12 to 4. Coach Jake Kline is expected to name about the same start-
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Coin
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repar service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
ing lineup for Notre Dame which will be seeking its fifth and sixth victories of the season.
N.D. Linksmen to Meet
Wisconsin Here Sunday
With one win and one defeat on the record of the Notre Dame golf team, Rev. Holderith, C.S.C., will send his charges against Wisconsin University’s squad Sunday morning. The two teams are fairly evenly matched, and the contest should not be decided until the final foursome is in.
The Notre Dame golf team is better than the scores of the previous matches would indicate. Playing at home for the second time this season, Tom Kennedy and Jim Clynes may be able to break 80 —so far this season something quite difficult to do.
The matches will probably get started immediately after breakfast, and if the Wisconsin coach agrees, two rounds will be played.
NAVY MEN!
Here’s where you can get
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED.
Make Sunny Italy a first stop on your liberty night!
ooo
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
A Notre Dame Tradition
Specials for NAVY MEN
at the Zero Deck Canteen
BLACK SILK SOCKS__50c
GARRISON CAPS_____75c
(Khaki and Grey)
MONEY BELTS____1.00
TOBACCO	T-SHIRTS
PIPES	TIES
COKE	SHORTS
CANDY	SOAP
Zero Deck of the Dining Hall
12
Navy to Try Again to Make Men of V-12's;
Officials Announce Prospects Are Hopeless
When you’re down-town . . .
Books
With the advent of springtime and the departure of inclement weather, the physical training classes have been moved from the Rockne sweat shops into the great outdoors with a completely new rotation and schedule announced by Dr. Scannell, head of the department, and Lieut, (j.g.) Brewbaker, Navy physical education officer.
Supplanting the regular wintertime schedule of heavy and light apparatus, boxing, swimming, and basketball will be a strictly competitive schedule involving football, volley ball, speedball, track, and swimming foi’ beginner swimmers.
Spicing an otherwise dull routine will be frequent carefree gambols over “Brew’s bridgehead” across the highway. The obstacle course, this semester, is disgustingly unchanged with all of the old torture devices still intact and insurmountable. Specialists Zuckowsky, Durdach, and Von Pinnon are on hand with blacksnake whips to exhort loafers and to remove the incapacitated from pits, walls, and poison ivy patches. Frequent time trials will be made from time to time over the course. Each trainee will run the course till he either breaks five minutes or succumbs. Band-aid stations have been installed along the way for minor bruises, fractures and lacerations. Anything beyond the Band-aid stage will be reported to the student in
firmary and to the next of kin of the person or persons involved.
Vaulting poles and hatchets are considered unethical equipment and sidevaults may not be made with the aid of a step ladder. Anyone caught taking
a short cut through the ravine will meet an end comparable to that of Benito Mussolini. Freshmen are allowed to take along a box lunch and a St. Bernard dog on their first trip over the obstacle course. If the freshman has not returned at the end of 30 days, his name will be inscribed at the Memorial door and all his cash holdings will go toward furthering the University endowment fund. The obstacle course season will end just as soon as one of the demolition conspiracies is successful in destroying the obstacles. The obstacle course champion will be chosen and subsequently ostracized from campus society. He will be awarded a gilt-edged model of Luppi’s hat.
The remainder of the physical training program will continue as before with the sustenance of life allowed but not encouraged.—Gene Diamond
Comm. Geo. Hutchinson Receives 2nd Bronze^ Star
Commander George Hutchinson, executive officer of the Midshipman school, was presented his second Bronze Star award last Saturday by Captain J. Richard Barry, the commander of the midshipman school at the University. With the reception of this second Bronze Star, he is entitled to wear a Gold Star.
—Louis Hafner
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
Gifts
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan
• Greeting Cards
• Artists’ Supplies
• Picture Framing
I. W. Lower Co
DECORATORS 128 North Michigan Street
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
Est.
1900
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mig. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
Appropriate GIFTS
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
MOTHER'S DAY May 13th
arvt
126 N. Michigan Street
50U[UH°RE
13
Stamp Size Photos
Send any size negative or photograph. We reproduce it exactly, glossy finish, perforated and gummed. Stick on letters, greeting cards, etc. Start a photo stamp album of your friends.
Black and white, 100 for $2.00 Colortone, 100 for $2.50
Minimum 100 ; photo returned unharmed. Cash with order. We pay postage, or C.O.D.
PHOTO STAMP AGENCY
1424 S. Main	South Bend 14
PLANS PROGRESS FOR REGIMENTAL BALL
Plans for the V-12 Regimental Ball, to be held at the Servicemen’s Center just two weeks from tonight, are progressing nicely. It is hoped that you, too, have progressed as smoothly with your own persona] plans for the gala affair.
Perhaps you already have a date and a bid, and are anxiously awaiting the evening of this outstanding social event of the semester. If so, you are up-to-date with your share of the burden of the success of your own ball.
Perhaps you haven’t a date or a bid as yet, but are seriously thinking about it. Well, in that case, stop thinking, and just as soon as possible, phone, telegraph, write, or make a personal call to
THESE NAMES ARE FAMOUS for QUALITY
ARROW	COOPER
Shirts and Neckwear	Underwear
VAN HEUSEN	BRENTWOOD
Shirts and Sportswear	Sweaters
B. V. D.	MARLBORO
Underwear and Sportswear	Sportswear
McGREGOR	HICKOK
Sportswear	Belts and Braces
SUPERBA — BOTANY — WEMBLEY Ties ARCH PRESERVER and BRITISH WALKER Footwear DUNLAY and PORTIS Hats WELBROOK Clothes
You'll find them all at
OBERTSOFS of Skulk Siend
211 S. MICHIGAN ST.
the lucky lady and invite her to attend. She’ll really appreciate the invitation; and she’ll also appreciate you more than ever before. This is your big chance to make a hit with her! If nothing better, try a blind date. As everyone knows so well, anything can happen on a blind date; and as no one really knows, perhaps the law of averages has decided to give you a break and fix you up with a good deal for a change, in just reward for your past blind date patience. Oh, by the way, don’t bother asking Margaret Truman, daughter of the President, because Bob Shapiro has already asked her. He* recently received an answer in official White House stationery, which he can save to show to his grandchildren. It was written by Mrs. Truman’s
BOOKS
Reading Enjoyment
"BOLTS OF MELODY'
Over 650 heretofore unpublished poems of Emily Dickinson
"You Can't Stop Living" "Now That April's There" "The Wide House" "Party Line" "Yankee From Olympus" "The Violent Friends" "Lower Than Angels" "Of Smiling Peace" "Pipe Night" "The Robe"
"Frank Leahy and the Fighting Irish" by Arch Ward
For Your
And a complete line of other popular novels, recent best sellers, fiction and non-fiction.
runner’s
NEWS CENTER • CIGAR STORE 127 W. Washington St
"In the J. M. S. Building"
14
personal secretary, thanking him for the invitation and regretting that Miss Truman would be unable to accept.
Whatever you do, don’t be among those few classed as the “some” who are not going to attend the V-12 Regimental Ball, May 25. If you do, you’ll regret it later on, and will probably have watches at all hours—four on and four off. This isn’t exactly a threat, but a farfetched possibility we decided to use as a publicity angle.
COMPANY E WINS*** DRILL COMPETITION
Last week the second squad of the first platoon of Company E—composed of Bob Lusby (Platoon leader), Paul DeVries, Mark Watson, Bob Cox, William Anderson, Chet Bramblet and William Rogers—entered drill competition with squads from the other four companies, and brought home the bacon in the form of the “red rooster” honor pennant and extra liberty—and are the other companies jealous! Some deckcandidates and engineers were saying that the pre-meds (most of Company E is pre-med) would fight to see who got to sleep with the “red rooster.”
The fellows were modestly proud of the pennant, but definitely stated that if the rooster gets eager and starts crowing at five o’clock in the morning, they
This member of a Senior Qass of that year is fashion-perfect for the occasion. Top-hats were sine-qua-non, and voluminous neckcloths muffled the spotless linen. Co-education was becoming fashionable, too.
That year, I860, civil war was looming on the country’s horizon. College campuses blazed with patriotism. Railway Express was ready, at the first summons, to put its services at the nation’s command. Today, America is fighting a world-wide war. So, to help all concerned, please do three simple things v?itli your 1945 home packages and baggage: Pack them securely— address clearly and adequately—avoid abbreviating state names.
are going to fly it over to Company D area, and hope it hasn’t any homing pigeon blood in it. The extra liberty can always be used to “good advantage” whenever and as often as it happens along.
V-12 BOTANISTS
KNOW THEIR SUBJECT’
One of the typical custodians of the campus grounds, while sowing grass seed accidentally spilled some of it on the sidewalk. A V12—Cliff Marks, who is an aero, not a premed—came- up, carefully viewed the situation and said knowingly, “Grass just won’t grow there on the sidewalk. It’s no use trying to make it.”
The grass sower answered soberly, “Ya, I know dat, but . . . (and the rest was not English)
A botanical term has even infiltrated into commands: “Columella right” has surely added a new snap to the comparatively dull thud of “collum right!”
AT THE BENGAL BOUTS
At the Bengal Bouts last Friday Bob Pasquarella kayoed Bill Summerlin in just nineteen seconds of the first round. A lady sitting one row in front of me was shocked and said seriously, “That fellow should have known better than to pick a fight with him!”
For
Notre Dame Men!
The
New Notre Dome
Scapular Medal
$1.95
with chain
Beautifully manufactured in every detail by expert workmanship. You'll want one for yourself or as an attractive gift for a friend.
While they last!
Although the supply is limited, we have a very attractive line of
Mother's Day Cards
Also you won't want to miss our fine selection of gifts — just the right thing to send home for Mother's Day. Come in today!
NOTRE DAME
BOOK STORE
Badin Hall
Hours:
Week Days—8 a. m. till 4:15 p. nx.
Saturdays —8 a. m. till 1:00 p.m.
15
Dr. Maxwell Addresses Joint ASM-ASC Meeting
The Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals held a joint meeting with the St. Joe Valley Section of the American Chemical Society on Wednesday, May 9, in the auditorium of the Engineering building.
Dr. H. L. Maxwell, from the Experimental Station, E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co., Wilmington, Del., addressed the group at 8:30 p.m., and the topic of his talk was “Metallurgical Materials of Construction in Chemical Manufacturing Equipment.”
Dr. Maxwell completed his graduate work at the Iowa State College, after which he served as associate professor of chemical engineering at Purdue Uni-. versify. He became affiliated with the du Pont organization in 1930.
Mr. Maxwell described the development of a new chemical process, beginning in the laboratory and proceeding through the semi-works stage and finally to plant production. Materials of construction will be discussed from standpoints of quality of the product, safety of operation, and continuity of operation. A short color film on filed indenti-fication was shown and the speaker had a number of exhibits of plastics, extruded nylon, and some novel fabrics.
this week by Student Council President Frank Linehan. In issuing the statement, President Linehan stated that because it was impossible for the student dance band to find a location in which to prac-
tice, no music was available for the occasion.
All arrangements had been made for the dance and a great deal of enthusiasm had been evidenced among the stu-
Are you "Tie-Typed?”
Student Contributions
Procure Powdered Milk
Some weeks ago, the Student Council canvassed the halls seeking donations for the Italian Children’s Relief Fund. From this campaign was realized the sum of $158. The money was turned over to Rev. Salvatore Fanelli, C.S.C., assistant pastor of St. Joseph’s church, in South Bend, and county chairman of the drive.
This week, Father Fanelli, reported to the president of the University on the disposal of the funds collected. The Notre Dame contribution was converted into the purchase of 1160 pounds of powdered milk. This amount, when added to other necessary ingredients, will yield 5000 gallons in reconverted liquid form.
In his note to the president, Father Fanelli expressed his deep-felt gratitude to the student body for their generous participation in this Christ-like enterprise.
Student Council Dance
Cancelled; No Music
The Student Council Spring Hop, originally scheduled for tomorrow evening in the Rockne Memorial, has been cancelled, according to announcement made
Are you a one-style-tie man? Do you swear by stripes ? Are solids your stand-by? Now’s the time to break that habit! See the new Arrow Ties. They come in patterns, stripes and solids, and you’ll find examples in all three types that you like. All Arrows are cut on the bias with a special lining to resist wrinkles. They make perfect knots every time!
$1 and $1.50.
Back up your Arrow Ties with some swell Arrow Shirts!
$2.24 up.
ARROW-
SHIRTS and TIES
IT'S ADLER'S for ARROWS
ON THE COKNEK... MKHIHN ( MSWMWI
16
dents. It was only after the announcement of the dance had been made that the committee in charge learned that the band could no longer rehearse in the location it had used for some time before. The committee immediately started a
«4
Yes Sir, We’ve Got
ARROWS!
Loads of Arrow Shirts in many different collar styles to make all necks look handsome. Step in to Gilbert’s and we’ll pick out the Arrow Shirt with the type collar designed especially for you.
Another neck perker-upper is the Arrow
Tie in smart, new patterns.
ARROW SHIRTS £2.24 up
ARROW TIES £1, £1.50
You’ll find selection at Gilbert's—the largest possible stock in popular items of men's clothing. We think you’ll find what you like here at South Bend’s largest store for men!
WE MODERN
GILBERTS
&MJL
813-817 S. Michigan St.
»» 1 rotsmtrs -	>
search for a practice site, but their efforts proved fruitless in the face of very difficult circumstances.
In announcing the cancellation of the dance, President Linehan expressed his regrets that these highly successful ventures could not be again made available to the student body and their dates. He pointed out that although the previous dances had not been outstandingly successful financially, they nevertheless were enjoyed by all who attended and the enthusiastic support which they received then pointed to the desirability of again offering them.
COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from page 4) electing its May queen.... Kansas University has just celebrated Dandelion Day, and, of course, there was a dandelion queen.... DePauw has its traditional Junior Prom queen, but adds a new twist. Bob Hope, Hollywood screen celebrity, will choose the queen from photographs submitted to him by the prom committee.....At Minnesota even the engineers have a chance to name a beauty for their annual Engineers Day.... The Coronation Ball at Carnegie Tech was not complete until a Senior Queen had been selected.
Notre Dame is not barren when it comes to deciding upon a queen. According to the rules and regulations of the Laundry Workers Amalgamated, Local 563,845, the laundry worker’ who is most proficient in ripping clothes, is queen for the year. The St. Michael’s Scrubbers are engaged in cut-throat competition; the girls of the local bleachery are stopping at nothing to outdo themselves. At the last tabulation, based on the statistics of the most recent laundry collection from Sorin: 561 shirts, 243 towels, and 321 T-shirts had been converted into 5,892 handkerchiefs and 851 dust cloths.
RECIPE
An oyster met an oyster And there were oyster two Two oysters met two oysters And there were oysters, too.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING
SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.s. CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.s. PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING
PHONE 3-2574
Notre Dame BOOKS for
Notre Dame Men
Campus Centenary Publications
An abiding gift with the flavor of the campus. Order today!
•
NOTRE DAME — 100 YEARS $4.00
COLLECTED POEMS OF CHARLES L. O'DONNELL. C.S.C.
$2.50
The Set — $5.00
These books mailed in an -attractive box. Direct orders to:
PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame, Indiana
17
Four oysters met a pint of milk, And there were oysters stew.
—The Plainsman
CO-HOP
I wish I were a kangaroo Despite his funny stances. Fd have a place to put the junk My girl friend brings to dances.
—The Plainsman
HERE AND THERE
Minnesota co-eds’ hopes have taken a sudden turn for the better. The reason— there has been a ten percent increase in the registration of men at the Gopher university.... The University of Maryland has instituted a new educational policy which will require all new students to take courses which stress American traditions and backgrounds. . . . Northwestern University has opened a night- club on the campus complete with bartenders, emcee, music, and chorus girls. . . . Ted Paysuer, Northwestern athletic director, pitched a few-across the plate to Frank Gilhooley in the recent Irish-Wildcat tilt, which was the start of the seventh war bond drive at Northwestern. ... St. Mary’s College in Cali-forniay won the James Monroe oratorical contest on the Pacific coast and is now competing in the national contest in New York City.
NTEDS
FROM THE
>R£SS BOX
By m BEGAN
Eugene “Scrapiron” Young, trainer of Notre Dame athletic teams for 15 years, has signed a contract to train the Detroit Lions. Young resigned his position at Notre Dame Jan. 1.
* * * *
Lieut. Frank Leahy, director of athletics, on leave of absence from Notre Dame, has been assigned to the St. Mary’s Navy Pre-flight School after Pacific duty. Lieut Leahy served ten months in the Pacific with the submarine forces as athletic, recreation and rehabilitation officer.
* * * *
. Leading the major league teams in batting at this early stage of the season are two of the usual weak-hitting teams of the circuit. The Boston Braves were pacing the National League with a .279 figure, 14 points over the second place New York Giants. In the junior league the White Sox had the high average of .288, 31 points over Detroit which was the second team in batting.
FLOWERS
are the
Perfect Gift /or Mother's Day
If you place out-of-town orders early, you save telegraph expenses.
Corsages Cut Flowers
WILLIAMS
West of the Oliver Hotel PHONE 3-5149
Time for a get-together... Have a Coke
...or making the party a success
It’s easy to plan a date at home when you have frosty bottles of Coca-Cola in the refrigerator. Have a Coke says the hostess, and the affair is off to a flying start. To young or old, this friendly invitation opens the way to better acquaintance, adds zest and enjoyment to entertaining. From Alabama to Oregon, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,—a way to make folks feel at home.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
18
The Cincinnati Reds have had fewer runs scored against them than any other National League team since Manager Bill McKechnie assumed the reins of the Reds in 1938. The Reds pitchers have allowed 3,946 runs while the St. Louis Cardinals’ pitchers rank second, permitting 4,089 runs.
* * * *
The Chicago Cubs of 1906 had the highest winning percentage in modern National League history,when they finished the season with a .763 percentage. The highest mark recorded in the American League was made by the .New York . Yankees of 1927, .714. The all-time winning percentage is held by the Chicago Nationals of 1880 who wound up the season victorious in 79.8 percent of its games.
* * * *
Jim Tobin of the Boston Braves won 18 games last season, with half of these being accounted for by the Dodgers and the Cubs. Tobin defeated Brooklyn four times and Chicago five times, "with neither of these teams handing him one of his 19 setbacks.
* & * *
Here are the answers to last week’s sports quiz: 1—Lou Boudreau is the only major league player to lead his league in batting, the first time he batted over .300. 2—The pitchers who have won 300 games in the major leagues during their life-time are: Cy Young, Walter Johnson, Christy Mathewson, Grover Alexander, Ed Plank, Robert Grove, Rube Waddell, John Clarkson, Charley Radbourne, Charles Nichols, Tim Keefe, Mickey Welch, Anthony Mulane and James Galvin.
3—The record for the one-mile walk is 6:25.8, set in 1910 by G. H. Goulding.
* * * *
The questions for this week are not hard but are perhaps tricky: 1—What major league teams, if any have never been defeated in World Series competition? 2—Has any horse ever won the Kentucky Derby more than once? 3— What is the second largest number of home runs hit in one season? By whom?
For a jacket with a firestar background, wear this battle jac. It’s been ap
proved front the general
of the army right down to the men in the ranks. We think yen’ll like its looks.
$1Q.OO
Other Jackets $5.95 to $15.00
M‘X ADUR
19
i f



am
Its two again
Just the way it used to be... Two to grab for the morning paper, Two places to set at the table . . . and Two Chesterfields over Two cups of coffee...
Yes, and when you share Chesterfields together you share all the benefits of smoking pleasure Real Mildness—Cooler Smoking—Better Taste.