DECEMBER 3, 1948
Motte ^bamo
SCHOLASTIC
B OFnOTMDflfllE
AHIS
MAN TELLS'
WHY
YES
[ WTtiEK.il
NOW THIS IS THE LATEST THING- IN TIES z MR EAG-ER/
WE/SHAPL. '¥8
- SAY." IS THAT COACH LEAHY BACK THERE
BUYING A NEW
2
The Scholastic
Letters
SOUTH BEND'S UNIQUE SHOP
QfiSf	DISTINCTIVE GIFTS—EXCLUSIVE JEWELRY
118 W. Colfax Ave.
Phone 4-75C5
Shucks!
Dear Editor:
No! No! It can’t be, but it is: on page 24 of the Nov. 5 issue, a Hoosier supposedly saying, “I got my corn all husked, so I’m in no hurry.”
I once lived not many blocks from the comer of Walnut and Kirkwood in Bloomington where your interviewer supposedly encountered this supposedly “typical Indiana Hoosier” who definitely does not speak the Hoosier language.
A Hoosier does not husk corn. Never! He shucks it.
James Carroll Associate Editor, Pioneer Log, Lewis and Clark College, Portland
The story in the Nov. 5 issue was written, oddly enough, by Charlie Tee-pie, sportswriter on the Indiana Daily Student.—Editor.
Some Polish for the Irish
Dear Editor:
The students here have often been referred to as the “Notre Dame family.” If true, one of the principal benefits derived from family life, that of good etiquette, has been neglected. . . . To me, the only plausible solution to this very important problem would be through the medium of a question-and-answer and general etiquette column in the Scholastic. . . . Through this column the students should be in a better position to attain the “polish” our otherwise less fortunate college brethren already possess.
Pat Stanton Howard Hall
Armistice Day
Dear Editor:
. . . This reaches a new low in journalism. ... I had hoped it was a typographical error. . . . There is only one thing you can do . . . apologize for the inept statement and for the slighting way you handled the letter. . . .
John T. Woods Off-Campus
Dear Editor:
. . . Venner and Galvin should know better than to ask Scholastic to apologize . . . for anything as far as that goes. . . . Maybe Venner and Galvin went through this past conflict and have (Continued on Page 31)
Dec. 3, 1948
Two tarings evexy college ma,n should know I
>• This is a football coach.
Unemployed nine months of year.
So during season eats everything in sight.
Including substitutes. But there is no substitute for a ^Manhattan'’ shirt.
O* This is a "Manhattan” Range shirt.
JFearer’s never unemployed. Superbly tailored. Extreme, widespread collar.
Fabric residual shrinkage 1% or less. At your favorite men’s shop today.
3
Campus Clubs
Italian Club Plans Big Year
Pete Lusardi was elected to the presidency of the Italian Club at its first meeting of the year on Tuesday night. Gus Cifelli copped the number two post while Emil Garofalo and Sal Fiorella captured the secretary and treasury vacancies, respectively.
Last night the Club started off its social year with a smoker at the Mishawaka Italian Club. Plans are set for a bowling team, captained by Chuck Der-rico. and a basketball squad, to be coached by Bill Perri. The quintet is seeking all comers who are asked to contact Perri for game dates. Father DeBaggis has been named Chaplain of the club.
Chicago Club Slates Dance
The Congress Hotel and December 27 are the place and date of the annual Chicago Club Christmas Dance, it was announced by Larry Houser, chairman for the dance. Assistant to Houser for
this proposed gay and festive affair will be Bill Murphy.
The reorganized and revitalized club is seeking to regain its former position as one of the leading campus clubs. This year’s officers are Frank Kaufmann, president; Tom Gallagher, vice-president; Hobie Taylor, secretary; and Jack Connor, treasurer. They say that proof of the members’ interest is the large attendance at the frequent meetings.
Aero Club Plans Banquet
The Aero Club banquet on December 9 at the Oldenburg Inn heads the list of the club’s coming activities. The formation of a bowling team is still in progress, as is the search for suggestions for the club booth for the Mardi Gras carnival. Plans for participation in a regional meeting in the spring round out the picture.
All Aero students are welcomed to each meeting, which follows the pattern of business, movies, and refreshments.
French Club Organizes
The first meeting of the French Club of Notre Dame was held on Nov. 17 in the Audio-Visual Center in the Main Building. This was an introductory meeting whose main function was to
establish the club and to announce plans for the remainder of the school year. On the program were a tape recording of the day’s news in French, folk songs, and films on France and Quebec.
At the next meeting, tentatively scheduled for Dec. 15 in the AudioVisual Center, student officers will be elected and a program appropriate to the Christmas season will be given. The attendance of all who are interested in hearing and using French is urged by the directors of the club.
Jr. Tycoons Add New Club
Finance will be in the spotlight for the members of the newly-organized Finance Club in the College of Commerce.
The new club, which is open to juniors and seniors who are majoring in finance, was organized to provide interested students a greater opportunity to learn more about finance. The club will meet twice monthly, with one member presenting a formal paper and other members discussing it.
First officers of the club include: Robert Poisson, of Huntington, W. Va., president; Robert Surkamp, of St. Louis, Mo., vice-president and program chairman; and Lawrence Gallo, of Brownsville, Pa., secretary-treasurer.
The best!... our Ayrstar Original
CORDUROY SPORT COATS ..
$19.75
Perfectly tailored to give a smart casual appearance plus the comfort and fit you want in a coat of this type. All colors to choose from — other corduroy sport coats from 16.95 to 22.50.
—MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
4
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
By Bob Vierhile
catch and open up this hidden compartment. A working girl might find it handy to carry her lunch in.” As Brother Conan moved on to the luggage department, we stopped him. “Say, Brother,” I said, “do you gift wrap?” “Quit last Lent,” he said.
The Animal Called Professor
Top of the Week
Confucius says: “Wash face in morning. Neck at night.”
The Electorate
It is now revealed that the Freshman Class will hold its elections before Christmas. For some reason, everybody from the Browser down to the chow hall hash girls has been railing at the frosh to do something. Some have asked why they have not done something startling, like removing the Dome, or touching off the old ruin that is labelled by tradition and fate as Washington Hall. Such action, even if the class were as well-knit as a Botany pullover, would be several ifs away. The freshman class now, after its long wait, gets its chance to organize and plan for the few activities it can still unwrap. It will probably be a good election with good men getting the top posts. But why the scorching spotlight on the freshmen? The fact that the Sophomore, Junior, and Senior classes and their activity packed programs, like an evening’s reading of St. Thomas, has kept the upperclassman shining a sizeable portion of his Gilbert cords is evidently just a funny coincidence. The best way, still, to generate rabid action on the Notre Dame campus is to declare a holiday.
Seeing the Sights
Tourists have a way of asking embarrassing questions on football weekends. After the Washington game, a gray-haired, pudgy gentleman looked at his campus map and glanced up puzzled before Sorin hall. He motioned to one of the students sitting on the porch. “Say,” he asked, “is this the museum?”
The Christmas Shoppers
With less than 20 shopping days left ’til Christmas, we decided to avoid the rush and do our shopping at the Bookstore early. The girl friend, in her last ten or twelve letters, has been dropping some very subtle hints about that Notre Dame Booster shirt she wants. While picking up her present, we bumped into Brother Conan, the head of this going establishment. He insisted upon showing us a few items that might dress up
the base of our Christmas tree. “Here’s a fountain pen,” he said, “that plays the Victory March under water and is guaranteed to last the life of an English theme.” He took us over to the jewelry counter. “Here is a diamond ring,” he told us, “that is really not diamond at all, just cheap glass. You look through this little peephole on the side and you can see the Gippei- shaking hands with Knute Rockne as the Four Horsemen and Frank Leahy watch attentively.” He moved on. “Here is a locket for which any girl in her right mind would give her last boy friend. Snap this little
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
IF YOU were a rhino with problem hair, we’d say: Rhinot scratch your hide and seek Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic? Translated it means: Try the Wildroot Finger-Nail Test! If you find signs of dryness or loose ugly dandruff, get Wildroot Cream-Oil. It’s non-alcoholic—contains lanolin. Grooms hair neatly and naturally without that greasy look. Relieves annoying dryness. Removes loose dandruff. And helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test. You can get Wildroot Cream-Oil at any drug or toilet goods counter. So get a bottle or tube today. Have your barber give you professional applications. This fellow liked Wildroot Cream-Oil so well he wrote us a leather about it—said it kept his wife from going to Rhino (Nevada that is). «-
* of 327 Burroughs Drive, Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc, Buffalo 11, N. Y.
You hear so many stories about professors that you begin to wonder if these gentlemen are not really just gagmen. The latest goes something like this:
“Are you teaching this class?” asked the accounting instructor.
“No, sir,” said Charlie Tierney.
“Well, then,” grumbled the professor, “sit down and stop acting like an idiot.”
Bottom of the Week
The guy who spends all of his time dreaming of a white Christmas.
Dec. 3, 1948
5
CALENDAR
HOLIDAY
An Adventure in / Good Smoking
DECEMBER 3
COLFAX — Apartment for Peggy. Jeanne Crain, Bill Holden, and Edmund Gwenne get the spotlight in a pleasant piece of problem about post-war housing.
PALACE — Time of Your Life. Jimmy Cagney takes a whirl at the executive end of the movie world and doesn’t make too bad a start. James is featured, of course, but gets help from sister Janie Cagney and William Morris. Sons of Adventure. Thrilling picture that recaptures the highlights of the interhall season. Required attendance for all Phy Ed freshmen.
DECEMBER 4
SENTIMENTAL JOURNEY to L. A. The Irish wind up another great season against Southern Cal. Over 100,000 Western voices will get the chanee to cheer for a Trojan win, but Irish eyes will be smiling.
DECEMBER 5
PALACE — Lady in Ermine. Betty Grable perches atop a Russian throne and does absolutely nothing (quite convincingly) while the men of the moustache — Doug (Swords) Fairbanks and Cesai- (Teeth) Romero dash gaily around in the conventional clanking armor of the knights. Cesar and the audience look pretty unhappy about the whole thing. Out of the Storm — into the theater. This is one job that should get you a fast boat to China.
DECEMBER 6
DRILL HALL — Clare Booth Luce, distinguished convert, speaks on the Dramatist and the Mass. Mrs. Luce appears through the Notre Dame Concert and Lecture Series and her talk looms as the most worthwhile student attraction of the semester.
DECEMBER 8
FIELDHOUSE — Underneath the arches (approximate height 20 ft.), Moose (approximate height 18 ft.) Krause presents the Irish hoopsters against the Illini. Better <X the fingers and grab an extra apple.
HOLY DAY OF OBLIGATION — Masses at usual times in Sacred Heart Church. In the afternoon, plenty of midweek rest for the lazy.
DECEMBER 9
COLFAX — Loves of Carmen. Rita Hayworth in technicolor. Some day there will be a good picture and Miss Hayworth, too.
STATE — Adventures of Robin Hood and Hatters Castle. Don’t miss the first job. The Hood sneaks through secret passageways, swords of fifty sheriffs, and rescues the dazzling damsel. Compare his success with that of a court knave. The unlucky guy takes an axe to the left brow, is dropped from a 3-story building, is arrowed in the clavicle, and dripping gore stumbles back five miles to his boss. The master listens to his tale, sets down a cold drumstick and leers, “Idiot — you’ve failed.”
DECEMBER 10
NATURAL LAW INSTITUTE — Leading lawyers, educators, and businessmen gather to discuss the natural law. This is the second such institute ever held. The first was held here last year!
For the One and Only F lo we rs h inmams
ORCHIDS & GARDENIAS
Specializing in Corsages
V
Williams, The Florist
219 West Washington
“Just West of the Oliver”
11,1 Stratigon Grill
The finest in foods . . .
SEA FOODS STEAKS
CHOPS
Noon Lunches
“Art” Buchtel and “Harry” Reed Proprietors
“WHERE NOTRE DAME MEN MEET”
6
The Scholastic
f/ohe Sbame SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 90 December 3. 1948 No. 10
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867 f
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of Postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized une 25, 1918.
Editor JOSEPH A. DOYLE
Associate Editors
ROBERT T. STOCK JOSEPH HERRINGTON
KENNETH A. THOREN________________News
VICTOR DORR-.___________Assistant News
W. GREGORY HALPIN____________Features
HARRY MONAHAN Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT_________Assistant Sports JOHN WALKER_____________Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN______________Librarian
L. A. KYSER_______________Advertising
ROBERT J. VIERHILE________Advertising
JOHN T. CLARK_____________Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL________Circulation
JOHN S. BRENNAN______Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for. national advertising . by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: We consider this a rather unusual picture of our President, Father Cavanaugh. It is unusual from the point of view that generally he does not relax in his big office, but is out on what he terms his “milk route.” His presidential duties take him on a vast circuit of alumni gatherings, b a n -quets and all of those other prerequisites of being top man in a large university. In fact, he is seen at so many of these widely separated functions that there are many who believe that there are two of him.	—Photo by Kunkle
We expected this...
YOUR TELEPHONE must take hard knocks as they come—and go on working.
To make sure it can, we test samples of each day’s production and put telephones through the equivalent of years of service in a few hours or days. For example: we drop handsets into their cradles 22,000 times—equal to 4 years’ normal use. And nor just once, but from 16 different positions, we drop sample telephones from desk-top height onto a hardwood surface. We even check their feet to be certain they won’t scratch your table.
Here at Western Electric, we’ve been making Bell telephones since 1882. But telephones themselves are only about 6% of the equipment used in your service. The other 94% includes wire, cable, switchboards, trucks, poles, tools, office equipment. With the exception of buildings, we make or supply almost everything Bell telephone people use—and test it with utmost care.
Guarding the quality of things used in your Bell telephone service is one way that Western Electric helps to make it the world’s best.
Western Electric
A UNIT OF THE BELL uAj SYSTEM SINCE 1S82
Dec. 3, 1948
7
Third Degree
By VINCE GIESE
Further progress towards a clearer definition of the position of the Graduate. Students Association on campus was made recently at a meeting of the officers of the group with Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School. The results of the discussion were presented at a recent general business meeting of the Association.
The officers will now request the Office of Student Welfare for recognition and full representation of the Graduate Stu
dent Association accorded any other student organization. If the request is granted, the officers expect that the association no longer will need to clear its activities through the undergraduate student council.
Professor of Philosophy, Nichali Den-isoff, opened the lecture series sponsored by the Graduate Students Association with a lecture on the “Conversion of Russia.” The lecture, given in the Rockne Memorial faculty lounge at 7:30 was supplemented with slides of icons and recorded Russian chant music. Refreshments were served.
Some fifty graduate students and their friends attended the second Graduate
Student Social Saturday night, Nov. 20, at the Vetville Recreation Hall. "Dancing, community singing, a barbershop quartette and refreshments rounded out the evening. Attending was the Rev. Henry J. Bolger, Acting Dean of the Graduate School in the absence of Father Moore. A
Graduate student chemists and chemical engineers battled in a fast-moving, closely contested six man football game last week with the Chemists exploding a 24-6 win. '
Graduate students gathered together at a 9:00 Mass Sunday morning in Alumni Hall. On the third Sunday each month, a similar Mass will be celebrated for graduate students and their, friends.
PLANNING STUDY ABROAD?
Write American Express Company, Educational Travel Division, 65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. for 32-page booklet describing opportunities for study and details of educational facilities in all foreign countries.
When you travel... always protect your funds with American Express Travelers Cheques American Express Travel Service
Head Office...65 Broadway, New York 6, N.Y.
Notre Dame's American Express Office is located in the Old Gym

Our new Edaeatirmal Travel Service,
NOW HEADY TO SERVE YOU
Established especially to advise and assist the student traveler... this new division is now ready to help you plan vacation travel... organize your foreign study program... handle all arrangements for groups or individuals. American Express buys steamship, air, rail tickets ... makes hotel reservations ... arranges sightseeing and other details. 158 offices and bureaus in 26 countries to serve you.
8
The Scholastic

SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 - Number 10 DECEMBER 3, 1948
Natural Law Institute Convenes, Dec. 10, 11
Foreign Student Relief Committee To Issue Mardi Gras Cor Award Books Next Week
The basic tenets of American constitutional democracy will be discussed at the second Natural Law Institute, to be held on December 10 and 11 at Notre Dame.
The Institute will be attended by hundreds of judges, lawyers, educators, businessmen and others who hold that the Natural Law is the basis of all human rights, Father Cavanaugh said in announcing the Institute. Alvin A. Gould, Cincinnati, Ohio, businessman, is sponsor of the 1948 Institute, arrangements for which are being made by a special group headed by Dean Clarence E. Manion and Alfred L. Scanlan of the College of Law.
Speakers during the two-day meeting will include United States Judge Robert N. Wilkin oi Cleveland, Ohio; Dr. Gordon Hall Gerould of Princeton University; Dr. Ernest Levy of the University of Washington; Dr. Heinrich A. Rommen of the College of St. Thomas, at St. Paul, Minnesota; and Dr. Maurice LeBel of Laval University, Quebec. Honorary chairman of the Institute will be Archbishop Paul C. Schulte of Indianapolis, Indiana; Father Cavanaugh will be chairman.
Many prominent members of the bench, bar, and laity, including Frank Walker, former Postmaster-General, will be present.
The Institute has received much publicity in the American Bar Association Journal. The Journal has defended the theory that Natural Law is the basis of American constitutional liberties.
Purposes of the 1948 Institute, according to Father Cavanaugh, are these:
First, a better and more general public understanding, appreciation and observance of the Natural Law which human reason recognizes as the basis of the right to life, liberty and all other human rights.
Second, recognition of the existence, nature, function and effect of the Natural Law by those responsible for the economic, social, political, moral and cultural well being of all peoples.
Third, acceptance of the Natural Law by the nations of the world as the fundamental principle underlying international justice and amity. —Dick Rosengarten
One of the big guns of this campus’ Foreign Student Relief Campaign opens its firing in the siege of the half-million-dollar national goal next week when donation books for the 1949 Mardi Gras Car Awards are distributed.
The contest, highlight of the pre-Lenten carnival, will be conducted in the same manner of last year’s successful enterprise which netted approximately §29,000 for the campaign. Books will be distributed to every student of the University beginning next week. The books contain twenty donations to be sold at twenty-five cents each.
The awards are slated for March 1 in the Navy Drill Hall at the height of the Mardi Gras. The winner will receive a 1948 Chrysler 4-door “New Yorker” sedan, while some donation-selling ND student will be rewarded with a ’48 Plymouth coupe. In the event that the lucky donation is solicited by a non-Notre Dame student, the selection will
Boys Town Unveils Kormendi's Statue
A statue of the late Msgr. Edward J. Flanagan, founder of Boys Town, Nebr., executed by Professor Eugene Kormendi,
FATHER FLANAGAN AND FRIENDS
Neither Race nor Color
continue for the Plymouth until an ND student’s name appears, thus making certain that the coupe will be driven away by one of the Irish students. More prizes in the form of ten ND blankets will be awarded the ten students who sell the most books. Deadline for the return of the stubs is set for Feb. 28 of next year, announced Raffle Chairman Ed Donohue.
The Relief Campaign, under the sponsorship of the National Federation of Catholic College Students, opened here on campus with the “Dollar st Man” collection taken up last night. Final count on the collection will be published in the December 17 issue of the Scholastic, as will complete details of the car contest. The Relief Committee gratefully acknowledges the work done by the Blue Circle in the recent “Dollar” collection drive, and wishes to publicly thank Chairman Bill Duggan for his appreciated cooperation.—Al Laporte
sculptor in residence at Notre Dame, was unveiled last week in ceremonies at Boys Town.
The statue, made from Indiana limestone, depicts Father Flanagan with four boys, including a Japanese and a Negro, indicative of the fact that Boys Town knows no race or color, but regards its boys as youths who need and receive help and who have an opportunity to become good and useful citizens. Twice life-size, the statue will occupy a prominent location at Boys Town.
Father Flanagan, who died suddenly May 15, 1948, in Berlin, visited Professor Kormendi at Notre Dame in the fall of 1947 when the sculpton made a bust of him. When Professor Kormendi was commissioned to make the group, he worked from this bust for his likeness of Father Flanagan. A small model' of the group is in Kormendi’s studio in back of the Main Building.
Professor Kormendi and his wife have long been associated with Boys Town. Mrs. Kormendi molded a set of aluminum stations of the cross for the community’s chapel two years ago.
Dec. 3, 1948
9
Father Phelan To Aid American Educators
The Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, director of Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute, will attend a meeting of 20 distinguished American scholars tomorrow and Sunday in New York City to discuss means of creating greater cooperation and unity in education.
According to Professor F. S. C. Northrop of Yale University, its sponsor, the conference will strive for “urgently necessary collaborative developments towards greater unification of education.” Among those expected to attend are Dr. J. R. Oppenheimer, famed atomic physicist and director of the Institute for Advanced Studies; Professor P. A. Sorokin of Harvard University, one of America’s foremost sociologists; and Dr. Orway Tead, chairman of the Commission on Higher Education.
In a letter to Father Phelan, Gordon B. Halstead, director of the Halstead Foundation for Integral Education and organizer of the meeting, said:
“The contribution of your thinking and experience to this meeting would be of the greatest value. . . . The meeting has been called with the expectation that from it will emerge a clearly defined plan of action of paramount educational importance to the world.”
The conference 'will aim at a method applicable to all fields of knowledge by which knowledge may be progressively unified at a deep level.
Father Phelan, one of the world’s leading Thomistic philosophers, was cofounder and former president of the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto. He came here in 1946 to organize and direct the newly established Mediaeval Institute.
FATHER PHELAN
BAND CONCERT
A program consisting of an hour of uninterrupted band music has been planned by H. Lee Hope, director of the Notre Dame Band. Complete details have not yet been decided, but the concert will be held al 8 p.m. Dec. 16 in Washington Hall.
WND Inaugurates Sunday Broadcast
For the first time in the history of radio at Notre Dame, there is now a complete Sunday night broadcast from 7:00 until 10:00 p.m. New features have been added to make the evening’s listening quite different from regular evening shows throughout the week.
From 7-7:15 p.m. there is the St. Francis Hour, a transcribed religious dramatic program, something entirely new for WND. Later in the evening, Frank Venner and Walt Garrity present an hour of popular recordings from 8:00 until 9:00 p.m. under the title “Sunday Special.” This pleasurable hour is followed by another hour of continuous music, classical and semi-classical selections being featured, on “The Concert Hour.” That winds up the new Sunday evening broadcast, now part of the regular weekly schedule.
Replacing the old and favorite “Moonlite Serenade” each evening, same time, same station, is the new all-request show. This is also a novel presentation to campus radio listeners. You can have your favorite disc spun by calling Univ. Ext. 361 any evening, Monday through Friday between 7:45 and 9 p.m. Another new name appears on the old weekly schedule from 7 until 7:15, Monday, Wednesday and Thursday nights. The “Treasure Theater,” a transcribed show, features Hollywood celebrities including famous bands, bandleaders, vocalists, comedians and the like.
Basketball season is just around the calendar, and WND once again will broadcast all home games, just in case you find it impossible to attend. Frank Tripucka is the announcer who will air the hardwood contests.
In addition to these permanent changes and additions to the broadcasting schedule, tentative plans are being laid to broadcast a Sunday night show from the Palais Royale bandbox bringing you the feature band of the week from the downtown ballroom. A dramatic show, casting students and faculty is also on the agenda.—Paul Rapach
Capacity Crowd Hails N. D. Symphony
A capacity audience at Washington Hall Nov. 23 went all out in vociferous approval of the Notre Dame Orchestra concert. It was the group’s first concert of the year, conducted by Charles Biondo. The program was of full-fledged symphonic caliber—an overture, a symphony, and a concerto. The enthusiasm it engendered seemed to indicate the orchestra has established itself as a true Notre Dame activity, and may now progress to deeper and heavier music. Their next appearance will be at the Washington Day ceremonies in February, and a concert is planned for presentation around Easter time.
Von Weber’s Euryanthe Overture made an excellent opening number for the evening, followed by the symphony —Schubert’s No. 8 in B-minor, the “Unfinished.” This is music of eternal beauty and freshness, with never a single measure showing threadbare after more than a century of playing, and the orchestra is credited with an excellent interpretation of its score.
Charles Leinhart, the piano soloist in Saint-Saen’s Concerto, elicited salvos of applause and numerous recalls for his brilliant rendition of this difficult number.
The general reaction of the audience seemed to be, “We want more of the same, particularly another symphony!” Mr. Biondo agreed the members had performed better than he had hoped; and he observed the large number of students in the audience, which, he felt, indicated a marked trend toward student appreciation of this type of music.
Election of officers in the orchestra was held before the concert; Wayne Chandler became president and Ed Conroy was elected to the vice-presidential post.—Jim Carrig
Series of Talks Given By Danish Architect
Dr. Lars Marnus, prominent Danish architect, gave three lectures last week in the Engineering Auditorium. On Monday and Tuesday afternoons, Dr. Mar-nus gave talks on “Modern Architecture in Europe,” and on Monday night he spoke on the subject “Conditions in Modern Denmark.” All lectures were open to the public.
Dr. Marnus, a graduate of the Royal Technical School in Copenhagen, also has studied in England and the United States. This is his third trip to the United States, where he has lectured and written extensively on architecture. He has spent most of the last year lecturing on the Pacific coast.
10
The Scholastic
N. D. Law Association Holds First Meeting
Clare Luce, Famed Writer, Congresswoman, Slated to Speak in Drill Hall Monday Night
A new bond between Notre Dame men of the legal profession will be realized Saturday when the Board of Directors of the Notre Dame Law Association holds its first meeting. Last June 125 lawyers adopted a constitution for the organization calling for thirteen practicing attorneys to meet at this time to chose officers, complete organizational plans, and launch the work of the association.
The general purposes of the association according to the constitution are the injection of a moral responsibility into the legal profession through the leadership of Notre Dame men, the promulgation of the natural law philosophy of jurisprudence, and the fostering of a spirit of loyalty and fraternity amongst alumni of the University who are members of the legal profession.
Members of the board will be guests of the Second Natural Law Institute and in conjunction with the University will serve as hosts at a complimentary luncheon for* the Notre Dame lawyers who will attend the full proceedings of the Institute.
The Association directors, elected by 1500 Notre Dame lawyers, include: Frank C. Walker, of New York City, former postmaster general; Ray T. Miller of Cleveland, Ohio, former mayor of that city; Roger J. Kiley, of Chicago, Judge of the Illinois Appellate Court; John E. Cassidy of Peoria, Ill., former attorney general of that state; Joseph Moran of Tulsa, Okla.; Francis T. Jones, of South Bend; Leo B. Ward, of1 Los Angeles, Calif.; Charles Vaughn, of Lafayette, Ind.; Hugh Wall, of Dayton, O.; James McVay, of Bradford, Pa.; and Robert Grisanti of Cleveland, O.
Edward Cahill Dies; Age 77; AA Officials Attend Service
A representative number of the University’s athletic department were present at the funeral of the father of Bob Cahill, the Notre Dame ticket manager. Mr. Edward Cahill, the deceased, was buried in the parish cemetery of St. Ann’s church in Dixon, Indiana following a Solemn High Requiem Mass. Mr. Cahill, who died last week at the age of 77, had been ill for several months.
The Mass and funeral were attended by the Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president of Notre Dame and chairman of the faculty board in charge of athletics; Herb Jones, the athletic business manager of the University and Mrs. Jones; and Pete Redden.
Mrs. Clare Booth Luce, nationally known playwright, journalist and political figure, speaks in the ND Drill Hall Monday night on “The Dramatist and the Mass.” A convert to the Catholic Faith in February, 1946, Mrs. Luce
CLARE BOOTH LUCE
recently completed the story of her entrance into the Church, The Real Reason. This account, originally published as a series of articles in McCa,Ws magazine, is due for release in book form some time this year.
The versatile Mrs. Luce first attained national prominence in 1931, when she assumed the position of Vanity Fair’s associate editor. In this post, and later as managing editor she wielded the magazine as an organ of strong political opinion.
After several years of free lance newspapei- writing, she was sent to Europe in 1939 as a reporter for Life. In 1941, she visited the Philippines shortly before the Japanese attack and during the following year she served as a war correspondent in Africa, India, Burma and China.
Among her many writings, the most prominent are two books, Stuffed Shirts and Europe in the Spring, and three plays, The Women, Kiss the Boys Good-by, and Margin for Error.
In the 1940 presidential campaign, Mrs. Luce began her active political career. She was elected as a representative in Congress from her home state of Connecticut in 1942 and 1944. There she expressed vigorous disapproval of the New Deal’s attitude toward Russia and introduced several bills aimed at
putting a halt to Soviet plans for territorial .expansion.
At the 1944 Republican nominating convention, Mrs. Luce was chosen to deliver the keynote address. In 1946, she retired from the political scene and began a series of lecture and research tours, including one to Rome, where she received an audience with His Holiness, Pope Pius XII. The Pope personally commended her for her work in fulfilling the ideal combination of “noble wifely virtues with those of political responsibility.”
At the present time, Mrs. Luce is engaged in a writing assignment for Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp..
Press Club Offering Array of Old Movies
Six movies for a buck!
That’s what the Press Club, the journalism majors’ student organization, is offering in this year’s revival of the program of old-time movie classics, so popular last year.
Just clip the coupon below and send it to Department of Journalism, Notre Dame, Indiana. Your wife may share the coupon with you, and it’s a buck for her, too. Students and faculty, lay and • cleric, are eligible.
HERE'S THE PROGRAM
Feb. 24 THE THIEF OF BAGDAD, silent with Douglas Fairbanks. Sr.
Mar. 3 FOUR EARLY COMEDIES of Charlie Chaplin.
Mar. 10 TOP HAT, with Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire.
Mar. 17 DUCK SOUP with the Man Brothers.
Mar. 24 THE INFORMER with Victor Mc-Laglen.
Mar. 31 THE THIRTY-NINE STEPS with Robert Donat and Madeline Carroll.
(all programs are held in the Engineering Building Auditorium
at 7:30 pan.)
HERE'S THE COUPON
Please enroll me in the PRESS CLUB FILM SOCIETY for 1949. Enclosed is $1.00 for dues.
Name________________________________
Address_____________________________
Q Check here if wife is included
Dec. 3, 1948
11
Sophomore Cotillion Rings Bell For Being Tops as Lawrence Serenades Dancers
With what was generally conceded to be one of the finest class dances in recent years, last Friday’s Sophomore Cotillion climaxed a week end of unusual pleasure for many Notre Dame students, the lovely girls they escorted for the evening, and a dance committee deserving a hearty clap on the back.
In the interior of South Bend’s Palais Royale, dimly lighted and decorated for the occasion, the “Evening in Paris” theme was exploited to the offerings of Elliott Lawrence and his orchestra. By candlelight and cokes some 450 Cotillion couples made merry while side-stepping various publication photographers on hand to chronicle this night of revelry.
Lawrence’s smooth orchestra was all it claimed and maybe more. The maestro, himself, a dapper, collegiate-looking individual, toyed with his piano through several numbers, clowned and smiled his way through others as his 17-piece band delighted the crowd with the music it wanted to hear.
But the “Evening in Paris” was only the high spot of the week-end’s festivities. Followed by the Washington game and Saturday’s Victory Dance, the Cotillion-goers found a full round of entertainment. Even the weather was favorable to the occasion. Neither snow nor rain nor storm dulled the happy spirits. By Sunday evening, however, the flame of excitement had died away. Everyone descended from his own private little cloud, faced again with the grim reality that four weeks of class remained until Christmas.
Army Opens ORC For Qualified Vets
According to headquarters at Fort Benjamin Harrison, the Department of the Army is offering appointments in the Officer Reserve Corps to qualified men or women who served or are now serving as warrant officers or as enlisted personnel in the Army of the United States.
College graduates who are former warrant officers or enlisted men, and who have served on active service in any component of the Army between December 7, 1941, and June 30, 1947, may apply for reserve appointments with the grade of second lieutenant. Personnel . currently serving in the Enlisted Reserve Corps in a Class “A” or “B”’ unit, who have completed a minimum of one year’s service with any of the Armed Forces of the United States, and who
can satisfactorily complete an Army Extension Course, may be appointed reserve second lieutenants.
Applicants for the Officer Reserve Corps must be between the ages of 21 and 27 inclusive. They must be natural born citizens of the United States or be able to provide evidence of their citizenship. Each applicant must have obtained a score of 110 oi- higher in the Army General Classification Test, and must be a graduate of high school or an accredited preparatory school, of equal educational level. Applicants must also be physically qualified according to Army standards.
Additional information may be obtained by contacting the nearest Organized Reserve Instructor’s Office.
Moreau Sculptor Ranks Third In Relief Benefit Art Show
A Moreau seminarian was awarded third prize in the recent Amercian art show in Cincinnati sponsored by the American Seminarians’ War Relief Mis-
sion to benefit European seminarian relief.
The Moreau student, Lloyd A. Be-champ, C.S.C., of Pembroke, Ontario, won third place with his sculptured “Madonna Bust.” Bechamp is studying sculpturing and ceramics under Professor Eugene Kormendi.
Seminarians from all over the country contributed works of art to the show. Articles purchased from among the contributions were paid for in CARE packages which will be sent to seminarians in Europe.
Half - Year Graduates Have ’June in January'
For the first time in the history of January graduates at Notre Dame, a winter formal will be held for those who will miss the traditional Senior Ball in the spring. For several weeks now plans have been crystallizing. The date is January 28, and the dance will be held in the East Dining Hall.
John Fogarty, chairman for the January Formal, with his crew of committee-men has been striving to provide the semester graduates with a dance comparable to the spring festivities for a minimum expense. The desirability of having the dance on the campus cannot be over-emphasized, the chairman believes. And through this medium, the prices of the bids have been slashed to an amazing $3.60 (tax included).
Gene Hull’s orchestra of Victory Dance fame has been contracted to furnish the music for the evening of January 28. The dance will be from 10 ’til 2, and permissions will be granted accordingly. New ideas in decorations, the use of extensive facilities offered on the campus, and Hull’s smooth music are all expected to combine to bring out the novel “June in January” theme to its best proportions.
Advanced ticket sales will open beginning Dec. 6, Fogarty said. Hotel reservations should be secured immediately to insure housing facilities for the crowded graduation week-end since the dance itself will be held on the Friday preceding the January commencement ceremonies.
Irish NROTC Exhumes Old Navy Publication
To any students still hanging about who were at Notre Dame under the Navy regime during the war, the exhumation of the Irish Pennant will come as a pleasant surprise. This magazine published by naval students here during the war, has resumed publication under the sponsorship of the NROTC unit now at the University. The Pennant according to its official statement is published monthly by the midshipmen at the University of Notre Dame, “at no cost to the government,” is a summary of all news of particular interest to the NRO.
First issue of the new series was out last month and finds the following men at the helm: Andrew Walsh, editor-in-chief; Theodore J. Prahinski (a member of the Scholastic staff), managing editor; James L. Black, associate editor; John J. Donahue, sports editor; James C. Curran, art editor. To the men undertaking the revival of this popular organ Scholastic proffers a welcoming hand.
12
The Scholastic
Honor N. D. War Dead In Sunday Observance
Thousands of Notre Dame men throughout the world will attend Mass and receive Holy Communion for their 334 World War II dead this Sunday in observance of the tenth annual Notre Dame Communion Sunday.
Father John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, will highlight the observance when he addresses the Los Angeles alumni.
Among other members of the faculty who will address Notre Dame clubs are Dean Clarence Manion of the Law School and Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., professor of religion at the University, who will speak on opposite sides of the Hudson River in New York City and Newark, respectively.
Closer to home, Father Joseph Barry, C.S.C., will celebrate Mass for the members of the St. Joseph Valley Club and their families. Afterwards Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., will address them at breakfast in the Dining Hall’s Faculty Room.
The Sunday closest to the Feast of the Immaculate Conception is traditionally the date of Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday.
Another observance will be in New York City where Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen, of Catholic University; Dr. Manion; Fulton Oursler, an editor of the Reader’s Digest', and George E. Sokol-sky, columnist, will be the principal speakers.
Important Elections Coming Up at Vetville This Month
Elections for a new mayor and six councilmen are coming up over at Vetville during the first week in December. Pre-election slates haven’t been decided on as yet, but most of the long range projects, such as the plans for Christmas celebrations, have been left for the new government to organize. However, the Welfare Board definitely is planning on a holiday “Kiddies’ Party” complete with Santa Claus.	-
Vetville celebrated Thanksgiving with an evening dinner at the Faculty Dining Hall. Sponsored by the Veterans Welfare Board, the dinner was followed by a showing of two movies in the Rec Hall: this year’s Navy game, and last year’s Army game. After the movies about 60 people stayed for dancing. Leo Zuchowsky took care of reservations and Father Mendez, moderator, made the arrangements for the dinner.
Dec. 3, 1948
Father Doheny, New Justice of Rota Tribunal, Receives Monsignor Appointment from Phis XII
By JOE DUKERT
In an official communication just received direct from His Holiness, Pope Pius XII, the Rev. William J. Doheny, c.s.c., J.U.D., has been elevated to the honor of domestic prelate, with the rank of monsignor. This new honor has been conferred upon the ND professor of legal ethics by virtue of his appointment three weeks ago as associate justice (auditor) of the supreme court of the Church, the Tribunal of the Sacred Roman Rota.
“I was perfectly amazed when I first received news of these new appointments,” Monsignor Doheny told a Scholastic reporter this week. “According to my recollection, no member of a religious congregation had been named to the post of Associate Justice of the Rota for at least two centuries, and I found it hard to believe that I had been selected to take this position.” (Actually, Monsignor Doheny is the first member of a religious congregation to be appointed to this office since the fourteenth century.)
The new prelate’s eyes were merry as he busied himself around his Law Building office preparing his books for shipment to Rome. He pointed to twenty or thirty tall stacks of volumes in the next room and said, “Unfortunately, I’ll only be able to take my legal books with me. With the coastal shipping strikes still going on, I haven’t even been able to arrange transportation for myself yet.”
Msgr. Doheny himself is the author of many books, including Church Property: Modes of Acquisition; two ' volumes of Canonical Procedure in Matrimonial Cases; Practical Manual for Marriage Cases; Practical Problems in Church Finance; The Pater Noster of St. Teresa; Give Us This Day Our Daily Bread; and Our Life in Christ.
“I had hoped to finish two more new books shortly,” Msgr. Doheny explained with a smile. “When news of my appointment arrived I was in the midst of work on Church Law for Religious and Legal Ethics.”
He closed the drawers of a tall filing cabinet filled with notes, references and semi-completed manuscripts, “That will have to wait for a while now,” he said.
Concerning .the nature of the work in his new office in the Rota, Msgr. Doheny was. not too clear. “It’s rather difficult to make analogies, because it is quite different from our own judicial system here in the United ■ States,” he
explained. “My position now roughly corresponds to that of a Supreme Court Justice.
“There is one thing I’d like to make clear, though,” he continued. “In the few days since I received word from the apostolic delegate of my appointment, I’ve been deluged with letters from all over the country asking about annulments and requesting me to handle certain cases. I think people have the general opinion that all we consider at the Rota is marriage cases. Actually, all ecclesiastical problems which cannot be settled by diocesan authorities are re-‘ ferred to Rome.”
When questioned about himself, Msgr. Doheny was quite brief. He was ordained a priest on June 27, 1924, in Sacred Heart Church here at Notre Dame. Subsequently he received a J.U.D. degree from the Catholic University of America and studied in Europe from 1929 to 1934. In 1932, he became the first American ever to be admitted as advocate and procurator of the Rota. Msgr. Doheny is also the first religious in the history of the American Church to hold his present position of Associate Justice.
Between 1941 and 1945, he was the assistant superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and since 1945 he has been general supervisor of studies of the Congregation. He came to Notre Dame two years ago to teach legal ethics and has remained here since then.
In the few minutes this reporter spent with Msgr. Doheny, there was one outstanding impression that seemed quite clear . . . the priest’s simple, unaffected humility. Here was a truly great man, acknowledged by the Pope himself as one of the finest Church scholars of our times. And yet his quiet, humble manner bespoke his inspiring resignation to the will of God.
MEASUREMENT FOR CAPS AND GOWNS
All seniors, graduate students, and faculty members who wish to rent a cap and gown for the Jan. 30 commencement exercises, must be in Room 229 of the Main Building on either Monday, Tuesday, ar Thursday—December 6, 7. or 9, from 2 to 5 p. m. Rental payment, must be made at time of measurement.
13
Natural Law Institute
Last December something new was added in the field of American jurisprudence when the Notre Dame College of Law under the direction of Dean Clarence Manion, sponsored the First Natural Law Institute ever to be held anywhere in the world. For many years, apprehension that the American concept of natural rights of the individual secured by the natural law of God was
BISHOP O'HARA
being forgotten and abandoned by the only country in the world that ever had made the protection of those rights the reason for government, had been expressed by leading jurists and legal educators. However, no organized effort on the part of any of these people to influence legal thought in the right direction had been undertaken until 1947 when Dean Manion of the Notre Dame Law School and Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., with the active help of Bishop John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., former President of the University and now Bishop of Buffalo, took the lead in arranging the First Natural Law Institute.
Last Year's Headliners
With the financial help of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of New York, some of the top flight legal writers and educators in the country were brought here for the occasion. In addition to Dean Manion who discussed “The Natural Law Philosophy of the Founding Fathers” as the opening address, and Father William J. Doheny, C.S.C., Professor of Legal Ethics here and who recently was appointed to the Vatican’s “Supreme Court” in Rome, and who closed the Institute with the topic “The Eternal Law Background of the Natural Law,”
three other well-known authorities in the field were brought here for the occasion.
They were Ben Palmer, of the University of Minnesota, well known writer on the Natural Law, who spoke on “The Natural Law and Pragmatism”; Harold R. McKinnon, prominent San Francisco attorney, whose subject was “The Natural Law and Positive Law,” and Mortimer J. Adler, of the University of Chicago, who discussed “The Philosophy of Natural Law.”
A Worthy Purpose
The expressed purpose of the Institute was to attempt to reaffirm in our American Jurisprudence, the view of law as an expression of the traditional and universal morality of the Judaeo-Christian culture; to recall to the bench, the bar and the laity that such a tradition was the cornerstone of the political philosophy of the framers of the American Constitution, and as such, found concrete expression in that document.
Publication of the 1947 Institute’s lectures in a bound book will be the first volume of the first collection of materials on the natural law in the world. It is hoped that in time Notre Dame will be the home of the only complete library of the Natural Law.
Further Developments
An interesting outgrowth of the First Natural Law Institute was reported by Harold R. McKinnon, of San Francisco, one of last year’s speakers.
On April 15 following the Institute, a group of San Francisco lawyers, educators and writers held a meeting at the home of Mr. McKinnon to discuss the natural law. All the men present were
HAROLD R. McKINNON
familiar with natural law from one standpoint and all were highly enthusiastic about the proposal for its wider dissemination through such media as the Institute held at Notre Dame.
It was agreed at the San Francisco meeting that members of the group would get together two or three times a year to discuss natural law and ways and means of preserving it, and that each member present at the April meeting would invite all his acquaintances who were known to be interested in or acquainted with the doctrine of natural law to attend subsequent meetings.
Mr. McKinnon said he was constantly being urged to deliver a speech and to write articles for law reviews and related periodicals on the natural law and that civic organizations had exhibited a keen interest in the subject. He is convinced that such facts lead to only one conclusion: the American mind is receptive to this doctrine except in those intellectual circles which have become tainted by positivism. The amount of interest and the number of these requests, plus Mr. McKinnon’s desire that no such request be turned down, made it necessary to ask for help from interested persons such as the group which he had invited to his home in April, to divide the labor and all the men present agreed to share the work as much as possible.
Calls on Notxe Dame
They hope that other interested groups will be formed all over the nation. Because some central activating force will be necessary to accomplish this, he has suggested that the University of Notre Dame might undertake this function. It is especially fitting that the lead in this movement should emanate from Notre Dame because we took the lead in the movement by holding the First Natural Law Institute here last year. Furthermore, Notre Dame is highly qualified by virtue of its prestige and of its central geographic location to assume this leadership.
In line with the long-range planning of the promoters of the Natural Law Institute here, Mr. McKinnon suggested that the deans of all the Catholic law schools in the country be given an outline or summary of the plan to recruit future leaders of the natural law doctrine from outstanding students of these law schools who might be given some special training in writing and speaking on the subject in their more mature years.
They agreed completely with the promoters of the Institute here that there are many non-Catholics who are leaders in the revival of natural law and that they should be contacted and especially invited.to any meetings held.
14
The Scholastic
Met Club Prepares For Holiday Dance
The Metropolitan Club is reaching for the stars again. Undaunted by the great blizzard of last year, the Club is pushing plans for a bigger and better Christmas formal. The dance, to be held Monday night, December 27, will once again have the ultra background of the Waldorf’s Starlight Roof for its setting. And once again it will have the music of Harry Arnold to dance to.
Head committeeman Phil Shea, who ran the show last year, has announced a new feature for this year’s affair which should create considerable interest. Ruling over the 1949 Met Club Christmas Dance will be a Queen. She will be the date of some dance goer- and will be chosen from photographs submitted to the bid salesmen when they make theii- sales. Every one attending the dance is eligible to submit a picture of his date except Committee members.
The judges are still to be announced although they have been contacted. They will be named sometime next week by publicity chairman Greg Halpin.
Bob Murray is bid chairman and his salesmen in every hall are selling them at §6.00 apiece. Sales to Met Club
members exclusively run until Dec. 15, on campus until Dec. 21. Vince O’Rielly and Larry Madigan are entertainment chairmen.
N. D. Knows ABC's: Ten Men Satisfied
Great minds worked overtime on the last Chesterfield Contest as readers of the Scholastic strained every faculty toward getting that free carton of “Chesties.” This time, ten nimble-witted individuals came through with the right answers, so there will be no prizes held over.
The answers to the three queries went in this fashion: A. The field of red is the red scarf which Tyrone is wearing. On it one can recognize the mask of tragedy, the classic mask of Thespis. The answer is Tyrone Power. B. The shamrock and the blarney stone are symbols of THE LUCK OF THE IRISH. C. Ten to the sixth (power) equals 1,000,000. Ten to the zero equals one. Answer: Chesterfields satisfy millions, they’ll satisfy you.
Not too much trouble was experienced by the contestants with the second and third, but the “field of red” in “A” was the downfall of many entries. Joe McDonald of Cavanaugh Hall reasoned
that it meant Chesterfield, scene of a bloody battle between Royalists and Barons in 1266. Dick McNamara, on the other hand, got the Chesterfield cigarette out of the following reasoning process: Chestnuts are reddish-brown, and Chesterfields are “Fields of red.” Furthermore, tragedy lies, or is the wrong word to use, in describing a Chesterfield. A morbid note was introduced by Luis Pallais of Dillon when he answered that the required reply was the scarf worn by Tyrone Power, since such an article of clothing is used at times to strangle people.
The “topper” of all the entries, however, was provided by Jack Deeran of St. Ed’s. Chest-tea-field, said Jack, was the solution, for a chest is a container used to carry tea or opium, a tea-field being a field of red. Tragedy befalls one who takes opium, which, Jack says, is made from tea.
After all the precincts had come in and 17 IBM machines had collapsed from nervous fatigue, the winners’ names were finally released. They are: Robert Zang, Farley; Dick Herrle, Morrissey; Tom Reilly, Morrissey; E. A. Steffen, South Bend; Jim O’Brien, Breen-Phillips; John J. Cleary, Morrissey; Joe Shelley, Morrissey; W. B. Thompson, Vetville; Mike Judge, Howard; and Howard Fenn, Morrissey. So much for A, B, and C!
GLEE
CLUB
CONCERT
Plans have been completed by the widely-travelled Notre Dame Glee Club for its annual Christmas Concert in Washington Hall. Scheduled for Dec. 15 at 8 p.m., the concert will feature as guest soloist Miss Jane Feezle, rising young soprano from Indianapolis. The traditional Christmas carols will be sung and as an added specialty, the novel “’Twas a Night Before Christmas” will be given.
Prior to the Dec. 15 concert, the 65-voice Glee Club plans a brief tour through Indiana and Illinois, Director Daniel Pedtke announced last week. The group will appear in a concert at Whiting, Indiana, on Dec. 7, at Elgin, Hl., on Dec. 10, and at Aurora, Ill., on Dec. 11. These concerts will consist of religious, §emi-classical, semi-popular and collegiate music. Soloists will be Roy O’Neil, Nolan Sheehan, and Robert Ruetz.
Dec. 3, 1948
IS
The MAYOR of NOTRE DAME
Father Cavanaugh's Biggest Regret is His Lack of Time for Meeting Students
This is the story of the mayor of a little town in Indiana. A town, in the northern part of the State, that is proud to call itself “a city all its own” and prouder still of its name—the University of Notre Dame. The “mayor” is the Reverend John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Father Cavanaugh is a short darkhaired priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross who likes an orderly desk and is an impersonal symbol of administration in the eyes of his citizens
There is this story that sometimes finds its way around Notre Dame: Two graduating seniors were sitting in the Navy Drill Hall waiting for graduation exercises to begin. They were carefully looking over the packed dais to pick out familiar faces among the faculty members. “Who’s that priest in the center?” said one pointing to a cleric sitting in the center of the distinguished group, obviously occupying a place of honor. “Don’t know,” said the other, “must be a visitor.” An hour later the two seniors received their diplomas from the “visitor.” He was the President of the University from which they had just graduated. The cleric was Father Cavanaugh.
This story may seem absurd but the point it makes is not. For the 5,000 citizens of Notre Dame seldom have a chance to get acquainted with the mayor. He’s too busy running the town.
And this is the one aspect of his job that Father Cavanaugh doesn’t like. In fact, it’s his pet peeve. For if there is one class of men Father admires, associates himself with, and wants, to know more about, it’s the men of Notre Dame. And if there is one man the men of Notre Dame admire, would like to associate themselves with and know about, it’s Father Cavanaugh. Why should both be strangers? The answer starts at 5:00 on any dreary Indiana morning.
At 5:00 most Notre Dame men are still “sacked in.” At 5:00 Father Cavanaugh starts his day and from there on in, he is doomed to a regimented life of administration that gives him little opportunity to meet and talk to “his men.”
The office of the president is a plush affair situated on the second floor of the Administration Building. Father Cavanaugh arrives there at 8 every
morning when he’s on campus. There to greet him are his “team” of secretarial assistants, Miss Jane Ward and Miss Kay Mowbry. These two have been labelled by the less reverent—“Miss
Story by GREG HALPIN Photos by JIM McLAUGHLIN
Inside” and “Miss Outside.” Strategically situated in the two offices that one must pass through to get to Father Cavanaugh, they represent a charming sentry duo, gracious as they are efficient, as dedicated to Father Cavanaugh and his work as Father Cavanaugh is to Notre Dame.
This trio starts working as soon as they are settled in the office. Miss Ward is Father’s private secretary, taking care of his desk, his visitors, his phone calls.
She’s the first to see him in the morning and from 8 until 10 does miraculous things with a pad and pencil as Father clears up his correspondence.
On an average day Father Cavanaugh may get as many as 40 letters. They may be everything from a plaintive request for foui- tickets to a football game to a request for his appearance at some maj-
The President Meets a President
or function. The letters may come from small children who have heard of Notre Dame and just “Wanted to write to you, Father, and tell you how much I like Notre Dame” or from James Forrestal, Secretary of Defense, advising Father he has been appointed by the President to a Naval Academy review board. Father answers all that need answering, starting with the children— after all, they are, in the real sense, members of the Notre Dame family.
From 10 until he leaves for prayer at 11:45, Father receives visitors and answers the phone. You’d be surprised at the number and variety of people who want to meet a college president. Bing Crosby wanted to, so did Pat O’Brien and the ND alumnus from ’06 who wanted to tell Father what a great job he was doing, and the president of the Student Council and a Scholastic feature editor. Father sees them all. If he can’t make appointments for them, he’ll break into one that’s going on and step outside the office just to say a few words.
It is notable that there are few students in the stream of visitors that pour through the double offices into the big one. It isn’t because Father wants it that way. It’s just the way things are. Most students can handle their problems through a lower echelon of command, most don’t even know where his office is. There is, at the beginning of each semester, a regular number of freshmen who tip-toe in across the green carpets, whispering to themselves or to Miss Mowbry, but they are — like all freshmen— just lost.
Father returns to the office about 2:30. There are usually more visitors, more phone calls and more mail awaiting him. They are all taken care of with that personal sense of efficiency that he possesses. And if, after all that is done, there is more—the lights blaze late in the Presidents’ office. For the mayor of Notre Dame, there is little rest.
“The business of a college president,” Father Cavanaugh has said, “is to separate the urgent from .the important.” What, at Notre Dame, constitutes the urgent?
“Notre Dame came out of the war tremendously in need of expansion. We need
16
The Scholastic
KAY MOWBRY —"Miss Outside"
new classrooms, new laboratories, greatly increased facilities in all departments. The post-war era here has brought added problems to the administrators of the University. Increased enrollment, the returning veterans are problems and situations that must be met.” Father Cavanaugh describes the urgent, in a phrase “Post-war expansion of the University.”
This is a big order, but Father Cavanaugh is, in every way, a big man. To be the president of Notre Dame, you have to be.
In 1917 a young Irish boy from Owosso, Michigan, rode the interurban into South Bend, Indiana. He was nervous with the nervousness of determination and a new venture. His name was John J. Cavanaugh. He had been graduated from high school in Owosso, had entered business and became secretary to an axle manufacturer in Detroit. He quit that job because he wanted more—he wanted an education. He was coming to Notre Dame to be secretary to the President of the University, Reverend John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C', and to get his education. By 1923 he had it. John Cavanaugh then went to work at Studebaker’s, rose to become assistant advertising manager, and quit again—to become a priest and to come back to Notre Dame. He was ordained in 1931 and became president of the University in 1946 succeeding Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C. A month after taking office, he was leaving Notre Dame on one of the many trips that would make him one of the most traveled men in America.
Where does Father Cavanaugh go on these trips and why? He goes all over the country and he goes because this little town—this Notre Dame—goes all over the country with him. Most of Father’s trips are for the purpose of contacting Notre Dame alumni, setting
up the Notre Dame Foundation, or attending government and educational conferences. And when he travels, Father Cavanaugh speaks.
Here is the itinerary for one week of May last year:
May 4—Speech to the ND club of Newark.
May 5—Speech to the ND club of New York City.
May 7—Attending American Council on Education—Chicago.
May 8—Speaking on Panel for Illinois-Indiana section of American Society of Engineering Education—Chicago.
May 11—Speech to the Newman Club of Kalamazoo, Michigan.
What does Father Cavanaugh speak about? Mostly about what’s going on back home—at Notre Dame.
In a recent issue of Biography, a magazine containing biographies of leading men and women in America a two-page story on Father Cavanaugh ends its description with the words “soft-spoken.”
The “soft-spoken” president of Notre Dame on January 13, 1947 stood before the members of the Notre Dame football team, its coaches, and followers and let the country know the way Notre Dame plays. “We at Notre Dame make no apologies about winning teams. We want our students to go out and win in debates, on the basketball floor, in track, in baseball and in the more important battle of life. We shall always want Notre Dame men to play to win as long as there is a Notre Dame.”
Again on October 16, 1946, speaking before a National Aviation Clinic at Oklahoma City on the same platform with Jimmy Doolittle, in “soft” words Father Cavanaugh referred to the current crisis and said “we had better build
JANE WARD — "Miss Inside"
armaments sky high and make bigger and better atom bombs because the world forces set against us are so bent on aggression.”
That’s what Father talks about and that’s the way he says it. Father Cavanaugh doesn’t make apologies for winning and he doesn’t make apologies for Notre Dame. “I believe we have here something besides a competent teaching staff that no other university in the country can boast of: a spirit all our own, a wonderful student body and a deep devotion to the Blessed Virgin. They make a great University.”
Father Cavanaugh isn’t making fewer speeches this year but he’s at his desk more often. With a great job of spade work on the Foundation completed he has more time to stay at the city hall, watching his town grow and develop.
From there, he is still fighting for Notre Dame. Answering the challenge of Federal aid to education, he has decried the whole process in these words: “The private schools are the greatest single force for the preservation of a sound America.” Answering the crisis of peace he has said “America had better be strong in this hour—the real crisis is intellectual, moral and spiritual.”
Aside from his University duties, Father, as the administrator of a leading University, has been called upon by his government to lend a helping hand. In 1947 he was appointed to the visitors’ board at the Naval Academy. He was re-appointed to the post in 1948. He has just completed work as a member of a board for the pay rates of the Armed Service. At various times he has sat on boards of naval personnel selection.
He has had many honors. Alumni clubs all over the country have feted
(Continued on Page 28)
Dec. 3, 1948
17
Upper Left: Wistful Sophs seem most interested in each other during dreamy waltz — The photographer hangs from a skyhook. Left: Band Leader Elliott Lawrence — Smooth, smooth, smooth.
Top Hat and Tails For Sophs -
Lower Left: Co-chairmen Tom Logan, Ray Miller and their guests — A nice job, lads. Below: Juniors and their dates gather round in a group at the Junior Class Barn Dance — Hayseeds in their hair.

Above:
Terry Brennan in some country style hoe-down — He plays the piano* too* girls.
Upper Right: Lovely Kathleen Gill of Minneapolis and Mike Jacobs of Lyons Hall — Fun at the Palais. Right: Former ND lineman Czarobski and Head Usher — No speeches.
Juniors Take it off the Cob
Below: Tom Moorman calls for Judy Wiard at the Oliver — Off to the dance. Lower Right: The quartet of the Tennessee Bathtub Gin Corporation — The most shif'less of all the skonks.
FROM THE BALCONY RAIL
University Theatre Groggy After First Round By KEN THOREN
The University Theatre led with its right last Sunday night, when it opened the season with The Milky Way, but was out cold on the canvas before the ref could even give it the ten-count. The production had about as much punch to it as did Burleigh Sullivan’s flabby fist.
Many who had looked forward with great anticipation to the debut of the revitalized University Theatre were sadly disappointed at the Lynn Root and Harry Clork comedy. Perhaps the dissatisfaction lies -within the very selection of this thread-bare, oft-told tale of the prize-fighting world. Its attempts at satire fell flatter than a kayoed fighter. A good comedy demands comic situations and is hard-put to survive on just gags. The Milky Way had none of the former and few of the latter.
Burleigh Sullivan, a milquetoastian milkman, finds himself embroiled in the crookedness of the fight game after an accident concerning the world’s lightweight champion. The champ’s manager decides that the only way out of the embarrassing situation is to put Sullivan into several fixed fights and then bring him and the champ together. By the time the climax is reached, the champ and Burleigh’s sister have fallen into, out of and into love, chronologically; Burleigh has acquired a bloated
It's NABICHT'S for the finest in FOOD
ego, a St. Bernard and a society manager, respectively; while the audience has been the loser, garnering only a few mild laughs as its reward. The final curtain, brought down with a unanimous
START AT THE BOTTOM
sigh of relief from the hapless spectators, found everything straightened out beautifully.
It has already been cited that the selection of the play was a poor choice.
Francis and Ferd Nabicht’s
TOWN CLUB
A famous steak and chop house with Notre Dame men for many years.
115 WEST CENTER
The direction, which was often slowpaced and even completely static at times, added little to the play’s original shortcomings. Whereas the show could have been a boisterous, riotous farce, the director chose to make it little more than a polite parlor comedy. A slamming door would have helped, as would also a faster tempo of speaking the lines. Too many times it was obvious that the players were waiting for a cue. Sizzling repartee should have been the keynote rather than the ceaseless chalktalk that predominated.
Ed Goerner, as Gabby Sloan, the fight manager, came closest to realizing the full possibilities of a character. He did not appear to be reading invisible lines out of a script, but rather brought to the role a completeness that was truly believable. He ranted, raved, was alternately brusque and comically tender, and in all, was the epitome of such a scurrilous person. Whenever he was on the stage a certain lift was brought to the action.
Pat McAteer, as the twittering-ditter-ing Burleigh, was neither a Harold Lloyd nor a Danny Kaye, but essayed the part competently. Dan Caulfield, who played the champ the night the Scholastic reviewed the play, and Louis Garripo, as his trainer Spider, lacked the maturity that their roles called for, but were satisfactory. Agnes Anthony made an attractive ingenue, but missed the fire and sincerity that was inherent to the part. Martha Jo Harper, as the sarcasm-slinging hanger-on, exhibited a few sparks of the acidity that the role demanded, but lucklessly lapsed back often into a groove of indifference. Richard Blume, Jack Keane and Jim Beymer did well by their bit parts. Mention must also be made of the beautiful St. Bernard that stopped the show twice, and the smartly decorated set. They were the only two professional touches in the entire production.
Hope has not been lost with this first presentation and big things are still expected from the University Theatre group. Some old sage once said that it is better to start at the bottom and work up rather than start on the top and come down. If the University Theater follows this simple philosophy, then their next production can not possibly be any worse than their first entry.
HISTORY DISCUSSION
The December discussion of the Department of History will be held on Monday evening, December 13, in Room 101 of the Law Building. A paper will be given by Professor M. A. Fitzsimons and then criticized by Professor Chroust. The topic of the paper will be "Thucydides: The Enjoyment and Use of History."
20
The Scholastic
SCHOLASTIC SPORT/
lllini Here Wednesday in Cage Opener
Third Consecutive Undefeated Grid Season Hinges On Irish Win Over Troy Tomorrow
By HARRY MONAHAN
Regardless of whether it will be sunshine and shirt-sleeves or “unusual weather” and galoshes, 104,0C0 people will jam the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum tomorrow to watch a recordbreaking Irish eleven attempt to close its third consecutive undefeated season by downing the Trojans from Southern California.
Having lost by slim one-point and one-touchdown margins to Pacific Coast cochampions Oregon and California, the Trojans must be considered as one of the better teams in the far western conference. In their one previous contest this year against a midwestern opponent, however, the men from Troy were badly manhandled by an impressive Ohio State eleven. USC holds decisive wins over only Washington (the unfortunate Irish victim last week) and hapless Utah. They have also edged Oregon State, Rice, Stanford and UCLA.
Coach Jeff Cravath had 22 lettermen from which to build his Trojan team but injuries have prevented him from mak-
PAUL McMURTRY Trojan Toughy
ART BATTLE SC Seatback
ing the most of the available material. In big Bob Hendren, Cravath was supposed to have an All-American tackle who would use his 6’8” 230-pound frame to blast holes for his backs. But Hendren broke his arm in the Rice game and has seen little action since. Troy hopes he will be ready for considerable action against the Irish tomorrow.
The Irish remember the aerial trio of George Murphy, Jim Powers and Dean Dill which was supposed to pass Notre Dame dizzy last year, but which was so effectively shackled. None of the trio boasts more than a .500 average on passes this year, but several pitches have come just when Troy needed them. As have all the previous Notre Dame opponents this year, UCS can be counted on to try to go over the strong Irish forwards rather than through them.
For the ground game Cravath will use another trio. At the starting halfback spots will be all-coast Don Doll and Art Battle. Battle missed last season due to injuries, but has been one of the bright spots of the Trojan ground
(Continued on Page 24)	.
By RALPH WRIGHT
Notre Dame’s basketball team doesn’t figure on dropping many games this season, but an assortment of postwar “Whiz Kids” from Illinois will be in the Fieldhouse Wednesday night expecting to start the Irish off in the wrong direction.
Last December 8 the lllini handed ND its first loss in a 40-38 thriller at Champaign. And once again the strong Blue and Orange outfit should be one of the powers of midwestern basketball. One of the chief reasons everybody will respect Illinois this year is the presence of a fellow named Dike Eddleman.
Dike is probably the greatest three-sport college athlete in the country. An intercollegiate high jump champion and a brilliant halfback, Eddleman is best known for his cage ability. Last year, he was an easy All-Big Nine selection at forward and now he looks like a good bet for All-America.
Coach Ed Krause has no reason to worry about his squad — it should be able to play with the best of them. The whole first team is made of boys who could easily average ten points or better per game.
Called the greatest Pacific Coast player since Hank Luisetti, Kevin O’Shea
(Continued on Page 24)
PAUL GORDON " Captain of the Irish
Dec. 3, 1948
21
Zeke Lane Does Scoring For Both Teams As Dillon Downs Cavanaugh For Interhall Crown
By JACK MEANEY
Scoring their lone touchdown on a long pass, Dillon Hall weathered three onslaughts by Cavanaugh and hung on to win the interhall grid crown, 6-2.
Zeke Lane of Dillon had a hand in all the scoring, passing for the touchdown and being nailed behind his own goal line for Cavanaugh’s two points.
Dillon’s winning score came early in the third period. After receiving the second-half kickoff, the victors’ shackled offense began to function. Starting from their own 38, they drove to the Cavanaugh 32, aided by a five-yard penalty when the drive momentarily stalled. Two running plays lost four yards. Zeke Lane then faded to his right and boated a long pass to Paul Hanifin behind the Cavanaugh defenders, good for 36 yards and a touchdown. Jack McGroder’s placement try was wide.
Taking the next kickoff, Cavanaugh fought back. Starting from their own 20, they covered 73 yards in seven plays. Paul Schafly contributed the longest run of the day in this drive, sprinting from his own 34 to the Dillon 18. On the Dillon seven-yard line, Cavanaugh lost the ball on the first of two costly fumbles. Razzle dazzle in the Dillon backfield backfired and Lane was buried under by the blueshirted Cavanaugh line in the end zone.
Jack McGroder kicked off from his own 20 and Cavanaugh was on the march again. In six plays, they slashed their way to the enemy nine-yard line. Again they fumbled away a chance at a
ACTION IN THE INTERHALL BATTLE
touchdown and this time it meant the ball game.
In everything but points scored it was Cavanaugh’s game. Then- lighter line stopped Dillon’s running game time after time. Bob Barrett pitched them to the Dillon 12 in the second period, but an interception of an end zone pass killed the bid for a touchdown.
Multi-Team Deadlock Marks Keglers Race
The Kampus Keglers are finally under a full head of steam and expect to remain so for the remainder of the season. The first rolling took place Sunday, November 21, at the Bowl-Mor alleys. Four teams ended up in a tie for first place in the Blue League and six teams in the same situation in the Gold League.
In the Blue League the St. Louis team took three straight from the Chemical Engineers. Rochester also won three straight from Indianapolis. Metallurgy and Kansas City also had sweeps in first competition.
In the Gold League, Detroit, the Italians, Chemists, Philadelphians, Texans and boys from the Rockford club all came through undefeated. Texas won by default, when the Erie team failed to show. Rockford defeated the Prop and Wing men, while Detroit, Chemists, Italians and Philadelphians were turning back Pittsburgh, Columbus, the Off-
Campus boys and the Aeros, respectively.
The high individual game was rolled by B. Fisher of the Youngstown Club, who had a neat 230. The high three-game set was rolled by R. Linsenmier of the A.S.M.E. Club.—Bill Delaney
Announce Seating Policy For Home Basketball Games
Due to the inadequate seating capacity of the Notre Dame gymnasium in relation to student enrollment, there will be no public sale of tickets for home basketball games this year. With a few exceptions, all seats will be available to the student body.
To facilitate seating, students are asked to observe the following arrangements :
All games will commence at 8 p.m. Students are asked to be in their seats by 7:30, using the following entrances:
Farley. Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Zahm, and St. Edwards, please use the North Entrance, opposite Breen-Phillips Hall.
Sorin, Walsh, Alumni, and Dillon, please use the South Entrance.
Badin, Howard, Morrissey, and Lyons, please use the West, or Main Entrance.
Vetville and Off-Campus students, ■ please use the new Southeast Entrance, opposite the Drill Hall.
All students must present their Identification-Athletic cards, just as for football; however, the football seat location insert should be removed and destroyed. No other identification will be acceptable. If you do not possess an ID card, obtain one through the Student Welfare Office at once.
Should there be any space available after 7:30 p.m. it will be sold to general admission patrons at the Box Office, West Entrance, at game time. This possibility is the only avenue open to married students desiring tickets for their wives, and cannot be determined in advance.
Tickets for the games played at Chicago Stadium will be on sale at the Ticket Window, Breen-Phillips Hall, ten days before each game, priced at $2.50.
—Ticket Committee
INDOOR TRACK PRACTICE OPENS
Coach "Doc" Handy has announced that indoor track practice will begin in the Irish Fieldhouse next Monday, December 6, at 3 p.m. The track mentor invites all trackmen to attend, and extends a special invitation to freshmen and performers in the field events.
22
The Scholastic
Vince Doyle Named Sports Program Director at WJVA
Irish predominance in the sports world continues with the announcement that Vince Doyle, ’48, has become sports program director for Station WJVA in South Bend. Notre Dame students may hear Vince ail- his sports reports and views daily at 12:25 p.m. when he gives a roundup of the doings in the athletic field, and again at 4:15 when in addition to the roundup he presents interesting sport sidelights and stories.
The tall announcer from Manhattan, N. Y., recently achieved nation-wide recognition because of some research he did on the position of goal posts in football. Vince, who graduated magna cum Imide in physical education last year, sent letters to more than 100 coaches and sports writers asking whether they thought the goal posts in football should be ten yards in back of the goal line or right on the line. The answers indicated that the majority want the uprights where they are, but Doyle’s research and results got him a column of recognition from H. C. Salsinger of the Detroit News and a writeup in the Sporting News.
Doyle knows sports from the inside out. He served in the Navy as an athletic instructor from 1941 to 1946 and rose from a seaman to lieutenant. Before entering the service he attended the Savage School of Physical Education in New York. He completed his Navy service as director of the athletic program at Notre Dame’s middie school, and returned as a student after discharge. Vince officiated Notre Dame practice sessions for Frank Leahy, and is a member of the St. Joseph Valley Officials association.
He prepared for his task in announcing by taking minors in English and Speech, and last summer was selected for the singular honor of attending the NBC Northwestern radio institute in Chicago. Only 100 are chosen for this special radio training every year. Vince was married in May of 1945 to Isabel Anne Molloy of Chicago, and the Doyles now have two children, Danny, two, and Ann, five months.
Vince announced all of the Notre Dame home football contests this year for 11-month-old WJVA, and next season hopes to cover all of the Irish gridiron battles.—Jim Howard
FOR SALE
N.D. MINIATURE Black Onyx with Diamond Center
Size 6% —Like New Inquire PUBLICATIONS OFFICE
Touche, Max
Yes, Mr. Browser, we agree with you, the Notre Dame student body is a complacent lot. In the sports department we should call it victory-happy. They have been on a winning football binge for three years and have lost all sense of values regarding the Irish eleven.
It’s going to be tough medicine to take when someone finally ties a defeat on the Notre Dame football team. We have heard that the campus resembled an outdoor morgue the last time it happened. While Coach Leahy has been able to keep his lads with both feet on the ground, his pessimism hasn’t deflated the colony of student cloud-walkers.
Such exuberance has its place in the campus life, but it has led to an unconscious failure to give the present squad the credit it is due. This team has had to fight harder to win than any Irish eleven in the last three seasons. It had to come from behind three times to salvage victory — not since 1945 had an Irish grid team relinquished the lead in any game.
This team doesn’t have the poise and strength of the two previous undefeated squads, but it will bow to none for spirit. The students have become so accustomed to a winning club that this year’s team is being neglected almost to the point of discourtesy.
Question of the Week
Is the Denver Nuggets a farm team for Denver university, or vice versa?
The current Pioneer quintet has three former Nugget eagers on its roster. All three had collegiate experience before joining the Nuggets — but not at Denver. Of course, of more interest in local cage circles is that sharpshooter Vince Boryla is one of that trio. Bob Salen, formerly of Creighton and Ed Little, formerly of Marshall College, are the other two.
We feel slighted. The current D.U. basketball dope book carefully avoids mentioning Boryla’s record at Notre Dame, and a brilliant one it was, too. In fact they don’t admit that he went here at all. Clearly visible in their publicity pictures, however, is a small Notre
SPLINTERS from the Press Box
By Harry Monahan
Dame medal around Vince’s neck. Come on, D.U., at least give us credit for putting a little of the polish on your current ace.
Musings at Halftime
Leon Hart was neatly faked out of the Colliers All-American selections by the Leahy defensive line shift. He received ballots both as a tackle and as an end, but the votes were not combined. As a result he didn’t get' either position. . . . Speaking of big Leon, there is a leading contender for next year’s captaincy. Or how about a co-captain’s job with Jim Martin? . . . The Irish players who saw the Michigan-Ohio State game came back with a very low-opinion of the Wolverines. They decided Notre Dame could use a two-man line to shackle the miserable Michigan ground game and have nine men available to stop their high-grade aerial attack.
Why wasn’t the interhall championship game played in the stadium? And don’t give us that chestnut about saving the turf, that gag is greener than the Cartier Field grass. The campus grid-ders get only one small slice of glory around here. They should at least get to play their championship tilt in the stadium. The spectators deserve a little consideration, too. . . . Kevin O’Shea is starting to garner All-American awards already, thanks to Sport magazine. But he’s going to have a tough time beating off the competition of Leo Barnhorst, unless the A-A selectors break precedent and give the Irish two berths instead of holding to their usual vascillating sectional policy to satisfy their customers.
Congratulations to Hugh Bums, varsity trainer . . . he’s been named assistant track coach. . . . The old rumor about Leahy leaving Notre Dame has started again, this time in Cleveland. . . . Wonder when they’ll get wise.
Prediction of the Week
We see no reason why the Trojans should be any better than anyone else the Irish have tangled with this season, even with their two weeks’ rest since the UCLA tilt. The Irish will keep their consecutive victory record going. Notre Dame 35, Southern California 6.
Dec. 3, 1948
23
Meet Trojans Tomorrow
(Continued from Page 21)
attack this year. The dangerous man is Jack “Rabbit” Kirby, who backs up Doll at the left halfback spot. Kirby has consistently been the leading Trojan ground gainer all season.
Sophomore Bob Stillwell at end and guard Paul McMurtry, a 225-pound Texan, will flank Hendren on the right side. Should Hendren be unable to play, his capable replacement is two-year veteran George Schutte.
Mercer Barnes, formerly of Illinois, will hold the pivot spot, while veteran guard Bob Bastian, tackle Jim Bird and end Tony Linehan will comprise the portside of the Trojan line. Fullback Bill Betz completes the probable USC starting lineup. Betz is backed by a sparkling sophomore, Ralph Pucci.
Converting four Husky fumbles into four quick first period scores was all the Irish needed to subdue an obviously nervous and inept Washington squad last Saturday. But they added one tally in each of the three remaining quarters to set a new margin-of-victory record for this season. The previous highest margin had been the 40-0 rout of Pitt.
Once again the Irish aerial game was shackled on orders from the high command. Notre Dame spent the whole second half on the ground, while the first team spent most of the time on the bench. Howie Odell’s Huskies began to click in the second quarter after the disastrous opening period. Not until late in the third period did they make any definite threat. Their drive was stopped" on the Irish eight-yard line.
Bill Gay ran circles around the Washington secondary and brought the crowd to its feet with several dodging, twisting runs. One, a dash from the Husky 44 to their six, set up the sixth Notre Dame tally which Gay made three plays later. Tripucka’s passing, what little there was, was deadly. He completed three out of five, all for touchdowns and the other two were batted down in the end zone.
Against Southern California tomorrow 11 seniors will end their collegiate careers: Capt. Bill Fischer, Frank Tri-pucka, Marty Wendell, Bill Walsh, John Frampton, Frank Gaul, Al Lesko, Ted Budynkiewicz, John Panelli, Terry Brennan and Lancaster Smith. Coy McGee is also a senior but hasn’t played since being injured in practice before the Nebraska game.
The Trojans and the Irish always stage a good game in this traditional season finale, but the Irish should be able to keep their undefeated record intact despite the westerners’ best efforts.
Kegler Schedule — Dec. 5
GOLD LEAGUE
Architects vs. Chemists Prop & Wing vs. Fox River Philadelphia vs. Off-Campus Detroit vs. Columbus Syrian Lebanese vs. A.S.M.E. Aero vs. Cleveland Pittsburgh vs. Texas Met Club vs. Rockford Italian Club vs. Inter-American
BLUE LEAGUE
Metallurgy vs. Utica Vetville vs. A.S.Ch.E. Kansas City vs. Rochester K. of C. vs. Central New York St. Louis vs. New Jersey Minnesota vs. New England Toledo vs. Generation Kentucky vs. Youngstown Indianapolis vs. Buffalo
lllini Here Wednesday
(Continued from Page 21)
makes his supporters wonder what this superman Luisetti was like. The San Francisco sharpshooter averaged 11.5 points last season, but his floor play would make him invaluable if he didn’t take a shot. Ready to run O’Shea a race for All-America honors, Leo Barnhorst, top scorer of 1947-48, will start at forward with Jimmy O’Halloran. John Brennan will be a scoring threat from his pivot post.
The other starter- will be Paul Gordon. He’s a cool performer who is at his best when the game is close and rough. Playing his fourth year with the Irish, Paul is a real long-distance gunner with his deadly overhead set shots.
Last year’s reserve weakness seems to have been remedied. Lefty John Foley is as good a sub center as any team can claim, and Dick Kluck and Frank Kaufmann are hitting the hoop more consistently. Other reserves who
KEVIN O'SHEA All-American Bound
LEO BARNHORST Competition for Kev
should see plenty of action are forwards Jack Loftus and Dick Giedlin.
Bib Nine cage teams, unlike their gridders, aren’t reluctant to play the Irish. After the Illinois tussle, Notre Dame travels to Chicago stadium to battle Northwestern. Then they return here on December 13 to entertain Wisconsin’s Badgers. Both clubs are Big Nine title contenders.
Coach Arthur “Dutch” Lonberg’s Wildcats may start four monstrous sophomores along with Co-Captain Bill Sticklin, a fine all-around ball player who was fifth in conference scoring last year. Three of the sophomores — Don Blasius, Ray Ragelis, and Dave Allen — are 6’4”. Blasius may pair with Sticklin at the forwards with Ragelis, all-statei-from East Chicago, at center. Allen has been working at guard with Jake Fendley.
A tall and rangy Wisconsin five that won 12 of 20 contests last year has displayed more rebound strength and lots of hustle. The Badgers, coached by Harold “Bud” Foster, lost brilliant Bobby Cook and gigantic Ed Mills, but they have ten lettermen back. Don Rehfeldt bagged 224 markers last season and his left-handed hook shot makes him a terror at center. Blonde Fritz Schneider and either Bruce Fossum or Larry Pok-ryzwinski are first-string forwards with Doug Rogers, Bob Mader and Jim Moore all striving for the starting guard spots.
Each of the first three opponents goes under fire before opposing ND. Illinois tangles with potent Butler tonight, while Northwestern has a Saturday night struggle with Western Michigan. Wisconsin already played little Ripon and meets Marquette, Missouri and Loyola before heading for South Bend.
24
The Scholastic
KnccklngOiGunclThe kfalk
1948 All-Campus Eleven Chosen
With All-American fever breaking out like a case of strawberry rash, Scholastic sent its eager sportswriters scurrying around campus and they came up with the 1948 all-campus eleven. Coaches of the interhall squads were asked to nominate this eleven and the final balloting represents the opinions of as many of these mentors as could be contacted.
The balloters had little difficulty picking the backfield combination. Barrett (Cavanaugh) and Lane (Dillon) were unanimous selections for quarterback and left halfback, respectively. Coletti (Dillon) edged out Brewer (St. Ed’s) for the right halfback spot while Presley (Howard) was the overwhelming fullback candidate. Barrett, Lane, and Presley are all repeaters from last year.
Twenty-three men received ballots for the seven linemen positions. Kreuz (Cavanaugh) at left end, Cilusti (Dillon) at center, Lyden (Dillon) at right tackle and Driscoll (Cavanaugh) at
right guard were the only ones to receive commanding majorities.
crown won by the St. Ed’s quintet last year. So much interest and enthusiasm has been shown by the students that the Rockne Memorial courts will be in use six hours a day, six days a week.
Officials report that there will be five leagues in full swing at once: one each for hall, club, mixed, graduate student, and 150-pound competition. Any number of teams may compete from each hall and club, but a player may only be on one team, and no team can play in more than one league.
All teams will compete in their respective leagues until the spring semester. The strongest teams will be chosen and matched in an elimination tournament to determine the campus championship.
In other interhall sports for the winter, there will be a wrestling tournament which will get underway upon completion of the football schedule, the handball preliminaries with the finals in the spring, and several swimming meets.
—Jack Economou
Irish Sailing Crew Runs Fourth in Final Meet
Fighting an uphill battle from the start, the University sailing team came up from the middle of the fifteen school regatta, to place fourth in its sixth and final race of the season. The members of the Sailing Club which comprised the team, were Ray Bushey, Charlie Burke, Fred Joyce, Jim Martin, Joe Gargan, and Loren Bullock.
The event was the second annual Northwestern University Fall Invitational Series held in Chicago in conjunction with the Chicago Yacht Club. In attendance at this most important regatta of the season were all the top collegiate sailors in the midwest, together with three top eastern teams.
First place went to an excellent Yale team, which had also won the fall eliminations in the east. The University of Michigan placed second, and the co-host, Northwestern, took third.
The overall performance of the Notre Dame sailors during the first season of intercollegiate competition, has been very heartening to the organizers and members of the Sailing Club. The group has been operating under the obvious handicap of being “dry land” sailors, while competing against many teams which have their own practice facilities. However, they are going ahead with plans to enter as many or more races next year than they appeared in this season.
The complete team by position:
LE	Kreuz 		.. Cavanaugh
LT	Biggert ....	.. Cavanaugh
LG	Heimel 			 St. Ed’s
C	Cilusti 			 Dillon
RG	Driscoll ....	.. Cavanaugh
RT	Lyden 			 Dillon
RE	Charters .			 Dillon
QB	Barrett ....	.. Cavanaugh
LH	Lane 			 Dillon
RH	Coletti 			 Dillon
FB	Presley ....			 Howard
Interhall	Winter Schedule Announced	
RUBIN CLEANERS
20% Discount to Notre Dame Students on regular service.
EXPERT REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS
The 1948-1949 interhall basketball activities get underway this week with 52 teams set to compete for the campus
217 E. Jefferson
2 Blocks East of Kresges
SOCIOLOGY SEMINAR
Next in the Sociology Department's seminar series will be a discussion on crime and delinquency Thursday night at 7:30 pan, in Room 101, Law Building. Messrs. Radelet, O’Brien, and Kane explore the subject. All students, in sociology and out are invited.
For Appointment Phone 3-0678
5 Barbers Manicurist
CYRS BARBER SHOP
"South Bend's Leading Barber Shop" SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT
W. E. Cyr, Prop.
100-102 South Main Street
Chair No. 5
Dec. 3, 1948
25
Bagarus, Zilly Block for Lucille and Liz;
Cowhig Gives Cheesecake in Pro Grid Movie
The Los Angeles Rams professional football team has gone Hollywood! And three former Irish grid stars grabbed a large share of the celluloid space for themselves.
Just what effect this taste of film-dom’s spotlight will have on the play of Gerry Cowhig, Jack Zilly and Steve Bagarus remains to be seen. In the meantime it’s an easier way to make a buck than beating their heads against the stonewalls used as linemen by the Washington Redskins and the Windy City’s Cardinals and Bears.
RKO Radio Pictures hired the play-for-pay boys last summer to supply the football beef for the picture “Interference,” which will be released soon. The plot concerns the activities of a pro team called the “Chiefs” and threatens to be the first of a rash of movies on this subject to come out of Hollywood shortly. With Lucille Ball and Ziggy Czarobs-ski’s good friend Lizabeth Scott in the cast, even the most diehard supporter of amateur athletics could get interested in the commercial brand.
Notre Dame’s gifts to Hollywood are the quiet type in their first film—not a speaking role in the trio. The salary of Cowhig and Zilly was probably written
LUCILLE BALL AND GERRY COWHIG This Is Work?
off as insurance as they doubled for Vic Mature and Sonny Tufts in some of the scrimmage scenes. Gerry took the work so seriously that his teammates now call him “Gregory,” especially after he worked on one long complicated action shot. Autographs on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons between one and three o’clock!
RKO apparently hasn’t kept up on its football because the script converted Ram halfback Kenny Washington, fonn-er UCLA All-American, into a pass snagging end. The results were so good that the Rams’ strategy board is considering a change of position for their dusky back. During the picture work Washington completed the longest pass in football, but it won’t go on the record books. The start of the play was filmed at Gilmore Field, but only the back throwing the pass was recorded. Kenny’s catch was filmed two days later at the studio lot several miles away.
Some of the Ram linemen were very impressed by Hollywood techniques. Bob Snyder, former Ram coach, had his hands full when his guards and tackles started calling for stunt men to do their scrimmage work during the early fall drills.
Remembering the sad sagas of Max Baer and Jimmy Braddock after they hit the Hollywood trail, the Rams’ opponents are hoping to catch the Los Angeles eleven with its mascara running. But there is a fellow named Clark Shaughnessy, present Los Angeles coach, who is going to see to it that his boys stay rough and tough despite this Hollywood sojourn.
Current Irish Harriers Rank High In Nation
By UM HOWARD
By placing fifth in the National Collegiate cross country championships, the harriers of Notre Dame for the second consecutive year rank among the top distance teams in the country. Last year, the Irish runners had difficulty in the Nationals, but by winning all of their other contests became the best cross country team in Notre Dame history. This year’s squad, which won four dual meets and the Central Collegiates while losing only to Wisconsin, and Indiana, ranks on the same plane if not a notch above the team of last year.
This is the first year in the history of
track at Notre Dame that a cross country team has taken a major title such as the Central Collegiate crown. The fifth place won in the terrific competition of the NCAA meet is also the best position an Irish team has attained.
The showing of the harriers over a period of the past six years is a distinct tribute to Coach “Doc” Handy. Before the reign of Handy, an Irish squad had never won even a state title, and had fiinished very few seasons with a winning percentage. Under his guidance the team has completed every season with a favorable balance in the win column, won the state title three times, and climaxed this season by capturing the C.C.C. championship, and fifth place in the rugged Nationals. Last year the track coaches of the nation elected Handy president of the NCAA harrier coaches association, and at the same time he served as prexy of the Central Collegiate Conference.
The dominance of Handy coached distance men is to continue next year despite the loss of such great runners as Jim Murphy, Bill Leonard, Lou Tracy, and Corny Styers. Four members of this year’s outstanding team, Jim Kittell, Jim Kelly, Lou Lepry, and Tony DaDamio will return next season, and several brilliant runners headed by Benny Almaguer will be up from the freshman team to fill in the gaps left by the graduating seniors.
Because the Notre Dame distance men did so well in the last two battles, and in the Nationals defeated both Indiana and Purdue who •had earlier wrested the Indiana State crown from them, some explanation seems necessary. Coach Handy summed it up when he said, “There is no substitution in this sport. Once a race has started, and one or two of your runners seem to be having a bad day, you just have to let them go.
The Irish this season whipped Wyoming, Iowa, Navy, and Villanova in dual contests. Jim Murphy was the spark plug of the local group again this season leading the squad in almost all of the contests. The strength of the Irish lies not in their individual performers, but in the fact that the whole squad is a wellknit running unit.
Normally manager Bill McCarthy would end his rule over the tracksters at this time, but due to a new ruling, he will continue until the end of the school year, thus making his association with the squad one of the longest—a period of a year and a half. With the announcement of the extended reign of McCarthy came also the news that trainer Hugh Burns has assumed another role- H»at of assistant track coach. His duties will be concerned with the conditioning of the men.
26
The Scholastic
Names Make News
What Price Glory?
One of our readers writes to inform us that GEORGE CONNOR, captain of the 1947 ND gridiron squad and now playing tackle for the Chicago Bears, has broken into the comic section of the
GEORGE CONNOR Which one is Alva?
Sunday newspapers. In a nation-wide ad sponsored by the makers of Toni Home Permanent (it stays . . . and stays . . . and stays . .. ), one of the “Toni Twins” is introduced to George who immediately invites her to a dance that evening. Upon arriving at the “Twins” house and gazing for a brief second or two upon the lovely pair, George babbles out, “Which one is Alva? Which one has the Toni? I give up.” All those who saw The Spirit of West Point will now add comic page advertisements to Hollywood offers’on their list of “offers to be turned down after graduation....”
Attendance at pre-marriage seminars “presenting the economic, psychological, physical and spiritual aspects of marriage” should be made compulsory before the granting of a license to wed, observed the Rev. JOHN A. O’BRIEN, Professor of Religion here, in a lecture in Chicago last week. Father O’Brien, speaking on the subject “Marriage in a Changing World” stressed that the greatest social needs in America today are to stem the mounting tide of divorces and to restore stability and strength to family life. He pointed out that the increase in the divorce rate in the last few years constitutes “an atomic bomb hanging over the nation threatening to pull it into a decline which neither Hitler nor Hirohito were able to accomplish.” Besides advocating
Dec. 3, 1948
“Cana conferences” for men and women contemplating marriage, Father O’Brien recommended the establishment of “courts of conciliation to help couples iron out any difficulties which may arise ...”
A news release from Harvard University reveals that CHARLES H. BARTLETT, Jr., a graduate of Notre Dame in the class of ’46, and at present studying law at Harvard, is a member of a law club participating in the final arguments for the Ames award in mock trial procedure at the Harvard Law School. Conducted under the same rules which apply to civil procedures in Federal Courts, the argument is the climax of a three-year competition in mock trial procedure in which over sixty groups of students organized into law clubs have participated. Winners in the final arguments receive the prized Ames award which signifies highest honors in the field of moot court work at the Law School. . . .
A Word to the Staff
The Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., president of the University, addressed a meeting of the Lay Faculty Club and the Ladies of Notre Dame, wives of the faculty members, last Monday night in the University dining hall. The Rev. HOWARD KENNA, C.S.C., director of studies, also attended the meeting. After the meeting, the group attended a performance of The Milky Way . . .
The Rev. ALEXANDER J. DENOMY, C.S.B., special lecturer at the Mediaeval Institute of the University, has been elected a fellow of the Royal Society of Canada, it was announced this week by the Rev. GERALD B. PHELAN, director of the Institute. Election to the Royal Society is the highest public recognition which Canada can give its scholars and scientists, an honor to which every Canadian scholar aspires.
Father Denomy is professor of mediaeval vernacular languages and literatures at the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto. He last spoke at Notre Dame in the spring of this year when he gave a series of lectures on the mediaeval stage at the Mediaeval Institute. Father Phelan is also a member of the Society. . . .
—Walt Collins
First Citizen
At the second monthly book review presented last week by the Aquinas Library, Professor THOMAS E. CASSIDY, of the University’s Department of English, reviewed the latest novel of fellow-prof RICHARD SULLIVAN. Cassidy called First Citizen Sullivan’s best novel and placed the book in the classic-tragic tradition. “It’s a novel of outrage for it shows the suffering which the main character causes his family and community. Likewise it is a study of how these people react to their suffering.” Cassidy said First Citizen is violent in some respects but that its violence doesn’t offend. . . .
JAMES E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce, spoke at a Waldorf-Astoria dinner meeting of the National Industrial Conference Board in New York last week. He said that the American business leader must “reestablish public confidence in the integrity, capacity and ability of American private enterprise.” He charged the government with stepping out of its role of servant to assume that of master and challenged the business leader to dispel “the fog of suspicion and distrust in which he has been forced to operate for the past 15 years, and probably for another four years. ...”
Captain ANTHONY L. DANIS, USN, commandant of the NROTC at Notre Dame, attended a meeting of the national NROTC conference last week. Accompanying Capt. Danis to the Chicago meeting was Rev. HOWARD KENNA, C.S.C., director of studies at Notre Dame. . . .
TOM CASSIDY
It's classic-tragic
27
Week's Student Council Meeting Finds Members Twittering Between Motions
A vacillating Student Council which started late and quit late, passed, unpassed, and twittered over nothingness in its meeting last Monday evening and night. The first motion which was fussed over, was one which would have allowed the Rebel Club to repeat its charity-inspired Mardi Gras dance. But after much chat the motion was tabled until an investigation could be made.
The next move haggled over was one made to grant to the Married Students’ Maternity Fund the sum of $250. Following many long minutes of squabbling, Lou Di Giovanni moved that the motion be tabled and his motion finally passed.
Then Father- Kehoe gave a very nice talk on the value of charities and how much each one should be allowed to get from the students.
Shortly thereafter a motion was made to grant to the Notre Dame bowling team the sum of $182.50 to cover neces
Take The Out of That
Trip From Farley To The Caf
GET QUICK RELIEF FROM DR. SCHOLL'S SHOES
sary expenses in competing in the intercollegiate bowling league. It was passed after two unsuccessful attempts to table the motion.
At this point a fellow named Brady made a very stirring speech condemning the action of providing funds for a bowling team but refusing to appropriate funds for the immeasurably more noble purpose of encouraging married students to have families.
Unmoved, the council proceeded on its devious way. A motion to open the lot next to the Rockne Memorial to off-campus students for parking was passed, subject to approval and administration plans. A petition signed by 1,018 men was read and its request, the holding of the freshman elections was granted by a now-generous council. The publicity committee of the Blue Circle was directed to carry out the election “in the approved manner.”
. At this point a motion was made to the effect that the council’s approval of funds for the bowling team be reconsidered. The motion passed. The original motion was then up for a vote and it failed to pass by a margin of 11-6. There are 23 members on the council.
Concluding the evening’s plethora of details were moves to: wonder- what happened to the Victory dance decorations last Saturday; let another- organization sell flowers on campus; let a student sell slacks on campus; to investigate nearly everything ever brought up before the council; and a move to adjourn the meeting. The last one was the only one voted on. It passed after two hours and 30 minutes had elapsed.
Father Cavanaugh
(Continued from Page 17)
him. He has been guest speaker at innumerable Rotary club luncheons, civic organizations and Catholic groups. His home town welcomed him back to a testimonial dinner last year.
But to Father Cavanaugh, Notre Dame comes first. And although he doesn’t get to see many students, he is vitally concerned with their problems. “I, as well as all the administrators at Notre Dame, realize that there has to be continual adjustments as to matters of policy concerning the student body. The problems of discipline and increased student government are two major issues of the day of which we are keenly aware.”
The citizens of Notre Dame don’t have to worry about what’s going on in town hall. There’s a bigger and better Notre Dame being built there.
Foot troubles can take all the fun out of life — make you irritable, sap your energy, seriously impair your efficiency at work. Decide today to . get relief. Slip your feet into a pair of Dr. Scholl's Shoes. They're scientifically designed to give you miles of real walking pleasure!
We have everything for the relief of common foot troubles — complete under one roof. Trained attendants and private fitting rooms. Come in today!
RARE OPPORTUNITY!
STUDY . . . TRAVEL
" SPAIN
Dr. Scholl
Foot Comfort Shop
TELEPHONE 4-7471
215 WEST WASHINGTON
BARCELONA GROUP 65 DAYS JUNE 29, 1949
MALAGA GROUP 65 DAYS JULY 2, 1949
Sponsored by: UNIVERSITY OF AAADRID For Information Write SPANISH STUDENT TOURS 500 Fifth Ave., N. Y. 18, N. Y.
28
The Scholastic
French Priest Pleads For Charity to Jews
Speaking on “The Jewish Question and the Catholic Apostolate Abi’oad” in the Law Auditorium last Monday evening, the Rev. M. Leroux, of the Congregation of Our Lady of Zion, emphatically stressed the need for the conversion of Israel, alluded to in St. Paul’s epistle to the Romans. This could be brought about, he said, only through the efforts and prayers of Catholics and by a special exercise of charity toward a race that has suffered at Christian hands for many centuries.
The figure of Our Lord for the first time in history since the time of the apostles now occupies a place of respect among Jewish writers such as Sholem Asch and Franz Werfel, he said, and is one of the signs showing Catholics the necessity for revising their attitude of indifference and antagonism toward them to one of true Christian love.
Another special sign, Father Leroux added, is the conversion of Alphonse Ratisbonne, Jewish co-founder of the Fathers of Zion, to whom our Lady ap
peared in the 19th century and who was baptized eleven days later. Of Our Lady’s approximately forty appearances since 1830, Father Leroux pointed out, it was in this instance alone that she appeared to an adult male, and the fact that Ratisbonne was a Jew indicates the mercy of God toward His chosen people and serves as an example to the present generation of Catholics.
Father Leroux is currently touring the country to acquaint American Catholics with the work of the Fathers and Sisters of Zion in France and other countries. He expressed a desire that a house of the Congregation of Our Lady of Zion be established in the United States in the neai- future.
i- rS The Buckingham
* * L it as a first choice
McCue Lecture Tonight Lists Naval Bureau Chief
Vice-Admiral Edward L. Cochrane, USN (retired), chief of the Bureau of Ships in the United States Navy during World War II, will deliver the fifth annual Martin McCue Lecture tonight, it was announced by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame
Admiral Cochrane will speak on “Engineering in the Modem Navy” at 7:30 p. m. in the Engineering Building. The Martin McCue Lectures at Notre Dame were established in memory of the late Dr. Martin J. McCue, first dean of the College of Engineering at Notre Dame.
SUEDE it's Wonderful!
The soft, tender comfort of excellent suede, coupled with exquisite, top-quality baby lamb fleece, make bedroom slippers de-luxe.
Unexcelled in workmanship and style, these slippers will make perfect Christmas gifts for your friends . . or for you.
Shown above:
#70—Ladies’ suede scuff with tip in brown or black suede. Lined in white, blue, pink, or beige lambskin Stitched leather soles and heels. Sizes 1-9 S5.95.
#73—Ladies’ brown suede slippers, iamb lined with cuff in the same beautiful colors as #70. Sizes 1-9 S6.5O.
#76—Men’s brown suede slippers, lamb lined and beige lamb cuff. Sizes 7-12. $6.95.
Mail Order Only Check or Money Order Send for our catalog.
SOEPEP SPECIALTIES CO.
370 Seventh Ave., N. Y. 1, N. Y.
Douq&zS Shoes
W. L. DOUGLAS fSHOE CO., BROCKTON 15, MASS.
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Mail Orders Filled Promptly
Dec. 3, 1948
29
Rose & Katz
for
ARROW
Ifs Adler's
for
ARROW
M TIE CORNEA... ttKNIMN ( MMN6RM
Good News for
i
)
NIGHT OWLS!
Rvsc s Katz
I % FQR MEN AND I ^.YOUNC MEN
SOUTH BEND 7. INDIANA
Look to
Gilbert’s for ARROW
ARROW DRESS SHIRTS
Recommended
for proms and
Shoreham $6.50
The Kirk $6. 50
glee club concerts, these smart and comfortable Arrows are perfect for college formal wear.
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
30
The Scholastic
Letters
(Continued from Page 3)
lost their sense of humor. . . . But you, Mr. Editor, still have yours . . . this leads me to think that you are not a veteran. . . . I’ll be looking forward to a rousing laugh from you on Memorial Day lest the mournful notes of Taps should overcome us all and make us foolish enough to remember such places as Bataan, Anzio, and Omaha Beach.
Jim Curran Morrissey Hall
Dear Editor:
. . . Armistice Day was not only a day that brought about the end of the war but also brought about the end to the death of the finest men in the world, the American soldiers and sailors. . . . Stick to ridiculing screen plays and leave history alone.. . .
Two Veterans
Dear Editor:
. . . The Scholastic reached the acme of arrogant journalism. . . . Notre Dame spirit is not represented by dissipated personalities. . . . Face the issue — don’t avoid it by use of the dastardly slam....
Rudy Unger Zahm Hall
Those men are dead (and forgotten by a lot of the brass).
Our apologies to Messrs. Venner and Galvin for our curt comment in the last issue. The answer should have inchided a reference to the above opinion. Unfortunately, the last four lines of the comment ivere deleted in the composing room.—Editor.
A Lean Thanksgiving
Dear Editor:
... As an average Notre Dame student, I have nothing against going to classes, or walking 32.3 miles a week doing it, but last night I had a thought. St. Mary’s has a Thanksgiving vacation; Purdue has a Thanksgiving vacation; everyone has a Thanksgiving vacation. Why don’t we? It can’t be that we start school late, as almost every college in the country begins after we do. It can’t be that we have extra time at Christmas, because St. Mary’s gets out five days ahead of us, and comes back only one day early. In fact, those of us who don’t live in Indiana will be lucky to make it home for midnight Mass. It can’t be that we have extra time between semesters or at Easter, because state universities get both, and a spring vacation to boot. It can’t be that we get
out early, because most colleges and universities get out before we do.
Therefore, what is it?
I guess we get our money’s worth in extra class sessions, but my old Blue Jacket’s Manual used to say something about all work and no play making Jack a dull boy.
Considering the date, this may seem to be just another case of locking the bam after the horse is gone, but there will be another Thanksgiving next year, and I think the Scholastic, the Student Council, or someone with a little authority ought to try getting us more time off. How about it? . . .	'
Jack McHale 164 Cavanaugh
Roger Is a Dummy
Dear Mr. Scholastic:
I would like to say that I don’t like some of the letters that you print in the Letters column sometimes, especially last week when I saw one which was written by a fellow who don’t seem to no much English, Roger O’Keefe. For the first thing it don’t bring up the opinion of Notre Dame students in people’s mind when they see letters in the Scholastic like that one written by a fellow
To all interested jjarties:
All this started over an innocent remark made in the Calendar of Nov. 5 which suggested pausing a moment to pay tribute to the men who failed to return from the Pentagon. To me, it meant this: The Pentagon was a symbol of red tape, of Army brass-hats. One who failed to return from the Pentagon was one still involved in the super-regimentation of the Army or one who couldn’t get out of the Army way of thinking. Bill Mauldin’s Willie and Joe (in civilian life) have continually poked fun at these brass-buttons-on-civilianclothes soldiers. In no way was the remark meant to slam those who died.
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
"Rosie's." Here You'll Always Enjoy the Italian Accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 501 NORTH NILES
-----------SAVE-----------SPECIAL----------SAVE —
Longine -Wittnauer Watches
A representative of the Donald Bruce Company will be at the Bookstore for one day, Wednesday, December 6, offering 34 varieties of Longine-Wittnauer watches and delicate diamond rings at special Army-Navy post-exchange prices. Savings up to 30 per cent on some items.
Diamond Rings
Dec. 3, 1948
31
Corsages-
FOR THAT DANCE
Flowers for All Occasions
Flowers Wired to Every City and Town in the World
South Bend Floral Co.
114 So. Michigan	Phone 3-8227

0
"Goats don’t talk...
It ain’t fitting.
"Neither is your coat,” I fire right back. "Look for my
picture in the next coat you
buy. Mt. Rocks fit humans like you.
It’s done with new ideas in coat design.”
Off he pops to a Mt. Rock store. When I catch up, he’s already wearing a good-looking Mt. Rock. He says: "Sir, you are a goat full of
the milk of human kindness.”
from Notre Dame who don’t seem to no much English and he gets taught here, to.
I remember when I wasn’t at school here but I was in a high school in Elmhurst, Illinois, when I use to read the Scholastic’s in our library during a study period back in high school. So maybe other people what don’t go to school here will get the wrong idea, and that we don’t get learned much grammar up here at school.
I suggest that you don’t print know more stuff which ain’t grammaticly right.
Larry Anipol 310 St; Edward’s Hall
The AP Should Get a Comptometer -
Dear Editor:
... No wonder Fritz Crisler won’t play us. We used comparative scores and proved that ND is 261 points better than Michigan. . . .
Jack McGoldrick, 123 Sorin Ken Donoghue, 123 Alumni
Sorry we haven’t space far the whole chain; it involves half the teams in the country.—Editor.
Numbers Game
Dear Editor:
Congratulations to you and your staff for the insertion of hall phone list in your Nov. 12 issue, but I remember when complete directories of all campus phones were issued for each hall phone. Do you think the Scholastic could cause action that would renew this practice plus the addition of South Bend directories to all pay phones?
Dalton J. O’Sullivan 122 Dillon Hall
Here’s a starter!
Moral: Be kind to yourself. Try a MT. ROCK, they fit. Have a fit today. $50 to $125.
1.	Alumni 3-0378	8.	Lyons ____ 3-0621
2.	Badin _______ 3-0743	9.	Morrissey___ 3-0458
3.	Breen-Phillips _ 3-0506	10.	St. Edward’s 3-0354
4.	Cavanaugh ___ 3-0466	11.	Sorin ____ 3-0591
5.	Dillon ______ 3-0426	12.	Walsh ____ 3-0707
6.	Farley ______ 3-0487	13.	Zahm  3-0356
7.	Howard _____ 3-0441
15% discount allowed to all Notre Dame men through the month of December on any readymade suit or coat or tailored garment. Consult our campus representatives for further information. Gus Cifelli, Pete Francken, Tom Tierney, Mike Ivers, Max Gabreski, John Clynes and Tom McGuire.	■
PARKER - WINTERROWD, INC.
115i/2-l N. Main St., Upstairs South Bend, Ind.
A Ferstel in the Streets
Dear Editor:
Your picture of the Scholastic photographer in a cage with a lion is obviously a fake.
While it is obvious that the photographer is a fake, it seems quite probable that he is really another lion dressed up to look like a photographer. This is confirmed by the phony name you give to the alleged cameraman. Ferstel spelled backwards is Letsref, which, as every student of the Congo knows, is the native name for lion.
You may fool some of the students but not me — for I am a graduate student.
Dale Francis Off-Campus
Francis spelled backward is Sicnarf.
—Editor.	"x
32
The Scholastic
Freshman Sends Browser to Wall
Dear Editor:
In the last issue of Scholastic your columnist Max A. Browser took aim and fired a blast at what he considered a sluggish freshman class. But he almost missed his target.
We freshmen will be the first to admit that class activities have been non-existent to date, but we have looked beneath the surface for the reason, whereas Max obviously has not.
Without class officers, there can be no class action and we must wait until elections are held by the student groups responsible. Until then we are helpless to help ourselves.
However, we did like the “flavor of Notre Dame spirit.” The Freshman YCS collected 1000 eager signatures on a petition to the Student Council for freshman elections, and action has been promised immediately.
Look to the real cause, Max. Give us the chance to organize that we are clamoring for and then pass your judgment.
J. F. Kelleher, Jr.
Freshman Section, YCS 433 Breen-Phillips
Perhaps Max might better have censured the Council for not having freshman elections before notv.—Editor.
It’s
Adler’s
for
Van Heusen
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
Let’s dress!
Look to
^GILBERT'S
for VAN HEUSEN
HERE — You are always a Guest before you are a Customer.
Van Tux
Van Dress §5.95 each
White tie or black, Van Heusen dresses you for Hie occasion. These shirts boast snowy white pique fronts and French cuffs, fine handkerchief-cloth bodies, and Van Heusen magic sewmanshipin every quality detail. Van Tux is collar attached, ■wide-spread and regular models. Van Dress is neckband only, with stiff bosom. Your dealer has these hard-to-get specials now!
Youll find college men’s collar favorites in
Van Hensen
the world’s smartest PHILLIPS-JONES CORP.. NEW YORK 1. N. Y.
“VAN HEUSEN” IS A TRADE MARK REGISTERED IN THE U. S. PATENT OFFICE
Dec. 3, 1948
33
Browser’s Column
By MAX A. BROWSER
A Little Student Activity
We have been barking for a little activity among students around here for many an issue now. We got a sample of same the other night in Washington Hall, and if that’s the kind of action students content themselves with we are sorry we opened our typewriter.
It all took place during opening night of The Milky Way— a student production now making WH’s ancient boards squeak with delight. There is a dog in this play which does a rather good job although he flubs a line here and there. It took much daring on the part of the producers of The Milky Way to bring a dog on the stage — for obvious reasons.
While the dog was performing opening night a few adolescent comics started baiting it from the audience issuing forth the usual sounds which attract dogs. The dog was only a dog — he answered by running around the stage in much confusion, breaking up half the act and causing much embarrassment to the players and much discomfort to those who had come to see the play.
These activities are sponsored by the same element in our student body which gives such juvenile performances at the Saturday night movies here on campus, or which makes crude remarks in the stands during ball games. But they are here and, since there seems no way of getting rid of them, we must put up with their vulgarity and high school humor.
A small thing like the demonstration at Washington Hall can set back student activities here a long way. When it happens at a pep rally or a lecture by a visiting dignitary (those we get) it can do deep hann to the University and cast a bad reflection on its student body.
If these youngsters can’t mature within themselves let them keep quiet or stay out of student functions. They are doing no one any good.'
It AU Comes Out in the Wash
There is to be derived (if one is esthetic) a gruesome kind of humor in the operation of the Notre Dame laun
dry. Although it has never been publicly printed, there must be some sort of a “progressive” schedule set up within the inner circles of the wash wonders on the return of the ND student’s laundry. At the beginning of the semester you and I receive our laundry in neat little bundles within a week. Now with the semester 11 weeks gone we wait two weeks and are then lucky if we don’t have to trudge down to the laundry itself and pick up the pieces. Such is life at Notre Dame!
The Scholastic contacted, the manager of the laundry who replied that they were handling about 16% more student laundry than last year and also 130 extra bundles of Community laundry. All this at no increase in equipment. Some 140,00.0 pieces of personal
RULES FOR CHESTERFIELD HUMOR MAGAZINE CONTEST
1. Identify the 3 subjects in back cover ad. AU dues are in ad.
2. Submit answers on Chesterfield wrapper or reasonable facsimile to this pubbeatioa office.
3. First ten correct answers win one carton of Chesterfield Cigarettes each.
4. Enter as many as you like, but one Chesterfield wrapper or fw-whwn* must accompany each entry.
5. Contest closes midnight, one week after this issue's publication date. New contest next issue.
6. Answers and names of winners win appear in the next issue.
7. AU answers become the property of Chesterfield.
8. Decision of judges wiU be final.
QUESTIONS
My dues: a white mitten, two cartons of cheer; I’m held while I hold, and I warm you all year. Socked in the green and partly concealed, My last five of twdve is a meadow revealed. At Christmas time a famous slogan with central word revised,
I emphasize the pleasure of giving a gift that satisfies.
ANSWERS WILL APPEAR IN THE NEXT ISSUE OF YOUR MAGAZINE
LAST MONTHS ANSWERS & WINNERS
A The field of red is the red scarf which Tyrone Power is wearing. On it one can recognize the mask of tragedy, the classic mask of Thespis. So the answer is TYRONE POWER'S SCARF.
B The shamrock and the blarney stone are symbols of “THE LUCK OF THE IRISH.”
C Ten to the sixth (power) equals 1,000,000 (one million). Ten to the zero equals I (one). ANSWER: Chesterfields satisfy millions, they'll satisfy you.
WINNERS...
laundry are done each week for the student body. For the present, students should not expect laundry in less than ten days. 1
Here and There
The senior dance committee is to be congratulated on two sensible moves in connection with the senior dance: 1) the price of bids at $3.60 and 2) the loca-cation of the dance in the Dining Hall. . . . WND also deserves some sort of an award for their great work this year. . . . longer hours, better programs . . . and a really professional set of announcers to make this the most progressive student activity unit on campus. . . . Frank Venner’s new request show seems a particular success but why the restriction against using names? . . . Names, Frank C., make news, in case you haven’t heard. . . . Soph Cotillion proclaimed a great success by all and again teaches dance committeemen the hard-learned lesson that a danceable band is essential number one in these affairs. . . . The sophomore class continues to lead the way on campus. . . . Understand last week’s column incensed the frosh class. ... If it gets them mad enough to do something, we’ll all be happy. . . .
34
The Scholastic
COLLEGE
In recent weeks, this column has appeared periodically in the pages of Scholastic, featuring more or less original material, in direct violation of previous columns. There has come to my ears a constant rumbling from the College Parade-reading element of our university, and it is to the tune of “Where are the jokes? We don’t want no youmor . . . we want jokes.” So, to appease these readers, I put down a few jokes culled out of the week’s harvest of exchanges.
He: (at movies) Can you see all right?
She: Yes.
He: Is there a draft on you?
She: No.
He: Seat comfortable?
She: Yes.
He: Mind changing places?
Incidentally, that same joke was printed in the column (now happily defunct) called Soph Soap in the Scholastic some three years ago. It was taken then from a Scholastic of the 1920’s, and it turns up now from the Syracuse University Syracusan.
And another: and this is for the engineers . . .
“Watt-hour you doing there?”
' “Eating currents,” the apprentice said, “anode you’d catch me at it.”
“Wire you insulate this morning?” asked the boss.
“Leyden bed. Wouldn’t that jar you?” “Can’t your relay-shunts get you up?” “Amperently not.”
“Fuse going to do that every day you can go ohm,” said the boss, and the circuit was broken right there.
And a pun to close the evening’s festivities . . .
Judge: You admit that you drove over this man with a loaded truck. What have you to say in defense?
Offender: I didn’t know it was loaded.
Here’s one that has popped up from time to time that we always liked. It seems that three hermits lived in a cave and spent all day staring at the wall, never speaking. One day, a stallion ran past the entrance to the cave. Six months later, one hermit mumbled “That was a pretty brown horse.”
Two years later another hermit said
PARADE
“That wasn't a brown horse, it was white.”
Eighteen months later, the third hermit got up and stalked toward the entrance of the cave. “If it’s going to be this constant bickering, I’m leaving,” he said.
I was just ready to close up shop when I discovered this item in the University of Virginia Cavalier Daily, dealing with dress. I quote: “Time was when the uniforms for these occasions (annual football invasions of the Nawth) was a black knit tie, Confederate flag, and Southern drawl. But to-
day, the black knit tie is, to mix a metaphor, old hat. It has given way to a piece of yard goods that is the cussed-est thing to tie you ever saw: the black string tie, like Gran’pappy used to wear befo’ de wah.”
Fine Repairing •
Nationally Advertised WATCHES. DIAMONDS. JEWELRY
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
LET US MAKE YOU A GOOD DANCER!
Fox Trot	a	Waltz
Rumba	"	Tango
Jitterbug Samba
Alice and George Davis
In just one lesson we’ll show you that you can dance even if you have never danced before. Discover how quickly and easily you learn the new steps.
NEW POPULARITY
Good dancers have the best time. Be one of them and see what happens. . . . Compliments, popularity, come your way.
----------free------------
Half Hour Lesson
Phone for appointment or come in today.
Phone 4-0801
345 Lincoln Way West South Bend
Open Daily 1-10 P. M.
Saturday 10 A. M.-6 P. M.
Former Dance Director cf
ARTHUR MURRAY STUDIOS
CHICAGO
Dec. 3, 1948
35
X
^ght UMS
Give em by the Carton!
Give ’em to everyone who smokes—the family, the
neighbors, your friends—everyone who s been good to
you all year. Chesterfields are the best tip I can give
you at Christmas time or any time. When you give
Chesterfields you sock ’em with a load of good cheer.