What is Time?
I ask’d an aged man, a man of cares, Wrinkled, and curved, and white with hoary hairs;
“ Time is the warp of life,” he said, “ Oh tell The young, the fair, the gay, to weave it well! ” ■ .
I asked the ancient venerable dead, Sages who wrote, and warriors who bled;
From the cold grave a hollow murmur flow’d, “ Time sowed the seed we reap in this abode 1 ”
I asked a dying sinner ere the tide
Of life had left his veins—“ Time I ” he replied, “ I’ve lost it! Ah, the treasure! ’’—and he died.
I asked the golden sun and silver spheres, Those bright chronometers of days and years;
They answered, “ Time is but a meteor glare/’ And bade us for eternity prepare.
I asked the seasons, in their annual round Which beautify or desolate the ground;
And they replied, (nd oracle more wise,) “ ’Tis folly’s blank, and wisdom’s highest prize! ”
I asked a spirit lost, but oh, the shriek
That pierced my soul! I shudder while I speak!
It cried, “ A particle! a speck! a mite Of endless years, duration infinite! ”—	.
Of things inanimate, my dial Id
Consulted, and it made me this reply:
“ Time is the season fair of living well, The path of glory, or the path of hell.”
I asked my Bible, and methinks it said, “ Time is the present hour, the past has fled;
Live! live to-day! to-morrow never yet
On any human being rose or set.”
I asked old Father Time himself at last, But in a moment he flew swiftly past:—■ His chariot was a cloud, the viewless wind His noiseless steeds, which left no trace behind.
I asked the mighty angel, who shall stand
One foot on sea, and one on solid land;
“By Heaven,” he cried, “I swear, the mystery’s o’er;
Time was,” he cried, “but time shall be no more!”
X. Y. Z;
Father Burke.
(Since the close of the: last volume of the Scholastic, one of the brightest ot the bright stars in the ecclesiastical . firmament has disappeared. The renowned pulpit orator, Very Rev. Thomas N. Burke, O- P-, passed away to another and a better life, on the 2d of July. A sketch of- the life of the distinguished dead cannot but be profitable and interesting to our readers. The following notice is coil-densed from the pages of the Ave Maria.—Ed.)
Since the opening of the thirteenth century, when the great St. Dominic founded a religious order “ for preaching and the Cure of souls,” the Dominican body has never ceased to be prolific of ' illustrious men. Bright names shine out along the manifold pages of its annals from the far past —the names of men distinguished for vast acquirements, like Albertus Magnus, or noted for genius combined with sanctity, like Thomas Aquinas and Raymond de Pennafort. But, above all, the Order of Preachers has been peculiarly rich in sons endowed with the gift of eloquence. For six long centuries hardly a generation has passed away without the opportunity given to it of listening spellbound to the accents of at least one great Dominican orator. Within our own time the fame of two’ has been wafted all over the civilized world, until their names are familiar as household words. One of these was the great French son of St. Dominic, the late Pere Lacordaire; the other was Father Thomas Burke.
It< was in the old “Citie of the Tribes” that Father Tom Burke first saw the light, in the year 1830. In the same quaint old city he spent the days of infancy, of childhood, and of youth. It was there, in the schools of Erasmus Smith, he received the rudiments of knowledge, on which his own industry, assisted by his genius, enabled him " to build the vast superstructure of his maiiifold acquirements. It was in Galway, too, that as ai boy he was brought into contact with the altar, while' serving Mass for the sons of St. Dominic in the Dominican Church, and received his first imprestions of the famous Order of which he was des-sined to be so distinguished an ornament.
Like most lads that are worth anything, young Tom Burke was overflowing with vitality, which found a vent in boyish enterprises that failed to commend themselves to the staid sense of many an elderly Galwegian. His exploits procured' for him distinction among the neighbors as a “very wild boy.” But there was nothing of evil in these
2	. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
explosions of jiotous spirits; and even those who disapproved of the adventure often smiled kindly on the black-haired boy.
The Repeal agitation was in full swing while Tom Burke was passing through the first half of his teens. Speeches were being made on every side; the air was thick with oratory; the papers were crammed with the utterances of the prominent politicians of the time; and our readers need scarcely be reminded that among those politicians were some of the most stirring speakers that ever sought to rouse the souls of their fellow-men. Young Burke’s spirit moved before a new impulse. He became the “orator” of his schoolmates and associates; and attracted the attention of his elders by a faculty of continued speech and a richness of vocabulary which were deemed so surprising for his years that people predicted for “young Tom Burke ” a career in the political arena as prominent as that of most of those who were then distinguished in public affairs. Notwithstanding his high spirits, he cherished an ardent love for the religious life, and the sense within him of having a gift of speech only inspired him with the desire to consecrate it to the service of God.
In 1847, when political excitement was at its height, he turned his back deliberately on the world, and, being then but seventeen years of age, set his face steadily toward the cloister. What such a step must have cost him at such a time we may imagine if we remember that Father Burke loved his country with a passionate love second only to his love for God; and that his aspirations for her honor and welfare were barely less strong than his devotion to the Church and the glorious Order of which he became a member. . Famine and fever were desolating the island of. his heart at the time he arrived in Rome; and we may be sure that nothing save a compelling sense - of duty could urge an active, ardent spirit like his away from his native shore at such a moment. But, once entered on the straight path, he never faltered. From Rome he went on to Perugia, where the desire of his heart was satisfied by his reception as a novice into the Order of St.. Dominic, in the novitiate established in that old Italian town. It was here, in the early days of his novitiate, he began the study . of philosophy. Thence he was transferred to Rome, where he studied theology at the College of the Minerva - and Santa Sabina. For five laborious years he remained in Italy, increasing his store of knowledge daily; and at length it pleased the superiors of his Order to send him to -England.* Thither he went, in obedience to their bidding; and there, in the land of his country’s oppressors, the holy or-, der of priesthood was conferred upon him.
. Then began the active part of his career.' . From that time, as weeks and months and years passed by, his fame was ever increasing, as the “Prince of Preachers,” a title given to him by Pius IX.. Innumerable demands were made upon him for sermons in all parts, of his native land; and in Rome, for five consecutive years, he preached the Lenten sermons from the pulpit of
Sante Maria del Popolo—which had been distinguished by a line of great men such as Cardinals Wiseman and Manning.
The chief events in connection with his memo-. rable visit to the Western hemisphere are still fresh in the minds of our readers: that, passing quietly from place to place, wherever he preached the churches were thronged with eager multi- 1 tudes, anxious to hear the gloriously-gifted friar; that, where some of his unfortunate people, having succumbed to the evil influences around them,	|
listening to his voice, were brought again into the	■
fold of the Good Shepherd; that, by his admira-	.
ble lectures on “Faith and Fatherland,” he	;
strengthened the faith and confirmed the patriotism of his exiled brethren; that, when the slanderer Fronde stood up in free America to malign and vituperate an oppressed race, and sought to kindle in American bosoms the malignant flame which burned in his own breast, he was met front to front, as it were, by a tongue immeasurably more powerful and more pure than his own, and compelled to slink away like a beaten hound: these things, and all that they include, need no recapitulation here; they are engraven deep on the hearts of this generation.
Nor is there need to dwell on the subsequent	I
movements. It suffices to say that he returned to	I
his beloved country on the 7th of March, 1873; and that he went again into the old groove— preaching, lecturing, travelling, at a rate that would inevitably kill a man of ordinary strength 1 in a few months.
At last all Ireland was stricken with pain and grief at the news which leaked abroad, that the ' beloved Father Tom was ill—that his illness was serious—that, in fact, it was’possible it might be mortal. From thousands and thousands of hearts, lofty and humble, prayers to the heavenly throne went up morning and night for his recovery. Those prayers were heard; for, slowly indeed, but surely, he rallied, and began to recover strength. But labor and mortification were both long forbidden by his^medical advisers, until the 'idea began to be entertained that Father Tom’s . last public discourse had been spoken. Not so, however. Under the influence of care, rest, and nourishment, his vital forces gathered and renewed their strength, and he was able to commence anew his arduous round of labors. Subse- • quently, his strength failed again; but as soon as ; he could rise from his bed, he wished to be “ about his Father’s business?’ He died “in the harness” »j —while on his way to preach the dedication sermon in a new, church in Glasgow.,	£
It would, of course, be impossible to convey by	v
any written description even the barest notion of	.
Father Burke’s oratory,, but it had some salient features that may be glanced at. It produced the same overwhelming effect on the loftiest mind as on the lowest. The pride of . the intellectual man was abased before a-genius which was solid and logical in the highest degree; which amassed facts and arguments with a precision of arrangement •and power that can scarcely ever be surpassed;
‘	' V •	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
which exhibited a faculty of illustration that seemed to be literally without limit, and which was unmistakably dominated by stupendous zeal. The unlettered man could do nothing but look up in admiration at the preacher who made plain to the humblest mind the highest truths of revelation, the evident earnestness of the speaker adding a L	force, for the absence of which no shifts or graces
|	could atone. Father Burke began his discourses
slowly, and on the lower tones of his voice'; but in a few minutes, warming with his theme, his voice rang out, exhibiting every variety of inflection ; the pace of his speech increased until it reached its normal speed: and then there was neither flagging nor faltering for a moment until the end was reached. He was an excellent linguist, and. could preach in several languages with ease and fluency.	.
A few words as to the character of Father Burke may fitly close this brief and imperfect memoir. He was as free from airs and affectations as Thomas a Kempis.. He loved children, and could never tire in striving to amuse them. AV hen the boys of the Dominican Orphanage of Denmark street were so fortunate as to secure Father Tom for a day, those poor little fatherless creatures were certain of having for a few hours the genuine sunshine ’ of mirth poured lavishly upon them, and the day was one the memory of which will be treasured by them all their lives. Father Tom, indeed, delighted in communicating j his own cheerfulness to all around him. His zeal, ' piety, and immense capacity for labor are already fully known; but it is not known how often he stood in the pulpit, lifting up the hearts of men to the contemplation of eternal things, while himself writhing in pain from the effects of a serious, internal lesion; nor is it known how often, in times of fast, after an hour or more in the pulpit of St. Saviour’s, he has returned without the slight-
' __________________
est refreshment to his convent at Tallaght, that he might keep intact the Rule of his Order. Patient and even cheerful endurance such as the facts last mentioned display, prove a man’s nobility and heroism more than scaling the breach or charging up to the cannon’s mouth. The ecclesiastical annals of Ireland are studded with brilliant names; but there are few among them more dear to the Irish race, and few that will longer be remembered, than that of the Very Rev. Thomas Burke, O. P.
Electric Lighting.
If any proof were needed that ours is indeed a progressive age, we should need only refer to the rapid advance made within the last few years in the various systems of electric illumination. Five years have not elapsed since the electric light was regarded as a great curiosity, and was rarely seen except in the laboratory of the chemist. Then it was produced by means of large, costly and troublesome batteries, and could not be depended upon for more than an hour or two at most, and
then even the light was flickering and unreliable.
Scarcely a decade has passed since the invention of the first successful dynamo-electric machine by M. Gramme, of Paris, and now dynamos of innumerable patterns are seen in every part of the country.
At the Centennial, electric light apparatus were exhibited, indeed; but only by two persons—M. Gramme, of Paris, and Mr. Wallace Farmer, of Ansonia, Conn. But the machines exhibited by those gentlemen could give no more than one light each, the subdivision of the current not yet having been effected. But even these lights were not steady, owing to the want of a properly constructed lamp.
Even at the International Exhibition in Paris, in 1878, little progress was witnessed. A few more generators of different types had been devised and a number of lamps patented, but still the problem of subdivision of the current had been but partially solved, as no more than four or five lights could be run on the same circuit. Even then they were anything but steady, and liable to go out at any moment. True, they attracted a great deal of attention at the time, but rather on account of their novelty than anything else. People flocked around the Palais Royal, the Arc de Triomphe, and wandered by the Rue de 1’Op^ra to witness the new light. They stood and admired it in the few depots and public buildings in which it had been introduced more as an experiment than anything else, but everyone could see at a glance that much remained to be done before the electric light could be considered as either economical or satisfactory.
The first real successful generator and lamp were invented by Mr. Charles Brush, of Cleveland. These were put on the market in the latter part of ’78; but little was seen or heard of them until ’79, when they began to attract general attention as the most efficient electric light apparatus that had until that time been devised. Indeed, so perfect was the work of Mr. Brush that, notwithstanding the numberless inventions in the line of electric machines and lamps since that time, the apparatus he at first patented still hold their own, although essentially the same as when first put on the market. '
But still great improvements have been made, notably within the last two or three years. At the Centennial, only two types of electro generators and five or six kinds of lamps were exhibited, but now the different varieties of lamps and dynamos run up into the hundreds.	-
The most successful and original inventors in the field of electric illumination so far have been M. Gramme, of Paris, Mr. Siemens, of England, and Messrs. Edison, Brush, Weston, Maxim and Van Depoele, of our own country. All of these, however, except Mr. Edison, are known for their systems of illumination by arc lights, whereas that of Mr. Edison is entirely different. Mr. Edison’s, lamp is nothing more than a small glass globe from which all the air has been exhausted, and in which is a small filament of carbon, which is
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
raised to incandescence when the current passes through it.
For illuminating large areas, parks, streets, public buildings, depots, factories, etc., the arc system is the most satisfactory, as it is certainly the most economical. For domestic purposes, however, Edison’s light is the only one so far devised that has met with any favor, or promises to supersede gas.
But still much remains to be done before cither the arc or incandescent light can be considered as ■o
perfected; but, judging from the progress made within the last few years, it is only a question of time—and of very short time, too—until all the difficulties in the way of a perfectly steady, reliable electric light are removed.
One of the great troubles in the ai c system arises from the impurities in the carbons used. When perfectly pure carbons can be obtained, then we may safely say that the great difficulty has been solved. There are now on the market a number of lamps and dynamos that we think would answer all the purposes for which they are intended if we only had such things as pure carbons. But we need not despair. These, like the rest, will come in due time.
Judging, however, from what has been effected in a short time, the apparatus that promises most in electric lighting is the accumulator or secondary battery, invented by Plants and improved on by Faure and others. If the system of electric storage be as rich in possibilities, as many think, we shall, a few years hence, see the electric current used not only for purposes of illumination, but also as a motive power in place of steam and other forms of energy.
The storage of electricity is already an accomplished fact; so also the successful application of the Edison lamp, for which the accumulators seemed to be specially designed. After a little more investigation and a few more expeiments we may hope to see, what the public has so long looked-for—a mild, subdued electric light that can be used instead of gas or the ordinary kerosene lamp, and which will be as safe and even safer than either the former or the latter, and as easily controlled as either.
There seems to be a general impression that the electric light is to be the light of the future, and from what we here see it would appear that that future is not far distant.
.	Electron.
Scepticism Unnatural.
Man begins'his career on earth by believing. . A helpless child, he places all confidence in those to .whose care he has been, intrusted. -What is, thought of the child who questions, the superior judgment of his parents? He is' regarded as a strange and despicable little being: yes, an unnatural child.	■ j
To show the beauty of filial confidence let us revert to the past. The Bible is teeming with incidents in proof of the pleasure manifested by Heaven at, the display, of this beautiful trait of
character. Isaac placed confidence in his father, though the latter, obedient to the commands of the Almighty, was preparing to sacrifice his only and beloved son. When Isaac asked his father what was to be sacrificed, Abraham replied: “ God will provide a sacrifice.” The infinite Disposer of all human events was so pleased to know that the Patriarch placed this confidence in Him, and that Isaac allowed himself to be bound on the sacrificial altar, that He deputed a heavenly messenger- to stay the arm of Abraham, uplifted to make the oblation of his child.
To come dowiT to facts of every-day life. A parent tells his child that a certain vial contains poison, and that he must not drink of it. The child believes his parent, and is almost afraid to look at the potion, much less to swallow it.
There are mischievous children, perverse and unruly by nature, who do exactly what their elders charge them to avoid, but we will confine ourselves to the rule, not to the exceptions. This confidence reposed by children in their parents, is the loveliest disposition of childhood.
Every child thinks his father and mother know everything, and he accepts their opinion as being without appeal; hence we see that incredulity is not a characteristic of childhood: that it is unnatural.
It is when the passions of the human heart are unfolding that want of confidence is betrayed; and when the soul is inflated with pride, when it has lost the beauty impressed thereon by the hand of its Creator, then does it begin to call in question the existence of a God, then does it doubt his tender direction of all that pertains to human existence.
It does not seem possible that man, a finite creature, would dare assume to measure the attributes and decrees of the Almighty Infinite Being by the narrow scale of human logic, yet we know this is ' done. Thus does insolent man employ the reason imparted to him by a loving Father.
The infidel' says, “ I do not believe in God, in hell, in heaven, in the soul.” He does not believe in a Creator, in punishment for sin, in rewards for virtue, in an undying existence for man. In what does he believe ? In the evidence of his own stolid senses, and scarcely in that. Rejecting divine an- . thority, he rejects, he despises the truths, and the only truths that are worthy of acceptance.. His doctrine is purely materialistic. He attributes the astounding- wonders of the universe to chance. He knows that law governs the universe, and he ignorantly calls this' law “ chance.” Everything in nature suggests the Incomprehensible, but the unfortunate skeptic seems to have, a heart incapable of responding.to these suggestions. He acknowledges the effect, but denies the existence of - o	- 1
the invisible Cause. This is illogical. Who would wish to defend this kind of incredulity? Every, thinker-must see. the. folly of so doing. Immediately must we acknowledge the existence of One, Eternal Cause, who has created all things; who commands the sun to shine, the heavenly bodies to move in their orbits, and even the heart of incredulous, unthinking man-to pulsate. "
.	.	H. K.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
■ Literary Renown.
“ Young man, learn to write! ” “ Seek to shine in literature! ” It is said that the simplest food is most wholesome ; and if you entertain any particular desire to be put upon such fare—if you want to be held to it as a matter of necessity—you have only to become a poet, or “ literary man.” A very practical and long-headed individual he evidently was who said, “Would that my enemy would write a book 1 ” Only do that, and you will be almost sure to realize something akin to the fate of the martyrs, or the forlorn cstheticism of “Job’s turkey.” The politicians, corpulent, champagne-filled and beef-eating ponderosities, will single you out, look at you from a safe distance, regard you with as much suspicion as Caesar exhibited in the case of Cassius, and finally denounce you most sneer-ingly and scornfully as a “ literary feller.” The newspaper critics, well-paid and well-fed workers on salaries, will feel that they are in duty bound to intimate that you are “ a crank,” and that your writing is more insipid than the coffee of a four-dollar-a-week boarding house. Do not apprehend for a moment that your surroundings will have a tendency to pamper you. On the contrary, they will be very likely to inspire a feeling of abject humility. They will enable you, perhaps, to write realistically about “ sleeping in garrets,” “ going hungry,” etc., entering into the spirit of the unfortunate Chatterton, or “ Oliver Twist. ” Dean Swift thought he would “ die atop ” after he began to dabble in literature. If he lived nowadays, and had entered upon a like voyage, he would probably have no ground for such a dire apprehension. He might die, it is true, but there would be little danger of dying “ atop.” He would be more likely to die “ amidship.” Sagacious, indeed, was he who exclaimed, “ Would that my enemy would write a book.” Why does not “some friend of truth” seek to induce Eli Perkins to become an’author— “ to write a book? ”	H.
Art, Music, and. Literature.
—It is said that the sum of $140,000 has already been sunk in Our Continent.
—A F rench prose translation of some of Shelley’s lyrics will be published next winter.
-—Bartholdi’s statue of Liberty for Bedloe’s Island will be completed in November.
—An international exhibition of journals will be open at the old mint, Brussels, from the 1st to the 15th of September.
—The Scribners have sold to Ivison, Blakeman, Taylor & Co., their entire list of school text-books, and will hereafter not undertake to publish educational works.
—It is understood that Grace Greenwood (Mrs. Lippincott), who is now in London, is engaged
* on a biography of Queen Victoria for the use of American children.
—The late Louis Veuillot, the famous French journalist, left a large number of letters and manuscripts, from which his brother will publish six ' volumes of selections.
—Richard Pohl, the well-known musical writer and champion of Richard Wagner and Franz Liszt, has just published a, volume entitled “ Studies and Reminiscences of Franz Liszt,” being a collection of articles written by him since 1853.
—Gieslich Rath Daisenberger, author of the o J
“ Passion Play,” has just died at Oberammergau, at the age of 85. He was a Benedictine monk, and the son of a peasant. In early life he became an enthusiastic lover of music and the religious drama, writing many religious plays. He was a man of noble and commanding aspect.
—The library of St. Mary’s Academy, at Notre ■ Dame, has been enriched by the possession of a rare volume of the writings of St. Bonaventure, probably of the first, or one of the first editions. It was presented to the Sisters by the Rev. A. A. Lambing, of Pittsburgh. The book is dated 1481, and is bound in the style of the time—in boar’s hide with heavy wooden covers and brass clasps,
—A new work by Mr. Henry Lasserre, entitled “ The Miraculous Episodes of Lourdes,” has just appeared in Paris. It is a continuation of the author’s world-famed book, “ Our Lady of Lourdes” —a series of masterly sketches recounting in the most graceful language the glory and goodness of God, and the power and patronage of the Blessed Virgin. Arrangements have already been made for an English translation of this work, which we shall publish at an early day.—Ave Maria.	.
—A reprint of the Philosophy of St. Thomas, by Cosmo Alemanni, of the Society of Jesus, is about to be issued by the publishing houses of Pustet, of Ratisbon, and Lethielleux, of Paris. The work bears the title: “ Summa totius Philosophise D. Thomae Aquin, Doctoris Angelici doctrina ad-ductis ipsius Sancti verbis, et locis, unde desumpta sunt, ad oram notatis.” The work had become exceedingly rare, and its republication will be a precious boon to the student of philosophy.
—Giovanni Meli, the artist, died at'his home in Chicago, on the Sth inst. The deceased came to Chicago in 186S, and was a member of the Academy of Designs. It>was he. who designed the large statue of the Blessed Virgin for the dome of our University here, which will soon be placed in position. Among his works were the -decorations of McVicker’s and Hooley’s theatres and the Palmer House. His last work was a group of three figures, representing “Music,” for -the opera house at Lima, Ohio. -
'—The following lines are the latest evidence of Leo XHI’s well known poetical taste:
“ Justitiam colui; certamina longa, labores, Ludibria, insidias, aspera quoquetuli; ' At Fidei vindex non flectar: pro grege Christi Dulce pati, ipsoque in carcere dulce mori.”
This nobler and^more Christian version of Horace’s “Dulce et decorum” was recently written
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
by the Holy Father at the foot of his own portrait, and presented by him to Professor Persichetti, who communicated it to the general meeting of the Catholic Young Men’s Societies of Italy, held recently in Verona.
—Probably the most singular curiosity in the book world is a volume that belongs to the family of the Prince de Ligne, and is now in France. It is entitled “ The Passion of Christ,” and is neither written nor printed. Every letter of the text is cut out of a leaf; and being interleaved with blue paper it is as easily read as the best print. The labor and patience bestowed in its completion must have been excessive, especially when the precision and minuteness of the letters are considered. The general execution in every respect is indeed admirable, and the volume is of the most delicate and costly kind.
—Baron Heinrich von Ferstel, the celebrated Viennese architect, died at Vienna on the 15th ult. A devoted son of the Church, he occupied the highest place in his chosen profession. One of his great and undying works was the construction of the Votive Church at Vienna. This work was entrusted to him when but twenty-four years old, having at that time given proofs of his wonderful genius. He had been lately selected to prepare the plans and designs for the new Cathedral at Westminster, and was engaged on this work when he was called away from earth—at the comparatively early age of fifty-four. The plans, however, for this new monument of Christian art are all completed and will very likely be carried out by his son, who is also a distinguished architect.
—The learned Dominican, Fra Henricus Denifle, noted throughout Germany for his critico-philo-logical writings, and one of the principal collaborators with Cardinal Zigliara, for the new Leonine edition of the works of St. Thomas, has just completed an extended tour through the celebrated libraries of Portugal and of Spain in quest of celebrated MSS. His perseverance has been rewarded with the discovery of many important documents, including twenty copies of the Summa of St. Thomas, dating from the thirteenth century. Many of these precious documents were found in the private library of King Alfonso XII., who willingly placed them at the disposal of the scholarly friar. . He is now continuing his researches in the no less public libraries of Germany.
—The old-style Irish harp was about four feet high,' and had no pedals, and was strung to the back with straps. The-one. belonging to King Brian Boroihme, killed at the battle of Clontarf, in 1014, still exists in the museum of Trinity College, Dublin. It is black with age. and polished, but now worm-eaten, and is adorned with silver ornaments. It was taken by his son, Teague, to Rome after the battle, and presented to the Pope with the crown and regalia. A succeeding Pope presented it to Henry VIII with the title of “Defender of the Faith,” and Henry gave it to the Earl of Clan-ricarde, in whose family it was. held until the begin-'
ning of the eighteenth century. It then passed through several hands until 1786, when the college became its owner.—Home Journal.
Books and Periodicals.
The Reporter’s Guide. Designed for Stu-o
dents in any Style of Phonography; in which are formulated for the first time in any work of the kind, Rules for the Contraction of Words, Principles of Phrasing, and Methods of Abbreviation. Abundantly illustrated. ■ By Elias Longley. i2mo, 24S pages, cloth, $2.00. Cincinnati: Robert Clarke & Co.
This is an original work, in harmony with the Eclectic Manual by the same author, but designed to aid students in any style of Phonography. It contains complete lists of Word-signs; 2,000 Contracted Words, with 10 Rules for Contraction, that enable the learner to remember them; 14 Principles, or Rules of Phrasing, followed by a General List of Phrases, Lists of Legal, Railroad and Commercial Phrases, 15,000 altogether; concluding with samples of Court Testimony, Legal Decisions, Speeches, Sermons, Amanuensis Work in the way of Correspondence, etc., in beautifully executed shorthand, with keys on opposite pages.
—Brainard's Musical World for August contains portraits of the lamented young singer, Litta, ' and Mathew Arbuckle, the great cornetist recently deceased, and Madame Julia Rive-King the dis- / tinguished pianiste. There are interesting articles on musical topics, correspondence, news, reports of teachers’ associations, etc. The musical selections include a new song, “ The Spider and the Fly,” and a choice English ballad; a fine piece for piano and violin, and two good piano solos. Price 15 cents, single copy; $1.50 per year. S. Brainard’s Sons, 241 to 242 Euclid ave., Cleveland, O.
—The American Catholic ^iiarterly Review for July contains able and interesting papers on the following questions: “The Catholic Doctrine of Marriage,” by Rev. H. A. Brown, D. D.; “ The Church of France and the Revolution,” by 'Kathleen O’Meara; “An: Old Biblical Problem Solved at Last,” by Rev. Simon Lebl, D. D.; “ Father Felix Varela,” by J.. I. Rodriguez; “Capital and Labor,” by Rt. Rev. James O’Connor, D. D.; “English Administration in Ireland | To-Day,” by Bryan J.'Clinche; “Converts— Theii* Influence and Work in this Country,” by John Gilmary Shea, LL. D.; “ The Alleged Fall I of Pope'Liberius,” by Rev. P. Ji-Harrold; “ The 1 New1 Sovereignty,” by F. A. Marshall, B. A. Published by Hardy & Mahony, 505 Chestnut St., Philadelphia. .	.	-
. —In the St. Nicholas for August, Edwin Las-setter Bynnef presents an amusing and illustrated story, entitled “ Our Spe'cial Artist.” A , bright, amusing, and exciting sea story is the Rev. Charles R. Talbot’s “ Lady of the Chingachgook.” Maurice Thompson, in the “ Work and Play De- . partment,” has a seasonable paper on “Fly-fishing
3
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,


for Black Bass.” The Frontispiece, by Jessie McDermott, illustrates a charming poem by Margaret Johnson, entitled “ The Beautiful Day ” ; Bessie Hill has some illustrated verses, “Jn Summertime,” and Celia Thaxtei' writes “ The Story of a . Castle.” J. T. Trowbridge takes the “ Tinkham
Brothers ” through a thrilling midnight attack on their “ Tide-mill ” ; the “ Swept Away ” party in Edward S. Ellis’s serial have several exciting- ada	#	o
ventures in their voyage down the swollen waters of the Mississippi, and Harry M. Kieffer relates how he “ Went down to Jericho, and fell among thieves.” There are, in addition, stories, sketches, jingles and pictures by Charlotte A. Butts, Adelia B. Beard, A. Brennan, Harlan H. Ballard, Elizabeth Abercrombie, Rose Muller, W. Taber, J. W. Champney, Geo. F. Barnes, W. H. Shelton, H. A. Johnson, and many others.
—The Catholic World for August contains a forcible presentment of the question of “ Morality in the Public Schools,” by the Rev. Walter Elliot. The want of moral instruction in the public school system is a serious and painful defect which has at length become evident to the more ‘enlightened of our Protestant fellow-citizens. But this evil is not to be remedied by the State, as Father Elliot well shows, but by “ the great trinity of the visible action of Providence in shaping "the lives of men—the family, the Church, the school ”—acting in union with each other. “ Hopeful Aspects of Scepticism,” by Oswald Keatinge, is a thoughtful paper, in which the writer shows that unbelief is not increasing its hold upon the minds of men as against the teachings of Faith, but that human reason will soon grow tired of doubt and obscurity—as already instanced in many a land—and will turn to certainty and “the full sunlight of perfect truth.” The other articles are “ Some Remarks on Mr. Mathew Arnold ”; “ Sir Charles Gavan Duffy and his Contemporaries”; “Gomes and Portuguese Poetry”; “At Caughna-waga, P. Q.”; “Jacopo De Benedetti da Todi”; all of which are well worth reading. Christian Reid gives another instalment of the highly interesting story of “ Armine.” Altogether, the August number is an excellent one. Published by The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay St., New York.	-
—The North American Review for August opens with a discussion of the subject of “ Moral Instruction in the Public Schools,” by the Rev. Dr. R. Heber Newton, who offers a visionary scheme for conveying ethical instruction without ' reference to religious tenets, and the Rev. Dr. ________	o'	-Francis L. Patton, who maintains with great force and truth that religion must be made the basis of • .all moral teaching. Henry D. Lloyd exposes the •tricks and frauds of speculation in grain, which ' operate to make bread dear, and maintains that they should be repressed by law, as being fla- ; _ grantly in opposition to public policy. “ Woman , in Politics,” by ex-Surgeon-General Wm. A. Hammond, is a caustic discussion of certain facts of nervous organization which in his opinion ren-
der the female sex unfitted for participation in public affairs. Hon. Francis A. Walker reviews “ Henry George’s Social Fallacies,” criticizing in particular his doctrines regarding land-tenure and rent. The evils resulting from “ Crude Methods of Legislation,” both national and state, are pointed out by Simon Sterne, who advocates the adoption of certain rules of legislative procedure which, in English practice, have been found to serve as an effectual barrier, both againstTobbying and against the mischiefs of ill-considered law-making. Charles F. Wingate writes of the “Unsanitary Homes of. the Rich,” and there is a joint discussion of “ Science and Prayer,” by President Galusha Anderson and Thaddeus B. Wakeman. Published at 30 Lafayette Place, New York, and for sale by booksellers generally.	.
—In keeping with its midsummer holiday character, the August Century contains an unusual ■ number of short stories and striking illustrations, as well as poems and articles adapted to summer reading. The number offers, in addition to the most entertaining part yet given of Mr. Howells’s “A Woman’s Reason,” the first part of a stirring romance called “ The Bread-winners,” which will run through six numbers of the magazine. Humor is the characteristic of the short stories. The frontispiece, and an essay by Henry James, have to do with the leading French novelist of the day, —Alphonse Daudet,—whom Mr. James places at the head of living writers of fiction. “ Bob White, the Game Bird of America,” is the subject of the first illustrated article. It is by Prof. Alfred M. Mayer, of the Stevens Institute of Technology, who is also a “ scientific ” sportsman, and who gives practical suggestions for shooting “ quail a misnomer,- as the writer shows, for the bird which has' acquired the popular and fitting name of Bob White. In “ The Present Condition of the Mission Indians in Southern California” (profusely illustrated), H. H. concludes her historical sketch of priestly devotion to the aborigines and of governmental neglect and injustice. The poetry of the number includes five “Songs of the Sea,” by different writers, accompanied by a full-page engraving, “ The Rock in the' Sea,” by Elbridge . Kingsley, which was drawn with the graver; two pages of “ Love Poems by Louis Barnaval,” edited by Charles de Kay; a page of “ Poems,” by Robert Underwood Johnson; “The Voice of D. G. R. (Dante Gabriel Rossetti), by Edmund W. Gosse, and other poems. “ Topics of the Time” discusses “ Caucus Reform,” “ Vicarious Benevolence,” and “ VagrantPafsons.” Among the “Open Letters” is a rejoinder to Oliver Johnson’s letter in the Century for May, by Prof. Leonard Woolsey Bacon, who asks, “Did ‘Abolition’ Abolish?” The August “ Bric-a-Brac” comprises an amusing satire by Frank R. Stockton, on anonymous authorships, entitled “ The Author of ‘ The Lion and the Lamb,’ ” and a variety1- of bright and humorous verses by H. C. Bunner, Walter Learned, Parr menas Mix, George A, Hibbard, and. Frank Dempr. ster Sherman,	’	.	.	- -
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, August 16, 1883.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Lit erary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students. ' -
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si .50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME, SCHOLASTIC,
' Notre Dame, Indiana.
—This number of the Scholastic is sent to all the subscribers of last year; those who wish to renew, will please notify us as soon as possible.
—One of the most popular serials ever published in an American magazine is the admirable history of the great Catholic musician Haydn, now drawing to a close in the pages of our widely-circulated neighbor, The Ave Maria. It is entitled “Joseph Haydn—The Story of His Life.” It was written originally in German by a favorite author whose nom deplume is Franz Von See-burg. The translation is by the Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., pur learned Vice-President. We are pleased to state that the work will be issued in book form after its appearance in The Ave Maria.
.	--1---z--.
—As is well known to our readers, the first number of the new volume of our little paper is usually issued early in the month of August. At that time the retreat of the Community is over, and the appointments made for the coming year. As far as these latter .may affect the College officers and Faculty, they are of exceeding interest to , the “ old boys,” and to other readers of the Scholastic, most of whom are interested in whatever changes of government may be made. The old boys will be pleased to learn that the administration .of. the College continues in the same worthy hands as last year, no change having been made in the officers and prefects.
—With this issue the Scholastic begins the seventeenth year of its existence. During the past sixteen years “ Our College Journal ” has from time to time undergone many changes and improvements, and it is pleasing to record that it has ever given satisfaction to its numerous friends. No doubt it has had its faults, nor dare we expect to have it free from them while we are in charge; but we may and do bespeak for our little paper the continuance of the same kind patronage it has experienced in the past. It shall of course be our pleasing work to endeavor to preserve the literary excellence of the Scholastic, and when our present limited editorial corps is increased in September, we have every reason to believe that this end will be attained, and our readers presented each week with a readable journal. We appeal, therefore, to all the old students of Notre Dame, who may not return, to keep alive their interest in their Alma Mater, to subscribe, and procure new subscribers, for the Scholastic. Our prospectus, published above, sufficiently indicates the reasonableness of this without need of comment from us.
—We are informed that the attendance at college for the coming year promises to be. exceptionally large. No better proof could be given of the popularity of Notre Dame and the perfect satisfaction given to its patrons. Since the great fire of ’79, and the erection of the present College buildings, new improvements have been made each year by the authorities for the benefit, physical and intellectual, of the students. This year has been no. exception. Besides the usual thorough renovation of the College rooms, which has been going on during vacation, work is progressing on the new Science Hall, and preparations made for the erection of the western wing. A fine large apartment in the main building has been refitted arid set apart for the Art students. This, it is hoped, will give a fresh impetus to the study of this branch, and encourage the continuance of the efforts so successfully made last year. The Orpheonics of ’84 especially will have reason to congratulate themselves on the acquisition of a new hall wherein to perfect themselves in their favorite pursuit. The usual grand gold medals to be awarded for proficiency in Philosophy, Essaywriting, etc., are held out as incentives to study and development of talent. In a word, nothing is to be left undone to furnish every facility for acquiring a thorough and practical education.
—Students returning in September will be pleased to see, rising above the College building, the magnificent Dome, work on which had been so long delayed, but which is now happily fast approaching completion. During the vacation, a large force of workmen have been kept busily engaged in pushing this crowning work, and the result of their activity is to be seen in the fact that this immense structure will, before many days, be at least externally finished. Much, of course, still' remains to be accomplished, but it will be of such
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
9
a nature as to admit of constant progress at all seasons.
We are thus led to hope that, before many months have elapsed, we may witness the completion of -this grand' monument to the Mother of God—the grandest in our land—and see it surmounted by her statue, whose pedestal it is designed to be. Shortly thereafter, we may expect to see the solemn dedication of the college buildings. Many here can recall the grand and imposing celebration attendant upon the dedication of the old college in ’66; when many Bishops, numerous members of the clergy, and a vast concourse of friends and visitors from all parts of the country assembled and made the day a memorable one to all in attendance. But we are assured the dedication of the “ New Notre Dame,” which will, it is hoped, take place in ’84, will far outshine the demonstrations of the past. We know that'the friends of Notre Dame will rejoice at this, and earnestly wish for the speedy arrival of the day which will mark the completion of this home of religion and science, o
—The following is a verbatim copy of a letter written by Daniel Webster to his son Edward about the time the latter commenced his studies at Phillips’ .Exeter N. H., Academy:	'
Washington, June 23, 1S34.
My Dear Son:—Fletcher wrote me from Exeter, the next day after your arrival, and informed me that you had been so fortunate as to be received at Col. Chadwick’s, and was commencing your studies. I am glad you are so well situated, and trust you will make progress in your studies. You are at a most important period of life, my dear son, soon growing up to be a young man, and a boy no longer, and I feel great anxiety for your success and happiness. I beseech you to be attentive to all your duties, and to fulfill every obligation with cheerfulness and punctuality. . Above all, remember your moral and religious concerns. Be constant at church and prayer, and every other appointment for worship. -There can be no solid character, and no true happiness which are not founded on a sense of religious duty. Avoid all evil company and every temptation, and consider that you have now left your father’s house and gone forth to improve your own character, and prepare your own mind for the part you are to lead in life. All that can be done for you by others will amount to nothing unless you do much for yourself. Cherish all the good counsel which your dear mother used to give you, and let those of us who are yet alive have the pleasure of seeing you come forward as one who gives promise of virtue, usefulness and distinction. I fervently commend you to the blessing of our Heavenly Father.
Congress rises, as we expect, one week from this day. I' believe I shall go directly home. Your mother and Julia, I suppose, will be in Boston before me. We shall all go to Marshfield, where you will of course join us when your vacation comes.
I happen to have two small Mass, bills; they do not go here, and I enclose them to you, to be used, if you should have occasion, to buy a book, or spend a dollar for any other article.
I wish you to make my best respects to Dr. Abbot, [.the principal of the academy,] and remember me to Col. and Mrs. Chadwick and their family. If I do not hear from you sooner, I shall expect to find a letter from you when I reach Boston.
Your affectionate father,	'
-	Daniel Webster.
Edward Webster.
. P. S.—Since writing this, I have rec’d y’r letter, and
am very glad to hear from you. Give my love to your friend Upham. I remember the great tree, and I know exactly where your room is. Charles sends his love.
The suggestions made in the foregoing are, without doubt, of the most practical value to the student . in college. They are indeed such as are daily and much more explicitly brought before the minds of the student of Notre Dame. The truth that an education without moral training is very imperfect, is here practically as well as theoretically inculcated. We are made to realize that an essential condition to success in the performance of life’s duties, lies in the development and perfection of that innate sentiment of religion existing in the hearts of all men. And the words of so distinguished a statesman, who spoke from his own exexperience amid the busy and manifold cares of public life, add no little weight to what the true guide and mentor of youth would seek to impress upon his charges.	-
11 There can be no solid character and no true happiness which are not founded on a sense of religious duty ”—are golden words, and convey a truth of the utmost importance to the youth of our day, and, therefore, to society and the country at large. Truth and unswerving fidelity to duty,— the idea of moral obligation—depend, upon religion. For morality must be authoritative; otherwise, it is mere sentiment, evanescent, and capable of destruction at the will or caprice of the individual; and as society depends upon the character and dispositions of its individual members, it is evident that, were the wordy, sentimental, impractical ethical schemes of free-thinkers to prevail, the result would be, in a short time, the total subversion of legitimate government and the substitution of a communism worse than that of the Reign of Terror.
The advice of Webster to his son is worthy of careful attention.
Obituary.
WILLIAM S. CLEARY.
It is our painful duty to chronicle the death of one of the leading students of the past scholastic year. At every social gathering his familiar features were greeted with pleasure, and added more than the usual meed to the common enjoyment. His ready wit, his highly developed talent for imitation, and his facile adaptation to his surroundings, rendered him a desirable companion at all times; while the evidences he gave of a kindly disposition and of a range of intellect beyond the average, earned for him the warm affection and esteem both of his teachers and of his fellow-students. The name of William S. Cleary will be long remembered by his classmates and preceptors, even though his genial voice shall no more resound within the walls of Notre Dame.
Having gone out on a pleasure excursion on the National-Holiday, with five or six friends, Mr.
IO
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Cleary came to his death by drowning in the Little Miami*River. Fishing- seems to. have been the main object of the excursion, but the party separated, some returning home for additional supplies, while three, of whom Mr. Cleary was one, remained at the river, and amused themselves during the absence of their companions, by taking a bath. Mr. Cleary, not being an expert swimmer, remained near the shore, while his friends essayed to cross the river, until they were recalled by* the cries of£ the drowning boy. They had nearly succeeded in saving him when one of them fainted, and the other found himself unequal to the increased call upon his energies. William floated down with the current, his and body was not recovered until lifeyvas extinct.
He was the son of Hon. W. AV. Cleary, of Covington, Ky., and had lately completed his seventeenth year. It.is needless to speak of the deep sorrow of’his father, his mother and his numerous relatives and friends. They will have the sincere sympathies of all who read this paper. Mr. Cleary was a devout and faithful Catholic, and doubtless not unprepared for death, sudden as it was. The promising earthly career which is now closed to him, will not be regretted amid the splendors of a heavenly home.
May he rest in peace!
FRANK W. KAVANAUGH.
Frank Kavanaugh, of ’78, passed away from this life on the evening of Thursday, July 5th. While at Notre Dame, he proved himself a model student, and his former Professors, as well as his fellow-students, will be grieved at this sad news, and deeply sympathize with the family in their affliction. The Dubuque Telegra/ph has the following notice of the deceased:
O	'
“ Frank W. Kavanaugh was born in Dubuque, January 29th, i860. He received his elementary education in St. Raphael’s school, and after taking a preparatory course at St Joseph’s College, entered the famous Catholic University at Notre Dame, Ind., graduating in 1878. He became a student in the law office of Hon. James H. Shields in this cityr, and in May, 1882, was admitted to the bar, passing a remarkably good examination. Shortly thereafter he removed to St. Paul, and acquired a profitable real estate business, which his constantly failing health forced him to relinquish. He accompanied the city council on the excursion to Memphis and New Orleans last winter, and then made a tour of the South with Mr. C. W. Bittman in the vain hope of recuperating his health. Frank was an extremely intelligent, ambious and honorable young man, and his premature death blights the fond hopes of his parents and brothers, and pains many friends.”
May he rest in peace!
Personal.
—Geo. E. Tourtillotte, of ’81, is in Australia.
—Ed. Bryant (Com’l), ’82, is in business at Dallas, Texas.	’
.—Simon Lonergan, of ’59, owns a well-stocked ranche in Utah.	.
—Thomas Lonergan, of ’61, is editor of the Hotel Mail, in New York City.
—Mark M. Foote, ’73, directs an extensive insurance agency at Burlington, Iowa.
—R. P. O’Brien, of ’80, is in business with A. Buckenheimer & Bro., Freeport, Pa.
.. —^Mrs. English and daughter, of Columbus, Ohio, were welcome visitors during the past week.	■
—Mrs. Dora Warner, of Nashville, Tenn., mother of Master F. Warner, of the Minim department, was one of the welcome vacation guests.
—Misses G. and S. Lyons, Kate d ’Arcambal, ‘ Mamie Galvin, of Kalamazoo, Mich., and Miss McSweeney, of Detroit, Mich., are visiting at the College.
—Albert J. Dickerhoff, of ’72, is in a flourishing business at Logansport, Ind. He has not forgotten his college days, and thinks often especially of his elocutionary instructors.	,
—Very Rev. Father .General, Rev. Fathers Granger and Walsh left for Fort Wayne yesterday, to assist at the investiture of Mgr. Benoit, V. G. The ceremony takes place to-day (Thursday).	-	.
—Judge and Mrs. -Cleary, parents of the lamented William Cleary, student of last year, accompanied by Master Thomas Cleary, Mrs. Walter Cleary, and Miss Loretto Hudson, of Covington, Ky., were the guests of the College during vacation.
—Rev. F. Zahm is now on an exploring expedition through Chihuahua. He intends starting in a few days for -Arizona and California, but will return in time to assume the leadership of the “ excursion ” from Colorado to Notre Dame. We are glad to hear of the success and continued good health of himself and party. •
—Rt. Rev. Dr. Dwenger, Bishop of Fort AVayne, returned to his see on Wednesday last, after an extended visit to Europe. The clergy and laity of Fort Wayne extended an affectionate and expressive welcome to the good Bishop on his return. W. P. Breen, ’77, was chosen their representative, • and delivered an eloquent address.	•
—Prof. P. F. McSweeney, our Professor of Natural Sciences, last year, has accepted a position in a Southern College. During the year passed at Notre Dame, the Professor.proved himself both learned and efficient. While we regret his departure, from our midst, we cannot but congratulate the Institution which numbers him among its F acuity.	■	.
—Mrs. Liberty and the Misses Maggie and Mary McGurh, of Englewood, Ill., were welcome . visitors at Notre Dame last week. Miss Maggie McGurn takes special interest in educational matters, being herself a teacher, and she noted with much care the system of instruction and discipline prevailing here. All expressed themselves as pleased with the visit.	*
—Rev. A. M. Kirsch, G. S. C., who has been for the past two years attending the celebrated University at Louvain, Belgium, pursuing a higher course of studies, is expected to return to Notre
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ii
% ri I M
■ -
5 Dame before September. He will again assume g the Professorship in his favorite branch—the | Natural Sciences—to the particular study of which he has devoted himself since his departure.
|	—Rev. N. J. Stoffel; C. S. C., Prof, of Greek,
| . has been spending the vacation at Delphos, Ohio, in i ’ charge of St. John’s Church, during the absence of J Rev. P. J. Hoeffel. He is unqualified in his praise of the good people of Delphos, and, in a letter recently received, wishes to express his gratitude for special acts of kindness shown him by the follow-| ing gentlemen: Messrs. Prof. Adolph Finckh, Thomas Wager, Sylvester Schenk, Henry Trame, 4 Joseph Zimmerle, and George Lang. , .
•:	, —Among the visitors at Notre Dame last week
j was Gen. John Gibbons, ’68, of Chicago. After leaving the University some fifteen years ago he took up his residence at Keokuk, Iowa. _There 1	he was admitted to the bar, and soon afterward he
-t	was elected prosecuting- attorney. He discharged
i	the duties of that position with signal ability and suc-
:	cess. His geniality, integrity and ability rendered
;	him very popular; and the result was that about
eleven years ago he was chosen candidate for the Legislature, and elected by a large majority. Four years ago he removed to Chicago, and there he has already secured a lucrative practice. Gentlemanly and genial by nature, he has . hosts of friends; and no man knows better than he how to respect friends and appreciate friendship. From time to time, during the .coming Fall and Winter, he will visit Notre Dame and deliver brief lectures on popular subjects.
—Rev. Patrick W. Riordan, of ’58, for the past twelve years the efficient and popular rector of St. James’ Church, Chicago, has been appointed coadjutor, with the right of succession, to the Archbishop of San Francisco. To the numerous friends of F ather Riordan in all parts of the country this announcement will be glad tidings, but none can rejoice more than his old friends at Notre Dame.
Father Riordan was born in Chatham, New Brunswick, August 27,1841, and when but a child removed with his parents to the West. Upon the completion of his preparatory studies he entered the old college and seminary of St. Mary’s of the Lake, Chicago, to begin the study of the classics, as he had already determined to become a priest. In the year of 1856, he entered the University of < Notre Dame, .where he remained two years, and distinguished himself by the brilliancy of his talents and progress in studies. He then went to . Louvain, where he studied theology for three years, at the end of which time (1865) he was elevated to the priesthood. Upon his return home in 1866, he was assigned to his first missionary labor as assistant to his uncle, the late Rev. Dr. Dunne, pastor of St. Patrick’s, Chicago. Subsequently he was honored by the Bishop with the appointment. to the chair of theology in St. Mary’s Seminary, in that city, which position he held until the closing of the institution. After this he was appointed pastor of the church at Woodstock, McHenry Co., Ill., where he labored with much success.
Thence he was transferred to St. Mary’s Church, Joliet, where he remained until 1871, when he succeeded the Rev. P. J. Conway (present Vicar-General of the archdiocese) as pastor of St. James’ Church. . During his pastorate in St. James’ he has built one of the finest churches in the archdiocese, a handsome parish residence, and a parochial school.	.	,
Local Items.
—It’s our inning!	.
—The vacation progresseth apace.
—The basket was recovered’ at last.	-
—Three weeks more and then—to work!
—Do not forget to renew your subscription.
—Dot P. D. is driving. Nancy! Gee up, da!
—Our astrologer has returned from his vacation tour.	'
.—Our friend John has. returned from the seashore.
—The Champs Elysees proved somewhat of a disappointment.	.
—Racket and hand-ball are the favorite games during the evening.
—Our weather-prophet can’t understand this phenomenal weather.
—The vacation boys enjoyed a fine excursion to the F arm on the 7th inst.
—A fine stone walk has been.laid around the fountain in the Minims’ Park.	-
—W. Mulkhem caught a four-pound rock-bass in St. Joseph’s Lake, last week.	"
—Printers’ row is the name of the street from the College to the printing-office.
—Bro. Francis will continue in charge of the “ Princes,” assisted by Bro. Wigbert.
—Bro. Frederick and his men are doing some painting and graining in the Minims’ Hall.
—Rev. Father Maher will continue at his old post of Secretary, assisted by Bro. Celestine.
—Who will now deny the utility of persistent but peaceful agitation? We got our cement walk!
—An Index to vol. XVI of the Scholastic has been prepared. Copies may be had on application. , —Those so inclined may revel “ embowered in flowers ” in front of the College. One at a time, please!
—Signor Luigi Gregori is engaged painting a life-size portrait of the late lamented William S. Cleary.	‘	’
—The Prefects in the Junior Department for the coming year are—Bros. Leander, Lawrence and Julian.	*
—We were pleased to receive a visit from our old friend, George Rhodius, last week. George is looking, and doing, well.
—A number of last year’s students have written requesting the same places they occupied last year in study-hall and dormitory.
i2	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—A Denver Minim writes that “ he is so homesick after Notre Dame he will not be able to wait for ‘ the grand excursion party.’ ”
—It has not yet been decided whether drivers of the barouche and other vehicles crossing Printers' Ro-d) shall be required to pay toll.
—The first watermelons of the season were received on 35th ult. They were shipped from Chicago to the Juniors by Prof. Lyons.
—B. Marcellinus is passing a few days at Dubuque. The commercial youths of our time will be glad to know that he will preside over them.
—During the vacation, the Juniors decorated the graves of the deceased students buried at o _______
Notre Dame. It was a touching and charitable act.
—The Directors of the Lemonnier Library are under obligations to Rt. Rev. Dr. Rademacher, Bishop of Nashville, for a generous donation of valuable books.
—Rev. President Walsh, is one of the delegates from this State, appointed by the. Governor to the national conference of charities and corrections in Louisville, Sept. 24.	.
—Messrs. C. and H. Porter write that they are enjoying the vacation hugely at Eau Claire, Wis., and will bring several new boys with them on their return in September.
—Work is now progressing on Science Hall There was a necessary delay in this undertaking owing to the fact that all the forces had been concentrated on the Dome.
—Profs. Stace and Edwards, Messrs. G. Schmidt, of’69, and S. Terry, of’81, with W. Neeson, Leon Gibert and Geo. Rhodius passed a pleasant week together at Waukesha, Wis.
—B. Emmanuel is at present on business in Philadelphia. He will return in time to resume his duties as chief Prefect of the Seniors, and will be assisted by Brothers Paul and Hilarion. - '
—B. Albert has completed two fine crayon portraits of Profs. Lyons and Edwards. They are well executed, reflecting great credit upon the artist. They may be seen in the green room.
—The vacation Minims had a very pleasant trip to St. Joseph’s Farm on Sunday. ' This and the excursions and picnics they have had during vacation made the time pass very pleasantly.
—The vacation has been greatly enjoyed' by all who remained at Notre Dame. Picnics, excursions, bathing, etc., etc., were among, the many /amusements that made the time pass away insensibly.
—Oiir venerable Father Neyron has, we are glad to say, almost entirely.recovered from his late severe illness. He may now be seen taking his daily promenades, just as if nothing Jiad happened.
. —-It is rumored that the services of our genial friend, “ the chef^ who was such a universal favorite during the early part of last year, have been secured for the greater part of the coming’session. Long may he wave!	■
—Among the new beauties in the Church are the figures of two golden angels bearing five richly ornamented candelabras. They are placed on either side of the main altar, and are the handsome gift of a distinguished French gentleman.	-
—New furniture has been ordered for the Library. The room is decidedly the finest in the College, and affords ample space for the collection of fifty thousand volumes,-which we hope to see it contain before five years have passed away.
—It is expected that the attendance next year will be even greater than it was last. “ First come, first seated,” as usual; and those who wish to have their choice of location in study-hall, dormitory, etc., would do well to be on hand promptly on the opening day.
—The Dome looks grand, especially when viewed from the northeast corner of St. Joseph’s Lake. Were- the western wing added to the College, the tout-ensemble would be imposing and sublime in the extreme. But everything will come in due time.
—The “Princes” will hardly know the “Palace” when they return in September. So much painting, graining, etc., has been going on as to effect' a complete change. The Park, however, will prevent any mistakes as to the precise location of the building.
—Among the many improvements made in the Junior reading-room during vacation, may be mentioned the splendidly-panelled ceiling and the new billiard table—the kind gift of Mrs. Hug, of Indianapolis, to whom the Directors wish to return their thanks.
—President Walsh is receiving so many applications for Minims that the genial Secretary suggests the addition of wings to their “ College.” Those here at present think that it is time for Father General to see about the Parisian dinner, as the 100 will appeal' early in September.
—The “Glorious Fourth” was celebrated with befitting solemnity. The “grand union picnic” was a complete success. The display, of fireworks in the evening from the Juniors’ Campus was declared by an enthusiastic beholder to be the finest he had seen since the Centennial.
—The south door of the printing-office is to be moved further north. When this feat is accomplished, a general transformation will take place inside. Among other improvements, two fine rooms will be made: one for the Rev. editor of The Ave J/^rzTz'fand the other for We, Us & Co. Speed the work!	, ‘
—The. Stars and Stripes waved proudly from the top of the iron work of the Dome on the 4th. Ye patriotic heart was Ah rilled at the proud spectacle. Probably they will never float from such an altitude again .at Notre Dame. Of course the high, scaffolding aided materially in the planting, of the flag of our country.
—Those requiring anything in the tonsorial-line during the coming year will be gratified to
!3
TSE NOTRE NAME SCHOLASTIC.
t
learn that their wants will be attended to by the well-known Mr. Geo. Heller, of South Bend. An elegant place has been fitted up in the Gymnasium, • new and magnificent furniture put in by Mr. ; Heller, and every convenience provided.
‘	—The race for the “ Mason Medal ” promises
i	to be a close one next year. Mug, of course, must
J <	be counted out, but all his foremost rivals intend to
:	return and try their luck. Besides, we are glad to
;	learn such likely candidates as W. P. Mahon and
'	Charles Echlin, who were here in ’83, are to be ad:	ded to the list. The only prediction we may safely
■ venture is, that the best man will surely win.
—An interesting game of baseball took place, on the 15th ult., between a picked nine of the students who remained here during vacation, and the Atlantic Baseball-Club. After an exciting contest the Atlantics were obliged to succumb; score io-to 11. Alberto’s pitching proved a puzzler to the heavy batters of the Atlantics, Neeson doing efficient work behind the bat. “Honors were easy ” between the battery of the picked nine.
—On the 20th ult., the students, accompanied by Bros. Paul, Hilarion, Leander, and A. D. Warner, went on a fishing excursion to the Red Mill. The day was all that could be desired, and, if the stories they tell can be relied upon, they had a good time. The cooking gave entire satisfaction: in fact the most famous Parisian chef., under the circumstances, could not have afforded greater delight to . the most fastidious epicure,—at least that’s what ri they say.
—After a long delay—owing, however, to - other more pressing calls, we have our “ cement walk ” from the College to the printing-office. A few days ago, Brother Alfred placed his efficient corfs of men to work, and they have succeeded in laying a “walk” which, while being useful, is at the same time highly ornamental, inasmuch as it “ sets off” the buildings on the left in the court ■	• back of the College. It will be known as-Priht-
Urs' Rozv. N. B.—As the buildings are not yet 1	numbered, all mail must be addressed as heretofore.
—Prof. Lyons announces that the sixth edition i	of the “American Elocutionist” is now ready.
This very popular work which has met with a wide circulation has been considerably enlarged and improved; It forms a volume of very nearly 500 pp., and in addition to much else that might be said in its favor, it contains, several fine selections which have, never before appeared in print. We intend to give.a more extended notice in our ' next. It is published* by E. H. Butler & Co., 18 e S. Sixth St.,-Philadelphia; but copies maybe had at the Students’ Office.
—Arrangements have been- made to begin work ' **- upon the , large fresco on the front of the Minims’ Hall. This work, which has been entrusted to Prof. Gregori, will be pure-fresco, the painting - being done pri fresh mortar laid on in pieces. The paint thus penetrates the mortar and the work is made to endure for centuries. The painting will represent the . Guardian .Angel directing, childhood, the figures will be of colossal size, but from their
height they- will appear to advantage to'the beholder from the ground; The Signor will be assisted by his son, lately arrived from Europe, who is also a skilled artist.	.	~
—The Feast of the Portiuncula, Aug; 2d; was observed with great solemnity-in; the-little chapel of Our Ladv of the Angels. Solemn High Mass was sung at nine ©clock, and in the evening solemn Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament-was given. During the day vast numbers of. people from neighboring cities, mingling with the religious, visited the chapel to gain the rich indulgences of which it is the privileged possessor. The Festival is always a solemn one at Notre Dame, and is the occasion for calling into exercise the piety of great numbers. This year the number of visitors was greatly in excess of former years.
—Prof. Stace, when passing through Chicago, took a look through the large telescope at Douglas University. It stands in a tower 70 feet in height, the dome of which is moved by steam at the will of the observer. The instrument can be set for right ascension and declination at any point. Prof. Hough who presided on the occasion, is devoted to the specialty of double stars, many of which he has discovered. As none of the planets were above the horizon, the objects viewed were chiefly double stars, besides the quadruple star Lyric, and the celebrated annular nebula, between the stars j? and in the same constellation. A fine view was also obtained of the magnificent cluster of stars between and C Herculis, which is the richest in the northern hemisphere, a Lyric was almost in the zenith, and, as viewed through the telescope, its peculiar blue radiance was quite remarkable.
—Yesterday, the 15th, was the Festival, of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin, the greatest of all the festivals celebrated in her honor. It was therefore observed with great splendor and magnificence here at Notre Dame. Solemn High Mass was sung at ten o’clock, Rev. Father L’Etoumeau being celebrant, with Rev. Fathers Gleeson and O’Hanlan as‘deacon and subdeacon. Father Gleeson pronounced an eloquent discourse on the festival of the day.; In the-afternoon; solemn Vespers were sung, at which Father Shortis, chaplain of St. Mary’s Academy, officiated. .Immediately after Vespers the usual grand procession was formed of students, religious and members of the congregation, and wended its way from the Church past the College buildings and around the lake, while hymns were sung in honor of the Blessed Virgin. On the return of the procession Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament was given, with which the day was most fittingly closed.	'	’	,	.
For the Dome.
Peter Forrester.......................'. —...$40.00
J. McHugh....-......................... — ...;. 2o.oo Frank Ewing................................;... — ........ 5.00
Mrs. Smith, Austin, Texas..........’..........	5.00.
John O’Brien..................................	■ 5-txr
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint Gary’s Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Vacation time has flown so rapidly with the pupils who remain at St. Mary’s that no symptoms of weariness have yet appeared; for the resources offered for delightful, improving occupations and innocent amusements are by no means exhausted, and the vacation girls form a very happy family. Study and class each one hour a day, music practice, fancy work, interesting reading, promenades, excursions, visits from relatives and schoolmates, charming letters from the dear absentees, with all the news’ items of the outer world and description of the various places of interest visited by the tourists who have spent their vacation in making “ all-around trips ” to the most notable summer resorts —all these tilings give a healthy variety to what some might imagine a monotonous season.
Now all teachers and pupils are eagerly waiting to welcome the old girls who return with gleeful faces to their “ other home ”—and also to welcome and comfort the newcomers who are in danger of a short, slight attack of nostalgia.
The classes will be resumed promptly on the first Monday in September, and those who are emulous to obtain honors must bear in mind that promptitude is an important item in making up the average of a pupil.
The teachers are much pleased with the beautiful letters they received from their pupils, for their well written and affectionate epistles give proof of the good head and grateful heart of each of their young correspondents.
It is taken for granted that each pupil will return fully determined to be the best in her classes and aim at the highest honors of the school.
By way of making competition more lively each one should bring a new pupil, and if the space is too much crowded it will be very easy to teach in the beautiful summer-house on the banks of the St. Joseph’s river till the new wing of the Academy can-be built.
With this gentle reminder we now close, wishing that each and every one may return fully refreshed by her vacation, and replete with energy, so that, at the next closing, parents, teachers and pupils may find that the term was a success in every sense of the word.
Resolutions Drawn up at the First Alumnae Meeting. St. Mary’s, 1883.
It having been long desired by the Graduates of St. Mary’s to organize an Alumnae of St. Mary’s Academy, action was taken to that end on the morning of June 19, 1883. Miss Young was called to the chair, and the following resolutions adopted:
Whereas, St. Mary’s Academy is acknowledged one of the leading educational institutions in America, and
Whereas, There never having been any duly organized Alumnae, be it
Resolved, That we present heartily desire such an organization, in the hopes of effecting a bond of sympathy and affection that may exist among the members of the classes of each succeeding year.
Resolved, Our Annual Meeting take place Wednesday morning of each Commencement week, at the hour of eleven, when officers shall be elected by ballot, on two distinctive tickets, known as regular and opposition.	0
Resolved, That it come- within the province of the. President to appoint a nominating committee,' which same shall consist of two members.
Resolved, That the Alumnae Mass shall be on the morning of the same day.
Resolved, Our officers shall consist of President, Vice-President,. Secretary, Corresponding Secretary, Treasurer, Essayist, and Mistress of Toasts.
Resolved, That our Annual Entertainment shall consist of a luncheon to be provided for on the same day agreed upon for election of officers.
Resolved, That our annual fee be the sum of one dollar, and initiatory fee of same amount.
Resolved, That above resolutions be subject to the approval of Very Rev. Father General.
The election of officers then ensued, with the following result:
President—Miss Catharine Young.
Vice-President—Miss Elizabeth Black.
Secretary—Miss Addie Walsh.
Corresponding Sec’y—Miss Anna Clarke.
Treasurer—Miss Angela Ewing.
Essayist—Miss Eleanor Keenan.
Mistress of Toasts—Mrs. Sweet.
The chairman then, expressing the hope of the co-operation of the young ladies of the classes of each succeeding year, announced there was no further business requiring attention, and declared the meeting adjourned.
Libbie M. Black,
Secretary, -pro tem.
ONE MORE UNFORTUNATE.
They bore him to his mother,' and he lay Upon her lap till noon, unconscious yet, His little face was pale and cold as clay, His tiny hand was clenched, his eyes were set;
The anguished mother wept to see him lie As tho’ his spirit from this world had fled, And many a sob suppressed, and heartfelt sigh, And laid him gently on his little bed.
The feeble throbbing of his heart alone Bid hope revive within that mother’s breast, And in her eyes fond expectation shone, As she with lips and hands her boy caressed.
“ O tell me, dearest, speak!” the mother cried, “ Tell mother, darling, what befell her pet ”— And languidly the “ darling ” thus replied— “ O mamma, dear, I smoked a cigarrette! ”
—Ex.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	15
St. Mary’s Academy,
CONSERVATORY OF.MUSIC,
AND SCHOOL OF DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE. Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
In the Academy the course is thorough In the Preparatory, Academic and Classical tirades.
The institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive heroariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes.
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the tegular course of academic stuoies
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is undei charge of a complele corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a large Music Hall, a»d twenty-eight, separate rooms f'-r harps, pianos, amt organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.
Esthetics and Composition —A larae Musical Library in French German. English, and Italian Semi-monthly lectures in Music,, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Harmony.	.
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE
is modelled on the. great Art Schools of Europe,drawing and painting from life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in English, French, German. Italian, and Spanish is connected with the School of Design Graduating pupils who have passed eredit-ably through the Academic or Classical course receive the. Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art De-paitmeut.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution. .
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
Wabash, St. Louis & Pacific Rwy.
7he Popular Passenger Route of America /
Smooth Track, Steel Rails, and Elegant Equipment serve to make a
TRIP OVER THE WABASH
Safe, Rapid, and Pleasant !!!
*** Special Tickets Sold to Students attending Notre Dame University.
Tourist Tickets to all Summer Resorts throughout the Country, at Greatly Reduced Rates, for Sale by all Agents of the Great Wabash Route.
Special inducements offered to Colonist, LandSeeking, and Emigrant Parties.
O’	o
IF YOU ARE CONTEMPLATING
A JOURNEY IN ANY DIRECTION you should apply either in person or by letter to the nearest Agent of
The Great Wabash Route
and obtain full information, Tickets, etc. '
Rates always as Low as other Lines, and facilities for ease and comfort far superior.
F. A. Palmer, Pass, and Ticket Agent, Indianapolis,
40 W. Washington St. .	,
Jno. C. Gault, 2d Vice-Prest., St. Louis, Mo.
Class of 1862.
JAMES M. HO WARD, Attorney at La®,
Valparaiso, Indiana.
The Minm Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution atNotre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age. .
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.	.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.	-
. For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUN-
TRY WILLSES BY EXAMINING THISMAPTHATTHE
CHICAGO, ROCKISLMiDmCIFICR’Y Calls the attention of travelers to the central position of its line, connecting the East and the West by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, Atchison, Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union Depots with all the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches, Magnificent Horton Reclining Chair Cars, Pullman’s Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Best Line of Dining Cars in the World. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri River Points. Two Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St. Paul, via the Famous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.”
A New and Direct Line, via Seneca and Kankakee, has recently been opened between Richmond, Norfolk, Newport News, Cha ttanooga, Atlanta, Augusta, Nashville, Louisville, Lexington, Cincinnati, Indianapolis and Lafayette, and Omaha, Minneapolis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
All Through Passengers Travel on Fast Express ■Trains.
Tickets for sale at all principal Ticket Offices in the United States and Canada.
Baggage checked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that offer less advantages.
For detailed information, get the Maps and Folders of the
GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE, At your nearest Ticket Office, or address R. R. CABLE, E. ST. JOHN,
Viae-PrM. A Genl M’g’r, Gen1Tkt.4PaM.Agt.
CHICAGO.
i6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE MME, IND.
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of CLASSICS,	LAW,
MATHEMATICS,	MEDICINE,
SCIENCE,	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more thorough business training • than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College. .	'
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty ot the Institution In all the courses the best systems of teaching are adopted and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
’	Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
L S. & M. 8. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May 27, 1S83, trains will leave South Bend, as follows: -
GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.tn.; Cleveland, 2.25 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.00 p.m.
11.23 a-m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.55 a.m.
9.10 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a.m.« Buffalo, 1.10 p.m " 12.20 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo 3-55 a-m- ‘
6.21 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.2S p.m.; Cleveland, 1.35 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.05 a.m.
GOING WEST:
_ 2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m. _
4.55 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.50 a.m. Chicago, 8.20 a.m.
7.40 a.m Limited Express. Arrives at Laporte, 8.20 a.m. Chicago, 1040 a.m.	’
1.30 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.30 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.15 p.m.; Chicago, 5.00 p.m.
4.35 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22 p.m.; Chicago, 8.00 p.m.	.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend. .
J. W.’ CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
• - A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
.. W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
. JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l M’ger, CleveHnd.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table—Nov. 16, 1879.
	*Mail	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - - Mich. City -“ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson 	 Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p. m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 13 “ 12 15 p. m 1 40 •• 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p m. 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	910pm 1130 “ 12 48 am 2 28 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	•Mail	♦Day Express.	♦Jackson Express.	t Pacific Express	tEveu’g Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -“ Jackson - - -4‘ Kalamazoo -- - “ Niles - - - -“ Mich.-City - - Ar. Chicago - - -	7 CO a. m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35a m 12 15 p. m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55 p. m 4 50 a. m 6 50 *• 8 08 “ 10 35 "	950 p m. 12 45 a.m. 2 43 “ 415 •• 5 30 “ 8 00 “	8 10 p.m 115 - 1 38 a.m 830 “ 4 55 “ 730 “
Niles and Hoxitli Bend Division.
' *GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 70 p.m. “ N. Dame—8 52 “ 6 15 “
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “ 7 15 “
♦GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 415 p.m. “ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily.
O. W. Ruggles, G. P. T. A.. Chicago, Ill.
tSaturday and Sunday excepted.
H. B. Ledyard, Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Midi.
G, L. Sluott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.