
Ifyou don't like the way people talk to each other, we'll pay you to change it. 
We're in the communications business. 
And during the next 30 years we're going to upgrade all the equip­ment we now have in order to provide even better' service to our 6 million existing customers. 
As if that weren't enough we're also going to have to come up with enough new equipment to provide telephone service to about 26 million more people. As well as equipment for a much more extensive data com­munications program. 
We need enough people (electrical, civil, mechanical and industrial engineers, designers, accountants and economists) to plan, design, build and operate a company that will be four times bigger than we are today. We also need engineers, researchers and scientists to develop electronic switching equipment, laser and other communications systems we'll be using 10, 25 and 50 years from now. 
But this is only one part of our communications business. 
Our Sylvania people, for example, are involved in other types of communications. Like color television sets, satellite tracking stations and educational television systems. · 
Automatic Electric, Lenkurt, U ltronic Systems and some ofour other companies, subsidiaries and divisions are working on advanced types of integrated circuitry, electro-opticals and communications systems be­tween people and computers and between computers and computers. 
So if you think you have something to say about the way people talk to each other ... we're ready to listen. 
GeneralTelephone &Electronics 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
:tvlvan,a Electric Products• lenkurt Electric• Automatic Electric • Telephone Companies in 34 States • General Telephone Directory Company • General Telephone & Electronics Laboratone~ 
General Telephone & Electronics International • GT&E Data Services· GT&E Communications 
february 27, 1970 notre dame, indiana
scholastic 
volume 111, no. 15 

Markings The Twelfth Man / Ray Serafin -------··········-·········-·······-·----··-··-··-4 Art Belongs to the People! ···---··--·----·-··-·-···--·····-···--········-·-··-····-· 5 The Week In Distortion ······-······-··--···-···-···--·····-····-··-·-··-·············-6 
Alternatives to the Draft -····-······-·-···-··-···-····-·---···-····--·········-······-············--·-···· 8 Stephen Dixon 
Black Path in a White University: Black Recruitment ··············-·······--·······-16 John Keys 
Benjamin Spock: Dissolving Into The Chaos ·····-·····---·--·······----··-··--·····--·--··-·· 21 Steve Novak 
Departments 

Perspectives ·········-··········-········-··············-·····--·-·-···············-·-·-·-··-·--.. 24 
The Wandering Jew Comes Home to Newark ··--·····---·--·----···.:... 26 
Playing As One Instrument: The American Brass Quintet···-·· 28 
Not Since Sleepy Jim Was In The Nets --···--····-·····-···-······-···-·-·-··-30 
B&C&T&A .. ··-·-········ -·-·································-···· ···-·· ··--···-··-·...__ .. -··-··· 32 
Movies ········-·················-················-···-······-············-·····-·····--··-··-----·---· 33 
. 
Chicago ----···---·-······································-····-······························-······· 33 
Last Word ·······--··············-·····················-·------------··---------------···········-34 
Editor-in-chief Richard Moran Executive Editor Philip Kukielski Mano,ging Editm' Michael Hendryx Art Directqr Michael Patrick O'Connor Associate Editors John Keys, Raymond Serafin Assistant Editors Pat Gaffney, Carolyn Gatz, Fran Maier, Tim O'Meilia Photography Editor Gary Cosimini Copy Editor Greg Stidham Sports Editor Terry O'Neil Contributing Editors Steve Novak, Steve Brion Contributors Michael Costello, Kevin Rooney, John Stupp Business Greg Naples Circul,ation Michael Malone 
Public Re7,ations James Murphy Faculty Advisor Frank O'Malley 

Writers Jack Fiala, Phil Glotzbach, Don Kennedy, Tom Macken, Ed McCartin, Marilyn Riordan, Bernie Ryan, Walter Secada, Martin Siravo, Joe St. Onge C<ipy and Layout VeAnn Patterson, Mark Richardson, Colleen Unger, Bill Wilka Business and Circulation Mike Casanova, Dan Hogan, William Pelletieri, Cliff Zmick Photographers Jim Hunt, Beth Malmsheimer 
The opinions expressed in the ScHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the Sce:oLASnc is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year (including all issues and the FOOTBALL REVIEW). Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the ScHoLASTIC. 
3 

The T-welfth Man 
HE imagines himself to be the Notre Dame Man, personified; though of course he would deny it and point out that the Notre Dame Man is only a myth. But he would fight to uphold the image of Notre Dame. He was present this day to object to the napalming of a lamb. "It's perverse," he said. "There're some jocks here who won't let them get away with burning an innocent lamb." The statement was made with all the appropriate enthusiasm of the Notre Dame Man, "the best twelfth player in football." The remarks were not directed to me, but I couldn't resist asking: "Where were you in November, when Dow came to campus?" He looked at me and decided that the question did not demand an answer. Instead, he turned away and I once more lost him in the crowd. 
Was he really there to protest an injustice against a living being? Or was he present to protest the dese­cration of a No~re Dame image, an image largely forgej by athletic victories and pep rallies? I have seen him before, and his continual presence haunts me. Two years ago he came to watch the ROTC Presidential Review to see if the heads of any protesters would be duly smashed. Last year he stood on the third floor, joking about the freaks he could see outside the doors of the Placement Bureau. And last week he cursed when it appeared to him that nothing had happened at the steps of the Administration Building. 
JAM sure that the Movement again politically failed to reach him: he felt cheated and did not ask himself why. He had been elated that he could chant catch phrases like "Killing for peace" to explain away his disdain for the subversive and the unwashed. And he didn't mind that someone brought a Louisville Slugger just to prove that you couldn't kill for peace. 

The vindictive flyer passed out by the perpetrators of the "hoax" was certainly politically ineffective, but I doubt that anything would have touched any more people. The letter was not rational -but rationality has been tried before by the Movement. Bureaucracy distorts rationality to its own ends, and it controls the conveyors of "objectivity." Bureaucracy's weakness, however, is its lifelessness, its lack of imagination: that is why we turn to theater. Instead of political solutions we offer alternative life-styles. 
Looking at the lamb that day, I suffered when I thought of what napalm could do to it. Yet at the same time, I realized that the lamb itself would not suffer. The lamb could feel fear, and physical pain ­but only men suffer because they need neither the fear nor the pain to feel. And only men are capable of feeling rage at the thought of a lamb being burned, or at the knowledge of another man's oppression. 
NEITHER the resisters who suffer in jail nor the Weathermen who rage against the system are explain­able in terms of final rational goals. David Dellinger re­fused induction into the military in World War II, choos­ing jail instead. When the time came for the jury to de­liver its verdict in the Chicago Conspiracy trial, Judge Hoffman ordered the families of the defendants to leave the courtroom. Dellinger's daughter cried softly and simply said, "I love you, Dad." In contrast, Abbie Hoffman's wife, Anita, yelled at the Judge, "We'll dance on your grave, Julie. We'll dance on the pig empire." 
What, then, do we finally come to? To tears or to rage? Does our decision make any political difference? Personally, does it matter any longer if it does not? 
The Scholastic 


Art Belongs to the People! 
1.,HE uncanny thing about a stu­dent arts festival at Notre Dame is that it might be regarded as nothing more than a display of crude ex­hibitionism or ostentatious confes­sionalism. The arts at Notre Dame are faced with a struggle as urgent and insurmountable as that of any political minority. The poet. the film­maker, the painter, the musician and even the aesthetician suffer the same relentless experience over and over again. They have been personally and administratively demoralized. 
The academic system views the fine arts with a Yankee pragmatist grin which spells "no work means no play." The rumors of nonproduc­tivity in the arts on this campus convinces the Notre Dame majority that, definitively speaking, art is in­consequential; an easy ride without the pain of learning. The creative process neither deserves the degree nor the greenback. 
The no-art scene here is not to be blamed on art or the art department, but rather should give testimony to the fact that there is little institu­tional support of the arts at Notre Dame and that fine art studies have the status of hobby, binge happening, far-out gimmick, but seldom are treated as profession, career, and least of all responsibility. 
The Arts and Letters College fails to incorporate the fine arts program on an interdepartmental scale. Edu­cators produce tedious, pondering curricula designed to lasso the lone-
February 27, 1970 
some, troublesome student back into the academic corral, but they never realize that liberal arts courses are dull and unpatronized simply be­cause they do not appeal to the cre­ative energies of the subjective self. For the expressive intellect the col­legiate seminars in the home pro­vide only surface delight for even these are undeniably federated to academic main of credits, readings and recapitulation. In short the edu­cational attitudes are such that orig­inality renders the student slow and vulnerable and artisanship more often than not forces him to be ex­tracurricular. 
The arts festival is a political act. It registers the intensity of a grow­ing minority. An end to a tyranny of letters! What must be established is that man can express himself in a thousand legitimate ways and that the visceral deserves other than the prosaic device. More tragic than any football mentality is the graduation of the academic drudge who knows his expertise, but is incommunicado about the intricacies and mysteries of his own personal depths. 
We have a fieldhouse. The one­time temple of the priestly sinew and the almighty muscle has been given over for a festival of the arts. Ex­pose yourself. Make gestures. Tell us no lies. Pop festival, theater, dance, poetry, music, painting, sculp­ture -let us make rhythms and love "not to make bears dance, but to melt the stars." -David Kahn 
MARCH 1-SUNDAY 
2:00 p.m. -5 p.m.-Student Art GallerzJ. 
2:30 p.m. -3:30 p.m.-Drama, "A Game of Chess" by Bert Hornback. Lord Chamber­lain's Players (Michigan U.) Reception following. 
8:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m-Gallery. 
9:00 p.m.-Sunday Night1 Mon­day Morning Pop Festival. 
Pilot, Larry Beechler Sextet, Pat Pattison, Juan Rivera & Brian Wilson. 

MARCH 2-MONDAY 
7:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m.-Gallery. 
8:00 p.m.-Open Poetry Read­ing. 
9:00 p.m.-Dr. Floyd (SMC Faculty) lecture-demonstra­tion, electronic music. Tapes of his own compositions. (Reception following.) 
10:30 p.m.-Poetry Reading. 
11:00 p.m. -Modern Dance: Judy Devleigher, Anton Bal­comb. 

MARCH 3-TUESDAY 
7:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m.-Gallery. 
8:00 p.m. -Drama: "Keep Tightly Closed in a Cool, Dry Place," "Heartbeat." 

MARCH 4-WEDNESDAY 
7:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m.-GaZlerzJ. 
8:00 p.m. (continuous) -St'll,­
dent Film Festival. 


MARCH 5-THURSDAY 
7:00 p.m. -8:06-Gallery. 
8:00 p.m.-Mixed Guitar Media (Baroque, popular, folk, blues). 
10:00-DaveHuezo, Jazz Piano. 




The VVeek In Distortion 
Kiss Off 

We now know. A synopsis of the world takes approximately 43,000 words. The SCHOLASTIC will print the full text of Nixon's forthcoming "State of the Cosmos and Related Topics" but in our undying quest for simplicity we will abridge the World: 
The Nixon Doctrine: "We are not involved in the world because we have commitments; we have com­mitments because' we are involved . . . America cannot and will not­conceive all the plans, design all the programs, execute all the decisions and undertake all the defense of the free nations of the world ..." 
The President's message was criti­cized as being bland, ambiguous and as raising more questions than it attempted to solve. One twitter of jubilance squeezed from it all-the indication that Nixon is switching from a 2½ war strategy to a 1 ½ war strategy. \Ve will now be able to run the option between Europe and Asia for our major wars with this bread-and-butter play to be sup­plemented by the possibility of spo­radic fire somewhere out in the flat. 
The address brought mixed reac­tions throughout the world. NATO members were most concerned but 
Nixon offered consolation, "We can 
no more disengage from Europe than 
from Alaska." Still, Prime Minister Wilson and West German Chancellor Willy Brandt wired official condo­
lences to Juneau. 
Apes & Antifreeze 
The man who, in 1937, discovered Vitamin C, Albert Szent-Gyorgyi, re­cently offered these observations to The Times concerning the PLIGHT. His new book is The Crazy Ape. 
If I were 20, "I would share with my classmates rejection of the whole world as it is-all of it. Is there any point in studying and work? Forni­cation-at least that is something good. What else is there to do? For­nicate and take drugs against the terrible strain of idiots who govern the world ... 
"The only way we can survive is to make a new beginning. There is one factor that makes a new be­ginning very difficult-that the hu­man brain freezes up for new ideas at a certain age, around 40. And our whole government is over this age 
" 

The Play's the Thing 
For those contemplating a trip to Europe this summer, perhaps the Oberammergau Passion Playwill cast the deciding vote. Performed every decade on the decade since 1634, when the villagers were feeling left out of the Black Plague, all agree this seven-hour pageant is "de rigeur" for the cathedral-Piazza tourist. Performances running from mid-May through September have al­ready been sold out, but tickets for 23 "repeat performances" are still going for five to ten bucks. From all reports, Bavaria is going to look like the Jersey shore, and patrons at der Biergarten can forget their Ber­litz, the waiters speak English like they grew up in Hoboken. Over­weight Americans with crew cuts need not worry about bermudas, dark glasses or cameras, these will be supplied at points of departure along with hairy legs where needed. 
''Cheesecake" 
Among last week's milestones was the 24th birthday party for Tricia Nixon. The family, including David and wife Julie, flew by helicopter to their Camp David retreat in the Maryland mountains. 
They celebrated with a massive birthday cake prepared by the White House chef. Mrs. Nixon said it was the kind Tricia liked-white cake, with white icing and pink trim. And no doubt with a great big plastic smile on top. 
Arsenic & Old Lace 
In the guise of a florist chanting "flowers for ~va," narcotics agents in Las Vegas this week arrested the "queen -of the heroine dealers" for the local high school set. Bypassing the steel plate doors that guarded the fortress house ( complete with wrought iron gates and bars over windows), the agents swept through to arrest Leonora Pittman, 59; her daughter Ava, 41; and a grand­daughter Paula, 21. Thus a $33,000 a week corporate enterprise died. Enough said; the lady Ava and her family were obviously heroines in their own rite. 

Priority 

As he was being led to begin serving his contempt sentence, Chi­cago 7 defendant Abbie Hoffman shouted back: "To hell with poverty, racism and the war-what we need now is prison reform." 
Popular NI echanics 

Across the country, an assault on Detroit which forebodes hope for the politically disenchanted. 
.At San Jose State a leftist student faction raised over $2,000 to buy a late model automobile which they proceeded to bury, with all due cere­mony, in the name of ecology. 
In Oklahoma City last week op­ponents of the busing of school children organized and purchased an old yellow bus. Children were handed 
sledge  hammers  and  allowed  to  
wreak what havoc  they might  on  
the  increasingly  odious  symbol  of  

big government. The children were soon pushed aside by adults who con­fiscated the tools and, to the flourish of an organ recital highlighted by "Pomp and Circumstance," demol­ished the bus. 
Detroit cringed but political ideal­ists found cause for joy, seeing hope that at last the right and the left might reconcile themselves in a com­mon liturgy. 
"The Creator" 
Al Capp, creator of Li'l Abner and not one of the fondest admirers of American youth took on 25 of them at one shot last week as he taped a syndicated show. One 17­year-old youth announced that, "I came here to kick the hell out of you." Capp and the youngsters spent an entire hour calling each other "creeps" and "vermin." Capp had the last laugh however, that odd sneezing sort of laugh he has, with, "I created all of you 20 years ago in my comic strips-I just didn't have any idea you were all going to come true." 
Back to Tobacco 
Our Women's Lib sisters of Con­cordia College in Morehead, Minn., were rapidly disillusioned at the scope of limited political concessions last week. After a bitter confronta­tion with the Board of Regents Ex­ecutive Committee, a 90-year ban on smoking by women was lifted. Puffed-up to see their pipe dream materialize, the lady libertines didn't bother to stay at the meeting to the end. The co-ed's victory went up in smoke by the end of the day as the same committee undercut the earlier legislation by announcing botq the commencement of an antismoking campaign and an official policy state­ment forbidding the sale of tobacco products on the campus. 
The Richter Scale 
The New York Times reports that environmental pollm:ion (is there any other kind?) and the Vietnam war will vie for the top slot on campus as "issue of the semester." In a recent referendum at Harvard, pollution received 35% of the vote, Vietnam 37 .2% , and other petty fac­tions 27.8%. At last report the ecolo­gists had demanded a recount. 
"The Founding Fathers" 
1116, the Tony Award-winning Broadway musical about the draft­ing of the Declaration of Independ­ence, opened in the White House Sunday night. Actors in perukes, knee breeches, waistcoats, and buckled shoes looked very much at home. Commentators view the stag­ing of the play as an attempt to re­store constitutional legitimacy to the Nixon Administration. 

fv(/l,[lf{;(7 lt;FT KE i/-tlS
MOR~lfJG,
e;()[)_ 

SH€ TCXJK" THE {(lf;S.SHE l-f;FT

A ~OTc. 
9ft SAc./S
ITS Al-L 
OVER 
8ITUEW 


US, c01J. 

J'l/6 Tf21t;(J

TO 8€
A GOOD


HUSBA~O 
A~D STAY 
PASS/Ve,
60(). 
fV6 TR/i;(J TO 66 
A 600D FATHER 


tfrfEY MC/ 
CHll.D~eu, 
800. 




I'V6 WIW 
A~D 
TO Bf; A SWCJUJl~
cOOD HIL[)Rtf)
Pf2CA!tD6R Ttl.LS H6 A~D itE, I'VE; FAILED 800. NJD 1e~ 
'{6N<5 OF MC/ UFf. 
Af2.c AS IF 
TIJ6Y IJcvee HAPPtUcO­


11-2..J 




Alternatives to the Draft 
If a registrant or any other person concerned fails to claim and exercise any right or privilege within the required time., he shall be deemed to have waived the right or privilege. 
Selective Service Reg. 1641.2 (b) 
Every American male between 18 and fd6 (and even -'35) faJJs under the jurisdiction of the Selective Service Syste1n, a system designed to "exert an effect beneficial to national health, safety, and interest'' by the "chan­neling of nw:npower into many endeavours, and occu­pations; activities that are in the national inte1·est." bnportant decisions of education, career, health, 1nar­riage, of conscie1ice, and principle, of life and even of death are predicated upon a verson's relationship to the draft. Despite the gravity of these decisions the Selec­tive Service System has yet to publish paniphlets fully explaining deferment regulations: for men with fam­ilies, for conscielitious objectors, for students, or for physical disqualification~. In this article, the SCHOLAS­TIC hopes to act where the gove1·nment has not, to give the student e,wugh substantial Selective Se1--Vice infor­mation to enable him to consider his choices carefully and make his own decisions. Local draft boards will make these if 1le does not. 
THE LOTTERY 
November 26, 1969, President Nixon signed
0 N 
Public Law 91-124, giving him the power to insti­tute a draft lottery and to revise parts of Selective Ser­vice regulation 1631, rearranging the order of call for in­duction effective January, 1970. As is the wont of bureaucracy, the new regulations contain certain dis­crepancies, and certain inescapably contradictory inter­pretations. Consequently, what information is avail­able is not based so much upon experience as upon editorial interpretations. It appears that a man must be I-A or I-A-0 at the end of a calendar year without his number having been reached that year by his draft board, to have his exposure count. Only then is he put into a safer second priority grouping. Newspapers have quoted government predictions that medically acceptable men classified I-A or I-A-0 whose birthday numbers are from one to 122 will be drafted; men with numbers 123 to 244 may be drafted, and with numbers 
The Scholastic 

245 to 366 probably won't be drafted. We suggest that these predictions are the words of false prophets. Processing delays, a drop in enlistment, a growing mili­tary, and changes in deferment levels produce acute .fluctuation. Two less obvious factors could be even more important. As of January 19, about one-third of all I-A men have not yet been sent to report for physical examinations. Usually 45% fail their physi­cals; in addition, 10 to 20% of those sent to induction centers are found unacceptable. Thus, as much as one­fourth of the I-A pool may be lost to I-Y and 4-F classi­fications. Secondly, many boards formerly filled their quotas largely with I-A men who had just turned nine­teen . . . but now these men are effectively exempt until next January 1 (1971). For these boards, the only alternatives to drafting men through number 366 (to 19-year-olds as of January 1, 1970) may be to re­strict deferments. 
Secretary of Defense Melvin Laird has spoken on television of eliminating both occupational and father­hood deferments. Presently the Senate Judiciary Sub­committee chaired by Edward Kennedy is reviewing recommendations that advocate the reorganization and consolidation of Selective Service structure and the im­position of uniform standards. The committee favors abolition of all occupational deferments. President Nixon has announced his support of these reforms. In any case, military and foreign policy make it almost inevitable that deferments be curtailed and that almost all sequence numbers be utilized. Those with high num­bers holding Il-S deferments should retain their defer­ments until at least the middle of 1970 when the situa­tion might be a little clearer. However, retaining one's classification will create alternate problems. A man can probably not give up his deferment by simply with­drawing his request for it. Probably, the only way to withdraw his deferment is to request the school not to send in supporting papers. At cooperating schools such as Notre Dame, it is perhaps already too late. 
It should be remembered that the new regulations dictate only a new way of calling up the amount of men needed. The lottery, as a new process of channeling men into national service, has little effect upon existing regulations. Exposure lasts only one year as opposed to seven years under the old system; but under the old system, men were either drafted, deferred, emigrated or went to prison. Few were bypassed. That situation remains the same. 
BASIC PRECAUTIONS 
D
EFERMENTS have a way of ending quickly, of elud­ing the most eligible registrants. Call-up regula­tions change, sometimes sporadically, and Hershey­like memorandums can make life difficult for even the most conscientious legalist. Learn your options through discussion with qualified counselors and talk about your decisions with trusted friends and family members. 
Observe deadlines 
All forms must be returned within 10 days (30 days for Form 150) after the date they were mailed. A per­sonal appearance or an appeal must be requested in writing within 30 days after-the date the last classifica­tion card was mailed to you. The postmarks on your return letters are what count, but for several reasons (postmarks cannot be distinguished easily by clerks at the local boards) don't expect the board to rely on them as heavily as you do. 
See a counselor before yau act 
The best but not the only time to talk with a coun­selor is within or before the time allowed to take action. Counselors are severely handicapped after any major action has been taken either by you or by your board. You should prepare rough drafts to be examined by your counselor before you have any correspondence with your draft board or your lawyer. From experience he should know what to say or send. 
Keep a complete file 
Save everything you receive from Selective Service whether it be letters, forms, or old draft cards. Keep carbon copies and photocopies of everything you send to them. Make copies of letters sent by others on your behalf. However, should you have neglected to keep an accurate file, your board must let you examine their file and copy everything in it. Your board will even make photocopies for you, if you pay the cost. Have your entire file with you when you see a draft coun­selor. 

Put everything in writing 
Should you ever end up in court, only your file will be considered. Consequently, any request for a personal appearance, appeal, postponement, or the like, must be in writing. Following a personal appearance, telephone conversation, or even an over-the-counter conversation with your loc?-1 board, write a complete, detailed and objective summary of the exchange. Promptly send it to your local board for your file. State appeal boards and the courts will only consider the file. Moreover, the forgetfulness of local draft boards is notoriously patho­logical. 
Get proof that your letters and form.s were received 
Ask the clerk to give you a receipt for anything he receives over the counter or to sign and date the addi­tional copies you have. Send all correspondence by cer­tified mail, return receipt requested. Retain the certified slip, the receipt, and the copy of whatever was sent together in your file. 
Send evidence 
If any claim is to your advantage, do not expect the draft board to investigate your claims, write to your references, or verify the information you submit. Send the most convincing evidence to the board you can as­semble and take a witness to your personal appearances. 
Use all your procedural rights 
You have a right to a personal appearance and an appeal to the state appeal board every time you are re­classified. Use your appeal rights even if it seems use­less. Occasionally it is not. Simply write, "I appeal," include your Selective Service number, the date, sign it, and send it to your local board. Very often, your board will be too busy or too puzzled to spend much time im­mediately determining just what you are appealing. This extra time works more to your advantage than theirs. 
You should always take a witness to your personal appearance. If you want a hardship-to-dependents de­ferment, you may want to take your dependent or some­one who could accurately testify about disability or family circumstances. If you are a conscientious ob­jector, you would take witnesses who know your char­acter and sincerity, preferably from long acquaintance. Always take someone you think your board would trust. The regulations do not allow you to be repre­sented o radvised by a lawyer at personal appearances; however, there is nothing to stop a lawyer from being admitted as a witness, provided he does not advise you of your rights or point out the board's mistakes. The mistakes, however, can be pointed out in court. The right to a witness is not prescribed, but the board's refusal to admit a witness may qualify as prejudicial action on appeal or in court. 
The personal appearance itself requires a master of gamesmanship. It is best to have a brief outline of your arguments along with you. But by no means should you be defensive other than for diplomatic reasons. Be prepared for anything. Ask the board, politely, for an explanation if they read a certain reference in your file. This should tell you how well they are acquainted with your claim. Ask also upon what regulation and upon what evidence your classification claim is author­ized. This should tell you on what basis the board grants the classification and enables you to provide needed information. It may even reveal whether the board is making decision on an illegal basis. After the appearance, politely refuse to sign the minutes of the meeting, and promise to send your own summary. If you are refused your classification, appeal to the state board. 

The state board of appeals does not permit personal appearance. You are your SSS number and your file, no more than that. Consequently, any new evidence would be invaluable. In cases where you are not the only one affected by the board classification, those also affected -employer, dependents -should appeal as well. For occupational deferments, it is usually best to direct your board to send your file to the state appeal board of the region in which you are working. The state board's decision is usually the final decision. Pres­idential appeal is allowed only upon split decisions, and split decisions are extremely rare. You are still far from the end of your procedural rights, however. But you should realize that procedural delays will not help you enter a safer priority grouping. If you lose your appeal or are declared acceptable, you will be called up immediately, even if you are 26 or older. Neverthe­less, you still have your governmental appeal agent, your state and national director and, finally, your con­
gressman. 
See your governmental appeal agent 
The governmental appeal agent is usually a lawyer of your state appointed by the President -which doesn't necessarily mean he is any more informed than any other local board official. He is primarily an ad­visor whose job it is to tell you what type of evidence the board desires, and whether or not witnesses are allowed. Upon request, the local board must arrange a meeting with him. Although he certainly cannot be trusted to represent your interests adequately and is sometimes notorious as an informant, he can be highly valuable. He may help convince the board to correct an illegality, recommend the reopening of a classification at any time, appeal a classification at any time before an induction notice, and request a presidential appeal even if the state board is unanimous. During every period of your classification problems he should be consulted and asked to exercise his administrative, counseling and mediating powers. 
Send address changes 
Regulations do not require that draft board letters actually reach you -only that they be mailed to your last known address. Considering that you have only ten days to reply, if mail does not reach you promptly, you could lose important rights or be declared delinquent and prosecuted. Certainly it is not a good idea to have your mail sent you at home in Bangor, Maine, if you 
The Scholastic 

are living in South Bend. 
Keep your draft board informed 
Regulations require you to notify the local board of any change that could affect your draft status, within ten days after your learning of it. Marriage, pregnancy, adoption, separation, divorce, support, entering or leaving school or a job, realization that your beliefs make you a conscientious objector, discovery of an ad­verse physical condition. Any one of these could affect your draft status. Not reporting any one of them could make you delinquent. 
Don't believe everything you hear 
Having read this far, you will know more than the average board member, or at least as much as the local board clerk. Board members, appeal agents, and other Selective Service officials receive no training at all. Con­sequently, do not believe something is true because somebody at a draft board said so. In fact, do not be­lieve anything anyone tells you unless he is a qualified draft counselor or a lawyer who is familiar with Selec­tive Service regulations. 
DEFERl.VIENT 
The psychology of granting wide choice under pressure to take action is the American or in­direct way of achieving what is done by direc­tion in foreign countries where choice is not permitted. 
National Selective Service "Channeling" (1965) 

T
HE only student deferments in which the reader would probably have any interest are those of IT­S and I-S(c). A student retains his II-S if he is "satis­factorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction," is under 24 years old, and has Student Certificate 109 sent to his local board. Satisfactory pursuit is defined as completing 25% of one's credits by the beginning of sophomore year, 50% by junior year, and so on. Loose­ly interpreted, any student who is suspended or other­wise drops out of school for one semester cannot be reclassified. He has a twelve-month period to complete his requirements. Furthermore, many local boards will grant extra time to graduate "when failure to earn the required credits was due to illness or some other reason which the board considers adequate." Moreover, should a student decide to join VISTA, the Peace Corps, or the Teacher's Corps while he is still in college, he will be allowed to return to school, provided he carried a II-A 
occupational deferment while he was in such alternative 
service. The only graduate school students who are 
allowed a II-A deferment are those pursuing courses in 
"medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, osteopathy, 
or optometry." The National Security Council has rec­
ommended elimination of deferments for nonmedical 
graduate students. 
However II-S does have its disadvantages: the SSS Form 104 warns in nearly incomprehensible language that requesting undergraduate II-S waives the right to a III-A fatherhood deferment. Draft eligibility is ex­tended to age 35 and a registrant will not be eligible for I-S(c) deferment if he gets an induction order as a graduate student. A man may especially be interested in avoiding II-S as long as possible if he isn't sure he will remain in college, or if he is married and may be­come a father. Of course, most of us are already II-S. 
A man must be given a I-S ( c) deferment if he gets an induction order while he is still a full-time under­graduate college student. His local board should cancel his induction order and reopen his classification. Lest the induction order be maintained, he must apply in writing for I-S(c), make sure his school has sent SSS Form 109 to his local board and have his school advise in writing that before the date of issuance of the induc­tion order he was satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of study. The I-S ( c) lasts only until the end of the academic year, can be granted only once, but upon the registrant's reclassification, it can be the key to further personal appearances and appeals before the registrant can be reissued another induction order. 
Occupational and Agricultural Deferments 
The Military Selective Service Act of 1967 authorizes the President to prescribe regulations governing defer­ments of registrants "whose employment in industry, agriculture, or other occupations" is "necessary to the maintenance of the national health, safety, or interest." In a sense, the draft is a process of elimination. The manpower pool is so vast, that drafting certain "neces­sary" men would disrupt the national welfare. These men are given II-A ( occupational) deferments. Regula­tion 1622.23(a) defines explicitly what occupational or agricultural "necessity" entails and letters from regis­trants and employees requesting such deferments should emphasize an essential meeting of each qualification. However, in practice, the regulations are given r<=gion­al interpretations. It sometimes happens that two employees doing identical work for the same employer with equal skills and training, apply for deferment to two different draft boards and one is successful and the other is not. There is little uniformity among local boards and all a man can do is appeal if his request is rejected. 
February 27, 1970 
Typically, draft boards give II-A deferments to high­ly skilled men in industry, technology, scientific re­search and development, social service and teaching. Memorandums -not binding legally but nevertheless treated as law -explicitly suggest occupational defer­ments to male nurses, public health service residents, merchant marine officers, skilled workers in forging and machine tool industries, and interns. Policemen are assured a high probability of deferment, especially in large urban areas. Keeping the major cities from fall­ing into the hands of revolutionaries, organized crime, and rioters is beginning to be recognized as "necessary to the maintenance of the national health, safety, and interest." 
Teachers granted II-A deferments cannot pursue a full-time program of graduate studies. 
Fatherlwod and Hardship 
This writer assumes that most of his readers are holding II-S deferments and are therefore uneligible for a fatherhood ill-A classification. However, II-S does not illegitimize dependents as easily as it does children and although it is much more difficult to get than a Fatherhood ill-A, Hardship ill-A will be granted a man if he can prove his dependents are dependent upon him either financially, psychologically, or personally. Without going into statistics, in fact, it is extremely difficult to get a ill-A on purely financial grounds. Local boards will look for relatives, provide a depen­dency allowance, or furnish welfare funds -all for the dependents! Even in psychological and personal depen­dency, with the assistance of doctors and psychiatrists, it is virtually impossible to convince the board that the 
hardship is real. 
Ministers and men preparing for the 1ninistry 
Catholic priests and seminarians should have little trouble being classified IV-D. The definitions of "prepa­ration" and "minister" are surprisingly liberal, but nevertheless, for Catholic men, there can be no doubt about what defines either. Theology majors just wouldn't make it. 
Sole-surviving son 
In order to receive a IV-A exemption, a man must be the only living son in his family, and either his father, brother, or sister died as a result of service in the U.S. armed services, either on active duty or as a result of injury or disease received in military service. The Vet­erans Administration may be able to help find the necessary evidence to prove a registrant's claim. In fact, a man can request his draft board to write directly to the Veterans Administration for the evidence to con­firm his classification. 
Rejections for physical and mental reasons 
A man is found fit or unfit for military service according to standards set by the Army, not by the Selective Service System. The physical and psychologi­cal standards appear in chapter two of 4-rmy Regulation 40-501. This chapter consists of a list of medical and other conditions which will disqualify a man for mili­tary service. Order catalog item D 101.9-AR 40-51, Reprint, Medical Service: Standards of Medical Fitness, $1.50, from: 

Superintendent of Documents 
Government Printing Office 
Washington, D.C. 20402 
If a man has a condition listed in chapter two, he should verify his condition with his own doctor, retain such verification in writing and then notify his local board. The local board must order him to report to the board's military advisor. If the advisor considers a registrant unsuitable for military service under chapter two conditions, the local board can classify him I-Y; if under chapter six, IV-F. The board is not required to do either, but during the fiscal year 1967, nearly 125,000 men were found disqualified by local boards without armed forces physical examinations. Should the registrant pass all physical, psychological and moral requirements through th2 preinduction physical and his doctor disagrees with the results of the preinduction examination, the inductee should write to-
The Surgeon 
U.S. Army Recruiting Command Hampton, Virginia 23369 
If the claim is convincing, a more thorough examina­tion will be required. If the claim fails to sway the Surgeon, the registrant should write-­
Chief, Physical Standards Division Office of the Surgeon General Department of the Army Washington, D.C. 20315 
for further review. During the fiscal year 1967, 47,000 men or 13.6% were found unacceptable at the point of induction. 
CONSCIENTIOUS 0BJECTION 
1J N simplest terms, a conscientious objector is a man 11 who is strongly opposed to war in any form. He applies for I-A-O if he has strong moral objections to killing in war and to carrying arms. He applies for I-O if he is opposed to any form of military service as con­tributing to the war-making job of the army. \¾nether he applies for I-A-O or a I-O classification (1) his objec­tion must be based on "religion training and belief," (2) he must be "opposed to participation in war in any form" and (3) his claim must be sincere. 
"Religious training and belief" is not defined in law except in a negative way: the term "does not include essentially political, sociological or philosophical views, or a merely personal code." In 1965, the Supreme Court in U.S. vs. Seeger offered such a broad definition of the religious training phrase that it was clear that any be­lief or value which a man lives by, which is so basic to his own thinking that it is his personal religion, could lead him to be a CO. The definition is so broad that it would be difficult to think of any sincere CO who doesn't qualify. The only way a sincere belief could be rejected as "merely personal" and, therefore, nonreligious, is if the objector insisted it were not religious. And 
The Scholastic 


the only way an objector could be turned down upon the 
"religious training and belief clause" would be if his 
belief were not at all religious -again, as broadly 
defined -but entirely political, sociological and philo­
sophical. 
The SSS interpret the "participation in war in any 

form" requirement to mean that a CO must be opposed 
to all war. Therefore, a CO who was an advocate of the 
Just War Theory would not be granted a I-A-0 or I-0. 
A man opposed to all war does not, by interpretation of 
the Selective Service law, have to be opposed to vio­
lence, nor does it imply that he has to affirm hypotheti­
cal attitudes towards past or future wars. The conscien­
tious objector, by law, must be opposed to all war only 
in the immediate present. 
Sincerity in the context of the Selective Service regulation means simply telling the truth. An objector does not have to "prove" his sincerity, that is, he does not have to prove he holds his religious conviction. A local board would have trouble explaining religious con­victions, let alone "proving" them. Only on the basis of facts in the individual's file which indicate that his claim might be insincere will a federal court uphold the rejection of a CO claim. 
A CO claim should be filed immediately. Selective Service regulations require that an objector inform his board within ten days of the reforming of his con­science. Application for CO status has no effect upon deferments, since all deferments are lower than the two CO classifications. (Selective Service demands that registrants receive the lowest classification available to them.) A local board should not even consider the CO application as long as the objector is deferred. In any case, there is little danger in applying early. More complete answers or better evidence can be added at any time before classification is reopened. 
As of December, 1968, the Central Committee for Conscientious Objectors reports that it knows of no man now in prison who sought recognition as a CO before receiving an induction order and used all appeals open to him. 
The man classified I-0 or I-A-0 faces the same call­up procedure as the man who is classified I-A. One common misinterpretation -shared by the state direc­tors of Iowa and California -is that all men classified I-0 must fulfill alternative service requirements. SSS regulations state that conscientious objectors must per­form alternative service only if they are called, that is, with the current lottery system, when, if they are not deferred, their local boards utilize their birthday 
numbers. 
lVlILITARY ALTERNATIVES TO THE DRAFT 
T
HE young man hoping to avoid conscription yet 
willing to fulfill his SSS requirements often opts 
for alternative military service through enlistment or a 
branch of the reserves. Unlike the draft, enlistment 
offers the choice of entering the Army, Navy, Air Force, 
or Coast Guard. Promised training in one's field of in­
terest, the likelihood of assignment to a mainland or 
overseas area of one's choice,· the luxury of choosing 
one's branch of service-such. incentiv~s to voluntary 
military duty produce an impressive number of en­
listees. Others, however, shun enlistment because of its 
several disadvantages; e.g., the enlistee serves three 
to four years active duty, depending on the particular 
branch of service, as opposed to the draftee's two. In 
addition, the promise of one's choice of technical spe­
cialty or assignment to a specified geographic area can 
be sacrificed to the service's evaluation of its . ever­
changing needs. Thus duty in Vietnam remains a dis­
tinct possibility regardless of one's assignment profer­
ence at the time of enlistment. 
After completing his tour of active duty, the en­listee enters the Ready Reserves until the last year or two of his six-year total commitment. Although this enables him to live at home, he must attend monthly or even weekly drill meetings ~nd spend two weeks in summer camp. In addition, Ready Reserve units are still subject to call-up for Vietnam service if the Pres­ident considers such a move necessary. The final year of reserve duty is spent in the Standby Reserves, which involves no training requirements and little risk of recall to active duty. 
Although waiting lists often make enlistment merely difficult in branches other than the Army, the chances of directly entering the reserves for the full six years have become impossible for all but a select few. Each branch of the service maintains reserve units whose quotas are filled largely by veterans returning from active duty. For those able to pull the right strings, however, a six-year stint in the Reserves eliminates the possibility of overseas duty, except by special Presi­dential decree. Length of active duty withJn each particular service varies according to the specialty for which one is being trained. The Marine Corps Reserve requires six months active duty, the Naval Reserve six months to two years, Army Reserve four months to two years, Coast Guard six months to one year, and the Air Force Reserve demands a minimum four months full­time training. The remainder of the required six years, spent in the Ready Reserve, necessitates weekly or monthly meetings and two-week summer camps for five successive summers. 
T
HE final military alternative to the draft, the Army or the Air Force National Guard, proves every bit as difficult to enter as the six-year reserves. Intermin­able waiting lists in most parts of the country again make acceptance more dependent on "who you know" than on any personal qualifications or preferences. A minimum of four months full-time training, again vary­ing according to one's particular specialty, precedes the ritual weekly or monthly meetings and two-week sum­mer camps which continues until the full six years has been served. 
In addition to being subject to Presidential callup, the National Guard can be activated by the Governor, since it is under the jurisdiction of the individual state. The past few years have seen frequent use of National Guard units for riot-control in several of the nation's larger cities. 
The National Guardsman, as wen as the six-year reservist, must in most cases reconcile himself to assign­ment to the same home unit for his entire six-year period of service. The apparent advantage of assign­ment to one's home base for six years can become quite inconvenient if one decides to move. For a reservist's original unit remains the same despite any change of personal residence; he must return to his assigned unit for his weekly or monthly meetings. Enforcement of this regulation is unyielding, and "unsatisfactory per­formance" or an absence rate of 10% or higher custom­arily results in a prompt notice of induction. 
Ex-Guardsmen and Reservists often react critically to their state-side years spent playing soldier. Terming the training "militarily worthless and of no value in civilian life," they consider much of the time wasted. Yet Reserve and Guard units receive many more appli­cations than they have spots available. For despite the disadvantages, most men consider six years anchored to the home town preferable to a two-year paid vacation in the jungles north of Saigon. They remain aware, however, that no military service, regardless of promises made at the time of sign-up, can ever eliminate the possibility that they will be called to "play soldier" for real in the war in Vietnam. 
EMIGRATION 
Many of our forefathers came to this country to get out from under the burden of conscription in Europe. I have yet to hear these ancestors referred to as "draft dodgers" or men now going to Canada referred to as "Pilgrims." 
-Anonymous 
·Emigrants to Canapa are impossible to categorize. Their only common ground is that they share the basic decision of leaving their own country-perhaps never to return-rather than to stay and face the consequences of the system of conscription, whether that be induction or imprisonment. . 
The majority of American emigrants are already in 

violation of Selective Service regulations. Leaving the country is, in itself, not illegal. The illegality follows as a matter of course--from extended residence in Canada. A man is in violation of SSS regulations if he fails to inform his local board of changes in his address, if he fails to report for examination or induction, or if he procures his SSS "Permit for Resident to Depart from the U.S." and decides to stay in Canada. Upon indictment, there is warrant for his arrest should he return and the threat of multiples of both five years imprisonment and $10,000 in fines. 
Canada offers few restrictions for entrance. In gen­eral, anyone failing to qualify for immigrant status in Canada would have, for the same reasons, failed to qualify for the draft in the U.S. Most emigrants try to establish permanent residence in Canada, which, if the emigrant stays within certain legal boundaries-pays taxes, procures certain Canadian documents and doesn't commit any serious crimes-is relatively easy to estab­lish. 
The prospect of returning to the U.S. as a visitor, has enticed many American emigrants to renounce American citizenship before they were indicted for any draft violation. Renunciation, however, does not erase any "crimes" occuring prior to that renunciation. The risk involved in this peculiar constitutional right has kept most emigrants from exercising it. Should the emigrant be deported, e.g. for possession of marijuana, he would be stateless and therefore only allowed into countries that accepted him. And considering the five year naturalization process, violation of Canadian law within that time is at least possible. Applying for or accepting permanent residence in Canada has constitu­tionally no effect upon American citizenship. The only advantage to renouncing it would be the prospect of occasionally visiting the U.S. 
Extradition treaties between the U.S. and Canada have stipulated that the crime for which a man is extradited must be a crime in both countries. Thus, a draft refuser, although he may be subject to prosecu­tion whenever he returns to the U.S. whether he re­nounces U.S. citizenship or not, can never be extradited. Even a man who commits two crimes in the U.S., e.g. drug abuse and draft refusal, although he could be extradited for drug abuse, could not be prosecuted for draft refusal. 
Any emigrant to Canada can be deported only if he gains entrance by false statements, violates the terms of his entry, commits certain crimes or goes on welfare. Deportation, however does not necessarily involve a trip back to the U.S. Legally, the emigrant should have few problems in Canada. The Canadian government has announced publicly that it will accept emigrants, draft refusers, draft resisters and deserters. 
INDUCTION REFUSAL 
Most men who are tried for Selective Service viola­tions are divided into two distinct groups. There are the resisters or non-cooperators, those who conscientiously object to military service and conscription. The second group, the unsuccessful cooperators, are those who do not believe that they have been lawfully ordered for induction. The first group, the resisters, are conscienti­ously outside of the law, usually organized into diverse resistance groups practicing and professing an certain philosophy of social change. Their refusal of induction is usually ceremonial. 
The unsuccessful cooperator are those who-simply to be able to take their case to court-have used every available appea_l and cooperated in each step which precedes the point of induction. 
Refusal of illduction is the final step unsuccessful cooperators take within the law before they are pro­secuted. The refusal enacted "courteously and quietly" usually takes the form of a final appeal. Upon refusal, the draftee may or may not be prosecuted by the state or national director. Should either choose not to prose­cute, the decision becomes the responsibility of the U.S. attorney to determine whether the draftee will be prosecuted. Not every refusal leads to prosecution. 
Because, in theory, a man might be rejected by the armed forces for physical, mental or administrative reasons at any point short of the brink of induction, the refusal should be enacted "courteously and quietly" within the law. And to insure that one is not inadvert­ently inducted, the draftee should be careful not to take the symbolic step forward which makes him subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice. 
The draftee should report as ordered by the local board. It would probably be prudent to prepare a writ­ten statement of one's intention to refuse induction (as a precautionary measure against inadvertent induction). Preceding the ceremony, there is a cursory physical examination at which, even then, a draftee could be reclassified I-Y or N-F. After his refusal, the draftee will be taken to another room for reenactment, where he is warned of criminal penalties and the induction speech is read. After twice declining to step forward, he will be asked to sign an induction refusal statement which he may refuse. After an interview with an F.B.I. agent, with whom it is inadvisable to discuss matters of refusal, the draftee is usually sent home. From this point he is at the mercy of the state and national direc­tor, the U.S. attorney and finally the federal courts. 
After an exhaustive study of alternatives to the draft it must be acknowledged that the primary diffi­culty was in selecting what had to be, for lack of space, omitted. The details which would be the saving grace for several cases, especially the more subjective intri­cacies of appeals, reference leters, personal interviews, interpretations of regulations, court cases and mem­orandums, are in the massive pile that had to be rejected in the initial composition and the final editing. For more detailed, accurate and elaborate explanations, all 
February 27, 1970 
registrants should refer to the bibliography below and consult a qualified draft counselor. I would also like to emphasize that I am not a qualified draft counselor. 
References 

Guide to the Draft 
Ario Tatum and Joseph S. Tuchinsky Beacon Press, Boston; Revised edition (green) $1.95 
The Draft? _ 
Peace Education Division, A.F.S.C. Hill and Wang, New York; Sept. 1968, $1.25 
The Draft and You 
Leslie Rothenberg Doubleday-Anchor, Garden City, New York; 1969 
The Handbook For Concientious Objectors 
Central Committee For Consecientious Objectors, 
January ed. 2016 Walnut Street Philadelphia Penn. 19103, $1.50 
Draft Counselors 
Tony Colavito 
David James Room 118, Library 8-11 P.lVf. Tuesday & Thursday South Bend Draft Union 
526 N. Hill St. 232-8275 2-7 Mon-Fri & Sat. 
Michael Yarborough Rich Schlegel 207 Dillon 283-1657 
Tom McCloskey 211 Dillon 283-1650 
Midwest Committee for Draft Counseling Regional Office of CCCO 711 South Dearborn Street Chicago, Illinois 60605 312 / 427-3350 
Mike Kovacevich 730 East Pennsylvania South Bend 232-1842 

Stephen Dixon 
Black Path 
in a White University 
Black Recruitment: An Inventory of poors 
This is the second of three articles dealing with the racial tensions at Notre Darne and St. Mary's. In the next article, the SCHOLASTIC looks at the racial situation at St. Mary's, its new a'PProach and stu­dent reactions to the college. We hope that our readers will not hesi­tate to send 1u..s thei1· thoughts and cornrnents on the series. 
The Scholastic 
[I] 

He slept for two nwnths on the ff,001· in a stranger1 s room, and ate what others could give him froni thefr own meals. An administrative/mechanical mistake had left him 1Githout a room, without a meal card. No one to turn to, it seemed. No individual would be cruel enough to do that to a freshman; but an Adm,inistra­tion has a tendency to appear, at first glance, as a fuzzy melange of closed doors and ambiguous ocC'ltpa­tional designations. But this young black man had been invited to apply to the University; his credentials had been accepted, and now he was trying to make the transition. 
Recruitment, admission, transition-all part of an elaborate: highly institutionalized process of introduc­ing the new student to university life. It should be an integral whole., a coordinated program; but it is not. There are flaws inherent in any bureaucratized orga­nism but when applied to the prospective black student the problems are compounded. There is an Office of Ad­missions which makes most of the acceptance decisions but minority recruitment has usually been handled by students. Once the student arrives, he is the academic responsibility of the Freshman Year, the social responsi­bility of wlwmever he can find. If he is black, the tran­sition may involve a radical shift of life-style and for this reason the concentration system becomes most imvortant. 
THERE are 6,194 undergraduates at Notre Dame; of these only 82 or 1.3% are black, a small representa­tion, token in appearance. The University is, however, actively recruiting black students through the Office of Admissions and the student-run Recruitment Action Program (RAP). 
The rationale behind recruitment becomes vital both for Notre Dame and the individual black student. For the sake of its own integrity and its relevance to the society, the University must remain an effective force in the establishment and growth of social justice. Furthermore, it must continually seek internal growth by drawing on the widest possible range of talents available to it. The University is committed to a policy which recognizes that participation in social progress and diversification must result in a stronger institution. In short the University, through recruiting, is trying to implement the ideas it stands for. 
Despite assertions that Notre Dame, as a microcosm cf the society, is imbued with prejudices and a covert, structural brand of racism, Dave Krashna, Student Government Human Affairs Commissioner and chair­man of RAP, believes that the incoming black freshman has a lot to gain at Notre Dame: a good education, which will hopefully include a program in Black Studies; the choice of living with other blacks, and the opportunity to be here during a time of change. 
Both Administration, and student groups (like RAP and Students Against Racism) agree that minority en­rollment must be increased, that minority students must be sought actively; but as yet, neither side has set recruitment goals. 
Dr.Peter Grande, Director of Admissions, explains that his office is not operating on a quota system, that they offer admission to all qualified minority students. Since most black students here, however, receive financial aid, the problem for Grande's office is a financial one. Parts of the Cotton Bowl receipts were originally tagged spe­cifically for assistance to minority enrollment, but there has been no official word on that money. 
Krashna has directed his program at ''getting as many qualified black people to come to the University as possible, with no quotas and with the realization that we can't bring more than we can pay for." 
When RAP and the Office of Admissions have worked together in the past, differences have arisen which have strained relations between the groups. Both are now seeking a redefinition of their working relation­ship. 
Grande's invitation to high school seniors asks that they join the University and help it change. "In attract­ing minorities, you must do and say the things which accomplish the job; the recruiter must first attract the student while not alienating himself from school officials and counselors. We should present Notre Dame as it is-in a state of change." 
Grande sees no real difference in philosophy be­tween his office and RAP; but Krashna says that Grande fails to indicate the difficulties at Notre Dame. "My approach to recruiting was based on honesty sup­plemented by realism and optimism. I hoped to instill in students a real picture, tell them what it is like here, things like Dow-CIA, football and racism.... You don't invite them to the guillotine-you tell the::i what has to be changed." 
any satisfactory redefinition of policy on this issue; 
KRASHNA, Afro-American Society President Ar­thur McFarland, and other members of RAP, operating with $22,000 from Admissions and $4,000 from Student Government, made a number of trips last fall to schools in Denver, Atlanta, Chicago, Columbus, New York and other cities. Speaking informally in classrooms and at larger alumni sponsored meetings and using lists from National Merit Scholar tests and National Achievement tests, they mailed letters to black students asking if they might be interested in Notre Dame. Their efforts resulted in a file of over 400 pre-application cards from black students. 
The precise role of student participation in the re­cruitment process is presently in doubt. As George Sea­brooks, Associate Director of Minority Recruitment sees it, "There is no question of the necessity of student par­ticipation-the question is how. We need students; we need communication, planning, and a coordinated ef­fort." Grande echoes this feeling, pointing to the fact that students operate from a totally different set of perceptions: "We need this point of view. I welcome this type of involvement." 
Still, the relationship of students to Admissions re­mains nebulous; a meeting on Feb. 12 failed to achieve 

thus, leaving that office without official student con­nections. 
The process of recruitment is expensive in terms of both finances .and time; it is often frustrating and too often imperfect. ~t year· only .92 .blacks :applied, 75 were accepted, but only 30 enrolled. Grande feels that part of the problem is money: "Given the money, our applicant pool is such that we could compete with any University in the country." He is not given the money. This year overall applications are up by 1,000 over last year; the application fee has been waived for minority candidates, and there are now 219 applications on file. Seabrooks says this is still not enough, more applica­tions are needed. 
"The University has tried to demonstrate its re­sponsiveness to the needs _of minority students," Krashna said in trying to explain the low number of applications, "but they could only go to a certain point. They are concerned with their image--football, Ca­tholicism, the whole trick-bag. Dr. Grande's head shook many times; he was hoping to establish a quiet state; he was hoping to acclimate our wishes to theirs. But if they want to be actors, not reactors, they must under­stand what black people are saying." 
[1111 
Of those 219 applications from black students on file (as of Feb. 12, 1970) 22 have been granted regular admission, 7 have been accepted as scholarship candi­dates, 2 are awaiting review, none have been rejected and the remainder are in various stages of the decision process or are represented by incomplete files. 
"We are looking for the student who can best benefit from a Notre Dame education." That is Grande's basic criterion for acceptance. Krashna phrased it like this, "\Ve weren't just looking for bodies; we were looking for individuals who could fill the nebulous concept of 'the Notre Dame man' within ou1· context." Our is the critically ambiguous word. 
A DMITTING a black student involves traditional examinations of academic and personal qualifications reevaluated in relation to a black experience. The Uni­versity looks first at a student's demonstrated per­formance-his high school transcripts, courses, grades, class rank, and the quality of the school. This is the most important information on which judgments are made; but, as Grande admits, there are problems. One of the measures of the quality of a high school, for example, is the number of graduates it sends to college. But the predominantly black, inner-city school is quite often academically inferior; hence these numbers may be low, obscuring the meaning of oft-used statistics. 
The second most vital criterion is the personal recom­mendation. Grande's office places much weight on evaluations by high school faculty and administrators because they depict most accurately the significant in­tangibles. The problem here is a lack of familiarity be­tween a counselor and the University. 
The personal statement of the student is also con­sidered, but experience has often proven it to be un­reliable. Many applicants are screened by members of the admissions subcommittee who attempt to determine the student's interests and orientation and who subse­quently make recommendations to the Admissions Office. 
Of least significance are the standardized test scores such as the Scholastic Aptitude Tests which may not be indicative of real intelligence or academic ability but may simply be, as Krashna puts it, "a measure of a black man's adoption of the white system." 
GRANDE claims that these basic criteria do not have to be substantially modified, save for the standard tests. "I don't accept the statement that we're lowering standards," he says. "But we are looking for new cri­teria-personal drive, interest outside of oneself and a commitment to getting an education." 
The admissions process is a detailed and delicate op­eration handled by a staff of professional educators; still they make mistakes and, as Seabrooks points out, these are mistakes that affect people's lives. It is, of course, possible that the University may unjustly reject a candidate. But the more serious mistake is one in which "we admit someone who is not -competitive," Grande says. It is for problems such as these that the transition phase of the admissions procedure has been established; these problems have special ramifications for the black person. According to Seabrooks: "Many students have left home due to the shock of going back to the inner city as a failure. For the black man, it is a total failure from which he often cannot recover. Academic, as well as personal and social assistance must be extended to black students." 
According to Dean William Burke of the Freshman Year of Studies, Notre Dame dismisses only 2% (about 
30) of its freshmen per year. The official policy of that office is to allow minority students one semester to make the adjustment to a new way of life; no one is dismissed after one semester. In some cases summer school and/or a five-year program is suggested. Burke claims that this approach has often been a successful solution to the problems of transition. 
The period of adjustment concerns most directly the Office of Admissions and the Freshman Year Office. But these offices have no data on the attrition rate of black students, and neither office has devised an efficient system of discovering this important information. Rela­tively little has been done to promote tutorial or remedial type services although proposals have been made which would enable Freshman Year to mete out double the amount of money and tutorial efforts. And these services are desperately needed because as Sea­brooks says, "The fact is that the schools from which the brothers come have not been able to offer them the standard curricula necessary for survival in college." 
THERE are other culturally related factors. "Blacks bring their inner city background to Notre Dame; unlike the whites, they are not moving from one-suburb to another. In the ghetto, for instance, the 'cut' is a relief to the teacher in question, one less person to·feed in the classroom situation, while in college the 'cut' may often represent a personal rejection of the teacher." Like­wise, in many large city schools, teachers are required to pass students. There is community pressure on the prin­cipal to move the student through the educational system. Thus the black may bring a pattern of absences or inattention which are unadapted to ~e college en­vironment." 
[111] 
But the hurdles of transition are not of one make nor are they of constant height. Academic difficulties are formidable, but many have said that the most important problems the young black man faces here are of a personal, social nature. Yet the institution has not officially recognized these problems except in the estab­lishment of the black concentrations. 
These concentrations in University residence halls, first proposed during the McKenna SBP campaign of last spring, represent an effort to ease the transitional phase while preserving the personal and cultural iden­tity of the black students. The idE'a was controversial when first advocated, it has remained controversial throughout the year, and there has not yet been a decision as to the future of the concentrations next year. Indeed there probably can be no decision except by those who choose to live in them. 
McKenna calls the concentration system "the only means the blacks have of coping with the situation here," and says that all indicatjons are that the system will be in effect next year. 

According to Fr. Edgar Whelan, Director of Student Residence, there are two official sections reserved for black students, one comprised of 14 men in Dillon and one of 18 in Alumni; other black students live outside the concentration. 
THE concentration system has come under much fire from white students; the incidents in Alumni last fall evidence the tension that has existed around the con­centrations. Whites say they do not know students who live next door to them and that "whatever you do precipitates into black and white." One white student commented: "The concentration may be a good thing, but I wouldn't live in it again. It hasn't been a happy time around the dorm this year. If the University is a microcosm of the real society, maybe it's too real." 
Krashna suggests that the trouble which exists is almost natural, pointing out that, "When you have one type of people, they are pinpointed out of curiosity. And the resolution of this tension demands leadership on both sides." 
A meeting in Dillon, February 17, between blacks and whites elucidated some of the problems and seemed to be somewhat beneficial, McKenna said. He added that many of the things that the white students were con­cerned about were superficial whereas the blacks were seriously concerned with trying to find an identity. "In some ways it isn't tense enough to terms of white people getting beyond superficiality," according to McKenna. 
Fr. Joseph Hoffman, rector in Dillon, says he feels that the blacks simply need a place where they can be themselves, a respite from the almost totally white environment which surrounds them; he suggests further that an increased number of black students at the Uni­versity might help fortify group identity and thus relieve some of the tension. 

[IV] 
IF we 
are to conclude that a numerical increase in the number of blacks will benefit all parties involved, we must also conclude that the admissions process must be developed; there is an even greater need to create and coordinate new programs which will ease the pains of transition for the minority student. And there are a number of progressive proposals, from all quarters, each aimed at a specific target. 
Krashna has requested the creation of a permanent, student-held position on the Admissions Committee, suggesting that a student may often be more able to spot potential in an applicant. But the University hesitates to make confidential files available to any student. The last meeting between Krashna and Ad­missions officers produced the suggestion that a student serve as an advisor; this solution may be implemented. 
Grande feels that the admissions procedure needs more flexibility. He hopes to prepare for and sup­plement the education here by enabling individuals to split their schedule between Holy Cross Junior College and Notre Dame. "Some students have special needs. 

PERHAPS the most revolutionary proposal comes from Seabrooks. Money is the most pressing problem of the disadvantaged student, he says. "Since relief is on the way out, there is a need for us to consider proposals similar to those being made in Washington: we need a guaranteed income for ethnic or disadvantaged students." 
The futures of RAP, its funds, and its relations to the official mechanisms of admissions remain uncertain. Krashna has plans for continued recruitment of blacks and for a new program aimed at encouraging enroll­ment of American Indians; he wants to print a brochure for black students and bring counselors to Notre Dame from black high schools. To do these things, he claims that access to more information is needed. And while the Admissions officials appear receptive to many stu­dent ideas and accept in theory the validity of the stu­dent role in the machinery, there has been no agreement on policy, no definitions, no word from the Cotton Bowl beneficiaries. 
It might be a disaster to put them into the Freshman Year. We need some flexibility in what we can do." 
John Keys 

Benjamin Spock: Dissolving Into The Chaos 
LAST week's lecture on "Dissent and Social Change" by Dr. Benjamin Spock highlighted the festivities of Complicity Week at Notre Dame. The famous pedia­trician-turned-antiwar-protester has initialed full-time speaking engagements to promote the peace movement following his acquittal in the trial of the Boston 5. He was charged with aiding and abetting draft evasion. During the course of his day, Dr. Spock elucidated his views on the radical movement in American politics and on possible political repercussions on the order of the conviction of the Chicago 7. SCHOLASTIC contributing editor, Steve Novak, interviewed Dr. Spock following his speech in Stepan Center. 
SCHOLASTIC: Dr. Spock, do you feel that this so­called "age of permissiveness" has brought about the rebellious or revolutionary spirit in American youth? 
Spock: It was Rev. Norman Vincent Peale who first made the accusation that all the "irresponsibility" and "lack of discipline" in modern youth is because I told their parents to give them instant gratification in Baby and Child Care. I would be proud if I were responsible for the idealism and courageousness of modern youth, but I really cannot claim it. I may have played a very small part by trying to encourage American parents not to be rigid in infant feeding schedules. But if that's \Vhat created modern youth, this is an extraordinary result of a change in feeding schedules. I think the reason today's youth, or at least a minority of them, are turning idealistic and courageous is because we've been through a fantastically materialistic period since the end of World War I. I think man is both material­istic and idealistic in the depths of his nature, and after he's absorbed himself in materialism he has to turn around and ask, "Isn't there more of a life than this?" I think characteristically young people are the first to see the inadequacies of the spirit that's been in existence, and this has happened none too soon. 
SCHOLASTIC: Do you, as an antiwar protester, feel that the dissenting voices in society have a responsibil­ity to the mass of people whose opinions they are pro­testing against? 
Spock: Oh, I think they do have a responsibility; that is to say they are trying to discharge the respon­sibility in what they think is the right function. Now, obviously, some people think they are wrong, and some agree with their aims and disagree with their methods. 
Who's to say what is the right method? I would say that the very polite behavior at the trial of the Boston 5 didn't prove much though we were eventually ac­quitted. Our acquittal didn't mean a great deal; it wasn't on any great principle. I think the Chicago 7 conspirators focused a hundred times as much at­tention as we did at our trial and, if in the long run they are also acquitted, I think they will have proved a lot more by their tumultuous trial than we did in our polite one. 

SCHOLASTIC: Dr. Spock, I understand that you were quoted by the press as saying that you were surprised that the Chicago 7 were found innocent of conspiracy charges because conspiracy is easy to prove. What then is your view of the outcome of the Chicago trial? 
Spock: Well, it wasn't expected. But I think it still is shocking to realize that five of these people have been convicted of a crime which I don't think was a crime at all. They are standing up to a government that, I think, is determined to solve problems by stamp­ing out dissent. So it's shocking, I think, the way the trial was conducted. But what is most shocking is that the Congress of this United States a couple of years previously passed such a law, making it a crime to cross state borders to start a riot -clearly a vindictive and an unconstitutional law. 
SCHOLASTIC: The North Vietnamese negotiators de­manded the immediate release of the Chicago defen­dants, a statement which might lead some Americans to justify their belief that the defendants were part of a communist-inspired conspiracy. Do you believe there's any connection at all? 
Spock: I don't think there's the slightest connection: though I'm sure that many people will try to make such a connection. I think it's natural that the Na­tional Liberation Front and Hanoi will be pleased ­have been pleased -that there are Americans who see this as an outrageous war and fight against it. I would also remind people who are constantly claiming that American opponents of the war are helping the enemy that we are not primarily opposing it to save the Vietnamese. We're in it because we believe that this war has been disastrous to the United States, our country. It's lost us the leadership of the free world. We've lost forty thousand American dead and a quarter of a million injured men for, from our point of view, no good purpose at all. So it is as patriotic Americans that we're opposing the war; and whether the Viet­namese, the North Vietnamese or the National Libera­tion Front approves has nothing to do with our op­position. 
ScHOLASTIC: Do you think that a verdict such as was rendered in the Chicago Trial could serve to curtail further antiwar activities? 
Spock: Well, I'm sure it will scare off some people. In the McCarthy period, we saw clearly that that kind of reactionary voice in government terrified most of the Senate, the President of the United States, the presidents of most universities. I think that there are a lot of liberals and radicals who are afraid that the same thing is going to be repeated. I certainly agree that our government is reactionary and oppressive. But I think that the more significant thing that's happening is that every step our government takes in an oppres­sive way, or in a reactionary way, opens the eyes of more young people. I spend all my time speaking at colleges and universities .and I think the radicalization process is still going rapidly all over the United States. More and more there are high school students in my audiences. One of the most extraordinary things I heard this fall was that the students of Tarington High School in Tarington, Connecticut, a small mill town, Yoted 85% in favor of participation in the Moratorium. I think that radicalization is increasing even faster; and I think that this process will continue. 
SCHOLASTIC: With the talk of an impending repres­sion of political dissent, do you think we're moving toward a totalitarian state? 
Spock: I don't think we're just moving toward it. I think we are in a partial police state. I think it's time for all Americans -whatever their opinions about the war or about a particular trial -who value their liberties, to stand up and join a united front to try to beat back this tyranny. Further, I think we've got per­haps a majority of the American people at the present time who don't understand our Constitutional freedoms. I thought the most shocking thing that happened at the time of the Democratic Convention was that after the television showed the police rioting, something like 65% of the American people said that those kids had it coming to them. To me, if these figures are correct, it shows that 65% of the American people have no idea of the meaning of democracy. Democracy isn't some­thing that's meant to give them the right to their opinions; the whole principle of democracy is to let the whole country hear the minority opinions, on the assumption that the majority is often wrong. These people don't realize that, and this is presumably our strength.~ 
SCHOLASTIC: Do you think that this government administration is capable of repressive activities similar to those seen under the Joe McCarthy reign? 
Spock: I do. I really don't think that they under­stand the American Constitution or its spirit. I think that they think that the good people are the establish­ment people. Those who quarrel with the establish­ment are bad people, and all you have to do is find one excuse or another to get them out of the way. I think this is the way they talk, as well as the way they act. But the alarming fact is that we still have a law on the books from the McCarthy period giving the President the right to suspend certain Constitu­tional safeguards if he believes there is danger of the country being overwhelmed with the aid of a foreign power. That kind of loose language would make it perfectly possible for a government that is paranoid about communism to say that the Chicago defendants and everyone else who's opposing the government's policy are in league with foreign communists. It would give them legitimate -they would think legitimate ­rights to begin suspending the Constitution. 
The Scholastic 

Scholastic Editor 
The SCHOLASTIC will accept applications for the position of EDITOR-IN-CHIEF until Thursday, March 5. Applications should in­clude a brief outline of journalistic experience as well as related statements on editorial direction and organization. The applications should be no longer than three pages, typed. 
Applications for Managing Editor, Art Director, Copy Editor, and Business Manager will also be due on March 5. These should con­sist of a one-page description of experience and reasons for interest. 
Juggler 
r--------------------,
Subscription: 3 issues only $2.00 mailed off campus and out of town. Delivered on campus.
Copies of -the first 

l\tlake check payable to: 
issue, including 

Juggler Box 583 
Steve Brion's poster poem, 

Notre Dame, Ind. 
are still available at 
the Bookstore. Second issue 

Name -------------------------------------------------­
due 11 March. Address 
L--------------------J 
perspectives 
thomas g. griffing 

to insure the survival of the species 
SURVIVAL of the species Homo sapiens is at stake. The root source of this ultimate threat to mankind is overpopulation of the spaceship earth. Even if worldwide population control were to begin today and the re­sources of the world were to be evenly distributed, those of us in Western society would experience a much re­duced living standard and a life style of drastically lower quality. I remind you, however, there is no worldwide population control program and in fact just the reverse appears to be the case. The rate at which the population is growing is itself accelerating. 
On the campus and in the surrounding communities, early steps in the evolution of a population control pro­gram are being taken. These first steps are to bring people to an awareness of and concern for the prob­lems of overpopulation and of its very complex ramifi­cations. It is to these efforts that I apply myself as an educator and citizen. 
Our human senses are not well adapted to perceiving large populations of anything and that may be one reason we are so unaware of the struggle with numbers. For a brief moment try to visualize a million similar objects; say aluminum beer cans or nonreturnable bot­tles. Can you imagine such a pile? I cannot. How then can you perceive 205 million American citizens? If a million is impossible to accurately perceive, how then can I ask you to visualize the vastness of 3½ billion human beings? How can you possibly imagine what it means to have one third billion people under age 15, and what the size of the population of just their progeny will be? What size would a grave have to be to bury the three million children that starved to death just last year? 
Another thing our minds do not seem to readily perceive is geometric progressions. We are too accus­tomed to thinking in terms of arithmetic progressions. In the very short period of three decades the world population will be nearly double its present 3.5 billion. Can you imagine what that means? No less than twice the number of schools, homes, doctors, nurses, teachers. Double the number of factories, strip mines, dumps, sewage treatment plants. Try to picture the congestion of a Christmas rush at O'Hare airport? If you have trouble comprehending the massiveness of such popula­tion pressure, how can anyone who has not had the benefits of your wealth of experience, training and level of affluence? 
To accommodate a doubled population in that time span would be a formidable task for a society like that in America today yet many of the impoverished na­tions in Latin America and Africa are faced with a doubling time of less than 25 years. Consider what that means. 


............... 
THE goals of human society should be to allow for the improvement of the quality of life for all people and to insure the survival of the species for at least as far into the future as it has already lived on this earth. In order to achieve these goals it is essential that society have the flexibility to choose among alternative actions to counteract threats to the continued well-being of its members. The major threats I, as an ecologist, see are interrelated and are included in resource depletion and maldistribution, wars and social strife, and the de­terioration of the physical and psychological human environment. Unchecked population growth restricts the freedom of exercising options to combat any threats. This encumbers society and forces it into the position of making policy decisions that are only short-term delaying tactics, thus preventing the realization of the goals of optimum and sustained welfare. If this all sounds familiar and a bit utopian -why not? What's it really all about anyway? 
What I'm doing about the population problem is no great thing, but it seems to be what I do best. That is to reach out to people, stimulate some nerve endings and then guide them to what ideas and sources of in­formation I can. The principle is self-education, I can only try to catalyze. My own training and experience, familiarity with a certain body of knowledge and great personal concern about irrational population growth afford me the opportunity to act as translator and index to less initiated. 
A local chapter of Zero Population Growth, Inc., was established at Notre Dame this winter. The ambitious goal of this organization is to help reduce the popula­tion growth rate to zero in the United States by 1980 and in the world by 1990. We are attempting to ac­complish this by bringing the public to a keen aware­ness of the critical status of our present population and of the folly of further unchecked population growth. This awareness is stirred by use of all available means of communication. The communicators are volunteers like myself. Financial support comes from membership dues, donations and sales of certain communicative materials. The most effective approach we find is by individual contacts and public appearances to promote interest in the problems, and then to supply authorita­tive information on which individuals can base their own decisions. In general, those who avail themselves of the information cannot avoid talking about it and thus the news spreads, interest is heightened and more people are set into action, learning for themselves.­
THIS semester I began teaching a new course dealing specifically with biological views of the population crisis. The response has been gratifying and I find it an exciting experience. I try to apply the same teaching principles here that we use in Z.R.G. It's not a hard sell and I don't pretend to have all the answers or even be able to clearly identify all the questions. Minds are not dry sponges onto which truth, knowledge ·and wis­dom can be dripped . 
To try to isolate and solve the problems of hurrian­induced environmental deterioration from those of the population itself is to show one's lack of appreciation for whole cloth. For that reason. among the activities being planned locally for the April 22 "Environmental Teach In" are a number of programs to clearly point up the population problems and their relation to pollu­tion, and to reach into various components of the local communities with information. Many more concerned volunteers are needed to successfully conduct these pro­grams and the mechanisms for enlisting their support are being put into motion. 
If you are aware of the present domestic scene, then you know that my local efforts are only a small part of a very general groundswell. The groups of people responsible for triggering this tremor have been criti­cized in some quarters as "neo-Malthusian alarmists," others have called them "unconstrained idealists," "ego­tists" and "opportunists"; some have said that we "don't understand'' or that "technology is the soothing salve for mankind's ills.'' In reply, I'm still looking for the evidence on which to base alternative conclusions and will examine what can be brought fonvard. I only ask that our critics examine the evidence also. If you find you can reject the notions that I've briefly touched, you had better have stronger reasons than mere in­tuitive feelings. The appellate court which will review your decisions will be your own children and grand­children and they v,ill be reviewing amid the trappings of the society that is your legacy. 
Dr. Griffing is an assistant professor in the depmt­ment of Biology. His main fields of study are ecology and limnology, in which he 1·eceived his Ph.D. at the University of Michigan. 
Each week the SCHOLASTIC will make this column available to a member of the University community to explore and comment upon contemporary issues. Views expressed here do not necessarily reflect the editorial policy of the SCHOLASTIC. 
February 27, 1970 
The Wandering 
PORTNOY'S COMPLAINT. n. (after Alexander Portnoy 
1933-). A disorder in which strongly-felt ethical and 
a ltr,uistic impulses a·re perpetually arriving with ex­
treme sexual longings, often of a perverse nature. Spiel­
vogel says: "Acts of exhibitionism, voyeurism,, fetish­
ism,, auto-eroticism and oral coitus are plentiful; as a 
consequence of the patient's 'nwrality,' however, neither 
fantasy nm· act issues in genuine sexual gratification, 
but rather in over-riding feelings of shame and the 
dread of retribution, particularly in the form of castra­
tion." (Spielvogel, 0. "The Puzzled Penis/'-Interna­
tionale Zeitschrift fur Psychoanalyse, Vol. XXIV, p. 
909). It is believed to be traced to the bonds obtaining in the mother-child relationship. 
ONE year ago last week, Philip Roth's Portnoy's Complaint was published and soon shot to the top of the best-seller list. In the year which has followed, it has remained near the top of that list. In addition, a film based on an earlier work broke box-office records in several cities, and made a star out of an incredibly young looking 30-year-old model named Ali McGraw. What follows is not a review in the strictest sense of the term, but rather some thoughts based on the books in question. 
There is, in case you haven't noticed, something of a Philip Roth revival underway. It was sparked by the appearance of Portnoy'sComplaint,'and has been carried along by the great success of Portnoy and the film based on his ten-year-old Goodbye, Columbus. These two works -his best-have been issued in paperback along with two other Roth novels-Letting Go and When She Was Good-which do not meet the standards which Roth has established. This is not to say that they are not good literature, but rather that they are not as good 
or Philip Roth is 
Jew Comes Home to Newark 
as Roth has shown himself to be capable of producing. Goodbye, Columbus won Roth a National Book Award at the age of 26, and established him as a very promis­ing author, but until Portnoy it was largely an unful­filled promise. 
pORTNOY'S COMPLAINT is an autobiographical work. Both Roth and Portnoy skipped grades in gram­mar school, each graduated from Weequahic High School in an overwhelmingly Jewish section of New­ark. They both have fathers who made their living selling insurance, and each relinquished religion at an early age. Like Alexander Portnoy, Roth campaigned for Adlai Stevenson in 1952 while finishing college. Alexander Portnoy is in his mid-thirties, while Roth, at the time he wrote the book, was 35 or 36. 
If Portnoy is autobiography, then Goodbye, Colum­bus is Roth's statement of philosophy. It is a statement based on Roth's experiences in his youth, experiences which are much the same as those of any lower-middle to middle-class Jewish youth in America. Roth's hero, Neil Klugman, is all the things that Alex Portnoy wants to be as a child-independent, intelligent (in a practical way rather than an intellectual one), and very much in command of himself in most situations. His sar­casm is effective and not overused, and is thus one of his best weapons. Neil is involved in a struggle, a struggle against the lure of becoming one of the nouveau riche. There is a strong attraction in both novel and film to make the audience identify with Brenda and Ron Potemkin, but they are finally un­desirable. The member of the family who is treated most favorably, the father, is still shown as a traitor to his class, although the suspicion is strong that it is his wife and family that make him so. 
At one point in his rambling monologue, Alexander Portnoy turns to Doctor Spielvogel and cries out, in desperation and despair, "I am living in the middle of a Jewish joke." What he fa in fact living in is no more than a Jewish cliche, a cliche ·that is, while often overworked and misused, a valid one. Portnoy's C01n­plaint is at once both entertaining and informative. It would have difficulty surviving as a text in sociol_ogy, but is extremely valuable as background in regard to understanding the American Jewish sub-culture. 
PORTNOY and Columbus (which can be considered as constituent parts of an as yet unfinished whole) provide a careful look into what is involved in being an American Jew, an area which, in comparison with its importance, appears to have received little attention here and in most other Christian institutions. Indeed there have been few, if any, scholarly texts written in an attempt to comprehend the realities of life as an American Jew. Roger Kahn's The Passionate PeO'ple attempts to explain this culture, and is successful up to a point. Roth, however, has gone deeper, examining not just general trends in Jewish culture, but the actual experiences that form the Jewish intelligence-an in­telligence manifested not only in scholarship but also in common sense. 
The Jews are, whether we care to admit it or not, an important element of American society, perhaps more powerful than their numbers warrant. At the same time, they are not as powerful in terms of finances as the stereotypes would have us believe. Most people here have never seen a Jew or at least never had to share any sort of common experiences with them. In short, most residents in this Catholic enclave in the vVASPish midwest do not understand Jews. Philip Roth may not be a sociologist, but he does understand himself, and he is, insofar as the cliche is viable, a typical Jew. -:r:iie understanding he brings to Portnoy's C01nplaint is one which most people should confront. 
as Steve Novak, the author, does 



\ 

Playing As One Instrument 
W HEN an ensemble such as the American Brass Quintet performs, as it did here at St. Mary's O'Laugh­lin Auditorium last Saturday night, the concert goer it finds most difficult to please is the fairly competent, amateur instrumentalist. I make this statement not merely because I happen to enjoy membership in this club of musical misanthropes, who have the musical background to know when something has gone wrong up on stage, but rather because I found little if any evidence of slip-ups in their presentation that might have quieted my envy. In short, for lovers of music for brass, or just music in general, missing this concert almost merits that disappearing term "sin." 
Individually, the members of the American Brass Quintet showed a total mastery of their instruments. Gerard Schwarz and Louis Ranger, trumpets, displayed amazing flexibility and control of range on the demand­ing modern compositions, and equally amazing technical facility on the traditional pieces. Edward Birdwell, on French horn, played with a clarity of tone that re­inforced my opinion that the horn is the most romantic of any orchestral instrument. Tenor trombonist Arnold Fromme, although an excellent player by anyone's standards, proved to be the only weak member of the group. He may possibly just have experienced an off night, but I can only draw my conclusions from what I heard. He faltered a bit on a number of lengthy passages and let an otherwise beautiful vibrato get in the way of a clear attack in the more lyrical pieces. These faults, however, were easily overshadowed by the bulk of his playing. The mechanical and artistic "star" of the quintet was clearly bass trombonist Robert Biddlecome. His technique, tone, and interpretation were flawless and exciting throughout, particularly on "Contrapunctus No. 9" by J. S. Bach. 
The American Brass Quintet, taken as a whole, can­not be matched in the United States. It, becomes hackneyed for reviewers of ensemble concerts to say that "the musicians played as one instrume~t," but I feel forced to make the remark anyway bedause this effect was so strikingly present. At times I 'wondered 
The· American Brass Quintet 

if they did not play with more precision and unity of phrasing and dynamics than the serious work that has been done recently on the Moog Synthesizer. 
THE selection of their program, compositions written from 1450 to 1967, revealed the beautiful extremes of which a brass ensemble is capable. There were far too many nearly incredible "musical moments" to talk about them all, but a few are particularly noteworthy. The "Toccata" movement of contemporary composer Ulysses Kay's "Brass Quartet" was interesting in its portrayal of traditionally structured, interlocking me­lodic lines, common to early brass ensemble music, over modernistic chordal settings. 
Their performance of "La Marl:inelia" from "Four Instrumental Pieces" by Heinrich Isaac was an example of the taste and delicacy of interpretation for which the American Brass Quintet is known. 
I have already mentioned "Contrapunctus No. 9," but I bring it up again here for the composition itself. Bach buffs should look into this short piece to see this great composer in a reflective mood which emerges through the sonorous melodic lines and introspective harmonic flow. 
"Bewegt," from modern composer Paul Hindemith's "Morgenmusik" was worth the price of admission just to hear the emotionally powerful unison work of the trombones and horn. 
The Quintet deserved the good-sized audience that attended, and the acoustics of O'Laughlin Auditorium were ideal. After two curtain calls, the crowd coaxed an encore which happily turned out to be one of the finest pieces of the evening. Unfortunately, from my vantage point in the balco~y I could not make out the title of the composition. The encore itself drew another curtain call, and I am certain that anyone who at first hesitated whether to go to the basketball game or to the American Brass Quintet was in no way disappointed. 
Nick Talarico 

Not Since Sleepy Jim 
Was In The Nets 
NINETEEN sixty-eight ushered in a new era in varsity sports for Notre Dame with the revival of varsity hockey at du Lac. That's right, re­vival. Forty-six years ago the wizardry of Jim Crowley wasn't just confined to the gridiron at Cartier Field. With "Sleepy Jim" tending goal, an Irish squad made appear­ances on artificial ice in Madison Square Garden and Pittsburgh's old Duquesne Garden and swept to the \Vestern Intercollegiate Champion­ship, defeating the likes of Michigan · State, Michigan Tech, Wisconsin and Michigan. 
For all intents and purposes, how­ever, hockey for the Fighting Irish sputtered, died and was hurried in 1927. Inclement weather forced too many cancellations and graduation wiped the squad clean of many of its top players. Besides, with Rockne churning out national championships year after year, campuswide interest in the sport began to wane. Over the next 40 years hockey clubs were formed only to fold after a year's existence. 
Football and baseball thoroughly dominated the .ft....merican sports scene through the :fifties, but hockey was making new inroads through the mass media with the National Hockey League asserting its solidar­ity in major American cities in the early sixties. "Hockey fever" was here to stay. 
NOTRE Dame's Athletic Board, sensing the widespread rise of the popularity of college hockey, finally took the plunge last year. It was obvious from the beginning that this was to be no small-time operation. the erection of the twin-domed Athletic and Convocation Center (an $8.6 million affair) was certainly not going to be the home of a team that would gradually prove itself over a period of time. The powers-that-be wanted a winner, but fast. 
Coach Charles "Lefty" Smith, who predicted he'd be able to mold a 

NCAA champion in four years' time, was tapped as ND hockey mentor. 'While Johnny Dee's been trying to figure out how to get by the first round of the NCAA tourney, Lefty's embarked on a massive recruiting job that saw a basically all-fresh­man team skate to a 16-8-3 slate in their first year on the ice. So im­pressed were they by these initial proceedings, that the boys upstairs managed to schedule the 1972 edi­tion of the NCAA hockey finals at the Convo ice rink. It's no coinci­dence, either, that this scheduling meets precisely with Lefty's predic­tion of a winner in four years. For the past fifteen years, nearly every host school has been in the thick of the battle for the crown. The ques­tion is, then, when tourney time rolls around in '72, will the Irish be pay­ing admission or skating free of charge? 
Recently Notre Dame became the tenth member of the Western Col­legiate Hockey Association, joining ranks with Colorado College, Denver, Michigan, Michigan State, Michigan Tech, Minnesota, Minnesota (Du­luth), North Dakota and Wisconsin. The WCHA crowns a loop cham­pion and conducts a season-ending play-off from which the NCAA se­lects the top two teams as finalists for the championship. They are matched against two other teams from the ECAC in a tournament. WCHA teams have won 18 of 21 times to date. 
Now that the Irish are at least eligible for tourney play (as of next season), only the problem of build­ing in two years a unit capable of top-notch play remains. True, the Blue and Gold have turned in re­spectable records in their two year's of competition (16-8-3 last year and 17-8-1 so far this season), but the scheduling, to be sure, has been far from difficult. 
Next year, however, should tell the tale of Irish progress. Only Boston ollege, Colorado College and the Air Force remain as Notre Dame opponents for the '70-'71 season. The others will be WCHA opponents, flavored with a sprinkling of eastern powers. No Lake Forests or Ohios. There isn't a patsy on the schedule. 
How does Lefty eye the situation? "Well, we're quite pleased with our progress to date. We're at least 50% improved over our initial squad and figure to improve at least that much next season. Naturally, our develop­ment hinges on the success of this year's recruiting. Right now we have several commitments, but we won't know for sure until May. 
"If recruiting goes as planned, if our freshman and sophomores stay healthy we should be contenders for the '72 playoffs. Remember, we don't necessarily have to finish one or two in the league; the playoffs will tell the story. 
Next year? Well that's another story. All things being equal, we may find ourselves in a little over our heads. Not that we won't win our share of games, but I don't foresee equaling the records of our past two seasons. The transition to a much more strenuous calibre of play with the new schedule will make it tough for us to finish in the top spots, but we'll hold our own. We feel that in playing the compe­tition in the Western Association, we will be on the ice with the best col­lege hockey players in the game. This alone is the kind of challenge we welcome.'' 
LEFTY feels that with this season's squad he has the nucleus around squad he has the neucleus around which he can build a strong con­tender. Of the top five scorers skat­ing for the Irish this year, three are freshmen and one is a sophomore. Spearheading the Irish attack is rookie center John Noble, whose sea­son total of 50 points (21 goals and 29 assists) already surpasses last year's mark of 47 set by team cap­tain Phil Wittliff. Noble combines uncanny stickhandling with a quick 
--i 

and accurate wrist shot to wreak havoc on the opposition's defense. When his line is skating, he takes complete control of the situation, setting up his wings for the best shots possible on every rush. 
Teammate Paul Regan, also a cen­ter, bulls his way through opposing defenses. Regan's notched 39 points for third place in the team scoring 
February 27, 1970 
race. Lefty notes that as these two develop in the ensuing years, they could well become two of the top­notch centers in the country. 
The Irish have a glut of wings who can skate with the best of 'em. Sophs Joe Bonk and Kevin Hoene and freshman Gary Little figure as key men in Lefty's next few seasons. Goal tending figures to be little or no problem at all. In Dick Tomasoni, already acclaimed as one of the finest in the collegiate ranks, Smith has filled the critical position. When asked last year what he \Vas most looking for in terms of players for his infant squad, Lefty replied, "A goalie, of course; can't win if it's easy for the opposition to score." 
BuT the Irish are hurting at one important spot: defense. This was all too obvious in the 4-4 tie last \Vednesday with Bowling Green, a team that had been shellacked on their home ice 9-3 earlier in the campaign. Mark Longar and Bill Green are two fine defensemen, but they seem to play in spurts, an in­consistency that's hurt the Irish in games that appeared to be push­overs. The depth just isn't there to back them up; and without serious backchecking Notre Dame won't be in an NCAA tourney for a few sea­sons to come. 
wISCONSIN Coach Robert John­son, whose Badgers stopped the Irish twice at Madison, sees Notre Dame as a future power in the WCHA, but whether a championship teain can develop in two years remains to be seen. Even with pro-prospect Bert DeHate setting scoring records, Wis­consin has still managed only a fifth­place showing in the WCHA. Colo­rado College, another \.VCHA mem­as a future power in the \VCHA, but ber, split a pair of 5-4 decisions with the Irish but have been able to scratch only two victories in their conference. 
Next year should be interesting, however. Certainly, with the pres­ent squad the Irish won't be going anywhere in the WCHA or the NCAA. The final outcome rests on how well recruiting goes this year and next. If the Irish can pick up a few decent prospects, especially at the defense, look for them to be right in the thick of things next year. If not, put your orders in for the '76 NCAAs, 'cause that's probably a more feasible date for Irish supre­macy in hockey. Yet, the boys up there must know something. They didn't bid for the '72 championship for the fun of it. 
-Don Kennedy 

B&C T&A 
And the letter is &. (I) Capsule Comment: Young marrieds Bob & Carol introduce their friends, Ted & Alice, to the modern art of wife swapping. 
(Il) "'Ve talk a lot about love, but we don't feel it ... " 
(ill)  
Natalie Wood  
Robert Culp  
Elliot Gould  directed by Paul Mazursky.  
Dyan Cannon  

(IV) 
"This dress is the most important thing in the world. If you don't feel deeply about this dress, you won't feel anything about humanity." 
"That's patently absurd ... " 
"You're full of crap!" 
"That's a cop-out." 
(V) 
It is, of course, a rhetorical exaggeration to say that all first-class men escape marriage, and even more of an ~xaggeration to say that their high qualities go wholly untransmitted to posterity. 
H. L. MENCKEN 
(VI) 
"Honey, I had an affair in San Francisco. It was last night. The soundman brought a girl over, she asked for a ride home, she finally made it to my hotel room. ,ve had an affair ... no, affair's the wrong word, we had intercourse. I owe it to ourselves, to us, to tell about it." . 
"That's beautiful, Bob, I can't feel jealous of your affair with some dumb blonde." · "She's not dumb, honey, she got her master's at Berkeley." 
(VII) 
-I didn't realize that you liked each other. I see. You both wanted each other, and there was the usual warmth and intimate caresses, each one impatiently waiting for the other to come. 
-Yes, but it could not be planned. I liked him; it was spontaneous. And because it was that, it became a good test: it answered the questions I asked myself. 
JERzy KOSINSKI 
(Vlll) 

"Can you imagine that, she walks over to us and 
says, Bob just had an affair. Wow." 
"I'm going to throw up." 
"Are you sick?" 
"I have such hostilities for Bob. I wonder if she'll 
get a divorce." 
"There must be 50 million men in the world right 
now having affairs, and Bob has to tell Carol." 
(IX) 

"Bob, I'm having an affair, actually affair's the 
wrong word. A man is in our room." 
"Who is it?" 
"Just a man ... " 
"Open the door, I'll kill the son-of-a-bitch!" 
"Bob, we've got to be open about this -remember how honest you were about your affair." "You go up there, tell him to put his clothes on, and come down and have a drink with us ... " 
(X) "The truth is always beautiful.'' 
(XI) 

She knew instinctively: he will be fine as the fra­ternity boy just out of an Ivy League school who knows he will never stop being a fraternity boy as long as he lives. But who still feels he is missing something, and so hangs at the edges of the whole Sick Crew. If he is going into management, he writes. If he is an engineer or architect, why he paints or sculpts. He will straddle the line, aware up to the point of knowing he is getting the worst of both ,.,·orlds, but never stopping to wonder why there should have ever been a line, or even if there is a line at all. He will learn how to be a twinned man and will go on at the game, straddling until he splits up the crotch and in half from the prolonged tension, and then he will be destroyed. She assumed ballet fourth position, moved her breasts at a 45° angle to his line-of-sight, pointed her nose at his heart, looked up at him through her eyelashes. 
"How long have you been in New York?" 
THOMAS PYNCHON 
(XII) 

"Bob thinks he's shooting 'Gone With The Wind.' " 
"With a Bell & Howell?" 
John Stupp 

when superstars meet they usually in Chicago? Your gµess is as good sag, although one must admit, with as mine. For times call 233-4532. great style. Don't get me wrong, AVON: Francois ·Truffaut's mas­
movies 

GRANADA: Dustin Hoffman and Mia Farrow come together under the direction of Peter Yates in what sadly turns out to be much ado about nothing. Flashbacks and flash forwards (thanks to Easy Rider) are becoming quite the rage these days, and John and Mary has its share. Time compression is used with some agility and the camera work by Gayne Rescher is excellent in some places, those shot outside the studio. But all in all, as in the case with rock groups these days, 
chicago 

As the SCHOLASTIC goes to press this week, we find, poking our head out the window of our office high atop the LaFortune Student Center, that some semblance of spring has come to the Midwest. This semblance may have come and gone by the time you read this, or it may have come, gone and come back again ( even as many as five times), or it may have been transmogrified by the reaction of nature in all its pristine glory. At any rate, it is time to begin the an­nual SCHOLASTIC walking tour of 
Chicago. 
Now we must say that we do not recommend walking to Chicago; that walk is at least arduous and some would say it is tedious likewise. No, travel by car or train or bus or even aeroplane is recommended. But hav­ing arrived in Chicago itself, we urge that you learn the mysteries of the great city by walking about it. There are some neighborhoods where one should not walk, it must be noted, because the police in Chicago have more experience with guns than butter, to turn a phrase. 
February 27, 1970 
the film is a good one, but just barely. For times call: 233-7301. 
STATE: Not enough can be said in this short space about They Shoot H<Yrses, Don!t They? It may be one of the best films released this year, and although relatively unknown in many circles, still managed to garner nine Academy Awards Nominations. Direction is by Sidney Pollack. The thirties are brought to acute light, so sharp in fact, that F. Scott Fitz­gerald would have drooled to see this. Jane Fonda acts like she never has before (i.e., good) and Michael Sarrazin, Susannah York, Red But­tons, and assorted others come to­gether in what is probably the sleep­er of the year. By all means see it. Call: 233-1676 for times. 
COLFAX: Dream of Kings. Greeks 
The first and indeed the most nat­ural part of the tour of any such archiepiscopal city as Chicago is the cathedral for a religious person, I mean here, a truly religious person. But there are no more truly religious persons left in the world. To mat­ters, then, of more general interest. 
It has been observed that at the juncture of the Loop in Chicago, that is, the juncture of north and south, that ethnology ends (we are moving south to north) and architecture be­gins. There are architectural works in Chicago which alone make it a city worth walking about in; this is to say nothing of all the funny people. 
In the Loop itself, one is faced with the overwhelming conclusion that in the modern world, banks and federal bu.ildings are the only really attractive buildings. The First Na­tional is easily the most amazing bank around because it appears to follow the unusual example of the Leaning Tower of Pisa in being badly constructed: specifically, the sides of the building curve in from the ground floor to the highest, 60­odd numbered floor. The effect from the sidewalk is, of course, dizzy­making. But looking inside makes it clear that the First National, finished only three years ago, is the culmina­tion of much architectural work that is scattered elsewhere in the Loop. The first element, the most farcical one, is of course the dignity of a terpiece of young lovers Stolen Kisses makes it to the Avon after being contracted last year, thus pre­venting Cinema '70 from getting hold of it -which is I suppose, ethical in action, but certainly not in spirit. Anyway the film is excellent. Certainly of interest to the student body in general is the second film on the bill The First Time. Call 288-7800 for •times. 'rruffaut is al­ways at least ambitious, if not ex­cellent, and certainly· worth seeing any time. 
RIVER PARK: The Ou,tdoorsman, a documentary about hunting and fishing, and the like, may be of ex­treme interest to those thinking of fleeing to Canada in the near future. For times call 288-8488. 
~John S'tu:pp 

bank, the kind of austerity and il­lusion of solidness that the worst of bo'll,rgeois cult'U,re propagates. This is seen best in .that grand old bank, the Continental Illinois (largest bank in the Midwest, eighth largest in the country, former chairman: Secretary of Treasury David Kennedy), with its bastardized Ionic columns posi­tioned almost as much for their size as for their compositional value all around that building and giving it as aspect of heaviness worth its weight in gold. And gold is the lesser motif of the Continental Illi­nois fa~ade in the solidly stapled gold tablets that honor the concrete that pinions them. 
Next week: The mind of Mies van der Rohe and how it made Chicago what it is today, Abbie Hoffman where he won't be tomorrow, and how he made Lake Shore Drive a referrent as grand as Pacific Ocean Trails. 

ATTEMPTS to diagnose the relation of one moment in 
history to moments past and future must culminate in, 
at best, well-considered speculation; at worst, spurious 
rumor-mongering. But today, the times are such that 
one need be neither a professional historian nor a 
charismatic divine to say with Amos that ". . . my 
people are going to perish by the sword: all those who 
say no misfortune will ever touch us nor even come 
anywhere near us." Today, not quite 200 years after 
its conception, the United States is a country doomed. 
The fibres that have held together the lineaments of our culture, of our nation, face immanent dissolution. No longer can the American fleeing corruption discover purity in the land, the air, or the water. The land is industrialized, the air filthy, and the water polluted. The 1970 man is as impotent before his artifacts as the medieval man before the winds and the seasons. But these are mere symbols of a more essential dissolution, a dissolution of the self-assured innocence that undergirds our national allegiance. 
America's history has finally overcome her faith in progress. No longer can the nation escape the decisions and the actions of her past. In the last two decades, writes Reinhold Niebuhr, "the perennial moral predica­ments of human history have caught up with a culture which knew nothing of sin or guilt, and with a nation which seemed to be the most perfect fruit of that culture." 
America is finally beginning to realize that her aspirations for tl1e future are limited by her inventions of the past, that she cannot salute global unity with her right hand while holding an atomic bomb poised in her left hand. The moral ambiguity of this situation is more complex than this country is prepared to deal with. America today "is less completely master of its own 
destiny than was a comparatively weak America, rock­
ing in the cradle of its continental security. The same 
strength which has extended our power beyond a con-

the last word 
tinent has also interwoven our destiny with the destiny of many peoples ..." With this entrance into history, America has lost her innocence. Vietnam represents an all too patent example of this loss. 
BUT America has lost her innocence in an even more fundamental way. Slavery, as William Faulkner said so often, has put a curse upon the country. The North had hoped to purge this curse with the Civil War. And for a long time, it seemed as if it pad succeeded. The North had won the war; the North became America, and the North revelled in its innocent self-righteousness. America could believe in this purity until 1954, until Little Rock, when the sins of the South begged for cor­rection in the courts of the North. Since that time, history has illuminated more and more clearly the persistent racial injustices of this country and the hypocrisy of the North. 
The nation cannot withstand these assaults against her innocence, for this is a nation founded on the belief that it is God's country. And God doesn't sin. Spiro Agnew and Middle America attack dissent as un­American-but that does not make it untrue. Repres­sion is the only alternative to liquidation in a country that must continually prove its innocence if it is to remain alive. Censorship, martial law, and the Con­spiracy trial are the inevitable products of a purgative quest for innocence. And these can only produce more sin, more dissolution. 
America is a country doomed. A sorrowful, fearful -nonetheless, in?scapable-conclusion. Because an in­dividual person possesses some inscrutable, inner life, he can transform his experience and his sins into under­standing and grace. A nation, especially a nation founded on the assurance of its own innocence, cannot understand its sins. Can only weep helplessly as it collapses. -Rich Moran 
MAY WE POINT OUT ... 
THE EXCLUSIVE CAMPUS SHOP WAY TO BUY 
• 
PAY ONE-THIRD IN JUNE 

• 
PAY ONE-THIRD IN JULY 

• 
PAY ONE-THIRD IN AUGUST 


NO SERVICE OR CARRYING CHARGE (Your account is open) 
,__.~~--=-------~-­
~At.,~
LIE • 
atnp11$~ o
-----~ 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 

THE END IS NEAR! 
The Canipus Shoj/s annual 
SALE 
of Suits, Sport Coats and Outercoats 
lets you save 
½ 

Your account is already open) pay next swnmer! 
-~~­~~~ 
LIER ' amp11$~ho
---~ 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 




