t 
t .. 
:\ t;; 
l f.~ 

r~t·?:'' :· 
,P1
'-_.... ;..... , ~ 


FR. Tttl SttY<;: 
: 
~' &tVi Tt\E. PR\GE. OF A Co uPLt\ BE.I:: i<:S '' 
-St!fYO R~ \\-\ E UNffE.'D WI\'/ 
Contents 

November 13, 1986 Scholastic Volume 128, No. 8 

Cover Stories 


6 
Notre Dame's Changing Face 
By Pat Creadon 
In the past decade Notre Dame has spent more that $60 million on new buildings while renovating existing structures 
8 
Lafortune Renovations: Rebuilding Student Life? By Martha McGuire 
LaFortune may be quite impressive when it finally opens, but student support will be the real indication of success 
12 
From Card Catalog to Computer Terminal By TonyLang 
The Memorial Library's automation plan, another form of change at 
Notre Dame, will result in convenient access to library materials 
14 
Coming In Out Of The Cold By Mike Chmiel 
The expansion of athletic facilities on campus 
will provide more space for year-round sports 

Sports 
26/A Promising Debut 
By Dan Coyle 28/Trying to Tame the Lions By Ed Jordanich 

31/Scoreboard 


News 
18/An Ongoing Concern By Cliff Stevens 


Departments 
3/Letters 4/Week In Distortion: Dark Horse Seeks Presidency 5/On Other Campuses: No Ugly Horses Allowed 
16/Calendar 21/Music: And Now, Here's the BAD News 22/Restaurants: An Authentic Italian Restaurant? 23/Books: 'Secrets' Not Worth Keeping 32/Final Word: On the Campaign Trail 

Student Life 
24/A Two-Way Street 
By Sara Harty 
Cover Photo by Lucian Niemeyer 

!
j •• 

Scholastic 


Letters 
Editor-in-Chief 
Maher Mouashcr 

Managing Editor 
Keith Harrison Jr. 

Design Editor. 
Alex Peltzer 

Production Manager 
Matthew Bradley 

General Manag~r 
Phil Coghlan 
Editorial 
Larry Burke/Sports Catherine Coffey/Departments frank Lipo/News Greg Miller/Student Life Lucian Niemeyer /Photography Aimee Storin/Copy Chief Bob Winn/Student Life 

Administration 
Pete Cespedes/Comptroller Julie Gschwind/Advertising Mike Hoban/Circulation 

Asst. Design Editor 
Sharon Dow 

Layout · 
Jim Doerfler 
Steve Traubert 

Art & Photography 
Maria Murphy 
Jim Doerfler 
Joe Vitacco 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are ~hose of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire edi­torial board of Scholastic or the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or student-body. Editorials, unless otherwise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority of the edi­torial board. 
Scholastic is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertis­ing, Inc. Published weekly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at ·The Papers, Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The subscription ·rate is $18.75 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, IN 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Copyright 1986 Scholastic. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 


November 6, 1986 

Humor Columnist Treated Sarabando Cruelly 
Dear Editor, 
Entering Notre Dame as a fresh­man, I prided myself on being part 
,of the Catholic tradition of Notre Dame. I knew at Notre Dame the administration, school publications, socials, etc. would reflect its caring attitude for its students. Well, that 
belief  was  upheld  until  I  read  
Scholastic's  recent  article  in  The  
Weck  in  Distortion  (Nov.  6:  
Durkster's  Demise)  by  Mike  

Keegan. 
In descr:ibing the stereotypical "geek" trying to get a date, Keegan refers to Lou Sarabando, known campus wide for his article about the use of alcohol at SYRs. I sup­pose an accurate phrase for Keegan's article is "a total cut down." From the intonations of the article, Keegan is saying Sarabando is a "geek" because he upholds the law by not drinking alcohol. 
From my experiences I have found that people who cut down others are the ones who are the most insecure about themselves. By cut­ting down others they find a reason for their own existence. By cutting down others they make themselves appear and feel superior. If Keegan thinks he is so much better than Sarabando for alcoholic reasons
' 
why doesn't he write an article on the topic, instead of the malicious nonsense that was printed in your magazine? 
In defending Sarabando I am not supporting what he. had to say in his article. I have never met or spoken to Sarabando, and, frankly, I do not 
. know who he is. But I believe, as a fell ow human, he deserves the right to be treated respectfully and humanely. Criticism against Sara­bando is most assuredly acceptable and necessary. But criticism and malice are two separate entities. Keegan needs to be taught the difference. 
By publishing the article, Scho­lastic is showing a general lack of concern for its professional image. Also, Scholastic, as a University magazine, is responsible for uphold­ing the values of a Catholic institu­tion. By allowing one of it~ writers to sin in its magazine, Scholastic fails as being worthy of the name of Notre Dame. I believe the magazine owes an apology to Sarabando and 
· Scholastic's readers. 
Bill Guschwan Pangborn Hall 


Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

t ----------~ ---­
'-; -• • ' • • ---~~ -" -;•1 ,..._ -,, ~-.......,..,:: -~--------,,,_ l r;1' 
. . . ),. 


Dark Horse Seeks Presidency 
Coyle will create a modern-day Camelot with the help of an ideal administration 
By John Coyle 


',.  he selectionTpresident of  of the next this fabled  
!  University will be made any  
day, and I feel that as a member of  
the Notre Dame community it is  
my duty to make my voice heard.  
I'm •not  usually  one  to  blow  my  
own  horn,  but  at  this  historical  
and monumental time, I'm forced  
to make an exception.  

I think that I'd make a great president. So what if I'm not a pri­est and the only diploma I have to my name is from fourth grade day-camp. Details, details. Times are changing and I'm a man not afraid to change with them. With my new staff members, some of whom I've already received a ver­bal commitment from, I'm confi­dent that I can lead Notre Dame to the forefront of all universities by the 21st century. 
Tired of living in old, drab, institutional dorms? How does Donald Trump sound as the direc­tor of student residences? He'll level all the dorms and replace them with luxurious Trump Towers and Castles. Outdoor jacuzzis and flowing waterfalls ­will come standard with every room. 
And won't that lady who com­plained about "Louie, Louie" lyr­ics have a bird when Prince is appointed band director? "Little Red Corvette" and "Lady Cab­driver" will knock the socks off more than a few alums. 

How about Julie McCoy as director of Student Activities? No one ever had a bad time when she was the cruise director on the Love Boat. She'll turn the whole campus into one big Aloha Deck. We'll all be sucking down pina coladas, shooting clay pigeons and meeting the person of our dreams every semester. Maybe Chuck Woolery will be her assistant. "So how did your SYR date end ... any romance?" 
I'll bring in George Stein­brenner to shake up the athletic department. Somehow George will go out and buy Brian Bosworth Vinnie Testaverde and Lorenz~ White and we'll end up national champs. Digger will be out and Billy Martin in as basketball coach. Big deal if Billy doesn't k~ow anything about hoops; things will be more exciting with him. Besides, Billy's a better dresser and a lot more fun at a party. 
You can't complain about the dining _halls when Julia Child is the director of Food Services. Crepes Suzette and chocolate mousse will be the fare on a bad night. Maybe Willie Wonka will let us borrow his Oompa-loompas from the Chocalate Factory to work in the dining halls. I just love when they break out in their little song, "Oompa-loompa doo­pa-dee-doo, we have another puz­zle for you." 
Dr. Ruth will be director of the University Counseling Center. A lot more people would head on over for counseling if they could talk about "good sex" rather than how to relieve stress by running everyday. 
So long to Notre Dame boxers and polyester ties when Ralph Lauren and Liz Claiborne prem­iere their new fall lines in the Hammes Bookstore. The· whole campus will be on the cutting edge of fashion. 
After careful consideration I have concluded that Father Ty~on is just a little too stiff to be vice president of student affairs. I'd replace him with David Lee Roth. The self-proclaimed bawdy, irreverant, bad boy of rock and roll is more with it and I suppose that in time, he'll revise some of the rules in Du Lac. "A bottle of anything and a glazed donut ... To goooo!!" will become Notre Dame's new rallying cry. 
Things will be a little different with me at the helm. Of course, I'd have to lay down the law with some members of my staff. For instance, I won't allow Prince to paint the dome purple -a light pink maybe -but definitely not purple. 
And David Lee Roth's idea of mandatory paternity insurance for all incoming male freshman will probably have to be shot down. But once we've ironed out all the little wrinkles and solved the nor­mal problems that come with a change in command, this place will be a modern-day Camelot. We'd be the hippest, coolest, most "totally rad" campus in the world. 
Scholastic 




News 




Notre Dame's 

In the past decade Notre Dame has ~pent T?o!e than $60 million on new buildings while renovating existing structures 

1'Zl.._  In 1843, the Cross brothers  Holy con­ 
~  structed  the  first  
building  on  the Notre  

Dame campus. Old College was built using bricks from_ clay dug out of the bottom of St. Mary's Lake. That building still stands today. 
A century and more than 100 buildings later, the University relies on much more than mud and hard-working clergymen to con­tinue its expansion. 
In fact, within the past eight years Notre Dame has spent more than $60 million on new buildings, not to mention extensive renova­tions on more than half the dorms on campus. 
"Quality education, in addition to an outstanding faculty and locality, relies on quality build­ings," said Director of Physical Plant Don Dedrick. "As times change, new needs are realized. We must continue to construct and remodel buildings to support the University's academic mission," Dedrick added. 
Some of the larger projects were the construction of Stepan Chemistry Hall ($9. 7 million) and the Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineer­ing ($8.6 million). The most inex­pensive major addition to the campus in recent years was the Clarke Memorial Fountain ($500,000). 
The process which goes into constructing a single building is extensive, according to Dedrick. "A perceived need is brought forth to the administration from the offices and deans of the University," he said. 
"Then, work is done toward raising funds for the project. After designs arc drawn up suiting the specifications for the bulding, the project is bid for by construc­tion companies. This whole pro­cess can take anywhere from five to 15 years," Dedrick added. 
Dedrick said that almost all of 

the money used for construction purposes comes from private donations in the form of gifts. 
The most important aspect of adding buildings to campus is the planning stage, said Dedrick. Sometimes existing buildings stand in the way of progress. For instance, the Clarke Memorial Fountain is located where the Fieldhouse once stood. 
"The Fieldhouse was a bur­den " said Dedrick, "because it
' 
blocked the walking paths and didn't provide a flow to the rest of the campus. Besides this, it was past the point of being worthwhile to renovate." As a result, the building was torn down to make way for the fountain and sur­rounding mall, Dedrick added. 
The entire campus is designed around several malls. According to Dedrick, this provides an "open feeling" so as not to make the residents feel overcrowded. "Notre Dame is a very well planned, laid-out community," he said. 

"What we have here is irre­placeable," said Father Daniel Jenky, rector of Sacred Heart Church. "These buildings are our history. They make this place beautiful," said Jenky. "A hun­dred years ago the Holy Cross Brothers put every dime they had into the school. It is our job to keep up that tradition today," he added. 
Most of Notre Dame's campus is a historic district which is listed in the National Register of His­toric Places in Washington, D.C. This area consists of more than 100 acres stretching west from, but not including, the Memorial Library. 

"How can we tear (these build­ings) down?" asked Jenky. "What we have to do is preserve the char­acter of the buildings, but put them to everyday use through renovations." 
Father Joseph Carey, rector of Dillon Hall, said he agreed with Jenky. "The new constructions on campus arc; beautiful. But I tnink it is important to preserve the older buildings. Buildings such as Dillon are priceless in regards to their beauty and historical signifi­cance." 
Scholastic 

Several major construction pro­jects arc now nearing completion. The LaFortunc and Law. School additions, which together have cost approximately $11 million, made construction workers, mud and heavy machinery a common sight. The recently completed Clarke Memorial Fountain has lit up the night sky and evoked com­parisons to England's Stonehenge. 
Several other projects arc currently beginning on campus. A three-year renovation of Sacred Heart Church will begin with the addition of a sprinkler system. Then, according to Jenky, the roof will be redone next spring. "The slate on the roof is supposed to last 60 to 75 years," said Jenky. "This roof has remained unchanged since 1871, the year it was built." 
Other changes planned at Sacred Heart include moving the electrical transformers out of the basement to prevent fire hazards (to be completed this winter), replastering the ceiling of the church (scheduled for summer 1987), and recarpeting the floor (scheduled for summer 1988). 
Other additions to campus planned for the near future include construction of an All Sports Building, the Eck Tennis Building and two new residence halls. The two dorms 
will be located between the Memorial Library and the Pasquerillas.  
"It will be  as  though  we  flip­ 

flopped . the two Pasquerillas so that the two new dorms will be facing the library," said Dedrick. He added that the two buildings will house a total of 500 women. 
According to Richard Conklin, assistant vice president for University Relations, construction of buildings usually does not start until the University has found a benefactor for the project. 
Work began on one of the women's dorms after money for the project was donated by Henry 

News 


J. Knott, a Baltimore business­man. The dorm will be named Marion Burk Knott Hall after his wifc. No benefactor for the other dorm has been found, said Conk­lin. 
University-owned land extends north to the. Indiana Toll Road and east to Ivy Road, according to Dedrick. "We don't plan to utilize that land because we want to keep a buffer around the University," he said. Notre Dame will con­tinue, however, to build and reno­vate within the immediate campus boundaries, Dedrick said. 
Recently, University officials have discussed the construction of a $10 million classroom building. This building, according to Conk­lin, is tentatively scheduled to be built in the extra parking facilities across from the Snite Museum, west of the football stadium. 
But not all changes related to campus buildings involve big dol­lar expenditures or extensive plan­ning. According to the Depart­ment of Public Relations and Information, Notre Dame's Board of Trustees voted in 1977 to rename the Memorial Library after University President Father Theodore Hesburgh and to rename the Athletic and Convocation Center after Father Edmund Joyce, executive vice president. The name changes will occur at an undisclosed date in the future. 
The days of making bricks by the shores of St. Mary's Lake may be gone forever, but the mission to expand is alive and well. "Hes­burgh has left an enormous impact in terms of development. I don't see any change in the future regarding this gradual expansion," said Dedrick. 


November 13, 1986 


Student Life 

Lafortune Renovations: Rebuilding Student Life? 
By Martha McGuire 
LaFortune may be quite impressive when it finally opens, but student support will be the real indication of success 

People walking around .... Notre Dame's Field-~ house Mall now-notice ~ a lot more than the z Clarke Memorial Fountain. The ; enormous mud puddles on the way ·.;3 to Nieuwland and Hayes-Healy are gone and an imposing new ramp marks the entrance to the Huddle ­signs that the renovation of the LaFortune Student Center is nearly complete. 
The Keep Out signs and con­struction materials have slowly been disappearing as activity in the center begins to move again. Mike Sweeney, one of the building's student managers said, "Until now I've been mostly answering questions about the Lost and Found/Class Absenc~s Office located behind my desk, kt when people find out that things are opening, I expect traffic will pick· taker for 21 years now and last and most of all the student body, up." year's renovation was the fourth the renovation of Notre Dame's 
since his arrival. student center is a unique event. 
Said Brother Frank Gorch, manager of the building, "It's nice To Brother Gorch, this last From the businesses in the mall 
to see the building kept up. I hope renovation is one in a series of 
area in the basement to the publi­the students appreciate all the changes he's seen through.out more cation offices on the third floor,work that has been done." Gorch 
than two decades, but to the all "tenants" of LaFortune · have 
has served as the building's care-businesses, clubs, organizations significantly benefited -some 
Scholastic 

The architecture or the rear addition to the LaFortune Student Center has been carefully designed to blend well with the original structure. 
from an increase in space and all from improved working condi­tions. 
Many of the big changes in LaFortunc were made in the base­ment and first floor of the build­ing. The lower level of the build­ing now has an indoor mall atmo­sphere. A number of student-run businesses and relocated campus 
businesses, as well as some new shops and facilities, arc situated around a common lounge area in the old "Nazz" location. 
Irish Gardens, the student-run flower shop which is located close to the mam entrance of the lounge, has remained open through the remodeling, but has recently added more storage area and a new refrigcrator. Assistant manager Alison Macor said, "Our daily sales have increased, and because of the new storage we'll be able to keep more flowers longer." Macor also said that prices are lower this year than last, 
·as a result of the increase in sales. 
The Cellar, the only other student-managed business on the lower level, sells records, tapes, and CD's. Manager Chad McGraw said that sales have doubled since last semester. The record store's sales area has evolved from a win­dow on the first floor into a walk-in shop with a consistently 
increasing stock. 
McGraw said that, "there has been a lot of interest in CD's. Our prices generally run about $1.25 lower than the bookstore and $.50 lower than Trax. Our only prob­lem is that we still don't have the money or enough room to store the selection ( other stores have)." 
The Cellar has already taken over the space next to it that was intended to be the Tisket Stub when plans for the shop were shelved. Plans have been proposed to move the record shop to another spot in LaFortune, which would 
November 13, 1986 


triple the space it currently occu­pies. Hours may also be extended in the future. 
Other open businesses and facilities include First Source Travel, the Barbershop, and the Copy Room -all located· off the main lounge of the lower level. University Hairstylists, the full­service salon on campus, which is presently located in the basement of Badin Hall, will be making the move to LaFortune's lower level within the month. 
Salon Manager Kathie Duggan-Boudreau said, "We're really happy about the move. We feel that it will put us in a more central location, and help us gain 

Student Life 
more clients from the ·North Quad." Duggan-Boudreau added that current hours of 8 a.m. to 8 
p.m. may be extended to IO p.m. after the move. 
The "Pitt Stop," The Country Harvester and a laundromat will also open in the basement. According to Chris Nye of Cole Associates Inc., the architect in charge of renovations, "these rooms should be open in about two to three weeks. The Pitt Sto·p will contain pool tables and video games, the laundromat will have 13 washers and dryers, and The Country Harvester, run by an out­side interest, will be selling nuts and fruits." 
9 

, . r ' 
Student Life 
The last feature on the ground floor, The Sweet Shop, will carry homemade fudge, 16 or 17 flavors of Bonnie Doon ice cream, pop­corn, and a large selection of can­dies. The shop should open after Christmas, according to William Hickey, director of University Food Services -the organization handling most of the food sales in the building. The serving capacity in this shop will be between 50 to 60 scats, so The Huddle, located upstairs, will still provide the bulk of the food service in LaFortune. 
The Huddle, the eating and meeting spot on campus since it was established in its original site ­now the band building -in 1940, "has been evolving into a food mall in which IO to 11 different types of food will be served," said Hickey. For those familiar with the old Huddle, the new fare · and the increase in size -square footage has increased from 2,000 to 10,000 and capacity has jumped from a mere 75 seats to 350 -will be dramatic. 
The Huddle, which should open after Thanksgiving break, has many new entrees to offer as well as the old staples of burgers, fries and soda. Pizza and stuffcd pastries will be served from the Leprechaun Pizza Company bar, located at the old Huddle serving area. 
The traditional burger and fries will be available in the new dining area, with a glassed-in terrace on the north side. The main fcaturc on this side of the room will be a charbroiler, and gyros, barbequed beef sandwiches and pork rib sandwiches will also be for sale. Fruit juices and other health drinks will be sold in this area as well. 
Across the new dining room, an identical glass terrace will be located. A Chinese wok, the main booth near this south terrace, will serve various oriental foods, including• stir-fried vegetables, rice, beef and chicken. Next to this booth a Mexican stand will offer items such as burritos and tacos, and stuffed potatoes will tempt the 'appetite nearby. The last stand, a salad and soup bar located around the corner, will offer lighter meals and feature pricing by weight of its salads. 


The Deli, for those who prefer to prepare their own meals, will remain in its old location. It will continue to serve deli-style foods and pastries, but now more frozen foods will be offered due to the addition of an upright freezer to the store. Prices will be about the same and the "convenience store" setting will be retained. 

... 
~ 
QJ 
~ 
z 
§
·u
.3 

Workmen continue their renovations, shown here in the hallway outside the Huddle. 
Besides The· Huddle, Informa­tion Center and Lost and Found/Class Absences Office, the first floor also houses a number of lounges, meeting rooms, and the remodeled Montgomery Theater, formerly called LaFortune Little Theater. The Miami Lounge, West Point meeting rooms, New Orleans Lounge and the Annapolis Lounge are among the first-floor rooms. 
According to Chris Nye, "the lounges and meeting rooms were named after Notre Dame's major football opponents in order to give them some sort of continuity." This idea carries into the 

mezzanine -the area between the first and second floors -where the space given to club offices has been named Ann Arbor A-C. 
The rest of the club offices, dubbed Columbia A-D, are on the second floor. Other offices on the second floor include that of the Student Activities Board, Student 
Scholastic 


Government, International Student Affairs/Minority Student Affairs, Shenanigans, Class Officers, Inter­national Students' Organization Lounge and the Black Cultural Arts Lounge. Two new atttrac­tions on the second floor include Theodore's, the new student nightclub, and WVFI-AM radio station. 
Theodore's, which opened Hal­loween weekend, is designed to provide students with a viable social alternative on the weekends and a place to relax and socialize during the week. The club is open from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. on Wednes­days and Thursdays, 8 p.m. to 3 
a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays, and noon to 6 p.m. on Sundays. Mon­day and Tuesday night are set aside for group reservations. 
According to club manager Laurie Bink, the club's name was proposed by student Bill Lytle last year during a managers' meeting. After discussion, the name was accepted in honor of Theodore Hesburgh, university president, since the club opened during his last year in office. 
Bink said that the managers were pleased with the turnout at the club's opening, but also hope that people will come by during slower hours. Bink suggested that Sunday is a good day to come in, adding that "tentatively, free food will be served every Sunday between now and Christmas." Right now food for the establish­ment is catered, but soon a snack bar will open and ·begin selling non-alcoholic drinks and snack foods. 
WVFI, scheduled to· move to its new location in January of next year, is the· other big addition to 
the second floor. According to manager Sheila McDaniel, the move to LaFortune means a larger production room, separate offices, and a studio all located on one 
St ude n t Lif.e 

Scholastic. Also on this floor are
floor. These changes locate WVFI in a the Chicago room, confere nee 
central location and provide a room and a lounge, and Lexington
for an increased broadcast range. 

A and B, both confcrcncc rooms. McDaniel said, "It is odd to be 
With so many groups, organiza­a student station when nobody tions, and businesses located underknows where you're located." With one roof, LaFortunc promises tothe new location and new equip­become a significant center forment, McDaniel said that WVFI students, offering something forwould reach more students and almost everyone. But the realconsequently receive more student guarantee of the building's successfeedback. 

lies with the student body. As Organizations housed in new senior Mary Kay Maginn said, 
offices on the third floor include "When the building opens, social Student Activities, The Observer, life will improve, but the key will Dome, Adworks and be keeping it up." 
i­
i 
T 
,~ 
Basement o 
'{@\
·,, \ 
lY 

,..._\1~ Open Monday thru Saturday ' 12:30-5:30 (Except football Saturdays) 



Order ahead of time for your special occasion flowers 
50 cents delivery to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
(No minimum purchase for delivery) 
Blank tape:

s!!!:sS~CI,­
$20/10 

Over 500 co·s Now In Stock q Almost all at only $13 .99 
Most Records & Cassettes: $6.98 
New: Bruce B.A.D. General Public Police Berlin Pretenders 
Hours: 11 :30 -4:30 Basement of Lafortune 
11

November 13, 1986 
News 

From Carel Catalog To Computer Terminal 
By Tony Lang 



The Memorial Library's automation plan, another form of change at Notre Dame, will result in convenient access to library materials 

It's the dead of winter, and a Notre Dame stu­dent is putting the final touches on a research paper. As he begins to type his bibliography, he realizes that he has already returned his research books to the library. Undaunted, the student hooks his modem to the telephone and types the correct access codes on his computer. In a few minutes, he has all the information he needs without leaving the comfort of his room. 
This scenario is not a picture of the year 2000, but may be typical within the next eighteen months. A company affiliated with Northwestern University has developed a computer system which would replace the present card catalog system. Notre Dame will call its system University of Notre "Dame Library Online Cata­log, or UNLOC. 
Notre Dame has an IBM 4381 main-frame computer in the Com­puting Center and Mathematics Building which the library currently shares with the adminis­tration, according to Robert Wit­torf, library systems manager. By next May, library administrators 
· intend to have 68 terminals located throughout the various branch libraries on campus and on the first and second floor of the Memorial Library. Tentative plans call for 52 more terminals to be located throughout the remaining 11 floors of the main library by January 1988, Wittorf said .. 
Also during the next school year, the library plans to stream­line the circulation process through the installation of bar codes on library materials and on student ID cards, according to Wittorf. This is the first year that these codes are appearing on stu­dent ID cards, he added. 
For the past 10 years, the library has been in the process of putting card catalog information on machine-readable cards, according to Wittorf. These cards can then be easily translated onto 

software which will store the information, Wittorf said. Ninety percent of the materials in the library have been converted to these cards, and the library plans to convert 650,000 titles in all. 
The large scope of this process explains why the conversion pro­cess has taken a long time, said Witt9rf. The University must inst~ll approximately 10,000 feet of 'wire between various· outlets around campus and the IBM main frame computer, he added. 
Students will receive the big­gest benefits from the system, according to Wittorf. "This new system will be a real boon to the students, because it will enable them to go through the online public access catalog from any of the branch libraries on campus, and, by means of a modem and telephone line, from any personal computer on campus," said Wit­torf. 
Students unfamiliar with com­puters need not worry. There will be regularly scheduled tutorial classes beginning in May on how to use the system. Only about 10 commands are needed to success­fully operate the system, Wittorf said. Each terminal also will have various "help screens" to give the student a kind of tutorial while using the computers, he added. 
Along with the usual title, author, and subject categories, the new system also will have some added features. If the student can recall a main word from the title, he can type up this "key word" and receive a complete list of all the titles with that word in it. The student also will be able to type in a number of subject headings at once and then view all the titles which relate to that .combination of titles, Wittorf said. These two processes, called Keyword Search­
12 
Scholastic 
News 
ing and Boolean Searching respec­tively, will help students do research. 
However, students arc not the only ones whom this new system will effect. In September, the en tire Ii brary staff participa tcd in Automation Day, in which they were introduced to the system. The new computer system should affect almost every part of the library process, and each employee will be trained accordingly, Wit­torf said. 
Although there may be some minor shifting of responsibility, the automation will result in no loss of employment. "The general reaction to the system from the library staff has been a positive one," said Wittorf. 

The funds for the system are tion to be contained on the "help largely the result of a grant from screens." 
The library plans to streamline the circulation process through the installation of bar codes on library materials and on student ID cards. This is the first year that these codes are appearing on student ID cards. 
John T. Ryan Jr., a Notre Dame trustee emcri tus. The installation of the $1.6 million system is mainly the responsibilty of Wittorf and his assistant. However, the entire library staff is involved in the process, Wittorf said. Various committees are helping to imple­ment the system, by undergoing such tasks as devising the informa-
Although not directly related to the present automation process, the library does have some existing computer-related services. One of these is the InfoTrac system of periodical articles. Because the main online public access catalog only lists periodical titles, there is 

· a need for a catalog of periodical article titles. The InfoTrac system stores articles from approximately 10,000 periodicals on a laser disk system. There are two terminals located on the first floor of the main library for student use. 
Another . computerized system provided by the library is the Dis­closure program. Also stored on a laser disk system, this program lists about 10,000 corporations along ·with statistical information on each company. For a job search, this service can provide · financial information on the com­pany as well as personal informa­
•tion on its directors. The terminal for the system is located on the first floor of the main library, and can be used with the help of a librarian. 
The new library system may not be appearing as soon as stu­dents would like, but the work on it has been underway for some time now. It seems somewhat appropriate that the library, one of the last bastions of the printed word, is one of the last institutions on campus to succumb to the com­puter age. The advantages pro­vided by this new system may be just what students need when that dreaded term paper rolls around. 




Sports 

Coming In Out Of The Cold 
By Mike Chmiel 

The expansion of athletic facilities on campus will provide more space for year-round sports 
Notre Dame Head.i.ll:L..: Football Coach Lou ~ Holtz believes that the 

new all-purpose ath­letic facility currently under con­struction will be a definite plus for his program. According to Holtz, the complex will enable his team to practice all year round and it also will help in the recruiting wars. Holtz said he figures the team can use the money it will save on thermal underwear to pay for the new facility. 
"An indoor practice facility, with the weather here, will, number one, enable us to practice in inclement weather," Holtz said. "It will enable us to get recruits. It also will help the skilled people who will have a place available at certain times in the off-season for their own work. Overall, it enables you to get things done and ... concentrate on practice. So maybe <l) ~ you could have practice when you ~ want to and not when the weather z
i::: 
wants to." ·;:; ol 
;:l 
...:l
The new multi-purpose athletic facility will occupy a wooded area behind the existing tennis courts. The facility will include a regulation-sized football ;field and a six-lane track. It also will house a varsity weight · room, baseball batting cages and storage space for equipment. 
According to Assistant A thlctic Director Brian Boulac, plans for this facility have been in the works for a number of years. A combination of increasingly lim­ited space and a positive climate for growth have advanced the pro­ject from the planning stage to its construction. 
"It will be primarily a football facility," said Boulac. "But it is going to be an all-purpose facility. All our sports will be able to use 
it.,, 
Completion of this multi­million dollar athletic building will highlight the current expansion program of the athletic depart­ment, according to Boulac. Besides providing indoor practice space for the football team, the facility also will free the ACC for greater use oy students and faculty. 
"Hopefully, it will be able to take most programs out of the ACC during the winter months," Boulac said. "When they can't be outdoors to practice, they'll be able to use the indoor practice facility, and this facility will be used to a greater extent by the stu­dent body. Non-Varsity A th letics will be able to take it over and expand their programs during the winter months. 

"The student body has out­grown the .present facilities," explained Assistant Athletic Director Brian Boulac. "Their ath­letic interests and their involve­ment have forced us to look for other avenues." 
According to Boulac, the first step in the series of new projects was the completion of the Rolfs Aquatic Center. The center houses a pool that is twice the size of the pool in the Rockne Memorial. More importantly, however, the 

The Eck Tennis Pavilion, which will house si?' courts, should be completed by next spring. 
Scholastic 
Sports 

center will aid in the development of a more advanced swimming program. 
"The new swimming facility has got to help our swimming pro­gram," Boulac said. "It has to encourage athletes who arc consid­ering Notre Dame and want to swim in college and have a com­petitive swimming career. 'The Rock' has been with us for some 50 years, but obviously if I wanted to go to Notre Dame and I wanted to swim, that would play into my decision. Now they could look at our facility and say 'Yes, that's a world-class facility."' 
Li~c the varsity swimmers, the varsity tennis players were in need of a new facility. The lack of indoor practice space plagued the tennis program, especially in the winter months when Southern schools were able to play host to tournaments and hold outdoor practices. By the spring, however, Notre Dame will have the new Eck 
Tennis Pavilion to provide its var­sity teams a chance to compete when snow covers the outdooor courts and freezing temperatures make outside play impossible. 
"We're in the snow belt, and it really doesn't encourage the tennis players to come here for their competitive months during the winter," Boulac said. "With an indoor tennis facility, those who would like to play competitive tennis during their collegiate career will look more favorably upon Notre Dame, and hopefully, we'll improve the tennis program." 
Both the Rolfs Aquatic Center and the Eck Tennis Pavillion, however, will be used for more than just varsity programs. Like the aquatic center, the tennis facil­ity will be available for use by stu­dents and faculty members. In addition to recreational and varsity activities, the physical education 
November 13, 1986 
department will teach classes at the facility. 
The Eck Pavillion will have six tennis courts. It will also contain men's and women's locker rooms and showers. The facility is scheduled to open in the spring, barring any further delays. According to Boulac, a fire on the construction site pushed the com­pletion date back. "Construction is behind schedule now, and we may not have (the completed facil­ity) as quickly as we hoped to have it," Bou lac said. "But ( construc­tion) should be fairly well along by next spring." 
The second of three new sports facilities to be completed next 

year will be a new $3. 5 million soccer stadium. Alumni Field, behind the ACC, will be enclosed by this new stadium, which will be. finished in time for next year's International Special Olympics. Notre Dame's role as host for the 1987 International Special Olym­pics spurred a renovation and improvement of the current home turf of the Irish varsity soccer team. 
The·. Olympic committee required an improved surface for the field, an improved track and the erection of permanent stands. Alumni Field, and the Monogram Track which surrounds it, will play integral parts in the upcoming Special Olympics. Becaus~ track is such a central sport in the games, the committee wanted a facility that could seat more pepple than the present facilities do, and would serve as a showcase for the games. The proposed stadium will scat 4,800 people. 
"We had to have a facility that would be a showcase as far as the international games were con­cerned," explained Boulac. "They weren't totally satisfied with (the field space we have now). In con­junction with the International Special Olympics, we're going to develop a stadium primarily for the use of the international games. Obviously, it's going to be a per­manent site ... a field that will allow us to play soccer and lacrosse and other sports during the spring and fall. We'll also give our track a shot in the arm. We'll make it world-class." 
"The students are clamoring for more activities during the winter, ­and this will allow us to open more facilities for them. For an athletic program, they're obviously a shot in the arm. Anytime you have first class facilities, it improves your program." 
According to Boulac, the com­

pletion of these athletic facilities ·next year, along with the renaming of the ACC in honor of retiring University Vice President Father Edmund Joyce, will conclude changes in the athletic facilities on the Notre Dame campus for some 
time. · 
With the facilities that Notre Dame will have, the renovation of Notre Dame Stadium could possi­bly be the next project considered. "With the stadium people . . . I don't know," said Boulac. · "That might even be one of the things to look for. Notre Dame may even­tually build a new facility or expand the one we have." 
15 



l)~Ncv.13 ~ 11 
:I 
Chic  
lbert Collins & The Ice Breakers  
evin Eubanks & Kesia Brown ark West  
I I  ark West 22 W. Armitage ov. 15 at 7:30 ·p.m. Hunters & Collectors Cabaret Metro 730 N. Clark  

THEATER: 
"American Buffalo" Comfort Inn 2796 Lehmann Court Nov. 13-15 at 8 p.m. $8-10 
"The Laugh's on Me" Drury Lane Oakbrook Terrace Roosevelt & Butterfield rds. Nov. 13, 14 at 8:30 p.m. $14-,22 
"My One and Only" Candlelight Dinner Playhouse 5620 S. Harl~m Ave. Nov. 13, 14 at 8:30 p.m. $16-24 
"A Split Decision" Rose Theater 6100 River Road Nov. 15, 17, 19 at 8 p.m. $15 
"Zoo Thousand One" Goodman Theatre Studio 200 S. Columbus 
"Corpse!" Body Politic Theatre 2261 N. Lincoln Nov. 13-16 at 7:30 p.m. $14-17 
OPERA & DANCE: 

"Un Ballo in Maschera" Civic Opera House 20 N. Wacker Nov. 14, 18 at 7:30 p.m. $10.:.66.50 
American Dance Machine Norris Cultural Arts Center 1040 Dunham Rd. Nov. 14 at 8 p.m. $14, $16 SPORTS: 
Hockey: Black Hawks vs. Toronto Maple Leafs Nov. 16 at 7:30 p.m. vs. Los.Angeles Kings Nov. 19 at 7:30 p.m. Chicago Stadium 1800 W. Madison $7-25 
Basketball: Bulls vs. Boston Celtics Chicago Stadium 1800 W. Madison Nov. i4 at 7 p.m. $7-16 
Football: Northwestern vs. Michigan State Dyche Stadium 1501 Central Nov. 15 at 1 p.m. $10, $14 

Tennis: Virginia Slims Championship UIC Pavilion 1150 W. Harrison Nov. 15 at 1· p.m. Nov. 16 at 4 p.m. 

-~-,ic_h_ia____;:____,;n~aT-HEAT-ER:_ _____,;;;l~nd=J~=-==-ERTra---=-=--:P-0 1isTHFATF.R, 
"Animal House" IUSB Little Theater/Recital Hall 1700 Mishawaka Nov. 13 at 7:30 p.m. $1.75 
"Fanny & Alexander" !USB Little Theater/Recital Hall 1700 Mishawaka Nov. 16 at 8 p.m. $1.75 
"Archaeology Proves the Bible" Midwest Museum of American Art 429 So. Main, Elkhart Nov. 13 at 7:30 p.m. 
CONCERT: 
Gallagher Morris Civic Auditorium 211 N. Michigan Nov. 15 at 8 p.m. 
!USB Philharmonic Orchestra Northside Little Theatre 1700 Mishawaka Nov. 14, 15 at 8:15 p.m. 
"Big Broom's Sweeping Story" Colfax Cultural Center 914 Lincolnway West Nov. 13 at-10 a.m. 
EXHIBITS: 

David Allen: Paintings Colfax Cultural Center 914 Lincolnway West Nov. 13-19 
Charles Pell Exhibit On ~xhibit Gallery 107 W. Monroe Nov. 13-19 The Persuaders Locomotions Union Station Nov. 11-16 at 8 p.m. 

Frank Puzullo Group The Place to Start 5377 N. College Ave. Nov. 14, 15 at 9 p.m. 
Michael W. Smith Clowes Hall 4600 Sunset Ave Nov. 17 at 8 p.m. $13,50 

Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra Circle Theatre 45 Monument Circle Nov. 13-15 at 8 p.m. 
"Broadway Goes Berlin" Indiana Repertory Theatre 140 W. Washington St. Nov. 14, 15 at 8:30 p.m. $5-9 
OPERA & DANCE: 
"The Birds" Indianapolis Ballet Theatre Clowes Hall 4600 Sunset Ave. 
Nov. 15 at 8 p.rn. 
SPORTS: 
Basketball: Pacers vs. Milwaukee Bucks Market Square Arena 300 E. Market Nov. 15 at 6 p.m. 


News 

An Ongoing Concern 
By Cliff Stevens 
Tomorrow the Board of Trustees will again examine the University's investments in South Africa 

W·hen the Notre Dame trustees shut their briefcases on tomorrow's meeting, no matter what their decision on the University's investments in South Africa, there's one thing they won't be taking home: the idea that their worries about the issue have ended. Even if the board maintains its current stand against total divestment, said Father Oliver Williams, it will have no choice but to make a complete pol­icy review at its May meeting. 
Reverend Leon Sullivan, author of the principles Notre Dame fol­lows as part of its policy, set a May 1987 deadline two years ago for the legal end of apartheid. "The board will be forced to do a complete and thorough reinvesti­gation in May," said Williams, a member of the board's committee on South African investments. 
"There's no way we can avoid it. (Sullivan) wants all the apartheid laws off the books by May, and that's a big order and probably unlikely." 


Father Richard Zang, invest­ment officer of the University, agreed a call for total divestment by Sullivan would weigh heavily on Notre Dame's South African policy. "Reverend Sullivan is a man whose leadership we respect very much," he said. 
But will Sullivan carry through his threat? Williams, who knows the baptist minister personally, said Sullivan set the deadline to pressure the South African government to negotiate with black leaders, but is not yet com­mitted to follow through with it. Campus opponents of the current University policy are more confi­dent, however. "He's serious," said Peter Walshe, director of African Studies at Notre Dame. 
Regardless of what Sullivan calls for next year, the trustees could commit to total divestment now, in contrast to the University's current policy of selective divestment. Under con­sideration are the two 
circumstances under which the board last May said it would com­pletely divest: if, in its judgment, companies the University owm stock in are no longer an influence in ending apartheid or if political conditions have further deteriorated there. 

The board itself is not free of debate on the South African ques­tion. A minority of board members advocate total divest­ment, according to both Walshe and Richard Conklin, assistant vice president for University Relations. 
The recent departure of several 
U.S. companies' operations from South Africa, including General Motors, IBM and Coca-Cola, has raised new questions on whether 
Scholastic 
News 

companies can bring about change there. "By pulling out, the companies arc saying the pace of 
change  has  not  been  rapid  
enough,"  said Margarita  Rose,  
chairwoman  or  the  Anti­ 

Apartheid Network. "Things are 
getting worse every day." 
Some critics doubt the sincerity of the moves, saying the com­panies continue to sell their r:ro­ducts through intermediaries. General Motors, for example, will sell its products in South Africa through an independent d:stribu­tion firm instead of through an operation owned by itself, as before. "It will be business as usual," said Walshe. "It's a psuedo-pullout and a very deceit­ful move." 
But Williams says the full effect of the recent departures remains to be seen -and may not be discerni­ble until the board's May meeting. "We're not sure what GM is doing yet," he said, noting GM's independent distribution firm has not made clear its attitude toward the Sullivan principles, which include demands for non­segregation and equality or oppor­tunity in the workplace. 
Williams maintains that U.S. companies which follow the Sul­livan principles are levers for 
change in South Africa. "Are those companies doing more good than harm?" asked Williams. "Yes." He said, for example, that unions are organized in both inter­national and South African com­panies, where 10 years ago they were illegal. 
Zang agreed these companies have used their clout to obtain "tangible" gains for blacks. He expressed fears that more business departures could worsen the plight • of black South · Africans. "Pros­pects for bloody conflict are enhanced by economic distress," he said. 
As. for increased political dis­tress -the second circumstance under which the board would call for total. divestment -little agree­ment exists on the degree of change visible since the board's meeting last May. Williams said the South African political climate face action by the nation's Catholic institutions. But because the conferenee of bishops has no clear authority in Church law, its policy need not be f ollowcd by individual bishops and their dioceses, or by independent Catholic universities like Notre 


"hasn't gone the right way, but there's not a dramatic difference." Walshe, however, described a "catastrophically" deteriorated situation. 
As if these questions weren't enough for the trus.tccs to juggle, the recent Congressional sanctions and the U.S. Catholic bishops' call . for total divestment will no doubt influence debate at tomorrow's meeting. "I would think (the board) would divest because of what the U.S. Catholic bishops and the South African Catholic bishops have called for," said Rose. 
But Zang found the South Afri­can bishops' position supportive of the University's current policy. Conklin attributed this contradic­tion of interpretations to what he called the ambiguous message of the South African bishops' posi­tion. "Their document was used at the May board meeting by both sides," said Conklin. He said the document · contained several "on the other hand" statements. 
The U.S. bishops' stance, how­ever, is not ambiguous. It sets a May 15 deadline by which the South African government would Dame. Williams said the bishops' decision was probably partly motivated by Sullivan's May dead­line. 

What do key University figures think of these recent develop­ments? Several aren't saying right now. University President Father Theodore Hesburgh's office referred all questions on divest­ment to Zang's office, although Hesburgh did join · more than 90 
U.S. college presidents in signing a letter supporting Congressional sanctions in July. And an aide to Donald Keough, chairman of the board of trustees, said Keough was withholding all comment until after the meeting tomorrow. 
"People often say, 'Look, everyone's divesting, why don't we do it?' But we'll never do it (just) because everyone's doing it," said Williams. "We have to say we don't run with the tide. We make decisions based on reason. We have to do our own home­work." Walshe said the days for Notre Dame's leadership to effcct the dismantling of apartheid arc over. "But it (the University) can at least follow the example of oth­ers," he said, mentioning the U.S. bishops. 
November 13, 1986 
News 


But Conklin points to actions Notre Dame has taken in support of black South Africans: paying the tuition of two South African blacks yearly under a program established in 1980 and the finan­cial support of a black South Afri­can currently studying theology in a non-degree program. Opponents of the University's policy discount these measures. "They're good for scholarship, but if there's no push for change, the graduates will go back to a system of apartheid," said Rose. 
As for Hesburgh's public statements against apartheid, including his support of Congres­sional sanctions, Rose said talking isn't the same as acting. "It's good to make public statements," she said, "but unless they're backed up with force they don't have much 
weight." 
There are questions on the weight divestment itself would have. Even if divestment became law, with all U.S. companies sub­sequently pulling out, said Willi­ams, the apartheid system would continue. "Apartheid will end only when internal pressure is high," said Williams, referring to actions such as boycotts that black South Africans could use to force the white leaders to the negotiat­ing table. 
"(The blacks) are 80 percent of the population," he said. "They could cripple the economy." Willi­ams said South Africa's white leaders have been "very devious" in preventing blacks from feeling united enough to coordinate effec­tive pressure through measures like boycotts, "so many blacks feel powerless," he said. 
But Walshe expressed doubts that internal pressure could succeed without external pressure, including total divestment and more extensive Congressional sanctions. "We need both external and internal pressure. If there's serious external pressure, you reduce the level of violence," he said. "After divestment, we need a complete trade embargo by Congress." Said Rose: "With divestment you're no longer inhi­biting internal pressures." 

Zang is wary of solutions that he said may lessen chances for political progress in South Africa by worsening its economy. "I wish I could say if only we would do this and this and this, the prob­lem would be solved," he said. "For years people who have gone over there come back shaking 

..We need both external and internal pressure. If there's serious external pressure, you reduce the level of violence.After divestment, we need a com­plete trade embargo by Congress." 
--Peter Walshe, director of African studies 
their heads saying 'I don't know 
what the solution is."' 
Whatever the trustees decide tomorrow, it won't be the last time they shake their heads in confu­sion about the issue. If Notre Dame embraces total divestment, 
said Williams, it could reinvest somewhere down the road -either when the action was found to have failed to help bring an end to apartheid or when the system was determined satisfactorily disman­tled. "We could easily do that," he said, assuming some U.S. com­panies are still operating there. 


Scholastic
20 

....__ 


And Now, Here's The BAD News 
While Townshend's new release is a hit 
. 
' 

Boston's is bad and BAD's is good. 
By l\lelchizedek 
and Jones 

Last . November, Pete Townshend pcrformcd a pair of shows in London's Brixton area. From these concerts comes a new live album, Deep End Live. Backed by a large and diverse band, Townshend ably performs a set that includes old Who songs, new solo tunes and a host of covers. 
The record begins with a bouncy cover of Robert Parker's 1966 hit "Barcfootin"' which sets the tone for the whole album. Though the first side is a bit uneven, Townshend docs a great job reworking the Who's old "I'm One" tune, singing it the way the original should have been. 
It's· on side two, however, that the album really takes off. After a mistaken version of "I Put A Spell On You," Townshend does a slow acoustic version of the English Bcat's "Save It For Later." His smooth cover makes one forget the original. This tune is followed by an acoustic "Pinball Wizard" that displays Townshend's remarkable audience rapport and "A Little Is Enough," a straight ahead rocker from his solo years. 
Ending the album is "Eyesight To The Blind," featuring an excel­lent harmonica solo. It's not the 
November 13, 1986 
Who, but the album does give a glimpse of one of rock and rail's brightest. 
On Big Audio Dynamite's new record, No. 10 Upping St., Mick Jones brings back Joe Strummcr, also one of rock's brightest, as co­produccr. Although Strummcr is not credited with vocals, his writ­ing seems to indicate that he has abandoned punk for good. Upping 
St.  is  even  further removed from  
punk  than  the  first  BAD  album  
that  declared  "that  old-time  

groove is really nowhere." Some songs on that record copied rap, others funk. Many tunes were good, but the album lacked direc­tion. 
This BAD record, however, is not merely imitation reggae and rap tunes. Each song contains many genres and the result is an entirely new groove. Snippets from movie dialogues dot the record to futhcr enhance the unique sound. The first side of the record is best and Jones' thin, shaky voice holds the music together. Without his vocals, a tune like "Ticket" falls apart. 
Songs like "C'mon Every Beat­box," which lauds the power of rock, and "Limbo the Law," which looks at the cinematic world, draw upon stock Clash themes. The music here lacks that band's power, but what doesn't? I don't know what to call this stuff.. I guess Jones and Strummcr call it BAD. 
The guys in Boston also con­sider themselves bad, and we highly recommend rushing out and buying their long-awaited new album, Third Stage. When you get home, remove the precious vinyl carefully from its jacket and violently smash it over your knee. Then stomp on the broken_ pieces several times. 
You might want to send the remaining shards of Third Stage to Bon Jovi or Iron Maiden. It's up to you. Or maybe you could just hammer the new Boston album to your wall with a railroad spike. Or you could always run back and forth over Third Stage with your car equipped with studded snow tires, lob ·it off the top of Grace or Flanner, or give it to your R.A. as a token of goodwill. 
Soaking the album in kerosene and setting it ablaze is always a good idea. Sticking it in the oven as a cookie sheet might be useful. 1 suggest that you take all your Boston albums to one of their shows and throw them at the band members, trying to lop their heads off. Or slash the new album with razor blades. But always remember to clean your new Boston record with crude oil and steel wool. And never, never allow Third Stage to get near your turntable. 
Sean Callahan and Tom Szromba are Mclchizedek & Jones. bad dudes who listen to good music. 


An Authentic Italian Restaurant ? 
By l\,Jaher 1\-Iouasher 

The Olive Garden fails miserably, providing dining hall quality food at French restaurant prices 
The Olive Garden is a restau­rant in search of an identity. While the restaurant claims to be Italian, and provides Italian food, and even a couple of Italian beers, the music that you are greeted with from the moment you enter is definitely Greek. 
The di.ning area is elegantly decorated in shades of green and red, with dark wood tables and paintings of village scenes on the walls, but the effect is almost totally spoiled by the addition of Italian beach umbrellas on top of the tables. In addition to making it very difficult to get ·to and from your seat, it cheapens the effect of the wood tones and further emphasizes the restaurant's uncer­tain identity. 
The staff is very hclpful, how­ever, and by the time the· appetiz­ers arrive the effects of the decor and Greek music arc all but for­gotten. One taste of the ·Mines­trone soup ($1.50), however, and one is again reminded of the restaurant's unconvincing attempt at Italian ethnicity. Visions of "Italian night" at the dining hall dominate the remainder of the meal. 
One of the major problems with the food at the Olive Garden is that it all tastes incredibly bland. No matter how much salt and pepper you dump on it, you cannot solicit a reaction from your taste buds. 

The tomato sauce, one of the staples of the food at any Italian restaurant, tastes as if it has been · extended with tofu. Although the quality of the meat and other ingredients is rather good, (for example, the antipasto is one bright spot on the menu), the tomato sauce almost totally des­
troys the taste of anything with which it comes into contact. 
This isn't to say that the tomato sauce is the only problem at the Olive Garden, since many of the dishes that do not contain it taste just as bad. For example, the veal 
picatta ($10.95) tastes as if it has 
been simmering in its own sauce 
for a couple of weeks. 
The desserts are not much better than the main meal. The cannoli is too crunchy and the fil­ling is runny and sickly sweet. The fudge torte, however, makes even the cannoli seem appetizing; it has the consistency of a mudpic, and tastes just like one, albeit with a lot of added sugar. Even the cap­pucino tastes more like Swiss mocha than Italian coffee. · 
The Olive Garden isn't all bad. The breadsticks are good and the large portions are a plus -pro­vided you can stomach the food. Diners can expect to pay about $20· per person for a full meal with all the complements. 
To be fair to the place, I must admit that I didn't try any of the seafood, but two v1s1ts were enough for me. Yoµ don't get a cheap meal there, but it sure tastes like one. 
Scholastic 

'Secrets' Not Worth Keeping 


By Aimee Storin 
Danielle Steel's latest blockbuster novel makes reading for pleasure a Ettle chuckle and a big yawn 
Studcnts tired of weighty class texts might be easy tar-. gets for the glossy cover and flashy opening sentence of Danielle Steel's latest blockbuster, Secrets: "The sun reverberated off the buildings with the brilli­ance of a handful of diamonds cast against an iceberg, the shimmering white was blind­ing, as Sabina lay naked on a deck chair in the heat or the Los Angeles sun.'· 
. But anyone with even the most basic grasp of grammar can prob­ably pick out more than a f cw structural problems in this passage. Even so-called "literary license" rarely excuses incorrect punctua:­tion. 
A more important problem with this opening line is in the sub­stance. Sure, it's a flashy opener ­(the phrases: "handful of dia­monds," "naked on a deck chair" and "the Los Angeles sun," all in one sentence, are you kidding?) ­but isn't it just a tad ridiculous? How many times have you seen a handful of diamonds cast against an iceberg -or against anything, for that matter? A glance at the first page makes it clear that this novel is just an an elaboration on the theme of the first sentence: all style -albeit glittery style -and no substance. 
So why is this a "record break­ing national best seller," as pro­claimed on the cover? For a lot of the same reasons that the National Enquirer sells out at supermarkets every week. People like to read about the lifestyles of incredibly wealthy celebrities .. 
But although the attraction of people with names like Sabina and Zack who are the stars on a glamorous television show is enough to get people to buy this book, and even to enjoy the first hundred pages or so, a novel like Secrets gets just plain boring. 
Every cliche in the book, so to speak, is included in this book. 

There is the glamorous and beauti­ful actress who disappears from the set of the suspiciously "Dynasty"-like show periodically to rush to the bedside of her dying son -the product, of course, of an illicit union in her past. 
The enigmatic, "friendly but aloof" leading man makes an appearance, clearly harboring some dark secret in his past as well. And no romance paperback would be complete without the moody, silent type, who is desperately trying to cover up his own sordid history (in this instance, a drug-addict wife). 
Hey, Danielle, how'd you ever come up with the title, anyway? 
l tried to approach this novel 

with an open mind, but this got 
more and more difficult when a 
man on trial for murder becomes: 
just another excuse for passages 
like: "Bill looked ravaged by what 
he had seen, and what he had f cit, 
and where he was, as though he 
thought life would never be the 
same again. And in some ways it 
would not; it remained to be seen 
if he would be kept on the show or 
not." Of course, he was also being 
charged with first-degree murder, 
but naturally, his first concern was 
whether or not his character would 
be killed off. Beyond being cause 
for a chuckle, the whole episode 
evoked little by way of emotion in · this reader. 
Novels like this 450-page atro:­

city are the equivalent of a gossip ·sheet gone wild. Characters arc transparently modeled on celebri­ties -exaggerated to the point of absurdity. And this absurdity is about 400 pages too long. 
Reading for pleasure, contrary to what authors like Danielle Steel obviously believe, can and should be more than pure escapism. Maybe with a little less flash and a lot less trash, a book like Secrets would inspire a little thought in the reader instead of just a laugh ­and a half-hearted one at that. 
November 13, 1986 

Student Life 

A Two-Way Street 
By Sara Harty 
Dismas House offers ex-offenders acceptance and support, and student residents benefit from the experience as well 
Students and ex-offenders live together off campus at Dismas House. The goal of the Dismas program is to help ex-offenders readjust to society. 
Every night at 6:30, a group of housemates and perhaps severa\ guests gather around 

f the dinner table, join hands and say grace. After grace they sit down for a delicious home-cooked dinner. Such a picture of off-campus life may not immediately come to mind. Yet this scene is an integral part of the daily lives of seven Notre Dame undergraduates and two , Notre Dame law students. 
These students have opted for a different kind of off-campus life. They live at the Dismas House, a home for recently released prison­ers who are beginning to make an adjustment to life out of prison. 


"It doesn't really take a special person but a very natural person, someone very open-minded and easy to get along with, accepting of other people's ideas and differ­ences. A normal person. You can't be rigid or outspoken just because there a_re so many different kinds of people and ideas here." said Jamie Cantorna, a senior at Notre Dame and resident ·of Dismas House. 
The name of the house is· sym­bolic: Dismas is the name of the 
repentant thief crucified next to Jesus. Dismas House can be seen as a refuge for the repentant thieves of today. 
Father Jack Hickey began the 
~ 
8., 
z 
la
·.:;
3 

ville, Tennessee. Hickey found through his work with pris­oners that the same people kept returning to prison again and again. Many of those released from prison could not find a place in society, and had no place to go after their release. Feelings of alienation led some to repeat offenses and eventually end up back in prison. 
The program is designed to allow students and ex-offenders to live together and learn from each other. All prospective participants in the program go through a series of interviews to gain acceptance, said Kathy Royer, Notre Dame's coordinator for Service/Social 
Royer added that ex-offenders convicted of sex offenses are never accepted, nor are those currently using drugs or alcohol. Residents pay $53 a week for room and board. Ex-prisoners are given a two-week grace period before they must begin paying rent, and are generally expected to leave the house within six months of entering. 
At present there are four such houses in the United States:• the original house in Nashville, as well as houses in Memphis, Tennessee, Burlington, Vermont and. here in South Bend. 
Dismas House in South Bend is 


Student Life 

and has been open since Sep­tember of this year. But it had its beginnings long before that. Carol Gayos, a Notre Dame student, spent the summer of 1984 in Nash­ville at the Dismas House there, which is sponsored by Vanderbilt University. Impressed with the program, Gayos suggested that Notre Dame get involved. 
About this time, Wanda Mangus, through her work coordi­nating a program at Indiana State Prison that brought volunteers into the prison to meet with prisoners, became aware of the need for a place for prisoners to live when released. She and her husband, Galen Mangus, started a commun­ity group interested in opening a traditional halfway house. The Mangus' were contacted by Gayos, and eventually the South Bend Dismas program was born. 
John Mueller is one of the four ex-offenders living at the house. Mueller said he spent time at another halfway house that did not work out for him. His counselor suggested Dismas House. He has lived there for about two months. 
For the program, he has only praise. "At first I wasn't sure about living with all of these students. I figured they'd use big words I wouldn't understand, and things like that. But I've learned a lot from them. I've learned an awful lot," he said. "Since coming here I've learned to be more responsible. I pay my bills on time. I used to just throw my bills away -I didn't care. Now I pay them before they're due." 
Mueller worked at landscaping for a while and is presently employed by Metal Resources Corporation. "At my first job I was being pressured to get· back into drugs and alcohol. I wanted to quit. When I told (the students) about what was going on at work, they all backed me up. They said, 
November 13, 1986 
'Hey, if you feel like it's taking you back to drugs then get out.' I couldn't believe it. I've never had support from anybody before. They even helped me find my new job." 
Mueller's only complaint is that he is not allowed to have a dog at the house. He docs have a bird, though -"J.B." -short for Jail Bird. J.B. 's cage door is never shut. "John doesn't believe in things like that," said a smiling Kristen Williams, another Notre Dame stu­dent resident. 
Richard and Teresa Van Nevel heard about Dismas House from a homily at their local parish. They have cooked dinner for the residents three times and plan to return. "I think the students have helped John a lot. For the first time _he has someone who thinks positively about him," said Richard Van Nevel. 
Leslie Scheuler, who is co­director of the Dismas House with Marion Bates, is in residence at the house. Scheuler said her job entails a wide variety of activities, from grocery shopping to weekly interviews with prison inmates, from cleaning the refrigerator to recruiting volunteers to help with the house. 

Originally, Scheuler was to be one of the student residents in the program. However, after volunteering in the summer ser­vice project at the Nashville Dis­mas House, Scheuler said, she took a leave of absence from the gradu­ate program and applied for the job of director at the South Bend house. 
Concerning success rates, Kathy Royer said that recidivism, the rate of an ex-offender repeat­ing a crime, is much lower than the rate of a traditional halfway house. She said that some say a partial reason for this high success rate is that low-risk people are chosen for the program. 
The program is designed to be a learning experience for students as well as ex-offenders. "I've developed new compassion, a better awareness that it could hap­pen to me as well as someone else," said Cantorna. 
"The goal is to help people who've decided to rehabilitate," said Scheuler. "They have made the decision to reform~ We're not here to change lives -prison has done that. We're just here to give acceptance and support, that's what every human being deserves and needs." 
@arioi'o 
Sistorante 
Cocktails -Wine -Beer Open Tues -Sat.
Pasta of All Kinds Veal 
4-11 p.m. 
. 

Manicotti Fettuccine Al Fredo
t 
Pizza 

1707 South Bend Ave. (I mile east of ND) 277-0578 
25 



Sports 

APromising Debut 
By Dan Coyle 
The women's cross-country team is making a name for itself in its first year on the Division,-} level 
T o Ryan was the natural choice tohe status of an athletic pro­
coach the team. A third-year lawgram can usually be judged student and a former All-Americaby the appearance of the runner at the University ofcoach's office. Notre Dame's head Detroit, Ryan had served as anfootball coach, Lou Holtz, works advisor to the club in 1985 andin an 18-office complex and sits in had proven himself to be a tough,a monogrammed leather chair sur­responsible coach. · 
rounded by walls covered with 106 years of blue and gold memorabi­
At 24, Ryan is the youngestlia. 

[ varsity coach in Notre Dame his­
Looking at the gray brick walls ~~ tory. "I'm the new kid on the of Coach Dan Ryan's small office [ block," he says.· "People tend to behind the Monogram Room of f be skeptical of my coaching ability 
the ACC, it is easy to tell that because of my age, and the only Notre Dame's women's cross­way to gam acceptance is to show country team is in its first year as that we can compete on a Division-I level." 
a varsity sport. 
Notre Dame women have been The task set before the teamrunning cross-country at a club this year is not an easy one. As top level since 1976. Each year team runner junior Julia Merkel said,


members petitioned Athletic "We weren't used to winning, weDirector Gene Corrigan to elevate were used to participating." In thethe club to varsity status, and each past, the Irish ran in meets where year the decision was the same: their scores did not count Prac­thumbs do,wn. But in the spring of tices and meets took a back seat tothis year, it finally came together. 
exams and SYRs. And Ryan had to 

"It was a combination of be content with merely offering things," says Ryan, in his first advice, rather than actually coach­year of coaching at the collegiate ing. level. "Cross country is an inex­
The change from club to varsity
pensive sport, and we had some meant a change in attitude. Ryantalent. I was going to be here for set up stricter rules, and required alaw school anyway, so they total commitment from hisdecided to do it." 
runners. "I'm not just some guy 

Corrigan recommended the that hangs around practice sug­change to the Notre Dame Athletic gesting things," he says. "Now I'm Board in February. It was a· coach and can demand a lot approved, and by April the storage niore. And the girls hav~ really room on the second floor of the responded." ACC had been cleared out and After a summer of individual 
prepared for the new coach. training, tlie -team returned to 
I 
Scholastic

! 26 
l 
L.. 
Merkel; the team captain, has an outside shot at qualifying for a spot in the NCAAs. 

Sports 

campus this fall to face 70-mile 13. Merkel, the team's captain, set weeks, 6: I 5 a. m. practices and two precedents in the Hillsdale weightlifting programs. Ryan has Invitational: she finished first for one rule;: when it comes to training. the Irish and was named to the 
all-invitational team.

"I never make them do some­thing that I can't do," he says. For The National Catholic Meet two most teams, such a rule would be weeks later was the first real test welcomed as a sign of easy wor­for the Irish, with such national 
kouts, but it means little to the powers as Villanova and Boston Irish runners. Ryan is a distance College coming to Notre Dame. runner of national ranking, and is The meet served as a barometer of currently training with an eye on how much the team had improved. 
the I988 Olympic marathon. This year the Irish finished eighth out of I 6 teams. Last season they
Ryan runs with his team at were I 4th out of I 5 teams.

every workout, providing a con­stant tutorial on race strategy and Notre Dame then hosted a dual running form. The method works, meet against the University of not only giving Ryan closer con­Detroit, Ryan's alma mater, on tact with the squad, but also pro­October 4. The Irish lost, 21-40, viding the team with a coach they but were encouraged by the can relate to and respect. improving performance of Rice. A 
pure 800-meter runner who
"He is a lot more demanding 
changed to cross country this year,

than any coach _I've ever had, but I 
she finished a strong second for

don't mind working hard for 
Notre Dame. "Theresa was the

him," · said sophomore Theresa 
biggest surprise on the team " 

Rice, the te-am's No. 3 runner. "It's 
Ryan says. "It took her all of t~o

nice to look over during a workout 
meets to fit into her slot on the

and see him there, running along 
team."

with us.'' 
The team hit its stride in the
Over the course of this fall the 
next two meets, posting back-to­

team has proven itself worthy of 
back victories at the Roadrunner

Division-I status. The Irish began 
Invitational at Southwestern

the season by finishing a competi­
Michigan and the Indiana Intercol­

tive fourth on a wet course in 
legiate Invitational. The runners

Hillsdale, Michigan, on September 
also achieved individual success, · ~ as nine of Notre Dame's top IO 
i:: 

.~ runners set personal records. ~ The Irish wound up their regu­~ lar season by placing second and
.,,. :il defeating defending champion:? Marquette in the North Star ~ Conference Meet in Milwaukee on .W October 25. The team now loqks
0 

~ forward to the NCAA District IV 
co 

~ Meet in Normal, Illinois, on Satur­8'
a day. .,,. At the District IV Meet all Irish
o· ~ ::, eyes will be on Merkel, who has an 
outside shot at qualifying for the 
l:k·~ 
NCAA Championships. The top
,.~,=it 
three individuals, along with the 

I' ; \ .:',' '1 top two teams, will advance to t?e 
t , ; ! 
NCAA Championships in Tucson, Arizona, on November 24. 

Dan Ryan ... youngest ND varsity coach 
November 13, 1986 
c:: 
0 
:;; 
a "' 
... 
.£
c::
.... 
..,"' ' 
... 
0 
a 
Ul 
a "' "' 
A ..,"' 
... 
0 
z 
>
a: 
..."' 
!: 
c 
c.: 
Kathleen Lehman ... placed 10th at NSC meet 
To qualify, Merkel would have to cover the three-mile course 40­50 seconds faster than she ever has, an achievement that is improbable but possible for a runner whose times have improved each time she has raced this year. As far as team goals for the meet are concerned, Ryan says Notre Dame is aiming for a spot in the top 15. 
Such a finish would be a sign of great progress, but Ryan said he sees the potential for even more improvement. "Right now, on a scale of one to 10, we're about a five," he says. "Last year we were a two. Next year, with some depth and more front-runners, we could be a seven." What would a l0 mean? "National champs," Ryan says, grinning. 
He has already targeted 19 states for recruiting, a task made difficult because, unlike most other Division-I programs, he has no scholarships at his disposal. Could the Irish win a national championship without scholar­ships? 
"Yes, I think we could," Ryan says. "Not now, not real soon, but we could do it. That has to be our goal." As the trophies and ribbons begin to take up space in Ryan's office, the Irish are taking the first steps toward that goal. 
27 

Sports 

Trying To Tame The Lions 
By Ed Jordanich 

Notre Dame could reach the high point of its roller-coaster season with a win over Penn State 


The roller-coaster ride of a 0 college football season varies ~ between the nauseating and g; the exhilarating. And after Notre ~ Dame's consecutive losses to Ala-., bama and Pittsburgh last month, Irish players, coaches and fans were probably feeling a little sick. 
But the thrills of Notre Dame football are back, and Tim Brown, Steve Beuerlein and Robert Banks will lead the Irish up one of their schedule's steepest hills against highly-ranked Penn State on Saturday. 
The game will be televised to most of the nation. The contest will be, in the words of Irish head coach Lou Holtz, "a battle between a good,. improving foot­ball team and guys who could be playing on Sundays and Monday fun," said the senior Banks. "It an Irish passer (11-for-20, 269nights." 

was fun because o_f the way we yards, one TD). The senior, who Both teams enter the game with has been piling up records
played. We were good out there." career momentum. Coach Joe Paterno's each game, appears to be Holtz's
The Irish went up and down the 

Nittany Lions are 9-0 this season, main man for the remainder of the
field at will against the Mustangs.

including a convincing win three year. With the recent confidenceThe second string performed well
weeks ago over previously­shown him by the coaching staff,
and Brown's receiving and rushing
unbeaten Alabama. Notre Dame Beuerlein's ratio of touchdowns to
brilliance (235 all-purpose yards)
has evened its record at 4-4 with turnovers has improved dramati­
was complemented by solid per~
consecutive wins against Air Force cally.

and Navy, followed by last formances from a bevy of running 
weekend's trouncing of SMU. backs and receivers. 
Both Notre Dame and Penn "We've played solid, hard­The offense gelled under the State have a lot at stake Saturday. direction of Beuerlein, who had Holtz's Irish are suddenly hearing
nosed football lately~ and the one of his most productive days as whispers that a strong finish could
(SMU) game was an awful lot of 
Scholastic
28 



Sports 

mean a possible bowl appearance; a win over the Irish would virtu­ally assure the Lions of a New Year's Day date with top-ranked Miami. 
Bowl talk and Penn State's glittering record do not seem to bother the Irish players, though, especially the seniors. "We can play with anyone in the country," said quarterback Beuerlein. 
"Penn State looked awesome against Alabama," said corner back Troy Wilson. "But we've proven we're a good football team. We're relaxed and we're confident and we're ready to finish the season on a positive note." 
Despite the similarities in momentum and confidence between the Irish and the Lions, the methods the two teams have employed on offense to produce their winning streaks are very dif­ferent. 
Through the continued magic of junior flanker Brown, Notre Dame has made the big play its most dangerous weapon. The defense has made big plays of its own in the form of interceptions and fumble recoveries in the last three games. 
Paterno's club relies on the steady and efficient leadership of quarterback John Shaffer and the hard running of D.J. Dozier. As always, Penn State's defense hits hard and tightens up when the opponent nears the goal line. Linebacker Shane Conlan, who has been compared to former Lion great Matt Millen and has NFL scouts drooling, anchors Paterno's defense. 
"The most impressive thing about Joe Paterno's team," said Holtz, "is that they so seldom mak~ mistakes. They're funda­mentally sound and they do what it takes to win. They start some­thing like 18 seniors and these are kids that already have the experi­ence of playing for the national championship last year." 
The Lion's run for the final No. 

ranking this year has been marked by a run-oriented offense led by Dozier ( I 41 carries for 657 yards) and Shaffer, whose trade­mark as quarterback has been crisp execution. He also has shown an uncanny knack of finding new ways to win. He has lost only one game as a starting quarterback 
since the seventh grade. 
Shaffer has completed 99 of 172 passes for 1,296 yards and eight touchdowns this season. He has thrown only four interceptions and Penn State as a team has been able to limit its number of turn­overs to 13, three less than the Irish. Interceptions and fumbles hurt Notre Dame in its first five games, but the Irish have had just two turnovers in their last three games. 
"I think we've come along both offensively and . defensively the last few weeks and a couple of wins sure has made. it easier to go out there every day," Holtz said. "But it'll take our best effort this week. A lot of people are going to have to play better than they have all year, and we're going to have to take advantage of every chance we have to make something hap­pen." 
Two Irish defensive. players who will be hampered by injuries are senior captain Mike Kovaleski and defensive tackle Wally Kleine. 
Kovaleski will start at inside line­backer despite a mild concussion suffered in the SMU game. Kleine is still recovering from a slight shoulder separation suffered two weeks ago against Navy, and he is listed as probable. 
Special teams player Tom Byrne was injured in the SMU game and is apparently out for the season with a severe knee sprain. The Irish will miss Byrne, whose tena­city on the kickoff team has con­tributed to the overall improve­ment of the special teams. 
Holtz's biggest headache, how-


November 13, 1986 
29 


Sports 
ever, will probably come from the Penn State defense and its habit of shutting down opponents' running games. Conlan, linebacker Pete Giftopoulos and safety Ray Isom are the stars of a unit that has given up only 64 yards per game on the ground. 
For the Irish, Anthony John­son, Mark Green, Pernell Taylor and the other backs will have to establish an attack that not only keeps the Lions honest, but also sets up an opportunity for Brown or Beuerlein to come up with the big play. 
The Penn State-Notre Dame series has been characterized in recent years by offensive fire­works. Since 1983 the winning team has scored a minimum of 34 points. Last year the Irish were thrashed in the mud and rain at State College, 36-6. It was Notre Dame's worst loss in 11 years at the time and was the first of three season-ending losses for the Irish. 
Two years ago, the Irish beat the Lions 44-7, in a game sjmilar to last Saturday's SMU game in terms of Notre Dame's offensive performance. The Irish used long runs from Allen Pinkett and a superb performance by Beuerlein to fight up the scoreboard quickly and often. 
"Penn State is always a big challenge," said Banks, who will have to contain Dozier and keep after Shaffer on Saturday. "We wanted to pay back SMU for the Aloha Bowl two years ago and we did that. Last year Penn State was one of our worst games and one of their best. This is a game no one will have trouble getting ready for." 
The prospect of a national championship will bring the Nit­tany Lions into South Bend with a lot of motivation. Paterno's veteran team has escaped with some narrow wins over lesser 
~ 

6>. ~ 
§ 
·g 
...:.i 
opponents (23-17 over Cincinnati 
and last week's 17-15 squeaker 
over Maryland), but their 23-3 · 
win at Alabama has tempered 
some of the criticism of a schedule 
which some say includes too many 
mediocre opponents. 
The game seems to boil down to two teams who share the benefits of strong senior leadership, but who win football games in dif­ferent ways. Notre Dame has yet to win a close game this year, unlike Penn State, which has 
displayed consistency and· charac­ter in tight spots. 
Notre Dame's running backs must avoid critical turnovers if Holtz's Irish are to put themselves in a position to upset the Lions. Brown will receive special atten­tion regardless of where he lines up on the field, because the possi­bility he will score on a long play will be there every time Beuerlein takes a snap. Penn State has won all year with long, sustained drives, and the Notre Dame defense will have to play its best game of the season in order to keep the Lion offense off the 


field. 
The current Irish win streak has been the result of poise and hard work, in the aftermath of disap­pointing and inconsistent play in some of their early-season losses. Notre Dame is playing better foot­ball now than at any time during the season. 
The ups and downs that started in the Michigan game will undoubtedly continue at Notre Dame Stadium against Penn State. Whether the Irish will be smiling when they get off the roller coas­ter this Saturday remains to be seen. 
Scholastic 

Scoreboard 

Irish Continue Pursuit of NCAA Berth 
VOLLEYBALL -Notre Dame extended its winning streak to nine games with four straight home victories over Loyola, Day­ton, Northwestern and Pitt. The Irish raised their record to 25-6 on the year. The two victories over Northwestern and Pitt, which came within 18 hours of each other, highlighted the successful weekend. 
Notre Dame is now ranked fifth in the latest Midwest Regional poll, after being previously unranked. Of the six teams that have beaten the Irish, two, Purdue and Western Michigan, were ranked in the top 
20. The Irish have also defeated 10 teams of regional ranking, including Ohio State, Indiana, Illinois State and Northern Illinois. 
The Irish are looking for their first~ver NCAA post-season l;>id. This weekend, they travel to the North Star Conference Invita­tional to put their current win streak on the line. 

Maureen Shea (10), .Kathleen Morin (3) and Taryn Collins (4) helped the Irish to a big win over Pittsburgh. 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY -Saturday, .the Irish travel to Normal, Ill. for the NCAA District IV meet. Head· Coach JOE PIANE is looking for strong repeat performances from cross country veterans DAN GAR­RETT and RON MARKEZICH. Freshman standout MIKE O'CONNOR will also add 
November 13, 1986 
depth to the Irish squad. While Piane is pleased at the status of his young runners, he is still hesitant to appear overly enthusiastic about the weekend's meet. 
"We're still a team with only sopho­more and freshman experience," Piane says, "and there are some very powerful teams with great experience and talent at the meet. We have set some realistic goals for ourselves and since we've always been looking to improve from meet to meet, that is one of our main goals for the weekend." 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY -The Irish women also compete in the NCAA District IV meet· this weekend. This year is the women's fir~t year as a varsity team, and therefore, their first chance to race in the championships (page 26). 

FIELD HOCKEY -Notre Dame finished its season with a 6-12-1 record after two losses over the weekend at the Midwestern Regional Tournament. 
"It's been a long re-building season for us," Head Coach JILL LINDENFELD said. The Irish will lose senior tri-captains MARY WAGNER, MEG McGLINN, and all-time scoring leader CORINNE DiGIACOMO to graduation. Eighteen players will return, however, including defensive specialists CAROLINE BEREZNY and BENET DeBERRY. 

HOCKEY -The Irish will end a three-week layoff this weekend at the Pointer Classic in Stevens Points, Wis. They will open the tourney against St. John's at 5 p.m. on Friday. 
MEN'S SWIMMING -Last Friday, the Irish hosted the 22nd Annual Notre Dame Relays. Notre Dame came in second at the meet to Illinois-Chicago, 194-198. 
The Irish had the lead going into the final event, but Illinois-Chicago took the 200-yard medley relay to clinch the win over the five other teams in the field. A bright spot for Notre Dame was the tandem performance of.sophomores ROGER MIRO and CHRIS PETRILLO, who led the Irish to first-place finishes in the 200-and 800­yard freestyle relays. 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING -The women took their portion of the Notre Dame Relays with ease, winning with 200 points. Their closest competitor, Valpo tallied 178. 
Notre Dame took seven first-place crowns. The Irish versatility was apparent, as most of the Irish swimmers were compet­ing outside their specialties. 
AMY DARLINGTON, who has not lost a race so far this season, paced: the Irish in the anchor position of the 200~ard frees­tyle, leading the team -to a lead that it never relinquished. 
WRESTLING -FRAN McCANN's squad took second place in the Michigan State Invite last weekend, in its highest~ver fin­ish at Michigan State. 
PAT BOYD, a 142-lb sophomore, took the title in his weight class. Junior RON WISNIEWSKI captured the 158-lb class crown, while sophomore CHRIS GENESER won the title in the 167-lb division. Fresh­man ANDY RADENBAUGH, Scholastic's athlete of the week, also won at 118 lbs. 
Athletes of the Week 

MARY KAY WALLER 
In three of the four Irish victories this · 
weekend, the six­foot sophomore has combined for 34 kills, for a percen-. . , tage of .488. She f ·. "_'. > also had 17 blocks l.lfit ·, '.;i over the weekend. Waller paced the Irish Sunday against Pitt with 11 kills and had the game-high kill total of 16 against Northwestern. 
ANDY RADENBAUGH 
In his first appear­ance for Notre Dame, the freshman out of St. Joseph Michigan, went undefeated in three matches. The local product's winning performance in the 118-lb class helped carry the Irish to a second-place finish in the Michigan State Invitational. 



On The Campaign Trail 
By John Gardiner 
A Notre Dame student senator reflects on his experiences participating in the 1986 local elections 
I have spent a fascinating two months participating in the 1986 local elections. I never expected to get this involved in South Bend politics. The regis­tration drive I held in September was fun because I had a chance to meet a lot of interesting people. But it became a drag when I had to fill out and sign all 250 registra­tion forms -in triplicate. 
Throughout the two months, I did not claim any Republican affiliation -those who I registered were not registered to a particular party. But soon I became the Republican on-campus connec­tion, simply because the woman to whom I returned the registration forms was the Republican member of the Registration Board. Clearly, there is little room for indepen­dents out there. The hegemony of the parties is such that one must participate in conjunction with one of the two major parties in order to have a substantial voice in politics. 
I had some interesting contact with candidates. I wrote to Senator Dan Quayle twice this summer while working on Capitol Hill. I received no response to my first letter, in which I asked him to explain why he was on the Com­mon Cause's list of "war-hawks." I did receive a resoonse to my second letter, which was con­cerned with education grants; however the letter was addressed to a "Mr. Brown." 
Congressman John Hiler makes a point of advertising that he is quick to respond to constituents, however I did not receive a reply to my letter asking him why he is on the same list as Quayle. Hiler did sen-j me plenty of political parf.l.phemalia; though. 
There are reasons beyond the political ones that constituents may vote for a particular candi­date. For example, when I asked a Republican worker what she thought about County Prosecutor Michael Barnes, a Democrat, she responded, "He's handsome!" So 
much for strict partisanship. 
In addition, I was invited to lunch by Henry Keultjes, the owner of Hank's Friendly Super­market. He won the County Councilman position in District B and offered my campus district a five percent discount there. Finally, I spoke to the wife of one of the candidates, who told me that she thought her husband was the best man for the job. Natur­ally, her opinion was completely unbiased. 
When I listened to candidates' speeches, I was really struck by the number of times candidates would re-word the same basic theme. Not that what they said was without merit -they urged people to get out and vote -but you would think that they could be a little more original. Besides, how many of these candidates really want you to get out and vote, unless you arc going to vote for them? 
Most of the Notre Dame voters 
are not registered to a particular 
party. This might be a good idea, 
at least for a while. Who needs a 
party label, anyway? When people 
ask me what I am, I do not 
respond that I am a Democrat or a 
Republican. I respond that I am 
John Gardiner, and this is the best 
response. The only parties that I 
am attracted to right now are at 
Campus View apartments. 
My election experiences have been both serious and humorous, and all of value to me. The cam­paigning and behind-the-scenes work that go into even non­national -elections are favorable comments on our system. I would strongly encourage all to partici­pate in the future not only because one learns so much about others by meeting a diverse group of people, but also because one finds out a lot about oneself. 

The Final Word gives members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community a fornm in which to express their opinions on a particular subject. The ideas presented here are not necessarily the opinions of Scholastic. Topics are subject to editors' approval. and submissions may be edited for content and space res­trictions. Those interested should contact Keith Harrison Jr. at the Scholastic of/ice, third floor LaFortune. 
Scholastic 
Life In Hell 


OQAMAT1.S 
PfRSO.-..>Ae 
@.,oll:'1°S ILLEG. 1 r,....~ 
SooJ. Eve.. ~ ""-""'A~,:) 
TH<W 81.ir.-,. 
t11ST1ool'=,UIIM1.J& 
FE.ATul!tt: l'~liTT'1 OQ,J10\IS1 IS,J'l'"f' IT? 
C.A,.;, 'Tf-'E CARTOOtJIST' OAA,.) &r..l\c!::1 
WITH +-\IS 
~~~S C1.0Set, °? 
&..u,..,·s ~,•.., 1t.r:ED 
(:,lltLl"ILll,.lv. 
PRoP~.Jt 17s, ,o POl:E R!NI:.., . o,~T,.,c,..,1rM,--l b l'f:...Tvlt£~: iASICAL•'l 
g,..i:., 1.J s:,......~E: 
c,~e. 

8et:1l'\,,\E~S cje L.OJ£t,, Olt Pot$ ,!h'l SoTk. 
IJO't"HulC, ~T\lll!P.S 
Tt<E"'I. 
Pl s..-,..r,u,,M uJ 6 S:e"'-iultt: F5'Z.'Z.ES,
l.oTM ,~es ·oo,, ,.._...,r, 
llVf. OF Ml.A;;;,. 
MOW THE ~E.1..1.. §: [ 
"' 
CAiJ~! CAATOOMIS'T 
~llp,w AtJ!::,TN 1.J (!, HS1txe,S ftAi&ITS! 
l>tl ..., 't£S. 
~ 
~ ~ 
tAT ·w C"'-lt 
l~~~~-.J 
DotS TH£ CARTt>OtllST LOOI( a.>J~Ttoll!J(, 
LllCE a1..i\(~ ! 
!;TAlt. OF "LIFE 1,J 
HHL." 
l=L•"'~' ""1-1.E..l 
P'Ol:EQ. 
Pl ST 1.Jlo,u1h-t 1.J 6 
Ft"T""-l~: ioLC.•oJC, 
6'1ES', OIIE.ll&•T~, illoTl!Sqof: EAltS 

THE:. 2.0~ ~Tul!"l, THE~E IAIAS A Pol'v~Afi!. 
5u)1MSVIT lcr'O.J,-) ~S 1'1-1c 11,,.n:.,.i1. 
IS ,-~E.RE A 
··u1=e •"1 
HE LL" 
f~ILCSoPM':, f 
DAME

NOTRE 
.J;,, 
' ' ~· ,' :.::...· ,__, ,,_,;

c,·,••' •".,••;•y; t 




