THE ^TRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
357
^^^^25252525252525252525252525252532525252525
	THE SCHOLASTIC STAFF		
	Jack Mullen, Harley L. McDevitt,	Editor-in-Chief ■ - Business Manager	
Lao McIntyre, John McMahon, Richard Elfers,	- - - News Editor - Asst. News Editor - Literary Editor	John V. Hinkel, - -John T. Cullinan, J. F. Mahoney, - The	Sports Editor - The Week College Parade
JOSEPH MURPHY John Rergan	NEWS David Saxon	William Craig	John DeRouut Richard Parrish	Bernard Garber	Raymond Drymalski		
ADVERTISING E. A. O’Brien, - - Local Adv. Mgr. H. J. Noon, - Local Circulation Mgr. D. M. MEINIXT, - Foreign Adv. Mgr.		BUSINESS L. J. W18DA	H. O’Bryan C. M. Ashman	e. J. Carlin W. E. Burchill	
			
VOL. Lyi t	DECEMBER 9, 1927		NO. 12
sesBszsBsesBSzsffissEsesBszsEseszszsssasaseszszsa

1872
INDEX
1927
The Week ............
Next Weeks* Events ... Music and Drama ..... The Campus Clubs..... College Parade.......
Editorial ...........
Hobnails.............
Hey, Lady; Hey, Hey!
John T. Cullinan
Arthur Stenius ...
Joseph D. Murphy ...
J. F. Mahoney------
..ALLan-a-Dale ...
..Bayard Kurth ...
The Girl Friend at the Football Game—Joseph G. Friel
Blushing...........
Remembrance (Poem) Sport News.........
.John Molter, CS.C. Jasper Brent ....... John V. Hinkel......
358
359
363
366
367
368
369
370
372
373
374
375
KataroA aa Mrowd-eiM* miter at Notra Doom, ItditM. Aeteptancs for mailing at apodal rata of poataea. SoMoa 110», Ootobor t, 1HT. aaibariMd Joao ts. ttlt.
Ths Afartiun ■ Neire Dave Pabfatiois Deserve the Painmge tf Al Notre Daae Meo

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
358
j THE WEEK
Writes Mr. E. J. Donovan, the official correspondent for the Freshman hall band, calling our attention to the fact that last week’s wash was all wet. In fact he insists a gross error of fact wormed its way into the laundry. We offer a portion of his letter for two very satisfactory reasons: Mr. Donovan is not known to the writer, but he is a thorough gentleman, one with whom we enjoy doing business; and confidentlially very few garments* arrived this week for the cleansing process, so the note will help in filling the tubs.
“Dear Sir:—
In your column of the December 2 issue you state that the “half-baked band from Freshman Hall” played the Victory March at the football game between Freshman and Lyons. We knew that the Victory March was to be played only upon suitable occasions and therefore we didn’t play it. Any member of the Hall will support this statement because several requested us to play it and were disappointed when we refused. (Editor’s note: Don’t break your arm patting your back, Mr. Donovan.) We request that you retract your statement about'our playing the Victory March.” '
In the first place it is highly impossible for the writer of this page to see, hear, and do everything. Consequently, friends, roommates, neighbors—all trusted news gatherers—report their impressions which are recorded occasionally. Whether the Freshman or Lyons hall band played the Victory March is of little consequence. The fact remains that the song was played repeatedly much to the discomfort of the spectators who were brought to their feet, hats in hand and chests expanded to the bursting point. We have not investigated, but certainly Mr. Donovan and his eleven fellow musicians who signed the letter, must be sure of their position. Therefore, the Freshman gang is exonerated ipso facto, flagrante delicto ex post facto, and caveat emptor. But one of
the bands was half baked. That’s our point and we’re going to stick to it. Two bands minus one band equals one. As Father Bolger would say, the conclusion. is quite obvious, gentlemen.
The scientists came for a three day convention to find knowledge, hospitality, and the excellent work of the Glee Club in its first appearance. To Joe Casasanta and the boys must go what remains of the 1927 stock in praise. Their singing is consistently good, and a successful trip to the coast is assured. .
What with their heads bowed low in the reverential work of selecting. all-American teams, it is difficult to find sport writers who will sign contracts for appearance at the speakers’ table. But we were able to ensnare Warren Brown and Jimmy Corcoran, both representing that Windy City named in honor of its chief executive. They in company with other brilliant talkers closed the season officially, leaving little but the postmortems and congratulations for Captain Smith, who deserves every ounce of recognition.
For the campus orators has come relief in the postponment of the Breen Oratorical contest until after the holidays. To those who are interested, there will be time for practice when you are not mailing Christmas cards, receiving gifts, or dancing. This justifies the delay, However, such is not to be the fate of the local Glenn Hunter’s who must prepare for their first appearance 'ere the vacation is upon us. Three one-act plays from Professor Phillips’ Work-Shop will reach the public on Thursday next.
Rumor has it that the dining halls will bs christened as a dance palace with the Junior Prom. Outlined plans call for the localizing of all activities and once again there is to be a return to the Notre Dame of old with dining, sleeping, and amusement strictly campus affairs. Thus passeth the Palais Royal and the week.	—J.T.c.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
f NEXT WEEK’S EVENTS ♦
Friday, December ninth—Basket ball game —Illinois Wesleyan vs. the University of Notre Dame—Gymnasium—8:00 P. M.
Chicago Club—Lay Faculty dining rooms—6:45 P. M.
Saturday—Movies — Washington hall—6:30 and 8:30 P. M.
Sunday—Masses in Sacred Heart Church— 6:00, 7:00, 8:30 — Student’s Mass, and 10:15 A. M.—Parish Mass.
Benediction—7:30 P. M.
New Jersey Club meeting—South room of Library—10:30 A. M.
Lightweight Basketball League gets un--der way—Gymnasium—10:00 A. M. and 2:00 P. M.
Monday — Meeting of the Scribblers — Hoyneshall—8:00 P. M.
Law Club smoker—Lay Faculty dining room of the University Dining Halls— 8:00 P.M.	-
Tuesday — Meeting of Notre Dame Council, Number 1477, Knights of Columbus — Walsh hall basement—8:00 P. M.
Meeting of Le Cercle Francais—Hoynes hall—6:30 P. M.
Wednesday — Lecture by McCready Huston —Some Editors I Have Known—Washington hall— 8:00 P. M.
Meeting of the Wranglers—Lemmonier Libraiy—7:45 P. M.
Spanish Club—Hoynes hall—7:30 P. M. Thursday—Meeting of the German Club— Hoynes hall—6:45 P. M.
---------------
TRYOUTS FOR MONOGRAM ABSURDITIES
Charles F. “Chile” Walsh, President of me Monogram Club, announced this week hat the competition for skits and gags for he Monogram Absurdities is open to the enure student body.
A” student winters are requested to subideas for the Monogram Show of
28 to Walsh. The production is for next
TEAM AWARDED MONOGRAMS
Major monograms were recommended for 30 members of the 1927 varsity football team Saturday by the faculty board in control of ‘ I athletics.
Of the 30 monogram winners, 12 will be lost to the team next year as a result of having completed their years of eligibility.
The teams two student managers, August i Grams and Bolan Burke also were awarded ! monograms for their work during the foot- I ball season.
The winners of the awards were: Captain I Smith, Leppig, Law, Cannon, Murrin, Bondi,	'	|
Frederick, Benda, Moynihan, Colerick, Voed- j isch, Walsh, Hurlbert, Doarn, Polisky, Me-	I
Grath, Miller, Ransavage, Flanagan, Riley, | Dahman, Wynne, Collins, Chevigney, Dew,	;
Niemiec, Prelli, Brady, Morrissey, and Me-Kinney.
-------«--------
GLEE CLUB CONCERT SUNDAY	j
The Glee Club will give its initial formal , concert of the season Sunday night, Dec. 11,^ in Washington hall. Directed by Joseph Casasanta, the club will probably present the full program which will be given on the Western trip during the Christmas season.
The Glee Club sang twice during the present week. Thursday afternoon the organization gave an entertainment at the St. Joseph Valley Farm. Father William Maloney, C.S.C., pastor of St. Patrick’s church, arranged the program and supplied transportation for the club members. The Club sang again Thursday evening at the football banquet of the St. Joseph Valley alumni held in the East hall of the new dining halls.
-------9--------
FATHER O’DONNELL CONDUCTS RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION
In the absence of the Very Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C., Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, who is visiting in the Canadian province of the Congregation, Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., First Assistant to the Superior General, conducted the weekly religious instructions held in the South room of the Library on Monday evening.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
360
MAPS FOR DEPARMENT OF FOREIGN .	COMMERCE
Maps of various countries, purchased by the Department of Foreign Commerce, arrived this week and will be placed in a room in Science hall for the use of the Foreign Commerce men, it is announced by James E. McCarthy, head of the department. The • maps, which were purchased from the Rand-McNally Co., will be utilized to acquaint Foreign Commerce students with countries in every part of the globe.
THE ROGER C. SULLIVAN SCHOLARSHIPS
An announcement regarding the Roger C. Sullivan Scholarships was issued this week from the office of the Director of Studies. The announcement follows:
The Committee on Scholarships and Prizes will award the Roger C. Sullivan Scholarship for the current scholastic year, 19271928, in January. Applicants must have been students during the school year, 19261927, as the semester grades of that year are to be used in making the award, and the applicant must have entered the Sophomore, Junior or Senior class of the present school year as an unconditioned student. Application must be made in writing before December 20th to the Chairman of the Com-mitte'e on Scholarships and Prizes, care of the Office of Director of Studies.
The Scholarships follow:
(1)	A scholarship of $250.00 will be awarded to the student applicant in the present Sophomore class whose grades in comparison with those of other Sophomore applicants showed the greatest improvement in his studies during the second semester as compared with the first semester of the school year, 1926-1927.
(2)	A scholarship of $250.00 will be awarded to the student aplicant in the present Junior class whose grades in comparison with those of other Junior applicants showed the greatest improvement in studies during the second semester as compared with the first semester of the school year, 1926-1927.
(3)	A scholarship of $250.00 will be
awarded to the student applicant in the pres- ' ent Senior class whose grades in comparison with those of other Senior applicants showed the greatest improvement in studies during the second semester as compared with the first semester of the school year, 1926-1927.
--------%-------- *
BROWNSON VICTOR IN INTERHALL DEBATE
The interhall debates culminated the night of November1 the thirteenth with Brownson teams emerging victors over the unvanquished Howard Hall wranglers, thereby giving the former aggregation the unchallenged possession of the coveted Lemmer trophy for another year.
The walls of the Hoynes Law building resounded to sparkling repartee on the subject of discusion: Resolved, “That the proposed amendment to the Constitution concerning Child Labor should be ratified.”
All of the teams spoke well for the competent manner in which they had been trained, and the effort expended in careful study by the participants. The members of the Brownson club were as follows: Affirmative—Harry Wall, captain, William Warren, and J. Edward Phelan; Negative Jack O’Keefe, captain, Edward O’Day, William Brown and Patrick Ryan. The former team was coached by Walter Stanton, and the latter by Arnold Williams. The judges of the contest were Professors Con-frey and Smithberger.
A banquet was given for the Brownson contestantsby Brother Alphonsus, Rector of Brownson Hall, in the faculty dining room of the new Refectory on Sunday evening, December the fourth.

PROM COMMITTEE MEETS
Walter Stanton, general chairman of the Junior Prom of ’28 outlined the work of the various prom commitees in a meeting held Tuesday night. Some forty men constitute the entire committee. The Junior Prom will be held on Friday, February	1
10th, 1928. Either Ben Pollack and his	J
Californians, Gene Goldkette, Jack Chapman	j
or Gui Lombardo and his Royale Canadians will play.	i

THE NOTRE DA
A $ ❖ ♦ V
CAMPUS PERSONALITIES ❖ * * * *
If some one should ask if you know John A Sullen don’t answer “Nein” because you ^that’s Jack Mullen.
And someone is likely to ask you, for Jack’s literary work has been accepted by theOverland Monthly, the Commonweal and the Indiana Catholic. He has had poems also in the recent issue of the Alumnus and the Santa Maria.
In the Culver Contest last year Mullen’s “Sonnet of Dead Cities” re
jack mullen, Editor of THE SCHOLASTIC
c e i v e d honorable mention and in the Scribblers’ poetry
contest he was awarded second prize. So, when you are back in the little puddle during the holidays and Aunt Emma brings up that delightful neiv game, “Ask Me Mother,” and coyly demands “What is a Poetaster?”, you can snap out,” Jack Mullen isn’t.
The Scholastic and Mullen are not thought of apart. Since he is editor-in-chief, always point out to him' all faults and defects. If necessary fire a few shots around his feet—Jack likes that; he is going to edit a newspaper in Georgia or Chicago. And if you should see something good in the W. G. W. do not be so rude as to mention it. The department- “Hobnails” was originated by ack last year while he was literary editor of The Scholastic.
Jack Mullen is a student in the School of ournalism. He is a member of the Chicago Gub/the Scribbler, and the Press Club, the umber of years being four, three, two, res-ecively—which sounds like a limitation of armaments.
Sorin said his first Mass at N°tre lai^	Chapel on the feast of
-$drew> November 30, 1842—just 85 ** ago last Thursday.
ME SCHOLASTIC	86x
FRESHMAN NUMERALS AWARDED
The “1931” has made its appearance on toe campus as 48 members of the freshman football squad were awarded numerals for their work on the football squad this year.
During the season just closed freshman football has reached a high pinnacle at Notre Dame. A wealth of material has been uncovered for the varsity of 1928 from its ranks by Coaches McManmon and Wallace.
The recipients of numerals were: J. Acers, R. Bailee, G. Burdic, J. Canny, F. Caridea, F. Carmody, N. Christman, J. Clyde, J. Conley, B. Conway, T. Loughran, W. Covington, A. Culver, E. Cunningham, A. Di Micheli, C. Durbin, N. Donohue, J. Dorschell, J. Griffin, G. Grabinski, D. Hewit, C. Howard, W. Keeler, G. Lozak, F. Kosky, J. Malik, G. Mangan, A. McManmon, T. Monahan, W. Mortenson, M. Murphy, J. Nichols, J. J. Nyhoff, C. Langdon, F. Leahy, J. Lyons, E. O’Brien, R. Pigott, F. Reiman, M. Rocco, W. Rose, J. Savoldi, A. Seymour, R. Snyder, J. Thornton, T. Twomey and T. Yarr.
NEW BOOOKS IN LAW LIBRARY
A new and complete set of books on English Law has recently been added to the library of the college at a cost of $850.
The books are attractively bound and covered with a heavy green material while the back and corners are finished in tan leather.
On the back of each volume below the title appears the inscription, “University of Notre Dame.” William Green and sons of Edinburgh and Stevens and sons, Limited, of London, are the publishers and printers.
The books were purchased directly from the English firm and were received with great satisfaction by the legal minds of the campus. Heretofore little modern English law was contained in the college’s library.	'
FATHER DEVERS’ CONDITION FAVORABLE .
The condition of Father J. A. Devers, C. S.C., who for the past week has been confined to the St. Joseph's hospital, is reported as very favorable and his return to the campus may be expected in the immediate future.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
362
J*
NEW ISSUE OF SCRIBBLER ANTHOLOGY
A new issue of the 1927 Scribbler Anthology will be made next Monday night at the University. Members of the Scribblers will go through the halls selling the book to those who wish to buy. The volume has been praised as the finest work of its kind that has been produced at any college or university.
Work of most of the writers of the campus is included. There are poems, stories, essays, and one act plays, all chosen as superior work from great numbers of manuscripts.
The binding is an attractive board and cloth one in gold and blue.	.
' NEW JERSEY DANCE PLANS ANNOUNCED
The annual formal Christmas dance the Notre Dame New Jersey Club will
of be
held on December 27 at the Newark Athletic Club in Newark. Freddie Rich and his Hotel Astor orchestra of New York City will play for dancing.
The affairs this year from all indications will be one of the greatest in the history of the' club'. The various committees under the direction of Rus Riley, president of the club are working earnestly for the success of the affair.
Many prominent guests will be in attendance at the dance. Among them will be: A. Raymond, mayor of Newark; John F. Murray, Commissioner of Finance of the State of New Jersey; Hugh A. O’Donnell, former president of the National Alumni Association of Notre Dame; Daniel J. Murphy, prominent alumnus of Notre Dame and Rupert E. Mills, the only man who has ever won 12 monograms at Notre ' Dame.
The committee chairman for the affair are: John Reilly, William F. Brown, John Colerick, Anthony V. Cera, Frank Van Syckle, Adrian Lopez and John Win-gerter.
FOOTBALL STAR HONORED
Charles Walsh, regular end on this year’s varsity football team has been selected‘as a member of the “All East” football team that will play the “All West” team in a benefit football game in San Francisco on December 26.
Walsh while in the West will visit his home at Hollywood, California.
N. D. SCIENCE ACADEMY
The Notre Dame Academy of Science held its fifth regular meeting of the scholastic year on Wednesday evening November 30. Papers were presented by two members. Dr. D. J. Bradley discussed the history and uses of the new germicidal solution of Hexylresorcinol, known on the market as “S. T. 37.” Mr. A. S. Romano in his paper on “Endocrine Glands” explained in a practical and interesting manner the locations and functions of the ductless glands in accordance with the latest medical theories.
FATHER M’BRIDE MOVES TO SORIN
Rev. Patrick M. McBride, C.S C., who lately was forced to relinquish his duties as Registrar due to ill health, has taken up his residence on the second floor of Sorin Hall.
Rev. Lawrence V. Broughall, C.S.C., to whom much credit is due for the construction and furnishing of the new dining halls, has moved his residence from Sorin hall to the Main Building.
BREEN ORATIONS POSTPONED
Professor Frank Kelly, head of the department of Speech at the University has announced that the Breen Medal orations which were to have taken place to-day will not be held until Janary 18, 19288.
The feast of the Immaculate Conception was observed yesterday with a solemn High Mass at 8:30 in Sacred Heart Church. The celebrant of the Mass was Rev. G. W. Albertson, C.S.C., and he was assisted by Rev. John Reynolds, C.S.C., as deacon and Rev-James Kline, C.S.C., as subdeacon.-. The sermon was given by Rev. James Stack, C.S. •

THE NOTRE
DAME SCHOLASTIC
363
MUSIC AND DRAMA
❖ ❖
❖
❖ ❖
Yes, at last drama shall appear upon the campus. It comes in the form of three one-act plays which will be given next Thursday evening in Washington hall. With the plays written by members of Prof. Phillips’ play-writing class and production being handled by the play-producing class of Prof. Kelly, we are at least assured of an all-student production; but whether such’ .will enhance the plays is yet to be seen. Having seen none of the rehearsals, read none of the plays and failed in finding any of the stage managers, we can in no way essay a comment upon the evening’s possibilities; but if we draw a prognostication from last year’s productions and the fact that a year’s experience usually gives growth, surely there is much to be expected upon the night of the fifteenth. As the premier draws near, rehearsals are being called with more frequency, and as managers work upon settings, properties and lighting effects, Mr. Kelly is attempting to iron out the many defects always present in an amateur production. We await Thursday evening, then, with great expectations.
Although working assiduously upon the program which they will carry during their* trip to the coast, the Glee Club is attempting to prepare a concert to be given Sunday evening in Washington hall. Whether this potentiality will become a reality lies' m the hands of the director, and we can only sit back with a hope that we may hear the Club once more before they start upon their six-thousand mile journey which will take them from here upon the twenty-swth of December and keep them travel-lng until the fourteenth day of the new year. .
—<&—
0Ver their recent burst of pub-cty, the band immediately postponed eir. smoker for a couple of days, and • aftlr ?5°P°sed pre-Christmas concert until , , or the holidays- But such procedure in
no way brought inactivity for with the opening game of the basketball season, the band entertained with a few peppy marches, popular numbers and the usual school songs. Director Casasanta is still working the organization upon a program embodying about six operatic and symphonic overtures, and other lighter selections, so should the concert trip of next semester materialize, no time need be-wasted because of poor preparation.—A.s. ,
--------*--------
“For You” is the title of a neat little volume of poems by Miss Jennie M. Tabb, published recently in the Stratford Company, Boston. Miss Tabb is favorably and rather widely known as author of “Father Tabb, His Life and Work,” a biography remarkable for its insight and for its fidelity in presenting the real character of her distinguished uncle to the literary world. The thought that Miss Tabb must truly be a kindred spirit to interpret so well, is stregthened by her appearing now as a poet.
The. poems in the new volume are simple, clear and brief, very easily read; and, however, they may fare in the hands of the critic, must give pleasure to any reader.. The tenderness courage and spirituality of the writer may delight many. The volume which contains some fifty poems, may be had for one dollar.
The author, a Virginian, is secretary to the President of State College, Farmville, Va., of which she is an alumna.
.--------«---------
John Igoe, student manager in charge of basketball, has announced that there will be only two student entrances to the Gym for basketball games this season. One on the north side of the gym and the other on the ’ 0^5^ sido*
Students will sit in the permanent seats to the north of the gym and the bleachers which are on the north and west sides. Student tickets will only be accepted at these entrances.	.
The main entrance to the gym is to be used only by those paying admission.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
JOSEPH CASASANTA
Director /
"364
GLEE CLUB TO TRAVEL 6,000 MILES
More than 6,000 miles will ba traveled by members of the University Glee Club on the eighteen-day trip to the West coast during’ the Christmas season, it is announced by A. J. Mulreany, business manager of the Club.
About 30,000 people will attend the eleven concerts included in the Club’s itinerary.
Leaving South Bend Monday, Dec. 26, and returning Jan. 13, the Glee Club will visit about fifteen cities in the Middle-West, the West, and the South, giving eleven concerts and singing a number of masses. The trip has been ter ned the
most ambitious ever arranged by a college glee club.	'
The Glee Club will sing in the Civic Auditorium in San Francisco January 3, at a concert planned by the Native Son’s Association, the largest organization in California. The Anditorium has a capacity of from 10,000 to 12,000 people. Proceeds from tho concert will be used for the rebuilding of the Santa Clara Mission.
An audience of 8,000 persons is assured when the club sings at the Municipal Auditorium in Houston, Texas, January 9, according to Mr. Mulreany, who has been so advised by letter. The fact that about 6,500 people will attend the concert January 7, in San Franc:sco is further evidence of the high regard of the people of Texas for Notre Dame, in the opinion of the Glee Club manager.
A private Pullman car will carry the Glee Club members during the long trip. The car will be of the all-compartment type and will . provide comfortable quarters for the twentyeight men making the trip.
The Glee Club trip will start December 26, when the club will journey from South Bend to Chicago. Leaving Chicago the same day, the first program will probably be given in Pueblo; Colorado, the following day. The Auditorium in Denver, Colorado, will be the
scene of the second appearance of the club. < A concert will be given in Laramie, Wyi>-
ming, December 29, to be followed .by a two day visit in Salt Lake City, Utah. The New Year’s Day mass at the Cathedral in Salt ; Lake City will probably be sung by the Glee Club before it departs for Sacramento, California, where it will sing January 2.	:
Following its appearance at the huge ! Civic Auditorium in San Francisco, the Club 1 will move on to Los Angeles where it will appear in concert January 4 at the Philharmonic Anditorium/ On the following day the Club will start its Southern trip, traveling to El Paso, Texas.
The Club will give a program in El Paso January 6 and in San Antonio January 7. The club will sing mass in San Antonio or in Austin January 8. Austin is the home of St. Edward’s University, which is conducted -by the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Houston will be visited January 9, where ! the Glee Club will sing before 8,000 people. 1 Tulsa, Oklahoma, represents the next trip of . the homeward journey, where the Club will stay over one day.
After a probable stop-off at St. Louis, the Club will in all likelihood appear in Joliet, | Illinois, January 12, for the final concert of	।
the extended trip. The Club will return to	j
the University the morning of January 13.	।
Glee Club members have been devoting 1 about an hour to practice almost every day j since the opening of school in preparation , for the trip. Directed by Joseph J. Casa-	;
santa, they have proved untiring in their ef-	'
.forts to perfect their singing.	•
Director Casasanta, Mr. Mulreany, and the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, faculty advisor, are deserving of the highest praise for their work with the Glee Club, in the opinion of persons familiar with the splendid record of the organization. They have labored together’ for two years and have succeeded in producing one of the best college glee clubs in the country and in planning a club trip that probably has no equal. Bernard Ducey and Jerome Parker, assistant business managers, are also to be congratulated for their
• work in connection with the coast trip. Vincent Ducey is president of the Club.^whib Pierre Lang is vice-president.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
+ + ++ + **+********* +
*	- OUR CONTRIBUTORS *
Bayard Kurth’s story “Hey Lady, Hey is a sequel to the story “Hey Lady,” which appeared in the Cotillion Number. You will remember Bayard also for his “A Thin Watch” in the last issue.
Now that the football season is over, its joys and sorrows can be mulled over. Joe Friel’s “The Girl-friend at the Footb.-ll Game” presents the sport in one of its most trying side-lines. Joe is an A.B. junior.
“Blushing” was written by John Molter, C.S.C., a seminarian.
Jasper Brent, the author of “Remembrance,” has acquired an enviable following on the campus by his poems: “Fallen,” “The Soldier,” “Engaged,” and “I Envy 'Only These,” and by his humorous essay, “Skating In the Heights.”
1927 FOOTBALL REVIEW OUT
John F. (Sam) Dunne and his associates James F. Hurlbert and Dick Novak presented the campus with their Football Review of the present season Tuesday night. The 48-page book, which is dedicated to the memory of George Gipp, should be a source of well-presented information to anyone who is still young enough (no matter what his age) to enjoy the heart-jerking adventures of Notre Dame’s mpst recent football team.
The cover is done in powder blue with a slim golden border and strong blue lettering. Inside are a variety of things; Quinn Ryan’s fine poem:	’
The game is on! And through the snow The northers sweep and dip, Thevmul is calling signals
■To its brother halfback, Gipp;
pictures of everyone in any way connected yith the team; biographical sketches of the dividual players; and accounts of the jaroes by several of the leading sport writes of the country’. Special features include our all-thne Notre Dame elevens, a letter hv Tunney« a letter to Santa Claus , jVarren W. Brown of the Chic-go Her
ald-Examiner. and the account of one of Jimmy Corcoran’s visits to Notre Dmne.
Corcoran is an eminent writer of sports for the Chicago American.
Ty pographically, the Review is an excellent piece of workmanship. The details whose presence is not usually noticed but whoso absence is certain to be felt have not been neglected. The Scholastic extends its eon-gratulations to a stat! which must have given thought and labor to the production of the 1927 Football Review.
. -----------------<---------
MONOGRAM MEN INITIATE
The annual Fall Monogram Club initiation for the benefit of the new members who won the monogram award during the past football season, was launched on Monday of this week.
The initiation will continue throughout tho week, the principal degrees, however, will bo held on Saturday and Sunday evenings in the gym.
Fifteen new members will bo received into the club at this time, they are: George Mur-rin, William Dew, John Law, John C. Cannon, Jim Brddy, Charles McKinney, Joe Morrissey, George Bondi, Jerry Ransavago, Jack McGrath, Jim Hurlburt, Fred Collins, and student managers, August Grams and Edward Burke.	,
John Poliski is chairman of the committee in charge of the initiation; he is assisted by the following: Joe Benda, John Voe'lisch, Chris Flanagan, Joe Sullivan and Edward Walsh.
Charles F. Walsh is president of the Monogram Club this year; he is assisted by Francis Wilson, vice-president and Joe Griffin, secretary and treasurer.
------------^4.--------------
FATHER CUNNINGHAM SAILS FOR HOME
Father William F. Cunningham, C.SC„ Ph. D., of the School of Education, who for some months has been studying in Europe, sailed from France on December 8. His ship is due to arrive in New York on the 10th and hi# arrival here is expected shortly after that date.
CHICAGO CLUB
The.Chicago Club will meet tonight in the Lay Faculty Boom of the Dining Hall. With President Dick Halpin in the chair, the club will take the annual Christmas Formal under consideration.
According to advance notices, the dance, which is to be held on January 2, 1928, will be one of the most pretentious affairs which the Chicago organization has yet sponsored. It will be held in the magnificent Gold Room of the Congress Hotel and adjoining rooms. The Gold Room is generally admitted to be the finest grand ball-room in the city.
Music will be furnished by Ben Pollack and his Victor recording orchestra, of the Blackhawk Night Club, retailers of sweet and hot music par excellence. In addition, the favors are to be particularly appropriate and attractive.
Tonight, after the discussion of further plans for the Formal, refreshments will be served to the attending members.
VILLAGERS CLUB
The regular monthly meeting of the Notre Dame Villagers club was held Monday evening, December 5, in the Knights of Columbus hall, South Bend.
Burton Toepp presided at the meeting in which plans for the annual Christmas dance were dis-
cussed. The dance is to be held on December 28 in the Palais Royale, South Bend. The club will act jointly with the St. Joseph Valley Alumni. Norman Hartzer will act as chairman for the Villagers for the dance.
A feature of the meeting was a talk by M. A. Donahue, president of the Notre Dame St. Joseph Valley Alumni. The speaker urged cooperation in all enterprises done by the clubs. Joe Doyle a student in the Fine Arts school entertained the club further by several piano numbers.
CALIFORNIA CLUB
" Rain, thunder, and lightning could not keep the native sons' away from the Morningside last Monday night. The occasion was the initial banquet of . • the California Club from the time of its birth three years ago. When the forty-three Californians took their places about the long table, they felt honored in as much as they had sitting at the same table with them, such distinguished men as Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce at the University, and Mr. Bert Lytell who stepped out of the cinema world to join the fellows from the state he called his own, and the state that made him famous. Mr. Robert Dockweiler acted as toastmaster and from all reports was as good as they come. After all had partaken sufficient food, Mr. Edward Cunningham introduced Mr. Lytell to the boys and Bert responded to their cheer with an interesting
talk on his experience with the Catholic Padres in Rome where he had been making the picture, “The Eternal City.”
Dean McCarthy, who needed no introduction to any one, entertained the boys as only Dean McCarthy can. Following Mr. McCarthy’s lengthy, witty and much appreciated address various representative members of the club gave short talks. As the hour was getting late it was necessary to call upon the man whom everyone had been eager to hear all evening. When the president, Edward Paul Cunningham, took the floor he was given a big ovation because he had accomplished what his predecessors had tried, but failed to do. In his own modest way Ed gave his little speech and everyone adjourned.
WEST VIRGINIA CLUB
The Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., was the principal speaker at a banquet held by members of the West Virginia club Thursday, Dec. 1, in the Col- ’ lege Inn of the LaSalle hotel. John 'Gaughan, president of the club, presided at the meeting.
Plans for a Christmas holidays dance were discussed at a meeting this week. The dance will probably be held in Clarksburg and it is understood that the majority of the members will attend the affair.
LAW CLUB SMOKER
Judge Dudley Wooten, professor of Law at Notre Dame, and Judge Orlo Deahl, of South Bend, will be the principal speakers at a Smoker to be held by the members of the Law Club Monday, December 12, in the faculty dining hall.
Judges Bingham and Patee, both of South Bend, and faculty member of the Law School, will attend the smoker as guests. Music for the affair will be furnished by the College of Law orchestra.
Cyp Sporl is president of the Law club. Other officers are: Edwin McClarnon, vice-president; Mike O’Keefe, secretary; and Gerald Roach, treasurer.
EAST-PENN CLUB
The East-Penn Club at its meeting Wednesday evening, December seventh, completed plans for its formal dance to be held at the Hotel Casey, Scranton, on the evening of December thirtieth. Robert A. Mulhall is chairman of the dance committee. At the meeting Wednesday evening President McIntyre urged all the members to attend the dance; he pointed out that the dance was the first ever to be held in Eastern Pennsylvania by students from the University of Notre Dame.
A. J, (Jerry) Ransavage, the club's treasurer, during the meeting, reported on the financial status of the club-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
367
the college parade
Ry /• F. Mahoney
Mr; J. L. Mankiewicz, sprightly columnist of the Columbia Spectator, describes the antics of th^ undergraduates when Penn beat Columbia, 27 to 0:
"The rather disgusted Columbia rooters gave vent to theix* feelings occasionally in expert usage of the well-known Columbia "Birdie” . . . . The Columbia “Birdie”, for ■ the unenlightened, is an expression of disgust. It is obtained by pursing the lips as though to whistle, placing the tongue between the lips, and exhaling suddenly. The masters of the art are permitted to circle their fingers around theii* mouths, giving a distinctive tone to the expression.”
---$---
Some students of McGill University, Montreal, evidently feeling very collegiate, painted the college colors on a number of Montreal street cars. Effective advertising, no doubt, but destined not to be repeated. Th? traction company threatens to sue the University for $1,000.
The new Auditorium of the University of Kansas is "to have a chandelier weighing 2,700 pounds, the largest in the state. The fixture contains a ladder inside for the use of workmen. The ladder of light, etc.
.	—*—
Ohio Wesleyan’s claim to fame:
“Let Ohio Wesleyan bear distinction among the universities of the nation, not because she has a new stadium, but because she has not got one.”
The Loyola, News of Chicago, commenting 011 Rockne’s policy of starting shock troops, says, very wisely: “Whatevex* his methods, Wgh, he gets results, and the type of team w ich comes from Notre Dame warrants no criticism.”
Mutilation of the English language in as reported by the Dalhousie Ga, of Dalhousie University, Halifax: that\WaS Dalhousie-Wanderers game
L first noticed the glaring error on
which I am about to comment. However, two games have since been played and still the horrible sound comes to my ears: ‘Vancouver or bust!’”	■
They take their music seriously at Illinois.’ I quote from the Wdlce. “Did you ever hear anything more wonderful than Tito Schipa singing ‘Hail to the Orange’ with loudspeakers carrying his marvelous voice to 67,000 people?”
---$---
Columbus, 0.—“They’re grand!” enthusiastically proclaimed Dr. Henry Crane of Boston in reference to Ohio State and the
spirit of the students here, when questioned after his lecture on “The Flame of Youth.”
This is a little late, but it’s interesting, nevertheless. Mr. William Foote, in his sport column in the Southern California Trojan, said, before the game: “Troy has nothing to expect now, except a bunch of fighting Irish who are smarting under the lash of criticism by football fans the country over, fans who have taken this opportunity to kick the fallen king. Southern California can only beat Notre Dame by playing the same brand of football that the Army used. Cockiness at-this stage of the entertainment will be not only foolish, but disastrous, for everyone should know by now what is likely to happen when the Irish get burned up.” Everyone does know by now.
----■
Coach Bill Roper of Princeton, in his AllAmerican selections in the Daily Princeton, gives Johnnie Smith and Poliskey guard and tackle positions, respectively, on the second team. Miles of Princeton is fullback on the first team, Joesting on the second. .
----<»-----
Juniors at the University of Washington have adopted i*ed vests as the class gaxb. I could qualify—-any time since we last had catsup.
THE GAME AND THE CRITICS, AGAIN Some days ago, The Scholastic received a letter from The Torch, a weekly paper of St. John’s College in Brooklyn, New York. In the letter, the editor of The Scholastic was condemned for having written in his editorial “The Game and the Critics” this sentence: “They (the football players) are interesting the public in a sport which develops men both physically and mentally.” It was the last word in the sentence that irked The Torch.
That publication then goes on to say that the misguided writer had been guilty of making ' “a marvelously gratuitous statement tvhich has no foundation in reality.” The italics belong to the Scholastic.
The Torch was quite right. That particular statement was gratuitous, perhaps “marvelously” so, as far as the editorial was concerned. It was not thought necessary to prove to the readers of this page that football develops a man mentally. As The Torch, however, challenges The Scholastic to defend its position, there are only two things to do: defend it, or admit defeat. Notre Dame rarely admits defeat before the battle.
Here is a statement not quite so gratuitous as the objectionable one mentioned above: Football practices a man in the valuable capability of thinking quickly and accurately under fire. There are three propositions; proof can be given for all three, and proof can be illustrated by citing the example of just one play in a football game.
Let us say that it is fourth down on the defensive team’s thirty yard line. The offensive backs are in punt-formation, but there is no certainty that they will punt because their fullback, who is an excellent plunger, may take the ball on a short pass and crack center for a first down. Or they may even attempt a forward pass. These three possibilities leave the defensive eleven in a precarious position. A mistake on the part of any one of the defenders may mean a score. The situation is critical, therefore
the men are thinking under fire; the play ; will be over in a few seconds at most, there-	;
fore they must think quickly; there must be ’ no error of judgment, therefore they must ; think accurately.	:
The counter-argument might arise that ’ this is reasoning from a single premise to a general conclusion. In reality, it is giving	3
a specific example of an infinite number of	■
premises. It would be impossible to cite the ‘ numberless plays taking place during a football season which require the immediate, accurate functioning of the players’ mental- ■ ities under great nervous tension. While it is true that, on many offensive plays, the , brains of the quarterback and of the coach are the most important, on defense every man must be wide-awake at all times, and must depend on his own individual judgment.
If constant practice in thinking quickly and correctly in successive crises will not develop the brain of any man than, in the opinion of The Scholastic, nothing will. It may not make of him a great poet, or a great philosopher, or a great essayist, but it will aid him in any of those professions or businesses which the less gifted of us are forced to follow.
THE OTHER ORGANIZATIONS
Other organizations are planning this year to carry into far territories the campaign to prove that Notre Dame has something more than a football team. The Glee Club will travel from coast to coast, the band may make a concert trip, the plays written and produced by Professors Phillips and Kelly’s classes will be printed and sold for amateur productions. Even the corpse of the Scribblers may yet arise and do something in national publications.
Because of their past accomplishments and future successes, The Scholastic is proud that these organizations have come out of Notre Dame. Their work does not receive the publicity it deserves, but should be none the less appreciated.	—J.AM.
.	PIQUE
Ah, sweet, I offered you my love, You turned and left it there;
■ I saw the sun's bright fingers	'
Caress your shining hair.
, sweet, you drank the wine of love In slow, consuming sips;
1 saw the moon touch tenderly The soft curve of your lips. Ah, love, 1 gave you all I had. Why did you turn away And smile as you lightly said "I may love you—some day I” Ah, sweet, why do you laugh at me And say "You're very good.’’ I know you do not love me, sweet, But then, you know, you should.
—THE LUCKLESS LAD.
HOW TO BECOME POPULAR: (Apologies to .	N. Loti.)
1.	Gaze at a picture of a bartender. Stagger down the street; or better, stand still and sway, muttering to yourself.
2.	Go to Chez Pierre. Be scratching your neck when the check comes.
3.	Go to a dance or any public gathering. When . you. see a friend, sneak up on him and slap him smartly on the back, saying, “What’s the dope?”
4.	Unscrew the lid of a salt shaker, and laugh when it comes off on someone’s plate.
5.	Tell everyone about the parties back home at Christmas. .
6.	Read aloud from your letters and explain what Aunt Martha meant when she said Uncle Ben and Cousin George were the life of the party.
7.	Tell about the meals you had at home.
,8. Borrow five dollars and pay it back twenty cents at a time.
9. Brag about your 90 average to the fellows who flunked three courses.
’ 10. Gripe about wearing derbies, and then wear one when you get away.	—jeff.
NO MORE GIN ^heres ito more gin in the coffee-pot; ‘ our flies stand pensively on its brim, our cheeks are as red as a Picardy rose; o-fooltsh, flies wre learning' to swim.
bounced your fist off her slim, white chin;
• tf Propped Ube a lantern over the chair. '^Oan you call a taxi cab
J^ou know dem well you can’t pay the fare? ■	—PRAGMATIST.
GIVE THE LITTLE GIRL A HAND I	■
My dear Allan-a-Dale: Cyrano printed a few of my verses last year, and I wondered if an Old Contrib would be welcomed back to HOBNAILS. I have found that Notre Dame men furnish inspiration aplenty for s. s. and g. convent girls, both before and after graduation from the cloistered walls. Please—■
(Editor’s Note: We’d give a pretty to know what she means by “s. s. and g.” Anyhow, here’s little Delilah’s lovely lyric—)
ROSES FOR HER TWENTIETH BIRTHDAY
I sang a little song of love In the way most singers do. High to the stars it soared, and fell, Crushed by the feet of you.
I dreamed a fragile .dream of love
In the way most dreamers do—
Joan of Arc with, a sheathed sword
That cut my heart in two.
And now I sing my songs and dream
And let the world go by,	-
“For all men kill the thing they love” And roses fade and die.
—VAMPIRE.
YEH, WE TRAIN ’EM YOUNG ’ Oh Al: One night last week the roommate and
I took our lives in our hands and hiked way out south-west to the Indiana theatre to see you and the rest of the merry gang in “Robin Hood.”
All the kids from the West End seemed to be there and-they sure had a high ole time. I imagine they’ll all be contributors to Hobnails when they grow up.	—the sentimental pup.
IS THAT FROM THE SHOW “GOOD BOOZE”?
Dear Al: Rumor has it that the favorite tune at the Southern Cal. dance in Chicago was “The Varsity Jag.”	—little John.
DANSEUSE
Silence! Night and a silhouette.
I sit in a mystic trance,
Watching! Charmed by a mute coquette,
A femme of the night, and her dance.
—JAMES J. HEANEY, JR.
Listen, laggards! Here’s a hint that’s as good as a Christmas savings account. You know how it tickles Mother and Dad to see their worthless offspring’s name in print, and you know how profitable it is to tickle them about this time of the year. Well, there’s only one more Scholastic before vacation.’ There! It’s for your own good, and the address is 428 Morrissey.	—allan-a-dale.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC^
370
LITERARY
In Which Love Does Not Laugh at Locksmiths
KURTH
BAYARD
JOHNNY McCLELLAN wanted to see “Hey Lady” again. He didn’t know why—certainly she had not been kind —it was just a blind, unreasoning impulse. There was to be a dance at the High School that night because that day the team
had won their biggest game of the season ; so Johnny changed his shirt, combed his hair, and went down.
A lot of the fellows wanted to go to that dance; they were all clustered around the entrance but there seemed to be some trouble. Even as Johnny approached he saw two of the boys turned away. He came closer, and, as he ascended the steps, heard the principal standing at the door say something about ‘High School students only.’
Well, thought Johnny, if that’s the racket I’ll have to find some other way in; so he went around to the back. Three sallies through open classroom windows were unsuccessful, the doors on the inside were locked. Then he came to the alley; at the far end of the building was an open window. Quietly he walked up to it, leaned inside and lit a match. By its feeble flare he was able to see a thin board running along the side of a large electric motor; below was darkness. He lit another match. At the end of the board was a ladder leading down. He slipped inside. In the thin splinter of dim light that came through the window he could see the floor twenty feet below; by the side-walls were large pipes, and he felt a cold draft at his feet. Evidently he had, come into the ventilating system. He reached the bottom and looked around. There was a concrete floor and
an iron door leading into a ventilating shaft. He counted the matches he had with him . . . twelve . . . thirteen . .. fourteen. Fourteen matches and a darkness ahead like thick velvet. He tried to get along without them, but turned his ankle
on a hole in the floor. From then on he was careful to see his way, holding the matches until they sometimes burned his fingers. He was far inside now with only three matches left and there seemed no way out of the labyrinthian shafts. He turned around and started back. Two matches left. He lit a cigarette and tried to guide himself by its companionable glow. For a moment he thought he was lost, then he turned his ankle on the hole in the floor again and knew that he was near the entrance. He used his last two matches coming up the ladder and clambered out the window with a sigh of relief.
Well, Johnny decided, he was through, —the dance could not be crashed. Having made this decision he came around to the front of the building and was starting out to school when he passed a couple of High School boys sitting in a Ford.
“Oh I could crash that dance easy enough if I wanted to!” He overheard one of them say. Johnny chuckled ironically, walked over to them and said:
“Just how would you do that?”
He had intended it merely as a gesture but it had struck something real. It seemed that the High School was putting on a stunt at the Rialto theatre afterwards. These fellows were on the inside and said that all that was necessary was to tell the

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
371
• cinal that Mr. Bennett, the manager P?the Rialto, had sent you over to see °, \ the music. If that was not enough, Se man to see about the music was Bill Ives. Johnny thanked the boys and went up the steps.
“Mr. Bennett at the Rialto sent me over to see about the music.” The fellows who were crowding the door made way for him and he found himself face to face with the High School.	.
"What was that, my boy?”
"Mr. Bennett at the Rialto sent me over to find out about the music.”
"Who was it you wanted to see ?”
"He said to see Bill Ives.”
Now the principal was rather a wise man and he had seen many fine attempts at gate crashing. Moreover he had never noticed Johnny around the Rialto, so he replied: ,
“All right, my boy, I’ll take you to him.” I	(
And he led Johnny down the hall by the arm. They passed the door of the gym. Inside Johnny could see the couples swaying ecstatically to the strains of the New St. Louis Blues. Somewhere in there was "Hey Lady.”
■ He was becoming a bit nervous now and noticing a suspicious look in the principal’s eyes, began to tell him that he was connected with the company that sold the Rialto their electric sign. He had just happened to be in town that evening and he had gone over to see if Mr. Bennett liked their sign. There had been no one else around and, as Mr. Bennett had wanted to find out about this, he had asked Johnny 0 come over. But the principal continued 0 *ead him by the arm.
They came to one of the classrooms, the nncipal continued to lead him by the arm.,
/ ■ '
Drin^ came to one of the classrooms, the tototi?^ opene^ the door and they went in WerTT’ number of High School boys th™, l ar°und in small groups as perfecting some plans.
Oh, Ives!” called the principal, “someone here to see you about the music.”
A tall fair-haired youth came over and began to talk to Johnny. At this moment, according to all Johnny’s calculations, the principal should have left them, but he did not.
“What was it about the music ?”
“Mr. Bennett wanted to know about the arrangement.”
Yes? What did he want to know about the arrangement?”
“He wanted to know the order the things were to be played in.”
Ives replied, “Just a minute,” and called to someone at the other side of the room.
“Hey Joe! What was the order of the . music? Mr. Bennett wants to know.”
Joe came over from the other side of the room and began to give Johnny messages for Mr. Bennett. The principal, at last satisfied, drifted over to another group of boys and started to talk with them. Presently Johnny looked around and saw that the principal had turned his back. In a low voice he then explained to Bill Ives and Joe, who were really pretty decent fellows, that h was trying to crash the dance. The principal however, noticing the sudden hush, turned and began to come towards him. Now if ever was the time to allay his suspicions, so Johnny approached him with a bold front.
“Is it all right if I go out the way I came in?”
It clicked; the principal’s suspicions were again quieted. “Surely,” he repiled, “just go right down the corridor.”
Johnny left the room and walked back to the entrance of the gym. The place was empty. Here and there on the floor were bits of dcorations that had been trampled underfoot. The chairs around the side were not in line, on some of them jay deserted programs. A lone stag was putting on his coat. Johnny went up to him.
“What happened to the dance ?”	■
“The dance? Why the dance is over;
everybody’s gone to the Rialto.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
372

The Girl-friend at the Football Game
Not All the Fouls Are on the Field.
JOSEPH
G. FRIEL
Ido not know why it is so, but some girls are just dumb when it comes to an appreciation of athletics. It is extremely difficult to discovei’ a reason for this weakness, and even if we were to put psycho-analysis on the trail, I do not believe they would accomplish anything in .the way of success.
For some indiscernible reason, it seems to be an inherent quality. Four out of five girls have it, and the fifth girl usually listens to the game on the radio. I had wondered why the girls played bridge, talked hats and clothers, and spent then* leisure moments watching the movies move and gedunking gedunk sundaes. Fortunately, I have discovered the reason: they know their bounds and refuse to overstep them. More power to them.
You realize that it moves the heart to sit in the stands among hundreds of leather-lunged vivacious students. Itjs exciting , to see the players reel off yard after yard on a mad dash down the field. It is even more intense to rise in spirit with your neighbor; to sing the praise of the athletes who battle with one another on the gridiron; and to march in triumph and exhuberation on the field after the battle is won,—but who the devil wants a jabbering Eve on his hands while all these happy moments are passing on. I said the girls are dumb in their appreciation of athletics. Here’s how.
Somehow, I dared to let the girl-friend accompany me to a football game. I know for a fact that girls attend these gridiron classics mainly to show off to the gaping multitudes their brand new mink or skunkhair pup-tents, or more likely to rid the stench of camphor ball from last year’s
relic just out of the codar-chest.
But as
I said, I was daring; besides I thought it would be a novel experience.
To say the least, it was disconcerting, if not novel. Boy! Oh, Boy! That girl never shut her mouth, after we had passed through the portals of that stupendous mass of timber, yclept Cartier Field. Talk ? Nothing like her! Dumb? Wow! I never heard so many fool questions before.
Here is how the unpleasant afternoon began. I, being a student, was fortunate enough to obtain seats on the ten-yard line. “How thrilling,” the girl-friend chirps, “we’re right near the goal line.”. I had been tipped off previously by a fellow prisoner that this female was dumped out of her baby carriage. Well, that little acrobatic act obviously had its effects.
As we took our seats, the girl-friend, betraying the histrionic strain which ran like a short-cirtcuited cable through her family system, proudly stood up in the aisle to adjust her costly acoustics. If we were at a theater, I would have thought she was playing to the gallery. But instead she was endeavoring to give the students a treat. However, some ungrateful wretch did not quite wish to be treated, for he vehemently bellowed “Down in front.” The “babe” did not like that at all, and made some movement with her lips, which was not at all in keeping with the 1927 method of snubbing one’s inferiors.
Finally, we were seated, and as I thought to myself, all set for a good footbell game. The players entered the field from one of the corner gates and as was customary> everyone stood up and cheered them on. Is this the seventh inning?" she inquired.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
373
That finished me. She may have been 0 until half past ten the previous night, attempting to analyze the chapter on the “Why’s and Wherefores of Double Chins,” and the strenuous exertion may have had

its effects. But that is no excuse. My only comment is to insist once more: I do not know why it is so, but some girls are just dumb when it comes to an appreciation of athletics—just dumb!
Blushing
An Essay on the Human Barometer
JOHN MOLTER, C. S. C.
ABLUSH is an indicator of the internal pressure per unit of self-consciousness. The blush registers three distinct emotions in man; man blushes because of his modesty, he blushes at shame, and he blushes in confusion. When a person is dominating the conversation by his wit, his face is like the indication of a high barometer. But let one of his mistakes or foibles be the object of ridicule, and at once there is a sudden drop in the barometer. How this complete change takes place, physiologists and psychologists differ in explaining. Let us add a third explanation and say that blushing is caused by the spleen, for this unfortunate organ has suffered so much calumny already that it won’t object to taking the blame for such a trifling matter as this.
Most men blush when they are thrown into a situation for which they are unprepared. Perhaps you know persons who are “actors,” they are single-tracked whether it be in a game, a conversation or at work. They are acting their part, and they do it well. But let anyone draw them away rom themselves or get into another line o thought, and at once they are lost. Men® confusion seizes them; their thought channels get clogged by lumps of selfconsciousness ; their aplomb deserts them;
^ tongues will not move since words are ® orthcoming. Such unhappy men lose thmrself-control and—blush.	■
baRhfSvn£ *S Very closely connected with the* U -SS an^ modesty. And regarding mucb16^118 these two words, there is • dls®rePancy. There are some who
think that bashfulness is a virtue; something, if not to be striven for, at least when pos- -sessed, to be held fast. These persons confuse bashfulness with modesty. How often have we heard conscientious parents, chiding their somewhat bold Willie, telling him that he should imitate Elmer Beck, who, Willie knows, is so bashful that he cries whenever anyone speaks to him. A bashful boy may be modest, but bashfulness is not synonymous with modesty.
Then again, there are mothers who think that their daghters are modest and reserved. In the eyes of doting mothers, this reserve is laudable; it is the thing desired in a young lady. But daughters now married tell us that there is a purpose, an almost diabolical design behind this false acting. This is not reserve; it is not even bashfulness. Its right name is coyness; and coyness is not on speaking terms with Christian modesty. But don’t ever tell a mother that.
Man blushes at his shame. And when he has not become too bold and shamefaced to blush when he is reproved, we can still hope for his reform. History furnishes us with many instances of men that went deep into sin and crimes, yet few are there in whom shame and regret for their deeds did not form a pai-t of their dying words. It is most interesting to observe that the • expression of guilt, howevei’ much a man by his harsh words and blustering manner may try to conceal his secret shame, is made known to all by the scarlet flush on the face. The infamous letter on the
374
THE NOTRE'DAME SCHOLASTIC
breast of Hester Prynn has been put on the cheek of every evil doer.
. Then there is the blush that is seen on the face of the modest man. Of the three kinds of blushes, this one only is praiseworthy. A blush of shame is horrifying; a blush of confusion may be either amusing or disgusting; but a blush of modesty is an indication of real merit. The modest man blushes when some of the deeds, which he hoped to keep secret become known and he is publicly praised for his virtue. This third kind of blush is a better recommendation to the face on which it is seen than a score of college degrees.
The psychological theory of blushing is generally accepted. The emotions must be the cause of blushing, for how other
wise could we explain a blush of shame and a blush of modesty suffusing the same cheek ? ? In fact, all three kinds of blushing can be seen on the face of the same person, not at the same time but only according to the particular emotion which happens to be in his mind. Thank heaven, we see few blushes of shame! And while we might see many blushes of modesty, if we only provoke our good companions by an enumeration of their fine qualities, we charitably refrain from causing them this embarrassment. The blush of confusion is deep down in self-consciousness. And since men are extremely sensitive about the esteem due them, they will always resent depreciation of their importance pr humor at their expense.
Remembrance
I have fled Paradise, and yet today, Under the lonely company of pines Far from their taller brothers, as I lay On the soft needles, while the broken lines Of clouds marched over old, blue camping grounds:
I dreamed I could be happy, but the wind— The rising and the falling in its sounds— Recalled the lost Hesy erides to my mind.
Wind, will you crush this happiness from me, As you stray lightly on from pine to pine, Making them vassals to your majesty, Wind, must you stab this fleeting joy of mine?
Must I remember, at your passing hand, The hoof-beats of the sea upon the sand?
—JASPER BRENT.
All-Interhall Team For 1927
' POSITION	1ST TEAM	2ND TEAM	3rd team
Left End......-..Solman (Day) Wilmot (Morr.) Crane (Howard)
, Left Tackle.....Walsh, (Soph)	Repetti (Fresh.)	Murphy (Badin)
.Left Guard......-Rasor, (Lyons)	Petrauskas (Fresh.)	O’Connor (Corby)
•	Center ;........Puckinger, (Day)	Dautremont (Walsh)	Chadwick (Carroll)
Right Guard......Fitzgerald (Soph)	Walsh (Morr.)	Longfield (Fresh.)
Right Tackle ....-Tompkins (Coiby)	Polley (Badin)	Rigney (Morr.)
Right End........Kosky (Fresh.)	Curry (Badin)	Rouche (Lyons)
Quarter Back......Thompson (Morr.)	Ditchfield (Carr.)	Carey (Walsh)
Left Half Back...Gavin (Fresh.)	Brautigan (Lyors)	McDougall (Badin)
Right Half Back..Byrne (Corby)	Sylvester (Morr.)	'	Fortier (Day)
Full Back........Walker (Lyons)	Hugger (Fresh.)	O’Connell (Howard)
1	HONORABLE MENTION

Ends-. — Connay, (Soph) ; McDonald, (Brownson); Holland, (Carroll) ; Moore, (Badin),
Tackles: — Renner, (Day) ; Kelley, (Walsh); Mulflur, (Brownson) ; Peterlee, (Carroll).
Guards: — Clarke, (Corby) ; Heuer, (Badin).
The Scholastic, with the advice, consultation, and aid of the Director, officials, and coaches of the 1927 Notre Dame Interhall ootball League, and after a careful study o the men involved, offers the above selections, for the official 1927 Interhall football * /i?11* ®ach man so honored has been care-■ u / weighed in the balance in the requisites y 1Ca The Scholastic believes necessary wr a team of this type, and in the Scholas-8 opinion is fully deserving of the recog-"■tion he has achieved.
was n°t the only require-ity Jnyolyed *n the selection. Natural abil-.. . > paying the game, plus attendance at
Centers:—Blake, (Badin) ; Kane,(Morr) ; Shafer, (Lyons) ; Crowley, (Howard); Tap-kivis, (Brownson).	.
Halfbacks:—Kozac, (Sophomore); Comerford, (Fresh); Carrigan, (Howard); Bar- ■ low, (Walsh) ; Fisher, (Brownson; O’Brien, (Carroll) ; Crimmons, (Brownson).
Fullbacks:—Mahoney, (Day); Roche, (Walsh) ; Atchison, (Badin).	.
practice; interest displayed; value to team; sportsmanship; conduct on field and at practice; and number of games participated in, were the main requisites involved in the selection of these men. Each Interhall coach was asked to submit the names of five players on his Hall eleven who, in his opinion were deserving of All-Interhall consideration. Then followed a careful, minute, series of eliminations by the Director, officials, united coaches, and the Scholastic, until the first three teams were gradually formed. No effort was spared in compiling this list of players, and each man was given absolutely the fairest deal’ possible.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
376
ALL-POSITION TEAM FOR 1927
Selecting an All-Opposition team for 1927 is practically the same as selecting an AllAmerican. Every man on both elevens selected by the Scholastic as the cream of the players who have performed against Notre Dame this year has been singled out by competent sporting critics for All-American or All-Sectional honors or consideration.
Crowley of Georgia Tech, and Born of the Army, are wingmen who are perhaps without -peer in the country. Sloan of the Navy, a 1925 All-American end at Drake, and Haycraft of Minnesota are the closest competitors of this first string pair.
Merely to mention the names, Sprague of West Point, and Hibbs of Southern California, is to visualize at the same instant almost unanimous choices for All-American tackles. Ryan of Detroit, and Dewitt of Coe, are also worthy to be placed on any man’s team.
Hanson of Minnesota and Eddy of the Navy, are two guards who would hold their own any place, slightly shading Heiser of Southern California and Ringwait of Indiana their closest rivals.
Randolph of Indiana and Lardner of Detroit are centers who rendered invaluable aid to their respective combinations throughout the season too.
There is no need to elaborate to any extent on the performances and capabilities of Drury, of Southern California, quarterback; Cagle of the Army, left halfback; Almquist of Minnesota, right halfback; and Joesting of Minnesota, fullback. Their performances during the past season speak for themselves. The same might also be said for Thomasson Georgia Tech; Lloyd, Navy; Cockayne, of Drake; and Murrell, of the Army; who are placed on the second team.
1927 ALL-OPPOSITION TEAM
Crowley (Ga. Tech.)—L.E_____ Sloan (Navy Sprague (Army)______________L.T___________Ryan (Detroit) Hanson (Minnesota) —L.G_____Heiser (So. Cal.) Randolph (Indiana) —C. Lardner (Detroit) Eddy (Navy)-----------------R.G— Ringwait (Indiana)
Hibbs (So. Cal) --------------R.T-Dewitt (Coe) Born (Army)-------------R.E---Haycraft (Minn.)
(C.) Drury (So. Cal) _Q.B._Thomasson (Ga.Tech) Cagle (Army) -----L.H.B--Lloyd (Navy)(C.)
Almquist (Minn.)	—R.H.G._Cockayne (Drake)
Joesting (Minnesota)	__F.B_Murrell (Army)
CAGE CREW WIN OPENER; BEAT ARMOUR TECH 37-12
Messeurs Newbold, Crowe, Colerick, Vo-gelwede, Bray, Moynihan and the others who will attempt to carry the Blue and Bold to its third consecutive Mid Western Basketball championship again this year, launched their efforts in an auspicuous manner last Monday night in their own gymnasium by chalking up victim Number One in the shape of the Armour Tech quint from Chicago. The score was 37-12.
In spite of the fact that players on both fives performed rather raggedly at times, as to be expected in an opening battle of this type, the play throughout the entire game on the whole, was exceptionally fast and interesting to the several thousand spectators present. Coach Keogan started a combination of Crowe and Newbold, forwards, Vogel-wede, center, and Smith and Donovan, guards. Before the battle had terminated McCarthy, Victoryn, Hamilton, Forsee, Colerick, Moynihan, Kizer, and Brady had also see naction at one time or other during the conflict.
The Irish jumped into a 11-2 lead during the first quarter, led at the half by a comfortable margin, and were never really threatened at any time or other during the entire sixty minutes of play. Crowe, Colerick and Newbold led the Celtic attack on the alien iron-hoops, assisted materially by their mates.
Offensively and defensively the Keogan-ites, while far from the finished form that only a few games can give them, gave ample evidence of potential power when the hardest part of their exceedingly stiff schedule is reached. The Irish defense was especially good, the Celts holding their visitors to a lone field goal in each half.
The Windy City aggregation put up a ( game but losing fight against a quint which has the makings of the caliber of the teams developed at Notre Dame during .the past several years.	■
■	❖----------
Better learn to play handball soon. Rs popular nowadays at Notre Dame. No! Say, try and get a court.	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
377
CAPTAIN SMITH HONORED
Honoring “Johnny” Smith, all-American uard Notre Dame songs were a feature of the General Motors radio hour Monday night, December 5. A telegram sent by General Motors to the editor of The Scholastic, in-vitdd Notre Dame students to “listen in” on the program. 
'NEW INTERHALL BASKETBALL LEAGUE ORGANIZED
The new Lightweight Basket ball League, organized this year for the benefit of those weighing 145 pounds or under who are too light for the other teams, will make its first bow on the harwood Sunday and will continue until after Christmas vacation. In order to facilitate matters the teams will be divided into two sections, one playing at 10 A. M. and the other at 2 P. M.
The teams will be coached by men from the Physical Education and the Boy Guidance departments. These mentors were in charge of interhall football and judging from the results achieved there, it is reasonable to predict basket ball aggregations which will give anybody’s team a run for its money.
The officials will be recruited from the ranks of the Varsity reserves. This insures a clean, fast game both to the eagers and to the railbirds.
The cage menu for Sunday: Carroll vs. Brownson . Sophomore vs. Freshman Lyons vs. Off-Campus
Morrissey vs. Howard. D.w.s. —----------$--------
BROWNSON AND TRI-STATE CHAMPS IN 0-0 DEADLOCK
(Editor’s Note—The following article was writ-en and handed in too late for publication in last week’s issue.)
The Congerville Flyers, champions of the n-state League, played a scoreless tie with ^11 Thanksgiving Day at Muncie, •	, ana. A record crowd of 5,000 people
attendance. The game which was thr ’ a Sea mud was fiercely contested duri'’ 'w.U^ • Each team threatened to score ■ s*xty minutes of play, but on each
occasion these potential scoring threats were halted by the determined defense of the eleven in danger. Fields, star Hoosier halfback featured the contest with a beautiful fifty yard run through the whole Brownson team early in the second quarter only to be pulled down on the visitors’ eighteen yard line by Callaghan. The scoring threat died as suddenly as it had begun when Joe Abbott’s proteges held and took the ball on downs.
The Brownsonites broke up the vaunted aerial attack of rheir hosts with comparative ease. Laux, Brownson’s fullback, carried off the honors as individual star of the game, his line smashing being especially noteworthy. After the battle the Flyerk proved that they were mighty fine hosts as well as football players, extending many favors which were greatly appreciated by their visitors from Notre Dame.—J.H.z.
FORMIDABLE SCHEDULE CONFRONTS CELTIC TRACKMEN AS TRAINING
SEASON OPENS
With another page added to the annals of football history and with basketball practice well under way, the Notre Dame harriers will venture forth in their initial indoor conditioning in the gymnasium beginning this week. Coach Nicholson, Irish track mentor who made a reputable showing for himself in the cross country team’s endeavors, has a difficult job on his hands this year. With but the remnants of last year’s record setting squad and a heavy program of meets set for the oncoming season he has still an optomistic attitude and an earnest determination to gain at last a mark of recognition with his present material.
The loss of Young, Masterson, Judge, Nul-ty, Baron, Della Maria and others through graduation has seriously depleted the line-up and deprived Notre Dame of a few of her outstanding stars. The men who still remain and who will serve as the nucleus for the 1927-28 team are: Elder in the sprints, and Quigley, McKinny, Abbott and Kelly in the mile relay. Besides a wealth of new material out for positions, there is Phelan who helped add recognition to the efforts of the
111^4
378
T j{ E NOTRE DAM E' SCHOLAST I C
For Your Christmas
Yesterday—the college student ' who was far away from home spent a lonely Christmas in his room.
But today—through the Long Distance Telephone, he can revive the Yuletide spirit with a cheery ‘Merry Christmas” to the folks back home. .
Let this great public convenience serve you. The charges can be reversed.
Indiana Bell Telephone Co.
Two Good Places to Eat— at Home and at
Smith’s Cafeteria
11 1 East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
We Do Our Own Baking
•___________________
cross country aggregation, Doan, Schlickert and the Brown brothers.	’	•
The opponents listed for this year’s engagements are probably some of the most difficult ever to be met by a Blue and Gold squad. The opening meet is to be staged here against Northwestern on January 21 and as the “Wildcats” have always managed to provide the Irish with strong opposition, this ought to be a stiff opener. The next contest against Marquette and their phenomenal Schimek on February 11 is also to be held on our oval. February 18, the Irish cinder artists ■ travel to Champaigne and meet Illinois.
Reurning, they have a match with Wisconsin on their home grounds on February 25.
The track team’s entrance into the Central Collegiate meet on March 10 is still uncertain, and will not be set definitely until a later date. They are booked ofr the Illinois Relays for the 17th of March, the Southern Relays for April 7th, the Kansas Relays for April 21, and several other meets, including an outdoor festival on Cartier field against Illinois on May 5 and one at Michigan state on May 12. This list is not complete as yet and there may be a few events added or changed as the season grows older.
Football and cross country men are not required to report for practice until after the Christmas holidays. All other candidates are required to come out before the Christmas holidays, as coach Nicholson has ordered no suit§ to be issued after that date. The Notre Dame mentor is determined to place his proteges among the leading performers of the country, and wishes to get as early a
start as possible.	—R.p-D.
• TRACK SCHEDULE
Jan. 21......Northwestern at Notre Dame Feb. 11......Marquette	at Notre Dame
Feb. 18.............Illinois	at Champagne
Feb. 25..........Wisconsin at Notre Dame
Mar. 10......Central I. C. Meet (Tentative) Mar. 17......Illinois Relays at Champagne April 7......Southern Relays
April 21.....................Kansas	Relays
May 5...............Illinois	at Notre Dame
May 12............Michigan	State at Lansing