Dot re Dame Scholastic
• DISCE• QUA5I • SEMPER-VICTURVS- -VIVE- QUASI • CRAS • MORITVRVS •
■F-X-A-
Vol. XML
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, October 10, 1908.
No. 4.
To Archbishop Riordan.
Thomas A. Lahey, ’ll.
(On bis 25th Anniversary as Archbishop of San Francisco.) gOTH prince and shepherd thou; thy flock His sheep, Thy subjects His elect. Divinely fair
The toilsome gleanings of those harvests rare, Which nigh three decades thou didst daily heap And store above, yet, though the years still creep
In silence towards life’s borderland, they bear
The daily burden of the priest, who e’er
Hast sown for Christ that Christ alone might reap.
Thy Alma Mater greets thee, noble son,
Whose lifelong labor and whose steadfast aim, Have found a boon beyond mere worldly fame. She greets thee, knowing when the race is run,
The last grim struggle o’er, thy eager soul Will find, not here, but high above its goal.
Kathleen ni Houlihan.
Paul R. Martin, ’10.
MO beggar thou, although thy garb is worn
And sadness leaves its impress' on thy face That once was radiant and did fitly grace The halls of kings, thy sons, in triumph borne. That day is past; and thou art left to mourn Its passing; while grim time does trace The history of thy brave and valiant race That from thy bosom ruthlessly was torn.
Within thy heart a mother’s love does burn For those who sallied forth thy foes to meet, And by unswerving faithfulness did earn
A brilliant triumph, midst a sad defeat. Kathleen, thy garb is worn, but on thy breast Shall ever gleam fair Erin’s shining crest.
A Comparative Treatment of the Hades of Homer and the Hades of Virgil.*
Francis Derrick, ’OS.
HERE is nothing new under the sun” is a very old proverb. It was just as true in Homer’s time as it is to-day. When we read the Iliad and the Odyssey we are tempted to ask whether
Homer did not, after all, have some epic model when he constructed his wonderful lays. And when we read the AEneid, that sublime piece of poetic imagery and song, we consider too much the myths which the poet treats, and too little the loftiness of poetic expression which transfigures those myths, rejuvenates them, and ranks Virgil among the master poets. You pick out a passage which has to do, say, with ^Eneas’ descent into Hades, and you say at once:
“Why, Homer has the same incident. Why could not. JEneas have done something different? Really, he seems, during the whole poem, to be doing nothing but wandering aimlessly about the world, aping Odysseus.”
It is true that /Eneas does ape Odysseus in the similarity of adventure; . that he descends into the lower world because Odysseus does; but observe how differently he does it. It is here that the poet of the “artificial epic” shows his skill.
The first and most essential difference between the two descriptions is that Odysseus apparently does not enter Hades at all, while /Eneas advances through the successive “circles,” as Dante calls them, and
* Thesis submitted for the degree of Bachelor of Arts;
66
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
imsbbismbss
views the surroundings, as well as the ghosts themselves, at close range. Odysseus says: “There came we, and ran our ship ashore, and took out the sheep; but we ourselves hied us along the stream of ocean till we came to the spot which Circe had pointed out to us.” At this spot the sacrifice is made, and not one inch farther does the hero stir.
Some critics, indeed, have raised difficulties against the plausibility of the tale on this account. For instance, it is said that Odysseus sees Sisyphus rolling his stone up hill, Tantalus standing in a pool of water, Minos wielding his sceptre, Proserpine ruling over the shades. “How could this be,” asks Steinmetz, “if Odysseus did not descend into Hades, but only part of the ghosts came from thence up to him? How could Sisyphus with his rock, or Tantalus immersed in water get out? Impossible! We must, therefore, understand that Odysseus beheld all from a distance, perhaps through the gates of the netherworld,” though, for that matter, Homer mentions no gates, and the extreme darkness which he describes precludes the possibility of seeing much at a distance.
Homer, finally, is not extremely logical. We are thrown at once in medias res. Odysseus, sent by Circe, comes alone, with no obstacles, even to a place so difficult of access as Hades, “to the spot which Circe had pointed out,” with the sole purpose of consulting Teiresias, the seer, concerning his return to Ithaca.
Virgil, on the contrary, introduces many powerful descriptive passages, which prepare the mind of the reader for the descent. JEneas must first go to the Cumman Sibyl, the priestess of Apollo, to win her 'favor, mentally invoking the heroes who had preceded him in his undertaking. She is at first unwilling—“Non hoc ista sibi tempus spectacula poscit”—but overcome by the power of the god, she speaks. Then she recites to JEneas all the necessary ceremonies to be performed before he may enter the portals of Orcus. Homer’s description, it will be seen, is much simpler, yet beset with difficulties which are absent from Virgil. In the JEneid a fixed and definite place is named, connected with the upper world— the dark And forbidding Ayernus. The scene
is one familiar to the poet and the reader alike, and no detail is omitted which might possibly have connection with the lower world. The temple of Apollo is described, and mention is made of its unlucky builder, Dmdalus. Chill fear overspreads the bodies of the Trojans as they view the hundredgated cave of the Sibyl;
When the descent to the lowrer world has been made w*e again notice the result of Virgil’s richer fancy. While Homer confines himself to a mere mention of the infernal river, Virgil describes vividly Pyriphlegethon and the Styx. The Homeric version also entirely ignores Charon, the old boatman, although, as it w’ould seem, he is a most important personage.
In the “vestibule” of Hades JEneas meets various monsters which cause death or crimes to be expiated. Cares, Sorrows, Sickness, Old Age, Fear, Hunger, Want, Labor and Death prepare the way for the more terrible Furies, Scylla, Gorgons and Harpies. Next follows Virgil’s magnificent portrayal of Cerberus, the watchful guardian of the dead, and the story of the calming of his fury. In the' Odyssey only a slight mention of Cerberus is made by Hercules in his story. Regarding Odysseus’ safe passage w^e are left in doubt.
Virgil made the first step tpwmrd that definiteness which Dante later achieved in his treatment of the same subject by dividing Hades into different circles or parts wffierein souls wrere grouped. He gives us first, the abode of infants, then of suicides, next of victims of unrequited love, and lastly of famous warriors. After these come Tartarus and Elysium. In the Odyssey we find no such divisions, except the mention of Erebus, which has no specific limits. Even its darkness is not emphasized so strikingly as the darkness of Hades by Virgil, when he says:
Quale per incertani lunam sub luce maligna est iter in silvis, ubi caelum condidit umbra Juppiter, et rebus nox abstulit atra colorem.
And again,
Per umbram obscuram, qualem primo qui surgere mense aut- videt aut vidisse putat per nubila lunam.
As to Tartarus, and Elysium, Homer does not mention them at all in his narration. “In which,” says Karl. Steinmetz, “I think each poet has done just what was most suited to his own, scheme.” For, if Odysseus
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
only beheld the shades from a distance, what could he know of the interior of Hades and of its different parts? Besides, it was not Homer’s purpose to try the courage of his hero by the terrors of the lower world, but merely to accomplish the promise of Circe: that Odysseus should learn from the seer, Teiresias, the length of his future voyages	xetevSov). Apart
from this desire of learning his future, it was natural that Odysseus should meet and speak at length with several other shades of the lower world. Therefore, the Odyssey deals less with terror than with the nature and condition, flimsy and intangible though it is, of the inhabitants of the “house of Hades.” Virgil’s idea, however, was to make AEneas stand out more brilliantly as an ideal hero by subjecting him to fears and dangers. Filial piety alone induced him to undertake the great task; and Virgil never tires of calling his hero “Pius AEneas.” The command of his father, given in a dream, was sufficient to make him brave all perils. Nor was his reverence toward the gods less; wherefore, he omits none of the sacrifices and propitiations which could possibly be thought of.
To the Greeks, who considered that all happiness in existence consisted in action and enjoyment, Hades was the gloomiest and dreariest place that could be imagined. Odysseus pities the miserable condition of the shades more than their actual sufferings. The Roman idea was different. There is a chance for permanent reward in Elysium for the virtuous; so AEneas is not altogether busied in compassionating the departed and listening to their complaints. Virgil escapes the celebrated censure of Plato, who wished poets to be banished from the state because they weakened men’s virtue by the thought of the insufficiency of their reward. If this be a just accusation, surely Homer is a great offender.
AEneas, in his progress, speaks with the shades, but does not delay as long as Odysseus to hear their stories. In Homer’s Hades the departed souls are excessively voluble, as compared to Virgil’s. They tell not only how they came thither, but the whole history of their lives and fates.
The superiority of Virgil over Homer in descriptive art is apparent upon com
67
parison of different scenes and happenings which are parallel in the two authors. For instance, Odysseus’ meeting with Ajax is the original of AEneas’ interview with Dido. But while Homer supplies only a background of gloom, Virgil has a fine passage describing an immense forest with dark recesses overgrown with myrtle in which the victims of love flit about:	•
Hie, quos durus amor crudeli tabe peredit, secret! celant calles, et myrtea circum silva tegit: curae non ipsa in morte relinquunt.
After this incident the hero proceeds to those fields which are inhabited by famous warriors..
lamque arva tenebant ultima, quae bello clari secreta frequentant.
This definiteness distinguishes the meeting of ^®neas and Deiphobus, which is parallel with Odysseus’ meeting with Agamemnon. Here a trifling incident allows Virgil once more to praise the fidelity of AEneas to his comrade. Homer misses this touch of character-drawing.
A famous and beautiful passage in the ^Fneid is the prediction of Anchises to ^Fneas about the future of his r’ace, adding that it will spring from Elysium. In this Virgil adopts the idea of the transmigration of souls, held by some philosophers in his day, who taught that souls after drinking of the River Lethe forgot their former state and returned to live again upon earth. Thus the poet weaves a very pretty fancy about a thought which Homer uses in the prediction of Teiresias; but only to the extent of foretelling the events of Odysseus’ life. The story of how Virgil was rewarded for those lines relating to the dead Marcellus, is well known. His recital of the future deeds of the progeny of AEneas is strong and spirit stirring, whereas Teiresias gives Odysseus merely a set of directions to follow, neglect of which will mean a renewal of his wanderings.
Indeed, elaborate ceremonial plays a prominent part in the descriptions of both authors, and for this reason some critics, notably Warburton, have considered the whole sixth book of the AEneid to be nothing more or less than a treatise on the initiatory rites of the Eleusinian mysteries; and certainly a religious idea pervades it. For instance, the secrecy of the mysteries is
68
&OTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
suggested at the approach of Hecate. The earth groans, the mountains are moved, while the sib}d cries out: “Procul, procul este profani!”
There is some difference between Virgil's and Homer’s idea of the shades. Both exhibit a certain inconsistency, inasmuch as they demand qualities of these appearances which they, as. shades, can not possess. The shades of Hades can not be considered as mere metaphysical spiritual substances. As such, they could not be seen by mortal eyes. Still, they need more than a mere semblance of form to perform such labors as Tityus and Sisyphus do. Besides, they have voices which are audible to both ^Eneas and Odysseus. The fleeing Danaans raise their weak voices (vocem exiguam) and the cry of the ghosts, terrified at Odysseus,. is described as S&jTtKHT]
In a few things, however, Virgil avoids incongruities which Homer admits. In the JEneid the shades do not, as in the Odyssey, drink the blood of the sacrificed ram. But in the age of fable in which Homer lived, we pardon much that would be out of place in the graver and more thoughtful times of Virgil. Besides, the drinking of the blood expresses more vividly than any tale how eager the departed are to return to their former life. This, as has been noticed before, is peculiar to Homer’s idea of the life hereafter.
Deiphobus, in Virgil, appears with torn and bleeding body. This is not inconsistent with the immateriality of his body. In both Homer and Virgil the soul retains the customs and habits of its former life. Odysseus, with drawn sword keeps away shades, who, though bloodless, yet dread a wound; JEneas does the same. The only difference is that Homer seems to be deceived as much as his hero, which well illustrates the poet’s naivete and simplicity, while in Virgil the mistake is attributed to HEneas’ not thinking that the appearances of bodies could not be injured. Similarly, Odysseus innocently tells what he has’ seen in Hades, never fearing, apparently, lest he speak things which should not be mentioned	).
Virgil, while himself narrating the same matters, begs pardon of the infernal gods for relating matters “alta terra et caligine mersas.” Palinurus asks burial from AEneas, _
in imitation of Elpenor’s corresponding request. Virgil has introduced this incident, says Steinmetz, for three reasons: First, to copy Homer; second, to show ^Eneas’ devotion to duty; third, to introduce into our notice the promontory which was named after Palinurus. This is a peculiarity of Virgil, that he brings into his poem and even into Hades all the native traditions and descriptions of Italy: “Virgile a soin de rassembler toutes les traditions nationales; il n’omet rien ce qui peut illustrer les fleuves, les villes, les ports, et tous les lieux de I’ltalie.” (J. Delille.)
A little of the outside world also appears in Hades when the flight of the Greeks is employed to demonstrate the bravery of HEneas. This is of course a personality, as it were, contrasting the Greeks unfavorably with the Romans.
Odysseus seems to have no trouble either in his approach or his departure. But the Sibyl warns AEneas, that, while the approach is easy,—“facilis est descensus Avemi”—the departure is difficult. The reason is given in the line:
“ Tenent media omnia silvae, Cocytusque sinu labens circumvenit atro.”
If the return is possible the same way as the advance, why the difficulty? Without arguing on this possibility it is enough to say that HEneas does not return as he comes. He goes through the ivory gate of sleep, through which “false dreams” emerge. If this saying were merely symbolic, as the gate of dreams seems to imply, what need is there for the poet. to make a special invocation to the gods of the lower world ?
’ “Di, quibus imperium est animarum, umbraeque silentes.”
Furthermore, what need would there be of the golden bough as a passport, if the descent were easy ? In spite of these difficulties it is evident that the poet-does not wish his description to be a mere “empty dream,” such as the exit from the ivory gate would signify.	.
As we have seen in Homer the shades are not separated at all, but mingle freely with each other. Virgil separates those who are yet unburied, as well as another class, whose signification is doubtful. When AEneas inquires of the Sibyl why Charon does not carry over .all the departed, she responds:
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“Haec omnis quam cerais, inops inhumataque turba.” Homer indeed says that the unburied are not received into Hades, but no mention of it is found in the eleventh book of the Odyssey. As for Virgil’s “inopes,” Wolf thinks they are those that lack sufficient money for burial or for paying their passage. Here also Virgil commits a slight inconsistency, as Heyne remarks. In verse 302 Charon propels the boat himself. In verse 320 VEneas asks the Sibyl why the shades traverse the livid .waters with oars. And in verse 411 the shades sit on benches in rows like passengers.
Virgil’s imitation of Homer once in a while leads him astray. When the Sibyl interrupts zEneas and Deiphobus the latter implores the priestess not to be angry, that he will return to the darkness:
“Ne saevi, magna sacerdos: discedam, explebo numerum, reddafque tenebris.”
Here the expression “reddar tenebris” leaves out of consideration the fact that Deiphobus is dwelling in the “fields of heroes.” The idea was doubtless borrowed from the Greek, which is well expressed by Aristophanes as “darkness and mud.”
Virgil has quite a well-developed moral system in his Hades, in so far as he has different places and punishments for different kinds of crimes, as well as rewards for the virtuous. At the threshold we hear the wailing of infants. Delille hereupon observes that children, though innocent, do not enjoy a happier lot than older criminals. But perhaps, as Steinmetz opposes, this wailing is merely a poetic touch in description of the infants, who are suffering no pain. And so Virgil stumbles upon the modern difficulty of what becomes of the souls of unbaptized children who have not sinned. Again, with the appearance of Minos, we see those who, though innocent, have been condemned to death. These, according to Virgil, have a different and better abode than the criminals, who go to Tartarus to be judged by Rhadamanthus. Minos hears the cases; Rhadamanthus punishes. Here again is an almost Christian idea. The souls who have been unjustly put to death may not enter Elysium— “Nothing defiled can enter Heaven.” These souls, then, seem to be awaiting trial and forgiveness rather than punishment. Is not
69
this closely allied to the notion of purgatory?
Rhadamanthus, besides fixing a penalty, urges departed souls to confess:
“Quae quis apud superos facto laetatus inani, dis-tulit in serum commissa piacula mortem.” These are their respective duties. .
In Homer it is Minos who metes out justice to the departed, but he demands no confession of past offences. Besides, in the Odyssey only those crimes are considered which are committed against the gods— pride and blasphemy. Virgil takes a wider and more moral view—he names many crimes and exhorts men to avoid all guilt in these words of Phlegyas:
“Discite iustitiam moniti et non temere vivos.”
The Abbe Scarron showed the weakness of this warning in his epigram:
“Cette sentence est bonne et belle;	-
Mais en Enfer du quoi sert elle?”
But even if we, following some critics, take the warning of Phlegyas as a covert allusion to the spectators of the Eleusinian mysteries, it can, on its face, bear no other interpretation than an admonition- to the damned in Tartarus. Whether some of. the lesser offenders remained only for a time.in Tartarus, and then, after purgation from their sins, were received into Elysium, is only a speculation on the idea that the Romans had, but in view of the warning ' of Phlegyas, a plausible one.
Thus did Virgil elaborate and polish nearly every incident furnished by Homer and the Greeks, until he produced the wonderful sixth book of the /Eneid, the grandest and most beautiful of all epic songs.
“The pre-eminence in invention,” says Dr. Blair, “must, beyond doubt, be ascribed to Homer. As to the pre-eminenceHn jiidg-ment, though many critics are disposed to give it to Virgil, yet, in my opinion, it hangs doubtful.” If we understand the term “pre-eminence in judgment” aright, it is strange to see how one could hesitate over. Virgil’s manifest superiority, at least in the sixth book. In fitness, order and arrange-, ment of sublime thoughts and images it can . compare with nothing but Dante’s Inferno.
“Thus from the different plan of each poet emanates a different mode of invention and treatment,. pleasing in different ways, vet filling the reader with the highest admiration for both.”
7°
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Varsity Verse.
DEMOCRATS VERSUS REPUBLICANS.
AH, the G. 0. P’s bald eagle, after four long years of rest,
Has descended from the White House from its downy feathered nest,
For the master’s voice has named Bill Taft the present nominee,
And what Teddy says, why—well, it’s surely got to be.
Now Republicans say Billy T. will get it sure, by check,
And that Billy B. will get it too, but get it in the neck.
Oh, the Democratic rooster is a-crowing night and day	.
And the donkey’s got a patent on a new election bray,
For the same old leader’s with them, and their right at home again:
All the boys know Billy Bryan, and, you bet, old Bill knows them.
Now they all say Will T’s friends are shooting medicated air;	.
When the White House starts in business, Will B. will be in the chair.	'
T. A. L.
TRIED AND FOUND WANTING.
Each patent cure that e’er was put on sale Was guaranteed the best, was never known to fail. The ads. all said ’twas worth its weight in gold, And cured all ills in both the young and old, ■ From gout and dropsy to a wheezing cold.
But—well, it didn’t.
Each new invention patented by man
Was built upon a perfect working plan;
Its moneyed value was to be immense,
With dirt-and oil and work it should dispense, And, all in all, ’twould save untold expense.
But—well, it didn’t.
Each helpless babe that e’er was given birth Outclassed all other children born upon the earth. Its mother read the genius in its eyes, .
Relations found sweet music in its cries;
They said its fame would pierce the very skies.
But—well, it didn’t.
T. A. L.
ENGLISH A.
The river ever on does flow	.
In its quiet and peaceful way, , Sometimes fast and often slow, But from its course does never sway. .
W. J. P.
•	,	, SISTERS.
From the German of Lochemes.
Two roses on a single stem	...
’ So loyal, true, in rain and shine;
Two lovely loving sisters they, * What else on earth could be, so fine?
0. A. S.
An Experience.
Richard J. CollenTine, ’09.
“Hear about the haul the pickpockets made yesterday evening?” queried some one at my elbow. I was one of a party of excursionists who leaned on the railing of a clumsy, albeit capacious craft for the bay.
I nodded, sizing up my man meanwhile, for I was one of the victims of the occasion to which he referred. He did not look dangerous in his plain black trousers and frock coat. His sparkling blue eyes carried with them assurance that the man was quite harmless. I settled back into my former self, after the passing wave of anxiety, which, to suit my humor, was something of the touch-me-if-you-dare variety. I was sore at the loss of a splendid gold watch—an heirloom—and my chagrin was intensified every time I consulted my substitute chronometer which was of the “turnip” class—an Ingersoll.
“Rather a clever piece of work, wasn’t it ? ” Again I nodded grudgingly. As a matter of fact, I thought it was devilishly clever when I discovered my loss. I felt by no means grateful to my new companion for taking the pains to remind me of it. He appeared to be of genuine good nature, however, and, went on with volubility:
“It’s a shame that honest American citizens get no better protection. What, are we coming to ? Don’t we elect men to see to it that our property is protected? Besides, are we not obliged to pay them after electing them?”
Not even this outburst could raise any enthusiasm in me. He was still undaunted, nevertheless,^and bent on restoring me to good spirits. With the best of intentions, it appeared, he did the worst thing possible: asked me what time it was.
“I don’t carry a watch,” I returned coolly, upon a very weak reservation.
Silence followed, and we both fell to watching the waves as they rolled out from the prow and disappeared in the rank luxuriance of the shore, sometimes rocking a. launch that came within reach. .
Behind us was the usual jollification of an excursion party. Overhead a band rasped
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	71
off an endless program of popular airs. Far off at the end of the ship sat the pilot in his glass house. New sights loomed up ahead, for we were rapidly nearing our des-
. tination. Presently my companion thought to try my humor again.
“Were your pockets ever picked?” he inquired, innocently.
That was the limit. I looked indignantly at him, then turned and moved away, leaving him, as I thought, crestfallen and condignly punished.
The afternoon wore on—I say wore on, for what others were enjoying to the utmost proved intolerably irksome to me. I was about to reach for my timepiece, but the -unpleasant recollection of my loss caused me to desist. Acquaintances greeted me, but through the remainder of the day I was a confirmed misanthrope. Whoever sought my companionship was soon glad to be rid of it. ‘
Evening found me standing on the pier contemplating a coal barge that tugged at its moorings and rocked awkwardly on every billow that rolled in. Presently the excursion boat rounded a wooded promontory and was soon churning up the water in the bay. To make itself more disagreeable it whistled in token of readiness for the return home.
Even before the island was out of sight the band commenced to rasp anew- from its high perch and did not let up until luncheon time. On arriving home I clambered upstairs to my room slamming the door behind me, and then sat down to smoke and brood awhile before retiring. At the end of half an hour I emptied my pipe, and, according to custom, was about to wind my watch. The old song was renewed, but I proceeded. In the pocket, however, to my surprise I found instead of the watch a note which read as follows:
“On examining the timepiece I found on ’ your- person this afternoon, I was much disappointed. Thought it might restore ' your good humor to be rid of such an encumbrance, however, so I kept it.”
“Your Friend on the Boat.”
It took the services of the best detectives and many, times the value of both watches . to round up the team of pickpockets of which my friend on tlie. boat was captain.
Dream'Ships. •
Harry Ledwidge, ’09.
AS ships at night they come and go, As bubbles in the eddy’s flow, The dreams we meet in field or street, Filled with the sunset glow.	.
A few from El Dorado come,
With freight of gold they pass, but some,-With rigging torn and all forlorn
Sag through the waters dumb.
Let’s hail a craft whose freight is song, Whose decks the golden fancies throng;
Of dreamy mirth there is no dearth, * As fast she booms along.
Aboard that craft I’d rather be, Where thought is always fancy free; -The scale behind, care out of mind
Over a sunlit sea.
A United Ireland.
Paul R. Martin, ’10.
After centuries of dissention, with a once ' powerful house made weak by being divided against itself on the grounds of religion and politics, Ireland has at last realized that in union there is strength, and party strife has been forgotten in the midst of national feeling. This result is the culmination of a movement that has been gaining in Ireland since the formation of the Gaelic League in 1892, an organization that was backed by - the best men of Ireland—men who had faith in their native land and who knew that the salvation of the land was in unitv.
With the formation of the League a change swept over the people, and although the task seemed hopeless they earnestly set about “the preservation of Irish as the national language and the extension of its use as a spoken tongue; also the preservation of existing Irish literature and the production of a modern literature in Irish.” To accomplish this end schools were established in every part of the land— schools endowed by the hard-earned dollars of the peasant who had pride in the language of his -forefathers and who wanted his own children to have the opportunities of
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
learning his native tongue. For rears the propagation of Irish was prohibited by the English government, and during this dark period the people rapidly lost a knowledge of one of the grandest tongues that the world has ever known. The Gaelic League has worked wonders, but never was its effect felt as it was recently in Dublin when the Oireachtas, or national Gaelic festival, was held under the auspices of the League.
The festival was arranged with a view of interesting all classes, and all branches of Irish work was attended to. Of course, the literary movement was well represented, and such men as William Butler Yeats, Edward Martyn and Dr. Douglas Hyde, took a personal interest in the affair. However, the thing that interested the masses was the industrial exhibit which proved how great are the resources of the island and how great her trade could be if the people would only act as a unit. “Home goods for the Irish” is the slogan of the Industrial League, and if this policy .were carried out, Ireland would rapidly advance in manufacture, and the Irish people would find steady employment at good wages. Lack of work has always been the bane of the Irish people, but with the advance in industry it seems that the days of the unemployed are being rapidly reduced. .
One exhibit that attracted unusual attention in the industrial section was the samples of rug and enamel manufacture, under the direction of Miss Mary Gleeson of Dublin, a young woman who has made quite a name for herself as an artist and designer. Miss Gleeson designed most of the rugs herself, many of them displaying scenes in the lives of the old Celts or symbols of pagan Ireland. However, if Oriental designs were wanted copies were readily supplied, as the Irish method of weaving wool is the game as that employed in the East., It is interesting to note that in rug manufacture everything is essentially Irish. The wool is grown, dyed and spun at Athlone and the looms are made of Irish wood.	'
Irish lace, that rare finery that is so dear to the heart of “milady,” is of course one of the staple products of Ireland. In the convent school young girls are taught the art of lacemaking, and although this Irish
hand-made product has been imitated time and again it has never been equalled. Even the French, with their skill in the manufacture of finery, have not been able to produce anything so fine as the Irish lace. With proper encouragement, the manufacture of lace should become a vast industry and one that would yield a large income to those who engaged in its manufacture. ’
Irish grain products, Irish tobacco and Irish garden produce interested the farmer and proved a surprise to some of the Dublin people who scarcely suspected Ireland capable of producing much in the way of food stuffs. The cultivation of Irish wheat means home-ground flour, something that will not only keep much money in the country, but will prove a valuable industry as well.
Ireland is on the eve of a great awakening. Her people have at last torn the veil from their eyes, and to-day they stand united clearly seeing the possibilities of their own land. No longer does the question of religion arise, and politics are quite forgotten. The prevalent question in Ireland to-day is: “Are you an Irishman?”
■ A Tear.
Thomas A. Lahey, ’ll.
'J'HE soul wrung fear Tho’ bred
Of pain or fear, .
Wakes in my heart
A sigh:
Its counterpart.
A silent. prayer _
Methinks .
Lies resting there;
A mute appeal, Which words
' Can not reveal. ‘	i
, A heart-throb wrung
By: God, .
And placed among
Its kind to be
His gem,
• Eternally.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Another Fish Story.
“Speakin’ of bass fishin’,” yes, I’ve heard some all-fired woolly yarns; an’ say, don’t you hear some of the doggondest hard luck stories that ever was? I’ll be a long time fergittin’ the thing that happened to Kelly, the policeman, last supimer. Big Tim Kelly heard so many fine tales about goin’ out an’ settin’ with a pipe in yer mouth on a nice, soft cushion, takin’ yer pipe out only to haul in the big bass, that one day Tim had a day off and thought he’d try it. Well, he goes a mile or two up the lake an’ sets himself down to fish, after lightin’ of his pipe an’ baitin’ his hook with a fat frog his wife had caught that momin’ fer him. Tim sat there, an’ sat, an’ sat, till finally his pipe burnt out, but nary a bite. So he tries it again. Nothin’ doin’. But Tim thought he could stand it as long as the fishies could, so like the stubborn Irishman he was, he was bound he’d stick there till he’d git a bass or bust. After he’d been settin’ there about four hours, it commenced to look as though it was bust for him, so he decided it was a bad business, after all,, an’ he’d been a fool to try it. So he commenced pullin’- in.
“Well, after Tim Kelly had pulled in about half his line, he began to wonder why the divil that line didn’t come a little harder on him, an’ why she was a circlin’ in frum the right, insted of cornin’ in straight frum where he had cast some hours before, as she ought to. All on a sudden it struck him, perhaps a big fish might be a-carrin’ her up stream. Tim got up. to see about it, and as he turned around, what d’you s’pose? There, settin’ on the rock beside. him, sound asleep, was that cussed little frog that he’d been dependin’ on all afternoon to catch a bass fer him. 5
“An’ what good Tim said wasn’t scarcely fit fer the fishies to hear.” D. A. M.
True Greatness.
Not always he who wins is victor of the fight, Though by his weapon hosts mayhap do fall.
’Tis greater far to die defending what is right
Than urging wrong to triumph over all. . T. A.E.
73
Mother Mine.
John.McDili. Fox, ’09.
VX/HENE’ER I'think of thee, .
* v Mother mine,
The thought mates me care-free, Mother mine.
My soul so filled with yearning, My heart with fondness burning,..... My thoughts with rapture turning Toward thy love,	. . ..
Mother mine,
Seem with eagerness to part, Mother mine,
With all dissembling art, Mother mine;
And with the chasteness of a dove, Mother mine,
Seek to see the meaning of The sweet mystery of thy heart, Mother mine. J
So my sweetest reverie
Always ends in ecstacy Whene’er I think of thee, Mother mine.
Some Freshman Ideas.
If you want to see a lazy man occupied, give him the job of bossing some one else.
Company makes the man; if you associate with wolves, you’ll soon learn to howl.
Never judge an election candidate by his readiness to shake hands with every one he meets.
The egotist is very poorly supported, as he has only himself to fall back upon.
It is far better to be a plain citizen of some account than a count who is no good as a citizen.
Who laughs last is often slow witted.
Those who make a business of setting up their friends, generally succeed in finally upsetting their friends and themselves, also.
Prodigality never yet made a friend.
“A single drop of ink may make a million people think;” and frequently, nowadays, a thought is worth a million dollars.
The strong point against intoxicating liquor is its weakening effect.
Scandal travels fast, but a good deed goes without saying.-.
74
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. Notre Dame, Indiana.
. Notre Dame, Indiana, October 10, 1908,
Board of Editors.
IGNATIUS MCNAMEE, ’09 RICHARD COLLENTINE, ’09
OTTO A. SCHMID, ’09 HARRY LEDWIDGE, ’09 PETER E. HEBERT, ’10
DENIS A. MORRISON, ’10
THOMAS A. LAHEY, ’ll
JOHN B. KANALEY, ’09 GEORGE J. FINNIGAN, '10 EDWARD P. CLEARY, ’09 PAUL R. MARTIN, ’10 JOHN B. MCMAHON, ’09.
—The boat-house these davs looks almost as deserted as Jerusalem did after the trouble; it has maintained that air for a long time, too—for four years, Boat Crews, to be specific. True, two halfhearted attempts to rejuvenate the old-time interest in crew-work have been made, but both died in their infancy. A snappy regatta would be a most entertaining feature for Commencement week, and October is not too late a date to put in some light fall practice. There ought to be in the different halls a sufficient number of oarsmen—or at least enough raw material from which to make them—to fill out four speedy crews, the members of which would ■ not only get a deal of physical benefit out of their training and put up an interesting exhibition, but also add a new feature to the varied program of Commencement entertainment.
—The Sixth Triennial Congress on Tuberculosis just closed its session at Washington, D. C. A society of international character, which aims at a systematic Congress and scientific study of this On Tuberculosis, most terrible disease is certainly entitled to the hearty co-operation of the medical profession. The publication of the proceedings are awaited
undoubtedly with intense interest by medical men, who will improve their method of dealing with the disease by the suggestions made at the Congress. But in checking the ravages of this blight, all such meetings as this are useless without the co-operation of the people. The conditions which make the infection possible—prolonged working hours for women and children, unsanitary homes and workshops, and the like—can only be remedied by the men and women of America. The Congress may be beneficial by awakening interest and directing an intelligent crusade against the conditions which experience demonstrates are the cause of this “great white plague.”
—At a recent meeting the National Organization of the Ancient Order of Hibernians a resolution was passed regarding the foun-
dation of scholarships for young Gaelic in Americans of Irish blood who the Schools, desire to devote their talents to a study of the history, iterature, language and music of Ireland, in order that the old Celtic spirit may be preserved to the coming generations. Already the Hibernians of the States of Massachussetts, Pennsylvania, Connecticut and New York, have provided for such scholarships, and steps are being taken to extend the movement. This movement is not being confined to those universities offering advanced courses of study for men, but a convent school for young ladies has also installed a chair of Gaelic where the daughters of Irish parents may acquaint themselves with the language of their forefathers. There is no phase of education that should occupy a more prominent place to-day than the revival of Irish literature. Hidden away in the archives of Ireland are thousands of manuscripts, which, if they were given to the world, would form an es’sential part of classical literature. Here is a field of research that has been practically neglected and that to-day offers unrivalled opportunities for investigation. Thousands of students who boast of their Irish ancestry are devoting themselves to the philology of the Germans and the ruins of the Greeks. How much might be accomplished if they would only turn their attention a little nearer home
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
- 75
and would help to save the past glory of the Isle of Scholars.
In the establishment of scholarships for the study of Irish and the installation of chairs of Irish Language and Literature in the Catholic schools of America, depends, in great part, the success of the Irish literary renaissance. For this purpose a national fund should be raised, to which every Irishman in the land should contribute in accordance with his means. This fund should be devoted to assisting the Catholic schools in establishing Gaelic courses, so that Irish could be learned with the same ease as is French or German. In this way students would be interested; they would be moved to investigate for themselves, and would consequently present to the world the vast wealth of real literature that is at present moulding away in the damp library of some Irish monastery.
—So great has been the growth of America’s business and of America’s business methods during the last three decades that the people have not taken time
A Sound
Campaign.
with the
to see that in this rapid development the methods resorted to have not always been in keeping best interests of the masses. In
many cases the development of our business concerns harmonize not at all with moral law; so it is that within very recent years the American conscience has been awakened to the need of reform in present business methods. This question has a political phase. The political parties are cognizant of its existence^ and are attempting to ' formulate a system whereby the evils of present business methods may be corrected. Indeed it seems-that changes of the most radical character are demanded. A month yet remains of the present campaign. The people are asking that the conditions be explained and that plans of reform be proposed. The times demand not the spectacular, in which the band plays, handkerchiefs wave, men and women cheer and the multitude grows wild, but rather a sane and sensible consideration of present economic problems. Grave questions are before us, as there must always. be in a government administered by the people. It is in har
mony with the spirit of our American institutions to have these questions fully and fairly thrashed out.
It is the duty of the party or parties asking that the reins of. government be given them to offer to the people wise programs for the solution of these problems. Let these plans be unequivocal, practical and in accord with the genuine principles of justice; let them be presented by men of natural ability, whose thought and experience have earned the right to a hearing. It is the duty of the citizen to give such
■/
programs his serious consideration and use his ballot for what he believes to best for the common weal.
—A situation, unique in the annals
to be
of
American politics, is presented in New York State this year. A nomination for governor secured without the aid The Opposition of any party machine, or
to
without subservience to any
Governor Hughes, faction or clique, is surely an anomaly in the field of -political life. But the domination of the bosses by the people, seen in the nomination of Hon. Charles E. Hughes, is by no means an assurance that he will triumph at the polls, for various elements of strength, both within and outside his party, are arrayed against him. Immensely popular in the rural districts, he is looked upon with disfavor in the cities, and if he emerges victorious in the coming conflict it will be because of his staunch followers up-state. This opposition is due, not alone to the followers of the race track or the gambling interests in general, but includes many men of the highest principle and unassailable motives. They do not question the integrity and uprightness of Hughes, for years of . public life demonstrate his character, but : his distrust of those who work within the lines of a party machine, without regard to their personal character, has been given too . free rein and will cost him many votes. There are many men within the ranks of the republican and democratic parties in New York State who are as high-minded and zealous for the public welfare as is Governor Hughes, and it is his arbitrary indifference to their counsels and opinions
1.
76	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
that has alienated many of the thinking men of every political affiliation. The re-election of Hughes does not mean the overthrow of the bosses alone, it has a wider significance—it attests the tremendous influence and power that one man may wield the force of' his own intellect and unswerving perseverance to an ideal. Many believe that his ideal, conceived, no doubt, with a view to moral betterment, would find its ultimate embodiment in one-man power, and thus additional ground is added to their opposition.
Lecture and Concert Program.
The lecture and concert course for the year has been announced, though as yet it is too early in the season to make the list of offerings complete.
Oct. 3—J. Godfrey Raupert on “Modern Spiritism.”
Oct. 8—Dr. Edgar Banks—Story of Nine-vah and Babylon.
Oct. 9—Dr. Edgar Banks—Constantinople and the Turks. v
Nov. 3—Skovgaard Company.
. Nov. 8—Victor’s Band.
Nov. 14—Mr. and Airs. Day.
Nov. 26—Edward P. Elliott.
Dec. 10—Lincoln Drama.
Dec. 15—Oratorio Artists.
Jan. 16—Frederick Warde
Jan. 19—Schildkret Hungarian Orchestra.
Feb. 3—Parland-Newhall Co.
Feb. 11—Adrian Newens.
Feb. 18—Opie Read.
March 2—Macey Company.
Doctor Raupert’s lecture on “Modern Spiritism,” the first of the course, was delivered last Saturday. The rest of the course offers a diversified line of entertainment and instruction. The Skovgaard Company is a troupe of. Swedish musicians; Victor’s Venetian Band is well remembered for the musical feast they gave us last year; Mr. and Mrs. Day are character impersonators; Edward Elliott is an enactor of plays. After the holidays come Frederick Warde, whose Shakespearian lectures need no comment to recommend them; the Schildkret Orchestra; the Parland-Newhall company of musicians; Adrian Newens, a
lecturer; our old story-telling friend, the genial Opie Read; and the Macey company, a troupe of vaudeville entertainers. It will be noticed that there are more musical attractions billed than there have been for the past several years, which is certainly a cause for satisfaction.
Lectures by Seumas MacManus.
Air. Seumas AlacManus, whose droll tales of Irish folklore need no comment, is to have charge of our English classes for one month. He will take the following subjects for his talks:
The Alaking of a Short Story.
The Alaking of a Novel.
The Making of a Play.
The Making of a Poem.
Marketing, Literature and Book Publishing
A Writer’s Experience.
Early Irish Literature.
Folklore.
Modern Irish Literature.
The Irish Revival.
Present-Day Irish Poets.
What to Read and How to Read.
Alodern Alovements in Fiction.
Studies in Contemporary Literature.
As Mr. AfacAIanus has himself done distinguished work in the short story, the play and the poem, this series of lectures ought to prove interesting. When Mr. MacManus talks in his slipper, so . to speak, it is expected he will be more charming than .he was last year. The course will begin with. three sessions next week, after which there will be a lapse before the res't of the program is resumed.
Two Lectures by Professor Banks.
Prof. Edgar J. Banks of Chicago University delivered a stereopticon lecture on Constantinople Thursday night and one on Ninevah and Babylon last evening. Professor Banks is no stranger at Notre Dame, and his annual visits prove interesting to most of his audience.. In the past the lectures on Bismya, Assyria and Babylonia were rather instructive than entertaining; the slides .were not overly interesting, and in addition the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	77
machine for projecting the lecturer’s slides invariably got mixed up with itself. The lecture on Thursday, however, whether because of a more congenial topic or because the views were more alive, proved to be the most entertaining of the six that the archaeologist has so far delivered in Washington Hall. He dwelt briefly upon the early history of the city and its conquest by the Turks; dilated upon the architecture and wealth of the country, and lastly showed the development, or rather lack of development, among the Turkish people. The lecture lasted nearly two hours and was well worth the time and attention given it.
Yesterday’s discourse on Babylon and Ninevah would have been engaging had it - been its premier presentation, but parts of it are already on the third tour and the rest was given here at least once before. The set of cryptogram slides also are growing too familiar. It is to be hoped that next time he comes he will give Babylon and Ninevah a well-deserved rest and will tell us instead the wonderful story of some other extinct people.
Athletic Notes.
The Varsity had no difficulty in gathering the big end of the points against Hillsdale Saturday. The final score was 39-0. The visitors proved weak in all departments of the game, and consequently Miller’s men had but little opportunity to display their real strength. The Varsity ran up 23 points in the first half, the first touchdown of the season being registered in the first three minutes of play, after which it was simply a procession.
Coach Place sent in the regular Varsity line-up at the start with the exception of Captain Miller who was disabled by a sprained ankle, but constant shifts were made, especially in the second half, to give all the men a chance to work out. Dolan was the only man to remain at his post the entire game.	.
Hillsdale made first down but once during the fray, and that occurred in the last five minutes of play, when Watkins and Phillips carried the ball from the centre of the field to Notre Dame’s five-yard line by spectacular end runs. Their efforts went for
naught, however, as the Gold and Blue line braced, and three line plunges could only advance the ball to our two-yard line where it went over. Time was called as Schmitt was about to boot the ball out of danger.
When it comes to the feature department, Hamilton, Vaughan, Ryan, and McDonald were right to the fore. Hamilton’s work at quarter was particularly sensational. His quarter-back runs and the wonderfill dodging that accompanied them brought the crowd to its feet time after time, and the generalship displayed by him in running the team was of Varsity order. Ryan was shifted to left half where his speed and ' dodging helped out considerably.
Vaughan, with Salmon-like fierceness pulled off the honors in the bucking line, his most notable stunt being a thirty-five yard buck through centre for a touchdown. The longest run of the day, a sixty-five yard dash for a touchdown, was chalked up to McDonald, while Schmitt, Moriarty, Clinin, and Dionne also got away for some long gains.	’
The game itself was too one-sided to be interesting. Ryan, who acted as captain in the absence of Miller, won the toss and chose to defend the south goal. Clinin received the kick-off on the fifteen-yard line, and returned the ball fifteen yards before being downed. Ryan tore off twenty-five around right end, but the next play netted nothing as Clinin fumbled. Dimmick added five on a cross tackle buck, and a quarterback kick with Burdick recovering yielded ten more. Ryan and Clinin worked the double pass for twenty-five, after which Clinin skirted left end for five more, placing-the ball on Hillsdale’s ten-yard line where Ryan took it over on an end run. Ryan kicked goal. There was nothing to it from then on, and the visitors were powerless to stop the fierce onslaught of our backs.
Notre Dame	The Line-Up..	Hillsdale ’
Burdick, Kennedy	L/ E.	Wheran
Collins, Roth		•*
Edwards, Kelly	L. T.	Stewart
Lynch, Henning	L. G.	Edinger
Mertes, Gerunde	C.	Norwalk- .
Dolan	R. G.	Tulloh
Dimmick, Sullivan	R. T.	.	Heeron
Matthews, Murphy	R. E.	Sheldon
Moriarty		. . - >
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Hamilton, Matthews Ryan, Dionne, McDonald Clinin, Schmitt Vaughan, Sullivan
0. B.	Stock
L. H. Hutchinson, Phillips
R. H. - Watkins
F. B.	McGrath
Touchdowns—Ryan, 2; Vaughan, 2: Schmitt, 1 ; McDonald, 1; Sullivan,!. Goals—Ryan, 3 ; McDonald, 1. Referee—Lantry, Notre Dame. Umpire—Kane, Georgetown. Head Linesman—Dwan, Notre Dame. Time of
halves—Twenty minutes.
1 The general showing was pleasing to Coach Place, although lack of precision was very noticeable in the plays. The linemen showed improvement, but the failure of the backs to block their men played havoc with the interference. They carried the ball well individually, but did not get together.
*
TF 7F
Ryan showed great form in lifting the ball over the sticks, missing but one out of four, and that hit . the cross bar. ;
rooters have little anxiety about the fullback position.
* *
Michigan is on the card a week from to-day. It’s the first time since ’02, and our expectations are aroused. It was 23-0 last time, 17 of which came in the second half after our men were ground down by the fierce onslaughts of the Wolverines, but we are waiting and hoping just the same. An excursion is among the possibilities, and so, get busy with your songs and yells.
* ♦ *
Ryan, Vaughan and Sullivan are doing good work in the punting department.
• Clinin is strong in dropping them over the sticks.
At Other Colleges.
w *
' Ryan, Clinin and Vaughan were relieved near the end of the first half by AIcDonald, Schmitt and Sullivan, and their speed looked good to rooters.
* * .
The squad .is showing steady improvement in all departments of the game. The week has been devoted mostly to signal practice, and the numbers * have been run off with speed and snap.
’ * * w
The scrimmage Thursday witnessed the first touchdown of the seconds against the Varsity with McDonald and Dionne as the leading lights. The regulars could corral only 16 points in thirty-five minutes of play—looks as though Lantry has been getting in some good work.
* -♦ * .
Wood played a slashing game at end Thursday. His work on defense brought the Varsity to a halt time after time.
* *
Kelly and Sullivan are doing great work on the line for the seconds. Sullivan has been shifted to centre, where he seems to ... have struck his gait.	• ■
- _ * * -
Vaughan is still puncturing the line when they want a few yards in that direction. With Dwyer and.Clement on the job th.
As a result of the annual FreshmanSophomore fray, the students and faculty of Armour Institute of Technology are aroused to a point of extreme indignation, owing to the action of the police in interfering in the affair. It seems that the two lower classes had gone forth to battle in good spirit, but the police thought that it was a brutal slaughter, and all hands were promptly taken in to the nearest police station and arraigned on charges of disorderly conduct. According to the students of Armour, the newspapers misrepresented the entire case much to the detriment of the school.
* ■ * *
It was feared that the “hard times” and the campaign season would have the effect of reducing the collegiate attendance this year, but the event is that the colleges of the country are full to overflowing and in many institutions the enrollment is greatly enlarged over that of last year. At Columbia University, the roll of students shows nearly 4000 names, an increase of almost 1000 over last year. Harvard, Yale, Pennsylvania, Georgetown and other eastern colleges show an equal increase. Purdue, Indiana, Wabash and De Pauw in this state have the largest attendance in their history.
At West Point no; outside coaching will be allowed this year with the exception of
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Coach Beacham, an ex-Cornell man. The head coach will be Lieut. Nelly, who will be assisted by a staff of army officers, all of whom have made brilliant records on the army team.
* ♦
* *
Pennsylvania has lost her All-American tackle, Dexter Draper, although he is still at the university. “Big” Gallagher, another strong man, is undecided as to whether he will play or not, and altogether, it looks as if there is to be a hole in Pennsylvania’s line this season. . * * *
Sixty-five men turned out for football practice at Princeton. Most of them are new men and have had no experience in the game. * -* *
Columbia has issued a catalogue in Spanish. It, seems rather late for this big school to be getting into the field, considering the length of time that Spanish-speaking students have been coming to the American universities.
*
* *
Oberlin College has great faith in its football team this season and hopes to capture the championship of Ohio. The squad is larger than it has been for several seasons past and prospects are bright.
. * x - * *
Mr. B. J. Wefers, late of the New York Athletic Club, has been secured as head track coach at Columbia. Mr. Wefers has a splendid record as an athlete as well as ability in coaching a team.	'
* ♦ *
Prof. C. A. Waldo of the faculty of Purdue, has resigned in order to accept a position at Washington University. Prof. Waldo was greatly interested in state athletics and is well known to many Notre Dame men.
* * * .
Great interest is being manifested in the department of Journalism at Indiana University. The classes are large and the college paper is being used to give practical experience. Editors will be given two hours credit in the English department for their work, while reporters will receive credit for one hour.
19
Fruit Show at Purdue.
Arrangements have been completed for the Second Annual Fruit Show, to be held at Purdue University, during the week of the Farmers’ Short Course, Jan. 11-16, 1909. Great interest was shown by the fruit growers of the state in the First Annual Show held last year. The exhibition this winter will be held under the joint auspices of the Indiana Horticultural Society and the Horticultural Department of the University. It is planned to make the fruit show bigger and better than ever. The Society is providing a generous premium list—over $300 in cash prizes being already assured. Everyone interested in the growing of fruit is urged to enter this contest, practically the only condition being that all fruit shown must be grown by the exhibitor. For premium list and further information apply to
C. G. Woodbury,
Experiment Station, Lafayette, Ind.
P. R. M.
University Bulletin.
There will be no classes on Tuesday the 13th, Founder’s day.	•
All members of the Senior Class are requested to. appear in cap and gown on Founder’s Day, the 13th. .
English I. will be taught at 4:30 p. m. on Mondays, Tuesdays and Fridays for men of all courses other than Classical, English, and History and Economics.
The following rules in regard to the gymnasium have been adopted by the Faculty Board of Control:
(1)	During the outdoor season no one except Varsity candidates, contestants and officials will be allowed in the gymnasium at any time.
(2)	During the indoor season the gallery will be open at the option of the coach.
(3)	While in the gallery all spectators must observe the rules regarding tobacco, the scattering of refuse, etc.
(4)	None but contestants, candidates, coaches and officials will be allowed in the dressing rooms or in the coliseum. This rule holds during practice as well. as during competitions.
I
8o	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Local Items.
—Brownson football team is playing Valparaiso High School at Valparaiso this afternoon. Here’s to luck! Clean ’em up, Brownson.
—A bulletin has been posted announcing that the Minim Department of Sorin is now open for inspection. All the influences of home with none of the disadvantages.
—On Sunday and again on Thursday evening Dr. Raupert lectured to the upper classmen in Sorin Hall. These two lectures are apart of his course on “Modern Spiritism,” which the Doctor is delivering at the University. A special talk on the same subject was delivered before the faculty Wednesday night.
—Corby Literary Society will cut through its chrysalis to-morrow night and again spread itself a vigorous butterfly, full of accumulated energy after its long summer hibernation. No electioneering has so far been done, so it is impossible to predict just now who will drive the caliope in succession to Colonel Hutchins.
—Father Cavanaugh, accompanying Father Morrissey, the Provincial, left on a trip to the coast last Wednesday. Father Cavanaugh will visit the Pacific Northwest and California, returning by way of Salt Lake. The prime reason for his long trip at this time is that he may attend the Episcopal Silver Jubilee Celebration of Archbishop Riordan, one of Notre Dame’s illustrious sons.
—The new subway in Corby has been opened and five apartments with a curtailed-smoking-room is the result. Sorin’s caverns, Corby’s subway and the catacombs in Old College complete a subterranean equipment that even faih Harvahd can’t boast of having. Some day when archaeologists will, perchance, be heaving the earth off the ruins of N. D.—gad! won’t the Doctors Banks of those days open their eyes • when. they hit the underground habitations?
—The Scholastic unblushingly calls for financial support from the student body. For several years the local subscription department has worked only three days a week,. and even then it has been laying off men. Business is very dull. But it shouldn’t be so. The policy of the board is to put out a live magazine, conservative but satisfying, and it is up to everybody to come through with a quid-and-a-half in support of that industrious resolution. The man who reads the Scholastic over his neighbor’s shoulder rather than sign-up for one of his own, is a “mutt” and deserves to be shorn like a lamb.	.
—It has been discovered that bound volumes of the Scholastic deposited in the Library for the use of students have been mutilated for the sake of extracting pictures and text referring to the athletes of past years. There is- a well-grounded suspicion as to the author of this outrage and the use to which the material was put. Needless to say, it will be dangerous to commit this particular kind of outrage in future; but the Scholastic thinks it well to mention the matter by way of admonition to that ever-present class of heartless bipeds who' seem so utterly lacking in conscience and whose disregard for the rights and property of others is equalled only by their abject selfishness. When the day of retribution comes to such, and it always does come, they will not get much sympathy.
Personals-
—Francis J. Hanzel (LL. B.1906) of Montgomery, Minn., has been nominated for county attorney of Le Sueur County, Minn.
—Among the welcome visitors during the week were Patrick H. O’Donnell, the distinguished Chicago lawyer, Rev.- Father Dyer, of the archdiocese of Chicago, and Moy Dow, a prominent Chinese-American.
—Frank Collier (Litt. B. ’06) is again teaching at Columbia University this semester. Jim Bach (C. E. ’06) has gone West also to keep Frank and the rest of the Notre Damerites from getting lonesome.
—Francis Derrick (A. B. 1908) is at the head of the Latin department in the Oil City Pa., High School, Jacob Young, another ’08 graduate, has charge of the science department of the High School in Huntington, Ind.- A
—Mr. Arthur Funk, for the past two years an instructor at the University, visited us last week. He is interested in the study of Ceramics, and after a year of special investigation in this industry he will probably go into business with his father.
—Messrs. Varnum Parrish (Litt. B., ’08) and. Maximillian Jurischsek (LL. B., ’08) are now in Austria on their globe-trotting expedition. ‘Jurischek was unable to visit Russia with’ Parrish because of police objections, and on September 22 he was arrested in Vienna by the Austrian military authorities on suspicion of his being a spy. He would probably be still mouldering in the Viennese bastile were it not for Parrish’s pleading with the American Consul who secured the release of the . suspect. “Jurie” said before he left Notre Dame that he had a premonition' he would not come home alive, and it looks as though he isn’t going to be disappointed.