_ The Notre Dame
Scholastic
February 15,1957
ANALYSIS
Rise Of A Problem »■ >
No Real Government
The Great Awakening * Senate Accomplishments
B
II. J. Heynohls Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.
HAVE A REAL CIGARETTE
Discover the difference between “just smoking”... and Camels!
Enjoy the difference!
Taste the difference!
Camels are full-flavored and deeply satisfying — pack after pack. You can count on Camels for the finest taste in smoking.
Feel the difference!
The exclusive Camel blend of quality tobaccos is unequalled for smooth, agreeable smoking. Camels are easy to get along with.
Try today’s top cigarette. You’ll see why more people smoke Camels, year after year, than any other brand. They’ve really got it!

California Division, Burbank, California • Georgia Division, Marietta, Georgia
This broad expansion program is creating new positions in each division.
Graduates in fields of: Aeronautical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Mathematics and Physics are invited to investigate their role in Lockheed's expansion.
G-radvLELtes
in Engineering... Physics... Mathematics
Aircraft Corporation
California Division * Georgia Division

Both divisions of Lockheed are engaged in a long-range expansion program in their fields of endeavor.
California Division activities in Burbank cover virtually every phase of commercial and military aircraft. Seventeen different models of planes are in production, including cargo and passenger transports, high Mach performance fighters, jet trainers, radar search planes, patrol bombers.
B. S. graduates who wish to attain a Master’s Degree will be interested in the California Division’s Masters-Degree Work-Study Program. In the program, participants achieve their M.S. while working concurrently on Lockheed’s engineering staff.
Lockheed Representatives of the California Division and the Georgia Division will be on campus
Monday, February 25
You are invited to consult your placement officer for an appointment.
Separate interviews will be given for.each division.
At Lockheed m Marietta. Georgia, new C-130A turbo-prop transports and B-47 jet bombers are being manufactured in the country’s largest aircraft plant under one roof. The division is already one of the South’s largest industries. Moreover, a new engineering center is now in development as part of the division’s expansion program. In addition, advanced research and development are underway on nuclear energy and its relationship to aircraft. A number of other highly significant classified projects augment the extensive production program.


Aircraft Corporation
February 15, 1957

The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 98 February 15, 1957 No. 15
c-
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized • June 23. 1918.
Charles McKendrick
Editor
JOE NORTON
Associate Editor
You’ve been contacted by many companies, all offering many and varied advantages. But you owe it to yourself to consider which of these will, in the long run, offer a future that will keep pace with your ability.
At Martin you’ll have a chance to measure your background against your chosen engineering field, whether it is aerodynamics, electronics, nuclear, electrical, civil, chemical or mechanical. Your future will grow with an expanding company, pioneering in tomorrow’s sciences as well as projects a decade in advance—anti-gravity research and ion propulsion.
Measure your opportunity now. Contact your placement office for an appointment with the Martin representative visiting this campus
FEBRUARY 18
DAVE THOMPSON Associate Editor
JIM STEINTRAGER .........News Editor
JAMES McDonald ..........Copy Editor :
DAVID KUBAL .........Feature Co-Editor f JOHN QUAGLIANO . ..Feature Co-Editor f GEORGE CLEMENTS......Assistant News ; JIM DULAN ........... Assistant	News	;
BOB VONDRASEK......Assistant News r*
HARRY McKEE................Assistant	Copy
MARSH PIDGEON........Assistant Copf
DON STUHLDREHER.Circulation Mgr. HARRY CONLON ............Business Mgr. ; JOHN GLAVIN..............Sports Editor	\
BOB EARLY..............Assistant Sports
MIKE FITZPATRICK Assistant Sports :
News Staff : Tom Banchoff, Mark Bradley, John Fitzpatrick, John Ford, David Kar- , nath, Jim Lenox, Gerry Leppek, Roger Leto, Ed Plumly, David Schwartz, Do? Shoulderg, Pete Stafford, Jim Sutter, Bob Williams, Jim Yoch. Sports Staff: Pat Defoe, Jim Goethals, Jack Grady, Roger Laur, Jim Merz, Greg Rogers, Ed Rohrbach, Ted Thompson, Doug Zilliox. Sports Features: Joe Bride, Tom Edwards, Bruce Huot, John McMahon. Business Staff: Loran Sheffer, Mikf^ Kuras, Pete Hasbrook.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examm.. tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.	f
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c.
The Scholastic

A Campus-to-Career Case History
Manager Joseph S. Manning discusses a customer service request with Office Supervisor Catherine Hazleton.
“Like having your own *3,000,000 business”
Joseph S. Manning graduated in 1950 from Wesleyan University with a B.A. degree and a major in Bio-Chemistry. But chemistry, he decided, was not to be his career. He became intrigued, instead, by the opportunities in the telephone business, and joined New York Telephone Company in 1951.
Today Joe Manning is Business Office Manager in Parkchester, Bronx, New York. In this position he is responsible for about 27,000 telephone accounts which bill some $250,000 a month. 35 people work under him.
“It’s like having your own S3,000,000 business,” Joe says. “And it’s pretty much
an independent operation, which I enjoy. I’m in charge of all business office functions, and of personnel training and development. I also spend a lot of time out with my customers, making sure that they have the telephone service they want and need. It’s an absorbing job.
“The phenomenal growth of the business is one of the reasons why advancement opportunities are so good in the telephone company. Since 1943, for example, the number of telephones in our area has almost tripled. Growth such as this, going on all over the country, makes the telephone business especially attractive to anyone seeking a career with a future.”
Bell Telephone Companies offer many interesting career opportunities, as do Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. Your placement officer has more information about all Bell System Companies.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
February 15, 1957
T
t
FIRST IMPRESSIONS LAST ...
First impressions are lasting impressions ... so make them good ones. The right clothes, properly tailored and fitted, mean so much to these introductions. Our job at the Campus Shop is to have the right clothes for your good appearance ... to help you make these important first impressions. Why not drop in and look them over?
r
On the Campus—Notre Dame
4^
- The Scholastic
PAY
PAY
1 3 AUG
NO CARRYING CHARGE
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY...
Buy the clothing you need when you need it and charge it the Campus Shop way. Nothing to pay until June. Pay one-third in June, one-third in July and one-third in August. So you see, if you need clothing now, you can have it now and pay for it out of your earnings this summer. Use this convenient charge account for all of your clothing purchases.
DRESS RIGHT ... You can't afford not to!
On the Campus—Notre Dame
February 15, 1957

Electrical Engineers
If you are interested in Electronic Research and Development and improving the "State of The Art" . . .
The
W. L. MAXSON
Wednesday
Corporation
March
IS INTERVIEWING AT THE
27th
NOTRE DAME CAMPUS
is the date
r
and has challenging and rewarding careers in the fields of:
Computers
Countermeasurers
Microwaves
Navigation
Ordnance
Radar and Engineering Evaluation
See the Placement Office for time available on the intervievz schedule and take your first step toward a career of lifetime satisfaction.

The W. L. MAXSON Corporation
460 West 34ih St. New York, 1, New York

8.
The Scholastic j

by Bryan Woods
so you want to be a pseudo
If you have at last decided that you too wish to join the growing ranks of the campus pseudos, this is for you. But ^lefore we come down to a practical discussion of what it takes, let’s first examine the word. There is a controversy as to how it should be pronounced. Some hold for “pa-sway-do” or “p-sway-do” as in “blue psuede shoes.” The majority though seem to favor “Sue-dough.” Anyway it’s short for pseudointellectual. In other words, a false or imitation intellectual. Now a necessary j?art of being intellectual is having intelligence. In other words know something. So a pseudo is a person who pretends to know something. But if he did know something, he wouldn’t have to pretend, so he obviously knows nothing. What’s the point of all this? It just goes to show that anyone can be a pseudo. If intelligence or knowledge isn't required, the field is wide open. You too can be a pseudo. Don’t let them tell you that Oou have to be in AB. Even Commerce men ought to be able to fit the above requirements.
Now that you have made up your mind, you will wonder just how you go about it. Instead of merely listing some rules I am going to give some examples of the pseudo in action.
Suppose you walk into a group and <’e.conversation is about literature. Don’t think that the fact that you stopped reading when you finished the ; “Hardy Boys” series stops you. Chances ' are the others stopped with Raggedy • Ann. Wait for an opening and say . something like, “What did you think of J Jean Paul Sartre’s last book?” I guar-: i antee that this will stop all but the | Severest. But just in case you run into !
February 15, 1957
an old pro who comes back with “Very interesting, but do you think he really justifies his conclusions?” all you have to do is shrug your shoulders, say, “Oh well, you know how those French intellectuals are,” and change the subject.
Another- example. Suppose the talk is about modem art. Just say “Now take Picasso. Of course his technique is excellent, but do you think he’s really got the spirit of art?” What could anyone possibly say to a remark like that?
One thing to remember. If the majority likes something, you are against it. The majority can be referred to as the “peasants” the “herd,” or “the great unwashed.” You can even take a chance on “other-directed” which has the added advantage that they might not understand what “other-directed people” are. If they are foolish enough to ask, just give them a withering, “where have you been for the 'last 18 years?” stare. They won’t "press the point. A writer or artist who has made money is guilty of “selling his soul for the almighty dollar.”
Now that you have these few hints, you ought to be able to take it from there. Use your- imagination and you can come up with dozens more genuine pseudo remarks. If you want a simple rule, just preface every pontifical pronouncement with “Aristotle says . . .” (Of course if you are away from the Dome you may want to change it to “Nietzche says . . .” for the sake of those who haven’t been exposed to the Aristotelian tradition.)
As far as clothes go, of coarse you will dress in the “Natural Look.” (Never, never use Ivy League, unless you want to spoil everything.) You might also
let it be known that “I’ve been dressing this way for years, and now all of a sudden all the peasants are hopping on the bandwagon.” (Be sure though that the trunk containing your pegged pants and Mr. B shirts from freshman year is locked.)
There are other incidentals that always help, such as contempt for the so-called mass media and so forth, but you ought to be able to rake it from there. For your convenience though I have composed a list of a few of the more common pseudo expressions, complete with definitions.
nouveau riche — people with more money than you.
inferiority complex—a psychic malady which causes other people to act differently from your inhibitions—morals.
good taste—what you’re wearing.
a provincial—doesn’t live near you.
a phony—a person who tries to be what you are naturally.
mature person—you.
immature person—the girl who jilted you.
alcoholic—someone who drinks more than you.
social drinker—a person who drinks as much as you.
bourgeoisie—people in the income brackets below you.
bohemians—people who like Elvis.
CALYPSO AGAIN
So far the best answer to last week’s question about hill and gully riders is that they are the men who drive the banana picking machines over- hill and dale. This week’s question: Why is Mary Ann sipping that sand?
9
K WOUNDED TIGER
I didn’t understand what John Quag-liano was trying to do exactly in last week’s “Bengal Tiger” but the Bengal fighter deserves better treatment.
It’s true, there are a few clowns at first. Some of them sign up a day before the tournament but the Bengal fighter is no clown. Neither is he a saint, sacrificing himself for the missions in India. His purpose is much more selfish than that. He isn’t a sadist or a bully and he doesn’t enjoy fighting, hurting or being hurt. He isn’t trying to show off or impress anyone. He doesn’t think much of winning or losing a championship. He wants to work and he wants to learn. He wants to test himself; to find out where he stands with others; to find out just how good he is. He wants mainly to satisfy himself and to prove himself. He knows that fighting is the most basic, most direct, most tangible way of doing this. So he signs.
Weeks later it’s all over and under the white ring lights, a champion is handed a shiny, twelve inch, piece of metal with a gloved figurine on top. He barely glances at it now but you couldn’t pry it from his bruised fists. And he can see it although he is looking away and he can feel it cold in his hand and he squeezes it again and harder and it’s still there. It’s his, and the figurine, it’s him.
The mike voice stings out “congratulations” and “thanks a lot” and “tonite we have with us’s” and “in honor ofs,” but right now he’s dazed. He sees nothing past the foggy lights and smoke so he looks far back there and remembers himself.
Running, sprinting, eyes and nose streaming from the wind and cold; faster, harder, time! resting, one minute, resting, swinging arms; deep, breathing deep, blood exploding up and down the arms and legs; Resting, enough, enough! Time! Running faster, run!
He remembers that upstairs, dusty boxing room; suffocating; squeaking floorboards; chattering light bag; no water (never any damn water); heavy bags enduring ferocious, muffled heatings (“God, suppose that was me!”); jump ropes whipping around and around on the floor, coughs and snorts; little talking; looking down, apparently neglecting everyone else but conscious of every whisper in the room; hundreds of never matched gloves hanging from the walls; the sign by the bell threatening names and weights; looking at the damn thing every single time he shuffled by, figuring, guessing, planning; glancing at the distorted, beastly-yellow, (Continued on page 34)
10
At the Movies
COLFAX
Bundle of Joy. (A-2) Debbie Reynolds, Eddie Fisher (Scholastic, Feb. 8).
The Wings of Eagles. (A-2) John Wayne, Dan Dailey, Maureen O’Hara, Ward Bond. When John Wayne and John Ford get together in making a movie you can bet the results will be satisfying. I don’t think that this picture will be an exception to the rule. The story is based on the life of Frank W. “Spig” Wead, a life that was more than interesting. Dan Dailey and Ward Bond turn in very good performances, “Duke” Wayne does his usual fine job.
Summing up: Lots of action and lots of laughs.
GRANADA
Top Secret Affair. (A-2) Kirk Douglas, Susan Hayward (Scholastic, Feb. 8).
AVON
The Great Man. (A-2) Jose Ferrer, Dean Jagger, Keenan Wynn, Julie London, Ed Wynn, Jim Backus, Russ Morgan. This is one of the few movies put out this year that has an entirely new and fresh plot. Aftei- his sudden death in an automobile crash, “America’s Most Beloved Humorist” as “Herb Fuller” is known to the radio and TV audiences is given a monumental series of eulogies by his company, Amalgamated Broadcasting System, including a marathon wake and funeral. Jose Ferrer is appointed to prepare an hour-long broadcast made up of interviews with the people he knew best. As Jose goes about his business he finds out that the “Great Man” was actually an egotistical, ungrateful, mean-spirited purveyor of smut. How Ferrer exposes the “Great Man” to his millions of erstwhile admirers, and at the same time installs himself as the paragon’s successor provides a satisfying climax. Top performances are turned in by Dean Jagger as the radio executive, and Jim Backus as his press agent. Ed Wynn turns in a surprisingly good performance in one of his few dramatic roles.
Summing up: This story could very well be true, all that’s lacking now is the automobile crash.
STATE
Behind the High Wall. (A-2) Tom Tully, Sylvia Sidney. Tom Tully is a warden who is just too nice a guy, that is until he is kidnapped by some of his guests at the prison. In the escape he somehow comes up with some stolen loot. He finally gives in and keeps the money, and spends the rest of the picture wrestling with his conscience.
Co-hit: Outside the Law. (A-l) Ray Danton, Leigh Snowden.
RIVER PARK
The Shark fig liters. (A-2) Victor Mature, Karen Steel.
Co-hit: The Steel Jungle. (A-2) Perry Lopez.
Anastasia. (A-l) (Sunday) Ingrid Bergman, Yul Brynner, Helen Hayes. The story of Anastasia is based on the claims of a woman living in Germany that she is the daughter of Czar Nicholas II. Whether or not she actually is is not important to the present Russian leaders, but it does provide good entertainment. Ingrid Bergman, after many years, comes back to motion pictures and her performance is one of her best. Yul Brynner is the Russian general Bounine, who, although not believing Ingrid to be the real Anastasia, tries to convince everyone that she is. The acting performances turned in by these stars are the finest that I have seen in a long time.
Summing up: It’s well worth the trip to see it, even to Mishawaka.
PALACE
The True Story of Jessie James and Co-Hit.
WASHINGTON HALL
The Searchers. John Wayne, Vera Miles. Four showings—1:15, 3:40, 6:20 and 8:50 p.m.
The Scholastic
j
Graduate and undergraduate students majoring in AERONAUTICAL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, NUCLEAR, CIVIL, CHEMICAL ENGINEERING plus MATHEMATICS, PHYSICS, METALLURGY
We invite you to investigate the career advantages at
CONVAIR
the vouna man's Company
At Convair the accent is on Youth. We seek men with vigorous young minds... young men trained to think in the new dimension of exploration into Outer Space. Here is opportunity. Because Convair is engaged in the widest diversity of aircraft and missile projects in the U.S. today. Talk with the men from Convair (see dates). Let them tell you about the exciting new opportunities at Convair.
Ask Your Placement Officer for Appointment
INTERVIEWS:
FEBRUARY 28
SAN DIEGO and ASTRONAUTICS
FEBRUARY 26 and 27
POMONA
CONVAIR SAN DIEGO
Plan your career with America’s top airframe builder. Here you’ll find a wide range of opportunities for the graduate engineer. You’ll work with a congenial group in the Company famous for such advanced aircraft as the 880 — world’s fastest commercial jet airliner; F-102A—first supersonic interceptor; Sea-Dart — first water-based jet fighter; and long-range research on nuclear aircraft. There is no ceiling on your chances to advance and make a name for yourself at Convair San Diego.
SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA
CONVAIR-ASTRONAUTICS
During 1957, groups of outstanding scientists and engineers, together with hand-picked young graduates, will occupy the new $40,000,000 Convair-Astronautics facility. Here, in a unique environment, they will develop and design ATLAS—an Air Force top-priority Intercontinental Ballistic. Missile (ICBM) — the forerunner of travel into space. You may qualify for a position with Convair-Astronautics’ ICBM project—one of the most important of its kind in the United States.
SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA
CONVAIR POMONA
Located in Southern California, Convair Pomona is the first fully-integrated missile plant in the U.S. Here the Navy’s TERRIER supersonic missile is designed and built. You, as a graduate engineer or science major, can build an outstanding career in electronics and missiles systems at Convair Pomona. You will work with the most modern electronic equipment known. Better yet, you will work with the kind of friendly, informed engineer-scientist groups that are pacing the advance into outer space. And you will live where the climate and opportunities for spacious living and outdoor recreation are unsurpassed in America.
POMONA, CALIFORNIA
^CONVAIR
A DIVISION OF GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION
February 15, 1957
11

TUDENTSi
WE CAN'T PROMISE TOO THE WORLD.
...but
we can offer you a genuine career opportunity with the leading jet aircraft equipment manufacturer.
Hamilton. Standard’s tremendous rate of expansion alone is evidence enough of the obvious opportunities now open at this beautiful, modern plant. However, there are numerous other “plus" values which you will want to consider:
HAMILTON STANDARD will be here:
Feb. 19-20
See your Placement Officer for time and place
1)	the opportunity for further, tuition-assisted study at R.P.I. Graduate Center.
2)	the exciting, challenging projects dealing with fuel controls for both jet and nuclear engines, air conditioning systems, jet starters, and turbo-propellers.
3)	the tremendous variety of openings, so that you may select the field which interests you most.
4)	the ideal location, in beautiful Connecticut, within easy travel distance to Boston or New York.
These are just a few of the reasons it is essential for you to talk to Hamilton Standard.
If you cannot attend an interview, please send your resume to Ted Fisher at
HAMILTON STANDARD
A DIVISION OF
UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
200 BRADLEY HELD ROAD, WINDSOR LOCKS. CONNECTICUT
12
The Scholastic
I?
The Appearance of a Problem
Is this Student Leadership?
by Frank Spiering

The following is an observation. It has been compiled with the intention of analyzing the faults and giving constructive suggestion concerning the student governmental system of Notre Dame. It is not an attack zipon individuals or organizations, but an attempt to point out certain weakness that exist, in the hope that they may be corrected.

One of the most grave problems that Notre Dame has ever faced is now materializing on our campus. Its causes are barely distinguishable, but its effects will be realized in the future of its graduates.
There was a time when the term W “Notre Dame” was synonymous with individualism and leadership. Today, it reflects blind conformity, embellished by ; a sugar coating. The term that typifies this present situation is “service.”
“Service,” a word that has become a ' substitute foi* leadership, instead of one of its components. Student government ; has come to represent a mixture of long, ! drawn out meetings, social events, and ; committee banquets. Its real essence is left undefined, until the student, himself, faces the grim reality that it is just a flowery exercise. Then it is too late.
There is a distressing lack of Catholic leaders in American government. The reason for this situation is understandable. Leaders are not bom, they must । be developed. A major phase of this ’ development should take place in the modern Catholic university. If .this phase is clouded by the idea that a leader - must only be part of an experimental pattern, concerning itself with chair-maning dances and supervising the erection of publicity posters, then it is a farce.
। Recently, an appeal was sent to every
i February 15, 1957
i
student concerning the proposed Student Senate bill on pre-registration. Why? Because the Student Senate felt that they had to arouse the students to secure the passing of this motion. In a responsible student government the representatives should never have to resort to these means. A responsible student government should be the bridge of understanding between the administration and the student body.
During the recent Student Leadership Program at Notre Dame the faults of our governmental system were brought out and neatly overlooked. Those who attended were deluded by a sterling vision of theoretical student leadership. Only a few realized the practical aspects. This is usually the case. Practical student government has given way to theory in almost every instance.
There is a society that exists on the campus known as the Blue Circle. Its purpose is that of being an Honor Society. It should not play any part in the political scheme of Notre Dame. The members of this organization are not elected, but appointed by the group, itself. Why, then, should it act as an executive body of student government? Shouldn’t the students themselves be able to choose those who are representing them?
The only body on the campus that represents the students as a whole is the Student Senate. Thus, it should be the foundation of student government. Execution of the will of the students should be handled by their elected officers, not by just a self-chosen minority.
All other student organizations should fall under the jurisdiction of the Senate. Here they could be held up and examined by all.
The Solution to this problem must come from the students, themselves. Not through riotous demonstration, but by means of sound judgment and legislative action. If the student body ex
presses its discontent with the present system and is sensible enough to try to better it, then student government will become more than just a hollowshell, it will become a well organized body, functioning for the benefit of all.
A lavish building is not student government. A voluminous constitution is not student government. A group of representatives attending a meeting once a week is not student government. These are just trappings. .
Student government should be an elected body, representing the students to the administration and to the world. It is not a study nor an experiment. It should have importance, or else it will be a figurehead, and its members will merely be puppets.
The Student Senate is currently devoting four weeks of meetings to correct the punctuation and wording of a dance constitution that could be altered by a sub-committee. Is the importance of this project so vital that it requires the complete effort of the Senate for this long period of time? A dance constitution is probably very essential to the well being of student social events, yet should it take precedence over the many other complex issues which are present throughout the campus?
This is just one glaring example of this unsolved problem. The underlying principle goes much deeper. How much of a part does student government and the individual student play in the life and development of the University? Is the thinking of the students really important? Or is it just a reflection of established tradition and policy? Is the student an integral part of this system that we call “Notre Dame,” or is he merely a minute factor of a pre-planned pattern, a small thread in the web of a famous name?
This is a problem that must be faced by every student, if true student government at Notre Dame is to be a reality.
13
The Senate
NOT

SELF-GOVERNMENT
by a Senate Officer
The following article contains the opinions of a ranking Senate member. It is not intended to represent the views of the Senate itself.
The faults of the Notre Dame Student Senate are not, contrary to popular- belief, entirely unknown to Senate officers and leaders. To those of us who have worked in student government for any length of time, these failings and the reasons for them are quite apparent. But merely recognizing the problem hardly assures its immediate solution; it must be examined in its overall perspective and approached on a real level rather than idealistically if any change for the better is to be made.
First of all, the Notre Dame Student Senate must be evaluated for what it is and what it can be; not for what some people think it is or would like it to be. In an oversimplified nutshell, the Senate exists essentially as a student service agency. It does things for the students; things like running dances and mixers and the Mardi Gras. And also in this service capacity, it attempts to represent the reasonable interests of the student body to the university administration.
TWO DIFFERENT WORLDS
Now as this seems to be the larger bone of contention regarding the Senate’s status, it calls for a further clarification as to what the Senate is not. When I used the term “student government” above, I was using the misnomer that commonly describes Senate function. The fact of the matter- is that the Senate is not student government. Government as such is entirely in the province of the administration; de jure, de facto, and forever after. While the Senate may communicate student interest to the administration, and may even bearinfluence on policy decisions, actual authority originates and is dispensed from the Main Building.
14
Evaluation of the Student Senate as something more than this has created widespread misunderstanding. Student leaders elected to the Senate have roared into their first meeting loaded for bear, bent on revolutionizing the University. Others have become embroiled in constitutional theory, intent on creating a better student government on paper and never finding time to put their theory into practice. And by the time these two groups have finally realized what the Senate really is, it’s too late for them to do it any good.
This then is a serious fault within the Senate itself. It is more or less an educational problem and we are attempting to solve it through leadership training programs on the underclass level.
The more important problem in my opinion, is the greater misunderstanding of the Senate by the student body itself. The majority of the students seem to regard the Senate as if it were the student government which I have said it is not. They seem to expect it to work for the satisfaction of all their interests and desires in their life at Notre Dame. Yet the students on the whole don’t seem to care enough about the Senate to help develop it into a real student government. One of the reasons for the Senate being ineffective in fields where it does have the potential to operate is the lack of non-self-interested people to lend a helping hand. If there were just a few extra people around to help with things like running the mimeographing machine, the Senate officers would be able to spend more time working On new and better service programs. The Senate is a full-time job; at least when only a few people are willing to devote any time to it at all. But at any rate, the Senate should require the full-time interest of the men elected to it and not just the minimum one night a week.
This boils down further to the point that the Student Senate really means very little to the students at all. The students have come to regard the Senate as a fake and beyond betterment. From
here on the problem gets worse. The . student body elects, many times for lack^ of better candidates, people who never’® do realize what the Senate is all about, or who are content to sit in the Senate because they think it brings them prestige. A Senate of this type will never be able to solve its own problems, let alone those of the student body.
And to aggravate the problem further, : this feeling of the students toward the Senate can’t really be helped as the situation exists. The disconnected environ-^ ment in which we live forces everyone. < to look primarily to his own interests, . and is hardly conducive to the acceptance of real leadership. Each individual' student expects the Senate to promote his individual interests, and when it fails . to do so, he writes it. off as useless to-him. But with no community of interest/ and the students no longei- caring about electing representative leaders to the^ Senate, the organization does indeed be-® come useless. Then it becomes the political playground of the bear hunters and theorists.
WHAT IS THE ANSWER?
It is just this type of environment that limits what the Senate “can be.” With ' the students failing to recognize the Senate’s actual status, and their insisting on individual consideration, the Sen-® ate can never become anything more than the service agency it is.
But if the student body were to somehow become a more closely-knit com- \ i munity with unified force and proven responsibility supporting its interests, / then the Senate could become the legiti- j. mate mediator between the students and the administration.
This is not as impossible as it may^r sound, and is one of the possibilities j'1 which it is the Senate’s province to in- > vestigate—as a service to the students • 7 and the university. As a matter of fact, 7 such an investigation is being conducted, r and if all interest in the Senate has not < already been lost, the keys to some of . j these problems may yet be found. ®'
The Scholastic 7
The Great Awakening
Where Do We Go From Here?
by John Cusack
Student government today is suffering from a hang-over following a binge of ^disillusionment. The great awakening is at hand. A realization that all is not “peachy-keen” is finally dawning among the local Self-Improvement Society.
Let us step back and examine the specter of student government at Notre Dame. We need to take an honest look at what actually exists, not what we want to see exist.
We must first examine the student ^governments of other universities and determine whether or not student government at Notre Dame measures up to them.
Student government among the leading universities, both Catholic and nonCatholic, plays an important and worthwhile role in the life of the students. Educators have realized the value of students being able to accept responsibility for a large part of their college ^conduct, particularly in the social and disciplinary spheres. They have recognized the value of training leaders who may one day have an important share in the political leadership of this country.
NO REAL GOVERNMENT
Student government is accepted as a means of active leadership by students on their own behalf. It’s the old axiom: that when responsibility is granted,

power is assumed. Is this true of student government at Notre Dame? On paper it is, but in reality the role of our Student Senate leaves something to be desired. Although stipulating religious,
academic, and social roles, in reality the Senate confines itself to the purely social aspects of the student life. Even |Jhis is under the close scrutiny of the University Administration.
The Student Senate possesses little actual power. Its reason for existence seems to be mei*ely that of overseer of social activities.
I believe that the Senate must, pri-1 marily, present to the Administration I Ahe ideas, opinions and constructive > ^gripes of the students and be able to
act upon them. Then it will really gain the respect, responsibility and power which it now claims.
The actual rule-making for the students is left, for all practical purposes, entirely ■with the Administration. It is therefore a misnomer to even call it student government. It has no power” and it cannot legislate for- and on behalf of the students to whom it is responsible.
For this reason a great many members of the student body look upon the Senate in the same way as a well-known senior who told me: it is like the duck that flew so fast in an ever tightening circle that its nose ended up in its tail.
Many members of the student government are at fault. They have believed in something that does not exist. Student government is nothing more or less than a service committee and it is not worthy of the title of a government. We have concerned ourselves ■with matters that could more efficiently be conducted by an appointed board of social co-ordinators, chosen not by vote of the students, in order to represent them, but for their administrative ability. Under the present set-up these duties require only the abilities of mediocre clerks.
Who is responsible for this student government which is in reality a myth? Is it the fault of the students, the so-called student leaders, or the fault of the Administration? I believe the fault belongs to all three.
The students are responsible for those who are elected to student government. They have failed to elect men who are able to intelligently grasp the reality of the situation. Those men, who would be able to do something about student government, have by their cynical apathy refused to take part in its so-called “insipid” projects. They sincerely believe that student government is a mere puppet-show and, thus, they adopt a hands-off policy. This has enabled selfish and misled individuals to gain office and ingratiate themselves into a clique that has successfully perpetuated a service bureaucracy.
Thus we can see where effective leadership has been lacking. This makes it impossible for student government to gain the responsibility and leadership to make it an effective and valuable force. It does not enable the student body to achieve that maturity normally granted to university students.
NO TRUE LEADERS
Lastly, it is the fault of the Administration because it has stressed the service aspect of student government instead of encouraging -the positive Christian leadership so necessary in the world today. If products of Catholic universities are to be expected to take their rightful place among the leaders of America, they must be taught the essence and practice of true, unselfish Christian leadership. To conduct a university today basically in the same way as that of nineteenth century Europe, insofar as student government is concerned, is exemplary in its intent, but unrealistic in its ends. Certainly discipline should hold an important role in the educational process. However, discipline at Notre Dame has an aspect which many feel is like that of a preparatory school.
That the University is responsible for our entire educational life is a truism, but to claim that this means it cannot delegate authority is absurd. In place of this, an inculcation of individual responsibility through student government, should be encouraged. Only in this manner will the “whole man” ideal be fully realized.
When enough students who know what is the true picture of student government become elected to office, then the student government will gain the respect and interest of the student body, ■ Only then will it be able to become effective. Only by a realization of our position and a desire to achieve a student government which a school of this greatness demands, can we present to the Administration a program of real • government.
is
; February 15, 1957
Senate Accomplishments
In the early part of May, 1952, the students of Notre Dame gathered at the Dining Hall to vote for or against a revolutionary change in their form of government. The result of that election is the Student Senate and the implied forms of that government which rules the University today.
The purpose of the research that went into this article is to show the student what the Student Senate has done in ways of legislation and service for him in its four and one-half years of existence. This article will only touch on major legislation that the Senate has passed during this time.** It is as follows:
1952-53
1.
2.
3.
The Senate cut the budget of the Charity Chest by spreading $12,000 for one year over a two-year period. This was designed to make possible a contribution to the proposed Student Center by the students.
The Senate sponsored a radio program over the campus station WSND called “Student Senate on the Air.” It reported the happenings of Student Senate meetings and offered feature programs on matters of student interest.
The Senate sponsored a drive for a contest to design the proposed Student Union, which is now the LaFortune Student Center.
1953-54
1.	The Blue Circle was incorporated as a part of the integral branch of the executive department of the Senate.
2.	The Senate established the Student Loan Fund to offer loans without interest for
3.
4.
5.
deserving students.
The Senate instituted an Auditing Committee to check the books of the numerous concessions given the right to operate by the Senate. The photography concession is an example.
A tax of $1 was levied by the Senate upon each student which was to be collected at registration, and to be used for the activities of the year.
The Senate sponsored plans for the renovation of the basement of the LaFortune Student Center.
• 6. Midnight lights were obtained for the Senior Halls by the Senators.
1955-56
1.	The Senate instituted an active leadership training program.
2.	A Special Projects Group was voted after taking an entertainment poll. Ten full-length feature movies were to be shown in the Spring Semester of 1955 plus a series of featurettes on sports, travel and other topics for each Sunday afternoon.
1.	A more effective Summer Storage Program was obtained after a special study by the Senators.
2.	A Spring Festival was sponsored by the Student Senate which consisted of various entertainments.
1956-57
1.	The Senate sponsored large-screen telecasts for all of the 1956 away football games except the Southern California game.
2.	The new plan for pre-registration and registration was discussed with the Administration by a committee from the Senate, and it was decided to revamp the system to better suit the student.
a
**The Student Senate has, during its existence, sponsored various social activities, along with underwriting all class and college dances.—John McMahon

J
16
The Scholastic
Are You Ready for Marriage
.♦. Emotionally, Psychologically, Financially?
By PAUL H. JOHNSON
This summer, as in many previous V summers, high school and college graduates across the United States will be taking, with varying degrees of seriousness, the most important step in theii-short lives. Some it will affect drastically. Others will be less affected, but with it all, these lives will be altered to such an extent that they shall never quite return to the uncomplicated life from which this step leads them. The step about which I speak is the step from bachelorhood into marriage.
However, I do not wish to moralize about the benefits of marriage or the blessings one can receive from this holy bond. That is for those more experienced in matters of church and family. But as one who will soon be stepping out of the confines of college into a very real and demanding world, I would like to inquire as to why so many of our 0 generation feel that they must take with them into these opening years of the great struggle for survival the added burden and responsibility of a wife and family. For in doing so they reveal to the cold eye of rationality the hard fact
; that they, with certain acknowledged exceptions, are almost totally unprepared
1	for marriage, emotionally, psychologic-
'(	ally, physically and financially.
1 Yet many of these hopeful young 1 " people would readily admit that for the } most part this is true. Still, they will g go ahead. For there is something in H the very challenges which marriage flings before them which holds a prom-& ise of happiness and security for them. B There is a void in their lives which must K be filled and marriage seems to hold the K answer foi' most.
B £ Right away we have a multiplicity of H problems. What is this thing for which R our generation seeks so hungrily? Why H is this search, previously found among te’ more mature persons, becoming so paraph mount in the lives of persons so woefully I ; unprepared for the problems involved? M What is it in marriage that holds the ■ answer? Let us see what we can find
To begin let us look at us. In particular let us look at those of us who will be soon getting married. The most obvious character we all share is youth. Young men in their early twenties and girls in their late teens feel mature enough in judgment to enter into this union dissoluble only by death. The alarming number who end this union by “legal death” gives evidence that many at least were unfit to take such a step. I think, then, we may say that much of youth carries with it a certain lack of judgment which age could not help but overcome. It is almost part of the definition of youth. It is to be expected, forgiven, but feared. It is a large weight that youth must balance carefully before marriage.
In its favor youth has youth. It is resilient and vital. It has been physically ready for marriage for some years. ' It is strong and willing to work. It is not warped with cares and disappointments. It has great hopes in the future, and the potential to realize them. Many do. The way is there; it is the task of the will.
But in youth the will is so weak. We have become involved with our newly discovered selves. Self is no longer a word. It is real in its physical and intellectual reality. It is only natural to want to develop this wonderful self. We become intrigued by self’s numerous facets. We become involved in self. In a word, we become selfish.
But marriage is based upon sacrifice. We must be prepared to exchange this wonderful self for another whose faults have hitherto been obscured by the aura of romantic love. Such sacrifice of self is difficult for a mature person who has known self long enough to realize its flaws and forgive others in light of them. But youth’s self is new and its imperfections almost unknown. It is hard to ■ accept the faults of others when one is unacquainted with his own. Yet that is the task youth must accomplish if youth is to marry.
Financially most of us are unprepared for marriage and will remain so for at least a year or so. There are exceptions to the rule, but it stands for the majority. Two must be supported in some way. A family must grow, be fed, be clothed. There must be an income to do tins and it must be a steady income because cold and hunger come even if work does not This is a great deal to ask of unprepared youth. But this summer it will be asked over and over again. And youth, married, must have the answer.
We have arrived at nothing. We have looked at the problems besetting married youth, but it is nothing. For the question still remains: “Why?” What force drives us from the comparative sanctuary of single life into a position which we should assume only when we are fully prepared for it?
, The answer does not come easily. We can be sure that somewhere in the problems of marriage so eagerly accepted by young people lies the key. For there is something in their very essence which youth wants and needs. And what we need we strive to get.
Our generation has not been able to rise to a healthy independence. Somewhere in growing up we acquired an insatiable desire to belong. This should have been satisfied—given in the family. Somewhere we have missed something. It is a good something, a something to be found, cherished, and passed on to future generations as it somehow was not passed on to us. It is a something upon which marriage should be based and not a something which blesses a fortunate few.
So we have posed questions and given no answers. Perhaps some day someone will give us the answer. But if we - must find it for ourselves, let us keep that “something”’ and dole it out to those we love so that perhaps our search for this something will make the search of others less a gamble and more a rewarding achievement.
17
•j February 15, 1957
1
Down and dirty!
WINTER
With the girls footing the bill, Dave Kubal figured he couldn’t miss, but his date won “The Most Valuable Player” Award at the annual snowball tourney.
“I dreamt I swam the St. Joe in my . .
“It’s personality that counts!"
18
The Scholastic


I know I’m bombed but I love you.
photos by John McDonough
February 15, 1957
19
—_I
20
The Scholastic
7Ta
5
THE NEW LIBRARY POLICY
“The campus workshop!” “The humanistic laboratory!” “Teaching with books!” These phrases typify the 20th century concept of college and university library service. Curricula are changing. Libraries are being adapted to these changes. Emphasis is being placed on the accessibility of books.
Under the present circumstances involving the library building at Notre Dame, the complete realization of the ideal concept of library service is not entirely possible. Some innovations have been introduced. Other library policies which will, it is hoped, make the library a more usable institution are ready to be announced. These have been discussed in conference with the Heads of the Departments in the Library, the Faculty Committee on the Library and with a group from your representatives in the Student Senate, and finally, with the University Administration.
In general, the aim of the new policies £ is to liberalize the use of the Library. ' But the liberalization of policies and increasing the accessibility of books, require also the application of specific controls. It is hoped that these will not be inconvenient but they are nevertheless essential to protect the rights of all who use the University Library. We in the University Library are convinced that a borrower should be able to get the required book or i-eceive a reasonable and prompt answer as to the whereabouts of the book. It is apparent that borrowers have not always received this service. The reasons for this lack of service are rather complex.
For- a period of 18 months, from April 1, 1955, to May 31, 1956, a record of unlocated books was maintained. Last June a partial inventory was made of ^the University Library keeping in mind ~ also the missing book problem. The findings of the partial inventory showed that 65 % of the missing books were lost ; 27% had somehow been returned to the shelves; and 8% could not be located on demand because the borrower had made an error in filling out the call slip.
We have reached the point where • * something must be done to protect the
by Victor Schaefer
Library Director
common good and to prevent the depreciation of the resources of the University Library. This is a problem which to some degree is present in all libraries. We know of no alternative but to establish an Exit Control. All persons leaving the University Library are asked to open brief cases, book bags, etc., to the clerk who will be stationed at the Exit. This will remind the users if they have forgotten to charge out the books which they intend to withdraw from the University Library. Those of you who have visited other libraries are aware that the Exit Control and checking is becoming a common practice.
The Exit Control will be established effective 8 a.m., Monday, Feb. 18. Beginning on that date also, the doors of the Library will open at 7:55 a.m., daily, and at 1 p.m. on Sunday.
The use of Exit Control will also permit the introduction of liberalized access policies.
1.	All previous 2-hour, 3-hour, and 4-hour reserves now become overnight books. That is, these reserves must be used in the Library until 8 p.m., daily, and 4 p.m. on Saturday. As heretofore they are due prior to 8:30 a.m. daily and 1:30 p.m. on Sunday. The reserve books will on February 18 be shelved in the various Divisional Libraries as follows:
Roughly, the Reserve books for Education, History, Political Science, Sociology, Physical Education will be shelved in the Social Science Library, immediately to the left of the room entrance. The Reserve books in English, Music, Philosophy, Religion and Science will be shelved in the Humanities Library immediately to the right of the room entrance. The Reserve books in Marketing, Finance, Economics and Business Administration will be shelved in the Business and Economics Library. In case of doubt, an alphabetical authorlist with locations, and a list of Reserve books by courses will be available at the Exit Control desk.
The transfer to the open shelves will permit the students to serve themselves. It would seem probable that students would wish to examine the books before
using. This was not possible heretofore. The system in use has been tried for three years and is found wanting. It has caused waiting, and long lines for students. For the University Library administration, it has caused much paper work resulting from overdues, fines, etc., and problems of shelving and reshelving promptly. The previous reserve policy has been costly for both the students and the administrations of the Library. It will no longer be necessary for the student to go to the Library, get the book, return to his room to read the book, and then to return the book.
2.	Beginning also on Monday, Feb; 18, the access to the stacks is liberalized. All seniors will be permitted access to the stacks upon presentation of the student Identification Card to the Clerk at the Main Circulation Desk. It would seem that the obligation of the Senior Essay makes demands for the use of books which cannot be satisfied by the card catalog alone. It is felt that books must be examined in detail and at length; the card catalog is a poor substitute for this and can be of limited use only for selection purposes.
On the basis of the experiment this semester, it may be possible to extend stack access privileges to other classes next September. Stacks can be made accessible only in so far as its manage- . ment is consistent with the services that the Library must provide to the entire academic community.
3.	Finally, the overnight borrowing privileges are also liberalized to permit the lending of current issues of periodicals, bound volumes, encyclopedias and other reference books. This privilege applies to all students. Treasure Room books, periodical indexes and current popular magazines, as Life, Look, etc., are not included in the over-night loan privileges. Like other overnight loans, periodicals and reference books may be taken out of the Library at 8 p.m., daily and at 4 p.m. on Saturday. These overnight loans are likewise due prior to 8:30 a.m. daily and 1:30 p.m. on Sunday.
The overnight loan privilege of reference books and periodicals is an experiment for this semester. If the students will cooperate with the Library’s policies, the privilege will be continued in- -definitely. If however the overnight loan privileges are abused and the materials are not returned on time, the privilege must be withdrawn to protect the rights of others.
The policies of the University Library are liberalized in order- to enable the students to use it more effectively. I hope that the University Library will never be forced to return to the less liberal policies.
21
February 15, 1957
Senior Class to Give ’Patriot of Year Award' To Senator Kennedy at Washington Assembly
Prof. Abell to Lecture Before Grad Students
Sen. John F. Kennedy will receive the 1957 “Patriot of the Year Award” at 8 p.m. next Friday in the Navy Drill Hall. The Democratic Senator from Massachusetts was chosen by the Senior Class as a man who has shown himself to be a true American patriot.
The award will be presented by George Strake, Senior Class president, at the Washington Day exercises. After receiving the award Senator Kennedy will address the assembly at the Drill Hall.
Following the acceptance speech, Don Barr, Senior Class vice-president, will present an American flag from the class to the University. Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., will accept the flag in the name of the University. The flag presentation has been a custom at Notre Dame since the first Washington Day exercises in 1882. John Cusack, chairman of the exercises, will serve as master of ceremonies.
Senator Kennedy will, be the guest of honor at a reception in the LaFortune Student Center following the exercises. He is the fourth) recipient of the award, presented annually by the Senior* Class since 1954, Others who have received the award are J. Edgar Hoover, Bishop Fulton J. Sheen and Gen. Curtis LeMay.
An honor graduate of Harvard University, the 39-year-old senator comes from a family long prominent on the U.S. scene. Senator Kennedy served as a PT boat commandei' during the Second World War in the South Pacific and was wounded in action in the Solomon Islands when his boat was rammed by a Japanese destroyer. In March, 1945 he was retired because of injuries by the Navy and was awarded the Purple Heart and the Navy and Marine Corps Medal for gallantry in rescuing members of his crew.
Following his retirement from the Navy Senator Kennedy served as a newspaperman until his election to the House of Representatives in 1946. Six years latei' he was elected senator from Massachusetts. In this election he defeated Henry Cabot Lodge by the largest vote ever given to a candidate of either party for the United States Senate in the history of Massachusetts.
In 1954 he began a battle to revise and strengthen the laws against illegal lobbying. This struggle earned him a position on the Senate Committee to Investigate Lobbying. Senator Kennedy also introduced the first bill to raise the minimum working wage to $1 an hour and the first bill to establish a system of flexible retirement under social security.
Senator Kennedy supported the St. Lawrence Seaway Project, which aided in the passage of the bill to secure seaway service for the midwest.
He is the author of two books, Why
SENATOR JOHN KENNEDY ‘Patriot of the Year’

England Slept, published in 1940, and
a best seller, Profiles in lished in 1956.
Senator Kennedy has orary Doctor of Laws
Courage,
pub-
hon-from
received degrees
Notre Dame and 12 other universities and colleges. He was chosen as one of the ten outstanding men in America in 1949 by the Junior Chamber of Commerce.
'Juggler* Sets Feb. 22 For Winter Publication
The winter edition of the Juggler will be issued Feb. 22. According to Harry Heyl, editor, this issue is a collection of the finest critical writing written on campus last year. Due to the nature of these writings they could not appear in a regular edition of the Juggler.
The spring issue of the Juggler will come out at the end of March. Students who have material for this edition are urged to bring their copy to 205 Walsh Hall as soon as possible. Deadline for the spring Juggler is March 1.
Dr. Aaron Abell, professor in the department of history, will speak on the subject “Catholics and the New Deal” before the graduate students and their guests at 8 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 27, in the Rockne Lounge.
Dr. Abell has spent much time inves- ~ tigating the problem of the social and economic attitudes of organized religions and their effect upon the history of labor in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. His talk will be the third of the 1956-57 series of lectures and discussions in the Graduate Forum.
The Graduate Forum is designed to bring authorities in various fields before Notre Dame’s advanced students of all departments for informal exchanges of viewpoints, facts, and questions. Last Dec. 13, Dr. John Kane, head of the department of sociology, opened the Graduate Forum before over 100 graduate students and guests with a discussion of “The Protestant View of Ameri-
? can Catholicism.”
On Feb. 6, Canon A. L. Gabriel, spoke ' on “The Mediaeval Roots of Academic Freedom.” Guest lecturers who will follow Dr. Abell during the remainder of the program for 1957 -will present papers and invite discussion in the general areas of philosophy, literature, science and education, according to Forum Co-Chairmen Mr. Joseph Sikora and Mr. Howard J. Phillips.
News Analyst to Speak At St. Mary's Feb. 26
Miss Pauline Frederick, the NBC award-winning news analyst and commentator, will present a lecture on “The News, the United States and the World” at St. Mary’s O’Laughlin Auditorium on Feb. 26, at 8:15 p.m.
Miss Frederick’s appearance in South Bend is sponsored by the South Bend branch of the American Association of University Women.
At the present time, Miss Frederick is the NBC United Nations correspondent. In 1956, she was voted the Radio Woman of the Year in the Radio-Television Daily poll of the nation’s radio and TV editors.
She has covered, among other important events, the Nuremburg trials of German war criminals; the conferences of the Big Four ministers in New York and Paris; and the Federal Grand Jury spy investigations.
All seats for Miss Frederick’s lecture
4
are can St. CE
$1.50, tax included. Ticket orders be mailed with check to Box 114, Mary’s College, or telephone 3-9042.
22
The Scholastic
: * Louis Armstrong to Appear Here March 13; Ticket Sale Opens Feb. 27 for Jazz Concert
Louis “Satchmo” Armstrong and his jazz group will present a two-hour concert in the Navy Drill Hall on Wednesday evening, March 13, from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m.
Tickets will be $1.25 and will be sold in advance on Feb. 27, the time and place
‘SATCHMO’
To give concert March 13.
Bridge Club to Hold 4 Initial Meet Sunday
The Notre Dame Bridge Club will play a double Team-of-Four match against an eight man team from the University of Cincinnati next Sunday afternoon. This will be the first such match for either school. The contest is scheduled to begin in the LaFortune Student Center at 1 p.m.
Next Wednesday the National Intercollegiate Bridge contest will be held in । the LaFortune Student Center, beginning at 4 p.m. Sixteen hands will be played. All students who wish to take part in this contesi are requested to come to the Center on time.
Last Sunday the monthly master point duplicate bridge tournament was held in the Center. Winning east-west teams were Brian Moran and Lou Stettler with a score of .659, and Howie Pollard and William Loetscher who scored .536. Joe Graham and Ed Kunkier, with a score of .536, won the north-south division. There was a tie for second place in this division between the teams of Pete Volante i and Steve Barrett, and Roy Pearse and John Birdzell. Both teams had scores ! # of .508.
of the sales to be announced at a later date. No tickets will be sold at the door.
The program will be part of the world-wide tour which has carried Armstrong and his group through Europe and Africa as well as the United States, playing to standing-room-only crowds.
Backing up Armstrong in the ensemble are Trummy Young on the trombone, Edmond Hall on clarinet, Bill Kyle on piano, Dale Jones on bass, and Barrett Deems on drums. Velma Middleton, blues singer, is the featured vocalist.
No formal program for the concert is ever announced, but it is likely that such songs as Basin Street Blues, Blueberry Hill, When the Saints Go Marching In, Rockin’ Chair, and many other Armstrong standards will be heard.
Regarded as one of the greatest jazz musicians today, he is equally famous as a showman, comedian, composer and singer. His most recent hit song was Mac the Knife and he is currently appearing in the movie High Society in which he co-stars with Bing Crosby, Grace Kelly and Frank Sinatra.
Satch’s gravel voice and trumpet survived the decline in jazz during the thirties and rode the crest of the wave which carried jazz back to popularity in the forties.
Open House, Dance Set For Weekend in Center
Social plans for the next two weeks have been announced by Gep Duren-berger, social commissioner of the Student Senate. Tonight there will be an open house at the Student Center.
Tomorrow night in the Center, Ed Pistey’s combo will supply the music for a “Be My Valentine” dance. Only couples will be admitted.
Next Thursday night there will be a coffee hour before the performance of the Jose Greco Dancers, starting at 7 p.m. Students will be given a chance to meet the performers. On Washington’s Birthday, from 6:30 to 11 p.m., there will be a supper club party in the Rathskeller of the Center. Dinner will be served from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. Dates are not necessary. Saturday night a general party has been scheduled for the Center. No stags will be allowed.
On Sunday, Feb. 24, there will be a mixer for freshmen only. Girls will be invited from St. Mary’s College, St. Mary’s Academy, and St. Joseph’s School of Nursing.
’Good News’ Tryouts Begin Tuesday Night
Tryouts for the University Theater’s spring musical, Good News, will be held next Tuesday evening, at 7:45 pan. in Washington Hall. Singers, dancers and actors interested in participating in the production are invited to attend.
Anyone who would like to try out is eligible. Anyone unable to attend Tuesday evening, may contact Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., in Room 12, Washington Hall. Final auditions will be at 7 p.m. Wednesday.
The production, which will be presented in May, will be under the direction of Fr. Harvey, head of the University Theater. The choreography will be by Allan Powers and Gil Rathbun will be technical director, assisted by Fred Syburg.
Meanwhile, rehearsals for the University Theater’s production of William Shakespeare’s MacBeth have gone into the final stages. The play will be presented March 13-17 in Washington Hall.
Michael Kennedy will play MacBeth and Marilee Young will be seen as Lady MacBeth. Supporting roles will be handled by Barney Morriss, Frank Draine, and Reg Bain.
Directing the play is Fred Syburg, assisted by Father Harvey. Gilbert Rathbun is technical director, Jerry Dodge stage manager, and Mrs. W. P. Walsh is in charge of costumes.
The Rev. Arthur L. Maloche will speak on “The Image of the Trinity in Sanctity, Sanity, and Sex’* in the third lecture of the Marriage Institute. Father Meloche’s talk will be given at 7:30 p.m. next Monday in Washington Hall.
23
February 15, 1957
GEORGE HARRISON	CLAIRE LYON
Union and . . .	• - • Management
and “Writing and Teaching Poetry.” $
A workshop on “Writing Articles” / will be offered in the July 15 to Aug. 2 ; period as well as a continuation or repe- ’ tition of the earlier sessions.	.
Serving as workshop instructors will be professors Richard Sullivan, John ? Nims, and Robert Christin of the L English department and professor's ' Stritch, Edward Fischer and James Withey of the department of journalism. ™
Students may enroll for a limit of two workshops in each series. One and one-half credits will be awarded for each workshop. Credits may be applied to- . ward advanced degrees. Additional in- . formation may be obtained by writing Prof. Stritch in care of O’Shaughnessy Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame Students To Assist Dr. Dooley
'Contract Issues Now and Later' Set as Theme For Annual Labor-Management Conference
The principal speakers at Notre Dame’s fifth annual Union-Management Conference on Feb. 22 will be George M. Harrison, vice-president of the AFL-CIO and grand president of the Brotherhood of Railway and Steamship Clerks of Cincinnati, and Claire L. Lyon, corporate employee relations manager of the Scott paper company of Chester, Pa.
Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., conference director, said that more than 500 midwest industrial executives and labor officials are expected to attend the sessions. The theme will be “Contract Issues Now and Later.”
Harrison will address the representatives on “Contracts Between National and Local Bargaining” while Lyon’s topic will be “Growth in Union-Management Relations—A Case Study.”
Harrison became a vice-president of the AFL-CIO in 1955 after serving as an AFL vice-president since 1934. He has headed the Brotherhood of Railway Clerks since 1928.
Lyon has been associated with the Scott Paper Company for 20 years. He is a vice-president of the National Council of Industrial Management clubs and a member of the Personnel Policies Panel of the Bureau of National Affairs.
Two panel discussions will be held at the Conference, dealing with such current labor-management problems as automation, pension benefits, health and welfare plans, obligatory retirement, the shorter work week, and the long-term contract.
Moderators of the discussions will be Robben W. Fleming, director of the Uni
24
versity of Illinois’ Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations, and Charles H. Alsip, regional director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, Chicago.
The conference, which will be held in Washington Hall on the campus, is sponsored by Notre Dame’s department of economics.
Workshops in Writing Planned This Summer
Two series of writing workshops will be held at Notre Dame from June 24 to July 12 and from July 15 to Aug. 2, according to an announcement by Prof. Thomas Stritch, workshop director and head of the department of journalism.
The sessions are designed primarily for high school and college instructors who, in addition to their teaching, are asked to supervise school publications, handle publicity or develop promotional literature. Several of the workshops, Stritch pointed out, are intended for the instructor who wants to develop his own creativity and, in turn, stimulate a greater interest in creative writing among his students.
Workshops to be offered in the first series include “Teaching Students How to Write for School Paper and Yearbook,” “Designing the School Paper and Yearbook,” “Teaching Writing,” “Planning and Writing School Radio and Television Scripts,” “Editorial and Critical Writing,” “Writing Fiction,”
On Feb. 12, two Notre Dame students arrived by plane in Bangkok, Thailand on the longest leg of their journey to the kingdom of Laos, Indochina. There they will assist Dr. Thomas Dooley in his medical work with the Indochinese people.
Robert Waters, a junior, and Jean De Vitry, a senior, became interested in Dr. Dooley and his work with the refugees of Vietnam, after hearing him speak at Notre Dame last year.
Waters and DeVitry learned through a close personal friend of Dr. Dooley that he was in serious need of assistance. They responded and dropped out of school for a semester to help him.
Dr. Dooley, who returned to Vietnam shortly after completing his lecture tour in the United States, moved to the neighboring kingdom of Laos when a sufficient number of medical personnel arrived in Vietnam to cope with the situation. In Laos there are no medical facilities whatsoever. Dr. Dooley is supporting the program, including the plane flight of the two students, with the proceeds from his book, Deliver Us From Evil.
Waters and DeVitry will meet Dooley in Bangkok. The prime minister of Thailand will then fly the group to the northern part of Laos where Dr. Dooley will start a new mission. A hospital, sick call building, and operating room will have to be built from the ground up.
Waters, a commerce student from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., explained that the pair’s main duties will be to. take care of the administrative details of the mission so that Dr. Dooley can concentrate on his medical duties. They will be driving overland for supplies and taking care of the correspondence; They will also be helping with group innocu-
(Continued on page 36) .
The Scholastic
ParkerWerrowd Inc. TAILORS-CLOTHIERS 115’A-l 17’/2 No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - towear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
Parker-Winterrowd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
HS’/j-llZ’/j No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
Consult our campus representative:	.
JOHN E. KUHN, 366 Alumni
Michael Kennedy has the leading role in the University Theater production of Shakespeare’s “Macbeth.” The tragedy will open Wednesday, March 13, and run to March 17.
Law Seniors Named As Clerk Appointees
Supreme Court Justice Tom Clark has appointed Robert Gorman, a senior in the Law School, to a one-year term as his law clerk, according to an announcement made this past week by Dean Joseph O’Meara. Gorman, whose home is in Tiskilwa, Ill., is the editor of The Notre Dame Lawyer.
Dean O’Meara also announced that Thomas Calder, a senior law student from Worcester, Mass., will serve a one-year term as law clerk to Judge Potter Stewart of the U.S. Court of Appeals, Sixth Circuit, Cincinnati, O. Calder has the highest academic average of the Senior Class.
Both Gorman and Calder received their undergraduate degrees at Notre Dame in 1954 and will be graduated from the law school in June. Their appointments as aides to the two jurists become effective with the first court term following graduation.
Gorman was the first recipient of the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh Law Scholarship honoring the former Notre Dame president. He has participated in the Law School’s Moot Court Competition and is an officer of Gray’s Inn. After serving a year as Justice Clark’s aide, he plans to enter legal practice in the Chicago area. .
Calder holds the Notre Dame Law Association Scholarship. He is an associate editor of The Notre Dame Lawyer and has taken part in the Moot Court competition.
NO ISSUE FEB. 22
There will be no issue of the SCHOLASTIC next Friday, Feb. 22, because of the Washington Day Holiday. The next issue will appear March 1.
Color Slides
•	■	8	MADE BY -
imphmd |kqdak|\^ " sure as snapshots y.
Notre Dame Bookstore
KODAKSi^n£t4O CAMERA
Brilliant new styling... convenience... performance
Newest in Kodak’s superb line of Signet color-slide cameras... and a really outstanding buy in precision miniature equipment. Has fine f/3.5 lens, 1 /400 shutter, rangefinder, jiffy loading and other easy-operatibn features . . . comes with flasholder and dual reflectors. See it soonl
PIZZA Half Price
F RANKIE invites
U ... to his new PIZZA HOUR Lasting from 8-9 nightly . . . L	designed to
ift the midevening blues.
1003 N. Notre Dame. CE 3-0444
February 15, 1957
25
HELP DESTROY ELVIS PRESLEY
The CASINO RESTAURANT has just received a large shipment of Elvis Presley records, and the manager of the Casino invites the Notre Dame student body in to help him SMASH "them." For every purchase check a Presley record will be placed in your hands for DEMOLITION. Hurry while the supply lasts.
The Casino's new menu with its new low prices is ideal for the pocketbook. And its atmosphere is ideal for relaxing.
Casino Italian Pizzeria
128 N. Michigan	Just five doors from the N. D. bus stop
Employment Opportunities in VENEZUELA with
Creole Petroleum Corporation
An Affiliate of Standard Oil Co. (N. J.)
Representatives of Creole will be on the campus
Tuesday, February 19 to interview unmarried graduates with majors in ENGINEERING and GEOLOGY
See your Placement Director for interview schedules
26
The Scholastic |
I
THE AUTHOR
For three years, 6'5" senior center John Smyth has been pulling down rebounds and looping in uncanny one-handers from around the keyhole for Irish basketball quintets. An outstanding performer in high school at DePaul Academy in Chicago, John is captain of the team by the election of his teammates and is currently gathering in points for coach Johnny Jordan’s charges at just tender a 20 points per game clip. His plans after graduation from the College of Commerce are uncertain. He is modestly not considering a career in pro basketball.
I can’t help but feel that the team has hit its stride in the last few games. Against Loyola last Saturday in the Stadium, I believe we reached the potential we have been moving toward ever since we beat Indiana in the Fieldhouse two weeks ago. I’m not saying we’ve W reached our full potential and are on the way down, beacuse I realize there is still plenty of room for improvement on the squad. In that game, just about everything went so well, it even surprised us. We’ve had the strength there all year but I would cite that Indiana game as the turning point of the season because if you'll remember, Illinois soundly beat us three nights before but ™ we were able to come back to defeat the present Big Ten leaders.
McCarthy, devine help
Of course, individually, men like John McCarthy, whose scoring and fine rebounding work- recently has made a tremendous difference, Bob Devine, with £ his versatility in scoring and his quick
The Captain Speaks
Irish cage captain
cites the Indiana game as the season’s turning point.
by JOHN SMYTH as told to Ed Rohrbach
adaptation to the double-pivot offense since Coach Jordan installed it, have helped the squad considerably. John has been giving us fine scoring balance lately and Bobby makes our fast break work.
SULLIVAN—QUARTERBACK
Another important factor is the addition of Tom Sullivan in the backcourt where he “quarterbacks” the ball club. He proved in the Loyola game that he can push in those long one-handers that open up the defense under the basket which in turn makes big men like Tom Hawkins and myself look good.
While on the subject of our fine sophomore forward, it’s almost needless to say that he has been a pleasant surprise since our first game. He has more natural ability than anyone I have ever played with, and that includes ‘Junior’ Stephens. He has a good chance of being an All-American when he is a senior, perhaps even a junior—if he works harder. He needs to follow his shots better for rebounds and he probably will run into trouble if an exceptionally tall man is assigned to guard him, even with his tremendous ability to jump. I would say that the remedy for this is his fake and drive shot which he executes very well in practice.
BENCH HELPS TOO
Despite all these obvious factors, it would be impossible for a starter like myself not to mention the great influence the players on our bench have had on the team. Students watching the games in the Fieldhouse see this every contest. In practice they always give us a rough time and sometimes I think they hand us more trouble than we have met in some of the games. The overall team spirit has been improving right along with the team. It’s probably the main reason for it.
If I were to point out the main defect of the team I would say that it is our defense. I don’t think we can complain about our offense because we have been
scoring more points than any other team at Notre Dame. Coach Jordan says we need more board strength though I believe we are listed 17th in the country in that respect. I’m probably the one that needs most to improve in that phase. To determine the deficiency with the squad earlier in the season, I don’t think it was due to the fact that any of these points I have just mentioned were too much more in evidence than now, but more simply that we just hadn’t hit our stride. We hadn’t come upon a set starting five until the middle of the season and since we did, we have been improving steadily. Our defense has been essentially a switching man-to-man all season. Many will , point out the Canisius game, which we lost a little over a week ago, as a disappointment but actually I think the team played a fine game. The fact that we maintained our poise under the pressure is a credit to the boys and to the coaching.
We close out the schedule with three strong independent teams, two of which
(Continued on page 29)
john McCarthy
Makes Tremendous difference.
February 15, 1957
Unbeaten Fencers Whip Iowa, Indiana Tech; Host Chicago, Wayne in Drill Hall Tomorrow by JIM MERZ
Last Saturday the Notre Dame fencing team continued its winning ways with a handy twin-killing over Iowa and Indiana Tech in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. The Irish swept past Iowa, 20-7, and finished the afternoon by beating Tech, 17-10, for their eighth straight win, and fourth of the season. Meanwhile, Iowa rounded out the triangular meet -with an 18-9 win over Indiana Tech.
In the epee, consistently Notre Dame’s strong weapon, the Irish all but swept their nine bouts from Iowa. Ron Farrow, Terry Laughlin, and Denis Hemmerle each won two bouts, while Dan Clancy and John Kearns contributed one victory apiece in the 8-1 Irish win. Dave Dittmer bested Hemmerle for the only Iowa score. Notre Dame also dominated the foil and sabre divisions, with 6-3 counts in both. Pierre DuVair led the Irish in the foil with three wins, while Joe Klein swept his three sabre bouts. Another point-winner in foil competition was Joe Blazina with two wins. Bill Bulgren was the only double winner for the Hawkeyes, although Klein was able to beat him once.
Indiana Tech offered more formidable opposition to Coach Walter Langford’s charges later that afternoon, slicing the Irish win margin to seven points. The major difference lay in the foil division, which Indiana won, 5-4. For the victory, Guy Gurski and Georg Li both took two bouts.
Joe Blazina upped his day’s total to 4-0 with two wins for Notre Dame. Again the Irish won the sabre division,
6-3, as six different Irish fencers contributed victories. One of these was Klein.
With the score so close, attention focused on the Notre Dame epee squad, which has only lost three times in the last 54 meets. Again they won, 7-2, to insure Irish victory. Hemmerle contributed two wins, also giving him four wins on the afternoon.
In the four meets so far this year, Klein paces the Irish with a spotless 8-0 record in the sabre division. Terry Laughlin follows close behind with seven victories and no defeats. Also among the undefeated ranks are Kearns (4-0) and Jim Jock (3-0). The list of big Irish winners includes Hemmerle (9-2), Blazina (7-2), Farrow (5-2), DuVair (6-3), and Dick Fagon (5-4).
Tomorrow afternoon Notre Dame plays host to Chicago and Wayne, at 1:30 in the Drill Hall. Chicago has already been beaten by Indiana Tech, while Wayne has lost to Case. The meet will feature a special exhibition of a new electrical foil, developed and patented by the Wayne coach, Bela deTuscan. This new foil needs no wires leading to the competitor, a unique achievement in fencing equipment. Before his coaching career, deTuscan was a brilliant Hungarian swordsman in Detroit.
Next Friday, February 22, the Irish travel to Detroit to face Lawrence Tech and Detroit. Although Detroit has strength, Coach Langford expects to sweep the meet if his squad continues
its fine improvement shown to date* The following Saturday, February 23, Notre Dame will meet Michigan State . and Ohio State at East Lansing. Michigan State has already beaten Buffalo and will pose the major test of Notre Dame’s , effectiveness. Although Ohio State usually has a good team each year, they lost many top fencers through graduation, and should not present much of a^ problem.	k“
Sailing Team Presents Series of Six Seminars
The Sailing Team will sponsor a program of 6 sailing instruction seminars beginning Wednesday, Feb. 27. The meetings -will be held weekly in Room 123 of Nieuwland Science Hall. The starting time is 7:30 p.m.
Each session will begin with a halfhour lecture on the subject matter to be covered. The lecture will be followed by an hour’s discussion.
The first seminar will be an introduction to the series and will give the basic theory of sailing. The following meetings will deal with racing and various sailing techniques.	$
The lecturers and discussion leaders of the seminars will be members of the sailing team and champions of their respective home ports. The series will also include lectures by guest speakers.
Everyone is welcome to this opportunity to learn something about sailing. It is the aim of the program to present . . the information in an interesting and informative manner, giving increased a knowledge of the sport to both the beginner and the “old salt.”	.
Joe Boland, Jr. and Don Gillies are directing the program.
IRISH SET SIGHTS ON REMAINING OPPONENTS Devine, Sullivan and Hawkins make ready for Detroit and DePaul.
28	The Scholastic f
I:
IWA
I
RICE TIES INDOOR RECORD
Junior hurdler wins easily against Purdue.
Track Team Opposes Marquette Tomorrow $ After Trouncing Purdue in First Dual Outing
by JACK GRADY
Competing without the services of NCAA recordholder Aubrey Lewis, the Notre Dame track team won its indoor :	dual opener last Saturday when they
defeated Purdue, 65-39, in the Notre Dame fieldhouse.
The Irish captured six first places in the eleven events—winning in the broad jump, mile-run, 440-yard dash, 60-yard low and high hurdles and the '	800-yard run.
,	HALF-MILE RECORD FALLS
Two meet records fell and a fieldhouse mark was equalled during the course of the afternoon. Previous meet marks were erased by Dale VandenBerg of the Irish when he won the half-mile by 20 < yards with a time of 1:53.2. But in the 3 most thrilling race of the meet, the Boi-lennaker mile relay team edged the Irish _ by half a step when Ron Ethei'ton beat I Bill Keegan to give the Boilermakers a 1 winning time of 3:21.7, bettering the | meet record for the event.
| Booker Rice of Notre Dame was the I meet’s only double winner, capturing first in both the high and low hurdles.
-j Rice won the high hurdles in :07.5, * equalling the Notre Dame indoor mark for five hurdles.
1 Other first places for N.D. went to I Dick DiCamillo in the mile run with a [■ ” time of 4:15.7, Jack Cote in the broad
! February 15, 1957
jump, while Bill Keegan’s :50.3 earned him first place in the 440.
Tomorrow afternoon the Wilson thin-clads return to action in the fieldhouse against Marquette. The Warriors amassed 42 points two weeks ago in an invitational meet held at the University of Chicago and returned last week to down Eastern Michigan, 33-3.
Coach “Bus” Shimeks squad is built around a group of veterans, with sophomores adding excellent balance the last two meets. The Warriors find their greatest strength in the pole vault, dashes, 440, hurdles and the relay. Sophomore Rod Chapman and veteran Ken Voss are expected to give Marquette more than adequate depth in the quarter-mile run, since both of them have run the event in less than 50 seconds. They will team up with sophomores Jim Turzinski and Clem Boltz to form a strong mile relay quartet.
INDIANA TO BE TOUGH
February 23rd Indiana will host the Irish at Bloomington in the third and final indoor dual meet for the Irish this season. The Hoosiers, perennial contenders in the Big Ten, will provide the Irish with then- toughest competition of the campaign. Last year the Irish fell to Indiana here at Notre Dame, losing by a single point, but bested the same Hoosiers outdoors in a spring match.
Captain Speaks
(Continued from page 27)
we face twice but I really believe that we can beat all of them. The Detroit game next Wednesday night will bring to the Fieldhouse the same line-up that defeated us at the beginning of last year. We’ll have to stop their big center, Bill Ebben and their outstanding guard, Mike Walsh. In DePaul, next Saturday night, we will face a team that lacks height but which can be typically scrappy. They also have Dick Heise, who is averaging better than 20 points per game. And they always are hard to beat on their home court, where we will play them in our second game with them. Marquette, who we play Feb. 26, beat Canisius and they definitely have been improving rapidly. They needed a center and found one in 6'9" Mike Moran, who scored 36 points in that game.
NCAA BID EXPECTED
Though we only play from one game to the next, so to speak,—we never- see the scouting reports until that particular game is the .next one on our schedule—I think we will deserve a bid to participate in the NCAA tournament at the end of the season if we win the rest of our games. I understand that the National Invitational Tournament in New York City, is out because competing in it would mean we would miss a week of school. A strong independent and most likely Kentucky will stand in our way to the finals, but although I don’t know much about Kentucky, I think we can beat them if we have a good night. We always play our best in tournaments and that will be the big one.
A WIN FOR ND VandenBerg romps in 880.
29
BOB PIVONKA
Scores mat win for Irish.
TIME OUT
Wrestlers Drop Two; Wheaton Tourney Next
The Notre Dame wrestling team found last weekend a very unprofitable one for them as they tasted defeat on both Friday and Saturday afternoons in the Navy Drill Hall. After being nosed out 15-12 by Western Illinois on Friday, Coach Fallon’s grapplers were downed 21-8 the following afternoon by Northern Illinois State Teachers. The defeats were the fourth and fifth suffered by the matmen in seven starts.
Friday’s issue wasn’t decided until the final match of the day, the heavyweight pairings, as both teams entered it with 12 points. Bronco Nagurski, who doesn’t restrict his talents to the gridiron, squared off against Don Taeye of Western Illinois but was outpointed 12-7 giving the meet to the visitors. It was Nagurski’s second intercollegiate match. Prior to this final each team had won two decisions with three matches ending in ties. Jim Rankin and Bob Pivonka were the winners for the Irish while Terry Crowley, Mike Sundstrom and Bucky O’Connor tied their Western opponents.
On Saturday, Notre Dame was victorious in only two matches when sophomore Jim Rankin and captain Terry Crowley won in the 130 and 147-pound divisions, respectively. It was Rankin’s fifth consecutive victory despite the fact that he didn’t wrestle in high school. ND’s Mel Larsen managed a tie in his match with Bill Young.
This weekend, the matmen will be at Wheaton, Illinois, for the Wheaton Tournament. Last season, the Irish were beaten by Wheaton 18-6 and many of the Crusaders will be back to try to make it two straight over the Irish.
30
The track team opened up their dual meet season last Saturday with an easy win over Purdue. With the way certain individuals performed, this could be another great season for the Wilsonmen. Last year, Notre Dame had a dual meet record of 5-1 besides capturing the Indoor CCC, the Indiana State Meet and numerous individual and team firsts in relay meets.
The best individual performances last week were turned in by Dale VandenBerg (that’s the way he spells it), Booker Rice, Co-Captain Bill Keegan and Dick DiCamillo.
VandenBerg could turn into one of the finest half-milers in Notre Dame history. The little redhead from Grand Rapids broke the Purdue meet record in his specialty with a time of 1:53.2. (The old record of 1:53.7 was set by Al Schoenig of Notre Dame in 1955.) Had VandenBerg run a faster first quarter, he might have done even better. He was clocked at 55.6 at the first quarter which is too slow for him. In the future, a better pace is going to make him one of the best in the country at this distance. His time Saturday was four seconds better than he had ever run indoors before.
Booker Rice also had Coach Wilson all smiles as he tied the indoor record in the 60-yard high hurdles with a time of 0:07.5. This record for five hurdles was set in 1953 by Harvey Newquist. Although he is a junior, this is Rice’s first year of varsity competition. He sat out last year with a broken ankle.
Keegan gets the vote as the most improved trackster on the squad. The blond senior from Rochester, N. Y., bettered his own individual mark last .Saturday in the quarter-mile with a time of 0:50.3. His best time indoors previously was 0:51.0. Keegan’s number one objective now is the Notre Dame indoor record of 49.1 held by none other than his own coach, Alex Wilson. Wilson set the record in 1932 against Iowa. He also holds the outdoor record -with a time of 0:48.1 set in the NCAA, also in 1932. Keegan’s best outdoors is 0:48.6. He has a good chance of breaking both before he graduates in June.
One of the strongest events for Notre Dame this year will be the one mile event won last Saturday by DiCamillo in 4:15.7. Less than two seconds behind were Ed Monnelly and Mike Haverty. For Monnelly it was a complete reversal of form from the Michigan State Relays the previous week. He ran 4:31 at East Lansing.
NCAA FOR THE IRISH?
Last Sunday, the local Sports Director of WSND was a bit perturbed over the fact that I had gone out on a limb and picked the Irish as one of the four finalists in the NCAA at Kansas late in March. He doubted that there were really any grounds on which to base such a prediction even though he hoped that the Irish would go. He is the same person who is a football “diehard” and week after week picked Notre Dame to win on the gridiron when the Irish were consistently losing.
In answer to him, I’ll have to quote Coach Jordan who said: “I think it was Duffy Daugherty who remarked that you have to think big and dream big. Otherwise, you’ll never get any place. Lately, I’ve been telling those kids they are good and for them to go out and show it. They know what is in for them if they continue to do well. They aren’t just dreaming about a NCAA bid either. They want to go all the way.”
The local announcer said that the Irish have been inconsistent. Well, since Christmas vacation, Notre Dame has won seven out of nine. (The Scholastic went to press before Wednesday’s Butler game.) You only have to be good enough to win. Is this inconsistency?
This writer can’t see going through life pussyfooting all the time. I’ll jump on the Irish bandwagon right now. I don’t have to wait till all the scores are in to make sure that they are a winner before I’ll jump on.
Seeing as no one probably hears this sportscaster’s show, we’ll give ample space to say something worth saying, if that’s possible.—J. G.

The Scholastic
I
•Swimming Club Faces Ball State Today; Strong Bowling Green Scheduled for Feb. 18
by DOUG ZILLOUX
Friday afternoon, the North Central College swimming team from Naperville, Ill., set six pool records in defeating the P Notre Dame swimming club in the Rockne pool by a score of 50-36. The club now has a record of three wins and three losses.
BOWLING GREEN NEXT
Today at 4:30 p.m., Ball State will face Notre Dame in the Rockne pool.
On Feb. 18, at 4:30, the Irish tank-men will host Bowling Green University. -■ Bowling Green has one of the finest swimming teams in the Midwest, certainly the best that the Irish will face this year. The Falcons have eight lettermen returning from last year’s undefeated squad. Pacing BG will be Ralph Eakins, who holds all of the Falcon and Mid-America Conference backstroke records. He is co-captain of this year’s squad. Another standout is free styler i William Muir, who won the MAC 220-'' yard free style championship last season.
Other meets in the near future are against Miami (Ohio) Friday, Feb. 22, in the Rockne pool, and Western Michigan and Hillsdale, Mich., on Feb. 23, also in the Rock.
Captain Mike Connolly, Dick Katis and Ed Healy were the outstanding performers for Notre Dame throughout the meet.
JUMP TO EARLY LEAD
North Central jumped off to an early 7-0 lead by taking the 400-yard medley .■ relay. They followed that up with another victory in the 220-yard free style by setting a pool record. Connolly fin-'	ished a strong second and Katis placed
-	third. North Central led 12-4. Fresh-
man Tom Kennedy won the 50-yard free 9 style and Paul Kerwin came in second to pull the score to 15-10 in favor of the Cardinals. North Central came right back to set another pool record in the 200-yard butterfly and they led 23-13. In the diving contest, freshman Paul is	Chestnut took first place and Healy
■	came in third, but the Cardinals led,
26-19. The redhot men from Naperville A set still another pool record in the 100-B * yard free style to go ahead 32-22. Katis H set a team record in the backstroke and % Jim Garrity took second as the Irish pulled to within five points, 33-28. The Cardinals poured it on as co-captain John Mollitor set another pool record - • in the 440-yard free style. He chopped j|	13 seconds off the existing pool record
1	of 5:17.6 set by Tom Londrigan last
week against Ohio University. Connolly came in second and Tom Londrigan was third. Both Connolly and Londrigan swam well against the record-breaking Mollitor. George May and Healy took second and third places, respectively, in the breaststroke to pull the Irish up within striking distance of the Cards. But the Cardinals came right back to win the final event, the 400-yard free style, to win the meet 50-36.
Although the Irish lost, they displayed over-all team depth, which may be an important factor when the two teams meet again sometime in early March.
TYLER’S PICKS OF THE WEEK
TONIGHT:
San Francisco over Coll, of Pacific Seattle over Gonzaga California over Idaho
Kentucky over Loyola (Chicago) Princeton over Brown Santa Clara over St. Mary’s Washington over Oregon
TOMORROW:
NYU over Boston College Yale over Cornell Michigan State over Iowa lillinois over Michigan Indiana over Northwestern Kansas over Missouri Temple over Lafayette Manhattan over Army Niagara over Fordham Iowa State over Nebraska Purdue over Minnesota Syracuse over Colgate St. Bonaventure over Canisius Tulane over Alabama Ohio State over Wisconsin West Virginia over Penn State Xavier over Louisville St. Louis over Wichita
MONDAY:
Seattle over Gonzaga Indiana over Iowa Illinois over Michigan State Michigan over Purdue Kansas over Oklahoma Tulane over Auburn Vanderbilt over Kentucky Minnesota over Wisconsin
TUESDAY:
Manhattan over CCNY N. Carolina over N. C. State Rice over Arkansas
Leaders Hold Spots In Campus Keglers
The California Club maintained their three game spread in the 6:30 Thursday League of the Kampus Keglers. Their 23-7 record is the best in the five leagues. Tied for second place are the Irish Club and the Chicago Club with identical 20-10 marks.
Father Bernard and Father Shea, rolling for the Padres, have the highest averages, 199-181, but have rolled only three and six games respectively. Since a bowler must have participated in two-thirds of the games to win the individual championship, it is unlikely that either will have rolled enough games to qualify. Following them is Lew Solomon of the Californians with a 175 mark.
CLEVELAND CLUB LEADS
Tom Jablonski and Dick Torda, both of the 6:30 Wednesday League, lead those in the running for the individual championship with 179 averages. The Cleveland Club is out in front with Toledo close behind.
With the second best team mark of 29%-10%, the Koper Klub has begun to pull away from the rest of the 8:45 Thursday League. Three and one-half games off the pace, the Villagers hold a 26-14 record. The Washington, Maryland, Virginia Club claims third with a 25-15 showing. Frank Neubek of the Architects leads the group with a 164 average.
MINNICK’S AVERAGE TOPS
The Holy Rollers lead the 6:45 Friday men comfortably with a mark of 24-9. The Met Club and the Civil Engineers trail at 21-12 and 20-13. Verge Minnick heads the bowlers with a 169 average that puts him in fourth place in the overall standings behind Jablonski, Torda, and Solomon.
The St. Louis Club, Wisconsin Club, and the ASME’s are bunched together at the top of the 8:45 Wednesday aggregation. The St. Louis boys ding to the lead with a 23-10 mark. The other two show 21-12 and 20-13 records. Bill De-Bot of the Wisconsiners is high man with a 165.
The high singles and three game series for the year includes Nick Ranieri with a 256 single game and Lew Solomon with a 622 series.
WEDNESDAY:
Notre Dame over Detroit
LAST WEEK: 19 Right; 5 Wrong.
SEASON: 78 Right; 16 Wrong.
Pct. 830.
February 15, 1957
31

Want to get more fun out of Life?
If you’re seeking more good times then learn to dance. It’s easy! Anybody can become a popular dance partner thanks to Arthur Murray’s Magic Step method. Yes, young or old timers, Arthur Murray has taught them all the secret to good times and popularity. And they’ve all had fun learning to dance his way, have developed more attractive personalities, too.
You have to know more than the right steps to be a popular partner. You must have poise, confidence. That’s why you’ll love our Student Parties! These are held frequently, and all our students are invited. You meet new people, dance with all kinds of dancers in a gay, informal atmosphere. It’s a grand way to get actual ballroom experience. So come in or ’phone now and see what fun it is to learn to dance the Arthur Murray Way. Arthur Murray Studios,
120 E. Wayne St.	CE 2-3339
Detroit Edison Co. Electrical Power
"At first some pupils think that fun and good times are not for them. But, they soon discover to their delight that Arthur Murray dance lessons and greater popularity go together,” say Dell Grey.
NAVY INTERVIEWS
NAVY representatives will be present in the Dining Hall all day Monday and Tuesday, to interview those interested in training for a commission in the U. S. Navy after graduation.
The two programs which will be covered at this time will be the Officer Candidate School, and the Aviation Officer candidate program.
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed at the University Press Office in Farley Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of 3 lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented 7 days before insertion date.
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
On March 5 and 6. Mr. Henry Korff from the Chicago Office of Touche. Niven. Bailey & Smart, a national C.P.A. firm, will be on campus to interview accounting majors graduating in June 1957, who would like to work in public accounting. On the 6th, Tony Daly from the New York Office will also be on hand to conduct interviews. If you are interested, please contact the Placement Bureau.-
SENIORS ADVANCE INFORMATION ON CAREER OPPORTUNITIES AT PROCTER & GAMBLE Advance information on Marketing Management opportunities in the Procter & Gamble Advertising Department is now available. Write H. H. Wilson. Jr., Supervisor of Personnel. Advertising Department. Procter & Gamble, Cincinnati. Ohio. Campus interviews in Placement Bureau March 14.
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
Research and Development Plant and System Design Equipment Engineering
Planning for Growth Purchasing Sales
Electrical - Mechanical
ENGINEERS
* RESERVE YOUR APPOINTMENT TIME AT PLACEMENT OFFICE TO SEE OUR REPRESENTATIVE
FOR SUMMER AND FULL-TIME EMPLOYMENT
। Monday, March 4
February 15, 1957
Com Products Refining Corp will interview Chemists on all degree levels; BS and MS degrees in mechanical, chemical, electrical, civil and architectural engineering—on Thursday, Feb. 21. in the Placement Office.
BENDIX. Monday. Feb. 18—Placement Office.
GLENN MARTIN. Monday, Feb. 18—Placement Office.
UNION CARBIDE. Monday, Feb. 18—Placement Office.
OLIN MATHIESON, Tuesday. Feb. 19—Placement
Office.	'
CREOLE. Tuesday, Feb. 19—Placement Office.
UNITED AIRCRAFT, Tuesday and Wednesday, Feb. 19-20—Placement Office.
BENDIX (PACIFIC). Thursday. Feb. 21—Placement Office.
LOCKHEED, Monday, Feb. 25—Placement Office.
FLUOR CORP., Wednesday, Feb. 27—Placement Office.
CONVAIR, Thursday, Feb. 28—Placement Office.
NATIONAL CARBON, Thursday, Feb. 28—Placement Office.
SYLVANIA. Thursday, Feb. 28—Placement Office.

33
Sale
RYTEX FLIGHT Personalized Stationery printed with your name and address $4.50 value for $2.85
Double the Usual Quantity
200 single sheets and
100 envelopes or
100 double sheets and
100 envelopes or
100 large flat sheets and
100 envelopes
Choice of white or blue paper, envelopes lined in blue. Choice of block or script lettering in blue.
For air mail or regular mail
127 West Washington Ave.
One block west of N. D. bus stop Phone CEntral 3-5377
Have you arranged to see our representative on
FEB. 19,1957
check with your placement office about the various types of technical graduates required by the
OLIN MATHIESON CHEMICAL CORP.
COURTESY BARBER SHOP 112 E. Washington Street South Bend, Indiana Under Max Adler Company B. FRED CRAVEN N. D. Boys Welcome
Repercussion
(Continued from page 10) frescoed giants on the far wall; feeling just that way inside; papery shuffling of boxing shoes constantly rubbing out patterned one, twos, up, backs, in, out, right, left; stepping through those hard, black ropes to spar; cold, slimy mouthpiece; being scared stiff every time he went in there or even thought about it; feeling better when the crust in his nose broke and the blood flowed freely again and then starting in to work; trying to think all the time but never able to, not even one single thought coming when he was in there; shadow boxing, faster, quicker, Time!; trying to joke and fool around in the showers with the others when the calisthenics were over for the day but not meaning a word; hating them all, no, not hating any of them really but just being so strained and tired; always having to get down a few more pounds; staying awake in bed at night, seeing faces and gloves in front of him, sparring eighty rounds and then dropping off; waking up suddenly in a sweat, and afraid, and sparring another eighty rounds; the time coming closer; the time coming.
Now, it’s all over and here he is again under the white lights, standing dressed with all the others.
He doesn’t know exactly why he has gone through all this. He’ll hide the trophy away and never wear the sweater. But he knows that he has passed the test. He has done it alone. He is a team in himself. He knows that there is no other challenge he could undertake where the word ’’win” is so meaningful, so distinct and so pure as this ... he has made it ... he has come through.
Jim Brunot
35 Pangborn
Engineers Set Aviation Talk By Aircraft Industry Expert
Dr. Bernard Suthman, of North American Aviation, will speak to members of the AIEE-IRE at the Feb. 27 meeting in the Engineering Building on campus. The talk will be accompanied by slides demonstrating North American Aviation activities. This talk is one in the series designed to familiarize students with the aircraft industry.
The annual student paper competition sponsored by the South Bend branch of the AIEE will be held March 19 at the regular meeting of the organization. Students entering the competition will be competing for cash prizes totaling $35 offered by the AIEE for the best papers submitted.
INDIANA UNIV. CENTER FILM FORUM presents the hilarious
ALL NEW adventures of that impudent, impish, impossibly droll character1
FERNANDO.
River Park Theatre
Mishawaka Ave. at 30th
Menu of SPECIALS
Sun.: J/2 Fried Chicken .....$1.35
Prime Rib of Beef .......  1.25
Mon. & Wed.: Prime Rib of Beef 1.25
Spaghetti & Meat Balls ... 1.00
Tues. & Thurs.:
Sirloin Strip—T-Bone ..... 1.25
Fri.: French Fried Perch .... 1.00
Pasta Fazool ............. 1.00
Sat.: Ham Steak ...........   1.45
Pork Chops ............... 1.25
includes Salad or Vegetable Coffee or Milk	Dessert
(all meat 14 oz. or above)
1003 N. Notre Dame CE 3-0444
34
The Scholastic
Bobby Christian and his orchestra will provide the music for the 1957 Mardi Gras Ball. The annual Ball will be held on March 1 in the LaForiune Student Center.
ONLY PEN WITH A
Mardi Gras Returns ® Reach $18,000 Total
Returns from the first two collections of 1957 Mardi Gras raffle books show a total running more than three times greater than last year. With one collection still to be made in the halls, the treasury has taken in $18,000 in comparison with $5,000 at this stage last year. However, this year’s goal stands at $30,000 which it is hoped will be reached by the last collection on Feb. 25, and from the returns on the carnival itself.
The carnival will be held in the Navy Drill Hall on March 2, 4, and 5 from 7 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. The theme of the carnival ■will be “Old New Orleans.” Bogus money to be used at the game tables will be sold at the door.
£ At this year’s carnival there are to ' be 25 booths which will be distributed primarily to campus clubs, two residence halls, and to Saint Mary’s students who will feature a show based on a “Showboat” setting.
The awarding of booths will be on the basis of competitive bids and participation in chance book sales. There is also a one hundred dollar prize offered by the Mardi -Gras committee to the hall that sells the most chance books.
A new note has been added to the many types of booths this year. It will be a pie throwing booth, and the services of numerous student government officials have been solicited as targets. Times for the various officials’ appoint-$ ments in the booth will be posted.

BUILT-IN SPARE REFILL'
cAfew PapersMate
Notre Dame Bookstore
On the Campus
&
FEBRUARY 28
for the purpose of interviewing engineering applicants See your Placement Director to arrange an appointment
JT SYLVANIA T
SYLVANIA ELECTRIC PRODUCTS INC.

SYLVANIA will be on this campus
February 15, 1957
35
FLUOR
An outstanding name in ENGINEERING and CONSTRUCTION for the Petroleum, Chemical and Power Industries
ENGINEERS (B.S. — M.S. — Ph.D.)
*	Mechanical
*	Civil
*	Electrical
*	Chemical
*	Instrument
See Your Bulletin Board
MR. ARMOUR MORRIS WILL CONDUCT
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
9 a.m. — 5 p.m. Wednesday, February 27
THE FLUOR CORPORATION, LTD.
Engineers - Constructors 2500 South Atlantic Blvd. LOS ANGELES 22, CALIF.
Jose Greco and his company of Spanish dancers will appear in Washington Hall on Thursday, Feb. 21 at 8:15 p.m. The performance is sponsored by the Concert and Lecture Series. See opposite page for further information.
Dr. Doo'ey
(Continued from page 24) lations and disease prevention. The two will work an average of 14 hours a day.
DeVitry, a liberal arts-engineer combination major from Bainbridge, Pa., stated that, “these Asiatic people are in great need of help, now more than ever. They think of themselves as an insignificant part of a great horde of mankind that has gone before them and that will come after them. They are just beginning to realize that they can better their own position.”
Dr. Dooley has expressed the belief that the medical mission will be the best kind of ambassador for America and democracy. The mission will be located just two hours traveling time from the Chinese border, in a country where the Communist government has been recently legalized.
The whole mission, including Dr. Dooley, will return to the United States in August. Waters and DeVitry will resume their education at Notre Dame in September.
Engineers to Attend Lecture By Prof. Leader Wednesday
“Painting and Architecture” is the subject of a lecture to be presented by Mr. Robert Leader at 4:30 p.m. next Wednesday, in 121 O’Shaughnessy. This lecture is designed for the needs and interest of engineers, and is the second in a series of lectures which are being given by members of the art department.
INTERVIEWS " for CAREERS with HERCULES
Here’s an opportunity for a career with one of the nation’s most rapidly expanding chemical companies. If you will have a BS or MS degree in...
•	CHEMISTRY
•	ENGINEERING
Chemical
Civil Mechanical
Electrical Mining
... a Hercules representative will be on the campus to discuss with you employment opportunities in...
•	RESEARCH
•	SALES
•	PRODUCTION
•	ENGINEERING
Arrangements for interviews should be made through your placement office.
HERCULES POWDER COMPANY
INCORPORATED
Wilmington 99, DeL
FEBRUARY 25
YOU
ARE ELIGIBLE
Send Today 4 for FREE Professional and Businessman's Wholesale Diamond Brochure. Write Jackson's Diamond Brokers, Dept. D 644 Broadway, Gary, Ind.

Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J.TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
36
The Scholastic
lomis
LIBRARY ud BOOK sum*
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
Jose Greco, Spanish Flamenco Ballet Artist, To Bring Dance Company Here on Thursday

&

DR R..W TURBOW
\0PT0METRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces'''
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel
Phone CE 4-5777
Jose Greco and his company of Spanish dancers will perform at Washington Hall Thursday, Feb. 21 at 8:15 p.m. as part of the 1956-57 Concert and Lecture Series.
Greco is known the world over as the master of the traditional Spanish Flamenco dance, a ballet that tells its story, not by the conventional use of the arms and body, but by a staccato stamping of the feet. The dancer beats out a rhythm which, by its varying moods from dramatic to humorous, relates the action of the plot to the listener. He has been called the world’s finest male Spanish dancer.
Greco was bom in a small village in Italy but was taken to Seville, Spain, when he was seven. It was here, in the inns and cafes of the city, that he learned the techniques of the traditional Flamenco dance. He came to New York at the age of ten where he continued his
studies in the ai*t of Spanish dancing.
In 1948 Greco was invited to arrange a Spanish dance sequence for the movie Manolete. He organized a small troupe of dancers from among his friends and colleagues, some of whom were outstanding exponents of authentic classic Spanish dance, others of regional, folk interpretations and the Flamenco tradition. This was the beginning of the troupe that is now being seen. Since that time the troupe has toured Europe, Scandinavia, and South America and has appeared in the United States in such places as the Waldorf Astoria, the Sahara Hotel of Las Vegas, and the Hollywood Bowl.
Any remaining tickets for the performance will be sold at the ticket office Feb. 21 from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. and from 6 to 8 p.m. Tickets are $1 for balcony . and $1.50 for orchestra for faculty, Notre Dame, and St. Mary’s students.
PRE-ELECTRIC SHAVE LOTION
to get a better shave!
Quicker . . . closer . . . smoother . . . no matter what machine you use. 1.00 plus tax
SHULTON New York • Toronto
February 15, 1957
37
'1
Parents of Over 400 Juniors to View Campus At Annual Weekend Inspection on March 16-17
The fifth annual Junior Class Parent-Son Weekend will be held at Notre Dame on Saturday and Sunday, March 16 and 17. The weekend is sponsored jointly by the University and members of the Junior- Class. The purpose of this event is to acquaint the parents of the students with the various elements which comprise life and education at Notre Dame.
Invitations and information circulars concerning the activities of the weekend and hotel accommodations have already been sent by the committee chairmen.
When the parents arrive Saturday morning there will be tours given of the campus, O’Shaughnessy Hall, Nieuwland Science Hall, and LOBUND. At lunch time the parents will dine with their sons under usual student conditions. In the early afternoon on Saturday there will be a reception in each of the col
leges enabling the parents to meet the dean and faculty members. The parents will also be encouraged to attend classes on Saturday morning with their sons.
Saturday evening a dinner will be held for the parents and sons. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will deliver the main address. Toastmaster will be Bernard Pellegrino, Junior Class president and general chairman of the weekend. The Notre Dame Glee Club will offer entertainment for the guests. After the dinner, an open house will be held in the Student Center where Father Hesburgh and other University officials will be present to meet the parents.
A special section will be reserved for parents and sons at the 9 o’clock Mass on Sunday at Sacred Heart Church. The parents of over 400 students are expected to participate in the weekend,.
ATTENTION JUNIORS - I
Senior pictures for the class of : 1958, this year’s juniors, will be taken during March. These pictures ; , will be used in the 1958 Dome, and will also be available as personal v f portraits. A fee of $1 will be re- W quired at the time the pictures are j. taken.	;
Because there are more than	Tj
1,000 members of the class, an	j
appointment schedule will have to	j
be made. All members of the junior class wishing to have their pictures in the ’58 Dome must make , their appointments in the Dome office on the second floor of the new section of the Student Center. A The Dome office will be open for ~ this purpose on Monday, Tuesday, * j and Wednesday, Feb. 25, 26, and 27 from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. and from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
memo to graduating seniors
POWER is the key to our national economy. That’s why it will pay you to hitch your future in engineering to a company that’s strong in the field of products for power ... a company where young engineers are given every opportunity to learn and grow into leaders of tomorrow!
ALLIS-CHALMERS gives you many advantages
•	Exceptional training course (two years maximum) prepares you for the career of your choice.
•	You work on a variety of products: Nuclear work . . . electrical equipment . . . steam and hydraulic equipment . . . construction and farm machinery . . . processing machinery .. . internal combustion engines .. . and many other products.
•	You get training on a variety of jobs: Scientific and industrial research . . . design and development engineering ... manufacturing... sales... service.
•	You get many extra benefits — including: Opportunities for post-graduate study (fully paid by company) . . . liberal health and life insurance plan... outstanding social and recreational programs.
•	Excellent opportunities are open for electrical, mechanical and agricultural engineers.
•	Openings also for chemical, civil, industrial, and mining engineers... or math and physics majors.
e
Friday. March 8
ALLIS-CHALMERS
A-5281
Milwaukee 1, Wisconsin

MHiMiiWli
SIGN UP FOR THE INTERVIEW NOW AT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE

38
The Scholastic


There9s a bright future for you in
4?
r
TITANIUM
&
4'

Check the facts
with the man
from
ELECTROMET
World's Largest Producer of Ferro-Alloys
It’s a good place to work . . . and it’s growing.
More than 90 per cent of the technical people who have joined us in the last 20 years are still with us. Why?
Challenging work. . . recognition . . . pleasant locations . . . competitive salaries, determined fairly and based on merit... opportunity for personal development, working with outstanding men in metallurgy and related fields.
It will be worth your while to get the facts. Make an appointment today with your placement office for

Monday, February 18

s "aZ	t-Jv A-vX * A Z^ A. ' • '	'
iS?'
ELECTRO METALLURGICAL COMPANY
A Division of Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation
30 East 42nd Street [TWi New York 17, New York

ND Students Slated For Bridge Tourney
Notre Dame students will compete with students from more than 100 IT. S. colleges from Feb. 17 through 23 in the 1957 National Intercollegiate Bridge tournament, sponsored since 1946 by the Games Committee of the National Association of College Unions.
Contestants will play on their own campuses the 16 hands which have been prepared and mailed to them, C. C. Nolen, University of Texas Union director chairman, announced. Prof. John P. Turley -will direct the tournament on the Notre Dame campus.
The hands will be scored by Geoffrey Mott-Smith, contract bridge authority, to determine campus, regional, and national winners.
Two national championships will be awarded. One trophy will go to the college of the pair scoring highest on the east-west hands. Another trophy will go to the college of the north-south hand winners. Winning colleges will have custody of the trophies for one year. Each of the four individual winners will receive a smaller cup foi‘ his private possession.
Colleges entering the bridge tournament for the first time will receive a plaque designed to bear the names of the four individual campus champions. Each local campus winner will also receive a certificate suitable for framing.
Some 1,770 students from 87 colleges entered the competition in 1956. Harvard and Dartmouth were 1956 cochampions.
Marines Honor ND Senior In Platoon Leader Program
Vincent Dooley, senior physical education majoi* from Westfield, N.J., was selected as the honor student for the first increment of summer Platoon Leaders Corps training at Quantico, Va. this past summer. Dooley received the top rating out of 810 junior PLC candidates.
The PLC program consists of junior and senior training courses, each consisting of six week periods. These programs stress physical conditioning while teaching basic military conduct, tactics and military bearing.
After satisfactorily completing these two courses, and upon graduation from college, the PLC candidate is qualified for a USMC second lieutenant commission. Then, after commissioning, the new Marine officer returns to Quantico for nine months of basic officer training.
Dooley attended both the junior and senior courses during the past summer and has qualified for a commission upon graduation from Notre Dame.
39
&
I---------------
February 15, 1957
Career opportunities for the men of '57
ENGINEERS * CHEMISTS * PHYSICISTS
Ceramic • Chemical • Civil Electrical • Industrial • Mechanical
Metallurgical
National- Carbon Company, America’s foremost manufacturer of carbon and graphite electrodes and anodes, impervious graphite, brushes for motors and generators, dry cells and flashlights, arc carbons and a wide variety of other industrial products, offers positions to qualified B.S. and M.S. graduates in the fields listed above.
Positions are available at National Carbon Company’s 15 plants, located in the following states: Iowa, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Tennessee, West Virginia and Vermont, and throughout the country in our sales organization. .
Interesting, rewarding careers in research, process and product development, production and methods engineering, product and process control, machine development, plant engineering and sales. A National Carbon representative will be on campus —
Thursday, February 28
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY
A Division of
Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation
Marquette Professor Gives Biological Survival Lecture
Dr. Donald F. Greiff, a former mem-her of the departments of biology and *|= pathology at St. Louis University, will ® deliver a lecture in Room 107 of the g. Biology Building at 4 p.m. today.
His topic will be “The effects of tv freezing, low temperature storage, and^'J-drying by vacuum sublimation on the“S; survival of biological entities.”	1/
Dr. Greiff is a member of the Genetics L
Society and the Society of Zoologists. & He was recently appointed professor of pathology at the School of Medicine, ? Marquette University, and is the recipi- t ent of an NSF grant to aid the establishment of research laboratories of ; pathology at Marquette.
Math Teachers Slated To Hold Institute Here
KIIational TO ADC MARK
CARBON AND
GRAPHITE PRODUCTS
EVEREADY
TRADE-MARKS
BATTERIES
PRESTOHE BRAND ANTI-FREEZE
KARBATE BRAND
IMPERVIOUS GRAPHITE
Have a WORLD of FUN! Bwith TITA bJe Low Cost Europt $525 Orient i fruoi $998 f tours include liege credit. ost trips to Mexico ut^ America $699 up, iy Tours $528 up and > World $1398 up.
SITA Chicago
DR. N. FIZDALE OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
126 N. Michigan, South Bend CE 2-1202
A summer institute for high school mathematics teachers will be held at Notre Dame June 21 through Aug. 6, it was recently announced by Dr. Arnold^ Ross, head of the University’s depart-^ ment of mathematics.
A recent grant of $47,000 from the National Science Foundation will underwrite the cost of this year’s institute including the tuition, subsistence, de- . pendents’ allotments and travel expenses : of many of the students, Dr. Ross dis- t-closed. The exact amount of each stu- i ' dent’s stipend will depend on his indi- ? vidual needs and requirements, he said.^^
The Notre Dame Mathematics Teacher ; Training program, established in 1947, is one of 95 summer institutes for teach- ; ers of mathematics and science being i sponsored this year by the National - : Science Foundation. Through grants . J totaling $4,800,000 the Foundation is en- j deavoring to help teachers improve the ?-• « quality of their teaching and learn at ’ . first hand the recent research progress^ : ■ in their respective fields.	s
Dr. Ross stressed that the courses in । | Notre Dame’s summer Mathematics Institute are not courses in teaching j g methods, but rather “a carefully pre- • pared introduction to those ideas of e'g higher mathematics which are of particular value to the teacher of mathematics.” While teachers may enroll in^», a this year’s institute without committing- :g themselves for future years, Dr. Ross pointed out that most persons attending ? J the annual Notre Dame institute are pursuing a five summer program leading to a master’s degree in mathematics. :
Further information may be obtained by writing Dr. Arnold Ross, Department of Mathematics, Notre Dame, Ind. ‘
40
The Scholastic 1
eND
Library Displays St. Bernadette Letter
A treasured letter- written by Saint Bernadette of Lourdes is being exhibited in the Notre Dame Library during this month. It is the center of an exhibit of pictures, books and other material describing the famed French shrine where fthe Virgin Mary appeared to youthful Bernadette Soubirous in 1858.
The letter was presented to Notre Dame in 1939 by the late Fred Snite, Jr., who died in 1954 after spending 18 years in an iron lung. Snite acquired the letter when he visited Lourdes and presented it to Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., then president of Notre Dame and now Archbishop of Philadelphia, upon his return to the United States.
St. Bernadette, canonized in 1933, was favored with 18 apparitions of Our Lady at the Lourdes grotto in 1858. The
Notre Dame exhibit coincides with the Feast of Our Lady of Lourdes, Feb. 11. The centenary of the Lourdes apparitions will be observed throughout the Catholic world next year.
According to Rev. Philip Schaerf, C.S.C., confraternity director, Bernadette’s letter was written on Jan. 1, 1859, when she was 15 years old, to a Mademoiselle and Doctor Dozous. Her lettei-conveys New Year’s greetings to her correspondents.

5$
«)



FEBRUARY 18

Will be on campus
for placement interviews in the following areas
AIRCRAFT ENGINE CONTROLS
GUIDED MISSILES—COMPLETE DEVELOPMENT
AIRCRAFT LANDING GEAR
AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS
MECHANICAL
ELECTRONIC
AERONAUTICAL
ENGINEERS
CIVIL
METALLURGICAL
Products Division, Bendix Aviation Corporation
South Bend, Indiana
February 15, 1957
41
by Hal Blakeslee
f
£
t i’
£■
F
a curious'
brainchild
In the last five or six years, the American public has permanently adopted a curious brainchild. Wnether it be portable or cabinet size, color or black and white, the television set is a piece of standard equipment in the modern home. For better or for worse, television has become a part of American family life.
Since around 1946 when awe struck audiences first became captivated by the nigntly antics of professional wrestlers, television has met with more than its share of criticism. Some of that criticism has been ill-founded—nothing more than a natural antagonism to anytning new. It seems to me however, that at least one criticism of television has proved itself a valid argument for grinding the magic tube into a thousand hunks of useless glass.
One of the most common attacks against television is that people are not reading as much as they did in the past. Third rate Western movies have replaced the truly fine novels, so say some critics. Perhaps this is true to some extent, but it seems to me that those people who were avid readers in the pre-TV days are still avid readers. The novelty of television has worn off for them. Those who read very little in the past probably don’t get by the newspapers today, but I wonder if this is necessarily wrong. With television programs improving every year, the -scanty readers of the thirties probably gain more benefit and certainly more .enjoyment from television than they would from novels.
, Another over-worked area of television criticism is that which pictures TV as the great conversation killer. Victims of chronic loquaciousness speak of television in terms of an electric plague that swept through the home and ended the urge to talk. “TV has killed the possibility of enjoying a stimulating
conversation,” critics have said. Writing from personal experience, I’ve read several accounts of stimulating conversations. I can’t say that I’ve experienced very many. Some people are excellent conversationalists and some are not. Those who are not, probably never will be, with or without the interference of television. I don’t deny that television has put a crimp in the length of the after dinner chat, but it has given something in return; TV has become so common, so universal in acceptance that it has nearly replaced the weather as the traditional conversation ice breaker.
To some degree I think television also merits praise for drawing the family together. It could be said that television unites the family only as a ball park unites its spectators, but this is not wholly the truth. Unlike the baseball game or the theater, television keeps its viewers at home. A family cannot function as a unit if its members are scattered in every direction. Television brings the family home and at least gives it a chance for harmony and understanding.
Some invention this television. It brings some of the finest (and some of the saddest) entertainment in the world right into the living room. A simple twist of a dial can erase an hour long drama and bring a travelogue of Europe right into the living room. That is just the point however. Most people seem to forget that living rooms have doors, and one of those doors ordinarily opens out into the street. Any guest entering the home must necessarily come in by way of the front door and pass through the living room. What greets him there is hardly the soul of hospitality. Instead of a hearty welcome and an invitation to sit. down, the guest is met by the back of as many heads as there are people in the family. Groping in the darkness, he must thread his way through a maze of seemingly brain
washed zombies and park himself incon- -spicuously in a chair. Once seated, he must remain perfectly silent until the 17-inch monster blows up or the program currently in progress comes to an end.
Once the set is turned off, the living room scene bursts into bloom with cordiality. A chorus of “how’ve you beens?” and “glad you could drop overs” ring through the air with amazing friendli-.' ness—’amazing because the whole family has just totally ignored the guest for the first half hour of his visit. This amounts to somewhat of a departure from social custom.
Obviously the way to avoid such a reception for guests is either to turn the television off or keep it in some other : room. Both solutions are impractical \ however. First of all, it seems there is_ an unwritten law of human nature thafB -demands learning the end to any story, . no matter how poor it may be, guest or no guest. The impractical side of the < second solution is a physical one—just . where does one put a TV set if not in the living room? Some modem homes have special television rooms, built for the sole purpose of gathering a blank faced throng around a thoughtless tube. Older homes afford no such luxury. Th^ only possible resting place for television in these homes is the living room. But . once a TV set is installed in a living room, that room ceases to serve some of the purposes for which it was intended. No longer is it a place for lounging and relaxing, for receiving guests and entertaining. When the set is turned on, the living room becomes a television room whose only function i^ to provide enough chairs for the viewers present.
Television is a great contribution to living, but it is not a substitute for it. Perhaps in time every home will have a special room for watching television. Till then, it might not be bad idea to keep the set off when the occasion calls for it^Tl
42
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
9,)
_	The '57 Casual Look-Arrow Style
This Arrow Squire sports a pattern with decided freshness. Black on white available in three different sized plaids. New medium-spread collar has buttondown front plus button at back. Exact sleeve length. \ (This same shirt is also available in White Tartan
—sue new miniature plaids.) Arrow Squire, “Sanforized” gingham, $5.95.
HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR
HARROW
CASUAL WEAR
The word is gingham -in black and white
It’s been a long time since we’ve seen a shirt become so popular so fast. Men come in ... see this handsome Arrow Squire ... and buy. That simple. The new Squire collar buttons down front and center back. And because it’s an Arrow—you get your exact sleeve length. Arrow Squire in “Sanforized” gingham, $5.95.

GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS (Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
[ive Modern!
Pick the Pack that Suits You Best!
When Bill goes hunting or fishing he finds the Crush-proof box a natural.
You are free to choose . . . only when you smoke modern L&M.
Smoke modern IAM and always get
full exciting flavor
...PLUS THE PURE WHITE MIRACLE TIP
10R7 r irxrntt XV	r»_
With L&M ... and only L&M ... can you pick the pack that suits you best. And only L&M gives you the flavor... the full, exciting flavor that makes L&M ...
AMERICA'S FASTEST GROWING CIGARETTE