Howfte£tejot£^rted
Start Smoking Camels Yourself!
Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are America’s most popular cigarette. See how mild and fiavorful a cigarette can be!
i started smokwg camels
Jane Greer says: “I was a band singer when a picture magazine asked me to pose in the new WAC uniforms. Hollywood saw my picture, liked it and overnight I was in movies.
From then on, it was hard work and perseverance.”
after trying many brands. /
found Camels'mildness and flavor
-far more enjoyable than -the rest:
\bu inill, fool Ldhy dont you try
Camels today
Ck	W MILDNESS Qhcf FLAVOR
AMELS AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE
M
FORD AT FIFTY
Ford at Fifty is proud of its part in the march of progress along the American Road. Todav all America travels on wheels. Our sights are set on a new half-century of growth, symbolized by the Ford Rotunda. Creative research and engineering will spearhead our efforts to pioneer a new American Road to a better life for all.
The Ford Graduate Training Program offers opportunities in the following fields of endeavor:
ENGINEERING
MANUFACTURING
ACCOUNTING
FINANCE
FORD MOTOR COMPANY
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS OCTOBER 27, 1953	DEARBORN, MICHIGAN
October 23, 1953

Adlers serving more than two generations of N. D. Men
Enjoy 4 new advantages of...
ORLON Flannel Slacks
specially priced at
$1295
(Regularly $16.95)
Orlon . . . Dupont’s wonderful new miracle fiber blended with fine long staple wool
gives these flannel slacks four new freedoms . . . thev retain their crease longer . . . hold their
shape better . . . wrinkles hang out . . . they wear longer
... all at no extra cost. Choice of Frostone grey,
Cambridge grey, Oatmeal tan, Frostone blue. Regulars, shorts and long sizes.
Open a charge account at
Michigan at Washington

I wish to enter a protest concerning a caption you carry below a picture in your Oct. 2 issue. The picture is one taken at the Notre Dame-Oklahoma game and has the caption, “One of the partisan Oklahoma fans raises hands in hope.”
Apparently the photographer did not know it, but his shot was taken towards the Oklahoma City Alumni section. The picture shows my wife, a resident of South Bend until 1949, and as avid a Notre Dame rooter as there is in this nation, and myself, a Notre Dame faculty member for seven years, current secretary of the Oklahoma City Alumni Club, and local 1952 Notre Dame Man of the Year, which all in all should take us out of the “Oklahoma Fan” category at least for this game.
While all the “hot weather gear” makes us difficult to recognize, we surely don’t want our Notre Dame and South Bend friends to suspect us of disloyalty to the Irish.
Yours truly,
E. S. Kavanaugh, Vice-pres., Metropolitan Paving Co., Inc.
Former Student, Fr. Boarman Named Speakers' Moderator
According to John Mahoney, president of the Bureau, Rev. Glenn Boarman, C.S.C., is the new moderator of the Speakers’ Bureau.
Fr. Boarman, a former student at the University, is a member of the Department of Philosophy and rector of Fisher Hall. During his student days at NotrF Dame, Fr. Boarman assisted Rev. Charles F. Sheedy, C.S.C., publishing the World War II Chaplains’ Digest. As a member of the class of ’46 he was awarded the Breen Medal for oratory and the Cavanaugh-Goodrich Prize.
This year the Bureau will place more emphasis on individual practice in speech. At the second meeting members were given their first chance to speak by introducing themselves and giving their background. Each speech was followed by a short period of criticism. During the year members will be urged to enter the various speech contests on campus.
Because of the initial success last year, a more extensive program of discussion is being planned with schools of the regional forensic commission of the NFCCS and with other schools in the area.
4
The Scholastic
by Ken Murphy
Top of the Week
Saturday classes on home football week-ends have been shortened to 35 minutes. . .
War on the Bog
It happened at approximately 10:05 p.m. last Thursday, October 15th. The quiet serenity of Badin Bog was abruptly disturbed by hiking feet and battle cries that were unmistakably those of an outraged people in revolt. We peered out of our Walsh Hall crow’s nest, heart pounding, with memories of Alamo, Fort Sumter, Lexington and Pearl Harbor fleeting
through our mind. What was it, we wondered to ourselves. Had one of the rebels around here finally gone too far?
Our front-line correspondent was promptly on the scene, however, and sent back a steady staccato of information. The first report clued us as to who was doing what to whom. It read: “Sorin is storming the Badin Bastille.”
Not much in quantity, but what quality! Undoubtedly our correspondent was a journalism major. We watched and waited through the perilous night. Then, by the dawn’s early light, as a gray fog hovered over the no-man’s land of the Bog, Sorin proudly unfurled her colors, sending one of her troops scampering up a desolate sapling to stake claim to the battlefield with a huge “Sorin Swamp” sign.
Our correspondent later informed us that it all started after Badin had absconded one of the benches from Sorin’s front stoop. But Sorin’s valiant warriors eventually recaptured the valued piece of furniture and won the day. We still think one of the rebels went too far.
down the main steps, then the tradition is cheapened somewhat, don’t you think?
Ode To A Gene
There zvas a young journalist from Chi Who said the Spartans ivere the apple of his eye
He would earnestly exclaim
Game after every game
That Munn’s men were a dream from on high;
They had a twenty eight-game victory skein
Having overrun the toughest opposition on the scene
Including the Marquettes and Syracuse The Hoosiers and the TCU’s
Even the State of Oregon was among the victims listed by Gene;
Meanwhile the overrated Irish of Coach Leahy
Remain “as yet untested” so say he They’re not bad, mind you But Oklahoma, Pitt and Purdue Are really nobody to dismay thee.
I’ve written this poem although I’m not a poet. But that’s okay because Gene Kessler has written some sports columns. . .
Requiescot in Pace
One of the most sensational figures to hit the campus in many a moon has gone to the happy hunting grounds. With a catch in my voice and a wee tear in my eye, I feel it my duty to inform you that “Virginia Burke” is no more —she is kaput. The 17-inch Sorin alligator passed away quietly last Sunday eve and was put to rest with the proper festivities on Monday eve.
At first it was thought that the excitement of the recent civil war may have been too much for the old girl, but at the coroner’s inquest it was learned that she died of starvation—wouldn’t eat the food from the Chow Hall for three weeks.
Pre-Season Prognosticators
We were thumbing through one of those early-August football magazines the other day. Ever do it? Try it some time. Once in awhile it’s good for a laugh. Like for instance what this one writer had to say in his appraisal of Princeton. Quote: “On paper the Tigers . . . figure to be close to the pinnacle again. If they get by Navy in mid-October, they may pick up all the marbles.”
Well, as you all know, the Tigers didn’t quite make it over, under, around or past the Middies last Saturday and are still looking for a few of their marbles which were scattered all over the field. 65-7. Wow!
Bottom of the Week
. . . but you still have to go to them.
Consecrated or Desecrated?
Roget’s Pocket Thesaurus, the bible of all Journalism majors, defines the term “tradition” as “time-honored, venerable, inveterate.” Now Notre Dame, like all other colleges and universities, has a few traditions which have been handed down through its 112 long years. Chief among these is the tradition that no one uses the front steps of the Main Building until after he has graduated from the old Alma Mater.
Naturally we can see where lay professors or members of the clergy or even presidential candidates who have not received a degree from Notre Dame might be considered an exception to this unwritten law, but when every secretary and every tourist and everybody else around here except the students finds it more convenient to run up and
GLASSES FITTED
SATISFACTORY OPTICAL SERVICE IN SOUTH BEND FOR OVER 50 YEARS
Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER Associates
228 So. Michigan St.
You Always Get a Square
Deal at Breen’s
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS EXPBIT WATCH REPAIRING BREEN’S •CWWCi
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
October 23, 1953
5
OCTOBER 23
SOUTH OF THE TENNIS COURTS (7:30 p.m).—Green hats, a bonfire and loud voices (louder and stronger than last week, we hope) start the “Wreck Tech” weekend rolling with a giant-size pep rally.
WASHINGTON HALL (8:30 p.m.)—The University Theatre presents the farce-comedy, Three Men on a Horse, a story of a verse writer who discovers he has an uncanny knack of picking horse race winners. Jerry Godwin, Denni Egry, Rhodi Oppenheim, and Hildegarde Vargyas (of course) play big roles.
PALACE (through tomorrow)—Mighty Joe Young and Isle of the Dead, two re-issues guaranteed not to make you come back to the hall saying you saw a great show. Both are intended as thrillers. You might get a few laughs.
COLFAX (through Oct. 28)—Gary Cooper and Barbara Stanwyck play the leads in a fast moving thing called Blowing Wild. Pretty fair.
GRANADA (through Oct. 29)—A better than average Western with some sane uses of 3-D, Wings of the Haivk has plenty of action for the outdoor enthusiasts and a romantic angle for the home-sick. Resurrected by television, the Corsican brothers return to the Hollywood screen in the second attraction, The Bandits of Corsica.
ANOYl (two weeks)—The Legion of Decency gave The Moon is Blue a “C” rating. ’Nuff said.
STUDENT CENTER (9 p.m.-l a.m.)—The sophomores officially open the new center with the Cotillion “Fashioned in Fantasy.” Buddy Morrow, late of the 1953 Junior Prom, will provide the music. Wonder how many times he’ll play “Night Train.”
OCTOBER 24
STADIUM (1:30 p.m.)—Georgia Tech’s 31-game defeatless string goes to the Irish guillotine as the Leahymen set out to convince everybody, including a certain Chicago sports columnist, that they deserve the top spot in the nation.
DRILL HALL (8:30-11:30 p.m.)—We’ve had a “shuffle,” a “bop,” a “swing” and a “chase.” Now the Student Senate presents the gem of alliteration, the “Tech Trot.” In case you’re confused, this is merely the weekly Senate Dance which is traditionally called a Victory Dance. Here’s hopin’ we hold to tradition.
WASHINGTON HALL (8:30 p.m.)—Three Men on a Horse replaces the weekly Washington Hall film presentation. It’s quite an improvement.
OCTOBER 25
WASHINGTON HALL (2:30 and 8:30 p.m.)—Three Men on a Horse continues with a double performance. Last showing Monday at 8:30 p.m.
PALACE (through Oct. 29)—Walt Disney’s production of The Sword and the Rose (A-2) is a tale of a mediaeval English romance. Not kid stuff. Lex Barker is swinging through the trees again, this time in pursuit of ivory hunters in Tarzan and the She-Devil. Best acting job is done by Cheeta. RIVER PARK (through Oct. 27)—Despite Lana Turner’s contribution to the scenery, Latin Lovers (A-2) isn’t much. Dick Widmark and Jean Peters get into a scrape with the Commies in the co-feature, Pickup on South Street (B).
STATE (two days)—Jimmy Stewart is Jones in Along Came Jones, an oldie Western with a pretty neat twist. As for the second picture, Belle of the Yukon, the best we can say for it is that we never heard of it.
OCTOBER 29
COLFAX (a week)—Little Boy Lost (A-l) is a heart-warming story of an American war correspondent’s search for a missing French boy during the early part of World War II. Bing Crosby does a fine job in the dramatic role of the correspondent. Christian Fourcade is the boy.
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 S. MICHIGAN
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
SPAGHETTI RAVIOLI CHICKEN	STEAKS
We Cater to Banquets and Parties
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant Open Sundays
610 NORTH MICHIGAN
3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
DRRWTURB0W
\OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
CONTACT LENSES Phone 4-5777
207 W. Washington-Oliver Hotel
CAMERAS FOUNTAIN PENS
128 W. Washington
6
The Scholastic
Vol. 95 October 23, 1953 No. 5
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame,, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER .................News
FRED C. ECKART ...............Copy
JOHN A. ADAMS ....._Assistant Copy PAUL J. LaFRENIERE.—Assistant Copy JOHN E. SLAVICK ____....Features ROBERT B. FROLICHER ....Sports JERRY D. BAIER __..Advertising B. JERRY CAMPBELL ......Circulation BOB FOWLER_______Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE____Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Bill Burnett, Dick Connelly, Carroll Dowden, Ellis Joseph, John Manion, Jim Mason, Dick Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan, Pete Sturtevant, Mike Ward.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Dick Bennett, Gordon DiRenzo, Bob Fowler, Jim Galde, Bob Huddleston, Bob Mackey, Gerry Trafficanda, Ed Turner, Dana Weithers.
Member of Catholic School Press Association,_ Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
OUR COVER: Tomorrow afternoon the Fighting Irish take the field in Notre Dame Stadium against the Georgia Tech gridders, striving to do just what the cover says — “Wreck Tech,” and send them rambling back home, engineers and all. The game, Sophomore Cotillion tonight, and Hall Decorations Contest will pack the weekend with more than the usual color and excitement found here on home-game Saturdays. More than 56,000 people will be in the Stadium watching the weekend’s climax as the Irish battle to “Wreck Tech.”
THE NOTRE DAME
Scholastic
Communism: Just Chasing Our Own Tails
The ill wind that began to blow with the Elizabeth Bentley and Whittaker Chambers cases in the Summer of 1948 has whipped itself into a hurricane.
When these sensational espionage accusations first burst from legislative chambers. former president Harry- Truman called them a “Red Herring.” A prominent Washington correspondent had another phrase: “rank calumny.” And at the time, it seemed that the majority of the U.S. public was siding with the president and his newspaper patrol-boy.
Now, however, after the recent prosecution of the Rosenbergs and repeated up-turnings of Communist infiltration by House and Congressional investigations committees, it appears that the public is changing its mind fast. A wave of muffled terror is rippling through the ranks of legislators, educators, and everyday citizens who once basked in the warm sun of “security” and complacency.
The gravity of the situation is reflected in recent findings of Senator McCarthy’s Permanent Investigating Committee and reports from Senator Jenner’s Internal Security Subcommittee.
Fletchel Knebel, of Look’s Washington bureau, reported recently that investigators have the goods on hundreds of people who hold key positions in U.S. government. A total of 175 former Federal employees who have appeared before the committees refused to testify if they were, or had been, affiliated with the Communist party. They remain innocent, of course, unless they are proven guiltv.
The group includes: a former member of the National Labor Relations Board: research chemist who worked on the top-secret Manhattan District (A-bomb) Project; an assistant general counsel for the NLRB and bureau chief of the Foreign Economic Administration; a chief counsel of the La Follette civil liberties committee, head of the Justice Department’s antitrust trial section, assistant general counsel for the WPA and special counsel for the Securities and Exchange Commission; a financial expert who acted as adviser of Security of State George C. Marshall at the Moscow Foreign Ministers’ Council.
Again . . . these witnesses remain innocent until proven guilty. But . . . is it wrong to condemn people for wondering?
In education too, there seems to be a bumpercrop of suspects. Internal Security Subcommittee reports indicate that 82 of more than 100 educators who were queried in both open and closed sessions refused to testify, but instead utilized their rights as stipulated by the constitution granting immunity against self-incrimination. Only three witnesses admitted party membership. Of the 82, 40 were employees or faculty members of 16 different universities. Others taught in the secondary schools or either held positions in the educational system.
Again—they haven’t been proven guilty . . .
Discussing the scorching national controversv over treatment of witnesses and pilloried reputations, Elmer Davis, in a recent Harpefs Magazine article, indicated that if the U.S. is worth saving, freedom of speech is a fundamental necessity. On the other end of the rope, editors of the Queen’s
Journal at Queen’s University in Canada — like so many others — defend the methods employed by our committees in asking: “is the Communist threat . . . not a much greater and more immediate danger . . .”
We all keep running around in the same vicious circle—chasing our own tails. We’re stymied with the question of who should pull the trigger while the big black bear stands waiting for the kill.
Yet, the big question still remains unanswered: Where did the bear come from, and how many friends does he have? Someone had better answer it soon.
October 23, 1953
Notre Dame
Publications
Diplomacy in a Whirlpool: Hungary Between Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia, by Stephen Kertesz.
The story of the totalitarian conquest of Hungary by the Nazi and Red regimes is graphically told by the man who served in the Hungarian Foreign Ministry during the war and postwar years.	$4.75
Soviet Imperialism: Its Origins and Tactics, edited by Waldemar Gurian.
This basic text deals with the central question of the Cold War: Is the enemy “Eternal Russia” or Communist aggression?	$3.75
Pan-Slavism: Its History and Ideology.
by Hans Kohn.
The first attempt in English at a comprehensive survey and analysis of Slav Nationalism, from its beginning after the Napoleonic Wars to its climax in and after World War II.	$6.25
The Foreign Policy of the British Labour Government 1945-1951, by M. A. Fitzsimons.
A lighting up of the major lines and development of the British foreign policy while the Labour Government held office.	$3.25
Bolshevism: An Introduction to Soviet Communism, by Waldemar Gurian.
A clear and cogent treatment that reveals the basic features of Bolshevism as a social and political religion.	$3.25
Christian Democracy in Italy and France, by Mario Einaudi and Francois Goguel.
A study of the Christian Democratic Party in Italy and the MRP, the party of the Fourth French Republic.	$4.00
Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy, by Ferdinand A. Hermens.
An important volume on the effects of Proportional Representation between 1918 and 1950.	$4.00
Peter E. Dietz, Labor Priest, by Mary Harrita Fox.
This is a biography of America’s first labor priest. As a pioneer champion of labor, Father Dietz worked alongside such men as Samuel Gompers, Matthew Woll, Daniel Tobin, and Phillip Murray in his attempts to find a desirable solution to industrial strife. $4.75
On Sale At
University of Notre Dame
Notre Dame, 100 Years, by Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C.
A complete and popularly written history of Notre Dame, filled with anecdotes and interesting stories. A perfect gift for that friend back home.	$4.00
The Review of Politics
A quarterly that provides in every' issue a full range of life within the historical and philosophical focus of the articles which consider the problems of contemporary Christian world-view. Walter Lippman says, “I regard the Review of Politics as having very’ few equals and no superiors in the English-speaking world in the serious discussion of international politics.” $4.00 a year
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. 1,
Edited by Alfred L. Scanlan.	$2.00
The Natural Law Philosophy of the Founding Fathers, by Clarence E. Manion.
The Natural Law and Pragmatism, by Ben W. Palmer.
The Doctrine of Natural Law Philosophy, by Mortimer Adler. Natural Law and Positive Law, by Harold R. McKinnon.
The Eternal Law Background of Natural Law, by William J.
Doheny, C.S.C.
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. II.
Edited by Alfred L. Scanlan.	$2.00
Natural Law in the Greek Period, by Maurice LeBel.
Natural Law in the Roman Period, by Ernest Levy’.
Medieval Conceptions of Natural Law, by Gordon Hall Gerould. The Natural Law in the Renaissance Period, by Heinrich A.
Rommen.
Statius of Natural Law in American Jurisprudence, by Robert N. Wilkin.
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. III.
Edited by Edward F. Barrett.	$2.00
The Natural Law and Common Law, by Richard O’Sullivan. The Natural Law and Constitutional Law. by Edward S. Corwin. The Natural Law and Canon Law, by Stephan Kuttner.
The Natural Law and International Law. by Carlos P. Romulo.
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. IV.
Edited by Edward F. Barrett.	$2.00.
The Source of Human Rights, by George E. Sokolsky.
The Natural Law and the Right to Liberty, by Hon. Thomas J. Brogan.
The Natural Law and the Right to Property, by Hon. Joseph C. Hutcheson, Jr.
The Natural Law and the Right of Self-Expression, by Felix Morley.
The Natural Law and the Right to Pursue Happiness, by John C. Ford, S.J.	.
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. V.
Edited by Edward F. Barrett.	$2.00.
The Natural Law in the Jewish Tradition, by Rabbi Solomon Freehof.
The Natural Law in the Hindu Tradition, by Professor M. S. Sundaram.
The Natural Law in the Confucian Tradition, by Dr. Hu Shih.
The Natural Law in the Moslem Tradition, by Dr. Khalifa Abdul Hakim.
The Natural Law in the Buddhist Tradition, by Daisetz T. Suzuki.
The Bookstore
Press, Notre Dame, Indiana
8
The Scholastic
The Scholastic
Volume 95, Number 5	Notre Dame, Indiana	October 23, 1953
Tech Invasion Opens Gala Weekend
Buddy Morrow, New Student Center Combine For Soph Cotillion 'Fashioned in Fantasy'
Tonight Miss Muriel Banks of Chicago will reign as queen of the 1953 Cotil-ion as the sophomores and their dates ■' open the new Student Center with an evening “Fashioned in Fantasy.”
Miss Banks, the date of Chairman Elrie Chrite, is presently attending Talladega College, Talladega, Ala.
For the first time in the history of the Cotillion, a memory book giving a pictorial coverage of the weekend will be published. The 24-page book, which will contain pictures of the dance, pep rally, football game, and the victorydance, will be distributed to those who purchased bids. It is expected that the production will roll off the presses in about two weeks.
The festivities of the weekend will * begin at the bonfire pep rally to be held in the field south of the tennis courts at 7 p.m. The rally has been moved up to give the dance-goers ample time to dress.
The doors of the new Student Center will be officially opened at 9 p.m. There will be little decorating, since the emphasis is to be on the natural beauty of the Center. Large stars, covered with phosphorous powder and suspended at various heights, will be illuminated with ultraviolet light to produce a glowing effect. There is also to be a fountain, p illuminated by special effects, located on the patio.
Assisting Buddy Morrow, his trombone, and his orchestra, in supplying i music for the' sophomores and their ' dates, will be his vivacious female voca-I list, Jean Terry, and musical comedian, I * Frankie Lester. Along with the original :	renditions of Big Beat and Night Train,
T	the Morrowmen are sure to fill the
ballroom with many danceable tunes.
During intermissions, the Forget-Me-Notes, a quartet composed of John God-ecke, Charles Hickman, Bob Kesteloot, and Joe Casurella, will stroll about the dance floor reviving some of the old
barbershop tunes. The group consists of three sophomores and a freshman.
Several of the students have been using their spare moments within the
MURIEL BANKS
Reigns Over Court of Fantasy
past week to help move the new furnishings into the center. The decoration of the building was under the direction of Mrs. Laura Jenkins, who has also supervised the decorating of Morris Inn and the White House.
The main ballroom and the two rooms immediately adjoining it to the rear will be used for dancing, while the refreshment booth and tables will be located on the first floor. It is requested that no beverages be taken to the second floor.
In accordance with tradition, the favors are top secret until the night of the dance.
The earliest time of departure is 12 p.m., while the dance will continue until (Continued on page 32)
Bonfire Rally Lifts Lid on Homecoming Card
The largest crowd of the season will tread the campus green tomorrow to watch Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish try to put the brakes on the Rambling ’Recks from Georgia Tech whose unbeaten string has now run to 31 games.
More than 20 special trains will bring thousands of football fans to the campus from all parts of the country. The usual football-weekend confusion and excitement will reign as many forecast this to be the game of the season. Rated number one throughout the country, the Irish will have their hands full with Hardeman and Co. No member of Tech’s present team has ever played in a losing game.
Setting off the bonanza weekend will be a bonfire pep rally at 7 pan. tonight in the field south of the tennis courts. The Notre Dame band will parade around the campus gathering the students for the rally. Hall presidents are urged to organize their hall members under a hall banner, and parade with the band to the rally area.
On hand to encourage the team with some words of well-deserved praise will be Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., vicepresident of the University, and Ed- ’ ward “Moose” Krause, director of athletics. Captain Don Penza will represent the varsity with a short speech.
For the lucky sophomore who is Cotillion bound, the evening will be far from over after the pep rally. For the first time in Notre Dame’s history, a dance will be held in the University’s own Student Center.
Buddy Morrow, his trombone, and his orchestra will serenade Cotillion-goers in the just-completed Student Center’s first social activity.
The interior of the new Center will reesmble a grand ball room including six
(Continued on page 33)
October 23, 1953
WRECK TECH
FATHER THOMAS J. McDONAGH
New Department of Economics Head
Fr. Hesburgh Names Department Heads
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, recently announced the appointment of two department heads in the College of Arts and Letters. Rev. Thomas J. McDonagh, C.S.C., has been named head of the Department of Economics, and Rev. Stanley Parry, C.S.C., will serve as acting head of the Department of Political Science, Father Hesburgh said.
Father McDonagh succeeds Mr. John H. Sheehan who asked to be relieved of the post because of poor health. A faculty member since 1937 Sheehan will continue to teach several courses. Father Parry succeeds Rev. Raymond F. Cour, C.S.C., who will devote his full time to study and research.
Father McDonagh, who is a specialist in labor problems, returned to the faculty this Fall after teaching for two years at the University of Portland in Oregon. He received his master’s degree and doctorate at the University of Wisconsin and took his theological training at the Gregorian University in Rome. A native of Hammond, Ind., Father McDonagh was ordained on June 24, 1943, at Sacred Heart Church here.
Father Parry recently completed studies for his doctorate at Yale. He received his master’s degree from Georgetown University and took his undergraduate work at the University. He joined the faculty in 1950 and has taught courses including American Political Theory and Public Administration. Father Parry is a native of Mauch Chunk, Pa.
10
YCS, in 14th Year, Anticipates Busy Schedule; Fr. Norton Cites Need for Christian Leaders
Now in its 14th year of existence, the Young Christian Students movement is anticipating one of its most active years on campus. The YCS is an apostolic movement with ecclesiastical approbation and international ramification. The organization had its beginning at Notre Dame in 1940, but now has its national headquarters in Chicago.
The main objective of the group is to train students for Catholic leadership in professional life after graduation. On campus, the YCS is responsible for the Student Book Exchange, the Campus Press, St. Mary’s-Notre Dame socials, Gethsemane retreats, NFCCS National Catholic Action Study Commission, and various other activities. .
General meetings are held on the last Sunday of each month at 1:30 p.m. in the basement lounge of O’Shaughnessy Hall. The basis of the YCS is the “small leader” groups that meet weekly in the various residence halls. These are grouped into sections and the federation unites them into a vital, dynamic unit.
Next Sunday the general theme for the meeting will be “For a Fuller Student Life.” Group leaders will give factual reports of conclusions and actions since the last meeting.
The guest speaker will be Mr. Paul Bleumle, a full-time worker for the YCS from the Chicago National Headquarters. His address will cover the historical background of Catholic Action and the objectives of action on a college level.
Following Mr. Bleumle’s talk a discussion will be carried on concerning the question, “Is there a difference between an ordinary student community and a Christian one?”
At the initial meeting of the year Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs, and Dave Burrell, co-president of the YCS, carried out the theme, “The Student and the School Community.”
Father Norton urged students to strive for the ideal of corporate living and to develop a consciousness of the student vocation. “True Christian leaders are those who have the power to influence others for Christ; a willingness to serve others; a sense of responsibility. On campus there are many opportunities for leadership — in student government, social clubs, and residence halls.”
The ensuing monthly meetings for the balance of the semester will have the following general themes: “A Responsi-
GO IRISH
ble Student Government,” “Meet the Student Press and Radio,” “Student Social Life,” and “Apostolic Opportunities.”
Officers of the club are Dave Burrell and Yates Hafner, co-presidents; Joe Imbriaco, vice-president; and Tom Wageman, treasurer. Miss Alice Healy is employed as full-time secretary.
Cogley Religious Talk
Scheduled for Nov, 2
John Cogley, executive editor of Commonweal magazine, will lecture on the issue of interreligious relations in America at 8 p.m., on Nov. 2, in Washington Hall.
Mr. Cogley, editor of Today, is one of the most prominent Catholic writers and lecturers in the United States. He served on the book-review staff of the New York Times and Herald Tribune, writing other articles in America, Digest, Look, Colliers, and Readers’ Digest.
“Mr. Cogley will lecture on this serious American problem in an objective and critical manner and it should be of interest to those of all religions,” stated Dr. Kane.
A question and answer period will follow the lecture so that everyone will have an opportunity to express his views.
JOHN COGLEY
Lectures on Interreliigious Relations
The Scholastic
SNAP THE STREAK
University Thespians Show Broadway Hit
Tonight at 8:30 the Washington Hall curtain rises on the University Theatre production of the Broadway hit Three Men on a Horse before an anticipated •500 first-nighters.
Jerry Godwin and Denni Egry are co-stars in the farce-comedy. In the role of Irwin, a writer of greeting card verses, Godwin’s role is one of constant mirth and laughter. Egry, as the toughtalking, but kind-hearted, ex-chorus girl will perform as the wife of Patsy, the gambler.
The play concerns Irwin who, in addition to his verse writing, has the hobby of picking the right horse in the right race. Three gamblers recognize Irwin’s extraordinary talent in this line of work, and they persuade him to capitalize on his hobby. Irwin’s troubles are just beginning-, and it is many a laugh before his life' is back to normal.
Marshall Desmond, John Kent, and Joe Brennan, respectively, portray the three gamblers, Patsy, Charlie, and Frankie. Rody Oppenheim is Audrey, Irwin’s wife, while Dick Gerkin plays Mr. Carver, Irwin’s unsympathetic boss.
Tom Bloomer is a well-meaning barkeeper, named Harry. Jim Ryan and Ed Sexauer are Clarence and the elevator boy. In the part of the Swedish maid is Hildegarde Vargyas. Others in the cast include Orlean Bick, John Meagher, John Lester, Richard Six, and Charles Menk.
A change from the previously announced dates now has the play running from tonight through Monday. On Sunday there is a matinee at 2:30 p.m. in addition to the evening show. The time of the evening performances is 8:30 p.m.
Tickets are on sale at the door before each show and all day Monday at the Washington Hall box office. Ducats are 75 cents apiece, and no seats are reserved.
Advisory Council, Alumni Start Fall Conventions Today
The University’s College of Commerce Advisory Council and the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association will convene on campus today for their Fall meetings.
The Advisory Council, headed by Edward J. Quinn, Chicago, Ill., is composed of 34 prominent executives in business and industry from coast-to-coast.
‘IRWIN’ DIDN’T PICK A WINNER
A Talented Hobby Backfires and Reaches the Point of No Returns
Donor Lewis 'Helicopters' in From Chicago For Ceremony Dedicating New Bus Terminal
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, dedicated and officially opened Notre Dame’s new bus terminal in a brief ceremony last Saturday morning.
At 11 a.m. sharp, a bright yellow helicopter settled down on the road near-the Circle after buzzing the campus a few times, drawing the stares of many a curious person.
Emerging from the fancy autogiro was Mr. Frank J. Lewis, donor of the new depot, who had flown in from his Chicago home for the ceremonies.
Following an introduction by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vicepresident of the University, Mr. Lewis addressed the gathering.
He recounted how his son, Edward, a senior in the College of Commerce, had mentioned to him how ND’ers were spending some unpleasant moments waiting for buses and cabs in the topsyturvy Hoosier weather, without the convenience of a shelter. Mr. Lewis continued, “Well, I told Ed that I would see about getting a few bricks and sticks together for a little shack!”
Accepting the $40,000 gift of Mr.
Lewis, Father Hesburgh stated, “It's always a great pleasure to accept a building for our campus.”	-
The terminal itself was designed by architectural students of the University. Robert Schwimm, a Cedar Rapids, Iowa, senior, sculptured a stone plaque of St. Christopher which adorns the front wall of the edifice.
The buff brick building, which is of contemporary design, includes a glass-enclosed waiting room for bus passengers as well as offices for the maintenance personnel of the University.
Widely known for his philanthropy, especially for the construction of many Catholic mission chapels in various parts of the country, Mr. Lewis is the founder and board chairman of the F. J. Lewis Manufacturing Co. He is also president of the Lewis School of Aeronautics, vice - president of Catholic Charities of Chicago, and a trustee of Lewis Maternity Hospital. .
Also attending the ceremonies were Mrs. Lewis and members of the President’s Committee of Chicago, a group of prominent business and professional men interested in Notre Dame. '
---------------------BEAT YELLOW JACKETS ................. ..........
October 23, 1953	M
----■------------WRECK TECH
Civil War Breaks Out Between Badin, Sorin; Bogmen Counterattack, Regain Porch Bench
By RAY KENNEDY
The age old rivalry between Badin and Sorin halls reached a new climax this past week.
It all started when the Sorinites decided that a certain bench on the Badin balcony should be “confiscated” and placed on the Sorin porch to enlarge the seating capacity for the “pulchritude parade” each Sunday. All was quiet for-a few days until the bench was missed.
Then, on a foggy Thursday night some 35 Bogmen, in bathrobes, pajamas and paper helmets, synchronized their watches and moved silently, but rapidly, across the barren bog.
This was 9:55 p. m. At 9:57 a lookout, surprised by the numbers, shouted: “Hey, where are you guys going?” No response. Then, 20 feet from the Sorin porch a battle cry was given and the siege was on!
With cool precision five sturdy Bogmen held the front door closed while all the benches, a garbage container and a rubber floor mat were carried off the porch by the cheering mob.
The Bogmen were just entering their hall when the alert resounded through the rooms of Sorin. Reminiscent of the Minute Men, 25 Sorinites responded and charged across the bog in hot pursuit.
When the Sorinites stormed the balcony, boosting each other up on their shoulders, they were thoroughly drenched with water from five waste baskets. One incensed Sorinite threatened to remove the “key brick” from Badin hall and end the whole affair. At 10:30 the Sorinites slowly retreated across the bog in defeat. That evening an emergency caucus was held by candle light at the Sorin camp.
The next morning at 5 a.m., 35 Sorinites slipped from their beds and crept across the bog with revenge in their eyes. Once in the hall, organization gave way to pandemonium and the whole hall was awakened. But before the groggy Badinites could rally to the cause the raiders were scampering across the bog with one of the benches.
At 6 a.m. a futile attempt was made by the Sorinites to rename the bog. A wooden sign reading “Sorin Swamp” was nailed high in a tree near home plate on the bog diamond. One attempt was made by a small group of Bogmen to remove the insulting sign but the Sorin guard appeared on the scene and broke up the effort.'
At 8:15 a.m. one lone figure strolled
across the bog as if he were just a freshman returning from breakfast. Suddenly he broke for the tree, shinnied up, and destroyed the sign. But when
SPOILS OF THE BADIN CONQUEST
Property Regained
he turned to jump to safety he found the Sorin guards waiting like hungry watchdogs.
At 9:15 he was still trapped perched in the tree while the Sorinites gleefully threw buckets of water on him. The Bogmen rallied for their hero and marched 25 strong across the bog to his rescue. He jumped into their midst and made it safely back to the hall.
Suddenly, one of the Bogmen was seized and was being carried to the lake when Father Cady appeared and ordered his sulking roomers back.
Later in the day a peace conference was held between Father Pelton, Father Cady and the hall officers. It was finally agreed that possession of the benches would be decided by a series of athletic contests, and touch football games.
So, for the moment, all is quiet across the bog.
Archbishop O'Hara Dedicates Science Hall
Dedication ceremonies for the Nieuw-land Science Hall will be held next Thursday and Friday.
Dedication of the building will formally take place Friday afternoon at 4:15. Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., archbishop of Philadelphia, will perform the ceremony. A reception will be held immediately fol
lowing the ceremonies in the Science Library.
Dr. George E. Uhlenbeck, research professor of physics at the University of Michigan, will receive an Honorary Doctorate Degree of Science at a convocation in Washington Hall at 8:30 p.m. Mr. Uhlenbeck will lecture on “The Spin of the Electron.” Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, will also appear on the program.
On Thursday at 8 p.m., a symposium on the “Development of Science at Notre Dame” will be held in Washington Hall. Chairman Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, dean of the College of Science, will preside. He will be assisted by Rev. Henry J. Bolger, C.S.C., head of the Department of Physics, Andrew J. Boyle, head of the Department of Chemistry, and Arnold E. Ross, head of the Department of Mathematics.
Feature Cash Awards In Senate Art Contest
Prizes totaling §360 will be awarded by the Student Senate in its Arts Contest, for work in general and technical essay, poetry, painting, sculpturing, photography, and the short story.
Entries, which must be submitted to the Senate by Dec. 18, will be accepted from students of all colleges, and will be judged by members of the University faculty.
Three prizes, of $25, $15, and $10, will be awarded in each category, except photography, in which a $10 first prize will be awarded to winners in portrait, human interest, still life, and action.
The Technical Review has tentatively-agreed to publish the prize-winning technical essay, and some efforts will be made to publish other prize-winners in various publications. A general exhibition of the best of the entries in the Student Center has been contemplated.
Written entries must be typed, doublespaced, with two title pages. To make the judging of the entries as unbiased as possible, one title page will include only the title of the work, and the category in which it is submitted. The other-title page must list the title of the work, the category in which it is submitted, the name of the author, his address, college, and year in school.
Works in painting, sculpture and photography must be submitted with a typewritten sheet bearing the title of the work and the category in which it is submitted, the name of the artist, his address, college, and year. ID cards must accompany all entries.
----------------------------------------GO IRISH----------------------------------------------
12	The Scholastic
------------------SNAP THE STREAK------------------
Blue Circle Initiates 'Who's Who' Drive
Nominations for membership in Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges open today, Joseph Giovanini, chairman of this year’s Who’s Who committee of the Blue Circle has announced.
Applications for membership in this national student honorary organization, with members from more than 650 colleges and universities, close Nov. 15.
Applications are limited to seniors and graduate students, and may be submitted by the applicant himself or any member of the student body. Scholarship, cooperation, leadership in academic and extra curricular activities, and promise of future usefulness are considered in the selection.
An application should include the student’s name, campus address, and a list of qualifications. Applications should be sent to: Chairman, Who’s Who Committee, 156 Alumni. Ten juniors from principal campus organizations will do the actual voting.
Who’s Who awards include a certificate of recognition, recognition in the annual publication, and benefits of student placement service.
The annual, which has been published since 1934, will come out in the Spring. The idea of such an organization was conceived 16 years ago. Last year 31 men from Notre Dame were selected. This year as large a group will be selected.
Chairmen Choose Committees For Senior Ball, Mardi Gras
Ron Mazzoli and George Pflaum have been announced as co-chairmen for the Senior Ball by Senior Class President Bill Guilfoile. As previously announced last Spring, Joe Madigan will engineer the Mardi Gras this year.
All three seniors are experienced in organizing campus social activities.
Mazzoli and Pflaum named their committeemen as follows: Bill Meyer, business manager; Tom Stabler, tickets; Tony Trigiani, entertainment; George Willard, refreshments; Jim Bouley, hotel rooms; Tom Dinan, publicity, and Lee Bazany, decorations.
Madigan also picked his Mardi Gras committee. It includes: George Carhart and Dick O’Donnell, co-chairmen for the car contest; Jim 'McComb and Ned Guf-fer, co-chairmen for the Carnival; Bill Reynolds, dance chairman; and Joe Giovanini, business manager.
'Virginia Burke,' Alligator, Dies of Starvation: Sorin Hall Mourns First Female Resident
Virginia Burke is dead!
Sorin Hall’s most distinguished resident, a 16-inch Florida alligator, passed away silently in her sleep last Sunday evening. According to Frank Lolli, Virginia’s owner, the little green-eyed dragon succumbed to starvation after a prolonged hunger strike that was going into its second week.
Services for the alligator were conducted Monday night on the front porch of Sorin. While mourners filed past the bier of the ’gator, Don Gels played taps to its memory. Virginia was laid out in a black bedecked shoe box lined with kleenex. Around her throat was a bright cardinal ribbon. Over fifty sad-faced Sorinites stood watch with owner Lolli on the porch.
The main address of the evening was given by Don Peters, who hails from the same part of the country as Virginia. After a word of consolation to his fellow Sorinites, he con
Has your picture been taken for the Dome or Scholastic?
Now you con obtain copies of all photos taken by Dome and Scholastic photographers at these low rates:
1 print........................75<
2 or more prints of same photo . . each 65<
All prints are regular news size—8” x 10” glossies
Place your order at
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLICATIONS (Basement of Farley Hall)
cluded by saying that Virginia was not just another alligator, but a real NOTRE DAME alligator.
The interment closed amid cheers for Virginia: “She’s a ’gator, she’s a ’gator, she’s an alligator.”
Monday afternoon many letters and telegrams poured into Sorin hall concerning the death of the alligator. Included were a telegram from “Dwight Eisenhower” expressing the sorrow of the nation at such a time; one from Pogo down in the Okefino-kee swamp; and a letter of condolence from Jim Sherer, junior class president.
More than 100 filed past the remains of the alligator as it lay on Sorin porch for a half hour- preceding the funeral services.
When questioned following the ceremony, owner Lolli’s only comment was that “The ’gator was the best roommate I have had since coming to Notre Dame.”
---------------BEAT YELLOW JACKETS
October 23, 1953
13
f
WRECK TECH
&
ND Spends $60,000 to Renovate Laundry; Ft. Reddington Appointed New Supervisor




8
I I
Within the past three months, some $60,000 have been expended modernizing and improving the service of St. Michael’s Laundry on campus. Of this amount, approximately $55,000 was invested in new equipment and utilities, while the cost of installation amounted to $5,000.
Not only does the laundry have new facilities, but it is also under new supervision. Rev. John J. Reddington, C.S.C., who during the past 17 years has served as supervisor of maintenance and purchasing agent for the University, is now the director of the laundry. It is his hope “that adequate service can be rendered to all the departments of the University, but first of all to the students.”
With the new equipment, two distinct lines of processing, similar to production lines in a factory, have been established. One is devoted to the individual
laundry bundles the halls, while flat work, such cases, and bath
that are picked up at the other line handles as bed sheets, pillow towels.
XI
matic folder
for sheets.
$
r
GO IRISH
The Scholastic
14
the disproportion between people presents an insolvable the former diplomat con-
overcome, land and problem,” eludes.
The new line consists of a large, self-dumping washer, an extractor, which removes water from the clothes, and a large, eight roll ironer and auto-
EMPLOYEES OPERATE NEW EIGHT-ROLL IRONER Prompt Service to Result from $60,000 Laundry Renovation
Two tumblers
were added to the old line for drying. It was necessary to install new transformers and buss conduits to carry the heavy load of the electric current that this equipment draws. New hot and cold water service lines, as well as a new high pressure steam line for the washer and ironer were also installed.
In the past it had been necessary to handle these two services on the same line, and because of the growth of the University within the past seven years, many difficulties have been encountered because of the lack of facilities. With the new equipment it will be possible to process over 600 bundles of student laundry a day, on one line, while at the same time between 1,200 to 1,500 sheets and pillow cases can be handled on the second line.
The new equipment enables, the laundry to handle an increased capacity in approximately the same space that was occupied by the old set up. The pick up and distribution has moved according to schedule.
Students are urged to have their laundry in the assigned places on the pickup days. To avoid mixing articles Father Reddington warns that students should put only their own laundry in their bags, because identification num
bers on all laundry are checked and correspondingly marked with those on the laundry bags.
Besides the bed clothes and individual student bundles, the laundry also handles the towels from the Rockne Memorial, religious garb, athletic uniforms, the dining hall wash, and the Morris Inn dining room laundry and bed linens.
For the first time students are handling a few of the laundry operations on a part-time basis. Although only a few are presently employed, the University hopes to make more jobs available for students in the laundry on a part-time basis.
Prof.Ker+esz Analyzes Recent Italy Elections
“The continued poverty of the masses who realize that others have a better fate” was an important factor in the significant losses incurred by the Christian Democrats in the recent Italian elections according to Prof. Stephen D. Kertesz of the Department of Political Science. Professor Kertesz, who served as Hungarian minister to Italy in 1947, analyzes the recent Italian balloting in the current issue of The Grail, Catholic monthly.
Despite the vast improvement in the economic situation since the great victory of the Christian Democrats in 1948, many millions of Italians, especially the landless peasantry of the South, still live under subnormal conditions, Professor Kertesz observes. Even with redistribution of land, great financial help and assistance in many ways is needed to alleviate the agrarian and other social problems of Italy, he contends. “Even if all the tremendous difficulties were
Professor Kertesz credits Alcide DeGasperi, former Italian premier and leader of the Christian Democrats, with “greater progress in the last five years than in any other period in Italy’s troublesome history.” But the state of government has worsened, many Italians feel the Communist threat is no longer imminent, and therefore are indulging themselves in “politics as usual,” Professor Kertesz continues.
Referring to the DeGasperi government, Professor Kertesz notes that “long participation in government does not improve popularity, especially in a poor and emotional Latin country.”
SNAP THE STREAK-------------------
Student Lawyers Plan Annual Ball Nov. 20
The Iowa weekend will provide the backdrop for the Fall version of. the 1953 Barristers’ Ball. This formal dance, from 9 to 1, will feature Don Gels’ orchestra.
“All students, who are planning- to enter the Law school in February or next September are also invited,” stated Barry Reece', who is in charge of arrangements for the dance.
Bids for the dance may be purchased from Tom Hanrahan. In addition, tickets for the Iowa game will be available to ballgoers from Bob Moley, although reduction in price is not yet certain.
Car permission have been granted for the dance and all who attend will have until 2 a.m. to return to their halls. Transportation to and from the dance will be provided for those who do not have cars by contacting Joe Delici.
Free pictures will provide something different in the way of favors. Also, blind dates may be secured by contacting Ed Lanske, Dick Cotter, or Andy Walsh, while Frank Manzo is in charge of room reservations.
Other men assisting on the dance committee are: Jack Bradshaw, general chairman; Don Bebenec, entertainment; and Bill McFadden, invitations.
Cahill Announces Tickets Still Remain for Iowa, SMU Tilts
Time is running out and so are tickets for Notre Dame’s 1953 football season. According to Mr. Cahill, the ticket manager, ducats are left for only two of the remaining home stands.
As of October 16, a limited number of them were available for the Iowa and the Southern Methodist clashes. By the time of this publication even those may be used up, but there is a good chance that there will still be some remaining at the ticket cilice in Breen-Phillips.
As of last week, about 1,000 ducats remained for the game with North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and approximately 5,000 for the Southern California tilt at Los Angeles.
All of the games played so far, the Oklahoma, Purdue, and Pitt contests', were sell-outs and the next three are now sold out. Georgia Tech hit the sell-out list about Aug. 6. Navy sold out Oct. 1, and the Penn game, the student trip, sold out last week.
ROCKNE, GIPP, LAYDEN INSCRIBED IN FOOTBALL'S HALL OF FAME Great Notre Dame Heroes Honored at Pitt Game
Gridiron Greats Gipp, Layden, and Rockne Enshrined in National Football Hall of Fame
Before the 58,000 people watching the Notre Dame-Pitt game, three of the most widely celebrated names in the world of football were honored with plaques which enrolled them “forever” in the Football Hall of Fame. The three, all Notre Dame men, were George Gipp, Elmer Layden, and the immortal Knute Rockne.
The ceremony, which took place between the halves of the game, was presided over by Arch Ward, Chicago Tribune Sports Editor. The plaques were presented to Mr. Layden, fullback in the famous “Four Horsemen” backfield; to Mrs. Dorothy Gipp Taylor of Kalamazoo, Mich., who accepted the award on behalf of her brother; and to Mrs. Bonnie Rockne, the widow of the Notre Dame graduate, player, and coach.
Mr. Ward, acting for the Hall of Fame selection committee, expressed his great pleasure at being , able to make the presentations to three men who had been so close to him in the past. He hailed Gipp as “the best all-around man ever to finish at Notre Dame” and concerning Layden, “not only a great player but a great coach, and a great man.”
Knute Rockne, he said, is the greatest name in the history of athletics.
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University, who represented Notre Dame at the ceremonies, accepted “with pride” the three duplicate plaques which will remain on the campus.
George Gipp was the first Notre Dame football player ever to be selected for the first team of an All-American eleven. He received this distinction in 1920. A short time after the completion of his last year he passed away, at the height of his fame.
Elmer Layden was awarded a place in the Hall on the basis of his selection to the All-American team of 1924, his record as a coach here at the University, and his years as the Commissioner of the National Football League. While he was head coach from 1934 to 1940, Notre Dame won 47 games, lost 13, and tied 3 for a percentage of .783.
In addition to captaining the 1913 Notre Dame eleven, Knute Rockne also served as head coach from 1918-1930 during which time he achieved a record of 105 wins, 12. losses, and 3 ties. He is generally given credit for “revolutionizing” football, and is immortalized by the Rockne Memorial here on the campus.
BEAT YELLOW JACKETS
October 23, 1953
15
-----------------WRECK TECH
Shell Oil, Ford Motor, Swift, Boeing Aircraft Will Interview Prospective Grads For Jobs
This coming week the Placement Bureau will conduct interviews for graduate students and seniors who will complete their college courses in January, 1954. All men desiring eligibility for the interviews are required to register in the Placement Bureau office located on the first floor of the Main Building.
The first interviews will be conducted Monday by the Shell Oil Co.; Shell Development, and Shell Chemical Corp., Ph.D. physicists are desired.
Three interviews are slated for Tues- • day. The first, by the Ford Motor Co., will be open to all AB and Commerce graduates majoring in accounting, finance, and economics, as well as, electrical, mechanical, industrial, metallurgical, and aeronautical engineers. The second, by the National Lead Co., will provide an opportunity for Ph.D., M.S. and B.S. chemists and chemical engineers to enter the field of titanium research. The third one of the day, conducted by the Columbia Gas System, a public utility organization, should prove worthwhile to accounting majors and chemical, civil, electrical, and mechanical engineers.
On Wednesday, Swift and Co. will offer separate interview schedules for A.B. and Commerce men for varied work, as well as job opportunities for Ph.D., M.S. and B.S. candidates in chemistry, chemical engineering, biology, electrical engineering, and mechanical engineering.
A second interview on Wednesday will be held by the New Jersey Zinc Co. for M.S. and Ph.D. candidates in physical chemistry and metallurgy. Also on Wednesday, Sinclair Research Laboratories
will provide an opportunity for job placement to Ph.D. organic chemists.
On Wednesday and Thursday of the same week, Shell Oil Co., Shell Development Co., and Shell Chemical Corp, will
hold confabs with all Ph.D. candidates in chemistry.
Two more interviews are being held Thursday. The Celanese Corporation of America, for Ph.D., M.S. and B.S. chemists, and chemical engineers; and the
ATTENTION JUNIORS:
Applications are now being accepted for the position of Decorations Chairman of the Junior Prom. Applications should state name, college and previous experience in dance decorating or similar work. Applications should be postmarked not later than Monday, Oct. 26, and should be addressed to:
Don Yeckel 45 Sorin Hall
Inland Steel Co. for all B.S., M.S., Ph.D., phyiscal chemists, metallurgists, accountants, civil, mechanical, chemical, electric, industrial, and general engineers.
On Friday, the Boeing Aircraft Co. calls all M.S. and B.S. aeronautical, mechanical, electrical, and civil engineers, as well as, Ph.D. and M.S. candidates in physics and mathematics. A group meeting of .interviewers and candidates will be held at 4:15 p.m. on Thursday, in the Audio-Visual Center, second floo’-, Main Building.
McDonnell Aircraft Corp, welcomes all M.S. and B.S. aeronautical, civil, electrical and mechanical engineers. B.S. candidates in physics and math who are interested in electronics, dynamics, analysis, stress analysis, or analog computers are also invited.
The Armo Steel Corp, finishes up the week of interviews on Friday, when they call on chemical, civil, industrial, mechanical, and metallurgical engineers, as well as cheimsts and physicists.
Annual Student Trip Set to Begin Jan. 29
The cancellation of the between semester holidays will have no effect on the scheduled annual student trip to Washington, D. C., Dr. Paul Bartholomew has announced.
On Jan. 29, the students will depart on their trip. Since that is the last day of the semester examinations, Dr. Bar
tholomew, the conductor of the trip, asks that any student who desires to make the trip but has an examination on that day to see him in room 346 in O’Shaughnessy Hall when he receives his examination schedule. He will try to move the examination to an earlier date in order that the student will be able to make the trip.
The scheduled date for returning is Feb. 3, which is two days after the second semester begins. There will be single cuts for the missed classes. Since there are no triple cuts at Easter this year, no student will be inconvenienced.
All students are welcomed to attend the tour of the nation’s capital. The trip will begin Friday afternoon. Buses will leave the circle and take the students to the Baltimore and Ohio railroad station at La Paz. The train will arrive in Washington on Friday night. That night there will be a boat ride to Norfolk, Va., and then the touring students will spend the day at such famous places as Williamsburg, Jamestown, and Yorktown.
On Saturday night they will return to Washington and spend the next three days visiting places like the Pentagon and Supreme Court. The train will leave Washington on Tuesday night, arriving here Wednesday morning in time for morning classes.
Msgr. Calip to Be Invested Here as Papal Chamberlain
Msgr. Osmundo A. Calip will be sol-elmly invested as a papal chamberlain by Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., archbishop of Philadelphia and principal speaker in Sacred Heart Church next Friday at 3 p.m.
Monsignor Calip is currently a teaching fellow in the Department of Modern Languages at Notre Dame. He was previously a chaplain with the Philippine liberation forces during World War II, and a recipient of the Purple Heart.
After preaching in many United States dioceses and Catholic colleges in behalf of the Church in the Philippines, Monsignor Calip performed missionary work among 60,000 Filipinos in Hawaii during 1949-50.
Monsignor Calip is also vice-chancellor and assistant superintendent of schools of the archdiocese of Neuva Segovia.
Pablo Pena, acting Philippine consul in Chicago and representatives of the Philippine Catholic Guild of Chicago and Philippine students of this area will also attend.
All students and members of the faculty are invited. A dinner in the Faculty Dining Hall will follow.
SNAP THE STREAK-
16
The Scholastic
Soccer, the favorite sport of all Europe, is organized on a community, rather than a university, basis.
College . . . Continental Style
This is the first of a senes of two articles on European universities in contrast to Amencan schools. The author, Walt Clemens, after a year at Xavier University, spent nine months at the University of Vienna. He is now a political science major at Notre Dams.
—Ed.
How do our College Charlies stack up with Franzs, Giovannis, and Ivans across the seas? Do students in Austria, Italy, and Yugoslavia get three cuts per class too? Is turkey at the Cat’ their Sunday special? Do Vienna dachshunds ever play the Some she-wolves? Is a Belgrade maiden the same as the St. Mary’s variety? Will a jukebox replace the concert hall? What does the European see in his future?
After a year at the University of Vienna, plus some between semester touring, here are some comparisons I’ve made of typical Germanic, Latin, and Slavic universities with American.
Franz doesn’t get three cuts; they don’t exist. When he has made “Ma-
By WALT CLEMENS
tura,” after four years of grade school and eight years of prep school, the Austrian university considers Franz mature. He attends lectures, takes oral semester quizzes at his discretion. The system’s only catch is that the tough board of state examiners puts the skids on any would-be grad who isn’t up on every line required in the syllabus program for his degree.
Austrians may work out of love for knowledge or the title, “Herr Doktor”; Italians for family standing; Yugoslavs because Tito says so.
The average European doesn’t attend many lectures. Instead, he reads mimeographed lecture notes published by enterprising student corporations.
At Venice, because city life is expensive, most Italians study and work at their country homes, and come in once a month to see how far the prof has progressed.
Results? Technical work suffers,
hampered by inadequate labs. Libraries aren’t comprehensive either, but through contact with neighboring countries— each rich in cultural tradition—the European is far ahead of the American in liberal arts.
CLEMENS
October 23, 1933
17
The Viennese student takes a tap to the university about once a month up on the professor’s progress in the daily class lectures.
And is there turkey on Sundays? No. To appreciate America’s living standard, (even though you’re stuck with the brown meat), you’ve got to see how other people live.	-
The Austrian just squeezes by with the little help his parents can give. He can earn $25 a month in the Summer. But part-time' jobs in the school year aren’t to be had.
Last April a bill came before the
to check
Austrian Parliament authorizing an increase of one semester’s tuition from six to ten dollars. A sitdown strike followed, holding up traffic before the Parliament, the Opera, and the Cathedral. Insignificant to us, that four dollars increase means a week’s living for an Austrian.
With four dollars one could buy “Lederhosen”, the gray leather shorts Franz wears daily to school and at his moun
tain village. “Lederhosen” will last about ten years, for all Franz’s clothes must wear well.
The room Franz shares with two friends at the “Studentenheim” is four dollars a month. 'In winter, fuel is expensive. So there is no fire in the oven. Franz studies with a fur coat around his shoulders.
The Vienna student restaurant, run by Catholic charities, is quite plain. Franz’ main meal—lunch—which consists of potato soup, a bit of “Wuerstel”, and a dumpling, costs 16 cents. To keep prices down, students beg vegetables from farmers one week annually. They would be surprised to see the hard boiled eggs, butter patties, deserts, etc., that remain on Notre Dame dining tables after everyone has gone.
Whereas the upper class has almost disappeared in Austria, most Italian students represent well-to-do families. Their little Fiats, their dark suits, and round' collars set the pace for the continent. Their “Mensa” restaurants offer spaghetti, steak, french fries, wine, and an apple for 35 cents.
Yugoslav students are selected and financed by their government. Housing, food, and clothing are very poor. For some years after the war, quotas determined how many students could enter any one field. Cigarettes, at seven cents a pack, are Ivan’s luxury.
Sports, pleasure, social life, work, learning, and religion are not fixed to any one time and -place in Europe. There are no 40 hours of work followed by a lost weekend. When Giovanni keeps his Dad’s grocery open till 10 p.m., he isn’t looking only for overtime; for his work is also pleasure, sport, learning, and religion in each social contact.
Sports don’t rely on schools for organization. The only Vienna dachshunds are on leashes in Stadtpark. Students carry out their own plans for sports, eliminating any chance of “undue emphasis.” Soccer teams are organized in communities.
Skiing, perhaps Europe’s favorite sport, is the object of the many students who jam trains for weekends, Christmas or Easter vacations in Alpine ski huts.
Getting off the train they hike some miles with all their supplies to some farmer’s empty cabin. There, after a big day skiing, fellows wax the girls’ skis, while the girls stick a flower on each boy’s cap.
I’ll never forget the moonlit Christmas eve we skiied down from our ski hut to attend midnight Mass in the Baroque church in the valley below. •Farmers were arriving in jingling, horse-drawn sleds. At the door was the
The Scholastic
18
as
holy water—a bowl of solid ice; the altar boys wore ear muffs; and the wine and water stood on a hot plate. But when the choir began “Stille Nacht”, not twenty miles from where “Silent Night” was first composed, I realized why Austrians insist their ski life is no mere athletics.
They love nature, and considei- mountains a place to develop strength, • drink hot vine with one’s friends, yodel, and get to know God. The Alpine salutation, “Gruess Gott!”, means, “Great God!”
Franz, Giovanni, and Ivan aren’t passive grandstand quarterbacks. Gymnastics, cycling, basketball, (a G.I. heritage), and kyaking, (with made over wing tanks of P-51 ancestry), keep them going.
Hitch hiking is a big vacation-time sport—especially since work is hard to obtain. “Youth Hostels”, homes for traveling students, costing about 25 cents per night, are found in most Italian and Austrian cities. These Hostels are like little United Nations Committees, as students discuss the best route to the next city, who and what to visit, and the best market for oranges in three or four languages.
Europe’s only juke boxes are in American P.X.’s. But that doesn’t mean Europeans aren’t receptive to jazz. Tito banned jitterbugging and jazz, but had to relent when the most ardent Communists regarded the ruling as the last straw to ask of patriotism.
“Mensa” restaurants offer not only spaghetti, but steak, french fries, wine, and an apple for only 35 cents—all the average student can afford.
(LEFT) A student strike resulted when the Austrian Parliament raised a semester’s tuition from six to ten dollars. (RIGHT) After skiing, it’s an Austrian custom to wax the girl’s skiis, while the boy gets a flower in Ins cap.
October 23, 1953
19

Father Lauck, Notre Dame's ning sculptor, demonstrates
prize-win-his trade.
Frank Leahy speaks about the team’s prospects for the rest of the season.
The College of Liberal and Fine Arts really did itself up proud last week. The oldest college on campus, the AB school never really did show what it could do before. But after the Festival of the Arts, the consensus was that in spite of its age, the college is as
vigorous as the dav that
it was founded.

Sen. John F. Kennedy (D-Mass.) smiles at the enthusiasm of his sister, Mrs. R.
Sargent Shriver, while the senator’s wife watches the action at the
Pitt game.
Mr. Frank J. Lewis, donor of the new bus shelter, is greeted by his son, Edward, a senior in Commerce, and Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., after stepping from his helicopter.
From painting to music and from the drama to the novel,' the entire range of the arts was on show, as the campus was literally showered with a dazzling display of culture that the college has at its disposal.
The most popular of all the events that were given over the week were the three movies that showed off the artistry of the screen. And of these, the one that was enjoyed the most was an old silent film starring Harry Langdon, The Strongman. Never before has a Washington Hall audience been caught rolling in the aisle so many


20
The Scholastic

J

First in
a Series
0$

times. Humor wasn’t limited to the movies, though. George Buehr, noted art critic, gave one of the most hilarious and fascinating lectures ever heard at Notre Dame. And it’s not often that you see someone drape spaghetti across a piece of canvas, throw a few tomatoes at it, and say, “That’s modern art.”
The confusion started by Buehr’s lecture was cleared up, however, when you
George Buehr, Chicago art
new treatment of an old
lecturer, tricacies
explains the in-of modem art.
took to this medium.
The music
Liberal Arts students and their dates
dance to
the music of Woody Herman and
his Third Herd at the First Arts and Letters Bali held at the Indiana Club.
The most controversial of all events, however, was the University Theater’s experiment in reading, instead of acting, the play, Hedda Gabler. To see people sitting on a stool on stage just reading from a book was a new experience for most, and to judge by some comments after the play, not everybody
at the Ball Friday night
saw the exhibit of modern paintings in the main gallery of the O’Shaughnessy Building.
After the permanent exhibit of conventional art usually on display, the wild and brilliantly colored paintings of such modern masters as Rouault and Chagall were likely to “set you on your ear,” as one disconcerted student put it.
Plaques placed in the Football Hall of Fame.
was entirely different from that played by the Fine Arts Quartet on Thursday, but nobody seemed to mind Woody Herman and his Third Herd. Whether you like jazz or slow dance tunes, the music was there for you. Saturday afternoon, the Pitt game put a thrilling cap on the whole week; a week that showed that the arts can be interesting fun, instead of just a way of getting a degree.

October 23
1953
Duroselle Opens Lecture Series
The first of a series of lectures by Prof. Jean-Baptiste Duroselle, eminent French professor of history and political science, will be delivered Tuesday in the Rockne Memorial Lounge. The lecture, entitled “Catholicism in France Today,” will begin at 8 p.m.
The Committee on International Relations is sponsoring the lecture. Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., will preside.
Professor Duroselle, regarded as one of the outstanding political scientists and historians of western Europe, has returned to Notre Dame as a visiting professor for the second time in three years as a participant in the lectureteacher exchange program. He is dean of the arts and letters faculty of the University of Saarbuck.
Other lectures to be delivered by Professor Duroselle will be on “France and Germany,” Nov. 9, and “The War Against Communism in Indo-China,” scheduled for Nov. 13.
Freshman Elections Set for Nov. 12
The Student Senate has set Thursday, Nov. 12, as the date for the election of the Freshman Class officers. Hall presidents will also be elected at the same time. The preferential ballot system which proved so successful in the upperclass hall elections earlier this month will be used.
Nominations will be accepted until Nov. 6, and should be sent to 33G Badin Hall. Candidates can run either as party members or as independents.
Tolcor Heads Cadet Club
Cadet John Tolcar, a junior in the college of engineering, was elected president of the Army ROTC Cadet Club at the group’s first meeting of the year on Oct. 17. Assisting Tolcar in the coming semester will be Cadet Paul Forsman, who was elected vice-president, Cadet John Mooney, the new club secretary, and Cadet Michael Burke, treasurer.
About 75 cadets attended the opening meeting. Capt. William Ellison of the ROTC Detachment Staff addressed the group briefly.
Tolcar announced that he has two major objectives in mind for the coming year: the revision of the present constitution of the Cadet Club which has been outmoded by the expansion of the Army ROTC unit; and, a social program which will feature a club dinner late next month.
Delisi Announces Vet Dance
A Victory Dance for the married Veterans and other married students will be held in the Vet Rec Hall, Saturday at 8:30 p.m.
According to Mayor Joseph Delisi the dance last Saturday was a great success. They are hoping to improve it even more. This Saturday they are especially inviting the married students from downtown, whether or not they are veterans.
A feature of the last dance was community singing.
California Elects Costello Prexy
Mike Costello was the California Club’s choice for the presidency, while the other officers elected were Jay Henderson, Rick Hicks, Jack Donnelly and Bob Kelly.
The Californians picked a native son, Rev. George J. Baldwin, C.S.C., for their moderator.
Demonstrate Electronic Laboratory
Tuesday the Everett Associates dedemonstrated the latest electronic instruments in their mobile demonstration unit. Because of the size of the unit, it was only possible to accommodate 96 students throughout the day. The electronic laboratory on wheels was located at the rear of the Engineering Building.
Engineers Acquire Carlton For the 'Moonlight Bay' Ball
Dick Carlton and his orchestra, featuring “America’s Smartest Music,” will serenade the Engineers and their dates at the Engineers’ “Moonlight Bay” Ball on Nov. 13, from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the new Student Center.
Bids for the semiformal affair go on sale Monday. They will be sold in the Engineering Building and Dining Hall. Corsages are optional, and can be obtained with the bid for the combination price of $4.50.
Carlton and his musicmen have been playing engagements throughout the country since 1938, including the Ambassador East in Chicago, the Warwick in Philadelphia, and Copley Plaza in Boston. Although probably a new name here at Notre Dame, his uniquely different musical entertainment has been featured across the nation, in person and over the major networks.
Helfrich Takes Over As Glee Club Prexy
Tom Short, who was elected president of the Notre Dame Glee Club last year, recently resigned in favor of Vice-President Joseph “Buzz” Helfrich. Short explained that he was “sorry to have to leave the club.”
BUZZ HELFRICH
New Glee Club Prexy
Helfrich is a senior in the School of Science and hails from Midland, Pa.
The club, which has been rehearsing several new numbers for this year’s concert series, will open its major circuit in Chicago next Wednesday. The concert will be sung for the benefit of the scholarship fund of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Chicago. The warblers recently sang in Michigan City for the building fund of Coach Frank Leahy’s home parish, and here on campus in collaboration with the Festival of the Arts.
Shortly before the Christmas holidays, the club will sing its annual Christmas concert consisting of an entirely new program.
Semester Tour Indefinite
Because of the recent revision in the academic calendar, the Glee Club is revising its circuit with regard to the traditional between-semester concert tour. Definite plans will be announced later.
It was recently announced by Tony Trigianni, business manager, that the club’s annual trip to New York for an appearance on Ed Sullivan’s Toast of the Town has been definitely scheduled.
The songsters held their bi-annual picnic at the home of Director Daniel Pedtke, dean of the Department of Music, last Sunday.
22
The Scholastic
Campus Poll Reveals Mingled Sentiments Concerning Changes in Vacation Periods
Vacations hold a prominent place in student discussion as of late. Polling the students has brought out the fact that the upperclassmen aren’t exactly in favor of the removal of the traditional semester layoff in order that the Easter vacation may be lengthened.
Dave Friske of Saginaw, Mich., and Lyons says: “The idea of a long vacation is all right but how crazy can you get between Christmas and Easter?”
Tom Dean of Greenville, S. C., and Howard stated: “The poll should have been conducted first. It’s a little late now.”
Bennie Cardella from Santa Paula, Calif., and Morrissey felt: “It’s great for me but no time at all between semesters rather cramps us.”
Jerry Schoenherr of Rochester, N. Y. and Badin said: “Maybe the length of the vacation will make up for the fewer numbers, but I doubt it.”
Wayne Peternel from Pittsburgh, Pa. and Sorin iterated: “A few days rest between semesters is enjoyable but I’ll pass on the subject.”
Filipino William Ang of Dillon thought: “I’m a foreign exchange student so the switch doesn’t help me at all, but a little time off breaks the grind. Besides, long vacations drag out.”
Dick Martin of Nashville, Tenn., and Alumni said: “I don’t care for the change. Semester vacations give us a break from the rather unpleasant Winter.”
John O’Hara from Denver, Colo., and Walsh said: “I’m from the West but two vacations are still better than one.”
Opinions of the month-old freshmen seem to run in the opposite direction. Walter Janes of Springfield, Ky., and Breen-Phillips puts his views succinctly: “It’s O.K. by me.”
Jim Fitzgerald from Detroit, Mich., and Zahm said: “I think it’s a good deal.”
A few students from the West for which the change was intended as an advantage have said that they have gained little or nothing from the change because of the fact that last year by saving cuts they could obtain just as much time off. This year triple cuts before and after Easter are forbidden. Others say that students from that section of the country generally travel by plane and thereby cut down the traveling time to a minimum.
Another student brought up this point: “The semester vacation is great because it’s the only time in the year when we have a clean slate and nothing
October 23, 1953
to worry about. Both Christmas and Easter vacations present a problem in that there is always work assigned over the vacation.”
Bids on Sole Tuesday For *53 Commerce Ball
Bids for the annual Commerce Ball will go on sale next Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday in the lobby of the Dining Hall, from 3 to 5 and from 7 to 9 p.m.
This year’s Ball will be held in the new Student Center on Friday, Nov. 20, the weekend of the Iowa game. Hal McIntyre and his orchestra will provide the music for dancing from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., with car permissions until 2 a.m.
Bids will be priced at $3.75 with 400 available. Ducats for the Iowa and ND tussle may be had by ballgoers for $4.80 apiece.
As added entertainment for this year’s “Bankruptcy Ball” the Notre Dame Glee Club will render a few selections during the evening. Student violinist Leo Michuda will render selections in the anterooms of the Center.
A Sunday morning Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn will wind up the commercemen’s big weekend splurge.
In charge of the Nov. 20 weekend is General Chairman John Grosspietsch. Assisting him are the following committee heads: Hugh Bray, business manager; Dick Castellini, publicity; Tom Strubler, tickets; Phil Brehun, entertainment; and Jim Deline, refreshments.
hal McIntyre
Serenades at ‘Bankruptcy Ball’
Network Radio Show Airs National issues
Are we safe from atomic attack? Should we decentralize our industries? Should we increase our defense budget? For a discussion of one of the most important problems facing our government today, stay tuned to Topics of Importance.
Broadcast weekly over an ever-expanding network including WHOT, WSBT, and numerous other stations in Michigan and Indiana, Topics of Importance is a discussion of questions of pouplar interest. Many of the topics are suggested by the listening audience.
Moderated by Don Dowden, a senior physics major from Louisville, Ky., the weekly panel is usually composed of two Notre Dame undergraduates, a student from St. Mary’s College, and a faculty member, expert in the question considered. Dowden, vice-president of the varsity debate team, has announced future plans to televise the show.
The initial show, “How Can We Better Educate the Youth of Today?” considered the role of education in modern society. Rev. Robert Lochner, C.S.C., assistant to the vice-president in charge of academic affairs, presented an educator’s viewpoint on one of America’s most pressing dilemmas.
Topics of Importance is produced by Mr. Jerome Fallon and directed by Mr. Jerry Burlage. The show is a debate team presentation.
Band Polishes Dixie Tribute For Georgia Tech Encounter
As a tribute to the Southern chalen-gers, the Notre • Dame Marching Band will present a Dixieland half-time show at the Irish-Tech tilt tomorrow afternoon.
This week the band mastered six new formations, several intricate dance steps, and six more melodies for tomorrow’s show. Taking pointers from movies of last week’s band show at the Irish-Pitt game, the bandsmen also concentrated on marching and coordination.
The band will present such Dixieland favorites as “Muskrat Ramble” and “Ja Da” with appropriate dance steps created by Band President John Giam-bruno. All of the special music is arranged for the band by Director Robert O’Brien.
Although the band will perform four consecutive weekends, an entirely new show will be perfected each week. The musicmakers have been practicing from 4:30 until 6 o’clock every afternoon, on their practice field east of the stadium. Specially erected lights made several evening practices possible.
23
Best-Dressed Collegians Elect Arrow Shirts Campus Favorites
When asked about their overwhelming preference for Arrows, most students replied they like Arrow shirts for their smarter collar styles and better all-over fit. The largest Arrow selection in years is now available at all Arrow dealers.
ARROW SHIRTS
»H------------
M* GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
Italian Home Cooking
Five Minutes from the Campus
Pizza Spaghetti Ravioli	Chicken
Chops Steaks
CLOSED SUNDAYS
You're always welcome at .. .
ROCCO'S
537 N. St. Louis, on the Bus Line
WE ARE NEW “THE TWINS RESTAURANTS” Prop. by Brother and Sister
Come and Try Our “Pizza and Spaghetti" The Real Italian Way We Also Have Home Made Chili Just the Way You Like It!
713 E. LASALLE
.lire we stretching things a bit? Maybe — but when you find out how mild and sweet and refreshing the Medico pipe can be, you’ll go for Medico, too! It’s the replaceable filter in Medico that makes the big difference. That little filter traps dangerous nicotine and tars, disagreeable juices and flakes.
That’s why countless smokers, beginners and old timers alike, who never enjoyed the pleasures of a pipe, now enjoy the clean mild fragrance of Medico — the pioneer in filtered smoking.
Try a Medico Pipe. See why Medico’s filter has sold over a billion to date!
YOU’LL LOVE THE FEEL OF THE CUSHION-BITE m the
* MEDICO V.F.Q-
MEDICO FILTER PIPES
Wife nrktj if suits ui sins. Write Mriitt Pins, lie., W.T. 22, ftr lnUit X
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Leahymen Out To Snap Tech String
'Rambling Wrecks' Put Win Streak on Block In Crucial Intersectional Clash Against ND
By TOM DI NAN
Riding high on a 31-game winning streak, Georgia Tech’s Yellow Jackets meet the Fighting Irish tomorrow afternoon in a battle between two unbeaten elevens. So far this season Tech has won four bail games and tied one. They trampled Davidson, 53-0, tied Florida, 0-0, tripped Southern Methodist, 6-4, downed Tulane’s Green Wave, 27-13, and trounced Auburn, 36-6.
Southeastern Conference and Sugar Bowl Champions in 1952, the Engineers had an undefeated and untied squad. This yeai- they have 31 returning lettermen, eighteen of whom played only offense and thirteen strictly defense on a fifty-four man squad.
In past seasons Notre Dame has toppled Tech fourteen times, while losing but two ball games. Their last clash, in 1945, saw the Irish on the long side of a 40-7 score. An interesting note in Irish-Tech relations is the 1942 game which found the Gold and White handing the first defeat to a Leahy-coached Notre Dame squad.
Loaded with offensive talent, the Yellow Jackets’ only conceivable weakness is in their defensive aggregation. The loss of George Morris, All-American line-backer of last year, and Bobby Moorehead, All - American halfback, were both big blows to their defensive
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UP
GEORGIA TECH NOTRE DAME
Hensley ..... LE	.... Shannon
Gossage ..... LT	„	Varrichione
Vereen ...... LG	_____ Lemek
Morris ...... C ...... Schrader
Brooks ...... RG	....	Mavraides
Sherman ..... RT	..... Hunter
Davis ....... RE	..	Penza (C.)
Brigman ..... QB .... Guglielmi
Hardeman .... LH	....... Heap
Teas ........ RH	.... Lattner
Turner ...... FB	----- Worden
Kickoff time—1:30 C.S.T.
hopes, but so far Larry Morris has filled the former’s position capably, and Tech has only allowed twenty-three points across their goal line.
Tech’s line is bolstered by three cocaptains, guard Orville Vereen, guard Ed Gossage, and end Sam Hensley. The pivot spot is handled by “Brahma Bull” Morris, who can serve as fullback as well as center and linebacker. Having lost both of last year’s regular tackles, Bob Sherman and a converted guard, Roger Frey, will probably get the nod for Saturday’s encounter. Shennan, tipping the scales at 205, is a two letterman, and Frey, a 216-pound junior, has one letter to his credit. Co-captain Sam Hensley was one of Tech’s finest defensive linemen last year, and will start as a flankei- with either Henry Hair or Dave Davis handling the other end.
Leon Hardeman, All-American halfback last season, Billy Teas, Glenn Turner, and Pepper Rodgers make up the whiz-bang Yellow Jacket backfield. Last season Hardeman gained 700 yards on 128 tries, and Teas collected 74 yards in 140 attempts. Hardeman garnered 54 points on the merits of nine touchdowns. Quarterback Pepper Rodgers leads the team in scoring with 60 points on one touchdown, 39 points after touchdowns, and five field goals. Teas and Turner
' LEON HARDEMAN
An All-American, a Lineman
FRANK BROOKS
of the Week, a Powerful Fullback and . . .
GLENN TURNER
a 31-Game Unbeaten Streak -
October 23, 1953
IRISH REBOUND TO DROP PANTHERS 23-14, AND GAIN VICTORY NUMBER THREE
Worden Picks Up Steam on Opening Kickoff	Lattner Cracks Tough Defensive Wall for Short Gain
scored 36 and 33 points respectively.
Rounding out their top-flight organization Tech has Coach Bobby Dodd to boast of. In eight seasons Dodd has won 6-5, lost 21, and tied one. His teams have played in four post-season bowl games, winning all of them.
Considering all the facts and statistics of last season and their progress so far in 1953, the Yellowjackets should make the going tough for the Irish tomorrow afternoon. They are favored to successfully defend their Southeastern Conference title, and have been highly touted in the National grid ratings. Their offense has been displayed in spurts from game to game, but their defensive play has been superb in every contest.
Notre Dame, aided by a Pitt fumble and a touchback, fought from behind in the second half to edge a strong Pitt team 23-14 last Saturday.
Pitt, bent on making it two in a row over the Irish, ran out of steam in the second half after out-playing the Irish in the first two periods. The Notre Dame team in the second half had just a little too much left as the big Pitt linemen seemed to noticeably tire in the hot afternoon.
In the first two periods Pitt, sparked by the hard running of backs Bobby Epps and Ray DiPasquale, garnered a total of 100 yards on the ground while in the second half the Irish linemen held the Panthers to a surprising net of three yards.
Pittsburgh scored first after only six minutes and 40 seconds elapsed when Fullback Epps hit paydirt after an eight yard buck up the middle. Blanda converted and Pitt lead 7-0.
The Irish came back to knot the score in the second quarter with the bulls-
(Continued on page 31)
26
Alumni, Morrissey Lead in Western League; St. Edward's Tops Eastern Loop Standings
Safetyman Bernie Allard intercepted a pass and sped seventy yards to give Lyons a hard fought 6-0 triumph over Dillon last Wednesday as interhall football moved into its second week of tough competition.
The timely interception came after three scoreless quarters of a see-saw ballgame. About six minutes remained in the final period when Allard scampered all the way with a toss thrown by Dillon quarterback, Charlie Mears, meant for halfback “Tex” Tyson.
Until the scoring play neither squad had been able to generate a real threat. Both offenses bogged down when in scoring position, and defense dominated play on both sides. For the winners, tackles Jack Patz and Tom McNeil were bulwarks on defense. End Brad Bailey turned in a good game both ways. Guard Mike Ward, tackle Tom Armstrong, and center Joe Hayden were towers of strength in the line for the losers. Tyson played a good ball-game from his halfback position.
The win gave the boys of coach Joe Sassano a record of 1-1. Lyons’ next start is against Morrissey. The loss was the second straight reversal for the charges of Pat Padon.
The Off-Campus eleven evened its season’s record at one victory and one loss with a hard fought 14-0 decision over Cavanaugh. All the scoring was done in the first half of a game marked by sharp defensive play.
O-C’s first touchdown was set up by a 30-yard aerial from quarterback Skip
Carlin to right end George Zimmerman. Zimmerman fumbled, but John Wolf of O-C pounced on the pigskin two yards short of pay dirt. Two plays later Carlin sneaked over for the score. Chuck O’Connell converted.
The victors added an insurance score in the second quarter when Hosea Alexander intercepted a Cavanaugh pass at midfield and sped 50 yards for the touchdown. O’Connell’s conversion gave him a perfect day. Cavanaugh’s only scoring threat came late in the first half when they had a first down on O-C’s one yard line. However, the charging Off-Campus line, led by Tom Gunning and Don Brennan, broke through to stop Cavanaugh’s running plays.
Alumni Eyes Championship
Alumni Hall’s title-minded gridders chalked up its second victory in a row in decisive fashion by handing Howard a 25-0 trouncing in an interhall clash last Wednesday.
Alumni’s first score came shortly after the opening kickoff when Laughlin climaxed his team’s drive with a 29 yard touchdown sprint. Kalfeltz gave the senior gridders a 12-0 lead at the half when he ripped off tackle for 35 yards and Alumni’s second score.
The passing combination of Vieth to End Tom Short was responsible for the victors’ third touchdown. The play covered 19 yards. The conversion was good. Alumni tallied its fourth and final TD in the fourth period as Kal-
(Continued on page 33)
The Scholastic
Michigan Outclasses 1	Notre Dame Runners
<1 Last Friday, the University of Michi, .	gan cross-country team easily outlegged
Notre Dame, 18-42 in a duel meet'at I‘	Ann Arbor. In winning, Michigan took
first, second, fourth, fifth, and sixth j places. Notre Dame’s team captain, pq Jack Alexander, was the only Irish ?	harrier to finish in the top seven. Alex-
l	ander was third with a time of 20:38.1.
I* Ron Wallingford, husky Michigan i ace, led the Wolverine pack home in ‘ winning the event with a respectable 20 :	minutes flat. George Lynch finished a
i - few steps ahead of Alexander to win ; second place in 20:37.4. Notre Dame’s “Spike” Daly was third at the two mile ■ mark, but had to slow down because of a “stitch” in his side.
This loss marked the third straight ; defeat the Wilsonmen have suffered this L season. This year's team, with only one j letter winner returning, has as rugged > a schedule as has any team in the mid-•	west. Michigan State’s team, which
I beat the Irish, Oct. 10, was the best in ;	the country last year, winning the
NCAA title and the Big Ten meet; In-y diana was runner-up to the Spartans I last year, and Michigan has the potentialities of a national champion. Wheaton, winner over ND in this season’s opener, was undefeated last year, and did not lose any of its first four runners.
This afternoon Marquette will play host to Notre Dame at Milwaukee. The Irish team of Capt. Alexander, Daly, Al Schoenig, Dick O’Keefe, Dick De-r Schriver, Jim Copeland, Bill Lenihan, and Bill Richardson will be seeking its first cross-country win since 1951.
Keglers Open '53-'54 Season October 25 at Palais Royaie
The Notre Dame Bowling League, better known as the Kampus Keglers, will open its season Oct. 25 in the New Palais Royaie.
The twenty-four participating teams will be divided equally into the Blue and Gold leagues, which will be working in shifts with one league starting at 1:15 p.m., and the other at 3:15 p.m. The league has suffered a reduction of 12 teams from last year, but President Rich stated the reduction will lead to keener competition and fewer forfeits.
Bowling will be at its best, since the Palais Royaie purchased thirteen top grade alleys from the American Bowling Congress. These alleys were used for the A.B.C. tournament only, and then were sold to bowling establishments all over the country.
October 23, 1953
Navy Romp Tops Five Opponents' Victories As Tarheels Are Routed and Penn Is Edged
Last Saturday afternoon while the Irish were busy caging the Panthers, two of ND’s future opponents lost their tilts while the other five were victorious. Next on the fall agenda is Georgia Tech, who stretched their win skein to 31 straight by beating Auburn down in Atlanta.
Tech’s nomination for All-American, Leon Hardeman, sparked the Ramblin’
Spells Future Trouble for Irish
Wreck to a 36-6 victory over Auburn. Hardeman loped off a fifteen yard scoring sprint before the first quarter was half over, and again in the third quarter he hit pay-dirt with a thirty-nine yard rim. Coach “Bobby” Dodd let everyone into the act, as Burton Grant kicked a 13 yard field goal, and Freshman Wade Mitchell passed to End Bill Sennett for the second six-pointer. Bill Brigman threw to End Sam Hensley for another, and George Humphreys plunged two yards for the final Tech tally. The seemingly easy contest was Tech’s best showing of the season, as 40,000 fans viewed the action.
Up north, in Princeton, New Jersey, it was all Navy and all John Issac Hopkins. Hopkins stole the glory of the afternoon by scoring twice, recovering a fumble, intercepting a Tiger pass, blocking very well, and in general, just getting in Princeton’s hair, as the Middies handed the Tigers their second loss in 35 games, 65-7.
The second quarter found Hopkins in command as he led his “mates” in a three touchdown spree, while two other long scoring plays came in the initial, quarter, one on a 78 yard run by Bob
Craig. Coach Eddie Erdelatz let his whole squad into the fracas and the Middies responded by keeping Navy unbeaten and once tied.
The University of Pennsylvania was beaten, but not humiliated. by Ohio State, 12-6, at Philadelphia before a small crowd of 44,270 in Franklin Field. Although the Quakers outplayed their Big Ten visitors all the way, State pushed across the winning score with six minutes left to play. Penn capitalized on a Buckeye fumble in the first quarter, and Bob Felver slipped into the end zone to put Penn out in front 6-0. State’s “Hopalong” Cassidy put them back in the game with one e quick thrust, a 61 yard dash, after taking a pitchout from Leggett. Both remained deadlocked until Watkins drove O'er from the two to cinch, the game.
At Chapel Hill, North Carolina seemed to be on the wrong field as the Maryland juggernaut' stopped the Tar Heels cold, 26-0. It was the Terrapins all the way as they coasted to an easy victory before 34,000 sun-drenched fans. After a 69 yard drive, Quarterback Bernie Faloney plunged for three yards and the initial score. Maryland drew blood the next time it took the ball. This time reserve quarterback, Chuck Boxold, sneaked over from the one to climax a 92 yd. march. In the third quarter, the crowd saw the Terps go for 72 yards and another score, and then in the final fifteen minutes, a seven yard pass from Boxold to End Russ Dennis for the last tally. The loss dropped the Tar Heels from the unbeaten ranks.
Out in Iowa City, the University of Iowa Hawkeyes lassoed the Wyoming Cowboys, 21-7, before 29,000 perspiring fans. Stunned by a cowboy 50 yard drive climaxed by Joe Mastrogidvannie’s two yard scoring thrust, Iowa rebounded and took charge of the contest.
Senior George “Dusty” Rice accounted for all Hawkeye scores, one an 83 yard run. His other contributions were . on a five yard dash, and then as a climax on a 39 yard drive. Rice, who was a sophomore sensation, has been hobbled by two years of injuries, and until this game had not shown previous form.
The Hawkeyes, ranked near the top of collegiate teams in total offense, made the visiting Cowboys smart under a 315. yards gained total for the afternoon. This boosted the lowans’ total to 1,084 yards on the ground for four games, and the 129 yard air attack jumped the sum in that department to 1,431 yards.
Way out west, in Los Angeles, South-(Continued on page 31)
27
• v* y--1*"*- WWW* «*'l* ***—%.■»»*......*V>—TV	**••«■ -T~« - VTTTTTTTT. ~ — ~*	—***** TT-TT * V * ***** *	""»' V- —* ^ ** *.	—*,	*-• *	.*•**_ — «****•— ***** ,'*'■!(»	c*.**^'**
by Bob Frolicher
Reverse Situation
COACH DODD
Moulder of All-Americans
The Georgia Tech-Notre Dame clash tomorrow has somewhat the same setting as the Purdue-Irish tussle in 1950. When the Leahymen tackled the Boilermakers, they were on the verge of one of the worst seasons of a Leahy coached squad. Purdue dropped the Irish 28-14, and snapped their 39 game winning streak, then the longest existing unbeaten streak in collegiate football, and still the longest in modern records.
Tomorrow the tables are turned. The “Rambling Wrecks” come to Notre Dame riding on the crest of the longest current unbeaten streak in the nation, 31 games, with 29 wins and two ties. Now the pressure is on Tech. The Engineers will be out to protect their clean slate, which already includes four wins and a tie this season, and at the same time attempt to upset the Irish apple-cart and cross the experts who picked the Irish as possible National Champions.
In 1952 the Yellow Jackets had one of the greatest years in the school’s history, going undefeated and untied in 11 regular season games and defeating Mississippi
24-7 .in the Sugar Bowl. In his eight years as head coach Dodd has steered the Engineers to 65 victories, 21 defeats and one tie, while he has also received many national honors.
For two straight years he was picked as head coach of the college AllStars and also served as assistant on the All-Star staff for two years. In 1951 he was named “Southeastern Conference Coach of the Year,” and at the close of the ’52 season Dodd was designated “College Coach of the Year” by the New York Daily Neivs.
Power of Southeast
Georgia Tech has been Champion or Co-Champion of the old Southern Conference eight times and of the Southeastern Conference five times. The Yellow Jackets, who possess a Bowl record of seven wins against two losses and has never tasted defeat in a Bowl game under Dodd, was the first team to play in four major bowls. The Engineers hit the jackpot at the close of the 1952 season when a record total of six Yellow Jackets were named on one or more recognized All-American teams. No regular on the Tech lineup has ever tasted defeat in a college game.
The Traditional Irish Spirit	'
Many people claim that spirit can’t win a football game, but last Saturday’s game more than refutes this belief. The students had the Fighting Irish spirit, the team had it and neither one was disappointed at the final outcome. There is something about Notre Dame’s spirit that makes it different from other schools. Both the students and team displayed a spirit that never dies. The more the team was behind, the more the students cheered. In the second half when the chips were down, the team was the toughest. Spirit can win ball games, and Notre Dame has the true Fighting Irish spirit.
Prediction of the Week
The Notre Dame spirit will come through again, and by the time the final whistle rolls around, the “Rambling Wrecks” will have to start all over again, the Irish cutting their string short, 27-14.
Fencers Begin Drills; Vets Brighten Future
Notre Dame’s 1953-54 fencing team began workouts Wednesday for the coming season, according to Coach Walter M. Langford.
This year’s squad, bolstered by seven returning lettermen, faces the difficult task of maintaining the outstanding records compiled by the teams of the past few seasons.
However, Coach Langford has returning monogram winners to fill two of the three positions in each weapons division, and has a field of spirited challengers to balance and complete his squad.
In the foil, Jerry Brainard of Amarillo, Tex., who compiled a 21 won and 15 lost record last season, and Dick Hull of Honolulu, T. H., with a 22 and 15 record, are returning lettermen.
Gerry Finney, Detroit, 28-5, last season, and Tony Mandolini, Chicago, 22-9, form a solid foundation in the sabre.
And in the epee, team captain Rod Duff, Peabody, Mass., 24-12, and John McGinn, Des Moines, 26-10, have returned to the regular lineup.
Tom Beeler, a junior from Greentown, Ind., the seventh returning’ monogram man, had a 5-4 record in last year’s bouts, and he can count on a lively contest with Jim Waters, a senior from Manhattan, Mont., for the third spot on the foil squad.
Moving on to the sabre department, two juniors, Tom Dorwin, Minocqua, Wis., and Frank Lolli, Oak Park, Ill., will be scrapping over the third spot, and these men will be hard pressed by two second year men, Gene Gase, Saginaw, Mich., and Frank Dwan, Summit, III.
John Malfa, senior from Auburn, N. Y., will attempt to establish himself as third member of the epee squad, but he can expect vigorous competition from Don Tadrowski, Chicago, John Brogan, Rocky River, 0., and several other sophomore aspirants.
The coach considers Illinois and Wisconsin to be the two roughest assignments of the year, and he also expects plenty of stiff competition from Wayne and Ohio State’.
The ’54 schedule is still in the tentative stage, but the Irish fencers will probably open the season at home against Iowa on Jan. 9.
Illinois, which last season edged the Blue and Gold by a single point in the season’s finale and thereby halted the’ ND squad’s 17-match win string, was the toughest opponent on last year’s slate, according to Coach Langford. The’ Illini had entered the contest with a 27-game string over three years.
The Scholastic
i
i
PROGNOSTICATOR PREDICTS:
(Three week total—40 out of 55; percentage .727.)
So. California, 14; California, 7.
Oklahoma, 21; Colorado, 6.
LSU, 20; Florida, 14.
No. Carolina, 21; Georgia, 20.
Illinois, 34; Syracuse, 13.
Iowa, 27; Indiana, 14.
SMU, 26; Kansas, 12.
Michigan State, 21; Purdue, 7.
Michigan, 28; Minnesota, 19.
Navy, 23; Penn, 13.
Pittsburgh, 20; Northwestern, 14.
Ohio State, 35; Wisconsin, 21.
TCU, 20; Penn State, 0.
Rice, 14; Texas, 13.
Stanford, 27; Washington, 7.
Baylor, 26; Texas A & M, 14.
Yale, 20; Colgate 6.
Army, 28; Columbia, 7.
Mississippi, 25; Arkansas, 13.
Nebraska, 13; Missouri, 7.
Touch Football Meet Slated; Need Volleyball Contestants
Mr. Thomas Fallon, Physical Education instructor, announced that an Interhall touch football tournament will be organized Monday. The tournament will take place on the fields south of the tennis courts. Interhall trophies will be awarded to the winners.
A general meeting on rules and information was held Thursday. Mr. Fallon stated that there is still time for any individual or team to join the tournament, provided they see him at
What’s buzzin’, Cousin?
the volleyball courts or Rockne Memorial before Monday. Those interested should submit the name of their team, their roster, and the time the team will be available for play.
Mr. Fallon said that the annual fall volleyball tournament scheduled for last week has been delayed. He announced-that the tournament will get under way as soon as the openings for either a full team or individuals have been filled.
Mr. Fallon pointed out that the late afternoon classes and the interest in Interhall football have prohibited some students from entering the volleyball tournament.
'Gug,' Worden Deadlocked In Notre Dame Scoring Race
Quarterback Ralph Guglielmi’s two touchdowns and fullback Neil Worden’s one tally in last Saturday’s tussle with Pitt placed them in a two-way tie for the scoring lead with 24 points each after the first three games. “Minnie” Mavraides added three more extra points against the Panthers to raise his total to 14. Halfback Joe Heap failed to score, but his previous two TD’s keep him high in the scoring column with 12 points.
Sophomore sensations Dick Fitzgerald and Dick Washington continue to lead in the rushing department. “Fitz” has carried the ball 16 times for a total of 121 yards and a 7.6 average, while Washington is second best with 63 yards in 9 carries for a 7.0 rushing average. Neil Worden leads the regulars with his 186 yards in 35 tries for a 5.3 average.
Although Joe Heap’s passing percentage is higher, Guglielmi’s 17 completions out of 31 attempts for a .548 is tops for the squad. Heap has completed two out of three, and Tom Carey has hit on one of three. Heap also has taught six passes for a total of 122 yards and two touchdowns. Johnny Lattner has grabbed seven for a total of 98 yards. -The first interception of a Guglielmi pass came in last Saturday’s clash.
The Irish have scored a total of 88 points in three games, while holding their opponents to 42. Notre Dame has marched for 50 first downs while the foes collected only 24.
October 23, 1953
A sophomore at a midwestern college was bothered by buzzing in his ears and headaches. He went to doctor after doctor ...had his appendix and tonsils removed... his teeth pulled. But nothing helped. Finally, the doctors gave up and told him he had only 6 months to live.
The young fellow decided to “live it up” for his last 6 months. First, he went to his college sportswear shop for the smartest sport shirts money could buy. Naturally, he chose Van Heusen’s VAN GAB.
“VAN GAB is completely washable,” beamed the salesman. “See the saddle-stitched trim about the collar and pockets. Feel the silky texture of the fabric. And only S5.95. With a 15 neck like yours, I suggest a Medium size.”
“Don’t waste my time,” snapped the fellow. “Give me one of each of the 18 smart solid colors. Size 14.”
“But sir,” gasped the salesman, “your neck is much larger than a 14. You need at least a 15.”
“I’ve worn a 14 all my life, and I don’t feel like changing now,” replied the youngster, greatly annoyed.
“Okay,” muttered the salesman. “But I warn you, that tight collar will give you buzzing in the ears and headaches!”
THE BROOKS BROTHERS LOOK has been an outstanding tradition with generations of undergraduates
Whether it’s our casual sportwear, popular flannel or tweed suits, or fine evening wear, you can be assured of clothing that’s distinctive and in good taste when it’s from Brooks Brothers. Visit our "346” department, created just to serve you.
24-page Fall catalogue upon request
1STABUSHH) ISIS
Ums Jiimishings.Hats Shoes
346 MADISON AVENUE, COR. 44TH ST., NEW YORK 17, N. Y.
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. BOSTON • LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
“I will do typing in my home. Will pick up and deliver. Reasonable. Call 7-0620 or 2-6974.
'Journalist'Out Today With Revolving Staff
The Journalist, an experimental student newspaper of the Department of Journalism, begins its sixth year of publication today.
The Journalist is a regular newspaper dealing with campus news. By working on this paper, senior journalism majors are given the chance to apply theories in writing and design learned as juniors. In this way the paper is a means of satisfying the need for practical application of techniques learned in the classroom.
Circulation for the Journalist is approximately 200 copies. It is distributed exclusively among the administration, the various college heads and the journalism students.
Two different staffs share the duties of editing the paper. Each staff publishes the Journalist for three weeks at a time. The first staff heads for 1953-54 are: Robert Frolicher, managing editor; Richard Gerbracht, city editor; Francis Goerg, copy editor, and Garrett Wyss, sports editor. The other staff members are: Patrick Carrico, B. Jerry Campbell, Vincent Fernandes, John Healy, John Jarnot, J. F. Kelleher, Michael Lewanowicz, Kenneth Murphy, Richard Myles and William Noonan.
The second group, now studying journalism law, that will publish the Journalist three weeks from now, is composed of: Elmer Cloven, Richard Bennett, C. Philip Bolin, Tom Dinan, Norbert Gassensmith, J. Michael Harrigan, Robert Piorkowski, John Sand and Paul Udell.
Applications Close Oct. 31 For Foreign Scholarships
Applications for the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships will close Oct. 31 and Nov. 1, respectively, it was recently announced by the Graduate Office.
Scholarship application blanks and general information are available in the office of Rev. Paul Beichner, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School.
These scholarships are sponsored by the Rhodes Foundation and by the United Kingdom. The Marshall Scholarships will be tenable at any university in the United Kingdom. The Rhodes Scholarships will be tenable at Oxford University.
Eligibility requirements for these foreign study fellowships: United States citizenship; a college degree at the time the award is to be taken; qualities of leadership; physical vigor.
The Scholastic
30
1
A
Pitt-ND Tussle
(Continued from page 26) eye passing of quarterback Ralph Gug-lielmi who hit his receivers on third down passes of 20 and 14 yards to spark a 70 yard drive which ended with Fullback Neil Worden going over from the two yard line. Mavraides tacked on the point and the Irish were back in the bailgame 7-7.
With 3:45 left to go in the half, Quarterback “Model ‘T’ Ford pilfered a completed pass from the arms of End Paul Matz and scampered 47 yards to the Irish seven where Joe Heap managed to knock him out of bounds. After Epps lost two yards and Ford missed a pass, seatback Richie McCabe took a pitch-out from “Model T” Ford on third down and went untouched into the end zone. Again Blanda converted and Pitt went to the dressing room with a 14-7 lead.
It was a fired up Irish squad which came out for the second half and it was only eight minutes later when they picked up a badly needed two points by catching Bobby Epps in his own end zone. Worden and Varrichione broke through to nail Epps. Six minutes later the Irish went ahead to stay when Guglielmi scored from the one-foot line following Don Penza’s recovery of a Panther fumble.
Guglielmi put the game on ice in the last quarter- when he neatly sidestepped three Pitt tacklers and scampered nine yards to score. Mavraides’ kick made it 23-14.
In the first half Notre Dame was penalized a total of 60 yards to Pitt’s ten. The last two periods were nearly a reversal, Pitt being penalized a net 48 yards to none for the Irish.
Future Opponents (Continued from page 27) ern California scored at will and dealt the Oregon State Beavers their fifth straight loss, 37-0. All the Trojans “pitched in” to rout their visitors from up north, and preserved their undefeated record of four wins and one tie.
Down in Dallas, Texas, Southern Methodist came from behind to trim the wings of the Rice Owls, 12-6, before 50,000 sun-drenched people.
With the Mustangs trailing 7-6 and less than three minutes to play, Frank Eidom raced 92 yards and set up the final and winning score. Then, Duane Nutt scored his second touchdown of the game and SMU won it, 12-6. Eidom’s run stopped thousands of fans in the aisles and provided an appropriate end for a hard fought contest. Jerry Norton pounced on an Owl fumble, and Eidom took ovei- from there, helping to’ tumble Rice from the unbeaten list.

October 23, 1953
31
VoparTnen avoid you?
^gg^^pon't take chances...be sure of popularity join the fun at Arthur Murray's
You’ll have the time of your life learning to dance at Arthur Murray’s. There are studentteacher parties all the time and gay, get-together dances, too. It’s the new way, the Murray Way, to learn to dance. It’s quicker and easier this way because you start right in dancing. You see, Arthur Murray has discovered a simple, basic step that anyone can master in almost no time. So don’t miss out on fun and popularity that should be yours. Come in or phone the studio now.
ARTHUR MURRAY
2-3339
Party Dance Thursday at 9:00 You’re Invited
1
NABICHT BROTHERS
Georgia Tech Menu FRIDAY—Wonderful Selection of Seafoods SATURDAY—Steaks, Chicken, Seafood OPEN-WEEKDAYS: 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.
SATURDAYS: 11 A.M. to 12 P.M.
CLOSED SUNDAYS
NOTRE DAME 20 Nabicht Brothers Predict: GEORGIA TECH 7
South Bend’s Oldest Catering Family Nabicht Brothers Private Dining Rooms for Special Parties
1415 LINCOLN WAY WEST	2-3138
Cotillion
(Continued from page 9)
1 a.m. No flowers will be allowed at the dance.
The guests of honor will be Mr. and Mrs. William J. Eisen, of the Department of Speech, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur F. Fenner, of the Department of English, Mr. and Mrs. William E. Slowey, of the Department of Accounting, Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Cronin and Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Thompson, both of the General Program.
The highlight of tomorrow afternoon will be the Georgia Tech game in the stadium at 1.30. Saturday night offers two attractions. There will be the usual Student Senate dance, and also the University Theater’s presentation of Three Men on a Horse. The lead is to be played by Gerry Godwin, who starred last year in the Comedy of Errors and the student musical, Brute Farce. The Cotillion committee has obtained a block of tickets for the Saturday night performance.
Sunday morning the traditional Communion Breakfast following the 9 o’clock Mass in the Sacred Heart church will be held in the Morris Inn. Rev Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., past president of Notre Dame, and Terry Brennan, freshmen football coach, will be the guest speakers.
Bob Carrane, master-of-ceremonies and chairman of the breakfast, has announced that the menu will include fruit juice, bacon, eggs, rolls, toast, milk and coffee.
Assisting Elrie Chrite in an effort to make this year’s Cotillion “the dance of dances” are Clem O’Neil, football tickets; Dave Granger, bids; Dan Quigley, business manager; John Adams, publicity; and Frank McCarthy, refreshments.

STUDENT CENTER
Applications for manager of the new Student Center are now being accepted by the Senate Personnel Committee. A knowledge of bookkeeping and general managerial experience is required.
The applicant should submit his name, age, school, previous experience (if any), class schedule, time available and activities, particularly on campus.
The job requires 28 hours a week. The manager will be paid $1.00 per hour.
Submit applications to: Robert Chickey 333 Walsh Hall
The application deadline is Sunday.
The Scholastic
32
Interhall
(Continued from page 26)
feltz galloped 16 yards to pay dirt and his second six-pointer of the afternoon.
Alumni and Morrissey are now the only unbeaten teams in their division. Both have 2-0 records.
St. Edward’s football team edged the Farley Hall eleven, 13-6, in a tight contest played last Friday.
Seconds after the opening whistle had sounded, St. Ed’s had jumped into a 6-0 lead. Farley received the opening kickoff, but the Farley receiver bobbled and the ball rolled into the end zone where Tom Hawkins recovered for St. Ed’s first touchdown.
Farley Wastes No Time
Farley didn’t waste any time, and before the quarter had ended they had tied the score at 6-6. The touchdown came on a pass play from Edwards to McClarney which covered 65 yards.
St. Edward’s finally got a drive going again late in the fourth quarter. Starting from their own 35, the Eddymen powered their way straight up the field, spearheaded by the running prowess of Jerry Ryan. Hawkins then carried the final 3 yards to score his second touchdown. Ryan kicked the extra point to make the final score, 13-6. The game left St. Edward’s record unmarred at two wins and no losses.
A defensive-minded Zahm eleven turned back Breen-Phillips, 6-0, in another interhall battle. The only score of the afternoon came in the third period when Kiley tossed to Plucinski for 45 yards and the touchdown. The extra point attempt was no good.

Weekend
(Continued from page 9) impressive white columns, giving the room an old colonial effect.
Music will be piped to other smaller rooms, similarly decorated in blue and red. Dancing will continue until 2 a.m.
It has been rumored that a host of celebrities will make their appearance on campus for the game. Bob (Notre Dame by seven points) Hope is believed to be among the select.
Weather predictions for the weekend have rejuvenated the spirit of the wearers of the green, who have brought out 4 their emerald toppers for the affair.
In addition to the wide variety of smaller gatherings after the game, the Student Senate will hold their weekly victory dance in the Drill Hall at 8:30 p.m. Add Three Men on a Horse, the
I	student theatre’s production and the
I	Cotillion-goer has a complete schedule
with which to treat his weekend guest.
October 23, 1953
The thousands upon thousands of men who use precision tools will tell you that there are none better than Lufkin. AU Lufkin precision tools are the product of years of fine tool-making experience combined with the very latest design features. Experienced engineers know Lufkin tools are the most accurate they can buy. See the complete line of Lufkin tapes, rules, and precision tools' at your hardware or tool store,
BUY	TAPES *RUlES * precision tools
at your hardware or tool store
FREE
ADDRESS.
THE LUFKIN RULE CO., Saginaw.	Michigan	■
Pleise send me the interesting illustrated booklet, !
Micrometer Reading Made Easy!”	|
NAME____________________________________________   I
THE LUFKIN RULE CO., SAGINAW, MICH. ’98 132-138 Lafayette St., New York City • Barrie, Ont.
A v . w v Ji CITY.
.STATE.
33
is that there aren’t
- by Gordon Bergquist
Having- spent a Saturday evening recently in the company of several young ladies, attempting to find some form of entertainment or relaxation in the near-by city of South Bend, I have reached the conclusion that the facilities for the social life of the Notre Dame under-graduate are very poor.
A quick survey by any student will yield a short list of facilities which would run something like this: movies, bowling, and bars. In addition to this there are the weekly Student Senate dances and the various small soirees given by the nearby College for Women. In this regard, I might say that actually the only trouble with the St. Mary’s girls enough of them.
There may also be an occasional lecture oi- concert to attend but these are few
and far between, and few can take them as a regular diet.
The movies are an important part in the life of the Notre Dame student. I strongly suspect that the only motive for attending 85 per cent of the current movies is complete boredom. Any thinking student will admit, that the movies he sees are largely so much bunk. Perhaps the attitude can be summed up in a recent quote from an anonymous student “That Donna Reed. Ka-chow!”
Bowling speaks for itself. It’s great, if you like that sort of thing. For many, however, it’s a bit too athletic.
The next is bars. In South Bend, there seem to be only about six or eight that are even worth going into in the company of young females. There are a few others that would do for an evening out with the boys. Bars, however do not seem to be the best place in the world to whisper sweet nothings in the ear of your best girl. Bars do not, then, seem to afford the type of entertainment we are discussing here.
Lack of Women
The victory dances are fine—as well as cheap. St. Mary’s is also to be commended for throwing open their buildings on the occasion of their teadances and mixers. The one problem with dances seems to be the lack of available women. This is a factor that the students must take care of themselves. The University does not run a date bureau.	.
Other entertainments are the football weekends and the basketball games in . the Winter. Obviously anyone who has entertained a lady friend at one of the former can attest to expenses involved. It is not a pleasure to be indulged in often.
So it seems that we have a problem.
What is the solution and who is going to do the solving?
It seems to me that the finding of a solution rests on the shoulders of the University and Student Senate. The University has already done a lot. There is the Student Center. While it is not the best place to hold a class dance of five hundred couples, it is ideal as a meeting place and as a place for quiet talk, and should, in time, rival the corner drug store.
Festival of Arts Helps
Another thing the University has done has been the promotion of campus movies and of the recent Festival of the Arts. The modern language movies are fine but limited in their potential audience. The films sponsored by the English Department last year were widely acclaimed and attended. The week-end movies are fine also as far as they go.
The Student Senate has also done its share. It has worked on the Student Center. It has sponsored weekly dances. Various class officers have also done a lot in arranging date bureaus and the like for some of the bigger dances.
But this is only a start; there must be more. These are just a few of the suggestions which occur to me and which can be overheard at many of the student bull-sessions. A mid-week dance, probably on Wednesday, might be worked out. If not this, then a dance on Friday nights, though this has a few things against it. I think that it can be seen that dances are the most popular and perhaps the best form of social entertainment available to the ’ undergraduate. I have already spoken of the use of the Student Center as a meeting place and a good place to just sit and talk or play cards.
One of the major concerns is the supply of women. The following proposal would entail a bit of work but I think that it would be worth it. This is a Student Senate date bureau. This idea has worked in the past for- class dances and could be made to work on a full-time basis. There would be no more students seeking dates on any given week-end than there would be on a particular class dance week-end.
The problem boils down to this. South Bend is not a college town. It is not particularly concerned if it has the facilities for the entertainment of college men or not. Therefore the problem must be solved by the men on campus. Though Notre Dame is not, cannot, and should not be a “party school,” there are some things which can be done to brighten up the student’s social picture.
Commerce Manpower Group Seeks Members
A recently organized Commerce group, the Manpower Management Ass’n., started accepting applications for admission Oct. 21 and will continue until Nov. 1. Under the direction of Mr. Wayne G. Anderson, assistant professor of Business Administration, the labor discussion group is open to all sophomores, juniors and seniors in the Department of Business Administration with a qualitative scholastic average of at least 83.
The primary function of the organization will be to analyze and discuss problems concerning the management of manpower, and the conservation, utilization, and best possible disposition of manpower resources.
Members of the group will be divided into teams to prepare material for discussion of particular topics. In addition, it is planned to obtain local personnel managers, labor relation heads, and union representatives to take part in the management-labor discussions. If enough interest is shown, arrangements for sitting in on actual arbitration cases and union meetings can be made.
Applications should contain the student’s name, campus address, class, major subject, and specific interests in the field of manpower management. A brief explanation of what the applicant anticipates as a member of the club should also be included.
Applications should be mailed to: Manpower Management Ass’n., Department of Business Administration, Notre Dame, Ind. Applications postmarked later than Nov. 1 will not be accepted for consideration.
The Scholastic
34
i
1
4
r
$■, '.■ -s I K-/, '51
the nr font DIGEST
Research

provides broad opportunities for chemists, physicists and engineers cooperating on many problems.
For one thing, much Du Pont research is fundamental, aimed at advancing scientific knowledge regardless of specific commercial objectives. However, such research often suggests new products ... each with its own challenging technical problems which must be solved before commercial production can begin. Solving these problems offers another great field of work for teams of engineers and scientists.
"Teflon” tetrafluoroethylene resin is an example of this well integrated teamwork.
<4
Howard E. Holmquist, Ph.D. in Org. Chem., Univ, of Minn. '51, is shown at work on a problem in synthetic organic chemistry.
Doing chemical engineering research on a plate in a distillation tower are: C. M. Gomel, Jr., S.M.Ch.E., M.I.T. '48; and J. B. Jones, M.S.Ch.E., Univ, of Mich. '46.
During research on refrigerants, the polymer was discovered and work was begun to make it useful. The new plastic had a remarkable combination of properties; temperature resistance beyond the range of any previous plastic, excellent electrical characteristics, and the highest degree of chemical inertness of any commercial plastic.
In fact, "Teflon” was almost too unusual. Although it melts, it is too viscous to flow like other plastics. It does not dissolve—even in aqua regia. There was no method for molding it or for making it into thin coatings.
The problem of molding was solved with the help of techniques used in powder metallurgy. "Teflon” is now molded by cold pressing, followed by sintering or "fusing” at about 360°C.
Re*«arch workers have available modem apparatus, such as the infrared spectrometer being used here by Vaughan C. Chambers, PhJ). Org. Chem., M.I.T. '50.
For. coatings, previous research suggested dispersions—minute particles suspended in a liquid. After much study, a team of technical men learned how to suspend particles of "Teflon” about 1/125,000 of an inch in diameter. Then a commercial scale process was devised. This development made possible thin coatings of "Teflon” and also a process for extruding the material. ’
Meanwhile, another group discovered how to successfully formulate the new plastic into "Teflon” tetrafluoroethylene resin finishes and wire enamels.
The development of' 'Teflon” illustrates the close teamwork that is the basis of research at Du Pont. But this teamwork doesn’t end with research. Bringing the product to commercial reality requires development and design work by chemists and both chemical and mechanical engineers. Next month’s Digest will feature information on the opportunities Du Pont offers men interested in this phase of making "better things for better living... through chemistry.”
ASK FOR "Chemical Engineers at Du Pont.” New illustrated booklet describes initial assignments, training and paths of promotion. Just send post card to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware. Also available: Du Pont and the College Graduate and Mechanical Engineers at Du Pont.

BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
... THROUGH CHEMtSTRY
Watch “Cavatealo of Amorita,” m TatorisiN
CHOICE OF
i
YOUNG AMERICA
*
r
Don't you want to try a cigarette with a record like this?
Copyright 1953, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co
/■» J
J .*^**"» •* '<	A	>
• j	s-
AHO	—■
rest FOR YOU PLv*	_____	1. Chesterfield Quality Highest
15% higher than its nearest competitor and 31% higher than the average of the five other leading brands...based on recent chemical analyses giving an index of good quality for the country’s six leading cigarette brands. The index of good quality table—a ratio of high sugar to low nicotine—shows Chesterfield quality highest.
2 b No adverse effects to nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield. From the report of a medical specialist who has been giving a group of Chesterfield smokers regular examinations every two months for well over a year.
3b First with premium quality in both regular and king-size.
Much Milder with an extraordinarily good taste.


1/ if
► 13
1 CHESTERFIELD IS i Bisrfonmu


