the
•• hop Quality
On Famous-Make
SUITS . . . TOPCOATS . . . SPORTCOATS
Our finest quality, famous-make corduroy and worsted suits, topcoats and sportcoats now at savings of one-fourth to one-third. Take this opportunity to get the clothing you need — charge it the Campus Shop way.
J
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY:
No Carrying Charge
Get your clothing needs now during the Campus Shop Quality Sale and save up to one-third . . . charge it the Campus Shop way! Pay one-third in June, one-third in July, and one-third in August. No interest or carrying charge, of course. Use this convenient way to make all of your clothing purchases.
HOME OF AMERICA'S MOST FAMOUS NAMES IN MEN'S CLOTHING
On Cantus Wfihdrnan
(Author of ‘‘I Was a Teen-age Dwarf’, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
"I’VE GOT NEWS FOR YOU”
I know all of you have important things to do in the morning—like getting down to breakfast before your roommate eats all the marmalade—so you really cannot be blamed for not keeping up with all the news in the morning papers. In today’s column, therefore, I have prepared a runup of news highlights from campuses the country over.
SOUTHERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY
Dr. Willard Hale Sigafoos, head of the department of anthropology at Southern Reserve University, and internationally known as an authority on primitive peoples, returned yesterday from a four-year scientific expedition to the headwaters of the Amazon River. Among the many interesting mementos of his journey is his own head, shrunk to the size of a kumquat. He refused to reveal how his head shrinking was accomplished. “That’s for me to know and you to find out,” he said with a tiny, but saucy grin.
NORTHERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY
Dr. Mandrill Gibbon, head of the department of zoology at Northern Reserve University, and known to young and old for his work on primates, announced yes
terday that he had received a grant of S80,000,000 for a twelve-year study to determine precisely how much fun there is in a barrel of monkeys.
Whatever the results of Dr. Gibbon’s researches, this much is already known: What’s more fun than a barrel of monkeys is a pack of Marlboros. There is zest and cheer in every puff, delight in every draw, content and well-being in every fleecy, flavorful cloudlet. And what’s more, this merriest of cigarettes comes to you both in soft pack and flip-top box wherever cigarettes are sold at prices that do no violence to the slimmest of purses. So why don’t you settle back soon and enjoy Marlboro, the filtered cigarette with the unfiltered taste.
•	•	•	© 1961 Max Shulman
New from the makers of Marlboro is the king-size unfiltered Philip Morris Commander—made in a brand-new way for a brand-new experience in smoking pleasure. Get aboard.
4
EASTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY
The annual meeting of the American Philological Institute, held last week at Eastern Reserve University, was enlivened by the reading of two divergent monographs concerning the origins of early Gothic “runes,” as letters of primitive alphabets are called.
Dr. Tristram Lathrop Spleen, famed far and wide as the discoverer of the High German Consonant Shift, read a paper in which he traced the origins of the Old Wendish rune “pt” (pronounced “krahtz”) to the middle Lettie rune “gr” (pronounced “albert”). On the other hand, Dr. Richard Cummerbund Twonkey, who, as the whole world knows, translated “The Pajama Game” into Middle High Bactrian, contended in his paper that the Old Wendish rune “pt” derives from the Low Erse rune “mf” (pronounced “gr”).
Well, sir the discussion grew so heated
that Dr. Twonkey finally asked Dr. Spleen if he would like to step into the gymnasium and put on the gloves. Dr. Spleen accepted the challenge promptly, but the contest was never held because there were no gloves in the gymnasium that would fit Dr. Twonkey.
(The reader is doubtless finding this hard to believe as Eastern Reserve University is celebrated the length and breadth of the land for the size of its glove collection. However, the reader is asked to remember that Dr. Twonkey has extraordinarily small hands and arms. In fact, he spent the last war working in a small-arms plant, where he received two Navy “E” Awards and was widely hailed as a “manly little chap.”)
FESTIVITY MARRED Editor:	1
We, the undersigned, do hereby endorse the “CONTROVERSY” letter of Mr. Donald Rung and Residents of Vet-ville in the February 10th issue of “The Scholastic.”	j
We feel that in denying the adults' and especially the children of Vetville the opportunity of operating a Mardi Gras booth is in direct opposition to th? traditions of the Mardi Gras Carnival. |
To Mr. J. T. Phillips we direct this question: “Are profits the primary purpose of the Mardi Gras?” It would seem that his actions imply an emphatic YES;
To the Freshmen we say, you have indeed missed an opportunity for a delicious home-baked cake from the ladies of Vetville. If we were you, we would see that something is done for future, carnivals. The tradition of the caka booth should remain an integral part of Notre Dame life.	|
We feel that the Student Senate' should allot some of the “profits” of the Mardi Gras to the residents of Vetville as remuneration for a grave injustice.-Shall justice prevail?	•;
Sincerely,
James R. Murphy, 121 Alumni ; John De Werth, 121 Alumni j Paul Rettig, 145 Alumni
Bobby Nowicki, 603 S. Ironwood | February 10, 1961	|
1
Editor:	|
Recognizing the apparent fiscal suc^ cess of the 1961 Mardi Gras Carnival/ it is yet necessary to' also recognize-certain irregularities in the conduct of] its general chairman.	;
These irregularities, indicating a lack: of responsible action, deprecated both the! spirit and intent of Mardi Gras. They are:	;
1)	A failure to recognize or consider the principle of charity in uni-. laterally changing the Vetville con-: cession so as to force their dependency upon the University’s opera ting budget.
2)	A failure in responsible and judicial action in pulling the Pacific^ Northwest club’s booth from partici-1 pation with neither notification off such action nor explanation of such! action to the PNW club.	j
3)	A failure to notify the K. of CJ of the booth submission deadline ■ until after the passing of such date,: thereby restricting them from having a booth.	■
(Continued on page 15)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic
s
>>
f


Notre Dame
Vol. 102 No. 14
FEBRUARY 17, 1961
Founded 1867.
editor-in-chief
CHARLES RIECK
associate editor
ROY RUBELI
news editor
THOMAS WEISS John McCabe
features editor .
THOMAS SULLIVAN 0 Thomas Hoobler
sports editor
JAMES KILROY William Cary John Bechtold
copy editor
THOMAS MARCINIAK
Philip Larrabee
art editor -
THOMAS HANSEN
photographer
WALTER DALY* Jr,
business manager
JOSEPH FINNIGAN Robert Buckley .
circulation manager
JAMES HICKEY
moderator	?
REV. GEORGE BERNARD
news staff
Joseph Caspar
Frank Cuiffo .	>
Lawrence Kavanaugh
James Oliver ;
Thomas Scheuring , Steve Stapp . , ; Steve Stuecheii - - -'s
4
spurts'staff. V ■ ■>..
Robert Chiappinelli Thomas Walsh Terry Wolkerstorfer James Wyrsch
A RARE OCCASION: This Wednesday the Senior Class and the University will have the unique opportunity of honoring the man perhaps destined to be written in future “profiles of courage” not only as the man who received Notre Dame’s Patriot of the Yeai- award, but as the outstanding patriot of our generation. If tomorrow there will be no missile gap, if the missiles roaming the oceans in his nuclear submarines will provide this country with its most unique and effective defense engine, much more than the brilliance of America’s engineers and scientists is to be lauded. For it was the independent, precocious, and self-sacrificing personality of Vice-Admiral Hyman George Rickover that made the powers of intellect realizable — it was, above all, a terribly human victory by a man of vision. Subjecting himself to the buffeting of Pentagon intrigues, and finding his personal advancement stalled again and again, this is the man whose works constantly restrain Soviet rocket-rattling. Our country cannot repay him, but the student body’s presence at the ceremonies will demonstrate to him that we are a generation that can understand patriotism.
MIDWAY: In spite of several ambitious and successful programs, some of which were reviewed in last week’s SCHOLASTIC, there is still money in the Senate till — no small accomplishment when one notes the state and national treasuries handled by our elders. But there is even a more noteworthy and effective criterion of Student Government achievement — namely, the respect it has earned for itself. After four years of day to day contacts with the Senate and its people we are convinced that this year’s group has shown more responsibility and effectiveness than ever before. Their projects have been sensible and worthy and they have managed to avoid the one or two ridiculous incidents that can mar an entire year. There is still much more responsibility that must be earned and granted, but this is a question of time as well as of personal effort. To this body we offer our best wishes find co-operation in the second semester.
TASK FORCE: Notre Dame’s concern with the proposed Peace Corps seems to be growing. In addition to the study group that has been established by the Modern Language club there is a second task force that has been commissioned by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., to gather facts on the possibility of setting up a radio network in Chile and all the problems that would accompany its establishment. Answers must be found to questions that range from what Chilean radio laws are, to what social and economic conditions exist, to what kind of a training progam should be set up. With real co-operation between the two groups a comprehensive and valuable report can be presented, not only to Father Hesburgh, but to Congressmen as well. Naturally, this study is entirely theoretical in the sense that the Peace Corps has yet to be authorized by Congress. But if and when the program is passed, Notre Dame will have a considerable headstart. We will be able to provide a specific program, worked out in detail, that could easily serve as the pilot project that many legislators seem to favor.
INFLATION: Waiting for the student who left over the semester break was an announcement from the library that it would circulate books for four-week periods. The observant student also noticed that fines had been increased from a nickel to a quarter a day. Such a decree is not a simple thing, but lies in front of much preliminary work. During the past two years, library book-buying has been concentrated upon works for the use of undergraduates; the director felt that a sufficient supply of the necessary reference works had been obtained to allow circulation for four weeks. Those two-week term papers that turn into three- and four-week projects will no longer demand the renewal trip to the library with the maid’s cart. And the increased fine should move students to return the books promptly, thereby cutting down library expenses in mailing out overdue slips.
AGREED: Last Saturday’s South Bend Tribune carried an editorial asking for a more appropriate charge against the hoodlum that stabbed a Notre Dame freshman. In view of the efficiency and co-operation of the police department to date and the statements of the Dean of Discipline we are certain that something more than a misdemeanor will be charged. This is as it should be. We also take this opportunity to appeal to the student body to avoid any incidents with persons in South Bend. Judging from the number of prowl cars on Michigan avenue last week end, the police must consider the entire situation a potentially dangerous one and the usual bantering that too often goes on may turn into something more than just “standing on the corner.”
—R&R
What’s it take to make the right connection ?
Plenty! Consider the problem. Western Electric manufactures the switching systems which connect some 60-million Bell telephones throughout the U. S. The average call over today’s electromechanical system requires 420 relay operations. All together, this interconnecting equipment makes up the heart of what is, in effect, tire world’s largest machine.
That’s where Western Electric and you come in. The switching equipment for this “machine” involves an enormous manufacturing job carried on by our plants throughout die country. Because of the size and service requirements involved, we require quality standards far exceeding those of ordinary manufacturing. The size of diis job presents an unusual challenge to the engineer who may save the Bell System many thousands of dollars by even a small cost-reduction step.
While today’s switching calls for a priority on engineering, tomorrow’s will be even more exciting. For even now the revolutionary Electronic Central Office is under field trial and promises to remake the world of telephony. Future Western Electric engineers, working closely with their counterparts at Bell Tele
phone Laboratories, will concentrate heavily on developing manufacturing methods for this ECO equipment.
Your Western Electric assignments may cover many of our other responsibilities as the world’s leading communications manufacturer. Perhaps you’ll work on advances in microwave transmission, or even on satellite communications.
Joining Western Electric may well be your right connection.
Opportunities exist for electrical, mechanical, industrial, civil and chemical engineers, as well as physical science, liberal arts, and business majors. For more information, get your copy of "Western Electric and Your Career" from your Placement Officer. Or write College Relations, Room 6106, Western Electric Company, 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y. And be sure to arrange for a Western Electric interview when the Bell System recruiting team visits your campus.

manufacturing and sumv
UNIT OF THE IEU SYSTEM
Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, III.; Kearny, N. J.; Baltimore, Md.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale, Pa.; Winston-Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City, Mo.; Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Okla. Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J. Teletype Corporation, Skokie, 111., and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electric distribution centers in 33 cities and installation headquarters in 16 cities. General headquarters: 195 .Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.
6	The Scholastic
PRESENT PATRIOT MEDAL
Admiral Here to Give Address Wednesday
by TOM WEISS
Selected by a the Senior Class, G. Rickovei- will triot of the Year
decisive majority of Vice Admiral Hyman receive the 1961 Pa-Award at ceremonies
Wednesday night at 8:30. At that time, Rickover will address the Drill Hall audience; the proceedings will be broadcast over WSND.
The Admiral’s direct contacts with the public are usually related in some way to the problems of American education, concern for which constitutes Rickover’s favorite “extracurricular” activity. He has recently contributed articles dealing with this topic to the Saturday Evening Post and the Ladies Home Journal, and has pub-Jished a book titled ^Education and Freedom.
As military heroes
go, Rickover is a rare bird indeed. During World War II it was neither in the U-boat infested North Atlantic nor in the blood-warm and blood-stained •’waters of the South
Pacific that Rickover was making a name for himself. Rather, his chief theater of operations was the electrical section of the Navy’s Bureau of Ships.
Rickover was born in eastern Poland in 1900, the son of a poor Jewish tailor. His family soon came to America and young Hyman grew up in an immigrant section of Chicago. In such circumstances he first adapted himself to the life of hard work which has characterized him ever since. Securing an appointment to
the Naval
Academy, where he was unpopular and generally mediocre, he graduated 107th in a class of 532. Going on to Columbia University, he received a Master’s degree in electrical engineering.
During the 1930’s Rickover made small impression on his Navy superiors in his routine tours of duty and seemed to be nothing more than an unfriendly hard
February 17, 1961
worker. When the war came along, he took over his post as head of the electrical division of the Bureau of Ships, where his ability to get a job done promptly and competently first came into general prominence.
It was in 1946 that he became interested in possible applications of atomic energy to ship propulsion, and the Navy sent him to Oak Ridge to study. However, handicapped both by the usual military-bureaucratic ossification of the status quo and by his own personal unpopularity, he had a very difficult time getting anyone else in the Navy interested in his ideas. Finally, he gained the ear of Admiral Chester Nimitz, who endorsed his plans, whereupon Rickover found himself head of the newly formed nuclear power division of the Bureau of Ships.
Skill and sweat. After recruiting an extremely able working staff, Rickover

ADMIRAL HYMAN G. RICKOVER, U.S.N.
Perspiration for inspiration’s sake.
drove himself and his men with his characteristic fervor; their “inspiration and perspiration” soon began to produce significant results, culminating in the launching of the Nautilus, world’s first nuclear powered submarine, in 1954.
In the course of his career, Rickover has probably acquired more enemies than any oflicer in the Navy; his blunt manner and his readiness to disregard ad-
TO RICKOVER ministrative and military conventions when he deems it necessaiy have not endeared him to the protocol-conscious top Navy brass. Nor have many civilian contractors who have worked with the hard-to-please Rickover found reason to feel much affection for him.
While his division’s development work was going on in 1952, an officers’ selection board passed over Captain Rickover for promotion for the second time, attempting to thus force him into automatic retirement. Rickover and his work had, however, not escaped the favorable notice of Congress, and the Senate Armed Services Committee prodded the Navy into promoting him. Similarly, in the summer of 1958, after the Nautilu^ famous North Pole voyage, when the Nautilus’ commander was decorated at a special White House reception, the Navy and the President himself drew near-unanimous censure from the public and the press because Rickover was not invited.
Discrimination, please. The citation which Rickover will receive Wednesday night is annually made to an American whose life and career “exemplify the American ideals of justice, personal integrity and service to country.” Unlike the sputnik-prompted selection two years ago of Wernher von Braun, whose relationship to American ideals is, to say the least, somewhat awkward, or that of Richard Nixon, whose selection last year sent campus liberals to whistling “The World Turned Topsy-Turvy,” the choice of Admiral Rickover should do much to boost the prestige and significance of the award itself. Without claiming for him the pseudo-sanctity of an utter lack of self-interest, Admiral Rickover’s work has certainly made him a better choice for the award than any of the recipients of recent years.	•
Colleton Plans New Approach To St. Mary's Social Relations
In keeping with the recently expanded program of activities sponsored by the Arts and Letters Advisory Council, Tom Colleton, AB Senator, announced a new approach to “informal relations.” Under the chairmanship of Bob Moran, a junior" English major, a number of informal meetings have been held for the freshmen of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. These meetings are held in the faculty lounge- of O’Shaughnessy Hall and have taken the general form of a short keynote by a faculty member, after which there is a discussion that lasts as long as there is the general interest to support it (not in excess of the 10:30 permissions of our “sister school”). During the evening there is a break for refreshments which affords the opportunity for still smaller and less formal discussions.	?.
1 The most recent meeting was attended by Father Stanley Parry, C.S.C., chair-
■ (Continued on page 9)
7
Knights Announce Mid-March Bouts Opening; Expect Return of Former Divisional Champs
The 30th annual, 1961, Notre Dame Bengal Bouts, held under the auspices of the campus chapter of the Knights of Columbus, have been scheduled for March 13, 15, and 17. According to the bouts promoter, Dave Cormier and assistant Tom Miller, preparations were begun last May and will continue through the one-month period from now until March.
Upperclassmen know the bouts as a spring highlight. Over 15 veteran fighters will return to the bouts this year, six of them champs in their weight classes in the “60” bouts. The football squad generally produces some outstanding boxers and several of them are expected to trade their shoulder pads for gloves this year.
Boast safety record.
In 1931 the fights first became a charity event when, under the sponsorship of the Scholastic, they were put on for the benefit of the missions in India. The Scholastic continued as sponsor of the bouts until 1946 when the Campus Council of the Knights of Columbus took over. The Knights presently sponsor the fights as part of their Catholic Activities program. Sports Illustrated, a few years past called the Bengal Bouts one of the most excellent amateur boxing tournaments in the country.
If the name “Bengal Bouts” seems somewhat odd for a boxing tournament, there is a reason for it. The entire proceeds each year are donated to the Holy Cross Missions in Bengal, East Pakistan. The profits generally run from three to four thousand dollars.
A big man behind the scenes of the Bengal Bouts for the past 29 years has been Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano. “Nappy,” as he is known, is the Grand
1961 BENGAL BOUTS COMMITTEEMEN Blows for the Pakistani with no damage done.
Master behind the months of training, and he has consistently produced fights which have been good, clean and of high quality. An indication of this is that in the entire history of the Bengals, no fighter has ever been seriously injured in the ring.
On the final night of the bouts, trophies are presented to the champions in each weight division, a sportsmanship trophy is awarded to the fighter who showed the most enthusiasm and fairness in training and in fighting. Also this year, there will be the recently instituted Rufus Mills Award which is given to the outstanding freshman boxer, a new incentive for freshmen.
Dave Cormier, a senior general science major, hails from Westbrook, Maine. Tom Miller, a junior business organization and management major, comes from Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Promoter and assistant of the Bengals were appointed last May by the Grand Knight of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights.
Magnificent sixteen.
Assisting the promoters, the Bengal Bouts Committee is composed of Secretary Tom Kroner and ten chairmen, each of whom will form a committee of his own. These chairmen for the “61” bouts are: Dan Fusco, business manager; Bill Broderick, assistant business manager; Oscar Wong, programs; Mike Rothstein, assistant programs; Mike Sammon, public relations; Denny McCarthy, assistant public relations; John Ferdinand, tickets; Art Barille, ticket finances; Fred Scott, trophies; Carl Hall and Dick Howell, concessions; Tom Korb, banquet; and Jim Black, publicity.
To Debate Historical Values I Tonight in Law Auditorium |
“Does History Have Value?” Tonight J in the Law Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. the . Academic Commissions of St. Mary’s V and Notre Dame will present a Student : Forum of “The Disadvantages and Ad- . vantages of History.”
Bruno Schlesinger, director of the St.A Mary’s Christian Culture Program, will* consider the advantages while Ralph Me-Inerny, of the Notre Dame Department of Philosophy, will consider the disad-vantages of the study of history. The i -Christian Culture program considers Christian thought, literature, and art f through history, while some Notre Dame programs (notably, the General Program of Liberal Education) place little value j on the historical approach to knowledge, s
OPEN HOUSE	t
Free entertainment, group sing- L ing, recorded music, and card play- s ing will be featured at the Saturday £. Afternoon Open House tomorrow £ from 1 till 5 p.m. in the Rathskeller, r / The first of many such afternoons, it is sponsored by the ND-SMC Com-
mittee on Informal Relations.
CJF Committee Selects Entrants for April 'Bash'
Collegiate Jazz Festival 1961, “the |r. hippest collegiate bash of them all,” | according to Time, will bring 25 college ft jazz groups selected from nation-wide g applicants to the fieldhouse Friday and Saturday, Apr. 21 and 22.
CJF chairman Dave Sommer, TomA Tafelski, Pete Herbert, and Frank g; Hamilton of WSND picked the 25 after listening to five to seven minute tapes h provided by the numerous applicants. t
“The New Dimension in College Jazz” = = is the theme of this year’s festival. , « Planning includes more and better ’ prizes, widei- publicity, larger audi- .. ences, and better production. Two years ago, the idea of a jazz festival featur-*Jg ing college groups was conceived at ft Notre Dame. Since that time, CJF has ft grown with spectacular rapidity—from W’ a regional Midwest competition to a B nation-wide festival. Last year groups |l from as far away as Texas, Colorado and New Hampshire were presented here. ft,
The two days of competition include & three sets of preliminaries in which each ft group will appear for- about 20 minutes B for judging by Down Beat publisher ft Charles Suber, Robert Share of the®| Berkeley School of Music in Boston, and M John Richards. Six or seven groups ft chosen from the preliminaries will play ft in the Saturday night finals. The win- ft ning combo (nine members or less) will E receive a week’s engagement at New York’s Half Note night club; the win- O ning big band (ten members or more) IK will receive scholarships to Stan Ken- O ton’s Clinic at the National Stage Band ft Camp.	®
8
The Scholastic
; Fr. Hesburgh Opens Senior Marriage Talks; j Courtship, Marriage Receive Initial Thought
I Next Sunday night at 7:30 p.m. this : year’s Senior Marriage Institute will open with a lecture by Rev. Theodore J'	Hesburgh, C.S.C., entitled “Courtship
< ^gnd Marriage.” His is the first of a series ■; ^of five discussions given by representa-. tives of the clergy and medical profession, as well as by laymen, each discussing a separate aspect of marriage seen ? in view of the higher unity of Catholic ; teaching on the sacrament.
' Hesburgh’s ten categories.
:	Behind this seventh annual Institute
are Chairman Bill Pflaum, publicity manager Al Bosch, ticket chairman Jack McLaughlin, and General Arrangements •Chairman Bill Lehr. Rev. Louis Putz, .	C.S.C., moderates the perennial Religion
Department-Senior Class project. The . Institute is grounded on the belief that ■ “learning how to live to the fullest as a husband and a father of a family is a very important part of education today.” The lectures are designed to satisfy PreCana Conference requirements. Those who wish the certificate confirming their attendance may have their tickets •stamped during the intermission between the lecture and the question period each time.
Father Hesburgh’s lecture will be oriented to the crucial problem of compatibility on the part of the marriage partners; for “there are elements in every person which (must) adjust to elements in the other person.” This points to the primary function of courtship, getting acquainted with the girl singled out from
• wide acquaintance. Only after having done so can one concentrate on winning her love and making it permanent.
The initial choice seems best based on this deceptively simple criterion: “Is she
Colleton
(Continued from page 7)
man of the department of Political Sci-" ence, who offered his remarks on “A New Cause For the Industrial Revolution.”
Other recent speakers have included , Professor Arnold Ross, chairman of the department of Mathematics, on “The f	Role of Mathematics in a Liberal Edu-
i	cation,” and Professor John T. Frederick,
I chairman of the department of English, I on “What Makes a Writer?”
j Moran points out that the “formal character” of the lecture titles should I not “scare anyone off” since these events ! • are chiefly discussions and this gives i ample opportunity to discuss a wide range of subjects with both the professor and the other students.
| The possibility of expanding these 5 meetings to include members of the upperclasses of both schools is being j studied by Colleton and the other members of the Council. Anyone interested in working on this project or with suggestions in regard to it should contact Tom Colleton in Room 365 Dillon Hall.
I February 17, 1961
good for you? . . . Does she make you a better person?” Father considers ten categories of good standards for making this judgment. Moral virtue is the most important, because it makes one the sort of person he or she is. Under this category, purity is the lead-quality, especially for men for whom the Blessed Mother stands as the epitome of womanhood. Implicit in this are fidelity and unselfishness, the second and third critical qualities.
The second of Father Hesburgh’s ten categories is love, “the thing that makes you choose.” Emphatically stated is the importance of this being a love founded on spiritual things, not the hollow concept of the “American Romance.” “Make sure it is love, make sure it is more than mere attraction, more than mere infatuation . . . more than lust. . . .”
Next in importance comes religion. Reiterating the need for compatibility, Father points out that this is the “one place where you don’t want disunion”; for it has a pervasive influence on the attitude in and toward the home.
Other important categories to be treated are: philosophy of life, domestic virtues, health, family background, and education.
How to win at love. With these criteria satisfied, one can proceed with the
South Pacific Theme Chosen By Frosh Formal Committee
“Bali Ha’i” will be the theme of the Freshman Formal which will be held May 5 at the La Fortune Student Center. Genuine foliage with a South Pacific flavor will highlight the decorations.
Preparations for the festivities are under the direction of a 9-man committee chaired by Pete Clark. Details are being ironed out in weekly meetings of the committee.
It is hoped that the 550 available tickets will be sufficient to allow everyone wishing an opportunity to attend to do so. Tickets will be sold on a first come, first served basis avoiding the complications of a lottery. Free refreshments are planned.
Car and two o’clock permissions will, of course, be given to those attending the dance.
For many of the revelers, the dance will be merely the beginning of a week end of fun. The date for the Friday night dance was selected to afford the opportunity to attend the Naval Ball or the University Theatre’s production of the musical Babes In Arms both of which will be held the following night.
The committee plans to complete the week end with a Communion Breakfast. Many of the arrangements are at present incomplete. Included in this is the selection of a band, but it appears at the present time that the band of Billy May will be selected.
task of winning and deepening the love leading to marriage. Be yourself, thoughtful, mature, and realistic, in a variety of situations with the girl, Father Hesburgh suggests. For courtship is a mutual responsibility, a genuine and sincere experimental friendship intended to discover the real bases of true conjugal love. “Courtship is not a game.” The four talks will come on the Wednesdays of March, all held in Washington Hall and beginning at 7:30 pjn.
Mayor Marks March Debate Days for City
Frank J . Bruggner, mayor* of South Bend, has designated Friday and Saturday, March 3 and 4, as “Debate Days in South Bend.”
On that week end some 50 debate teams from universities and colleges across the United States will arrive on campus for Notre Dame’s Ninth Annual National Invitational Debate Tournament. They will engage in a two-day series of public debates on the topic RESOLVED: “That the United States should adopt a program of compulsory health insurance for all citizens.”
Mayor Bruggner has urged all citizens of South Bend to join with the University in observing this public tournament as a re-emphasis of the concept of free discussion and analysis of ideas among private citizens.
According to present plans, the teams will register for the tournament Thursday night, March 2, and first assemble the following morning in the Main Lounge of the Student Center. The first six rounds will be held in the Student Center Friday and Saturday and will precede the Debate Luncheon in the Morris Inn on Saturday.
Quarter-finals begin- at 1:30 pan. Saturday in the Engineering and Law Auditoriums and 123 and 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. Semi-finals are at 3 pan. in the Engineering Auditorium and 127 Nieuwland. Finals are tentatively set for 4:30 pan. in the Engineering Auditorium with the awards immediately following.
Father Parry Keynotes Leo XIII Series Talks
The Leo XIII Lecture Series sponsored by the Y.C.S. of Notre Dame is again on the spring term lecture agenda. Each of the five speeches will be delivered in 104 O’Shaughnessy Hall at 8:00 pan. Tuesday evenings from Feb. 21 till Easter. Basically, the lectures are aimed at relating Christian theology and philosophy to current problems in the social order according to the precepts formulated by Pope Leo XIII.
First speaker in the series will be Rev. Stanley Parry, C.S.C., who will talk on “The Social Ills of Our Day.” On the following week, Feb. 28, Dr. George Shuster is scheduled to lecture on “The Aims of Catholic Higher Education.”
9
ENGINEERS AM) SCIENTISTS
NAA’s On-Campus Interviews
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23
The NAA industrial family has a career for you
Nuclear power at the Atomics International Division (Conoga Pork, Calif.)	Atomics International Division is a leader, both here and abroad, in the development of nuclear reactors for power, research, and mobile systems.
[/JnA Electronics & electromechanics at the Autonetics Division (Downey, Calif )	Autonetics Division carries out research, development, and manufacture of computers, data systems, inertial guidance, armament controls, flight controls. Builders of guidance systems for Polaris subs, Minuteman ICBM.
/n\ AtfA Naval W aircraft & missiles at the Columbus Division (Columbus, Ohio)	Columbus Division, a complete center of systems capability, produces Navy’s Mach 2 A3 J Vigilante, is developing new Army target missile, and building reflector for world’s largest radio / telescope.
/n\ Design & ™l| development of manned weapon systems at the Los Angeles Division (Los Angeles, Calif )	Los Angeles Division is the home of next-generation manned weapon system—the Mach 3 B-70 Valkyrie —and America’s first manned space vehicle, the X-15.
■	Propulsion systems and concepts at the Rocketdyne Division (Canoga Pork, Calif.) (McGregor, Texas) (Neosho, Mo.)	Rocketdyne Division, Free World’s leading producer1 of large rocket engines, supplied main-stage boosters for 29 out of 32 successful U.S. satellites and space probes.
_ A. Afa A Space exploration & missiles at the Space & Information Systems Division (Downey, Calif.)	SIS Division produces the GAM-77 Hound Dog missile and concentrates on manned and unmanned space exploration vehicles, anti-ICBM projects, and management of information processing systems.
Advanced opportunities for engineers and scientists with graduate degrees. See Your Placement Office Today For Interview
NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION, INC.
BEST BUYS IN
BOOKS
ANCHOR
Preface to Criticism
Bate
SPECTRUM
Goals for Americans
Report of President's Commission
BANTAM
Hawaii
James Mitchner
End of the Affair
Graham Greene
POCKET BOOK
Please Don’t Eat the Daisies
Jean Kerr
POCKET BOOK
Kon Tiki
Thor Heyerdahl
BEACON
Man and the State
Jacques Maritain
ATTENTION: Faculty and Students
Handbook of Chemistry and Physics (Latest Ed.)
Special Price $5.85
Notre Dame Bookstore
on - the - campus


a

til

£
4

10
The Scholastic
5
i
MIRACLE
The “bubble-brains” were coming. What could Orron do? The city . . . once mighty in its chromium majesty . . . was in rubble. Half the population was dead; half in fearsome frenzy. And now the Ogarrths, hated invaders from Algol’s fifth planet were entering the vanquished metropolis.
Orron, hiding behind a 20-foot square block of ashen concrete, peered cautious-ftiy at the immense “noogans” walking machines, reminiscent of the Martian invaders of H. G. Wells. The control bubbles of the noogans glowed with a faint purple light as the titanic 200-foot devices lumbered into the ruins. In his imagination Orron conjured up images of the leering Ogarrths that controlled them, their* translucent brains
by JAK BAYNE
9)
j February 17, 1961
I
flashing wildly in their globular transparent skulls. A cold shiver crept over him as he pictured their protruding eyes glaring viciously.
“Damn bubble-brains,” be growled.
“Guess we’d better make a run for it,” came a voice from behind. The harsh, tense voice of Tucsil brought his mind from its mental nightmare to the nightmare of surrounding reality. Tucsil’s weary, almost expressionless blue eyes stared blankly at Orron as though at a figure in a dream. A six-day stubble covered three-quarters of his red, scarred face. His dirty-blond hair hung disheveled . . . masses of pale, stiff straw plastered with ash and mud. The remnants of a plastic suit hung about the tall sturdy body of the man who, before the invasion, had been Orron’s most vehement enemy.
“Yeah. Guess we’d better run,” Orron repeated blankly, looking again at
the terrible alien devices probing the edge of the ruined city with white search rays.
Run! Where could they run? To the hill? In the hills where the surviving members of the population were hiding . . . only to be searched out with Ogarrth’s beams and disintegrated. For days they had fled from city to city. What good was running? The Ogarrths were undefeatable.
Orron blinked sharply. He saw that others too felt the same way. Before his eyes, despairing individuals sacrificed themselves deliberately to the fiery death rays of the Algol Five. Rushing from behind sheltering chunks of asphalt, screaming and waving their arms, groups of lost hopeless people hurled themselves into flaming oblivion. Orron no longer averted his eyes as he saw the fiery masses of human beings writh-
(Continued on page 13)
11
by Patrick J. Hart
Earlier this week, the Blue Circle Honor Society announced that it would be opening its membership drive for qualified students interested in applying. This article is directed toward those students who are seriously considering applying in order that they might have a more concrete idea of what we are and what we do.
The ultimate purpose of the Blue Circle is to serve the University in the fullest sense. This does not mean that we are instruments of the Administration, nor does it mean that we are a spokesman group for the student body. Rather it means that we are dedicated to the fulfillment of the ideals of the University as a whole. This includes the Administration, the faculty, and the students.
This dedication to service is probably the most important single unifying factor within the organization. It is something which must be embodied by each of the forty-five members in order for us to function as a harmonious unit. From this service arises another bond which unites the individuals in the Circle, that of the satisfaction derived from seeing the effects of one’s efforts in relation to the whole life here. The jobs of helping Freshmen adjust to their new surroundings, of taking someone on his first visit of the campus, of enabling sevenhundred students to make a memorable trip to one of the away football games all provide an immense amount of satisfaction, and in a sense make one a part of the very structure of the University.
Several of the duties performed by the Circle are recognized as such around the campus, but there are many other less widely publicized though equally important duties carried on by us which are unknown among the students. To illuminate those of you who are not sure of exactly what the Circle’s functions are, I am going to enumerate some of our activities and briefly explain the nature of each.
Nearly everyone looks upon the Freshman Orientation Program and the Blue Circle as almost synonymous terms. This is the first of our annual projects. It is the only committee which requires the full strength of the Circle, and it functions for the entire week during which the Freshmen are indoctrinated into the college routine. At
12
the same time, it is the most rewarding of all our projects because it is the only time we are all working together and functioning as a complete unit.
Just after the completion of our Freshman Orientation Program our Pep Rally Committee goes into action and organizes all of the football rallies held during the fall season. This arduous task requires many hours of sacrifice in procuring speakers and preparing the format of each rally. But once again, the satisfaction derived from knowing that the eight-thousand people who attended the rally left full of enthusiasm in expectation of the following day’s action on the gridiron is more than enough to justify the time spent.
About midway in the football season the Blue Circle Student Trip Committee organizes the annual exodus to an opponent’s home ground to support our team’s efforts there. This year the student trippers went to Philadelphia for the Navy game, and then up to New York City for the remainder of the week end.
Among the most gratifying projects we handle is the organization of the Christmas Parties which are held for the infirm and aged in South Bend and the surrounding area. Here there is an opportunity for the students to step beyond themselves and enable people less fortunate to have a more enjoyable holiday. This is one of the two Circle projects which takes us beyond the boundaries of the campus. The other is Help Week, held late in the spring, when the Circle and enlisted members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s student bodies set aside an afternoon to offer their manual services to the hospitals, orphanages and other such institutions in South Bend. Besides being of great assistance to these institutions, we are able to promote good relations between South Bend and Notre Dame, and destroy any barriers which may have caused misunderstanding in the past.
Another of our projects, Leadership Training, is one you will be hearing a lot about in the next few weeks. This year’s conference, scheduled for March seventeenth and eighteenth, is going to concentrate on the relationship between leadership in the academic life and leadership in the community. This ap
proach will be somewhat different from
the one taken in the past, and from alb^ indications it looks quite promising. "
Some of the more obscure functions :
of the Circle are assumed by the Tour, Library and Ushering Committees. For example, we provide tours of the campus from September to June of every year. This work ranges from showing | girl scouts around on a Saturday morn-ing to escorting guests of honor receiv- 7 ing doctorate degrees at graduation ex-ercises. Our Library Committee is ever ; negotiating with the library staff for improvements in the study conditions < there. This committee, incidentally, was 1 responsible for the recent “amnesty” on { 1 all overdue books. Lastly, our Usher- v ing Committee is on duty for every form- p al Washington Hall function to escort / the attending guests to their seats.	•
All of these projects, however trivial I j and meaningless some may appear, con- j j tribute invaluably to giving the Circle | | its texture which is rooted in service and united in fraternity. It is through these projects that we are able to serve, and are thereby able to participate in this >■,: common bond which unites us all. And ■ ‘
it is through the spirit of this service that we achieve the satisfaction of knowing that what we do makes the University come closer to the fulfillment of its goals. In order to succeed in our purpose of selflessly seiwing we must have truly dedicated members, men who are willing to do work which will often times go unnoticed. This sincere spirit of dedication is the first quality we will look for in an applicant.
So far it may sound as though membership in the Circle means nothing but work. Yet, this is far from being true. The personal rewards to be reaped by the individual members are many. The experiences of handling committees which have budgets well into the thousands of dollars, the challenges offered in successfully executing a Freshman Orientation Program or a Student Trip, provide manifold opportunities for selfimprovement. There are also the benefits to be derived from the personal associations made within the Circle, associations which result in life-long friendships and which can have considerable influence on the course on one’s life. These are some of the secondary (Continued on page 15)
The Scholastic
Ii JOHN OLIVER
CRITIC
*at large

The mystery of Othello, if there be such a thing, will be found far sooner "in the creative genius of Shakespeare than it will in the deep swamps of symbolism through which it is so often dragged. Here is a play carved totally ^and perfectly from the human personality. Every character- the author uses develops within its own framework and the framework of the play so flawlessly and in such psychological detail that the play can exist as an entity in itself or rise to its zenith as a profound comment on its human situation through the medium of a great performance. The mystery, as in Shakespeare’s other works and as in the music of Mozart, lies in the play’s completeness. It lies in the “fact that though it teases and enchants the scholars it was written for the people of the Elizabethan theatre audience. It lies also in the fact that you can play it at Stratford or at Washington Hall and as long as you play it as Shakespeare wrote it, given a passable cast, it is almost foolproof.
The cast used by Mr. Fred Syburg in
his present campus success ranges from passable upward. It is his own work as director, however, which is most impressive. The many faceted directorial sensitivity Mr. Syburg possesses stands out particularly in his staging and his use of voices, both as regards pitch and timbre. There are many directors who pay attention in the course of their duties to both these facets of dramatic presentation, but few succeed in making an art of them. This one does.
His staging involves kaleidoscopic groupings of his players with attention given at once to the stature of the player, the significance of his immediate role and the color pattern made by his costume in relation to his stage environment. His voicing techniques will go unnoticed by most because his success in blending the peculiar pitch and timbre of the individual player’s voice with the implicit inflectional needs of the text is all but complete.
The intelligently conceived and technically faultless Iago of Richard Kavanaugh provides the companion piece to Mr. Syburg’s work. This performance undoubtedly grew from a great deal of experience and thought. To mould a line, a gesture, a facial expression into a single entity and to carry this unity throughout an entire performance and in so doing build a characterization
whose identity is unquestionable requires the skill of a polished actor; such is Kavanaugh.
His conception of the character of Iago avoided to a certain extent the depth of cruelty inherent in the part, but as a result his execution was more subtle. A neurotic Iago is not perhaps as forceful as a purely vicious one, but it is equally as convincing.
The Othello of James Loula brings to mind one of the basic functions of theatre on the college level. That is, to provide a young actor with a vehicle in which to feel his way into his talent. Certainly the Loula talent is considerable. His conception of Othello, while by no means exhaustive, brought him to a performance of depth and power. His ability to bring out both the pride and tenderness of the character and, at the same time, carry through Othello’s basic honesty suggests that his possibilities as a finished actor are many. This was further- pointed up by the several scenes in which Loula gave an Othello of fire as well as power.
Markedly good performances by Mary Armbruster as Desdemona, Diane Crowley as Amelia, William Flaherty as Rodrigo and Hans Hermans in the dual roles of Brabantio and Gratiano rounded out the evening’s enjoyment and gave promise of further good things to come.
i	Miracle
' I	(Continued from page 12)
ing and screaming, and disintegrating 1	into smoking, ashen piles. During the
5	past agonizing week he had grown used
; to death. He had heard death, and seen
death, and smelled death, and felt death
- I in his arms as it snatched away his - I young brother.
?|i Slowly, painfully, he turned away ;|:	from the garish scene. Taking a final
swig from a bottle of “alcozip,” he [j? tossed the plastic container aside and darted with his fellow humans toward rl; another hill of rubble a hundred and fifty gray feet away. The pillaging machines |l- — were still thousands of yards distant, (1/ and there was a good chance Orron and Tucsil could make it safely to the hills j|| within a half hour’s time. What then? (If Neither of them knew.
Ill Scurrying like dirty gray rats, from ||f ruin to ruin the two men, and a smat-g|f	tering of other survivors, eventually col-
i||	lapsed into the thick green brush at the
||| ' foot of the hills that neighbored upon the once-magnificent city. In the short |l| emigration Orron had been accepted as self-appointed leader of the small group
31 February 17, 1961
that had wandered swiftly, half-aim-lessly into the hills. “Probably because of my height,” he reflected. Terrified, imperiled people often tend to search for leadership in a man of impressive stature, and Orron stood a haughty six-foot-four.
“We’ll rest here,” he commanded. He fell back upon the turf to catch his breath. It was now mid-day, and the scarlet sky overhead seemed to be painted in flaming blood.
Orron’s heart was hammering like a pile-driver. His morose black eyes peered balefully at the fire-stained ceiling of air and smoky clouds. The events of the last six days swam hazily before his eyes.
He saw the great Ogan-th battle-fleet appear seemingly out of nowhere as it dropped its invisibility screen. He recalled the alarms and screaming of a horrified populace. Immense war ships had landed undetected at strategic points throughout his country.
He remembered with a shudder the bulbous face of the Chief Ogarrth as it materialized on television screens throughout the land and delivered the ultimatum . . . surrender or be eradi
cated. The people had resisted, and Orron’s country had fallen. City after city had been reduced to dust, and all the suiviving humans now sought refuge in the hills . . . where they would be hunted like wild beasts.
Orron burned with rage at the thought. The “bubble-brains” had crushed the mightiest country in the world, and now they would proceed to conquer the others, one by one, until the entire planet bowed in defeat to the masters of the Algol Five.
Nightmare visions filled his mind of Ogarrths sacrificing human beings, and his stomach retched at the macabre scenes that paraded before his mind’s eye.
“Oh God, what can we do? Orron murmured, “Oh God, what can we do?”
Suddenly the man was startled by the shrill hysterical shriek of a young woman only a few feet away. As he turned toward her she threw herself upon him.
“Please! Please don’t let them take me,” she shrieked. “Love me! Love me! Please! I want to be loved! I don’t want to die! Please!”
(Continued on page 14)
13

Miracle
(Continued from page 13)
Sobbing frantically, she clasped her arms about his muscular neck.
Startled, Orron did his best to comfort the girl until two older women tried to coax her from him; but she clung fiercely.
“Please, please.”
Shortly, they loosened hex- grip and dragged her carefully away, tears streaming down her pale young face.
“Poor girl,” murmured Orron. “So lovely.”
“Yes,” replied Tucsil who had been sitting a few yards to Orron’s right. “Perhaps we’d have all been better off if we had been vaporized in the city.”
“No,” growled Orron determinedly. “There has to be some way to defeat them,” he said shaking his fist, in an attempt to deceive himself that there was hope when he knew there was none. A last-ditch stand against despair.
Orron knew down deep that if the mightiest weapons of the army could not stop the monstrous invaders, there was small chance that the scattered bands could defeat them with what few small weapons they possessed. The only chance would be a miracle, like the ones of the old days. But they couldn’t depend on miracles.
“They’ll have finished scouring the city in a few hours. We’ll have to move on soon.”
“Yes, I think so, I haven’t yet received word from the scouts at the edge of the brush that the enemy is approaching. I’ll go down and see for myself how close they are.”
“I’ll go with you,” suggested Tucsil, rising to his feet.
“No. Stay here and watch the people. I’ll be back in a minute.”
Orron descended the small hillside thinking: . . . “So here we are Orron and Tucsil . . . political enemies, who follow two entirely different ideologies . . . fighting together like comrades. Tucsil, the atheist who believe in a Godless communistic society where the State is supreme, and Orron, firm believer in the existence of Providence and a divine • destiny for the human race • . . bitter enemies cast together against a common foe.”
Approaching one of the scouts who was peering red-eyed through the brush at the flaming ruins, Orron asked: “How far off?”
“Still a few miles,” replied a thin tense face. “They’re taking their time.”
Through a space in the leaves, the leader could see five of the tripedal machines stalking about in the distance on their stilt like legs.
“Gather the other scouts. Prepare to move farther into the hills.”
The scout moved off swiftly like a quick gray fox.
Orron plodded determinedly up the hillside to where Tucsil and the others were waiting. Two young boys crouched behind a huge rock with toy ray-guns. The women had finished bandaging the wounded. To the far right the victim of
(Continued on page 15)
14
At the Theaters
Lent is here again, and it might not be too difficult to keep that promise some of^.J you made of not going to movies. In any case, the space is available for me here, so I’ll use it.	j
Charlton Heston, Haya Harareet, Hugh Griffith, Stephen Boyd, and Martha Scott 1 are still at the Colfax, supported by a cast of approximately half a million. Then, j around March 3, Ben-Hur will be replaced by Can-Can. The latter returns at | regular prices and is likely to run a couple of weeks.	i
I
In his latest movie, William Holden plays an architect who goes on a soul-	;
searching binge to Hong Kong, to find out if he should dedicate himself to painting.	I
There he meets an extremely attractive young girl (Nancy Kwan) and promptly falls , in love with her. This, in a nutshell, is The World of Suzie Wong. But the nutshell breaks when he finds out she is permanently employed in a house of ill repute, a good-paying job which permits her to support her small child. Naturally, there are several complications arising out of moral scruples, Michael Wilding as a former paramour of Miss Kwan’s, and the baby itself. All these are unconvincingly swept aside at the fadeout, so that the two happy people can walk off i into the sunset.	;
Miss Kwan, more notably known in the past as a close friend of erstwhile photographer Antony Armstrong-Jones, can hardly act out a simple line of dialogue. This is not, however, the basis for her renown, which she exhibits professionally in the splitskirt fashion. Mr. Holden and Mr. Wilding we have met before. The introduction of this movie into the Granada’s schedule raises doubts as to when they : will show The Grass is Greener and Where the Boys Are. I hope it’s before June.	;
What would you do if a statuesque blonde asked you if you would please father	,
her prospective child? Barring the possibility that she is your wife, you would be $ I quite shocked. Well, anyway, this is what Julie Newmar proposes to James Mason as they hop on The Marriage-Go-Round. This bandwagon, though, already has as a g passengei’ Mason’s wife, played by Susan Hayward. She is somewhat unsettled by the setup. And so they fight it out throughout the length and height of the CinemaScope screen until a happy ending is reached. Miss Newmar looks too good to be true, but she is also too tall to be true. She makes both Mr. Mason and Miss Hay- | ward look like veritable runts. The casting problem was met not by acquiring a r taller leading man (Mason is nearly 6 feet tall), but by having Miss Newmar wear E flats and crouch or sit her way through the script.	|
si
One of the questions which would pop up in your mind as you watch this bedroom farce is how the married couple, both being college professors, can keep up	I
such a luxurious front. The obvious answer is the textbook racket. The movie is	§
generally not as impressive as Miss Newmar, but it does have its funny moments	|
now and then. The scene in which Miss Hayward lights a cigarette is the high	|
point of comedy. The trick is in the way she does it. After last week’s offerings,	|
this is definitely a step in the right direction for the State Theater.	|
Our own Washington Hall is hosting its home team, the University Theater, in K William Shakespeare’s Othello. It will be offered only two more times: tonight and
The Scholastic k
t i' Ie
tomorrow at 8:30 p.m. James Loula, a newcomer to the group, plays the title role and Mary Armbruster plays his wife Desdemona. The supporting players are Richard Kavanaugh, perfectly cast in the part of Iago, Diane Crowley as Emilia, Henry Wittemore as Cassio, and William Flaherty as Roderigo. The production was directed by Mr. Fred Syburg and is indeed a change of ;,®jace for the University Theater.
Very shortly, the nominations for Academy Awards will be coming out. The past two times, I have been uncomfortably different from the bona fide judges, and if experience is a good teacher, I could do better this time.
'	Tony Wong
e
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4)
"	4) A failure to maintain a con-
sistent adherence to his many different and conflicting agreements regarding the method of computing the 20% profit paid to the operating clubs.
The general chairman of the Carnival, in his search for a facade of complete control at the expense of incoherent judgments and continued disrespect,
! fostered an image inconsistent with ’ OMardi Gras. He has disregarded prin-

ciples in order to maximize profits. Joel Haggard Sorin Hall Senator

'/ -
Miracle
(Continued from page 14) a fatal injury was being interred in a freshly dug grave. A young woman, (mourning, clung to a thin white-haired old man. In a small depression far to the left, two lovers embraced passionately. Standing tall and straight Orron spoke:
“We’re going to move. . ..” “Eeeeeeeeeeeeee! ”
An old woman was the first to shriek. Over the top of the hill, through the foliage, strode a towering monstermachine !
The people were paralyzed with terror except for the two young boys who proceeded to “fire” at the noogan with their toy “ray-guns.”
High in the violet transparent dome, two bubble-brains could be seen leering coldly, as they leveled an ultra-heat cannon at the helpless humans.
“Where is your God now?” inquired Tucsil mechanically.
“Very close,” replied Orron. He grit-
_ ted his teeth, and stood staunch and <9 straight, and stared directly into the T mouth of the alien weapon.
“Forgive us O Lord, we who have offended thee . . .” he thought.
Then came the flash . . . not the hellfire red flash of the heat cannon but a blinding green flash that illuminated the entire sky!
• Instantly the people embraced the ground, instinctively, expecting an immense shock wave. But none followed.
v n The flash dimmed and a glowing green February 17, 1961
cloud crowded out the afternoon sky . . . a thin gaseous cloud that settled slowly over the scene.
Startled and distracted by the brilliant flash, the invaders neglected to fire their impending blast, and proceeded to examine the instruments in their invulnerable control-globe.
The humans were too awe-stricken and terrified to flee. They stared at each other, at the machine, and at the green welkin that now enshrouded them.
For an instant there was silence. Slowly, very slowly, a sound that was a combination whistle-and-hum became audible. It increased gradually in volume, then switched suddenly to a high, intent whine. The war machine lurched, staggered.
Through the virident mist Orron could see the protective force globe that enclosed the bubble-brains of Ogarrth flicker . . . and dissolve.
“Riiiieeeeyah!” came the ghastly, inhuman shriek of the Algolian invaders.
The noogan wavered shakily on its metal legs.
“This way,” barked Orron, and the people followed him.
The metal Goliath tottered drunkenly back . . . forth . . . back and toppled headlong toward the foot of the hill, narrowly missing a young man running with a makeshift crutch.
A few minutes after the groundshaking thud, the braver of the men crept from behind sheltering shrubs and approached the fallen giant.
The piloting Ogarrths were crashed to a flickering pulp . . . their'grotesque round heads and spindly bodies distorted into a more hideous but lifeless form. And within minutes their horrid remains
Blue Circle
(Continued from page 12) elements which strengthen the bonds previously formed by our common purpose.
Each of you applying for membership will receive at least two interviews from two separate boards. After everyone has received his second interview, the first round of eliminations will be made, and all those selected to return will be interviewed by a final board. After this series of interviews is completed the final elimination will be made, and a list of applicants recommended for membership will be drawn up and submitted to the vote of the entire Circle for confirmation. This year we will have twenty-one openings to be filled by Freshmen, Sophomores and Juniors. Because this is an unusually high number of vacancies, those applying will have a greater possibility of being accepted than those in years past.
I will have an opportunity to meet with each of you when we hold our general meeting of all applicants before the commencement of interviews. You will be notified as to the time and place of this meeting. In the meantime I urge all of you who are eligible (minimum 3.0 cumulative academic average and no disciplinary record) to submit letters of application to the Blue Circle Membership Chairman.
liquified and sank into the soil.
Hope rose up within the people, and in a few days their hope was verified: Something in the mysterious green cloud, which had spread for many miles, while harmless to humans, had completely destroyed the invading bubble-brains.
At the top of the hill, Tucsil looked apologetically at Orron. Orron stared at the wreckage of a dozen noogans spread across the wide valley below. He reflected upon the wisdom of God “Who always knows when to allow suffering and when to bring peace.”
“What can I say?” asked Tucsil.
“Don’t say anything, just kneel.” The two knelt.
And thirty-million miles away on the planet Earth, newspapers all over the world carried news of a momentous event: “American Rocket Reaches Mars! . . . Fourth Stage of Unmanned Rocket Explodes. Giant Green Flare in Martian Atmosphere!”
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 305 S. Michigan	AT 7-5477
Electrical Engineers* Physicists
NORDEN DIVISION UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
WILL INTERVIEW ON
FEBRUARY 23td
career positions in Research, Development, Design and Manufacturing in such areas as
- Fire Control Systems Radar Systems Data Processing Equipment Inertial Guidance Systems Television Systems Aircraft Instrumentation Navigation Systems and Components.
15
£
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist •
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan	CE 4-4874
JUNIORS TAKE NOTICE
Any junior who has neither had his picture taken for the yearbook, nor made an appointment to do so, is asked to make one during the coming week. No photographs will be taken after Thursday, March 2.
The DOME photographer will be in room 2-C of the LaFortune Student Center Monday through Wednesday between 10:30 a.m. and 6:30 p.m., and on Thursday from 1:00 to 8:00 p.m. At this time a one dollar fee will be charged.
N ABICHT CAFETERIA
1415 Lincolnway West AAA Approved Cafeteria i ★
FREE PARKING
IBM
WILL INTERVIEW MARCH 2
Candidates for Bachelors or Masters Degrees are invited to discuss opportunities in:
Engineering end Science Systems Engineering and Sales
This is a unique opportunity to find out about the many career opportunities at IBM. The IBM representative can discuss with you typical jobs, various training programs, chances for advanced education, financial rewards, and company benefits—all important factors that affect your future.
SOME FACTS ABOUT IBM
An Unusual Growth Story: IBM has had one of the exceptional growth rates in industry. It has been a planned growth, based on ideas and products having an almost infinite application in our modern economy.
Diverse and Important Products: IBM develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of products in the data processing field. IBM computers and allied products play a vital
role in the operations of business, industry, science, and government.
Across-the-Country Operations: Laboratory and manufacturing facilities are located in Endicott, Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie and Yorktown, N. Y.; Burlington, Vermont; Lexington, Ky.; San Jose, Calif.; Bethesda, Md.; and Rochester, Minn. Headquarters is located in New York City with sales and service offices in 198 major cities throughout the United States.
The Accent is on the Individual: No matter what type of work a person does at IBM, he is given all the responsibility he is able to handle, and all the support he needs to do his job. Advancement is by merit.
The areas in which IBM is engaged have an unlimited future. This is your opportunity to find out what that future has to offer you.
Call or stop in at your placement office to arrange an appointment with the IBM representative for the date above. If you cannot attend an interview, write or call the manager of the nearest IBM office:
Mr. W. F. Wahl, Branch Manager . IBM Corporation, Dept. 882 . 618-620 North Michigan Street
South Bend 1, Ind.
CE 2-8251
IBM
You naturally have a better chance to grow with a growth company.
16
The Scholastic
ji
Gregory-Led Trackmen : Battle Warriors Tonight
:	Nipped by Indiana last Friday in a
, triangular meet, Notre Dame’s track I team hosts Marquette in a dual meet i at the Fieldhouse tonight. In last Fri-I day’s contest, Indiana led with 52 points i to 51% for the Irish and 25% for ^^urdue.
' >'/ This will be the last track team to represent Marquette, as the Warriors । ; are dropping the sport at the completion I of this season. They are expected to be especially tough in the field and distance events.
Indiana’s win last Friday came on the strength of a first place in the final event, the broad jump. Ted Jackson i leaped 23 feet, 1% inches to clinch the * f meet for the Hoosiers.
J The only double winner of the evening || 'J was the Irish distance ace, Ron Gregory.
Gregory capped an outstanding 4:12.5 | s victory in the one-mile with a 9:29.4 |; timing in the two-mile.
| In the mile run Gregory came from far behind to nip Purdue’s George Harvey at the tape. “I’ve never been led so I? far in my life. That Harvey didn’t push H i	me—he pulled me!” a happy Gregory ex-
| : plained after the race.
< a A new Fieldhouse record was set in \ ’ ^the shot put, with Hoosier weightman p Tom Seifert throwing the ball 56 feet, j '	7 inches to break the record set last year
| by All-American footballer Dan LaRose 1 of Missouri.
p Coach Alex Wilson, although disap-I - pointed over the slim defeat, was im-\ pressed by the performance of several j , sophomores in their first varsity action, p Carl Ludecke placed second in the shot J behind the record-breaking Seifert. An-iJ ?® other- soph, Bill Benson, high-jumped six I' feet, two inches to take second behind Reggie Sheppard of Indiana.
I j Frank Froelke placed fourth in the j j pole vault with a vault of 13 feet. Also F । a sophomore, Froelke is a former broad-h	(Continued on page 20)
RON GREGORY Back to form

Cagers Engage Portland Visitors
Left: Armand Reo, on offense, shoots over the outstretched hands of two St. Francis defenders. Right: John Dearie, on defense, backhands attempted St. Francis shot in Irish victory.
Winless in their last four outings, Notre Dame’s basketbailers hope to register in the victory column here tomorrow when they host an unheralded Portland University five. The Irish will also be at home for a Monday night encounter with St. Louis.
Portland, coached by the veteran Al Negratti, brings one of its best teams in years to the Fieldhouse. The Pilots, in winning eleven of their first 16 games, include in their conquests a victory over Wisconsin earlier in the season.
PILOT LEADER
Leading the Portland offense all season long has been junior center Bill Garner, a 6-9 product from East St. Louis, Ill. Garner leads the team with 14 points-a-game and 187 rebounds. Throughout the 1960-61 campaign, it has been Garner who has consistently led Coach Negratti’s hoopmen to victory.
Garner has been given able support by ex-high school teammate Art Easterly, a 6-6 sophomore forward. Easterly carries a ten point average into the Irish contest and has proven an invaluable asset to the Pilots in rebounding. Easterly’s support at the othei- forward position will come in the person of Jim Altenhofen, a 6-5 senior with a 7.5 scoring average.
Manning the guard posts for Portland will be Frank Bosone and Mike Doherty. Bosone, a 5-10 junior from Seattle, is the squad’s leading free throw shooter and carries a ten-point scoring clip into the encounter. Doherty, a 6-2 hometown surprise, is the Pilot playmaker.
Monday night’s contest with the visiting Billikens from St. Louis shapes up as a “must” victory for the Irish. With only two games remaining after this encounter, Notre Dame must defeat the Billikens if they hope to conclude the season with a .500 slate. Coach John Benington brings one of the best teams in the Middle West to battle the Irish. The visitors are not only big but also aggressive as their leadership in the MVC defensive statistics proves.
Pacesetter of the Billiken five all season long has been Bill (Bevo) Nord-mann, a 6-7 sophomore who was expected to play in the shadow of his departed brother’s brilliance. Bevo, however, has risen to the limelight and leads the squad in both shooting and rebounding. Adding strength to the pivot post has been junior Dave Luechtefeld, a rapidly-improving big man. Tom Kieffer, boasting a 10.5 average and lightening-quick reflexes on defense, is the man counted on to support Nordmann the most. Gordan Hartweger, averaging almost ten points a game, is also expected to carry a brant of the St. Louis scoring load. Rounding out the Billiken starting five will be Glen Man-kowski and George Latinovich.
NATIONAL TV
In a nationally-televised game last Saturday at Detroit, Notre Dame played both hot and cold basketball as they fell to an 82-71 defeat. The Irish, starting slowly, soon found themselves so far behind that it took a sensational rally with just eight minutes left in the game to (Continued on page 20)
17
February 17, 1961
Court, Mat Action Due; Frosh Track Meet Held
This season’s Interhall basketball competition goes into the home stretch this week end. With 130 of 150 games played in the hall leagues, and 102 of 126 contests completed in the club leagues, the title races are still scrambled.
THIS WEEK END’S GAMES:
February 17
4:00 Farley Blue vs. B-P Blue 4:45 Farley White vs. B-P White 6:00 Farley Black vs. B-P Black 6:45 Farley Yellow vs. B-P Yellow 7:30 B-P Gray vs. Howard Gray 8:15 Badin Blue vs. Stanford Blue February 19
1:00 Cleveland Red vs. Conn. Red 1:45 Cleveland Blue vs. Conn. Blue 2:30 California Gold vs. Villagers Gold 3:15 Grad. Stu. White vs. Villagers White 4:00 Detroit Yellow vs. Villagers Yellow
Also on the schedule of coming events is the Interhall Wrestling Tournament, to be held February 22-March 3. Prelims will be held on Wednesday, February 22 (a free day) with the first round in the morning and the second round in the afternoon. Quarter and semifinals will be on Sunday, February 26 at 1:00 p.m.; finals will be held in conjunction with the Notre Dame-Marquette match in the Fieldhouse on Friday, March 3.
The novice division is open to anyone without previous high school or club experience, with anyone other than a varsity or freshman team wrestler eligible for the open division. Weight divisions range from 125 to 200 pounds, and an over 200 pound classification.
Winners in the Freshman Track Meet, held last Tuesday night in the Fieldhouse, were:
High jump—Tie. Brian Hart, John Robinson, Bruce Nolan, 5’6"; Shotput—Jim Snowden, 44'1 J4"; Broad jump—Frank Budka. 19'4": 60-yard dash—John Robinson, 6.65; 60-yard low hurdles— Kevin Good, 7.9; 220-yard dash—John Robinson, 25.5; 440-yard dash—Mike White. 58.5 : 880-yard run—Joe Joerg, 2:13.7; 880-yard relay—Stanford (Tom McDonald, Brian Hart, Frank Budka, Jim Kelly). 1:42.2.
SPRING IS HERE
Notre Dame’s baseballers have started practice, anticipating an early spring. Coach Jake Kline started the pitchers and catchers working on February 6. Captain Jack Gentempo led the infielders and outfielders to practice last Monday.
Slated to start with second baseman Gentempo in the infield are converted catcher Jerry McNamara at first, footballer Bob Scarpitto at short, and hard-hitting Dan Hagan at third. Walt Osgood will catch.
Returning in the outfield is center fielder Bill Brutvan, last season’s NCAA tournament star. Seniors Dick O'Leary and Chuck Lennon are expected to man the other outfield spots.
Nick Palihnich, Jack Mitchell and Mike Brennan lead the pitcher returnees.
18
BILL CRONIN
Senior freestyle ace
Mermen Travel to St. Louis Western Michigan Succumbs
Notre Dame’s schedule-tested tankmen will have one of its toughest meets of the season when they travel to St. Louis tomorrow for a set-off with the fleet St. Louis University squad. The Irish entered the meet well prepared after gaining good experience against the strong Wisconsin team last Monday at Madison.
Coach Dennis Stark stated that the team will have to be cautious about each opponent since the close 49-46 defeat by Kent University on February 8. Notre Dame was a heavy favorite in that particular meet because of their experienced personnel. Yet, only Bill Cronin swam exceptionally and the over-all team performance was not enough to accomplish a victory.
Last Saturday, before a tightly-packed gallery at the steaming Notre Dame pool, the Irish brought their season record to an admirable five wins, two losses as they triumphed over Western Michigan, 60-35.
The Green lingerie men splashed through the water to win eight of eleven events. Tony Haske, a senior butterfly ace from Howard Heights, Ill., stroked 200 yards to a new varsity record for that event.
Other winners were: John Clark in the 220-yard freestyle, Bill Vasu in the 50-yard freestyle, Bill Cronin in the 200-yard individual medley relay, John MacLeod in the 100-yard freestyle, and Ray Stefani in the 400-yard freestyle. Notre Dame’s 400-yard medley and 400-yard freestyle relay teams also won. Tony Devine, a sophomore who did not attend school first semester, placed a close second in the diving.
Irish Wrestlers at Wheaton For Invitational Meet Today
Notre Dame’s wrestling team travels to Wheaton, Ill., today to compete in the opening round of the two-day Wheaton Invitational Tourney. Coach Tom Fallon stated that the meet is a new idea in multiple wrestling meets, featuring several small liberal arts colleges and larg^ universities competing in the same brack", et. Colleges that are entered are Findlay, Augustana, Lake Forest and Wheaton. Universities participating are Marquette, Bradley and Notre Dame.
As a result of two recent wins in quadrangular meets and last week’s 16-13 victory over the Irish, Wheaton is the favorite. Marquette is also highly rated by Coach Fallon.
Again today, a nemesis for the Irish will be Wheaton’s Clyde Cicciarelli. Cic^gl ciarelli will probably drop down to theril 123-pound class to face Dick Martin, ■ one of Notre Dame’s most consistent per-formers. Last week, against Wheaton’s W 123-pound entry, Martin was a 6-0 victor, ft But this week, he will not only face Cic- T ciarelli but also Marquette’s Dan Finlay, last year’s Four I Meet runner-up in the | 123-pound division.
In the Wheaton loss, Notre Dame , picked up five points in the last match^-ft । on heavyweight Ed Rutkowski’s first^ft round pin of his Wheaton oppo- ■| nent. Demonstrating a relaxed manner throughout the match, Rutkowski proved ■ his worth to the team in his first match ■ of the year. Also victorious for the Irish I were Dave Ames (167) and Fred Morelli I (137) who gained points for a tie in his I division.	I
KAMPUS KEGLERS*'
Paced by Captain Dan Halloran’s I 1027 series, the Notre Dame Bowling 1. Team rolled to an easy 9-2 victory over’ I DePaul of Chicago. It marked the second i time this season that DePaul, defending champions of the Midwestern Intercollegiate Bowling Conference, was defeated in such a resounding manner by the Irish. Pending the results of the Loyola-St. Joseph’s match, Notre Dame holds at least a one-point lead foi” first place vl as the MIBC heads into its last three ft weeks.	I
Sophomores Bill Leiber and Tom I Schroeder continued to bowl well for 1 the Irish, hitting 1002 and 1012, respec- I tively, in the match against DePaul, g Schroeder shot the high game of the day, f a 244, while Leiber raised his team lead- I ing average to 192, the third highest in I the conference.	|
In the Kampus Kegler leagues bowled at the Notre Dame lanes, another sopho-more stole all the headlines. Jim Lewis, bowling for the Mathematicians in the White League, bowling consecutive series k of 678 and 661, -with games of 278 and | 260 paving the way. The 278 game was f the highest bowled at Notre Dame this g year.	p
This Sunday Notre Dame plays host i to Valparaiso at the Notre Dame Lanes. | The match starts at 1 p.m.	I
The Scholastic
4 <
Case, Western Reserve Meet ND Fencing Team
Coach Walter- Langford’s fencers, now in the middle of an arduous schedule j travel to Cleveland for a match with Case and Western Reserve today. Case | is expected to have its usual formidable ! unit and could easily upset the Irish. I —Although not as well known as Case, .'•Western Reserve is strong and should 1 provide a good test for Notre Dame.
, Tomorrow, the busy Irish will travel to Columbus for a triangular match with Ohio State and Michigan State. Although they haven’t beaten an Irish team for several years, the Buckeyes will enter the match as a slight favorite. Michigan I State, a team which last defeated the j Notre Darners in 1951, is also expected ~ to provide tough opposition.
\ £ Last Saturday in Detroit, the team experienced a rare off-day, barely beat. < ing the Detroit swordsmen and losing to ! the Chicago team.
» In both matches the Irish fell far be-f	hind at the outset and then rallied at
;	the finish. The late flurry was enough to
overtake Detroit 14-13, but not enough I to whip the Chicago forces. The 14-13 ' Chicago victory was their first triumph over Notre Dame since 1948.
1 In the individual weapons the epee once *again proved to be the ND’s strong point.
/ John Donlon and Dan Kenny each compiled 5-1 records in this event. They, along with Mike Curtin and Tom Dwyer in the foil and Rudy Ehrensing and Tom Shipp in the sabre, have guided the : team to a 6-2 seasonal record.
TIME OUT
Graduate Reichert Stars
?eln Canadian Competition ,	Tom Reich-
ert, a star at Notre Dame last year as a pole vaulter on the track team, is still making his presence known in the cinder world.
Recently in the Canadian Legion International I nd o o r Meet, Reichert tied for third place in his speciality. His jump of 13'7" was equaled by Bob Oden of Kansas State. The winner of the event was
Jim Graham
of Oklahoma State with a phenomenal
leap of 14'8".
More than 200 athletes from England, New Zealand, the United States and Canada took part in the meet at Manitoba.	- -
Rigorous exercise, self-discipline, and uncompromising desire — all are necessary for those young pugilists now actively engaged in preparation for the March Bengal Bouts. Certainly, amidst all the sweat and toil, there is only limited satisfaction to be derived from smashing an inanimate bag for the greater part of an afternoon; occasionally, it might be a tired opponent rolling ever so slowly with the punches — such sparring does not take place often, at least in the beginning stages. Yet, this is the work that more than 100 Bengal recruits are doing upstairs in the Fieldhouse every afternoon. Certainly, all are not going to win and perhaps some do not even expect to win. It’s the spirit of the participants and the ulterior purpose of the Bouts that counts.
A NEED FOR COOPERATION
Meanwhile, in the background, there is another group working diligently, in fact, just as hard as the fighters. This group is composed of the Bengal student promoter, Dave Cormier, and his assistants. Certainly, they do not receive as much recognition because they aren’t actively participating in the fights. Yet, this group deserves to be commended because there have been many obstacles to overcome, many “no’s” to stall their progress. With the realization that the Bouts are actually going to be held, things have, at least, started out on the right foot.
Of course, there will be more problems for Cormier to solve, perhaps, the most basic of which is to get the support of the whole student body. In the past, this has not always been so easy. Heads of student organizations, leaders in student government, in fact, everyone must organize so that the Bouts have full student support and are therefore successful in their purpose of raising money for the Bengal missions. Joseph Hilger, the 1960 promoter of the Bouts, has suggested that a conference should be fonnulated. At this conference, “an effort should be made to erase all conflicts and frictions so as to create enthusiasm and a spirit of real co-operation.”
THE YOUTH MOVEMENT
Coach Alex Wilson’s track team, although defeated in their first home encounter by Indiana, 52-51%, deserves praise for its fine performance. The Notre Dame cindermen were easy victors over Purdue, the third team entered in the meet. And their one-half point loss to Indiana certainly didn’t take any luster from their fine showing.
Especially significant in the team’s display was the performance of three sophomores (and of course, Ron Gregory, whose injuries “apparently” have completely healed). Frank Froelke, a first-year man from Hamilton, O., demonstrated great promise in the pole vault, clearing the bar at 13 feet; this fact is more significant when one discovers that Froelke has been vaulting for only a month. Sophomore Carl Ludecke, from Manhasset, N. Y., took over for the injured Mike Giacinto in the shot put and performed brilliantly as he took a second behind record-breaking Tom Seifert from Indiana. The third sophomore sensation was Bill Benson from Rochester, Minn., high-jumping six feet, two inches, to take a second in that event.
When asked about the meet, Coach Wilson, stated, “We seem to have a well-balanced team, just as I thought it would be. We could have a pretty good year.” Certainly, from the caliber of performances demonstrated last Friday night, Coach Wilson might turn out to be the track team’s best prognosticator.
SWIMMING SUCCESS
Swimming is the one sport here on campus that has not received the recognition it deserves. Only three years ago, an Irish swimming team was given varsity status; since that time, it has become one of the most successful sports on the Notre Dame campus. This year, for instance, against top competition, the swimmers have won five meets.
Much of the team’s success must be attributed to Coach Dennis Stark. It was Stark who was one of the leaders in the movement to give the sport varsity status; and in three years of coaching the Irish mermen, Stark’s over-all record is twelve wins and eight defeats, certainly a fine initiation for the sport in its first years on the Notre Dame campus.—J. K.
® February 17, 1961
19
Jim Kuras Named Head Of Midwest Sailing Club
In recent elections, the Sailing Club selected new officers for 1961. Those elected were: Commodore, James “Weenie” Kuras; Vice-Commodore, Ed Bukowski; Fleet Captain Chuck Finnegan; Secretary, John “Pansy” Zusi; Treasurer, Pete Scheid.
At the recent Midwinter Meeting held in Detroit, the Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association, an organization of 19 college sailing clubs, elected Jim Kuras Commodore for 1961. This is the first time that a Notre Dame sailor has held this high post.
Currently, the Club is holding its annual Sailing Seminar. Instruction is being given to beginners, those who would like to learn to race and those who contemplate competing intercollegiately. The classes are meeting every Thursday evening in the Biology Auditorium at 7:30. There is no charge and, at the end of the Seminar, there will be an opportunity for some practical sailing in the Club’s boats for those who participate. Therefore, everyone interested in sailing is encouraged to attend these sessions.
C4«r CALLS 'EM
Tomorrow
Bradley over North Dakota State Notre Dame over Portland California over Stanford Cincinnati over Tulsa Creighton over Omaha St. Bonaventure over DePaul Detroit over Chicago Duke over Navy Drake over Wichita Houston over St. Louis Kansas over Colorado Kansas State over Missouri Illinois over Northwestern Marquette over Air Force UCLA over Loyola Memphis State over Tennessee
Tech
Michigan State over Minnesota Purdue over Michigan North Carolina over Clemson St. Joseph’s over Temple St. John’s over Niagara Utah over New Mexico Texas over SMU
Game of the Week Ohio State over Iowa
Upset of the Week Day ton over Louisville
Last Week’s Results 18 right, five wrong 78.3 per cent
Totals to Date 76 right, 22 wrong 77.6 per cent
20
Trackmen
(Continued from page 17) jumper who had never vaulted before a month ago. With one vault of 13 feet, six inches to his credit, he hopes to “clear 14 feet sometime this season.”
Jim Sheelei- placed first for the Irish in the 60-yard low hurdles, while finishing second in the high hurdles.
Co-captain Jerry Fitzpatrick took second in both the 60-yard dash and the broad jump. Dan Rorke added a second in the 880-yard run, and Dick Monjeau gained thirds in the high jump and broad jump. Pole-vaulter Mike Terry cleared 13 feet, four inches for a second place tie, and is expected to go over the 14-foot mark this year.
On the basis of the Irish performance in their first two meets, indications are that the Wilsonmen will have another good year. The squad has depth and balance, two requisites for any successful team.
Although he was out with a back injury until three weeks ago, Ron Gregory’s outstanding performance in the triangular indicates another fine season for the Irish co-captain.
Classified Advertising
EARN $135 weekly during summer traveling overseas.
MUST BE U.S. CITIZEN. Complete details furnished. Send $1.00 Lansing Information Service, Dept. E-17, Box 74, New York 61, N.Y.
DOING IT THE HARD WAY by I.„rf (GETTING RID OF DANDRUFF, THAT IS!)
easier 3-minute way for men: FITCH
Men, get rid of embarrassing dandruff easy as 1-2-3 with FITCH! In just 3 minutes (one rubbing, one lathering, one rinsing), every trace of dandruff, grime, gummy old hair tonic goes right down the drain! Your hair looks hand-
FITCH
LEADING MAN’S
QUAMHAA Keep your hair and scalp | really clean, dandruff-free! I
somer, healthier. Your scalp tingles, feels so refreshed. Use FITCH Dandruff Remover SHAMPOO every week for positive dandruff control.
Cagers	1
(Continued from page 17)	’
save them from an embarrassing defeat. Once again it was inability at the free throw line which crippled the Notre ' Dame hopes. The Irish were capable . from the field, but could only hit on half of their free throw opportunities. -Leading the Notre Dame scorers were > juniors Armand Reo and Eddie Schnurrjk ’ Reo, playing a rugged offensive and de- g fensive game, ended up with 18 points while Schnurr, hitting from the outside, totaled 14 points. Although playing their finest game of the season, the Irish were dumped by Bradley, 84-81, last Tuesday night in a Chicago Stadium overtime thriller. Ed Schnurr led the Green ■with 22 points. Crosby had 10 while playing a magnificent flooi- game, and Roesler and Reo added 19 and 16, respectively. £ i ________________________—Jay Kilro J^
“^kWTURBOW ypPTOMETRSST
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES
INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington —Phone CE 4-5777
! I

The Scholastic

Wonder Why?
(Continued from page 22)
■ turely responsible, (remember that he’s J young and has been isolated) in a work-| aday world not exactly sympathetic to | traditions; especially to “Catholic” and I “university” ones, in Newman’s wide | sense of the latter?
f 'jS I repeat the word university. And I ' would remark that this carries all the implications of “higher learning” that Father Kelly neglected when he defined that term so sketchily — and then dropped it.
The Notre Dame Man is formed in an ethos including both the Catholic and the university traditions, plus certain specifically “Notre Dame” tenets. These are ,integrable, and may be distinguished.
i ^Tow let me raise the problem of the sta-i ^^ility of this ethic in the world of rela-> 'fvisms outside, as it influences alumni j attitudes.
i : The Catholic facet of the Notre Dame tradition is something the average alumnus grew up with from his mother’s knee. But the specifically “Notre Dame” elements of the ethos, acquired during his four years here, are much less i familiar — and have been questioned during his college career, if only occa-’>Wionally. What might happen to these r;, under an erosion of sophisticated plausi-f ’ bilities in a liberal, secularist circumstance having no real appreciation of George Gipp qua, man? Is it impossible that they will crumble, and that the more humanistic attitudes embodied in the university facet of his traditional background (which can help to evaluate the plausible) will assume the function . as guides to responsibility — of those *®kttitudes intended as the product of ' strict disciplinary regulation? And then ’ how will the Notre Dame Man regard
• his alma mater? Will he be a son of i hers who accepts his filial responsibilities?
The letter’s final paragraph contains editorial instructions which seem to me doomed to frustration by the way in which they are presented. Father Kelly ' proffers the admonition “to evaluate (the students’) proposals in the context of the tradition. . . .” However, many of : the complaints “which seem to have been ’ based on petty frustrations” have been made with persistent and sincere reference to the traditional disciplinary ethos advanced by the administration in the name of responsibility. . . .
' Can we — administration, faculty, and student body — live up to Notre Dame’s
i Reputation for realistic assessment be-.J^iind all-out drive to become “the fore-/ most Catholic university” anywhere?
The kind of institution which will de-•. velop political, scientific, and speculative personalities recognized and respected as Christian leaders in the United States? Only a Notre Dame which can mature its students as individuals will meet the challenge raised by Father Cavanaugh and Monsignor Tracy Ellis.
L. Alan Bosch
BLOCK BROS.
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME FACULTY AND STUDENTS FOR OVER 38 YEARS.
Gift-wrapped and Mailed To All Parts of the World
Cor. Mich, at Wash, in Downtown So. Bend
STUDENT
TRAVEL..
STUDENTS CAN AFFORD!
40 ITINERARIES featuring: Western & Eastern Europe Scandinavia • Africa South America • Japan round-the-world 54-80 days $825-$2,200
TRAVEL-STUDY PROGRAMS some scholarship assistance available 40-70 days	$875-$!,080
SPRING VACATION TRIPS
Bermuda • Puerto Rico Hawaii from $195
STUDENT TRAVEL PUBLICATIONS
International Student ID Card-Hostels & Restaurants Handbook Work, Study, Travel Abroad......
$ .50
. 1.00
. 1.00
U. S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION
Educational Travel, Inc., Dept, cn 20 West 38th Street, New York 18, New York OXford 5-5070
"USNSA s a non-profit organization serving the American student community”
We all make mistakes'..
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND Touch-type, hunt-and-peck, type with one hand tied behind your back—it’s easy to turn out perfect papers on Corrasable. Because you can erase without a trace. . Typing errors disappear like magic with just the flick of an ordinary pencil eraser.There’s never a telltale erasure mark on Corrasable’s special surface.
Corrasable is available in light, medium, heavy weights and Onion Skin. In convenient 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. Only Eaton makes Corrasable.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
EATON PAPER CORPORATION PITTSFIELD, MASS.
February 17, 1961
21
ours is not to wonder why?
(Ed. Note: Because of the length of the following letter, the editors have decided to substitute it for the usual article appearing here.)
Editor:
As a second-semester senior at Notre Dame, I would like to thank Father James Kelly for his concise presentation of our administration’s viewpoint on and conceptions of a subject intimately important to both of us. And as a Notre Dame Man about to enter the workaday world, I would like to comment on a few of the statements in his letter to “The Scholastic.”
Father Kelly credits the editor and my fellow students with “a lack of responsibility and discernment” perhaps attributable to our being “somewhat isolated and immature.” Granted, we are young men in special circumstances. But I think his presenting “frustrations” as the effects of outside pressures is at best gratuitous. Nevertheless, I would point to it as implying the central concern of my commentary. This student is vitally interested in what may happen when the “many pressures . . . (of) the world outside” are brought directly to bear on the Notre Dame Man.
GEORGE GIPP VS HARVARD
It seems to me that our being “somewhat isolated” is properly an accessory agent producing “a lack of responsibility.” Indeed, isolation is a causative corollary to our peculiar circumstance as students in this all-male university, noted for its discipline. Perhaps the letter’s principal interest is Notre Dame as “an institution rooted in tradition.” This would provide a key to his presentation; and is, understandably, a factor worth consideration during the period of change and development we are in. For it seems to provide a focus and standard of judgment.
Allow me to depict my alma mater as tom between the dictates of the Legend of George Gipp and his fellow students, and the demands of making Notre Dame the Catholic Harvard of the United
22
States. Now: does not the often-castigated, cynical apathy on campus perhaps reflect a student disaffection with traditions in general, even in this secure environment? Maybe my neighboring Do-Nothings are members of a Disenchanted Generation. . . .
Notre Dame’s extraordinary reputation, its “greatness,” “. . . has come from a close adherence to (the) principles” derived from a sincere “dedication to Catholic truths and devotion to the Blessed Virgin.” Its greatness as what: a football power, a university, a testimony to the achievements of Catholic effort in the United States’ atmosphere of political and religious freedom, or a Catholic institution of higher learning?
Whichever one chooses, Notre Dame has been pretty good. But now I am interested in that battered term, “academic excellence.” It was said that students have “criticized Notre Dame merely as any other American university.” Is this a wholly invalid approach, in view of the administration’s defined concern for specifically “academic” superiority? If we are to develop a Harvard, what are to be the extrinsic standards of comparison selected — and necessary for objective progress which avoids slavish imitation — if we can be said to be in the dilemma I depicted above? If Notre Dame did not make an unsatisfactory showing on occasion “when standards from elsewhere (were) applied to it,” wouldn’t we be wasting a lot of time and energy on oui' efforts at self-improvement?
“The development of Notre Dame will best be advanced in an atmosphere of solidarity.” This appears to me a rather arbitrary demand for alliance under the aegis of the very tradition which today’s Notre Dame students find so perplexing when referred to the administration’s avowed goals. We are called on to advance in the name of objectives, and along paths, defined with a disconcerting lack of reference to the students potentially Notre Dame Men. Are they to be educated American Catholic gentlemen, or reincarnated legends sent into the contemporary secularistic environment? Which demands “autonomous” action and discipline without constant referral to extrinsic mores. And paradoxically, this is critically import-
ant in the case of today’s Christian g living in a circumstance whose social and A spiritual values are often antithetical te® his own.
We have assurance of facilities from
Ford, yes; but psychology, I wonder ... ,1 “Valid explanation of each phase of . . .	■
development” is a two-way street. |
And there is no psychology evident in ; the arraignment of my fellow Notre j Dame students for “participating in a ' movement . . . initiated by a group of disgruntled students.” This facile ac- •; cusation was leveled at the instigators^ — of last year’s antigovernment riots in ’ ‘ ® Korea. Since then we have come to leai-n more about the attitudes and motivations of the Korean youth involved.
HYPOCRITICAL OBEDIENCE
I agree that the anarchy contained in many student suggestions for emancipa* tion makes them “foolishness.” But lev ’ me emphasize that these are often reflex reactions; and ask that our sobei* citizens be consulted.
A little further down the page, it is specified that the “rales mentioned above (foster) the life of a good Catholic college student.” This brings me to my central concern. I believe that the ex-“good Catholic college student,” th^ Notre Dame Man afoot in the pressurized world outside, may be inadequately prepared for the assumption of responsibility due to the very disciplinary ethos to which his previous goodness was referred.
For the “special principles” at the core of the Notre Dame tradition have fostered extensive controls intended to prompt and direct the development of responsibility. But I think that, in practice, the sequence is consistently inverts ed to: responsibility to the regulations? Thus do self-sanctioning rales assure the maintenance of a tradition, (and the molding of individuals to the dimensions of the concept Notre Dame Man) with which many are disaffected even while here, in various particulars to say nothing of in general. How can the Notre Dame Man learn to act and judge “autonomously?” To what will he be ma-
(Continued on page 21)
The Scholastic
Long sleeves 95.00
Short sleeves 94*00
Long sleeves 95.00
Short sleeves 94.00
The Appeal of
BATIK
Batik Print sport shirts by Arrow capture the look of the hand-worked prints of Java.
These rich muted tones provide your wardrobe with a new expression of color. Styled in the authentic button-down collar.
& From the
Cum Laude Collection”
BATIK PRINT CLASSICS
The richly colored prints of Java Batik offers a new change of pace in the traditional styling of men’s shirtings. Your wardrobe will be given a lift by the inherent good looks of this classic sport shirt from our Arrow Cum Laude Collection.
GILBERT
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
!

Loren Gergens briefs two of his salesmen on new telephone services for business customers.
4
“I DIDN’T WANT TO BE STOCKPILED”
When Loren Gergens was working for his B.S. degree in Business Administration at the University of Denver, he had definite ideas about the kind of job he wanted to land. He was determined to profit from the experience of several of his friends who had accepted promising jobs only to find themselves in “manpower pools”— waiting to be pulled into a responsible position. “I didn’t want to be stockpiled,” Loren says. “That’s no way to start.”
As a senior, Loren talked to twelve companies and joined The Mountain States Telephone & Telegraph Company, an associated company of the Bell Telephone System.
From his first day challenges were thrown at him thick and fast. First, he supervised a group of service representatives who handle the communications needs of telephone customers. Then
he served as manager of several telephone business offices. In these jobs Loren had to prove himself on the firing line, make right decisions and carry them through. He knew his next jump depended on only one man—Loren Gergens.
In July, 1960, he was made Sales Manager in Boulder, Colorado.
“I’m on the ground floor of a newly created telephone marketing organization. And I can tell you things are going to move fast I” Loren says. “It’s rough at times, but hard work is fun when you know you’re going somewhere—in a business where there’s somewhere to go.”
7/ you're interested in a job in which you can be your own prime mover—a job in which you’re given a chance to show what you can do, right from the start—you’ll want to visit your Placement Office for literature and additional information.
“Our number one aim is to have in all management jobs the most vital, intelligent, positive and imaginative men we can possibly find”
Frederick R. Kappel, President American Telephone & Telegraph Co.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
I