^he ZNotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victuals Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
College Parade
By THOMAS M. HIGGINS

iiiiitiiiiaiiaaaiaaiiaaaiaiaiaaiitaiaaaaaaiaaiaaaaiiiaiiaaaitiaaaiiaaataaiitiaiiaaiiiiitaiaaatiaiiaaaaaiaaaaaaaiaaaaai
THE STAFF
FRANK GRIMALDI, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN DEFANT -	-	-	- Managing Editor
GEORGE COLLINS -	-	- Navy Associate Editor
PAUL WEYRAUCH ----- Sports Editor
COLUMNISTS
THOMAS M. HIGGINS -	-
LOUIS ALMASI -	-	-
ARTHUR MOSHER, RAY FRANKLIN JACK STEWART -	-	-	-
ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT- -
The College Parade - The Crow's Nest - - The Shillelagh
The Green Banner - Frosh Froth
CONTRIBUTORS
JAMES GREENE JACK TINKLE BILLY SLA VICK GERARD HEKKER PAUL ABRAHAM JOE RENINGER W. O. MILLER JIM REGAN JAMES BURNS SAMUEL HAZO PAUL RAGAN ROGER CAHANEY JACK HUMMEL RALPH HAYMAN JOE LANG FRANK TYCHSEN DAVE OLSON
JUSTIN CICCONETTI JOHN C. THOMAS JAMES JOHN BILL PFAFF DAVE WARNER JOHN GUNTHER BILL BRAUN
RUDY SCHREITMUELLER WALTER S. BUNKER RAY CHAMBERLAND PETER PESOLI BILL LEAVEY JACK SULLIVAN JOHN WALKER LAWRENCE METCALF ARNOLD ANDERJASKA CLARENCE ZIMMER
JAMES FERSTEL -	-	-	- Photography
ARTHUR COUGHLAN - .	-	- Circulation Manager
REV. C. J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C. -	- Faculty Advisor
M. E. VARGA -	. -	-	- Advertising
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles.— San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
- 2
Due to the increasingly large number of veterans returning to school, many colleges are becoming overcrowded and hence are going to any extremes to overcome the present housing shortage. Georgia Tech, for instance, has taken over some Army barracks, and Minnesota has purchased a number of trailers in which to house students. The shortage of dorms here, we believe, is responsible for that new building at the Circle. It is definitely not a ticket-office where you may place reservations for that ’tween-semesters train ride. Instead, come March it will furnish sleeping accommodations for eighty-eight new freshmen.
“Let’s cut (censored) today” “Can’t—I need the sleep”
❖	Ball State Nezus
Tut to you poor lads who thought that the world had fallen in when St. Mary’s received three weeks Christmas vacation to your ten days. Imagine the plight of the poor studes at Tulane when their sister collegians at Newcomb took off for five weeks of holidays.—Let’s have no more complaints now about the rigorous life at N. D.
Soph—Man, I really flunked that Physics exam.
Second S.—But didn’t you have the answers on your shirt cuff?
Soph—Sure, but today I wore my chemistry shirt.
•?*	—Queen’s Journal
The above plug about the Sophs is to remind you of the Sophomore Cotillion coming up February 8. Get your date early and don’t be like the Sad Sack who informed us that he wasn’t going because he “didn’t Cotille!”
Our nomination as the worst joke of the week (again from the Creightonian, although that journal didn’t receive credit last week.)
“I know Latin, Greek and French, besides a little German, a little Italian, and a little Bohemian—the Bohemian lives on Tenth Street.”	.
❖
The Daily Kansan has a note of interest to cinema fans. A sequel to the movie, “Kiss and Tell” will be entitled, “Neck and Shut Up.”	❖
As long as it has been some time since we had a poem in print, do you mind lending an ear?
I think that I shall never see
A co-ed lovely as a tree;
A tree whose limbs are brown and bare, And has no dandruff in her hair;
A tree whose head is never pressed	*
Against someone else’s manly breast;
A tree who never wants a meal, And never tries to make you feel As if you were a lowly heel.	•
Co-eds are made like fools, you see, But it makes no difference.	—Manitoban
❖
An Arizona hillbilly died recently after seeing an automobile for the first time—he didn’t see it soon enough.
♦	—Seattle Spectator
The Indiana Student says that there is one thing about golf. The better you play, the more apt you are to end up in the hole.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 191*.
VOL. 86
JANUARY 18, 1946
NO. 8
Dr. Campbell and ND Chemistry Dept. Work Extensively on Malaria Cure
Ey RUDY SCHREITMUELLER
Since the spring of 1942 the Department of Chemistry at Notre Dame has been actively engaged in war research. When the Japanese conquests cut off most of the world’s supply of quinine, an urgent necessity arose to find another drug to combat malaria. This disease, which afflicts as many as 300,000,000 people in the world each year, is especially prevalent in the Pacific islands, India, North Africa, and in Italy.
This problem, which became the number one medical problem of the armed forces, received a high priority on manpower and supplies. Shortly after Pearl Harbor, however, the work was purely on a volunteer basis. At that time, Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell, associate professor of chemistry at Notre Dame, became the 16th chemist in the country invited to cooperate on the project. Under this volunteer system, Notre Dame accomplished considerable work on the synthesis of new compounds.
Later on, the Committee on Medical Research of the Office of Scientific Development took over the malaria problem. They drew up a formal contract with the University, with Dr. Campbell as responsible investigator in charge of research conducted on the campus. The contract provided for an adequate supply of funds, which greatly accelerated the work.
During the past three years many different series of organic compounds were prepared throughout the nation, as the program of synthesis became modified as a result of pharmacological and pathological tests. Over 14,000 compounds were tested for anti-malarial activity in the nation-wide program.
At first the aim was to prepare substances with the chemical structure of quinine, but simpler. One of the early projects at Notre Dame, all of which were carried out in the laboratories, on the third floor of the chemistry build
ing, was the production of quininic acid, an important intermediate. Such a method, once developed, was employed on a pilot plant scale to supply different laboratories.
Although many of the simpler quinine-like compounds were found much more active than quinine itself, they were too impractical and expensive to prepare on the mass-production basis required for malaria treatment.
The Notre Dame project was responsible for the preparation of compounds closely related to the new SN-7618, which has recently been widely publicized. The formula for SN-7618, a chlorinated organic compound, is understandable only to the expert chemist. The drug itself is the result of cooperative effort of many laboratories, including
No. We’re not telling you how long an incandescent light will burn, nor how much time elapses before your order is taken in Rosie’s. . . . Ninety-six hours is the estimated duration of freedom between semesters!
The latest dispatch from the Director of Studies cruelly states that there will be four days between the Winter and Spring semesters. Convocation is to take place February 27, and four days later, March 4, registration for courses will begin.
To those who read this with tears in their eyes, we might offer consolation by saying that the Spring semester will be the last under the accelerated program, and after its culmination in June, you can expect approximately three months of vacation (we haven’t found the hours yet). But then, of course, there is Selective Service.
Ninety-six fleeting hours. That’s hard-
those of 30 colleges in the United States. When used in the treatment of malaria, it is much superior to either quinine or atabrine, a synthetic discovered in Germany and first produced in this country in 1942. It will cure the malignant tertiary malaria more quickly than atabrine or quinine. It is superior to quinine or atabrine in the treatment of relapsing or vivax malaria, and it will not cause the yellow coloring of the skin or the stomach disturbances that atabrine does. None of these drugs, however, really cures relapsing malaiia. They merely relieve the pain.
During 1945, the last year of the contract, the work at Notre Dame concentrated on antimalarials of the plasmochin type. Plasmochin, another drug developed by the Germans, is effective in treating relapsing malaria, but is too toxic to be used safely. Compounds related to plasmochin have a remarkable anti-malarial activity, with some of them being more than ICO times as potent as quinine. While they are all toxic, research workers hope to find one satis-(Continued on page 22)
HOURS
ly enough time to pack a Gladstone! Some of the men who live at greater distances will probably not get home at all. Some, referring to those without plane reservation. But those living nearby will most likely spend a very pleasant five minutes with their relatives and friends, and perhaps will allow themselves two or three minutes with the “object of theii- affection.” They will hastily answer her quaint interrogation as to whether they are at Notre Dame or in the Foreign Legion, plant their best upon her soft, upturned cheek (misprint), and then take off for the station with jet propulsion.	•
The more we think about it, the more incredible it seems. However, our source is very reliable, and with simple logic and a calculating machine, our deductions are irrefutable. Therefore, 96 hours is 96 hours no matter how thin you slice it, and that’s too thin! .
—Jack Sullivan
3
Knoic
Your NOTRE DAME
The University of Notre Dame, situated about two miles north of the city of South Bend, is the world’s largest boarding college. At the present time there are an even dozen campus residence halls which add to its title as the largest campus university in the world. These 12 halls have a variety of names which dip into the history of this great University, to honor and revere the great men who have lifted it to its highest standards.
Back in 1881 when the University was just getting started, Father Sorin not only educated the college student, but the young boy from the age of six. Notre Dame was a school which included the kindergarten right through to the bachelor of arts degree. The younger students were called Minims. Father Sorin realized the need of a place for the Minims to live. So a new hall was built which was called Minims Hall. It was later changed to what we now know as St. Edward’s Hall. It was named after* St. Edward, the Confessor, whose statue now stands between Zahm and Cavanaugh halls. Edward was Father Sorin’s. baptismal name, and not so long ago St. Edward’s feast day was a holiday around here. And it was all in honor of venerable old St. Ed’s.
Sorin Hall was built in 1889 in honor of Father Sorin. It is situated in a place of honor immediately in front of the Church. After the erection of Sorin Hall, no work was done in regard to building a new residence until about 1900 when St. Joseph’s Hall, which we know today as Badin Hall, was built. It was named in honor of Father Stephen T. Badin, the first priest ordained in the New World. Father Badin is buried in the short main aisle of the Log Chapel. The main section of Badin Hall was the part that was used in the old St. Joseph’s Hall. The two wings were added later.
To complete the list of the old and venerable halls, we now turn to Walsh. This hall was built in 1911, and it was the current rage because it was the most modern. It is named in honor of Father Thomas E. Walsh who was the seventh
4
president of the University. He raised the scholastic standards- of the school, but we look on Father Walsh as the builder of Notre Dame. There are many examples of his achievements, and the most noteworthy are the first gilding of the Dome, the unveiling of the statue of Father Sorin and the putting up of the statue of the Sacred Heart, his last act on earth.
This completes the list of the four oldest buildings on the campus. They are the part of the Notre Dame campus that make it great. They are the houses of tradition. Next week we will turn our attention to the next three in order: Howard, Morrissey and Lyons.
—Paul Abraham, Gerard Hekker
James C. Buck Joins
Physics Dept. Faculty
A new face appeared in the Science building last week, as M.I.T. graduate and atomic-bomb worker James C. Buck joined the department of physics, January 2.
Mr. Buck completed his undergraduate studies for a Bachelor of Arts degree at Dartmouth in 1940. He did his graduate work in physics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where he specialized in physical electronics, leading to a Ph.D. degree in 1942.
He completed his thesis in the M.I.T. radiation laboratory where the principal development of radar research in engineering in this country was done.
From October, 1944 to April, 1945, Mr. Buck worked on the atom-bomb project at the Westinghouse Laboratories in Bloomfield, N. J., where he did a “super-rush” job on X-ray tube development for measurement in connection with the A-bomb project.
Except for this seven-month period, from the time of the completion of his studies until coming to Notre Dame last week, he did research work in physical electronics on the applications of cathode ray tube screens and high frequency transmitting tubes at M.I.T.
Cross Presents
Papers at Meet
The first post-war Annual Meeting of the Geological Society of America was held at Pittsburgh, Pa., from December 27 to 29, 1945. Dr. A. T. Cross, assistant professor of biology, presented two papers before different sections of the Society, viz., “A Study of Trigano-carpus and related seeds of the Paleozoic” in collaboration with Mr. J. H. Hoskins, University of Cincinnati, “A glacial peat deposit near Pittsburgh” in collaboration with Mr. J. M. Schopf, U. S. Bureau of Mines, and was coauthor of a third entitled, “Microfossil studies and their use in the correlation of some western U. S. Coals,” read by Mr. Schopf.
Co-Hop Dance
Tomorrow Nite
From 8 to 11 tomorrow night there will be a Co-Hop Dance at the Progress Club in downtown South Bend, with Ted Galligan of local fame providing the musical synocpation. Admission is sixty cents and an abundance of that famous northern pulchritude will be present.
Co-Hop Dances held recently at the Progress Club have found the dancing area to be quite crowded, not only because they have been well attended but because of the edging onto the dance floor of the non-dancers. Men at the affair who insist on surveying the situation before venturing to present themselves to seek a dance are asked by the dance committee to confine their nondancing activities to areas in the club other than the dance floor.
These dances are strictly for Notre Dame students.
SWEDEN CALLING
The SCHOLASTIC has received a letter from a Mr. K. G. Knutsson who is secretary of an organization known as “My Friend Abroad." made up of young people of Sweden, aged 15 to 25, who want to correspond with American friends.
If you want to get a pen-friend in Sweden write to “M y Friend A b r o a d, 27 B Lastmakaregatan, Stockholm, Sweden," stating your name, address, age and interests.
This may be your chance to get in touch with an undiscovered Sonja Henie.
THE WINTER CARNIVAL
Elaborate Plans for Six Hours of Festivities with Informality the Keynote
Over 400 Notre Dame students are expected to trek over to St. Mary’s College tomorrow afternoon for the Winter Carnival. Festivities will begin at 4 p.m. and will continue until 10. The general committee, composed of representatives from St. Mary’s and Notre Dame, headed by Miss Ann Kimber, has outlined the program the highlight of which is a sleigh ride, weather permitting.
There will be ice skating all evening, interrupted only by the coronation ceremonies for the Queen of the Carnival which will be followed by an ice show. Outdoor games will be held in the afternoon, and prizes will be awarded to winning contestants. A buffet supper will be served.
Informal dancing will run continuously throughout the afternoon and evening except for a half-hour break at which time a stage show will be presented by talented students of both schools.
Informality is the keynote of the affair so the usual ties and white shirts will be conspicuously absent, and a colorful array of snow suits and sports clothes will brighten up the activities.
Although ice skating will be one of the principal features of the Carnival there will be a number of games and contests to entertain non-skaters. The committee has planned such outdoor games as tug-o-war, fox and geese, a snowman-rolling contest, and others, but nobody will be surprised if an extemporaneous snowball fight should flare up.
The Winter Carnival is the first in
Glee Club and Band
The Navy Drill Hall, on Thursday night, Jan. 24, ‘will be the scene of the annual meeting and appreciation dinner of the St. Joseph Valley council, the Boy Scouts of America.
Capt. J. Richard Barry, U.S.N.,' and Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, have made the Drill Hall available to the Scouts for this occasion. It is expected that over 1200 will attend.
The Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direction of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music, will present a 45-minute, specially arranged program, and during the evening music will be provided by the Notre Dame Band, directed by Mr. H. Lee Hope.
what is hoped will be a long series of activities jointly sponsored by Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, and it is through the combined efforts of the Sophomore Class at St—Mary’s and. the^. Student Council at Notre Dame that the Carnival is being held.
The Notre Dame committee includes Brendan O’Grady, chairman, John .St. Germain, Joseph Lang, Bernard Huels-busch, William Basamanowicz, and Richard Gottsacker.
COMMERCE COLLEGE CHANGES CURRICULUM
In the University’s College of Commerce, the biggest news of the week was not the ponderous pre-registration of Spring semester students, but the blithe announcement by Assistant Dean Edmund A. Smith of curriculum changes effective with the coming September.
Most important will be: 1) the institution of a depaitment of Marketing, 2) restoration of the department of Finance, and 3) freshman - sophomore choice of modem language, mathematics, or science.
“As in the past,” Dean Smith said, “great emphasis will still be placed on so called cultural or non-commerce courses which have always been part of the requirement for any degree in the College of Commerce. The chief purpose of the new curriculum will be to coordinate more effectively practical commerce courses in the curriculum.”
In the past, freshmen and sophomores in the college have been required to take four semesters of modern language. They will now be able to choose between language, mathematics, or science.
Majors are open to juniors in one of the following: Accounting, Business Administration, Finance, and Marketing. The new marketing department absorbs the foreign commerce department, and students will have a choice of either domestic or foreign marketing.
The main stress will be placed on advertising in view of the fact that there is an outdoor advertising foundation in the College of Commerce established by contributions of members engaged in this industry.
New courses will include Principles
Economic Round Table
Ralph W. Hayman, Economic senior, spoke on “Veterans’ Employment” at the regular dinner meeting of the Economic Round Table at the Ramble Inn last week. Carl Carey was chairman for the meeting and President Paul Ragan presided at the business session.
Following the speech the group discussed the various problems confronting the veterans returning to old jobs or seeking new ones. It was pointed out that servicemen who held jobs before entering the armed forces are protected by the Selective Service Act, whereas those who went, into service directly from school must find jobs after discharge.
of Marketing, Principles of Transportation, and Credit Management.
In the restoration of the Finance Department, special courses are to he offered in Advanced Banking, International Finance, and Financial Problems.
The accounting curriculum will be completely reorganized to include additional courses, and in business administration, courses of study will likewise be altered somewhat. Instruction will be offered also in Industrial Relations, Labor Problems, and Problems Affecting Management and Labor.
—Slavick
Polish Club Elects Ed
Stelmoszek President
Edward Stelmaszek of Chicago was elected president of the Notre Dame Charles Phillips club at a meeting on January 10. Other men voted officerships in the club were: Eugene Waznicki of Cleveland, vice president; Francis Peters of Chicago, secretary-treasurer; and Matthew Siedlecki of Camden, N. J., sergeant-at-arms. Thomas Gordon, a law student from Chicago, was named club counselor and will serve in an advisory capacity.
The Charles Phillips club, an organization founded for the furthering and stimulation of interest in Polish culture, will meet again on Thursday, January 24 in Room I of the Law building at 7:30 p. m.
The Rev. Stanislaus Lisewski, C.S.C., moderator and chaplain of the club, has stated that any student on the campus is invited to join the club and participate in its activities.
5
PHILADELPHIA CLUB HONORS JOHN H. NEESON
On Sunday morning, Jan. 13, 1946, the Philadelphia Club at the University naid tribute to the memory of John H. Neeson, ’03, by attending Mass and receiving Communion in a body in Sorin Chapel. Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, celebrated the Mass. Breakfast followed at the Oliver Hotel with Ralph W. Hayman, Jr., president of the club, presiding. At the time of his death, John H. Neeson was a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees and the Director of Public Works in Philadelphia.
Present at the Mass and breakfast were several prominent Notre Dame alumni, who attended to revere the memory of their long-intimate friend. The guests included James E. Armstrong, National Secretary of the Alumni Association; Professor Paul I. Fenlon, Assistant Head of the Department of English; Ray Donovan, Assistant Director of Publicity; and two former Philadelphians, Joe Boland, well-known sports commentator of radio station WSBT and formerly assistant football coach at the University, and Edward J. Meehan, Advertising Manager of the South Bend Tribune. Unable to attend but truly present in spirit were Bernard J. Voll, president of the Sibley Machine and Foundry Corp, and member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees, and J. Arthur Haley, Director of Public Relations at the University. The former was confined to his home by illness while the latter was out of town on University business. All were life-long associates of Mr. Neeson, one-time National President of the Alumni Association and originator of Universal Notre Dame Night, the annual affair participated in by more than 20,000 alumni and former students of Notre Dame meeting in scores of communities throughout the United States and in many foreign countries. Also present were two members of the Scholastic, Frank Grimaldi, and John Defant, managing editor.
In offering Mass and Communion, the Philadelphia Club deemed it a most fitting memorial to a loyal, enthusiastic and devoted alumnus and an efficient, faithful servant of their native city. It was unanimously resolved that this become an annual memento to a man responsible for fulfilling the life-long desires of numerous Catholic youth seeking higher education on the campus of Our Lady. Implementing these desires is an Apologetics Scholarship at Notre Dame contributed by Mr. Neeson.
With moving force and fluency, Father O’Donnell familiarized students un
acquainted with Mr. Neeson with his attributes of “lively faith, rich humility and verdant love.” The high esteem in which this man is held was eloquently expressed by Father O’Donnell in referring to his death—“One of the most brilliant candles on the altar of Notre
John H. Neeson, '03
Dame Alumni was extinguished and we will never look upon his like again. Along with the deep faith that radiated from his own personality, his family life and his official career, John H. Neeson was possessor of a rich, delicious sense of humor.
“That John H. Neeson was a Catholic Actionist of the first order is confirmed by the fact that he was one of the charter members of the Men of Malvern, the first organization that promoted the lay retreat movement in the United States. Little wonder is it that this group will miss him, for he was a veritable rock of the organization.
At the Head Table: Matthew Siedlecki, Bay Donovan, Prof. Paul Fenlon, Joe Boland, Father O'Donnell, Ralph Hayman, Janies E. Armstrong and Edward J. Meehan. Right: The Breakfast Scene in the Gold Room of the Oliver Hotel.
“As an attestation to the fact that he was a leader, and looked upon as an authority in his chosen field, John H. Neeson will be remembered as a past president of the American Society of Municipal Engineers.” In the words of Father O’Donnell, “John Neeson quietly, unobtrusively but very, very effectively rose to man’s estate as one of the authorities in the field of mining engineers in the United States and in the world.”
Summarizing, Father O’Donnell had recourse to the beautiful characterization of such a man in Bishop O’Hara’s funeral sermon when he said that “he observed fathfully the two Great Commandments, love of God and love of neighbor.” Concluding, Father O’Donnell said “We pray for peace to the soul of one of the greatest men Notre Dame has ever produced.”
Members of the club present at the Mass and breakfast were Richard Bustin, Frank Callahan, Frank Colicchio, William Corbett, Frank DeLeo, Edward Dougherty, Robert Finnegan, John Fitz-henry, Girard Hekker, William Higgins, John Jones, John Maher, Victor Mel-chiorre, Daniel Morgan, Robert McGowan, Edward Nestlerode, Stephen Oracko, Thomas O’Brien, Joseph Prall, Frank Ragan, Henry Sczepaniak, Daniel Suto-lovic, Frazer Thompson, Leo Traney, Frank Vittori, James Webb, Joseph White, Charles Wolf, Charles Yakemon-is and William Zehler.
Officers of the club are: president, Ralph Hayman; vice-president, Matthew Siedlecki; secretary, William Meehan; treasurer, John Moorhead; recording secretary, George Hampilos, NRO-TC; and publicity director, Arthur Coughlan. Committee members were Mathew Siedlecki, chairman; Arthur Coughlan, Edward Dougherty, Dan Sutolovic and William Zehler.
•	—James A. JFe&&
6
". . . HIS HOLY WILL BE DONE"
By JACK SULLIVAN
Bob Nelson was not a personal friend of mine. In fact, I had never met him. Perhaps you hadn’t been introduced to him either, nevertheless you felt as though you knew him well after you heard that he was dying.
You didn’t mind going to an extra Mass, or praying for Bob. You didn’t mind making a few more visits to the Blessed Sacrament or sacrifices for him, on those days which were to be his last. This is certainly friendship — at any rate, the friendship that we know at Notre Dame.
And so as a friend of Bob’s, I write this article—humble and inadequate indeed, when compared to its subject.
His home was in Joliet, Ill. Catholic High School was his choice of secondary schools, and while he was in attendance there, he played football—the game he really liked. He also was a great Irish fan, and year after year, was with them in victory and defeat.
It only followed that he come to Notre Dame, and this he did. He registered for the Winter Semester of 1945-46 and became a Commerce man. Bob lived in Zahm Hall and although his work was difficult and unending, his hopes were realized—he was a Notre Dame man. One of his last messages was to the University, and consisted of this:
“Goodbye, and thanks to the Fathers and Brothers for their courtesy.”
And then last week the campus of Our Lady received the news that Bob’s life was in danger as a result of cancer, that he would die in a few days. Many asked who he was, but none declined praying for him.
Communion rails were filled more than usual, the Grotto was the scene of more visits, and in the Log Chapel, there were a few more vigil candles set aside, and Saturday, January 12, stood out as a day of campus-wide prayer for Bob.
The next day, Sunday, Bob died at 5:30 in the morning, and the congregations at each of the Masses on the campus were informed. It was truly a strange sensation that overcame you when you were told that your friend had died—the friend that you had known for only four or five days.
While Bob was in the hospital in Joliet many of his edifying remarks were punctuated with the language of the gridiron. The following is an excerpt from the Religious Bulletin of January 11.
“When his pastor asked him if he were afraid to die, he replied: ‘No. The Divine Coach has always been good to me. And if He wants to take me out of the game at nineteen, His Holy Will he done. He knows best.’ If anything is the Spirit of Notre Dame, this is.”
Bob was buried last Wednesday, and it is not far from certain that oui-prayers made his death a most gloi-ious one. It is also possible that our support helped him to attain Heaven immediately.
As a last thought I would like to recall to your memory this paragraph from the Religious Bulletin.
“If there was any regret that Bob expressed, it was that he would be unable to finish at Notre Dame. But the truth is that he ivill finish at Notre Dame. For Notre Dame means Our Lady, and it will be she who will embrace him on his entrance into Heaven and take him to the Divine Coach to receive his reward for playing the game so well.”
Dr. Pedtke Will Speak at Smoker
Catholic Action will present Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Notre Dame music department and director of the Glee Club, as the speaker for its fourth meeting in the Rockne Lounge, January 21 at 7:30 p.m. His subject will be “Music Appreciation” and he will illustrate his talk with recordings and piano selections.
Daniel H. Pedtke
These smokers, informal meetings of the students and prominent professors, are held in the Rockne Memorial Lounge at regular intervals. Their purpose is to aid in cementing student-professor relationships and to benefit the students by personal contacts with campus authorities in various scholastic fields.
Throughout the semester these get-togethers, sponsored by the Catholic Action, will take place every other Monday in the Lounge with a well-qualified pro-fessor presenting some timely subject. All students are invited to attend.
N. B. STAMP COLLECTORS
The Liberty ship, "Knute Bockne," now operated by the Grace Line will sail on her first peacetime Atlantic voyage in February. A "First Day Cover" will be serviced for stamp collectors.
The cover, designed by Bobert Bolton, includes a picture of the famous University of Notre Dame football coach and a silhouette drawing of the Liberty ship. A foreign postage stamp will be affixed.
These covers are sold by the Seamen's Church Institute of New York, 25 South Street, New York 4. N. Y. They may be ordered at 50c each, including envelope. The name and address of the person to receive the cover must be printed legibly. The Institute is "First Day Cover" agent for most of the steamship companies.
N. D. Alumnus Receives Rare Papal Honor
Mr. Leo T. Crowley, one of the University’s most distinguished alumni, knelt in the small chapel of St. Mary’s Hospital in Madison, Wis., on Thursday, Jan. 10, to receive a rare papal honor, that of Knight Commander of the Order of Pius IX With Star. This honor was conferred upon Mr. Crowley by direction of Pope Pius XII for his “strenuous and skillful services” as foreign economic administrator. The award is the highest that can be awarded by the Holy Father to a layman.
Notre Dame, which awarded Mr. Crowley an honorary LL.D. degree at its 100th anniversary commencement in 1942, was officially represented by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
Among those present at the ceremony were Samuel Cardinal Stritch, archbishop of Chicago, Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., bishop of Buffalo, and former president, and United States Senator LaFollette. Senator LaFollette praised Mr. Crowley for “eliminating dangerous weaknesses in the banking system” while he was head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. As foreign economic administrator, LaFollette said, “Crowley contributed very materially to solving the problems involved in our wartime international relations.” Mr. Crowley retired from government service not long ago to resume his position in private business as chairman of the board of directors and president of the Standard Gas and Electric Co.—Paul Abraham
7
Two Articles on Russia Have Prominence
In New Issue of "The Review of Politics"
In an article entitled “Aftei- World War II” in the January issue of the Review of Politics, Professor Waldemar Gurian, the editor, has prepared one of the most penetrating analyses of current world affairs to be found in current periodical literature. Dr. Gurian is not only a thorough student of world politics, but he brings to his study a personal acquaintance with eastern and central Europe, particularly with Russia, generally lacking among American writers on world politics. Examining the complex problems resulting from the hurried end of World War II and the bewilderment of most persons who are seeking some idealistic solution of present day problems, he predicts that “the world, tired of the impossibility of solving political and social conflicts by purely secular techniques, will realize that world organization can be based only upon grounds which are beyond diplomatic and economic arguments . . . that men of good will—to use the expression of Pope Pius XII—will prevail in emphasizing what must unite mankind and all nations.”
Dr. Gurian emphasizes how hard it is to judge of contemporary events. “Who,” he says, “could have believed in 1919 that not General Ludendorff but an unknown private of Austrian origin, Adolf Hitler, would become the decisive figure in the history of German nationalism, its leader, and as it seems today, its executioner?” So also the full history of the present post-war struggles can be written only after they have passed. The present war is just one of a series of wars. “We observe that old power conflicts reappear intensified by ideological and social differences, that not a brighter world full of optimism, but a world full of conflicts, fears, and insecurity— even panic—is in the making.”
Analyzing the current world problems Dr. Gurian points out five specific tendencies at work complicating the situation. They are: “First, there is the strange contradictory coincidence of the demand for planetarian solutions and local claims and conflicts”; “secondly, the opposition against exploitation of the masses by selfish gigantic corporations”; “thirdly, we observe shifts in realms and centers of power”; “fourth, the dominant power today is the United States, and the question is: How will she use this dominant position?” And “finally, we observe today very important changes in the relations between religion and society.” After explaining these trends, Dr. Gurian expresses the hope
8
that “men of good will,” as Pope Pius calls them, solve these problems by avoiding both extreme utopianism and cynicism.
In line with the article by Dr. Gurian, the second article by the noted authority on Russian history, G. Fedotov, in “Russia and Freedom,” exposes the strange consistency of the imperialism of Russia before, during and since the Russian revolution. One of the most interesting phases of his discussion is his analysis of Russia and her place in the meeting of Eastern and Western Cultures. In this article Dr. Fedotov traces only the idea of freedom, and ideal of Western culture, in Russian history. After outlining the evolution of certain ideas of freedom in the cultural history of Russia, Fedotov says, “From outside the Russian borders we anxiously watch the evolution of the Soviet man as reflected in the conventional, 4 controlled literature. . , . Whether* or not this inner evolution will culminate in the revival of freedom is another question, to which history seems to suggest a negative answer.”
In “Frontiers and Mass Migrations in Eastern Central Europe,” Professor-
EDITORIAL
DEBATE SCHOLARSHIPS
The University of Notre Dame is recognized as the college from which many of the great Catholic leaders of America have come. Christian peoples the world over, both Protestant and Catholic, look to Notre Dame and schools like it to provide leadership and decisive action when the rest of mankind goes berserk. In the past, Notre Dame’s sons have never failed to meet the challenge of leadership whenever it was thrust upon them. Many boys who had dreamed of coming back to Notre Dame when the war was over will never realize that dream. On many lonely beaches and in many foreign countries small white crosses mark their humble graves. They answered the call of their country, many of them assuming important positions of leadership. For God, for country, and for school they gave their all.
In the period of tomorrow, equally great leaders will be needed. Debate is one important way of developing needed leadership and courage of conviction. Debate, of its very structure, is a means of furthering the qualities of leadership—true leadership. As studied at Notre Dame it develops in the debater those characteristics of a true Catholic leader—the ability to defend one’s views efficiently and to state the issues clearly; aggressiveness when fighting for what is thought to be right; and a Christian interpretation of important issues. No one can deny that the world of today needs men of true quality and strong character to aid in guiding the destiny of America. In future years the need will be even greater.
Debate, as one of the means of building true leaders, has in the past been sadly neglected. Now is the chance to remedy that error. Debate needs to be elevated, for it can aid in the development of America’s leaders of the years yet unlived. Future generations will be the benefactors.
—Frank Finn
Hans Rothfels of Brown University, points out the evil cruelty of such mass migrations characterizing them with the phrase of the Osservatore Romano, as “a violation of all natural rights.” Professor Goetz Briefs of Georgetown University has a very interesting study of the problems of international cartels in “Cartels: Realism or Escapism?” French political struggles during the occupation are described by H. I. Marron in “Ideas in France: 1939 to 1945.” William T. R. Fox analyzes the San Francisco Conference in “The Super-Powers at San Francisco.” And Professor Aaron I. Abell, of the History Department, pays tribute to the late Monsignor Ryan in “Monsignor John A. Ryan: an Historical Appreciation.” The book reviews in this issue are by Father Thomas T. McAvoy, Mrs. Hannah Arendt and Professor Hans J. Morgenthau.
Commerce Forum
Daniel Dancewicz spoke on “Economic Planning vs. Democracy” at the meeting of the Commerce Forum on January 9. The Commerce College junior extolled the merits of our system of free enterprise and pointed out the basic faults of economic planning.
New members admitted to the Forum were John McCormack, Don Booth, and Phil Lyons.
"THE HUDDLE," A VETERAN OF TWO WARS,
IS HIGHLY POPULAR SPOT ON N. D. CAMPUS
Back in the wee years of the twentieth century, Brother Leopold roped off a corner of the old play hall, which stood a stones throw from the Old Gym, and opened a lemonade counter for book-weary Notre Dame students to pause and refresh.
The corner soon became known as “Leap’s,” and it was not long before the order of “Lemonade and fours” was the popular between-class body builder. “Fours” referred to the order number of a particular sized chocolate covered marshmallow cookie with a walnut trim.
Soon Brother “Leap” enlarged his corner and added new merchandise to fill the demands of the students, and was about to expand again when World War I drew America into battle. The Army soon made a camp' site on the Notre Dame campus, and “Leap’s” was closed to make way for a G.I mess hall.
With that Brother “Leap” retired and not until months later, in September, 1918, when the present Huddle building was completed by the army to serve as a PX, were there any refreshments sold on the campus. The PX was opened to soldier trade by Brother Mauritius, and continued to serve them until the armistice was declared, at which time the University purchased the entire building from the government for $50.00 and reopened it as a candy and soft drink counter for general student patronage.
In 1936 Sheehan and Weber, two villagers, reopened it as a privately financed enterprise, and introduced new and improved methods of handling the store. They gave it the present name of “The Huddle,” and were instrumental in putting it back on its feet following the hard years of the depression.
In 1939 the University again took over its management and has maintained supervision to this date. Mrs. Helen Conners, present manager, can proudly boast nursing the Huddle through the trying years of the war without losing a customer because of shortages caused by war time rationing.
Within the last year especially, improvements have been almost continuous. Starting with a fresh coat of paint and some frames for the historic football pictures adorning the walls, a new soda fountain and juke box were installed. In spite of the dwarf-size and aged appearance of the Huddle, it is up to date in every department.
At present, the regular staff, with Mrs. Conners as the head, includes Judy “Tiny” Pritchard, Mary Cameron, Annie
Papanderia, whom many of the boys remember from Rosie’s, and Florence Hose. Students working part time during the day are Tom McGuire, Tom Potter, Jack Marshall, Bob Campbell, Bob Theil, John McCormick, George Kennard, Jack Elliot and Dick Doddle.
The next improvement proposed by the Huddle is installation of seating space where the students may relax and talk while they enjoy their refreshments.
THE LOCAL LORELEI
Pat Hartranft, Judy Pritchard and Mary Cameron
Everybody Welcome
The St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society will hold its 197th meeting on Thursday, Jan. 24 at 8:00 p.m. in Room 215, Chemistry Hall. The speaker will be Mr. Robert E. Zinn, Chief Chemical Engineer, Victor Chemical Works, Chicago, who will talk on “The Phosphorus Chemicals Industry.” Everyone interested is cordially invited to attend.
Phosphates have been known and used by man for a very long time, yet even this old industry has witnessed numerous changes in the last two decades. Mr. Zinn is exceptionally well qualified to speak on the developments in this field, as he has been associated with the phos
This dream may not be realized, however, because it is rumored that the Huddle may again move—this time to a new and modern location as part of the new Student Union Building, planned for the Notre Dame campus.
The name “Huddle” is already a tradition at Notre Dame, and as the name implies, it is a place where the students huddle, relax, refill and go away refreshed.
phate industry for 18 years, and his company has been a pioneer in the large-scale production of phosphoric acid, inorganic meta-, ortho-, and pyrophosphates, and other phosphorus compounds.
Mr. Zinn received his training in chemical engineering at the University of Wisconsin, and since leaving there in 1927 has been with the Victor Chemical Works, first as Research Chemical Engineer and more recently as Chief Engineer. He is very active in chemical circles in Chicago, and is a past chairman of the Chicago Section of the American Chemical Society and the Chicago Section of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers.
9
Many Questions Arise Anent Sophomore Cotillion - and Here Are the Answers
Following the announcement in last week’s Scholastic, the main topic of conversation in the dining hall in between a mouthful of beans and wieners has been the Sophomore Cotillion, scheduled for February 8 and 9.
The Oliver Hotel has already been besieged with requests for reservations to accommodate the "gal from the hometown” during her stay in South Bend. Air mail special deliveries have been dispatched to Myrtle in Brooklyn and Susie in Oshkosh, inviting them to our fair university to attend the Sophomore Cotillion. ’Tis even rumored that one of our South American students has wired Washington to get a priority for his senorita in Venezuela so that she can make the Cotillion.
Various questions have been raised by the student body in connection ■with the Cotillion and we shall try and an-swer some of them at this writing.
Question—What band will play at the formal dance on Friday?
Answer—Sh, Sh, that is still the committee’s secret. However, it can safely be said that a name band has been contacted, and as soon as final arrangements are made it will be announced in the Scholastic.
Question — Is it considered proper that I pay for my date’s hotel expenses?
Ansiver—It is usually customary for a young man to pay the lady’s hotel bill. However, if a young man is hard pressed for hard cash he has two alternatives—number one is that while a young lady is going to pay her bill, the young man can be deeply engrossed in a comic book and ignore the issue; otherwise he can show her his depleted wallet and let her draw her own conclusions.
An ex-serviceman asks: Will I be allowed to wear my uniform in lieu of a tuxedo?
Ans.—Uniforms will be permissible. In cases involving former officers and enlisted men, saluting will not be required. A malicious rumor has been started that if ex-officers appear in uniform they will receive a 10% discount on their bid. We deny this emphatically.
Ques.—Will a bar be set up at the Rockne Memorial the night of the Cotillion?
Ans.—Due to the present shortage of ice, the committee regrets to say that there will be no bar concession at the dance.
10
Ques. — In the event of inclement weather how will I transport my date?
Ans.—Dog teams and snow shoes will be rented to worthy students at a nominal fee.
Ques.—Are Naval R.O.’s and V-12’s allowed to attend the Sophomore Cotillion?
Ans. — Since the Notre Dame Fleet will be tied up in St. Mary’s Lake on February 8 and 9, naval personnel will be welcomed at the Sophomore Cotillion.
Ques.—Should discharge buttons be worn with tuxedo?
Ans.—We consulted Emily Post’s latest chapter on “Etiquette For- Returning Service Men” and learned that in the event a black tie is worn, discharge button will be left at home. Campaign ribbons will not be worn with tuxedo.
Ques. — Will the present inter-hall basketball schedule interfere with the dance?
Ans.—An interview -with Badin Hall’s athletic director informed us that the Badin Hall “Charmers” will play Dillon’s “Villains” during intermission. Betting on either team will not be tolerated.
Note—A bid for the Sophomore Cotillion is not covered by the G.I. Bill of Rights.—Bill Leavey
TUXEDOS TO RENT
The Sophomore Cotillion Dance Committee has made arrangements with Parker-Winterrowd to furnish tuxedos and tails for those who plan to rent them for the Ball. Arrangements have been made for their representative to be on the - Notre Dame campus next Monday evening, January 21, in room 1 of the Law Building from 7 to 9 to take orders and measurements of the students. The firm has given the special price of $6.50 for tuxedos and $7.50 for tails. These prices include: for the tuxedo, the suit itself, shirt, studs, collar, and tie; for the tails, the suit, shirt, tie, collar, studs, and vest.
If anyone desires to rent specific articles such as a shirt or a vest he can also place his orders Monday night.
Be sure to be there as this is the last date the firm will insure delivery for the Cotillion.
K. of C. to Honor War Dead Sunday
In memory of those members who gave their lives in the recent war, the Knights of Columbus will attend a Memorial Mass in Sacred Heart Church on Sunday morning, Jan. 20, at 9:00. One hour later, the Communion breakfast will begin in the upper dining hall with the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., as the principal speaker. Members who attend the breakfast have been asked by Ralph Hayman, chairman of the committee on arrangements, to bring their dining hall checks for that meal with them.
Additional plans for the Communion breakfast were presented by Grand Knight Robert Sullivan at a business meeting held Tuesday evening as part of the grand reopening of the council chambers in Walsh Hall. Other business that was accomplished at that time included the appointment of John Power as chairman in charge of reviving the K. of C. vaudeville that is slated for next semester after having been a wartime casualty, and the appointment of Bob Rossiter as chairman of the Catholic Action Committee. After the short business session, one hour’s entertainment followed featuring specialities at the piano by Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., music by the sextet of the Cavaliers band, a new comedy routine by Ray Chamberland and a song by Jack Galloway and Fred Earley. Frank Kowalski was master of ceremonies. Refreshments were served and cigarettes were offered, providing the final touch.
The members found the council meeting chambers restored to their prewar splendor. Announcement was made that renovation of the club lounge room will soon be completed.
First degree initiation of 10 candidates into the Notre Dame council took place last Monday evening at Mishawaka under the supervision of nearly 30 members of the University’s knights. Admitted to membership were Ignacio E. Lozano, Robert F. Welch, Fred J. Rovai, William C. Carbine, John C. Noonan Jr., James H. Evans, James A. Webb, Robert E. Schmid, L. Edward Merman, and Charles M. Callahan. Following the initiation, a buffet supper was served and tentative plans were drawn up to conduct second and third degree initiations on the 10th of February at Mishawaka. Some 27 candidates for these degrees will then be taken care of and admitted into full membership in the culmination of the first drive which had for its purpose the restoration of the council to its pre-war strength.
—James D. Sullivan
.Department of Biology
Story of the Restless Rectangular Beehive Behind
That Antiseptic Facade
The clean-cut, anitseptic facade of the Biology Building is casual, noncommittal. Inside it is a restless, rectangular beehive. Researchers work quietly amid an esoteric sky-line of test tubes. Though the tacit policy of all scientists is that what they are doing is nobody’s business we have found out some pertinent facts about how the Biology Department got its start.
Science is no activity that mushroomed overnight at Notre Dame. It was put in early as part of the curriculum to crack the criticism that the Church entertained a stand-offish attitude toward science. By 1920, the emphasis on the natural sciences at Notre Dame grew to such impressive proportions that the president of the University, the Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C., reorganized the College of Science with its separate departments. One of these is the Department of Biology, now headed by Rev. R. J. Sheehan, C.S.C.
The infant department started out with a small staff in Science Hall in two rooms equipped for the most part with musty legend. From those humble beginnings, principally due to the untiring efforts and vision of the late Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., it has developed, in a period of 25 years, into a full-fledged department with its own buildings, servicing nearly 600 students and a teaching staff of distinguished scholars.
Today, it is housed in the two upper floors of the Biology Building on the far northeast end of the campus. Built in 1936, the building has special features such as acoustic and temperature control, contains a sizeable amphitheatre, a greenhouse, and an efficient, up-to-the- . minute library. Apparently, nothing escapes the ingenuity of the scientists. The cornerstone was utilized for an experiment. A tube of bacteria was sealed inside and approximately in 2136, should you care to live so long, you will find out if germs can live 200 years in a cornerstone!
For pre-meds and natural science students, there is an impressive array of precision instruments and other* equipment. The nature of tissues, for example, can be determined by the use of the ingenious microtome which can slice tis
sue to the thickness of 4/25,000 of an inch. Incipient zoologists can satisfy their craving for study amid a collection .ranging from snakes to human embryos.
Most prized possessions are the botanical libraries and herbaria of the late Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., botanist and chemist of synthetic rubber fame, and of the late Dr. Edward Lee Greene, distinguished botanical explorer and historian of botany. Known far and wide for their valuable contents, the combined collections currently contain nearly 10,000 volumes, many out of print, and about 150,000 specimens. These collections are constantly augmented by new books, journals and specimens mostly received in exchange from all parts of the world for the American Midland Naturalist, founded in 1909 by Father Nieuwland and edited since his retirement by Dr. Theodor Just. The American Midland Naturalist is now regarded as one of the best known and largest biological journals in the world.
Home of Antiseptic Research
Paced by such men as Fathers A. M. Kirsch, J. A. Nieuwland, F. J. Wenning-ger, G. Albertson, and Dr. T. Just, the department has won wide recognition for its work in many fields of research. The present program is divided into four fields: genetics, nutrition, parasitology, and paleobotany of coal. The first two of the group stress growth and develop- . ment of plants and animals, the third is concerned with the importance and control of vai-ious animal parasites, and the last is devoted to detailed analyses of plant microfossils contained in coal and their utilization in correlation of coal deposits.
What miracles science has up its sleeves is hazardous for the uninitiated to conjecture. Will porterhouse steaks some day come up as capsules? Will Notre Dame be heated on a lump of coal? The research staff in the Biology building takes a non-exuberant stand. But their eyes shine as if they knew.
—Arnold Anderjaska
.11
Basketeers Meet Lakes Tonight in Chicago and Collide with Marquette Here Tuesday
By DAVE WARNER
Playing in the big-time, spacious Chicago Stadium before an expected capacity crowd the unbeaten Notre Dame quintet, currently ranked No. 1 in the Associated Press national basketball standings, tonight will be seeking its tenth consecutive victory of the season and its second this year over Great Lakes whom it thoroughly trounced a week ago, 72-50. Notre Dame and the Bluejackets provide one part of the evening’s proceedings, DePaul and Michigan State meeting in the other half of the twin bill. Oddly enough, both DePaul and Michigan State are slated for future engagements on the Irish schedule. The Ripleymen are next to be seen on the home court on January 22 when they will take on a threatening Marquette combine in the first of a home-and-home game series. This game will be the midway mark of this season.
The vital statistics on Coach Bill Chandler’s Hilltoppers from Milwaukee read this way: They have won seven out of the first nine starts, losing only to Northwestern and Wisconsin. Later they atoned for that loss to Wisconsin by swamping the Badgers, 62-41. Other notable highlights include victories over Nebraska, Bradley Tech, and Great Lakes. Marquette caught the Sailors on the rebound from their Notre Dame drubbing. Through 21 seasons of rivalry, which began back in 1919, the Irish eagers have emerged the winner in 29 of the 40 meetings, but the last two seasons, particularly, have indicated that the Jesuit school atop Milwaukee means business. In the last four games both teams have split even. In one of the games last season against the Milwaukeeans, Capt. Billy Hassett established a scoring record for Notre Dame guards when he hung up 21 points, mostly achieved on his long, looping specialties. In the- first meeting last year Notre Dame won handily, 79-56, but then Marquette, probably inspired because it was theii- last game of the season, turned the tide and eked out a 56-55 win.
Despite their favorable showing thus far this season the Marquette Hilltoppers have not been without their share of tough luck. Early in the season Bill Chandler Jr., son of the Marquette coach and one of the greatest guards in Marquette history, was suddenly declared ineligible by a change in the Big Ten code of rules. Chandler, a V-12 medical student, was in the. sixth season as a varsity performer. The excessive years were previously approved by the Big
Ten and then were rescinded to permit only three years of varsity competition.
Replacing Chandler at guard was a problem, but Orlando Palesse, a stocky ex-bomber pilot, seems to be filling the position capably. Other probable start-
Ernie Kivisto
ers are two ex-navy men at forwards, Johnny Millunzi and Howard Kallen-berger. At center- is Ken Wiesner who should be very adept at going up after the ball. Wiesner is the National A.A.U. indoor high jump champion and National Collegiate outdoor- co-champion. Teaming with Palesse at the other guard is Bob Meyers.
Among Marquette’s corps of reserves is Ernie Kivisto, a 24-year-old, 180-pound guard, who has the double distinction of winning monograms at Marquette and Notre Dame. The Ironwood, Mich., veteran enrolled at Marquette as his original preference. After enlisting in the Navy he was sent to the Notre Dame V-12 school where he saw action as a reserve on the 1943-44 squad.
From all indications Coach Ripley plans to keep his same starting-five intact which means that it will be Dee and Klier at forwards, Boryla at center, and Hassett and Gilhooley at guards. Right behind the starting five are George “Snake” Ratterman and Ray Corley, two boys who are making strong effort to break into the starting line-up. Agile, unorthodox - shooting, high-scoring Leo Klier enters tonight’s contest in the Chicago Stadium with 155 points in nine -games for a single game average of 17.2.
. The Northwestern G<
The Notre Dame Student Council, cc obtained for the student body, a block of th basketball doubleheader to be held in'the - Feb. 2. Two hundred and fifty of these seats
i
In one of these contests Elmer Ripley' with the Northwestern Wildcats in a game bit as difficult as the recent clash wit}.1 De rangy, high-scoring forward. Max Morris^ of
Coupled with the Notre Dame-Nortliwe; Paul and Indiana State. The opportunity i this comes only once a season.
Since this year's squad promises to«oe university, the moral support of a loyal lo be a help in giving the team a lift. t
Students attending the game will b<e a! afterwards.
CHARLES W. B4
•4
Head Football Coach, .4Aic
(Editor's Note: This is the first in a , h series of articles devoted to former ! 1 Notre Dame men who have distinguished t themselves in collegiate coaching at col- o leges throughout the country).	1
Charles W. Bachman, head football , a coach at Michigan State College, is con- i sidered one of the deans of football in ! the nation today. A graduate of Notre * Dame in 1917, Bachman has blazed a trail of success in the coaching profes- <	-
sion from the steps of Northwestern University to Michigan State via Kan- , c sas State College and the University of j c Florida. “Bach” has carried forth the ! 1 traditions of Notre Dame men through- 1 out his career.	1
Besides serving several colleges, Bach- i t man has served his country during two j war periods. He was born December 2, ; t 1893, in Chicago, Ill. Charley graduated j from Englewood High School and then	t
came to Notre Dame. Shortly after his	$
graduation in 1917, he enlisted in the 1 c Navy and played football on the national j 1 championship Great Lakes eleven. Dur- . t ing World War II, Bachman went to 1 Camp Grant, Ill., on lend-lease from t Michigan State, offering his services as ' football coach at the army base.	;
Bachman specialized in two sports at , g Notre Dame, football and track, taking ' } top honors in both fields. Bach was chos-	J
en All-Western guard in 1914 and 1916;	j
1915 being missed for the simple reason a that he was shifted to fullback that sea- < g son. He won three monograms in both t football and track. A strange occurrence
12
1
i Game, February 2
jp cooperation with the ticket office, has of three hundred and fifty tickets for the n ’> the Chicago Stadium, Saturday night, seats are reserved.
i
pley's talented Irish squad will tangle jame that gives promise of being every 1: DePaul. Northwestern is paced by its Sj of All-America football fame.
thwestern game is a tussle between De-ijty to witness a duo of games such as
be one of the best in the history of the c.l following of students would certainly
t
b*e allowed time to return to the campus
Rachman, 'u
Michigan State College
, highlighted Bach’s track record. In 1917 I he set the world record in the discus throw at the Penn Relays one afternoon only to have Arlie Mucks of Wisconsin break his record just two hours later at another meet. But Charley was still ! world’s champion in the discus, even j though it lasted only two hours. He was ! captain of the track team in 1916 and 1917.
, . Following his graduation with a law degree, Bachman served as assistant coach at DePauw University, Green-j castle, Ind., prior to entering the Navy. [ At the end of World War I, he was j named head coach at Northwestern. In 1919, at the age of 24, he was referred to as the “Boy Coach of the Western j Conference.” During his one season at • the Wildcat institution, Bach’s team won < four, lost seven, and tied one. From 1920 ' to 1927 he served as coach at Kansas State College where his grid machines 'i compiled a record of 33 victories, 23 < losses, and 8 ties. He spent five years at , the University of Florida from 1928 to 1932 where he won 27, lost 18, and tied three, and in 1933 moved on to Michigan State College.
; Jimmy Crowley, another Notre Dame ,, grad and one of the “Four Horsemen,” ‘ had preceded Bachman at Michigan State, coaching there from 1929 through 1932. Crowley had built up a good record which Bach had to carry on. A quick < glance at the sport records of the Spartan school will show that Bachman more (Continued on page 16)
Promising Nofre Dame Track Squad To Open Indoor Season Here February 2
A very promising Notre Dame track squad will initiate the indoor track season on Feb. 2 with a dual meet against Western Michigan college on the Irish oval. With nine lettermen returning from last year’s state championship team—Capt. Bill O’Neil, Bill Tully, Bob Shirmer, Bob Purcell, Frazier Thompson, Fred Jones, Orlando Duarte, Ray Struble, and Vince Scott—plus Billy Leonard, army veteran, who was a monogram winner on the 1943 squad before entering the service, the prospects for a successful season are quite favorable.
“Doc” Handy, affable Blue and Gold mentor, announced earlier this week that time trials would be held in all events on Sunday morning, Jan. 20 to determine the leading contenders for places on the squad. The tracksters have been working out since before the holidays under Handy’s watchful eye. When asked about his personal views on the approaching season and the chances the Irish cindermen would have, faced with the usual rigorous schedule, Coach Handy stated: “I don’t want to be too optimistic. We won’t be a great team, but we’ll be a good, well-balanced one.”
Coach Handy listed the following men as the outstanding paiticipants in Sunday’s trials:
Two Mile*run: Bill Leonard, Jim Murphy, and Jim Kelly.
One Mile run: Bill Tully, Louis Tracy, and D. Torrence.
880 yd. run: Bill Tully, Ray Sabota.
440 yd. run: Fred Jones, Bob Shirmer, Bob Purcell, Zurschmiede, Don Jost.
Sprinters: Frazier* Thompson, McCullough, Scarpelli, Deets, Hampilos.
Pole Vault: Ray Struble, Joe Pogue, Cornie Greenway.
High Jump: Jack Painter, Bill Fleming, Tom Hanifin.
Broad Jump: Orlando Duarte, Jack Painter, Tom Potter, Larry Cyganek.
Shotput: Floyd Simmons, Ted Smith, Vince Scott.
Low Hurdles: Bill O’Neil, Bill Fleming, Lott.
High Hurdles: Bill O’Neil, Bill Fleming.
The complete indoor schedule as announced last week by Director of Athletics Frank W. Leahy is as follows: Feb. 2—Western Michigan at Notre
Dame. Millrose Games, New York City Feb. 9—Michigan Relays at E. Lansing Feb. 16—Marquette, Michigan State at
Notre Dame
Feb. 23—Wisconsin at Notre Dame
Mar. 2—Michigan, Michigan State, and Notre Dame at Ann Arbor
Mar. 8—Central Collegiate Conference meet at East Lansing
Mar. 16—Tentative
Mar. 23—Purdue Relays at Lafayette
Mar. 30—Chicago Relays at Chicago Stadium
—John C. Thomas
Irish Quintet Routs
Great Lakes, 72-50
The veteran Notre Dame quintet, in thoroughly trouncing the supposedly “dark horse” Great Lakes basketball team, 72-50, entered the sports spotlight as definitely the No. 1 team in the country to stop.
With their unblemished record at stake before a crowd of 3,000 that jammed Camp Lawrence Drill Hall at the Naval Training Center, the Fighting Irish lived up to their pre-game billing by displaying a blistering second half style of ball playing similar to that which grasped victory from defeat against DePaul two weeks ago. The victory was a taste of sweet revenge for the startling football upset suffered at the hands of the Lakes last December 1 was still still fresh in the courtmen’s minds, along with the rest of the N.D. student body.
Leo Klier walked off with the scoring honors for the night, swishing 9 baskets from the court plus four out of five free throws for a big 22 point total. Vince Boryla, also getting the range with, eight buckets and two foul shots for 18 points, had to concede second place honors to the former pro, Mel Riebe who, by virtue of 12 out of 14 free throws along with four field goals, led the sailors with a 20 point total.
Coach Elmer Ripley used more eagers in racking up his eighth victory than in any previous encounter, with Captain Billy Hassett getting his first relief of the season. Six foot eight inch George Riley made his debut as a Notre Dame basketbailer as did freshman John Goonen.
George Ratterman, playing his usual fine aggressive game while accounting for eight points, fouled out of the game.
—Peter F. Pesoli
.13
Splinters from the Press Box
By PAUL WEYRAUCH
DANCEWICZ TO PLAY PRO BALL IN OWN BACKYARD
Announcement was made last weekend by the Boston Yanks professional football team of the National League that it had signed Frank Dancewicz, captain of the 1945 Irish eleven. Dancewicz has confirmed the report so will be returning to his original stamping grounds, or thereabouts, to perform in the final act of his football career—pro football.
Frank made football history, so to speak, when he played high school ball in Lynn, Massachusetts. During the 1940 and 1941 seasons he was named All-New England while playing for Lynn Classical High. The fact that Massachusetts is his home state was undoubtedly a major factor* in Dancewicz’s decision to go to the Boston club. He had received other offers including some from the All-American League.
Boston signed Dancewicz under a special arrangement with the Chicago Cardinals who originally claimed him in the league draft. The arrangement agreed upon allowed waiving of the draft rule so that Boston could sign Frank before the new league owners could get him.
There is no reason to doubt Frank’s success in pro football. He has proven himself over and again as a handy field general and a thunder-crashing defensive man. Many players who draw in all of the scoring honors and headlines in college are fizzles in the big time “play for pay” organization. But it seems that Dancewicz has all of the qualities of an outstanding pro player. He goes to Boston with an all-around outstanding college record but with no glowing press accounts of startling touchdown runs and scoring records. Dancewicz didn’t score a point for the Irish this season but he was the main cog in Hugh Devore’s offensive mechanism. Yes, you’re going to hear a lot about Frank Dancewicz of the Boston Yanks when the pro season gets rolling. In the meantime, the folks back home will welcome their schoolboy star back to his own backyard.
THE REAL 1945 ALL-AMERICAN
Just about everyone has named a 1945 All-American football team but recently Phil Grant, sportscaster on the MBS
“Inside of Sports” program, named one that tops them all. This selection did not include any Davis, Blanchard, Wede-meyer, Amling, Duden, or any such other prominent All-American select-tions. Rather, it was an All-American football team for 1945 composed of all those boys who returned from the many war theatres to star on the gridiron. His first eleven consisted of boys who had become outstanding players this past season despite serious physical defects.
Notre Dame students in attendance at the Dartmouth game in the Stadium last October witnessed the playing of one of Grant’s first eleven men. He was Meryl Frost, Dartmouth back, who starred for the Indians for two seasons before going into the air corps. While in combat his plane was forced down, in flames, while he barely escaped death. Frost was severely burned. Plastic surgery was necessary to restore his normal facial characteristics. Yet this young man returned to Dartmouth and was their outstanding player. That, sports lovers, is the true All-American.
The Frost case is just one of many. Grant claimed he had a team 10 deep at each position with similar boys. Also included in his starting lineup was a quarterback who played outstanding ball on the Pacific Coast in 1945 despite the handicap of no hand or wrist. Still, he handled punts and caught passes with little difficulty. A lineman had been shot in the abdomen but returned to the gridiron to play good football. Still another of Phil Grant’s first team members had been lined up before a German firing squad, practically in the grips of death, before a Russian contingent came to the rescue. The list goes on. Maybe those boys weren’t spectacular Blanchard’s or Davis’, but certainly they represent the true All-American team.
❖
FIGHTING IRISH IN THE NEWS
Joe McArdle, another of Frank Leahy’s assistant coaches, has been discharged from the Navy and returned to South Bend. He will take over his old job as line coach with the coming of spring practice. McArdle was a lieutenant-commander while in service .... Elmer Layden, former head football coach and director of athletics, was ousted from his job as czar of the Na
tional Pro Football League at their recent meeting in New York. In his place was named Bert Bell, owner of the Pittsburg Steelers and former star at Penn State. This move came as a surprise. Layden has been offered a §20,000 a year job as an advisor. . . . Hugh Devore has not as yet made his choice from several coaching offers for the coming football season but seems to lean toward an offer from St. Bonaventure College which would place him near* his home. . . . End on the famed Fleet City Bluejackets during the 1945 season, Frank Kosikowski of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, plans to enter Notre Dame in March. . .
THIS 'N THAT ... HERE 'N THERE ...
Northwestern’s Wildcats will bear watching as the coming team of the Big 10 as well as a mighty foe to be met twice by the currently undefeated Irish quintet. “Dutch” Lonborg, fidgity coach of the Cats, has a sharpshooter five with plenty of height and speed. Max Morris will rival our own Leo Klier in the “dead-eye” department. Morris was the Big 10 scoring champ last year and stands a good chance of repeating this season. . . . Michigan State’s quintet seems well on the way to topping the record scoring mark established by their team last year. In their first seven games this year, the Spartans accounted for 374 points compared with 294 points in last year’s initial seven contests. . . . Athletic Director Conrad Jennings of Marquette University again has taken charge of the Hilltop track squad and has started preparations for the 1946 campaign. The Marquette and Michigan State track teams will join with “Doc” Handy’s boys in a triangular meet here February 16th. . . . Notre Dame’s basketball victory over Purdue January 2 was the 750th Irish game over a period of 47 years. . . .
Dick Dunkle, wizard of the basketball rating business, must come front Missouri because he insists upon keeping inferior cage teams rated above our own undefeated Irish. His latest release has Illinois, a team beaten four times in Big 10 play and five times already this season, rated even with Notre Dame while Michigan State, which prior* to its defeat at the hands of Kentucky last Saturday night had won only four of seven games, was rated just behind the Irish. Dunkel had the Irish in a tie with Illinois for the seventh ranking team in the country. Ahead of the Illini and Irish were Iowa, Ohio State, Oklahoma Aggies, Cornell, Navy, and Northwestern. After that Great Lakes game last Friday night, Dick should have a little more praise for the Irish squad. Of course, his rating is strictly one man’s opinion but it is interesting. . . .
14
INTERHALL SPORTS
WRESTLING
Preliminary bouts in the campus wrestling championships are scheduled to start Jan. 21. Thus far, very few students have entered their names for the bouts. Any persons who wish to compete are requested to hand in their names to the Physical Education Department before tomorrow.
HANDBALL
Twenty men have entered the Interhall handball tournament. A new champion is certain to be crowned, for Bill Tully is not defending his title. All first and second round matches are to be played off as soon as possible. The pairings:
First Round: Tom Conley vs. Tom Benedict; Jim Martin vs. Jim Fitzgerald; Frank Pelliterri vs. Bill Bangen; and Dave Lloyd vs. Charles Kersgieter.
Second Round: Ed Kenefick vs. Lewis Polk; Dick Smullen vs. Paul Porter; Dick Friend vs. Roy Cangelosi; Warren Schultz vs. Richard Laux; Jim Suehr vs. Frank Parise; and Joe Yonto vs. Larry Raville.
All matches will be two out of three games and will be played at the Rockne Memorial.
BASKETBALL
Standings (Wednesday morning) EASTERN DIVISION
	W.	L.	Pct.
Zahm 			3	0	1.000
Breen-Phillips 			2	1	.667
Sorin 			1	1	.500
St. Edward’s			1	1	.500
Walsh 			0	2	.000
Cavanaugh 				0	2	.000
WESTERN	DIVISION		
Morrissey 			2	0	1.000
Lyons 			2	0	1.000
Badin 			2	1	.667
Dillon 			1	2	.333
Alumni 				1	2	.333
Howard 			0	3	.000
Scores of Interhall games last issue:
Eastern Division: Zahm 32, Walsh 21; Sorin 37, Breen-Phillips 29; St. Edward’s 32, Walsh 29; Zahm 33, Cavanaugh 26; Zahm 17, Sorin 15; Breen-Phillips 38, Walsh 18.
Western Division: Badin 40, Dillon 31; Alumni 35, Howard 13; Morrissey 28, Badin 26; Lyons 29, Dillon 27; Badin
2, Alumni 0 (forfeit); Dillon 46, Howard 15.
Morrissey and Lyons, two Navy fives, jointly held first place in the Western Division of the Interhall League at the end of the first three nights of play. Zahm Hall with three consecutive victories held undisputed possession of first place in the Eastern Division.
Several close games resulted in the Western Division during the past week. Morrissey, after trailing 16 to 8 at halftime, rallied in the second half to defeat Badin 28 to 26. Lyons preserved its perfect record by eking out a 29 to 27 decision over an underated Dillon quintet. Zahm trailed at the end of the first two periods in its game with Sorin, 10 to 7, but held the Sorinites scoreless in the third quarter to take a 13 to 10 lead, and then went on to win 17 to 15.
Top attraction of the games played Wednesday night was the tilt between Lyons and Morrissey, co-leaders of the western half. The winner of this game may emerge as the champion of the division. Breen-Phillips, second place quintet in the eastern half, attempted to hand Zahm its first defeat in another Wednesday contest.
Badin Hall will seek to remain in the running for the title tonight when it faces Lyons Hall. Morrissey will meet Howard in an all-Navy game in the other game of this division. In the other circuit, Cavanaugh will meet Walsh, and St. Edward’s will play Sorin. The last of these games is a continuation of the longest interhall series on the campus.
OVERFLOW LEAGUE
Twelve teams have entered the Overflow basketball league which started play Monday. The games will be played in this league at 5 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial. Because of the few weeks remaining until the end of the semester, the league will be conducted on a double-elimination basis, two defeats and out.
Teams who have entered this league are Alumni, Breen Phillips Blue, Breen-
Phillips Gold, Cavanaugh Blue, Cavanaugh Gold, Dillon Blue, Dillon Gold, St. Edward’s, Walsh Blue, Walsh Gold, Zahm, and Off-Campus.
Walsh Blue defeated Dillon Gold, 32 to 23, and Alumni ran up the high-mark of the season in defeating the Breen-Phillips Blues, 61 to 19, in the opening games of this league. In other games played early enough for coverage by the Scholastic, Cavanaugh Gold trounced Zahm, 44 to 17, and Walsh Gold defeated Dillon Blue, 36 to 30.
For some of the fine basketball being displayed in this league, physical education department officials are of the opinion that the winner of the Interhall League will be in for a tough series with the winner of the Overflow circuit which will be played at the end of the regular schedule.
VOLLEYBALL
Volleyball play opened Tuesday night of this week with the four teams entered pairing off and playing 2 out of 3 contests. The Walsh hall team defeated Zahm, and Breen Phillips outpointed Dillon.
The playing rosters of the four teams are as follows Dillon, Capt. Roger White, Joe Praught, Hank Kunze, John McKinley, Bill Flynn and Don Booth; Zahm, Ed Schlafly, Bob Singer, Andy Naughton, Jack O’Neil, Dan Shea and Dave Davies, Captain; Breen-Phillips, Cy Jenkins, Dennis Foie, Tom Hannifin, Fritz Gunther, Tom Benedict, and Tom Muscatello, Captain; Walsh, Joe Flood, George Scheibel and Gene Long, Captain.
The league will be played in three rounds and the team having the best percentage at the end of this time will win the title. The schedule: Jan. 17 (last night) Dillon vs. Zahm; Breen-Phillips vs. Walsh; Jan. 22, Dillon vs. Walsh; Zahm vs. Breen-Phillips; Jan. 24, Dillon vs. Breen-Phillips, Zahm vs. Walsh; Jan. 29, Dillon vs. Zahm, Breen-Phillips vs. Walsh; Jan. 31, Dillon vs. Walsh, Breen-Phillips vs. Zahm; Feb. 5, Dillon vs. Breen-Phillips, Zahm vs. Walsh; Feb. 7, Dillon vs. Zahm, Breen-Phillips vs. Walsh; and Feb. 12, Dillon vs. Walsh, Breen-Phillips vs. Zahm.
SWIMMING
The relay swimming meet was held last night in the Rockne Memorial pool. The results of this meet will be published in the next issue of the Scholastic.
15
Irish Win Close One
From St. Louis. 51-48
After trailing 25-24 at halftime, Notre Dame rallied in the second half to defeat St. Louis University, 51-48, at St. Louis, January 14 for their ninth successive victory and their second of the season over the Billikens. Leo Klier led the Irish with 21 points.
After coasting over Great Lakes Friday night, the Irish ran into much more trouble in the Mound City than had been expected. St. Louis fell to Ripley’s quintet in December, 60-45, in the fieldhouse. The rangy Billikens fought evenly with Notre Dame in the first half and walked off the floor with a 25-24 • lead. However, keeping up their apparent change of tactics, namely good second-half basketball, the Irish pulled ahead and managed to stay there until the gun sounded.
Leo Klier had another hot night, scoring 21 points. George Ratterman hit for 10, Vince Boryla 9, Billy Hassett 5, Johnny Dee 4, and Frank Gilhooley 2, to complete the Notre Dame scoring. Raymonds led the St. Louis scorers with 13 points.
The Notre Dame-St. Louis game was played as the second game of a doubleheader. Iowa Pre-Flight, whom Notre Dame meets here in February, defeated Washington University of St. Louis, 5241, in the opening game.
BACHMAN
(Continued from page 13) than carried on where Crowley left off. His all-time record at State shows 65 victories, 29 defeats, and 10 ties for- a percentage of .692 in his 13 years as head coach.
Bach’s 1934 State eleven won eight of nine games with Michigan, Carnegie Tech, and Texas A. & M. being among the victims. From 1933, his first year, to 1938, the Spartans never lost more than two games in one season. Bachman led his boys into the Miami Orange Bowl on Jan. 1, 1938, after winning eight of nine games during the 1937 season. Auburn downed the Spartans in that bowl game, 6 to 0.
Michigan State did not play intercollegiate football during the 1943 season and it was during this interlude that Bach loaned his talents to Camp Grant. In 1944, State resumed competition. Bachman had only a group of willing youngsters but he led them through seven games with only one defeat, that a close 13 to 7 loss to Missouri. 1945 saw State swing into the big time again, scoring upset victories over Pittsburgh, Penn State, and Missouri in winning five games against three losses and a tie.
16
Lt. Van Orsdel, RO Officer Here, Gets Discharge; Rose to Officership from Ranks
For a typical Horatio Alger success story we nominate the navy career of Lieut. J. A. Van Orsdel who left for a separation center last Tuesday. Lieut. Van Orsdel’s story is unusual because unlike the greater number of officers in the Navy he rose from the ranks, and did not secure hjs commission directly from civilian life or from the Naval Academy.
Before donning “navy blue” he graduated from Miami University and shortly afterwards became an inspection foreman for the Proctor and Gamble Co. in Cincinnati, Ohio. Four months before the outbreak of hostilities he joined the navy and was made a Boatswain Mate 2/c. His initial duty in this capacity was that of a recruit training petty officer; this included being a company commander and drilling the “boots.”
While at the Lakes the lieutenant participated in practically all phases of athletics, leaving behind him a noteworthy succession of performances. The Great Lakes basketball team of 1941-42 which won 32 out of 35 games, listing Notre Dame among its victims, possessed a stellar guard in Lieut. Van Orsdel. Later, when the baseball season opened, he played an outfield position for Lieut. Mickey Cochran, former big league star.
Van Orsdel received his commission as Ensign USNR in August, 1942 at Great Lakes. Shortly afterwards he reported to Amphibious Forces, Atlantic Fleet. He served with the Amphibians from September 1942 until October 1943. During that time he played an active role in the assault division on Amphibious Warfare Tactics. He also participated in the invasion of Sicily in July, 1943, serving aboard the USS Aucon. -
In October, 1943, he was assigned to Task Force 122 and detailed to the Plan-
Coach Bachman has retained his athletic appearance even to his present age of 52, which isn’t to be considered old. He is a calm man during his team’s ball games—but his calmness does not betray his fighting spirit—a Notre Dame fighting spirit.
While he has had a very full coaching and playing life in the world of sports, Charles W. Bachman has not failed as a home man. His family includes his wife, Grace; and three sons, Charles Jr., 20, Cary, 16, and John, 13. Charles Jr., served 20 months in the southwest Pacific War theatre while Cary is already establishing an enviable athletic record at East Lansing high school.
ning Section for the invasion of Normandy. Lieut. Van Orsdel served aboard the USS Augusta which was the headquarter’s ship of Vice Admiral A. G. Kirk, commander of Task Force 122; and also aboard the Army headquarter’s ship, the USS Acheuar under command of General Bradley during the assault of the Normandy Peninsula.
His next assignment was that of physical training officer at a base in Solomons, Md. He served in this capacity also at Camp Bradford, Va.; Fort Pierce, Fla.; and Little Creek, Va.
Lieut. Van Orsdel reported to Notre Dame in June, 1945 and was assigned to the midshipman school as a physical training officer. He was later transferred to the NROTC unit and served in the same capacity with the additional duty of welfare officer.
He leaves the naval service with a distinguished record. He has letters of commendation for his contributions to the Sicilian and Normandy invasions. In addition to these awards, Van Orsdel wears the American Defense ribbon, the American Theater ribbon, and the European Theater ribbon with two stars.
Fr. Moore Speaks of Ravages of Europe
Rev. Philip S. Moore, dean of the Graduate School, described the plight of the peoples of Europe in an address given at a dinner meeting of the Council of United Churches of St. Joseph County. Resolutions urging greater activity on the part of the United States government toward the rehabilitation and relief of war-ravaged Europe were passed by the council.
Father Moore, whose address was titled “Save Europe Now,” said that according to newspaper reports 5,000 were dying monthly of tuberculosis in Vienna, with the death rate expected to double by late winter. “The Greeks must go through the winter on one-third the American consumption of calories. Starvation stalks the lands of Europe . . . there has been nothing comparable since the Black Death in 1348.”
He declared that the “roadsides of eastern Europe are dug with the shallow graves of countless men, women and children. In some districts no child born in 1945 is still alive. As the winter wears on it becomes every day more probable that no child under two years of age and no person over sixty will survive until spring.”
Wranglers and Varsity Debate Teams to Meet
Should the industries of America be protected by high tariff walls? Should we allow inexpensive foreign goods to compete with home manufacturers? Through the annals of American history during the last 75 years these questions have been discussed, mulled over, twisted and untwisted. Pages of the Congressional Record are devoted to them. They have been the subjects of political platforms and congressional duels ever since the Civil War. Today, they are more pressing than ever.
On January 31 in Washington Hall the debate team of the Notre Dame Wranglers will meet in a two-debate tournament with the varsity team of the Notre Dame Debate club which is sponsored by the speech department.
The question stated formally is Resolved: That the United States should lead in the fostering of a policy of free trade throughout the’ nations of the ivorld. The team arguing on the affirmative side of the question for the speech department’s debate club consists of Samuel Hazo, first speaker, and James Reedy, second speaker. The negative team for the speech department consists of James Burns, first speaker, and Frank Finn, second speaker. The teams are coached by Leonard Sommer of the speech department. On the Wrangler's squad are Ray Betts, NROTC, first affirmative speaker, Herb Harris, NROTC second affirmative speaker, James Greene, first negative speaker, and Charles Maher, second negative speaker.
At the time of the tournament the speech department’s team will have met with the Loyola team and the Mundelein team. The Wrangler's squad will not have met any outside team.
On February 2 and 3, a Notre Dame debate squad is scheduled to go to Illinois State Teachers College for a 25-team tournament. The Wranglers hope their team will prove far superior to the varsity squad and make the trip instead.
Fr. Lane Attends Meet
Rev. John J. Lane, C.S.C., attended a conference of the Department of Adult Education of the National Education Association at the Hollenden Hotel, Cleveland, Ohio, on January 17-18 and 19. The purpose of the meeting was to organize a permanent national work conference on Veterans Education. Fifteen committees were organized to explore various aspects of the total problem of veterans’ education and to make recommendations for particular action.
N. D. VETERANS
Here are Four Services for You .....With	Our Compliments
Discharge Service Buttons
Bring your d is charge papers ... in person.
The government requires this.
Each stripe represents 6 months overseas service. We have them with 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 stripes.
Fits Under the Discharge Button
Miniature Reproduction of Your Discharge Papers
Wallet size . •. . sealed in Everlasting Plastic. Exact copy of discharge in white (both front and back. No charge—no obligation. 24 hours service. Your papers never leave South Bend.
ON THE CORNER... MICHIGAN’ ( WSHM61DII
17
^■noAk ^oik . . .
By ED CASO and IOE PIEDMONT
Prof: “Well, Robert, you’re coughing much better this morning.”
Bob: “I oughta. I’ve been practicing all night.”
OR—
It doesn’t breathe,
It doesn’t smell,
It doesn’t feel so very well;
I’m really fed up with my nose, The only thing it does is blows.
❖
CAMPUS QUIPS
Daniel “Clancey” Frank (no, it’s just one character) is working his 219 lbs. up to 300, so he can go to India to be an E.J. (Elephant Jockey).
Marty Caroil describes a certain tall citizen he knows as ‘a tall drink of water with a lot of lip.’
knock came at the door.
“Who is it?” they asked.
“ ‘Rigor Mortis,’ may I set in?”
(Last joke written by that titled Englishman, Sir Ebral Hemorrhage!)
❖
ADAM FOOL REPORTS
Sunday night when I should have been studying!
Dear Book-ends—
I was in some book-store in the local village last week, browsing through some of the classics — Superman, the Flash, and their buddies, when a rather —oh, shall we say plump—citizen reeled in. She went up to the counter and asked, “Mr. Goldberg, I want a book of poetry — preferably Keats. I just love Keats.”
“Dot’s good,” said Mr. G. “I’m always glad to meet a young lady vot loffs chil
dren.” . . . Well, I just thought I’d pass it along.
According to bulletins posted around the campus, there will be a Winter Carnival at—you know where. Now children, just a few words of advice: Those not attending, should remain in their halls, in order not to be trampled in the rush. On the way over to SMC, kindly keep to the right in order to allow swifter-moving natives to pass—or flee, as the case may be. Now there are some other things, but we have faith in the courtesy and all-round gentlemanliness of ND men (take to the hills, men! It’s getting pretty deep).
Here’s hoping nobody gets lost in the snow drifts at—well, I won’t mention the place again. . . .
See you there (that’s a joke, son!)
A.D.F.
CORRECTION
Our SCHOLASTIC columnists, writing “Know Your Notre Dame" last week erred in stating that the Notre Dame “Lawyer" was not published during the war. We have been informed by people in the “know" that publication of the “Lawyer" did continue during the war.
Question — What happened to the front teeth of Jack Hillbrick, who used to have the famous Dutch Cleanser smile, and what did she smack you for, son?
♦
THIS IS A JOKE, SON!
A Cockney phoned to inquire the fare to Ealing, a suburb of London. The man on the other end of the line couldn’t catch the name of the station, so in desperation he asked the inquirer to spell it. Quickly came the reply:
“E for ’Erbert, A—wot ’orses eat, L— where you goes when you dies, I—wot yer sees wiv, N—wot lays eggs, G— Gowd bless me. Hunderstand?
Breathes there a man with soul so dead Who never to himself has said, “I wish that ND were co-ed!”
If you know one, show him to me I won’t believe it till I see.
And even then, I’ll have a doubt
If the poor fish knows What it’s all about!
Now that the smell of the other joke has blown away, and . being that we have to run anyway, here’s one more!
Two ghosts were playing poker when a
{L L $ UI 0 B T H ’ $
To Make Your Room Like Home Necessary Items to an N. D. Man
Genuine Leather Address Books........2.00 and 3.00
Engagement Books -------------------------..2.00
Stamp Boxes -------------------------------1.00
Picture Frames, plastic, metal and leather, double and single sizes.............3.00 to 5.00
18
President Announces
Two New Appointments
Two new appointments in administration at the University were announced by Bev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
Kobert H. McAuliffe, director of personnel at Notre Dame, was named Assistant Business Manager of the University, and Edward J. Murray, former Director of Student Employment, was named Director of Student Accounts.
Mr. McAuliffe, former Notre Dame student, served at the University as instructor in the Department of Journalism from 1923-1925 and was on the News Staff of the South Bend Neius-Times. He was Promotion Manager for The Ave Mana, a weekly religious publication at Notre Dame for one year. In 1935 Mr. McAuliffe was named Assistant Prefect of Discipline at Notre Dame, a position he held until assuming personnel duties at the beginning of this semester.
Mr. Murray, a graduate of Notre Dame in 1931, succeeds John P. Donnelly, former director of Student Accounts who was named Business Manager of Athletics last year. Miss Ann Stroyna, of South Bend, has served as acting Di
rector of Student Accounts since that time. Mr. Murray formerly served the University as Director of Student Employment from 1936 until December, 1942, when he became a Naval Officer. He was recently discharged from the service.
Mr. McAuliffe resides at 809 W. Angela Blvd., and Mr. Murray at 1127 Francis St.
Betts, McCullough Address Wranglers
Ray Betts, an RO, and Ernie McCullough of Canada and Alumni hall, were speakers at recent weekly meetings of the Wranglers organization.
Betts chose as his topic “The Political Philosophy of This Century,” and McCullough delivered a paper on “The Brotherhood of Man.” In his talk, Betts presented a highly interesting background dating back to the Feudal Ages, dwelt momentarily on the French Revolution and then analyzed the “20th century explosion.” He told how a political gap was created in Europe and filled by Hitler with his modern absolute government. “Total national sovereignty,” he said, “has smashed upon itself.” He
explained the shift of power went from the royalty to the bourgeoisie, and concluded that the only class of people left to inherit it is the proletariat. He stressed the need of a fraternity of nations if the motto “Liberty, Equality, Fraternity” were not to become “an idle swishing of the tongue.”
McCullough’s treatment of “The Brotherhood of Man” dwelt considerably on tolerance among all men and the.viciousness of anti-semitism, recently so prevalent in the world. He spoke also of the growth of nationalism and its ills—internal dissension and labor vs. management fights—and denounced the idea that “tolerance implies condescension.” Referring to the war and the atom bomb, McCullough stated that “we have reached the zenith in intolerance and the ultimate in self destruction,” and concluded that a true brotherhood of man must be based on Christian principles.
First it was goldfish—but recently a couple of Alabama Polytechnic Institute students tried something new. In order to win bets of 11 and 40 bucks respectively, Bob Sharman and Donald Goodwin existed on nothing but buttermilk for one week.
19
THE NAVAL BALL . . .
There are only two more weeks remaining before the social highlight of the semester, the Naval Ball, rolls around again. Paul Doyle, George Muller, and Pete Gaydos, chairmen of the committees, have informed us that their plans are running smoothly and arrangements are in the making to have the “Spotlight Bands” program originate from the Palais Royale the night of the ball. An added feature of the Ball Week-end will be a campus showing Saturday afternoon of the Bells of St. Mary’s—(we had a punch line we were going to let loose with but it would never get by the editors).
LAUGH PAGLIACCI
“John Charles Thomas” Rehkopf sternly denounces the Machiavellian nature of women. A particular female (she couldn’t have been very particular) asked J.C.T.R. if he sang—a question which according to Emily Post is perfectly allowable during a lull in the conversation. However, the pay-off for Rehkopf was that he was singing when she asked him.
❖
WHO THREW THE SWEAT SOCKS IN MRS. MURPHY'S GOULASH?
The practical jokers are up to their roguish pranks again, much to the annoyance of some of the more conservative men. Our only objection to their existence is their utter lack of originality, the hot foot, crackers in the bed, and tacks in a chair methods being as outmoded as last year’s racing form. To make a hit as a practical joker, try mixing two boxes of jello in your neighbor’s wash basin or hiding your roommate’s mail in his Naval Machinery text book. Watch the surprise register on his face when the night before the finals, he finds a four-month accumulation of mail in the chapter on diesels.
♦
CAREERS ...
Joe Fiedoral—Watch factory worker. A wonderful opportunity to make time holding hands.	’
“Pap” Conley — Lawyer. With the
Hq, J.&U -MmaAi
amount of time he’s put in at the bar, he should be a tremendous success.
Jack Schneider—Laundry worker. He can put his good line to use.
Higgy Higginbotham—Keeper of the Bath. He’s got the head for it.
ZOLTAN'S THESAURUS
Amazon: First part of a sentence. Example: Well, amazon of a gun.
Consideration: What a woman shows when she shoots her husband with a bow and arrow because she doesn’t want to wake the children.
Incongruous: Where laws are made, incongruous.
Diamond: Woman’s idea of a stepping stone to success.
Progress: A state of human development where the man pays a laundry for destroying his shirts and collars.
❖
FIGHT MANAGER'S LEXICON
Luminous: A graduate of a school or college.
Captious: Takes possession of, as in “MacArthur captious Manila.”
Luscious: People who drink too much.
Platonic: That new bomb which will destroy civilization.
Cataclysm: A religious book.
Poodle: A pool of muddy water.
Metonymy: An instrument for keeping time in music.
Intimate: To give an impersonation of.
Innocent: A junior officer in the Navy.
Panorama: Where the canal is located.
—Dan Parker, The New York Daily Mirror.
R O Basketball
The ten NROTC V-12 companies are now in competition for top spot in the Navy intra-mural basketball league. The season opened January 8, with all teams playing single games. The second round was played January 10.
Companies two, three, five, and seven got off to an early advantage with two wins each; companies four and nine are roosting in second with one and one, while companies one, six, eight, and ten are at the bottom with two losses.
Games are played at the Navy Drill Hall on Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday nights.
20
1 ttttllllllttllllllllllllilllllll 11 llllllllllllllllllllllttltililKIIIII'XQ
|	For that "particular" card on	£
|	that "particular" occasion—	i
j I. W. Lower Co. [
I DECORATORS I
I 128 North Michigan Street j
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS TELEPHONE 4-S661
702 J. M.S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND. IND. o
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS SOS SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
o
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M. D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S. CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. . SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
4O6-4OB TOWER BUILDING PHONE 3-2574
Local Officials Attempt to Get Housing for Vets
Notre Dame, South Bend, and the Navy are making sure of it these days that war veterans in this area are well taken care of, and the results of their efforts should beai- fruit in the form of apartments for N.D. veterans soon.
Back on Dec. 21, Rev. John Lane, C.S.C., announced that a minimum of 30 units of war housing were being sought for married veterans. He added that shelters similar to those used in Walkerton, Ind., are being asked for if they can be converted into apartments.
But on Jan. 3 the University raised its sights on shelter needs, applying to the National Housing Administration for 125 units.
Noting that about 125 applications for homes have been received, Father Lane said that veterans with children would have first call on housing, project probably to be erected on the east side of Juniper Road at Bulla Road. A quota for the nine central states of only 7000 houses for municipalities and 4000 for schools gives the Office of Veterans’ Affairs gloomy outlook on the picture as this quota will have to be spread over such a large area, leaving very little for any one school.
The University hasn’t the only finger in the pie though, with South Bend forging ahead with its own solution to the housing shortage. The Rieth-Riley Construction Co. of Goshen, Ind., has begun site preparations for 180 units the city is obtaining from Seneca, Ill., for war veterans only, to be erected on the plaza opposite the Union Railroad Station.
The City Building Department estimated at the same time that of the 390 units put under construction in 1945, 175 are unfinished, but added that a few more are almost ready for occupancy.
Following an announcement on Dec. 29 by the Navy Department that 5000 quonset huts were being released as surplus material along with 56 million dollars worth of building material, Governor Gates of Indiana came forth with the announcement of a meeting on Jan. 18 by city, state, federal, and educational leaders to coordinate the program to alleviate critical housing shortages throughout the state.
Yes vets, they have you in mind, but remember the old adage, “Seeing is believing.” It might fit very well here.
Mak MARVIN'S your stop for Jewelry Gifts
[ojniiiiiiisiiiisiittuiitiiiMiiiisiiiiisiiHiiijtmiHiiiiiuaaiiiaamiiiaile]
BOOKS
1 New Novels for your winter
9 reading—
|	THE KING'S GENERAL
1	THE BRIDESHEAD REVISITED
I	THE CAPTAIN FROM CASTILLE
1	CASS TIMBERLANE
i	WRITTEN ON THE WIND
B	THE CIANO DIARIES
1	THE ZEBRA DERBY
rudoner’s I
3.
=	NEWS CENTER • CIGAR STORE :
127 W. Washington St. :
E "In the J. M. S. Building” 5 i....................................
JEWELRY GIFTS
for All Occasions
Purchases Gift Wrapped Free of Charge
Leading Credit Jewelers BLOCK BROS. Corner Michigan and Washington
21
paid the busfare.
(^>ie£n Hanner
By JACK STEWART
❖
AD
Bob Batcheioi- is running a marriage clinic.
Donnez-moi beaucoup d’argent.—John Bull.
DIGRESSION
Only the fearless Philosophy of Mind students will appreciate the recollection of that Prof’s recent lecture in which the spiel ran from the refutation of the tenet that 'ontogeny recapitulates phil-ogeny,’ to the story of the horses that went past a gigantic pile of hay and one said to the other, “Man, that ain’t money.” Sometimes I wonder.
EXPLANATION
One day I had a talk with my drinking uncle, Bud Weiser, on the subject of women. It ran something like this:
“Were you ever in love, Unc?” I subtly asked.
“Yes, when much younger, I was in love,” he replied.
“But you never married her did you,” says I, eager to learn.
“No, I never did,” he smiled contentedly.
“Why not?”
“Well, it was like this. The girl I was in love with wouldn’t marry me when I was drunk, and I wouldn’t marry her when I was sober.”
“Oh.”
4
PROPOSAL
It would make a great many people happy, students and teachers, if the cafeteria would remain open to about 9:30 in the evenings. Those long jaunts downtown would be saved and hamburgers might be bought here. A fellow is pretty hungry when he eats some of those hamburgers downtown. The plates on which they’re made have enough grease to produce sixty-four and a half tons of glycerine.
♦
MANHUNT	-
The Society for the Preservation of Polysyllabics Devotees are looking for Art Mosher. They wish to bestow a life membership on him.
♦
NEWS FLASH ! ! ■
A cowboy and a cowgirl were married this week in Texas. Labor union significance—First Western Union in three weeks. (Courtesy of Ray Franklin)
22	'	■
GRADUATING SENIORS
Send in those biographies for the Scholastic to P. 0. Box 21.
PERFECT DATE
• It was actually had by Dick Cronin, Dick Byrne, Rip De Galan, and another fellow whom I won’t mention. It seems that these four fellows were at St. Mary’s last Sunday and met some girls. I guess the girls wanted dates, so they were willing to settle for anybody. The seven of them went downtown to have supper. The fellows, of course, ordered steaks, and two of the girls had sandwiches. With the dinner over, it was a rare delight to sit back and watch the
young ladies dig in their purses and
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan Street, Phone 3-3111.	-
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
N. D. CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT
(Continued from page 3) factory for use. Compounds of this class have real promise as an actual cure for relapsing malaria. Although this form of the disease is seldom fatal, it is the most widespread and the hardest to cure.
Dr. Campbell has received many congratulatory letters from the various officials of the Office of Scientific Research and Development. He was awarded certificates signifying appreciation of his services to the Government by Dr. James B. Conant, Chairman of the National Defense Research Committee, and by Dr. A. N. Richards, Chairman of the Committee on Medical Research.
Dean's List Released by College of Science
In the Dean’s List of Honor Students, released within the past week by Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, Dean of the College of Science, the names of the following students are included with the averages which the students compiled during the previous semester.

Adam, G.S.C., Brother Wendel 87%
Barthel. C.S.C., Brother Romard---------------96%
Benson. Harry Hames ------------------------- 87%
Brock. Ernest George -------------------------91%
Burket. Cecil Ray ----------------------------88%
Cappelluzzo, Vincent Pcmpeo ................. 87%
Cianciolo, Joseph Frank---------------------- 90%
Culligan, John Austin ----------------------- 90%
Daschbach, Robert John _______________________90%
Dever, C.S.C.. Brother Keric _________________93%
Etzel, Robert Clarence _______________________87%
Fessia, Daniel Peter ------------------------ 87%
Ga.’ley, John Robert 87%
Gauer, Robert Joseph ____________________1----88%
Hughes, Vincent Patrick 87%
Kane, Peter Vincent___________________________93%
Klingensmith, C.S.C., John Edward ...........-90%
Kosinski, Robert Edward 87%
Lee. Gerald Warren----------------------------88%
Lee, Robert Eugene 94%
Lowrie. Harman Smith _________________________90%
Milder, Jack Walter __________________________89%
Myers, Richard Lyon ------------------------- 89%
Oshinski. C.S.C., Brother Jules ______________88%
Peet. Charles Herman _________________________89%
Reynolds. Robert Bruce ....................   87%
Rufe. C.S.C., Brother Bertel -----------------87%
Smeelink, Judson Lloyd _______________________87%
Thie, Joseph Anthony 95%
Toker. Donald Leo_____________________________90%
Underwood, Russell Spaldon ___________________88%
Unger, Harold William ________________________91%
Wilson, C.S.C., Brother Raphael --------------93%
To be eligible for the Dean’s List and to be a member of the Academy of Science the student must attain during the previous semester an overall average of 87% or better. (Note: For first semester sophomores the average is computed for the preceding two semesters.)
High in the ranks of the religious are Brother Romard and Brother Raphael of Dujarie Institute, with 96% and 93% respectively. Both Brothers are majors in physical science and expect to teach upon graduation. Mr. John Edward Klingensmith, C.S.C., of Moreau Seminary, a physics major, is high in his group with an average of 90%.
Among the civilians, Joseph Anthony Thie, a major in physics, is high with a mark of 95; he is followed closely by Robert Eugene Lee with a 94* and Peter Vincent Kane with a 93;-*both Lee and Kane are premedical' students. Other civilians with 90 or more are Joseph Cianciolo, John Culligan, Robert Daschbach, Donald Toker, all of whom are premedical students, and Harold Unger, a chemistry major.
Among the N.R.O.T.C. and V-12 students, Ernest G. Brock, a physics major, leads with a 91%; Harman Smith Lowrie, a chemistry major, has a 90.
What’s behind this symbol?
This is the familiar symbol of the Bell Telephone System that provides nation-wide telephone service •—the best in the world.
The American Telephone and Telegraph Company, through advice and assistance, coordinates all Bell System activities.
The 21 Associated Companies provide telephone service in their respective territories.
The Long Lines Department of A. T. & T. Company furnishes Long Distance and Overseas service.
The Bell Telephone Laboratories, through constant research, develops new and improved communications apparatus.
The Western Electric Company manufactures telephone equipment, purchases and distributes supplies, and installs central office apparatus for the Bell System.
Communication is the business of the Bell System —to transmit intelligence quickly, clearly and at the lowest possible cost.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
23
9
3
a
a
a
a
a


BETTER TASTING COOLER SMOKING
S^gP!^

CONIBINM'ON
THt	nisi IMA?
WORIDS ®TnZT