

Discover the difference between “just smoking”... a nd Camels!
♦ M
Taste the difference! Camels are rich, full-flavored, and deeply satisfying — pack after pack. You can count on Camels— they never let you down.
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.. Winston-Salem, N. C.
Feel the difference! The exclusive Camel blend of quality tobaccos has never been equalled for smooth, agreeable smoking. Camels are easy to get along with.
Enjoy the difference! Try today’s top cigarette. See why more people smoke Camels, year after year, than any other brand. They’ve really got it!

G. Edward Gearhart was graduated from the University of Delaware in June. 1956. with a B.S. in chemical engineering, and is now working for his Ph.D. in chemical engineering at Lehigh. At Delaware, he was editor-in-chief of the yearbook, "Blue Hen." active in sports and secretary of the Engineering Council.
Ed Gearhart asks:
What does Du Pont mean by “on-the-job” training?
Denton Harris answers:
Training is pretty much full-time at DuPont, Ed. The main objective is to train men to reach their full capabilities as soon as possible. So we give the new man responsibility the day he arrives, and increase it as opportunities are available and he's ready for more responsibility.
That’s the basic, guiding policy. But DuPont has many departments. And training has many facets.
In some plants, the college graduate being trained for supervision is moved
through all areas of the production cycle. In others, where the technical phases are more involved, he may spend time in a laboratory or development group before moving on to production.
It works the same way in sales. The graduate may first learn the laboratory side of the products he’s going to sell. Or he may start right out on learning selling techniques. That all depends on the products and markets involved.
The same on-the-job principle applies to new men in specialized fields of research, development or design ... including daily contacts with supervision. frequent lectures, discussions and conferences. Periodic changes in assignment, too.
It’s carefully planned, individualized training, Ed. We’ve found it’s the most effective way to broaden a man quickly. Du Pont is a growing organization. And men with leadership potential are al wavs in demand.
Denton B. Harris joined Du Pont’s Engineering Research Laboratory in June, 1952. after completing work for an M.S. in civil engineering at the University of Massachusetts. He’s currently working on an unusual project —a broad study of the philosophy of design. The objective is to learn more about people's design preferences, and the trends behind new concepts in industrial design. This new assignment came after Denton gained several years of experience in various kinds of civil engineering at Du Pont.
Are you interested in research work? About 2000 Du Pont scientists and some 3500 other employees are now engaged in research. Laboratory facilities of the highest quality are available at the DuPont Experimental Station near Wilmington, and elsewhere throughout the country. Full information about research work at DuPont is given in “Du Pont Research.” Write for your copy of this free booklet to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2507C Nemours Building. Wilmington. Delaware.
’EG. U S. PAT. OFF.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRY’
Watch "Du Pont Theater" on Television

April 12, 1957
The Notre Dame $
Scholastic
Parker-Winterrowd, Inc.
Tailors - Clothiers
Vol. 98 April 12, 1957 No. 22
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
The best dressed Notre Dame men all over campus rent formal wear today from Parker-Winterrowd, Inc., their tailors will fit them perfectly and that they'll save enough to buy their date a beautiful corsage.
Every garment is spotlessly cleaned and pressed. Next time rent all your formal attire from Parker-Winterrowd, Inc.
Impressive and inexpensive
Blue tropical tuxedo and trousers, cummerbund, shirt, tie, jewelry and suspenders.
Special to N. D. Men $9.00
Parker-Winterrowd, Inc.
Upstairs—North of Oliver Hotel ii5y2-ii7y2 N. MAIN
Phone CE3-6318
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
CHARLES McKENDRICK .	Editor
JOE NORTON
Associate Editor
DAVE THOMPSON
Associate Editor

JIM STEINTRAGER ........ News	Editor
JAMES McDonald ........Copy Editor
DAVID KUBAL .........Feature Go-Editor JOHN QUAGLIANO ....Feature Co-Editor GEORGE CLEMENTS......Assistant News BOB WILLIAMS ........Assistant News HARRY McKEE..........Assistant	Cop^
MARSH PIDGEON.......Assistant Copy
DON STUHLDREHER.—Circulation Mgr. HARRY CONLON ..........Business Mgr. JOHN GLAVIN............Sports Editor
BOB EARLY.........Assistant Sports
MIKE FITZPATRICK.......Assistant Sports
News Staff : Tom Banchoff, Mark Bradley, Bill Duffy, John Fitzpatrick, John Ford, David Kamath, Jim Lenox, Gerry Leppeka Roger Leto, Ed Plumly, Bob Quinn, David' Schwartz, Don Shoulderg, Pete Stafford, Jim Sutter, Jim Yoch.
Sports Staff: Jack Grady, Roger Laur, Jim Merz, Greg Rogers, Ed Rohrbach, Ted Thompson.
Sport.. Features: Joe Bride, Tom Edwards, Bruce Huot, John McMahon.
Business Staff :
Kuras, Pete Hasbrook.
Loran Sheffer.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and .Taming tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notr^fS Dame, Indiana.
The Scholastic

by Bryan Woods
backwash and bilgewater
THE GOLDEN HORDE
This afternoon will mark the beginning of the last of this year’s invasions by great number of young women from ^the four comers of the Middle West. .After Easter the campus is also invaded by strangers, but this time they are the imports for the various class dances. These latter lasses are enough to keep the dateless on the Sorin porch for hours. They’re another matter though. The girls I refer to are the ones who are either invited en masse for some event like the Annual Convention of High School and College Chess Club ^Secretaries, or who just show up. They are all from Wescott Central and they all have white blazers, with school seals inscribed in Latin, yet, just to prove it. I, for one, believe they’re from Wescott Central. In fact they’d have a hard time convincing me they weren’t. Once they have disembarked from their busses, they split up into smaller groups. About 20 to a group is average. After a «hort ten minute tour of the campus usually ending right in front of the Main Entrance of O’Shaughnessy at exactly 3:20 p.m., (which is almost positive to result in traffic jams, trampled profs, scattered notebooks, and lots and lots of attention) they retire to the Caf or Huddle. It’s time for that afternoon snack.
Looking at the majority, I think an B^temoon snack is about the last thing in the world they need, but anyway they’re there. After that they disappear for a few blessed hours, only to return anew for the evening mixer, or what have you. And compared to one of these mixers, a mixer with St. Mary’s is like two all-expense-paid weeks in Fort auderdale starting right now.
Saturday morning there’s not a sign
of them, but believe me, there will be. Saturday is the day that they are supposed to attend the various conferences and so forth, but since this would cut into valuable man-hunting hours, most of them skip these. Instead they tramp through the various halls looking for some long-lost third cousin that one of them thinks she has, and who mentioned the last time she saw him, (at least ten years ago) that he thought he’d like to go to Notre Dame. Keep it quiet, but sometimes I actually suspect they are looking for dates. I know it’s hard to believe, but . . .
One of their most reliable schemes consists of sending two of their number (Always cute, lively, and wearing gloves over their miniatures) into a freshman or sophomore hall to spring the trap. They always have a date, but they also always have four or five friends back at the hotel who don’t. Somehow the innocent lads jump to the conclusion that the others must be at least as cute as these, and possibly more so. The dates are made, the trap springs shut, and all the poor lads can do is form a pool, and try to make some guy’s evening worthwhile.
Sunday morning they manage to create one last mob scene in the Caf and then they disappear until next week or next year. But next time, though the names change, that’s about all.
RUMORS
Informed sources deny the recent report that the next big attraction over at O’Laughlin Auditorium will be the Kentucky Derby. However, when asked if it was to be the home of the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1958, a high official just smiled and refused to comment.
AMERICA’S NEWEST VACATIONLAND
Every year more and more college students, bored with the familiar dull routine of Lauderdale, Bermuda, and Nassau, are discovering glorious, glamorous Bilgewater, Minn., located on the sparkling waters of Dead Dog Creek. Just let me tell you only a few of the attractions of Bilgewater. In the first place, it has tremendous scenic value. This is in large part due to the fact that Bilgewater is in a dry county, surrounded by five othei- dry counties, and therefore no unsightly taverns, liquor stores, beer advertisements, or cocktail lounges.	.
In the second place it is healthy. In the first place, too much sunshine, whether you know it or not, can induce cancer, but in Bilgewater you don’t have to worry. The sun isn’t even seen from October to May. Nor do you have to worry about germs. It’s still too cold up there.
As for entertainment, why consider shelling out a fortune at the Fontain-bleazt when you can see a Laurel and Hardy double feature at the Avalon every Saturday night. (For your convenience, the Avalon is in the exact center of the Bilgewater entertainment district. It is the entertainment district.)
Though by now the rush is on, and chances are the best accommodations are gone long since, it’s not too late to apply for reservations. Write the Chamber of Commerce or the Mayor. (They’re both the same guy, so you can take your choice.) Transportation is simple enough. From Minneapolis you can get a train to Ugh, Minn., and from there you can fly to Bilgewater and be parachuted in. Unless you’d rather go by dog-sled of course. Suit yourself.
. April 12, 1957
5
G
Wash it
Hang it (no ironing)
Wear it in a few hours
3975
Crisp and clean-cut, our wash ’n wear Haspel, 75% Dacron—25% cotton suit is lustrous in appearance, comfortable to wear and practically wrinkle-proof. To refresh it like new you simply hand or machine wash it. hang it up . . . and in a few hours it’s dry and ready to go again without pressing. Ideal for your southern trip during spring vacation and all summer days. Price ... only...
See our complete selection of new resort wear fashions now . . . everything from sport shirts to swim suits. Charge them the Gilbert way.
^GILBERT'S
0
4
On the Campus—Notre Dame
6
The Scholastic
CHARGE IT,
THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY!
Pay 1-3 in July
Pay 1-3 in August
Pay 1-3 in September
(No carrying charge)
Going south during spring vacation? Get the clothing and furnishings you need now at the Campus Shop and pay for them later out of your earnings this summer. If you wish, there’s nothing to pay ’til July. Pay one-third then, one-third in August and the balance in September. It’s the easy way to get a good wardrobe together—on a budget.	*
o	o
DRESS RIGHT ... You can't afford not to!
On the Campus—Notre Dame
April 12, 1957

KODAK 'Pony 135 CAMERA, Model C
Sure, inexpensive way to color slides
Versatile-plus! This fine but lowcost miniature focuses to 2% feet; has a fast f/3.5 lens for fine results even on dull days; and shutter speeds to 1 /300 for action. Drop-in, no-thread system makes it apple-pie-easy to load, and the “red-dot" settings provide box-camera simplicity in color slides.
Camera $33.75 Flasholder $9.95
IVAN’S IRE
Editor:
In last week’s Scholastic the “On The Cover” column carried the following statement:
“In trying to soothe the several readers who became highly, if not reasonably, incensed at his previous efforts, Ivan has this time drawn a most acceptable representation of the snowbound College Joe.”
In this respect, I regret to tell you that the whole paragraph was wrong. I have not tried to soothe any hurt feelings and I do not intend to change overnight the character of my drawings for the sake of the few people who criti-size them.
It may have been that my last cover was more “humanized” as it was implied, but it was not an apology to anyone.
Ivan Osorio
P.O. Box 203
Notre Dame, Ind.
Pick up a free chance on the Anscoflex camera set with every purchase from the Photo Dept.
Color JIS SKdestH
easy to take and show ... with Kodak miniature equipment
Notre Dame Bookstore
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Eighth Year
A PLANTER’S PUNCH
Editor:	-
TO LUCY
The Bengal fighters were sleek and trim, The girls around were not too slim. They got there late and caused a fuss, Which ’spired a poem within me thus— I think that I have never saw, A girl as lovely as my maw.
I’ve met those from St. Mary’s too, The pretty ones are far and few. I cannot help but think today, Why don’t they move them far away? And leave us here at Dome alone, Free to study and dream of home. The reason for this verse you see, Was a tiny tiff ’twixt girl and me.
Next week I’ll prob’ly say “Who’s boss?” And call again old Holy Cross.
But in the interim I’ll talk to him— My roommate wise and old and grim. And have my fun with books and sport, From library to Rock—with guys cavort. And home I’ll go at Eastertime, And curse myself and this blasted rhyme.
“Peanuts.”
DR. N. HZDALE OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
• 1,000 suits in stock
•	All the newest styles
•	Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•No Deposit for ND Students
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
ON THE COVER. —Michael Todd, senior art major from Chicago, III., depicts the suffering and death of Christ as the SCHOLASTIC reaches the end of its pre-Easter series of issues. Todd was recently awarded a Woodrow Wilson fellowship and will continue his studies at UCLA next year. In addition to the previous honor, Todd is also pictured in this issue as one of the recipients of the SCHOLASTIC’S “Men of the Year” award.
Special price on new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including tux shirt, $55.50
I
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
8
The Scholastic

social training
O"]\Tone of us are seel sake of enrichin:
seeking a college education just for the
g our mental treasure chests with
assorted facts and figures. For as Catholics we are attempting to develop ourselves according to certain spiritual guideposts. As social beings we came to the University with the thought of developing our personalities in accordance with accepted social customs.
i It is this last point, the developing of a social technique, that I would like to dwell on in this writing. I am not trying to pass off the educative and spiritual functions of 'Notre Dame as being less important. Rather, I wish to ™ emphasize that in a world as “socially” minded as the j one we live in today, a university must seek to develop to the fullest extent the personalities of its students. If Notre Dame graduates are to be leaders in their own spheres of influence, they should be trained here in one of the most important phases of leadership—social technique.
At Notre Dame this social training is difficult. In a men’s university, excepting military institutions, pride in one’s dress and manners is at a minimum. Obviously, the reason is that there are no members of the fair sex to A observe such slovenly habits. A second reason is the large number of restrictions which strain relationships between the students of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College.
Its disciplinary rules make Notre Dame unique. Here a student can be punished for studying after the lights have been turned off. But he is allowed to roam all over the campus and city of South Bend without regard being given to his manners, dress, or language. In the i former case the student is punished for seeking to improve I himself at the cost of a few hours of sleep. In the second instance the same student can do an infinite amount of "damage to both his own and the reputation of the University and yet receive no reprimand at all.
If Notre Dame is to develop the “whole man”, then this idea of social training should be included in the program of the University. I don’t believe any student would mind if some type of table rules were initiated in the Dining Hall. Certainly they would do much to curb the feasts which nearly reach barbaric proportions three times each day.
• Also, I believe that the Student Senate should investigate the matter of student dress and appearance. Certainly, there are no students at Notre Dame who can’t afford to replace their blue jeans and tee shirts with khaki pants and collared shirts.
All of us realize that college is just a training ground— not the be all and end all of our lives. Consequently, we should seek to improve ourselves in every way while here. a Social development is one means by which we can make w ourselves better men.	C. McK.
April 12, 1957
america stands
As kids growing up during World War II we were XX naturally imbued with the feeling that the United States is the bright and shining champion of all that is good in the world. Our country was fighting valiantly to-defeat the Axis powers, and the word “democracy” had for us practically the same lofty significance as the “Mystical Body” and the “Communion of Saints” that we were reading about in our catechisms. America to us then was Captain Marvel, Superman, Don Winslow, and Dick Tracy; unselfish, ever-ready, and invincible.
Well, the country won the war and we began to grow up. And as we began to mature, our viewpoint broadened, and we started to see that wars, good and evil, and the mission of a nation are not questions to be simply solved by a hearty shout of the magical formula, Shazam! We saw that the implications of history and the complexity of the world around us create a present too unstable and a future too uncertain for us to control with a naive reliance on the fantasies of childhood.
But in a sense our dream has been realized, and with it all its vital and demanding obligations. Since World War II the U. S. has emerged as the champion of the free world and all the things we value as essential to the good life. However, with this hard-fought rise has also come the demanding responsibility our newly-gained nobility implies; and it seems to be a responsibility many Americans are reluctant to accept.
It is almost as if we had raised Captain Marvel up from the comic strip and then found that the magic words were not sufficient. Our champion is standing tall but his real strength depends on our support; and his success as well. But many Americans would rather maintain childlike faith in this caricatured hero of idealism. They feel he will succeed on principle alone, without soiling his magic cape or having to share it with the beggars of the world.
There are adult minds in our society, however, who are attempting to impress upon the American people that this foolish faith, indifference to reality, and self-satisfaction can no longer be maintained if the U. S. is to succeed in her role of world leader. They point to our reaction to the Hungarian revolt as an example of these delusions betraying us. The climate of public opinion would have overwhelmingly opposed any administration attempt to intervene in Hungary. But to salve the collective American conscience we opened our hearts to the fleeing refugees. Now however, as our charity becomes a drain on the collective American pocketbook, the aid program is in danger of being cut off, with some 40,000 Hungarian refugees still left stranded in Austria, wondering what has happened to the American dream.
There can be no more saying, “What are they to us?” We have accepted the dependency of these people because we have tempted them with our way of life.
Professor Matthew Fitzsimons brought this out forcefully in his contribution to the recent symposium on What America Stands For. He said, “America has preached her high principles of democracy to the world for over a century and a half. I think it is about time that her people decided to accept the responsibilities connected with those principles.”
J.N.
9
"You’re darned right I’m sold on that Burroughs engineering deal!”
Q. And just what sold you on it?
A. Lots of things, really. But when I saw I’d start right out on the work I’ve trained for, that was the clincher.
Q. Sure you won't get lost in the shuffle?
A. Not there! I’ve talked with a lot of outfits, and it’s easy to see Burroughs is a company that’s pulling for you all the time. They’re convinced that young engineers are the key to their expansion. And their policy’s to promote from within. That’s for me.
Q. Future look pretty good there?
A. Great! They’ve expanded their engineering staff seven times since 1945. And with all the new products they have on the way, they’re ready for their biggest growth yet.
Q. What’s the bulk of their work—commercial or defense?
A. I’d say commercial, for sure. They’re a leader in business machines and data processing equipment. And that means plenty of work in mechanics, electro-mechanics and electronics. But they’re in the thick of defense work, too ... that involves research and development in ballistic missiles, electronics, computation, data processing, optics, magnetics, communications, and many others.
Q. I suppose they have a lot of places to work?
A. Detroit’s the home office, you know, and their new multi-unit research center’s in Pennsylvania. Plants in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Michigan and California. Oh, yes . . . and in Canada, Great Britain, France and Brazil.
Q. Did you go into company benefits with them?
A. They actually pioneered a lot of the benefits. You get hospitalization insurance for yourself and your dependents, secure retirement and educational aid programs, sick benefits, paid vacations, of course—the whole shebang. Why not ask for the booklet they put out. It gives you an interesting picture of the whole Burroughs setup.
SEND FOR THAT FREE BOOKLET TODAY! Get full information on die unusual opportunities Burroughs offers engineering students. See how fast and how far you, too, can go in Burroughs biggest expansion yet. Write:
(I
A. L. Suzio Placement Coordinator
BURROUGHS CORPORATION
Detroit 32, Michigan
10
The Scholastic
Seem
,‘IMAGINEERING’ OPEN HOUSE BEGINS TODAY
IAu+o Show Features
Weekend's Display
The 1957 Engineering Open House , begins officially this afternoon and con-l^tinues through Sunday. The theme and 1 title of the Open House is “Imagineer-ing,” with the purpose of the show to demonstrate how the modern world has come to depend upon the creative imagination of the engineer.
The Open House will include displays by departments in the engineering school, an auto show, an air show, an engineering show sponsored by Standard Oil Co., and the traditional chariot "race.
The civil engineers, winners of the trophy for the best display the past two years, are planning several displays which they hope will enable them to I retire the trophy this year. These dis-I plays include a scale model of an earth I dam which is to be constructed in south-I ern Indiana, scale working models of I movable bridges, and a display depict-|•ing the stages of modern superhighway I construction.
SOUVENIRS FROM M.E.
I Visitors to the mechanical engineering’ shop will be presented souvenir ash
I trays. These gifts will show how a fin-I ished product can be turned out through I the coordinated use of various ma-_chinery. The department will also dis-™)lay air conditioning and refrigeration systems.
A model catalytic cracker, used in the production of petroleum products, will be displayed by the chemical engineers. They will also use moulded fiberglass in a demonstration of another industrial process for fabricating ashtrays.
The aeronautical engineering departAnent will demonstrate many of the facilities it uses in research projects for industry and the government. These include a low speed smoke tunnel, a supersonic wind tunnel, and an extensive photographic laboratory.
On Sunday afternoon, near the Aeronautical Building, the regional Civil Air ^Patrol will present an air demonstra-l"tion as the highlight of the air show.
New additions to the electrical engineering department will be on display for the first time this year. These include a digital computer and an analog computer. There will also be a high fidelity demonstration and a display highlighting the growing field of medical electronics.
Another portion of the EE program is the display of facilities of WSND radio station. During the Open House, WSND will broadcast from the Engineering Building.
The metallurgy department, which concentrates its efforts in the field of physical metallurgy, will demonstrate its X-ray diffractometer. Other exhibits include a corrosion display, a spark test for quickly determining types of steel, and a heat treating demonstration. This department is also planning some nuclear power exhibits.
No official reports have been released on the architectural display, and much of it has been kept secret.
The auto show, which opens Friday night in the Navy Drill Hall and -will be open all day Saturday and Sunday, will feature foreign and domestic sports cars and several experimental “Detroit Dream Cars.”
On Saturday afternoon at 4 p.m. in Washington Hall, the College of Engi
WILDCAT III
Buick ‘Dream Car' at Open House
neering will present an Engineering Show as part of the Open House. Mr. Karl E. Schoenherr, dean of the College of Engineering, will give a welcoming speech and present the Engineer of the Year Award to the outstanding engineering student.
Following the presentation, Dr. Llewellyn Heard of Standard Oil Co. will present his “Fire Magic” Show. Dr. Heard,, a research engineer specializing in catalysts, will give a lecture demonstration on combustion using smoke rings, green flames, and minor explosions.
SWEENEY GENERAL CHAIRMAN
General chairman.of the Open House is Pat Sweeney, a senior in aeronautical engineering. Committee members are Ed Kelly, auto show; John Sullivan, engineering show; Pat Haynes, air show; Bob Nonas, chariot race; Guy Weis-mantal, secretary; John Bagley, programs; Hector Fuster, displays, tours: and guides; and Greg Conron, Paul Anderson, and Paul O’Connor, publicity.
In charge of the various departmental displays are Matt Grogan, aeronautical; Ben Zajeski, civil; Joe Rusch, chemical; John Kacsits and Jack Feller, metallurgy; Dave Immonen, mechanical; Dan Sullivan, electrical; and Felix Tardio, architecture.
April 12, 1957
11
Dorsey Cancels Junior Prom Engagement; Band Uncertain for 'Compositions in Spring'
Late cancellation by the Jimmy Dorsey Band has left 650 juniors and their dates without music for the 1957 Junior Prom, “Compositions in Spring.” The dance will be held, however, Friday evening, May 3, in the LaFortune Student Center from 9:30 p.m. until 1:30 a.m. The new band will be announced later.
To carry out the theme for the dance, modern spring scenes will be used. Miss Pat McIntyre, from Cleveland Heights, 0., date of General Chairman Jack Doyle, will reign as queen of the prom.
A trio will provide music for dancing in the basement of the Center while the band is playing in the Main Ballroom upstairs. The favors to be given dates of the juniors have not been revealed, but they are described as unique and not used at Notre Dame in recent years.
For Saturday, the Prom Committee
Debate Team Wins Honors In Georgetown Tournament
The Notre Dame Debate Team tied for* first place in the Georgetown University Cherry Blossom debate tournament held the weekend of March 29 to 31 in Washington, D.C. Competing against the outstanding teams of the East, Notre Dame was awarded second place on the basis of individual speaker points.
Representing Notre Dame at the tournament were Paul Coffey, Jack Martzell, Robert Dempsey, and Gerald Gourdreau. This team scored victories over such schools as Holy Cross, Fordham, Duke, and Georgetown.
has arranged to rent the entire Student Center in case of rain. If there should be rain a jazz band will play in the Center throughout the day, and free coffee and doughnuts will be served. No other plans have been made for Saturday afternoon, but if the weather is clear the traditional picnic at the Dunes will be held.
A Dinner Dance will be held Saturday from 6 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. at the Eagles’ Ballroom in South Bend. Ed Pistey and his Lettermen will play for dancing from 8:30 p.m. on. Decorations for the dance will feature a class ring at the ballroom entrance.
Joy Lauterborn, from Champaign, Ill., will be queen of the Dinner-Dance. She is the date of John Hirschfeld, chairman of the affair.
Following the 8 'a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church, a Conununion Breakfast will be held in the East Dining Hall. Don Miller, of Four Horsemen fame, is the main speaker at the Breakfast. Miller is now an attorney in Cleveland, O. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, will also give brief remarks.
General chairman of the dance and weekend is Jack Doyle. He is assisted by Don Corbett, publicity; Chuck Su-sano, business manager; John Hirschfeld, dinner dance; Joe Ryan, Communion Breakfast; Tom Murphy, hotel reservations; Chuck Henzy, tickets; Stu McKeever and Gene Bertoncini, entertainment; Jerry Shank and Butch Hayes, decorations; and Don Roney, refreshments.
Authoress to Lecture i
On Campus Monday
Authoress Flannery O’Connor will lecture here at 8 p.m. Monday in Room 104 O’Shaughnessy. She will discuss the problems of a Catholic writer of fiction.
Miss O’Connor was born in Georgia *v in 1925. She graduated from the Geor- ~ gia State College for Women and spent two years at the Writers Workshop conducted by Paul Engle at the State University of Iowa. Her first stories were published in magazines in 1946 and 1947. Her first novel, Wise Blood, was published by the Harcourt, Brace Co. in 1949. The reviewer in the New York Herald Tribune called this “a tale^ at once delicate and grotesque” and said that it “convinces the spectator of the total reality of something outside his experience.”
Miss O’Connor’s first volume of short stories, A Good Man is Hard to Find, was also published by the Harcourt, Brace Co. The reviewer for Time found in these ten stories “a brutal irony, a slam-bang humor and a style of writing as balefully direct as a death sentence.” £ A later story, Greanleaf, won the 1957 O’Henry prize for the best short story published between August, 1955, and July, 1956.
The department of English has also announced that a panel discussion on the fiction of Flannery O’Connor will be held at 4:30 p.m. today in room 204 O’Shaughnessy. Both the panel discussion and Miss O’Connor’s lecture will be open to the public.	T
All Library Books Due Before Vacation Begins
All books borrowed from the University i libraries are due Monday. Arrangements ! can be be made for books needed for Tuesday, the beginning of the vacationperiod. Students are reminded that*" library books may not be taken out of the city.
The vacation schedule of the University libraries begins ‘Tuesday. During vacation, the hours of service are from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily, and on Saturday from 8 a.m. to 12 noon. The libraries will close at 11 a.m. next Friday and will remain closed until Monday morn-{' ing.
During vacation period the Social I Science Library will be closed for clean- j ing April 17 to 19; the Humanitities I Library April 23 and 24; and the Busi- f ness and Economics Library April 24 j and 25.	[
The regular* hours of library service^ j will resume at 8 a.m. Monday, April 29. j
The Scholastic 1
•Slater Named New WSND Station Manager; Heads of Four Departments Also Announced
Jerry Slater, a junior in the program for administrators, has been named station manager of WSND for the coming year, it was announced this week.
Slater, from Houston, Texas, succeeds WFred Corkill, a graduating senior from New Canaan, Conn. He was installed at a general staff meeting Wednesday night in the LaFortune Student Center.
The new WSND manager served as business manager of the station for the past year. He had previously been traffic manager and has been on the staff since freshman year. Slater has also served as a member of the Student Sen-^ate and of the Blue Circle society.
Four other WSND staff members were installed in department head positions at the Wednesday night meeting. Three of them will be serving as department heads for the first time.
Succeeding Slater as business manager
California Club Elects gOfficers for Next Year
Results of the election for next year’s California Club officers were recently announced.
Chris Brothers, a junior finance major from Oakland, will serve as next year’s president.
Other officers are: north-vice-president, Mike Gallagher; south-vice-president, Joe Halisky; secretary, Andy ^Carnalola; treasurer, Dennis Nolan; "sergeant-at-arms, Mike Henderson.
WSND STAFF APPOINTEES
Jim Zilles, Bob Whearty, Jerry Slater, Bill Culliton
is Jim Zilles, a PFA junior from Green Bay, Wis., who served as traffic manager for the past year. Zilles has been on the WSND staff for a year and a half.
The three new department heads are Warren Albright, public relations director; Bob Whearty, chief production engineer; and Bob Culliton, traffic manager.
Albright, a Commerce sophomore from Merchantville, N. J., succeeds Jim Meagher, a graduating senior from Rock Island, Ill. Albright, who joined the WSND staff as a freshman, has served in both the announcing and sales departments, and has been heard this year on the popular “Requestfully Yours” program.
Whearty, a junior in electrical engineering from Garden City, N. Y., succeeds Paul Flattery, a graduating senior from Jamaica, N. Y. He has worked as a production engineer since joining the staff in his freshman year.
Culliton, a South Bend native, worked in the traffic department under Zilles this year. He is a freshman in the industrial option course.
The remaining WSND departments will be headed by the men who presently administer them. These men are Tom O’Regan, program director; Bill Sigler, chief announcer; Bob Borchers, chief technical engineer; Gerry Pastula, sales; George Van Kula, news director; Bill Chesson, sports director; and Tom Walsh, record library chief.
Junior Class Support Gives Brady Election
Sweeping his own class by a margin of three-and-a-half to one, Jerry Brady, a junior journalism major from Idaho Falls, Idaho, defeated Vick Clesi for president of the student body in the annual campus elections on Wednesday, April 4. The final vote was 1,582 to 1,227.
According to Bernie McGowan, Blue Circle elections committee chairmen, approximately 70 percent of the student body voted for the candidates for student body president, class officers, and college and village senators.
Next year’s seniors chose Don McNeill, a commerce student from Winnetka, Ill., as president. James “Hoot” Walsh was elected vice-president and Art Roule was voted in as secretary. The class treasurer will be Don Roney.
Mark Shields, an arts and letters sophomore from Weymouth, Mass., was elected president of the coming Junior Class. Dick Quinn, vice-president, Barrett Gleixner, secretary, and Terry Lamb, treasurer, were chosen to serve with him.
Another arts student, Denny Shaul, from Akron, Ohio, was selected by the freshmen to head their class next year. Dave Huarte, Tom Medland, and Tom Shishmann were elected vice-president, secretary, and treasurer, respectively.
Five senator posts were filled for next year’s Student Senate as a result of. the elections. The Villagers re-elected Joe Slade, a commerce sophomore, as their representative.
John Kennedy, a pre-med junior from Tacoma, Wash., was chosen science senator. Hany Ryan, a sophomore from Albia, Iowa, was picked as AB senator.
Engineering senator for next year will be George Navadel, a junior from Buffalo, N. Y., while John Dewes, a junior from Hopkins, Minn., will be the commerce senator.
SELECTIVE SERVICE
The Selective Service Law requires that all persons keep their Draft Boards informed of pertinent factors that might affect their draft classification. Of particular local significance is the official confirmation of student status by the deans of the colleges.
The Office for Military Affairs and the deans request that all registered students report immediately to their respective deans and supply necessary data for Form No. 109. it is too late to attempt compliance with this regulation after an induction order has been received.
April 12, 1957
13
Down the Florida Coast
by FRANK SPIERING
Florida — breeze caressed in sunshine, blessed with thousands of miles of green seas flecked with dancing white surf and spume . . . fabulous bathing beaches and keys, where fishing is unexcelled . . . garden, glade, and glen . . . land of sky-blue-eyed, olive-skinned water-ski nymphs, whose statuesque figures grace the nation’s beer advertisements . . . i No matter from which direction one | enters the Sunshine State, it is convenient and easy to visit all or most of Florida’s famous attractions.
ST. AUGUSTINE
At the upper- peak of Florida is the oldest city in the United States. While you are here you may wish to see the oldest house in America, located at 14 St. Francis Street. This venerable edifice has seen life under four flags — Spanish, English, Confederate, and American. Other attractions are the wax museum, the Spanish slave quarters, and the Fountain of Youth, or reasonable facsimile thereof. Two miles north of St. Augustine is Casper’s Ostrich and Alligator Farm. This is the
world’s largest haven for unusual birds, snakes, and crocodiles. It features a collection of quaint shops where you can buy the very best in alligator goods such as: bags, shoes, belts, and alligators.
DAYTONA BEACH
Further down the coast is one of nature’s wonders. A broad ribbon of snow-white sand stretching along 23 miles of breath-taking coastline. Flanked by the warm gulf stream on one side and by colorful tropic vegetation and modern Florida style buildings on the other, this dazzling scene truly deserves the accolade as “The World’s Most Famous Beach.”
Sir Malcolm Campbell, the British auto speed pioneer, blazed his way to glory on the sands of Daytona Beach, and the course he made famous has been the scene of practically every automotive speed record in the world.
If you are a golfer you will get a new thrill playing along palm-fringed fairways on any of the three immaculately kept 18-hole tournament courses.
Or you may indulge in such activities as boating, lawn bowling, or dog racing and afterward retire to the Skyline Restaurant located on U. S. 1. This renowned restaurant offers you all the lobster you can eat for two dollars.
A few hours to the southwest is the famous Cypress Gardens. Currently being featured in “Cinerama,” this attraction offers gigantic cypress trees andQp the spectacular Cypress Gardens Water Show. Here you will see the ultimate in water skiing.
VERO BEACH
Vero Beach is highlighted by beautiful McKee Jungle Gardens, Ocean Beach, famous Indian River Citrus Country, and training grounds of some/» major league team from . . . Brooklyn?'*
PALM BEACH
This picturesque city offers fine beaches, yachting, golf, polo, and deep sea fishing. Of greatest interest is the jungle cruise on a glass enclosed lake boat up the back waterways, inhabited by shell pink flamingoes, alligators, and*^
14
The Scholastic

-•Seminole Indians, unspoiled by the inroads of civilization . . . the Everglades underglass.
BOYNTON-DELRAY BEACH AREA,
For a truly interesting experience eat breakfast at the Manor House. Southern hospitality and delectable home cooking in a charming colonial dining i room make this restaurant one of the Wmost enjoyable in the South. Here is the Terrace Tap Room, where you will enjoy patio dining in a relaxed atmosphere. The original drawings of famous artists create a most original decor that does much to enhance the delightful surroundings.
FORT LAUDERDALE
• On the site of old Fort Lauderdale, built in 1838 during the Seminole War, a lovely new city has blossomed. With six miles of one of the world’s finest beaches and 160 miles of canals and waterways, Fort Lauderdale has become known as the Venice of America.
Here a new type of luxury resort has become a major port for America’s yachting fraternity, with Bahia Mar Q yacht basin, the world’s largest for private craft. The network of canals brings the waterway up to the terraces of splendid homes and hotels.
The hotels are ultra-modern, spacious
and graced with lovely gardens and pools. Here there is swimming and deen sea fishing for dolphin, sailfish, and the king mackerel.
Near Fort Lauderdale is the largest private collection of chimpanzees and wild animals in Florida. It features bright colored Mandrill baboons, monkeys from all ovei- the world, and alligator wrestling every day.
Above all, Fort Lauderdale with its beach, the fishing, and its magnitude of day and night diversion is a vacationers paradise.
MIAMI
The fastest growing area in the country greets 2,000,000 visitors per semester. Across the bay is Miami Beach, a monument to an unusually temperate climate that has risen to international fame since its founding in 1911. Lolling on the beach you have only to move into the shade to get out of the hot sun, and you will become sensible immediately to a steady cool breeze — one of the famous tide winds that blows incessantly. In the direct rays of the sun there is the marvelously beneficial downpour of vitamins, but the shade and its zephyr accompaniment are ever in waiting, whether it is behind towering palm, beach umbrella, or bar stool.
Miami features such activities as
Jaialai matches, yachting on Biscayne Bay, if you have a yacht, miniature and full scale golfing, and deep sea fishing.
Twelve miles south of Miami on U. S. 1 is the only venom laboratory of its kind in the world, the Miami serpenta-rium. Continuous conducted tours are climaxed with cobra venom extraction and feeding by W. E. Haast, proprietor. “Where snakes are groomed to sink their fangs into the world and relieve its pain.”
Musa Isle is Florida’s largest authentic Seminole Indian Village. Guided tours every day into the large zoo and tropical gardens . . . also more alligator wrestling.
Miami is the home of Thomas A. Edison, the Father of All-Night Lights. Tours are conducted inside his laboratories and home.
From a sandpit in a mangrove swamp, Miami has developed into an all-year resort. Today, Miami Beach comprises 17.6 square miles, more than half of which is underwater.
The cool breezes from the West Indies skirt its sunlined beaches, and creep gently through its green shade trees, which border this pleasure-filled Eden . . . home of millionaires and sunny haven of frozen Indiana refugees — Florida.
- ' THE FLORIDA PLAYGROUND
Vacationers on the green to the beach.
April 12, 1957
15
Jim Cummings
John Cusack
Phil Donahue
Vince Dooley
Mark Maley
'Men of the Year’
When any award is initiated it is of utmost importance that its purpose and nature be made known. The Editors of the Scholastic felt that the need existed to honor several members of the graduating class who best combine several important qualities. Thus we have instituted the “Men of the Year” award.
The fact that some of these men are not presidents or captains of any one organization is not important. That each of the twelve is a leader among his friends and influencing factor in those groups of which he is a member is important.
All twelve are Catholic gentlemen, mature and intelligent individuals, and, most importantly, lasting credits to Notre Dame. All of them have earnestly sought to make this a greater University and themselves bettei- men by guiding and serving their fellow students through constantly seeking to develop themselves fully both spiritually and intellectually.
Fuller McBride
Tom O’Brien
Poul Schramm
John Smyth
16
A Step to Maturity
Maturity in judgment and action should be one of the hallmarks of the educated man. Notre Dame students display a certain lack of maturity. After four years at Notre Dame this seems to be the most important problem facing ^the University.
w The issue is clear: are the students being sent into the world as well prepared as possible? Can’t something be done, in the everyday life of the students, to create a greater degree of maturity? Let’s examine the structure of student life.
At a university every situation and every action must be referred to the question: what does this or that con-^tribute to the discovery of truth and to the formation of the student? I would like to apply this question to the present hall arrangements under which most Notre Dame students live. It appears that the present situation does not aid the defined purpose of a university: the search for truth and the formation of mature men.
-ESTABLISHMENT OF ORDER
A university is involved in the search for truth and from this follows its educative functions. In addition a university also has the same problem of any community, that is, the establishing of an order that is conducive to achieving the specific goal of the community. Here at Notre Dame it is the setting-up of an order that is conducive to learning. ^This means that Notre Dame, by virtue ^of being a university, should provide the best conditions under which students search for truth.
There is some difficulty concerning the solution of this problem, for at Notre Dame the men who teach and whose function is to educate are also used to cope with the problem of order. Priests must maintain order in the halls, con-£ sequently this detracts from their real use in the University: for- instruction in the class rooms and counselling in the halls. The suggestion is therefore implicit in the present organization of Notre Dame that the priests are being distracted from their true work. There are 66 priests living in the halls. This a gives an average of about one priest for " every 65 students. Therefore there
April 12, 1957
by JOHN CUSACK
should be little need to maintain the additional system of chaplains for each class.
How should this confusion be straightened out? How can student life be organized so that the religious faculty member does not have to maintain order in the various halls? The most obvious solution would be to let the students cope with the problem of community order and living for themselves.
UNSTABLE SYSTEM
Now there are many difficulties that occur immediately to everyone if this is to be done. Most of them are due to our present unstable system of hall residence. Every year there is a total change in the membership of the 15 residence halls at Notre Dame. In this manner then, the students are restricted to stay at the same level of development regarding order regardless of their class status. By annually disrupting the life and order in each hall the student is thrust into a new environment which takes time, depending upon the student, in which to adjust. For example the entire char-' acter of the student populations of the halls are very diverse. We have only to look at the type of men that the basement of Sorin has attracted in comparison with those living on the third floor of Morrissey to understand this.
Also, under the present conditions there is no opportunity for the handing down of tradition from one student era to the next. Most importantly, there is no opportunity for the more mature men to influence the behavior of the younger students. Leadership, largely an innate quality, is a function and development of experience. Every class should share in it when it reaches the age of discretion.
Therefore I believe that the solution lies in a system in which student residence in a hall would be permanent.
To concretize this system would be impossible, so I will only attempt to lay down some general rules. The freshmen should have their own halls. Here they should be trained in the fundamentals of community life and. discipline. During this period they should become aware of their responsibilities to the student community. Next they should choose a hall
they would like to live in until their graduation. During their freshman year they xwill be making friends with upperclassmen and with certain members of their own class. These friendships that develop can be based on the course of studies engaged in or some other common denominator which would attract them to a ceriain hall and by which a ceriain hall would be attractive to them. No hard and fast rules should be instituted, as the best arrangement will work out in time.
In the sophomore year, then, the student will go to the hall of his choice. There, he will be subject to the rules laid down by the hall and administered by the students, primarily, the seniors. A man should be permitted to leave that hall if he so desires or if his presence is no longer desired.
MATURE GUIDANCE
Basically, the situation would be one in which the older and more mature men would guide the hall and the younger men would be trained to take on their proper responsibilities as time went on. In this system the priests living in the halls would be the intellectual leaders of the community and. the former of spiritual order within the student. And the student, while being formed according to truth, would have in his own community the laboratory within which the power to apply truth to life gets its first testing.
Within this system the student learns from the experience of dealing with men those truths of the prudential order which cannot be taught in the classroom. The younger students learn obedience and responsibility from the taskmaster, the upperclassmen. And when they become upperclassmen they learn the harder lessons of leadership.
Leadership is not developed in a vacuum. It is not developed by talking about it or writing about it. It is not developed in lengthy conferences or in the meetings of the Student Senate, although it can be manifested in these. It is developed by living as mature men on the hall level. It is developed .by learning to obey and to command, both of which must be done with equal facility. This is the Aristotelian formation to action and it contains truth in its sublime form.
As a university is responsible to truth and to the correct fonnation of men’s minds, Notre Dame has the grave duty of doing all in its power to produce men who, aware of and practitioners of the truth, will become leaders in the greater community which is our country. Let leaders be molded here and let the boy become the fully mature and responsible man and Notre Dame will have achieved a truly magnificent goal.
17
Note. jbame.
Debate Tournament
by ROBERT SEDLACK
“Yes, it should not. . . .”
“No, it should. . . .”
To anyone wandering in the vicinity of the Student Center today or tomorrow, the above might seem a bit strange, but fear not; it’s neither Bryan Woods preparing an Escape nor student leaders trying to get a bit of legislation past the administration. The reason for this type pro-con, con-pro is the Fifth Annual Invitational Debate Tournament which is in progress these two days. Its specific topic is: Resolved that the United States should discontinue direct economic aid to foreign countries. As a. result, the Affirmative is in the rather unusual position of advocating something inherently negative, namely the ending of a present policy. The Negative, by the same token, must attempt to prove the advisability of further economic aid. This makes for a slight bit of confusion for uninformed onlookers, but for them alone.
For the competing teams it is another story. Despite anxious huddles, frantic file-flipping, and quickly adopted strategy, there is no mix-up. The huddles may find some weakness in the fabric of their opponent’s argument, the files are well filled with data and criticisms, and the strategy has been thought out much in advance of the actual tournament. The tourney is a two-day test of factual astuteness, skill, and oratory and for this reason attracts the finest debating squads in the nation.
This year thirty select schools from every section of the country are represented making it a truly national tournament. From the East come Dartmouth, Army, and Vermont. Pepperdine College of Los Angeles, USC, and Utah help represent the West. The Southland sends Florida, Vanderbilt, and Wake Forest. The largest contingent is from the Midwest—Bradley, Kansas State, Northwestern, and Wisconsin State College—whose comely co-ed debaters last year gave the Irish twosome of Dick Schiller and Rick Ninneman a difficult time in the finals before the Irishmen secured the coveted Bolger trophy, symbolic of tournament triumph.
This year Notre Dame is represented by two different, though experienced debaters, in Paul B. Coffey and Jack Mart-
16
zell. They are president and vice-president respectively of the Debate Team and last month won the National Debating Championship Eliminations in the Midwest region, which qualifies them for the finals at West Point later- this April. Credit for the fine performance of the Irish debaters in the past and expectation of future excellence goes to Prof. Leonard F. Sommer who has been the forensics coach at Notre Dame for the last twelve years.
Behind the two standard bearers are approximately forty other members of the debate team whose efforts the past few months and especially this week are
keeping oiled the machinery of a smoothr" ly functioning tournament. John Hirsh-field is tournament chairman and has Dennis Schaul for an assistant. Their job is coordination and their chief headache is getting over one hundred people —debaters, judges, time-keepers—in the right place at the right time and then shifting them around again and again. Welcoming and registrations were cap-^ ably handled yesterday at tables set up in the Morris Inn. Jerry Goodreau, Pat Curran, Jerry Brady, and Bob Dempsey were the men behind the tables. Throughout the tourney Stan Kusper and Bill Barrett are keeping track of wins and losses and must decide upon the four finalists who will meet in 124 and 127 Nieuwland Science Building tomorrow afternoon. Tom Banchoff’s crew ofg. timekeepers will be sitting opposite the" speakers in each debate flipping their time cards to keep the participants within the allotted time. Brendan Fagen has charge of the award presentations which will take place in the Student Center immediately after the finals. Jim McMahon and Mike Phenner will take care of reservations and the banquet, including the task of making sure the coeds are liberally sprinkled around the U-^’ shaped table in the Morris Inn tomorrow noon. Tom Clusserath, who has been following the feature editors of the Scholastic around for the last week, is publicity chairman.
The secondary object of the teams is the Rev. William A. Bolger rotating trophy and seven other awards. Notre Dame gives individual plaques to the top debater, to each of the four finalists, and the Wachtel Tau Kappa Alpha plaque to the two best teams. Along with these awards and more important than the wood and brass is the distinction of winning one of the most nationally competitive tournaments of the debating year.
So far no one team has any kind of a monopoly on the Bolger trophy. Previous winners were Dartmouth in 1953, the United States Military Academy in 1954, Wilkes College of Wilkes-Barre, Pa., in 1955 and Notre Dame in 1956. Though most of the personnel changes from year to year, some are repeaters. Army is sending back their same two man team of last year—the team that went on to win the National Collegiate Championship for 1956. This is, however, no assurance of winning tomorrow. Every team has an equal chance and the Irish duo of Coffey and Martzell would like to make it two in a row. But in this, as in everything else, Notre Dame’s opponents like to heat the Irish, and especially on their home floor. All in all the tournament should prove to be exciting and interesting before the fire- z. works fade tomorrow afternoon.
The Scholastic
PARK AVENUE KIDS
Hickman, Leyval, McCue, Feeney and McArdle
• Zhe New Opera
ON May 12, a new era in the field of composition will be staged in the Elkhart High School Auditorium. “Park Avenue Kids,” a musical in the mood of light opera, will make its world premiere before an audience of noted ^officials and celebrities.
Don Gillis, nationally famous composer and a master in the classical tradition, has written the theme which consists of music in the modem manner, yet not quite jazz, rock n’ roll, or jive.
Performed by the Elkhart Symphony Orchestra, the story is a hectic adventure, set against a light, gay,. and in-'finitely provocative background. The
by FRANK SPIERING
plot revolves around a realistic satirical study of the teenage personality.
Part of the story takes place in a basement tenement clubroom for teenagers, on upper, upper, Park Avenue. To quote the script, it is a “Rootintootin’, galavalootin’ story” in which a gang of boys with nothing to do, organize a band and secure a contract to appear on radio.
“Park Avenue Kids” sings its way through an hour and a half of music that is sometimes striking, discordant, disonant, and in many places tender, heartwarming, and beautiful. It is music to challenge the critics, music that
is interpretive of the questioning, wishful hearts of the youth in America.
A critical analysis has stated that, “ ‘Park Avenue Kids’ should be seen and heard in every town and city, and will certainly be a permanent contribution to America’s growing musical tradition.”
Gene Leyval, Charles Hickman, James Feeney, J. A. McArdle, and Joe McCue have been chosen to play major roles in" the production.
Both Leyval and Hickman have had extensive professional training and experience. Leyval’s training took place in his home town, Los Angeles, California, where he appeared in the Los Angeles television performances of “Stars of Tomorrow,” and “Charley’s Aunt.” He played in “Romeo and Juliet” in California summer stock and at Notre Dame has been seen in “Seventeen,” “Finian’s Rainbow,” and other productions. A junior this year, Leyval plans to go into law. His interpretation of “Fingers Flynn,” in “Park Avenue Kids” is sensitive and intelligent.
Hickman, a Chicagoan, has had practical experience as a vocal arranger and Radio-TV announcer. In summer stock two years, he played a variety of parts with Pat O’Brien, George Raft, and Brian Donlevy. He has appeared in three Gilbert and Sullivan operettas, as well as many commercial and industrial films. His easy manner with just the proper emphasis give “Park Avenue Kids” promise of a realistic dramatic approach. A dramatic scholarship winner in high school and voted his school’s “Best Thespian,” he played leading roles in Victor Herbert’s “Red Mill” and “Jenny Kissed Me” in his hometown, Jonesville, Wisconsin.
J. A. McArdle had small parts in high school productions. He has studied interior decoration and with this knowledge has designed many of the sets for “Park Avenue Kids.” He has received various prizes from art schools in his hometown, Pittsburgh.
Joe McCue’s broad shouldered frame gives weight to the cast and his excellent singing adds an experienced voice which carries well over’ the orchestra accompaniment.
All five are members of the Notre Dame Glee Club.
Don Gillis, the composer, has combined a sense of experienced perception with great originality. For ten years he has been music production director of the NBC Symphony Orchestra, working with Arturo Toscanini and Frank Black. He has composed suites, overtures, piano concertos, and symphonies.
A matinee dress rehearsal for students Sunday afternoon, May 12, will precede the World Premiere in the evening. Reserved tickets will be placed on sale at popular prices in South Bend.
April 12, 1957
19
rr
on campus
Review 0
Religious Organizations
by MICHAEL MAJOR
One of the most important phases of the student’s self-development is his religious life. On campus there are a number of organizations which are working towards this goal.
The YCS is an international student Catholic Action movement of the lay apostolate. It’s a two-fold objective, the formation of members by apostolic work and the student body by the apostolate of the members.
The YCS is motivated by spiritual ideals and receives its charter from the bishop, but its work is not limited to religion alone. The scope of the YCS’s activities has been wide enough to affect every aspect of student life, academic and social, as well as religious.
In the field of academic affairs, the YCS in the past year has expanded its student tutoring program to include the entire campus. Currently they are sponsoring the Leo XIII Lenten Lecture Series, an annual activity initiated to stimulate thinking on the part of Notre Dame students.
Undergraduates are probably most familiar with the YCS for its social services. It has continued its work this year in operating the Book Exchange and is responsible for the National Catholic Study Commission of NFCCS. One of the YCS’s most recent innovations has been its handling of the government in frosh halls, before the freshman elections could take place, late in the first semester.
On the religious side, the YCS has organized closed retreats for students at the Notre Dame retreat house, sponsored talks designed to create a better understanding of the Liturgy, and has maintained a Catholic Action library and periodical service.
This year’s officers are: President, Paul Krapp; Vice-Presidents, Tom Kris-topeit, Tom Fogarty, and John Hayward; Secretary, Frank Feigl; and Treasurer, Ron Babcock.
“. . . the right arm of the Catholic Church in America.” Thus Pius XI described the Knights of Columbus as the outstanding social, charitable, and patriotic organizations of the laity. Here on campus, students are offered member
ship in N. D. Council No. 1477. Membership in the Knights of Columbus offers the Catholic man an opportunity to be of personal service to his Church, to his organization, and to his brother Knights. During the year, this group performs various services, such as providing ushers for the Sacred Heart Church and sponsoring social activities for the members as both a means of recreation and a means of obtaining backing for charities. Their outstanding achievement this year was their promotion and handling of the Bengal Bouts, the proceeds of which went to the support of the missions.
This year’s officers include: Grand Knight, Robert Miller; Deputy Grand Knight, William McGowan; Chancellor, John Armstrong; Warden, Jerry Wells.
“. . . and teach ye all nations.” A fine example of how these words are being carried out is found in the Confraternity of the Christian Doctrine, a nation - wide movement to spread the Catholic faith. The Confraternity of Christian Doctrine at Notre Dame specialized in giving instructions of the faith to Catholic students attending public grammar schools and public high schools. The women from St. Mary’s College also participate.
St. Francis of Assisi, who was not a priest, founded an Order for priests, and an Order for nuns. He also founded an order for men and women living in the world, who may be married or single, and who desire to lead a perfect Catholic life. The Third Order is a religious order for the laity, with the purpose of personal sanctification for each of its members. It offers its members a clear definition of what constitutes their spiritual perfection and provides the ways and means by which they are attainable.
This year’s officers are: Prefect, Ray DeSutter; Prefect of Novices, Mike Crowe; Treasurer, Joe McMahon; and Librarian, Bob Premo.
Through their unselfish industry and hard work, the campus religious organizations have proven an invaluable asset, in the service of the University, of the student body, and of God.
Because of an early deadline last week the Scholastic was not able to review St. Mary’s version of Shakespeare’s Midsummer Night’s Dream which was directed by Mr. Robert Speaight. However, it might be well to offer a few late comments on the best piece of*- ’ theatre seen this year on either campus.
Mr. Speaight who has now moved on to other things, but not without a hint that he may return next year, breathed , a professional sigh through the players | and one of Shakespeare’s best high	I
romantic comedies. His possible return ‘ will undoubtedly be looked for with	:
great anticipation.	1
Bob Moran, a former’ student at the^ 1 University, filled the role of Bottom , with such a great ability that he completely ‘stole’ the show. His timing and facial expressions along with brilliant interpretation of lines recreated another wonderful Shakespearean clown.
Not far behind was Jess Cain’s interpretation of Snout. Cain, an announcer for WNDU-TV and a member of the original cast of Stalag 17 on Broadway,^ was outstanding as the ‘wall’ in the play * within a play.
Georgia Weber played Helena, the	!
comic female lead, and turned in a very	j
pleasing performance. Hermia, her	f
closest friend, was portrayed by Gaynell	H
Bordes, a freshman at St. Mary’s. Miss	1
Bordes spoke her lines with extra-	;
ordinary clarity and coupled this with exact interpretation of the part to turn in an exciting performance.
Frank Draine (Banquo-Macbet/i) and Andrew Staniszewski played the roles of | Demetrius and Lysander. Both, as the I typical young man in love, turned in I adequate performances.	I
Miss Margaret Woods and Barney I Morris (Macduff-Macbeth.) did well as p the Duke and his wife. Also, worthy	1
of mention are: Howard Lord, Pat	|
Ferris, Michael Cleary, Marie Muchado,^ Michael Kennedy, and Margaret Nerad.
One of the most pleasing additions by Mr. Speaight was the Madrigal Singers of St. Mary’s. They contributed greatly to the unity and the authenticity of the show by singing the madrigals of Shakes- i peare’s own time.
Mr. Speaight, furthermore, contributed to the ‘theatre’ of the production ) with the use of dancing fairies in the1 Shakespearean dream.	I
Away from the play itself, Mr. ; Speaight commented on the avid interest and the more than adequate facilities ' that he had noticed for theatre in South i Bend. He saw no reason why 'South 1 Bend could not attract a high quality of 1 theatre in the future. We agree with him and certainly look for it soon.—D.K.	]

^Announce New Policy [ For January Grads
| In the past the University has conI ferred its degrees only at official public I" commencements. During the years of I World War II, when the University went R, on a three semester year, commence-I ’^.merits were held at the end of each |™semester because of the number of students who completed all requirements for degree at that time. After the war, the two semester year was re-established, and for several years a commencement was held at mid-year.
Today, the number of students completing requirements for degree at the end of the first semester is judged too small for the holding of 'a commencement. ISome of these students however, find it inconvenient to wait until June to have their degree officially conferred. For this reason the University Administration has decided upon a change of policy, for the future. All students, both undergraduate, and graduate, who complete requirements for a degree at the end of the first semester of a school year, will have their degree officially conferred as of February 1. Then each student 'on whom degree has been conferred, will have the option of receiving his diploma publicly at the commencement in June, or of having it mailed to him privately.
The names of all students on whom degrees are conferred at mid-year, will be included in the list of graduates for
the year in the June Commencement program, with indications the degree was conferred on the proceeding Feb. 1.
Dr. Daist Gives Lecture
Dr. D. A. Daist, noted economist and former president of the Economic Relations Council of Boston, Mass., gave the second in a series of lectures last night in Room 13 of O’Shaughnessy Hall. Dr. Daist’s topic was “Economic Nihilism versus Academic Implausibility.”
Dr. Daist lectured here previously on “Impassibility and Modern Economic Reforms” shortly after he returned from a speaking tour in Canada and on the West Coast. He is scheduled to continue this series of lectures at the University. The talks are sponsored by the Round-Table Discussion Council in conjunction with the Economic Relations Council of Boston, Mass.
M-ILWTURBOW ypPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated "Bring in the Pieces’1
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Osorio Wins Design Contest
Ivan Osorio, a junior architect from Managua, Nicaragua, recently won a contest sponsored jointly by the Dept, of Architecture and the Technical Review editorial board for designing covers of next year’s magazine.
Other winners, all students in architecture, were Steve Dragos, a junior from Brookfield, Ill., Jerry Shank, a junior from Winamac, Ind., and Alvaro Gurdian, a sophomore from Managua, Nicaragua.
ARUIIA8 LIBRARY aid BNKSNP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
Welcome to Sorin, Folks!!
For Coming Proms . . .
Louie’s Tuxedo Rental
222 Laurel
Special Student Rates
Tailored Ensemble
Engagement —
Wedding Ring jeweled with % carat diamond
$189.50
HEADQUARTERS FOR FINE QUALITY DIAMONDS, WATCHES, JEWELRY, GIFTS
111 SO. MICHIGAN
Open a Convenient Charge Account
April 12, 1957
21
Your own “Leading Lady” says: DRESS YOUR PART and start with
County.”
MEN
For Every Day...M2288 ...black or brown calf
For Dress... M2702... leather and shantung
JARMA LEWIS, featured in MGM'S "Raintree Filmed in MGM Camera 65 and color.
For Play...M2427... blacker natural leather
Peters, Division of International Shoe Co., St. Louis 3, Mo.
SONIC
Ever since Jack bought his new Sonic CAPRI phonograph at the local college store — he’s become the biggest B M O C ever. You can join him and be the biggest ever, too, for you can buy a CAPRI phonograph for as little as $19.95.
This month’s special is the CAPRI 550 — a twin speaker high fidelity portable with 4-speed Webcor automatic changer, hi-fi amplifier in attractive	...
two-tone Forest Green, only ^59^ at your local dealer.
SONIC INDUSTRIES, INC. '19 Wilbur Street, Lynbrook, N.Y.
NSA Regional Meet ’ Opens Today at Fenn
The NSA Spring Regional Conference opens today at Fenn College in Cleveland, O., and will conclude Sunday. A twelve-man delegation from Notre Dame is attending the meeting.
Constitutional revision to allow a division of the region into districts will id considered at the conference. This would enable schools within a close proximity of one another to meet more often than under the present setup. Other topics being considered at the meeting are foreign student integration in colleges, the decline of moral consciousness among college students, and student-administration relations.
An election of regional officers foil 1957-58 will be held during the meeting. At the present time the president of the region is Bob Kiley of Notre Dame. Other Notre Dame students who are serving this year as officers for the region include Bob Hilger, travel director, and Jim Steintrager, vice-chairman of educational affairs. Warren Albright, Dan Cullen, and Hilger are candidates from Notre Dame for officers next year.	’
Delegates attending the convention from Notre Dame include Bob Kiley, Jim Coorssen, Tony Yurchak, Warren Albright, Jim Rose, Jim Steintrager, Bruce Babbit, Jerry Brady, Dan Cullen, Bob Hilger, Marty Kelley and Bill Graham.
Senate Votes Resolution To Govern Car Permits
A carefully considered list of regulations for senior car permissions after Easter was debated and passed at the Student Senate meeting Wednesday, April 3.
Student Body President Pat Logan opened the meeting with the announcement of the tentative agenda for next month. This was followed by a repord on the Student Leader’s Conference and on the meeting with the South Bend Committee on University Community Relations. As a result of this meeting, Logan said he will appoint a student to the South Bend Committee of 100.
Tony Yurchak gave a report on the increasing inactivity of the NFCCS and stated that unless next year’s delegation from Notre Dame takes the lead in the convention the NFCCS will be in bad shape financially.
The Judicial Committee reported on the progress and the methods being used to bring Senate legislation into a compact set of books where it will be readily available to all who wish to refer to past Senate policy.
22
The Scholastic
1
Choose Westinghouse for a rewarding future
You are making a tough decision...
“where shall I start my career . . . which company offers me the best future?’’
Your whole career can be affected by your decision, so choose carefully.
We sincerely believe you will make a wise decision in choosing Westinghouse, a company where big and exciting things are happening.
Here you can work with men who are outstanding leaders in fields such as:
Atomic Power
Automation
Jet-Age Metals
Large Power Equipment
Radar
Semiconductors
Electronics
Chemistry
. . . and dozens of others.
You will have an opportunity to work with a company that is having spectacular growth in many fields ... giving you room to grow.
We help you apply your training to industry. You can pick a career in the industry of your choice ... in the type of work you prefer, and in plants, sales offices and laboratories from the Atlantic to the Pacific. And, you can study for advanced degrees at Company expense. These are just a few of the many reasons why you should choose Westinghouse.
Possible design for homogeneous reactor vessel
PHONE COLLECT . . . To get further information, phone collect to C. H. Ebert, at the Westinghouse Educational Center, Pittsburgh, EXpress 1-2800, extension 353, or write him at Westinghouse, East Pittsburgh, Pa.
Westinghouse
April 12, 1957

AS NAVIGATOR OR PILOT
The Scholastic
GET ON THE TEAM THAT DEFENDS AMERICA
The flying U. S. Air Force is a team of men who command the aircraft and men who plan the attack. These are the pilots and navigators, both equally important to the defense of America.
You, as a young man of intelligence and sound physical health, may join this select group in the world's most exciting and rewarding adventure. Your training will stand you in good stead, whatever your future plans may be — and you’ll be earning over $6,000 a year 18 months after training.*
If you are between 19 and 26% years of age, investigate your opportunities as an Aviation Cadet in the U. S. Air Force. Priority consideration is now being given to college graduates. For details, write: Aviation Cadet Information, P.O. Box 7608, Washington 4, D. C.	•Based on pay of married 1st Lieutenant on
flight status with 2 years' service or more.
Graduate-Then Fly...U. S. AIR FORCE AVIATION CADET PROGRAM
thuAli Scene
VARSITY-OLD TIMERS COLLIDE IN STADIUM
Irish Baseball Squad Opens Season Today
This afternoon at Bloomington, Ind., Notre Dame’s baseball team gets its spring season underway with a single game -with Indiana University. To-^norrow afternoon, the Irish end the Whree-game series with a double header. The Klinemen have been hampered this spring by inclement weather and are starting the season without the benefit of their customary spring tour in the South.
Last year the two teams split a double-header as ND dropped the first contest 7-6 but came back to belt the Hoosiers in the nightcap, 14-5. Indiana ^s fortified with a strong pitching staff ^but the quality of theii’ infield is questionable due to losses from last year’s squad.
Scheduled to start on the mound today for the Irish is Tom Bujnowski, Coach Kline’s fine righthander who was the mainstay of the hurling corps last spring as a junior. Another veteran from last season, Chuck Symeon, will pitch the top half of the double-header Qon Saturday and the second game assignment will fall to Jack Connors, John (Continued on Page 29)
DICK LYNCH
Opens at right-half for the.Varsity.
Terry Unveils 1957 Irish Tomorrow Afternoon; Worden, Schrader, Gander, McGee to Appear
The first question mark of the forthcoming grid season becomes reality here tomorrow as the Notre Dame varsity unveils against the Old Timers in the Notre Dame Stadium. Game time is 1:30 p.m.
The game, traditionally the close of spring drills, ■will assume a new role this season due to the inclement Indiana weather. Coach Terry Brennan finds himself entering the game with several
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
VARSITY	OLD TIMERS
Prendergast  LE—.............. Munro
Lawrence .......LT............ Bosse
Schaaf .........LG..........  Hughes
Sullivan _______C........... Mondren
Ecuyer .........RG—..... Stanitzek Nagurski ................RT._. Cunningham
Wetoska ........RE........ Scannell Williams .................QB. Hornung
Ward ...........LH........... Milota
Lynch .........RH____________  Morse
Lima ...........FB........... Worden
Game Time: 1:30 p.m. C.S.T.
practice sessions remaining, giving him a chance to correct any faults or mistakes found in the films of the Old Timer’s game.
Assistant coach Bernie Crimmins stated that he expects a good effort from the varsity, although it would have been far better if the team had practiced for the full length of time allotted by the NCAA.
Crimmins said that all the coaches were impressed by the effort of the team this spring. The hustle, drive and determination represents a real effort to improve last year’s disastrous 2-8 record.
Crimmins further explained that the boys who played last year should be greatly improved because of the game experience received last season. He said that inexperience breeds doubt and that with doubt comes hesitation. This momentary hesitation loses ball games, because it gives opponents the jump. Only experience can remove this doubt, which should be a good indication.
Five members of the announced var
sity lineup were more or less regulars most of last season. They are Ed Sullivan, center; Al Ecuyer, right guard; Bronko Nagurski, right tackle; Bob Wetoska, right end and Chuck Lima, fullback. Rounding out the Irish eleven will be Dick Prendergast, left end; Don Lawrence, left tackle; Jim Schaaf, left guard; Bob Williams, quarterback; Bob Ward, left half and Dick Lynch, right halfback.
All eyes will be posted on quarterback Williams who seems heir-apparent to the Irish helm vacated by graduating All-American Paul Hornung. Williams proved himself a very capable replacement for Hornung last season when Hornung injured both thumbs midway in the season.
Freshman quarterbacks Don White, George Izo, and Henry Wilke can also be expected to see a great deal of action in tomorrow’s game.
The starting Old Timer team will be mainly composed of graduating seniors led by Heisman winner Hornung and retiring captain Jim Morse. However another bright spot in the Old Timer’s backfield should be fullback Neil Wor-
den. Worden, who holds the all-time (Continued on Page 29)
BUDDY WARD
Veteran speedster at left half
April 12, 1957
25
Notre Dame’s First Baseball All-American
by JOHN RILEY
It was a hot, muggy afternoon in early June. The Notre Dame baseball team was returning to the St. Paul hotel, tired and hungry, after a 3-2 victory over Minnesota. From the bus window a tall, well built Irish player with quick blue eyes, set chin, short cropped blond hair, and an empty stomach noticed crowds of people entering a brightly illuminated baseball stadium. It was the home of the St. Paul Saints. He asked the driver to stop. When the bus pulled away from the stadium, it left the empty stomached young man to push his way to the ticket window. The young man was Elmer Kohorst, Notre Dame’s first baseball All-American.
Elmer has given up more than aftergame dinners to satisfy his love for baseball. He used to be a familiar sight along the six-mile road from Albany to the Kohorst farm, as he sometimes walked and sometimes ran through the bent roadside grass with a history book under his arm. Elmer was on his way home after baseball practice—the school busses did not run that late.
His junior year in high school brought a handicap on his athletic career, one that would have discouraged many promising athletes. During this year, Elmer was declared ineligible from all sports for participating in a summer all-star baseball game. This only made him work harder, staying after school to help his replacement improve in his vacated position.
KOHORST THE BATTER Irish clean-up man
When he received the Albany High diploma, Elmer had to choose a college. Minnesota University had offered him a football scholarship; St. Johns, a football, basketball, baseball combination; and Notre Dame, a baseball scholarship. Elmer chose baseball and Notre Dame.
At Notre Dame, Elmer is usually last off the practice field, and spends some of his recreation time reading the Sporting News or biographies of great baseball players. During the 1956 fall practice, Elmer gave up still more free time to remain after practice to help Coach Jake Kline with the soph prospects.
DETERMINED ATTITUDE
Kohorst has what it takes to be a good ball player. A typical example of this ability is the ’56 Michigan State game. It was one of those cool, quiet days in early May. Notre Dame had two out and a man on first as Elmer came up. The Michigan State pitcher bore down and put two perfect strikes over the inside corner. The next pitch was a slow curve that got the outside corner. Kohorst walked to his catching gear and put it on without speaking a word. As one of his teammates brushed past him on the way to the field Elmer said to him, “that won’t happen again.” The fourth inning arrived and Elmer came up for his second bat. The State pitcher took the sign and threw the same slow curve. This time the big catcher whacked it over the left-center field wall.
In his sophomore year he batted .288, beat a senior monogram winner for the starting berth, and banged out three hits in his first performance. During this year he learned to work with shortstop Jim Carideo and second baseman Ed Hurley. It seems that on a throw to second base, Elmer would throw high to the 5-6 Carideo, and low tb six foot Hurley. Before the ’56 Minnesota game Carideo and Hurley wouldn’t tell Kohorst who was covering second and as a result the throw would be right on the bag. Five Gophers were thrown out attempting to steal second that afternoon.
Last year Elmer showed the ability and determination that won him national honors as a baseball All-American, picked by the American Association of College Coaches. He batted .329 in 19 games, collected 25 hits, scored 10 runs, had 21 R.B.I.’s, and a fielding average of .985.
BATTERYMATES
Bujnowski and Kohorst
After his successful junior year, Elmer played summer ball with the Little Falls Red Sox in the Minnesota West Central league. In a three game playoff series with the Alexandrea Clippers Kohorst smashed two line drives over^ the left field wall to help his team' clinch the playoffs and the league pennant.
Also last summer, Elmer married Amelia Derda, a South Bend girl and spent his honeymoon on the baseball diamond. A few days after his marriage the Red Sox advanced to the finals of the Minnesota State Amateur tournament. However, baseball proved beneficial to the honeymoon, for it was the^ custom that each player who hit a home run in the home town ball park received a steak dinner for two at Hovey’s steak house in Little Falls. Elmer and his new bride had steak every evening for a week. He also has some oil changes coming from the local garage which Elmer says, “will come in handy some one of these days.”
ALL-AMERICAN RATING	f
He first learned about his All-American rating on a Sunday morning in the Royal Cafe in Little Falls, during his summer stint with the Red Sox. He was eating ham and eggs with his friend and teammate, Chuck Hiller. Hiller was reading from the Minneapolis Tribune when he came across a familiar name. The article read, “Elmer Kohorst named^ to All-American Team.” Kohorst thought Hiller was joking, but out of curiosity he glanced over his friend’s shoulder. Elmer’s reaction was, “I was pleasantly surprised.”
Before Amelia married Elmer she had no interest in sports. In fact, the term triple was as foreign as the Rock ofg
(Continued on Page 31)	"
The Scholastic
26
nracksters Rewrite School Marks at Texas; Prepare for Ohio State and Drake Relays
Co-captain Bill Keegan, Dale VandenBerg, Joe Foreman and Aubrey Lewis inaugurated the outdoor track season for Notre Dame last weekend when they ^:ompeted in two events in the Texas ^Relays at Austin, taking fourth spot in the sprint medley on Friday night and finishing third in the mile relay the following afternoon. In both events the foursome bettered the previous Notre Dame outdoor records.
Foreman led off the mile sprint medley for the Wilsonmen, covering the 440 yard distance in 48.3. The middle 220’s ^.were sprinted by Lewis and Keegan in ™imes of 21.0 and 21.5, respectively, while anchorman VandenBerg ran the final 880 in 1:52.6, the fastest time yet attained by the Michigan junior. His 1:53.2 time for the indoor half-mile was the best time posted of any collegian in that event during the recently completed indoor season. The time was 3:23.4.
Saturday afternoon the same quartet ^ompeted in the mile relay, this time ™vith Lewis running the anchor spot behind Keegan, VandenBerg and Foreman in that order. Their time of 3:15 was good for third place in the event, placing them behind the University of Texas, who established the fastest time in the nation this year with their 3:12.8, and Abilene Christian.
Holy Saturday afternoon will find Coach Wilson with a full contingent of ^lis charges competing against representatives of the Big Ten schools at the Ohio State Relays in Columbus.
Frank Hall, a monogram holding senior' from British West Indies will compete in the 100-yard dash, hoping to better his previous outdoor mark of 10.0. He will also team up with veterans Lewis, Keegan, and Foreman for the half-mile relay. Juniors Bob Huetz and ^Vic Dillon will probably get the nod "n the mile run.
Sophomores Martin Clynes and Mike O’Connor will run with VandenBerg and senior Al Porter, winner of two monograms, in the two-mile relay. For the distance medley it will probably be Barclay Ewart, also from the British West Indies, taking the first 440, Porter running the 880, junior Dick DiCamillo parrying the Blue and Gold for the third segment, with the anchor duties falling to sophomore Mike Haverty, who will travel the final mile. Teams will also be named to compete in the shuttle hurdle relay and the mile relay.
Lewis will head the entries in the hurdle events. Some of his previous ^marks for these events outdoors include ^3.3 for the 220 low hurdles, 15.2 for
the 120 highs and 51.0 for the 400-meter hurdles. Running for the first time outdoors in these events will be sophs Steve Dornbach and Ron Parker and junior Booker Rice.
In the field events it will be George Chappell, a Santa Barbara sophomore, taking over the shot put event which had been the specialty of Byron Beams. The discus will be put in the capable hands of Lewis, who has in the past bettered the 153-foot mark.
Tom Hawkins, jumping-jack forward of the Irish basketball squad, will team up with senior Mike Kearns for the high jump event while the duties in the broad jump will fall to juniors Jack Cote and Don Faley and senior Louis Pilliod. Cote’s best performance in this event has been a 23-foot 6%-inch effort last year while both Faley and Pilliod have cleared 21 feet. Cote will also compete in the pole vault, where he has soared over the 13-foot marker, along with seniors Jim Redmond and John Stevenson.
Des Moines, Iowa, will be the scene of action for the trackmen on April 26 and 27, where they will be competing in the Drake Relays.
Also competing in these games, which Wilson feels will be the toughest in the country, will be the Texas schools, Big Seven, many of the Big Ten teams and possibly even representatives from the East and the Far West.
Missouri, which hosts the Irish on May 4, will provide the Wilsonmen with one of their toughest dual meets of the year.
Garrity Golf Champion To Be Decided Sunday
Sunday on the University golf course, duffers and self-styled pros alike have an equal opportunity to win trophies and merchandise prizes in the Garrity Golf Escapade.
The golfers coming in with the low score without the benefiit of a handicap and the low scorers, net, will each receive trophies. Then, golfers placing fifth, tenth, 15th, 20th and 25th will win merchandise prizes from the university golf shop.
The only requirement for entering the tournament is payment of the 25£ entry fee. There will be a tournament official at the first tee between 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. who will take all the entries. Another tournament is tentatively being scheduled for sometime after Easter.
HARRY SMITH
Wins opening match
Tennis Team Wins Easily Over Chicago
Last Saturday the Irish tennis team traveled to Chicago for their first match of the season. The netmen swept past a weak Chicago University club by a score of 9-0, not losing a set.
Tomorrow the Irish will meet Detroit University in their first home engagement of the season. Detroit hasn’t had a meet to date, but the netmen expect a tight match. This Wednesday the Irish will play host to Western Michigan following which they will travel into the South. On April 24, the Irish will meet Marshall College in Huntington, W. Va. The following day, the Irish will swing over to Lexington, Ky., to meet the Kentucky University Wildcats. The final match of the trip will be in Louisville, Ky., against the University of Louisville.
Captain Jim Rich led the team with a 6-0, 6-1 defeat of Jim Flueck. Max Brown won his match with a 6-2, 6-3 triumph over Morris Howland. Chuck Vanoncini took the third match of the afternoon with a 6-2, 6-2 defeat of Paul Howitz. Harry Smith defeated Charlie Kaufman by the score of 6-2, 6-0 while Sergio Garza copped the fifth match for the Irish with a 6-1, 6-2 triumph over John Hearvey. Ronald Schoenberg captured the final singles match but only after- a bitter duel with Richard Kunze.
In the doubles competition, Brown and Schoenberg took the seventh match for the Irish by whipping Kunze and Howland by scores of 6-1, 6-0. Smith and Vanoncini teamed up to beat Howitz and Kaufman by scores of 6-3, 6-0 while Garza and Rich took the final match from the team of Hearvey and K. Lib-ereles 6-1, 6-2.
27
April 12, 1957
TIME OUT
ATTENTION JERRY BRADY—newly elected Student Body President. How about putting the site of next year’s Student Trip up for campus vote? Pass around ballots which list the possibilities and probable costs. If it is going to be a Student Trip, then let’s have a student vote.
Gene Martell, former tackle at Notre Dame, has accepted a job as a full-time assistant line coach at the University of Toledo. A two monogram winner, Martell graduated last year. He is a native of Midland, Pa., and is currently directing Toledo’s intramural program and also teaching English at Toledo Whitmer High School. . . . While on the subject of football we should probably make a prediction on tomorrow’s Old Timers’ Game. In what will probably develop into an intra-squad game, the Varsity should easily win it by at least 20 points. This will be the first game Coach Terry hasn’t sweated out since last year’s Old Timers’ Game.
THE HOOSIER CLASSIC RETURNS
Congratulations to the Athletic Directors of Notre Dame, Indiana, Purdue and Butler for bringing back the Hoosier Basketball Classic after a five-year absence. Always considered one of the nation’s top collegiate basketball extravaganzas, the tourney does not have an official champion. On opening night, Butler and the Irish each take on one of the Big Ten schools and switch opponents on the following night. . . . Have been meaning to mention another basketball team on campus but figured we had better wait until the storm blew over. This team goes under the name of the Bulldogs but should have been more appropriately dubbed the Little Lambs. This infamous team played in the 12th annual I.I.A.A. Inc. invitational held in the Mishawaka High School gym for the past two weeks. On opening night the Tri Cities Independents beat our Bulldogs by scoring 100 points. The Bulldogs were fortunate enough to tally once in a while when they could get the ball over midcourt. . . . The players, a bit disappointed over their showing, have spoken out against their coach and have decided to disband. We won’t mention the coach’s name but he plays on the Irish basketball team and his initials are B.D. ... On a more serious note, Jack Bedan, Notre Dame center, was selected on the All-Tournament team. Bedan played with a group of senior basketball players under the name of the Mulcahy’s Tigers. . . . And John Smyth is doing a great job with the College All-Stars on the Globetrotter tour, leading the club in rebounding. Smitty and DePaul’s Dick Heise at 6-5 are the tallest players on the squad. The Trotters average 6-8 along the front line.
GONZALES AND ROSEWALL AT NOTRE DAME
On Saturday, May 4, the Notre Dame tennis team meets Kalamazoo here with a special added attraction. A special clinic run by Owen Parks, a former ND tennis captain, is being planned. Arrangements are being made to have Jack Kramer’s touring tennis group appear, including Pancho Gonzales, Ken Rosewall, Pancho Segura and Denny Pails.
.That same night, the group will play their regular matches in the St. Joe’s gym. . . . I’ve been accused of being NCAA happy. Don’t look now but I am going to pick all three spring teams for their respective NCAA tourneys. The tennis and golf teams are loaded with talent. The golf squad has the same club back from last year that placed sixth in the NCAA. . . . The baseball team, with another front line pitcher, could be exceptionally tough. We’ll have a good line on all three after the Easter vacation.—J. G.
Irish Golfers Open * At Louisville April 23
Rain, snow and experienced golfers greeted Father Holderith’s call two weeks ago as initial practice began for Notre Dame’s 1957 golf team. Despite the elements, Father was happy to find among his charges five lettermen bacl^ from last year’s team which posted a very creditable 9-4 record. Charlie Thurn and Joe Grace, this year’s cocaptains, headed the quintet, all of whom are juniors. The other letter winners back are Lloyd Syron, Tom Garside and Joe Leslie.
Practice thus far has, of course, been extremely limited. However, scores have been very good for this time of year^ Three rounds of intra-squad competition have already been completed, and six more are scheduled before the actual season starts on April 23 at Louisville. On the results of these practice rounds, Father Holderith hopes to pick six men who are consistent at scoring 75 or below. The fine spirit shown thus far by all twenty-odd aspirants seems to indicate that this goal of six sub-75 men is attainable, and all starting positions ar-^ considered up for grabs.
HEAVY SCHEDULE
After the opening meet with Louisville,. the golfers engage Bradley and Western Illinois State at Peoria on April 26, Wabash and Tri State College at Notre Dame on April 29, Detroit, Iowa and Michigan State on the home course on May 4, and Northwesterly Iowa and Michigan State at Evanston on May 6. The Big Ten teams, in particular, should prove especially difficult opponents this year, since all four of Notre Dame’s 1956 defeats came at the hands of these teams. However, the team’s mentor looks for a very successful season, primarily because of its unusual wealth of experience.
TOM GARSIDE
Returning letter-winner
28
The Scholastic «
Old Timer's Game
(Continued from Page 25)
Notre Dame scoring record of 174 points, was a regular from 1951 to 1953. He was consensus All-American in 1953. Completing the Old Timer’s backfield will be Jim Milota at left half.
The Old Timer’s starting line will be ^omposed entirely of graduating seniors.
They will be bolstered however by a number of Irish greats of the last few years. Listed highly among these men is center Jim Schrader who played the pivot spot on the undefeated 1953 team, and, also from that team, Menil Mav-raides. Chet Ostrowski also expects to see duty.
Other former Irish stars who are listed as possible performers are All-^.merican quarterback Ralph Guguliel-mi, and ends Dan Shannon and Paul Matz, backs Del Gander, Jim Mello, Coy McGee and lineman George Nicula.
All students will be admitted to the game upon presentation of Student Identification cards, through gate 15. No seats willl be reserved.
There will be public sale of tickets at the gate, priced at $1.50 for adults and 50< for children. All proceeds go to the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley to be used foi* the Club’s scholarship fund.
Klinemen Open Today
(Continued from Page 25)
Hammett or Paul Besser. The batting order- will be as follows:
cf, Gene Duffy; 2d, Ed Hurley; lb, Jim Cusack; c, Elmer Kohorst; 3b, Jim Morris; If, Bob Senecal; ss, Jim Cari-deo; rf, Bob Giarratano.
On Wednesday of next week, Central Michigan travels down to engage ND in their home opener on Cartier Field. It will be Central Michigan’s last encounter on a southern trip and they will have the benefit of several games experience for their contest with the Irish. Next Friday, Notre Dame journeys downstate for a single game with Purdue. The Boilermakers will be out to avenge a 15-0 pasting they suffered at Notre
Dame early last season. Heavy action will test the Klinemen’s pitching staff * on Saturday when Michigan provides the opposition at Ann Arbor. It will be a double header. The Irish bested Michigan last year by a 6-5 score.
On April 23, Glenview Naval Air Station hosts Notre Dame at Glenview, Ill. The next day, Northwestern entertains the Irish at ’ Evanston. Usually strong Ohio University then becomes ND’s next opponent on the 26th, at Athens, Ohio. O.U. meets the Irish the next day to close out the two-game series. Last year Ohio whipped Notre Dame the first game of a double-header but fell before the Irish in the second game, 7-3.
The Klinemen return to Cartier Field on April 30 when they face Michigan State in their next start. This will be followed by a return engagement with Glenview Naval Air Station at home. Wisconsin visits the Notre Dame campus for successive games on the 6th and 7th of May followed by another baseball contest with Michigan on the 9th of the month.
AFTER SHAVE	in top condition. 1.00 plus fax
LOTION
SHUITON New York • Toronto
April 12, 1957
29
“What’s it like to be
A SYSTEMS ANALYST AT IBM?”1
Two years agor college senior Thomas Wheeler asked himself this question. Today, a Systems Analyst in IBM’s Data Processing Division, Tom reviews his experience and gives some pointers that may be helpful to you in taking the first, most important step in your business career.
“What I probably like most about this job,” says Tom, “is that you’re never tied down to one desk and the same routine. There’s always a new problem ... a new approach needed ... new people to meet and work with.”
But first, what does a Systems Analyst do? “Briefly, we study a customer’s present system—payroll, inventory control, billing or whatever —and convert it to a mechanized system using either conventional IBM business machines or IBM’s highspeed electronic computers.”
Tom works out of the IBM Baltimore Office with some of America’s
Studying customer’s present system
biggest companies as his customers. Graduated from Johns Hopkins in August, ’55, with a B.S.I.E., he came immediately to IBM. During his training period, Tom studied IBM’s Punched Card and Electronic Data Processing Machines. He learned their uses, their applications, and was instructed in the theories and methods of data processing.
Diversified Assignments
A leading aircraft company was Tom’s first major assignment. “My job there,” he explains, “was to analyze the application of IBM’s latest electronic computer—the 705—to regulate the flow of materials and machines used to fill Government contracts.”
Then came a short, but highly satisfying assignment. At the Bellwood Quartermaster Corps, Tom set up a “SOAP” system (System for Optimum Automatic Programming) de
DATA PROCESSING
ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS
fined by Tom as “converting the flow of instructions and information into the most efficient operation for an IBM magnetic drum computer. Bellwood,” Tom points out, “is the Inventory Control Center for all
A problem in inventory control
Quartermaster centers in the country. The new system will achieve balanced supply and demand of material throughout the entire U. S.—will save money for the Government—and relieve many men from the drudgery of details.”
For the past six months, Tom has been working with the Statistical Services Division of Headquarters Air Research & Development Com-
Explaining IBM’s 705 electronic computer
mand. “We are designing and implementing a system to link eleven reporting centers to Headquarters by wire transmission,” Tom reports. “Data transmitted to Headquarters by this system will be coordinated and then processed by an IBM 650 electronic computer.”
TIME EQUIPMENT
Why Tom chose IBM
How does a senior like Tom, who was interviewed by at least twenty companies while in college, select his future employer? “In my case,” Tom says, “the choice was easy. IBM offered the best opportunities. I knew IBM sales were about doubling every five years—and when I considered the tremendous growth potential of the electronic computer field—I had no trouble making up my mind.
“Besides, I was impressed by the caliber of IBM personnel. They had a broader outlook and an approach to
At the control panel of IBM’s 650
business which I can best describe as professional.
“My future? It looks good—very good. I’ve already received two generous raises in less than two years, and at the rate IBM and the electronic computer field are expanding, my future is both assured — and rewarding!” o o o
IBM hopes this message will help to give you some idea of what it’s like to be a Systems Analyst in the Data Processing Division. There are equal opportunities for E.E.’s, I.E.’s, M.E.’s, physicists, mathematicians, Liberal Arts majors, and Business Administration graduates in IBM’s many divisions—Research, Product Development, Manufacturing Engineering, Sales and Sales Assistance. Why not drop in and discuss IBM with your Placement Director? He can supply our brochure and tell you when IBM will next interview on your campus. Meanwhile, our Manager of College Relations, P. H. Bradley, will be happy to answer your questions. Just write him at IBM, Room 11904, 590 Madison Ave., New York 22, N. Y.
X-
MILITARY PRODUCTS
Kohorst
(Continued from Page 26)
Gibraltar. Now she attends all the University’s athletic events and can even tell you the names of the officials.
During fall practice the soph chuckers had one ambition; to pitch to Kohorst during the practice sessions. Elmer re-^nained patient and by the end of the workout he had caught most of them.
Elmer started his organized baseball career at the age of 14, playing with the town’s American Legion team. During the following years he played with the feeder team for the Albany Skeeters, the Albany High Huskies, and the Albany Skeeters. His batting average for these seasons was alwavs over ^300.	'
In high school Elmer received a variety of honors. In his sophomore and senior years he achieved all-conference honors in football and all-conference, allregion, and all-district honors in basketball. Elmer also was president of the student council and the senior class. He maintained a B average throughout his four years and was appointed the school’s delegate to Minnesota Boys State to practice government leadership.
DISCOVERED BY SLAPNICA
Kohorst was discovered by Cy Slap-nica, the Cleveland scout who signed Bob Feller and Herb Score. Slapnica saw Elmer while he was playing with the Albany High Huskies, and immediately informed his close friend Jake Kline, the Notre Dame coach, that ^Imer would like to attend college before trying his ability in the majors. An exchange of letters between Kohorst and Kline brought the Albany star to Notre Dame on a scholarship.
After graduation Elmer plans to play pro baseball. He has been approached by 14 of the 16 major league clubs, and will choose the one that offers the most suitable arrangements for him and his •pfe.
Elmer is a Physical Education major in the college of Arts and Letters. During his four years at Notre Danie, he has maintained an 84.5 average.
Paul Hornung, Elmer’s roommate in the first semester of his Junior year, congratulated Kohorst when he returned to campus. He also added in a joking voice, “I knew some of it would rub off * you roomed with me long enough.”
When one asks Jake Kline what Elmer’s hobby is, he replies, “Baseball!' what else?” Kline says that Elmer is easy to coach, a good student, and one of the nicest boys that he has coached. “His chance of making the big time is very good,” says Kline, “because of his ^ize, hitting ability, and his determination to get the job done.”
True. Jockey brand undergarments are famous for comfort. This trim fit with no bind or chafe literally makes you forget you have them on... they’re designed to make you comfortably forget them.
True. Although only 24% of our population grew up in towns of 25,000 or under, this group produces 44% of all college men.
Men who earn their way through college earn the most money afterward
n TRUE |~| FALSE
False. Statistics prove that men who earn nothing in college are more likely to enter the better-pay occupations.
Men in the know
know true from false
Proportionately, there are more small-town men at college than city men
Coopers, maker of Jockey brand underwear, try to make you forget their products
Men on the go go f or JocArevunderwear A	BRAND *
A
J made only by
April 12, 1957
31
SUMMER SCHOOL IN SALZBURG
Discussing the CATHOLIC point of view on Man and the Universe.
Under the chairmanship of Prof. P. Thomas Michels, O.S.B., of the University of Salzburg, leading scientists, philosophers, and theologians from 14 European Universities will give lectures dealing with current research and concepts.
All courses will be translated into English. Some 600 students from various European countries will participate. Entire program lasts 4 weeks, including a two week travel program through Holland, Belgium, France, Germany and Austria.
Room, Board, Travel, Tuition, Ocean transportation included for ft Eft A Group sails July 15, 1957. ▼•Ov
For information and application write to:
The Institute of European Studies A non-profit corporation
35 East Wacker Drive, Chicago 1, Ill.
Announce New Staffs For ’Lawyer/ ’Court’
The appointment of twelve junior law students to positions on next year’s Notre Dame Lawyer and Moot Court staffs was announced last night at the Law School’s fourth annual honor banquet at the Oliver Hotel.
Robert P. Gorman, Lawyer editor-in-chief, announced next year’s staff. They are: Edward Denn, Utica, N. Y., editorin-chief; Eugene Waye, Philadelphia, Pa., associate editor; George Patterson, Miami, Fla., lead articles editor; Jerry Curran, Rochester, N. Y., case editor; Raymond Drexler, Riverside, Ill., note editor; Eugene Griffin, Knoxville, Tenn., book review editor; and John Callahan, Jr., Chicago, Ill., managing editor.
Named to Moot Court staff positions by Patrick Berrigan, Moot Court director, were: Donald Very, Pittsburgh, Pa., director; William Ragan, Buffalo, N. Y., executive director; John Rigby, South Bend, Ind., chancellor; Walter Wolf,
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J.TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
f
Haddonfield, N. J., publicity director; -and Thomas Oglevie, Kansas City, Kans., secretary.
Also at the banquet, Grey’s Inn President William L. Schierberl, announced results of Inn elections held during the week, and 28 graduating seniors received engraved gavels, representing successful completion of Moot Court competition requirements.	ft
Knights Contribute $3000 For Moreau Seminary
Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., director of the Holy Cross Father’s Seminary fund-raising campaign, announced this past week a gift of $3,000 from the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus.	e
Presentation of the gift took place last week in the office of Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame president. Robert Miller, Grand Knight; Rev. Philip Schaerf, C.S.C., chaplain; Fred Freeman, financial secretary; and Robert Loeffler, recording secretary, also took part in the presentation.
The $3,000 gift from the Notre Dame council, the largest and oldest Knights of Columbus college council in the worldjf will be used for the purchase of a vestment case in the $3,000,000 seminary which will soon be erected on the campus.
For information and application forms, fill out this coupon and mail to:
THE INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES "A non-profit corporation"
35 East Wackar Dr.,	Chicago 1, III.
Enroll in a full program of English taught courses at the University of Vienna. Live in a Viennese home. Learn to speak German fluently. Participate in three separate study tours through eight countries. Integrate study and travel for o grass roots grasp of contemporary European problems. This two-semester program lasts 10 months. Round trip ocean transportation is covered in the all inclusive fee of------------------------------ $1780.
name address city
Study in Europe
ECONOMICAL ACADEMIC YEAR
stat*
Vacation Plans Announced By Campus Regional Clubs
Notre Dame regional clubs have announced their plans for Easter vacatioi^ activities.
The Florida Club will present its annual dance at the Hollywood Beach Hotel, just south of Ft. Lauderdale, on Monday, April 22, from 9:30 p.m. to 2 a.m.
The Chicago Club will hold its Easter' dance at the Sheraton Hotel on Friday, April 25, from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Lou Breese and his orchestra are slated t^ play for the affair.
Lou Dryer and his orchestra will play for the Met Club’s annual Easter dance, at the Penn Top Roof of the Hotel Statler. The dance will be held Easter Monday night, April 22, from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.
TV singei- Janie Palmer and Fred Netting’s Orchestra will highlight the Detroit Club’s annual dance on EasteL Sunday night at the suburban St. Clair Shores Civic Center overlooking Lake St. Clair. The dance will last from 8:30 p.m. to 2 a.m.
The Kansas City Club will hold its annual Easter dance at the Aladdin Hotel on Easter Sunday night from 9 to 12 p.m. Les Copley and his orches, i -tra will provide the music.	v
32
The Scholastic
•Six Justices to Hear Cases in Moot Court
■ Six justices of the Indiana State Court ■ of Appeals will preside over the semi-B final round of the Notre Dame Law ■ School’s eighth annual Moot Court com-■ petition in the Law Auditorium Monday W-evening at 7:30.
11 The Indiana judges will sit as the H United States Supreme Court for com-fl petition purposes, hearing contestants ■ argue the appeal of a businessman who B has been convicted under a Federal brib-H ery statute for giving money to a union M official to avert a threatened strike.
B This businessman was convicted on his H own testimony before a Senate commit-•™ tee investigating corrupt labor practices.
The committee had promised the peti-11 tioner freedom from state prosecution. 11 The petitioner alleges that since the Fed-fl eral district attorney worked so closely II with the committee during its investiga-B tions, its promise should also have given M him immunity from Federal prosecution. *1 Law students in the competition will III be Thomas Oglevie, Kansas City, Kan.; IB John Murray, Elmira, N. Y.; and Ray-fl^nond Tam, Wahiawa, Oahu, T. H., for B the petitioner. Arguing the case for the B government will be Donald Very, Pitts-■ burgh, Pa.; William Ragan, Buffalo, N. JI ¥.; and John Marchal, Greenville, 0.
New Award to Honor Top Navy Midshipman
A new award to be presented annually to the outstanding Navy ROTC midshipman of the University’s Senior Class has been established by George W. Strake, a Houston, Texas, businessman.
The award is a Naval or Marine Corps officer’s sword. It will be presented to the senior with the best Navy ROTC record at the Senior Class Day exercises. These exercises are held during commencement weekend, on the day be-before the graduating members of the University’s Navy, Army, and Air Force ROTC units receive their commissions.
Strake is a member of Notre Dame’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees and the College of Commerce Advisory Council. His son, George Strake, Jr., is president of this year’s Senior Class.
Applicants Now Considered For Wrangler Membership
The Wranglers, a campus discussion group, are now considering applications for next year’s membership from interested students. Deadline for application is April 20. Anyone interested should send a letter stating the reason he would like to join the group to:
Wrangler Membership Committee, 233 Pangborn Hall.
The Wranglers are a group of students who believe in the merit of exchanging and sharing thought, and of discovering and learning together. At each weekly meeting a member delivers a prepared essay which is then discussed by the entire group.
This year’s topics were directed toward an analysis of the “Contemporary Amer- . ican Mind.” Among the papers presented this year were those dealing with the place of thought in American life, Thomas Merton, the ethic of courage in Ernest Hemingway, Pluralism, and the poetry of Robert Lowell.
Lyons Team Edges Howard In Interhall Bridge Tourney
The Lyons Hall bridge team won the annual Interhall Team-of-Four bridge tournament held last Sunday in the La-
Fortune Student Hall team had a while the second team had a score
Center. The Lyons score of 28% points place Howard Hall of 28 points.
The members of the Lyons Hall team were Brian Moran, Lou Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, and Fred Carley. The Howard team was composed of Marty McGinn, Bob Funderlic, Leroy Paulson, and John Farrell.
17-JEWEL MEN'S SENATOR, $4150
Free chances obtained with every Purchase of a Sheaffer Pen item
SHEAFFER PEN GIVE-AWAY
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
See the Bulovas on display at the Notre Dame Bookstore
Drawing May 13
17-JEWEL LADIES' JILL "A," $4150
April 12, 1957
33
Pa^e.
revolt against by JOHN QUAGLIANO
revolt*
When European professors come to this country, they are more startled by the students than the big-finned, multicolored, beeping automobiles which jam our streets. The students are the lifeblood of Europe; they present the new ideas. Here we do not make demonstrations. We do not even talk. Even the most provocative statements won’t make us break our silence, because we just don’t know what to say.
We read the newspapers with cooling cups of coffee, hustling past the now important names which only stamp collectors cared about before. We skim the movie ads and chuckle over the witty Miss Landers. If we buy the right paper we find Peanuts. Finally we settle complacently with a crossword puzzle or the sports section, depending if our interests are with facts or chance. But even here we learn abbreviations like USSR, and that Ted Williams thinks a certain senator was a phoney.
One member of this younger generation will go to graduate school so that he can eventually pass on the books that he has read.
Ted Williams is quite a hero. He does not swing at bad pitches and at least he spits at things he doesn’t like. Most of us won’t even clench our fists or thumb our noses. We are so unemotional that we can tolerate anything. We even tolerate things against oui- very instincts and heritage. Live and let live we say. They’ll get theirs someday.
There does not seem to be any name or implication in our language which will make an educated man fighting mad. Of course we are all above fighting, but shouldn’t these things mean something to us? Otherwise what good would it be to turn the other cheek? And why. must our tongues be lodged in this cheek when they need the workout? People will think that we are skeptical, fatalistic, pathetic, or hopeless.
One member of this younger generation does not feel that he has wasted four years, because he will have a chance to see another football season. Another is still complaining that his mattress is too hard.
Robert Hutchins, former president of the University of Chicago, has referred
to American universities as colossal housing projects intended to keep young people away from worse places until they find jobs. Some may agree with this. Others will say that individual accomplishments are no longer possible. Projects financed by the government and corporations have taken the place of individual inventors and researchers. Solutions to problems now come off the assembly line.
One member of this younger generation wants very much to serve God and .will probably join the priesthood.
Many of us who want to be called Notre Dame men do not want to accept this responsibility. We would much rather take off our Notre Dame jackets, so to speak, when we make decisions against these ideals. Many of us would be truly content if instead of making decisions, we had but to obey and do our duty. But even then our concepts of duty would change with the commands which we would be asked to obey.
One member of this younger generation, who has been active in student government for four years, is still looking for a definition which will prove that he is a leader.
We know that we must carry on our faith and ideals as they have been passed on by the countless generations before us. When we seniors enter the future in a few short months, it will be like entering a foreign country and so we must have a passport. In many cases our degrees will be forged passports. We stated a purpose when we applied for a visa. We must attempt to fulfill it.
We members of this younger generation will be doing different things next year. One will be playing football in Wisconsin; another will be studying glaciers in the Antarctic. Many of us do not know where we will be. We will have to weigh the job offers before we commit our life. A few will make a good retreat. We will all take a lot of interviews. We know that we are obligated to do something.
One member of this younger generation, who has been called a puritan and an idealist but who considers himself a cynic, wants to publish a newspaper.
A pre-med friend may be going for
money. He will specialize if he finds something good. He will hope to make a lot of money and retire in 15 years. Then he will do what he really wants to do — travel, fish, take things easy. If things are rough he will concede more than 15 years to his profession.^
Things will be rough. We don’t want to face it but we are prepared for it. We do not feel uneasy when someone says that another war is inevitable. What can we do either way?
We know one thing. We know that we will be in it somehow. So we prepare ' to get our service obligation out of the way as best we can. We investigate the j different programs. We feel that they ! all have good and bad points. We eager & | ly talk to the veterans who give us j conflicting advice. We know we can’t know what would be best until we get in — take a chance. But how many of us think of the work that we will be doing in the service? Have we found out about the available jobs that may fit in with our careers?
One member of this younger generation is still trying to kiss his elbmv^ This younger generation seems sim-** ilar to the “lost generation” of the twenties described by Malcolm Cowley in Exiles Return. But we do not have any frontiers! We do not have the illusion that the answers lie in Europe. And Rimbaud and Gauguin were not interested in riding surfboards. Since we do not have illusions, we will not have the opportunity to become disillusioned. However, we still have our ideals.
Since we have the privilege of fine ideals, we have the responsibility to keep them growing. There is no fertile soil across the sea in which to transplant them. We have to be Johnny Appleseeds, and plant them right here in our own backyard. And we have to pass the watering can on to our children.
Will we keep trying to make some^ thing important of our lives? Will we only conform to the things which are worthy of conformity? These are difficult questions to answer because we lie loudest when we lie to ourselves. Our youth is a talent — a perishable one. Since we will go through a lot, we can expect it to wilt quickly. We will not be the younger generation very long, T*
The Scholastic
ever!
Last season's hit is back
bigger than



New
Ivy-Right Arrows
These you’ll like! Arrow University oxford shirts in white, solid colors and pencil-line stripes. Every one tailored in the true Ivy tradition. The collar buttons down in front and center back (Arrow’s button placement gives a more natural collar roll) ... full length box pleat in back. Arrow University, $5.00 up. Choice of foulard pattern ties, $2.50.
This Arrow University oxford shirt was such a smash hit last season, you asked for an encore. And for good reason! The collar is buttondown—both front and center back. Full length box pleat in back. Pencfl-line stripes on white backgrounds—plus white and five solid colors. Arrow University, $5.00 up. Shantung stripe ties, $2.50.
AR RO 11^
—first in fashion shirts • TIES

GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS
(Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend)
c
