
editorial-------'------------------~----. 
AStudent Government newsletter is not, in and of itself, a bad idea. A newsletter offers student leaders a forum to tell their constituents exactly what they are doing for th~in. It can be the instrument through which the needs and desires of the student body are perceived, discussed and refined. 
The most recent issue of We the People, the official publication of Student Government, does none of the above. Instead, what we the people got was an expensive-looking thank you note from Bill Healy to himself. According to our best estimates, the current 16-page epic on the struggles of Bill, Duane and "all the president's men" cost somewhere between $2,300 and $2,500. 
And what did we the people get for all that money? An honest, critical evaluation of the Student Government's operation over this last year? Hardly. What we got was 16 pages of self-congratulation with a few not too subtle swipes at Student Government "enemies" . thrown in for good measure. The constant pokes at the Observer were particularly distressing. We also got self-serving inter­views of Bill and Duane, sycophantic chats with Father Tyson and Joni Neal and an outright homage to Father Hesburgh. 
Healy's name was mentioned in the newsletter, by our count, about forty times. With this sort of publicity it's no wonder that 81.6 percent of the campus knows who the Student Body President is, as Healy's poll points out. We have nothing against using student government funds for a newsletter. We object strongly, however, as do many students on this campus, to the use of this much money for blatant self promotion. At a time when students are questioning the relevance of Student Government, less frivolous expenditures of funds are advis­able. 
-SCHOLASTIC 

contents---------------~----------, 
Editor-in-Chief James F. Basile · 
General Manager Maher A. Mouasher 
Design Editor Alex Peltzer 

Managing Editor Matthew H. Bradley 
Production Manager Barbara Blanchette 
Administration 
Pete Cespedes/ Advertising Mike Hoffman/Circulation 
Editorial 
Pete Butler/Copy John Dettling/Sports Mary Dolan/Departments Mary Hartney /Student Life Ted Kelleher/Nat. Affairs Jim McGarry /Copy Jean O'Bryan/Notre Dame 
Layout 
Jim Doerfler Terese Heidenwolf Julie Oxler Anne Ranaghan Sue Serrato Steve Traubert 
Art & Photography 
Tom Falvey Emil McCauley John Murillo Jan Neruda 

The opinions expressed in •SCHOLASTIC are those of the autnors and editors of SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of SCHOLASTIC or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or student body. Editorials, unless other­wise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority of the editorial board. 
. SCHQLASTIC is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertising, Inc. Published bi-weekly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, SCHO­LASTIC is printed at The Papers Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75 a year and back issues are available from SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manuscripts to SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, IN 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of SCHOLASTIC. Copy­
. right © 1986 SCHOLASTIC. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 
Volume 127 Number 11 SCHOLASTIC March 19, 1986 
FEATURES 

2/New Orleans Hospitality 
by John Affleck 

6/The Point Of The Matter 
by Dan Fabian 
8/Out Of The Blue 
by Dan Fabian 

9/Steely Determination 
by Chuck Ehrman 

11/The Iron Lady Under Fire 
by Pat Markey 

18/ls The Grass Any Greener On Other Campuses? 
by Pat Collins 

22/Where Does All The Money Go? 
by Maher Mouasher 

26/Four For The Road 
by Pete Pranica 

29/A Different Kind Of Program 
by Patricia Warth 


DEPARTMENTS 
10/On Other Campuses. 
by Paul Aiello . 
14/Music: My Favorite Tunes 
by Donald Seymour 

15/Cinema: No Longer Clowns 
by Eric Cruz 

16/Coming Distractions 
Compiled by Karen Dettling 
25/Restaurants: What's Cooking ? by John Markey 
31/Final Word: Trading Places 
by Patricia Warth 
32/Crossword 

Cover photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 

By John Affleck 
I'm not big on omens, but when we were going 70 m.p.h and the left back tire of. the van blew out at 
4:30 a.m. in the middle of Missis­sippi, we should have known. 
It was more ot less a whim that took us to New Orleans. Steve McKay, my roommate, had wanted to see Mardi Gras arid had found a cheap. way to get there (by hitching a ride from five other ND guys). 
2 
Down in . New Orleans we met up with Squirrel, a friend of ours, who was on leave from the service. 
After the Mardi Gras parades; most of the action is in the French Quarter. Thousands of people, smashed on beers;. or stoned on dope, or rushing off hits of laugh­ing gas, hang out on the streets, beers or Hurricanes in hand, wait­ing for something to happen. 
The crowds in the street scream for women on the balconies of the bars to· flash their breasts. 
Many oblige. Down the street, at a gay bar, transvestites and herma­phrodites get their kicks flashing to unsuspecting straight guys. Meanwhile, the cops gather in clus­ters ·· on the corners or bust some kids for God-knows-what reason. 
We got to know the cops in New Orleans pretty well, and this is wh_ere the story really begins. 
On our first trip downtown, Saturday night to see the krewe of Endymion's parade, Squirrel did a dumb thing. He forgot about the 
SCHOLASTIC 

danger of crowded places and wore his $200 gold chain and $100 gold cross. 
After about an hour of s-t~*ding on Canal Street, waiting_ for the parade, Squirrel went to .-use the facilities and got mug·ged. One young kid grabbed Squirrel's arms while another kid ripped the chain off his neck and split: Squirrel bummed. · · 
Squirrel told a couple. ·of cops what had happened. The ·cops, who were stationed about every. two blocks to control a crowd of thousands, said there was nothing they could do. Squirrel tried to enjoy the rest of the. night. 
Returning to Squirrel's car that night, we discovered that a brick had been smashed against the windshield. The windshield hadn't shattered. No one said much about the brick. The car was still there and, after the chain incident, how much worse could things get? 
Sunday was marked by drink­ing; by the time the parades were over and it was time to head for the Quarter, we'd hit a groove. In the Quarter we visited Pat O'Brien's, a club famous for a drink appropriately called a Hurri­cane. Hurricanes taste like they have every kind of liquor known to 
man in them, plus Kool-Aid. After. a couple of those babies I remember thinking, John,-you are definitely disqualified from operat­ing anything with wheels. 
Mercifully, I thought, we got out of Pat O's a little after midnight. Heading up· Bourbon towards Canal, Squirrel once again did a dumb thing. 
Now slightly paranoid of separa-· 

tion · from the group because of the mugging, but once again needing the facilities, he chose to relieve himself behind a nearby car. Enter New Orleans' finest. From my blindside, two cops came charging .at Squirrel, and carried him down 
the street, unzipped and dangling._ 
Bewildered, McKay and I · con­ferred on what t9 do. What's goin' 
MARCH 19, 1986 
on? Where had they taken Squir­rel? Could we bail him out? After a couple of futile searches up and down the block, we wandered onto a side street where a van was sur­rounded on the front and left by police barricades. Presumably·· this is where they held prisoners and insurrectionists. 
We walked past the police van. Half way down the block we decided to go back and ask a cop where they took their prisoners. Approaching from the back and right we walked up to the van. 
"Officer, a friend of ours got arrested. Do you know where he'd be held?" said McKay to a cop outside the door of the van. "What de hell you doing here?" said the cop. "Why you comin' up ta dis van -they just can't wait ta be arrested." Uh-oh, I thought. Mis­take. "No, officer-" "Git in there." With that, two cops forced us into the van. 
Once inside, we were immedi­ately questioned without being read our rights and were searched. No· one told us what we were charged with. We'd found Squirrel, though. The cops were transferring him to the military police. 
McKay is a great talker and under questioning he was in classic form. He'd hidden his I.D. in his hand when he was searched, so now he gave the cops a fake name and told them he was in ROTC because he thought the military police would give him a better deal. 


So the cops handcuffed McKay and Squirrel and led them through the French Quarter to the MPs, much to the delight of the people on the street. I was left in the pol­ice van, with the rest of the prison­ers. 
The cops had fun with me. "Are you in . the militar.y?" said a cop. "Yes. No. Yes. No." "Look 'at-'im. 
After about an hour of standing on Canal St., waiting for the parade, Squirrel went to use the facilities and got mugged. One young kid grabbed Squirrel's arms while another kid ripped the chain off his neck and split. Squirrel bummed. 
He don't know whether he's in the military or not." ' 
My initial reaction to the ques­tion was fo try and stay with Squir­rel and McKay, but then I realized . with long hair and an earring, nobody was going to believe I was ROTC. 
"I didn't do anything, sir. I was looking for my friend-" "Sure. Heh-heh. Sure.'.' "I didn't do any­thing.'' "You crossed a police barri­cade.'' "No I didn't. And if I did, I didn't mean to. I was looking-" "Heh-heh-heh. Stand up." They put the cuffs on me. "What about my rights?" "This here ain't story­bookland. This here's Nawleans.'' 
"I know. I know.'' 

A little while later we were put in a crowded paddywagon and . taken to Central Lockup. It was 
s 

•. 
beginning to dawn on me what was going to happen next. If there was any system of justice in New Orle­ans, · which was an open question, I'd be processed, searched. again, one phone call -all the Dragnet stuff. I'd probably spend the night in jail, but if I could make bail I'd be out by morning. Man, I hope I don't get raped,. I thought. What a drag, man. That would be a real drag. 
The guys sitting next to me in the wagon were O.K. Both had been busted at Mardi Gras before and they filled me in on what the cops had planned. Once at Central Lockup · we were indeed searched again, and put in a holding cell. This cell was rancid: there were 

. more than 30 men in the room and 

next to the phone. I turned to her drunkenness." That gave us a
someone had been sick and passed out in the toilet. and said, "What would you do if hearty guffaw -McKay gets, busted you were me?" I will always love for being drunk on Bourbon Street 
At 1:51 a.m. I was taken out of this woman; she alone out of all the 

the holding cell and processed by a The cell got crowded around 6
authority figures in New Orleans 

fat, white, blonde, female desk­a.m. I counted 28 men, all in vary­
thought before she answered one of 

sergeant I gave her my name, ing stages of hangover and stench. 
my questions. She said I could have 

address -all the essentials, includ­Time started dragging. Finally,
money wired to me via Western 

ing my personal affects. "Would it about 9 a.m., an hour before my
· Union. I called my sister in 
mean anything to you if I said I arrest record said I was supposed
Syracuse, ·New York, and said,· 


"Joni, I'm in New Orleans and I'm busted. I need $200. Now." She laughed. Then she said she'd send the mon..;y as soon as possible. 
While waiting for bail I was put in another cell for overnight· guests. 

He was standing stark naked, hands in the air, right foot off the ground, eyes closed, waiting for the aerosol disinfectant, when a cop stuck _his head in the door and called McKay's fake -name. "Thank God," said McKay. 
to appear in Municipal Court A to answer my charge, bail came. 
I wasn't released till 9:30 because one of the functions of the 

· cop who processes the. forms for prisoner release appears to be to take as much time as · he can with each one to get · on the inmates' nerves. I could see this guy as he opened my folder, left to get a drink of water, flirted with a secre­tary, wrote · something on the folder, then repeated the process. 
Court might as well have been an assembly line. In the 30 seconds . wasn't read my rights?" I asked. 

No answer. They're not big on rights in New Orleans. Or answers .. "How 'bout telling me what I'm charged with?" "You've already been charged." "Oh. Thanks." That 

cleared everything up. "You can I had before the judge, the court
It was similar to the · other cell 

have your phone call." gave me three choices. I could
except no one had thrown tip iri it . ·recently. I laid down on the dirty · plead not guilty. This meant settingI was then given a copy of my a trial date at least . three weekscement floor arid passed out.
arrest record and access to a away, and returning to New Orle­phone. My record said I needed a Around 4 a.m. I was woken up ans for the trial. I could plead not$200 money order, or cash, to by McKay, whom the MPs had guilty. and skip the trial, whichmake bait I didn't have that much handed back to the: regular police. 

would get me out of a conviction,in New Orleans, nor did the place It was quite the ·Papillon scene. 

but which also meant · the court we were staying have a phone, so I "Hey man, · what did they get you kept my $200 bailmoney, which itcouldn't contact anyone. What to for?" he said. • "Disturbing the was still holding. It also meant if Ido? peace." (That's . what · my arrest ever . was in New Orlean,s againA black lady cop was sitting record said.) "And you?" "Public · (God ·forbid) t~ere would be a 

4 
SCHOLASTIC 


standing warrant for my arrest. Or, I.• could plead. guilty, take the mis­demeanor conviction, and get $70 of . my money back _· after .. they . deducted $130 for the fine and 
--court costs. 
Aw hell, I thought. .-I needed the money to spring McKay whose . trial was set. for Wednesday, and what's one little conviction? "Guilty," I said. I got my $70, took a cab to the apartment where we were staying, and collected Squirrel who the MPs had released at 3 a.m. We drove back to Central Lockup and bailed out McKay. 
McKay was glad to see us. Con­ditions in the cell had deteriorated sirice I left. The group in our cell had · been moved to a smaller (already occupied) holding cell so there were now 45 guys in· a. space the size of a Campus View living 
room. 
Then the cops had strip-search­ed the inmates collectively . This was to be fol­lowed by disin­fecting__. showers and lunch. When 
· McKay was bailed out, the cops were disinfecting. · He was standing stark nakeH, hands in the air, right foot off the gro~nd, eyes closed, wait­ing for the aerosol disinfectant, when a cop stuck his head in the door and called McKay's fake name. "Thank God," said McKay. 
back to the Quarter for more Hur­ricanes. That set the tone for the last two days of Mardi Gras. We ate at good places, went to interest­ing clubs, and heard some good blues piano, performed by Al Broussard, "The Human_ Trumpet." 
Mardi Gras night we left Al, who plays at the 711 Club, and caught a cab home. Since it was Mardi Gras night we had to share the cab with a loner who was dressed in some sort of weird pink costume. McKay was in the front seat chatting with the driver when we got to our destination. 
The driver told McKay he wanted us to pay for the full fare, although the meter was running before we were picked up. Plus, he said, he wanted the full fare from the loner as well. "That's not cool, 

They left McKay sitting around naked for a while, then finally gave him· his clothes and, when the release cop got around to it, let him go.. 
Grateful, because we ._thought our troubles were over, our first move out of jail was to go· right 
MARCH 19, 1986 
man," McKay said. 
The cabbie didn't say artything at first. Instead, he calmly pulled out a pistol, probably a .38, and pointed it at McKay's head. The pink loner freaked out. I hadn't been listening. I looked up -to see the cabbie holding the gun. To be honest, I wasn't really surprised. · 
"This here ain't Detroit, boy," the cabbie said, with a threatening wave in the direction of Squirrel and myself. "This here's Nawle­ans." "I know," said Squirrel. "I know." 
"Gimme my money." \'Oh come on, man," said McKay: "Will you 
The cabbie didn't. say anything at first. Instead, he calmly pulled out a pistol, prob­ably a .38, and pointed it at McKay's head. 
be fair?" "Steve, the man's got a gun. I'm gonna pay him," I said. I paid the cabbie and we got out. "Thanks " McKay said. "If that . gun had' gone ·off it woulda hurt like hell." 
McKay ·and Squirrel had alertly picked up the cab's number· and license plate. They called the cops from a pay phone; McKay said it · was an emergency. An hour and a half later a cop showed up to tell them the police weren't going to do anything about the situation because we wouldn't be in town to press charges. 
The next day was Ash Wednes­day and early in the morning the 

· guys from ND gave me a ride back to school. Squirrel and McKay went to -municipal Court A at I 0 
a.m. McKay's trial was a lot like mine, except McKay got a word in edgewise. 
"Judge," he said. "Before you convict me there's something I'd like to say. While I was in New Orleans my friend was mugged, someone tried to break in our car and a cabbie pulled a· gun on· us. And /spent the night in jail for 
asking directjons." "Have a ·nice· day," the judge said. 
You've gotta love New Orleans hospitality.• 
6 




The Point Of The Matter 
IRISH FENCERS· FOIL OPPOSITION 
by Dan Fabian 

What.Notre Dame athletic squad has 'the best winning {;ercentage over the last 25 years? If you guessed the. football or basketball teams you are wrong. The fencing team outdoes both of them. At a school noted for its athletic tradi­tion, the fencing team has a tough time competing with Digger's cagers or the legendary Irish gridders for attention. Despite their relative anonymity, however, the Notre Dame fencers continue to win at an astonishing pace. 
Head coach Mike DeCicco has posted a record of 484-40 (.923) in 25 years at the helm of the Irish fencing· team. DeCicco has coached the Irish to apair of NCAA Cham­pionships in the severities, and is one of the most respected coaches in the country. DeCicco's latest edition in his ongoing dynasty has posted a 26-0 record and extended their wi.n strefik to fifty-three meets dating back to February of 1984. They also won the Great Lakes Championships . for the third straight year, on the way to qualify­ing the maximum allowed six fenc­ers for the NCAA Championships held March 18-22 in Princeton, New Jersey. 
Despite all the success the fenc-. ing team has achieved, few people understand what fencing is all about. The men fence three weapons: foil, sabre, and epee. Each bout usually lasts five touches and three fencers in each weapon take part in a dual meet during the regular season. 
Touches are scored in foil when the point of the blade lands on the chest or the back. The scoring is · done electrically through a wire connected to the fencers weapon and running down his arm. Another key aspect of the foil bout is the rule of the right of way. "You need to remember that the person who attacks first has the right of way. When both fencers attack at the same time the touches are disallowed," explains junior foilist Charles Higgs-Coulthard who posted a 32-5 record in '86. , 
Higgs-Coulthard and sophomore Yehuda Kovacs (40-4) will represent the Irish foil squad at the NCAAs. Senior captain Mike Van der Velden (36-6) held down the third starting position throughout 

and comes from Hod Hasharon, Israel. In fact, he is the first Israeli to ever fence at Notre Dame. "I heard it was a good fencing school, . and I wrote Coach Decicco a letter," noted Kovacs who won the Great Lakes Championship.· "He expressed an interest in me as a person. Coach even went as far as 
·having a local Rabbi write me on the religious question. I am so glad I decided to come to Notre Dame; -it is a very special set up.'; 
The next weapon, sabre, has some similarities with the foil. In sabre, a touch can be scored on the upper body, and right of way still holds in a bout. The key difference 


the regular season,and won second place at the Great Lakes. Coach DeCicco has had some good foil squads in twenty-five years, but he claims this years as · his best. "The members of this foil team push each other. They are the best foil squad in the country," he says. 
Kovacs came to Notre Dame in an interesting• way. He is Jewish, is that touches can be scored with the entire blade, and not just the point. . Sabre is the fastest moving of the weapons ~nd cannot be scored electrically because the entire blade is legal. The electronics is replaced with a· panel of four side judges, who help the director decide on the touches. 
.The sabre squad at Notre Dame 
SCHOLASTIC 


has had a very productive season. Seniors Don Johnson (28-9) and John Edwards (28-4) will take part in the· NCAAs for the third time· in their careei:s. "It is very competi­tive in sabre this year. I would like to finish in the top . three, but very little separates the top ten sabremen in the country," said Edwards about his ch~ces at the NCAA Championships. 
The third· weapon is epee. Touches can be scored on any part of the body with the point of the weapon. Also, the right of way is 
nQt a factor in a bout. Epee is scored electronically and double touches can be awarded when both fencers attack at the same time. 
Two Irish epeeists, seniors Christian Scherpe (34-7) and Mike Gostigian (I 7-7) qualified for the NCAA's by finishing first and second at the Great Lakes. The third starter, junior John Haugh, finished fourth at the Great Lakes and won the bout that ·allowed 
MARCH 19, 1986 
·Scherpe to win the championship. "I enjoy fencing against the stronger people. It brings the best out in me on the strip. I am thought to fence classically, and taking on similarly trained opponents is very satisfying," noted Haugh. 
Another reason for thl! success of the Irish this season was the senior sabre captain Tony Consoli ( 40-8). Twenty seniors are graduat­ing after this season, and coach DeCicco has said . they are his greatest class. "I'll just remember · the fun I had being part of the fencing team. That is much more important than the wins and losses on the strip," commented senior Mike Van der V elden. 

11The members of this foil team push each other. They are the best foil squad in the country." --Coach DeCicco 
work of the captains: Mike Van der · Velden_, Tony . Consoli, and. Tim Vaughan. "It is my job to get the fencers pumped up for a meet. I have to . make sure the guys ar.e stretching out and getting ready to fence. If you are not physically and mentally ready, it is very diffi­cult to be a successful fencer," said 
"This is a special group of kids," noted head coach Mike DeCicco. "I just wish that the whole team could fence atthe tour­nament later this month. I feel that we have a good chance to be very successful at Princeton. The 1986 Notre Dame fencing team will go down as one of the best."• 
Th~ team was given the top seed in the Mid\\'.eSt tournament by vir­tue of posting a successful record despite the competitive schedule of

OUT· OF THE BLUE the '86 season. "It is great to have a chance to compete -with the top 
. squads in the country. If we fence
SULLIVAN LEADS WOMEN'S TEAM 
The arrival of Molly Sullivan a year 
ago · sent the Irish women's fencing 
_team on the road to being one of 
the nation's finest. 
in fact, Molly Sullivan started fencing almost by accident. 

Sullivan's mother worked as a 
teacher's aide to a female fenc~r. 
"My mother became interested, 
and had her demonstrate the sport to my family. I showed some interdst, and started working · with 
Joe Pechinsky," noted the Irish 
sophomore. "Joe taught me all the basics, and I owe a lot to him. He turned me into one of the top female fencers in United States," commented Sullivan. 
Sullivan competed in various Junior World Games in high school, and gained a reputation as one of the top fencers. When it came time to choose a college, the decision was . easy for Molly Sullivan. "Coach DeCicco is the reason I cam~ to Notre Dame. He really ·cares about everything, and not just the fencing. He has done so much for me. I just hope I can repay him by making the Notre Dame women's fencing team as successful as possible." 
Sullivan posted a 43-4 (.915) mark as a freshman, and won the '85 Great Lakes Championship. She also ea.rneq All-American honors placing fifth at the NCAA finals held on the campus of St. Mary's College last spring. Her fencing car: ried the team to a 12-7 record, and the future looked even brighter. "Last year was kind of frustrating at times,"1 noted· the North And­over, Massachusetts, native. "The team was just coming into it's own. We were losing a lot of 5-4 bouts. I just felt like I was carrying the team in a lot of meets." 
by Dan Fabian 

During last summer, Sullivan turned her full attention to fencing. She became the first woman ever !o win both the junior and senior gold medals at the Nationals, as well as being a member of the gold medal team. "She just did not lose at all, and I knew that •~6 could be a _ very special year for Molly Sul-' Iivan," commented Coach Decicco. 
The addition of new women's coach Yves Auriol and another top notch fencer, Janice Hynes, has 
been the turning point for the Irish fencers. "Coach A uriol has refined my fencing, as well as every one else's. We went from being a good team to the top women's -team in the Midwest in one season," added Sullivan. 
The team has rolled to a 23-0 
mark in the '86 season, as \\-;ell as 
winning the Great Lakes Cham­
pionships. Sullivan has posted a 
48-3 (.941) record and now ranks 
second on the career winning per­
centage_ list (.929) and sixth on the 
career_ win list (91). Defeating 
teammate Hynes for the Junior 
Olympics gold medal in February, 
Sullivan won her second straight . 
Great Lakes title. Sullivan and 
Hynes also qualified for the NCAA· 
individual champio.i:ship. "I was 
thrilled to see Janice qualify for the 
nationals. It will help us both . 
greatly; because it gives you some-• 
one to warm up with and someone . 
who understands· the situation 
.you're in," said Sullivan. 
well we could win the team title at the NCAAs." 
Despite all her success,th~ one thing that keeps Molly Sullivan going is the sport itself. "I fence because I enjoy fencing. I get into all aspects of the sport, and just hope I get an opportunity to fence after· my career at Notre Dame. I would _really_ like to be part of the '88 Olympics in Seoul." 
The way Molly Sullivan has been fencing, the chances are very good.• 
SCHOLASTIC 






STEELY DETERMINATION 
FENCER HIGGS-COULTHARD HAS IT 
"He deserves all he gets," says 
Head Coach Mike DeCicco. "He 
goes after everything with an 
unusual amount of determination 
vigor and pride. And that impresse~ 
me." 
Indeed, Charles Higgs-
Coulthard has refined his fencing 
ability into an art form, a fluid poe­
try. Seven years of practice. and 
sweat has brought him this far. As 
a freshman he won the NCAA foil 
title, and last year in his own 
sequel, finished fourth in the 
NCAA finals. Both seasons 
brought him All-American honors. 
Once more, in 1986, he will 
represent Notre Dame in the 
NCAA foil championship; a result 
of winning a gold medal at the 
Midwest Regionals in early March. 
For the junior from St. 
Edward's Hall, the pressure is on, and he feels it more than in pa:;t years. "I won the NCAA freshman year, but there wasn't much pres­sure on me because it was just my first year. Plus, I had already fenced against a lot of the competi­tion earlier in the year, so I knew what I was up against." He knows that he has set a high precedent for · · himself, but ht'remains undaunted and optimistic in a sport '-'·.J:ere the smallest of mistakes ca::1 spell instant failure. "I want to win the 
NCAAs again," he says: 
But his lofty aspirations do not stop here. For Higgs-Coultl:.ard, the NCAA tJ.tle is just. the tip of the iceberg. His future plans include competing for spots on both the Pan Am and U.S. Olympic teams. 
Higgs-Coulthard gets a good deal of personal satisfaction out of the sport. "As far as the competi­tion is concerned," he says, "every­thing is one-on-one. So ·when you win, the credit is yours alone. The lack of publicity for the · sport 
MARCH 19, 1986 
doesn't really bother me, I get satis­faction just from going out there and doing the best I can." 
Coulthard came to Notre Dame for reasons not solely associated with fencing. "I picked Notre Dame because I was looking for a school that had a good pre-med program, as well as a good fencing program. Plus, I liked the area. I 
'had lived in a rural area ·back in Massachusetts." And when he arrived he took the sport and did wonders with it. Freshman year he finished 43-6 (.878), sophomore year he finished 33-2 (.943), and so far in his junior season, up until the Great Lakes tournament at the start of March, his record stood at a very fine 32-5 (.865). That puts his collegiate career record at a stunning 108-13; good enough for 
by Chuck Ehrman 
ninth on the career foil win list as a junior. 
Coach DeCicco has nothing but respect for the gutsy competitor. "He's a devoted sportsman/' says DeCicco. "He doesn't have the God-given talent o: the natural physique · of a fencer. He's made himself into a great foilist.-He works hard, and his dedication car­ries over to the rest of the team. Charles came within a whisper of competing for the gold last spring at the NCAAs. He is one of the top foil men in the country. He's the kind of person you want to have on your team, he always turns in a good effort, and his work carries over into his studies too. He's going to be a doctor, and he goes about his school work with just as much determination as he does his fenc­ing." 
For young Higgs-Coulthard, the 
sky is the limit in anything he chooses to pursue. Put simply, he is the type of person you have to take your hat off to. He is the guy that gives it 100% and more, refusing to . be anything but the best. With a lit-· tie. luck he may just bring home the· NCAA gold medal in the foil one 

more time.e 


on other campuses 


Adult Education In Japan 
l he-Setagaya College in Tokyo, Japan, celebrates its 10th anniversary this year. What makes Setagaya College unique is that all its students are well into their 60s and 70s. The purpose of this part­academic, part-geriatric institution 
· is to deal with the growing problem of people forced into retirement and thus into a personal sense of uselessness. Admission to the two year college is free with no academic requirements, thereby allowing the elderly an opportunity to make new friends and develop new interests. Fordham University New York City has ~nitiated a "College at 60," the first U.S: iini-­tation of the Japanese program. 
rhe latest round of campus anti-apartheid demonstrations indi­cates that protesters are switching to more aggressive tactics. Besides the recent erection of Dartmouth shantytowns around campuses, many student movements have tried· to enforce boycotts of Coca­Cola products, stage more sit-ins and most frightening to administra­tors, threaten to interfere with col­lege efforts to recruit minority stu­dents.. 
f\ ccording to forecasts by the American Council on Education (ACE), in spite of a booming econ­omy and low inflation rate;-total college costs ·are due to rise an average five to six percent next year. Cathy Henderson:, the head of the ACE survey, claimed in the report that a large proportion of the rise in costs comes from state sup­ported public institutions. "State legislatures would rather have stu­dents pay higher tuition than raise taxes." 
flccording to several in-depth studies, American women, and col­lege females in particular, have deep feelings of dissatisfaction with 
their bodies. A Better Homes and Gardens survey reported 90 percent of women think they weigh too 

much,-while-a-recent University of -legislators who ·make th0se deci-
Compiled by Paul Aiello 

society." This attitude contributes to guilt and lack of communication regarding birth control. The poll of more than 600 students at 100 cam­puses, found that 32 percent of those surveyed believed withdrawal will protect women from preg­nancy. Another 75 percent believe that taking the pill is as dangerous as having a baby. 
.f?
Iaced with the prospect of 

deeper cuts in the college budget, the University of Nebraska has taken action to avoid provoking the 
California  survey  reported  that  
four-fifths  of  fourth  grade  girls  
surveyed had tried dieting.  

(iemson University appears to be on the brink of a new campus alcohol policy because of a Univer­sity concern to match state minimum drinking age statutes. According to Dean ofStudent Life Joy Smith, "the statistical projec­tions indicate that one in three universities will be sued in the next five years for an alcohol or drug­related liability." For Clemson, and many other universities as well, this risk is not worth taking. 
[ ontrary to the message of major weekly publications, like U.S. News ·and World · Report~ a·new . Gallup poll of college students reveals that "it is still not okay to have sex before marriage in this sions. One budget committee member expressed his objection to the school's art gallery showing

Jean-Luc Goddard's controversial . "Hail Mary" and the showing was 
cancelled. In another move, 
University officials requested the 
student newspaper not run a pic­
ture of_ state senators sleeping on 
the job. 
Miami Beach is now recruiting the college crowd dudng . ,Spring Break. Riding the crest of its Miami Vice fame, the city is trying to capi­talize on the collegiate mania for fun in the sun. To add. some incen­tive Miami Beach is constructing shoreline · refreshment . . stands stocked with beer, contrary to the new stringent drinking policies imposed this year in Fort Lauder­dale and Daytona Beach.. Fort Lauderdale· ·· mayor . · Robert­Dressler;s response to the competition, "We would be delighted to share our blessings."• 
SCHOLASTIC 


The Iron Lady Under Fire 
THATCHER'S CONFRONTATIONAL STYLE DRAWS CRITICISM 

by Pat Markey 
Margaret Thatcher has polarized the United Kingdom as has no one before her. She has shattered the consensus of post-war British poli­tics -the gentle swing of the pen­dulum between alt, rnating Labour (Socialist) and Tory (Conservative) governments.. She attacks trade unionism and the Labour Party with a previously unheard of vengeance. She has privatized some of the state's most prized assets, among them British Telecom and British Airways. She is even making in-roads toward disman­tling the sacrosanct welfare . state. With her confrontational style and rigid dedication to capitalism, she has alienated many, including some within her own Conservative Party. Certainly she is one of the most controversial and revolutionary leaders the House of Commons has ever seen. She has changed British politics, perhaps for good. There is no longer a middle ground in Bri­tain: One is either a Thatcher lover 
or a Thatcher hater. 
'-_; 

An understanding of traditional Historically, the Tories never had in England, Conservative policy British society and political parties an aggressive policy of their own. wisely steered them in the direction goes a long way toward explaining Their goal was always to temper of the political party system. The ·why Margaret Thatcher has been the policies and objectives of the Tory Party recognized that there labeled a radical. In America, she opposition, be that Liberal or was little to be gained from a battle might be described as a Republican Labour. against societal forces stronger than -maybe as a Reaganite -but defin:. itself. Tories sought only to tame itely not as a revolutionary After the industrial revolution the unbridled energies of reformist 
reformer. In Britain, though, things gave birth to an urban proletariat, movements. They liked to travel are different. there came cries from workers for downstream with the current. an extension . of the franchise. When Clement Attlee's Labour The Tory Party, which finds its Tories ensured that the extension Government nationalized several roots in the eighteenth·. and would be instituted in a manner key industries and created· ·a wel­nineteenth centuries' landed elite, which would wreak the least havoc fare state in 1945, Conservatives stands for the maintenance of exist­on the status ·quo. again acquiesced to the plan. Tory ing social order. That is, it stood governments that .· . followed for this until Margaret · Thatcher When . socialist movements preserved socialism. It had become took over its leadership in 1975. · emerged at the turn of the century the new status quo. Conservative 
MARCH 19, 1986 
accommodation was such that there were no major inter-party conflicts for the next three decades. Britain had entered the "Age of Con­sensus.'' Labour and Conservative policies were by no means identi­cal. They were not, however, irreconcilably opposed. 
Now, they are. Now, Britain has entered the "Age of Thatcherism." The Prime Minister· took office in the Spring of 1979, after the "Winter of Discontent" when strikes paralyzed the country. Gravediggers, trash collectors, nurses, and teachers joined others who had walked off their jobs. Thatcher would see to it that they walked back on. She would see to it also that Tories forgot what the word "consensus" meant. No longer would the Conservative Party float downstream with the current. No longer would it protect the status quo. 
Mrs. Thatcher is a radical in the British parliamentary system. By virtue of her supreme inflexibility, remarkable intelligence and addic­tion to work, she is usually able to get what she wants. Those who share her desires for the country are fervently behind her. Those with different visions of the future are fervently against her. 
What Thatcher wants for the British ·Isles is free enterprise. This, she sees as the quickest·route to the establishment of a vibrant and international economy. Her faith in the free-market is such that she believes anyone who has enough spunk can make it on his own. With hard work and determi­nation, she rose from grocer's daughter in Grantham, Lin­colnshire to Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. She has little sympathy for those who are chroni­cally down and out. Like Reagan, she wants to cut social spending, which she sees as being responsible for the creation of a permanent underclass. 
.The role of government is not to 
provide jobs. according to 
Thatcher~ . but govern men to nour­ish the conditions under which private enterprise can flourish. When it flourishes, it will provide the jobs -or so goes the plan. In Britain, this scheme has yet to be realized, as unemployment approaches 25 percent in certain areas. Current trends aside, how­ever, the Prime Minister recognizes that government can best serve business interests by mitigating inf­lation. 

_Toward this end, she has mar­. ried her policy to the Milton Fried­
man inspired model, wherein defi­
cit spending and budget deficits are 
taboo. Monetarists like Thatcher 
dissent from the view which claims that increasing the money supply stimulates demand and hence pro­duction. It is their contention that deficit financing can lead to only one thing:, inflation. Thatcher claims that government is best to keep its hands off the economy. Left to themselves, free from infla­tionary pressures, private business and industrial sectors can more than adequately meet the needs of society. · 
An unregulated economy is something of a panacea for societal ill according to this model. To those who adhere to it Margaret Thatcher is just what the doctoi: ordered. For those who have embraced socialism or egalitarian idealism, however, she is the toxin that the doctor warned against. She is dismantling all that "consensus" sought to preserve. In doing so, she is incurring the wrath not only of 

Margaret Thatcher is not someone who will 
soon be forgotten. Like it or not, future genera­tions will probably mouth her name in the same , breath that they speak those of Attlee, Lloyd 
George, Gladstone, and Churchill. 
Labourites, but also of those old­time conservatives who seek gra­dual change and a general mainte­nance of entrenched institutions. 
Former Conservative Prime Minister Harold McMillan asserts that "Toryism has always been a form of paternal socialism.'' Mrs. Thatcher would probably agree that this has been the case in the past, but she might also add that she has had enough of the past. The ".Iron Lady" has so irked some of her Conservative compatriots with talk like this that they have formed the ''Tory Reform Commit­tee." Members are the Conserva­
tives of consensus days. They see rising unemployment ana conclude that the Prime Minister is doing the nation no favors. 
Consensus Tories tolerated her administration for a time. They even lent her their support in 1979 when she was perceived to be th~ only one strong enough to break the spoiled unions. Many, however, felt that she took things too far in her battle against Arthur Scargill and his National Union of Mine­workers (N.U.M) last year. It became a personal crusade for her. An unconditional surrender by the min<.~rs was the only outcome that she would accept. In the eyes of many, she proved to be too much of an ideologue. 
Thatcher presided, and pre­sides; over her cabinet like a dicta-· tor. She has divided her own party. There are "Wets" -those who pref er · the old ways, believing, 
SCHOLASTIC 
I 

perhaps, that Britain needs change, but ·feeling that it need not occur overnight -and "Drys" -those who, like Thatcher, feel that a radi­cal alteration of the economy can not wait. In September of 1981, she sacked a number of Wets in her cabinet. She will not tolerate dissent. 
Over the years, her noncompromising style has lost her the support of many Wets· in the 
first among equals in the Cabinet. By tying his resignation to her overbearing style, the Minister of Defense struck her where she is most vulnerable and inflicted signi­ficant damage. Heseltine's mutiny could signal the onset of Margaret Thatcher's demise. The process whereby she is gradually weakened and eventually replaced as party chief by a more moderate Tory may have . begun. Certainly, the Heseltine affair is the 
Thatcher has presided over her cabinet like a dictator. She has divided her own party. There are .,Wets" -those who prefer the old, believing, perhaps that Britain needs change, but feeling that it need not occur overnight -and .,Drys" ­those who, like Thatcher, feel that a radical alteration of the economy can not wait. 
House of Commons. Men like Edward Heath, whom she replaced as party ·leader in 1975, do not hesitate to break party discipline and publicly criticize her. She has been able to weather the intra­party storms though, as she could always count on the loyal backing of her Drys who enjoyed a major­ity in the party. Recently, this may all have changed. 
On January 9 of this year, Michael Heseltine, a prominent Dry, slated by >:.many to succeed Mrs. Thatcher as Party leader, resigned from his post as Minister of Defense. A dispute had grown out of a routine issue: What to do about the Westland Corporation, a faltering British helicopter manufacturer. . Heseltine favored selling minority interest in the state owned company to a European cor­poration. Mrs. Thatcher preferred to sell the shares to America's United Technologies. 
Ultimately, the Prime Minister won and Heseltine quit. It had long been said of Thatcher that she . rules without regard for the princi­ple that the Prime Minister ·is . the 

MARCH 19, 1986 
worst blow that has been levied upon the Prime Minister since she took office. For seven years, she has pitted herself against "consen­tualism." Now she is backed into a corner and will have to compromise her hard-nosed style or go down in defeat. 
Before the falling out, polls showed the three main parties in Britain running neck and neck. Now, however, they indicate that Conservatives have fallen behind. The public sees party support for Thatcher breaking down. It realizes that the Prime Minister's iron will is no longer capable of holding the ranks in file. The image received is one of chaos. 



With elections due to be called before January of 1988, Mrs. Thatcher has her work cut out for her. She must rebuild her Tory Party and present to Britain a united front. Thatcher's political survival will hinge on her willing­ness to become a "consentualist." . At least until the crisis in her party 
has  passed,  Mrs.  Thatcp.er  must  
bury  her  radicalism  and  float  
downstream with the current.  

Whether or not she will be able to re-embrace strict confrontation­alism after the crisis has past is a matter that is open to debate. Whether Thatcher's adversarial pol­itics is a temporary aberration from traditional consentualism, or· a per­manent and salient replacement for an archaic British political mode, one thing is certain: Margaret Thatcher is not someone who will soon be forgotten. Like it or not, future generations will probably mouth her name in the same breath that they speak those of Attlee, 
Lloyd George, Gladstone Churchill.• 
ACE IS THE PLACE­WITH THE HELPfl.lL l:fARDWARE MAN 
FREE PARKING FRONT & RF.AR 
219 01111: WAY NO. IN RC::."Ef:~D 
• GARL>t:N 
Sl;J~PLl[S • HC1!Sf.WARF.S 
• 
HARDWARE 

• 
SPORflNG GOOIJS 

• 
PAINTS 

• 
TOOLS 

• 
Pl l,IMBING & £1:r.CTRICAL C: 111'PIIFS 




272-7535 
and 
music 



My Favorite Tunes 
SOME SUGGESTIONS TO TAKE OR LEAVE 
by Donald Seymour 

There is no such thing as an ideal rock tunes by the likes of ZZ Take Me Home" by Lisa Lisa and party tape. The perfect tape Top, John Cougar Mellencamp Cult Jam, "Caravan of Love" by varies with taste, which itself and Billy Idol. The imaginative lsley,Jaspar and Isley, "Holid.ay" changes often, sometimes over­may even choose to throw on , by Madonna, "Go· Home" by night. Tapes need to be revised some old disco like "Knock on · Stevie Wonder, "Living in· Amer­every couple months, if not Wood" by Ami Stewart, "Le ica" by James Brown, "Every­weeks. As a DJ on WVFI, I can Freak" by Chic, "Shake Your thing Counts" by Depeche Mode, offer some suggestions to those Body" by the Jacksons, or (gasp) "One More Time" by Joe Jack­
who are willing to take my arbi­

"Disco Inferno" from the Satur­son, "Truth Hits Everybody" bytrary advice. day Night Fever soundtrack. A the Police, "Going Down to lot of us still have Liverpool" by Katrina and the
On party tapes, I like to com­

that...somewhere. Waves,
bine what is commonly called "party" music such as Joe Jack..: 
The crucial element of party son, the Animal House 
tapes is pacing. In dance clubs, soundtrack, Motown, Talking songs should move in cyclesHeads, REM, the Romantics, the . based on beats per minutes. At B52s, and "Tequila" with black home, sets on a tape should at music (often outdatedly called 
least start out slow, steadily build "disco"), like Alisha, Ready for 
to a frenzied peak, then ctecline-­the World, Kurtis Blow, D-Train, 
like waves on the ocean, ending in-a slow song. 

Here's a sample tape I threw together: "Never You Done That" by General Public, "Oh Sheila" by Ready for the World, "Everybody Dance" by Ta Mara, and the Seen "Sun City" by Artists United Against Apartheid(A U AA), "Sanctify YourselP' by Simple· Minds, "Rock Me Amadeus" by Falco, "A Love Bizarre" by Sheila E, ... it could go on. "Secret Love~s" by Atlantic Starr, As for studying, I can't con­
"Baby Talk" by Alisha, "Object 
centrate to anything with words,
of My Desire" by Starpoint, 
so I prefer jazz or classical music; 
"Conga" by Miami · Sound

Phyllis· Nelson, Colonel Abrams, including Bach's Brandenburg
Machine, "Once in a

New Edition, and Lisa Lisa and 
Concertos, Vivaldi's Four Seasons,
Lifetime"(live version) by Talking 

Cult Jam. In between is the usual ~ymphonies by Haydn and
Heads, "You're a Friend of
Top 40 fare such as Madonna, ·Mozart and Gershwin's Rhapsody
Mine" by Clarence Clemons,

Prince, Kool and . the Gang, and 
in Blue and An American in Paris.
"Face the Face" by Pete

Whitney Houston, as well as lesser known synth-pop,· often British, Townshend, "Radio Free In the end, no one can say bands like Propaganda, BronsH Europe" by REM, "Stages" by what's good and bad. I've just Beat, Depeche Mode and New ZZ Top,· "Tequila" by the written a highly · indulgent article Order. Champs, "I Mel.t with You" by on the music I like, but I don't 
Modern English, "Perfect Way"by think anyone will take what I've 
. You may also want to include 
Scritti Palitti, "I Wonder if You said as gospel. At least I hope not.• 
SCHOLASTIC 

Ii 

by Eric Cruz 
Film is a reflection of society. This 
fact becomes clear when we exam­
ine the history of blacks in. film. 
Movies about blacks reflect the 
oppression and progress of blacks 
in American culture. Only very 
recently have blacks begun to be 
treated as equals on the silver 
screen. 
In 1915 D.W. Griffith produced a silent motion picture, Birth of a Nation, depicting the U.S. before and during the Civil War. The movie is an example of then­existing social attitudes. The movie depicts Northerners as conceited "Yankees" who . only · help black people to get revenge on the South for seceding. The movie · also reveals the fear that the blacks would dominate the South if the North were .to win the war. The most potent image Griffith created was the depiction of a black man raping a white woman. This par~· trayal of black people as brutal, savage, and incapable of civility 
dominated the silent film era. 
With the coming of sound to film in the middle twenties came a new attitude towards the black per­son. In 1927, The Jazz Singer, star­ring Al Jolson, was released. In it, a white man played the role of a black man by · use of blackface makeup. Blacks were not allowed to appear on film, but if they were, they had to wear blackface makeup as well. This · impersonation of blacks by whites dominated until the thirties. 
By the early thirties blacks were allowed· to star in motion pictures, 

cinema 

No Longer Clowns 
THE HISTORY OF BLACKS 11\1 FIUVI 

Whoopi Goldberg confers with producer/director Steven Spielberg during 
filming of The Color Purple. not as actors, but as entertainers. Black people sang, danced and 
,played jazz in the movies. Tbis new portrayal of black people by Holly­wood was an attempt to appease the black community who objected to their previous presentation as slaves or jokesters. However, the presentation was still stereotypical. Nonetheless, a black person chosen for a rnle had no choice as to what type of part he wished to play. If he did not agree, he did not work. 
Finally, in the late seventies, moviemakers succeeded in their quest of the proper characterization of blacks on film --as human and emotional beings. The first use of this discovery was "Ragtime" star­ring Harold Rollins. Rollins por­trayed a young black man, who wanted to be accepted and respected as an · equal member of society. 
The most recent success by Hol­lywood is The Color Purple, star­ring Whoopie Goldberg. The char­acters of Celie and Mister are por­trayed in such a manner that the audience reacts positively to one and negatively to the other. The 
1~----¦¦------7 strong emotions evoked respond to 
The . strong emotions evoked respond to the individual personalitiesand not to the skin color of the characters... 

the individual personalities and not to the skin color of the characters. These two ,characters are people who are loved or hated; people who possess the same positive and negative attitudes that are present in all people. Hopefully, Holly~ wood will continue to present the black as real human beings. •This-· can only have a positive influence on American culture. 
MARCH 19, 1986 



Is the Grass Any Greerier on 
STUDENT GOVERNMENTS ACROSS THE NATION FIGHT FOR EFFECTIVENESS 

by Pat Collins 
Opus the Penguin, of Bloom County fame, recently turned in a strong performance in the Univer­sity of Mississippi student govern­ment presidential election. At about the same time as Opus was having a brush with high office, rebel organ­izations at the University of Texas were seeking to abolish "useless student government." While student cynicism with their elected leaders is rarely expressed so strenuously as in these instances, it does ·appear that a general dissatisfaction with the activities of student government is growing on college campuses across the country. 
Granted, criticism of student government has been a favorite pastime of undergraduates over the years. Many of the criticisms hurled at student gov.ernment have· been unfair and unjust. But what about the legitimate complaints of ineffec­tiveness on key student issues? 

Recent controversies over financial accountability, student life, and the divestment question have brought this issue to the fore on this campus. Is Notre Dame's student government able to provide eff ec­tive representation for student needs and concerns or must it remain an outlet through which stu­dents vent their frustrations with peer governance? 
Voter participation in student government elections may be con­sidered a crude instrument to measure the degree of confidence that students place in the demo­cratic governing process. Since voter participation at universities is also a function of the convenience of voting, one must be careful in drawing conclusions solely on the raw percentages. At Northwestern University (enrollment of approxi­mately 7500), the University of Illi­nois (36,000), and Indiana Univer­sity, voter participation is con­sistently below 25 percent. Only two schools we contacted (Harvard 

a.id Duke) approach even a 50 per­cent turnout rate. 
In light of these statistics, one wonders if students even have a desire for participation in the peer 
How can voter turnout be improved? At Duke University, where parti­cipation fluctuates between 60-80 percent, voting on controversial student referenda is held simultaneously with student elections. Higher turnout is insured, if for no other reason than controversy ·. attracts student input. 

governing function. Steven Daven-· port, president of the Indiana University Student Association 
SCHOLASTIC 
of $60,000, their share of the stu­dent activity fee. It also has con­trol over the distribution of the remainder of the $250,000 fee. In

Other Campuses? terms of voting, it must be made clear that students have a right to 
(!USA), commented on their 17 percent turnout: "It's amazing how many students will let others make important decisions for them. The governing function and the alloca­tion of funds will be. made regard-, less of their voting patterns. If stu­dents voted in greater numbers, they would probably.be more satis­fied with their selection of leaders." 
While Davenport seems to place the burden of low turnout on the shoulders of student negligence, Jobie Masagotoni, president of Northwestern's student govern­ment, attributed their low voter turnout (20 percent) to student per­ceptions: '\l think it comes down to the belief that most students have about peer government -that we. have no power and don't do any­thing of importance." 
At Notre Dame, where voting is greatly facilitated through . easy access to voting facilities, participa­tion has, nonetheless, hovered well-below 50 percent. During last year's presidential election, voter turnout was at a five year low. When less than one in four eligible voters cast their ballot, a very signi­ficant statement is being made. And while student negligence appears to be a significant factor in these low totals, a pervasive perception of weak and inert government seems to predominate. 
How can voter turnout be improved? At Duke University, where participation fluctuates between 60 and 80 percent, voting on controversial student referenda is held simultaneously with student elections.' Higher turnout is insured, if for no other reason than that controversy attracts student input. In the recent election at Notre Dame, a similar phenomenon occurred. Our investment policy in 
MARCH 19, 1986 
South Afrjca and, to a lesser extent, the organizational restructuring of government sparked the participa­tory chord in many students. Tur­nout for the election was around 60 percent. 
In addition to the refer end a coordinated with general elections, turnout may be increased through the alteration of student percep­tions of ineffective government. This long-term solution can only be accomplished if the issues addressed by student leaders are the concerns of the student body. This, in turn, requires increasing student awareness of the duties of an effective government and a face.:.lift of the contemporary mode of peer governance. 
Increasing student awareness may be accomplished through the articulation of the budget power of student governments. At Northwestern, the student govern­ment allocates over $210,000 for its 
programs; that amounts to about $30 per student. Most students would · be concerned about fund distribution if they considered it in terms of a $30 stake in a company. Consequently, a few more people might show up at the polls to voice their opinion on who should be able to operate the purse strings of this substantial budget. 
At Notre Dame, student govern­ment has direct budgetary control 

At Northwestern, student government allocates over $210,000 for its programs; that amounts to about $30 per student. Most students would be fairly con­cerned about the fund distribution if they con­sidered in terms of a $30 stake in a company . . 
receive benefits from these public funds. With the . knowledge of government's budgetary function, students would take greater interest in the election of those responsible for these funds. 
The necessary transformation of student government from a subor­dinated power broker to one .of substantial influence requires out­side influence. Harvard University (enrollment of 6400) has adopted a novel approach for this conversion and, in the process, has brought credibility to student governance at Harvard. 
In the early 1970s the Dean at Harvard created a faculty commit­tee to examine the question of the r,,,,c:ihilitv of a legitimate student 
governing body. The Harvard stu­dent unrest of the 1960s · had diminished, leaving a vacuum of student leadership. · This body, named the Dowling Committee after its chairman, Professor John 
Dowling, attempted to discover specific ways that the University could incorporate student and faculty opinion on matters which impacted the entire Hru:vard com­munity. 
Hoping to channel student input through an institutionalized struc­ture, Dowling's group created two student-faculty committees: the Committee on Undergraduate Edu­cation and the Committee on Hous­
. . 19 


...It does appear that a general dissatisfaction with the activities of student government ·is growing. on college campuses across the country. 
many points with the administra­ply because they lack the leverage tion." Offutt was quick to credit the UC has. At Harvard, the the faculty for their part in these faculty .has legitimized the· UC in achievements: "Faculty involve-the eyes of the administration. 
noticeably diminished as they ven­tured into the often hostile turf of external university affairs. 
Thus, whiie the Harvard's UC has institutionalized an effective approach to internal governance, like most of its counterparts, it falls short of comprehensive governance. That is, when . Harvard student leaders attempted to alter adminis­tration investment policy in South Africa, only minor accommodations to the investment position were made. Likewise, at Northwestern, Indiana, Illinois -student govern-­ment efforts encouraging divest­·ment, backed by referenda, have 
fallen on deaf ears. 
While the lack of tangible results should not be cause for abandon­ment of noble aims, it is clear that as a student government increases 
SCHOLASTIC 

concerns continued to be addressed through the bipartisan committees. Tlie Dowling Committee, in its quest to foster an effective and leg­itimate voice for student input, recommended the creation of the . Undergraduate Council (UC) in 1981: Integrating the existing student-faculty committees into an elected assembly, Dowling hoped the UC would be an effective forum for internal governance matters. The foundations for this 75 member student-faculty assem­bly was a committee structure, con­sisting of Education, Housing, and SD;ldent Service Committees, which 
advised· the administration  on  the  
current issues.  
Bryan Offutt, president  of the  
current  UC,  explained  its  impact  

on achieving student goals: "We have been able to accomplish many of our objectives through persua­sion. By researching our proposals extensively and presenting, them diplomatically, we have scored 
types of projects the Undergradu­ate Council is presently involved in. 
The  UC  is  presently  negotiating  
with  the  Administration  in  the  
hopes of  overhauling  University  

Health Services. The Council is lobbying for upgraded staffing and improvt;d emergency care. Few stu­dent leaders at other universities would be able to get very far in such an ambitious undertaking sim­ing and College Life. With faculty ment in the UC has provided the Each student government head influence lending credibility to stu­legitimacy necessary to deal eff ec­we spoke to attempted to distin­dent goals, the two · committees tively with the administration. With guish tt.eir internal governance achieved real gains from a ~oopera­the autonomous facul~y advising us, function (e.g., student· services, tive administration. Within' the first [the Administration] has to take us housing matters, and academic pol­year, honors prerequisites were seriously." icy) from external university drastically restructured and a matters (e.g., investment policy). comprehensive undergraduate The effectiveness of this unique Their effectiveness, while not guide detailing courses and instruc­partnership is indicated through the solely limited to internal matters, tors was published and distributed to Harvard students for the first time. In housing matters, · students were granted the right to store pos­sessions free of charge during the summer months. 
While Harvard still lacked a centralized student governing body 
throughout this period, student 
~-----::-....,-:---~~Y~~~=:::::::::::::--==--­
its focus on these macro issues, it will be held accountable for its failures. In this realm, whatever power students glean from -their elders will be a function · of the intransigence of the administration. The . victories by studen_t govern­ments in these external governance areas are predominantly moral ones. 
While Harvard's Undergraduate 
.:ouncil depends heavily on faculty 
1articipation, institutionalized faculty participation in student government at Notre Daine has been minimal. The Academic Council and the · Campus · • Life · Council are two notable exceptions. l'.!ot r.oincidentally, these · two bodies are the only government organizations recognized by the Board of Trustees. The CLC con­sists of student, faculty, and admin­istrative personnel, and this tripar­tite arrangement has vast potential. Yet most students are not even aware of its existence. 
· Through this cursory analysis of some crucial ingredients to eff ec­tive student government, it does seem plausible that students can 
CANCER. 
NOT 
KNOWING 
THE RISKS 
ISYOUR 
GREATEST 
RISK. 
Please 
support 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
SOCIE1Y® 
MARCH 19, 1986 
have significant input in internal governance. To do so, however, effective leadership must combat student apathy through thoughtful planning and sensitivity. Executive elections, like our recent one, should include controversial referenda to increase voter turno:ut. In addition, students must be made aware of the fact that, for better of worse, the government functions· governing body that has gain,d the respect of two traditionally skepti­cal groups -th~ administration and the student body. The achieve­ments have been impressive; this joint partnership successfully tack­

les meaty issues which would, in all probability, be deemed inappropri­ate for Notre Dame's student government to address. 
The Academic Council and the CLC are two bea­
cons of light  which  could help  direct the flounder­ 
ing  student  government  ship  through  uncharted  
waters.  

and the allocation of funds will be 
performed  · regardless  of  voter  
apathy.  
Perhaps the most useful  recom­ 

mendation that might be offered to Notre Dame's new student leaders can be extracted from the Harvard experience. Their novel integration of the faculty into the Undergradu­ate Council has resulted in a 

The Academic Council and the CLC are two beacons of light which could help direct the flound­ering student government ship through uncharted waters. If this destination is pursued with vigor, Opus the Penguin will be cast over­board and forced to paddle back to his polar home. • 
Crossword solution. 
Crossword appears on page 32. 

Prisoner in correctional in_stitute seeks correspondence with student. 
Contact: Sylvester Milner 
P.O. Box 45699 
Lucasville, Oh 45699-0001 

Where Does All The Money Go? 
A PROPOSED ACTIVITIES FEE HIKE ·RAISES SOME FISCAL DOUBTS 
by Maher Mouasher 
The annual attempt to increase the student activity fee ( currently at $35) is well underway. Proponents of the increase argue that the rea­son for social events losing money is that the concerts coming to . 
-campus are too unimportant to arouse student interest and that the money available is too small to attract big-name acts. They say that an increase in the fee is the · only way to improve upon the social situation. Opponents of the increase argue that Student Government wastes too much money already, and that big name bands won't come to South Bend anyway. They say that tighter fiscal controls are the key to improved programming and that an increase iri the fee at this stage in the game will only lead to more waste. 
A little background inform.a­tion is necessary if·one is to under­stand the issue. The student activity fee is required of. every undergraduate student. It amounts in total to $245,000 each year, ·and is currently distributed as follows. The Student Activities Board (SAB) gets $100,000, Student 
· Government gets $64,000, the Off­Campus Council gets $3,000, the classes and clubs get $49,000 and the Hall Presidents Council gets the rest. Of the $49,000 for the classes and clubs, the · classes (sophomore to senior) get $3750 each with the freshman class getting $1000. 
The SAB spends its allocation exclusively on programming and on the student businesses (Irish Gar­dens, the record store, and the ticket store): Student Government spends its allocation on administra­tive expenses, on orientation for new students and on student con­cerns. The Hall Presidents Council · divides its money up between the dorms, and the classes and clubs spend their share on their respec­tive members. 
These diverse groups are all represented by Student Govern:­ment, and it is through Student Government·• that any budgetary decisions are made. If a proposal for a fee increase is going to be presented to the Board of Trustees in May, it will most likely be by a Student Government official. Stu­dent Government officials have argued for fee increases in the past, and most of their efforts have been successful. 
7 
There is, however, one major djff erence between this years · pro­posed increase and the proposals from previous years. While previous requests and actual increases ranged from $2 to $7, this year talk is more in the range of $15-25. The major reason for this, accord­ing to Fr; David. Tyson, vice­president for Student Affairs, is that the Board of Trustees refuses to consider a small increase. Stu­dent Government has requested small increases of a few dollars two years in a row. As a result, the Board won't even listen to a petty increase. 
For such a large increase to be even· considered, one would think that the amount of money currently available is being stretched very tight, but is still highly deficient in meeting the needs for the available projects. A closer look, however, shows that this is far from being the case. The way in which the money is accounted for would drive a self respecting accountant to tears. Student Government offi­cials are only just wrapping up their accounts from last year (not 

. ' last semester, but last academic year). If Student Government still doesn't know how much· money it spent last· year, how can it be 

SCHOLASTIC 
. expected to account for almost twice as much money next year? 
Delving through the niass of jumbled figures isn't an easy job, but it does produce some interest­ing results. For example, Student Government and the Student Activities Board together hold over $37,000 in sinking funds. Last year, over $11,000 was deposited in these funds, hardly something that a financially strapped organization can do. Over $23,000 of that money. is unbudgeted, it is there only to pay for "capital purchases", presumably whenever someb_ody 
can think of something to buy. One other reason that is given for the existence of this money is that a contingency fund is needed for Stu­dent Government. It would seem to the layman that. the best way to make sure you don't end up owing the University money is not to have some 23,000 dollars in spare cash lying around, but rather to exercise some budgetary control. 
People arguing for the increase stress that the classes don't get enough money. The classes each get 

$3750 each year. They do a great job with that money, especially when one ·.considers the fact that the Student Activities Board gets over $100,000 to spend, of which · --about $27,000 is spent on publicity: Since the Board of Trustees refuses to consider a small increase, how­ever, Student Government is trying 
MARCH 19, 1986 
for about $109,500 (if you consider a $15 fee increase) or about nine times the combined budget of the classes right now. Student Govern­ment currently gets about $64,000 of the money, and they don't seem to need any more, especially when they stress that they don't want to take over the programming-role · that the SAB plays right now. Lee Broussard, SAB manager, stresses that the SAB doesn't need any more money either. "We get enough money right now, and, we really can't do much more with more 
money." 
The only two other groups that 
want additional funding are the 
ing for funding. Taking that fact 
into account means that most of 
that excess $30,000 in applications 
is probably false demand and thus 
should not be accounted for any­
way, especially when clubs make 
over $30,000 on concession stands 
at home football games each year. 

The only other justification that proponents of the increase give is that it would allow for big name bands to come to Notre Dame, and that it would allow the SAB to show first run movies as opposed to six month old releases. Talking to Broussard, whose Student Activities Board would handle such · events, reveals that the expectations 
are highly unrealistic. Broussard 
said that the SAB has investigated 
the possibility of getting big name 
bands like Bruce Springsteen, but 
that a concert featuring someone of 
that stature, if they would agree to · 
come to South Bend in the first 
place, would lose over $20,000. 
This is due to the fact . that per­
formers like Springsteen demand an 
appearance fee of up to $100,000, 
regardless of the gate receipts. Due 
to the relatively small size of the 
ACC and the high rental fee, pro­
fits from the gate are not sufficient 
to cover the advance fee, thereby 
resulting in losses of over $20,000. 
While some of the major events that the SAB sponsors, like AnTo­stal and the Sophomore Literary 


classes and clubs. Joni Neal, direc­. tor of Student Activities, says that clubs really need more inoney. Her argument is that clubs requested over. $62,000 last year, when only $32,750 was available for alloca­tion. This argument sounds con­vincing at face value but talking with any club president reveals that clubs make an allowance for what they will probably get when apply-
Festival, cost a lot of money, there is still a lot of room for fairly sub­stantial savings. Student Govern­ment, for example, budgets $1500 a year for "miscellaneous administra­tive expenses", even though every other conceivable office necessity is listed under some other heading within the $10,000 adminstrative expenses budget. Miscellaneous expenses are probably perfectly legitimate, but they can hardly be crucial. There are many other instances within the Student · Government and SAB budgets where unnecessary expenditures are made, and the money that could be saved could be used to help out some of the financially starved organizations on campus. 


WVFI, the student run AM station, for example, is in dire need 

i 
of money. Student Government and

I 
SAB spend over $180,000 each

I 
year, if the income that is gen­erated and spent is taken into account. If only $10,000 a year is saved, or just 5.5 percent of the combined budget, a complete reoutfitting of WVFI could take place in 6 years, solving one of the most common student gripes; mainly that there is no station worth listening to in the South Bend area. 
WVFI is by no means the only worthwhile place where Student Government officials can spend the money to which we entrusted them, but it is probably the most pressing. The University will not come to the aid of student organizations, it is the duty of the students elected officials, or Student Government to do so. 

Trimming the budget isn't even the only way to get more funds for financially strapped organizations at Notre Dame. Stu­dent Government still has that $23,000 unaccounted for in sinking funds. After even this quick look at the figures, it seems that the prob­lem is not lack of money, but rather lack of control over amount of money that is at least sufficient but possibly more than Student Government knows what to do with. 
The only way to account for . money is to be able to approve expenditures before they are made. After the money is spent, the only thing that can be done is to caution against budget overruns occurring in the future, but pre-approval ensures that no overspending occurs in the first place. 
Student Government is consid­ering going on the University unit budget system, which means that the University general accounting office would take care of all accounting and disbursements that Student Government makes. This would be a good first step, but it is not enough. While the University budget system would take care of some of the delay in accounting for the spending, it does not help where controliing expenditures is concerned. Serious evaluation also has to be made on a regular basis of many of the expenditures. (For example, each student pays about 
$1 for minority concerns, $1 for new student orientation, and about $1.25 for adminstrative costs. For SAB activities, each student pays about $3.75 for publicity) 
Every year,students hand over $35 each to Student Government. In total, the money amounts to about a quarter of a million dollars. We rarely ask Student Government to account for how they are spend­ing it because we trust them. After all, we elected them. But it is time to start looking more closely at where the money is going because Student Government wants more, and they just might get it. • 
SCHOLASTIC 


restaurants 


What's Cooking? 
THE BEST OF MID-RANGE MICHIANA RESTAURANTS 
After three years of mostly vegetat­ing on c::ampus, and faced with the voluntary sentence of more years here for graduate school, I decided to get out_ and seek the "Michiana experience" -restaurant style. What ensued has been three years of gas­tronomic thrill-seeking which much to my surprise and delight, has given me a whole new outlook on Northern Indiana. 

The following list, to be con­tinued in subsequent issues, represents, in my opinion, the best places to eat in the area. The list The restaurant is located on cards and is open everyday until 11 excludes any restaurants that either State Road, before you get to p.m. except Tuesdays. Take U.S. a first semester freshman could Granger. Go east on Cleveland 31-33 north to downtown Niles, go name (The Emporium, Barclay's, Road about ten miles and look for right on 10th Street and then right etc.) or would require a coat and it on the left. They will take a per­on Lake Street. tie (The Carriage House, Tip-sonal check with identification, but 
THE OAKEN BUCKET. 1212

pecanoe Place). no credit cards. Group facilities S. Ironwood, South Bend, IN 
GRANGER TAP AND available. (289-1616)GRILL. 12797 St. Rd. 23, FRANKY'S. 1031 Lake Street, Once you try the Oaken
Granger, Indiana (277-6812) Niles, Michigan (683-7474) Bucket, you are sure to become a For my money the Granger Franky's motto is "It's better regular. Without a doubt, the Oaken Tap and Grill is the best all-around_ to eat at Franky's than wish you Bucket sells the best burger, fries · restaurant in the area. I recom-had," and that just about says it all. 
and onion rings in town, along with mend the entire menu. Steaks are The decor is great and the people a complete menu of sandwiches,their specialty and are always first are always pleasant and friendly. 
steaks and fish. The prices are rate (T -bone, . Rib-eye, and the One gets the impression that any­plain cheap. The Oaken Bucket is New York Strip, $8.75). They also one who is anybody in Niles eats the epitome of good food at a goodhave an excellent selection of here on a regular basis. 
price. On most nights, you c·an get a seafood, equally as good. My com-The menu offers a 9ombination burger, fries, a couple beers (and panions ordered the Orange of traditional and innovative Italian leave a tip) for under $5. A com­Roughy and the Crab-stuffed dishes, along with prime rib, plete dinner, steak or seafood, soup Shrimp and raved about them. The chicken, veal and seafood. The and salad, runs between $5 and best deal on the menu is the 32 oz. Sicilian Linguine (fresh vegetables $10. The friendly atmosphere and Sirloin for two for $15.95, but make and shrimp in garlic sauce), Veal the scenic location on the St. sure you are hungry, it could prob-Parmigiana and New Orleans Style Joseph's River enhance the food .. ably feed a small family! Shrimp are my favorites. Prices 
Open from 11-11, Mon-Sat,

Garlic· toast and cheese, salad range from $6 to $13 with nightly closed Sundays, it is usuallyand choice of potato _ the hash specials. Dinners include. garlic crowded on weekends, but no browns are fantastic -come with toaSt, cheese and a large "Italian" reservations are needed. They have every meal. Desserts are · all salad. For dessert, try the bluegrass music on the lower level homemade. The cheesecake alone Amaretto Cheesecake or Fried Ice 
on weekends. To get there go south is worth the trip and the portions <;:ream. on Ironwood. It is on the left 
are big enough for two people. Franky's takes all major credit
',----=-----=----_..:;.___;:_________..___ _before the St. Joseph River bridge.• 
MARCH 19, 1986 



Four For The Road 
DESTINATION DALLAS FOR IRISH SENIORS 
by Pete Pranica 
Out on the cold northern Indi­ana plain, where there's nothing to warm your· heart except a space heater, the Notre Dame student body was getting chilled by a one­two punch of mediocrity. A novice coach named Gerry Faust turned a 

· Sugar Bowl team into a woeful doormat while a veteran hoop men­tor struggled with a semi-talented · team to a I0-1 7 mark. 
preparing for the '82-'83 season, Phelps went for recruits, lots of them. 

From Indianapolis came Ken Barlow, a raw, stick-thin forward. From Bayville, New York, came Tim Kempton, a red-headed heavyweight in the paint. From the . Jersey Shore came Jim Dolan, slow afoot but quick between the ears. From the Pacific Northwest came JoJo Buchanan, a defensive blanket. Reaching once more into the Hoosier state, Phelps came up with Joseph Price, the mad bomber. 
team,'' prophesied Digger in '82. See him -grinning like a Cheshire cat? With John Paxson and little else, the Gang of Five Plus Pax 
won 19 games to get into the NIT. 
A year later, Digger had the Gang of Five Plus Tom Sluby. Under Digger's verbal whip, Sluby broke 
out of a· three year lethargy to lead the Irish to a runnerup showing in the NIT. 
Next year, Buchanan left the. scene -with good reason. And a child shall lead them, said Digger as he unveiled David Rivers to the 

Ugh. Now that's a hatful. 
country. Now it was the Gang of ·Digger Phelps hates to lose. "There's the nucleus of a team Four Plus Young Man Rivers and "When the ball goes up; you go for that a couple of years from now Digger's latest production played to blood," says Phelps. So when will be a very good basketball rave reviews all over the country. 
SCHOLASTIC 
The Irish ran and shot and pressed like Phelps' good old days at Ford­ham and what the heck if Dolan was too slow? He knew how to grab a rebound and once he gave it to Rivers, the show was on. It wasn't the Lakers' Showtime East, but it got the Irish invited to the big dance. 
The tale of Rivers' lost dribble in the second round has been told countless times and the ending always comes out Carolina blue. So dig a little deeper, said the seniors. 
"When those four came in as freshmen, I felt they would have a good chance to accomplish some­thing great before they were fin­ished at Notre Dame," says Phelps, who will try to see to it that the seniors leave with a win and a ring. 
It will be no easy task to survive the 64 team field, but consider the following: 
-Ken Barlow has been a model of consistency this year, scoring in double figures each game, with -the exception of the first Dayton_ game and the second DePaul tilt Television announcers have worn out the expression, "He's got great touch for a big man," as Barlow hits better than 90% of his foul shots. 
-Tim Kempton has finally found hiinself after getting lost in a two year fog. As a freshman, he had potential written all over him, but. a flood of injuries and self­doubt-washed that off as incon­sistent performances made him the student body's whipping boy. The big redhead responded by tossing in 20 points while grabbing IO rebounds and rediscovering his 15 foot jump shot against UCLA. 
-Joseph Price runs hot and cold (20 points vs. Oregon, 0 vs. North Carolina),. but his radar was turned on long enough to. singe the nets at the Horizon for 11 points in a 70-54 win over DePaul, marking the first time the Gang of Four had beaten the· Blue Demons. A month later, Price took his dress blues on 
MARCH 19, 1986 
the road for . a dozen points and 
three boards in the upset of Syra­
cuse. 
-Jim Dolan, who has the vertical leap of a vacuum cleaner, also imposters tliat appliance on the boards by sucking up five 'bounds per contest. He also steals, assists, and blocks, but rarely starts or scores -just ask Marquette coach Rick Majerus. Concerned with Rivers, Majerus mapped out a pocketful of defenses to· stop the flashy point guard. Naturally, Dolan was ignored and he rediscovered his high school form (he averaged 31 points) with the jump shot. Capping his career day (22 points, 9 rebounds), was his tip of a Barlow miss at the buzzer to send the game into overtime. 
As a quartet, these seniors had notched 61 wins before this season, better than twenty victories per campaign. They are the nucleus for one of Phelps' best overall teams. "I like the way this team plays," confides Digger. There are no hot NBA prospects (a la Orlando Wool­ridge, Kelly Tripucka, Paxson, et al.) in this bunch, but above all, they are a team. 
When Barlow managed only 1 for 7 in the second game against DePaul, everybody else was rela­tively nonplussed and went on to wiri anyway. "You try to play a lit-· tie harder to get tips· and stuff," explained normally Konsistent Kaptain Ken. 
Moments later outside the locker room, Price elaborated on another key to the seniors' success. "The communication among· us helps us with our defensive concentration and defense helps start your off en­sive spurt." Coaches from grade school on up say that you win with defense.. Believe them .now? 
Okay, so you win with defense, even if you have the human pretzel contortionist Rivers along with a precocious frosh named Mark Stevenson -who doesn't know he's not supposed to in-youf~face his elders. 


Tim Kempton 
Defense, hmm, begins with a D. 
Yes, class, his name is Dolan. Too slow you say? Go put on your dunce cap. Defense is positioning. Disagree and watch that Bob Knight guy throw a chair at you. How else can you explain Brad Daugherty's disappearance in the second round of the NCAAs? By the time the Irish were holding for a final sh_ot, Dean Smith couldn't 




Q
i 
.. 
~ 
2. .g1
a 
.,
-E' 
~... 
g· 
Ken Barlow 

have found · Daugherty without Scotland Yard. Dolan held the seven-footer without a shot in . the second half. Dolan is about three inches shorter and not as swift· afoot, yet Jimmy D(efense) owned Daugherty after he went 6 for 8 in the first half. 
See the opposing team's star go on a tear. See Digger go to the bench. See Jim Dolan take off his warmup. See the other people's star? Didn't think so. 
i. 

~ 
!i 
,! 
.~ o 
i: 
[I... 
a· 
::, 

And he even shows up for· crunchtime. The folks in Brew­town hate Jim Dolan because twice · he turned a victory party into a sorrows drowning. As a freshman, Dolan found himself with the ball and no one to pass it to, so he did the lcgical thing. He drove the lane and kissed home a six foot banker for the win as time ran down. This year, his follow-tip of Barlow's miss denied the Warriors their first win over the Irish since '81. 
While Dolan and Barlow are usually money in the bank, Kemp­ton and Price sometimes pass bad checks. As a frosh, Kempton showed flashes twice against UCLA, scoring 32 points while the Bruins' Stuart Gray, now in the NBA, managed only eight. A star­ter 24 times · in his yearling season, Kempton was all-freshman by both Basketball Weekly and Basketball Times. The following year, oppos­ing defenses collapsed on him and he did likewise, suffering through an early season slump only to sus­tain a stress fracture of the lower right leg. After missing the last six regular season games, he keyed the Irish effort in the NIT with 20 points . against Boston College and 19 in the title match with Michigan. 
As a junior, ankle problems and the flu pestered Kempton and he drifted through the regular season, 
·trying in vain to recapture his 
freshman form. He readily admits he was trying too hard. Now ask him what his strength is: "I think I play well within the framework of a team." 
Before the season began, Phelps said, "Tim Kempton will have a great . season because I say he'll have a great season. It's obvious we need him." Kempton's perfor­mance has been adequate, though • not great. Still, the Irish are defin­itely in the title hunt. · 
While Phelps was predicting great things· from Kempton, the Digger ~as just hoping that Joseph Price would · stay in his rhythm. 
"Joseph is fine when he just shoots the ball and doesn't worry about anything, eise." Witness a 7 for 9 shooting spree versus Oregon State in the first round of the tournament with· Barlow on the bench with a fever and strep throat. 
·But Price is a streaky shooter and every once in a while he unloads a 4 for 11 performance. When his rhythm is right though, he'll drop everything but the water bottle on the bench. "If we make a comeback or take the lead in a situation · like that, it's even more satisfying," enthuses Price, no stranger to. March Madness. He and two brothers have all led Marion High School to the Hoosier Final Four. 
Before the Gang of Four there was 10-1 7. During their tenure, there have been at least 82 wins, four postseason appearances, . a handful of upsets and a whole lot of fun. "We're ready to keep mov­ing up," states Barlow. 
There is no doubt that Digger's class of '86 is one of his better groups. Then again, · his '81 trio with Tripucka, Woolridge and Tracy Jackson wasn't too shabby, but they fell in the second round. Barlow, Dolan, Kempton, and Price are all determined that that will not happen this year. So is Phelps. But beyond sheer determination, there is a talented cast not just there to support ·the seniors, but to comple­ment them. The Irish have the whippets, the guns, the bangers. and the brains. All are being brought to bear on the NCAA Tournament. 
Then it comes as no surprise that Dolan's favorite team is the Boston Celtics. ''They did such a ·great job of playing a team con­
cept." 

Celtic green, Irish green -. could it meari NCAA gold? . 
A government major, a market­ing major, a management major and a sociology major just a couple of months shy of graduation sure hope so.• 


A Diff_erent Kind Of Program 
NOTRE DAME'S HELEN KELLOGG INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
Church, and popular sectors. In studying economic development,
by Patricia Warth 
for example, Kellogg members aim to go beyond an objective under­standing of the facts and issues to 
The Main Office in . the north how the process of developmentwing of first floor Decio is the affects people of all levels of center of activity, receiving calls 
society.
· and visitors from all over the world. Rev. Buti Thagale recently 

The decision to concentrate on arrived from South Africa and is 
Latin America was made for a doing research for his project, variety of reasons, particularly "Theology · of _. Labor and South Notre Dame's longstanding affinity 
Africa Industrial Relations." Elena and relationship with Latin Amer­Elvarez is working on _a project ica. However, the most important · concerning agriculture in Peru. aspect. of this decision is Kellogg's What draws these people, and oth­. belief that leadership in research ers like them, to the cruel, cold cannot come exdusively from winters of South Bend? For them, North American academic institu­the attraction is Notre Daine's tions, but must be based on Helen Kellogg Institute for _Interna­· integrated collaboradon with Latin tional Studies. American centers of excellence. Alex Wilde, Kellogg's Associative
In 1979 the Helen Kellogg Academic Director, pointed outFoundation of Chicago donated that not only is the quality of money to the University of Notre research in Latin America high, but Dame for the study of international this research benefits scholars in relations. Upon receipt of the Kel­North America, "because Latin logg donation University officials · American researchers are willing to for two . years considered elements ask questions that typical North and themes which would define the American researchers are not."

Kellogg · Institute. They . decided 
that originality lilid innovation were key characteristics for developing a quality program, and the Institute reflects this decision in a number of ways. 

Kellogg made a rather uRfashionable commitment to focus on Third World development, par­ticularly the developing nations of Latin America, rather than east­west conflict. Furthermore, Kellogg "' members address these issues in a 
j

normative manner, integrating ethi­
cal and moral concerns. The Insti-
J 

tute has developed. four themes of ~ research: democracy and democrat-f' 
The Institute's commitment to collaboration began with the appointments of two Helen Kellogg Chairs. Argentine Guillermo O'Donnell holds the Chair in Inter­national Studies, and Chilean Alejandro Foxley, a member of the Executive Committee of the Latiri American Council of• Social Sci­ences, holds the Chair of Interna­tional Development. Both O'Donnell and Foxley bring with 
Kellogg has made a commit~en~ to· focus on Third World develop­ment, particularly the developing nations of Latin America. 
them a record of Latin American institutional leadership, and Kel­logg has been able to establish ties 
. with institutions in such places .as Rio de Janiero, Buenos Aires, and Santiago. 


ization, alternative strategies on 
economic development, the Scott Mainwaring (farleft) hosts the March 4 Brown Bag Seminar. 
MARCH 19, 1986 29 · 

'tl 
::r­
e 

<1­
0 

t., 
-­
0, ::, 
z 
l'l 
i: 
a. 
0, 

Brown Bag Seminar participants: ( standing, 1-r) Scott Mainwaring, Anthony Kerrigan, Guillermo Garcia, (sitting) Alex Wilde, Elena Alvarez, 

Margaret Keck, Silvia Raw. 

Every year Kellogg offers fel­lowships, nine for the 1986-87 academic year, and most of these fellows are affiliated with Latin American or other international institutions. Fellows work on research projects relating to Kellogg's themes and take part in . Kellogg seminars and workshops. Many hold joint appointments in academic departments and may teach University courses. 
Kellogg's numerous and varied programs are the Institute's most tangible contribution to the Notre Dame community, and attending these. programs are the students' most direct means of benefitting from Kellogg. Last year the Insti­tute sponsored about 50 lectures, seminars, and workshops, often bringing visiting lecturers to Notre Dame. 

Albert LeMay, Program Coordinator commented, "The growth of the Institute's influence on and off campus can be clearly seen in the programs offered and the scope of international confer­ences and workshops held at Notre Dame in which participants from Europe and South America have taken part. The quality of program­ming has continued to draw atten­tion to the Institute as a significant center of advanced research on a · variety of important economic, · social, and Church issues." This semester, in addition to the number of lectures, seminars, and weekly Brown Bag luncheons, Kellogg is co-sponsoring a film festival featur­ing such films as, "Improper Con-. duct," and "T11e Official Story." 
The Institute also offers a number of academic opportunities for Notre Dame students. The Latin American Area Studies Pro­gram, sponsored by the Institute and directed by David Ruccio, offers the undergraduate a variety of courses related to Latin America in different . disciplines including government, history, psychology and theology. Each year the Insti­tute awards two monetary prizes to students who have composed out­standing essays concerning Latin America: Also, Kellogg awards up to three summer internships to students at the Washington Office on Latin America, the Center of Concern, and the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights of the Organization of American States, all in Washington D.C. In addition, Kellogg yearly selects stu­. dents to participate in a summer Costa Rican fellowship program at the National University of Costa Rica's School of International Rela­
tions. 
To involve more students in the 
study of developing nations, Kel­
logg supports and subsidizes · the 
Students on Latin America 
(SOLA.), an undergraduate student 
organization. Scott Mainwaring, a 
faculty fellow, commented, "Along with the Center for Social Con­cerns, we are one of two centers on campus actively involved with human rights and social affairs. But our approach is different from the CSC because we primarily focus on academic programs while the CSC takes a more hands-on approach. Through academic programs, we try to create an awareness about issues of justice and human rights." He added, "You'll find some of these programs some places, but you'll find such a diversity of pro­gram~ at only a few places." 
What does the future hold for Kellogg? Said Alex Wilde, ''The Institute regards itself as a crucial stimulus in the broad area of inter­national studies. We have a catalytic effect for international studies among the faculty. Also, we bring new faculty to Notre Dame. Clearly we are ivaking an i~pact in both these ways." Furthermore, Kellogg has displayed a degree of quality as a center for advanced research. Alex Wilde hopes that in the future students will take more advantage of what Kellogg has to offer. "We are gratified with what the Institute. has been able to achieve in a short time. However, one area we certainly hope for growth in is student interest in Latin America and development."• 
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP 
Parts. Accessories & Service 
Schwinn Bicycles 
Roseland 
Baker's Bike Shop 
Randall Inn 
X 
Jan's Buuli4ur 
,.,., 
['ll,u~las Rd 
1 Notre Dame 
.;: 
Campus 
Now offering winter and 277-8866 summer bike storage. 



By Maureen Farley 
All your life, since before you can remember, they've been there every step of the way: watching, listening, holding, guiding, teach­ing, caring, praying, loving.· To them you are an indescribable miracle; you are their flesh and blood. To your parents, you are a gift straight from God's arms to theirs. Everything they've done where you are concerned, seem­ingly without rhyme or reason, has been out of love. With only your best interest in their minds and hearts, they have worked hard to open · your eyes to the countless possibilities that lie before you. To see you soar and be the best that you are capable of is one of their dearest dreams. 
Yet you rarely appreciate these loving people. With all of your sophomoric worldliness, you analyze, theorize and speculate as to how two people so old and experienced could . be so wet behind the ears. y OU wait year 
after year for that magical day when your parents· will wake up to reality and see that you're an adult. You'll be waiting a long time. The simple truth is that whether you are 21 or 41, you will always be their child. How can they see it any other way? 
Your parents look at you through the eyes that watched you make your entrance into this world, that watched you take your first step. They listen to you with the ears that heard your first cry, your first word. They touch you with the hands that bathed, fed and clothed you. They speak to you with the voice that has scolded you, laughed with you and soothed you to sleep after a bad dream. They touch you with the hands that bandaged bloody knees and wiped away burning tears. When they look at you, they find all the glory of God's love right there in living color for all the world to see. 
As you get older the one world of parent and child inevitably becomes two worlds. Though· neve1 actually severing all ties, 
these two worlds are undeniably distinct and separate. As a college student you begin to feel your independence. As a junior you're startfog to realize that not every­
thing works out the way it's sup­posed to. You must make -· moral judgements and decisions that you can live by and your parents won't always be there to make everything all right. 
So you grow a little more each day, and each day your life here becomes a little more distinct from your life at home. The guy who can't sit at the kitchen table at home without knocking over his milk becomes the guy who 
The heart of JPW lies in its meaning: it's about mutual love, respect, pride and admiration. It's, about you, your parents and your relationship together. As you get older, the one world. · of; parent .and child inevit-: ably· becomes two worlds . . 
racks up 23 points in a basketball game and is known for his dexter­ity on the court. The girl who has trouble remembering to "buy the noodles for the lasagna dinner her mother has planned is the same girl who learns to juggle a week of meetings, classes, dates, appointments and tests. Sound familiar? 
A few weekends ago, the Notre Dame community wit­nessed the merging of these two worlds during Junior Parents Weekend. You took your parents by the hand and introduced them to your life away from them. You invited· them to your home to be entertained by you, to be intro­

·Your parents never had a rule book that told them how to be a mother or a father. There was no trial run. They take it day by day, worried, scared of doing it all wrong, hoping that they've raised you with strong values and judgements. They pray that you will be happy. 
MARCH 19, 1986 


duced to your friends and teach­ together.  Your  pare nts  never had  
ers.  So very proud of them, you  a rule book tha t tol d the m h ow to  
showed  them  off the_  same  way  be  a  mother  or  a  father.  There  
they  used  to  show  you  off_ for  was no trial ru n. Th ey ta ke  it day  
company  when  you  were  very  by  day,  scared  of  -doing  it  all  
small.  wrong, hoping  that  they've raised  
When someone asks you what JPW is all about, you can give a _laundry list of things. But the par­ties and speeches are the ·tangible events of JPW; they ate not where the heart of the weekend lies. Junior Parents Weekend· is not -about the seating arrangements or  The same guy who can rack up 23 points in a basketball game, known for his dexterity on court, can't sit at the kitchen  you with stronthat you will will touch othedo the best therificing more possibly underare a parent and such an intensThey see you  g valube hars wy can than stand e lovnow a es. Tppy, ith lofor you untiare dnd  ve. you, sac­can l yriven e for: another. rem hey pray that you They ever ou too by ember  
what time the dinner starts. It's not about the dancing or about the food.. It's not about all the  table milk.  without  spilling  his  the little child reach the kitceyes, you are  who hen tonly  could barely able. beg inning  In their to  
people  you  can  introduce  your  fulfill your pot ential.  
parents to.  
Recognize  their  love for  you 
The  heart  of JPW is  mutual  and  return  it  with  your  whole  
love,  respect,  pride  and  ·heart.  There i s noth ing · so beauti­ 
admiration.  1es about you, your  ful  or sacred a s the  love between  
parents  and  your  relationship  a parent and c hild. •  

Solution appears on page 21.

CollegePressServlce The Puzzle 
46 Note of scale
ACROSS 
47 Pavement material
1 Immerse 49 Paid notice 
6 Hauled 50 Band of color
11 Tried 52 African 
12 Spanish antelopes
peninsula 54 Christmases 
14 Forenoon 55 Lasso 
15 Sent forth 17 Article 
DOWN 
18 Vat 1 Prim 20 Country of 2 Bone 
Europe 21 Sum up 
3 Southwestern . indlan22 War god 4 Prefix: half 24 Before 5 Prepared for ­25 Merriment print
26 Leased 28 Emits vapor 6 Names 30 Mountai pasi 7 Be obedient to 
n 8 Marry 31 Spherical bod 9 Teutonic deity 32 Benefit 10 Crown 
35 Recommit ­38 o·nseed 11 Turkic ­
1 
tribesman 39 Spanish 13 Mountains of 

© 1984 United Feature Syndicate cheer ·South America 
35 Deliver 147 Wire measure 41 Plntail duck 16 Sailor: colloq. 
. 36 A state 48 Cry of goat42 Possessive 19 Worktables 

37 Acts 51 Symbol for pronoun 21 A state 
40 Meadow ruthenium 
43 lncunauon 23.European 
43 Strip of cloth 53 Symbol for 45 Hail! ermine · 44 Spanish painter nlton 

Editors Note: This crossword is a trial feature, please Jet us know if you would like us to keep running -crosswords · in the future. · 
32 


Listed below are the salons that care more about you than we do: 
* * *  
*  
*  
Oh, Heck  
Why not see us Haircut.  for  come  a  in  $ and 6.00  

The Varsity_ Shop 
Edison Rd at 23 277-0057 
walking distance from campus 
SCHOLASTIC 

Step Out of · Line! 


Save time. Avoid standing in line with these 24-hour services. You can make deposits (locally), withdrawals, transfers, and check balances. 
Stop in or call for your TONE-Y or EXCHANGE application. 
219/239-6611 


NOTRE DAME 
CREDIT UNION 
FEDERALLY CHARTERED 

Notre Dame Federal Credit Union is not an affiliate of the University of Notre Dame. 






