
• I..; • ~ 
Home >Local Forecast for _Notre pame, IN (4.6556) ----· . 
~; ' . .__ . , ,, . 
Fair-weather Friends 
0 Carroll 36/51 80 % Pasquerilla West 43/56 60%
~ 
Keenan 55/62 30 % 
Badin 41/54. 70 % 
i 
I' 
Sorin 48/51 60% Lyons 46/62 80 % 
Morrissey 38/47 30 % Cavanaugh 33/55 50% 
Are inconsistencies in the residence life system damaging the student community? 

f ·p!!i·u-B L_ I S 'H E D S 1-N C E -I 8 6 7 . s c h o I a s t i c . n d . e d u 


-~io .. ,-·.: ·. . .. --. 

-· TABLlE·"<I~F."c@.iKFIT_ENITTS ·:_ ..·_ •.: 
» Up in Smoke? by Tom Tiberio 8 » A Trip Across the Pond by Meghan Go'v\'.an 18 » Emerging Role by Jimmy Atkinson 24 » Rock Behind the Clock by Ryan Greene 28 » Giving Chills and Giving Back by Jim Ryan 30 
From the Editor . . . . . . . . 2 Splinters . . . . . . . . . . . 22 ND Notebook ........ 6 Calendar . . 31 Out of Bounds. . . . . . . . 19 Final Word . . . . . . . . . 32 Campus Watch ....... 21 
IA Checkup for Health Services by Anne Heltzel · 
10

Students discuss their experiences with 
Notre Dame's Health Services. 
Real Life Inside Residence Halls 
by Carolyn LaFave 
12

Recent RA and AR dismissals have given . new fuelto student perceptions about how the administration handles the residence halls. Scholastic examines how the issue is being addressed. 
IReady for Action by Mike lselin ·: ­
26

Soccer player DevonPrescod is tearing it up on the field. · 



A Tale of 27 Halls 
In the summer of 2000 I was getting ready to enter into my firstyear as a student at the University ofNotre Dame. Like any incoming student, I got countless packets of information, all gearing up to that momentous August move-in day. One of these packets listed my dorm: Carroll Hall. The name sounded good, but that was about all I knew about the place. That summer, when I came on campus to take a language placement exam, my parents decided to hunt down my dorm and check it out. I emerged from the DeBartolo exam room, and my parents were waiting for me with odd-looking smiles on their faces. "Let's go see your dorm," they told me. As we headed out ofDeBartolo, turning down South Quad, I naively pointed at dorm after dorm, wonderingwhich one would be Carroll. Butwe keptwalking, and we approached the Lyons arch, which I assumed to be the edge of campus. But, ofcourse, it wasn't. We kept walking, past the lake, down Carroll drive, and an old, large mansion look for appeared at the end of a small grassyfield. Itlookedlike something out of a Scooby-: 
ISSUE 6 
on Doo mystery. We had to be well off-campus at this point, I thought. But that was 
NOV 12 it: Carroll Hall, right before my eyes. While the isolation of Carroll Hall seemed strange.to me atthe. time, afterI moved in it quickly became a great characteristic of a wonderful community; something that set it apart from the rest and made me feel at home. . . That's the essence of the Notre Dame dorm system -each and every dorm is a unique place with its own history, traditions and characteristics. The diversity created by the dorm system, its ability to produce unique homes for the university's students, are its greatest assets. But there are times when this diversity can become something else -inconsis­tency. The individuality ofeach dorm seems to extend to the freedom each has in setting its own rules and regulations. This freedom, however helpful it may be, can sometimes cause conflict and confusion for residents. In particular, the structure of power among rectors, assistant rectors and resident assistants has given rise to questions about varying policies in dorms. In the last year, two major cases ofAR and RA dismissals have once again high­lighted the questions and consequences surrounding Notre Dame's dorm system. In this Scholastic, Carolyn LaFave looks into how this issue is affecting students (p. 12). 

Matt Killen, Editor 

Correction: On page 10 ofissue 04 (10/09/03), the students shown in the picture were incorrectly identified as student managers. They are student trainers. Clarification: The story"Field oflrish Dreams" on page 16 ofissue 03 (9/25/03) should have listed Damaine Vonanda's Notre Dame: The Official Campus Guide as a source for the article. Scholastic regrets the errors. 

Vol. 145, No. 05 • 30 OCT 2003 
SCHOLaSTIC 
~/-J ~::~i!;nChief 1 
.-. ·) Managing Editor · 1Annie Robinson r:. Executive Design Editor 
i · Ryan Greenberg 
(-·j Executive Editor ) · j Mike Borgia 
l; News . Christopher Kelly, editor Jim Ryan, assistant ,:_ Eileen Varga, assistant • Campus Life 
;.·.··:·.1 Jennifer Osterhage, editor
! Carolyn G. LaFave, assistant 
' ... Sports [ --i Jimmy Atkinson, editor --_ ·! Mike lselin, assistant
[.: IEntertainment 
/ Tracy Evans, editor I--. __i Ryan Greene, assistant ~ : Departments 
i. 
J Meghan Gowan, editor 

f. 
j Mike Healy, assistant 


. l Design J Nick Abrams, Cover i David Redenbaugh 1 Vanessa AritalAlice Bonifield 
. . Ellen Voglrieder 
, Photography!Phil Hall, editor 
· ·1· Graphic Design i Christine Graham, editor 
Ii Copy
I·i Kelly M. Faehnle, chief I! Mo Ertel, assistant>! John Hadley, assistant 
i Jennifer Wadkins 
i Kim Thompson
L. Kourtney Bitterly__ _
·.. 
Cassandra Meyer
I
1 Tom Tiberio 
{ ..1 Distribution 
Lj Phil Hall, manager 
•., Business ) Jessie Potish, manager 1 Mary Ursu, manager . 
jjJ~:!;:tkinson, ma·~ager t Advisor
l 
Robert Franken '69 -. 
Disce Quasi Semper Vict11r11s Vive Quasi Cras Mo1-it11171S 
rl Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame 
;-·· and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. 
·>-:. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is copyright j 2003 University of Notre Dame. All rights reserved. No -j contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part. may 
·•,• be reproduced in any manner without written consent :· of the publisher. Schofas"iic magazine does not assume ,.:-_-_ liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All carre­




l' : 
i spondence should be sent to Schola~c magazine, LaFortune 
1. Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be published In :/ the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Mondayl•... ::ji before the issu·e. RobOts wish us ill. All letters must include '. · the writer's nanie, address and phone number. All letters 
1 } must be signed. Name_s will be withheld upon request 
i.J in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit · j letters for space. Requests for corrections made more 
i than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The ••.•l subscription rate Is $35 pej year. Available back Issues : are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, orl date. Coples of the annual/football review are available :J at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. ) The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not 
1 necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the 
-., student body. 

2 SCH0LASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
30 OCTOBER 2003 


Afraid ofcommitment? 

Holy Cross priests and brothers at Notre Dame. 

Come anyway. 

Be Not Afraid! 



N THE 
~,~,~~:~.-;:;;:~;;----;;-------;~~~~~-...,:;;~;-~;;-;;~;;;:;;~~~~E~~===:--J­
.. ·•"•••, ,• "". • ·, .r,•' •... ,_:.C '! '-'•-',_', /, 0 ,•,O ••"', '••~ .. •' 'A•• • , • \,•·•. ; ·•• •,O~ •-',' ;,•.~,c,;,~:::..•-:;,,•• • ,.,,•;.; .-.-;,•,,, _/• ,-.•~ ·~• ,.• ', ,.•,.,~•• ... >', •.,•.•,,;·,o•,•-.•,•••: 0 •~ ! •,•,•, . ••,·•,•~' :_•,_ ,,-., ,." •:,•,, :,•:::••,;-•-," ;~ 
IAFS is So 2002 OIT changed AFS ID to NetlD. Did you notice? 
EMILYPALADINO 
When students returned to campus in August, they were welcomed by a change in that all-too-familiar Webmail page. Over the summer, Notre Dame's Office of Infor­mation Technology abandoned the term "AFS ID" (Andrew File System ID) and replaced it with "NetID," leaving many students to wonder how the decision will affect their Webmail, Irishlink, WebFile, and WebCT services. Previously, when students logged on to such programs, they had to enter an AFS ID and password. Now students are instructed to enter their "NetID"-the exact same ID as under preceding AFS system, combined with the same pass­word. The change is essentially "cosmetic," says Dewitt Latimer, Deputy CIO and Chief Technology Officer for OIT. OIT made the change because au­thentication technology used by AFS was no longer unique to the AFS sys-tern, which was developed in the 1980s. This technology, called Kerberos, was once only used in conjunction with AFS, but over time other campus programs also began to use it. 
"The name change represents the fact that many comput­er systems and services outside of AFS now utilize the same 

1­Kerberos user ID/password pair," Latimer says. In other 
-
words, the term "NetID" is more appropriate because it is inclusive to all programs that require a username and pass­word for use. 

While the change affected approximately 30,000 IDs, some students haven't even noticed the switch. "I had no idea," says junior Katie Poholek. 
Junior MattMooneywas dumbfounded by news of the change. "I don't even know what it means," he says. 
While the switch is minor, it does affect 

0 nearly everyone on campus. Most cam­pus programs have made the change, but some are still using the old AFS termi­nology. OIT said there is no deadline for the switch. 
Thus, it seems that even at OIT, the old adage rings true -the more things change, the more they stay the same. . 

The Top Ten List 
Not-so-tasty treats 

Worst Halloween 

There is a certain unspoken assumption amongst all trick-or-treaters. Ifyou've gone through the effort ofpreparing and wearing a costume to wander the streets seeking candy, then you deserve either a fantastic trick or a worthy treat. Unfortunately some peoplejust haven't got a clue. Scholastic reflects on the ten worst "treats" to receive while trick-or­treating. 
Religious Tracts 
I O 

Maybe some folks didn't get the memo. Halloween is a pagan holiday. Bi­ble-themed handouts are unwelcome on so many levels. Trick-or-treaters dress up as devils and French maids not to learn about the saving power of Jesus, but to revel in the quasi-bacchanalian frenzy of the youthful sugar high. 
9Cheap Novelty Toys 
Candy, you fools! No one wants idiotic finger traps or itchy, plastic spider rings. At best, they offer as much fun as it takes to break them; at worst, they waste precious sugar-scarfing time. 
8Anything in a "Bubbling" Caul­dron 
It's not creepy, because everyone knows it's just dry ice. _Making kids fish out their own candy simply presents the unneces­sary hazard of fantastically painful carbon dioxide burns. A treat, indeed. 
/


7Apples ' 
Fruit is not candy. Fruit is nu­tritious and r_eg~larly packed in sack lunches. Candy is bad for you but tastes 
30 OCTOBER 2003 


• I 
IJudgment Calls · · Opinions.and observations 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
The Fightin' Irish girls have not given up a single goal in their past IO games. 
SELF-CONSCIOUS 
SMOOTHIE ORDERERS 
Hi, I'd like a Triple Mocha Brownie Fudge Lard Milkshake. please. Qh, · with a free Fat-Burner shot, of,-·· · 
course. 

STAINLESS STEEL SALAD 
Q. i 
. 

BARS IN NDH 
If you wait long enough, all the food in North will be moved from the serving rooms and into the seating area. 
RETURNING TO CLEAN DORM ROOMS AFTER BREAK· 
Toothpaste goop gone from the sink and a vacuumed floor. Oh, it's so nice being spoiled. 


PEBBLE THROWERS 
Next time you attend a football game, leave all pebbles, pennies and other small hard objects on the ground and far, far away from Bob Costas' and Joe Theismann's faces. Remember, we're not Michigan fans. 

ENTERTAINMENT FORTNIGHT! Y 






bArt•1:_1e~~fc,r1ib-9lls~ssJ§h'.. ••-i-:>C<: '1 
Some online gamers spend countless hours a 
JJ 

week immersed in a fantasy world 
IRYANGREENE ­TIis a story about love. Meet Ramm. This is a question of degrees. Just 
as there 20-year-old sophomore in college, are thousands ofplayers who balk at the idea he is just getting over a rather abrupt ofbeing "addicted" to a computer game, there breakup with his first wife. are just as many who spend upwards of ten Enter Emylie. She is a beautiful, witty hours a day on "Evercrack," as Everquest has young woman, several years Ramm's senior. been oh-so-lovingly dubbed. Smitten, Ramm wins her heart in no time. Within the game world, these prejudices . , . Theirsis astorybookromauc!c!. Theyspe_nd _ r111u~pant. G3:Sllal gamersddicule hardcore all their free time together. Theylaugh about gamers for wasting their time when they could situations that would make other couples ar-·be out leading "normal" lives. It's like going · gue. They get married in a famous castle. to a Star Trek convention and hearing the guy But what's a good ___________ dressed as Captain Kirk 
story without a twist? But are these games make fun of the guy Ramm and Emylie, dressed as a Klingon for loving husband and a harmless hobby or a spending more time on 
wife, have never met. his makeup. 
They have never held ridiculous, yet crippling, Granted, Trekkies hands, never kissed, addiction? don'toftendestroylivesin never even seen each the process of memoriz­other in person. ing lines from The VV:rath 
Their relationship has taken place com-of.Khan. Onlinegamershaveletmarriagesrot pletely within the confines of an online and jobs go sour. More tragically, one player fantasy game called Everquest. "Ramm" is· actually committed suicide over troubles he the name ofa half-elf paladin and "Emylie'1 was having in a game. A mother recently left is the name of an elf druid (a kind ofwitch). her infant child to die of exposure in the car Controlled by real people, theyare electronic while she snuck in some time on Everquest. proxies in a video game world. Of course, these are extreme examples 
Online games like Everquest, The Sims ofwhatis usually a fairly benign phenom­Online and the just-released Final Fantasy XI enon. It may seem pointless to spend 60 host hundreds of thousands of players on a hours a week slaying ores and hunting daily basis. The players, rangingfromreclu-dragons, but everyone has his or her own sive 10-year-olds to bored housewives, spend guilty pleasures. Maybe you love Care Bears hours in these "worlds;' fighting monsters, or quarterbacks' biceps with a passion that interacting with friends and participating in borders on the frightening. Either way, you complex, free-market economies. know what they say about throwing the 
But are these games a harmless hobby or first stone. a ridiculous, yet crippling, addiction? Can a . So let online gamers like Ramm and Emylie person have a healthy social life when he's have their fun. For the geeks shall inherit the nevermetmanyofhis best friends? earth. D 
I DomeLights
ti COMPILED BY MIKE HEALY Source: Liz Muir and John Heisler 
Equipment is vital to success. You wouldn't ask Michelangelo to sculpt with Play-Doh, and you wouldn't have Jeff Foxworthy give his hilarious perspective on rural living over a shoddy sound system, so why let first-rate athletes be handicapped by second-rate materials? At Notre Dame, we wouldn't dream of debilitating our fine ~thletic representatives in such a way, which is why we have an athletic contract with adidas, perhaps the world's best athletic outfitter. This is a contract that supplies ALL of our varsity sports, not just football {although they do a fine job there, as well). Don't believe me? Take a look: / 
5,956 Pairs of athletic shoes supplied to our varsity teams 400 Baseball caps for the Band 772 Wristbands for the men's and women's basketball teams 79 Pairs of cleats for softball 30 Pairs of goalie gloves for the men's and women's soccer teams 180 Practice T-shirts for cheerleading 75 Pairs of kneepads for the volleyball program 

6 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 30 OCTOBER 2003 



The Battlefor a Smoke Free Society 
Join the fight at a presentation by Patrick Reynolds, grandson oftobacco company founder R.J .Reynolds. Patrick Reynolds turned his back on the family business after losing his father and brother to lupg cancer. He is now a nationally known speaker, combining tobacco education :with· motivational speakign in his quest to 
·· a~hieve asmokefree society. 
Wednesday, November 12 
7:00 pm McKenna Hall Auditorium 
·open to the community 

Door prizes will be raffled off, including a DVD player, gift certificate to the Morris Center for the Performing Arts, and a gift certificate to a health spa 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL THE OFFICE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG EDUCATION, 631-7970 
f,-\\. Healthy ; 
(j{11a -I J'i:::::.:P;:&-3f: Com;::~:::, 

of St. Joseph County l 
;:.::. o..:•· .•"-':-,,· .,,' • :.,·>::·",..,•. ~. ·. ·.-._~'.-.:·, . . , ,\',, '~--~;_, '-~-~-:-{_, ', :;.:.•.,•~,~-•,;;:;.; •~-· •. ,!·1-~ ·; ·,. ·,: • ::....,; •-:,. ,1a c~••s,· ,,;•. ·.::,,_,~_.•.·,e••::;,.;-i. ,:',:,,'•••~·•; 
ADVERTISEMENT 



The university clears the air regarding the future of smoking on campus 
TOMTIBERIO 

cent confusion concerning the 
moking policy at Notre Dame 
ay have caused smokers to light 
up an extra cigarette. 
But despite some discussion as to wheth­
er an entirely smoke-free campus lies in 
the near future at Notre Dame, there is 
no apparent move afoot on the part of the 
administration to head in that direction. 
The cause for perplexion may have been 
a clause in duLac, which states that two 
years after introduction ofthe stated regu­
lations, the Environmental Issues Com­
mittee will reevaluate the smoking policy 
and determine "whether the University 
should become completely 'smoke-free."' 
This was written in 1992, with.the en­
actment of Notre Dame's first smoking 
policy. But it was never removed, even af­
ter the policy had been reevaluated. The 
policy permitted smoking in dormitory 
rooms where all roommates consent, but 
specified that residence halls may adopt 
more stringent guidelines as they see fit. 
As a result, all residence halls currently 
prohibit smoking. 
The policy also originally allowed smok­
ing to take place in private offices as long as 
non-smokers were not present, but this was 
banned in 2002, as a result of inadequate 
ventilation systems. 
The Environmental Issues Committee, 
which is comprised of faculty and staff, met 
again in March of 1995, when, according to 
Dan Skendzel, director of Administrative 
Services, they determined that. the cur­
rent policy "seemed to strike a balance 
between smokers and non-smokers (sic)." 
Thus they did not see a reason to make 
any changes. 
No current plans for change have been 
made public either. .::: DuLac clearly states, "The rights ofnon­
smokers (sic) to a smoke-free environment 
always take precedence over the desire of 
smokers to smoke." 
A decision to ban smoking on all 
8 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
grounds would affect students, faculty and staff alike. It would raise the ques­tion of individual right -a debate as old as the evi­dence showing that smoking is unhealthy. It is framed by the traditional 
clash of smokers defending their "right" to smoke, 1 with those non­
smokers defend­ing their "right" 
to clean air. 
For such a policy change to take place, then, there would have to be rea­son to believe that the rights of nonsmokers are being infringed upon. Associate Vice President of Residence 
soon. 

says that, pres­ently, this is not the case. 
"Ifthat was the perception of the real­ity," Kirk said, "then we'd have to address it. I don't have any sense of that." 
This does not mean, however, that smoking is not an issue on campus. 
Aside from having to face the occasion­ally inclement South Bend weather, most people on campus don't seem to mind making the trip outside to smoke, espe­cially as it is becoming more and more commonplace around the nation. Within the last few years, states like California and New York have even banned smoking in restaurants and bars. 
Life Bill Kirk BUTT UGLY Campus ashtrays may be unsightly, but they are not going anywhere 
"I don't mirid the policy here really," said Phil Lem, a junior from Kansas City. 
"But some people here will go out of their way to t\=ll you that it's bad for you when you know it already." 
Lem, who has-been smoking since he was 15, says he gets dirty looks more than anything else. · 
Smokers' congregating outside the en­trances to buildings can sometimes create controversy: For some people, especially those more sensiti~e to cigarette smoke, such as asthmatics and those allergic, hav­ing to walk through the haze ofsmoke can be a problem. As can smoke that finds its way through residents' open windows. 
30 OCTOBER 2003 


But besides the occasional exaggerated cough, there isn't that much commotion over smoking at Notre Dame. 
MichaelMcCauslin,assistantdirectorof Risk Management and Safety, the depart­ment which handles problems regarding smoking among faculty and staff, said they typically receive only five to eight complaints a year -this for a campus of 4,500 employees and 140 buildings. 
"We were concerned when this policy was enacted," saidMcCauslin, "that since wewere identifiedas the people who would investigate complaintsthroughmembersofourstaff, that this would be a very time-consuming prob­lemforus, and asignificantissue. Anditreally has not turned out to be that." 
Manyfeel that the fact that problems are minimal can be attributed to the kind of people at Notre Dame. 
"Itjustgoestoshowthrough the number ofcomplaints that people who do smoke are considerate of people who are concerned about !,econdhand smoke," said Student Body Vice PresidentJeremy Lao. 
Nevertheless, it is the goal ofpeople like Gina Firth, the director of the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education, to further restrict smoking on campus -even ifrela­
-:,,;;.;:~ ;\A~-_,c_.,;....--;--'smoke-free," Firth says that "~:/2;.~,·~--,, ·;.. ,::;:; :smoking would not be permit­..,. •~':,.::?' -':'.y;~ .]ted anywhere on the premises 
·-~___. of the organizations that ad­
1 
,opted the policy. ·. i This will soon.be the reality !for workers and visitors at Saint 
I 
Joseph Regional Hospital and Memorial Hospital, where of:fi­!cials recently decided to prohibit ;smoking on hospital grounds. iDr. Alan Snell of Memorial !says that most of the response jthat STQP has received from people, including smokers, has ·)been quite positive. Snell is also ;active in STQP and was very '.involved in bringing about this ;changein policy, which takes ef­1fect Jan. 1, 2003.. He hopes the ;movement, which they have la­ibeled "Fresh Air Partners," will ;spread to universities, businesses 
jan1;:~::~i=~v~;i:~;up jto that same level," Snell said .. I Banning smoking on a uni­

I -. ~versitycampus, however, would WAITfNGTci Ei~ALE C~lin Shanahan smokes outside Siegfried raise other issues. Enacting such Hall despite ill will from some passing students who are upset about a policy might interfere with the effects of secondhand cigarette smoke. attracting potential students, 
30 OCTOBER 2003 
tively few students smoke. AccordingtofindingsbytheOf:ficeofAI­cohol and Drug Education at Notre Dame, 
5.9 percent of Notre Dame students have smoked three times a week or more within the last year. This number is down from last year by 3.15 percent, and compares to a national average of 24 percent among college students. This survey was part ofa social-norming campaign intended to "de­mythicize" students' perceptions regarding how many oftheir classmates partake in the habit. 
But the relatively low number of smokers does not deter Firth from try­ing to help them quit. Highlighting the nonsmoking campaign this year will be nationally known speaker Patrick Reyn­olds, who will come to campus on Nov. 12. Reynolds, grandson oftobacco company founder R.J. Reynolds, started speaking publicly after losing his father and brother to lung cancer. Reynolds now advocates for a smoke-free society. 
Firth is a member of the St. Joseph County Tobacco Quit Project (STQP), a coalition thatworks toward gettin$ area businesses and organizations to become completely smoke-free. By "completely 
faculty and staff. For students like junior Chris Fischer of O'Neill Hall, this could be a major issue. 
"It depends on how determined you are to . I come here," Fischer said. ''Ithinkmostpeople are so headstrong in coming here anyway that they're notgoing to care iftheysay, 'No smoking, no drinking, no sex. They'll figure, 'Either I won't do it, orI'll get around it."' 
Smoking has also been an issue in Notre Dame Stadium. \iVhile not an enclosed area, smoke can still be a problem. Prior to the stadium's renovation in 1997, smoking was permitted inside. 
''I think there was a real strong push and a real desire to go smoke-free in the stadium;' said McCauslin of Risk Management. "It was just obvious that it just wasn't going to work." 
Fans are now permitted to smoke in the concourse area, but not while in their seats. But this is only an issue at home football games. 
As far as the rest of the year, school of­ficials are concerned primarily with the general well-being of those on campus and less focused on governing the behaviors of individual students. 
Although Kirk personally discourages stu­dents fromsmoking(he once paid a $100 to a studentwho stopped smoking for a semester), he does notfeel that the mere act ofsmoking is something the university ought to further restrict. 
"You know your smoking harms those in the building that don't smoke," said Kirk. "You'd be hard-pressed to make that argument out in the air, out in the open." 
Advocating against smoking does seem to be in accordance with the university's mission, however, as demonstrated by the stance taken to prohibit the sale of tobacco products on campus. In addition, smoking cessation programs are offered for employees who want to quit, through the Department of Human Resources. According to Work Life ConsultantJes­sica Brookshire, 13 people took advantage of this option this past year. Services for students are accessible through the Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education. 
"I think that being smoke-free is some­what part ofa larger mission that this uni­

. versity has for its students," says Lao. "But when it comes down to it, smoking is a personal choice. Itis something that, when you want to do it, you should be able to do so, as long as it affects the least amount of people." . 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 9 




antibiotic, only to discover that she would be charged for both the new antibiotic and the previous ineffective antibiotic. Not wanting to drag out an already unpleasant and frustrating situation,· Mendoza chose not to voice her complaints to Health Services staff specifically. 
Mendoza's experience is far from isolated. Many students at Notre Dame have voiced concerns about the quality of care they have received at the Health Center, an establishment created to serve the medical needs of the Notre Dame community. The preservation ofgood health is a major concern anywhere -but particularly on a college campus, which teems with close physical interaction and breeds weak.immune systems with its high­stress environment. 
Patricia Brubaker, RN, and assistant director ofclinical services, describes misdiagnoses as a "learning process." Brubaker says that student complaints are investigated and reviewed by the director ofHealth Services. However, she says that clinical services has not had a problem with misdiagnoses, since doctors who are unsure ofhow to approach a particular malady encour-
ANNEHELTZEL 
When Alissa Mendoza arrived at Notre Dame Health Ser­vices with an infection, she thought her experience would involve a simple diagnosis, a quick dispensa­tion of some pills and brief medical advice. It turned out to be a tedious, time-consuming and expensive ordeal for the Notre Dame junior. After taking the medicine as pre­scribed, she read through the hefty packet provided by Health Services. It listed possible side effects of the prescribed medication and warned against consuming specific foods and performing certain activities. She continued taking the medicine for two days, but her symptoms did not abate. Early on the third morning, Men­doza received what she describes as a rushed and panicky call from a Health Services nurse. The nurse told Men­cloza that recent lab results indicated that the prescribed antibiotics were virtually useless for treating her infec­tion. Mendoza had been prescribed the wrong medication. She then returned to Health Services to pick up a new 
10 SCHOI.ASTICNEWS 



How well does Health Services serve the student body? 
age students to get second opm10ns through referrals. She also says that although the center sends out surveys to the students, the return rate on surveys is only about 10 percent, and those who do return surveys tend to be the students who have had nega­tive experiences. Brubaker attributes much of this negativity to the fact that many students-, being first-time health care consumers (without the aid of their parents), are unaware ofwhat questions they should be asking while being treated, and hence are poorly informed. 
University Health Services, located next to St. Edward's Hall, behind Main Building, is open 24 hours and provides service to both walk-ins and to students with appointments. According to Brubaker, it is better to have an appointment in order to avoid a long wait. Brubaker says that the Health Services staffalways leaves the daily schedule half open by book­ing appointments f9r only four out of eight available slots per hour. While several interviewed students have complained of excessive waits at the center, Brubaker says that waiting pe­riods vary day to day. Brubaker says a 
30 OCTOBER 2003 

wait rarely exceeds an hour to an hour and a half, particularly after typically hectic Mondays. 
The start of the week is the center's busiest time, due, in part, to the influx of students who were unable to see a doctor over the weekend. Brubaker says that the clinic treats about 80­100 cases per day, and that last school year the clinic saw 17,500 patients. On weekends, a registered nurse is in charge of the clinic and a doctor remains on call. If the nurse deems their cases serious, students can see on-call doctors during the weekend or are referred to a hospital emergency room. However, most cases are told to return for further examination by a doctor during the coming week. The anonymous student describes the experience as emotionally and financially draining. 
Some students feel that the quality of care provided at Health Services is substandard. Notre Dame sophomore Patrick Buchanan, a member of the men's tennis team, sought treatment from Health Services last spring for a painful bump on his wrist. 
Buchanan says. that a H;ealth Ser­vices doctor took X-rays of his wrist and diagnosed the bump as a cyst. Bu­chanan says the doctor then attempted to pop the cyst with his fingers, but after several minutes of excruciating pain, the cyst wa~ still intact. 
The doctor then recommended Buchanan see a hand specialist. Bu­chanan followed this advice, and the hand specialist exariiined the same set of X-rays from Health Servic~s and determined that the bump was a result ofinflammation due to tendon­itis in his wrist. After a week's worth of antibiotics, Buchanan's wrist was back to normal. "It was a horrendous experience," Buchanan says of his experience at Health Services. "The doctors [at Health Services] do not know what they are doing in there," Buchanan says. 
Brubaker says that all doctors at Health Services are certified as both· . family doctors and sports medicine . ·practitioners, and .alLhave been .in practice· for at least· 15 years. This setup is. similar to that of the health s·ervices at other universities across the co_untry. Becau,se all Health Ser­vices doctors specialize in health care 
30 OCTOBER 2003 
services for college-age students, none operate an outside practice. The doc­tors refer any cases requiring either surgery or a second opinion to local specialists, and the center provides transportation for referred cases. 
Most injuries treated at Health Services result from interhall sports, 

The clinic treats 

about 80-100 cases 
per day, and last 
school year the clinic 





saw 17,500 patients. 
and other common maladies include 
anything from strep throat to the flu 
virus. Doctors are able to prescribe 
a variety of medications, and Health 
Services's pharmacy can procure any _medication within 12 hours of pre­scription time. Health Services can also fill orders as prescribed by students' home doctors. A 14-bed inpatient clinic is also available on the second floor ofthe cen­ter for students who are recovering from surgical procedures or require observation or the use of IVs. 
The lack of availability 

of doctors on the week­
ends has led to further 
complaints rega,;ding 
the center's inability to 
treat cases that typically 
occur on weekends, such 
as alcohol poisoning and 
sexual abuse. Instead of -being treated by the cen­ter, students need to be treated at a local off-cam­--pus hospital emergency room.· One student, who wishes to remain anony­mous, says that when she 
believed she might have been raped, she was forced to visit the emergency room at St.Joseph's Regional Hospital in South Bend. She says she waited for several hours before receiving the "Rape Kit" examination from the emergency room staff. The student later paid nearly $600 because, in or­der to ensure her privacy, she wished to be billed individually rather than provide the hospital with her parent's insurance information. 
Despite a large number of unsat­isfactory reports, some interviewed students say that they received prompt service and positive results at the cen­ter. Some theorize that others' bad experiences stem from dissatisfaction due to the overwhelming influx ofstu­dents needing healthcare, particularly in the winter. Since some students do not receive the personal attention they are accustomed to from their home­town doctors, an inordinately busy health center might be mistaken for negligent care. It is clear that anxiety concerning dissatisfaction is height­ened, and that much of our campus is facing in.security regarding the in­stitution they not only want, but also need, to be reliable. . 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 11 



CAROLYNLAFAVE 
Residence halls are considered to be one of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame's greatest strengths. Students live together, study together and learn from one another under the leadership and guidance of caring individuals. Many students graduate with a nostalgic at­titude toward the dorm they screamed for during pep rallies, fought for dur­ing interhall games, and lived in with their best friends. This is the common image of the university's residence hall system. And, in many ways, the system lives up to its reputation: The dorm com­munity keeps most st4dents on cam­pus, and even in the same dorm, for all four years of their time as under­graduates. ""But in other ways, the system does not meet expections. In the halls, students live under the hierarchy of authority that descends from the rec­tor to the assistant rectors (ARs) and 
12 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 
Conflicts might tarnish the traditional image of dorm communities· 

AUTHORITY FIGURES? Resident assistants Laura Giannuzzi and Katie Cardinali share their-experiences as staff.members in the residence hall 
system. 

finally to resident assistants (RAs). While these hall staff members work to fulfill their dual roles as both friend and regulator, their actions and how they affect <lorn residents are some­times the subject of controversy. 
Several issues about dorm life have arisen in the last year, bringing con­cerns and questions into the minds of students and the administration. The typical perception among students that authorities in women's dorms are stricter than those in men's dorms is one such concern. Last fall, a Pasque­rilla West AR, Cynthia Phillips, was fired amidst controversial circum­stances. And this summer, two stu­dents who were hired as RAs in Sorin Hall lost their positions. Meanwhile, the trend toward off-campus living is becoming increasingly appealing for many students. All ofthese issues con­flict with the notion ofa praiseworthy dorm community. So what is the real story behind residence halls? 
The hall staff is the foundation upon which each residence hall is built. The process of forming that staff is intensive and meticulous. It begins with a rector, who will be the leader and the ultimate a:uthority in his or her dorm. Bill Kirk, associate vice president of the Office of Residence Life, says that many of the rectors are priests from Holy Cross or sisters 
30 OCTOBER 2003 

from religious communities who had 
heard about the positions through 
university-issued publications. Some rectors are also lay people who are Masters of Divinity students. "What you're really looking for in a rector is to understand the residential tradition and mission of the university ... and to foster it," Kirk says. In addition to background checks, prospective rec­tors go through an extensive applica­tion and interview process. 
Sr. Carrine Etheridge, I.H.M., who is in her 11th year as rector of Farley Hall, recalls. that her experi­ence included meetings with the Office of Student Affairs, the Office of Residence Life, human resources personnel, and an interview panel that consisted of students, other rec­tors and assistant rectors. "Itwas quite extensive, I was surprised," she says. "But it ought to be." 
The rector takes on several respon­sibilities for the dorm and deals with any and all university departments, in-eluding security, counseling, mainte­nance, Student Activities and Campus Ministry. Disciplining students is just 
a minor part ofa rector's re~ponsibili­ties. "Everyone thinks rectors do a lot of discipline, but I'd say discipline is about five percent [ ofthe job]," Ether­idge says. 
Rectors also monitor and assist the_ 
rest of the hall staff, including RAs :•,.Po0o0o0J'o0rPo0o0o0 
~:~d~~~i~::h~:c~;;:~~::;:~: ~~i~;t;(~~I!~[}>'
the power to estabh_sh rules that ate:;p0 · ,./J:n:Ax uniqu·e to that hall. ·-.. · :"r/Ja ·-<tt' '' · 
i1 0 "··/·..
Perceived inequalities between th~•0° female and male dor.ms regarding s~io~ _,__ , curity and r~le enforcement are t~}~od/; __ ,, .. results of this power. Many studentsi0o{ < are under the impression that womeri'.s'0°J . ; . dorms are stricter than men's, but alto~{~: of the dorms operate under uniform.Po~ university standards to an extent. ·''.o~o: 
"There needs to be some consi_s.Eo0, . tency. There's really a profession:a£o~•· · discretion that everyone exercises;~b0o Kirk says. "There's an obvious diffe1;/-1~o: ence between men and women. Theta~, have different things they'll need fo,P01 do.'' He cites eating disorders as somJ,4~o: gatherings. "Those issues are going to 
involve different expertise," he says. 
"It's easy to make these blanket state­
ments [about gender inequalities], but 
I think they fall down pretty quickly 
when you get to the real world." 
Etheridge sees the variation in 
residence hall rules as a strength. "I 
like the way the dorms have their own 
personality. They have their own fla­
vor. It's always been that the women's 
halls adhere more to duLac. But I think 
that's changing." 
Rector of Carroll Hall, Rev. Father James Lewis, O.Carm., says that even though differences exist, the hall staffs all operate according to certain principles. "Fairness and consistency are ideally the hallmarks," he says. 
RAs are aware of the differences 
as well, but also do not see these dif­
ferences as problematic. "There are 
definitely dorms that are more strict 
than others," says Knott Hall RA 
Brian Borchard. "I'm not sure it's a 
male-female case. It just depends on 
the dorm." =­
"Inequalities definitely do exist for a 
variety ofreasons," says Mary Mullen, 
an RA in Pangborn Hall. "Stories of extreme harshness and stories of ex­.treme laxity get talked about a lot. It's 
just stereotypes." 
Many students agree that h_all staff 
merrib;~i's1,c;la>:i,g'0od·•1·01f,a'.n.cl0heauheir.­
·,uUUwUw~wUU~UwUUUUUUUU~ 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0rP0hristian.' It means 'make everybody 
(11,,s~,~f;~~::~~ ;~e~;i:;fa:


1~::f~~~~~;

iJX? 0!i~1des 'don't do that, don't do that, · ,,.. 0 cf'on.1t do that.'" 
0 r.• 

0°0$.ilt the establishment and enforce­· n:i!IJ..t of rules is not the only element 
c9£r.1orm life that recto~s control. Th~ir 
0r,.f:?'1.'F as the hall's ultimate authority 0ofer hall staff can lead to significant ostfnflicts that, inevitably, affect their 
ollgs'idents. 
a~~ast fall, Pasquerilla West lost its ogs~i~tant rector, second-year law stu­0g~t Cynthia Phillips. At the time, 0 tJR~te was little mention ofthe circum­0s'tap.ces that led to the termination of 
~~cc~t,status as PW's AR, but rumors be­0 /f~ii-to circulate about the relationship 0 l{ween Phillips and PW's rector, Sr. 
students. One student says her rector 
is "very condescending. She makes us 
feel like preschoolers. She needs to realize that she's dealing with college students and that we are not trying to intentionally create problems." 
Another student says that her hall staffis too much ofa parental author­ity: "A lot of people in my dorm are afraid of getting in trouble, so they don't come home at night." 
In response to students' concerns with dorm authorities, RAs and rec­tors alike say that they are aware ofthe level of discretion they have, as well as their boundaries when it comes to dealing with rule violations. 
"We have to enforce all of the rules and we do enforce all of the rules," says Mullen. "It's the manner in which you do it that I think the authority comes from." 
Katie Mitchell, an RAin Pasque­rilla West, ,describes her job as, "a big-sister role -a resource and a fa­cilitator, somebody who's done before what they're doing now. It's a dual role -always balancing being their friend 
with someone who has to remind them 
of the rules." 
"All of us are trying to build a Christian community, foster it and develop it," says Dillon Hall rector, the Rev. Father Paul Doyle, C.S.C. "That doesn't mean 'make everybody 

thing,that might be a more pressiJ?-g'o0, ~~~-~ oStsan Bruno, 0.S.F. (Bruno declined issue in a women's dorm and drinkfo:g,o~ . MINISTRATION 8.11 K' k k . h. II llSb~cpmment.) 
. , d ., 0 c AD I ir wor s wit a c, o.A', · AR Ph'll' , -1 • PW
1
as more preva ent 1n men s arms, a,_s: o members of dorm communities_ rectors ARs .o ~s an , 1 1ps ro e 1n was male residents tend t_o host more sociil)~ot. RAs and students. ' ' :fg'J»7ork closely with Bruno and to be 
_; .. Q O O O :c ., o u:i::o:iiCii~XJOCi::.i?liJiCi:::EJOi3i:XJCi~)Jo c c
>"'rPrPo0a8 .-......._-..,__.. 0a o0o0, · 30OCTOBER2003 .'\/\APlJa 0o0o a a a0a0a'Ja o.0ifa'Ja o°n 0°,lrPc:· SCHOLASTICCOVERSTORY 13 ·· 1'·i0"",:,0/ 1r:i°o01J0r/o.0.1/1ri°r:Po0o0rl'-,r/1rln°aD1/'0°!ifl,,'·.,
-·-----------------·----­

responsible for the hall when the rec­had an excellent working relationship she says in an interview via e-mail. tor was not present. As Lewis says, with the RAs and loved the girls in the "She put so much time and heart into "After me, [the AR] has ultimate re­dorm." Phillips recalls that after she the dorm and we worked well with her sponsibility for the dorm and he is to had spent about a month in the dorm as an AR ... After we found out about act in my stead when I'm not there." as AR, Bruno requested that she make Cynthia's situation, it was almost im­
Though the tasks of each dorm's more ofan effort to form a close rela­possible to work with Sister Sue. The ARs vary, ARs generally do a lot of tionship with l?-er. "There was never a trust we had in Sister Sue had been programming work in residence halls. conflict or disagreement between me shattered." Kuck says that she felt it They collaborate with hall staff and and Sister Sue," Phillips says in an in­was difficult to try and discuss the assist with dorm duties, including terview via e-mail. She tried to meet matter with the rector. dorm events. Some ARs also have a Bruno's request, but those attempts While Kuck and the other RAs large role in the liturgical elements of were fruitless, says Phillips. maintained their unconditional sup­the hall. Most importantly, the AR is She also made repeated attempts to port of Phillips, their relationships just that -an assistant to the head of meet with the administration and dis-with their rector became strained. the dorm. "Where my weaknesses are, cuss the situation., she says. "Student The RAs say that they tried to talk I try to hire somebody who's strong," Affairs gives 100 percent deference to Kirk and other administrators, and Etheridge says. "Your assistant sent a letter to the university's then-rector is really important because . :-,,, 0 ,,. ,,--,;'.", ,; ,, .;·" ,; .;; ., ",., :, ,, -,1 .• . executive vice president, the Rev. it can make or break you. It's really . '.,\'' -;;r.'\l,./1-a,;r/'l·l·rl'uillr.llr.'1i,,°'~,;ir:,'\i'"'fl'~o.\/,,·· .., .Father Timothy Scully, C.S.C., in 
.,,-;; n t' 1 ti h tt n fl n fl tt n t, f't n O H O tt ?) U ~J : ' k h
important that the rector and assis­,,\ i°l,/\, Phillips' defense. But Kuc says t eir tant are on the same page." ,''o°c 0~i{: •efforts were not addressed. "[The ARs also strive to connect with .-;'.r} 000.,;;. ·administration] all supported Sister the RAs in their hall. "As an AR, •,Pa• There are def-o0r{'U ,Sue's decision without hearing from you're more of an older brother /-;,ooc o0o0;/,. Cynthia or us," Kuck says. "The ad­. . . to the guys in the dorm and to <:.{ ·1 n·1 t e I y dorms .!r.:·: ministration never listened to us, the the RAs themselves," says Jason * ~~~~~~~~~
. . 

Linster, currently an AR of Dillon :<·;ooc that are more o0o0/,was affecting our dorm." Hall and a former resident and RA \,C10c 0.0o:: PWresidents also publicly displayed in Dillon. 
<.~ strict than oth-oo.>their support for Cynthia. "The signs
"The rest of the students have us .:\,O, 0,e...,.'"-'.,. outside the dorm said it well, 'PW 
~ 0 · 0 P •
to go to, and we have the ARs and -l,j\,C 0oi,t needs Cynthia,'" Kuck says. the rector to go to ifwe have prob­.·",,Crl erS. 0D0°o'\ Phillips herselfwas aware of how 
,, () c O n . h · · · ff . h
lems," says Knott Hall RA Drew -a",i°c _ Knott Hall RA cl'i·t t e entire _s1tuat1on was a ectmg t e Donovan. ·,i"cPc rPr/'· RAs and the other students. Phillips 
•. 1 '.~.•-,-,,...,...=.....,,............,~,...........,,........;a...,.;,-.i.i ~o~o:'. '.said she was disappointed with theKirk says that most ARs are ·,,t\,.Cr; o..a..a u a a ~ a o rPJ>,. way she thought the administration 
,, o o a_a o a a a-a v a ra o o a ,: h di d h . . .
professional students -in · ,.'\0!i.ot>arl'oooor,oa°non goo rA,ffJ 11 ,,,Oc°,l'rl'lo"o'\.", , . an e er s1tuat1on. law school or business school -or · -,'-',.,{!,}J,l-,}\i"",.,01?/'r/"lr:.6/V\,1111n/'r.,"./'\0,l',/\";-.'· Based on their experiences, Phil-graduate students who have com­,, '' ;, .": ''/' ·,. ,. ~ •:i. '' ''-."./\/•! '' " i' v r-· · lips and Kuck point out errors in the 
pleted their course work. Because administration and the residence hall 
their time as students is short, most system, particularly with regard to a ARs hold their position for two years. to the rector and so they backed up rector's authority. "I do believe there Unlike .RAs, assistant rectors cannot Sister Sue's demand," says Phillips. "I . needs to be some check on rectors," specify the dorm in which they want· actually went to the administration for Phillips says. "The students don't have to work. Rectors review applications advice about how I could make Sister a say, the RAs don't have a say, the AR after the Office ofStudent Affairs has Sue happy. They understood that I doesn't have a say, alumni don't even performed its screening process. Rec­had not done anything wrong, but have a say. The unchecked power of a tors identify students they would like told me to just 'do whatever [it] takes' rector is extremely dangerous." to interview, depending on who would · and left it to my discretion to figure "If the AR can be fired without best fit their hall. "Father Doyle of­that out." question, then·... the rectress has too fered me the job [of assistant rector] Phillips says her efforts did not sat-much authority," says PW resident the first day he could," Linster says. isfy Bruno: "In October, Sister Sue Ashley Bentzlin-Smith. ~ "So I just called him and took it." demanded that I get out of the dorm.". The situation in PW is one indica­
Phillips had similar luck in easily Phillips left PW, much to the sadness tion that an evaluation of the resi­
.,.!>ecuring a job. She says ·Bruno inter-"· and disappointment ofher fellow hall dence hali autho/ity system may be viewed her and offered her the posi­staff and residents. necessary. Stu,dent Body President tion immediately. Elizabeth Kuck, an RA in PW last . Pat Hallahan would like to see a "self­
Phillips says she felt comfortable in year, says that the dorm was never the evaluation and a look in the mirror" in· PW right from the start of her job as same after Phillips left. "Cynthia did order to address'issues like this one. AR. "I loved the dorm and the staff. I nothing but exceed our expectations," "To have a situation like that come 
14 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 
. 30 OCTOBER 2003 


up and no real reason for why she was removed from her position:_ it makes people wonder," he says. 
After the rector and the AR, resident assistants have the fundamental roles of assisting and guiding students· in the dorm. They are friends and neighbors, resources and even counselors. Being an RA is an honor for many students, so when that honor was taken away from two students this summer, more questions about the authority·of the rectors in­evitably arose. Students who are interested in be­coming a resident assistant usually ap­ply at the beginning ofsecond semes­ter oftheir junior year. Their applica­tions, which include a personal essay and three recommendations, are due in the Office ofStudent Affairs during the week after winter break. Student Affairs performs a background check on all of the applicants to make sure they are properly qualified. Kirk says they prefer students who have a GPA of 3.0 or higher. "We do approve stu­dents_ below that, but we want some indication ofan effort to bring grades up," says Kirk. 
30 OCTOBER 2003 
Student Affairs then -compiles the application materials for each applicant and presents these packets to the rec­tors. From this point on, the decision process is in the hands of the rectors, but most rectors include their hall staff in the interview process for prospec­tive RAs. For example, Doyle, who has been a rector for seven years, explains that each RA applicant has three 20­minute interviews in the dorm, one on each floor, with a combination of current RAs, ARs and Doyle himself. The interviews cover spiritual issues, case studies and university and dorm involvement. 
Once a student is hired, he or she undertakes a great responsibility for the dorm and the students living in it. "It's a full-time job," says Paty Hino­josa, an RA in Farley Hall, during an information session for Farley resi­dents who are interested in becoming RAs. "It's what the university wants. It's not about just yourself anymore," she says. 
"The main job of an RA is to be present in the dorm," Pete Lively, an 
(below) Hall staff and students form communities in their dorms, but relationships among them are not problem-free. 
RA in Siegfried, says. "It's not that an RA has a che=cklist to fulfill each day, but rather, he needs to be around and available to the residents for anything that arises." 
Amidst all the daily responsibilities, rectors make a concerted effort to es­tablish a collaborative work environ­ment among all hall staff members. "I try not to do anything without all 12 present," says Doyle. "I don't call the staff a team. I want them to understand that ultimately I have to make the decision. I like to come to a consensus. I like the collegiality." 
And in Farley, Etheridge says she needs and appreciates the opinions of her staff members. "They know people in a way I don't," she says. 
Douglas Pope, who lost his position as an RA in Sorin Hall in August, says he was ready to take on all of these responsibilities. He learned that he had earned a spot as an RA while he was abroad in Australia. "I felt like the community gave me a lot and that serving as an RA would be a good way 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 15 



I 
' I 
to give back," Pope says. 
At the time of his appointment, Pope was also pursuing a $25,000 scholar-· ship for a year-long foreign program through Rotary International that he planned to participate in after gradu­ation. He was one of two people se­lected for an interview that would take place on the morning of Aug. 16 in Springfield, Ill. This date con­flicted with part of Pope's scheduled RA training. He knew that the date would be a conflict, so Pope says he contacted the Rev. FatherJames King, C.S.C., rector of Sorin Hall. Pope says King spoke to Kirk, who reaffirmed that RA training was mandatory and Pope could not miss it. 
Pope says that he tried to negoti­ate a phone interview with his Rotary International interviewers, but they also maintained that his presence was vital. 
"When I originally contacted Notre Dame, I expected them to be understanding [and say] 'We're excited about your opportunity,"' Pope says. "I felt like, 'I don't have a decision to make. The university is going to have to make a decision whether to fire me or not.' I told [Kirk] I was still committed to serving Sorin, but also committed to working something out." (Kirk declined to comment on Pope's employment). 
Pope arrived on campus in August, two days before RA training would begin. After finding out which pre­sentations he would miss if absent on the morning of Aug. 16, he met separately with each of the presenters from those groups. "They were really nice to sit down and spend that time with me," Pope says. He then met with Kirk and the Rev. Father Mark Poorman, C.S.C., vice president for Student Affairs. (Poorman declined comment on the situation.) Pope said he felt the administration was unwill­ing to compromise. 
But Pope continued to attend train­ing because he had not yet been offi­cially fired. On Aug. 13, Pope went to one last meeting with Kirk, at King's request. Pope says he told Kirk, "I'm still 100 percent committed. You're going to have to fire me." He asked that Kirk put his termination in writ­ing. King then told Pope that there was no need for him to continue to attend training. Pope moved out of his room in Sorin, went home for the weekend, and found the apartment that he now shares with Student Body President Pat Hallahan and senior BJ Craig, who resigned his post as a Sorin RA in August after discovering that the administration would not allow him to miss RA training to attend -an academic orienation. Pope eventually received a letter from Kirk, stating the termination of Pope's position. 
Looking back, Pope says he was less cynical about the administra­tion before this conflict. Pope feels exasperated with the way the situa­tion was handled. "These events com­pletely changed my view [about Notre Dame]," he says. 
As a close friend of Pope, Hallahan sees incidents like this one as a seri­ous concern to address. "Problems continue coming up and the ones getting affected are the students," he says. "When do we all sit down and say 'what can we do to make it better'? Why not have that dialogue? What can it hurt?" 
Hallahan sees the many positive elements of residence hall life, but he also sees room for improvement. "Students trust staff in a lot of cases. People love their rectors. [But] more and more there are pockets of mis­trust. People are starting to ask more questions. It might not be a serious issue yet, but ifit continues, it's going to be," he says. 
Though Kirk declined to comment specifically on the Sorin RA case, he did speak in general about the require­ments of an employer-employee rela­tionship. "We ask students to live up to obligations, and when they're un­able to do that, we ask them to evalu­ate which of the options they want to partake in. We would have presumed they'd live up to their obligations," he says. 



:. 
When one considers issues like these in tandem with dorm policies and regulations, it is relatively easy to understand why upperclassmen want apartments or houses off-cam­pus. The generai feeling among stu­dents is that more juniors and seniors, are moving out of residence halls. Pope, for one, is happy with the living arrangements in his apartment. "Students want to have a year to do what they want to do and not have someone looking over their shoul­der," he says. Rectors acknowledge that some students may feel the desire to break away from dorm regulations. Doyle cites two reasons why he thinks stu­dents move off-campus: cable TV and the lack of surveillance, the latter be­ing the more prevalent issue. "People just don't want someone watching who they have in their place, or what they consume; after a certain hour," he says. "If everything about dorm life ag­gravates them and they feel like they're being oppressed, then go off campus, 
30 OCTOBER 2003 
by all means," says Etheridge. 
Hallahan says that conflicts between students and the administration are "slowly pushing more and more stu­dents off campus. It really changes the way ND is." 
University of Notre Dame Institu­tional Research reports that in the last eight years, the percentage of under­graduate students who live off campus has risen from 16 percent in 1995 to 19 percent in 2003. In the past year in particular, there has been an increase in the number ofjuniors who have moved off campus: from 10 percent of all ju­niors to 12 percent. But the percentage of seniors has actually gone down one percent from last year, much to the de­light ofrectors who hope to see a return to on-campus living in the future. 
"We love seniors," Etheridge says. "Seniors add a very stable presence to the dorm. It's like having three or four RAs [on every floor]." 
Doyle says, "I hope that the one percent ... will be the beginning of a trend. I would love to see seniors stay on campus because they're tremendous assets to the dorm." 
This past week, the Campus Life Council passed a resolution that calls for a task force to be formed in order to analyze RA training. While Hallahan hopes to foster a group discussion about residence hall issues, he is aware that others on campus do not agree. "Some members, particularly of the admin­istration, don't feel it's our place to be looking at this," he says. "It would make sense if we all sat down and did it together. This place is built for stu­dents and the best thing to do is involve students as much as we can." 
Increased dialogue between the ad­ministration and students will further higlight the stark differences of opin­ion on campus. To Etheridge, "The residential life here at Notre Dame is one of the most satisfying aspects. I don't think there's anything like it anywhere as far as consciously build­ing a community." To one off-campus student, who wished to remain anony­mous, "I never really felt comfortable talking to my rector or my RA. I don't think hall staff has too much authority when it uses that authority benevolently." Balancing these ex­treme viewpoints and incorporating them into policies might prove to be the most daunting of tasks. D 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 17 







A Trip Across the Pond 
A new program is immersing Notre Dame students in the Oxford experience 

MEGHANGOWAN 

Want to study abroad in Britain, but the London Program is not your cup oftea? Beginning next year, Notre Dame will offeran officialstudy abroad program at New College, Oxford. Selected Darners will enroll for a full year at the first English-speaking university in the world. "There are very few programs like ND's Oxford Program in which students are enrolled as full-time Oxford students, live in the College, and take tutorials with Ox­ford faculty just as any Oxford undergrad would," says current director of the Oxford Program, Anastasia Gutting. While at Ox­ford, Notre Dame students can participate in any club or extracurricular activity, and can have Student Union memberships. The University ofOxford is not a single college, but a loose conglomeration of ap­proximately 35 colleges in the town of Ox­ford, about 50 miles west of London. Last year was the first experimental year of the ND program. Two students were selected from the Political Science, Philosophy & Economics majors and the Honors Pro­gram. The program was a success, and invitations to apply for six available spaces for the currentacademicyearwere e-mailed to Science and Arts & Letters students with a cumulative GPA of3.7 or higher, an eligi­bility criterion set byNew College. Though the academic year operates on trimesters, Notre Dame students continue to pay Notre Dame tuition and room and board, while grades are transferred based on credit hours earned. "The Oxford academic system is very dif­ferent from Notre Dame's," explains Mary Komperda, one ofthe two Notre Dame stu­dents to attend Oxford last year. "Instead of attending lectures and seminars, you meet one-on-one with a tutor every week and discuss your reading assignments." A tutor is always an Oxford faculty member with expertise in the area the student wishes to "'study. The tutor gives reading and paper as­signments and meets once aweek to discuss the topic in greater detail. "Bythe end oflast .year, I was reading over a thousand pages of assigned reading and writing an average of 24 pages per week," Komperda says. 
Students are required to enroll in two tutorials each trimester and attend lectures based on the suggestion of professors. Tuto­rials are arranged after each studentsubmits several topics that he would like to study in depth. "The tutorial is a form of education custom-designed to enable students to pur­sue their particular intellectual interests in 

SMILE FOR THE CAMERA. Radcliffe Camera is just one of the sights awaiting Oxford students. 
depth and detail," Gutting says. Math and science are taught through a combination of tutorials accompanied by regular lectures. 
Theintense academicworkis arranged in three eight-week-long trimesters separated bysixweeklong breaks. Tests are cumula­tive and given near the end of the under­graduate education. None of the Notre Dame students will be required to take any exams while studying at New College. 
Notre Dame students are housed next to each other in singles with private baths in New College dorms which are separated by sex. "Compared to Notre Dame dorm rooms, these rooms are veritable palaces," says Alexandra Stewart, a current Notre Dame student at Oxford. John Skakun, another Notre Dame student at Oxford, agrees: "The rooms are not expansive, but still quitenice, although the pastel green and yellow color scheme complemented with hideous drapes could use some work." 
The private living arrangements and 
small classes makeitmore difficultforNotre 
Dame students to become integrated into 
the student population. "It was very dif­
ficult to meet people socially at first because 
you don't take classes with anyone else and 
because we lived at the top ofan extremely 
tall stone tower," says former participant 
Komperda. Contributing to the initial so­
cial isolation are sociallyconservative British 
students. "Whenever we tried to just meet 
people whenwe were standinginline, wait­
ingto checkoutabook, walking to alecture, 
they seemed slightly uncomfortable," says 
Margaret Doig. 

A popular way of overcoming this social barrier is participation in sports teams and club activities. Last year, Notre Dame student Beth White played soccer on the 
New College team and this year all six 
Notre Dame students play basketball with 
the New College. 

Outside of college activities, a great deal 
of the social life at Oxford revolves around 
local pubs. Pubs serve as a place for social 
gatherings and for dining outside the col­
lege. "Pub food is cheap and traditional and 
prettygood," Doig says. Many eat off cam­
pus at the pubs and nearby ethnic restaurants 
because the in-colJ~ge food is limited. The 
only beverage available is water, and no one 
is allowed seconds, explains Darren Luft. 

The new Oxford Program allows Notre Dame students to become fully integrated into the British academic and social life at New College. Students assume a great deal . of responsibility for independent study and are rewarded with a flexible social schedule. "The best part of Oxford life is the incred­ible options,~ depending on what you're feeling like,. you can either attend a lecture or seminar, go to the pub, play a sport, go to a concert-.-you can do almost anything, 
at any time here,''. Skakun says. ­

Applications art no longer being acceptedfor the 2004-2005schoolyear. Selection will begin early next]'allfor the 2005-2006 school year. All applican"ts m;uft have a cumulative GPA of3.7 in order to be considered for admission. Interested students should contact Anastasia Gutting through the London Program. 
18 SCHOLASTICNEWS 

30 OCTOBER 2003 

Let's Face a Reality 
Even in the land of Rockne, it's possible to get a bit too attached to football 

1 ight Domers -everybody needs to slow down and 
ke a collective deep breath. Now, I like to think of 
yself as a sort of ombudsman to the student body here. And as the self-anointed truth-teller, I must go to work now and put into writing what most ofus have known for a month or two by this point: We're not going to win the National Championship this year. I'm sorry, fellow seniors. It had to be said. I know it sucks to have a bad season our last year, but them's the breaks. Florida State marks the begin ­ning ofthe three-week countdown to the end ofour football spectating careers here. Cherish it. 
Now with that out of our systems, I'd like to speak of a syndrome that afflicts many of my friends. These friends, whose judgments I'd normally trust otherwise, have this weird thing wherein they get angry when our football team loses. I'm not talking about disappointed -I'm talking straight-out, punch-the-walls, renounce-God angry. I'm here to plead for sanity. I know this may sound crazy to those ofyou who bleed gold, cry blue and urinate kelly green, but, win or lose, ITJUST DOESN'T MATTER. 
Sorry about my use of all-caps there, but if I could jump out of tl{e page and yell at you, I would. Because it cannot be reiterated enough. Notre_ Dame has some of the best and brightest kids in the country, yet a large percentage of them stake their emotional well-being on the travels, one yard at a time, of an air-filled leather sac. Let it go. 
On game days when we lose, a quick pe­rusal of Instant Messenger away messages usually reveals something following this formula: "Dammit, we lost again! [The team that beat us] can [expletive] my [body part]!" Now, my main problem with this type of away message is merely logistical in nature. Can you imagine 80-odd football players performing an intimate act with one computer user? No? Well, I can, but that's probably why I'm going to hell. 
I fear that my impassioned entreaty for students to not care about football will be mostly ignored, so let me take this op­portunity to explain my position. I don't care about football. Now a lot of this might come from the fact that I hail from Cincinnati. Our NFL team, the Bengals, have systematically lowered Cincinnatians' expectations. To give those who don't follow football some perspective, the last time the Bengals 
0 u T 

were in the playoffs, I had yet to grow pubic hair. 
While you're recovering from that unsavory mental image, I should tell you that I'm not exactly your stellar archetypical Irish fan. While Rudy was "gold and blue, through and through," I'm wearing a gold and blue poncho, at the most. The last time I saw a game in the stadium from start to finish, the number one song on the radio was "It Wasn't Me" by Shaggy, the fateful, idyllic fall of 2000. 
At this point in my senior year, all the games blur together so much. And, due to NBC's exorbitant use ofTVtime-outs, the games are so long that I just can't take it. To me, the ideal Saturday in Notre Dame stadium involves me waking up at 7 a.m., getting blind drunk, entering the game near the end 
of halftime, and leaving after the third quar­ 
/  ter.  This year, I briefly considered showing  
iI  /• ,  up before half-time, for marshmallow fights, but our amazingly rational stadium usher staff  
put an end to that.  
If I may digress, does anyone else find  
the usher staff's explanation for ending the  
marshmallow tossing to be more than a  
little bit comical? The usher staff claims that  
people are stuffing marshmallows with sharp  
and/or heavy things and winging them at their  
friends' eyeballs.  That would make sense if  
we were a sociopath convention, but last time  
I checked we were the Senior Class. They  
also claim that it's disrespectful to the Band.  
I would venture that the marching band is  
plenty used to being disrespected; remember,  

these were the same people who did band in grade school and high school. And as far as the Irish Guard goes, if they survived their old-school beat-down by townies, surely they can survive a little confectionary tossing amongst the seniors in the stands. 
Some of you (okay, all of you) may find my laissez-faire attitude toward the "W" column to be disrespectful to the student-athletes whom I'm sure try their hardest every week. Well, in response, I give members of the football team my express permission to not be disappointed when I fail a test in a film class. 
So, to those ofyou who live and die with our beloved Irish, I say, give it a rest. It's only a game. That, and you really should get that kelly green urine thing checked out. D 
0 F 



· 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON 
GAY AND LESBIAN 
STUDENT NEEDS 
• 


The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs 

(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 

Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 l@nd.edu 

University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ 
i 
I ji •••··••••••·••••••••••••••••·•••••••••••••••• 


the campus stor·e offcampus 

TH£ H.EWEST· AND· ONLY ,QFF CAMPUS·STOR_E.·OF1F:IRING: THE SAMEPRCDUCfS. 
~ THAT YOU J:IND ON CAMPUS AT ALOWER PRICEI. 
JUST A 112 MILE Fa·oM cAMP:u-s IN THE MARTENS-sH:oPPING, 1PiAZA CALL FOR, STOI\E. HOURS 24.3•41'7 Q.R SHOP ONLINE 

WW'!#~UNIV:ERIITYOUTFIT1'E_RSUSA.COM 

CAMPUS WATCH 
,.-----________...,___.______........G~----­

Howdy-ho, Gipplings. The Gipp 
truly hopes your mid-semester 
siestas left you rested and ready to 

cause some ruckus back here on campus. 
The Gipp is in especially good spirits, 
mainly because this week's installment 
finally brings us a deed that didn't rely 
on courage induced by the good spirits. 
So, without further ado ... 
You've Got IMs 

As we all know, the Gipp receives his 
fair share oftips. But with so many tales 
involving the Holy Trinity ofFluids (two 
yellows and a white) it eases the Gipp's 
mind to be able to tell a jovial, fun-lov­
ing, quasi-innocent tale. 
We've all had to say the line, ~.Sorry, 
wrong number." But would you be po­
lite enough to say "Sorry, wrong screen 
name)'? According to a-recent report, one 
Irish senior sure wasn't. Due to serious 
similarities between his IM screen name 
and that of a Michigan high school boy 
(Let's call him ... Joe -real names are 
much funnier), our digiphile, over the 
course of a couple weeks, managed to · meet, court, ask out and break the 
heart of Joe's crush, Emily, with­
out ever saying a word to her in person. 
Now, this one was complicated,_ so pay close attention as the Gipp gives his best summary. One day, Emily accidentally IMed the senior about a Friday night football game. The senior began on an informa­tion-gathering quest, and soon the clues started to fall into place for him. After realizing he was talking 
to a high-school girl who mistook his screen name for that of one of her classmates, the self-promoting tipster says he proceeded to ask Emily to "be my girlfriend." So poor Emily planned for a hot date with clueless J o_e. Ofcourse, the lack of conversation between the two to confuse Emily's cronies. 
Senior: (5:49:29 PM): so what do you think about me and emily? Emily's Friend (5:49:43 PM): its very cute Senior: (5:49:56 PM): yeah, i think so too 
Emily's Friend (5:50:15 PM): but why don't you talk to her at school? 
Senior (5:50:51 PM): i get nervous about things like that 
Emily's Friend (5:51:40 PM): well most people do 
Senior (5 :51:58 PM): so, it's understan­able (sic) then. 
Emily's Friend (5:52:07 PM): yes itis 
Fortunately, the senior, still aliasing as "Joe," managed to placate Emily with some online schmoozing. Their relation­ship appeared to be headed toward cyber­heaven. But, alas, not all Gipp love stories have a happy ending. 
So, to make a long, sketchy story short: Somehow, Emily and the real Joe were tipped off as to these ongoings (suppos­edly by an insider at ND), so our senior's 

fun died. But somewhere north of us, a confused young girl had her heart toyed with simply because this jerk-off Domer had too much time on his left hand. Beau­tiful. The Gipp's hoping for permanent emotional scars. 
Ofcourse, the Gipp would love to print the actual screen .names of all involved parties, but recently his editors seem to be firmly standing on an anti-lawsuit platform. But drop Mr. Gipp a line and he'll be more than willing to let you in on the action. 

Wet Dream 

We can only absorb so many incidents of drunken male urination. But drunken female urination opens up a whole new set offloodgates. So the Gipp was more than happy to investigate this next tip, which shows us that the Y chromosome is not a prerequisite for late-night leaks. 
Our scene is an off-campus living complex, and our time of occurrence is unknown .. But due to the nature of this report we can only pray it was a pre-pa­rietals party. One unidentified male and one unidentified female were probing each other's bodies as a third bystanding party lay innocently in a nearby bed. Detective Gipp has been informed by the bystander that after the thug's few good minutes were up, he and his lady partner-in-crime 
passed out on their cot. (Blood-alco­
hol levels were not reported.) Later on 
that night, the sinner's slumber was 
suddenly interrupted as he realized 
he had been sleeping in a pool that 
our witness described as "the size of 
Rhode Island." Apparently, the ulti­
mate party foul had been committed, 
and this time a male wasn't to blame: 
Sleeping Beauty had some nocturnal 
discharges (but not the cool kind). 
A free case to anyone who dresses 
up as the Gipper this holiday week­end. And since the upcoming interscho­lastic tilt might not be pretty, be on the lookout for ways to pleasantly avert your eyes. Speaking of which, that brings the Gipp back to the subjects of the Internet and high-school girls ... D 


30 OCTOBER 2003 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 21 

Why I want Virginia Tech'.s.schedule. 




IJinibo's Jabber 
by Jimmy Atkinson-jatkinsl@nd.edu 
W:en Notre Dame takes the field gainstFlorida State this Saturday; twill mark the third time this sea­son that a top-five team has lined up against the Irish. In fact, Boston College is Notre Dames only opponent so far this season that has not beenranked in the Top 25. The combinedwin­loss record of the first seven Irish opponents is 44-12, giving Notre Dame the top-ranked schedule in the country. What would life be like ifthe Irish had, say; Virginia Techs schedule? Would the Irish still be suffering a losing season? Virginia Tech, enjoying a successful 6-1 season and a No. 10 ranking in the AP Poll, has the 69th strongest schedule in the nation. Sure, it's only a dream, but let's take a look at how the Irish would do against the Hokie opponents anyway. OnAugust 31, CentralFlqridatakes an early 7-0 lead, but are subsequeritly squashed by an invigoratedIrish defense;;J3oth CarlyleHoliday and Julius Jones rush for over 100 yards in a 31-7 Notre Dame win. After an easy 44-0 defeat overJames Madi­son, things get interesting on September 18 when Texas A&M heads into South Bend for the first Thursday night game ever at Notre Dame Stadium. The Irish are looking for re-_ venge against the Aggies, who defeated Notre Dame 24-3 in College Station two years ago. Afi:era scoreless firstquarter, Ryan Grantbreaks the tie late in the second quarter to makeit 7-0. TheAggies respond with 14point'> in the third, but a scoring barrage by Notre Dame in the fourth put the Irish on top for good, 28-14. September27: Notre Dame struggles against Connecticut TheHuskies go ahead 10-0 mid­waythrough the first quarter, butBradyQuinn comes in to spark the offense and leads the Irish · what should be the "Game of the Year." 
to 3 8 unanswered points. Irish win 38-10. Not including James Madison, which is a 
Following a 49-17 defeat over Rutgers, Oc­Division I-AA program, Virginia Techs op­
tober 11, Notre Dame plays host to Syracuse. ponents' combined win-loss record is 23-24. 
Jones breaks aschool record forrushingyardage There is no doubt in my mind that Notre 
with 262 while the defense stifles any Orange­Dame would be ranked highly ifthey played 
men hope ofvictory. Irish win again, 23-10. the Hokies' schedule. The Irish have a strong 
Witha6-0recordandaNo.4nationalrank­football team this season, handing Washington 
ing, trailing only fellow unbeatens Oklahoma, State its onlyloss ofthe year and also defeating 
Miami and Washington State, the Irish face PitIBburgh on th~ road. Unf!;>rtunately; th e y 
the toughest test of the season when they head have run up agamst the seem­
eastto Morgantown to battle the West Virginia inglyinsurmountablewall that 1--------------------------­
There· is no doubt in my mind that Notre Dame WQuld/ ~ be ranked highly if they played the Hokies' schedule. 
Mountaineers, who gave Miami all they could is their difficult schedule. 
handle just a week earlier. Collegefootball isnot the NFL.Thereis not 
After falling behind 13-7 at the half, Notre. enough parity for one to be able to look atwin­
Dame roars back in the second half to take a loss records to determine the strength ofa team. 
20-13 leadcourtesyoftwoNickSettafieldgoals CentralFloridaandJamesMadisonarenotex­
and an 80-yard touchdown pass from Quinnto actlyMichiganand SouthernCal. While Notre 
RhemaMcKnight TheMountaineers score a Dameplays three top-five teams thisseason, the 
touchdown with under a minute in the fourth Hokies likelywill playthat many top-five teams 
to force overtime. On the first overtime play; · over the course ofthree seasons. 
Jones burst<; through the middle of the line, While it is frustrating for any Irish fan to sit 
cuts to the right, and scatters down the right through a 2-5 season with the Seminoles on 
sideline for a 25-yard touchdown run. The the horizon, while teams like Virginia Tech 
Mountaineers throw incomplete passes on or Nebraska seem to have it so much easier, I 
first and second down. On third down,Justin commend Notre Dame for scheduling quality 
Tuckwraps himself up a quarterback sack. On opponents eachyear. Biggames arewhatmake 
the final play of the game, a desperation pass is college football Saturdays special. So Virginia 
intercepted in the end zone by Glenn Earl to Tech can have its games· against the Dukes 
preserve the 27-20 overtime win. and the Knights. I prefer classic Notre Dame 
Third-ranked Notre Dame now heads back match-ups againstthe Wolverines,Trojans and 
home this weekend to host No. 2 Miami in Spartans. . 
STATZONE>> 
Mike lselin brings you ... 

Hockey (3-2): The Irish hockey team recorded one of its most impressive wins in recent history up in Chestnut Hill against Boston College (3~2~.I) .. Led by freshman goaltender David Brown, the Irish knocked off the top-,­ranked Eagles 1_-0. The next opponent for the Irish is Nebraska-Omaha this Thursday and Friday in the Joyce Center. \ Women's Soccer ( 18-0-1 as of I 0/28): The Notre Dame women's soccer team is on a tear. They have not given up a goal since September 28 against North Texas. They will head into the Big Eas_t Tournament this Sunday 6-0 in conference play and will face Miami (9-8-1) in the quarterfinals. 


22 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 30 OCTOBER 2003 
DAVIDBROWN / 
Freshman goaltenderDavid Brown-joined the ·Notre _Dam~ Hockey team this season looking IOur Calls .to prove that he could make it_at the collegiate Women's Soccer :level. This Ontario, Canada native has dqne just 
OPPONENT: UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI 

i that, going into tonight's garrie against Nebraska­
WHERE: ALUMNI FIELD

[Om~ha with back-to-back shutouts; including a 
WHEN: SUNDAY, I:00 P.M. EST

\ i ~o victory over top-ranked Bostori·Co!lege last 
iFriday. In four games playedthis season, Brown :/ .: ,.,(• 
I 
"leads the team with a 1.5 I·goals against average _ ~ · . w 
1

. .~nd a ~5.7 save percentage. . _ ---· . · ·---~ ·. ·• ' ...., . Amy Warner notches a hat trick and Erika Bohn extends her shutout
At the goaltender position, you are called on to lead, especially in the back. Has 
streak to I I games as the Irish defeat

thatbeen difficult fur you in yourlimited experience at the .collegiate level? ¦ 
Miami 3-0 to advance to the Big East

I got used_to it pretty quick;the first few gameswe had a lot of shots on net, and I was .-•I 
semifinals round. 

~ able to ad}USt to the pace of the game and how rm supposed to react. I changed my 
JIMMYATKINSON

\ \ · · game up to the new tempo and I don't find it difficult now just getting in the flow, 
SPORTS EDITOR 

~ \ , getting behind the guys, and it's working out really well right now.
j\ : 
'~~ What w()uld you say is the biggest difference between the hockey back home in 
. 1! Caruida and the collegiate hockey you've played here at Notre Dame? 
The Irish stay hot and earn a trip to'

-_ , [The collegiate le~el] is a lot faster. The 5P.eed of theylayers, h9'V' hard and how fast 
Rutgers for the Big East Championship 

: . the shots are commg, and the whqle play m general ts a lot faster.. 
) Weekend. The Hurricanes of Miami will come in to South Bend and Alumni 

.-. You.went jnto the Boston-<:oll~ge gilirie coming off the first collegiate shutout 
Field looking to put some goals on the

·• ofyour career; what were your exp~tions and the expectations ofthe team 
board, but will be unable to do so as

•igoing into Boston facing_the numhefone team iti the country? 
the Irish come away with yet another

!We lmew ifwe put our mind to it and came together as a team, we could accomplish 
shutout victory, 4-0 . 

.,. •what we set out to _do-and that was to win the game. We lmew it was going to be a 
MIKEISELIN

~J sold~out arena, and it was gqing to be broadcast live on TY, but.we tried not to let that ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR
-..., influence us at all and just go in there and play our own game; · , _ :1 
,:(Whataresomeofyourinterestsofftheice? _ . _ ... : : .,.:~ Key to the Grune: 
.:-.\{I'm into music: I like to ~nto all types of music;it helps pump me up before the ::,/.L.:.1 Ball Control
\/Ji game. I'm also an athlete. l_like..to playfootball andmad hockey and just hang out with h 'i:.::<c'·': ) In most of their games this season, _\:,\i; my friends when I have free time. ·
.':.i, ...-__ the Irish ladies have won easily by taking control with early goals and -· .j Whatis the biggest difference between Ontario and South Bend? 
then keeping the pressure in theiThere's a big difference in the cultural background. People find some of the things attack zone. If they are able to do this that I do and say really appalling, and the same when I hear certain. things from them. 
on Sunday, Miami will not be able to 
counter effectively. 


-Mike lselin 
";;;·-,y-~ ­

-~ 
,..,. . .!!~,,,.,_y.. !,f..;· . ·.. ... ,.· ~ . ...... . · ..... ~-. -. •; . 
Men's Soccer ( I 0-3-3): The men's soccer team knocked off the 9th­ranked Hokies of Virginia Tech ( I 1-4­
1) last Saturday to move oack into a battle for home field advantage in the upcoming Big East Tournament. With a victory ovei:-Villanova (9-6-1) on Friday, the Irish can clinch home field advantage in the first round of the tournament. 
Volleyball ( 17-2 as of Tuesday I 0-/" 28): Sophomore Lauren Brewster : was named Big East Player of the Week for the third time in four weeks after helping the Irish chalk up three more road victories over fall break. The Irish beat Boston College ( 15­6), Rhode Island ( I 0-14), and North Carolina ( 16-8). The women played on Wednesday against Illinois State ( I 1­
12) and will take on Syracuse ( 16-1 I) on Sunday in the JACC. 
30 OCTOBER 2003 
SCH0LASTICSPORTS 23 


,Ern-e-rging Role -­
sophomore tight end Anthony Fasano has found his niche in the Notre Dame offense 
JIMMYATKINSON 
With the Irish's talent and depth at the tight end po­sition, it seemed unlikely that anyone could contend with senior Gary Godsey for the starting job at the beginning of the season. The opportunities certainly were limited with Godsey, senior Billy Palmer, ju­niorJared Clark, sophomore Anthony Fasano and freshman Greg Olsen all vying for playing time in the Notre Dame offense. But with the sudden departure of Godsey due to injury and Olsen due to transfer, Fasano was given the opportunity to step into a more significant role and has taken full advantage of it. Fasano, a 6-4, 253-lb. sophomore from Verona, NewJersey, was a highly touted tight end coming out of high school. "Last year when he first came to campus, we saw somebody who had the potential to develop himself into a very solid football player," Tight Ends Coach Mike Denbrock says. "He has continued to get better and better at what we're asking him to do." 
Fasano did not see any action in his freshman season and did not expect to receive significant playing time this season. But with Godsey out, his ability to step quickly into action has allowed him to be Notre Dame's leading receiver for three consecutive games. Fasano now leads all Irish tight ends with 12 receptions for 130 yards. In the game against Southern Cal two weeks ago, he temporarily tied the game with a leaping catch in the back of the end zone. He finished that game with a career-high four receptions for 33 yards. Last week at Boston College, Fasano continued to shine, bring­ing in four receptions for 48 yards. 
Fasano credits his success to hard work on the practice field and his knack for improving with each game. "I worked hard and Coach [Den­brock] put faith in me and has given me the opportunity," he says. "I'm just trying to make the best of it." 
After receiving only limited play­ing time in the season opener against Washington State, Fasano caught two passes for a combined 34 yards against Michigan and Michigan State and earned the starting job at Pitts­burgh in the fifth game of the season. Freshman quarterback Brady Quinn, in his second career start, struggling to complete passes to Irish wide 


30 OCTOBER 2003 


stepping forward more and more into that each week." Denbrock echoes Willing­ham's sentiments, citing Fa­. sano's versatility as his great­est strength. "He gives us a chance to not be predictable offensively," he says. "We can run and pass it equally well with him in the game." Fasano has become Quinn's favorite target in · the last three games, as he has led all receivers over the last three-week period with 10 receptions for 96 yards. -A major reason for the ' emergence of the Quinn­Fasano connection might be that Quinn, a young quarterback, finds comfort · passing to a tight end whose routes are typically shorter check-down routes, which are easier to complete, Fa­.sano says. "Knowing that we're going to catch the ball and run the right routes, I think that's [also]' a big 
his blocking and his pass catching. • 
receivers, .started targeting Fasano instead. By game's end, Quinn had thrown the ball Fasano's way four times, and he finished with a team­high two receptions for 15 yards. 
More importantly, Fasano contrib­uted to the Irish ground game that night, helping the offen_sive line spur a record-breaking night for senior tailback Julius Jon·es. Fasano is not only a reliable receiver with good hands, he is also a powerful blocker for the running game. This versatil­ity is one of the main reasons why he has been able to secure the starting job. The Notre Dame coaching staff loves a tight end who can be used in both running and passing situations. 
"Anthony hopefully gives us an op­portunity at his position to be a com­plete tight end, to be one that we can lean on in the running game, but also has the ability to be involved in our passing game," Head Coach Tyrone Willingham says. "He seems to be confidence boost for him, 
especially him being young" Fasano says. "I think he feels com­fortable throwing to us [tight ends]." 
Quinn acknowledges the con­tributions Fasano has made to the offense thus far. "He's been in some key situations and making big plays so really he's just stepped up a bunch," Quinn says. "He·'s definitely.a good target to throw to." 
Denbrock, too, has noticed some­thing between Quinn and Fasano. "There's a certain amount of chem­istry that exists between quarter­backs and receivers," Denbrock says. "[Quinn and Fasano] seem to have a connection that works." 
Despite the departure of Olsen and the season-ending knee injury Godsey suffered, the remaining tight ends have done a fine job stepping up their play to fill in the gap. Fasano now seems to have secured a promi:... nent role in the Notre Dame offense, according to Offensive Coordinator Bill Diedrick. "I think that Antho-


IAnthony Fasano's Receiving Statistics 

Team Receptions -Yards -Touchdowns 
Washington State 0-0-0 Michigan 1-19-0 Michigan State 1-15-0 Purdue 0-0-0 Pitt 2.,.15-0 Southern Cal 4-3 3-1 BC 4-48-0 
Total 12-130-1 
(9.5 yards per reception) 
ny's progress is where he's basically 
kind of won the position so I think 
he's in a position where he is going 
to catch more balls," Diedrick says. 
But the job is not done yet. De­

spite Fasano's recent success as a receiver and run blocker, he knows that winning is the most impor~ant thing. Everyone on the team has one common goal: they all want to win. A starting point for the team's success is the offensive line, of which Fasano is a vital component. The relationship between the offensive linemen and the tight end is crucial to the teamwork along the front line. "I think we're . real close;» Fasano says. "Right now, we're not doing that well, so we have to come together as a unit. That's the only way we're going to get better." 
Most crucial is to come together 
at this time, to salvage a season that 
is quickly spiraling down the drain. 
Heading into the game against Florida 
State, Fasano understands that as his 
role has increased, so have expecta­
tions of him. "Every opportunity I 
get, I try to take advantage of it," he 
says. "I'm working on my routes, my 
pass catching and blocking most im­
portantly. I'm getting more comfort­
able every time I get on the field and 
making plays." Come Saturday, and 
throughout the remainder of the Irish 
season, he and the rest of the Notre 
Dame offense will be looked to make 
those big plays more and more. D 

30 OCTOBER 2003 SCHOlASTICSPORTS 25 






R\'~-~A L
7~auy ·1·or1 ,ct1on 
__JfalthyDevon Presd\d leads the Irish attack 
, 
j j 
t~;.~. .·~:--,---~--·-,-· 
\ ... MIKEISELIN ··· 
~ ....·.·.·..· / ... •.•··,. 
r-our co-'cap..: .



-----r\:t}t-~i,:t:.: 
men's\occer t~~ml ·• this se~son. One1 , of thesAplayersf is senior~
i, rward[ · Devon Pre.SC' d. r : .. ; Devon was a,·. ,.,c,•..••
r .-· 
highl~recruite( : pla~r from; .· · Gyorgia, wherei 
["~e was two-time; . 
Player of thef _ 
Year. He c.amei.> 
as a freshman to; ._ 
Notre Dame and[. 
made an immedi-i 
ate impact on the. · ..· 
1
team. , 
· His career took!: • 
off his sophomore; 
year as he started\ · 
18 matches and! 
scored six goals) . 
As a junior, in-i · 
jury hindered! 
Devon's abilities: • 
on the field,\ ·..
~~:o:;hbl~t~······,CATC:HFIIMIF.YOU CAN'Prescodbre~ks a~yfrorn ~ppo~e~ts i~ the~h~inst ~i~h;pn.•·,....·~·····~·"=~~ 
still playecJ in \ . 
every matctf. Now, in his final sea\ the ball so well under pressure in what tial continued to grow and his future 
son, he is/making the most of his, we call the· hole, the little bit in the looked bright-~ 
opportuni,ties and is one of the major\middle of the front line." ~bntortunately, aftt:r his sophomore 
reasons w;hy the Irish are 10-3-3 and Prescod started two matches his . year, Prescod suffere~/:om an injury. 
are look3/ng to head into the Big East ~reshman year and played in 10 others. "We thought it was shin splints, but 
Tournad::.entwith some momentum./He netted his first of many collegia;~/ I think it was possibly\even a stress 
Men's s~cer head coach Boj_by goals in the final minute of the seasoJJ fracture, it bothered him\really badly. 
Clark, hired1-~anuary 2JG'l to opener agairist New Mexico. He was limited last year, Sut this year 
replace interim Re-ad co~h Chris His ability to handle the ball w111 he is loo.king very\•.fit and j},in.g well," 
Apple, inherited in P':?eset>d a bright under pressure, coupled with his abi!l-Clark says. ./ __ 
young prospect who was only halfway ity to find the back of the net, w~~"It did hold me ba,c'k a little bit; I 
through his freshman year. enough to earn Prescod a start in 18 wa·s.n't as mobile/a§I would like to 
"[Pr·escod is] a player who really of the 19 matches the Irish played be,"ia'i:d--!'.,_rescod. He fought through 
handles the ball under pressure very his sophomore year. As a sophomore, the injury c:h:i,l1ng his junior campaign 
well," Clark says. "He's a great player Prescod was the second-leading and managed to play in all 21 of the 
who can handle the ball in the hole. scorer for the Irish and earned Big contests. In those 21 matches he tal­
He can come in and take balls with East Player of the Week honors for lied three goals and two assists but was 
his back to goal a,nd he just handles the first tim~ in his career. His poten-not nearly the player that Clark and 
26 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 30 OCTOBER 2003 

the rest of the collegiate soccer world had seen the previous year. 
Free ofinjury, Prescod worked hard during the off-season to get back in physical shape and, more specifically, soccer shape. "This summer I was able to actually play out on the field," he says. "The summer previous to that I was just doing training in the pool and worked my way up to the bike and running outdoors, [but] I got to actually play this summer, which was good." 
As a result of his hard' Work. arid ability to get on the field, Prescod came back this fall ready to return to and even. surpass. his level of two years ago. Last spring, he was voted 
.-------------=--------The games are 
,, [preSC O d iS] a pIaye r W hO . re a 11 y 
h.an d I e s .th e ba11 
u n de r pr e s s ur e 
CIarI<.
Very ··w_ ell," 


says.-­
--------------------career high. 1.-eih,r,:.::e of those 
one ofthe team's fou'r a~sistant cap­tains. His leadership has been a great asset to the Irish this ·season and has even surprised his coach. "I came in halfway through his freshman year, and I wouldn't have -seen him as a 
leader, but he's really done a g_r.e.a-t-Koioskov\gainst LaSalle on 
job," Clark says. -r-
Through the 16 matches th~tNotre 
Dame has played t~is season,[Prescod has only started m ~hree 1o_f ~hose . matches. However, this yeu 1t 1s not 
h_ecause ofshin sp.lints, or lal~k ofskill
I 
on the field, but rather a new substi--­tutio~ rule, which" states th4!_,.: player who 1s removed from th_e match--.~ 
not i:e-enter play. This means that 1~escod,says. \ -
Prescod were to start the match and then come out early in the second half 
-• -•
he would not be able to play m the late, critical stages of the match. 
30 OCTOBER 2003 
goals came in the same match against Cleveland State two weeks ago, which was the first hat trick recorded by an Irish player in nine years. The last player to accomplish tha!--£e-a·t was Konstantin 
Pr-escfod has been abl~ :to achieve a great deal of sue­
• , ~ • -..:_ _r.esco scoots t 
cess this year, most of which g;;alie•ear.lier this /eason. he attributes to his team-·---..:..7 
usually won at the end ofthe game, not at the beginning of the game." 
Clark knows what he is doing in get­ting Prescod on the field at the end of the games, as is evident by his four game-winning goals this season. He has netted the deciding goal against 
California, West Virginia, George­town :ind Cleveland State. \ ­Pr7icod is quite happy wit}1 the ro­tation that the team currenti¥ has up fror!t. "We've got a nice systeP\ worked 
ou/ this year with four forwards that at1.~ playing a line share, it takes\ little wessure off each of us," he says. \ 
"'--.lt must have taken a lot of r:-·-----,-· . -·· _____,,___ · •· .·..·· · ·7 
pr~nre offPrescod becaus..f•: througfi:"16 matches he)e{ds i 
, •• ,r ,. 

the team Wl:t;e-nu,,,goals, a 
/ / . ' 

"/[Prescod is]" a starter, b_;ut you w'ant _·· [him] on at"the ~~d. of g~irj,es, · not-. at the begi~-liiJ?:g of games," Clai:k says. "There is·-._"
I 

more space at 1 the end of the games, and he's a person who's going to be a lethal player for us. We want .______________ ... ·-------------_________________________________-_-·_______ _ the top players SHOULDER TO SHOULDER Prescod looks to lead the Irish to a successful 
on at the end. season in his final year at Notre Dame. 
September~• 1994. 
"It felt good but it was definitely sur~sing to fin~___.,.} 
out ~hat. I was tl){ only.---per­
son m nme years t;,o do \_that. 
I know a lot of goud pl~yers 
/· I ...

.have gone thr.9ugh the pro­
gram and I/hought on'.t::_of 
them had}one that befor~t 
: · · ' -· •­
· 

. ··QUIC.K FEET. p· · 1 · d · · 
mates. "It's purely a result of what the team has been doing. It's one of those things where my position always gets the glory because we are posi­tioned closest to the opponent's goal. I hardly take any credit because most of my goals have come as a result of everybody else doing hard work." Prescod's hard work and persever­ance have allowed him to grow in~,t~e player that many people felt he-would be coming out of high schooC He has recovered from his inj~f-plagued ju­
nior year, is feeding,off the play ofhis teammates and is p\itting balls in the net left and right. \ D 
. 
_ ___ , _ 
h -· · .
b 11
e a past an opposing 
SCHOIASTICSPORTS 27 



Rock Behind the Clock 
From the top of O'Shag straight to,your dorm room, WSND lets the good tunes roll 
RYANGREENE 
Megan Olive is nervous. "This is WSND news from the Associated Presh ... Associated Presh," she says as she rehearses. 
The clock on the wall reads 4:20 p.m. At 4:30, Megan will be reading her first WSND 88.9 FM newsbreak. And she is nervous. 
"I'm excited," she insists as she bounces slightly on one foot, then the other. "This is my excited dance." 
4:25 now. Cheryl Turski, one of the campus radio station's two news direc­tors, shows Megan the tiny room in which she will read her assorted news 


i: Ii 
! 
!' 
1 
[i1 
,, " ; 
j! 
1: 
stories.· Shelves upon shelves of classical CDs line three walls. A small desk along the-fourth wall holds a microphone just below the small window next to the door. Through this window she will receive the "go" signal from Dave Hayob, chief an­nouncer at WSND. 
"It's like I'm awaiting death," Megan says. "You're just reading the news," Dave reassures her. "Take a stab at it and be confident," Cheryl reminds her. 
And then it's 4:30. Dave, reading from the back of the CD case in front ofhim, closes out the piece that has just ended. As the recorded news intro starts, he 
waves to Megan through the window. It's go time. . "This is WSND news from the Associ­ated Press, brought to you by the students ·and volunteer-s·ofWSND-FM." 
For over 50 years, WSND has brought the "sound ofNotre Dame" to students,· faculty and the surrounding community. Primarily _a student-run organization since its inception, WSND employs dozens of students and local residents and offers as many as 18 hours of daily programming. "We serve Notre Dame," StationMan­ager Stephanie Rochel says. "That's what the name is and that's what we do." Headquartered in the clock tower of O'Shaughnessy Hall, the station's fore­most mission is to offer an alternative to "what you hear everywhere else," Rochel adds. For the most part, this means clas­sical music. Because the Notre Dame campus and South Bend community had no real access to a classical station, WSND staffers stepped in to fiU the void. With a library of well over 5,000 CDs of everything ranging from Bach and Tchaikovsky-to contemporary com­posers, they've proven themselves to· be more than up ~o the _task. Programming typically starts at 7:00 a.m. ·and runs· classical -music and opera until 6:00 p.m. Within that span are sev­eral shows that offer different types :of classical music. Dave Hayob's TafelMusik features light, eight-to 12-minute pieces; morning and afternoon concert programs offer full-length pieces for the devoted connoisseur; and the noon hour Classical Cafe focuses on quick, lively, three-to five-minute pieces. The alternative._,offerings do not stop there. In the evening hours, WSND of­fers over a dozen different programs that offer everything from jazz and blues to Broadway musicals and traditional Celtic music. "We give that different flavor," Rochel says. "It's all about the sound of the mu­sic." Still,• contemporary popular music has 
30 OCTOBER 2003 



PLAY THAT FUNKY MUSIC WSND boasts an extensive record collection. 
its own niche within WSND's eclectic 
mix. Each night for the last 35 years, now 
from midnight to 2:00 a.m., Nocturne 
rolls out the latest in "college rock" and 
obscure, older songs generally forgotten 
by classic rock stations. 
"We target the students then because that's who's listening," says Rochel. "And we let our DJs play what they genuinely like. We play the new stuff, not the typical, com­mercial songs." 
Following a Federal Communications Commission regulation for public, non­profit FM stations, WSND offe~s several news sources each day. These range from the syndicated "News Hour with Jim Leh­rer" weekdays at 6:00 p.m. to a handful of student-presented news briefs. 
All this programming is pumped out via one of the nation's most powerful college radio transmitters. At 3,430 Watts (the typical college radio wattage is around 200), WSND is able to reach a primary range of 35 miles and a secondary, less reliable range of up to 50 miles. 
Withsuch a far-reaching base oflisteners, Rochel and WSND's executive staff recog­nize the opportunities the station offers and the responsibilities it undertakes. 
"We're a definite face to those who maybe don't have anything to do with the university," she says. "Just as we serve Notre Dame, we're working on stronger relations with the community and com­munity service." · Service plans include blood drives and work with South Bend's Robinson Com­munity Learning Center. WSND will also be promoting and participating in Locks of Love,' in which volunteers have 10 inches of their hair cut off to help make wigs for children who have lost their hair to incur­able diseases. 
30 OCTOBER 2003 
The station is also working on other exciting, on-campus activities. On Nov. 4 and 5, WSND hopes to present "DJ in the Dining Hall." Staff members will set up some broadcast equipment and play music for one night at North Dining Hall and one night at South, while giving away some free CDs and T-shirts. 
"We want to get our name out there," Rochel says. "And it's going to be fun." 
Though it thrives today, WSND's humble beginnings hail as far back as 1935, with the formation of the Notre Dame Radio Club. Through the club, students produced radio shows for several South Bend stations. But as inter­est in the club grew, so too did interest in a student-run station. In 1947, carrier-current technology made the hope a reality. Bylinking an AM trans­mitter to the university's electrical system, students were able to bring their own sta­tion, WND, to campus. Programs focus­ing primarily on news and music aired two hours a day, five days aweek. Unfortunately, carrier-current technology was extremely unstable. Any fluctuation in the power sys­tem, no matter how small, meant the signal would be lost. Listening to WND became an exercise in patience and luck at times. WND ran into another major problem at the time: finding facilities. In 1947 WND moved its headquarters from Walsh Hall to Washington Hall. Then from Washington Hall to the press box ofNotre Dame Stadium. Then from the press box to the Fieldhouse. Eventually the university took notice, and in 1952 offered WND space in the tower· of O'Shaughnessy Hall, which was still under construction at the time. The station moved to its new home in 1954, one year after its call letters canged to WNDU. But because the university wanted to reserve those letters for its future televi­sion station, WNDU adopted a new name: WSND ("We Serve Notre Dame"). Pro­gramming, which on average ran a bit over 12 hours a day, con­sisted of music, news, sports and a variety ofother features. 

The next big step came in 1962, when WSND-AM gained an FCC broadcast­ing license and a spot on the FM dial at 
88.9 mHz. Sept. 30 ofthatyear, WSND­FM was on the airwaves with program­ming from 5:00 p.m. to midnight. 
WSND made two big moves in 1971. First, with FCC permission, the station upgraded its broadcast power from about 10 Watts to 3,430 Watts. Practically over­night, broadcast range and listenership expanded from strictly on-campus to its current 30-to 50-mile radius. 
Second, WSND moved from 361 O'Shag to its current home in the fourth floor tower. The move was hotly contested by the university's growing secretarial population, who had been promised that area as a lounge. Eventually the rooms were divvied up, half going to the station and half to the secretaries. As WSND­FM's head engineer Edwin Jaroszewski says, "WSND-FM, as you know it, was born." 
Much has changed over the years, but at least one aspect of WSND has always remained the same. 
"It's just a good way to get involved with the university and the community, arid have fun doing it," Dave Hayob says. 
"Whatever your style of music is, we have a show you'll enjoy," Rochel adds. "And _if you want to be creative, that's perfect. Whatever your talent is, you can find a way to express that in Notre Dame student media. 
"So jump on the bandwagon," she says, "because you'll have a lot fun." . 



Giving Chills and Giving __ Back 
The Niles Haunted House entertains patrons while providing for local charities 

YOU THOUGHT YOUR DORM WAS BAD The haunted house is the park's most popular attraction. 
JIMRYAN 
For those looking to have a truly frightening Halloween, the Niles Haunted House is a must-see. More than just a haunted house, it offers six spooky attractions .....:.. three indoor and three outdoor--'-on 44 acres just west of US 31 in Niles. But this "scream park" provides more than just good scares. It also raises thousands of dollars for local charities each year. TheNiles Haunted House traditionally has received strong reviews from haunted house critics. Hauntedhousechicago.com rated the park an A+ in the categories of organization and "bang for· the buck," and the park received an A-for enter­tainment factor. MSNBC called the Niles Haunted House one of the 20 "must-see" national haunted attractions, and Playboy.com rated it one of the top 13 haunted houses in the nation in 1999. The park will even be the subject of a documentary by Chuck Williams, a well­known :filmmaker in the terror genre. The park's main attraction is the tradi­tional Haunted House, which changes its layout and theme every year. This year's theme is "Pirates ofthe Scaribean," and · among the house's new wrinkles is the Cemetery Swamp, a moat that patrons must traverse before entering the house. Once inside, patrons may choose from over 100 routes, each containing its own unique scares, to reach the house's exit. Along the routes, patrons will encoun­ter scary scenery, actors, special effects such as fog and neon lighting, and_ ani­matronics. Volunteer Coordinator Marty Smith promises that the Haunted House is scary. "We don't recommend the Haunted House for kids under 10," she says. She adds that the house is not, how­ever, full of blood and guts. "We don't do gore," she says,; "We just distract and scare." Another indoor attraction is the Realm ofDarkness, which Smith describes as a dark maze. The Realm of Darkness has several themed rooms that include fog, tiki torches, fluorescent artwork and a host of scary characters. 
The Field of Screams, a new offering last year, will return for 2003. This out­door attraction sends patrons through a frightening maze in a fabricated field. At one point, patrons must even crawl through a hearse. 
New for this year is Grim's Scary Tales, a smaller house that adds what Smith calls "a demented twist" to tra­ditional fairy tales, including the Three Little Pigs, Humpty Dumpty, and Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. Also new for 2003 is Sean's Seance Room, a theatre in which audience members participate in a humorous, but frightening, 15-min­ute show. 
For the fainter ofheart, the park offers the Dark TERRORtory Haunted Hay­ride. This 20-minute ride takes patrons past more than 20 eerie scenes. There is also a midway with several Halloween­themed games and food. 
For $20, patrons can purchase the Frightful Nightfull, which provides ad­mission to all six of the park's attractions. For $15, patrons can purchase the Triple Dog Dare, which provides admission· to the three indoor haunted attractions. Patrons may also pay for admission to individual attractions, with prices rang­ing from $2 to $7. Midway tokens cost $1 apiece. Groups of 20 or more can re­ceive $1 off of the combination tickets or 50 cents off of tickets to individual attractions. 
Smith says that the Niles Haunted 

. House is special to Michiana residents for reasons other than its rave reviews. "There are other haunted _attraction_s in the area," she says. "I think the fact that the [Niles Haunted House] is a fund­raiser for more than 50non-profit groups is probably the most unique thing about it. It's a way for causes to earn money without having-to sell candy bars." 
Smith says volunteering is well worth the work, as all groups combined raised approximately $76,000 last year. She adds that the park is always looking for more · volunteer groups. 
In addition to benefiting the com­munity, Smith says, the Niles Haunted House offers people a venue to enjoy good, clean Halloween fun. "I think some people like to be frightened," she says. "You cal\ come out and,spend $20 for six attractiqns. It's a nice, safe environment where you can bring. your kids." 
The Niles Haunted House is open October 30 from 7-10p.m. and October 11 to No­vember 1 from 7 -11 p.m. For directions, prices, and other information call (269) 687­FEAR or visit http://www.haunted.org/old­index.htm. 
30 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 30 OCTOBER 2003 
COMPILED BY MEGHAN GOWAN 



EDITOR'S CHOICE 
Celebrate "Chicagoween" 
Get out of the 'Bend and celebrate Halloween a day early on Thursday, October 30 by getting spooked on the "Haunted L." Ride the Loop and be both thrilled and frightened by the scary tales performed in costume by the Hypocrites Troupe. Unlike other frightening attractions, once you get on the "Haunted L" you cannot escape until the ride has come to a complete stop. 
Tickets for this menacing meander above and around Chicago are free and distributed on a first-come first-serve basis inside the Cultural Center at 77 E. Randolph Street. The "ride" departs at 7 p.m., 7:25 p.m., 7:50 p.m. and 8:15 p.m. 
The "Haunted L" is one event in the "Chicagoween" celebra­tion that also includes the Midnight Circus and the Pumpkin Plaza. 
AESTHETIC 

• GLEE CLUB CONCERT 
Thursday, October 30 and Friday, October 31 from 8:00 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. at Washington Hall. Tickets are $3 at Lafortune Box Office. 
• PETER PAUL AND MARY IN CONCERT 
Friday, November 7 beginning at 8:00 p.m. at Star Plaza Theatre in Merrillville, Ind. Tickets run from $27 to $3 7 through Ticketmaster. 

ATHLETIC 

• MEN'S HOCKEY V. NEBRASKA-OMAHA 
Thursday, O~tober 30 and Friday, October 31, both at 7:35p.m. at theJACC. Tickets are free for students and· $10 to $12 for adults. 
• INTRAMURAL SQUASH SINGLES 
Begin on Wednesday, November 13. Registration from October 30 to November 6 at Rolfs. Cost is $5. 

INTELLECTUAL 
• LECTURE: "THE WORLD'S FORGOTTEN WARS AND THE WITNESS OF THE COMMUNITY OF SANT' EDIGIO" 
Paolo Mancinelli speaks on Monday, November 3 at 4:00 
p.m. in the Coleman-Morse lounge. Free. 
• "RELATIONSHIPS IOI: HOW TO PREPARE FORA LIFELONG LOVE" 
Lecture by the founder of St.Joseph's Covenant Keepers on Thursday, November 6 from 7:00 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. at Coleman-Morse lounge. Free. 
SPOOKY 

• KEENAN GREAT PUMPKIN 
Entertain kids from the South Bend area on Thursday, 
October 30from 4:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. on North Quad. 
Cost is a few Flex Points for candy. 
• DIA DE LOS MUERTOS CELEBRATION 
Celebrate with sculptor and art educator Armando Vargas and poet Oscar Casares on Thursday, October 30 from 6: 30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. at the Annenberg Auditorium at the Snite Museum ofArt. Free. 

Sl JBMII your event for Scholastic's Coming Distractions. E-mail your submissions to Meghan Gowan at gowan. l@nd.edu. 

30 OCTOBER 2003 
SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 31 






Living Through 
by Sr. Mary Louise Gude C.S.C. 


Changes 
'l. 
From the time I began living on campus, hall life and the relationships that have ensued. friends have asked me, "How can you live in I grew to treasure those relationships and the a dorm?" After 20 years and four residence exchanges that resulted, not only with students, halls -Breen-Phillips, Farley, Knott and Cava­assistant rectors and resident assistants, but also naugh -my response has not varied, "Well, I'm with those who· made life in the halls possible: not sure I could live anywhere else." That recur­housekeepers, security staff and maintenance per­ring question and my inevitable response make sonnel. New buildings, new furniture and new me realize that 20 years is indeed a long time. rules provided markers for memory, but relation­What changes have I seen? Why has my answer ships are at the core ofhall life and the reason why, remained the same over all these years? in 1993, after stepping down as rector ofFarley, I On one level, the changes are many. In 1983, · opted to remain "in residence" in a hall. . I became the assistant rector in Breen -Phillips, My experiences reflect those of others, re­just before the university began its regular cycle peated many times over many'years. I think of ofhall renovation. Furniture was scarce in those the first-year student who started packing one days. The BP lounge was a crazy quilt of un­October and left a phone message for her par­matched pieces, and a kindly administrator un­ents: they were to bring her home because she earthed a brown couch for mysitting room. Since couldn't stand the place; the following Aug. she students had the option ofpainting their rooms, was a member ofFrosh-O. Memories return of spills in the hallways were not uncommon. The the various roommate matches and mismatches, first Notre Dame student I met emerged from from four women who lived together for four her newly painted room with speckled hair. BP . years to the engineering student and swim team still had fuse boxes, resulting in the morning member who wondered at her roommates' squab­ritual of changing a fuse after 40 hair dryers bles, !!I just don't have time for all that." Parallels had done their work. This involved unloading· ofthe.Farley-BP football rivalry ofmy time exist the second floor luggage closet to replace the today. How many groups play together at Sunday offender and restore liturgy, like the one I knew that stayed together power. When BP was ··for three years? And how.many students search renovated for the first out "that special music we sa~g on Sundays" for time in 1985, I cleaned their wedding? out multiple store No two years are ever the same in a hall; some rooms and unearthed would say that no two days are th(? same. One odd items, including can deal with crisis and comedy in the space of 
Because students in a hall deal with each other in multiple ways during their time together, I have come to believe that it is this very reality that helps create enduring bonds that can span a lifetime. 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., is the assistant vice presidentfor Student Affairs, a concurrent assistant professor of Romance Languages and Literature and a resident ofCavanaugh Hall. 
:1
'I __. 
1: 
a set of truck tires. In an hour. Some constants remain: the ups and other tasks since, I have organized Easter downs, the joys and sorrows, the fun and hard vigils, mopped up floods, sorted and delivered work of students growing up and growing to­boxes for the homeless, and spent nights in the gether, honing intellect and spirit, and creating emergency room. friendships to last a lifetime. Students complain 
Over time, hall renovation brought less spartan about the university's location in a small town living for everyone. In Sept. 1987, as the new with harsh winters and limited entertainment Farley rector, I received news that a shipment of outlets. Yet, because students in a hall deal with new furniture was about to transform the base­each other in multiple ways during their time ment lounges. More women meant more women's together, I have come to believe that it is this halls. Siegfried and Knottwent up behind Farley; very reality that helps c-reate enduring bonds then Howard, Pangborn and finally Cavanaugh that can span a lifetime. A 'wedding several years became women's halls. With North Dining ago makes the point. The bride, a doctor, was Hall's renovation came a balcony, a great spot surrounded by friends from her present job, to check out the dating potential ofthose below. her residency and medical school years, and, at Chapels and lounges acquired air conditioning; one large table, from her hall at Notre Dame. hall clerks had offices. There were fewer one.a One woman asked me, "How different are the room triples. . students today?" I replied, "Some things don't 
Yet these changes have· seemed almost imper­change; students will always learn. and grow ceptible when set against the ongoing rhythm of together at Notre Dame." . 
32 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 30 OCOTBER 2003 






