Disee quasi semper victurus ; vive quasi eras moriturus. -
Vol.. XVII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA,’ MARCH 29, 1884.
No. 29.
[Dor the Notre Dame Scholastic.\ Th.© Bard’s Apology.
BY ELEANOR C. DONNELLY.
If thought or word of mine, transcribed or spoken, Hath ever cost one heart a needless pain;
If but one tiny bond, thereby, were broken, Which love and trust can ne’er make whole again;
If tongue or pen hath erred from their high mission, Or Zeal’s bright arrows missed their lofty aim,— Believe me, friends, I crave, with deep contrition.
(After my God’s)your pardon for the same.
But, if the cause of Truth and Right demanded Strongest of words to warn my fellow men;—
If outrag’d Justice, stern and even-handed, Thrilled her bold message thro’ my tongue or pen,—
Certes, good friends, mine office should go scathless. Rather than Christ’s dear charity grow cold;
’Twere cruel kindness, ’twere a friendship faithless, Not to cry Wolf! if wolf were in the fold!
Ths Study of History.
’=	(conclusion.)
;	But, to be more practical, let us compare the
1	benefits to be derived from the perusal of history f	with those we receive from the pursuit of other
1	sciences whose utility is acknowledged bv everv-
j	one. Sciences, so far as their study is concerned,
|	may be divided into two classes: those which are
i	pursued for the sake of the culture and discipline
| they afford, and those which are chiefly practical I in their results.
Of the first, are Mathematics, Metaphysics, Rhet-; oric, and the ancient languages. These are, to some extent, practical also; but they are chiefly ’	. of value for the mental and moral culture given bv
1 • •
; them. Metaphysics and Mathematics are general	ally considered as most suitable for the improves	ment of the reasoning powers; but in both the
I reasoning is principally concerning necessary and I unchangeable things; and, consequently, the tendency of these sciences is to make, the mind rigid, inflexible, and therefore, to a certain extent, unsuited to the affairs of practical life—which is ever i< changing, according to various wants or caprices 1 •
; of mankind. The stern influence of these sciences must therefore be modified by the more practical lessons of history; otherwise our minds would be in straight-jackets, moving in fixed grooves, neither to the right nor to the left, so that we should be unable to adapt ourselves to the special necessities i and wants of our time and the country in which we live. The laws of society and of government are not constructed after the exact patterns of the metaphysicians and mathematicians, but according to the temporary or peculiar wants of each class or nation of people. A well-known illustration of this is furnished in the grand model of government framed by the celebrated philosopher, John Locke, for the colony of Georgia. The people tried to make use of this elaborate constitution formed for them by the wise man, but in the end they were compelled to throw it aside and draw up one for themselves, which answered very well. The exact sciences teach us how to reason concerning the necessary and general laws of things, but they fail to guide us in matters of detail in the every-day affairs of life. To reason well on these practical matters, we shall find that the lessons of history will be of much greater assistance.
Of the second, or practical class of studies are the natural sciences, from which we draw so many interesting lessons concerning the power and wisdom of God in the creation and government of the world, and all the wonders of animate and inanimate nature around about us. What sublimities in the ages and grand catastrophes of Geology! What mysteries in Chemistry and Mineralogy 1 What beauties in Botany and Zoology! In the small and in the great, through the microscope and through the telescope, we learn to look through nature up to nature’s God; and certainly it is hard to see what studies can be more instructive, as well as entertaining, than these of the pleasing science of external nature.
But grand as are the results of geological science, and interesting and instructive as are its details—especially in connection with its notice of the gradual preparation of the mineral, vegetable and animal kingdoms for the coming of man—still, taken at best, Geology is but the science of the earth’s crust, the science of the habitation of man; and as man is of more consequence than the house in which he lives, so is the history of man of more importance to us than the history of the rock upon which he walks, with his head erect, looking towards the
45°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
heaven which is his destined home. The history of Mount Vernon—the home of Washington—is, no doubt, both pleasing and instructive; but it is not for a moment to be ranked in importance with the history of AV ashington himself.
So of Zoology. An account of the habits of the animal kingdom—of beasts, birds, fishes, and insects—may be very entertaining, as Goldsmith has shown in his fairy book, “ Animated Nature; ” and also very instructive, as many learned men have shown, time and again. But yet the actions of these creatures cannot be so worthy of our attention as are the deeds of men. The habits of the kangaroo cannot be of so much consequence as are those of the men of Australia. The history of the Arabian horses must be of less moment than the history of the Arabians themselves. No animal, nor all the animals together, can concern us so much as man—the king of the animals.
I have no wish to detract a particle from the importance of these studies; they are all good, useful, and even necessary, for the accomplished scholar, the educated ladv or gentleman; but I wish to fix in your mind a conviction of the truth • that man himself is the most important, as well as the most entertaining, of all studies. The old maxim, “Know thyself,” contains a mine of wisdom, as does that oft-quoted line,
“The proper study of mankind is man.”
To come still closer to our subject, let us examine the study of history in reference to the various avocations of life. In the learned professions it is simply a matter of necessity. Strip the lawyer of his knowlege of history, and he is no longer a lawyer but a very indifferent sort of pettifogger. The law itself is, indeed, but the wisdom of history, arranged in the form of rules and regulations adapted to the settlement of every case of controversy amongst men in good society. The wise and good of all ages have collected the wisdom of time for the guidance of men in regard to justice, and the lawyer who is ignorant of these results, and of the historical sources from which they come, is but a child in his profession, who has not yet learned his simplest lesson. All the hoi}' years of Christianity give him the volumes of the canon law. From the Roman Republic, with its wars, its courts, its orators, and its statesmen, he has the precious legacy of the civil code, enlarged and supplemented with the experience of modern times, stamped with a magic name, and ’ handed down to us as the code of Napoleon. Mediaeval history—especially that of England— will point out to him the secret springs of that other celebrated code under which we live ourselves—the common law. For an American lawyer not to seek to understand at least English history as well as American would be preposterous. It is, indeed, quite impossible for any one to appreciate and apply the principles of these various codes without understanding the history of the times during ,which they were, formed—that is, at least the history of the Christian Church, of the, Roman Republic, of. the Middle Ages, and of England and America. Principle is always in-
terwoven with fact, and the law is so connected with the event which brought it forth that without a knowledge of the latter we cannot have a clear perception of the former.
As Christianity is intimately blended with all modern history, and, by prophesy and tradition, directly connected with Jewish and all other ancient history, I need hardlv say -that a complete knowledge of history is of incalculable value in assisting the minister of God in the teaching of Christian truths.
Medicine, too, is a collection of the wisdom of time regarding all that is known of the healing _______o	o
art. The systems of allopathy, homoeopathy, hydropathy, and the rest, originated in different ages, and their different remedies of disease belong to the histo.ry of the various diseases, epidemics, plagues and other visitations that have marked the ages of the world with their baleful presence.
History is not, therfore, a mere chronicle of names and dates, of wars and treaties, but a review of the state of the human race in all ages; and whatever our occupation to-day may be, wc shall find that a knowledge of what men have done in other times and in other places is absolutely necessary for our own best success, be our toil of high or low degree. Does it seem strange that modern agriculturists have found much to interest them, much to copy after, in what is written in history of the old Roman farmers, the way they tilled their ground and planted their crops? Yet many think that surely a farmer could learn nothing from the study of history. But if a knowledge of history is thus important to every one, it is to us Americans—the heirs of»all time, the product, as it were, of the ages—that the history of all that has gone before is of pre-eminent importance.
“ Westward the course of empire takes its way.
Time’s noblest offspring is the last.”
We are not only the offspring of all time, but of all nations. Almost every people of history is represented here, either by colonists or by immigrants; and the history of the American people runs back into the history of those mother nations from which we have all come. Wc are not only Americans, but also Europeans,—Spaniards, English, French, Irish, Germans, Poles, Swedes, and the-rest; and from all these we draw our customs, ‘ our institutions, and our laws. This is true in a particular manner of England: not that the ma-jority-of Americans are of English descent, but that, on account of the original British settlements and the consequent political connection of the colonies with the British government, our laws have grown out of the Constitution df England, her Canon Law and her Magna Charta; and, to understand our own Government and Constitution, we must be. acquainted with the history of the rise of free institutions under the English government. The laws of Alfred and of “ The Good King Edward,” the conquest of the Normans, the revolution which culminated under Cromwell, and its more important continuation, which brought Wil-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
451
liam and Mary to the throne, must all be understood by us before we can appreciate the political heritage which we derive from these sources. Indeed, it may be said that for us English history is but a part of American history; a part, too, which we must first read before we can read our own with profit.
But, notwithstanding all this, there is a great and ever-present objection to the study of history; it is full of lies—we know not what author we may take up with safety; for, as Napoleon was said to organize victory so that he was certain of success before his campaign began, so have these authors organized error, so that they are sure to deceive us. If, indeed, that were true, it would be a sad state of affairs, and we should be wise not to read at all. But it is not true. The truth is never without its defenders; and it is one of the objects of the study of historv to learn to choose the teachers of truth from those of error. The truth exists, and it is our duty to find it, to use it, and to make it known to others.
How, then, shall we pursue this interesting and useful study? To start with, many books are not necessary. We read too many books nowadays. The old rule was, “Much in little;” but we make it “ Little in much.” We read many books carelessly, and, consequently, learn very little. One book well known is worth a whole library skimmed over. There is a wise old maxim that comes just in point here,—“Fear the man of one book.” Whoever thoroughly masters one book has positive knowledge, and is certain to prove superior to one whose information is loosely scattered, without svstem or arrangement—such historical information being almost useless. One book at a time, then, and that book one of those that Bacon says are to be “ chewed and digested.”
In the next place, the universal history of mankind—that is, the outlines of ancient and modern - history, should be first taken up, that our knowledge of history may be connected and systematic. We may thus fix the most impoitant events, names and dates of all time, to which wc may afterwards refer the particular incidents in the history of each nation, and so have a comprehensive and satisfactory view of the whole history of the world.
It is not to be pretended that we can obtain at school or in college a complete knowledge of history. But by mastering the outlines of general history, we can afterwards direct our special reading with intelligence and profit into the different departments we may wish to explore more thoroughly and in detail. The general knowledge of history which we obtain in youth may thus become both chart and compass to guide us over the boundless ocean of historic lore, into the narrower seas, over which we may wish to move with more care., General history will, as it were, teach us the latitude and longitude of the different events in the history of each country, each event being connected in time with some grand epoch in universal history.
The three great ep.ochs of history are, the crea
tion, the birth of our Lord, and the present time., . To understand the significance of any event, or to remember with ease the time of its occurrence, we must refer it to one of these dates. Subordinate epochs are, the flood, the founding of the great republics and monarchies, the crusades, the discovery’ of America, the Revolution, etc. By fixing well in the mind the dates of these more prominent events, we can remember with greater ease the time of an event of less consequence, and also be able to understand better its bearing on human affairs; for some events naturally’ spring out of others, and should, therefore, be remembered in connection with them; the central or ruling action being grasped by the mind, the others cluster around it, as by one stem hangs a bunch of grapes.
To make an example: In 1215, the English-bishops and barons gather around King John at Runnymede, and compel him to sign the great Charter; liberty continues to gain ground in the English Constitution; it is transplanted to the New World; the American Revolution; the French Revolution; the breaking up of feudalism by Napoleon; the emancipation of the Russian serfs; the abolition of American slavery ;—are not these and many other events clearly’ traceable to one cause,— that cause even prior to King John,—namely, the. spirit of Christianity, as slowly but surely’ developed in modern politics? Thus does general history give us a mastery over, a grasp of events, which we can never have so long as we read at hap-hazard the history, first of one nation and then of another.
You have, then, a pleasant task before you when you engage in the study of ancient and modern historv of the world. As scholars, whose peculiar object it is to search for the truth, it will be a work of pleasure for you to seek out the facts in the history of your own kind, and to weigh their importance on the welfare of humanity. You will also find many’ lessons in. the lives of noble nien and women which will teach you to admire greatness of soul, bravery, integrity, and every heroic virtue. You will find, too, enough to teach you-to despise what is mean and degrading in human nature, and also to enable you to look upon men with charity, while you make allowance for the shoit-comings incident to their state.
Yon will learn to entertain broad views of things, not to think that the only’ great deeds are confined to this age and this country. Neither will you imagine that this is the worst age of the world. History’ will teach the great lesson of our common humanity’,—that, in different ages and in different countries, men are about the same—now, better, and now", again, worse; that no age, no people is altogether bad; none altogether good—our own being no exception: we are good in some things,-bad in others, just as the rest of mankind; from Adam to our own day. More’ than all this, you will sec the hand of God in the affairs of men, and learn the great truth, that Providence rules in the history’ of nations. These are some of the. moral lessons you will learn.	.	- J
As scholars, you have also something else to look ’
452	■ THE NOTRE JJAHE SCHOLASTIC.
to. You want information; von want somethingnoble to think of, something good to talk of among yourselves, and, afterwards, in society; something to give you thought for your essays, or even for your lighter conversation, or, afterwards, in real life, when you may he called upon to defend the right or to oppose the wrong. Now and then you wish to be. and to be k?iozvn as, intelligent persons: you wish for subject-matter for your writings and discourses as students: and afterwards, in your more serious essays and speeches, in your most playful correspondence, you will have the same want:—in a word, you want information, practical and interesting information, at hand for every occasion, both now, and still more when you take your place in the great school of society. Now and then you want what you can find in history, and only in history,—to be ignorant of which, according to a great moralist, is to remain in perpetual childhood.
.	Salutation. *
Permettez que ma voix,—un echo de la France— Exprimant nos souhaits avec simplicity, Rende un public hommage k votre piete, Et celebre en Joseph le Patron de 1’enfance.
Retire loin du bruit, modele de silence, Et voilant vos grandeurs dans votre humilite, Zele, prudent ami de la sincerity.
Et des anges du ciel surpassant 1’innocence,
Joseph, de 1’Enfant-Dieu fiddle serviteur, Oh! de notre maison soyez le Bon Pasteur;
Soyez le sur gardien de nos faibles vertus!
Et, berces dans vos bras, venere Protecteur!
Puissions-nous tous ici redire de tout cceur : “Honorer Saint Joseph e’est posseder Jesus ! ”
* Address delivered by C. Cavaroc, on the occasion of the Feast of St. Joseph, Patron of the Very Rev. J.. Reze, Assistant General of the Congregation of the Holv Cross.
Sidon.
It is by the light which the Sacred Volume sheds on that remote period of history, when the children of Noe, having separated in the plains of Senaar, were scattered abroad to people- the different countries of the earth, that we discern in the dawn of eastern civilization, the rise of the ancient capital of Phoenicia. Coeval with Babylon and Ninive, if Sidon attained not to an equal degree of power and magnificence with the former cities, and became the nucleus of a mighty empire, yet it must not be forgotten that to the genius and enter. prise of its inhabitants was the world indebted for the first development of the fundamental arts of civilization, and, moreover, for the creation of that spirit of maritime adventure which maintained the early intercourse between the sea-divided members of. the human family, and cradled that science which, after the growth of three thousand years, has enabled the navigator to guide his bark with
certainty over the billowy expanse of the pathless deep.
According to Justin, the first people who settled upon the eastern coast of the Mediterranean built there a city which they called Saida (Sidon), signifying fish, owing to the quantity of the latter that abounded in the neighboring waters.* After the lapse of time, their city having been captured by an Assyrian prince, a great part of the Sidonians sought in their ships a new home, and, landing southward on the same coast, founded the celebrated city of Tyre. The latter grew so rapidly in wealth and importance, that within a very brief period it became the head of the Phoenician confederacy, and subsequently the emporium of east-ern commerce.
In the songs of Homer we find frequent mention of the Sidonians as skilled in the arts and manufactures. The character of the Phoenician merchants, gathered from the same source, represents them in general as crafty, deceitful, treacherous and hard-hearted.
We may form an idea of the perfection to which the Phoenicians attained in the mechanical arts from the letter of Hiram, King of Tyre, to Solomon, who had requested that prince to send him a skilful artificer to assist in the erection of the temple: “ I therefore have sent thee, my father, Hiram, a wise and most skilful man, the son of a woman of the daughters of Dan, whose father- was a Tyrian, who knoweth how to work in gold and in silver, in brass and in iron, and in marble and in timber, in purple also, and in violet and silk and scarlet, and who knoweth how to grave all sort of graving, and to devise ingeniously all that there may be need of in the work with thy artificers.”
In the time of Cyrus, Sidon, with all Phoenicia, submitted to the Persian yoke; but towards the close of the reign of Artaxerxes Mcmnon, it joined with the other provinces of the empire in the revolt that was brought about through the tyranny and rapacity of the satraps. On the accession of Ochus,—detested for his cruelty and despotism— Phoenicia was invaded by an army of 300,000 men. The Sidonians were prepared to defend their city to the last extremity; but the treason of their . leaders opened the gates to the enemy, and, perceiving there was no possibility of escape, either by sea or land, a considerable portion of the inhabitants in despair shut themselves up in their houses, and setting them on fire, perished in the flames.
■ The Persian monarch having withdrawn his forces for the subjugation of Egypt, a number of the Sidonians that had escaped the general slaughter rebuilt the city. On the approach Of Alexander the Great, after the battle of Issus, the inhabitants of Sidon, desirous td escape from the Persian yoke, sent to offer their submission to that conqueror. Alexander accordingly dethroned their king Strato, who had declared in favor of Darius, and or-
* Tyriorum gens condita a Phcenicibus fuit; qui, terra; motu vexato, relicto patrire solo, Assyrum stagnum primo, mox mari proximum litus incoluerunt, condita ibi urbe, quam a piscium ubertate Sidona appellaverunt; nam pis-cem Phoenices Sidon vocant.—Justini, lib. xvtii, caf. j.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
453
tiered his favorite, Haephestion, to appoint instead whomsoever should be deemed most worthy to fill that exalted station. Hasphestion offered the dig-■ nity to two young noblemen of very ancient fam' ily, then residing in the city. But the latter declined it, saying that, by the laws of their country, no person could ascend the throne unless he were Ip of royal blood. Being asked whom they would ,	recommend to this honor, they replied that no
I	person seemed to them more worthy of the diadem
than a certain poor man named Abdolonymus, descended remotely from the royal line, who was forced to obtain his subsistence by laboring in a garden without the city.
H^phestion desired that he should be sent for; the young noblemen found him weeding his garden. Saluting him as king, they presented him with the royal purple, and requested that he should accompany them to the palace. Abdolonymus, little dreaming of the reality, treated the whole affair as a jest, and begged of them to cease ridiculing him. Having with considerable difficulty persuaded him to the contrary, they insisted on his compliance; but, far from being elated at the prospect of such dazzling fortune, Abdolonymus earnestly entreated to be left in his poverty, and yielded ultimately with extreme reluctance.
Alexander, having heard the particulars of the election, desired an interview with the newly-chosen monarch. After surveying the latter for a considerable time, he remarked that his noble ap-;.	pearance did not belie his royal extraction, but that
1	he was anxious to learn how he had borne his
5	-
j former state of poverty. Abdolonymus replied ।	in these remarkable words: NJtinam codem
animo reg num -petti possim. Hec maims suffecere ;	desiderio meo. Nihil habenti nihil defnit!”—
r	“Would that I may bear the crown with equal
f	fortitude! These hands have supplied my neces-
‘	sities. W hilst I possessed nothing I wanted noth*	ing.”
?	At the period of the Crusades, Sidon still re-
|	tained some vestiges of its former greatness. At
|	the commencement of the twelfth century, it
B	formed part of the Latin kingdom of Jerusalem.
।	It was defended by two forts of considerable
|	strength: one seated on a rock commanding the
I	entrance to the harbor, and connected by a bridge
|	of nine arches with the shore; the other crowned
|	the highest summit of the eminence on which
I the city is situated.
In 1252, the hordes of the Mussulmans, issuing from the neighborhood of Damascus, invaded the city, and, having massacred great numbers of the inhabitants, pillaged the town, and demolished the 11	ramparts. At the news of the disaster, the French
I	monarch, St. Louis, who was then at Tyre, set
|	out immediately for Sidon, routed the infidels afI	ter an obstinate encounter, and commenced the reI	construction of the fortifications. It was here he
I	set that brilliant example of Christian charity when,
! I	beholding the numerous corpses of the faithful lyT
11	ing scattered in every direction, and putrefying
'J	amid the ruins, descending from his horse, he exI	hprted his followers not to abandon thus the dead
bodies of their comrades, and-hastened to commence with his own hands the work of giving them Christian sepulture.
The aspect of Sidon is highly picturesque, rising on a gentle slope above the blue waters of the Mediterranean, surrounded with orange, citron, and olive groves. The gardens in the suburbs of the town abound with the richest fruits to be obtained in Syria; the soil being especially favorable to vegetation.	P. D.
Books and Periodicals.
—The April Century contains five profusely illustrated articles, and a biographical paper—“ Sidney Lanier, Poet”—with two portraits. Among the unillustrated papers is George Alfred Townsend’s account of “ How Wilkes Booth Crossed the Potomac.” In addition there are other articles of interest and poems of merit.
—St. Nicholas for April, with its varied table of contents, reminds us, like the month itself, both of the winter that is past, and of the summer that is to come. An account of the first ice-palace, that built by the Empress Anna Ivanova, of Russia, with a picture by Blum, is offset by Mary A. Lath-bury’s pleasant summer sketch, called “Fairy Lodge,” which the author has charmingly illustrated. Among other interesting articles are: “ Historic Boys ”; “ Spinning Wheel Story “ Girl Noblesse”; “ Land of Fire” and “Winter Fun.”
—Whether the United States are to regain their former pre-eminent rank as a commercial and naval power- on the seas, is a question that no American can contemplate with indifference. The subject is discussed with marked ability in the North American Revie-w for April, by the Hon. Nelson Dingley, M. C., who opposes the proj'ect of admitting foreign-built ships to American register, and by Capt. John Codman, who is well known as a zealous advocate of that measure. Judge J. A. Jameson, in the same number of the Re-niezu, discusses the question, “ Shall Our Civilization,be Preserved?” pointing out the 'means that are at hand for withstanding the various agencies, physical, moral and intellectual, which threaten to overturn our existing civil and social institutions. Dr. Felix L. Oswald writes of “Changes in the Climate of North America,” with special reference to the increasing frequency of disastrous floods. Prof. C. A. Eggert offers “A Plea for Modern Languages” in the higher education; and Julian Hawthorne discourses of “ Literature for Children.” Dr. Philip Schaff displays his bigotry in a paper on “The Development of Religious Freedom,” a notice of which we reserve for a future number.
—The Catholic World for April presents, as usual, a number of interesting and instructive articles. The distinguished writer—Kathleen O’Meara, in a paper entitled, “ The Workman and His Little Sister,” gives an entertaining and edifying history of the good wrought by a religious order of devoted women, whose sole mission is to
454
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
give their time and services to the instruction and spiritual direction of the men, women, boys and girls employed in the vast manufactories of France. They are called Les P elites Sieurs de P Ouvrier^ and their history and work, as told by Miss 0’-Meara, will repay perusal. The writer concludes with the words:
• “ These gentle peacemakers will probably do more towards softening the irritation of the operative, and disarming antagonism between him and his master, than all the measures of politicians.”
R. H. Clarke, LL. D., continues his review of the new edition of “ Bancroft’s History of the United States.” Dr. Clarke considers the subject of ‘'-Maryland Toleration” and shows how Mr. Bancroft, after fifteen or more editions of his history have been given to the public, has now “ caught the infection of a temporary flurry of anti-Catholic sentiment,” and “goes back on his own history, sentiments and convictions.” The writer proceeds to show that the changes made are contrary to his_________	O	_ J
tory. The other articles are “The Wisdom and Truth of Wordsworth’s Poetry, Part II,” by Au-bery de Vere; “By-Ways,” by Marion A. Taggart: “New Mexico and her Pueblos,” bv Very Rev. J. H. Dufouri; “Armine,” by Christian Reid; “An Impudent Fabrication Exposed,” by Rev. George Deshon; “The Delicacy of Shak-speare,” by R. M. Johnston. Published bv The Catholic Publication Co., 9 Barclay St., N. Y. Price, 35 cents. $4 a year.
Scientific Notes.
—An English invention, by which gas jets may be lighted by an electric battery, contained in a small portable tube, has made its appearance in this country."
—A correspondent of the Liverpool Mercury declares that one ounce of cream of tartar dissolved in one pint of boiling water, drunk cold at short .intervals, is a sure prophylactic and cure of smallpox.
—An attempt is about to be made to acclimatize sponges on the shores of France and Algiers. The chief difficulty will be in the transplantation of the plants. It will be about three years before the transplanted sponges will be fit to cut for sale. Sponges fetch high prices, and the project is expected to pay well.
—An interesting experiment is to be made by Dr. Zintgraf, who, in company with Dr. Chavanne, is about to visit the Congo and the interior of Africa. He takes with him a phonograph wherewith to fix the speech and melodies of hitherto unknown tribes, which; thus received by the instrument, will be forwarded to scientific men in Germany.
—The plan of using the enormous water powe-of the Alps for working electric railways in Switr zerland appears to have taken a definite shape, the idea being to connect the towns of ,Sf. Moritz and Pontresnia by an electric railway, four and three-
fourths miles long, the motive power to be supplied by the mountain streams, the line, in case the plan proves a success, to be extended a considerable distance.
—The British Royal Astronomical Society has awarded Mr. T. Ainslie Common its gold medal for photographs of celestial bodies, mainly bestowed on account of a magnificent photograph he has succeeded in taking of the great nebula in Orion. It is not often that a non-professional astronomer has gained the honor of gold medalist. Since the award to Mr. de la Rue, in 1862, for his photographs of the solar eclipse, Messrs. Huggins and Miller received a joint medal for their researches in astronomical physics, in 1867, and Baron Dembrouski one for double star work, in 1878; the fourteen other medals going to professional astronomers.
—Among the prizes offered by the French Academy of Sciences are several of peculiar interest to American investigators. In applied mechanics, for example, there is the Fourneyron prize, to be given for the best study, both theoretical and experimental, of the different methods of transplanting force to a distance; also a medal prize, valued at three thousand francs, to be awarded in 1884 for a mathematical solution of the problem “to perfect in some important point the theory of the application of electricity to the transmission of power.” The Borden prize, to be awarded in 1S85, is also a medal of the abovenamed value, and is offered for a research into the origin of electricity in the atmosphere and the causes of the great development of electric phenomena in storm clouds. As usual, these prizes arc open to all nations.
—The excavation of the St. Gothard tunnel cost many lives. On coming out of the tunnel the men described the sensation as being like a sudden plunge into icv cold water. The hot, humid air affected the digestive organs very much, and produced intestinal worms, which caused the deaths of a great number of workmen. Horses were similarly affected, and died rapidly. Several eminent doctors who studied these peculiarities pronounced them as being due to the want of aeration and the poisonous gases evolved from the blasting operations. And they reported that during the working hours the men were always in a high state of fever, which was succeeded, when the work was done for the day, by cold shivers and collapse. With these experiences to guide them, the engineers of the Simplon have necessarily made the question of ventilation one of serious and anxious study.
—Prof. Hull, who has returned with his part}' from Palestine, brings with him materials for the construction of a geological map of the Holy Land, very much in advance of anything which could hitherto be attempted. The Professor is of opinion that at the time of the Exodus there was a continuous connection of the Mediterranean and the Red Sea. As regards the Dead Sea, he has discovered that it formerly stood at an elevation of 1,400 feet above its present level—that is to say,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
455
150 feet above the level of the Mediterranean. The history of this gradual lowering of the waters will form a special feature in Prof. Hull’s forthcoming report. He has also found evidences of a chain of ancient lakes in the Sinaitic district, and of another chain in the centre of the Wady Arabah, not far from the watershed. The terraces of the Jordan have been examined, the most important one being 600 feet above the present surface of the Dead Sea. •
College Gossip.
—Harvard, Yale and Cornell are the only institutions which have successfid daily papers.
—The probable coxswain of the Yale University crew weighs only sixty-four pounds.—Spectator.
—Amherst has adopted'knee breeches.—Ex.
They are about to volunteer for the infantry, perhaps. We wish them success.
—One of our exchanges announces to an admiring public, that the motto of one of its female literary societies is “ arma virumqne canol—Ex.
—There is an unusuallv strong boating interest at Cornell. Crews have been entered at Saratoga, and in competition for the Childs cup.—Ex.
—There is a $100,000 libel suit pending against the Wooster Collegian, a college paper published at Wooster College, Ohio. That looks like business.
—The largest observatory dome in the world is O	J
being made for the Universitv of Virginia. It weighs ten tons, and measures forty-five feet at the base.	*
—Ex-Governor Chamberlain, of South Carolina, is to reply to the Phi Beta Kappa oration of Mr. Adams, at the 53d annual meeting of the American Institute of Instruction.—Herald-Crimson.
—Dr. Chandler has presented the Mineralogical Department of Columbia College with a crystal apatite twenty-two inches long and fifty inches in circumference. They would soon get a better appetite in the mines of Colorado.
—One of the best Greek scholars in the country, during a recent lecture on the benefits of a classical education, said that there does not exist a graduate of an American college who can properly affix the accents to a page of printed Greek.—Niag-ara Index.
—Yale College, which was about a year ago the recipient of $50,000 from A. E. Kent, of San Francisco, has received $25,000 more from the same person. The whole amount is to be used in the erection of a Chemical Laboratory for the Academical Department.
—The Senior preps, are gloiyingin the fact that they are to be initiated into the elements of chemistry. “ A little learning is a dangerous thing',” and we are afraid our small friends will soon learn (enough to blowup themselves and their neighbors. — College Chips.
'—Hamline University, Minnesota, dedicated two new buildings, January 30th, University Hall and
a finely7 appointed laboratory7. The former takes the place of the building that was burned last year. A debt of $27,000 was provided for by subscription -at the dedication.— College Rambler.
—By7 the death of the late President Packer, of the Lehigh Valley Railroad, Lehigh receives $2,000,000, $500,000 of which is to be devoted to the library. After twenty-one years it will receive $3,000,000 additional. President Packer is a son of the founder of the Universitv.— Tech.
—The advantages of attending an Episcopal •institution are highly appreciated. Ash-Wednesday is always welcomed with pleasure.—Columbia Spectator.
We wish we could say as much here. Our empty7 stomachs groan for Easter, and, oh dear!— it is Lent,—won’t return for three weeks.
—The will of the late Hon. L. J. Knowles, in addition to a large number of bequests to the public institutions in New England, gives $10,000 to Carlton College, at Northfield, Minn., and $2,000 to rhe American Board of Foreign Missions? After the death of his widow $5,000 goes to Doane College, in Nebraska, and $5,000 to Washburn College, at Topeka, Kansas.
—The students of St. Laurent College, near Montreal, had a grand celebration on the festival of St. Patrick. Solemn High Mass was sung at io a. m., during which an eloquent sermon was preached by Rev. P. Moran, C. S. C.,—one time Professor at Notre Dame. In the evening-, a very7 interesting and creditable entertainment was presented by7 the boys of St. Patrick’s Literary Society.
—“ The poor boys of Michigan,” can enjoy7 the advantages of the University, if they7 have rich fathers who can ante up for their canes, class hats, ball expenses, secret society7 dues, and assessments for building club halls, and running them: for treating the girls; sprees and billiards: testimonials to keep up the shaky reputation of Professors, and other ct-ceteras. too numerous to mention. Otherwise the £'- poor boy ” will see these boasted advantages, “so near and vet so far.”—Ypsilanti (Mich.) Sentinel.	.	’
—Miss Alpha, though she led her class, Was yet a most unlovely lass:	.
She had a little sister 0,	’
And she would often bang and o, And push, and pinch, and pound and pelt her And many a heavy7 blow she S: So that the kitten e’en would 't
When Is sufferings she >.
This Alpha was so bad to 0,
That every- time she chanced to meet her , She looked as though she longed to 57;
And oft against the wall she jammed her, And oft she took a stick and z:
And for the pain and tears she brought her
She pitied her not one
Then 0 cried with noisy clamor, And ran and told her grief to y. And y, with a pitying	■
Would give the little girl'some r, And say: “Now, darling mustn’t/.”
"	—1 Varsity. ’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, March. 29. 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth rear of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE HOT RE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their genera' good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all.
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sj.jO -per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff.
T. Ewing Steele, ’84.
J. R McIntyre, ’84.
Elmer A. Otis, ’84.
James Solon, ’84.
W. H. Ba iley, ’84 C. A. Tinley, ’84. W. H. Johnston,’ 85.
C. F. Porter, ’85.
—The following item, published in the general college notes of the Herald-Crimson of the 15th, misstates the fact:
“ The students of Notre Dame University recently gave a representation of the ‘ CEdipus Tyrannus.’ rendering the lines in English.’’
The play* was given in the Greek text—not from a translation. As there was not a word of English spoken throughout the plav—even the “ Minim ” giving his short epilogue in Greek—we cannot understand why the newspapers gave the false report that the play was in English. We hope the Herald- Crimson will help to do us justice in the matter.
—Dr. McCosh has issued a circular setting forth the demands for a course in Fine Arts as a part of the College curriculum.—Columbia Spectator.
In this respect Princeton is about a quarter of a century behind Notre Dame,—Drawing, Painting, and Music being taught here for at least that length of time, and we know nnt how much earlier. •Besides the ordinary collegiate studies, drawing,
painting, music, telegraphy, phonography, etc., have been taught here for years, and yet “ they say” Catholic educational institutions are behind the times! In what, we ask. are we behind the times? And yet the State of Indiana has not given one dollar to aid educational work at Notre Dame, while pitiful little mushroom institutions, not wor-thv the name of “ College,” are dubbed “University” and plentifully helped out of the State treasury. We move that Notre Dame be put on wheels and moved out of the State, into a more congenial dime. Who seconds the motion? If we go we should like to take St. Joseph County and St. Joseph River with us. --------------------— — —• -------- -- - —
Spring- Statistics.	.
। The first hepatica was found on the river bank I March 221! this year. Last year these little harbingers of spring did not appear until April 9th.
The first plowing was done March 19th. Last year it was April 4th. ■
Frogs were first heard croaking this year March 21st. Last year not before April 3d.
The Lakes free of ice this year on the 23d and 25th March, respectively. Last year it was April 5th and Sth.	’
From all which it doth appear that the present season is at least two weeks earlier than the late spring of 1883.
But the most conclusive sign that spring has come to stay is the cry^of the wild water fowl—ducks, geese and brants, as thev fly at night, migrating from the South to their summer homes amid the great Lakes. Their unerring instinct guides them through the dark, and determines the time of their journey.	■
The Lsetare Medal.
We are permitted to publish the following letter from Mr. P. V. Hickey, the . able editor of The Catholic Revic~d}. It gives an interesting description of the conferring of theZ<r/tzre Medal on Mr. Patrick C. Keely, the distinguished Architect:
New. York, N. Y., March, 25, 1884. Feast of Our Lady’s Annunciation.
Dear, Very Rev. Rector:
I send you a brief record of the performance of the dutv you charged me with, in the name of Notre Dame University.	.
Mr. Keely was absent from home, attending to important work in Baltimore, but a telegram from his family- recalled him. On Saturday morning, I saw the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Brooklyn, and, in the name of the University, asked him to be present, and decorate Mr. Keely with the Medal. He was much pleased with your recognition of Mr. Keely’s merits and distinguished services. He heartily entered into the spirit of the compliment, and promised, if he could arrange his other appointments, to attend; but he observed that there were many previous engagements which might keep him until too late. Indeed, the shortness of the notice given Monseigneur made it exeedingly difficult for him to arrange his time.	’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	457
Mr. Keely’s modesty being as great as his merit, it was deemed best to make the presentation with as little formality as possible. Many who would gladlv have been present to do honor to this eminent master were, on this account, not invited. Accordingly, only Mr. Keelv’s family, the clergy of the Cathedral Chapel, Father P. F. O’Hare and his assistants, the Very Rev. William Keegan, Vicar-General, were present.
The Vicar-General presided, and the messenger of Notre Dame made a brief explanation of the origin and character of the Last are Medal, sent on this occasion to the distinguished master of Christian Architecture—P. C. Keely, of whom Catholic America, and more particularly Brooklyn, in which he lived, and which he honored with his first as well as with that which will be the greatest of his works, had so much reason to be proud.
The messenger then explained the intention of Bishop Loughlin to be present, and in his absence requested the Vicar-General to decorate Mr. Keclv with the Medal. Father Keegan did so, having previously paid Mr. Keely some admirably phrased compliments, which must have been highly appreciated, for they came from a venerable priest who has known Mr. Keely for more than forty years.
Father Keegan also read with great eficct the beautiful poetical address which the Laureate of the University sent with the Medal. All who have seen the address are warm in their expressions of admiration for the beautiful work of illumination, which is so creditable to Prof. Gregori and the other artists of Notre Dame. Similar praise is given to the Medal.
I am quite certain that when Mr. Keely said he wa> grateful to the University for the compliment it had paid him, he did not exaggerate his feelings. He is a man of great deeds and few words, but it was evident that he felt and appreciated the honor of the Medal.
I need not say that the spirit of the University in founding this Medal, its generosity and perfect taste in making it an object of beauty, and its elevated judgment in selecting such men as its present medalist*, have all attracted attention here, and have added to the number of the admirers and well-wishers of the great, progressive and far-seeing Catholic University of the Middle West.
Among these friends and admirers, but not of yesterday or to-day, I am sure you count him who had the great honor of being on this occasion the messenger of our Lady’s University.	.
I am. dear Father Rector,
Your friend and well-wisher.
P. A'. Hickey.
The Dome.
The appended communication from Very Rev. Father General sets forth apian for the perfection of the Dome of the University which will be of interest to the friends of Notre Dame:
, Notice to Olr Friends.
The exterior of the beautiful Dome of Notre Dame is now finished, thank God! and not a dollar expended on it will ever be regretted. It is the grand feature of the place —one of the chief ornaments of the West. But, beautiful as it looks, it is scarcely anything compared to what it will soon be, when covered, as originally intended, with the heavy and imperishable’gilding of the purest gold which will reflect magically through the day the ravs of the sun, and at night turn darkness into a bright light, from the electric crown of twelve stars with which the whole figure of the Blessed Virgin is to be clothed, typifying- the prophecy: And there appeared a great zvonder in heaven: a z’.’oman clothed zvith the sun, and the moon under her feet, and - on her head a crozvn of fzvclve stars (Apoc., xii, i). What a beautiful sight!—one that has never been seen in this country. And yet, we trust, it will be seen at Notre Dame by thousands on the 14th of Sept, next—tnc double Feast of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross, and of the Holy Name of Mary, and the 43d anniversary of the 1st Mass celebrated in this New World by a priest of the’ Holy Cross. Truly, £he designs of Providence are inscrutable! On the first
arrival here in the “ forest primeval ” of seven poor foreign Religious, without any human means of success, who could have foreseen such a change? But the spot was already dedicated to the Blessed Mother of God. To clear the ground, she called the Brothers of St. Joseph from beyond the Atlantic, rich only in faith and confidence in her protection. But let no one imagine the solemnity of the 14th of September is intended to celebrate their success in Indiana. It would be an insult to their real feelings! To Our Blessed Lady they return due thanks—to her, after God, thev give all the glory.	’
Yes. a grand festival (D. r.) this year will mark the 14th of September, the Sunday within the Octave of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin. If nothing happens to prevent the accomplishment of our designs, the main building of the University will be completed and ready for a solemn blessing, of which the most conspicuous cart will be the Dome and its golden statue, 16 feet in height, and 200 feet from the ground. We have reason to hope that a number of the Most Reverend and Right Reverend Prelates and of the Reverend Clergy, with a concourse of friends such as Notre Dame never saw together before, will grace the occasion, and make it an event never to be forgotten bv those who witness it. It is to be the crowning of Mot re Dame, not only in the religious sense of the word, but also in the material reality—d'un fait accompli.
But, to come to the point: The Dome is up—majestic in grandeur and in form; the sacred image rests upon it in celestial splendor and beauty; but this grand cupola must shine out, all around, like a diamond in the sky, from the purest gilding: and its crowning Statue must find in its twelve radiant electric stars a new source of light, to replace the sun setting beneath the western horizon. Then we shall have a monument such as the world has probably never seen, owing to the comparatively novel application of electricity to be made here, for the first time, around such a statue at such an elevation from the ground.
To secure this light, with its illuminating rays extending for miles around, no expenses, if at all reasonable, should stand in the way. We wonder, indeed, at the modest figure, but we are assured that $5,000 will cover all the cost. Let us sav $10,coo. and thus feel doubly sure. How manv generous souls would vie with each other to secure and monopolize the merit and honor of this glorious act? That such noble souls still exist was amply proved recently by the donation of $50,000 by a lady of Chicago, for a new chair in a Protestant university; and who has not heard of even much larger sums freely given for the same purpose, in our own State? But. alas! here in the Catholic Church, which should, as of old, and as a proof of firm faith, lead all others in munificence and heroic generosity, how few such admirable examples we meet! How long will our separated brethren look in vain among us for some imitation of their liberality? How long will the Blessed Virgin herself be treated thus indifferently by those who daily call upon her as their Mother? By what name would the world itself qualify a son who would scarcely ever do anything for his own mother? Indeed, he would soon be -looked upon as a man all unworthy of esteem and consideration anywhere. Should our modest appeal remain unanswered, we will turn with full confidence to our young Princes, whose loving parents will delight in the Christian thought of insuring their precious sons’ lives for time and eternity. in the inexhaustive treasury of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, and who will feel only too happy to show, substantially, to what degree they wish to secure her maternal and ail-powerful protection upon those they hold dearest upon earth. Who has ever done anything for the Mother of Jesus and regretted it? My experience has taught me a verv different lesson, indeed: and if I have anv advice to offer to my worthy friends, it is to try their best to place our Blessed Mother under some obligations to themselves and families, and leave them examples all must admire, and which in their last moments will prove their sweetest consolation.
Levatc. signum! “ Lift up the standard,” said the Prophet; “ proclaim and conceal it not.” There it stands on high; “raise your eves and see: raise your headsand your bands, your hearts on high ” Snrsum corda! See how grand and beautiful the noble Queen stands on her throne,—for I already fancy I behold the scheme accomplished! How
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
quickly the attention of everyone is fixed upon the glorious sign! “I have raised my eyes and seen,” and out of the abundance of my heart an expression springs to my lips—Bonum est nos hie esse! “ It is good for us to be here.” We write this on the eve of our glorious St. Joseph’s Feast. Who ever felt more interested in the Blessed Virgin than he, her faithful and devoted Spouse? Can we suppose for a moment that he will feel unconcei ned in the new triumph we are now preparing for our Heavenh Queen— cspeciallv when we take into consideration the fact that this glorious crowning is the work of his own hands from the beginning? Yes, he will truly rejoice at her glory: and, in the words of the heavenly messenger Gabriel. —methinks-1 hear him address her with unbounded joy: Thou art, indeed, blessed among all zt-onien! while we ourselves repeat with the Archangel: “Hail, full of grace!
Ave! Azv! Azv Maria!" ....	-
As I was sending the above to the printing-office a purse of $200 in gold was presented to me, in the name of St Joseph, for the Dome, wholly unexpected and unasked— a surprise: or, rather, a sanction. A few dozen more will >0011 prove that I was not mistaken.
E. Sorix, C. S. C.
■	Exchanges. '
£The Exchange-editor sincere! v hopes he is violating no confidence in stating that the “Convention of Exchange-Editors” will be called to order in Washington Hall, next Monday afternoon. The College authorities do not feel authorized in granting anv “ rec..” but a number of invitations have been issued to people in South Bend and Chicago, and some tickets placed at Father Maher’s disposal. These maybe obtained this p. m. Students bearing tickets can enter the hall at 3.30, and be excused from further recitation. The front door, by the way, will be the only one open.]
— The Haverfordian for March, we are very sorry to say, falls below its usual high standard.
— The Portfolio, edited by the young ladies of Wesleyan College, seems almost too heavy for a college paper: its best work seems to be done in the Exchange department.
— College Chips, from Decorah, Iowa, is really an excellent paper; if, however, we were allowed to make a remark it would be, that the mince-pie advertisements are a little too prominent. ,
— The University Press, from Wisconsin, is ever open to the charge of having too much local matter. We think the editors are making an especial mistake in having no Exchange department.
—The Scholastic has lately been receiving flattering- notice all along the line. We will speak more at length in the future, deeming it at present sufficient to say that the editorial on “Tom Paine,” Mr. McIntyre’s masterly “ Louis XI,” W. H. J.’s “ Vivisection,” and Miss C. M.’s charming article on “The Command of Language,” come in for especial praise.
— The Bethany Collegian for February is, both inside and outside, a rather dull-looking paper. There are a considerable number of correctly enough-written essays, but none at all striking in either matter or style. “ Death,” by Mr. Wm. S. Payne, contains trite ideas, tritely stated; but it is admirably fitted, by its many short sentences, for declamation. We must, by the way, object to the
following misstatement from an otherwise fair essay on “ Suicide”:
“Indeed, no one of the ancients seriously objected to it (suicide); and it zvas not considered a sin by Christians until it was canonically pronounced as such at the Council of Arles, in 452.”	'
— The Volante, from our great sister-metropolis, is, both in matter and style, a very fair paper; and we arc, therefore, the more surprised that in its editorial columns should appear a scurrilous attack upon an old student, whose only offense seems to have been his late preference for a rival college. Is it anybody’s business if he preferred to graduate I at the Northwestern? Surely, the University of Chicago must be hard pushed for money to so lament over one student. For our part, we recommend the old student—if he is able—to give the Volant e-mw. a good drubbing; if not—well, he’d better treat him with “ silent contempt.” That’s very cutting, very!
—The College Index says: “ Student applicants for registration in Kalamazoo are questioned very closely,” which speaks well for Kalamazoo in this respect. A great many colleges seem glad to fill up, without question, with the rift-rail'that choose to apply. N. M. C.’s article on the revised version of the New Testament is a sensible one, and well written. Fie shows the need of the revision, from the fact that King James’s translators “ sometimes sacrificed accuracy, arid even consistency,” and reasonably wonders why such an edition, produced in about two and three-fourth years, should be preferred to one which occupied two committees of eminent scholars and literary men a period of ten and a half years. M. Y.’s article, “ Sculpture in America,” although not remarkable for a good style, is nevertheless readable owing to the care taken in gathering facts.
—The Queers College Journal seems to share the innocent delusion—so prevalent at Vassar— that egregious mistakes in orthography and grammar constitute the highest form of wit. On this principle, we are presented with a very comical column, opening thus:
“I hain'f seen no prize fite. (file's very funny, indeed!), nor a battle, but I seen a game of Rugby. It’s lots itz> fun! My brother Bill sez it’s a bully game! I think so. too—a bully game to stay out uv! Bill he f laid Rugby, the other day, and Snookey—that’s my sister, Snookey is,—-Snookey said she guessed he zuuz a konterfiet Till when he got dun; fur nobody zvood hazAodh him fur the same Bill that commenced flayin'!' (/)
We pause here to give our readers time to laugh —time to realize the side-splitting and original humor evolved by spelling zvas zv-zt-z; time to realize what a funny man to take to spell have without the final a. Acting under the delusion we have already mentioned the Journal grows still more witty in thew“ clipping” from its exchanges; but we cannot well afford to reproduce further such very peculiar humor. Our own copy we have for-’ warded to the “ Indiana Asylum for Imbecile Youth,” where it has been warmly welcomed by the inmates, who regard it as a very funny paper, indeed!	.
— The Earlhamite for March, as usual, is filled
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
459
with a number of well-written productions. The “ Reading of Shakespeare ” is marred by answering silly objections, and giving too familiar (we might almost say hackneyed) quotations. A “ John Broxyn Reminiscence,” we presume, is not written by one of the students; but “General St. Clair,” by Miss Helen V. Austin, is really a remarkable paper. Indeed, all the Eartha mite's prose is very good; we only object to its verses. L. D. H. (whoever that is) has given us, in Maud-Muller metre, some very queer lines, entitled “Fcbruar,” which, we suppose, is' his (or her) own peculiar orthography for the second month of the year. We simply give some of the stanzas, leaving our readers to judge them at their just valuation. We quote:
“There is a rustle in last year's leaves Floating on morning’s balmiest breeze—”
“ Pleadings for blossoms folded down [whofoldcd thenir] Under the leaves of soberest brown.
“ Symphonies low of forest winds Grieving, we know, for winter-long sins.
“ Promising now, in tender tone. Never to shatter a single one—”
One what? a zvintcr-long sin? Or does the bard refer to his ingenious rhymes,—zvinds with sins, and tone with one'?	*
“ Trembling they hear the wild winds coming
Thro’ the aisles of the forest roaming.''
In case anyone now vearns to sec this brilliant author, we will say: Do him no violence (“Az-tegervitxD etc.,) ; his address is Richmond, Ind.
A Society for the Restoration of Solemnity.
It has been well remarked that we live in an age of burlesque, and it must be therefore a consolation to every person of a serious turn of mind, to know that the Faculty of Notre Dame are about to take active steps for the revival of solemnity. We have been kindly informed by the venerable Secretary of that august body that meetings are to be called in the Rotunda at the solemn midnight hour, at which all students of a serious character are invited to assist. No special costume will be required, but black kids and the bronchitis will be looked upon with favor.
The proceedings will be conducted in blank verse, and the minutes taken in the blank-blanked-cst kind of verse. An energetic undertaker with a neat hearse will be in attendance, so that those wishing to attend funerals in the intervals of business can be accommodated. Letters from distinguished poetesses will be read, and conundrums propounded by the more antique members of the Faculty. In short, nothing will be left undone to cast a gloom over the assembled throng. Solos on the triangle, cymbals or grinding organ will vary, without diminishing the monotony. Weather prophecies of the gloomiest character will then be promulgated, and the end of the world will be calculated mathematically, and assigned to the earliest possible date. We wish every success to the good
work, and shall do all in bur power to help it on. If we cannot attend ourselves we will send the Scholastic “ devil.”	.
P. Q. Liar.
Personal.
—Sol. H. Waixel (Com’I), ’83, is a prominent business man in Chicago.
—Mr. J. J. McGinnity, of ’71, accompanied by his brother, the Rev. E. McGinnity, of Janesville, Wis., made a brief visit to the College and Academy on Wednesday last.
—Among the welcome visitors to the College during the past week were Mr. and Mrs. W. Hake, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. O’Kane, Cincinnati, Ohio; P. L. Garrity, Chicago; Richard Gammon, of ’64, and wife.
—Rev. J. A. Zahm, accompanied by a party of ten students, arrived yesterday afternoon from his tour through Mexico. The trip was made on the first railway opened between the city of Mexico and the States. ’ Father Zahm looks well and hearty, and promises delightful accounts of observations made during his journey. We welcome him to our midst.
—Mr. James F. Blaine, a nephew of the distin- -guished statesman, Hon. James G. Blaine, formerly a student at Notre Dame, but now following* a course at the University of Michigan, is spending the week at the College visiting relatives and old friends. Mr. Blaine, we believe, does good work wherever he goes, and we heartily wish him continued success at Ann Arbor.-
—The following prelates have visited Notre Dame at various times:—Before the founding of the University, Bishop Flaget and Bishop Brute visited the Indians, and said Mass in the small loo-church which stood near the old farm-house. Since the founding of the University by Father Sorin, Archbishops Purcell, Spalding, Elder, Henni, Archbishop Lynch, of Toronto, Archbishop Kenrick, of Baltimore, Archbishops Lamy,Perche, Riordan, Bishops de Hilandiere, de St. Palais, Chatard, Cretin, Grace, Ireland, Timon, Bishop Ryan, of Buffalo, Bishops Rappe, Gilmour, Luers, D wenger, Moack, Lefebre, Borgess, Marty, Machcboeuf, Bishop Spalding, of Peoria, Bishops Vande Vilde, Regan, Foley, Rosecrans, Watterson, Young, Dufal, Bishop Whalen, of Nashville; Bishop O’Connor, of Pittsburgh; Bishop O’Connor, of Omaha; Bishops Pellicier, Toebbe, Kain, Bishop Sweeney, of St. John’s, New Brunswick; Bishop Montes d’Oca, of Monterey, Mexico; Bishop Duhamel, of Ottawa, Canada, were guests of the College. The following visited the University before their consecration: Archbishop Ron-chetti, Papal Legate; Bishops McMullen, Martin, and Fink: Archbishops Heiss, and Wood; Bishops Flash, and Rademacher. Besides these, Monsignor de Neve, Rector of the American College at Louvain; Mgr. Benoit, of Fort Wayne, and Mgr. France, also visited the Institution.
460
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
.	Local Items.
—K. B. S.
—Phenomenon!	-
—Spri ng-bl osso m s.
—Lent is on the decline.
— Bright was the morn!
—The proportion is as 3 to 7.
—Who are the fresh-air fiends?
—Where is our weather-prophet now ?
—A rain 'is sometimes very opportune.
—He was surprised, but not dismayed. ,
—The next soiree will take place after Easter.
—The Academy will soon have another disputation.
—Competitions next week in the Collegiate Course.
—The Society reports have been crowded out this week.
—The “Roll of Honor” was unusually well filled, last week.
—Some of the Seniors are beginning to trot out their “ candy pants.”
—The “ Gym.” is a favorite resort on drizzly days like last Tuesday.
—Lost—An umbrella. The finder will please leave at Father Maher’s office.
—Navigation has opened at last! The crews were practising, last Thursday.
—The Philopatrians are coming out this time with “ The Virginian Mummy.”
—What is the difference between the “ stampingout ” and the poco-curaute process ?
—The Seniors’ reading-rooms arc being painted, and undergoing other improvements.
—The north side of the promenade on the Juniors’ Campus is altogether too sandy.
—The meetings of the St. Cecilians are greatly enlivened by debates, Moot Courts, etc.
—Bros. Leander and Lawrence have the thanks of the Junior Baseball League for prizes.
—Tickets for the Exchange-Editors’ Convention at Students’ Office. Try to get one.
—The Minims went fishing last Thursday. Quite a number of little beauties were caught.
—The Philopatrians will celebrate Shakespeare’s birthday. We all anxiously await their appearance. ■	.	.
—The Minims return thanks to Rev. President Walsh for the handsome picture which adorns their study-hall.
. —The excavations for the western wing are finished. Work on the foundation will commence next week.	•	'
—Football and baseball appear to be the favorite exercises of the Juniors during recreations since the fine weather came.
—The Vocal Classes are preparing Rossini’s “ William Tell ” for Commencement. May success attend their efforts! .
—B. Augustus has received a new stock of spring goods, and is prepared to suit the most fastidious. Give him a call.
—The reaction from aestheticism to indiscriminate physical culture is becoming alarming. Um-j brellas, even for ladies, arc no longer in fashion, j	—Some of the Juniors have procured Cadet
I uniforms, and many others have been ordered. The 1 gray color and brass buttons look neat, tasty, and । handsome. •
j —The Crescent Club entertainment, St. Patrick’s I night, was a grand success. The musical morceau i	o	_
i of the evening was the “Irish Patrol,” by Elbel’s full orchestra.
—The Mendelssohn Quintette Club, of Boston, will be here on the 15th of May. The organization is highly spoken of, and their concerts are well worth attending.	'
—Last Thursday, the Juniors took one of the old-time excursions to the banks of the St. Joe. One of “ ve old boys ” thought of the time when they used to “play Indians” in that neighborhood.
—Last week, the Commercial students had a competition in rapidity in writing. The greatest speed attained was 35 words ( 1S2 letters) a minute. 5V. C:irtier, W. Ramsay and E. Gerlach came out first.
—The members of the Crescent Club arc greatly indebted to Bro. Lawrence for the interest he took in the late banquet. The greater part of the success of the entertainment was due to his energetic management.
—The new mural painting of “ Columbus Knocking at the Convent Gate ” has been commenced and will be finished soon. This is the tenth painting of the series of twelve, all of which will be finished before Commencement.
—One of the “weather-prophets” up in New Hampshire frankly says that he sits down and thinks, and then “ predicts what happens to come into his mind.” Some other weather-wise people are not as candid, but certainly not more scientific.
—The altar-boys were agreeably surprised on last Tuesday—the Feast of the Annunciation. Very Rev. Father General sent them a basket of choice fruit—oranges, bananas, etc. The kind present was greatly enjoyed, and many thanks arc returned to the venerable donor.
—Those who assisted at Solemn High Mass on the Feast of St. Joseph say that Very Rev. Father General Sorin’s singing was unusually grand. His powerful voice came out in thrilling tones, as if his whole soul went forth to honor the great Saint to whose aid and protection he attributes many of the blessings that have been so lavishly bestowed’on Notre Dame for the past forty-two years.
—The Juniors recently held a successful and enthusiastic meeting for the purpose of organizing a Baseball League. The balloting for officers resulted as follows: President and Director, B. Albert; Vice-President and Assistant-Director, B. Ju-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
i j ( i
lian; Secretary, John F. Fendrich; Treasurer, F. Dexter. The League at present is composed of seven graded nines. After some weeks of practice, it is expected that a special nine will be put in the field, of -sufficient strength to hold their own with any nine of the Senior department.
—One of the most enjoyable events of the present session was the banquet given by the Crescent Club last Sunday evening, complimentary to the Very Rev. President of the University. Many distinguished guests were present, conspicuous among whom were Prof. Hoynes, and Prof. Gregori. The tables were loaded with countless g-ood things, to the disposition of which all present did ample justice. On the conclusion of the feast, Mr. Geo. O’Brien, responding to the toast, “ Our Rev. President,” spoke briefly of the generous encouragement extended by Rev. Pres. Walsh to all enterprises for the physical, mental, and moral improvement of the students, for no small share of which the Crescent Club is debtor.
To the toast “Our Social Club,” Mr. Jas. Solon responded in a very neat speech. He spoke of the objects of the Club, and made a very strong argument in favor of that part of an education which looks to the cultivation of those little graces that so largely distinguish the true gentleman.
After the responses to toasts, Rev. President Walsh spoke a few kind words of instruction and encouragment to the members, and the party broke up, all feeling that the evening had been very pleasantly spent.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
-SEXtOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anchondo, Ancheta. Aguilera, Brosseau. Barron. Becerra, Bailey, Browne, F. Burke, F. Combe, C. Combe, J. Carroll, Coll, Crawford, Cussen, Creel, Dunn, De Groot, Dolan, A. Dennis, Ewing, Feltz, Fogarty, Farrell, E. Fen-Ion, P. Frain, J. Frain, Grothaus, Gibson. Gooley, Goulding, Gonser, Gonzalez, Geiser, Gutierrez, Gray, F. Gallagher, J. Gallagher, Howard, Hellebush, Hausberg, Hamlyn. Jack-son, Kleiber, Lister, McGinn, McErlain, W. M. Mahon, Jno. McCabe, McKinnery, Marquez, J. McNamara, Mahoney, W. P. Mahon, Norfleet, G. O’Brien, Ott, O'Dea, O’Rourke, Orchard, Otis, O’Kane, O’Donnell, H. Paschel, C. Paschel Pour, Quinlan, Rudge, Rogers, Reach, Solon, Steis, Slattery, Steele, Saviers, E. Smith, J. Smith,1'Sanchez, Tinley, J. Uranga, F. Uranga, Whalen, Warren.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Anchondo, Adler, Arnold, Aguilera, Borgs-chulze, Barela, Brown, Baur, Berthelet, Breen, Cohen, D. Cartier, Cavaroc, G. Cartier, Courtney, Chaves, Costigan, Coleman, Devine, Dexter, C. Dennis, Ewing, Eisenhauer, Fitzgerald, Fehr, Fendrich, Finckh, Garrity, Gerlach, Gim-bel,* Grunsfeld, Hagenbarth, E. A. Howard, E. J. Howard, Halligan, Huestis, W. Henry, Floulihan, Houck, Holman. Hagerty, Jensch, P. Johnson, Loescher, Leony, Luther, Lane, Mulkern, Monschein, Mullane, Menig, Mason, J. McGordon, C. McGordon, A. Moye, McDonnell. Marcotte, Metz, Muhler, McCabe, Major, Martinez, Norfolk, O’Brien, J. O’Donnell, C. Porter, Plischke. Perley, Quill, Rogers, Regan, Reynolds, Ruppe, L. Scheuerman, Schott, Schaefer, Stubbs, Saunders, Strauss, Talbot, D. Taylor, G. Tarrant, Tewksberry. Uranga, W. Wabraushek, Weiler,
* Omitted last week by mistake.
Wright, Wilkes, Yrisarri, Curtis, Dorenberg, Mug, W. Waggoner.
•	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman. Adams, J. Addington, H. Addington. Amoretti, Boose, Bunker, Butterfield, Benner, Comins, Crawford, Crotty, Cole, Costigan, Cummings, F. Coad. M. Coad, Delaplane, Devine, Ernest, Fitzgerald, Fulwiler, Garrity, Grunsfeld, Henry, C. Inderrieden, R. Inderrieden, Johns, Jones, E. Kelly, La Tourette. Landenwich, Lewis, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, W. McCourt, M. McCourt, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, T. McGuire. McGill, McPhee, McVeigh, Murphy, Manzanares. Meehan, Morrison, F. Mullen, 2k. Mullen, A. Nester, M. O’Kane, Otis, O’Connor, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, R. Papin, V. Papin, Padden, Quinlin, Quiggle, Quill, Studebaker, Sumner, Stange, Schmitz, Spencer, Sokup. L. Scherrer, E. Scherrer. Smith, Calvin, Servis, Thomas. Uranga, West. Weston.
Class Honors.
[ In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Messrs Stubbs, Johnson, L. Scheuerman, McLaughlin-Dexter, Wilson, Mahon, De Wolf, O’Connell, G. O’Brien, Ott, J. Rogers, C. Carroll, T. McNnnara, A. Dennis, Slat-terv, Hagertv, McDonnell, Reynolds, S. O’Brien.
List of Excellence.
[ The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.
PREPARATORY AND COMMERCIAL COURSES.
Reading and Orthography—Messrs. O’Brien, O’Rourke, Dunn, Holbrook, Hagerty, Cavaroc, Breen, Houck, Mullane, Ewing, Gonser,Waggoner. Riley, Moross, De Haven, McCabe, Huestis, 2krnold, D. Cartier, G. Cartier, Weiler,W. Wagoner, Barrons, D. Quill; Grammar—Messrs. Slattery, De Wolf, Lucas. Ramsay, F. Combe, Grothaus, Hagerty, Strauss, McDonnell* Hamlyn, D. Cartier, Leony, Crilly, Baur. C. McGordon, Coleman, Barrons, Sedberry, Barclay, J. McGordon, Menig, F. Rogers, King. Feltz; Geography —Messrs. Gonser, Ramsay, Houck, McDonnell, F. Rogers," P. Wagoner, F, Combe, W. Wagoner, Dunn; United States History—Messrs. De Wolf, J. McNamara, Ramsay, Fogartv, Breen, Barclay, F. Brown, Cassilly, C. Dennis. Houck, Holbrook, McDonnell, Nester, F. Rogers, Mulkern, Letcher, Dunn; Penmanship—Messrs. Ramsay, Gibert, Neeson, Fendrich, Schott, Hagerty; Arithmetic—Messrs. Hamlyn, Crilly, Sedberry, Cavaroc, P. Frain, Manga, G. Move, Creel, Marquez, C. McGordon, Gimbel, Perley, Regan, Loescher, G. Cartier, Arnold. W. Henry, W. Murphy, Cartier, J. Rogers, G. O’Brien, Mulkern; Book-Keeping— Messrs. Holbrook. Ott, Cohen, G. Lewis, L. Scheuerman, Monschein. Wabraushek, 2k-. Dennis, McMurray, O’Kane, O’Donnell, C. Paschel, H. Paschel, Slattery, McLaughlin, C. Warner, Grothaus; 2klgebra—Messrs. Slattery, Costigan, Burns, McDonnell, Gerlach. Dexter; Latin—Messrs. Finckh, Sedberry, Lucas, Ancheta, Courtney, Hagenbarth, Yrisarri, Callaghan: Christian Doctrine—Messrs. F. Rogers, W. Murphy, Hagerty, Wabraushek, S. O’Brien, E- Porter, C. McGordon, F. Anchondo, Nester, M. Kelly, Ruppe, Menig.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Grammar—Masters Otis, W. Welch, Morrison. F. Nester, W. Prindivile, Schmitz, B. Lindsey, Stange, M. O’Kane; German—Masters Spencer, Morrison, W. Welch, Cummings, West, McVeigh. Crotty: Arithmetic—Masters F. Nester, W. Welch, Delapiane, Spencer, Otis, West, Thomas, F. Coad, M. O’Kane, Rebori, J. McGrath, Mor-lison, C. Lindsey, McPhee, La Tourette, W. Henry, C. Inderrieden, Bunker, Ernest. L. Scherrer, Fitzgerald; French—R. Papin.
* Omitted-last week by mistake.
462
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint PFlary's Academy.
One Alite. West of Notre Dante University.
—The three last days of Holy Week will be devoted by the Catholic pupils to their Annual Spiritual Retreat, to be conducted by the Rev. President of Notre Dame University. The order of the classes for the other pupils will not be interrupted.
—On Sunday, a “ birthday festival ” was kept in the south-west recreation room. Sumptuous dishes from “Home, sweet home!” constituted the bill of fare, and a valued gold watch, just received as a birthday gift from a beloved mother, kept time to the merry pace of the hours, as Miss Udall numbered just eighteen years of her earth life. May all her future years be as bright as those of the past!
—The class rings of the Graduates are unique and very beautiful. They are of solid gold. The initials of the class motto, “ E. L. B.,” which are also those of the Christian names of the three members, being engraved in raised letters upon them. No class badge of past years has been so rich or so appropriate as this. The class motto was chosen by the Rev. Chaplain, an honor of which the young ladies are justly proud.
—Miss Helen Jackson, fair daughter of Fort Suliv, Dakota Ter., wears the Mosaic Cross this week. Those of the Juniors who were entitled to draw with her were the Misses Bailey, Cox, Chaves, Dillon, Ducey, English, Eldred, Fehr, E. and S. Jackson, Keyes, McEwen, Metz, Otis, Richmond, Shcekey, Shephard, Schmidt, Snowhook, Stumer, and Voradenberg. The number is larger than it has been for some time past.
—A marked improvement in deportment has followed upon the famous Concert in which so many acquitted themselves with credit. The singing- of Marv Ducev and Agnes English, also the playing of Helen Jackson and Lily Van Horn, weie highly spoken of by those who attended the concert, and all agreed in saying that Agnes English recited admirably. Hannah Stumer, though somewhat embarrassed in the presence of so many critical eyes, proved her progress in elocution to be very encouraging. Her personations are excellent.
—The “Princesses” were delighted, on hectare Sunday, at the reception from Mother Superior of a little throne for each one of them, in the form of a brightly painted rose-red little easy chair. Their small feet will he able to reach the floor, and they can now make their sitting posture the perfection of grace. They are looking forward to an augmentation of their ranks, and will not be satisfied until their number is doubled. When the grateful recipients of the pretty gift waited on Mother Superior to thank her, Maggie Ducey recited “ The Sisters,” and Alice Schmauss rendered “Bernardo del Carpio,” and gave much pleasure to the gratified donor.	-	*
1	—At the regular Academic reunion, the “ Golden
■ hectare Rose ” was given by unanimous consent I to Miss May Adderly. Very Rev. Father Gen-i oral preceded the award by an explanation of the j little ceremony, alluding to the origin of this cus-’ tom at St. Mary’s. It is commemorative of the practice of the Sovereign Pontiff, from time im-• memorial, to bless and present, as a mark of honor, ; to some prince or princess, a golden rose denom-1 inated the “ hectare. Rose,” from the Sunday j m the middle of Lent upon which it is given. ! Those young ladies of St. Mary’s, who, for two j successive years, have, never been off the “ First ; Tablet of Honor,” deserve to draw for the i “ Golden hectare Rose.” As, amid the applause ! of her companions, Miss Adderly received the j prize, Very Rev. Father remarked, “And I trust ; the award is ratified in Heaven.”
Health, the Great Treasure.
What is life when health is gone? Humanly speaking, it is a weary burden which is rendered endurable only because God has permitted the affliction. We may admire one who wears upon 1 his breast the scars of a hundred battles, but the dignity of those honorable wounds arises from the patriotism—the services rendered to humanity which they represent. The same may be said of i those glorious heroes of many a silent conflict against j sin and soirow in the world, who toil day and night for the good of others, regardless of their own comfort and health—as in the case of many a heropriest, contracting contagion in the performance of his holy duty, and dying a martyr to his divine trust; nevertheless, we come back to the old conclusion, that, for the larger proportion of mankind, if they i would take stock in the bank of happiness, they i must invest largely in health.
I The blindness of Milton, the delicate physique^ ! of Alexander Pope, did not detract from the literary excellence of these authors: the mental and moral obliquities of many celebrated men, also, must be admitted. In these cases the misfortunes are not to be praised, yet, while we cannot fail to regret them, we are far from supposing these defects to be the necessary accompaniments of great talents.
Not to detract from the credit due those who have made the-world wiser and better for having lived in it,.we would by no means encourage the sentimental notion that health is incompatible with mental and moral efficiency. On the contrary, we insist that, next to the grace of God, health is the best, the most desirable gift of Fleaven to man, and he who wittingly tampers with it, insults the Divine Giver of this inestimable prize, and is well nigh inexcusable.
And what is health? It is the harmonious and unimpeded action of all the powers*: a sound mind, sustained in a sound body. The one must not tyfanize over the other. If it be true that' by overtaxing the mental powers the balance of the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	463
mind may be lost, it is not less true that slavery to the lower nature,—as in the case of the inebriate, for example,—is too frequently signalized bv the complete destruction of the intellect.
To promote real health of mind and body, the interior and more noble part of the being must be nourished, as well as the physical or inferior. They act and re-act upon each other. There is a maxim—Virtus incendit vires—“Virtue kindles strength,”, which cannot be too strongly impressed.
The active mind, the loving heart, make their possessors vigorous and energetic. They are the cheerful members of society. They are the life of the circle to which they belong: if at school, they give character to the class; the recreation, the pleasant ramble. In the calm prosecution of daily duties these healthful, happy pupils are the most successful ; and in case of danger or alarm, they are the firm of nerve, the self-possessed, the efficient; ready with resources and words of encouragement.
The resolute will wards ofT disease, while the timid heart invites its approach, and it is not uncommon to find persons suffering from indisposition suddenly cured by becoming warmly interested in some subject, some event, some absorbing labor.
This proves the intimate relation of the mind with the body. How largely cheerfulness promotes the healthful circulation of the blood can be proved equally well. It is a suggestion for the student. Of all people in the world, the young who are laying the foundation of their life’s career in the pursuit of a scholastic course can least afford to be indolent or indifferent; can least afford to be morose or melancholy. These traits are the sworn foes of health of body, mind and soul.
An earnest, sunny, charitable temper, not a noisy, boisterous one,—ah, no: the two are quite distinct —is the best help in conquering those difficulties which must be looked for in study. Such a temper is never soured upon witnessing the success of others; its possessor never allows his ardor to flag because another has excelled him. He may be urged on to higher endeavors, but he heartily rejoices in the good fortune of those superior to himself. This is “ moral health.”
Jealousy, envy, and a disposition to underrate the talents and good qualities of others are sure proofs of an almost hopeless moral disease. To be pitied is the individual who has the misfortune of receiving such an one for an associate; but however much he may suffer at his hands, if the dreadful malady be not communicated to him, he is far bet-off than his jaundiced neighbor. .
There is still another condition of health, which is the crown of all the rest. We have spoken of physical and moral health, but these may exist without that spiritual health which is the legitimate fruit of deep religious principles. One possessed of a body and mind in apparent health, and yet who ignores the God who created him, and the claims of that Creator upon him,, is like a grape-vine that has run to leaves,—good for nothing but for brush wood in the fall. His soul has run to waste. Unpruned and neglected, there is no health in him. There is no malady so much to be deplored.
Roll of Honor. K
FOK POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES. -
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
rst Tablet—Misses M. Adderly, Ashton, A. Babcock, C-Babcock, Beal, Black, Billings, Bruhn, Burgher, Cirkel, Cummings, Dowling, Dunn, L. English, Fitzpatrick, Fisk, Fogerty, Gavan, Ginz, Gove, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon, Hack, Hale, Heckard. Helpling, Hetz, Johnson, Kearney, Kearsey, Kearns. Keating, Keenan, Kenny, King, Lea-high, Legnard, Lintner, McCarthy, McHale, McNamara, i Mooney. Munger, A. Murphy, M. Murphy, Neu, O’Connell, I Quill, J. Reilly, Ramsey, Reynolds, Ryan, Scully, Sear, i Sheekey, Sheridan, Stackerl, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, Taylor, Thomas, Todd, Tynan. 2d Tablet—Misses C.-Camp-bell, Carney. Fendrich, Platte, Papin, Peak, Rosing.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
rst Tablet—Misses Bailey. Best, Campeau, Chaves, Cox, Dillon, Durlacher. Eldred, Fehr, Halsey, II. Jackson, E. Jackson, S. Jackson, Keyes, Lord. McEwen, Otis, Regan. Richmond, Schmidt. Shephard, E. Sheekey, Snowhook, Stumer, Voradenburg. 2d Tablet—Misses A. Duffield. B. Morrison, E. Roddin.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	.
ist Tablet—Misses E. Chapin, English, V. Johns, L. Johns, M. Lindsey, B. Murray, M. Paul, G. Papin, M. Reynolds, A. Schmauss, S. Van Fleet,.
'	Glass Honors- .
Graduating Class—Misses Johnson, Fendrich.'Todd.
ist Senior Class—Misses Call, Gove. Sheekev, Ramsey. Ginz, Papin, Dunn, Duffield, Keenan, C. Campbell, Cummings, Ashton.	,	-
2D Senior Class—Misses Heckard, Bruhn, M. Ducey, Carney, Keating. Black, Jdunger. Williams, L. English, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, Rosing. Udall, Danforth.
3D Senior Class—Misses Kearney, O’Connell, Horn, M. Dillon, Legnard, Hale. Sheridan, Reynolds, Kearsey, Adderly, Quill, McHale. Kenny, Stackerl. E. Sheekey, Sear, Hack, Keyes, Cirkell. McNamara.
ist Preparatory Class—Misses Lintner, E. Jackson, C. Richmond, Kearns, Fehr, H. Jackson, Mooney, Lucas, Taylor, Schmidt, B. Halsey, Ryan, B. English, Gavan, R. Bailey, Moshier, M. Fisk, Snowhook,-1. Allen, C. Babcock, G. Wolvin, Durlacher, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon, R. Billing, Van Horn, Regan.	•
2D Prep. Class—Misses Ewing, S. Jackson, Stumer, Barry. Campeau. A. English, Leahigh, Fogerty. Steele, Roddin. Chaves, Lord. King, Hetz, Best.
Junior Prep,—Misses M. Ducey. L. Johns, Schmauss, Cox, Murray, J. English, McEwen.
ist Jr. Class—Misses Metz. M. Allen, Paul. Chapin.
2D Jr. Class—Misses Mamie Reynolds. G. Papin, V. Johns. S. Van Fleet.
french.
2D Class—Misses Call, Bruhn, Sheekey, Castenado. .
3d Class—Misses O’Connell, Crawford, Rosing. Adderly, L. English.
4TI1 Class—Misses Duffield, Steele, Lord, Van Horn, Gove, Kearns. Ashton,
2D Div.—Misses Moshier,' Lucas, Richmond, Snowhook, Barry, Regan, A. Duffield.
$th Class—Misses Stumer. McEwen, Roddin, Murray, Chapin, M. Ducey. '
6th Class—Mfcses G. Papin. M. Reynolds.
-	german.	.
ist Class—Miss Clara Ginz.
2D Class—Misses Keenan, Horn. Fehr. -
3D Class—Misses Sheridan, Munger, Mooney, Black, Danforth.	*	.
4TH Class—Misses Kearney. Wolvin, Lintner, M. Reynolds, Ryan, Williams.	.
5TH Class—Misses Cirkel, Taylor, Cox, Richmond, C. Babcock, McHale, Durlacher.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
BUCKE^DGRF,
FLORIST.
Catholic Music
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
RARE and BEDDING PLANTS
ALWAYS OY HAND.
ALSO,
CUT FLOWERS, DESIGNING, and DECORATING.
GREENHOUSE, 217 JEFFERSON ST.,
SOUTH BIND, IXD.
EUGENE F. ARNOLD (ClllSS Of’78).	W. H. LAXDVOIOT.
ARNOLD & LANDVOI&T,
Attorneys and Counsellors at Law.
470 Louisiana Avenue, N. W., WASHINGTON. D. C.
MASSES, VESPERS, CLASS and CHOIR BOOKS, etc., etc
The Most Complete Stock
WEST OF NEW YORK CITY.
Send for Catalogues, o
John Church & Co.,
CINCINNATI, O.
L. CELANIA,
Dealer in
CALIFORNIA, FOREIGN and DOMESTIC FRUITS, CONFECTIONERY, etc.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
hi N. Main St.,
Sois tl* Bend. Indiana.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 18. 1883, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:	‘
GOING EAST:
2.04 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main .Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.22 a.m.; Cleveland, 1.57 p.m.; Buffalo, 7.36 p.m.	'
10.54 a.m., Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo. 5.07 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.44 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.
8.41 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo. 2.17 a.m.; Cleveland, 6.37 a.m.; Buffalo, 12.46 p.m.
11.53 a.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.12 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.42 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31- a.m.
5.54 p.m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.00 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.07 a.m.; Buffalo, 6.41 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.04a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.56 a.m., Chicago, 5.41 a.m.
.4.28 a.m., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22 a.m.
Chicago, 7.51 a.m.
7.11 a.m, Limited Express. Arrives at Laporte, 7.52 a.m.
Chicago, 10.11 a.m.	-	.	.
1.02 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.02 p.m.; Chesterton, 2.47 p.m.; Chicago, 4.31 p.m.
4.07 p.m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.54 p.m.; Chicago, 7.31 p.m.	•
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
-	. W. P JOHNSON. Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
. .	. * JOHN NEWELL. Gen’l M’ger, Cleveland.
GRAND CENTRAL HOTEL.
Centrallv located in the business part of the Citv
114 S. Michigan St.,
Sontli Bend, Tndiniia.
M. L. DENNIS, Proprietor.
Crowned With Stars,
An Exquisite Volume of P 'etns in H 'nor of the Ble^. d Virgin Mary, Queen of Heaven,
BY
Eleanor C. Donnelly.
Published to Aid in Placing on the Dome of the New University of Notre Dame, Indiana, a Colossal Ssatue if ihc Blissed Virgin Mary, Cinwued with Twelve Siars.
- Price, .	-	.	- gilt, $1.25; plain, $1.00.
Address STUDENTS’ OFFICE,
Notre Dame, Indiana.