WINSTON is the cigarette selected by Capital Airlines to serve passengers aboard the new Viscount.
w
■ w inston changed America’s mind about filter smoking! This cigarette gives you real tobacco flavor — the full, rich flavor real smokers want. You know what they say: “Winston tastes good — like a cigarette should!”
Winston also brings you an exclusive filter that really does the job. It filters so effectively that the flavor really comes through to you — smoothly and easily. Have fun — have a Winston!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.

j
a '
I
I I
5
» "J • 1

t|


i *
2'1
§
i
S i
October 21, 1955
3
Win This Brand New
1955 STUDEBAKER
COMMANDER SPORT COUPE
No Essay to Write . . . Come in for details ... You can win!
Some lucky Notre Dame man will drive this beautiful 1955 Studebaker Commander 8 Sports Coupe home for Christmas! It might be you! Wilson Brothers and Gilbert's are giving this beautiful sports car away at Notre Dame to a Notre Dame man (it's NOT a "national" contest) so come in for details today!
Home of Wilson Brother’s Skipper Sportswear
ON THE CAMPUS t
AT NOTRE DAME .
The Scholastic

i

‘entree’ resurrects
by William M. Malloy
ye olde ‘week’
There has been an excess of comment about the improvement in Entree over the pre-historic format of The Week . . . improvement, doubtless, for we cannot conceive that someone would con-
sider it otherwise, some thirty years Entree peeked its the Gilbert’s ads.
/
The old format was in existence before timid head between The reaction among

the students was gratifying, and constructive criticism and helping hints took many forms. Par examples: “Big deal.” “Well, hot dog!” and “Wow.”— the implications being, we suppose, that Entree was “too uppity” and “The Week’s supposed to be funny; I won’t read that junk and stuff.”
We are very sorry that Entree wasn’t as crude as some of the readers would have liked it to have been. We will try real hard to improve and cut out this pseudo-intellectual stuff. So here it is, old style.
TOP OF THE WEEK:
The campus is getting bigger and bigger . . .
A FLUB OF THE WEEK:
9 A few weeks ago a St. Mary’s young

lady fell down an ash-chute. Ah, that’s across the Dixie.
INCIDENTAL NEWS:
(Incidental means about an incident, but a not too important one, guys.) Now here’s a bit of startling S.M.C. (across the Dixie) decorum: One of our goodlooking seniors, whom we shall call Mr. M., put on his.Sunday best so that he could take Miss E. to the gala Science Ball. But when they got there with £ then- duds and flowers and what-all, said he:
Come, and trip it as you go On the light fantastic toe. . .
And she, responding to his knowledge of Milton (see page 13), said sheepishly:
Wait here, while I powder my nose:
Oh, rue, rue. The young maid never returned. Did you get your money back, Steve?
I QUOTES OF THE WEEK:
From the College of Commerce.
Winston: I have a franchise.
I Toungston: You mean Third Order of h St. franchise?
Winston: No, I mean hamburgers and franchise.
POEM OF THE WEEK:
The winning poem for this week was sent in by Mr. Kruger Lanolium, an ROTC major in room E07 Greenhouse. He writes:
THE FEMALE’S POCKET BOOK
The female’s pocket book is a mysterious thing. It hides little secrets of loves and complaints.
From the all-seeing man
Every girl can
Jump safely inside
And there she can hide
From the blunt unawareness of his athletic showers.
ATTENTION SENIORS:
Here are some job openings for you. Wanted:
Potato Chip Sorter—sorts the pleated and wrinkled chips from the green ones. (Advise science background.)
Bag Stuff er Instructor—gives lessons in techniques of bag stuffing, tooth paste tube filling and preparation of turkey dinner. (Graduate students from the Mediaeval Institute preferred.)
Fraternity House Mothers—must have motherly face and bearing. (Advise speech majors.)
Pretzel Bender’s Assistant—works out formulae for shapes and sizes of the ideal pretzel. (Open to math majors and to them only.)
Dental Floss Washer—(No experience necessary.)
Philosopher-Kings — (Only General Program men need apply.)
Concrete Bath Tub Salesmen—A new open market subsidized by the George Epidermus Enterprizes Inc. (Open to all.)	t
Gas Station Attendant—(Ibid.)
Greek Heroes—(Open only to those both phy. ed. majors and language minors.)
Meat Ball Holler—Must have good sense of proportion. (Ibid.)
Baseball Umpires—Must have black suit and real good morals.
That’s it for now. We’ll keep you informed on anything new that turns up.
* * *
Well guys, it’s happened; we lost a
game. But we kept in there fighting all the way, right down to the last sub. And that’s what counts, the fight. Jeep-ers, we can’t win ’em all! But deep down in our hearts we know that our Fighting Irish are Number One. Don’t let the team down just because they lost a game. Let’s keep the old spirit up.
Of course, there are some guys, some that aren’t true Notre Dame men, that don’t get out for the pep rallies and keep their hats on during the school song and only cheer when we are winning and don’t know anything about football; these guys don’t know that “everyone at Notre Dame is, first of all, a Notre Dame man.” Of course, they might be Christians, but they’re not Notre Dame men. So don’t you be like them! Get out and cheer with all your might so that when we go home for Christmas vacation we’ll feel that we have done our best as Notre Dame men.
* * *
SHOPPING NEWS GUIDE:
Combining the efficiency of the A. & P. with the sophistication of nature, the new bookstore reaches a new high in streamline Gothic. The most interesting buy in the place is, of course, the statue of a little Notre Dame man— that’s right next to the Notre Dame soap and above the picture of the Notre Dame Last Supper.
Inside, on the main floor, is a host of articles that students and visitors need for their comfort. This reporter recommends especially the fine selection of monogrammed fly-swatters in four colors at the low, low price of §1.98 plus tax (paid adv.) and the boxes of assorted monogrammed flies, §3.46 and up. Oh yes, upstairs are the books.
And that’s not all! There’s a men’s store, too—and some of our most eminent people in the athletic department shop there—and give you 3-inch by 6-inch blotters to prove it. Dazzling are the 1956 styles in pink suede coats and chiffon - laced unmentionables. Also, bowling alleys complete with chalk.
ANOTHER FLUB OF THE WEEK:
The St. Mary’s girls are no good.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK:
... so are the seniors.
5
October 21, 1955
The Notre Dame
Tradition vs. “Tradition”
Editor:
In your article, “Tradition,” (Scholastic, Oct. 14) you speak of the tradition at Notre Dame as a rather superficial thing. Webster defines tradition as the “oral delivery of opinions,” as well as the transfer of customs from one generation to another. It is true that Notre Dame is not overdressed in custom, but it very definitely is “steeped in tradition.”
I could list many traditions, to name a few: the stories of George Gipp, the tales related of Knute Rockne, as well as the fiction and fact concerning one Father Sorin who, I understand, is now enjoying a sojourn in Michigan. These are just a few!
To slam tradition when your apparent objection is only to one small facet of tradition, that is outdated custom, is -a gross misuse of words.
The tradition of Notre Dame speaks largely for the history of Notre Dame and as such, we all should be proud of it. A man who has worked his way up from being a small carpenter to a large contractor should not tell his son he was once a “wood artist” for shame of having been a carpenter, and neither should we try to hide our living historic tradition.
A recent example of poor pride in our tradition was shown in the issue concerning the Notre Dame “Alma Mater.” Here at Notre Dame, there is no need for being ashamed of the “Victory March” as our “school song.” The resurrection of a very beautiful poem put to music seems very much to me like “keeping up with the Joneses.” Thus far it has caused nothing but confusion; no one seems quite sure whether to accept the “Victory March” or the “Alma Mater.” Does it bar progress to maintain the “Victory March” as “the school song” at Notre Dame?
There are, I think, three basic things which make the character of Notre (Continued on page 32)
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Eighth Year
• 1.000 suits in stock
•	All the newest styles
•	Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•	No Deposit for ND Students
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
Scholastic
Vol. 97 Oct. 21, 1955 No. 4
Dice Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized ' June 23, 1918.
JOHN ADAMS Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE Associate Editor
CHARLES McKENDRICK ... News Editor
ED JOYCE .......................Copy Editor
BOB KAUFMAN_____________Production Manager DAVE KUBAL _____________Assistant	News
DAVE THOMPSON...............Assistant News
JAMES McDONALD ..............Assistant News a JIM O’BRIEN .................Feature Editor
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator i RICHARD NAVIN.....................Art Editor
KEN WOODWARD...............Business Manager NORB RADZIWON ..Circulation Manager JIM FITZGERALD ....Photo Co-ordinator
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Frank Biedka, R. Lee Brand, Jim Carroll, George Clements, Thomas Clifton, Andrew Connelly, Jim Dulan, John Has-ley, James Heimoski, Tom Holberg, Greg KildufT, Jim Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Harrs- McKee, John McMahon, Joe Mocarski, Bob Plante, Terry Plunkett, Marsh Pidgeon, Joe Schaefer, David Schwartz, Jim Steintrager, Louis Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, Ray Walsh.
DAVE DAVIN
Sports Editor
JOHN GLAVIN...................Assistant Sports
JOE NORTON....................Assistant Sports
SPORTS STAFF: Jack Barthel, Andy Carnazola, Paul D’Amore, Pat DeFoe, Dick Donovan, Bob Early, Joe Foreman, Jim Goethals, John Grady, Russ Hopkins, Jim Langford, Fred Lavin, Ray Lescher, Brian Moran, Vince Naimoli, Bob Par-® nell, Jim Reiher, Ed Rhorback, Jim Short, Carl^ Skiff, Dick Sofranko.
INVENTORY
Page
Entree ........................ 5
Repercussion .................. 6
View ........................   7
Campus Scene —................. 9
Folio ........................ 15
At a Glance................... 20
Showcase ....................  23
Irish Scene ................   25
Time Out .....................—	26
Back Page .....................34
Special price on new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including tux shirt, $55.50
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
ON THE COVER Artist Dick Navin has conjured up a replica of the mechan-(^ ical monster that chews up a few wads “ of paper and some ink every week and produces the Scholastic.
6
The Scholastic
View
*
I	“boys”
I A PERENNIAL PROBLEM has reared its ugly head Il jfX again in Washington Hall—the young fellows are H	back. With each passing week the sound part of the
r gk Saturday movie is becoming less and less audible amid words r ” of wisdom and hilarious wit coming spontaneously from the r	audience. Cinema actresses, though pleased, might well
I	cast a vote of bewilderment at the ecstatic acclaim theii' very
I	name on the credits educes from “the boys.”
I	Everyone knows “the boys.” They’re the same guys
I	who tear up the train on a student trip or going home at
I	Christmas time. They’re the same guys who have to prove
I	how tough they are wherever they go. They’re the guys who
I	know their way through the rule book here at Notre Dame.
I ’They’re the real fellows. Thank God there are only a few “real” fellows around.
1/ " Few though they are, they make their presence known I	nevertheless and manage to spoil what would have been
I	a good time for everyone else. Herein, apparently, lies the
I	real pleasure of being one of “the boys.”
I	The saddest part of the whole matter is that the AdI	ministration will probably soon see fit to discontinue the
I	Saturday movies indefinitely because of the antics of the
|	“real” fellows. There was more than a hint of this last year
I	when the Student Affairs office posted a notice that action
IIl;,	of this sort would be taken unless the students shaped-up,
so to speak. The truly unfortunate aspect of discontinuing 1 the movies is that it won’t make one bit of difference to the Pi	“boys”—they’ll just have “one more thing” to criticize the
||:	Administration about.
r In discussing this question around the campus many I <	fellows ventured, “Well, maybe if they had better movies in
I;	Washington Hall. . .” Now this might be all well and good.
I! but just what is a “better movie”? Last Saturday one of the most famous and charming operettas in the world, b	Hansel and Gretel, was presented. Although many	of the
h	“real” fellows left (stomping their feet as they went)	a few
j	stayed around with a running commentary on the	whole
I	situation. The same has been true of many other fine films,
i A Agreed, not everyone has similar tastes but this is hardly ft 9 any excuse. A man can pretty well tell what the movie is h going to be about before he ever steps into old Washington J Hall. If the title is Singing in the Rain, the movie-goer can be fairly sure that it’s a musical and the hero is going to sing | a ballad to the heroine, and vice-versa. If it’s Gunsmoke, >' he knows there’ll be a big fight scene and someone is going L	to be chased on horseback. What’s the trouble then? If
f	a man doesn’t like westerns, all he has to do is go down town
:	or eat an apple in his room to avoid the misery of sitting
I through one.
>	. And so, maybe with a little luck the “real” fellows still
|	. find out about the Saturday matinee at the State and trundle
if off to a place where they can hoot and holler to their heart’s I	content—let’s hope so anyway, so that old Washington Hall
I can go on having flicks for those who really appreciate them.
-7
I October 21, 1955
“youngsters”
PRIOR TO THE Notre-Dame Michigan State football game last Saturday afternoon, which we watched via TV, the ‘card’ section of the State rooters went through its patterns. The display consisted of various phrases and abbreviations, such as “Hi, TV fans!”, “Irish”, and “Give —Fight TB”. The performance culminated in the creation of the American flag as the combined bands of the two schools played The National Anthem.
The Stars and Stripes formed by MSU’s “card” section, however, had a flaw. The field of stars contained not 48, but 54 stars. Needless to say, 'this imperfection was almost immediately detected by alert viewers of the telecast.
Now it is not our intention to cast an accusing eve on the competence of the State cheering section as regards their knowledge of U.S. history and geography. It was an inadvertent mistake. It could have happened in the “card” section of any college or university.
Nor was it anything but normal that several especially heritage-minded tele-viewers sent wires to the Macklin Field pressbox calling attention to the obvious error. The TV announcer saw fit to mention the fact of these .telegrams during a time-out. This was OK. too.
But what got us was that the commentator then decided that some kind of explanation or apology was in order, so he did the honors: “. . . but they’re just youngsters!”
Even grandma in her rocking chair out on the farm must have chuckled at this. “lust youngsters!” We would have been no more insulted if the telecaster had said, “They are just rosy-cheeked youngsters!”
We know that the Michigan Staters must feel as we do. Being a student at an accredited college or university we would have people think of us as more than “just youngsters”. After all, we do accomplish some pretty grown-up things. The caliber of our academic curricula is quite a bit above the “youngster” stage. The great majority of us earns at least part of his college expenses. Some of us even vote. All of us are eligible to don Uncle Sam’s khaki for the cause of national defense. Upon graduation we shall be equipped to accept responsible positions in society. At this stage of maturity, are we still to be termed “just youngsters”?
Granted, we make mistakes. Sometimes our conduct is juvenile. Our thinking may seem to be no more than that of a “youngster”. There may be vestiges of that “sweet sixteen” age.
But we’re doing our best. And we welcome the opportunity to complete our preparation for life in an adult atmosphere. We can be helped along in this matter, too. If we are treated like adults, we will act like them.
We are willing and eager to accept responsibility and duty. In a few years we will have to navigate for ourselves. We would benefit by getting in a little practice right now. o	*	*
If we err, we want to be corrected with constructive criticism. We’re sure that we can offer a reasonable explanation or apology for our faults.
At least, we won’t, and we don’t, have to fall back on that poor, poor excuse, “We’re just youngsters!”—P. L.
WHY A MILLION MEN HAVE SWITCHED TO
HOLIDAY!
Only HOLIDAY gives you this Custom Blend for Mildness!
Yes, five famous tobaccos skillfully blended into a mixture of unequalled flavor, aroma and mildness. These fine tobaccos, selected from all parts of the world, are blended with a base of cool-smoking white burley... Each tobacco adds its own distinctive flavor and
aroma to make Holiday America’s finest pipe mixture. We suggest you try a pipeful . . . enjoy its coolness, flavor and aroma ... and see for yourself why more and more men who smoke mixtures are switching to Holiday as a steady smoke.
HOU DAY gives you this Heat-Sealed Wrap-Around Pouch!_
Holiday tobacco leaves our blending line with just the right moisture content for a cool, no-bite smoke. You can be sure every pouch will be that way when you open it, because Holiday is the only mixture which has the WrapAround pouch. Sealed air-and-water tight, it guarantees you a fresher, cooler-smoking tobacco.
AT YOUR DEALER'S
Get this guaranteed “Oide London” Pipe and two full- | size pouches of Holiday tobacco for only SI.00. The pipe ! is fine, hand-rubbed imported briar ... with genuine hard ' rubber bit . . . carbonized bowl for cooler smoking. If I your dealer is unable to supply you, use this handy order | blank.	।
Name________________. |
Address| City________State____ ।
Mail with $1.00 to “Oide London," Larus & Brother !
^oMO^6
NlD^

Tiy Edgeworth— choice cool-smoking white hurleys in the air-tight pouch. America’s finest pipe tobacco.
IF YOU PREFER A BLEND OF STRAIGHT BURLEYS
Company, Inc., Richmond, Va. Offer Good Only in U.S.A.
CM-10
The Scholastic

’SENATE MAPS PROGRAM FOR ACTIVE LEGISLATION
Crehan Unveils 'New Dimension1 Concept to Senate; Plan Calls for Expanded Governmental Facilities
“New dimensions in student government;
the present year by Tom Crehan, Student Senate president, will be aided by greater depth in the present program and
AB Senior Gets Lead $ In First Campus Play
Joe Kelly, an Arts and Letters senior, has been selected to play the title role in The Alchemist, the first of this year’s University Theater presentations, Fred Syburg, director of the group, announced recently.
Kelly will play “Subtle,” the Alchemist, leader of a group of swindlers. Reginald Bain as “Face,” and Louise Warnicke of St. Mary’s College, as “Dol Common,” are his fellow conspirators.
Rehearsals for the production began two weeks ago. This will give the cast six weeks to prepare the play which will run Nov. 16-19. The Alchemist was chosen because of its Elizabethan background, which will coincide with the theme of this year’s Fine Arts Festival.
The play, a comedy by Ben Jonson, is a tale of swindle and counterswindle, double and triple cross. The alchemist, A a man who claims the ability to change base metal to gold, together with his assistant and a female accomplice, sets out to prove that an enterprising group can fleece almost anyone.
Those cast in supporting roles include Jerry Dodge, John Kent, Jim Cremins, Charles Armbruster, Jim O’Donoghue, Gary Gates, George Hahn, Phil Donahue, Frances Cappabianca, Tom Brady, Jim Cooney, Kevin Solon, and Michael Sophy. Bob Moran is the stage manager, while John Caster is chief electrician. Stage carpentry will be handled by Terry Nieulandt, and publicity and ticket sales by Business Manager George O’Donnell.
This is the keynote being stressed for
The new dimensions by expansion to cover more fields of activity.
“We feel that the primary purpose of the University should be the primary purpose of student government,” says Crehan. “And the primary purpose of the University is education. What the student government hopes to do is to present opportunities to the student to make his education more meaningful.”
Student government in itself is a means of furthering the education of the student. It gives him an opportunity to learn how a democratic society works by allowing him to be a representative and giving him a speaking voice in a democratic government. He can gain great experience by this participation.
More than this the student govern-
DECORATIONS CONTEST
The annual hall decoration contest will be held next Friday evening, according to Bill Shannon, chairman of the festivities for homecoming weekend.
Each hall is restricted to an appropriation limit of $30.
As in previous decoration contests, the halls are expected to depict in some way the manner in which the Irish will take charge of the visiting Middies during the next day’s game. The faculty judging committee will especially look for originality, workmanship, and design in the exhibits.
The decoration trophy and a $30 prize will be awarded to the winning hall at halftime of the game. Prizes of $10 will also be awarded for the best exhibits in each of the three phases of judging. No hall may win more than one prize.
TOM CREHAN
. . . new dimensions . . .
ment, as the representative of the student body, fully realizes other needs of the student in rounding his education.
“We know that there is a necessity for balancing social and physical activities along with educational opportunities so that the attaining of an education is not hindered,” says Crehan. “We will strive to meet these areas of need during the present year.”
Carrying out the things necessary in order to gain the new dimensions will be the three branches of the student government.
The Executive branch through various commissions and the Blue Circle hopes to set up a general program of affairs, study ways to increase extra-curricular and co-curricular activities, and in general search for ways' to further opportunities for the student.
The Senate will pass legislation putting many of the new activities into effect. The Judicial or Student Activities Court will see that the student is given proper representation.
Among programs to be used in obtaining the general plan of the student government will be such activities as a classic movie series, course and faculty evaluation studies, and expanded advisory work. Facilities for dances and picnics will be increased. Informality will be stressed in all these programs.
In order to really add the new dimensions, student interest must be obtained. “The student government is only the representative of the student body,” commented Crehan. “His full cooperation is necessary. We will make attempts to supply greater opportunities to the student. It is up to him to take advantage of these opportunities.”
October 21, 1955
9
. . . ANOTHER MIXER, EH! . . . Frosh ponder weekend social calendar.
Freshmen Wonder 'Where Are the Girls?' As They Get First Taste of ND Social Life
As the school year begins each fall and upper-classmen wend their way back to the Notre Dame campus, once more to traverse the halls of Sorin and Walsh; once more to banquet midst the confines of the Dining Hall; once more to yell the Irish to victory, they stop to take time out to welcome the newly-arrived to Notre Dame. Conscious of the freshman’s problems they lend a patient ear to the many confused queries of the new-boni Notre Dame men.
Paramount perhaps, in most freshman minds is the question of social life at Notre Dame. For some reason it is a tasty morsel for discussion among students.
When the lights have long since faded, each residence hall has at least several groups who, in the darkness of their rooms, soberly discuss in low voices the prospects of social advancement.
To most young minds, social adventure denotes dates. It is hardly surprising that the freshmen, have already begun to consider social as synonymous with female, and are now asking the customary questions, and are coming up with the usual answers.
The class of 1959 has displayed itself to be of diverse opinions on the subject. Some are totally in favor of existing social conditions here; others, seemingly in the throes of social dejection, believe that much is lacking in social facilities.
Joe Lund, a Commerce student from Minneapolis, Minn., agrees that “the girls around here are fabulous, the mix
ers wonderful, but there should be more of both.”
Jack Beard of Oak Park, Ill., feels that “the odds at mixers should be even, allowing only the same number of guys to attend as there are girls.”
Chuck Dahm of Farley, a student in the combined A.B.-Engineering program would solve the mixer problem “by just having more of them, maybe even two or three at the same time.”
A Zahm Hall resident, Bob Peterson of Long Island, N. Y., says, “I don’t see why there is a shortage of girls. If the fellows wanted dates all of the time they could go to a co-ed school and have them all over the place.”
His roommate Bud Robben, of Carlyle, Ill., whole-heartedly agrees, “Notre Dame would not be the same if there were any more girls than there are now.”
Aside from mixers, many frosh join in the opinion that social facilities at ND are very adequate. In fact, one freshman, who preferred to withhold his identity declares that “there is just too much a guy can do around here; it’s • dangerous!”
Paul McAllister of Belmont, Mass., would contest this. He believes “If you don’t have a girl here there is no social life. Outside of an occasional movie at Washington Hall, what can a fellow do?”
Jim Bigbom of Breen-Phillips Hall states, “I would say that the social life here isn’t bad if you don’t like girls,
don’t mind riding busses, or don’t mind walking.”
Harry McKee, of Western Springs, Ill., resolutely declares, “I’m here to study. ND is greatly conducive to study; therefore, I’m satisfied.”
Joe Heil of Milwaukee announced that he “doesn’t want a thing changed, not a thing.”
Several freshmen voiced suggestions which would appeal* to merit consideration, such as increased participation of St. Mary’s girls at pep rallies. Many were of the opinion that if such female attendance became traditional it would be to the mutual benefit of all concerned.
Blind Dating System Inaugurated by Senate?
In co-operation with St. Mary’s College and the Holy Cross Central School of Nursing, the Student Senate Commission has devised a new “blind date” system to be used for major social events starting with the Victory Dance on the evening of the Notre Dame-Pennsylvania game, Nov. 5.
Under the new set-up, a student wanting a blind date for a particular occasion will be asked to fill out a standard form ~ giving general information such as height, address, class, and major subject, plus a section on specific information which includes questions on reading, hobbies, clubs, and a brief self-description.
These forms, when filled out, will be compared -with like forms from the girls at SMC and St. Joe’s and the blind date will be made on the basis of the usual considerations plus common interests.
■It is hoped that this systematic matching will result in a more satisfactory social life for the Notre Dame student.
In the beginning the system will be in effect only for Saturday night Victory Dances and for the major balls. There is a possibility that the idea may later be expanded to include University Theater productions, basketball games, and special concerts.
For Saturday night dances the completed forms must be handed in to the Student Senate offices in the Student j Center between 3 and 5 p.m. on Thursday preceding the dance. That Friday, the student will receive a postcard containing the girl’s name, address, phone number, and the time he is to pick up his date.
For the major dances and balls the forms must be turned in to the Senate offices on Friday of the week preceding the dance between 3:30 and 5:30 p.m. Forms will be available in the Senate offices starting Oct. 24. Only members of the Social Commission will have access to those forms and all information will remain confidential.
10
The Scholastic
I
Speech Dept. Launches Intramural Program; Emphasizes Varsity Debate Training Methods
; Notre Dame’s first comprehensive ! intra mural speech program will be i| launched Tuesday evening, October 25, । the department of speech announced recently. It will be specifically aimed at those students without the time, inclina-y	tion, or talent	for the inter-collegiate
5	schedule.
।	Rev. Charles	E. Sheedy, C.S.C., dean
7 of the College of Arts and Letters, will highlight the initial meeting with an outline of the purposes and advantages of this extra-curricular training. The meeting will be held at 8 p.m. in Room ।	127 of the Nieuwland Science Building.
, * Father Sheedy pointed out the in-l creasing emphasis now being placed on oral communication by both commerce and industry. He urged all students to at least acquaint themselves with the opportunities offered by the new program.
Under the immediate supervision of Prof. Leonard Sommer, director of ^jrensics, the agenda will adopt many of the tested methods of training now , employed by the varsity debate team. The organization will be divided into ten-man groups comprised of members with the same academic major and similar speech problems. An experienced speaker will be placed in charge of each group.
Mr. Sommer commented, “Our primary goal is to give each man as much experience as possible on his feet addressing the audience. The emphasis Iwill be on actual speaking experience.” A To further that goal, a variety of I ^speaking assignments has already been | arranged. Plans have been made which will give the participants radio experience over WSND and audience experience before P.T.A.’s and service organizations.
• April. Nov. Dates Announced For Selective Service Tests
Selective Service College Qualification 9Tests will be given Nov. 17 and April 19, 1956, according to an announcement from the Selective Service System.
I The deadline for application for the -‘j November test is midnight, Nov. 1. Application forms may be obtained at the ■: Office of Military Information, in the basement of the Main Building, or at the department of guidance and testing, Room 251, Main Building. Students are requested to call in person for the forms.
The examination is open to all Selective Service registrants who have not gp reviously taken the test, and is designed to provide evidence for the use of local boards in considering deferment of a registrant from military service.
There will be interhall competition in debate, oratory, and extemporaneous speech. A Washington Hall debate be-■between the two outstanding participants and two students from St. Mary’s will climax the first semester’s activity.
Combining speaking with pleasure, a banquet and communion breakfast have been placed on the docket. Both will feature “after dinner” talks..
Commerce Ball Sets Oct. 24-25 Ticket Sale
Three hundred fifty couples will dance on the floor of the “Notre Dame Stock Exchange” in the Student Center on
JACK SKARDA ‘Ticker Tape’ Orchestra leader.
Nov. 11, when the College of Commerce presents the “Ticker Tape Ball.”
Saturday afternoon, Nov. 12, Notre Dame plays North Carolina at Chapel Hill. The usual Victory Dance will be held in the Drill Hall that evening. Sunday morning, Mass will be followed by a special Communion Breakfast and several well-known guest speakers.
Ticket sales will start Oct. 24, Monday, and run through Tuesday Oct. 25. The sales will take place in the afternoon from 3-5 p.m., and in the evening from 7-9 p.m. in the basement of the Dining Hall. '	. ’
Jack Skarda and his newly formed 17-piece orchestra will make its first appearance on the campus to play for the Commerce men and their dates.
Skarda, who formerly played with Woody Herman, has appeared in the
Hollywood Bowl and the Palladium Ballroom.
His band, will feature Ruth Nelson, vocalist, Don Osborne, drummer, and Freddy Montell, who recently recorded several records.
Jerry Higgins, general chairman of the Ball, expects this year’s dance to exceed any of the three previous ones. Assisting Higgins on the committee are: Don Walz, business manager; Jerry Gatto, entertainment; Luke Brennan, tickets; Dick Gorman, Communion Breakfast; Bob Duffy, decorations; Gerry Pastula, hotel accommodations; and Bob Hilger, publicity.	.
Wrangler Activities Headed By 'Catholic Mind' Discussion
The Wranglers, campus - discussion group, recently inaugurated their activities for the 1955-56 year under the leadership of President John Meagher.
Meeting every Wednesday night, the 20 members hear a paper concerned with this year’s topic, “The Catholic Mind.” Later the group discusses the topic under the guidance of Prof. Frank O’Malley of the English department.
Members are chosen on the basis of trial papers and personal interviews at the beginning of each semester. The present group includes two graduate students, two seminarians, and one sophomore. The remaining members are juniors and seniors.
Leading off this year’s program of speakers, President Meagher recently presented his paper entitled, “The Shaping of a Catholic Mind.”
Scheduled for recitation in the near future are papers on outstanding Catholic authors and businessmen.
STUDENT TRIP
Three hundred students will in-, vade West Lafayette, Ind., and Purdue University tomorrow on the annual Student Trip.
A special New York Central train will take the Notre Dame men to West Lafayette, according to Student Trip Committee Chairman Dave Collins. It will leave at 8 a.m. and is scheduled to arrive in West Lafayette at noon. -	-
Students will be free following1 the game until train time at 8 p.m. The return trip will take approximately four hours.
A box lunch will be served on the train to Purdue. Also, Collins has arranged with the Purdue Student Union to have additional food on hand for any Student Trippers • who wish to eat there after the game. A dinner should cost* about $1. : :
October 21, 1955

Debaters Open Season With Chicago Trip; Frosh Bear Heavy Load in Coming Weeks
The Notre Dame debaters will begin their 1955-56 season next week as six freshmen travel to three colleges to debate on the topic: “Guaranteed Annual Wage.”
On Oct. 27 two of the freshmen will go to the University of Illinois, Navy Pier, and two more will journey to the University of Chicago. The others travel to Mundelein College where they will handle both the affirmative and the negative side of the question. Brendan Fagan, Jim Coker, John Sullivan, Joe Crotty, Bernard Morris, and Jack Zu-felt will make the Chicago area trip.
On Nc-v. 3 and 4 eight debaters will leave for Purdue and the Tau Kappa Alpha National Debating Fraternity Regional Conference. Five freshmen plus three returning veterans will make the trip.
Richard Schiller, student president of the fraternity’s Midwest regional conference, Pat Curran, Jerry Brady, Frank Draine, Brendan Fagan, Duane Connoly, Zufelt, and Peter Devito are traveling to Purdue.
They will participate in mock congressional hearings and legislative sessions where they will vote on bills. Awards ■null be given to outstanding performers.
The Director of the Forensic Society, Mr. Leonard Sommer, will continue giving the freshmen experience the first
semester by sending eight frosh to Bradley University, Nov. 18 and 19. Debate, discussion, oratory, after dinner speaking, and radio newscasting will formulate the program.
The upperclassmen will open the forensic season in a tournament at Morris Harvey College in Charleston, West Virginia. The debaters will argue before an estimated audience of some 1,700 people.
Tryout Session Announced For Student Choir Hopefuls
The Notre Dame Student Choir announced that a tryout session will be held for prospective members at the choir’s regular practice time, from 6:40 to 7:30 p.m. next Wednesday. The tryout session was announced by the Rev. William J. McAuliffe, C.S.C., director of the choir.
The Student Choir consists of about 20 active members who sing regularly at the 11:15 a.m. Mass on the first and third Sundays of each month. The Dujarie Choir sings the Mass on the second and fourth Sundays of the month. In the future, Father McAuliffe hopes the choir will eventually sing the Mass every Sunday.
Marines Seek Students For Reserve Training
Captain William D. Kelly, USMC, announced this past week that men are j now being accepted for the Platoon I Leaders Class, an officer candidate pro- I gram in the United States Marine Corps Reserves. This program is aimed at _ gaining recruits from sophomore stu-dents in order that they might gain the full benefits of the program.
The PLC consists of six-week military courses during two summer vacations from college. It is designed to provide the initial leadership development and the military instruction necessary to prepare the student for appointment to commissioned rank in the Marine Corps.
Training takes place at Quantico, Va. "" Among the things in which the PLC recruit is schooled are fundamentals of military history, customs of the service, marksmanship, and unit tactics.
Pay benefits begin the day the student enrolls in the program. Students who are interested in the program may contact Captain Kelly in the Navy Drill Hall.
Captain Kelly also announced that he is anxious to start a Marine organization on campus for all PLC, Reserve, and ROTC students. In order to do this
9
he would like all Marine students to leave their names and campus addresses in his office so that he will be able
to contact them.
Senior spirit ran high last weekend as some 200 fourth-year men journeyed to East Lansing for the MSU tilt. Despite witnessing the Irish’s first setback, the Class of ’56 spent a gay weekend in the Michigan capital, as is evidenced by this photo showing the seniors as they marched on Macklin Field.
Four-Year Scholarship Honors World War Hero $
A four-year scholarship to Notre Dame, valued at $6,200, will be awarded to a young man active in the Junior Achievement program by the Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr. Foundation, the University has announced. Junior Achievement members who will be graduated from high school during the 1955-56 school year' will be eligible for the award.
The scholarship is a memorial to the late Lt. Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr., who was killed in action during World War II. His father, a former American am- ” bassador to Great Britain, is a member of Notre Dame’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees.
Representatives of the Junior- Achievement organization, the Kennedy Foundation, and the University of Notre Dame will select the scholarship winner. Candidates will be evaluated on their academic record, participation in extracurricular- activities, leadership and participation in the Junior Achievement / program, and “the degree to which they W exemplify the interests, ideals, and characteristics of Lt. Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr.’s life.”
12
The Scholastic
Three Tours Highlight Glee Club's Season; West Coast Trip at Easter Heads Activities
The University Glee Club was the i guest of Michigan State University last • weekend for State’s Centennial Homecoming Celebration. The club performed ■ a last Saturday night after the MSU . * game.
1/ John Goedecke, publicity manager for ' the Club, said recently that the organiza-
BOB OGBURN
Tenor soloist for coming year.
tion was scheduled for a full concert in two weeks at Blue Island, Ill. Plans are also being made for tours through Ohio and Pennsylvania at Thanksgiving, I throughout the Midwest at mid-semester, I and to California during Easter vacation.
The officers of this year’s Glee Club are: President, Gerald Pottebaum; VicePresident, Al Virostek; Secretary, Ron Francis; Treasurer, Bill Shannon; and Bill Jackman, business manager.
Robert Ogburn, a junior chemical engineer, is featured with the group as ' tenor soloist. Rudolph Pruden is the I baritone soloist. Pruden previously ) sang with the De Pawr Glee Club, a i professional touring organization which . has recorded for Columbia Records. Ed Neylon is the piano soloist. He has ap-j peared in recital many times in Charles’	ton, W. Va.. Piano accompaniment for
!	the club is handled by John Rockne
Buian, a junior music major.
For the past 20 years the Glee Club has been under the direction of Daniel ’	H. Pedtke. In that time the club has
l	become nationally famous, and they are
'■^continually requested to appear in concert.
They have appeared throughout the southeast, holding concerts in Florida,
Louisiana, Virginia, Washington, D. C., and in nearly all the eastern states. They made several appearances on the West Coast four years ago. They have been on Ed Sullivan’s “Toast of the Town” TV show for the past seven years. They also appeared on Eddie Fisher’s “Coke Time” TV show when it was telecast recently from the University campus.
The Glee Club is run completely by the students. Tours are all planned by the club officers, elected in the spring of each year. They finance their own trips and plan their own transportation and hotel accommodations. There are 120 members in the Glee Club, 36 of whom make up the touring gro^n. This touring group travels over 10,000 miles a year.
A freshman glee club has been organized this year also. Its primary purpose is to train the newcomers for future work with the main Glee Club.
'Round Robin' Mixers Top Frosh Social Life
The Social Commission has initiated a new idea to acquaint the freshmen with the girls from the different schools of the surrounding area.
“Round Robin” mixers will be held this Sunday for three of the freshmen
halls. Farley residents will attend a party at St. Mary’s College; St. Ed’s will be at St. Mary’s Academy; and men of B-P will meet the Daughters of Isa
bella and St. Joseph’s nurses at the Student Center.
Five such mixers are planned on consecutive Sundays, starting this Sunday. Each week three different freshman halls are scheduled to participate in the mixers.
Tickets will be sold today in the halls by the Social Commission. However, after elections, the hall councils will take over the sales. The price of the ticket is §.50.
The Social Commission noted that the number of television sets on campus is not adequate to satisfy the number of students who desire to watch the Notre Dame away games.
In recognition of this, they have introduced large screen television to the campus. The price of admission for these games has been §.25, however", this price does not sufficiently cover expenses for the telecasts. Consequently, the price for future large screen telecasts will be §.50.
Mr. Bernard C. Barth, station manager of WNDU-TV, has been responsible for the piping of the games on a special circuit to the Drill Hall.
Recently, it was disclosed that, if it is at all possible, the rest of the Irish away games will be telecast on a special closed circuit to the campus on large screen TV. Authorities will have to obtain NCAA permission and overcome technical and financial difficulties before final permission is given.
October 21,1955
13
ENGINEERING AND PHYSICS GRADUATES
INVITES YOU
INTERVIEWED
CONVAIR
ON YOUR CAMPUS
Facilities' Hours ”j
The Library: Mon. through Fri., 8	| .
a.m. to 9:30 p.m.; Sat., 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.;	:
Sun., 1 p.m. to 9 p.m.
The Rockne Memorial: Mon. through Fri., 8 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.; Sat., 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sun., 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Swim- Ji ming periods: Mon. through Fri., 3:30 to 5:30 p.m., and 7:15 to 8:30 p.m.;
Sat. and Sun., 1 to 4:30 p.m.	'p
Gilbert’s: Mon. through Sat., 9 a.m. it to 6 p.m.	’
The Barber Shop: Mon. through Fri., 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sat., 8 a.m. to 12 noon.
Laundry and Dry Cleaners: Mon. through Fri., 7:30 a.m. to 4:45 p.m.; Sat., 8 a.m. to 12 noon.
The Huddle: Mon. through Fri., 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., and 6:30 to 9 p.m.; Sat., 8 a.m. to 12 noon.	' 1
Treasurer’s Office: Mon. through Fri., 9 a.m. to 12 noon, and 2 to 5 p.m.
The BX: Wed., 1 to 3 p.m.; Thurs., 2:30 to 4:30 p.m.
Western Union: Mon. through Fri., 8:20 a.m. to 12 noon, and 1 to 5 p.m.
Billiard Room: Mon. through Fri., 9:30 a.m. to 9:30 p.m.; Sat., 9:30 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sun., 12:30 to 5 p.m., and 7:15 to 9:30 p.m.	7
Post Office: Mon. through Fri., 7:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Sat., 7:30 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Railway Express Agency: Monday through Fri., 12:30 to 2:30 p.m.
The Book Store: Mon. through Fri., 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sat., 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
The Bowling Alleys: League Bowling;
9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sat., 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Mon., Tues., Wed., Thurs., nights and part of Fri., Sat., and Sun. nights. Open * bowling Fri., Sat., and Sun. nights from 8:45 to 11:30 p.m.
As a division of General Dynamics Corporation, CONVAIR occupies an important place in the long-range development of the Nation’s aerial defense as ■well as commercial aviation. This assures excellent career opportunities for professional accomplishment and personal income.
CONVAIR
A DIVISION OF GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION
FORT WORTH, TEXAS
G. M. KALER Will Be On Your Campus THURSDAY. OCTOBER 27
For Interview Information Contact YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE
Bradford-Bihn Team Wins
Weekend Bridge Tourney
The Pat Bradford-Joe Bihn team scored an average of .679 in winning the weekly duplicate bridge game at the Student Center last Sunday afternoon.
Second place went to John Boveri and Norm Wendrowski with .587. H. Heich-elheim and T. Lee were third with .546.
Starting time for play this Sunday will be 2 p.m. A contingent from St. Mary’s is expected to challenge the ND experts. Students interested in playing bridge are invited to attend the sessions.
Instruction in bridge will be offered in the Student Center as soon as convenient J hours can be arranged for the classes. ; Those interested may leave their names ( W ' with the manager of the Center, or in- । quire at the Sunday duplicate game be- I tween 2 and 5 p.m.	I
The Scholastic I
14
The ‘SCHOLASTIC’ office; calm before the storm.
a close look
by Jim O'Brien photos by Ed Mertz
“Today’s news wraps tomorrow’s gar; bage.” The time-worn advice of the cyni-j cal old reporter to the eager young cub J J^has little application to the familiar cam-■,	pus publication. Nor does this attitude
(	prevail among Scholastic reporters
. eager to contribute to the never-finished historybook of Notre Dame.
’ Even the old hands on the editorial 1 staff find themselves too busy to be cynical, enmeshed in a never-ending series of deadlines. They have little time to even consider the possible indifference of the . Scholastic’s so-called “captive audi-i ence.”
Unfortunately, too few of this “cap-■ tive audience” are aware of the problems and effort involved in putting out a weekly 36 page publication. To remedy
October 21,1955
this situation, Folio presents this feature to follow, step by step, the growth of a new Scholastic.
* * *
The first step in the creation of a new issue takes place in the minds of the various editors, probably two or more weeks before the date of publication. It is the result of suggestions, inspirations, hurried conferences between classes, demands for recognition, perusal of old Scholastics, exchange papers, news items, sports schedules, calendars of events and frantic last-minute brainracking. Some ideas have had weeks of planning and revision, some burst upon the scene at the last minute; some are good and" some are not, but all must be convertable to pictures and copy to meet
the omnipresent deadline.
Even before this, before any issue has been brought to light, the general principles of style have been formed by the Editor, criticised by the staff and checked by impromptu opinion polls.
After the general form of his section has taken shape in the mind of each department head, he must plan out the assignments, both for stories and for photos and art. Then assignments are made. The news and sports staff meet every week and the stories are handed out by the editors, usually with a tip on where information can be obtained. For more important stories, , the lead and general slant is indicated.
In the feature section, the stories are fewer and are handed out individually,
15
Cover artists confer on newest creations.
One of a thousand interviews.
with more detailed instructions.
The problems which face the various editors are somewhat different. The News Editor deals with a large number of items, all more or less newsworthy, most demanding coverage, some greater and some less. He must judge the worth of a story and the kind of coverage needed and find out who must be contacted for more information. Then, at the news meeting, he must hand out the assignments according to the varying abilities of his staff.
The feature editor deals with a smaller number of items, some regular, such as the entertainment page, some events requiring coverage by photography, some timely feature topics and some more general topics. He must be always conscious of variety and style, both in the layout of his section and in the tone and subject matter of the various features.
The Sports Editor must juggle schedules to insure up-to-the-minute coverage as far as possible, must deal acceptably
Coordinator checks feature copy.
with matters of opinion and judgment; must rely on imagination to write and headline the same type of story over and over with continued appeal.	4
The Editor-in-chief and the Associate
Editor are responsible for interpreta- 1 / tions of policy and generally pass judg- . ment on the articles which will be printed. They must write editorials, and handle the columns extraneous to the three main sections. They make assignments for covers, specifying the subject and tone and describing the necessary limitations involved.
For the reporter, Friday’s Scholastic begins nine days before—on Wednesday ( of the preceding week. At that time, ~ | all articles, with the exception of the । stories that break over the week end, are assigned at a meeting of the news staff. Usually each reporter receives a lead to follow for a story and a beat. Beats consist of the offices and the departments of the University that demand a reporter each week.
Regular assignments can be divided into three categories according to their । sources: University releases, interviews,	j
and on the spot coverage. The first I includes the official University bulletins	,
and all press releases covering such de- j tails as the arrival of a celebrity or of visiting performers. Interviews, the . most common of assignments, require the reporter to establish personal contact 1 with anyone from the President of the University down, and often with two, three, or more individuals. The final source, on-the-spot coverage, provides H-the reporter with a chance to develop the p story from his own observation and, with	1 ’
the exception of the Student Senate	J
meetings, are usually unassigned articles ■
y ^that the reporter obtains on his own

initiative.
When the facts have been obtained through either one or a combination of the above methods, the stories are typed according to the requirements of the Scholastic style sheet. Most important in the writing of the article are the lead paragraph and the fluency of the sen-
] fences.
Sunday night is the deadline for the J articles and, when turned in, they are r given to the News and Copy Editors ■ who check the factual content and the sentence structure. Then the paper is passed on to the copy readers who delete or change some parts and check for grammatical and spelling mistakes. Once
I the article receives approval, the copy ' readers construct headlines and turn the story over to the Copy Editor. This pro-' cess is much the same for the sports copy, save that all work is done by the sports assistants.
Another duty of the editors is the selection and “cropping” of pictures, which consists in choosing the best and most varied and representative shots of an event or sequence and marking them so that the area of most interest will be j defined. They must then carefully com-
j I pute the proportion and size of the pic-/ ture so that the layout may be accurate.

“Dummying” comes next and involves one of the most frustrating and difficult tasks executed in the turmoil of Farley Hall basement. It consists in marking the location and size of each story and picture on its proper page in the “dummy”, a mock Scholastic, with blank pages and measured columns.
Advertisements are dummied in ahead of time by the Business Manager on predetermined pages. Then the department heads arrange their copy in order of importance and length, and fit it into the dummy. A complicating factor of style requires that each two page spread has balance and eye appeal as well as a certain amount of copy and headlines. This entails much editorial measuring, imagination, judgment and good luck in the layout process.
Much of this must be done by Sunday
; night, as photographs for the first form | must be sent to the engraver early on • Monday. Commercial engravers convert the cropped prints into dots on zinc plates, so that the ink will not blur and smear on the printed pages. These cuts ; are delivered to the Ave Maria press, > where the Scholastic is printed, for making up on Tuesday afternoon.
On Tuesday morning, the edited and
prepared copy is sent over to the
Ave
Maria to be set up on the linotype and >	intertype machines. The copy is con-
v	verted into sticks or solid lines of lead
type of specified width and length.
On Tuesday afternoon, the department heads and the higher ups congre-
October 21,1955
The Linotype; words into type.
Editor Adams watches a page made up. .
After the copy has been set in type and the pages made up, proofs are pulled and read by proofreaders at the Ave Maria. They make corrections and send
gate in the composing room of the Ave Maria and try to iron out the various miscalculations which occur in the conversion of copy to type and pictures to plates. It will be forever incomprehensible to Scholastic editors present and past that the magazine has never printed a whole blank page due to the amazing shrinkage of copy.
At this point, it is necessary to explain that the setup pages are wedged together into two large forms and printed on huge sheets, the size of 16 Scholastic pages plus. These sheets are then machine-folded and cut to size before stapling. Pages set in the first form, which is printed Wednesday must be made up on Tuesday afternoon, for which copy must be set up Tuesday morning, prepared Monday night, and for which the cuts must be prepared on Sunday evening.
The whole process is advanced one day for material for the second form. In this way, the preparations are divided into two waves and can be handled more easily by the staff.

Feature Editor crops a dance layout.
the proofs to the Scholastic office to be checked again by the staff members who make further last minute corrections.
On Wednesday evening late, the proofs for the second form have been checked and returned, the issue is “put to bed.” Earlier this same evening, the News Editor and the Sports Editor had held meetings with their staffs at which they made assignments for the next week’s issue. This process continues virtually without a pause throughout the year^
. ' • # # #
. There are. numerous duties of the editors which do not directly involve
the production of the Scholastic. For example, at the beginning of each year, the Department heads must collect and evaluate the staff, to insure adequate and well-handled coverage of stories and other assignments.
This year, the Scholastic innovated an organizational meeting which was divided into three writing clinics as directed by the News Editor, the Feature Editor and the Sports Editor. In this way, the editors were able to somewhat eliminate the trial and error method of learning a stylized writing technique. The clinics were held for two or three nights at the first of the year.
Sports Editor in addition to his other duties must establish contact with sports editors of other schools to obtain advance sports information and pictures, and also must obtain passes for his reporters and photographers to various events.
Due to the larger feature section, expanded this year, the Feature Editor must tap larger sources for articles, and must provide variety and novelty in the handling of various subjects.
The Photo-Coordinator checks Dome and Scholastic assignments to see that there is no unnecessary duplicating of photography. The Feature Coordinator is a recently created position on the Scholastic staff.
The Scholastic as we know it today is indeed an unusual publication, for it is one of the very few periodicals in the world that is openly invited to criticize the policies of its publisher. Although the University of Notre Dame, the publisher of the Scholastic, naturally controls it, the magazine enjoys many privileges and considerable freedom. University contact with the Scholastic is exercised by the faculty moderator, at present Mr. John Def ant, who at one time edited the publication (1946).
According to Mr. Defant, his primary job is the business management of the Scholastic, and his main concern with the editorial end is to check the occasional violation of good taste. The Administration expects the Scholastic to offer constructive criticisms and to represent the mind of the student body. Last year an example of such action on the part of the magazine was seen in its inquiry into the new cut system. In reality, the policies which the Administration has enforced upon the periodical in the past have been so appropriate that today they are no more than the tradition for
Roll ’em. The big press in action.
which the Scholastic stands.
Although over the past years the Scholastic has grown fantastically in terms of circulation and journalistic techniques, it operates on about the same budget 5 it used ten years ago. The total budget is approximately $39,000 per annum. Apportioned to the Scholastic each year by the Administration Budget Committee, about two-thirds of this sum is required annually to meet printing expenses alone. The remaining portion is divided among other expenses such as engraving, salaries, equipment, and office supplies.
At the end of each fiscal year, the Scholastic returns to the Administra-• tion a sum equal to about one-half of its total expenses, which sum represents the advertising income and outside subscriptions income of the magazine. The remaining portion of the expenses of the periodical are then met by the Administration partially through the students’ activities fee of which a part is reserved for the students’ subscription to the Scholastic—and also through endowment funds. Since part of this cost is met by these endowment funds, each student actually pays much less 9 than the net cost of publishing his subscription.
Operating within the budget describ-
October 21,1955
ed above, the Scholastic circulates about 250,000 copies per year. There are twenty-four or twenty-five issues of the magazine published each year, with a circulation of 8400 copies per issue. Of these 8400 copies, 5200 go to the students
of Notre Dame. The remaining copies are distributed to friends and employees of the University who maintain subscriptions, and to writers, lay trustees of the University, and other college councils to whom complimentary copies are sent.
Ai a QIgmcg
jazz and the singer
while, it is easy to imagine her as two different people.
But beyond everything else, it is this identity—this individuality of conception—that makes a Jazz vocal. It is not the beat, nor the counter-melodies,^ nor the words of the song, but the sound, the wonderfully fresh and vital individual perspective that make it Jazz.
THE FIRST obstacle we face in any consideration of Jazz and the singer is the odd situation into which Jazz singing has lapsed, which in most cases, is hardly singing, less often Jazz. Today we hear so much insipid balladering that there is often reason for wondering if the vocalist and Jazz are aware of each other’s existence.
The mere adding of an indication, or a suggestion or an implication of a rhythmic feeling does not raise a song from the popular idiom into the Jazz form. That, of course, is obvious. Neither does the use of a song long-associated with Jazz turn an essentially ill-conceived, commercially presented rendition into a Jazz performance.
How is this transformation accomplished by the vocal stylist. What separates June Christy and Ella Fitzgerald and Billy Holiday from say, Doris Day and Patti Page. For Doris and Patti attack the same songs with all the volume, vitality and enthusiasm that June and Ella put into their work, yet the latter are assumed happily into the Jazz culture while the former, after the novelty is passed, are tossed into the ash-can of seldom-remembered memories and for all practical purposes end there.
It is not the use of a Jazz vocabulary. For example, when Ella the great sings a simple, direct, honest ballad, say— anything from her new Decca set, “Ella sings in a Mellow Mood,” we experience something more of a grade-A Jazz feeling in that unpretentions styling with only piano accompaniment, than in a thousand arrangements of scat phrases and bop cantations.
Nor would I find the answer in the variations upon the written melody, or the chords on which it is based. It is true that this gives a certain sense of improvisation and excitement which contribute to a good Jazz performance. Yet it is conceivable that one could use these variations quite abundantly and still be far removed from the Jazz idiom.
The answer lies in the performer’s honest, clearly-felt emotions in a completely identifiable way. By this identifiability, I mean a sound that conveys an artist’s personal perspective of life, a style which feels the emotion and then transforms it into something that the artist feels intimately. It is the sense of pain and personal suffering we hear in Billy Holiday; the pensiveness of Lee
Wiley; the haunting, tragic-blues feeling of June Christy, the joy of Sinatra, the relaxation of Ella, the honesty of Cole, the husky intimacy of Chris Connor.
However this identity is a nebulous quality. Some never lose it—Louis Armstrong for example. Some can turn it on and off—Sarah Vaughn, Billy Eckstine, Sinatra and Cole are examples of this. Compare the chill monotonous “Whatever Lola Wants” by Sarah, with her inspired reading of “Lover Man”. Mean-
It reaches its perfection when the singer becomes, as it were, a musician, using the voice as an instrument—taking his or her ride beside the trombone, or the alto or the piano. And what an instrument it can be! If the singer has a sense of the poetic, a whole new conception can be found. Imagination becomes the center. No note, phrase or bar can be taken for granted. At each turn, there is a new avenue to be explored.
Here Ella and Chris and June and Billie, et al, depart from their sisters of the popular idiom and enter into a musical “never, never land” where musical imagination and techniques thrive in complete freedom.—Chris Reitze.
Theatre
Time Out for Ginger will be presented by the Presbyterian Players in the social wing of the First Presbyterian Church at 8 p.m. tonight. It will run through Wednesday.
Exhibits
The west room of the University Art Gallery is closed in preparation for the forthcoming Ivan Mestrovic sculpture display. The east rooms are open from 2 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.
Concerts
The University Glee Club will present its first campus concert of the year Thursday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Two new soloists, Tenor Bob Ogburn and Baritone Rudy Pruden, will be featured. Ed Neylon will be piano soloist.
The American Woodwind Quartet will open the third session of the South Bend-Mishawaka Music Centei- of Indiana University at 3 p.m. Sunday at the Progress Club.
The Elkhart Symphony will open its * 1955-56 season at 4 p.m. Sunday at Elkhart Auditorium. William Duppman will be piano soloist.
20
The Scholastic
WASHINGTON HALL
Hondo (6:40 and 8:30) ; A-l; Warner; J. Wayne-G. Page—John Wayne, “Hondo”, is a scout for the U.S. Cavalry, whose only friend is his dog. A widow, with a small son, changes this, after “Hondo” has fought Indians for a while. A typical Wayne adventure, the type that has made him the great boxoffice draw that he is.
AVON
The Shrike (continues through next week); A-2; Universal; J. Ferrer-J. Allyson —Jose Ferrer is driven almost mad by his wife, June Allyson, and some bungling psychiatrists. Miss Allyson’s portrayal of the wife is a little weak, but Ferrer’s performance is outstanding. An excellent film, one of the year’s best.
COLFAX
Lucy Gallant (tonight through Thursday); A-l; Paramount; VistaVision; color; J. Wyman-C. Heston—Jane starting small, builds a large, fashionable store. On the way up, she fights her love for oil-rich Charlton and almost loses both the store and Heston. The cast turns in good performances, putting this film well above average.
GRANADA	.
To Hell and Back (ends Thursday); A-2; Universal; CinemaScope; color; A. Murphy-M. Thompson—The story of Audie Murphy, World War Il’s most decorated hero, told on a personal basis. It is hard to depict realistically the outstanding Aploits of an actual person, but this film succeeds very well. Murphy makes a ^modest and acceptable hero.
PALACE
Tennessee’s Partner (tonight through Thursday); B; RKO; SuperScope; color; J. Payne-R. Reagan—This movie was adapted from a story by Bret Harte, and shows clearly that many others have come from the same source. Much of the action has been seen many times before. Bengazi, the co-feature, also in SuperScope and color, is about crime in North Africa, and the good guys win.
RIVER PARK
East of Eden (ends tomorrow); A-2; Warner; CinemaScope; color; J. Harris-J. Dean—Back in town because of the recent death of Jimmy Dean, giving those who missed it first time round a chance to make up for their error. Truly worth-while, ^though the co-feature, The Son of Belle Starr, is a detraction.
Far Country (Sunday through Tuesday) ; A-l; Universal; color; J. Stewart-R. Roman—Takes place in the Yukon country of the 19th century. James Stewart remains unperturbed when pushed around by a gunman-lawman, until he shoots Jim’s buddy. Then Jim gets mad and cleans up the crooks. Bengal Brigade, has Rock Hudson remain loyal to the British, although he has been court-martialled (unjustly, . of course), and saves them from being wiped out. This is enough to gain forgiveness, and there is a happy ending.
The Silver Chalice (Wednesday through Saturday); A-2; Warner; CinemaScope; color; V. Mayo-J. Palance—This rather poorly done “spectacular” is no better the second time around. Something called Black Fury is the co-feature.
STATE
Creature with the Atom Brain (today and tomorrow); A-2; Columbia; R. Den-ning-A. Stevens—One of those horror type, science-fiction shows. The evil scientist brings corpses back to “life”. It’s horrible, all right. It Came from Beneath the Sda; A-l; Columbia; F. Domergue-K. Tobey—A monster from the ocean depths tears up the Golden Gate Bridge and makes trouble for San Francisco. It’s finally killed by a well-aimed harpoon.
Man from Laramie (Sunday through Tuesday); A-l; Columbia; CinemaScope; color; J. Stewart-A. Kennedy—James Stewart makes this an out-of-the-ordinary Western, but it certainly has an ordinaiy plot. He goes looking for the man who | sold automatic rifles to the Apaches who shot his brother. He gets him. Norman I Conquest, an oldie, with Tom Conway and Eva Bartok, hasn’t improved with age. 1 The Human Jungle (Wednesday and Thursday); B; Allied Artists; G. Merril-J. ^Sterling—A realistic account of a police captain's fight to clean up his precinct. He has a tough time, but finally succeeds. Weak and the Wicked, is a British picture about life in British prisons.
Radio-TV Highlights
WSND
Tonight: Meet Your Opponents, 5:30. Tomorrow: N.D. vs. Purdue, 1:30; Music - for - Johnny-Stay-at-Home, 5:20 till midnight. Sunday: Ave Maria Hour, 12:30; Letters from Home,'8:30 p.m. Monday: White Plume, 8:30 p.m.; Musical Guide, 10 p.m. Tuesday: Kam-pus Kwiz, 8:30 p.m.; Insights Into Music, 10 p.m. Wednesday: Nothing, 8:30 p.m.; Musical Guide, 10 p.m. Thursday: Focus, 8:30 pan.
Pamper the Pupil, 5:20, Monday through Friday.
Afternoon Concert (3:30 weekdays) and Invitation to Music (6 pan. weekdays) feature classical music.
Showtime (1:30 weekdays and 9:30 Sunday) will have Seven Brides for Seven Brothers Sunday, Kismet Monday, A Tree Grows in Brooklyn Tuesday, California Wednesday, Kismet Thursday, and A Star is Born Friday.
WNDU
Tomorrow: Notre Dame vs. Purdue, 1:30; Football Final, 10 pan. Sunday: Tex Beneke, 1:15; Sacred Heart Program, 8:15 pan.; Hour of the Crucified, 9:15 p.m.; Claude Thornhill, 9:35 pan. Monday through Friday: Out of the Sack, 6 aan. to 7:30 aan.; Paul Harvey News, 11:55 aan.; Concert Miniatures, 1:15 pan. Monday: Voice of Firestone, 7:30 p.m.; Freedom Sings, 8:30 pan. Tuesday: Sammy Kaye, 8 pan.; Music Box, 9 p.m. Wednesday: Sammy Kaye, 8 p.m.; Music Box, 9 pan. Thursday: Sammy Kaye, 8 pan.; Rhythm on Parade, 8:30 p.m.; Music Box, 9 pan.
WNDU-TV
Tonight: Boxing, 9 pan. Tomorrow: Perry Como Show, 7 pan.; George Gobel, 9 pan.; Your Hit Parade, 9:30 pan. Sunday: The Catholic Hour, 12:30; Hall of Fame (Alice in Wonderland), color, 3 p.m.; The Christophers, 4:30 pan. Monday: Gene Autry, 6 pan.; N.D.-Purdue Filmed Highlights, 8:30 pan. Tuesday: The Chevy Show (Betty Hutton), 7 pan.; Fireside Theatre, 8 pan. Wednesday: Screen Director’s Playhouse, 7 p.m.; Greatest Pro Football Highlights, 10:30 pan. Thursday: Ford Theatre, 8:30 pan.
October 21,1955
21
Zkc Scholastic
a backward look
AS UNFOUNDED AS IT may sound, the year 1865 was a bleak one in the history of the Scholastic, for that was the year it was founded. The first issue was a little crude in comparison with some of the modern publications, but actually it was a very creditable sheet for college publications in those days. Of course, the first issues had no cover, no pictures, no headlines, and no jokes, but it did have type.
The initial Notre Dame Scholastic was about the same size as the one today, but instead of three smaller columns, it had two big ones. Each issue consisted of fourteen pages of type and nothing else. The layout went something like this: The first page consisted of the name of the magazine, the date, the motto, Vita Sine Litteris Mors, (Life without education is death), and a poem, an editorial or sometimes a piece of fiction. The inside was editorial after editorial and occasionally a news item or a humor column.
A List of Names
It may be interesting to note that the first issue of each year usually listed the names and home towns of each student here as well as St. Mary’s student body. The price for the issue was $1.25 a session or $2.00 a year.
But all was not to remain serious, for in 1873, a catch-all column called “Brevities” was introduced. This column contained such quotations as “Somebody says: 'Look out for the examination.’” and bits of advice like: “The Prefect of Discipline is desirous that the students should not get homesick.” This was known as early American humor at Notre Dame.
Another column, probably the original version of “Entree” was called “Fly Catches” and it caught some dandy ones: “Query—‘Do they kill the whole beef at a time here?” and Don’t kill the 'bird.’” (Obviously a local joke).
“It is vulgar to eat peanuts in public.” All this added to the life and lightheartedness of the early issues.
The first paying year in Scholastic history was 1874; that was the year that ads were introduced, and the editors were so happy to get them that they put them on the first two pages. This provided a substitute for headlines.
Five years after ads (and money) the Scholastic began using pictures; not photographs but pencilled drawings, but for the first year, the same picture, that of the main building, was used in every issue. Actually, the picture appeared as an ad for the University. Although the paper was of a very poor grade until recently, it took a big change for the better in 1886. However, it was not glossy.
At this point, there were no departments at all, not even sports. The few sports articles that the Scholastic did have, described the pre and post game activities with greater detail than the game.
Marbles takes Precedence
In 1892, photographs appeared for the first time. Most of the pictures were campus scenes of University personalities. About four years later, full page pictures were used, but only infrequently. The cost was still too great for much art.
July 29 of the following year, the Scholastic displayed the attitude that prevails today in all Notre Dame activities, that of respect for authority. That issue was outlined in black, commemorating the death of Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C.S.C., President of the University.
On January 15, 1896, the Scholastic came out with a memorial issue in honor of Father Corby, C.S.C., who died two weeks before. The issue was concerned with his life story and contained editorials about him, written by his close friends and other officials here at the University. The idea of memorial issues became a standard practice from that time on.
“Marbles is the favorite amusement in Sorin Hall.” This is an excerpt from “Local Items” of March 20, 1897. Football hadn’t caught on yet.
In the first issue of the ’98 term, the magazine had 36 pages and 52 pictures. This included one on the first page, seven full page pics, and many other half page shots. This issue so diluted the treasury that there was hardly another picture for the next two years.
In 1903, the Scholastic returned to the listing of things as space-fillers, only this time it wasn’t student names. On September 26, a list of all the trees on campus was published. This list includ
ed the tree’s common and scientific - J names, the region where the tree could I usually be found, and the place where it could be found on campus.
Football publicity got a shot in the arm on Oct. 1, 1921, as the Scholastic printed the first action football shot in its history. Four years before this, a football issue had been started but it did ’ not carry much impact, due to the lack of good art. No one wanted to read a lot of copy about events they had al- j ready seen, so the football issue was dropped until the action pictures were introduced. This was a bigger thing than most realize today, because until I this time baseball was the big’ sport here. I
This really broke in 1923 and the whole style of the magazine was revamped. A glossy cover was introduced with the name of the mag. and the rest, dead space. This inside had no art, and ■ the type was increased to almost twice the normal size. There were no ads.
The Modern Era
The following year, the Scholastic was changed again, in the nick of time. This was the year that marked the beginning of the modern day Scholastic. Everything was departmentalized as it is today. The “Week” had its start this term, but it was definitely not a humor column. The changes made this year were so different and so successful that it was considered to be the finest Scho
lastic yet produced. Certainly it was one of the most imaginative staffs in the history of the magazine.
The first sports editorial column appeared in 1925 under the title “Splinters from the Press Box”. Like most other catch-all columns, it became very popu-lar and has lasted until this year. ~
A newspaper style was always a mark of the Scholastic but in 1934 this style was really strict. The cover was dropped and the magazine could hardly be called such. It looked exactly like a newspaper with three columns, headlines and all the features of modern newspapers. The price had now risen to $3.00 a year. The next year a cover was again added but the style remained the same.
In 1940, the “Week” returned after a year’s departure as a humor column. ; The top and bottom of the week were initiated. The first one went as follows: Top of the Week
“Begins the battle of Notre Dame” Bottom of the Week.
“When the professor said, “Gentlemen, order. . and the class shouted, ‘Beer’.”
In 1943, color was introduced in the cover. From then until the present day, there has been little substantial change in the format of the Scholastic.
Dice Quasi Semper Victurus
Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
22
The Scholastic
Sluuucade
conversion
j by John Walsh
HE CAR DOOR SLAMMED solidly be-, * | hind him. He took a step and threw J out an arm for balance as his soles slid I on the icy sidewalk. The front porch light ■ cast odd shadows on the shallow layer of snow covering the lawn, and here and I* there a patch of dead brown grass showed through. The big picture window beamed vaguely through folds of modern print curtain, and, above, a spotlighted, papier-mache Santa perched on ^the edge of the chimney. He pressed j the small black button on the mailbox, i and the door swung open.
“Hi, Sally. I’m late, as usual.”
“After going out with you for a year, I expect it,” she grinned.
He helped her on with her coat. Her hair had grown long again after the ) summer’s comfortable shortness, and her i face, faded from the summer tan, had f becoKie white and drawn since the last I he had seen her, three months ago. 'p Three months ago! What had she f said? “Dave, I guess you know how I !i feel about you after all this time, but now that we’re going into college I think || that maybe we’d better not go out seri-' ously any more. I mean . . . well, you know. We couldn’t ever get married, and . . .” Softly and sorrowfully, but beneath the softness and sorrow she । was firm. She had cried, and, later, so had he. He had kissed her goodbye, ten-^derly, quietly, had driven home, and immediately started making plans to con-। vert her from her damned Presbyterian-! ism.
So away she had gone to school, and a week later, so had he. He had been busy, but not quite busy enough. He soon learned to fear, and yet look forward to idle time, for then, always, she would entei- his mind. Tears might come, but he had enjoyed a perverse exultation, for he knew that it couldn’t ^.stay this way.
™ Her letters came now and then, but they were friendly. That was all. He outdid himself in his replies, filling them ■with softened reminiscences of the past, > gay stories of the present, and vague, i but suggestive hopes for the future, and all within the bounds she had set that one night.
So here they were; the first date since i then.
g “Where to? Have you seen A Star I Zs Born?”
“No, but it’s supposed to be good. f ' How’s Notre Dame been treating you?” I He told her of the work on top of J work stacked up next to yet more work
as they kicked their way through the snow to the car.
“Dave,” she said, suddenly serious, “didn’t you get my last letter?”
“I think so. The one that said you had changed a couple of your ideas?” He tried to keep his voice casual.
“Yes. I'll have to tell you about that sometime.”
He knew, he knew! He had nearly laughed out loud in his happiness when he had received that letter. If she had changed some of her ideas, and it concerned him, then it could mean only one thing. Tonight, though, she was quiet and withdrawn. Shy, forced small talk passed between them, and that was all. He was exuberant, but he couldn’t break the wall of strain and nervousness about her. “It must be awfully hard for her to take back something like this,” he explained to himself, and bided his time, knowing she’d have to say it sooner or later.
The show was good, but long, and as Judy Garland sang “The Man That Got Away,” a plaintive, yet powerful lament of a lost love, he stole a glance at her. She looked at him, but not at his eyes, then turned away, her lips trembling. Hei- soft eyes glinted unnaturally in the semi-darkness of the theater.
“Shall we go?”
“Yes, I guess so,” and her voice caught.
He helped her struggle on her coat, they walked out of the lobby and down the street to the parking lot, and neither could think of a thing to say. He broke the quiet as he started the motor. “You wan to go over to Town Hall? I could do with some dancing.”
“Okay,” she smiled.
Several blocks rolled away beneath them in silence.
“Oh, by the way,” he said, half j'ok-ing while waiting for a light to change, “I remember you writing that the ratio was two boys to a girl down at school. Did you ever get your two?”
She hesitated, then whispered in a husky voice, “No, Dave, I just got one. I’m wearing his frat pin.”
The light turned green, but he didn’t move. The car behnid him blared in temper, and he suddenly realized that he was supposed to go. So that was what she had changed her mind about. Going steady. She had always hated the idea. Up until now.
“Congratulations,” he said.
Joe Nabieht’s Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
Our Specialty
“Chicken In the Rough” % Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.15
FISH, STEAKS, CMK At Prices You Will Appreciate
A Notre Dame Contribution to American Culture
The Reoiew of Politics
See the October Issue Now Off the Press
Articles by: . Morgenthau Mosely Wilson Stearns Bernard
Reviews by: K. W.. Thompson, Leo Ward, Thomas T. McAvoy, Marshall Smelser, Bernard Nor-ling, N. S. Timasheff, J. Kurland, B. Gooch.
For sale at the Bookstore $1.25 copy; $4.00 a year
UlfflMTK
208 E. Jefferson. Ph. CE 3-0969 welcomes you to Notre Dame and South Bend
WASHING AND DRYING AT REASONABLE RATES
Colored Hose Washed Free
October 21,1955
23
7^	a^ced wfat,
...THE TASTE IS GREAT! ,
2x11 the pleasure comes thru in Filter Tip Tareyton. You get the full, rich taste of Tareyton’s quality tobaccos in a filter cigarette that smokes milder, smokessmoother, draws easier... and it’s
the only filter cigarette with a genuine cork tip.
Tareyton’s filter is pearl-gray because it contains Activated Charcoal for real filtration. Activated Charcoal is used to purify air, water, foods and beverages, so you can appreciate its importance in a filter cigarette.	•
Yes, Filter Tip Tareyton is the filter cigarette that really filters, that you can really taste...and the taste is great!
FILTER T1pTAREYTON
PRODUCT OF
AMERICA’S LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTES
24
The Scholastic
SctM»
BRENNANMEN FACE PURDUE TOMORROW
7
Dawson, Boilermakers, Sharpen Aerial Game As Irish Invade Lafayette Bent on Revenge
by DICK SOFRANKO
Smarting from a stunning defeat by Michigan State last Saturday, the Fighting Irish will seek to regain winning ®iways tomorrow afternoon at the expense ( of Purdue’s Boilermakers before more than 50,000 fans in Ross-Ade Stadium at Lafayette.
The revenge-bent Irish also have their sights aimed toward amending last year’s 27-14 upset loss.
This 27th renewal of a series dating back to 1896 holds promise of being one of the outstanding grid battles of the aging 1955 season. Notre Dame holds Aa ten game edge in the rivalry, one / ^tie occurring in 1902.
f Kickoff time for tomorrow’s engagement is set for 1:30 p.m* EST.
In previous encounters this fall, the Boilermakers have emerged victorious against College of the Pacific, 14-7, and Minnesota, 7-6. They fought to a 20-20 deadlock with Iowa last week and earlier in the season were halted 9-0 by a tough | Wisconsin Badger team.
I Chief threat to a Notre Dame win will j S'be standout quarterback Len Dawson, I the key figure in the only loss marring ' the Irish slate last year.
To date, in three full games, Dawson has completed 41 of 70 attempted passes. The Alliance, Ohio, aerial artist suffered
SPARTAN-IRISH ACTION Fitzgerald around end in 21-7 loss. October 21,1955
a thumb injury in the College of Pacific game and had no opportunities to throw.
Prime targets for Dawson’s aerial tactics will be letterman Lamar Lundy,
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP		
PURDUE	NOTRE DAME	
Lundy 			.. LE ....	Prendergast
Murley 				.. LT .....	... Edmonds
Skibinski 				.. LG ....	... Bisceglia
Simerson 		. c ......		 Mense
Clasey 		. RG .....		 Gaydos
Krupa (C.) ..	. RT ....	{C.) Lemek
Khoenle 		RE ......		 Kapish
Dawson 		. QB 		.... Hornung
Whitmer 		. LH ......		Morse
Barnes 			. RH 			 Studer
Murakowski ..	„ F3 		.... Schaefer
Kickoff—1:30	p.m. EST	
Radio—WSND	WSBT	
6’6” junior end, who was a pass-catching sensation last season, and Bob Khoenle, also a letter-winning junior end. Lundy accounted for one touchdown in last week’s thriller against Iowa, snagging Dawson’s 22-yard pass in the Hawkeye end zone.
Fifteen holdover lettermen reported to Head Coach Stu Holcomb at the start of the season, along with 45 other candidates for the Boilermaker squad.
Topping the list of letter winners are fullback Bill Murakowski, leading scorer and ground-gainer at Lafayette last year, and “iron-man” tackle Joe Krupa, four-year veteran who saw 421 of a possible 540 minutes of action in 1954.
In foul- contests this season, Purdue has been impressive on defense. The Boilermakers held College of the Pacific and Minnesota to less than 100 yards rushing. Iowa fared somewhat better and managed to eke out 117 yards on the ground.
The probable starting lineup for tomorrow’s contest has Lundy and Khoenle at the end posts. Both will keep the
(Continued on page 27)
Squires & Co. Face Hoosiers After Edging MSU Harriers
Tomorrow Notre Dame’s unbeaten cross-country squad meets Indiana University’s harriers in their first home meet of the season. With two very solid wins under their belt the Irish are strong favorites in tomorrow’s run.
Last Saturday in East Lansing, Coach Alex Wilson’s team continued on their winning ways by adding a Spartan scalp to their collection. Despite the fact that Michigan State has produced the finest cross-country men in recent years, Notre Dame came out on top of a very close 28-29 score.
As in the Chicago meet, Bill Squires and Dick DeCamillo furnished the power for the Irish, coming in third and fourth. Ed Monnelly, Capt. Jim Daly and Dale Vandenberg saw to it that Notre Dame won by sewing up the other finishes. Michigan State’s Canadian sophomores, Henry Kennedy and Selwyn Jones placed first and second but still could not prevent an Irish victory.
It has been the soph trio of DeCamillo, Monnelly, and Vandenberg that has made the Wilsbnmen loom as a Midwest threat.
LAMAR LUNDY
Goose Tatum with a pigskin.
25
From the moment Michigan State Captain “Buck” Nystrom won the toss last week, the partisian press box began to buzz that the game was all over right then and there. It was far from over, although the Spartan hordes did go on to a solid victory. Never once did Notre Dame give an inch without much protest. State had to fight for the win, they just didn’t pick it up easy.
One thing, a pair of P’s played havoc on the Irish last week. Planutis and Peaks were the big thorns in Notre Dame’s side all afternoon. Planutis, the fullback, besides leading the first touchdown drive, kicks extra points. There’s one in every crowd. . .
And Kowalczyk, the soph halfback, will be around two more years to menace the Irish, plus any other State foes.
After last year’s Spartan loss, they warned, “Wait ’til next year!” Now the Irish are in that boat. So, Duffy, beware!
Notre Dame need not hang its head in shame. They were beaten. They admit it. And they were beaten by a great team. But as R. W. Service once wrote:
“The man who can fight to Heaven’s own height
Is the man who can fight when he’s losing.”
That was, and is, Notre Dame. Not one of those men knows the meaning of “quit”.
*	*	V
I suppose by now everyone has seen the recent interhall sports additions around campus. The Athletic Department has begun a type of revamping around here in sports facilities. In addition to the three basketball courts behind the shopping center, there’s one under way behind Lyons, plus two outdoor handball courts being built down in the Lizzard’s lair. Over near the circle the old clay tennis courts are under repair and six new “teniko” courts will be ready either late this fall or for sure in the spring. Tennis players say that “teniko” is the best playing surface to be had.
sj:
Seems as though my Picks of the Week really backfired last Saturday. Well, I’ll just have to check my source a little closer from now on. This source, a strange little fellow named Mr. Dover and who is a genie, says he has an inside track with all the coaches in the country. I don’t know if he received wrong information or if he deliberately steered me wrong.
If possible, I will get a - picture of this gent for all the campus to see and prove I am not in this alone. But, he is a genie and not too photogenic.
* *
Word comes to us about an experience of Tom Carroll, New York Yankee bonus rookie from Notre Dame. Tom spent most of the ’55 season on the bench but got in one game that proved interesting. During the Mayor’s Trophy exhibition game in New York, Tom pleaded his way to shortstop in the eighth inning.
He handled one ground ball flawlessly that inning, and Casey Stengel met him at the dugout steps with a big ribbing handshake. And in the Yank half of the inning, Tom got a pitch he liked and sent it deep to left center, for a solid triple.
Rounding second, Tom lost his cap but kept legging it toward third. Frank Crosetti, Yankee third base coach, signaled Carroll to hold up. Tom paid no heed to the signal and headed for home. He was out at home sliding by three yards.	•	.
On the way to the dugout, Tom was met by his teammates chanting “Cheer, cheer for Old Notre Dame. . .” Everyone seemed to enjoy the whole thing, as the Yanks went on to win easily in the ninth.
. * * *
Tomorrow the Irish will pick-up where they left off down in Florida, and get back at Purdue for last year. They’ll leave a broken Boilermaker behind, 21-14.—D. D.
Eight Monogram Men To Bolster Fencers |
Coach Walter Langford’s varsity fencing team began practice last Mon- | day in the Old Gym with close to 35	|
aspirants, including eight monogram $ winners from last year’s squad, answering the call. The 1955 team won 12 and 4 lost 3, all the losses coming by the score of 14-13. The Irish swordsmen also went on to place seventh in the N.C.A.A. meet, in which Don Tadrow- । ski, this year’s captain, captured the individual Epee Championship. Lost from last year’s team are Co-captains Jim Waters (32-9) and Tom Dorwin (27-16) along with Don Dixon (9-9). q Another serious set back to this year’s team is the decision of Gene Gasse (24- ' 1 9) not to participate this season.
In Foil, Seniors Bill Fox, Jack Friel, and Julio Vizcarrondo, plus juniors Joe Blazina, and Pierre DuVair are expected to form the nucleus, backed up by Jim Burlage, Mike Todd, Jack Ryan and others.
Sabre division will be manned by seniors Dave Friske, Jerry Isaacs, who is transferring from Epee, Bob Eichel-man, Frank Dwan, and Ed Koester.
The Epeeists, who are being counted on to provide the greatest strength of any division, as they did last year, will be headed by Captain Don Tadrowski (33-7), John Brogan (25-13), and Dennis Hemmerle (12-4). Other strong contenders include Dick Coleman, Ray Eyer-man, and Ray Brennan.
Each weapon stands to be bolstered somewhat by members of last year’s freshman squad and Coach Langford has stated that “this year’s team should be as experienced as last year’s was inexperienced.” He also added that “the team will have to be at its best at all times to avoid a few defeats which would (Continued on page 29)
DAVIN S PICKS OF THE WEEK
Baylor over Texas A & M Yale over Colgate Washington over Stanford Maryland over Syracuse So. California over California Duke over Pittsburgh Georgia over Tulane Boston U. over Holy Cross Kentucky over Florida
Miami (Fla.) over Texas Christian Michigan State over Illinois Michigan over Minnesota Wisconsin over Ohio State Colorado over Oklahoma No. Carolina over Wake Forest
Percentage to date: .625 (including three ties)
26
The Scholastic
ND-Purdue
(Continued from page 25)
Irish secondary busy throughout the afternoon.
Likely starters at the tackles will be Krupa, acting co-captain, and Dick Mur-ley, senior letterman. Bolstering this pair will be Ken Panfil, 244-pound service returnee and regular on the 1952 ,-^Big Ten co-championship team, and Frank Paparazzo, a 212-pound senior letter winner.
At right guard will be Bob Clasey, 200-pound junior. Dick Skibinski, senior monogram winner from Mt. Carmel High in Chicago, is the probable starter at left guard.
John Simerson, 20-year-old junior from Hawaii, will get the nod at center. ^For support here, Holcomb offers promising sophomore Neil Habig who has now recovered from injuries in preseason drills.
Calling the signals in the backfield will be Dawson, who led the nation in
touchdown passes last season with 15. This year, he has flipped three in his total of 41 completions. At left half-
back, Jim Whitmer is probable starter for the kickoff, while impressive sopho-fl^more Erich Barnes will get the call at j right half.
Acting Captain Bill Murakowski appears certain for the starting fullback post. Murakowski is the mainstay of the Boilermaker ground attack.
Spartans Snap Irish Streak
Sparked by the fine signal-calling of quarterback Earl Morrall, the Spartans of Michigan State handed Notre Dame
its first defeat of the 1955 season last	(Continued on page 29)
LEN DAWSON
Menacing passer just a junior.
BILL MURAKOWSKI Boilermaker blockbuster
Saturday, dumping the Irish 21-7, before 52,007 fans at East Lansing.
The Irish goal line was crossed for the first time this year when Halfback Clarence Peaks capped a 52 yard Michigan
State drive by bolting over from the 3. Gerry Planutis converted and the Spartans led 7-0.
With less than three minutes left in the half, the Irish pulled even. After Lewis intercepted a Morrall aerial on the Notre Dame 37-yard line, Notre Dame moved to the Spartan 40 where Paul Hornung threw a long pass to Jimmy Morse for the score. Schaefer converted and the half ended in a 7-7 tie.
Notre Dame received in the second half and drove to the Spartan 35, but their attack stalled and Hornung punted into the end zone. From the 20, Morrall directed an 80-yard ground drive which
Schaefer and Hornung Still Offensive Leaders
As all good things must come to an end, the previously unscored-upon lirsh received a sudden jolt Saturday afternoon against Michigan State, coming out on the short end of a 21-7 score.
Despite the defeat, the Irish aerial attack enjoyed its best game of the season, as eleven passes were completed netting 125 yards. Quarterback Paul Hornung raised his personal record to 19 completions in 43 attempts for a .44 average.
On the receiving end of Hornung’s tosses, half back Jim Morse took over the lead in pass receiving with four catches in the State game. His season total of five, edges Gene Kapish, Don Schaefer, and Jim Prendergast, each of whom has snared four.
Although the Irish were outgained on the ground for the first time this season, they still maintained a commanding rushing edge for the season of 979 yards to 633 for their opponents. Don Schaefer continues to lead the ball carriers in total yardage with 287 yards, while Paul Hornung leads the regulars in yards per carry with a 5.1 average. The top -four is rounded out by Aubrey Lewis and Jim Morse with 145 and 87 yards gained respectively.
In the scoring department, Hornung still leads the squad with 15 points. Morse moved up to second with 12, as he scored the lone touchdown last Saturday against the Spartans.
New Irish Swimming Club Begins Work Under Burdick
Eighty swimmers signed up for the 1955 Swimming Club which held its first practice last Monday at the Rockne Memorial. Out of this sizeable number of members, Head Coach Gil Burdick will select the 20 best swimmers for intercollegiate competition which will commence in less than two months.
However, those who do not make the competing squad will still be members of the club, and will be encouraged to participate in other club functions.
Paul Kerwin, the club’s president, announced that a meet with the University of Chicago has been scheduled for midFebruary, and that a' contest with Loyola University of Chicago, slated for , sometime in December, is awaiting the approval of the Notre Dame Athletic Department. He also disclosed that North Central College of Naperville, III. will probably be another one of the Irish opponents.
Since this will be the Club’s first .year of collegiate competition, Rev. James Pelton, C.S.C., club’s faculty advisor, and Gil Burdick are scheduling only, the smaller colleges. Their purpose is to keep competition at an equal level. ■
27 V
October 21,1955
In the Cellar
On the Alleys
Bowling has come onto the campus of Notre Dame with the recent opening of the kegler’s quarters in the basement of the Romy Hammes’ Shopping Center. Ten new alleys, enough to accommodate
50 students at one time, will be open seven days a week from 2 to 5 in the afternoon and again from 7 to 11:30
dresser, commenting on the alleys said, “These are the best laid alleys I’ve ever run into,” and then went on to explain the seasoned maple and pine woods that were used in constructing the alleys.
Although the only league bowling so far planned for the alleys will be that of the Kampus Keglers, Sheehan seemed very enthusiastic about forming a mixed Sunday league with St. Mary’s.
Prices for bowling here will be the same as they are in most other alleys throughout the area—35 cents a line and 10 cents for shoe rental.
Chief Problem-Alley Procedure
The biggest problems faced by Sheehan and his staff right now are keeping the students from walking on the approaches with street shoes on, and from throwing cigarette butts on the floor. But they feel that this problem will iron itself out as the students become acquainted with the alley procedure.
The alleys, built primarily for the men here at Notre Dame, will not be open to outsiders. However, a student may bring his date to the alleys if he so desires.
Lessons will be given later in the year for beginners or for those who wish to improve their game. These lessons will be free and will be given by Mr. Sheehan.—Bob Early.
Garrity Edges Nagle In Frosh Swim Meet
James Garrity, of St. Ed’s., captured the first freshmen swimming meet of the year at the Rockne Memorial, Oct. 12. The meet, under the supervision of Mr. Gil Burdick, was put on by the Sophomore Physical Education majors.
Garrity earned his winning total of1^ 13 points by taking first place in the 50-yard backstroke and 75-yard medley with times of 31.2 and 47.9 seconds, respectively. He was second in the 50-yard breast stroke.
Nagle Runner-up
Farley’s Dick Nagle was second, two points off the pace set by the winner. Besides gaining first place in the 100s yard free style with the time of 1:02, 1 he was second in both the 50-yard free style and 200-yard free style.
A tie for third place resulted between , John Kroha of Cavanaugh and Ed Schmitt of Zahm with eight points apiece. Kroha set the pace in the 50- i yard breast stroke with a time of 31.5 seconds and was second in the 75-yard medley while Schmitt led the field in ' the 50-yard free style with a time of^ 26.2 seconds and placed second in the") 100-yard free style.
The fourth place winner was Jim । Swain of Zahm, with seven points, who won the 200-yard free style in 2:25.5 and was third in both the 50-yard back stroke and 75-yard medley.
Other men who placed in the meet were: Tour Araneta and Jim Hilliard, Zahm; Mercere Collins and Jim Murray, Farley; Charles Phillips and Richards Fink, Breen-Philips; and David Gerth o.^ Cavanaugh.
in the evening.
In commenting on the purpose of the new facilities, Father Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., Business Manager of the University, said, “The purpose of the alleys is to furnish wholesome and enjoyable recreation for the students, and to make it unnecessary for them to go to town to find this type of recreation.” He also pointed out the added opportunities for student employment created by the alleys, saying that “although the alleys are set up for automatic pin setters they will not be installed because the University is desirous for more student jobs.”
The man who will be in charge of running the alleys is J. “Speed” Sheehan, a long time bowler and alley manager from Chicago. With more than 15 years bowling experience he is one of the leading bowlers in the Chicago area. In. 1955 he led the Chicago Traveling League both at home and away with averages just under 200.
Sheehan, a glib speaker and colorful
NOTHING BUT THE BEST Alleys primarily for the students.
28
The Scholastic
1 Navy and So. Cal Win As Penn Loses Again
. While the Irish were upset last week । hy Michigan State, only two of their . future opponents, Navy and Southern ' California, managed to come up with . ^victories.
Out in Iowa City, Lenny Dawson’s I arm was again the chief factor in the t Purdue attack, as he passed for all three Boilermaker touchdowns in a 2020 tie with Iowa.
With Purdue down 20-13 and four seconds left to play, Dawson flipped a twelve yard pass to end Steve Chernicky who took the ball and rammed over from the two. Dawson then kicked the important extra point to gain the tie. I Navy was scored upon for the first time this year, but hit paydirt more than enough times to crush Penn State 34-14. In the process of helping to keep Navy undefeated, quarterback George Welsh set an Academy record as he completed 15 of 20 passes for 285 yards and two touchdowns.
Billy Kane of Penn state ran nine yards to score the first TD of the season against the Middies. t
[ Penn lost its seventeenth straight I game as George Washington’s Mike Sommers led the Colonials to a 25-6 decision over the Quakers on rain-soaked Franklin Field. The losing string dates back to 1953.
The nation’s number two team, Maryland, ran North Carolina into the ground 25-7 with halfback Ed Vereb leading the way by scoring three touchdowns ^md passing for another at Chapel Hill. ' The Terps, in quest of the Orange Bowl, i held the Tar Heels to 18 net yards rushing.
In a free scoring game, Southern Cal whipped Wisconsin 33-21 in Los Angeles. Both teams gained over 350 yards with the Badgers’ Jim Haluska completing twelve out of 21 passes for 232 yards. It was all Jon Arnett for the Trojans as he averaged 10.3 yards per carry, returned two punts for a total of 62 yards, scored two TD’s, and picked two extra points. Wisconsin kept / it close for most of three quarters, but 'f Southern Cal put on the pressure to I score 27 points in the second half.
Fencing
(Continued from page 26)
represent a disappointing season.” Langford also said that the season could stand or fall depending on the outcome of the two triangular meets scheduled for Feb. ,J^8 and Feb. 25. On the first of those / dates the Irish will play host to Michi-[ gan State and Ohio State and on the j latter date, Notre Dame, Illinois, and it
L October 21, 1955
Wisconsin, long the big three in Midwestern fencing, will cross blades at Madison, Wis.
Candidates for this year’s freshman squad reported for the first time yesterday. Since most of the top varsity fencers will graduate in June, Langford and Assistant Coach Mike DeCicco plan to bring these freshmen as far along as possible by the end of the season in the hope that some of them can measure up to regular duty next year.
Jan. 7—Indiana and Lawrence Tech at ND.
Jan. 13—Detroit at ND.
Jan. 14—Case Institute at ND.
Feb. 4—Iowa and Northwestern at Iowa City.
Feb. 11—Chicago and Wayne at Chicago.
Feb. 18—Michigan State and Ohio State at ND.
Feb. 25—Wisconsin and Illinois at Madison. March 9—Fenn and Oberlin at Cleveland. March 10—Buffalo and Boston U. at Buffalo. March 23-24—NCAA Fencing Championships at Annapolis.
For that delicious pizza and your favorite beverages it’s . . .
house of pizza
1003 N. Notre Dame Ave.
MSU Recap
(Continued from page 27)
ended with Planutis plunging over from the two. He added the conversion and State led 14-7.
From their own 22 the Irish drove to the Michigan State 29 yard line only to miss a first down by inches. After a Spartan punt, Notre Dame began again from their own one yard stripe but a Hornung pass was deflected into the arms of Embry Robinson on the Irish 16. After an exchange of fumbles, the Spartans scored in four plays when Morrall spun into the end zone. Planutis’ kick was good and Michigan State went ahead 21-7. On a final effort Notre Dame drove to the Spartan 6 only to fumble the ball away.
Notre Dame gained 374 yards to State’s 367 and completed 11 of 21 passes to the Spartan’s 5 for 10. Walt Kowalczyk of State led all ball carriers with a nine yard average. Morrall and Planutis had five yard averages as did Hornung, Morse, and Schaefer.
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
A'DIIAS UBIHYui INK SHF
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
COMPLETE OPTICAL SERVICE!
EYES EXAMINED ◄ GLASSES FITTED ◄ OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced. Broken Lenses Duplicated. “Bring in the Pieces”.
DRRW TURBOW \OPTOMETRIST
207 W. Washington OLIVER HOTEL CE4-5777
Mb be skoe-skg I enjoy a new 3pair shoe wardrobe for only$23^
No strain on the billfold now to own the correct style shoes for everyday, dress-up or casual wear. Buy all three styles at a price you’d expect to pay for a single pair• Super comfort in all sizes and widths! $6.95, $7.95 and $8.95.
Ask your dealer for FREE moneyfold
LORD WEST
The first name in quality formats
JET BLACKand MIDNITE BLUE lightweight year-round fabrics
the authentic University model tuxedo... now in brand new

natural shoulders
narrow shawl lapel, flap pockets center vent non-pleated trousers
: for name of
[ nearest retailer (and free formal (dress chart, write-
LORD WEST
’c 11c 'ec o < Wes* Mil 101 West 21 St New York 1 1 N Y
SUNNY ITALY
A Notre Dame Tradition “Rosies”—
Here you’ll always enjoy the
Italian accent on Fine Food
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles Avenue
EDDIE'S for the very finest STEAKS and CHOPS STEAK HOUSE 602 S. WALNUT
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE2-1202
South Bend, Indiana
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
•
Air Force ROTC Unit Names Cadet Officers
Staff and wing appointments of the I Campus Air Force ROTC Unit were re- I cently announced for the coming term.
Heading Detachment 225 this year is Cadet Maj. Charles King. Cadet Maj.^ David Austgen is Deputy Wing Com^jl mander. Cadet Capts. George Wilson, ' Donald Schaefer, John Clifford and Walter Gill head the four groups.
Professor of Air Science for the detachment is Col. Milton Towner, USAF, and Commandant of Cadets is Maj. J. F. Chimento.
Every cadet in the wing belongs to the Irish Air Society. The society, with a new constitution, replaces the Ai;^. Cadet Club which was formerly the Ah"l ROTC campus club. The primary purpose of the society is to develop in the members a deeper- interest in the AirForce than purely an academic one by allowing them to meet informally and discuss their problems with the officers and enlisted men of the detachment. Each member pays $1 dues which is used for the social program. The society plans to sponsor a bowling team, g^ basketball team, and a handball tourna-^ rnent this year. Cadet Capt. David Brucker is president of the society.
The Flying Irish, official publication of Detachment 225, is a mimeographed sheet published three times a semester by the cadets. This paper also goes out to the other ROTC units around the country. Cadet Master Sgt. Dan Bergen is editor of the paper.
The Air Force Drill Team, commanded by Cadet Second Lieut. Raymon-^ Miller is scheduled to perform between halves of the ND-Iowa football game. The team is also scheduled to perform at a South Bend high school football game, and is tentatively scheduled to appear at one of the Chicago Bears’ home football games. This drill team was the champion drill team on campus last year, topping the Army and Navy units.
The Drum and Bugle Corps of Detachment 225, under the command of Cadet^ First Lieut. Victor Shahan is preparin^B to perform with the wing at drill periods and ceremonies.
The rifle team, now under command of Cadet Second Lieut. Kenneth King, •finished second last year in the Hearst Match with other ROTC units in the country.
SENIOR BALL
Those who wish to apply for a chairmanship or another committee^ post for the 1956 Senior Ball1*-should contact Jim Kramer, 101 Fisher Hall, before Oct. 24.
30
The Scholastic

। 'Tech Review' Awarded [ Top Prize at Convention
I At a recent convention of the Engi-i neering College Magazines Association | in Lincoln, Neb., the Notre Dame ’ Technical Review won first prize in the ' arts and layout division. It also won an ! >,^honorable mention in competition for the . >best cover.
/ The first issue of the Technical Revietv 1 is scheduled to come out Nov. 18. The magazine will appear again in January, March, and May.
The November issue will contain a personal interview with Dr. David B. Steinman, designer of the bridge across the Mackinac Straits. Because of the increased number of advertisers, this ^ssue will be the largest ever published. ’' ' At the present time the magazine has a circulation of approximately 2,000 engineering students and alumni.
According to Editor Dick Carroll, there are openings on the staff for anyone interested in any phase of magazine pub-| lication.
’ Carroll is assisted by Bill Reeve, , managing editor; Jack Scriba, features editor; Tom Schriber, copy editor;
i, WHenry Burke, coordinating editor; ! Frank Boos, circulation manager; Bill . Brehl, business manager; Don Gothard, administration editor; and Tom Van Aarle, art and layout editor.
NEXT VACATION:
a thrilling TWA trip to faraway places!
Imagine! Fat just $91 down, you can visit 11 fascinating European countries! Other tours feature Bombay, Cairo! Take 20 months to pay with TWA's "Time Pay Plan"!
What a wonderful way to see the world. You travel to European cities or exotic lands in the Middle or Far East. And, you can study from 2 to 6 weeks at an accredited foreign university. Specialize in a subject such as literature, music, art—arrange your travel-study tour to include as many cities as you wish. Full college credit for those who want it.
Best of all, TWA’s “Time Pay Plan” includes hotel expenses and
other costs as well as your roundtrip fare on TWA’s famous Constellation fleet. Start planning your trip by mailing the coupon today!
ffy the finest..
nun WOMOMKUntS
u s a. • futon - ahica • ASIA
I am interested in:
Tours Abroad	□
“Time Pay Plan” □ Tours in U.S.A.	□
Special Itinerary to
_____________________□
cities & countries
John H. Furbay, Ph.D., Director, TWA Air World Tours Department CM, 380 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Dear Sir: Please send me information on your 1956 Travel-Study Tours.
Name______________________________Position---------------------
Address-------------------------------------------------------
City_________________State______________Phone____________i____
Employment Opportunities in VENEZUELA with
Creole Petroleum Corporation
An Affiliate of Standard Oil Co., (N. J.)
J	Representatives of Creole will be on the campus on
Monday, October 24
to interview unmarried graduates with majors in ENGINEERING and GEOLOGY
See your Placement Director for interview schedules
October 21,1955	31
An Historic Announcement to Music-Lovers. from the Directon of the World-Famous
TO INTRODUCE YOU TO AN EXCITING MUSICAL EXPERIENCE, YOU'RE INVITED TO ACCEPT
10=Ji
Not $1 each—but $1 FOR AU TEN!
SEND NO MONEY! NO STRINGS ATTACHED!
Even if you never buy another record from us —now or later—you can now obtain all the advantages of a Trial Membership in The Jazztone Society
o
FEATURING TH/S
WHO’S WHO IN JAZZ:
COLEMAN HAWKINS
ONG OF TNI TENOR SAX
Art Tatum cbous or ne amoacD
TW SMUT OF DUUMAND” ANO MS GUTTAI
sinn begiet
NEW OUESNr CEEATEST SOEUNO MX
Enoll Garner
WOOD’S MOST FOFULAt JAZZ F1AMST
DIZZY GILLESPIE
WILSON
KAN OF "SWMG* FtANBTS
PEE WEE RUSSELL
INI OARRtfr K CWCAGO STHI
0^/7^
A TREASURY OF JAZZ PERFORMANCES; ENCOMPASSING EVERY JAZZ ERA—
Featuring sack classics as Jelly Roll Rlaes, Honeysuckle Rose, Rasin Street Rlaes, .. Moon Earns, Relaxin' at Camarillo, etc. ''
NOW you can begin to build that library of the "alltime greats" of Jazz—without risking a penny! Simply audition these 10 superb jazz classics for 5 days in your own home. Then, if you decide to keep them, pay NOT $1 each — but $1 for all ten of them! Here’s a veritable "who’s who” of Jazzdom from Sidney Bechet to the dazzling trumpet of Dizzy Gillespie! Every era, every style; virtually the entire history of jazz can be traced in these selections.
The Finest in Jon Recordings—Yours at More Than 40% Off the Usual Cast!
Here is why we make this amazing offer: only by hearing these Jazztone Society recordings can you appreciate their technical and artistic excellence, their amazing fidelity. The famous Concert Hall Society gold-sputtered master process, employed in these recordings, assures you of the finest high-fidelity reproduction.
As a Trial Member, you will never be under any obligation to buy any other JAZZTONE SOCIETY recordings—now or ever! You do have the right, however, to try any of the Society’s selections, AFTER receiving an advance description. You are not obligated to keep those you select—even after you’ve listened to them! You pay only for those that you want to keep— at the special Member’s low price of just $2.75, plus a few cents for shipping, for each 12-inch long-playing disc 1 Each one averaging nearly an hour’s playing time! A saving of over 40% off their usual retail price!
JACK TEAGARDEN
Charlie Parker
AND INCLUDING: Bex Stewart, Bed Norvo, Albert Nicholas, Flip Phillips. Billy Taylor. Milt Hinton, Sonny Berman, Bill Harris, Serge Chalofi, Balph Burns, Chuck Wayne, Artic Bernstein, Don Lamond, Fernando Arbelo, Buck Clayton, Sid Catlett, Slam Stewart, Wardell Gray. Howard McGhee. Dodo Manna-rasa, Barney Kessell. Jo Jones, Bobby Hackett, Bud Freeman, George Wettling, etc., etc.
FasclnatlngJ»m»^|
I ent taxz	_

Offer Limited—
Kush Coupon NOW!
Here’s your chance to be first to own these 10 "gems of jazz”—FOR JUST $1—even if you never buy another record from the Jazztone Society. If not delighted return your Jazz Classics — pay nothing, owe nothing. This offer may soon be withdrawn, so mail the coupon—NO MONEY— without delay!
i
AU 10 FOR $1.00—MAIL COUPON-NO MONEY-NOW!
The JautoM Society, Dept. 00-000, 43 West 01st Street, New York 23, N. Y.
Please send me the ten high-fidelity long-playing jazz classics listed above, PLUS a free copy of “An Introduction to Jazz.” Also reserve a Trial Membership in my name. After 5 days free trial I will either return these recordings or send only $1 (plus * few cents shipping) as payment in fun.
I am not obligated to buy any other recordings from the Society. I am to receive an advance description of future monthly selections. I may try any of these—free of charge— without paying a penny in advance. I may reject any recording, before or after I receive it. And I may cancel my Trial Membership
at any time. In the future, for each selection I decide to keep —I will pay the special member’s low price of just $2.75 plus few cents shipping... a saving of over 40% off their usual retail price/
LIMIT: One sample package per easterner.
Name.
(rmsx non)
Address
City
Zone.. .State.
Repercussion
(Continued from page 6)
Dame: individuality, independence, and sincerity. In this point I think we are in agreement, or to put it in your own words “. . . good old fashioned ingenuity. This to me is the character of Notre Dame.”
John C. Harrington 335 Sorin
Editor’s Noth.- As a matter of fact, John, we weren’t thinking at all of Webster’s “tradition” but tradition as it is more popularly used, i.e., a sort of social folkway which directs action. This rather excludes Notre Dame lore of which you speak and, by the way, which we grant old ND has more than its share.
We would like to take this opportunity to express some sort of rebuttal to those who criticized the “Tradition” editorial on the basis that there are many religious “traditions” which were not mentioned. The truth of the matter is that these were very carefully considered and rejected as true traditions, even though | they have often been referred to a^ it such, because we felt that there is truly*^ something wrong with a setup that asks a man to better himself spiritually simply because it is “traditional.”
Mash Note
Editor:
I have just finished reading your “Back Page” article in the Sept. 3ft Scholastic.	"
I would like to tell you how much I enjoyed reading it. I think it is truly the best article I have evei- read in your fine magazine.
Last year, as a student at St. Mary’s, I had many opportunities to read the Scholastic, so I feel that I am, at least in a small way, qualified to commend you on this article.
I am fortunate to have a brother who is now a student at N.D., so I’m alway.^\ interested in Notre Dame.
May I take this opportunity to tell I you that many other people are in- ■! terested in N.D. also.	1
Since I have been at Iowa State I I have realized this more and more. To a lot of students all over, Notre Dame and its students are representing the Catholic students everywhere.
Keep writing “good articles.”
P.S. All lowans aren’t farmers.
Iowa State College Jo Dailey Ames, la.
32
The Scholastic
Ahead of the game
Sleeveless from $5.00 or long-sleeved from $7.95. They’re perfect, worn with dress and sport shirts— like this Arrow plaid. Get a few of each!
Arrow fields a smart squad of sweaters, with man-for-man superiority down the line. They’re warm and soft, styled with exceptional taste—in Orlon or lambswool, or a blend of Orlon and wool. It’s a smart college man who collects several colored sweaters.

A/MOW-

CASUAL WEAR
—first in fashion
WE PREDICT: 1955’s most infuriating magazine article will be
“THE NATURAL SUPERIORITY OF IVY LEAGUE MEN”

in November HOLIDAY magazine
... and that its noted author, Henry Morton Robinson (Columbia ’23) will be man most burned in effigy on non-Ivy campuses this fall! It’s guaranteed to enrage the letter men of “Moline Subnormal” and “Turpentine Tech”... redden the faces of state universities’ “professorlings” (that’s what Robinson calls ’em) ... wound the tender feelings of every drum majorette in America.
You’ll smoulder at Robinson’s gibes at courses in chain-store management and embalming! Bum at his references to state universities as “educational rabbit warrens.” Explode at his views on mass education for the “denizens of Outer Mediocrity. It s one of a trio of provocative articles on Ivy League men, social life, sports. Don’t miss it!
November HOLIDAY —now on your newsstand!
33
October 21,1955
1
pussy-footers
by Curt Matthews
and spoiled children
Most of us have had rather protected and sheltered lives. We come from what the sociologists like to call the upper middle class or maybe just the upper class. We haven’t, most of us, had what people think of as a hard life. We come from families where we’ve been given a lot to start with. Our parents have seen to it that we went to good schools, lived in good homes, met the right people—young and old—and did the right things.
We went to private schools, not “blackboard jungles”; we had paved and well-equipped playgrounds, not city dumps. For diversion many of us went to the country club, not the street corner.
There’s not much point in talking about the advantages this kind of life has given us—that’s rather obvious. But, I think this protected society a lot of us were brought up in also has its disadvantages. Our life has developed in us a certain sense of correct action or behavior that we follow to extremes. W.e begin to run our lives just a little too efficiently.
Parents are by nature over-indulgent in their children. They often play this game of raising children too conservatively, I think. The child’s best interest is in the parents’ mind a little too much. They don’t let the child stick his own neck out often enough.
The result is that our society has an over-supply of pussy-footers. Too many people are afraid of making mistakes— and that’s just why these same people make so many. The fear that something might go wrong with whatever project or affair they are engaged in is with
them throughout the venture. Thus, as soon as the slightest thing does go wrong, it’s exactly what they were looking for—what they expected—so they quit in despair instead of trying to
mend It’s pitch gives base.
the trouble.
like a pitcher who goes out to a no-hit game every time and up as soon as someone gets on
You have to play to win the
game—not to pitch no-hitters. If, in the process of winning you pitch a nohitter, fine; but it is not and should not be an end in itself.
Ralph Waldo Emerson says about the same thing in the familiar words, “Do not to be too timid and squeamish about your actions. All life is an experiment. The more experiments you make the better. What if they are a little coarse, and you get your coat soiled or torn? What if you do fail, and get fairly rolled in the dirt once or twice? Up again you shall never be so afraid of a tumble.”
That’s exactly it, I think. We’ve been fed the idea that there’s something unpleasant about getting our “coats soiled and torn.” Boys used to think it was
fun—or gave it little thought as they were busy fighting with each other, or skipping across railroad trestles, or knocking over someone’s garbage can. The modern mom and dad teach better lessons.
But along with the better lessons comes the dulling of that certain i-ecklessness that so often is found in valuable adventures and imaginative accomplishments. I wonder if Charles Lindbergh would have attempted his Atlantic crossing if the decision had been left to his mother.
The simple fact is that our society, that upper middle class group, just | doesn’t produce enough Tom Sawyers 01^) Huck Finns. The “adventures” intended \ today to replace the sort Tom Sawyer had are poor substitutes. I doubt if community athletic leagues will ever produce the same type of individuals that the pick-up sandlot games did.
This super-sheltering society in which so many of us find ourselves today also creates another problem—the problem of material abundance. We have an awful lot merely doled out to us. I’m sure it \ probably makes a lot of us a little^*' spoiled and over-demanding at times. However, I’m not so sure this always, works to the detriment of the individual. I think this acquaintance with material well-being can act as a spur, driving us to maintain that well-being when we have to start supplying it for ourselves. We become accustomed to a certain standard of living and begin to use it as the measure of what we want out of life.
Although we may at first fall short of what we want at least we’ll know whaf^ we want. True, the danger of becoming
complacent, expecting someone else to continually make contributions to our personal welfare fund, is present. But it only takes a few sacrifices now and then to maintain the right perspective.
Those who have any chance at all of succeeding on their own merits usually have another virtue, too, called independence, which won’t allow them to habitually fall back on that “ace in the hole.”
Pride in our independence is some-► thing we all need to develop. The lac-W of it is most evident in the spoiled child and the pussy-footer.
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
Charlie Stickels asks:
Does Du Pont hire graduates who are draft eligible?
JOHN OLIVER, also a University of Michigan man, received his B.S. in Meeh. Eng. in 1938. Right after graduation, he began working for Du Pont in the Engineering Section of its Belle, W. Va., plant. Following this came an assignment as Departmental Engineer in the Wilmington offices, and today John Oliver is again at Belle—this time as Assistant Plant Manager.
WANT TO KNOW MORE about working with Du Pont? Send for a free copy of “Chemical Engineers at Du Pont,” a booklet that tells you about pioneering work being done in chemical engineering—in research, process development, production and sales. Write to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER UV1NG... THROUGH CHtMKntV
WATCH “DU PONT CAVALCADE THEATER” ON TV
CHARLES A. STICKELS is currently working toward his B.S.E. degrees in chemical and metallurgical engineering at the University of Michigan. Mr. Stickels is past Editor-in-Chief of the Michigan Technic, vice-president of his student chapter of A.I.ChE., and a member of several honorary engineering fraternities. His editorial work has made him especially aware of contemporary employment questions facing engineering graduates.
John Oliver answers
The answer to that is definitely “Yes!”, Charlie. We’ve employed quite a number of college graduates with definite military commitments, sometimes knowingthat they could work only a few weeks before reporting for active duty.
The reason is that Du Pont is primarily interested in men on a “long range” basis. The fact that they’re temporarily unavailable—for a good reason like mili-
tary service—isn’t any bar to being considered for employment. After working only one day, an employee is guaranteed full re-employment rights—that’s the law. But if a man works for Du Pont at least a full year before joining the service, he gets a bonus of two months’ salary. If he’s entitled to a vacation but doesn’t have time to take it before leaving, Du Pont gives him equivalent pay instead.
Even if present employment is impossible, Charlie, we definitely recommend your talking with Du Pont’s representatives—and those of other companies, too. The very least you’ll gain will be valuable background and some contacts which may be of real benefit to you when you leave military service.


Enjoy a Cool Mildness
impossible before
__thanks to the Miracle of
Notice the extra flavor that
comes through. Yet because this measurably better cigarette smokes more slowly — you enjoy a cool mildness never possible before.
-:3
J
PUT A
SMOKING!
«TT & MVtRS TOBACCO CO.
© Liggett & Myeks Tobacco Co.
Get truly modern cigarette enjoyment! With electronic accuracy. Accu-Ray checks and controls the making of your Chesterfield. For the first time you get a ...
XPERFECT-SMOKE-COLUMNraOM-END-TO-END.’J,
So put a smile in your smoking! Buy Chesterfield! Smoother ... cooler ... best for you!
IN YOUR
TCTNtfj;
Chesterfield
Made the Modern Way- with