
Notre Dame's Student Magazine February 18, 1988 


thursday feb. 4. 
Start the weekend early... to the tunes of MARTY CROWE · & DAVE BRUENEIL 9:30-1 :00 am 
friday, f eh. 19 
DJ's Ann Seifert & Tom Tisa play your favorites 9 :30-2 :00 am 

saturday, feb. 20 
Greg Harris & Rick Reuter will keep you dancing all .night II! 9:30-2:00 am 

sundag, feb. 21 
SUNDAY SPECIAL ..... 
PIZZA, PIZZA, PIZZA!!! 
All. yoµ can possibly eat for only $3! 
• · ··-•.cc 
:.-.12 noon-6:00 pm 
Sc 
ola tic 
Notre Dame's Student Magazine February 18, 1988 

News 
14/ Three on Three 

Sports 
18/ A Season on the Brink? by Marty Burns 
20 / Sportsweek 

Departments 
Cover 
4/ Week in Distortion: The Ballad of Mike and Mary by Doug Anderson 7 / Literature by Request by Sara Harty 5/ On Other Campuses: Law School Grilled 
21/ Musk: Musical Musings 10/ Poetry and Pornography by Ann Seifert interview by Sara Harty 
22/ Coming Distractions Cover art by Tricia Brienza
24/ Final Word: It's a Festival by Mike Evces 
Scholutic ia publiahed voeldJ durinc tho tchool yoar oxcopt durinc aaminatl.on• amd vacation period, at Notn Dama, IN 46556 and primod at The Pa))G'I, Inc., Milford, IN '8542. The 1ubecription rak io U0.00/yu.r and back issues are availabl~ 11.00/copy. The opinion ¦ expra,Ded ·In Scholmk are thi¦ of \he authon and editon and do not neceaaarily npreHnt the OpYUNID ol tlN enlire oclitorial board of Scholu\lc or the Univemty of Notn Dame, i'8 adminiatration, faculty or 1tudent body. Bditorial1 repreaent the opinion of a 1111\iority of the d\orial board. Manu~crlptl are welcome. All un1olicited material become the property of Scholutic. Scholutic i• ftl)NNnted nationally by CASS Communication¦, Inc. 
• 1918 ScholuUc maguine. All righ&a i-z.ved. Reproducuon in whole or part without permi ¦¦ ion i• prohibited. 

February 18, 1988 



Editorial 
Vote Reilly 
"Vote early and vote often," may have been the election mentality in some places, but in other places, like the Saint Mary's of not so long ago, people might as well not have voted at all: only one ticket graced the ballot. But this year, for the second time in two years, Saint Mary's students will have the benefit of choosing among three tickets for student body president. That show of interest reveals a student government that is becoming continually healthier. This year all three stu­dent body president tickets are strong. 
Anne Reilly's ticket, however, clearly stands out from the others. Her idea for plus and plus grades at St. Mary's is both realistic and beneficial for SMC students, especially if Notre Dame switches over to them. 
As do the other tickets, Reilly emphasizes the need for more student input. Unlike the others, she gives concrete examples of how to accomplish this. Moving the board of governance and programming board meetings to the dorms offers the necessary encouragement students need to increase attendance. 
Also, when Reilly brings up the controversial issue of the mission statement's place in SMC lifc, she has a refreshingly realistic attitude. Sure, Saint Mary's students should "live the mission," but practical considerations should also come into difficult issues such as the college's diversification. And Reilly also has the proper attitude towards the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College relationship: while maintaining separate identities, both institutions should recognize the benefits, and not merely social benefits, the affiliation creates. 
Students at Saint Mary's may only receive one vote, and the voting times are regulated, but next Wednesday, even if you can't vote early 01 often, you should take advantage of your opportunity and vote Anne Reilly for student body president. 
Scholastic 
Scholastic 

Vol. 129 February'N., 1988 No N__ 
I?> 15 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurns Vive Qitas.i Cras Moriturus 
Founded 1867 
Editor: Kathleen McKcrnan 
Business Manager: Cathy Coffey 
Editorial Staff 
Sports: Marty Burns Departments: Mike Farnan Student Life: Sara Harty . Copy Chief: Tim O'Brien News: Margaret M. Sieger 
Editorial Assistants 
Sports: Nick Capece Student Life: Chris Dauer News: Andy Hilger 
Production 
GraphkArts Manager: Patricia Brienza Photo Manager: Allan Lim Production Manager: Amy Weber 
Business 
Distribution: James Balesh Office Manager: Julie Flaherty Controller: John Harper Advertising: Monica Spoelstra Advertising Design: Ros Winner 
Issue 15 Staff 
Layout: Mike Wieber 

Scholastic 

Letters 

Scholastic Announces Letters Policy 


Letters to Scholastic must be ty:,ed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. 
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the lav;s of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spel­ling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space limitations, Scho­lastic cannot print all letters received. 
Letters should be limited to fewer than 250 words. Address all correspondence to: 

The Editor Scholastic LaFortune Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 


Saturday March 5th 
at 


Theodore's 
$200.00 GRAND PRIZE All interested acts should contact Maura at ·283-2 7 4 5 or Mark at 283-1184 by February 19 
Sponsored by Theodore's and SUB. 
February 18, 1988 
Week in Distortion/Doug Anderson 


The Ballad of 
Mike and Marya; 
T he followi11g is defi11itely 11ot a true story, but the 11ames have bee11 cha!lged to protect the innoce11t. Keeping with the "Week i11 Distortion's" tradition of being on the cut­ti11g edge of the literary world, 1 prese11t this work for your enjoyment a11d designed for 110 real pur­pose at all. 
Here's a story about Mary and Mike, Started off in care and now they're in like. They had a big wedding and a big honeymoon; Mike gave her a kiss and she ran out of the room. 
Mike was never approved by the girl's folks; They saw right through him and his cruel joke. Mary was blinded, of her love she was sure, Though many had told her that Mike was not pure. 
As it turned out, Mike was loyal and true And his buddies wondered "What's happened to you? You used to be cool, you used to be a man. Prove you're still male --come out and scam." 
For Mike it was tough, the temptation was great, For he had noticed a cute girl named Kate So he grabbed his jacket and headed out; Tonight was his night, without any doubt. 
Mary came home, and Mike had just split. She thought, "I'm sick of this, I want to quit. The love is gone, I don't feel it anymore; Mike's kinda fun, but he can be a bore." 
Since what's good for the gander is so for the goose Mary went out for her night to be loose. She got dressed up, tried to look good. She did alright, as well as she could. 
Mary picked up the girls, set out for the bars; She was takin' any boy that'd go back to her car. The magic was on, Mary scored big, you see, Almost as much as the famous guy Gretzky. 
"Revenge is mine," she said on the way home, "And I could care less if Mike's always alone. 'Cause a girl like me can always go score, And, in this case, love has become war." 
During this adventure, Mike was feeling bad; He had loved Mary since he was a lad. He was unaware of Mary's recent crime So he reached in his pocket and pulled out a dime. 
He dialed the number, he gave her a ring, Then he told Mary, "I've done a bad thing. I went out without you, I know I've done wrong But now I realize it's with you I belong." 
Mary was cold, she was tired of this guy But she thought, "What the hell, I'll give it a try." So the love was rekindled, never to end And together their lives they were to spend. 
So if you've found a Valentine, that someone for you, Remember these words before saying "I do", There's plenty of mates, lots of fish in the sea So try to find a match like Mike and Mary's. 

Scholastic

4 
~ -~ -• • • -• -, _, ~ , • --~ -••• .,... ,__ -------~~::.::= ~. •4• ---~ ---­
. ­

Law 
Several University of Kentucky 
Law S.:hool students gave their TV to a thief last month. A thief entered a student lounge where several law students were watching the program, "Superior Court." The man said he was with the company that had rented the TV to the school, and that he needed to take it back. The students, reported the National On Campus Report, asked him to wait until the show was over, so he watched the rest of the program with them. Some of the students then helped the thief take the TV from a wall rack. 

Marshmallows have been causing 
problems ;;.t Perin State's football games lately. Not only are the ones on the field causing diffi­culties for Joe Paterno's program, but the fans have taken to throwing them. According to the National On Campus Report, the fans bombard each other and the field with marshmallows when they are bored; when they're excited, the result is the same. Evidently, police officials are not amused. One officer lamented, "What can you charge offenders with? Assault with a deadly marshmallow?" 


Penn State University can't get rid 
of its condoms. The Student Health Center still has most of the 15,000 it received in October. Efforts to distribute the condoms free through the health center and resident advisors have failed to get much of a response from students. Some are .l i I hesitant to use them because they don't carry a I 
·I 
known brand name. One student offered his views, "I don't think that they know how to use them." 
EDITED BY DOUG ANDERSON 

5 


Live the Tradition Together 

uh cribe 



to Schola tic 
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE 
Please send years of Scholastic to: 
Name 

--------·---------------­

Address ________________________ 
City State Zip 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x years=$ 



y 




equest 
Seven acclaimed contemporary authors make the guest list for the Sophomore Literary Festival worthy of its reputation 
COMPILED BY SARA HARTY 
The following· seven authors will 
be featured at the twenty-first annual Sophomore Literary Festival. 

Josef Skvorecky 
A native of Nachod, Bohemia, Czechoslovakia, Josef Skvorecky emigrated to Canada in 1968. He teaches at the University of Toronto and has written several short stories, screen plays and nov­els, including Miss Silver's Past, which the Czechoslovakian government banned and then des­troyed thousands of copies, and 
Dvorak in Love. Dvorak in Love is a novel about 
a man who leaves Bohemia in 1882 to come to New York in order to direct the National Conservatory of Music. The historical and bio­graphical novel is the story of Dvorak's love affair with America. 
Skvorecky calls it a "lighthearted dream". 
In 1980 Skvorecky became the Laureate of the Neustadt Interna­tional Prize for Literature, and a Guggenheim Fellow. In 1984 he was elected Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada. 

Marilyn Krysl 
Krysl has written five books of poetry and stories including Say­ing Things, More Palomino, More Fuchsia, Honey You've Been Dealt a Winning Hand, and her most 
recent, Mozart, Westmoreland and Me. Krysl is recognized as an insightful, funny feminist. 
In 1974 she received a National Endowment for the Arts Fellow­ship. She was awarded a John O'Hara Journal Fiction Prize in 1981 and an Oasis Prize from the Poetry Society of Georgia. She was the Artist in Residence at the Health Sciences Center School of Nursing in Denver from 1986 ­1987. 

Etheridge Knight 
Knight has written four books of poetry, including The Essential Etheridge Knight, which is a com­bination of previously published poems and some new work. Knight is one of the more proin-
7 



inent contemporary poets with a lively style of writing that began while he was serving a prison term in the Indiana State Prison. 
Knight received fellowships from the Guggenheim Foundation and the National Endowment for the Arts. In recogniton of dis­tinguished achievement in poetry he, was awarded the Shelley Memorial Award by the poetry Society of America in 1985. 

Peter Michelson 
Michelson's attention to the comedy of things is one of the consistent qualities in all of his poetry. His poetry books include The Eater, Pacific Plainsong and When the Revolution Really. He received the Ten Best Small Press Books for the latter in 1984, an Illinois Arts Council Poetry A ward in 1973 and a National Endow­ment for the Arts Grant for poetry in 1976. 
Michelson taught at the 



John Engels 

Engel's poetry is noted for its unique expression of human themes like love, death, loss and joy. His poetry has evolved from John Engels 





a very controlled style into work with an almost musical quality. Besides his numerous contribu­tions to various periodicals, Engels has written twelve books, his latest being Cardinals in the Ice Age. He was a Pulitzer Prize finalist in 1983 and received the Fulbright Award from Yugoslavia in 1985. 
Born and raised in South Bend, In., Engels received his undergra­duate degree in English from the University of Notre Dame, parti-cipating in some graduate studies here as well. Named resident poet of The Frost Place in 1988, Engels now lives and teaches at St. Michael's College in Vermont. 


Don Hendrie Jr 
A· Survey of the Atla11tic Beaches is a lively account of the adventures of a divorced man who travels from Massachusets to Florida, visiting friends all the way. It is Hendrie's fourth novel, his other works include Blo1mt's Alll'il, Scribble, Scribble, Scribble and Boomkitchwatt. He is currently working on a book called A Crimi11al Journey. 
Hendrie was awarded the Push­cart Prize in 1979. He teaches a:nd directs the Creative Writing Pro­gram at the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa. 

Paule Marshall 
Marshall explores the experi­ences of West Indian -Americans in ·fiction that is continually becoming more complex. Noted for her sharp analysis ofcharacter, Marshall creates complex female characters that interact in a com­plex society. 
Her first novel, Brow11 Girl, Brow11sto11es is set in an American context. In Soul Clap Hands a11d Si11g she explores the African experience in the entire "New World". 
Marshall has taught at several 

universities and received the "Tri­
bute to Black Womanhood Award" 
from Smith College. 


9 

.. 

Scholastic

10 
.. 


Final Word 
YOUR 
PICTURE 


HERE 



Stand OUT from the crowd 
With a Scholastic Final Word 
Everyone has strong views on something, But not everyone gets his opinion heard 
Contact Mike Farnan at 239-7569 for information about spring semester 


a 






Pornography 
INTERVIEWED BY SARA HARTY 
Peter Michelson is one of the guests at the Sophomore Literary Festival. Dr. Michelson was a professor at the University of Notre Dame from 1965 --1969. Scholastic had a telephone inter­l'iew with Dr. Michelson from his Colorado home. 
When did you start writing poe­try? 
I started a long time ago, while still a student. I didn't start taking it seriously until I was about 26, 27, 28. Are there any particular poets who have influenced you? 
It's hard to say. I guess the stand-outs would be John Barry­man, Ezra Pound, Mary Ann Moore, those would be the peo­ple that it would be clear enough to see in my work. It's pretty eclectic; my interaction with friends and contemporaries has an influence right now. Johri Matthias (Profe"ssor of English at Notre Dame) for one. People that I work with, Ed Dorn, for instance, I noted him in my credits for When the Revolution Really. Also my wife, Marilyn Krysl who will also be at Notre Dame next week. With When the Re11olution Really can you sec a change in your poetry from your first books, The Eater and Pacific Plain­song? 
There were some changes ... I'm not even sure that I even particu­larly like them. I'm not sure that there were any conscious changes; what I'm up to at a given point depends on what I'm working with. The poems about China in When the Revolution Really were short notations about connections that clicked in my head . . . short quick hits. I 
worked differently than with 

Pacific Plainsong. It was a dif­ferent sort of material. In that sense there was a certain change. In the middle section of Wizen the Rerolutio11 Really there's more lyricism than I indulge cus­tomarily. 
The dialogue between present and past and the impact of that dialogue on the future would be 
an abiding interest for me. I've always tried to pay a certain attention to the comedy of things. That and the continued dialogue between the comic and the elegaic have always interested me. 
In Febrnary of 1969 the Stu­dent Union Academic Commis­sio11 sponsored a Pomography and Censorship Conference. It was to be five days of lectures, art exhibits, film and stage pro­ductions. On February 7, the second day of the conference, county police stormed the campus, sprayed 15 people with mace, and confiscated Noren's film, "Kodak Ghost Poems", as it was shown. No warrant was ever shown, and the legal ques­tions became quite complicated. 
According to the February 8, 1969 issue of the Observer, Richard Rembusch, then president of the SUAC, offi­cially closed the conference on the seventh, "While the present tension continues, the conference can in no· way constructive in keeping with its announced goal --the intelligent consideration of the question of pomography. Unfortunately, continuation of

r 
the program is, instead, very 
likely to be a catalyst for 
further violence." 
Could you explain about your involvement with the Conference on Pornography on campus in 1969? 
That was the golden age, wasn't it? I mean it was the Viet­nam era, various kinds of con-f rontations were in the air. 
One of the extraordinary things about Notre Dame is all of the conferences. That seemed to begin when John (Matthias, Pro­fessor of English at Notre Dame) and I were there. The Literary Festival began then, that has always been put on well and has a bit of a reputation. The (por­nography) conference was put on in the same spirit, but a little more confrontationally. The stu­dents behind it were more politi­cally motivated (than the stu­dents who organized the Literary Festival). They did quite a good job though. They came to me and asked for ideas. 
I suggested films and people, but the students put it together. They had an impressive film series, art show, and the Theatre of the Ridiculous ... in short, it was quite an impressive under­taking. I was really proud. It was probably naive, but they invited (Raymond Gauer, Executive Secretary of Citizens for Decent Literature) so that they could have a dialogue. The second day was to feature a debate between Allan Ginsberg and (Gauer). Unfortunately he wasn't interested in a dialogue, he wanted to torpedo the whole affair. 
The students did a great job. The naivete emerged when all the sh--hit the fan. The Univer­sity officials got embarrassed -­which is what they should not have done. Instead of telling the police to mind their own business --that's what made the whole thing so ghastly, when it hit the papers (that police had raided the campus). It made the whole thing look like a demonstration, which wasn't what it started out as at all. At that point, everyone got nervous and the whole thing collapsed. 
One thing that quite interest­ing was that the left hand at the was University didn't know what the right hand was doing. The Theatre of the Ridiculous opened ("Lady Godiva") in Washington Hall. The administration locked the hall so that they coudn't use the hall. 
The students went over to the student union and got permission to use the ballroom. The only stipulation was no smoking. "Smut but no smoke". What began as a modest but substantial interest became a cause. 500 peo­ple must have jammed in there. The community spirit generated was extraordinary. Of course suppression always creates a natural reaction. 
Did your involvement with the conference affect your book, 
The Aesthetics of Pornography? 
Actually it delayed my finish­ing it. There was a lot of turmoil at that time. The effect was that I missed my deadline by a year and a half. But, no, I don't think it affected the content of that book. I just finished revising and expanding that for a second edition. It's quite different now. The first edition was quite literary. Ginsberg's reading and The Theatre of the Ridiculous were the only two literary phenomena of the conference. Mostly it was graphic art and cinema. Are you working on anything new now? 
I'm working on a novel that turns on a lot of the events of the now infamous pornography conference. It focuses on the six­ties in general. I hope it to be a comedy. How recognizable the conference will be I don't know, I'm still in the middle of it. It damn well better be funny. It's about the contradictions of the sixties and the confererice seems to epitomize some of those con­tradictions. 
February 18, 1988 


Three 

On Three 

0,1.· ••r[,e'?d.dy,•• '#eb1·iid1:t?~~Nl~Ys~t,rn;~[ifffi'!l \!;ff
Co.llege,;1¾{{[hQld:their,9v1h1.q.f 
?!f<:[iqnf 12 ... .·.•·•·· .·;1e,ar'•t1iJ:e~cttck<;t$a1-~ifo!~firrfJ!Hi1aJ.the,m 

E'Wi1!1it!ltffl,l(~flJli~~i~~ 
.r.oyn!f,q: 

':lt1l1J}Jtii~i
;'·of;Ka(

';intge 

Annie Buch is running for SBP. She is a junior economics major who has been active on the Fresh­man Council, as sophomore vice-president and Holy Cross hall council. Buch is running with two other juniors, Carol Mahony, for VP of Academic Affairs and Kim Sartori, for VP of Student Affairs. Mahony CAROL MAHONY ANNIE BUCH KIM SARTORI 


was freshman class president, and is curren ti y the Holy Cross Social Commissioner. Sartori is currently the vice-president for McCandless Hall. 
What are your two main goals? 
BUCH: Our first goal would have to do with comprehensive exams; they're very inconsistent. 

We'd like to get some consistency with that as well as letting people know what they're about. It seems like now, at the end of junior year, they just say, "Oh, by the way, you have to take an exam." Lots of fresh­men don't know about them coming in. 
SARTORI: We'd like to publish a pamphlet to help with this. Showing, this major is for this, and what happens if you don't pass. 
BUCH: Our other goal is to help change Haggar into a lot more of a student union. There's nothing really to pull people in now. There's no music, only one lounging area. We'd like to raise money for a jukebox. We want to increase publicity at Notre Dame for the Coffchousc, and increase its frequency. Right now, it's well publicized at St. Mary's, but not here (at Notre Dame) and it only comes twice a month. 
SARTORI: It's at the center of campus, it could be done, we've just got to have the leadership. 
What sets you apart from the other tickets? 
BUCH: I think the three of us arc very diverse. I find Carol" very creative, full of ideas, Kim easily puts those ideas into movement, she's very organized. I'm more of a diplomat, a mediator. Our experience, too. I was on the Freshman Council, vice-president for the sophomore class, and a member of the Program­ming Board. 
MAHONY: I was president of the freshman class and last year I went abroad. I think that's a help because I can understand people who arc coming back after being away. 
SARTORI: I've been on McCandless Hall Council and this year, I'm vice-president of McCandless. We're all very differcnt, that makes us special as a ticket. 
What do you think are the major issues for SMC next year? 
MAHONY: The big thing is communication. Making the kids aware of what's going on at St. Mary's. Everyone's biggest gripe is that there's nothing going on. The main concern is getting information out, because we do have a lot of activities, but no one knows about them. 
BUCH: Direct communication to the students is a major issue. We'd like to have an RA representative on the Board of Governance to let students know what's going on, and not only social activities. 


LISA M. HILL. JULIE PARRISH CHRISTY WOLFE 
Julie Parrish, a junior, is running for President. She is currently the Vice-President for Academic Affairs. Running with her are juniors Lisa M. Hill, for Vice-President for Student affairs and Christy Wolfe, for Vice President for Academic Affairs. Hill sits on the Board of Governance and Wolfe was the Ambassador to Spelman College anrl ls a member of the Chimes editorial board. 
What are your two main goals? 
PARRISH: Our number one goal is student aware­ness. Number two is reality. For# 1, before we start anything, we feel the need to find out what the stu­dents want, what they think student government docs. Without their input, there's no use for us to be here. We're here for the students, we want to encourage awareness. We can encourage people to talk to us, but it's our job to go out and get the stu-
February 18, 1988 
15 

• • • • ~ -• -~-~--~ -------~ --~ ------·--~ -~ -·::·-· •• _:__~ ·-~., ~,__--.. -.-~~ • ~ --__ ,..._; ~· -. ----,.. ------­
~:\': • •'; ''r~/c.:,:--; ',3:,•:--:.__-:~~.~\). _j_~ • ! <, < • ; • • ,••~•1:~,f(~
V • 

dents' opinions. 
For # 2, we have to plan events that the students want. We all realize that we have to be realistic, we have to do things that the students will support. There are many things that we can't do. If we keep trying to do things that are unrealistic, we'll just be wasting our time and the students' money. We'll con­centrate on social events and academics. 
What sets you apart from the other tickets? 
HILL: Our experience. Julie (Parrish) is an incum­bent (vice-president) right now, I sit on the Board of Governance. We've also got a lot of spunk. We're going to get the job done, but we're also going to have fun, both us and the students. 
WOLFE: I was a student Ambassador to Spelman College in Georgia. St. Mary's is studying diversifi­cation, there's a task force and all. I've worked on the diversification issue a lot. We think we have an obligation to run, not because we· want the job, but because we'll do a good job. · 
PARRISH: The need to be involved. People com­plain about this and that, but when it comes to doing something about it, they back off. Things can be done if you put an effort in it. Things like changing the library hours and a lot more being done with Haggar College. 
What do you think are the major issues for SMC 
next year? 

HILL: Events and stuff for the students. We'd like to build on what was done this year. We want people to know that fun is possible at St. Mary's. We know we can't expect 100 percent turnout all the time--that's where being realistic comes in. We'll take the failures, and not do them anymore, and we'll take the successes, too. 
PARRISH: We're not all social. The Alumni Speaker series was a big success this year, we'll continue that. Also, St. Mary's has a mission statement that we want to educate students about. We want to make it some­thing that happens. We want more College awareness that this is why we're here. 
WOLFE: The whole women's college issue is impor­tant. Students should take pride that we're St. Mary's. S-M-C's a great place to be. 

JULIE MAROZAS . ANNE REILLY 
KELLY CONNERY 
Anne Reilly is running for Student Body President. She is a junior, the Saint Mary's representative to the Notre Dame Senate and Social Co-Chairman for.Holy Cross Hall. Julie Marozas, also a junior, is running for Vice-President of Student Affairs. 
She is a government major and one of Holy Cross Hall's Social Chairmen. Kelly Connery is running for Vice-President of Academic Affairs. She is a junior government major and the_ Government Representative of the Junior class. 
Wli::t are your two main goals? 
REILLY: It just seems to me that presently, what student government does is what the members of student government want. What we would rather have is more input. Right now we have two bodies. We have the Board of Governance and the Pro­gramming Board. What we'd like to do is take those meetings and have them in the halls and invite stu­dents from the. halls to come to the meetings. In that way, we could get input from students not involved with student government. 
CONNERY: We have foreign language classes that meet four days a week and they also have a lab and are only worth three credits. I think those should be worth four credits. We need 128 credits to graduate and that means 16 semester hours. Yet almost all of the classes are three hours and it's hard to get in that extra hour of class. When the (Notre Dame) council met to decide on the plus/ minus grades, I was a little disappointed that no one from Saint Mary's was there to give another perspective. Because, :We're interested in doing that also, and we're interested in knowing what you're doing over here (at Notre Dame) because it does affect us at St. Mary's. 
REILLY: I would rather see a person on (the Notre Dame plus/ minus grades) council than on the HPC. I justfeel that the academics is so much more important. 
MAROZAS: One of our primary goals is entertainment--getting some bigger names. It seems as though we always have a reason to go to Notre Dame but they (Notre Dame students) never have a reason to come to St. Mary's. Some other ideas were a St. Mary's Ball and just a variety of entertainment things. 
REILLY: We're more than happy to work with Notre Dame. It's just a shame that we really don't use each other enough. Like a St. Mary's dorm and a Notre Dame dorm, male or fem ale, doing things together. We're also talking about having sister dorms. The stereotypes are just ridiculous and they're so unnecessary. 
What sets.you apart from the other tickets? 
CONNERY: Probably our enthusiasm. We have been considering doing this for · a very long time. _Over the course of the year, we've been looking at things that we like and that we don't like, so we've 

just put an awful lot of thought and an awful lot of time into it. 
REILLY: We have the students' best interest in mind. We are so seriously committed to this cam­paign. I really think we're the best ticket. My posi­tion this year is so beneficial for me because I get to see how Notre Dame works and I know how we can use each other. 
What do you think are the major issues for SMC next year? 
REILLY: One thing is the diversity. We want tp build that up: try to get minorities and bring them in. There are a lot out there that would be interested in coming to our school. St. Mary's has a lot to offer both socially and academically. 
They put all of that energy into changing the Mission (of the College), but that doesn't mean anything until you actually live the Mission. If we could concentrate on that and tell Saint Mary's stu­dents what the Mission is and make them aware. Awareness is key. 

BY MARTY BURNS 
ortunately for all the guys in striped shirts · who've had to work a
F 
Notre Dame basketball 
game lately, there's only one coach in the state who throws chairs when things are going poorly, Notre Dame's Digger Phelps, always dapper and gentle­manly on the court, never hurls anything except an expletive or two when things go wrong for his team. 
But the 1987-88 basketball season has not been a good one for 



A 
eason on the Brink? 
Not quite. But those "Notre Dame moments" like last weekend's 73-66 win over UCLA have been rare of late for the Irish basketball team. 




the 16-year veteran Irish coach. Going into Tuesday night's game at Rutgers, Notre Dame stood at 14-7, with its biggest wins coming against mediocre Kansas, Louis­ville, and UCLA teams. In addi­tion, two important losses · to fellow-independent DePaul and one to tiny Lafayette College, have placed them precariously on the fringe of the 64-team NCAA tour­nament field. 
In addition, there has been much turmoil off the court. Junior forward Mark Stevenson was arrested twice, prompting Phelps to suspend him for four games. Stevenson's roommate, guard Michael Smith, was unceremoni­ously· kicked off the team for apparently failing to adhere to a rehabilitation schedule. Even the relationship between star · guard David Rivers and Phelps report­edly became strained after a recent game. A season on the brink? 
"The whole season has·. been badly.from a standpoint of us as a team." 



The victory, indeed, should boost team morale even if it doesn't help its chances of making the NCAA field. Trouble began early for the Irish, and progres­sively got worse. 
• First, Phelps announced in 

early Jamiary that Smith, the South Bend native who had played behind Rivers for three years, wciuld not be · back this season. Phelps stated that Smith's progress· froin a Nov. 11 knee injury had been impeded by the junior's failure to "adhere to a prescribed rehabilitation program." A week before the announcement, how­ever, a Notre Dame press release stated Smith was expected back in eight to ten weeks. 
• 
Next, Phelps announced on January 26 that Stevenson was being suspended for four games after the star forward was arrested on an alcohol-related charge the night after Notre Dame's upset of Kansas. Although Phelps had told his team that they were allowed to ·"celebrate" the win, he apparently did not meari to include Stevenson, who was not of legal drinking age and who had been arrested a month before on a shoplifting charge. Phelps, incidentally, stated after the UCLA win, "my team isn't going to any parties tonight." 

• 
Rivers reportedly got an ear­ful from an angry Phelps after Notre Dame's 70-61 loss ro Duke, a game in which Rivers shot 3­of-17 from the field and scored only 9 points. Rivers did not play the next game against Fordham 


Phelps and Rivers (above) had their disagreements, but it wasn't as serious as the trouble caused by Smith (lower left) and Stevenson (lower right). 

because of a minor ankle injury, and was. benched in the first two minutes of the UCLA win after he committed a silly foul. "That's the first time I can recall that happen­ing," said Rivers of the benching, althot1gh he added that he prob~· ably deserved it. 
• All along, most importantly, came wasted opportunities. Besides falling twice . to DePaul, the Irish lost· to Indiana early in the season and then to Kentucky, Maryland and Duke in one· week. As a result, the Irish must now win at least six of their remaining seven games to have any shot at making the tournament. 
"If we had lost to UCLA it would have been very bleak," admitted senior center Gary Voce. "We were on a very positive note after the Kansas game.. But then Mark's thing happened, and David's thing happened ·. . .·.. It's just sad thatit all had to happen in such big games." 

"Yes, we needed (the UCLA) game badly," agreed Rivers. ''I think it makes our chances of get­ting to the NCAAs a little . brighter. I still think we have a way to go to be a good tournament team, but we're starting to do the li'ttle things to get there." 
Phelps, meanwhile, can now hope his team will put the distrac­tions behind and build on the UCLA victory. Going into the campaign, Phelps emphasized that his squad would have to develop into a good team. The problems which plagued the team, however, stalled that development. Now, of course, there's a scant three weeks to figure it all out. 
"I'm concerned now with get­ting our team together," Phelps said. "We've had disruptions for two weeks. Disciplining (Steven­son) was something we had to do in terms of our credibility (as opposed to) winning basketball games. I'm not worried. right now. Things will fall into place for us." 
Whether or not the Irish fall into the NCAA; as opposed to the NIT, tournament lineup, however, remains to be seen. "I think there'll be a team in the NCAA tournament with IO losses," Phelps noted. "I'm not saying Notre Dame, because we're an indepen­dent. But this season has been so goofy, that's why I'm not worried about it." II 
February 18, 1988 



ATHLETES OF THE WEEK 
LISA KUHNS 
KUHNS, a 5-10 junior from Fort Walton Beach, Fl, has been a key to the Irish women's basketball team's offense this year. In last Saturday's game against Day­
ton, KUHNS hit a shot with two 
seconds remaining in the game to give 
Notre Dame the win. After missing all 
of last season while rehabilitating from a serious knee injury, KUHNS has returned as Notre Dame's chief three-point shooter. 


CffilS GENESER 
GENESER, a 5-11 junior from Wood­ward, IA, has been the mainstay of the Notre Dame wrestling team, competing at 177 pounds. Although the Irish were 
defeated last weekend by Ohio State, GENESER defeated OSU's RON GHARBO, the 10th-ranked wrestler in the country at that weight. 
Scholastic
20 




Music/ Ann Seifert 
•
ng 



ust some random musical notes for all of you. First, let's get some decent bands here! It doesn't matter 
if they don't have hit records out, because let's face it-nobody here goes to see bands anyway, so we might as well get good ones like The Flaming Lips, Angst, Green, Run Westy ·Run, Killdozer, and The Cashmere Jungle Lords, who are all on col­lege tours. Yes, all these bands would come here for the price of one dumb Romantics' concert. The management at Theodore's is really up on getting bands-so we have the facilities. All it takes is some interest and some phone calls. 
Secondly, why are Echo and the Bunnymen coming this spring to every major college in the Midwest, except Notre Dame? Let's see some results for a change from you people at SUB. Lip sync contests just don't cut it. 
Morrissey, the former lead singer for the Smiths, is working with a superb Australian guitar­ist, Vinnie Reilly of The Durutti Column. Morrissey's solo album should be mellow and moving .. 
Game .Theory was unpreten­
tious in concert at the Metro in 
Chicago last month . . . The 
Communards' new album, Red, 
is a lot better than I expected. It 
doesn't grate on my nerves at all! 
. . . Robyn Hitchcock has just 
released his Globe of Frogs LP, 
and it is typically fantastic, 
upbeat, and weird all at the same 
time . . . the new big thing out 
of England is Bambi Slam, who 
just released an LP of their sin­
gles, entitled Is. Their sound is 
loud, hard, and dark. Pretty cool, 
especially the song "Bamp 
Bamp.'' Buy Buy... 
SST Records has put out a 
Black Flag compilation album 
called Wasted Again. It's strong 
all the way through. This is also 
true for The Descendents' new 
live album called Liveage! This 
concert album entertained me the 
whole way through . . . 
No, I have not heard that · Husker Du· broke up. If I do, I'll 
write it here and probably do a 
eulogy or something . . . Home­
stead Records is releasing my# 1 


LP of 1987, Brave Words by The Chills, in the States this month. Try and pick it up, it's great. Also, be glad you won't have to pay the thirteen bucks import price I was saddled with. You lucky dogs ... 
Breaking Circus has a new EP out and it thrashes. This Min­neapolis band will be at the Metro in Chicago, February 17 for $4 guys, free for girls (no, I don't know why!). Precious Wax Drippings will be the opening act that night ... The new Sisters of Mercy album, titled Floodlands, rocks. The big hit "This Corro­sion" is over ten minutes long on the album-worth it for just that track alone. . . Oh, and The Stranglers have a new live album coming out ... 
If the single "Under the Milky Way" is any indication, the Starfish LP, due soon from The Church is going to be a throwback to their older sound, which is slower and more melodic than their recent stuff .. . The Clash and OMD will be releasing greatest hits LP's this month . . . Lastly, everyday I hear from someone new how much he or she is enjoying Peter Himmelman's excellent Gematria album. Try and be next, OK? 



Coming Distractions 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1988 
SPORTS: 
Notre Dame Men vs. Dayton Basketball Joyce ACC 
8:00 p.m.

I"
I 
GALA WORKSHOP: 
"The Shadow Government" Video on Iran-Contragate Room 131 Decio Hall 
12:30 p.m. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1988 
SPORTS: 
Notre Dame Men vs. Northwestern Tennis Eck Tennis Pavilion 
ACADEMICS: 
Mathematical Colloquium Room 226 Comp & Math Building 4:30 
Spring Film Series "Something Wild" Annenberg Auditorium 
7:30 & 9:30 p.m. 
JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND 
Campus Tours Sorin Room, LaFortune 
1:00 & 3:00 p.m. 
"Wake Up the Echoes" LaFortune's Little Theater Continuously from 11:00 (approximately every hour) 
Cocktail Dance Joyce ACC 9:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. tickets required 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1988 
SPORTS: 
Notre Dame Men vs. Iowa Tennis Eck Tennis Pavilion 
9:00 a.m. 


The Dead Milkmen 
Cabaret Metro 3 730 N. Clark 
February 20 
October's Child 
Cabaret Metro 
3730 N. Clark 
February 20 
Saqqara Dogs 
Cabaret Metro 
3730 N. Clark 
February 19 
The Farmers 
Cabaret M~tro 
3730 N. Clark 
February 20 Warlock Cabaret Metro 3730 N. Clark February 21 
Cicero Blake BLUES etcetera 1124 W. Belmont February 18 
Jerry Jeff Walker Park West 
7:30 p.m. 322 W. Armitage February 20 
Paul Carrack Park West 8 p.m. 322 W. Armitage February 22 Michiana 
MOVIES: 
University Park West 
"Empire of the Sun" 2:00 5:00 8:00 "Shoot to Kill" 2:00 4:30 7:15 9:30 "Good Morning Vietnam" 2:00 4:30 7:00 9:30 
Town and Country 
''Moonstruck" 1:45 3:45 6:45 7:45 9:45 "She's Having a Baby" 2:00 4:30 7:00 9:30 "Three Men and__a Baby" 2:10 4:40 7:10 9:40 
Scholastic
22 

CO:'\lPILED BY l\IIKE FARNAN 
Notre Dame Men vs. Miami Tennis Eck Tennis Pavilion 
4:00 p.m. 
ACADEMICS: 
Law School Admissions Test Nieuwland Science Hall 
8:00 a.m...,3:00 p.m. JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND: 
College Workshops 9:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Location: TBA 
"Wake Up the Echoes" Cushing Hall of Engineering 1:00 p.m./2:15 p.m./3:30 p.m. 
President's Dinner Joyce ACC 6:15 -9:30 p.m. 
Hall Receptions 
9:30 -end 
University Park East 
"Batteries Not Included" 1:45 3:45 "Barfly" 5:45 7:45 9:45 "Serpent and the Rainbow" 1:30 3:30 5:30 7:30 9:30 "Action Jackson" 1:45 3:45 5:45 7:45 9:45 "lronweed" 1:30 4:15 7:00 9:45 
"Fatal Attraction" 2:00 4:30 7:00 9:30 "Planes, Trains, and Automobiles 1:30 3:30 5:30 7:30 9:30 
100 Center 
"Throw-Momma From the Train" 1:30 3:30 6:30 7:30 9:30 "For Keeps" 1:00 3:00 5:00 7:00 9:00 
Open House Receptions Air Force ROTC ROTC Building 5, AF Lounge 12-4 p.m. Navy ROTC ROTC Building 12..,3:30 p.m. Army ROTC ROTC Building 5, Army Lounge 2-4 p.m. Center for Social Concerns CSC Building 1:00-4:00 p.m. Foreign Studies Reception CCE Building 2-4 p.m. 
Notre Dame Jazz Band 
Washington Hall 
1:00 p.m. 
Shenanigans 
Library Auditorium 
1:00 p.m. & 2:30 p.m. 
Snite Museum Tours 
Snite Museum of Art 
2:30 -3:30 p.m. 

Holiday Theatre  
"Satisfaction"  
7:00  
"For Keeps"  
7:05  9:05  
Elco Theatre  
"Three Men and a Baby"  
7:00 9:00  
Concord Theatre  
"Broadcast News"  
7:00 9:35  Scottsdale  
"She's Having a Baby" 7:10 9:15  "Action Jackson" 1:45 3:45 5:45 7:45 9:45  
"Shoot to Kill"  
2:00 4:30  7:15  9:30  

Junior ::::la!:a. Mass 
Joyce ACC Arena 
4:30 -5:30 p.m. 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1988 
MUSIC: 
Music Department Concert 
William Cerny, piano 
Annenberg Auditorium 
1:30 p.m. JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND: 
Closing Brunch 
Joyce ACC, North Dome 
11:00-noon 
Forum Theatre 
"The Last Emperor" 1:30 5:00 8:15 "Broadcast News" 2:00 4:35 7:00 9:30 "Satisfaction" 1:40 3:40 5:40 7:40 9:40 

February 18, 1988 
Final Word 

It's a Festival 


By Mike Evces 

ou can read all chalk this whole deal up to your about what the fellow Domcrs. 
Sophomore 
Literary Festival 

is in this issue of The writers coming to the 
Scholastic. I hope you will --a lot of work went into making this event happen. But now I'd like to tell you what the Sophomore Literary Festival is not. I think you'll see that it's worth checking out. 
First, the Sophomore Literary Festival is not some painful chore bestowed upon us by the faculty or the administration. It is organized and run by students, and students are considered the most important part of the audi­ence. This year we've selected guests who we feel will be of particular interest to the students and will give quite entertain1ng readings. It's not a lecture or a class, and it's not required. And it's mainly paid for· through the Cultural Arts Commission, so it's Festival are not a bunch of stuffy intellectuals. Each guest has expressed particular interest in meeting students at the reception and midday "Conversation" ses­sions. Take it from me, they're very friendly, and all fascinating people. I encourage everyone to take advantage of this opportun­ity especially, because that's what Sophomore Literary Fes­tival is really all about experiencing writers not as face­less voices but as people with a lot to share. You don't have to come to the receptions and conversation sessions armed with poignant · queries or brilliant insight. Just basic interest, curiosity. It's a marvelous chance to mingle with some extraordinary personalities in an informal atmosphere, chat with friends and faculty, and nibble · 


on some free food (after all, it is 
a Festival!). 
Also, the Sophomore Literary Festival is not just for sophomores. Anybody can and should walk right on in (it's free, you know). And not just Arts and Letters folks, either. The Festival is for the whole Univer­sity to enjoy. We don't get too many poetry or fiction readings here, so many of us don't know what they're like. Well, now's your chance. I really think you'll like it a lot. 
One last thing. Everyone should realize that our Sopho­more Literary Festival is one of the main events in the country for showcasing contemporary writers. Everybody wants to 

.······.~~~~§ij~;i ~.ij~ij,:~f\t~~,J~~: at..•••·•..·•.•···•·•.•···.·ij·q~(-:,i,~geHg.mgt~

~,~.~~~7}6~.~t.i.¥1!;:i~:r•g•• ~.. ~··\~i
the·•.···•'.111ai11,<,e\r~nts ;tin• .th~ 


~g~~~t¥:·•·•·>(g~;,
!f2Pt~m11:~.t~r. 

ers \.. 
know, "who's reading at Notre Dame this year?" In the world of poets and authors, participating in our Literary Festival has become a mark of prestige, and our reputation for putting on a classy show has spread far and wide. So come check out a grand Notre Dame tradition: the Sopho­more Literary Festival, February 
21-27.  It's  not  something you'd  
want to miss.  
--Mike  Evces  is  Chairman  of  

The Sophomore Literary Festival Executive Committee. 


11-\E. CAR"tOOtsJ W \"Tl--\. \QE.NT\f\ASL.E. PE.~Ct~TuAL co~~tllCCt.T\Vt. t>\ s~o~s 


WELCOf\l\~ TO H\GH SCJ--\OOL 
\.\OW \-\ARO 00 ~00 (>.)~t-lT TO. ST\JOY? 
i!.t.ST ~Ul'te.0

t,c.<:,e.E~ 0 ~OEGl?.H. OF"f'IPE. Of 
couRSE. 
HAPP11JES'S 

01FF1C.UL-~'{ 
t-0~ ~IOt l.ll\\O neE: 

~Ot-JORS  g  KltJQ,!\ ~f\S'j  vJ 1-\ l-Z..'Z..~I C.'2A'2-':'.l  
COL,l...EGE PREP  Q  \=Pi.t~L-'1 EAS:I  0\-Z.t-~, BUS~  
GE.N82AL­ @  REAL-EA.S'1  Q.REE-Z.'::'.) J L.A2':'.l  
BPtSLC.,  @  &.l?ON\7 g\5,~  C.Kt:E:SljI SlkA'2.'j  

11" SoM.E.o>JE. Dl2.0PS HIS OR \-\Ee. SToFF IN "n-\1:: RUSH @.E.'1..A)'i=:6tJ 
(,1,~ss1:s, Bt Sl.lQ..'t:. ID STO"';P 
OIJ IT. C\N £1'JTIRc ':'.)E,.~RS' WOR\:. CAN (?,E. TRAMPL617, R 1PPE:O l).IJO OE:s:TR.O<:, E. D 1...i fl.. 1--\A'.~R 0I= SEC0rJOS 
If Ev'i:RYOtJ£ Coo~RATl=S. 

DID ~Ol) "'-'OW? The best wor l::. is T\.-iu:t w\-i;ch i s do..,e. o..-t­+{.-\e. lo.s-t­
m; "vi:-e. 

DO NOT TAU:: TO TE: ACtl.~ ltJ THS SAME; TONE. OF VOlC't, 
"Tl PS ~OR TE.E.NS 
WK~ NOT C:>E.T AJ0B P.1" ~lGHT AND U:ARrv 
11-lE. <.uOt-l~<;' OF DE:EP .. .. . ~ 
~~~l~G S~c.12eT SAuC.E, • o · -.J 
MINIMUM WA6t AtJ'O :'.:.-·...: 
Sl..E.E.Pl'-lG IN Sct1.001-? ·.' 
I PuSt-lfV Tt\S w~G BulTOrJ At-lV 9fl.E\EQ E.VEtzl.ft\-11-lG ! 
Tl-111-lGS'TO TH11JGS' NOTTO WO~ A&l!IT' ~e'I AB'.JIJT IN HIGtl SctlDOI. ltJ 1-HGH SCHCOt, 
STATUS' sE:.'x:' Ct...OTH.ES' 0'2.AOE5' 
srnroL­
SP tRIT"'
D12 IN¥:. ll'J G CAPACn:? 
K.ll-UN G 1:1ou'2.S1:LF GRn.ouAT!OIJ ':,cull. FACE. 









