ui noira am
SCHOLASTIC
WOT cams IUUS rare
EUGENIO CARDINAL PACELLI
IN THIS ISSUE . . .
CARDINAL PACELLI HONORED HALLS DECORATED FOR GAME PEP RALLY IN STADIUM "SCRIP" OUT NEXT WEEK
O. S. U. EDITOR'S PREDICTION OUTLOOK FOR TOMORROW PITTSBURGH REVIEW COACHES INTRODUCED
THE WEEK COLLEGE PARADE SPLINTERS INTRODUCING
OCTOBER 30. 1936
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOL^sttc, OCTOBER 30, 1936.
HALF E HALF MAKES DHE SMH^MOKE!
J
- '1 v-	; r.-Sial
~	.?. &?9
2?^'<5 / - '/

Wo*
mjggft

&



$
Just add ’em up, Mister, and you have what it takes.

Cool as a “ticket” for overtime parking. Sweet as the proof it was all a mistake. Fragrant, full-bodied tobacco that won’t bite the tongue—in a tin that won’t bite the fingers. Made by our exclusive modern process including patent No. 1,770,920. Smells good. Makes your pipe welcome anywhere. Tastes good. Your password to pleasure!
&
gets smaller and bitten ffingers as
Not a bit off bite in the tobacco or the Telescope Tin, which
smaller as you use-up the tobacco. No you reach ffor a load, even the last one.
Copyright 1936, The American Tobacco Co.
FOR PIPE OR CIGARETTE
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 70
October 30, 1936
No. 6
Monsignor Fulton Sheen To Speak Next Week
•
The Right Reverend Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen will deliver a series of lectures in Washington Hall, Monday, November 9, to Friday, November 13 on the theme “The Cross and the Crisis.”
Monsignor Sheen was ordained in 1919. He belongs to the diocese of Peoria, HL In June, 1934, word was received from Rome that Rev. Dr. Fulton J. Sheen had been named a granted the title, Right Reverend Monsignor.
Monsignor Sheen attended Louvain and Rome where he received his titles of Doctor of Philosophy and Theology, respectively. After leaving Rome he returned to the United States to teach at Catholic University of America in Washington, D. C.
By his radio sermons and books as well as lectures in this country and abroad, Monsignor Sheen has become one of the best known Catholic priests in the English-speaking world.
Prof, Lunn Organizes Chesterton Club
The Chesterton Club, organized by Arnold Lunn, and fashioned after the Hyde Park Controversial Club of London, will open its meetings to the public as soon as the officers and members have been selected. The manner in which the limited membership of the club is selected is unique. The applicant for membership must give at least three creditable speeches either in a debate of from the open forum.
Organized for the purpose of furthering the knowledge of Catholic Apologetics, this club will debate many of the current topics which have a bearing on this subject. In the past they have debated such questions as: “Communism vs. Catholicism” and “The Catholic Church vs. Birth Control.”
Mr. Lunn’s purpose in organizing the club was to spread' the idea of such organizations throughout the country, as a means of spreading Catholic truths throughout the world.
EUGENIO CARDINAL PACELLI IS AWARDED HONORARY DOCTORATE OF LETTERS AT SPECIAL CONVOCATION
Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli, first papal secretary of state ever to visit this country, was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters by the University Sunday afternoon, Oct. 25, at a special convocation in Washington Hall.
Flying from New York in a specially chartered plane, the visiting cardinal
Cardinal Pacelli greeted bg Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.SJJ.
Sale Opens Monday For Army Trip
Tickets €
To the tune of the “Victory March” hundreds of happy and enthusiastic Notre Dame students will throw classes aside on Friday, Nov. 13, as they board the Notre Dame Special to follow the trail of the Fighting Irish to New York.
The tentative railroad schedule announced recently has been made definite according" to information released this week.
The student train will leave South Bend at 1:30 p.m., Friday, Nov. 13, and will arrive at the Penn station Saturday morning at 8:25, New York time. Sunday afternoon at 2:00 is the time set for leaving New York. Students will be back in South Bend at 6:55 Monday morning. Free transportation on the street cars will be provided between the campus both before and after the trip.
Hotel accommodations at the Mc-(Continued on Page 22)
arrived at the Bendix airport in South Bend Sunday afternoon at 2 o’clock. He was greeted at the airport by a delegation of University officials, ahjmni and civic leaders, headed by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame; the Very Rev. James W. Donohue, C.S.C., superior-general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, the Most Rev. John F. Noll, bishop of Fort Wayne, and the Most Rev. Joseph Ritter, Bishop of Indianapolis.
Cardinal Pacelli and his party proceeded by automobile through South Bend to the University where they were met by the student band. As the cardinal rode from the campus en-
• trance to Sacred Heart Church he was warmly cheered by the student body lining the route.
.At the church a brief visit was made for prayer with the faculty assembled in cap and gown. Cardinal Pacelli gave the papal blessing, and then proceeded to Washington Hall where the citation for the honorary degree was read by the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C. S. C., director of studies.
In reading the citation Father Carrico said:
“The University of Notre Dame at this special convocation of the faculty on the great feast of Christ the King is most happily privileged in announcing the conferring of the degree of doctor of letters, honoris causa, on:
A prince of the Church, eminent by position and by achievement, an ecclesiastical statesman and diplomat who in an era of world conflict has done much toward the conciliation of warring peoples and good understanding between governments and the universal Church—His Eminence, Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli, secretary of state to His Holiness, Pope Pius XI.”
In introducing Cardinal Pacelli. (Continued on Page 23)
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 30, 1936.
FESTIVE ATMOSPHERE PERVADES CAMPUS AS RESIDENCE HALLS ARE DECKED
WITH COLOR FUL DISPLAYS
FIRST SANTA MARIA WILL BE ISSUED NEXT WEEK
Q
By Harold A. Williams
With hammers, pliers, ropes, and ladders, the arrangement committees are putting the finishing touches to the various displays of the residence halls this afternoon in preparation for the Ohio State-Notre Dame game tomorrow.
Tonight a holiday atmosphere prevails over the campus, for besides the usual decoration of residence halls, the entrance to the campus and the dining hall are bedecked in huge banners and streamers for the first time.
A new type of decoration seems to have been the keynote of the committees in charge, for several new angles have been worked out. Walsh Hall has abandoned its traditional theatre marquee and has worked out a scheme in a Halloween motif. Even the old Infirmary,, which is serving as temporary residence hall this year, has a display appropriate to its name.
Jerry Claeys, is the S.A.G. man in charge of all the arrangements. Phil Bondi, S.A.C. president, is in charge of the dining hall, and Gordon Murphy is in charge of the entrance.
The men in the halls who are on the executive committees are: Sorin, Ed Hickey, Joe English, John Blasso, Hugo Melchione. Lyons: Robert Rumph. Morrissey: John Wade. Howard: John DiMatteo. Badin: Joe Schultz. Dillon: Bob Schram. Alumni: Joe Quinn. Walsh: Bill Goldsmith, Al Schwartz, Frank Huisking, Gene Ling. Carroll: Joe Rice, Paul McCormack, Matt Merkle. Brownson: L. Devereux, Victor Vergara, Ed Siess, Jerry Sergeant. St. Edward’s: Bob Tiernan, F. O’Hara, Alan Mooney, John Kelly. Cavanaugh: McBernard, Tangey. Freshman: W. Hagen, Henegan, Jones and Carny.
For the past two years Freshman Hall has been declared the winner. Three years ago Lyons Hall was picked for its unusual arrangement. Last year* Badin and Morrissey were given honorable mention.
Holiday Poll
, Phil Bondi, president of the S.A.C., has announced that the S.A.C. will poll the students next Tuesday night to determine the date of the holiday which was awarded by His Eminence Cardinal Pacelli on his visit to the •campus last Sunday.
Bondi said that so far student opinion seems to favor either the Friday after Thanksgiving or an extra day on the Christmas vacation. The S.A.C. is conducting the poll to obtain the majority’s wishes.
FOOTBALL DANCE SET FOR TOMORROW EVENING
•
The second dance of the year under the auspices of this year’s senior class will be held tomorrow evening at the Jefferson Plaza. This dance will be known as the Notre Dame Halloween dance although it is not a costume affair.
President Parker Sullivan announced early this week the appointment of Jim O’Donnell of Brooklyn, N. Y. as general chairman of this dance. The music will be provided by the University dance orchestra led by Frank Barbush.
The reduced price of fifty cents a couple will be continued for this dance. Dancing will begin at 8:30 p.m. and will end with the playing of the Victory March at 11:30 p.m. Tickets will be on sale at the door of the Jefferson Plaza and there will be representatives in each of the halls. The name and room number of hall representatives will appear at the bottom of the posters placed on the bulletin board in all the halls.
Ohioans Set Up Service Booth For Visitors
Definite plans were laid for an information booth at the Ohio State game by the Central Ohio club at a meeting Friday evening, October 23. Joseph Ryan, vice-president of the club, has charge of the booth, which will be set up in the off-campus office, and will be open between eight a. m. and game time.
It will furnish pamphlets with a map of the campus and pictures of the various buildings, so the visitors can make an intelligent tour of the campus. Volunteers were asked to man the booth during their free periods.
Girard Besanceney, president of the club, has written the university of Ohio State about the booth so that students may expect assistance.
Within the next week, the Santa Maria, quarterly publication of the Knights of Columbus under the editorship of William Gomber, Arts 4, will make its first appearance.
Formerly a four-page quarterly, the Santa Maria will present eight pages of council, campus, off-campus, and athletic activities. A new and uniform type face, which facilitates
Editor William Gomber
Launches New “Santa Maria.” reading, and revision of its front page, are new features.
William Fish will conduct the sports column. An unique feature will be the guest column to be written by prominent campus figures and guests of the University. The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, writes the first guest column.
Reviews of modern Catholic books and the lecturer’s column, to be written by Robert L. Grogan, Arts 4, will round out the features to be placed in the Santa Maria.
Editor Gomber and his associates has devised a novel mailing list under which program all members of the Council during the last decade are to receive copies of the publication.
William A. Branigan, Arts 3, is managing editor, and George E. Po-nath is business manager. William J. MacNamara, feature editor; Robert L. Grogan, A. Raymond Martin, and Paul Foley, associate editors round out the staff.
Reconditioning of the Knights of Columbus lounge in Walsh Hall by addition of new furnishings and reading material is being planned by the building corporation of the council under the chairmanship of Mr. Ray-mand Hoyer. At the meeting of last Friday, the corporation reported that Walsh Hall recreation room is to be used by the Knights.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 30, 1936.
5
JOURNALISTS HEAR
EDITORS BROWN
AND COSTIN
•
Sports writing was given special attention by the Notre Dame Press, club during the past week. On Wednesday evening, James M. Costin, sports editof-of the South Bend News Times, addressed the club at its first smoker of the year in Carroll Recreation hall. President John N. Cackley introduced Mr. Costin to the assembled group.
Editor Costin gave a very interesting and comprehensive discussion of sports writing with particular emphasis on college athletics. He gave the address a personal touch by relating several of his own experiences m reporting athletic contests. Following the address, he answered various questions put to him by the club members?'
Last evening, Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, spoke to the members of the Press Club and other Journalism students in the north basement of the library. His topic was “A Sports Writer Looks at Notre Dame.” Professor John M. Cooney, head of the Department of Journalism, introduced Mr. Brown.
Editor Brown discussed the consideration accorded all sports writers who visit Notre Dame and called the Notre Dame press box “the best in the country.” The great interest shown in all Notre Dame contests makes it an excellent source of copy for all sports writers. Brown devoted considerable time to answering questions on various types of sports reporting.
These are the first two in a series of lectures by newspaper men at the University during the schoolyear. The Press Club, revived this year under the leadership of President Cackley, plans to have a guest speaker at each of its bi-weekly meetings.
Council Checks Club Financial Sheets
Complete investigation of all club financial statements was conducted by the Presidents’ Council Wednesday evening in the library basement.
President Gene Ling announced that all requirements for organization of new clubs should be submitted to the council not later than Oct. 30. Each club must outline its constitution and activities before the council will consider its application.
Six applications of new clubs were received this week for ratification by the council. All groups desiring to organize should submit their constitutions immediately to Gene Ling, 107 Walsh Hall.	.
GIANT PEP RALLY TO BE HELD IN STADIUM TONIGHT; PROMINENT SPEAKERS' LIST, FIREWORKS DISPLAY PLANNED
By Robert McClain
Fireworks, torch parade, gold and blue pennants, radio broadcast, and prominent speakers will characterize the giant pep meeting tonight in the stadium in preparation for tomorrow’s game-with Ohio State. The march to the stadium will begin at the dining hall immediately after supper. The band and torch bearers will lead the long line of marching students. Guest speakers will address the assemblage from atop the players’ dugout on the west side. The student body will occupy the same student section used for games.
CONTEMPTIBLE CASE1 SAYS PROF. LUNN OF COMMUNISM
•
_ .. - ..	Graham Starr
In a stirring lecture attacking Communism, at Washington Hall last Tuesday evening, Arnold Lunn called
Prof. Arnold Lunn
“We must debate as a business.”
on the members of the Church to become more militant in the struggle against the forces of Communism in this country.
In answer to the invariable “We won’t have Communism here,” Mr. Lunn pointed out the new tactics of Moscow. At the seventh World Congress of the Communist Internationale at Moscow, it was decided to use non-revolutionary methods to attain revolutionary ends. So Communism is moving up under a disguised front.
Another reason for the growth of Communism is the fact that Protestantism is losing hold on the supernatural, and is turning to the natural. For example, he showed that the first result of the turn to the natural was the establishment of Prohibition in this country. Spain was pointed out as an example of a nation ruled by a
(Continued on Page 22) .
e
The entire pep meeting will be broadcast from WSBT between 7:00 and 7:30 o’clock. This is the first time that a pep rally has been held in the stadium and broadcast in entirety.
Under the direction of the Students’ Activities Council, the pep rally will convene with an aerial firework display from Cartier field; roman candles, sky rockets, falling stars, and aerial fountains will feature the colorful night exhibit.
The initial-speaker of the evening may be Dr. John Mohardt, ’22, who played halfback and quarterback on the 1921 and ’22 squads, and whose line plunge from the three yard stripe in the second quarter gave the Irish a 7-0 victory over Nebraska in 1922. Following Dr. Mohardt on the program will be Clarence “Pat” Manion, professor in the Law School and state director of the Indiana National Emergency Council. The third speaker will be Francis Wallace, Notre Dame graduate of 1923, author of several novels and short stories, and reporter for the New York World Telegram.
The concluding speakers on the program will be Joe Boland, line coach, and Elmer Layden, director of athletics and head coach. Coach Layden’s addresses are highly interesting, and students will eagerly await his comment on tomorrow’s battle with the “Scarlet Scourge.” Ted Husing, famous sports announcer of the Columbia Broadcasting Company was scheduled to address the student body, but last minute changes of the CBS prevented his appearance at the rally.
Professor Joseph Casasanta will have charge of the musical program and will lead the band in the playing of the Notre Dame songs.
The S.A.C. appointed John Kelley, junior member in charge of stadium arrangements and parade; Martin Burns, senior member in charge of the speaking program, and John Wilson, junior member, in charge of fireworks.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 30, 1936.
SCRIP TO MAKE YEAR'S FIRST APPEARANCE FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 6. EDITOR WELSH ANNOUNCES FEW CHANGES
By Richard Riley
The Notre Dame Scrip for 1936-37 will make its first appearance on the campus next Friday afternoon, Nov. 6. The students’ response to the call for Scrip material was especially satisfactory and Editor Philip Welsh announced this week that a considerable amount of excellent material is available for
this issue.
Philip Welsh
Upperclassmen will notice t K e attractive n e w cover on Scrip this year which was designed by Hugo Melchione, senior in the department o f Fine Arts, who did most of the art work in last
year’s Dome. Other art work by Melchione will also appear in this issue.
A considerable revival in the writing of poetry was revealed by the number of verses submitted for consideration. This issue will contain poems by Robert Gehres, senior in the College of Science, and P. Q. Wylie.
Of the numerous works of fiction offered, Editor Welsh has selected those by Charles B. Nelson, Frederick J. Digby, John M. Broderick, Richard Lucke and John W. Gallivan to ap
pear in this first copy. These works are particularly well done and should enhance the student body’s interest in Scrip considerably.
Outstanding among the essays submitted is one on “Piers the Plowman” by F. M. O’Laughlin. Mr. O’Laughlin presents an interesting and comprehensive discussion of this long English poem by Langland.
This year’s Scrip will inaugurate several new departments of criticism chiefly concerned with the theater and contemporary literature.
The Freshman sketches which were so popular last year will be continued this year with some slight variations. This department is especially for the men of ’40, and they are urged to cooperate by submitting contributions.
Editor Welsh also announced that there would be some new mechanical arrangements in the literary quarterly this year, the exact extent of which has not as yet been determined.
INCREASE BAND SIZE TO ONE HUNDRED PLAYERS
• ■
By Michael B. Mongoven
- The University Band will be enlarged to one hundred pieces, according ot a statement released this week by band director Professor Joseph Casasanta. This band will be ready
Director Joseph Casasanta
Bands, Symphony, Glee Club . . .
Japan. Chicago. Paris and Russia Are Represented in the Library Art Show
By Vincent DeCoursey
What is probably the most highly controversial American painting of the past few decades is one of the twelve pictures on display in the University library this week.
The painting under discussion is the dreary landscape in Aaron Boh-rod’s conception of a “Landscape Near Chicago.” The melancholy oil painting has been branded by New York art critics as a typical New Yorker’s idea of a Chicago scene, al-thought the artist himself claims to have sketched the outline from actual material on Chicago’s outskirts. However cloudy the subject, the picture itself is sharply outlined and pleasingly proportioned, and is a fair example of the work of the more modern American painters.
Although the “Landscape Near Chicago” is the feature painting of the exhibit, it is not extremely outstanding in the group on display. There are twelve reproductions of contemporary American artists* work
on display, and their subjects range from William Gropper’s satirical “Senate” to the brilliantly colored “Central Park” of George Grosz.
The paintings are the first in a four-part series of contemporary art as selected by the Living American Art association of New York. Tomorrow the paintings will be removed, to be replaced by the second group, although the time of display is as yet undetermined.
Although the pictures are all by American artists several are American only by adoption. Rico Lebrun, artist responsible for the caricature of “Anna” is Italian born; Raphael Sover’s “Flower Vendor” shows his native Russian training; and the angular Japanese art is expressed in the Americanized Yasou Kuniyoshi’s “Japanese Toy Tiger.” The German individualist Grosz apparently has been influenced by color realists in his style and has gradually discarded the technique of his expatriated country.
for the Ohio State game tomorrow. Additional uniforms have been ordered, and they will be identical to those already used by the band.
Early in September there was a call issued by Professor Casasanta for men desiring a place in the band. One hundred and ten answered this call the first day, but some found that they could not keep up with this extra work. At present there are one hundred in the band, and Professor Casasanta has molded them into one of the best band the student body has ever seen.
The concert, which was to have been broadcast from the campus studio has been cancelled. This broadcast was to have been sent over a coast to coast hookup.
Professor Casasanta this year organized a dance orchestra composed of campus musicians led by Frank Barbush. The new unit has been featured at the past two football dances and has been very well received.
Another organization under the tutelage of Prof. Casasanta is the symphony orchestra. The response to the call for men for this orchestra has been very weak.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 30, 1936.
FAMOUS SYMPHONY
TO PLAY HERE WEDNESDAY
•
By Thomas Marker
Bohumir Kryl, world renowned conductor and solo cornetist, will direct his famous symphony orchestra in a program of classical music in the Notre Dame gymnasium at 8:00 o’clock Wednesday night, November 4.
To be heard on the program will be such famous selections as the Overture to the opera “Mignon” by Thomas, Symphonies No. 5, “From the New World,” by Dvorak, and many others that combine old world beauty and feeling with modern instruments in a perfect blending of harmony.. Besides the superb, precise charatcer of his directing, Kryl is widely recognized as the “most remarkable cornetist in the world.”
Travelling Thirty-one Years
Margery Maxwell, internationally famous American soprano, is the featured vocalist with Kryl this season. She has achieved a reputation for rare clarity of tone both in American and European opera with the Chicago Opera company and the Grand Opera company of Bordeaux.
In thirty-one years of travelling the United States with his orchestra, Kryl has presented more than twelve thousand concerts, making more than one hundred appearances in colleges and universities each year.
Kryl was born in Horice, Bohemia, a short distance from the outskirts of Prague, the son of a sculptor. At eleven he joined the Rentz Travelling Circus and toured Europe as a contortionist, tumbler, jumper, and “man on the flying trapeze”—besides playing cornet in the grand march and doubling on the violin.
It was the “man on the' flying trapeze” that caused him to leave the circus, however, as the result of a disastrous fall. Discouraged, he headed for America. Here it was his violin which kept the “wolf from the door” until he found work as a sculptor with Indiana’s famous author, Lew Wallace.
Presentation of A. A. books will admit students to the Kryl Symphonic concert to be held Wednesday evening, Nov. 4, at 8:00 p.m., in the gymnasium.
Students will enter by north and south doors and be seated in the north and south galleries.
"Scholastic Of The Air" Is Broadcast This
Afternoon
•
“Scholastic of the Air,” a radio program depicting the news events of the week at Notre Dame will be inaugurated this afternoon at 4 p.m. Bob Grogan and Jim Waldron aided by members of the Scholastic editorial staff will write the script and conduct the program. It will originate
Newscaster Robert Grogan Takes the Air This Afternoon.
in the studio of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering and will be broadcast through station WSBT, South Bend.
At the meeting of the Radio Group last Monday night in the studio in the engineering building over 60 students (Continued on Page 20)
Embryo Engineers Earmarked Early By Earnest Electrical Entreaties
By Fred E. Sisk
One hundred frisky freshman engineers this week have some of the shine worn off their pride as a result of a circus initiation that their
senior brethren
of
Louis Purcell timidity by their
the Engineers’ Club accorded them last Friday night.
The big tent was the University gymnasium, the acrobats were the 100 frosh “engine” men, some of whom posed as “toughies” and a few who admitted their
shaking legs; the
ring-masters were the senior engineers under the leadership of head ring-master, Louis Purcell; and the few privileged spectators were those who either sneaked in under the canvas or bargained with the gatekeepers.
Attired in gym shorts, the candidates for the Engineers’ Club were
GEO. LANE TO HEAD MET CLUB DANCE
AT CHRISTMAS
e
George P. Lane, of Brooklyn, N.Y., chosen as chairman of the Met Club Christmas dance by the executive officers of the club, is now negotiating with the Alumni organization in New York concerning the event. Since the Alumni are helping to sponsor the revival of the club, they are being consulted about plans.
The board of trustees of the club, elected at one of the last of a long and persistent series of reorganization meetings, is made up of representatives of different boroughs as follows:
Paul Van Wagner, Staten Island; Frank Huisking, Huntington; Bill Fallon, New Rochelle; and Jack Tag-ney, Brooklyn.
One of the duties so far assigned to the trustees is to act as an executive advisory board.
President Joseph Brien announced that the new charter drawn up recently will soon be approved by the S. A. C. after a few minor changes.
blindfolded to keep the dirt of the gymnasium floor out of their eyes and anything else which the seniors did wish their frosh brothers to see.
The .“toughies” were marked on the shoulder by an encircled cross, and these “specials” did featured acts during the ceremony.
Adhering to the idea that every good circus has a cage, the engineers had an “electrical cage,” which consisted of a wood frame with chains dangling from the top charged with electricity. As the victims entered the cage on their hands and knees, the chains touched their bare backs and the shocks received kept them from remaining there too long a time.
Tom Carney, president of the Engineers’ Club, announced that Mr. Elmer Roach of the Westinghouse Company, would speak Wednesday evening, November 4, in the auditorium of the Cushing Hall of Engineering. He will speak on “Electronic Devices and Their Uses to the Engineer.”
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 30, 1936.
Kreisler To Appear At Palace Nov. 2.
•
Fritz Kreisler, noted Austrian violinist and composer, will present a concert at the Palace Theater, South Bend, Monday, November 2. His appearance here marks the opening of a music season which promises to be one of the most outstanding in years.
Mr. Kreisler is a native of Vienna and it was there, as a small boy, that he first attained success. In 1889 he left Vienna and made a successful tour of the United States. Shortly after, he decided to abandon music and spent some years studying medicine and served in the Austrian Army. But the lure of the concert stage was too much for him, and in 1899 he reappeared and gave a series of brilliant performances in all the key cities of the world. At the outbreak of the World War, 1914, Kreisler rejoined his former regiment, but was wounded and discharged from service, thereafter he resumed his career.
As a composer and violinist he has won himself world-wide acclaim and has endeared himself to all those who love good music.
Mr. Frederick Amison Buried Oct. 27
' A solemn high requiem mass was celebrated last Saturday morning, Oct. 27, for Frederick J. Amison, late manager of the Notre Dame laundry. Stricken by a heart attack, Mr. Amison succumbed Wednesday morning while driving to his club.
Mr. Amison had many years of varied experience before coming to South Bend almost a decade ago. Having previously worked with the French Lick Hotel and the Canadian Pacific Company, he was well fitted for his managerial duties here. By his work as manager of the laundry and dry cleaning plants, he won the admiration and approval of the entire Notre Dame community.
To his bereaved wife and daughter, those at Notre Dame offer their deepest sympathy.
Seniors To Pose
Starting on Monday, Nov. 2, the first senior class pictures for the 1937 Dome will be taken. Members of the Dome staff will make appointments for pictures with the seniors. All seniors with appointments are urged to be prompt in keeping them. A charge of $1.00 is made for each picture.
The last junior pictures will be taken at 5 o’clock on Friday, Oct. 30, unless special arrangement has been made with Louis Dunn, managing editor of the Dome, 217 Dillon hall.
Reading a circular of the Cleveland Chamber of Commerce, one might with passing interest find that it has Lakewood for a suburb. Campus opinion might vary as to the importance of this ballyhoo, but for the fact that this town has sent the President of this year’s Presidents’ Council to Notre Dame.
Eugene Frederick Ling, by way of introduction, is also president of the Cleveland Club. Spent his early educational days prepping at St. Ignatius High School where he gained local
fame as a football player. Modestly disclaims participation in a legendary tale of how he played against Jesse Owens and caught the Olympic star from behind as he was sprinting to a touchdown.
Entered Notre Dame as a Fine Arts students and soon found himself called upon to do more work outside than inside classroom. Has spent four years as decorator of pep rallies and class dances, doing this week’s Ohio State festive decorations.
Member of the Maloney, Burns, .Waldron, Huisking, etc. clan which now dominates first-floor Walsh. He and Pinky Carroll have tried every “grow hair on billiard ball” remedy on the market, but are non-committal when asked for an. endorsement. Proud possessor of one of the largest pipe collection in these parts, but cherishes a certain “corn-cob” for sentimental reasons.
Worked last summer as Cash Register Inspector at the Great. Lakes Exposition, and. guardedly, confides that it was his resemblance to Robert
Vincentians Lay Plans For Clothes Drive
©
Plans have been formulated by the St. Vincent de Paul Society to collect old clothes and magazines for the needy in South Bend and vicinity it was announced this week by President Joseph Drolla.
“Each student is asked to save his old clothes and magazines,” President Drolla said. “Representatives of the society will canvass the halls next week and each student is asked to cooperate with the society in gathering of disposed goods.”
The annual report of the St. Vincent de Paul Society was read and approved at last Sunday’s meeting, and will be forwarded to the Supreme Council in New York City.
All members are asked to be present at next Sunday’s meeting in the K. of C. lounge at 11:00 a.m.
New York Alumni Club Plans Army Dance
Those attending the Army game will be glad to know that plans have been completed for a Dinnei' Dance to be given by the Notre Dame club of New York at the Hotel Pennsylvania. According to a letter from Warren Fogel, secretary, the dinner will be served at 7:00 o’clock and the total cost will be $3.50 per plate. Dancing will be provided by the music of Francis “Bugs” Walther, ’25, and his orchestra. Mr. Fogel writes, “I take this opportunity to extend a cordial invitation to the boys to be with us at the Pennsylvania.”
In addition to this, a military dance will take place at the Hotel Astor for the benefit of the Catholic Chapel of the Most Holy Trinity, West Point. The music will be furnished by Vincent Lopez, and dancing will continue from 9:00 p. m to 1:00 a. m.
Taylor that drew what attendance there was—the underwriters of the Fair don’t think there was! Favorite radio program is “Lights Out” hour which sends chills down every listener’s spine with every steaming cup of some renowned coffee.
Known as the “King” over at “Sweet Briar on-the-St. Joe,” but finds the competition is generally a “uniform” one. Rides to the hounds on Sundays, and is organizer and captain of the Walsh Hall polo unit —having a ten-goal seating on his favorite nag, “Dexter.” Likeable fellow, as his hosts' of friends will testify, and a fitting successor to last year’s “The Man of the Man About Campus,” Bill Ellis.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 30, 1936.
9
THE WEEK
Sunday Matinee
The visit of Eugenio Cardinal Pa-celli brought pomp and many unusual sights to the campus: rich blue and gold banners that darkened the windows of the dining hall at noon; long lines of students on the paths; a procession of beautiful, shiny cars riding over the walks; and, most unusual, a request that an academic holiday be given. Praise to the hard-working bandsmen for their untiring attempt to make the wait pleasant. Standing for more than an hour, the musicians played most of their repertoire, including a warm “Tiger Rag.” The impatient men on line applauded them more vigorously than at any athletic event. A slight rain thinned the gathering; time crept on. At long last, late by ninety minutes, came the visitor, and even the rain didn’t have a chance.
Club Contest
Now that the Metropolitan Club has climbed the first few rungs on its success ladder, a grim challenge has been extended by a new, and as yet unproven, organization — the Far West Club, comprising ten states and the territory of Alaska. The publicity men for the Westerners are nothing if not bold; they urge attendance at their meeting with bulletin board notices that read “Down With the Metropolitan Slickers; Down With Everything; Onward and Upward For the Golden West.” Trenches are being fortified on Badin field. The proudly civilized Easterners are arming against the admittedly uncivilized barbarians, and the betting is about even. Watch your local paper for developments.
•
Oddities
Ex-Captain Bill Smith listening to the Pitt game in his room.
The announcer who gave out the possibility that Notre Dame’s Frank Kopczak might get into the game. Frank also heard the sad story on the campus.
Fashions In Smoking
College men and pipes have always been as close as the yolks of eggs to their shells, but we never thought that a pipe was an unvarying and unmistakable stamp of a collegian. It must be so; we heard a yearling eliminate all doubt with one of those unqualified statements that, we are told, a cultured man should eschew. As this serene style-setter lighted his cabbage-burner and released thick swirls of smoke, his awed compan-’ ion asked, “Where did you get the
By John A. Gillespie
pipe?” Between gasps came the disgusted and confident answer, “Why, all college men smoke pipes.” And there you are.
•
Soft Touch
Continuing in the nicotine vein, have you noticed the cigarette company employee who uses the candy store as his headquarters? His life and work is full of rebuffs and cruel disappointments. He patrols his tiny area and approaches a likely looking man. He hands out a card to be filled in with the subject’s choices of the three most popular songs for the next week. Up to this stage a perfect harmony exists. When the selections have been made, the guesser, nine times out of ten, turns away and lights a cigarette of a rival company, leaving his benefactor with a hurt expression and a skinned pride. Then, should the selections ■win, the unfeeling chooser gets a carton of cigarettes free. He can’t lose.
Comes the Revolution	*s
From comparatively authoritative * sources, come frightening tales of ex- I orbitant prices charged by taxi com- ! panies. A mild boycott has ensued and trolley cars are thinking of building double-deckers. That’s gratitude for you; after we’ve given them the best three years of our life, the cabmen raise the tariff. Little do they realize the indignities we suffered for their welfare. Every time we rode past the little hut near the cab stand, we were subjected to scrutiny. We had to turn on the light in the back of the car so that the proper officials could count heads and see that only four occupants were riding. The process brought back memories (from the movies, of course) of police lineups. And now they’ve raised the prices. They forgot that the only disadvantage of trolleys is their lack of speed. But what Notre Dame man will not lose ten minutes to save a dime? Another item: when the ice covers the streets, we much prefer the safe, non-skid ride on rails. We remember phrases from an Economics course: “big business,” “monopolies,” “supply and demand.” To arms, men of Notre Dame!
Fun With Limn
Just in case you scrupulously shy from lectures, let us put in an unreserved plug for the efforts of Mr. Arnold Lunn. Never a dull moment when he stands next to the water pitcher. He speaks frankly, wisely, and humorously. To make your attendance irresistible, there is open forum after the talk; bare your soul to him.	1
EDITOR BURKE ISSUES FIRST EDITION OF "THE CATALYZER"
The October edition of The Cata
lyzer, the first of this year, appeared
on the campus, Wednesday, October
21. The Catalyzer, published month
ly by the Department of Chemistry
Frank Burke
and edited by the Chemists’ Club, although intended primarily for the students of the department, i t makes interesting reading for the layman as well.
The Catalyzer acts as a medium for the in
terchange of information among the alumni, and it keeps both students and alumni posted on the latest developments in chemistry at Notre Dame and elsewhere.
Circulation Jumps
From a small beginning in 1923, The Catalyzer, has reached a circulation of which it may well be proud. Each month 330 copies are delivered to students on the campus and over 400 copies are mailed to alumni. Representatives of this latter group are found in the 48 states and in many foreign countries. Copies of this Notre Dame magazine are kept on file in the leading universities of the United States. This is not a bad record for a magazine entering its 14th year of existence.
In their first edition of the year, the very capable editorial staff, composed of Frank Burke, editor; George Schlaudecker, associate editor; Tom Carney, assistant editor; and George Kersin, news editor; has turned out a fine piece of work.
All of the articles in The Catalyzer are written in such a manner as to be easily understood by the general reader, who will find much to interest him in this first edition. “Absolute Zero” explains the method used by Professor W. F. Giauque, of the University of California, in producing the lowest temperature yet attained by man. “Spinach Harmful” presents an interesting argument in favor of the disuse of that taboo of childhood.
An edition of The Catalyzer honoring the memory of Notre Dame’s priest-scientist, the late Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., Ph.D., Sc.D., will be published later in the year. No definite date for the publication of this Nieuwland Edition has as yet been announced.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 30, 1936.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus
Founded 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C..................Faculty Adviser PAUL FOLEY..........................  ;.Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER........................Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie_________________________________The Week
Anthony F. O'Boyle_____________________________College Parade
John Hurley____________________________________Feature Editor
Robert L. Grogan________________________“Scholastic of the Air"
Joseph Rotondo In The Juggler Pein
New Staff
Louis DaPra____________________________________New Editor
Harold A. Williams______________________Assistant New Editor
Michael Mongoven Frank Reilly
Richard Riley________________________-_____Robert McClain
Graham Starr
Vincent Hartnett 1
Gregory Byrnes, f Literary Editors
Harold Williams J
Sports Staff Eugene Vaslett_______________________________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe________________________Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley______________________________Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride____________________________Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby______________________________John Cufford
Charles Callahan____________________William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott______________________________James A. Waldron
James Dunn
Francis Kroeger_________________________________Art Editor
R. Dooley, '26___________________________Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Vol. 70	October 30, 1936	No. 6
WORLD VIEW ...
WHEN His Eminence Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli, Papal Secretary of State, arrived in New York on the Conte di Savoia, he released a terse and thoughtful statement to ship reporters.
“On this my first visit to the United States,” His Eminence-said, ‘there is no need of a lengthy statement to have you understand my desire, cherished for a long time, to see with my own eyes this country and to feel the pulsations of its labor. . .”
Cardinal Pacelli, the highest dignitary of the Church ever to visit the United States, sees this country at a time when the comparison of Europe and America must be striking.
The Cardinal left a Europe razor-edged with the
rumors of war. Everywhere acres of troops stand in review, arms bristle in ominous display. Spain is racked with real wounds. All of Europe is more than an armed camp—it is a series of such camps, each carefully watching the other. Capitals are full of uniforms, visitors are watched, the air is tense.
Cardinal Pacelli sees this country emerging from a depression, excited with the activity of a political campaign. He will hear some words of bitterness in his brief tour; he will see the opposing political factions drawn for battle; he will hear labor agitators, communists, socialists, all sorts of political haranguers belaboring the people. But he will not see streets clogged with armies; he will not see railroad stations guarded by sentries; he will not see a nation grooming its fighters, waiting tensely for war signs.
“I am indeed happy to find myself within the territory of a great people who know how to unite so beautifully and nobly a sense of discipline with the exercise of a just, legitimate and well ordered liberty,” Cardinal Pacelli said in New York.
Notre Dame and America should be glad to welcome one of the highest respresentatives of the Prince of Peace. He sees an America still clinging to the hope of peace, he sees an America of buoyant spirits.
“May all the sons and daughters of this North American continent, in spite of the present difficulties, enjoy a condition of noble and decent human existence which is the prerequisite of a true and lasting peace in society,” concluded Cardinal Pacelli in his New York statement.
His Eminence and the Church he represents holds the key to that “true and lasting peace”—if the world will but accept it.
V
GUEST LECTURERS ...
IT IS seldom that an American university presents for its students such an imposing array of talented guest lecturers as Notre Dame has done in the past two years.
Last year Shane Leslie, Desmond Fitzgerald, and Christopher Hollis were made temporary members of the teaching staff. Each of these men brought to the campus a world-wide reputation as a scholar in his field. In addition, students here were privileged to hear talks from such distinguished visitors as Monsignor John A. Ryan, Etienne Gilson, Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen, and others equally eminent.
This year, with the. first quarter of the year barely reached, we have already heard several notable lectures. Arnold Lunn, one of the most brilliant controversialists in English, is on the staff and has given remarkable speeches to Washington hall audiences. Dr. Arthur Haas, Viennese physicist of world fame is also here to lecture and teach. The Rev. James Gillis, C.S.P., appeared for a series of five talks, and now- plans are announced to bring Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen to the campus again.
To simply list this array is trite repetition, it is more interesting io note that response to these speeches has improved tremendously in the past year. If should improve—nothing should be needed as a further stimulant.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 30, 1936.	11
CALENDAR
Friday, October 30
“Scholastic of the Air,” 4:00 p.m., WSBT and campus radio station; Huge Ohio State football rally at the Stadium.
Saturday, October 31
Mass for football team, Sacred Heart Church, 6:25 p.m.; Football game, Varsity vs. Ohio State, Stadium, 2:00 p.m.; Movies, “Poppy,” starring W. C. Fields, Washington hall, first show for freshmen at 6:40 p.m.; Halloween Dance, sponsored by S.A.C., Jefferson Plaza, 8:30 to 11:30 p.m., Frank Barbush and his orchestra.
Sunday, November 1
Student Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m., Sacred Heart Church; Knights of Columbus officers’ meeting, K. of C. chambers, Walsh hall; St. Vincent de Paul meeting, K. of C. chambers.
Monday, November 2
Opening day of Student Trip ticket sale, Ticket office, Main building; Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; S.A.C. meeting, basement of library, 6:30 p.m.; Villagers’ dinner and meeting, Columbia Athletic club, 6:30 p.m.; Fritz Kreisler Concert, Palace theater, sponsored by Concert Guild of South Bend, 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday, November 3
National election day; Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.
Wednesday, November 4
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Ticket sale for Student Trip ends 5:00 p.m.; Minnesota club smoker, Carroll Rec., 7:45 p.m.; Bookmen meeting, former Commerce library, 7:45 p.m.; Kryl Symphonic Concert, Gymnasium, 8:00 p.m.; Engineers’ club meeting, Elmer Roosch to speak, Cushing Hall of En gineering, 8:00 p.m.
Thursday, November 5
Glee club ’ practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.
To Honor Curtin
I
On Sunday morning, Nov. 15, the Rhode Island club will hold a communion breakfast in memory of Barney Curtin, a former student manager and member of the club, who succumbed to an attack of tonsilitis this summer.
In answer to the proposed merger of all New England clubs as suggested by the Boston club, the Rhode Island group voted to remain a separate body.
COLLEGE PARADE
National Increase in Popularity of Economic Courses
A recent survey conducted by the United Press reveals the fact that the popularity of commerical courses, especially straight economics courses, in institutions of higher learning throughout the United States has reached a new high this year.
Educational authorities attribute this increased interest in such courses to the problems originating from the depression years. Another reason for this gain, according to some college officials, is the national interest shown in the economic theories now being expounded by our two major political parties. .	.
Color Galore!
When North Carolina’s “Tarheels” played New York University a few weeks ago Joseph’s coat of many colors was made to look like a mourning garment. At the start of the game the Southerners came out in black and white outfits but soon changed to an orange and black color scheme. During the half the North Carolina band added to the rainbow effect by parading in blue and white uniforms. Later in the game the “Tarheels” not only made another change but even switched then- uniform numbers.
Epitaph
Four Brandies
Three Ryes Two Scotches One Bier
From The Silver and Gold—Colo. U.
The N. Y. A. and Education
The National Youth Administration of the Federal Government this year- will distribute about $6,000,000 among college students in the United States. This amount will be supplemented by an additional sum of $629,135 for the use of students in the drought-stricken states of the South and Mid-west.
Speaking Briefly
Sororites with the lowest scholastic averages were well above fraternities claiming the highest marks was recently disclosed by a survey at the University of Maryland . .'. Coordination, condition, enthusiasm, mental-stability, application, and susceptibility are the most valuable qualities a football player can possess according to Coach Dorais of Detroit U. . . . A town meeting was once packed by Amherst students who put through an ordinance calling for the erection of a new city hall to be one foot wide, 100 feet long, and to be made of glass. . . . Add to your definitions:
Facetious—Followers of Mussolini.
Academy Of Science Hears Bocskey
At the 134th consecutive meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science, Mr. Stephen Bocskey, of the Biology Department, gave an interesting informal address on the Marine Biological Laboratory.
Professor Bocskey spent the past summer at this unique research center located on Cape Cod at Wood’s Hole, Massachusetts, doing work in protozoology. The academy members were told that the prime purpose of the institution is to promote biological research. A few of the most interesting points brought out in the address were that the five scholarships awarded at the close of the session were won by students from Catholic universities; and that of the many schools in this country and abroad that subscribe to the Marine Laboratory only one is Catholic — Seton Hall, in New Jersey.
The Academy was also told that this is the meeting place of the most famous men in biology, who gather either to do research work themselves or to act as instructors. Here, too, will be found the world’s largest and most complete biological library.
Patricians Admit Five To Club Roster
Candidates for membership were interviewed by the Patricians committee of membership during the past week and five students were admitted to the society.
The committee, under the chairmanship of John Marbach, and consisting of Tom Doody and John Deane, has selected Robert Gartland and William Struck, of the Law school; while from the Seniors Robert Kelby and Jerry Zeiller, seniors; and one Sophomore, John Kohn.
Plans for a formal induction dinner after the Christmas holidays were discussed. Professor Turley, of the department of Classics, who recently returned from Europe, was again named faculty adviser.
Last Tuesday, Oct. 27, the members were formally introduced by President Matt Bruccoli at the meeting which was held at one of the round table rooms in the Law building. A program committee was appointed to determine the order of speakers and also to draw up a tentative schedule of radio discourses by members.
Astronomers Note
The Rev. James E. Kline, C.S.C., head of the Department of Astronomy, wishes to interview any student who saw the fireball flash across the southern sky late Friday afternoon, October 16.

w
It's a Light Sm
Last Way Int
When Fun and
* * NEWS
82 years old—She Knc
OF RICH, RIPE-BODIED TOBACCO—"IT'S
Copyright 1936. The American Tobacco Company
n
On party nights —or wh pe smoking—you’ll find tha Li
are a comfort as well as : are a light smoke, there your throat. Luckies weai cigarette that’s "Toaste against irritation. So toi now, reach for a Lucky fine center-leaf tobaccc smoke with a clean, fires
!JO n
ve
,ri<
It
ta
night smoke... easy on yc I.. late for a light smoke... r /er
For "Night-cmd-DayM Smokers
—A Light Smoke!
Even though you've been smoking through most of the day, and all through the evening, you'll find that your midnight Lucky tastes as good as your Lucky at noon. For a clean taste, a dear throat... reach for a Lucky—a light smoke I

Mrs. Elizat is a real "S1 am 82 yeai I have ever and am I Mrs. Bowk that you w
Have yo your delici sicon the a —Wedner Listen, juc then try Yc
And if ’ Luckies, b’ Maybe yo-You’ll ap Luckies— bodied tol
rs
r1 eps pld 'on
eas We
mt< j,sLi Tt
,'ty a \ ai r rLu<
u’rc a f re b reci Ligl -CO.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 30, 1936.	13
CAF SMOKE «
« « « « « « « «
rioke!
I moking
t > the Night...
rh ». lever you do a lot of la Luckies, a light smoke, i i jjoy! For since Luckies 'e no wear and tear on u veil... they’re the only e ’... your protection )i irrow, or better, right 1 rich with the taste of :c It’s a good morning s .taste. And it’s a good c (L.. gentle. It’s never too r ker too late for a Lucky!
LASH! * *
'S Her Popular Music
a Bowles of Uvalde, Texas, epstakes” fan. She writes: "I >ld and this is the first time ' on anything absolutely free, .‘eased!” Congratulations, t We’re certainly pleased, too, f i.
> entered yet? Have you won j. s Lucky Strikes? There’s mu: Tune in "Your Hit Parade” ;iy and Saturday evenings. \ and compare the tunes— Lucky Strike "Sweepstakes.” u’re not already smoking ; a pack today and try them, re been missing something, reciate the advantages of .Light Smoke of rich, ripe--CO.
Mirth Marches On . . . “That Toasted Smoke” had Gaf Smoke on the run, but now we are back to haunt you much to the amazement of dazzling Castillian “SAPPY” BONET and that dashing Detroiter LEE “AMBASSADOR” MOORMAN.
The local railway company wants JOE MANNEBACH (Dillon) to return that “Freezone Corn” ad. . . . RUSSELL PATCH and BOB TIERNAN (St. Eds) are offering the best caricature of the football players evei- seen on this campus—this ad is as yet unpaid for . . . LEE HALL and DICK RODENFELS’ tall stories of Columbus will have many sophs down at the station to greet the fair co-eds tomorrow.
BOB HOAG (Lyons) objects to his neighbors snoring with all stops open . . . TARZAN ROSS and FRANK BARBUSH with their assortment of bow ties, makes them our selection for the “hit of the week” . . . JOE MANGELLI (Walsh) although teaching at a local high school, wants it known that he’s still a student at heart. . . .
The Height of Futility . . . Trying to cash a personal check . . . Waiting for hot water in Lyons . . . Looking for an occasional nickel in a Notre Dame phone booth slot . . . Getting a gag nobody has heard.
Excerpts from test papers . . . The future of I give, is You take . . . The population of London, is a bit too thick . . . Balboa discovered the Pacific Ocean while, cruising down the Mississippi. ... A vacuum is an empty space where the Pope lives . . . The revolution in India was led by Manhattan Dandy. . . .
Recruiting sign seen in the East:	•
JOIN THE ARMY -	and
. HELP .BEAT NOTRE DAME
To those who have been lamenting the loss of our own Halliburton, Miller Mallet, let us recom-
mend BERT SMITH to fill that aching void. Bert’s “Grand Tour” through the U. S. gave him a stock of tales that would make even the rotund Miller gape . . . HANK “Where he ends nobody knows” LEADER urges recognition of Russia. Hank has given recognition in his own little way . . . “BUB” CROWLEY, who holds down the number three position in the solitary ward of Lyons, reports that the sun now hurts his eyes. He is the fellow with the beard and dark glasses you’ve seen around the campus. Somebody wanted to know where the glasses ended ... To those who were curious about the absence of “TONY” GOMES we report that he is now studying for the secular priesthood in St. Bernard’s seminary in Rochester, N. Y. “Tony” reports that campus life is a bit restrained there.
That air of assurance, worn like a sunflower, by NELSON VOGEL is due no doubt to the fact that he has yet to sit out a dance at the Palais. . . . There is some mention of him taking one of “the” Wood sisters to the Junior Proin ... We have yet to find a freshman who wants to know where the parade grounds for the military unit are . . . VIN DUGGAN, who managed an orchestra doim east this summer, decided to retire from the University. An inspector’s position at the Studebaker plant was the inducement. . . . . . . Harold Sparling, JIMMY “DARKHORSE” MYERS and DAVE GELBER (Law students) have brothers and sisters enrolled at Ohio State, and they are coming to the game, so in any event they win . . . We are wondering why BOB FIL-SON smokes that black seegar; could it be because he is the “pres??’ ... In case any of you want to know, that noise in the foyer of the dining hall right after dinner is the Spanish Club going through its paces. . . .
Will see you at the rally, so get on your horse CALLAHAN.
CORBY IS CAUGHT IN THE ONRUSHING FORCES OF BRIGHTLY PAINTED, STREAMLINED PROGRESS
By John Hurley
They’ve caught up with Corby.
Proudly, haughtily, it has stood there by the lake, scornful of the new gold coast halls. Defying change, it has disdainfully watched the modernization of the campus. All Corby asked was an occasional door knob or a new spindle in the staircase.
But, one summer morning men in white overalls carrying saws and chisels, paint, brushes, and other queer looking tools swooped down on Corby. These men knew nothing of tradition, of the sacredness of the squeaks in Corby’s stairs.
They did not understand the memories found in every brick near the front doors. Jim Jones, ’04, carved by some far-distant alumnus meant nothing to them. It was just an old building, a
building that needed to be decorated and altered to the best architectural laws of 1936.
So, they went to work on Corby. Down came the old stairway, trod by the Notre Dame great from Rockne to Lautar. Walls were ripped away by men whose only thought was to get the job done. Hallowed floors were covered with a new, rich-colored composition. Rooms were changed into suites (with every one a bath).
Yes, Corby is no longer the hall of squeaks, worn floors, of names on the wall. It has been made up to date. It has a new wing protruding off toward the grotto. It has been given bright coats of paint. It has been streamlined all the way through.
But, Corby still looks the same from the front, still disdainfully looks down upon Dillon across the campus, - • wondering perhaps why those strange men ever came.
COASTED
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 30, 1936.
ATHLETICS -=-
SCARLET SCOURGE CLASH WITH IRISH RENEWS GREAT FOOTBALL RIVALRY AT STADIUM TOMORROW
By Nick Lambert©
In the stadium tomorrow afternoon before a capacity crowd of 56,000 fans the Scarlet Scourge of Ohio State and the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame will unfold the sequel
Larry Danbom
He Made a Thousand Tackles.
to last year’s thriller which was won by the Irish 18 to 13 in the closing minutes of play.
Although both teams have been beaten this year, the game tomorrow nevertheless will lose none of its color. Sport fans throughout the nation have been eagerly awaiting this game hoping that there will be a repetition of last year’s epic battle. Past records meant nothing last year in their first meeting and should mean even less in this, their second meeting.
The Scarlet Scourge started out fast this year by whipping New York University 60 to 0. Indications pointed to another team of championship caliber, but Pittsburgh stopped that rumor by nipping the Scourge 6 to 0. Northwestern caught Ohio State on the rebound and edged them out 14 to 13 in a nip and tuck battle. Last week the Scarlet returned to its winning ways by subduing a stubborn Indiana team, 7 to 0.
The Irish, like the Scourge, started the season with championship aspirations. Pittsburgh again proved the “spoiler” by conquering the Irish, 26' to 0. The Irish downed their first three opponents with comparative ease—Carnegie Tech 21-7, Washington U. 14-6, and Wisconsin 27-0. Then came Pitt. The Irish unfor
tunately happened to meet the snarling Panthers at an inopportune time, for they had just been beaten the previous Saturday by an inferior Duquesne eleven, 7 to 0. Consequently they were out to avenge themselves on the Notre Dame system in general and the Notre Dame team in particular.
Tomorrow’s game will bring together again many of the participants in last year’s hectic battle. Conspicuously absent from the scene of action will be five of last year’s stars: Andy Pilney, Bill Shakespeare, and Wayne Millner of Notre Dame, and Gomer Jones and Frank Bouchei* of Ohio State. Practically the whole Irish first string played in the second and deciding half of the game last year, and were highly instrumental in turning the tide of the game.
The Scourge still has the highly touted “Jumping Joe” Williams. His sophomore understudy, Bill Booth, is considered even better than Joe when it comes to lugging the ball. Tippy Dye, the dimunitive quarterback,
Tippy Dye.
On The Enemies* Trail
TO DATE:
Ohio State — Defeated New York University; Indiana. Lost to Pittsburgh and Norhwestern.
Navy—Defeated William & Mary; and Virginia. Lost to Yale and Princeton.
Army — Defeated Washington & Lee; Columbia; Harvard, and Springfield.
Northwestern—D e f e a t e d Iowa; North Dakota; Ohio State; and Illinois.
Southern California—Defeated Oregon State; Oregon; Illinois; and Stanford. Tied Washington State.
THIS WEEK:
Ohio State plays Notre Dame.
Navy plays Pennsylvania.
Army plays Colgate.
Northwestern plays Minnesota.
Southern California has open date.
calls the plays and does the major portion of the passing. Captain Merle Wendt at end is a stellar offensive and defensive player. His catch of Dye’s forward pass in last week’s game gave them the touchdown which beat Indiana.
The Irish, somewhat battered by Pitt, will attempt to return to the win column by beating a team which has been pointing for this game all season. It was no secret at the Buckeye training camp that they were out to avenge last year’s defeat, and preparations for this have been going on since Christmas.
Besides revenging themselves on the Irish, Ohio State will be seeking its third victory in five starts. Notre Dame will be in the difficult comeback role attempting to erase some of the sting of the Pitt reverse with a victory over the Scarlet Scourge. Anything can and will happen in tomorrow’s encounter.
Both teams were beaten by Pitt’s charging line, and the outcome tomorrow will depend largely on the work of the respective lines. The two teams are very evenly matched with Ohio State having a slight edge in manpower and idividual stars. It will be a clash between the “razzle dazzle” style of play used at Ohio State and the sharp off-tackle thrusts used by Notre Dame.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 30, 1936.
BUCKEYE AND NAVY SERIES1 HISTORY
•
1935—Notre Dame 18; Ohio State 13.
Though Notre Dame and Ohio State have been among the cream of the football crop for many years, last year was the first meeting between the Buckeyes and the Fighting Irish.
Joe Williams.
The result of that game is now football history.
Sparked by Andy Pilney, the Lay-denmen rushed over three rapid fire touchdowns in the second half to literally stun the overflow crowd that attended the greatest football spectacle ever staged on any gridiron.
1927—Notre Dame 19; Navy 6.
1928—Notre Dame 7; Navy 0.
1929—Notre Dame 14; Navy 7.
1930—Notre Dame 26; Navy 2.
1931—Notre Dame 20; Navy 0.
1932—Notre Dame 12; Navy 0.
1933—Notre Dame 0; Navy 7.
1934—Notre Dame 6; Navy 10.
1935—Notre Dame 14; Navy 0. Totals: Notre Dame 118; Navy 32.
Notre Dame and Navy will play whereever there is a game arranged. They have battled each other on gridirons in Baltimore, Cleveland, South Bend and Chicago.
Soldiers Field in Chicago was the scene of the game in 1928; The attendance was 120,000 people at that battle. A pass, Niemic to Colerick, turned the tide in favor of the Irish.
Notre Dame won in 1929 after the Sailors had taken a nearaly touch-(Continued on Page 21)
OHIO STATE EDITOR INDICATES IRISH BATTLE AS CLIMAX OF BUCKEYES' SEASON INTENT UPON VICTORY
By Dick Williams
(Lantern Sports Writer)
The peak of the schedule filled with the stiffest opposition in the country will be hit next Saturday when Ohio State tangles with Notre Dame in a return game at Notre Dame which may be as epoch making, as the unforgettable battle at Columbus last October.
Assuredly the Bucks have been pointing for the battle with the Irish, and they’re out to even the score if possible. They haven’t forgotten that history making game in which the Irish doused their hopes for national recognition with an 18 to 13 victory scored in the last minutes of play in 1935.
Thus far this year, Ohio State has split even in its four games played, winning over New York University and Indiana, and losing to Pittsburgh and Northwestern. However, it has been the opinion of unbiased observers that the Scarlet are improving in every contest. Without a doubt the line play in the Indiana game was the best thus far in the season.
There are six veterans on this year’s team, the rest are promising newcomers.
Captain Merle Wendt (candidate for All-America honors) is in his third year at left end, and Frank Cumiskey is at the other end post. Cumiskey was a reserve end last year.
Charles Hamrick and Alex Schoen-baum are the tackles. Hamrick is a senior, and inasmuch as a knee injury prevented him from playing a great deal in the 1935 season, is out to get some place this season. Schoenbaum is one of the most outstanding sophomore linesmen seen locally in a long while.
Inwood Smith, named as All-American guard last year, is back at left guard, and Gus Zarnas holds down the other guard berth.
Ralph Wolf has taken the place of the great Gomer Jones at center, and while not the star Jones was, has creditably acquitted himself in all the games to date.
Ohio State has a pony backfield this season with the only player with any substantial weight being Jim McDonald, husky junior fullback. William “Tippy” Dye, the 150-pound quarterback, directs the team, and at the halves are Johnny Bettridge and Joe Williams. Mike Kabealo, fourth of the line of Kabealos in Ohio State football, has been alternating with “Jumping Joe” Williams at left halfback, and Bill Booth, rangy new
sophomore has also been given a chance at that position.
Reserves in the backfield are virtually as good as the first team. The second string backfield includes wiry Nick Wasylik at quarterback, Johnny Rabb, fullback, and Howard Wede-brook and Bill Booth, halfbacks.
Rabb was the star of the Indiana game with his sensational line plunging, and was aided greatly by the 190-pound Wedebrook, who is an outstanding punter.
The game appears to us to be rather evenly-matched, and we look for another hard-fought struggle, in which both teams are likely to let loose their big guns in offense. Coach Francis A. Schmidt is sticking by his style of “wide-open play” this year, but is mixing some, straight football in with it when needed. Irish fans can expect, however, to see plenty
Frank Antenucci.
of intricate laterals in which the ball changes hands three or four times, and a variety of new plays.
In conclusion we might say that this will not be a “grudge” battle. Ohio State wants to win badly, but there x are no ill feelings from that battle of the two teams last year The slate is clean, and whoever wins, will truthfully have earned a right to the victory.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 30, 1936.
INTRODUCING b
BRUISED GRID SQUAD DRILLS FOR BUCKS
It’s always a pleasure to interview a sympathetic man like Bill Stein-kemper. At least one who is sympathetic with you. Bill kept telling us the difficulties of writing one of these columns and although he didn’t have to tell us anything, it was a pleasure anyway. We appreciate it, Bill.
But we didn’t go over to get sympathy from the pride of DePaul Academy; we wanted the cold facts and figures of his athletic career. Speaking of figures he seemed to dwell upon the fact that there was a “little girl in Chicago” who evidently is quite a football fan, at least when Bill is out there playing for Notre Dame. However we didn’t see Bill for that either, as we said before, athletics was our prime object, and after a bit of persuasion we got the boy around to talking about himself.
Anna, Ohio, seems to have been his birthplace, but the Steinkemper family evidently wanted their boy to be brought up in a big way, so they moved to Chicago, and it was there that Bill started on his way to being first string tackle of the 1936 Irish squad. It was a sort of round-about method that Bill took to becoming a tackle; he played three years on DePaul Academy’s team, two of them he spent at the center, while in his senior year he moved back to fullback. Finally on coming to Notre Dame he found himself at tackle, and for three years has seemed quite satisfied with that position.
Back at DePaul in his high school days he was captain of the grid team in his senior year, and was elected to All-State fullback honors probably because he was the highest scoring man in the city of Chicago for that year, which appears to be a logical reason.
The following September he hustled his clothes together and appeared at Notre Dame weighing 200 pounds, and left Notre Dame at Christmas time for a vacation weighing 245 pounds. We imagine the Dining Hall management lifted its head in pride as it saw what was once a pany 200 pound “weakling” go stalking home to Chicago at 245 pounds even. In Chicago Bill must have been a walking advertisement for Notre Dame food.
He was one of two men, the other being John Lautar, to win their monograms in their sophomore year of 1934. The Purdue game was the first game he saw action in, and for 25 minutes Bill was as nervous as the timidest soul. Following that game
he played in three others and acquired enough time to win his first monogram, and incidentally, the first monogram of Notre Dame that was ever won by a DePaul graduate. But Bill probably won’t be the last; another DePaul man, “Tarzan” To-nelli, sophomore fullback, has just about won his already this year.
In the Carnegie game of his sophomore year Bill fulfilled what a lot of people dream about when he made a flying block at the referee. It was a case of mistaken identity, the referee didn’t have on the same colored socks as Notre Dame players, and
Bill Steinkemper anybody who didn’t have on blue socks was to be taken out with speed and dispatch, official or not, or so Bill thought.
Bill claims the most impressive and thrilling thing that he ever observed at Notre Dame was the Monogram Club’s ritual at the initiation ceremonies when he received his first monogram. The ritual is secret, and no one but those who have won their monograms knows just what goes on behind the closed doors of the club when its has its initiations.
He’s taking Commerce, or rather, as he claims, it’s taking him. The Chicago Club is proud of his athletic abilities not only at football but ping pong as well. The boys are still talking about that mock ping pong battle he put on with Jim Hack last year, and they’re still talking about him as the assistant master of ceremonies in the Monogram Absurdities of last year. The “St. Mary’s Four Miles” dress shirt almost stopped that show.
It is from that “little Girl” in Chicago that those letters seem to come in with remarkable regularity although we couldn’t vouch for that.
When he gets out of school he’ll follow in his father’s footsteps and promote insurance of the people of Chicago.
By Mark J. Mitchell
With practically all of his first and second team badly battered from their encounter with the steel-sheathed member of the leopard family, Elmer Layden was forced to abandon strenuous practice almost entirely this week, as he and his Irish lads consoled one another with preparations for bleaching the Scarlet Scourge when they invade the Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow.
It is doubtful whether Layden would risk aggravating the injuries sustained in the Pittsburgh game by scrimmaging his varsity this week. Nevertheless he set to work to capitalize on the experience gained by his ill-fated eleven, last Saturday, in the hope that it would stand him in good stead against Ohio State.
Pitt Game Well-Played
Despite the mangling which Notre Dame suffered at the' hands of the clawing Panther, Irish supporters found solace in the acute observation that the game was won by Pitt rather than lost by Notre Dame. Without a doubt the Fighting Irish were outfought and outplayed. And yet in their defeat the Notre ■ Dame lads looked individually good. Almost without exception' each player took care of his assignments well. The cause of the difficulty which arose in the final analysis of points scored was that the Pittmen played just a little bit better.
This competency should have been improved by tomorrow, so that when Francis Schmidt brings his Buckeyes here thirsting for blood, he will be met by a stubborn, unyielding Irish defense, and he will be attacked by a charging, slashing offense.
Irish Hope For Comeback
The question, then, which will be uppermost in the minds of Coach Layden and his charges as they consider the approaching encounter is— Will the terrific physical beating administered by the mountainous Pittsburgh team last Saturday be offset by the practical and psychological experience gained from the game by the Irish? And it is the fervent hope of every loyal Notre Dame supporter that the answer will be in the affirmative.
CORRECTION
Captain Joe McNulty did not lose in the finals of the tennis tournament last year as reported in the Oct. 23 issue of The Scholastic. Sorry.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 30, 1936.
17
ON DOWN THE LINE
By Mike Crowe
CORBY DAVIS, Indiana’s plunging fullback, hasn’t seen action for some time due to a siege of boils. Davis has received several suggestions on how to cure his trouble. One adviser told him to eat a pound of raisins per day. And still another suggested that he place heated beer bottles over the boils.
The MR. VAIRO who plays a good game in the Duquesne backfield resembles DOMINIC VAIRO, former captain of Notre Dame.
It’s not surprising when you consider RAY KING’S outstanding play against the Riveters from Purdue. The great Minnesota end was a riveter himself last summer. He caught red hot rivets with a small can, picked them out with tongs, and then thrust them into the rivet holes.
Six Penn State athletic teams have elected co-captains. FRANK SMITH and MIKE KORNICK share honors in two sports, basketball and baseball. HOWARD DOWNEY holds co-cap-taincies in cross-country and track. Other teams with double leaders include golf and fencing.
Two race-track, telegraph operators will think twice before they' place their bets again. They are JOHN KELLY and FRED MILES. At Sportsman’s Park in Chicago on Oct. 20, they bet on Lady Rockledge in the second race. Its leg was broken less than a half furlong from the finish. They bet on Fabius in the third race. Lady Luck again deserted them for Fabius also suffered a broken leg and had to be destroyed.
Only two men out of Penn State’s 36 man squad hail from towns outside the state of Pennsylvania. New York and New Jersey are the other states represented on the Penn roster.
Northwestern promises to have one of the best basketball teams in the country this year. From last year’s team, COACH DUTCH LON-BERG retains such men as VANCE, McMichaels, trenkle, mercer, BLUME, SMITH, BENDER, and NAGODE.
RAY RICKMACH, Syracuse football player, injured his leg recently while participating in an off-gridiron touch football game.
FRED MUNDEE, Notre Dame’s varsity center and MIKE KABAELO, Ohio State’s sophomore halfback, are from Youngstown, Ohio. Tomorrow is the chance for them to decide which Youngstown prefers as an athlete.
The speedboat craze has struck LEFTY GOMEZ. He spent nearly all his World Series cut on a boat that struck his eye as being one of the best. And Lefty only wants the best.
LYNN WALDORF doesn’t believe in midweek scrimmage. So far this
PITTSBURGH CRUSHES NOTRE DAME TEAM IN THE MOST DECISIVE GAME OF SERIES;
PANTHER SCORES TOTAL 26 POINTS
By John F. Clifford
Sadly deficient in all departments, save that of punting, the Notre Dame football team were overpowered by the hard blockers, vicious tacklers and classy ball carriers of the University of Pittsburgh last Saturday. Manifesting little knowledge in fundamentals Notre Dame lost its first game of the season before 71,000 frenzied fans in the Pitt Stadium to the tune of 26-0, the most decisive

defeat ever- inflicted upon the Irish in eleven years.
The Panthers were led to victory by a snarling young cub by the name of Marshall Goldberg, who displayed most effectively how smashing linedrives, fast-breaking off-tackle slants, and wide end-sweeps should be done. After a brief exchange of punts, in which Joe O’Neill had the better of the deal, and line jabs Pitt took the ball on theii* own 43 yard line. Goldberg then gave an indication of what
season, the Wildcats have scrimmaged less than ten minutes in all. Waldorf has been getting results too.
DICK BOWLIN has caught the eye of more than one major league baseball scout. BOWLIN catches for the Hawkeyes in the spring and plays as halfback for Ossie Solem in the fall.
MIKE ZARNAS, one of Ohio State’s many rugged linemen, is also a baseball player of some not. ZARNAS is a right fielder for the Buckeyes, and one of the Big Ten’s heavy sluggers.
TUFFY LEMANS, a stand out in the recent All Star football game worked his way through college by sweeping floors.
STEVE TOTH of Northwestern is an in and out kicker. He kicked once for 73 yards against.Ohio State. Last week against Illinois, Toth was just an average kicker.
was to follow later in the game by running 45 yards in two attempts. An unsuccessful field goal thwarted this first attempt at scoring, and the remaining of the quarter was uneventful.
Halfway through the second period the Panthers advanced on a sustained power-house drive from their own 25 to score. Jack McCarthy, who had replaced Bob Wilke at left half, and one of the fastest moving men in the Notre Dame backfield, showed his prowess defensively at this point in the game. With but a minute before the gun denoting half time, Bob LaRue, a main cog in the Pittsburgh offense, slipped around end and sped for he distant goal 70 yards away. McCarthy raced for the sidelines and grabbed him by the jersey, throwing him offsides on the 7 yard stripe, fearful that a tackle from behind would give LaRue sufficient momentum to carry him over the goal line. Two plays failed to score, and the half ended 7-0.
“That-man-Goldberg” again asserted himself when he caught Larry Danbom’s kickoff on the Pitt 11 and behind beautifully blocking advanced the ball to the Notre Dame 40. A 15 yard penalty failed to halt the Pittsburghers, since a pass from Goldberg to Hoffman made the score 130. The educated toe of Joe O’Neil and the work of Captain Johnny Lautar 'in the line prevented the men of the “Silent Scot,” Jock Sutherland, from scoring again in that period.
With Chuck O’Reilly at the quarterback post things took on a different hue for the Irish. Passes and penalties gave the team more spirit than it had shown all during the game. But this sudden shift in complexion was short-lived as Len Scog-lund caught a pass out of bounds that might have led to a score. It was under this backfield of O’Reilly, Gleason, McCarthy, and Simonich that Notre Dame rolled up their four first downs.
A 25 yard penalty for alleged unnecessary roughness on the part of little Chuck O’Reilly and an intercepted pass resulted in two more touchdowns for Pitt and finished the scoring for the afternoon.
Larry Danbom prevented many a long run on the part of the Panthers by his stellar work at backing up the perforated line. Kuharick and Stein-kemper were also outstanding for the Irish.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 30, 1936.
Splinters From The Press Box
By Cy Stroker
Autumn is the open season for those clever people who like to bring themselves a little publicity by accusing football teams of professionalism. This year is no exception, for sure enough last Friday’s papers carried a story, by a well known sports writer, which classified all college football into three categories, “simon-pure,” semi-professional, and professional. In order to make his publicity the more assured, this writer placed the leading teams of the country in the second and third groups, with such teams as Northwestern and Notre Dame in the semi-pro class, and Pitt and Fordham in the pro class.
•
Of course there’s no use arguing with a man like that. It’s his story and he loves it. Because of lack of information, this column is not prepared to refute the accusations directed at other schools. But if giving a football player a job in the dining hall or the gymnasium (on an equal footing with other students who need such aid) constitutes semi-professionalism, then perhaps Notre Dame can be so accused. That, however, is not our idea of professionalism or anything approaching it. Incidentally the article might be a convenient way of explaining last week’s defeat, thusly: Notre Dame lost to Pitt because Notre Dame is only semi-pro while Pitt is the real thing.
The best defense may be a good offense but not when Pitt has the ball. Along with everyone else we were disappointed over the outcome of last Saturday’s game, — it’s only natural to want to win all the time. But excuses are out of order; Pitt won because they had more power, more weight, and more experience. But our confidence in the team is not shaken in the least. Pitt was the toughest opponent the Irish have to face this season. The remaining teams on the schedule are good, but they play a brand of ball that seems to be easier for the Irish to stop. Ohio State appears tomorrow. They were beaten twice this year. They can be beaten again.
They’re at it again. Meaning the members of the S.A.C. (campus politicians to you, Throckmorton). The S.A.C., hard pressed to assert itself, occasionally gets a brilliant idea. This time it was the journey to the station to meet the team, — a very laudable move and one that we endorse fully. The only trouble is that the Big Idea is so dazzling that such details as determining how many trolley cars would be needed to transport the students are neglected. Not that the students were unwilling to walk to the station. On the contrary, as many as were carried started to walk, only to meet the team riding by in taxis half way down. Consequence: Members of the team wondering at the disgruntled look on the faces of those who started out to cheer them. May we suggest that in the future the S.A.C. arrange to have the students get up in time to walk to the station if sufficient cars are not available? Reason for this complaint: we walked down as far as St. Joseph’s church before the taxis went by.
“Pappy” Fromhart is plumb disgusted. Out of seventeen choices, three of his predictions didn’t pan out last week. Interviewed in his suite in Sorin, Pappy took his corn-cob pipe out of his mouth, parted his whiskers, and spat forlornly. Quoth he: “Bus’ mah breeches! Them football teams is gitting as bodacious as a pesky revenoo critter. I ain’t seen the like of it all mah bohn days. Yere’s mah predictions this week, and they better be troo ’cause time’s a’wastin’ and mah score’s pretty low:
Notre Dame over Ohio State
Army over Colgate Purdue over Carnegie Tech Columbia over Cornell Duke over Washington & Lee Pitt over Fordham Princeton over Harvard Holy Cross over Temple Oklahoma over Iowa State Manhattan over C. C. N. Y.
Navy over Penn Minnesota over Northwestern Southern Methodist over Texas U. C. L. A. over Stanford Alabama over Kentucky No. Carolina over No. Carolina Wisconsin over Chicago Illinois over Michigan Indiana over Iowa
IRISH TO MEET NAVY TWO WEEKS HENCE AT BALTIMORE
•
Elmer Layden and his Fighting Irish landlubbers will become seamen on November 7th when they journey to Baltimore for their tenth annual tilt with the Navy. This game has come to be one of the high points on the Notre Dame schedule, as it has resulted in some of the finest football and has served to tie a strong knot of friendship between the two schools. It is said that the great Knute Rockne never faced a Navy team without first telling his squad of the clean-living, highspirited Midshipmen. Always the meeting of these teams has been featured by smart, clean, and inspired football and Notre Dame is proud of the relationship.
Navy has been going through a season with fair success, beating William and Mary, Davidson, and Virginia, while losing close games to Yale and Princeton. Both losses might have been averted with a few breaks, so Uncle Sam’s boys cannot be passed over lightly. Head Coach Lieut. Hamilton and assistant Coach “Rip” Miller, formerly a' tackle on the famous team of the Four Horsemen, will present a team well versed in many forms of attack and with an almost airtight defense.
At the ends will be Soucek and Fike, both of whom played regular against Notre Dame last year. Both are big, strong, and fast with plenty of reserves to back them up. As tackles, .the sailors will present Ferrara and Hessel, two boys who are bowling them over like a couple of gobs on a short leave. Captain Morrell and DuBois will be at guard, and are both fortified with much experience. Center is the weakest spot on the line with three boys still fighting it out for the right to succeed the famous Captain Robertshaw. Miller will probably get the call, however.
The backfield should cause the Irish no end of trouble, because it is experienced and aggressive. Wilsie at quarterback is an excellent blocker and defensive man, and he certainly can call his shots. At right-half “Navy Bill” Ingram stars as an ever dangerous triple threat man who shares the halfback honors with Mason at the left wing. Probably the outstanding player on the team is Jack Schmidt who will start at fullback. Among a team composed of battleship's Schmidt looms as the destroyer. Last year he rated All-American mention for his fine offensive playing. Fans of last season’s Notre Dame game will recall his hard-hitting thrusts through the Irish line for repeated long gains.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 30, 1936.
19
Meet The Notre Dame Assistant Coaches
By Al Bride
The next time your University ring, room key, and dining room card enables you to slip by the freshmen managers at the gate of Cartier field, look around for the three blue-capped coaches sharing head coach Elmer Layden’s headaches and heartaches.
The booming voice of the fellow who obstructs your view belongs to Joe Boland, line coach. That tall, lanky fellow quietly wandering among the end candidates is the famed “One-Play” O’Brien. And as the backs go into a huddle, peer between their legs and get a glimpse of the small, authoritative backfield mentor, Chet Grant. These three, each of whom has added greatly to the many pages of Notre Dame football history, combine with Elmer Layden to form the board of strategy that directs the fortunes of the blue-shirted Fighting Irish.
Boland Succeeded Anderson
The resignation of Hunk Anderson raised the question as to who would take over the task of building lines that would be on a par with the stonewall forward lines of past Irish teams. This question was quickly answered when Layden appointed the most qualified man in the country, Joe Boland.
Joe was born in Philadelphia, attended Catholic High, and after graduating in 1923, packed his bag and headed for Notre Dame. Just one year later his line playing ability earned him a place at tackle in the shock troop line. He amassed enough time to become a monogram winner. A second monogram was also awarded Boland for piling up many points for the track team, being a record holder in the shot-put. Joe not only made good in athletics, but his diligent work in the class rooms earned him the coveted Hering prize for the monogram man with the highest scholastic average.
Has Wide Experience
In 1926 Joe had clinched a tackle berth on the varsity, and played in the first two games against Beloit and Minnesota. In the latter game he suffered a broken leg which ended all hopes for further glory as a player.
Immediately after graduating with . high honors Joe took up coaching. Leaving the east farther behind he traveled to the west coast to accept a position as line coach at Santa Clara university. In 1927 and 1928 he served in this capacity under a
former All-American Notre Dame captain, Adam Walsh. The following season found him as head coach at St. Thomas college in St. Paul. For four years his teams enjoyed unusual success, vanning 27 games and losing only 8.
In his spare time Joe branched out as a sports commentator, broadcasting everything from football down to motor boat racing. While at Notre Dame he has broadcast several Irish baseball contests.
Since coming to Notre Dame Boland has turned out lines that have been largely responsible for the success enjoyed by Irish teams in the past two years. The peak was reached in last year’s Ohio State contest when the second string line, developed solely by Boland, completely halted the dazzling offense of the Scarlet Scourge.
The coming of the Layden regime also marked the appointment of Chet Grant as backfield coach. In commenting on Gran’t success we can revert to the trite and say, “Local Boy Makes Good.”
Although born in Ohio, Chet soon moved to South Bend where he starred for South Bend High school, winning letters in football, baseball, track, and basketball. From high school Grant went into the newspaper world, where he served as sports editor in South Bend for five years. He not only related happen
Joe Boland, Bill Cerney, John O'Brien, Chet Grant, Elmer Layden
ings in the sport world but also participated in baseball and basketball.
In 1915 Grant again took up educational pursuit, this time at Notre Dame. In the following year he won monograms in both football and basketball, and was a member of the track team. He left school to enroll in the Officers Training Corps, and was shipped overseas to France for a year.	.
After the war Chet returned to Notre Dame and regained his post on the varsity eleven, playing with the immortal George Gipp. For two years he directed an Irish eleven that dropped only one contest.
Upon graduating Grant took his place in the business world serving in various capacities. The thrills of the sports world remained in his blood, and he finally returned to South Bend to accept the position of sports editor of the South Bend News Times. He was still functioning at this position when Layden was appointed athletic director of Notre Dame. When selected by Layden as backfield coach Grant gave up his newspaper work, and now devotes his time to teaching Danbom, Wilke, Wojcihovski, Puplis, Miller, and other Irish backs.
The most recent addition to Layden’s staff of assistants is John O’Brien. When Tom Conley left the Irish staff to take up the head coach-(Continued on Page 20)
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 30, 1936.
SO THEY SAY e
A rip-tearing Pitt Panther was loosed on the gridiron hunters of Notre Dame out in the Pitt Stadium yesterday afternoon, a snarling and vengeful beast with claws of steel and fangs whetted to razor sharpness. And before a capacity crowd of 70,000 spectators, which jammed every available square inch of the big Oakland bowl, it ripped out a 26-0 triumph. — Jess Carver, Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph.
Proud Notre Dame, whose football legions have beaten unsurmountable odds and scaled the loftiest heights, suffered its most humiliating defeat in 22 historic years today as the mighty Pittsburgh Panthers, subduea a week ago by little Duquesne, broke loose to crush the Fighting Irish, 26-0, before a crowd of 70,224 spectators.—Associated Press Dispatch, Kansas City Star.
Pitt turned on the power today to administer to Notre Dame the most decisive defeat the Irish have encountered in many years. The final score was 26-0, and it was impressive to the crowd of 70,000, not so much the size of the final accounting as the way it was accomplished. Pitt absolutely dominated the field offensively and defensively in a terrific battle, no less.—Warren Brown, Chicago Herald and Examiner.
Led by Marshall Goldberg, a young Jewish boy who will celebrate his eighteenth birthday on the morrow, the Pittsburgh Panthers marched four times into the promised land back of the Notre Dame goal posts today to defeat the Irish, 26-0.—Henry M’Lemore, Memphis Commercial Appeal.
Pitt’s powerful Panthers smashed through an impotent Notre Dame team for a 26-0 victory, the worst defeat the Irish have received in more than a score of years. A capacity ' throng of 71,000 which jammed every seat in the stadium, the field boxes, and bleachers watched the rout.— Wilfrid Smith, Chicago Tribune.
Plan For Smoker
Plans for a November smoker were discussed at a meeting of the Cleveland Club last week. Two new officers were chosen, Edward Gannon, vice-president, and John Doyle, freshman representative; Gene Ling, president of the Presidents’ Council, heads the club this year.
Meet The Coaches
(Continued from Page 19)
ing duties at Carroll, O’Brien answered the call for an end coach.
O’Brien came to Notre Dame in 1927 with a reputation in both football and track. He reported for the freshman team and gained valuable experience along with the other hopeful yearlings. In his sophomore year O’Brien’s pass snaring ability caught the eye of Rockne. This ability combined with speed and height made him an ideal end candidate.
Rockne nursed Johnny’s passcatching ability, and in the Army game of 1928 gave it the test. The great Army team of that year was being held to a tie when Rock sent in O’Brien. One play and out he came, but that one play was enough to pin the only defeat on the cadets. Johnny ran straight down the field to take a 40-yard pass from Niemiec and score the deciding touchdown. From that time on he was known as “One Play” O’Brien.
O’Brien was an important cog in the 1929 championship team, and in 1930 managed to install himself as a regular on that championship eleven.
When not catching passes Johnny was winning points in the high hurdles for the track team. He earned three monograms in the spiked shoe sport, and captained the team in his senior year.
After graduation “One Play” accepted the position of assistant coach at Navy, remaining there for three years. He left in 1934 to take over the position of director of athletics at St. Edward’s University in Texas, where he remained until Layden brought him to Notre Dame. He appears in the “Spirit of Notre Dame,” the movie made by Universal Studios.
FOUNTAIN PEN FOUND
Parker fountain pen found near Badin Hall. Owner may call at Publications Office,' 121 Main Building, and identify.
FREE
TO TYPEWRITER OWNERS
A demonstration of how the KNUDSON RIBBON REVIVER ’ will save you the.price of over 20 ribbons for a very small price.
'	Age nt s :
Joe Druecker, 102 Walsh and Notre Dame Book Store
Scholastic of the Air
(Continued from Page 7)
were present for tryouts. Several auditions were given and some promising talent was discovered. Included in the assortment of entertainers were musicians, speakers, dramatists, and imitators. Everyone joined in a practice of community singing.
Arrangements are being made for a program of faculty lecturers. These talks will be heard every week over the local station and probably station WIND at Gary.
A dramatic short, based on one of Edgar Allen Poe’s weird stories will be practiced at the next meeting of the Radio Club next Monday.
THE FAVORITE of NOTRE DAME Pipe Smokers
•
Hickey Brothers
DUBLIN MIXTURE
The World’s finest Pipe Tobaccos blended especially for HICKEY BROTHERS!
Pocket Package......25c
8 oz. Vacuum tin.....$1
16 oz. Vacuum tin.$1.90
■	at
HICKEY BROTHERS
Cigar Departments in South Bend
THE HOTEL OLIVER THE HOTEL HOFFMANN THE HOTEL LASALLE
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 30, 1936.
21
Reorganized Iowa Club Elect New Officers
©
An election of officers was held at the meeting of the Iowa Club last Sunday. Elected were Jerry Davey, president; George Bonfield, vice-president; John Manning, secretary; Denny Emanuel, treasurer, and Cornelius O’Brien, sergeant-at-arms.
In accordance with a new plan of organization adopted by the club, a council, made up of representatives from each class, was chosen. Joe Beh, Dan Donovan, Nick Lamberto, Bob Mulholland, Bob Gartland and John Murphy were named members of the council.
Plans for a Communion Breakfast to be held on November 8 and tentative plans for the club’s Christmas dance were made. Joseph Harrington was appointed chairman for the breakfast. An enrollment of 60 members was reported, and a campaign to interest more Iowa students in coming to Notre Dame was proposed.
Kentuckians To Fill Vacancies Soon
It was definitely decided, at the second meeting of the Kentucky Club, Wednesday evening Oct. 21, that the vacancies created by the sudden death of the former vice-president, William H. Barnett, and by the absence of Jack Elder, former sergeant-at-arms, who found it impossible to return to school, should be filled at the next meeting.
The members were unanimous in their approval of continuing this year the plan of having members and guest speakers alternate in giving informal talks. At one meeting a member speaks on some topic concerning his home district in Kentucky; at the next meeting a guest speaker talks on whatever subject he chooses.
After discussion as to the best way to entertain their fellow Kentuckians visiting the Ohio-State game, it was decided the colonel-like thing to do would be to have just an informal get-together.
Auburn Club Plans
The Central New York club, headed by Jack Putnam, met last Friday to program. It is planned to hold formal draw up plans for an extensive social Christmas dance Christmas night, which is to be held at the exclusive Club Dickman in Auburn, New York. Also a smoker and an Easter dance, which are to be held within a few days of each other, are to be held. The date for this has not yet been set.
Navy History
(Continued from Page 15)
down lead. Speedy Jack Elder and Larry Mullins accounted for the two Irish scoring plays.
In 1930 45,000 were on hand to see these two rivals dedicate the local stadium. Jumping Joe Savoldi first jumped into prominence in this game. He crossed the final chalk line three times to help trim the Middies, 26-2.
The Notre Dame shock troops saw considerable action in the 1931 game. The Sailors presented a stiff defense but they were unable to score.
Cleveland was the scene of the 1932 battle. A week’s rain preceded the game. After sliding around in sawdust and sand for two hours, the Irish had scored 12 points while holding the Middies helpless.
Then came the “New Deal” for the Sailors. 1933 and 1934 saw the Navy flag raised above the Gold and Blue. Buzz Borries was poison to the Irish in both years.
Frank Gaul and Andy Pilney combined their efforts last year to bury the Midshipmen under a 14-0 count. The former crossed the Navy goal line twice for markers. Pilney’s accurate passing was the deciding factor in the Irish victory.

“My dear Countess, these imported cigarettes are positively enchanting!”
That’s one on you, Clarissa! TWENTY GRANDS are imported from the corner tobacco shop.”
10
Plus local tax in tex states
ALSO OBTAINABLE IN FLAT FIFTIES
Copr. 1936 The Axton-Fisher Tobacco Co., Inc.
WE CERTIFY that we have inspected the Turkish and DomesticTobaccos blended in TWENTY GRAND cigarettes and find them as fine in smoking quality as those used in cigarettes costing
J	D	D
as much as 50% more.
(Signed) Seii, Putt & Rusby Inc. (Tn collaboration with, tobacco expert)
Nienaber Elected
Walt Nienaber was elected president of the Cincinnati Club at its first meeting of the year in Carroll Bec last Tuesday. Nienaber, who succeeds Matt Thernes, will have, under him Jerry Gohman as vice-president and John Cottingham as secretary.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.
Army Trip Plans
(Continued from Page 3)
Alpin have been arranged for about 100 students at a cost of $1.00 per person. Reservations can be bought along with the railroad and game tickets at the Athletic Office from Nov. 2 to Nov. 4.
The cost of dinner on the train, previously quoted at sixty cents, has been reduced to fifty cents.-
VOTE for ECONOMY in Travel
The South Shore Line ticket is a straight vote for thrifty, fast, SAFE travel. Vote it as often as you like—you can depend on its performance.
CHICAGO, SOUTH BEND AND SOUTH SHORE RAILROAD
SOUTHNSEHORf
Twenty At Rochester Club Meeting
• ’
Twenty members responded to President Samuel Borzilleri’s first call for a Rochester Club meeting in Room 101, Sorin Hall, last Sunday.
The new members were welcomed by the president who outlined the purpose of the club as the promotion of fellowship between the club members at the University and in Rochester. Tentative plans for a dinner and a Christmas dance were discussed.
A committee headed by Chairman Jack Hurley was appointed to work on the approval of the club’s charter. The next meeting of the club will be held on Nov. 8.
Other officers of the organization are: Jack Hurley, vice-president; Paul F. Barker, secretary; Reginald Morrison, treasurer.
Spanish Club To See Motion Pictures
Continuation of last year’s policy of presenting motion pictures furnished by the Pan American Union, of Washington, D.C., will be decided upon at the first joint meeting of the Notre Dame and Saint Theresa Spanish clubs to be held at St. Mary’s College, Thursday, Nov. 5.
Composed of students who . have taken at least two years of Spanish and who are interested in Spain and Spanish culture, the club conducts its meeting in the Spanish tongue. Richard B. Smith, president, stated that the group will hear talks given by professors and students at its semimonthly meetings.
Established 30 Years lemontre|b OPTOMETRISTS
222 Is South Michigan Street _ South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE
DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
Lunn on "Communism11
(Continued from Page 5)
minority which had gained control under false pretenses.
So it is with Communism today. “At least one out of every four professors in Protestant church schools is sympathetic with Communism,” he declared.
In defining Communism, Mr. Lunn asserted:
“Communism denies free will, the existence of God or the soul. Stalin twice quotes with approval in his book, “Problems of Stalinism,” the following dogma of Lenin: “The scientific concept of dictatorship means nothing more or less than power which rests directly on violence which is not limited by any law or any absolute rules. Dictatorship means unlimited power resting on violence and not on law. This is Communism.”
After pointing- out the weaknesses in the Communists’ argument, Mr. Lunn declared that Catholic Action is inadequate.
“We send out our little pamphlets which are read by Catholics . . . but we evade controversy as if it were vulgar,” he said. “Get a Communist on a debating platform and you see what a contemptible case he has, but let one loose among the simple-minded, and he can do an incredible amount of harm.”
“What we need in the modern world is a new order of debaters who will devote their lives to debating, not as an occasional stunt, but as a routine business, men who will train for this as carefully and as earnestly as for the priesthood.”
If real debates were held instead of mere speeches by one person, public interest would take hold in much the same manner as interest grows in any contest, such as a football game or a political race.
AT YOUR DEALER
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 30, 1936.
23
Honor Cardinal Pacelli
(Continued from Page 3)
Father O’Hara restated Father Sorin’s idea of founding a university which would bring together science and religion. He said:
“It is our humble effort, Your Eminence, to have this union of science and religion exemplified in the students who come to us; they, in their turn in manifesting their good will, have won for their school the title of, “The City of the Blessed Sacrament.” It is our daily prayer that all of them, and all of us, may never be wanting in our allegiance of mind and heart, to the Holy See.”
After a brief talk in which he thanked the University for its warm welcome, Cardinal Pacelli gave the benediction of the Holy Father.
Despite threatening weather the Cardinal and his party left immediately for the Bendix airport to go to Chicago where His Eminence was the overnight guest of George Cardinal Mundelein.
MAX ADLER
Ellsworth's is Arrow Headquarters For Men of Notre Dame
Arrow shirts . . . Arrow Ties ' Arrow handkerchiefs . . . Arrow Trunks in our Men’s section . . . Main Floor.
Ellfiuinrtlfs
“The Big Store on the Corner ’
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors. . .
union ■
Varsity Drag
When you curry favor from the fair sex, Arrow shirts will do more for you than five major letters.
See the smart fall patterns in stripes and checks. Beautifully tailored . . . Sanforized shrunk. Your Arrow dealer to the rescue.
-	$2 and up
© 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
•.. This is the first cigarette I ever smoked that really satisfies me
Not strong, not harsh and it has all the flavor and aronia you could ask for.
That settles it . . . from now on, it’s Chesterfield,