NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
what does it take to be a real one? Does he think for him-

NO QUARTER FOR QUARTERBACKS
• Anybody can be a Monday-morning quarterback, but
self, or does the coach run the game from the bench? Notre
Dame’s brainy young coach tells you why the signal
caller is head man, shows why right plays go wrong and
wrong plays score touchdowns, and reveals what he believes
to be the most important point m football strategy today.
by ELMER F. LAYDEN with D. C. Grant

Hzrfer—’AMEMCAY
“That man,” said Vice President Gamer, “wants the U. S. Government run for the exclusive benefit of Fort Worth and, if possible, to the detriment of Dallas." Here’s the story of a fabulous feudist, and the liveliest war Texas has seen since 1847.
Colonel Carter of Cartersville by MMk JOHNSTON
neat
SCHEME To MAKE *4000
and what did he get> A S7s !
raise! “It’s t ’ A *'3-a-year
y WALTER D. EDMONDS

AND TUGBOAT ANNIE CAUGHT TUGLESS! Just when she landed a juicy salvaging contract. Annie’s old enemy Bull-winkle slapped an injunction on the tug. Watch what happens when Annie tries to dynamite her way out of that one! Norman Reilly Raine tells, in Tugboat Annie Blows the Man Down.
“IT’S EASY TO KILL... if no one suspects you.” There’s the secret behind quiet Wychwood’s “accidental” deaths. Read what happened last week, then start Easy to Kill, the new mystery novel by Agatha Christie. Second of seven instalments ....
HOLLYWOOD’S “FIRST FAMILY” STYMIES ITSELF. The famous Lavondar family were too busy—unfortunately—to notice little Minerva, who blew in from Omaha for a visit. A short story, It’s Always Tomorrow, by Charles Hoffman.
PLUS A Skirmish for the Major, a short story by Glenn Allan; editorials, Post Scripts, fun and cartoons. All in this week’s Post.
*

£
THE SMTUl^DMY EVENING POST
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Z 188_________________________________________.____________________________________________________________
Vol. 72	. November 25, 1938	No. 9
GOOD RECEPTION FOR "ROOM SERVICE"
By Norbert A. Aleksis
An enthusiastic audience registered approval last Tuesday evening after the final curtain had closed on the University Theatre’s inaugural production of the delightful comedy, “Room Service.” Like all contemporary comedy, the plot contains numerous conflicts arising in rapid succession which must be sharply resolved almost as soon as they arise. Successful interpretation of the play, therefore, depends on skillful direction and closely timed performance in order to sustain interest up to the conclusion. On this basis, then, Director T. E. Mills and the entire cast are to be commended for sustaining a high intensity level from scene one to the “all’s well that ends well”
- Though the characters of “Room Service” have been rather stereotyped in numerous stage and screen vehicles revolving around Broadway and its starved Thespian hopefuls, the cast should be credited for skillful injections of pantomime and eccentricity at every opportunity. The parts of Director Binion, Faker Englund, and Oswego Leo Davis allow individualism and freedom of action. These were excellently portrayed by Walter Hagen, Tom Tierney and Robert Blake. Hagen’s delivery caught the authentic Broadway pace, while Tierney presented a delightful “Stooge” Englund with a genuine “Dead End Kid” accent. As naive author Leo Davis, Robert Blake was an amusing victim for three acts. He lost his typewriter, starved for eighteen hours, fell in Jove, succumbed with acute measles and mumps, fought two physicians, and served as a corpse, all before the last scene! Good shot: Davis’ alarm as Miller and Binion strip him of clothing in five seconds flat.
Gerry Hogan demonstrated excel-
( Continued on Page 22)
Applicants for the SCHOLASTIC staff and those desiring to submit writings for publication are invited to visit the SCHOLASTIC Editorial rooms evenings, Sunday through Friday, between 7 and 8, or room 328 Main Building mornings between 9 and 11, or evenings between 8 and 9.	*
Most Rev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C.
Bengal Bouts, Mission Crusade Praised By Bishop Crowley
•
The Most Reverend Timothy John Crowley, C.S.C., D.D., Bishop of Dacca, relayed to the students at the Masses on Sunday the thanks of the 42 Notre Dame alumni who carry on with him a vast apostolate in Bengal, India. The prelate stressed the fine spirit of cooperation on the part of the students of the past and prophesied that the tradition would endure, basing his prediction on the live interest of present day students. He singled out for special commendation the promoters of the Bengal Bouts and particularly the fistic artists who take part.
Bishop Crowley also admired the constructive policy of the Students Mission Crusade, and suggested that the Crusaders would specialize on the study of the problem of the Mission catechists. He pointed out how these lay-aides greatly helped the Missionary in contacting with unbelievers, thirteen million of whom dwell within the 24,000 square miles of territory forming the diocese of Dacca.
(Continued on Page 23)
REID OFFERS PRIZES TO PRESS CRITICS
Cash prizes of fifty dollars, thirty dollars and twenty dollars are offered to students of this University for the best letters “of correction and commendation” to editors of newspapers.
These prizes have been donated by Mr. Richard Reid, editor of The Bulletin, of Augusta, Ga., and laetare medalist, 1936, who has been invited to judge the competition.
The competition is open to Notre Dame students of whatever college. Completed letters may be submitted to the Notre Dame Press Club, department of Journalism, Notre Dame. All letters should be typewritten, and should be submitted in duplicate. Awards will be made on April 15, 1939. The deadline for submission of letters will be announced later.
Editor and Publisher has editorialised on this competition, as follows:
COLLEGIATE CRITICISM
“Constructive criticism of daily newspaper is due next year from an unexpected quarter. The University of Notre Dame is offering awards to students sending the best letters of correction or commendation to newspaper editors. Reading with a critical eye, Notre Dame students will seek false, misleading or incomplete newspaper items. At the same time, however, they will be appreciative of newspaper excellence.
“Richard Reid, former newspaperman who is now editor of the Bulletin, Catholic publication in Augusta, Ga., originated the idea. Factors governing the selection of recipients of the prize money will be sound reasoning, constructive ability and good writing. Funds for the prizes have been given by Mr. Reid.... If Mr. Reid’s plan works out one-fifth as well as we think it will, he will again have done his profession a service. Constructive criticism of newspapers is always welcomed, and it is not unlikely that some serious youth of 1938 might place his finger on some sore spot that might well go under the surgeon’s knife. We are making a mental note of April 15, 1939, when the first awards will be made.”
Approximately 2,000,000 bricks, 5,000 yards of reinforced concrete and 340 tons of structural steel will be used in the Rockne Memorial.
4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SOPHS, SENIORS SEEK DEBATE AWARD
Stranger Things in Ovens and on Steam Tables Than "The Man in the Cat" Dares Dream About
The Interhall debates enter the semifinal round dominated by Sophomores in the lower bracket and Seniors in the upper bracket. The debaters of Lyons — Cotter, Withey, and White — coached by Milt Williams, earned the right to enter the semifinals by defeating the Ralph Gerra coached Brownson - Carroll team of Coleman, Macaulay, and Donovan. The feature of this argument was an explanation of debating ethics by one of the Brownson-ites.
Cavanaugh, coached by Bob Heywood, defeated Freshman, coached by John O’Dea. Cavanaugh and Morrissey will have debated sometime
Debater Colgan
“Do or die for old Alumni”
during this week to see which will meet Lyons in the semifinals.
The best debate of the year found Sorin, coached by Bill Mahoney, defeating Walsh, coached by George Morris. Doozen, Schmitz, and Johnson were the Sorin debaters; Radelet, Mee, and Bright spoke for Walsh.
Bob Weaver’s Alumni boys, Colgan, Newman, and Wintermeyer, thought they were seeing double when they engaged in wordy combat with the Ferneding twins and Gentner. However, the Seniors managed to recover both their wits and tongues and easily defeated the St. Ed’s boys who were coached by Jerry Flynn.
Faculty members will serve as judges of the semifinals which will be held next Tuesday. In the upper division Sorin (aff.) vs. Alumni (neg.); in the lower division the winner of the Cavanaugh-Morrissey debate vs. Lyons.
By Harry Penrose
Things I Never Knew ’Til Now About the Cafeteria.
That it is reputed that if there were turnstiles at the “Caf.” doors, they would turn more often and bring in more money each year than all those turnstiles in our own and other stadia that click in favor of the Fighting Irish.
That on a busy football Saturday, like the Minnesota invasion, the Caf will serve from eight to ten thousand people throughout the day.
That a crowd of this size means nothing to the girl who tabulates the food purchases. She has been there ten years, knows the price of every item put on the tray, and is so adept at her work that she can operate the machine with her eyes closed.
That the Caf employs from 36 to 40 persons who work from 6:30 a.m. until 9:40 p.m.
That one of the favorite noon dishes of the Fighting Irish is spaghetti . . . that if someone undertook to lay each strand of this spaghetti end to end, he would be promptly put in a straight jacket.
That the foods that need to be hot are kept at the correct temperatures by putting them in the steam table and circulating live steam around them.
That mashed potatoes are the Caf goers favorite (?) type of potato. (Well, they sell the most anyway.) Fried and baked run second and third respectively.
What “Corner.” Will Do
That green peas and green beans are the best selling vegetables. (No wonder, there is no choice. The food buyer has had a corner on both markets since last summer.)
That cow is one of the favorite animals. ... In the daytime roast beef out-sells- all the other meats three to one.
But in the evening after the steam table has been cleared, “Wimpy Food,” (hamburgers to the uninformed) reigns. About 100 buns per night delicately tuck these toothsome cow patties within their soft embrace.
Add to this an average of 30 steaks a day and you will realize that quite a bit of heifer is consumed.
Upon being questioned after making a detailed analysis of the Caf’s long horn meat, Solemn Scalpel, biology major, stated that it would be an excellent idea if the knives were made sharper and more durable.
That the soda fountain generals squeeze three gallons of Coca Cola a day from the spigots. When you consider that only an ounce or an ounce and a half goes into each Coke, that means quite a few Cokes per day. (If you want the exact number, go to a calculus student.)
That nearly 300 milk shakes a day are whipped into shape on an average day, while on a really busy day this figure is doubled or tripled.... This means that on the average day, from 15 to 20 gallons of milk are used for milk shakes alone and that when the crowds come, 35 to 40 gallons.
Eleven Years of Milkshakes
That the slim, curly headed fellow behind the fountain deserves the title of M.M.M.—Master Milkshake Mixer. He has been doing it for Notre Dame for eleven years.
That the majority of the fellows on the campus prefer to “Get a lift with a Camel.” (Where to I don’t know, but then who cares.) Chesterfields and Luckies have the next largest demand.
That a large number of Notre Dame men go seriously for cigar smoking. The biggest sale is after a hearty meal, like Thanksgiving. “Why? I don’t know, said the girl at the “smokes” counter. I suppose it makes them FEEL BIG” (Which takes plenty of puff out of the rope inhalers.)
That there are 57 different magazines on the news stand, of this number ten fall into the Digest classification, seven into the Pulp field, and six appeal directly to the ladies. (Woo, Woo!)
Featured among- these feminine mags, are the Ladies Home Journal and The Woman’s Home Companion. (What, no Good Housekeeping?).... and that the Saturday Evening Post is the best seller among the magazines. That the Caf has a special manager whose name is Ernest Howard. He also used to supervise the “Cafe” when it was located in Badin Hall.
That the famous Notre Dame bun outsells any other type of roll. That -apple pie is the best selling dessert. Cherry and peach follow in its wake.. .. and that the less I say about the Caf “fish,” the better.
NOVEMBER 25. 1938
5
COMMERCE FORUM IN YEAR’S FIRST TOUR
•
The Mishawaka Rubber and Woolen Manufacturing Company was the site of the first tour of the Commerce Forum during the 1938 season. The trip was arranged by the president of the Forum with the cooperation of Robert L. Bums, manager of the service department of the company. Approximately fifty members of the Forum took advantage of this opportunity to observe the process followed in the manufacture of Ball Band products.
The members were informed that during peak seasons the plant, which is the only producing unit of the com-
President Meskill Leads first tour.
pany, employs approximately 7,000 workers. Although at the present time production does not reach capacity, figures are far in advance of a similar period for the preceding year.
Last night an officers’ meeting of the Forum was held at which plans for a Communion breakfast, December 11, were tentatively arranged. Tom Reardon will be in charge of this event.
At the meeting announcement was made that Forum keys are now available for seniors desiring to procure them.
Dave Meskill, Boston, president of the Forum, is at present working on plans for the annual communion breakfast for the Commerce men. The event will take place early in December.
Met Club Xmas Dance
Members of the Metropolitan Club voted to stage a dance at the St. Moritz, near Central Park, in New York City, on December 27. Ed Farrel, of Bronxville, N. Y., is general chairman, President George O’Neill announced.
The Met Club also inaugurated plans to assist the poorer parishes in South Bend in Catholic Action work.
On Saturday, Nov. 12, the club met in a. body at . Dillon chapel for Holy Communion in honor of the . late Bill Coogan.
I College Parade
By Red E. Sisk
Rambling With the Ivy
We’ve always been of the opinion that the strands of ivy growing up the sides of the Log Chapel and more or less to the same degree along the sides of our other N. D. buildings is something just “to be taken for granted” around colleges. Ivy’s place in the college picture, we’ve thought, was to give campus buildings that soft, “home-like” look in photographs and as a nuisance when it decides to take a short-cut across your window instead of growing around. But at Birmingham-Southern College in Alabama they have no ivy, and an editorial in the Birmingham Gold and Black makes a desperate case of the ivy issue. Almost in tears, the editorial says in part, “We believe that our campus buildings have something to do with the way things are.... We have been told that the college authorities won’t even permit ivy to grow up the sides of our halls. The reason: possibly decay of the construction. ... This, we think, is one fault of the Hilltop: there is too much superficial modernness. We are too streamlined._There is no ivy on the halls, and we are sad.”
Ho Hum
Out in California at San Jose State College they have had no Saturday morning classes on their schedules, but there is now a proposal to have them next year. The Spartan Daily of that school asked the opinion of several students about the idea. One senior said he approved them, because he wouldn’t be there next year; a sophomore voted against the idea, because he goes home over the week-end to get something to eat; still another Californian voted against the plan because Saturday is wash day at his dormitory. All to which we add: “Stop Beatin’ Around the Mulberry Bush,” lads; we’ll bet our lot of Saturday morning classes that the real reason is “sleep.”
Have You Heard This One?
Senior: “That chicken we had in the Dining Hall today was ah incubator chicken.”
Freshman: “How do you tell?”
Senior: “Why, no chicken could be that tough and have a mother.”
—The Setonian.
—o—
Well, How About This One Then?
Waiter.
Yes, sir?
Have you ever been to the zoo?
No, sir.
Well, you ought to go some time. You’d get a big kick out of watching the turtles zip past.
—St. Louis University News
SESSLER PAINTING IS HUNG IN LIBRARY
By Steve Smith
The University library, like the fields of art and literature it follows, is an ever expanding institution. Pictures, books, and rare paintings

. .. 4
Professor Sessler A netv painting.
are acquired from time to time, revealing new subjects, opening wider vistas to the average student.
Among recent acquisitions, there is a new painting, a still life study done in oil, the work of Mr. Stanley S. Sessler, head of the University Art department. A vase full of chrysanthemums, two red and two white, blend into a soft background of light coral blue. The flowers are placed in a blue and white clay jar with a dark red handle. Two tiny ivory figurines rest on the slate table which supports the vase and provides an effective background.
An original page from the Gutenberg Bible is the recent gift of Mrs. Edward Doheny of Los Angeles, Calif. The page is of special interest to history students for the Gutenberg Bible is the first book to come from a printing press and its appearance, early in the Sixteenth century, revolutionized the history of literature.
Dr. Constantine McGuire of Washington, D.C., presented ten cases of books and periodicals on politics and foreign trade. New shelves, capable of holding 1,000 books, have been erected in the basement. ■
The Studebaker Corporation of South Bend, through President Paul Hoffman, gave two sets of photostatic prints of the late Knute Rockne.
Kansas City Smoker
The year’s first smoker found 15 members of the Greater Kansas City club gathered in Carroll Rec last Wednesday night. President Tom Reardon stroke briefly about the newly formed basketball team, which will be coached by Jim Metzler, and the annual Christmas dance. The annual banquet of the club will be held some time in December according to the announcement of James Alyward, chairman of the affair.
6
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
/----
I Our Daily Bread |
"CATALYZER" MAKES
AUTUMN DEBUT
Radio
Liturgy
The predominant thought in the Liturgy of Advent is expectation and preparation. The historical parts mainly refer to the unhappy condition of fallen man, coupled with ardent desire for the coming of the Redeemer. For this reason Advent is identified to day, even as it originated in the sixth century, as a time of penance. In the Middle Ages it was called the “Lent of Christmas.” The readings are chiefly from the prophets whose tongues, flame-tipped by the Holy Ghost, give utterance to the need for penance and conversion as a condition for the worthy reception of the Lord. These profound meanings the externals of the Liturgy accommodate to man’s nature by their appeal to the senses. The altars- are unadorned (in earlier ages even the statues were covered), the vestments are the penitential purple, the chant is pitched in a minor key, the “Gloria” and the “Ite Missa Est” are suppressed in masses of the Time. None the less, the changeable parts express a holy impatience for the dawning of the Light of the World.
Mass Calendar: Nov. 27 to Dec. 3
Sunday 27 — First Sunday in Advent. Semi-double. 2d Collect, Blessed Virgin (in Advent). 3d for Church or the Pope.
Monday 28 — Of the Day. Semidouble. Mass as of Sunday. 2d Collect, Blessed Virgin (in Advent). 3d All the Faithful Departed. 4th for Church or the Pope. V.R.
Tuesday 29 — Vigil of St. Andrew. Apostle. Simple. 2d Collect preceding Sunday. 3d St. Satuminus.
Wednesday 30 — St. Andrew. Apostle. Martyr. Double of the Second Class. 2d Collect, preceding Sunday. Credo. Andrew, the brother of Peter, was first among the Apostles to see Christ.
Thursday, December 1 — Of the Day. Simple. Mass of preceding Sunday. 2d Collect, Blessed Virgin (in Advent). 3d for Church or the Pope.
Friday 2 — St. Bibiana. Virgin. Martyr. Semi-double. 2d Collect preceding Sunday. 3d Blessed Virgin (in Advent). V.R. Bibiana, having repulsed the advances of her jailer, the Roman governor had her beaten to death with thongs loaded with lead, A.D. 363.	.
Saturday 3 — St. Francis Xavier. Confessor. Major double. 2d Collect of preceding Sunday. Francis Xavier, a zealous co-worker of St. Ignatius Loyola, carried the Gospel to India, Japan and more than 50 kingdoms. Patron of the Propagation of the Faith. ■
The Notre Dame Catalyzer, published by student chemists and chemical engineers, released its first publication of the school year recently. Editor Joseph B. Moorman, William P. Gies, associate editor; Donald K. Duffey, assistant editor, and Thomas G. Gillespie, news editor, keynoted
Editor Moorman
Now mixing printers’ ink.
their policy for this year in this editorial:
“The Catalyzer was founded T5 years ago with the idea of bringing closer together the men in the departments of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering and the graduate of of those departments.”
The Catalyzer pointed out that it was intended to introduce the freshmen to University activities and acquaint the upper-classmen with some of the affairs with which they will be concerned after graduation. Finally, the Catalyzer expressed a desire to distribute information to the alumni of the University.
A feature of the October issue is an article by Professor E. J. Wilhelm, Ph.D., Notre Dame, ’30, containing a detailed description and explanation of the modem method of electroplating zinc and zinc alloy diecastings, developed during the past ten years, and which has revolutionized all industries involving these products.
Electrocardiograph
The Physiology class of pre-meds, on Wednesday, Nov. 16, was invited to study and see an Einhoven Electrocardiograph in the offices of Dr. L. Faltin in South Bend. Dr. L. Faltin is a graduate of Prague University and is recognized as one of the most noted cardiologists in this vicinity. One of the members of the class was chosen as a subject and an electrocardiogram was made of his heart, after which Dr. Faltin answered questions put to him by the members of the class. He explained the minutest parts of the imported machine and the use of it in clinical diagnosis.
By Bernard J. Feeney
Now that turkey season has departed, many are looking ahead t . ward Christmas. This is especially true of the Campus Radio Club. As one of the big projects of the year, they are arranging a special Christmas Program. The date has not yet been set but present plans call for a full hour show originating in Washington Hall. Many popular campus groups will be featured. The University Theater Players will be seen and heard in an appropriate Christmas story. The Linnets will present their Glee Club and Orchestra, and the Modernairs led by Carl Hunn will add color as well as entertainment. Novelty will be in vogue when foreign students attending the Uuiversity extend Christmas greetings in their own language. Norbert Aleksis, who is in charge, believes definite plans will be completed in about a week.
The Reviewing Stand
South Bend politicians bought up considerable radio time during the recent election. Ironically enough, those hit hardest by this at the local studios were the faculty members who were forced to postpone their talks more than once. They came right back, however, and with the quality that the politicians lacked. Heard so far are: Prof. Henry Staunton, Prof. Francis McMahon, and Prof. Stanley Sessler. Coming up next Monday night will be Prof. Earl Langwell.
Incidentally, if you’ve been wondering what happened to the log in this column and why at times the meager comment on local events, the election mentioned above had much to do with it. The programs were either cancelled or so indefinite as to make any degree of certainty impossible.
One of the new and very interesting programs being heard over the local wires recently is called, “Men of Yesterday.” Under the good hands of Edward Heinz, Dillon Hall junior from Chicago, it is steadily gaining prominence. To acquaint listeners with Notre Dame’s traditions and history, famous alumni are presented each week. Up until now, Judge Thomas Lyons, and Dr. John Bertel-ing have appeared. Alexis Coquil-lard is scheduled for next Tuesday.
The. Log
Mon. 7:45 p.m.—Prof. Earl Langwell. Tues. 7:00 p.m.-Alexis Coquillard.
Thurs. 6:45 p.m —Sports with Walter
Hagen.
Fri. 6:45 p.m.—Music Department. Fri. 8:30 p.m.—The Modernairs.
Fri. 9:15 p.m. — Political r Science
Forum.
NOVEMBER 25, 1938
FATHER O'HARA SAILS FOR SOUTH AMERICA
The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, announced that he would make an intensive study of South American educational institutions when he left today for the Inter-American Conference which will open at Lima, Peru, Dec. 9.
Father O’Hara was chosen by President Roosevelt as one of the 12 American delegates to the eighth Inter - American Conference. Before leaving, Father O’Hara participated in the coast-to-coast program which the National Broadcasting Company sponsored last Sunday night to wish Godspeed to Secretary of State Cordell Hull. Father O’Hara said:
“What we call Latin America had a pretty well-developed culture of its own before the English settlement was made in what is now the United States. The discoveries of Columbus under the patronage of Spanish royalty, and the parallel Portugese discoveries on the mainland of South America were followed up immediately by active colonization on a broad and intelligent basis.
“When the Mayflower settlers landed in Massachusetts, there were already in the countries to the south of us the University of St. Mark’s in Lima, founded in 1551, and other universities in Mexico, Cuzco, Havana, Guamango, Quito, Bogota, and Santiago; and a dozen other universities were established before Harvard was chartered in the United States. The ecclesiastical organization of Mexico and Central and South America was directed by 65 Bishops in that many diocesan sees. While the mining of gold and silver, in quantities hitherto undreamed of in Europe, occupied great attention, there was a flourishing development of agriculture that made for a substantial citizenry in the vice royalties of Peru and Mexico and the lesser political sub-divisions of the rest of Latin America. Commerce with the old world was carried on in great fleets. Ships returning from Spain brought treasures of art and literature as tokens of royal favor. The arts and crafts flourished in Latin America, and even the native Indians proved to be proficient scholars, artists and craftsmen.
The failure on the part of many Americans to appreciate the spiritual ideals of this gentle culture lies at the root of much of the misunderstanding that has prevented close and harmonius cooperation between the United States and the Republics to the south of us. Busy with our own affairs, particularly with the establishment of economic self-sufficiency (Continued on Page 22)
—
Mon About the Campus
By Graham Starr
He detested campus life here at Notre Dame — that is for the first month. But afterwards he fell in love with the place. He spent his first
year in his home town at Ripon College.
The red-haired youth was elected president of the Notre Dame band last year after personally buttonholing the majority of bandsters.
According to Bandmaster Joseph J. Casasanta, the Wisconsinite is a good leader, is carrying out his office well, and is very faithful in band practice attendance.
The Man of the Week has been the only one in the band to play a bass clarinet since he arrived here. Soloed to win first ratings in both district and a state band tournament in 1934.
This boy with the sunny smile has an artistic temperament, always knows what clothes to wear, how to decorate homes, as witness his room in Alumni, and almost always wears a suit to classes.	-
Stares blankly when asked in what he’s majoring. He’s in the Commerce school, but doesn’t know whether’ there are divisions. If Dean McCarthy, who thinks him bright, hears this there will be a furore.
Loves to travel, especially to see “Chattanoogie” (see band members). On the last two New York student trips he stopped over at Far Rockaway at a certain girl’s home.
During summer vacations he has been bellhop, bartender, and night shift cookie factory worker. One of his uncles is a trustee of the College of Commerce. Ken arises at 6 to serve a Mass every morning, and retires every night at 11. We give you . . . Kenneth Edwin Higby, Ripon, Wis.
SOPHOMORES ATTEND COTILLION BANQUET
•
We have all heard a lot of talk about sharing the profits. Tuesday night Notre Dame put it into practice. The men of the class of “41” who attended the Sophomore Cotillion were host at a turkey banquet at the Columbia Athletic Club.
When the officers and committeemen counted the money left over aftei’ paying the Cotillion expenditures the profits come to well over a hundred dollars. What to do with it? Give the fellows something worth while, of course. The result was an enjoyable social event attended by 150 members of the sophomore class.
The unique feature of the evening was a “Before dinner speech” by Rev. James Trahey, C.S.C. He praised the dance committee and congratulated the officers on their efforts to make the banquet a success before the meal.
President Joe Mulligan welcomed the men, expressing a regret that the officers could not sponsor a gathering in when the whole class could participate. He reported the expenditure of funds which included the dispensing of a hundred dollars to various charities.
"Dome" Proofs Wanted
Paul Hellmuth, editor of the Dome, requests all Juniors to return picture proofs to Jim Cleary at the Dome studios in Walsh Hall. He announces that Senior pictures are now being taken and will be taken until Friday, Dec. 2. All Seniors and Juniors residing in South Bend will be notified during the present week to come in and have their pictures taken.
Anyone having candid camera shots of the campus, football games, or student trip is requested to bring ' them to 257 Dillon Hall. A feature of the Dome this year will be group pictures of the members of the residence halls and sketches of the halls drawn by John Webster, Don Driscoll, and John McHugh.
Cracow Club Meets
The Charles Phillips Cracow club, undei’ the chairmanship of Joseph Al-breys, met Tuesday evening in Badin Rec., to hold elections.
“Poland Striving for Democracy,” was the subject selected by Ben Bin-kowski in his address to the club members. Rev. Stanislaus F. Lisew-ski, C.S.C., club faculty advisor, commented briefly on the subject.
Dick Miserski, secretary of the club, discussed briefly the pictures shown at the last meeting of the club. The pictures were taken by Mr. Pawlowski during his visit to Europe.
8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Vincentians
X_______________________________/
By Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
International champions — the St. Vincent de Paul Society! Champions of the poor and suffering. How was this peak hit unless through a great organization? The N. D. Conference is but a local unit in that organization. And may we call to your attention the work of Frank Itzin, coordinator par excellence, the executive secretary of the N. D. conference. He’s there in 23 Lyons Mondays through Fridays from 2:00-5:00 to receive, among many other things, reservations for bus and airline transportation. The Conference is deeply indebted to the students for their support in this and its other activities.
A picture of this world-wide organization reveals that no business organization is more efficient. Unity is realized by means of the councilgeneral which is in Paris. Next in importance is the superior council that represents the council-general in a large area such as a state or country. The general council may be established to assist the superior council in a metropolitan district. The conferences, or local groups, are usually united in particular councils which are limited to towns.
What group of Catholic laymen is so characterized — made living — by the marks of the Church as is the St. Vincent de Paul Society? In its organization and spirit it is one. As the Manual points out, the essential mark of the society is that it is a Christian brotherhood. Certainly, it is holy. Its founder, Frederic Ozanam, will probably be canonized. The members have worked voluntarily, quietly and unseen. Even a member’s own conference does not always know the good he has done of his own accord.' The society is Catholic. We have seen that it has been carried to all parts of the world; the recent article mentioning Egypt and the society’s spread in this country indicated this. Our Lord preached love of God and of our neighbor; the society is apostolic in its march behind Christ to union with Him through charity.
During this, the Thanksgiving season, let us be thankful that we have the St. Vincent de Paul Society. The president of the United States has asked us to be grateful that we have peace, and in the words of our late beloved Cardinal Hayes, “When Christian charity departs from the coasts of a nation, peace goes with it.” Be proud that your University was one of the first to have a conference, and pray for it and continue your support that has been so remarkable.
"Sitko is Over for the Irish." says Mr. Husing;
"I Double Three Clubs," says Man in Morrissey
“Ladies and gentlemen, we are just about ready to bring you a play-byplay account of the Notre DameNorthwestern football game from Dyche Stadium in Evanston, Illinois. Northwestern will receive and Longhi will kick off for Notre Dame with Steve Sitko, the Irish quarter, holding the ball.”
The big double on the second floor of Morrissey Hall was a panorama of disorder. The beds were unmade, clothing hung limply from locker doors and hooks, the small runners on the floor were clumped into numerous dusty crevices. On the corner desk a squat little radio boomed and rumbled as the rich whining of Ted Husing exploded in the speaker. The mixed odors of tobacco, Lux soap, last year’s gym shoes, and stickered leather suitcases, swirled in static silence.
“Wake up, Mike. The game’s on.”
Jack, sprawled across his bed, bounced a tennis ball against the wall, seeing how close he could come to the light above the wash-stand.
“Sit down, for Lord’s sakes, Brad. You’ve heard football games before.”
“So far the game has been completely dominated by Northwestern. We are now in the second quarter with the score 0-0 as yet. Notre Dame’s new sensation, Saggau, just
“What though the odds be great or small....”
punted out of bounds on the Wildcat’s 40-yard line. Here comes the play. Jefferson is fading back to his 30 to pass, he sends a 1-o-n-g one down the field and it is intercepted. It is intercepted, ladies and gentlemen, by Sitko. He’s coming up field with beautiful interference forming around him. He’s going for a touchdown! He’s over! Sitko is over for the Irish! What’s that? Correction, that was Hofer who made that stunning run for Notre Dame. My observer, Jack Dolan, just informs me that Hofer came into the game for Sitko and we failed to check the substitution. Wow, what a run by this boy Hofer! Morrison will attempt the conversion. There it goes! It’s good! No, the referee is indicating that the kick was wide of the cross-bars. Anyway, Notre Dame leads 6-0. I told you the Fighting Irish would strike with the speed of lightning and they certainly did, demonstrating their vaunted scoring power.”
“Why don’t you turn that Husing off? Lee Douglass could do better than that.”
“Well it’s about time they scored, same way they worked against Minnesota last week. Same way against Navy, too. Now they oughta really start clicking.”
Somebody started playing solitaire, (Continued on Page 22)
NOVEMBER 25, 1938
REMOVE SCAFFOLDS FROM MEMORIAL
•
The Rockne Memorial broke free of its outside scaffolds last Tuesday afternoon. The exterior of the buildin? is complete except for the carvings and various plaques and figures which will be placed in the spring.
The heating and ventilating systems have been installed and the heat has been turned on last week to hurry along the drying-out process. The water system and electric wiring have also been serviced.
Workmen are plastering the walls of the hand-ball courts and the ceiling over the swimming pool-to-be. The pool will be tiled as soon as the ceiling work is finished. The ceiling above the pool will be covered with a special tile designed to absorb noise. These acoustic tiles are a combination of cement and asbestos. The pool should be complete by February.
Tile flooring for the golf rooms in the south-west comer of the ground floor and the adjoining shower rooms was laid early this week. Upstairs, the basketball courts and special exercise rooms are complete except for the wood floors which will not be finished until spring.
Plans to use Indiana limestone in the main Memorial Foyer on the first floor have been changed. Mankato, a smooth marble stone, has been substituted. Mankato gives a dull-brown grained appearance.
Runge Discusses Credit
At the regular meeting of the Round Table Bill Runge delivered a paper on the Direct Credits Society. He introduced his subject with a brief biography of Alfred Lawson, its founder. Thermal adjustments, believed to exist in our present economic system were enumerated, especially those in our financial system.
Runge gave the fourteen principal points of the direct credits system which the society proposes, among which are: government issuance of paper currency (credits) to individuals directly in return for actual service by individuals; government control and supervision of all money and financial institutions; abolishment of interest and of private loans; and all loans to be made by the government.
The program also includes loans to be made to persons under 21 years of age for their upkeep and education (it is voluntary to repay such-loans) A lengthy discussion and informal debate followed the reading of the paper.
John Walsh, speaker at the next Round Table meeting, will discuss the “Servile State.”
GLEE CLUB PRESENTS FIRST CONCERT
The Notre Dame Glee Club presented its first concert under its new director, Professor Daniel C. Pedtke, before an interested audience in Washington Hall.
Singing an almost entirely different program from that so well known to concert goers in the past, this year’s smaller organization gave a creditable
Professor Pedtke
New Director, Neiv Program.
performance for a concert so early in the season.
The Bach number, “Jesu, Joy of Man’s Desiring,” was perhaps the most startling innovation on the program. This piece was ably rendered, though it lacked the finer shades of interpretation which will come only with much more practice.
Among the numbers more reminiscent of former Glee Club programs, “Drums,” by Meale-Salter, stood out as the best selection, not only on its own musical merit, but also from the point of view of rendition by the chorus.
Of the soloists, Donald Tiedemann employed his full baritone to good advantage in “The Blind Ploughman” and “Come Back to Surrento.” It is unfortunate that his choice of numbers did not afford him better opportunity to demonstrate his ability. John Collins’ “Celeste Aida,” on the other hand seemed to lack the richness which this famous aria requires. Bill Mooney’s piano interlude, a “Rig-oletto” paraphrase, arranged by Liszt, also seemed to fall below the caliber of music which he has proved himself capable of presenting.
Neither improvement nor retrogression was noted in the rendition of the final numbers, “When the Irish Back Go Marching By” and the “Victory March.”
A 48-inch model of a full-rigged sailing vessel acquired by the Boston Museum of Fine Arts is so complete that it would be possible to build a merchantman in every detail from this model.
GERRA TALKS ABOUT CHAIN STORES
•
Ralph Gerra, sophomore from Brooklyn, New York, addressed the Wranglers last Monday night on “Recent Developments in Chain Store Legislation.” Mr. Gerra defended the legislation and presented a very able refutation of opposing ideas in his rebuttal.
The fall activity of the Wranglers, popularly known as interhall debating, has about reached its final round under the direction of Al Funk, and the date for the finals will be announced at the next meeting.
It was also announced by President William Mahoney that the club would shortly accept applications of prospective members. Vincent DeCoursey was appointed chairman of the membership committee, and announced that notices would be posted on the bulletin boards of the various halls Monday giving complete instructions for candidates desiring admission.
Italians Hear Lecture
Next Thursday the Italian club will hear the noted Helen Chase West give an illustrated lecture entitled “Rome As We See It Today.” Mrs. West represents The Italian Tourist Information Office of Chicago, and has just returned for a trip to Italy. She speaks of the beauties of that country in a charming, informal manner, and with the use of colored slides, makes her lecture only slightly less real than the actual trip to Rome. This is Mrs. West’s second appearance on the campus. She came here two years ago on another similar occasion.
All are invited to attend; the lecture being at 8 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
Sheed & Ward Reprints
Those enterprising publishers, Sheed and Ward, 63 Fifth Avenue, New York, (tea at quarter of four if you like it) have entered upon a new phase of their enterprise. They are offering reprints of some of their outstanding books in paper at $.50 and in cloth binding at $1.00. Titles ready in October are: The Secret of the Cure D’Ars by Henri Gheon, The Unknown God by Alfred Noyes and Thomas More by Daniel Sargent. In December will come A Psychology of Character by Rudolf Allers, Progress and Religion by Christopher Dawson, Catholicism, Protestantism and Capitalism by Amintore Fanfani. The set of six sells for $2.50 in paper and $5.00 in cloth.
10
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
JUDGE LYONS LIMITS OIL AND GAS LAWS
•
The duty of law students and lawyears is to refine, split hairs, distinguish, and burn the midnight oil, the Hon. Thomas D. Lyons, former judge of the Oklahoma Appellate court, told the Law club in a series of three lectures last week on the substantive law of oil and gas.
An established authority on this legal specialty, Judge Lyons, who attended the University from the years 1900 to 1904, repeatedly emphasized the fact that the law on oil and gas is in constant fluctuation and marked by complete reversals by the highest courts of last resort.
The distinguished member of the Oklahoma bar detailed at length the three existing rules concerning the ownership of oil and gas found under the surface. The three rules are entitled: the non - ownership in place theory, qualified ownership in place theory, and the ownership in place theory now prevalent in Texas.
(Editor’s note: the non-ownership in place rule which is upheld in Oklahoma and Indiana holds that oil and gas does not become the property of the owner of the surface until brought to the surface and then controlled. The ownership in place rule holds that the owner of the surface owns the gas and oil beneath the surface. The qualified rule is more difficult to grasp).
As an example of the constant fluctuation of the oil and gas law the Hon. Judge Lyons related the topsy. turvy court history of the surrender clause common in oil and gas leases. In a previous decision the Oklahoma supreme court held that equitable relief would not be granted grantee in re the surrender clause. This view was contrary to the United States Supreme Court ruling in Duffy vs. Smith. Yet the Oklahoma court in Brown vs. Wilson, adjudged after the ruling in Duffy vs. Smith, adhered to its previous holding. However, in a still later case the Oklahoma court came around to accept the ruling made by the United States Supreme Court.
Too, he went into considerable detail on the two great implied covenants which are read into every oil and gas lease: that the grantee will with reasonable diligence drill a sufficient number of wells; that the grantee will protect the lines by drilling off-set wells.
Judge Lyons had opened his lecture series by tracing the-history of the oil and gas industry in North America from the reports of its first recorded history by the Jesuit Fathers to its present widespread magnitude.
THE WEEK
By Bill Donnelly
About Professors
It wasn’t philosophy majors this time, but it was a senior philosophy class again. There must be something (perhaps self - satisfaction and the fear of its deflation) that makes seniors try to avoid philosophy classes. At any rate five of them stood in strategic position outside the window of a philosophy class taught in the basement of the law building, well out of the professor’s sight but within range of hearing everything he said. Just as their crossed fingers had hoped, he announced that he had forgotten his roll book. Things looked pretty good for the truants. But unfortunately he had noted the empty seats and he tried to recollect to whom they belonged.
“Smith usually sits in that one,” he said brightly, and poor Smith had to scoot around from the window, down the stairs, and into the classroom. “I wonder where Crumpacker is?” and down dashed Crumpacker into the room. We realize it would make a better story, since the professor couldn’t remember the other names, to say the others got away with their nefarious scheme. But unfortunately they were moved by the light of intellectual learning (or more probably they just got cold feet) and they went down and joined the rest of the class.
There is another story about that same professor and how he digressed a bit one day to remark that he had seen a rhinoceros and a giraffe before he had ever seen a cow. “In the city zoo,” he explained. Just then there was a clatter outside the window, and everyone looked out to watch the horse and wagon that carts away the dead leaves go past. “That,” everyone shouted to him in unison, “is a horse!”
And a young English professor was bewailing to us the other day his difficulty in achieving any degree of success in drilling anything through the thick skulls of some of his freshman students. He told us, for instance, that he asked his class to explain.the meaning of the sentence: “Knowledge should not be like the loading of coal on a barge.” For a long while no one ventured to answer, but finally one of the bolder students rather proud of himself because he had figured out the thing first, said, “It means you shouldn’t waste all your time down by the river watching them load the coal barges.”
•
Top of the Week
Real girls in the University Theatre. (Coming soon: “The Women,” by Clare Boothe.)
Have you heard the latest?
The following is a list of assorted rumors that recently have been exciting the more gullible goons of the campus, to wit:
1.	The R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company has offered to pay the expenses of every student for a trip to the Pacific Coast for the Southern California game on condition that the migration be entitled “The Camel Caravan” and that it be used for the publicity purposes of the company.
2.	The University authorities have accepted the offer.
3.	Brown, Beinor, Longhi, and McGoldrick have been named on the same all-American first team.
4.	The University had extended the Thanksgiving holidays to include without break the time from 12 noon Wednesday, Nov. 23 through Sunday, Nov. 27.
5.	The University has decided to extend the Christmas holidays ten days if Notre Dame beats Southern California next Saturday.
6.	Notre Dame will play Texas Christian on New Year’s day in a special bowl game that will make the Rose Bowl game fade into comparative insignificance.
7.	Twenty-one students slept in the same room of the Hotel Morrison the night of the Northwestern - Notre Dame game.
8.	The Religious Bulletin meant that swing music is essentially immoral, and not just the fact that immorality may enter into the more extreme forms of its expression.
9.	There is a freshman football player so good that Elmer Layden told him last October that he wouldn’t have to report for practice any more this fall.
10.	Elmer Layden purposely had Hofer make all the points last Saturday to give an added attractiveness to an article by him in- the -Saturday Evening Post this week in which he stresses the importance of the quarterback.
11.	Notre Dame will finally open up with a forward passing attack in its game with Southern California.
12.	LATE FLASH “Camel Caravan” report further verified with the added information that the method of transportation is to be a flotilla of airplanes flying in the formation of a huge ND.
Bottom of the Week
A Saturday without a Notre Dame football game; we won’t know what to do with ourselves tomorrow afternoon.
NOVEMBER 25, 1938
II
—
Theatre
By Gerald Hogan
Comedy of errors: It is dusk at Notre Dame; the Rockne Memorial is overlaid with shadows. The clamor of construction has sputtered and died. Near the corner of a neighboring residence hall a figure moves. Suddenly a voice from above inquires:
Chap from Brooklyn: (leaning out of window) Hey Mac, what the heck’s goin’ on down there?
Apologist from London: (looking up) Well now, I’ll tell you. One of those running chaps.... a trackman .... was dashing by here and the poor fellow collided with a grounded electric wire. And.... uh.... he received a particularly bad shock.
Chap: (closing ivindow) Thanks, Bud.
Apologist: Righto.
The opening scene of every play is ordinarily used to tell the audience the data it should know, to answer the questions it is asking itself; who are these people, what is their present situation, and what happened before the curtain went up. In the nineties, the popular informing device was the “Feather Dusting” scene. Inevitably, the curtain arose to reveal a living room and two servants who wandered aimlessly about, straightening symmetrical pictures and tickling dustless furniture. They were a glib lot, those butlers and maids, and always they were taken up with the affairs of their employers. Without beating around the bush, one would tell the other that the master was in such and such a plight. The other would remark that the mistress wasn’t much help, especially since she was running around with so and so. Then both would depart, never to be seen again, wondering what was “going to become of this family.” Enter the cast, and the audience soon discovered what was to become of that family. Our grandparents could count on a scene like that in every other play they attended.
Here is another story in which Dorothy Parker gets the better of it; Clare Booth, so the story has it, earned the acidic lady’s displeasure. One black night these two met before the revolving door of a New York hotel. It was a moment of tremendous question; who had priority, who should enter first? Clare felt plenty sharp, and in good Sir Walter style reminded Dorothy: “Age before beauty.” “Yes,” purred Miss Parker as she passed the enemy, “Pearls before swine.”
By Dick Metzger
Last year the University Art Department undertook the task of decorating the walls of Cavanaugh and Zahm recreation halls with a series of murals depicting traditional scenes and familiar figures in Notre Dame history. The murals in Cavanaugh were completed last June, but the work in Zahm has just begun.
The completed work in Cavanaugh is the result of the efforts of last
Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C.
A mural in his honor.
year’s freshman and sophomore art students who designed and executed the entire project. These murals were a practical application of theories of design. The Scholastic, last spring, contained a complete review of this undertaking with a picture of the art students at work under the direction of Professor Francis J. Hanley. The general theme was comic rathei- than serious. In this respect it differs from the murals that will soon decorate Zahm “rec.”
These forthcoming works are on a more ambitious scale than their predecessors. They represent particular persons and historical facts, making necessary a faithful, realistic execution. The most complex work will be the large mural depicting the history of transportation from man’s first crude efforts through a steady advance up to the present era of streamlined travel by air, land sea.
Other pictures will depict Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., at work in his laboratory, and Rev. John A. Zahm, C.S.C., with one of the Roosevelt expeditions to South America. These murals will present an extremely difficult task, and will represent, to the students who work on them, a full year’s assignment in design.
By no means, however, should anyone suppose from this that these murals are the only work of the Art Department. The walls of Morrissey Hall’ foyer display many panel decorations— all the work of freshman and sophomore art students of the past.
Music Notes
By William Mooney
Tomorrow afternoon the Metropolitan Opera Company begins its season of Saturday afternoon broadcasts. This week we will hear “Orpheus and Eurydice” by Christopher Gluck. This is one of the older operas to be given this year. Orpheus will be sung by Kersten Thorborg, and Eurydice will be sung either by Vina Bovy or Irene Jessner.
Gluck composed in the 17th century. It was the custom of many composers of opera during that period to write the hero role for contralto voice.
The story is a familiar one. Amor, the god of love, promises to retrieve from death Eurydice, the beautiful bride of Orpheus. But this promise is made on condition that Orpheus must on no account look at Eurydice until they have passed the river Styx. Orpheus does 1 ook and his lovely wife dies. The hymn of mourning which comes at this point is the climax of the opera. Amor is touched by the great sadness of Orpheus and, at last, revives Eurydice.
Recently we have seen the appearance of opera in a new form. The old masterpieces are being streamlined and presented in tabloid form in an hour program. This program may be heard from 11 to 12 noon each Sunday from the Radio City Music Hall. Erno Rapee conducts, and the title roles are sung by such well known singers as Robert Tweede of the Metropolitan Opera Company, and Jan Peerce.
During the remainder of the season, the Music Hall will feature such masterpieces as “Cavalleria Rusti-cana” and “Die Walkure,” one of the foremost music dramas from Wagner’s Ring Cycle.
In spite of the fact that the length of the operas is greatly reduced in the tabloid presentations, practically all of the important arias, duets and ensemble numbers will be included. At the same time, great care is being taken to preserve the dramatic plot sequences of each work so that the radio audience may be able to follow the original score. These operas in miniature should be welcomed by those who enjoy operatic music but who either haven’t the time or the patience to listen to a full program from the Met.
Next week I will introduce the first of several outstanding student musicians.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C......Faculty Advisor
MARK J. MITCHELL___________________Editor-in-Chief
VINCENT DeCOURSEY_______________Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
William P. Mahoney_____________________________Literary Editor
William A. Donnelly The Week
Frederick Sisk_________________________________College Parade
Graham Starr____________________________Man About the Campus
William Mooney_____________________________________Music Notes
Andrew Wilson Splinters from the Press Box
Edward Huff________________________________________Introducing
News Staff William C. Fay_________________________________News Editor
F. G. Barreda___________________________Assistant News Editor
John Kohn----------------------------------Harry Penrose
George Haithcock___________________________Joseph Perkins
Thomas Ferneding___________________________Joseph Miller
George Neumann-----------------------------Stephen Smith
John Ferneding-----------------------------Thomas Marker
Edward Huston------------------------------Richard Anton
Sports Staff
Donald Foskett____ Robert B. Voelker. Clarence Sheehan.. James Newland_____ Francis Kennedy___
----------------------Sports Editor ----------------------Assistant Sports Editor
-----------------------John Quinn ------------------------------John	White -------------------------------------------Frank-Aubrey
Art Staff
Tom Powers_____ Don Driscoli___ John Webster..
___________Art	Editor .Assistant Art Editor Assistant Art Editor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City— Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to P. O. Box 155, Notre Dame, Indiana.	.
Vol. 72
November 25, 1938
No. 9
Campus Entertainment
THE FIELD of campus entertainment was augmented this week by- the first production of the University Theatre. “Room Service,” besides being a credit to the University as a whole, added no small amount of prestige to the Theatre and its players.
About a month ago the Linnets produced a show which was well received on the campus.
Last week, a reorganized Glee Club presented its first concert.
Every one of these productions embodied innovations whether in cast, in medium, or in presentation. Seldom in the past has the outlook for "undergraduate entertainment been so bright. The Scholastic as well as the student body at large has long felt the need of such media for the expression of undergraduate talent.
But we have only scratched the surface. Neither the media nor the talent have been exploited to any degree nearly approaching their limit. It is understood that the potential field is somewhat restricted by financial difficulties. Why not charge a nominal admission fee for the better campus productions. Experience has shown in the
 NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
case of the Monogram Absurdities that this does not make a worthwhile show any less popular.
This is only a suggestion offered in the best interests of campus entertainment. The Scholastic is very much satisfied with the progress shown up to this point. We hope that the future yields as much as it promises.—
Mark J. Mitchell.
Freedom Will Out
EUROPE today offers contrasting forms of absolutism. We have seen the peoples of many nations becoming more and more subservient to the totalitarian states. We have seen them lose their liberty as well as their religion. Yet, in spite of this absolutism, there remains one state which still stands for Justice and Charity. The Prince of Peace, the last champion of freedom, is its temporal ruler; Christ, the Redeemer of mankind, its eternal guardian.
In his De Regimine Principum, St. Thomas tell us that if man lives in society with other men it is only natural that he should adopt some form of government. But this government, he adds, exists only for the good of those governed. Nowhere in his treatise does he say that liberty and freedom of religious worship are conditions of rights of the state. On the contrary, he states that the ruler who usurps these rights must be deprived of his authority.
The doctrine of St. Thomas is as applicable today as the day on which it was written-. The Great Doctor had only the faults of the past to guide him in his writings. Yet he knew these human lusts, the desire for power and the destruction of the common good, would threaten the liberty of man in every age.
The Holy Father is today the great exponent of this Thomistic teaching. He diligently guards the dignity of man against the mundane desires and exploits of the dictators. The Holy Father is quick to defend the oppressed, whether he be Jew or Christian, for to deny man his spiritual counterpart, as the dictators are wont to do, is an affront to the whole of mankind.
The absolutism of today cannot but go the way of all such tyrannical orgies. Under its whip choice is nonexistent; point of view is anathema. Begotten by renegade theorists, it sustains itself on false doctrines and racial myths. Its appeal is directed to the emotions rather than to reason. But regardless of its temporary appeal and apparent success, man’s desire for freedom is never satiated for it is as innate at nature itself. No one can completely dampen its fire. At best freedom can be suppressed for a time but sooner or later it will assert itself with volcanic force. It will sweep away all that has held it in check.
The inhuman demands that the German state has made upon the Jews is an excellent yet lamentable example of the work of state absolutism. Denied every human right, the Jews have been forced to seek refuge wherever humane people will receive them. Many nations are helping the Jews but this relief from their immediate plight will soon wear off. The exodus of the Jews from Germany will not in any manner restore to the German people their own liberty. Yet we feel that the treatment accorded the Jews by the German state will inspire more than a few German minds to demand those rights which they have seen denied their less . fortunate brothers.— John J. Kohn.
NOVEMBER 25. 1938
13
Communism and Man"
A review by Joseph H. Harrington
In Communism and Man, F. J. Sheed fulfills a long needed service of enlightenment on a subject about which much is said but little, precious little, is understood. As in most subjects of general discussion we tend to overlook the fundamental principles and basic aspects in our haste to consider the particular application. Sheed follows the very elementary, but seldom used procedure of going back to consider the first principles.
The chief point upon which this book is to be recommended is at the same time the reason why it cannot be a truly authoritative work. The strength and the weakness of the book lies in the fact that it is simple.
Because it is simple it is intelligible to a greater number of readers, for the reading public, like a student, is prone to accept a ready-cooked reduction of ideas rather than to go out, dig, assemble and digest the ideas at their origin.
One does not need to have a philosophical background in order to grasp the material in this book. Anyone can find in its pages enough basic ideas to discuss intelligently one of the most important topics of the day.
The nucleus of the doctrine is exposed in the form of about a half dozen fundamental ideas. Before treating of these ideas the author, in the Introduction, makes a few provocative statements. They are quoted:
“Communism is almost never discussed calmly. If you question a Communist at all closely.... the mere hint of a criticism produces an instant emotional reaction more proper to a religious than to an economic discussion.”
“The man intolerably placed in the present system will naturally embrace Communism without question; his zeal for Communism is simply his hatred of Capitalism. Generations of wrongs suffered under the old system pour in as an asset to the new; and the new system needs no virtue of its own, for one all-sufficing virtue it has—it is not the old (system).”
“We do not understand any doctrine till we understand-what its attraction is for its supporters. If at the end of our study we still cannot see why anyone holds it, then we have failed.. •. Unless we can almost imagine ourselves being Communists, we are incompetent to discuss the matter.”	•
“Russia is not a true test. Things were too bad there before the Communists took over for any subsequent failure to be held as a final condemnation of the system.”
Thus having disposed of Russia, or Communism as particularly applied, the author confines his treatment to those universal elements which of necessity would be found in Communism under any variation of local conditions. Immediately Sheed begins to examine the Hegelian dialectic which
You Died too Soon
By Donald K. Duffey
You left before I had
A chance to say How much I loved your voice,
Your charm, your way, How dearly you expressed
Your love for me, How comforting I found
Your sympathy!
And now that you have gone
I find my tears
Have not the strength to make
Up for the years
To tell you that my life
Was only you
To say your love was all
I ever knew.
Now life won’t mean a thing
Until I die
Till then a fareivell kiss
.4 last goodbye.
is the frame-work of the Communist doctrine, borrowed by Marx to explain the economic history of the world.
Although accomplished metaphysicians have been engaged in intellectual calisthenics for several decades in order to discover just what the Hegelian dialectic is, this book is an instance of a man presenting, explaining and dismissing this intricate system in a couple of pages.... Let not the student reader think that he has mastered the Hegelian system after reading this simple conversation on the subject. Although it is incomplete it is a step in the right direction and no doubt the author has sacrificed profundity in the cause of clarity.
In logical sequence one is shown
this dialectical procedure in the ideal order, where it is .used by Hegel to trace the progress of the Absolute . Idea on its way to complete realization of itself, and then how Marx transferred it to the material order as the frame-work upon which to stretch his explanation of the universe. In this universe Marx considered matter to be the ultimate element and -spirit as being only an attribute of matter when it has reached a certain stage of development.
Sheed’s treatment of this transfer is one of the best in the book. He makes it clear that Marx, the materialistic monist, had nothing in common with Hegel, the idealistic monist, other than this dialectical procedure. In his chapters on “Marx and the Future” and on “First Thoughts in the Marxist Analysis” much of the quotation is from Dawson’s two fine books, “Religion and the Modern State” and Progress and Religion.”
The second section of the book is entitled “Man.” In considers a specimen in the absolute sense and then in his relation to his Creator and to his fellow-men.
In forty pages the author sums up • the principles of rational psychology and yet retains his simple style. This section has a special importance for those interested in psychology. The principal thesis of this science are reduced to conversational language which makes the ontological approach seem an unnecessary confusion. Of course this simple approach is not as reliable as the ontological but it is both interesting and appreciable.
The third section is the meat of Hie book in as much as it is here that the doctrine of Marxism is brought into contact with the rational animal. They are found to be incapable of dove-tailing.
The reader will be shown an intelligent analysis of the position of the individual in this form of totalitarian society, and how man, as a creature composed of body and immortal soul, can not retain his personal dignity in a system which rejects the concept of a Creator and considers the immortality of the soul as a postulation of the human mind in order to-compensate for the dissatisfactions of life.
As a whole the book is so simple that it is really pre-college reading. However, those who have missed it should now read it.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
14
Four Men and a Story
One night in January four elderly gentlemen were seated around a fire in the large living room of Judge Peterson’s house. The three other men, besides the Judge, were Mr. Michael Spalding, a successful banker, Mr. William Rawlings, a noted publisher, and Mr. Anthony Guipes-sie, a world-famous sculptor.
The Judge had given a farewell dinner for his friend Mr. Anthony Guipessie, who was leaving the next day for his fatherland. Many people had come to the dinner. But these four men were the only persons at the dinner who were bonded by true friendship. As soon as possible they had secluded themselves.
Of the three men, Mr. Michael Spalding was perhaps not as close in friendship to Anthony as were Mr. Rawlings and Judge Peterson. He was, however, considered by the other three to be one of them. The Judge had had, years ago when he began practicing law, the hot-headed Italian Anthony as his first client. Anthony had been sued by a woman who claimed “this here-a no good-a Tony, he lie to me; this statue shall fall apart when she come close to the big-a blaze. I want-a my money back.” The Judge, proving that the kitchen was no place in which to keep a work of art, won the case and Anthony as a life-long friend. Mr. Rawlings had discovered the beauty of Anthony’s work, liked and bought many of his images, and won Anthony’s friendship also. Mr. Rawlings suspected his monthly purchase of being highly valuable to Anthony; the truth of the matter was that these monthly sales to Mr. Rawlings were all that kept Anthony alive.
And Anthony wanted so to be alive. His aesthetic craving was tremendous. He wanted to cut out with his hands the most beautiful thing in the world. He—but no, let’s go back to the four men seated in Judge Peterson’s house and listen to Mr. Rawlings tell us the whole story as he sits before the fire and toys with his halffilled wine glass.
“Yes, Tony, it’s been a long, hard fight, and you’ve won. You’ve won what we others have not. You’ve won peace and happiness, through sheer hardship and toil, sacrifice and suffering. It all seems so simple to those thousands of people who look at your work, and will to those thousands to come. They’ll wonder at their simplicity and say, ‘Why I could have done that myself if I took the time.’ But there, Tony, is where they’ll be right and wrong at the same time. They’ll be right because it’s true they
could make something just as beautiful if they would devote a lifetime to their endeavor. And they’ll be wrong because they could never endure through a lifetime, what you have, to make their dreams come true. All they see is the finished product, and what they don’t see, Tony, is your sacrifices which made possible these two masterpieces the world is clamoring about.”
Mr. Rawlings sipped his wine and continued.
“Tomorrow you’ll be on your way to the land of your childhood, Tony, to see sights you’ve known years ago. We’ll never see you again probably, so I’m going to tell the Judge and Michael the true story behind those two statues.”
Anthony nodded his head approvingly.
“I knew Tony when he came to New York, over 45 years ago, Judge. He was a hotheaded, excited kid. He never knew where his next meal was coming from. But he didn’t care as long as he could work with his tools and was able to create things, beautiful things. Inside Tony, deep under his boisterous liveliness, he had a vein for the beautiful, and he wanted to create the most beautiful image in the world. He talked to me about it for years, and said he felt it inside him to make the most beautiful object the world had ever seen. He talked about having as his model for the most beautiful thing a woman—then a flower—then a tree—then a bird. He mentioned practically everything, but he was never satisfied. Finally one day I came in on Tony and he was beaming. He’d found what he wanted. He was going to make a bust of Jesus Christ.
“He did. He labored three years with a young high school boy sitting as his model, and three years more he put in on it, making it just right and adding finishing touches. Lord knows what torment Tony went through during those six years. He was an old man, or looked like one to me, when he was finished with the bust.
“As you know, it met with instant success and Tony was famous and rich over night. He felt for awhile he had completed his mission in the world and was ready to live the rest of his life in ease. He did for some time, but he became uneasy and dissatisfied. He said to me often that there was something worrying him all the time, that he felt he must do something else, something greater.
“For five or six years he was tormented. Then he told me he’d con-
By Clyde Archer
ceived the idea of contrasting the most beautiful thing with the ugliest thing, and naming it Contrast — Good and Evil. To Tony the ugliest thing in the world was Satan.
“So he set out to discover his model for Satan. He searched for years in every nook and corner to find some model to represent the ugliest thing in the world. He found him in New York, in the state penitentiary. Tony said he’d found the ugliest, most hideous person, without doubt, that God had ever put on this earth. He contracted this person and upon the day of his release from prison he came to Tony and stood for him. Tony said the sight of this person was terrifying. He could never look upon him for any length of time. It was sickening, and Tony resolved several times to give up this work, but each time he remembered the worse torment he suffered before he’d found his Satan.
“Tony hastened with this Satan, and was finished in two years. He let him go with the promise that he’d notify his Satan model when he’d completed the bust and let him see it. For five years Tony continued working on the bust, improving it, adding here and there until he was satisfied. Then he informed his Satan model.
“The model came and looked at the work for a long time, Tony said. Tony noted a change in the model. He was not as ugly as the bust, Tony decided. Then the Satan model began to laugh. ‘Why, what’s wrong?’ asked Tony. The model continued to laugh, and said, ‘It’s funny. I was the model for your bust of Christ.’
“That disclosure, Judge, was the cause of Tony’s illness a few years ago, and he decided not to put the Contrast before the public. Then, when he’d recuperated, he allowed the Contrast to be exhibited. You know what happened, Judge, the acclaim he’s getting now—and all this he deserves, and more too. But I think Tony deserves it more because no one knows what he has been through, and that’s why I say the thousands' who’ll look at his statues will never know the story behind them.”
The Judge nodded his head in agreement, amazement on his face. He said, “You’re right.”
Mr. Spalding looked into the fire, a peculiar twisting smile on his face. He spoke slowly. “And no one but I, gentlemen, will know the story behind Mr. Rawling’s story of Tony. I’m the man who has been model for both Tony’s Christ and Satan.”
NOVEMBER 25, 1938
15
THE WEEK IN SPORTS
JUNIORS REPEAT IN SOCCER LEAGUE
By John Quinn
For the second year the class of ’40 soccer team under the guiding hand and capable toe of Norv Hunthausen have completed the season undefeated and bedecked their collective heads with the soccer league crown.
This team is practically the same team that played last year as the sophomore team and won the championship. Since they have been organized they have played about 25 games league and non-league, winning all of them. This is a remarkable record in the light of the fact that none except Norv Hunthausen ever played before they formed their team.
The Juniors began this year’s play with warm-up wins over such teams as the LaRaza team and the Frosh Phy. Ed. outfit. Then they coasted along in the league with easy victories, until they ran up against the Badin boys in the next to the last game. There, in the best game seen around these parts since the organization of the league, the two teams fought on even terms until a Junior’s kick went scooting between the post to break a 1-1 tie and give the defending champs the game. In a rather anti-climatic game the Juniors clinched the title by a 2-1 count over Zahm.
When asked as to the team’s outstanding players, Hunthausen said, “We had no stars; it was a team on which all worked together.”
As the winners of the league competition, the team will get medals. The 14 players who played on the team and will get the medals are: Ralph Postula, Chet Sullivan, Mize Morris, Tom Fitzpatrick, Joe McKeon, Vince Trainor, Lloyd Thompson, Jim Curran, Bern Daly, Bill Hopkins, John Joyce, Tom Lloyd, Ray Seguin, and Norv Hunhausen.
Met Club Tourneys
Shooting a 76, Charley Metzger, of Rockville, N. Y., captured the fall golf championship of the Metropolitan club. Frank Baumert finished second.
Play in the singles tennis tournament reached the semi-finals before cold weather halted competition. Remaining in the tourney are: Tom Philpott, Dominic Loguidice, George Mulligan and Bill Waters. If further play is impossible this fall, the event will be completed in the spring, Tournament Chairman John Celia announced.
IRISH CAGERS OPEN HERE WITH KALAMAZOO COACH KEOGAN SEES "INTERESTING" YEAR
By Robert B. Voelker
Notre Dame inaugurates the new basketball season next Thursday when the Irish five play host to Kalamazoo College. The Kalamazoo 22-man squad brings an impressive record, including a Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association champion, to the local fieldhouse. The Irish will be considerably weakened because veterans Emmett Crowe and
Eddie Sadowski Set for Kalamazoo.
.. - -
Rice National Champ
Greg Rice, Notre Dame’s great little distance runner and track captain, added three more records to his growing list of conquests last Monday afternoon, when he crossed the finish line first in the National Intercollegiate Cross Country Championships, held at East Lansing, Mich. In covering the Michigan State College course in 20 minutes, 12.9 seconds, he set a new National Intercollegiate record, a new Central Collegiate record, and a new course record.
Indiana won the team championship with Notre Dame taking second. Rice’s team mate, Steve Szumachow-ski, finished tenth in a field of 100.
Earl Brown will be on the coast for the Notre Dame-Southern California football game. To make the setup worse, Kalamazoo can put seven lettermen on the floor.
Coach Chester S. Barnard, of Kalamazoo, will probably start Don Spals-bury and Joe Howard at right and left forward, respectively. Russell Zick will be at right guard, and either Dan Wood or Dick Lemmer will play the left guard position. Bob Warren, who outscored All-American Johnny Moir in the 1937 Notre Dame-Kazoo tilt, will be at center.
All the Kalamazoo starters have had considerable experience. Spals-bury has played with the varsity two years. Last year he led the scoring in the M.I.A.A. conference with 236 points. “Jumping” Joe Howard holds several high jump and broad jump records and has had a year’s experience with the varsity. Last year Warren did not attend Kalamazoo College, but played center on an independent team that won the Michigan State championship. Zick is another vet that is reported to be good on long shots and a hard man to keep from scoring.
The left guard post is a toss-up between two veterans, Wood and Lemmer. Wood starts his second year on the varsity and is one of the fastest men on the squad. He may not start because he has not had much practice, having just finished playing left halfback on the Kalamazoo football team. Lemmer, however, starred as a freshman. He is tall, rangy, and the best defensive man on the team.
The Notre Dame squad of 20 men may all see action. All men are still contending for first team positions in the Freshman - Varsity scrimmages. The leading contestants include Frank Gaglione, Lou Wagner, Mark Ertel, Eddie Sadowski, “Duke” DuCharme and Gene Klier. Sophomores Del Zoppo, Riska, Smith, Gillespie and Ziggerhom are liable to play with the varsity. To date Coach Keogan has not revealed the starting lineup for the game.
16
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
IRISH FOOTBALL SCHEDULE HARDER THAN EVER . • PURDUE. S.M.U.. IOWA BOOKED FOR *39
By Donald A. Foskett
Listen, Mr. Football Fan! All last year you talked of Notre Dame’s 1938 “suicide” schedule; you spoke of the noticeable lack of anything resembling a soft touch on that card; and, with the sports writers of every newspaper in the country, including the Scholastic, you “shed a tear for Notre Dame.” But
if you think this year’s schedule was tough, just take a look at the mouthful Elmer Layden has bitten off for himself next year; if that lineup doesn’t keep the arc-lights burning late next fall, then we hope the Yankees win the pennant again.
The ambitious Irish will open the season here Sept. 30, but we’re willing to bet there won’t be any 52-0 score as there was this year. Mal Elward and Mel Taube are bringing their Purdue outfit up here for a game, and a team that can tie Fordham and beat Wisconsin should spell a tough afternoon for the Irish.
Another new opponent, Southern Methodist, will bring back to Notre Dame the “razzle-dazzle” that was so ably exhibited here by Ohio State two seasons ago. The Mustangs will be here on Oct. 14. They have had only a mediocre season at Dallas this year, but fans who look back to the Rose
Bowl days of Bobby Wilson & Co. are of the opinion that S.M.U. is “due” again.
The third, and final change, is the substitution of Iowa in place of Minnesota, on the 11th of November. This may be the cue for some of the boys to laugh when they consider the disappointing season that the folks from Iowa City have gone through, but rumors of such great gridmasters as Jock Sutherland, Howard Jones and Eddie Anderson, coming to Iowa lead us to believe that perhaps the Hawkeyes are set for another era like the one when “Oze” Simmons galloped down the line.
The rest of the schedule literally speaks for itself. We know how good Georgia Tech, Army, Navy, Carnegie, Northwestern, and Southern Cal are. Every one of these teams were tough this year, and are bound to come up with something when next fall rolls around.
Illinois’ departure from the schedule is only temporary, Director of Athletics Layden announced, for the Illini will be back on the schedule in 1940 and 1941.
For the last time this season the Irish alumni will face each other as collegiate coaches. This week’s schedule includes: Duquesne vs. Niagara (“Clipper II” Smith and Ed Hunsinger) ; Santa Clara vs. Detroit (Buck Shaw and Gus Dorais).
Elmer Layden Nine tough Saturdays.
ttiiiiiiaitiiiiMtiitiattuitiiatiicitiitiimtiiiiiititiitKitiittittiiiiiiii
1939 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
Sept. 30—Purdue at Notre Dance
Oct. 7—Georgia Tech at Notre Dante
Oct. 14—S.M.U. at Notre Dame
Oct. 21—Navy at Baltimore
Oct. 28<-Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh
Nov. 4—Army at New York
Nov. 11—Iowa at Iowa City
Nov. 18—Northwestern at Notre Dame
Nov. 25—Southern Cal at Notre Dame
aauiiitaaiaiaBiiBiaiiaaiittttiiitititiutttttiutiiiaititiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiii
Layden-Grant in "Post"
Notre Dame’s synthetic alumni, who hold a prominent place among the second-guessers of footballdom, will have ample opportunity to understand what Steve Sitko, Bill Hofer, and Emmett Crowe have been going through this season, when they read-Elmer Layden’s article “No Quarter for Quarterbacks” featured in this week’s issue of the Saturday Evening Post; it was written in collaboration with Backfield Coach Donald “Chet” Grant.
Layden’s article is an intelligent and entertaining explanation of some of the tasks and problems that confront the signal caller each fall.
FENCERS READY FOR WINTER SCHEDULE
•
The first real sign of winter appeared last week. The varsity fencing team brought out their weapons and guards and began practice in the gym. Fencing is modelled after the hand-to-hand combats fought way way back before the time of Homer’s Iliad, but here at Notre Dame it has been given a new twist through the efforts of Coach Pedro de Landero. During the past few years Mr. de Landero’s squads have been showing the entire mid-west how to manipulate a foil of a sabre.
In turning out his 1939 team Mr. de Landero will have a group of nine returning veterans to rely upon. Nine men must be just what the Professor ordered because he seems quite satisfied with his prospects. Last year one of the tournaments unearthed five promising Freshmen who knew a thing or two about sword-play, but John Gaither and Bert Schlafly are the only two boys to come back for more. Al Michelson, a Los Angeles lad .appeared to have what it takes to make a good sabre man, but the climate was apparently too much for him. A newcomer named Reynolds will take Al’s place in the sabre. O’Donnell and Wallace, both neophytes, will endeavor to take up the slack in the epee.
Leading the team is Captain Sal Scarlata, from New Jersey, a spectacular point scorer in the sabre for the past two seasons. Sal may be from Jersey, but, he can trace his ancestry back to the lanistae. Who? They were the first fencing masters of history and they operated out of Rome during the early Empire period. Helping out Sal in the sabre are Johnny Gavan, Joe Smalley, and Jerry Donovan. From a pre-season angle the saberers look to be the strongest group on the team.
The foils will be parried by Joe Leising, Charlie Colgan, Bob Sayia, Al McEnearney, and Jerry Donovan —veterans from last year’s very capable group of foilists. Jim Graham, Joe Smalley, Al McEnearney, and Charlie Colgan seem to monopolize the epee division at present, but the aforementioned O’Donnell and Wallace have eyes on a position here.
The competitive season won’t get under way until January, for the new men have much to learn about fencing. Their apprenticeship will be served during the next two months when they will compete in intrasquad tourneys.
NOVEMBER 25. 1938
17
FR. BRENNAN CALLS FOR HANDBALLERS
Introducing
FEW CHANGES MARK
1939 CAGE RULES
By Eddie Huff
The first steps in organizing the 1938 edition of Notre Danie’s handball team will take place in the near future, according to word received from those in charge of the sport. Plans for both interhall and intercollegiate competition were revealed by the coach of the handball team, Reverend Thomas Brennan, C.S.C.
Within the next few weeks, the first call will be issued for those who wish to participate in the school tournament. This tournament is expected to be valuable in several ways since it will not only be a great help to stir up interest among the students, but it will also serve to show if Notre Dame has any outstanding new aspirants for the 1938 intercollegiate competition.
The intercollegiate competition will take place after the tournament if enough interest is shown by the students. Several outstanding members of last year’s varsity have returned and all looks bright for a successful season. Father Brennan has also expressed the hope that matches with other schools will be started earlier this year, in December if possible.
Frosh Fencers Out
“It may be the finest Freshman group I’ve handled, if they come out to practice faithfully.” Professor Pedro de Landero, Varsity mentor was looking over 40 ambitious young candidates, who responded last Tuesday afternoon to the call for first year fencers. The head coach was pleased at the large number of tall men, who promise to develop into sturdy epee exponents. A few, also, showed possibilities of becoming efficient sabreswordsmen.
For several days the yearlings will be fed a steady diet of limbering exercises. Then, if present plans are carried out, the squad will be divided into smaller working units of seven. Thus, the coach will be enabled to concentrate his training among two whole groups each afternoon, and each of the six groups will receive two official classes each week.
Professor de Landero is being aided to some extent this season by his varsity fencers. And with the coming division of new talent, each of the small groups will receive the tutorship of two experienced men. This year’s turnout does not exceed last year’s in number.
Pitt’s opponents can look forward to a little relief next fall, for ten of the eleven starting Panthers will “take” their diplomas next June.
To get an audience with Bill Hofer, varsity quarterback, you must talk to Bob Farrington, his roommate.
About Willard Clair Hofer, senior in the physical education department from Rock Island, Hl., Bob has this to say:
“Bill possesses the ideal “quarterback” disposition; nothing excites him, he never worries, and he doesn’t have a loose nerve in his makeup. His slogan is ‘I’m ready,’ and he usually is just that.” And Bill Hofer was ready last Saturday aft-emoos as eleven d umbf ounded Wildcats will testify, after watching the big Irish signal-caller score nine points for El
mer’s unbeaten gridders.
A fair sample of Bill’s “contact” ability evinced itself during the Minnesota game. George Franck twice ran beyond Notre Dame’s forward defensive wall. Now George is a friend of Bill’s, a friendship that dates back to their prep-school days—Franck at Davenport, Iowa, and Hofer at Rock Island, Hl., just across the Mississippi. On both occasions that Franck ran into the Irish secondary—once in each half—he was brought to the turf by vicious tackles on the part of Hofer. Both times, George Franck had to be removed from the game.
Bill was a football captain in prep school and he was awarded monograms in track and basketball as well. Possessed of rare speed for one packing 200 pounds avoirdupois, Hofer has been handicaped by an injury to the right knee suffered in the 1937 Army fracas. A mid-summer's operation necessitated the removal of bothersome cartilage, making Bill ready for 1938 action.
There is nothing of the romantic, glamorous, or sensational touch to Bill’s person. He is an avid talker, he doesn’t read Shakespeare, and he shows only a mild taste for things metaphysical. One radio program is as good as another to Hofer, and he can listen to swing bands or play bridge with equal abandon.
Bill has two ambitions. One of these is to return a punt like Benny Sheridan; the other, to coach football. Early in life Hofer learned that the Notre Dame system of football was the best. With an eye towards teaching the best in his chosen field, Bill sought out the best school in which to learn Notre Dame football.
Optional ten-minute quarters, simplification of the ten-second rule, and five time-outs instead of four, are the principal changes revealed in the 1939 basketbaH rules.
According to last year’s rules, college teams had to play two halves of 20 minutes each. By mutual agreement of the two teams, the game may be played in four ten-minute quarters, with two-minute intermissions between the first and second quarters and between the third and fourth quarters this year. In addition, the intermission period between the halves may be reduced to 10 minutes, upon the mutual agreement of the two teams. With this new ruling, the game may even be faster than last year, since the players wiH have more rest.
Likewise, the rule increasing by one the number of time-outs is liable to speed up the game. Coach George Keogan believes the speed of the game is determined by the team. They can play as fast or as slow as they please. Under pressure, however, the offensive team may play faster with the increased number of time-outs,” the coach revealed.
The change in the ten-second rule .has to do with passing to a teammate in the back court while a player is straddling or on the mid-court division line. The division line is considered to be in a team’s back court. If a player dribbles the ball from his back court toward the division line, the ten-second count continues as long as he is touching the floor on or behind the division line. If, while on or straddling the line, he passes the ball to a teammate who is in the back court or who is touching or straddling the line, the play is legal because the baH has been constantly in the back court. Similar reasoning applies when a player receives the ball while standing on or straddling the line.
Fromhart Team Wins
Congratulations to Wally Fromhart, ’36, and Fred Mundee, '37! These two former Irish grid stars proved their mettle as coaches this season, by leading their Mt. Carmel High (Chicago) charges to the Catholic Prep championship of Chicago. They clinched the title last Sunday by defeating Fenwick 7-6. The Catholic champions wfll play Fenger High to decide the city championship.
18
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
N. D. FOLLOWS HOFER TO WIN NO "8"
By Andy Wilson
Saturday’s score, the spectators, and the team members all agree in indicating that Northwestern was the toughest team Notre Dame has met this fall. Northwestern had the smartest defensive line and the best blocking offensive line the Irish forwards have had to handle, and the Northwestern backfield was one of the fastest to face the Irish all year. . . .
After -Jefferson made his long 33-yard run in the first quarter none of the Northwestern backs seemed able to gain except “Red” Hahnenstein. But how HE went! He kept faking to the right and driving back through an enormous weak side hole for 10, 12, and 15 yards a try. . . . That was in the first half. ... In the second half he carried the ball six times — once for a ten-yard gain — and altogether made 14 yards. . . .
Among the bench warmers at Dyche Stadium -was Pete Coyle, a thin, middle-aged fellow, darkly redfaced, in an old hat and a seedy overcoat. Pete is the nation’s greatest football mascot. He comes from New Haven, Connecticut (though he talks pure Brooklynese), and just lives all fall from one football game to another — apparently on his sense of “touch” alone. What he does in the off-seasons we have not discovered.
Anyway, fete circumambiated from Connecticut to New York, watching teams like Wesleyan, Brown, Yale, Columbia, Navy, till October 28th, when Notre Dame, his favorite of favorites, arrived at the Westchester Country Club. He haunted the team during its stay in New York, guarded the locker room door militantly before and after the game, vigorously hauled loads of blankets and heavy storm-coats from the lockers to the sidelines, and helped the team to a 19-7 victory. The next week he turned up at Baltimore. November 12th he appeared in South Bend for the Minnesota game, stayed around all week and went up to Evanston Saturday. We understand that he is now dickering for a ride to California.
He takes his football seriously — even tragically. Not even Elmer Layden has a darker face before a game than Pete. Before the game with the Gophers he kept wandering in the rear of the locker room, shaking his head, muttering to himself. At one stage of his glooms there were actually tears in his eyes. “We gotta beat dem buggers,” he kept saying. “Oh hut dey’re big buggers dough!” At Northwestern he hardly could have seen half the game for his praying
and worrying. Before every play he would cross himself and huddle over his rosary. Then he’d shift uneasily, look up and down the bench glumly, then over at the scoreboard, then bless himself as the next play started.
He habitually watches with suspicion everyone in the locker room but the players. He frets continually about the equipment on the sidelines, and is always fearful that nothing will be well conducted without his personal attention. He will come up to you confidentially and earnestly and say, “We gotta get dem blankets on the field! We gotta get dem down dere! I been workin’ on the helmets — I been doin’ my best down dere, but I can’t do everyt’ing!”
How many Notre Dame games he has seen he doesn’t remember. “I knew Rock,” he says; “I knew Rock and Gipp and all dem. I been watchin’ us play since de war — sure, since de war.” He told us the Minnesota game was his seventh victory of the year. “Seven outta eight,” he said. “Dat ain’t a bad record now, is it? Seven outta eight — and I shouldnt even lost one. Dat was all the dumb quarterback’s fault. De coach told him — ‘throw a pass’ he says — and de quarterback hits de line and dey lose de ball. Chee, what dumb quarterbackin’ !”
We have never seen him look anything but worried. “Come on, cheer up! We won the game!” we said to him once. “Don’t you ever smile, Pete?”
“Sure, I smile onct in a while,” he said frowning deeply.
In tthe midst of all the clamor stirring about our yet-undefeated potential National Champions, the football team, five cross-country men returned last Monday in Coach Nicholson’s car from the NCAA cross-country meet at East Lansing with an actual National Champion among them. He was Greg Rice, already established by his work last summer as the greatest of American distance runners. Greg ran most of the 56-man field into the ground over the four-mile Michigan State College course, entered the last quarter-mile neck and neck with Feiler of Drake, Whittaker of Ohio State, and Trutt of Indiana, then turned on his sprint to win by three seconds over Feiler. Smith of Penn State, champion of the East at the IC4A meet two weeks before, finished far fifth behind the midwestern leaders. Greg’s time, 20:12.9, was a new course record. The team placed second with 61 points to Indiana’s 51.
A squad of Fighting Irish successfully marched past the eigthth milestone in their nine-game journey toward the national championship at Evanston last Saturday with Willard “Big Bill” Hofer leading the parade. The Wildcats gave all they had but could not keep this man Hofer in check on two occasions, and these two occasions were sufficient to account for all of Notre Dame’s points and defeat Northwestern, 9 to 7.
The game was all Northwestern’s throughout the first half. Coach Waldorf’s team made five drives which averaged about 40 yards each, while the Irish could not rush past their opponents’ 40-yard line except on Hofer’s sparkling run back of a pass interception. The visitors kicked off and immediately were in the hole as they have been in the early part of every game to date. Saggau’s kicking kept his team in the ball game throughout the first quarter.
In the second period both coaches sent new teams into the game. The Purple drove to the nine-yard line where they held on downs. Stevenson kicked into the wind to his own 47 and then the trouble started. After a line play failed to gain Soper faded back and passed into the waiting arms of Bill Hofer who cut to his right and behind the beautiful blocking of his teammates galloped to the goal line where the safety man failed to bring him down. Morrison’s try for the point was no good. The Wildcats strack back shortly after on a two-yard plunge by McGurn. Con-teas kicked the extra point to put Northwestern out in front, 7 to 6.
The Irish started to drive as the last half got under way, but on the ten-yard line the Wildcats dug in and held the Irish for three plays. Hofer was then rushed into the game in place of Sitko and he very calmly booted the ball between the uprights from the 17-yard line to give the Irish a victory and end the scoring for the afternoon. This was the first triumph that Notre Dame has achieved in this manner since 1935 when Marty Peters, right end, was called back to the 27-yard line and with Fromhart holding the ball made a perfect placement to break a 6 to 6 deadlock.
At last we have a cure for Notre Dame’s early - season fumbles. The University of Michigan squad lessened its bobbles considerably by forming a “Derby Club”; each man that fumbles must wear a battered derby hat in signal practice while his team mates “kid” him.
NOVEMBER 25, 1938
19
Present N. D. Team Recalls Tribute by Reporter: Perry Reveals Mystery of Notre Dame Football
VARSITY PREPS FOR TROJAN BATTLE
fED. NOTE—The following tribute to Notre Dame football was written by Lawrence Perry, and appeared in the NEW YORK SUN for Dec. 8, 1930. Because of its particular timeliness it is reprinted here by special permission of the SUN.,)
As the amazing narrative of that Notre Dame - Southern California game at Los Angeles came over the radio into an uptown club on Saturday, a man, who follows national football closely, and whose opinions are not only bulwarked by knowledge of the game but by broadminded points of view, turned to a group of friends shrugging: ‘What is the secret of this Notre Dame football? You will say material. You will say coaching. You will say greater opportunity for extended practice sessions. All true.
“But Southern California, for instance, has no lack of the best material, has all necessary time for practice, has an excellent coach. So have other universities met and defeated by Notre Dame in the last two years. No, there is something over and above those things, something as elusive as it is irresistible—I don’t know what it is. Who does?’
“The writer thinks he does. That mysterious element which inspires and informs Notre Dame play is a great underlying motive, an organic impulse that transcends sport and involves all that is highest in the human soul. Notre Dame football, to be explicit, is inspired by a cause, and that cause is their religion. By this is not meant a fiery, indomitable impulse to prove that it takes a Roman Catholic football outfit to play the best football there is. Not at all. The impulse is deeper than that.
“These Notre Dame football players are expressing on the football field what religion means to them individually. Each game they play is built upon a sub-structure of religious aspiration. Ths is an age of sophistication, so-called. So there will be many, no doubt, who will smile at the above. Well, let such as these be not too sure in their amusement.
“There is a lot more in life, in football, than’ your sophisticate dreams of in his philosophy. There are stupendous things in human life which are not seen, which cannot be gripped and felt.
“To just what saint that particular Southern California game was dedicated by Notre Dame, the writer does not know. But it was dedicated to some saint—all games are. And
whether a Notre Dame player was a Catholic or a Protestant—they were both on this outfit, as always—made no difference. No boy, whatever his religious affiliation, can come in contact with electricity and not feel it.
“In this connection there is a story told by Ray -Miller, a Notre Dame grad, now district attorney in Cleveland. A player in the Notre Dame dressing room before a game in which the odds were against the Irish, suggested that they say a little prayer before going out on the field. That player was George Gipp, son of a Methodist clergyman. The prayer was offered and the boy who made it was Chet Wynne, son of a Baptist clergyman. There you have the Notre Dame idea.
“Knute Rockne is a great coach— the greatest — and he has a sure knowledge of the heart of man and how to get into his soul. But it may be suspected that not even he gets to the deep underlying reasons of all that his men accomplish. Perhaps only the saintliest of priests do, those who have walked in wisdom all the years and see through the veil.
“Princeton outplayed Yale after the most unsuccessful season in Nas-saau history; here, too, cause lay back of the game the Tigers played —tradition and everything that tradition involves. No doubt the Navy will reveal this against West Point next Saturday.
“But Notre Dame is always consistent. Without fail, week after week, the players express the very best that is in them—and year after year. Did you ever see—or hear of— a Notre Dame player who played dirty football? Did you ever hear of an unsportsmanlike Notre Dame team? Did you ever see a drunken Notre Dame student in the stands? The answers inevitably lie in the negative.
“Did you ever meet a Notre Dame man who was ashamed to believe in something eternally definite? Here, one thinks, may be the secret of Notre Dame football.”
In four years of college basketball, Hank Luisetti, Stanford star, averaged better than 18 points a game. His highest mark was in 1938 when he scored 50 points against Duquesne.
In case you are wondering what happened to Bill DeLancey, catcher of the St. Louis Cardinal’s “Gas House Gang,” he is now managing Albuquerque, of the Arizona-Texas League.
Following the last big scrimmage of the year, tomorrow, the varsity will pack their bags and Monday morning head west for their ’38 finale with the Southern California team.
Coach Layden started the final week of intensive practice Wednesday, after three days of rest. A drill Thursday morning and Friday afternoon will polish the boys off for their scrimmage with the frosh. This promises to be a hard-fought battle as it will be the only opportunity for heavy contact work before the game.
The boys start their westward journey Monday, and stop-overs are planned on the route for a chance to limber up. Two midweek workouts on the University of Arizona campus at Tucson are planned to whet the team for this all-important contest. Hampered by no injury hang-overs from the past games the team will be set to breeze into the huge Los Angeles Coliseum and play the last game of the year, for some the last for Notre Dame, in a fitting manner.
Ha// Sports Quiet
Participation in the round of interhall sports has been noticeably lacking in the past week, according to reports by the Department of Physical Education. At the present, interclub soccer is the only front on which active participation is taking place. Interhall basketball will take its place among the living at the conclusion of Christmas vacation.
On Sunday, November 20, the favored St. Louis Club soccer team defeated the Celtics (Metropolitan Club) by a score of 2-1. Encountering stiff opposition, the Missourians barely managed to grab a win in the first game of league play.
Practice for interhall basketball teams will begin on Sunday, Nov. 27 and will continue through Friday, December 3. Both the schedule for this practice and the announcement concerning the coaches of hall boxing teams will be posted shortly.
Hal Stebbins is the only member of Pittsburgh’s “Dream Backfield” (recently turned to a nightmare by Carnegie Tech) whose parents were born in America.
There are two Catholic managers in the National League: Hartnett and Durocher, and three in the American: McCarthy, Dykes, and Connie Mack.
20
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Math-Physics Calendar
During the week of Nov. 21-25, the departments of Physics and Mathematics presented the following program in events in Theoretical and Applied Science:
Monday, November 21
5:10 p.m., Boom 110, Science Hall. Introductory Seminar on Atomic Nuclei. “The Binding Energy of the Nuclei”—Mr. Arthur Haas.
7 p.m., Room 104, Science Hall. Seminar on Low Energy Particles. “The Fundamental Laws of Photoelectricity.”—Mr. Royal Allaire.
Tuesday, November 22
8 a.m., Room 114, Chemistry Hall. Departmental Seminar. “The Bureau of Standards.” — Mr. Marcellus J. Geerts.
3:15 p.m., Room 104, Science Hall. Seminar on Mathematics.—Mr. Karl Menger.
7 p.m., Room 104, Science Hall. Seminar on High Energy Particles. “Advanced Topics in Quantum Mechanics.”—Mr. Eugene Guth.
Friday, November 25
1:15 p.m., Room 104, Science Hall. Mr. Artin’s Lecture.
3	p.m., Room 104, Science Hall.— Tea.	-
4	p.m., Room 104, Science Hall.— Mr. Artin’s Seminar.
Roy Wins Frash Race
A fleet-footed chap from Brownson hall in the person of Raymond Roy, led a squad of 24 freshman thinlies over hill and dale last Thursday to win the annual Frosh Cross-Country meet. The meet, the first of the year on the Notre Dame campus, was held in chilly weather with representatives from the four Freshmen halls competing. Freshman hall led the pack from the standpoint of entries, with eight representatives. Brownson and Zahm each had seven entries and Cavanaugh was represented by two men.
McNevin and McGrane, both from Zahm hall finished second and third respectively. O’Kane of Freshman was fourth with Doggett and Matthews of Zahm finishing fifth and sixth in that order.
With the large field of competitors this initial Frosh meet was considered one of the most successful in recent years.
and

FULL85-INCH SWEEP FOR SMARTNESS!
CASUAL TYPE CONVERTIBLE COLLAR!
ROOMY POCKETS —AS YOU LIKE THEM!
Doff your overcoats and ear muffs! Winter is here! Like the robins in the Spring, the oracle of the cold has arrived all dressed up in his winter fineries. This week on the campus was seen the affable secretary of the Law club, Jack Deane, strolling about in his “bunny.” In the past four seasons this has been the infallible omen of winter’s coming. Remember, a word of warning is a word to the wise!
6y aiuga'
SW1® -n ” is
PLENTY OF
SWANK IN THIS DRAPE!
A raincoat especially designed for college men ... and being shown for the first time at smart campus shops. The University Coacher is everything a raincoat should be... smart, comfortable, casual... waterproof, windproof, dust-, proof...a necessity forfi fall days and nights. ' f
AT LEADING CAMPUS SHOPS
Other Alligator Raincoat* $5.75 to $25
LU CATO R
THE ALLIGATOR COMPANY, St. Louis and New York
NOVEMBER 25, 1938
21
“AS THE RADIO SAID” (Continued from. Page 8)
the heavy nervous curtain had lifted. “Come out of it, Mike, we scored!
Hey, snap out of it, we’re ahead.”
“Whazzat? Yeah? Good, now lem-me alone, that touch ball fagged me.”
Mike crunched his pillow into a ball, curled his body into a G-shape, and said no more.
“A n yb o d y care to play some bridge ?”
“Naw, wait’ll after the game, I wanta hear ’em roll up the score.” “Northwestern in a series of line plunges and passes has just moved from the 50-yard marker down to Notre Dame’s two-yard line, where it is first and ten. McGurn smashes the center and he is over! Wait a minute, wait a minute, they are having a discussion with the officials. Sitko claims that McGurn was down before he hit the line of scrimmage, but it’s not being allowed. It is a touchdown for Northwestern!”
“Isn’t that a hell of a note? And they kicked their extra point to boot. I told you we needed that kick we missed.”
“Quit your griping, it’s not lost yet.”
“Well, they’ve gotta good head start, anyway.”
“There goes the gun ending the first half, Northwestern leading 7-6, having completely outplayed, outsmarted, and outfought Notre Dame all afternoon. This bids fair to be the biggest upset of the season. And now down the field where we will hear from the Northwestern 180 piece marching band.”
“That Busing sure never gives us much of a blow. Get Red Barber on WLW.”
“Aw, you can’t get him so good on this radio. Hey, that Northwestern band sounds like a carnival outfit, doesn’t it?”
“C’mon, let’s play some bridge. We’ll play for a twentieth of a cent,
Notre Dame Students
Many future jobs will require a college education and a pilot’s license.
just to make it worth while. There’s no chance of gettin’ caught. C’mon.”
“Here come the players back on the field for the start of the second half. The same lineups that opened the game are back in for both teams.”
“I bid two spades. Looks like it’s going to end 7-6 to me. What do you say, Brad?”
“Two no trump.”
The radio blares away into the third quarter. Cigarette smoke hazes the room. Mike dozes in the corner with somebody’s lounging robe draped over him. . . .
“And that sensational drop-kick of Hofer’s — I mean place-kick — sends the Irish into the lead again by the score of 9-7. Notre Dame’s championship hopes look much brighter now than they did a few minutes ago.”
“Hey, fellows did you hear that?” “What?”
“We’re ahead! Hofer just kicked a field goal.”
“If you guys would have listened like I wanted you to, we might have heard what happened.”
“Nobody begged you to play. Watch out, you’ll upset the table!”
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
You may now include flying in your education if you have the written consent of your parents. The best way to travel is by air. LEARN TO FLY.
LOW RATES—$3 per half hour lesson. Guaranteed solo, $45.00.
INDIANA AIR SERVICE
Bendix Field	Phone 3-2455
N. D. representative:
Ed. Minczewski, phone 4-1913.
“Well, we’ve won it now. Let’s keep on playing.”
“What a bunch of bums we are, not even listening to our own team’s games.”
“Quit the talk. Your lead, Jack.”
“There goes the gun ending the game! Notre Dame wins 9-7! The student body of Notre Dame listening beneath the protection of the golden dome of Our Lady of the Lake must be a frenzied, shouting mass by now, celebrating the victory of their team as it blazes toward the national championship. This is Ted Husing, speaking over the facilities of the Columbia Broadcasting sys- ' tern.”
“Hey! Who won? Huh?”
“Go on back to sleep, Mike, you can find out in tomorrow morning’s newspaper.”
“I double three diamonds.”
“Hear we open with Purdue next year. What makes these cards so sticky?”
DENTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDS., SOUTH BENO
26 Days Left [SHOP | NOW! i a
!
• Christinas Cards U	5c and. 10c
• Religious Articles £	• N. D. Blankets
f® N. D. Souvenirs
Free Gift-Wrapping W	Service
I » Notre Dame f Bookstore
22
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
‘ROOM SERVICE’ WELL REC’D.
(Continued from Page 3)
lent dramatic technique as Producer Gordon Miller. This part was rather difficult in that the story revolved about Miller, yet few comedy lines were assigned to this character. Hoping for more appearances of Moscow-ite Sasha Smirnoff, the audience had to be satisfied with three short scenes featuring this Russian waiter. But in these brief moments, Vernon Witkowski displayed excellent knowledge of pantomime and dialect combined with a fine Slavic temper to present a comical Russian emigre. Miss Barbara Southard and Miss Gertrude Krause, as Christine Marlowe and Hilda Manney, respectively, performed with vivacity and charm. Both ladies displayed knowledge of stage technique. Vincent Doyle was excellently cast as the thunderous Mr. Wagner. An able supporting cast consisted of William Cotter, John Coppinger, Erwin Stefanie, William Mulvey and John Collins.
The successful presentation of “Room Service” promises well for future campus dramatic attempts. However, it must be said that the physical limitations of Washington
Compliments oj
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan Street South Bend, Indana
— ■ ....... —
Hall stage scenery and property create enormous difficulties for director and cast alike. The continued patronage and appreciation of the faculty and student body will compensate for the exhaustive work carried on by Mr. Mills and the University Players.
Maryland Club Meeting
The members of the Maryland District Club held their second meeting of the school year on November 11. President Philip Maloney conducted the regular business meeting, after which he introduced the new members of the club.
In a short address, President Maloney urged the members to continue their fine work in the club activities. The constitution of the organization was read by Secretary John B. Morgan in order to acquaint the new members with the purposes of the club.
Committees were appointed to make the necessary arrangements for a Communion Breakfast, and a dinner to be given in the near future.
As in the past, the club will continue to meet every two weeks.
FATHER O’HARA SAILS
(Continued from Page 7)
on a scale hitherto unconceived, the citizens of the United States found neither time nor inclination to get acquainted with our good neighbors to the south of us. Further, these neighbors with their older civilization and their quiet ways, nursed certain justifiable suspicions as they watched our expansion, particularly at the expense of Mexico. And it often happened that the ambassadors of trade who visited the republics of Latin America were ambassadors of trade only and not of good will.
“I believe that no man of this generation has done more than Secretary Hull to pave the way for a sound mutual appreciation between our citizens and those to the Republics of the South of us. Our President’s visit to the Inter-American Conference in Buenos Aires has demonstrated that there is a whole-hearted cooperation between the annunciator of the good-neighbor policy and the executive who carries it out. Secretary Hull’s third official visit to Latin America should cement cultural relationships which have already begun, and should bring to our own people an even greater appreciation of the wholesome culture of Latin America.
“It gives me great pleasure to participate in this Godspeed to our Secretary of State. As a young man in South America, I had equal affection for the fundamental liberty and goodness of my South American neighbors and of my fellow citizens who visited Montevideo or Buenos Aires or Santos in search of markets. My great regret was that these two groups did not understand each other. In the 30 years that have intervened I have seen a remarkable growth of mutual respect, and I trust that the approaching conference in Lima will bear greater fruit than any previous meeting of the Americas.”
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
♦
ASK US ABOUT OUR NEW PLAN TO PROTECT YOU AGAINST THE COSTLY BREAKAGE OF GLASSES.
Optometrists and Opticians
Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
NOVEMBER 25, 1938
23
BISHOP CROWLEY SPEAKS (Continued from Page 3)
The Bishop specified that 150 rupees ($60) annually sufficed to supplement the local contribution of the people toward the upkeep of their catechist. As a primary test of sincerity, the Bishop explained, the missionary insists that the group of pagan families asking for a catechist must house and feed their apostle as well as construct a shed to serve as chapel-school. The five dollars monthly go to the travelling expenses of the catechist and the upkeep of his family.
It is evident that the Bishop esteems highly his lay-apostles. “Many prosperous home folk pray daily, ‘Thy Kingdom Come’ yet find it hard to give a dime to bring it about,” sadly observed the missioner.
Dacca, the habitat of Bishop Crowley, is the second city in the Province of Bengal, Calcutta being the first. Dacca has a Residential University of the American type, directed by the State. Academically this ancient city appears to be the Athens of India. The Bishop gave credence to the statement that relative to the population of Dacca (160,000) the city has more schools than any other in the British Empire. Dacca has 14 high schools, four colleges and the number of elementary schools is legion. It surely is no mean city in the estimation of the prelate. Here the Bishop observed that the word “daccait” properly defined a member of a robber gang, a gangster, and not at all a citizen of Dacca.
Bishop Crowley is personally acquainted with the great social leader, Mahatma Gandhi, and his brilliant . understudy Pandit Nehru. Despite his Celtic leanings, the veteran prelate disclaims to be an authority in the domain of Indian politics. The American Catholic Missionary in India encourages patriotism but does not occupy himself with party politics, however worthy such a pursuit may be. This abstention on the part of the missionary is appreciated by Indians and by the British alike.
The wisdom of this policy was significantly revealed recently at a general meeting of the delegates of the low caste of Untouchable communities which number more than fifty millions of the population. These Untouchables under their leader, Dr. Ambed Kar, a graduate of Columbia University, New York, have vowed separation from Hinduism. The high caste Hindus, including Mr. Gandhi,
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BENO — - ■ •----------------
. have begged them to reconsider their ; threat of schism. Hence the propa-! ganda to throw open the temples of I orthodoxy to the untouchables. On I the other hand, Mussulmans, Sikhs, Buddhists, and Protestants invite them to enter their respective folds. To the embarrassment of all these “friends” of the Untouchables, the following Resolution was passed unanimously at the Chunar Meeting above referred to:
This General Meeting of the Depressed Classes appeals to the Roman Catholic authorities throughout India not to let this auspicious occasion slip from their hands when the Depressed Classes in gratitude for all that has been done for them in the past now knock beseechingly at their door for safety and entrance into the true fold.”
Despite his 58 years and with the kinks wrought in his bones by 31 years of service in the malarial swamps of Bengal, Bishop Crowley is not adverse to talk athletics. In his far off youth, he was a handball specialist and played shortstop in the baseball field. At Notre Dame he figured in interhall meets when the present century was young, featuring in pole-vaulting and the throwing of the hammer. He imported to India a baseball outfit, but the game did not appeal to the Bengals.
In Bengal, field hockey and soccer football are played, and kite-flying assumes the proportion of a national sport. The touchdown in kite-flying is when a rival kite is brought down. The sport, if such it may be called, is absorbingly interested. The strings are greased and bedecked with finely crushed glass, and no little art is required to cut an opponent’s kite, almost invisible in the sky. As the defeated kite slowly descends its mortified owner feels as one who has been “struck out” in a ball game with the bases full.
Bishop Crowley expects to return
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our oivn laboratory.
• 212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
to his adopted country shortly. He speaks highly of the Bengal people, particularly the country folk. There was not a native-born American missionary in Bengal when Bishop Crowley arrived there. In what was then the territory of the diocese of Dacca, there are now 65 American born missionaries, priests, brothers and sisters. Fourteen native diocesan priests labor in the Dacca mission with their American colleagues.
There's Always a Convenient
SOUTH SHORE TRAIN
Frequent South Shore Line schedules fit almost any plans ■ . however hurried they may be. And 6 convenient stations in Chicago’s Loop make it handy for any errand. It’s the SAFE, convenient way to go to Chicago.
The FAST
SAFE
DEPENDABLE
WAY TO
CHICAGO
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE * SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
