|21
"Ilie Noble ^bame
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 81, No. 10
5 H too
•	"Maneuvers" Begin Tonight
?
•	Raymond Cusick Wins Award
•	Memorial Services Sunday
May 26, 1944
^he SNotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
The College Parade
By BILL CARNAHAN

THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ, Editor-in-Chief
RALPH ABELL
Associate Editor, Marines
EDWARD MADDEN
Associate Editor, Navy
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
If I remember-correctly, last year at this time the E.R.C. men were feeling that insuppressible urge to “volunteer” for service; and everyone was going to throw a party and then, after the smoke cleared, meet his cronies in Tokyo or Berlin. Watching all this patriotic activity with that fatal air of, “They won’t draft ME” wore the sympathetic but highly elated Pre-meds and Engineers who, much to their surprise, found out that I-A didn’t merely refer to a place in some girl’s heart. But now the days and nights of suspense are passed, prospective generals and admirals (or should I say yardbirds and boots) have been chosen and at this moment throughout the campus we civilians are marking our calendars and waiting, anxiously, for further greetings. . . .
JINGLE JANGLE JINGLE
“Would you give ten cents to help the Old Toadies Home?”
“What, are they out again?”	—Taller
EDITORIAL STAFF
HAROLD BERLINER -BILL WADDINGTON - . DICK MURPHY BOB O'TOOLE
Managing Editor
Sports Editor Circulation Promotion
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -	-	- Observations
LIEUT. (J.G.) J. J. COLLINS	- Know Your Navy
JIM CASEY _	-	-	• The Green Banner
JIM REGAN -	-	-	- Introducing
BILL CARNAHAN	-	-	The College Parade
ROBERT RIORDAN	-	Man About the Campus
LEO OUILLETTE -	-	- Pressbox Splinters
HARRY LEBIEN- -	-	- The Periscope
NEWS STAFF
THOMAS PAYNE STEVE LOYACANO JOHN KNUDSON ARTHUR WAGNER BILL THOMPSON BOB STEVENSON CHUCK RUSS JOHN O'HARA DON FORGAYS
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD JOE HALLER
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. - Faculty- Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate - Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc... 420 Madison Avenue, New York -..City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. ..THE SCHOLASTIC is published -weekly 'during the. school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor/Administration Building, Notre Dame,' Indiana. -
2	-	;	: .
■y'	'	■	-	* ■
ZOUNDS OF ST. MARY'S
At Holyoke College in 1837, -from the catalogue, “No young lady shall become a member of Mt. Holyoke Seminary who cannot kindle a fire, mash potatoes,-repeat the multiplication tables and at least two-thirds of the shorter catechism.
“Every member of the school shall walk at least a mile a day unless a freshet, earthquake, or some other calamity prevent. ....
“No young lady shall devote more than an hour a day to miscellaneous reading.
“No young lady is expected to have gentlemen acquaintances unless they=. are returned missionaries or agents of benevolent societies.”
Things are tough all over.	—The Milepost,
QUICKIES WITH LITTLE WILLIE
Willie, with a thirst for gore,.
Nailed the baby to the door,
Mother said, with humor quaint,
“Willie dear, don’t spoil the paint.”
JUST IN PASSING
It may be of interest to all on the campus to learn that Steve Juzwik is now stationed at Northwestern University as a V-12 boxing, instructor. A'former N.D. backfield great,-; juzwik received a position on the All-American team in ’40 -
• . and ’41. ;	—Daily Northwestern
• THIS AIN'T NOTRE DAME.
; The professor noticed' that a pupil, in the back of the room ; was obviously not following his explanation oh the board. .
“Board,-Sullivan, board.” <	’ '
' The Bostonian;looked; up; startled.
“Yes, very!” came the'reply. (Continued on page 23)
'	'\*r ■	\ .	i
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing . at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 81
MAY 26, 1944
NO. 10
Ball Tonight Begins V-12 Maneuvers
Tonight the V-12 detachment will fall out for that long-awaited event, the V-12 Ball. The Navy Drill Hall here on the campus, decked in an appropriately nautical fashion, will be the site of the long awaited formal dance. “Neptune’s
• Miss Vivian Langenfeld
Nocturne,” the chosen theme, will so alter the appearance of the Drill hall that many trainees may have difficulty in recognizing it as the old calisthenics chamber. The impression of a formal garden will be achieved in connection with the serving of refreshments.
Jerry Wald and his orchestra will provide a smooth danceable variety of music for the Ball-goers. His fine organization, featuring Ginny Powell and Dick Merrick as vocalists, will offer many well-arranged orchestrations.
Captain J: R. Barry, USN, commanding officer at Notre Dame, and Mrs. Barry will be in the receiving line, as well as Captain J.W. Finney, USMCR, acting executive officer, and Mrs. Finney. Aides to the. Captain willbeSea-
man Gerald Ford, USNR, and Private John Perko, USMCR. Lieutenant (junior grade) J. J. Collins, recreation and welfare officer, will be present at the Ball with Mrs. Collins.
Chairman of the Ball, Seaman William Ferrick, USNR, will escort Miss Muriel Crooks of Buffalo, New York, who will be Queen of the Ball. Weekend chairman Private Thomas Young, USMCR, will escort Miss Vivian Langenfeld, Watertown, South Dakota, who is the Guest of Honor.
Private ’Bruce Sumner, Refreshment chairman; will have as his guest Miss Ione Norby, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Miss Joan Yaeger, South Bend, will be the escort of Seaman George Nesbit, Decorations chairman. Seaman David Caplan, Favors chairman, will escort Miss Sylvia Paskan of South Bend. Private John Knutson, chairman of Transportation, will have as his guest Miss Ruth Sage, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Private John Leahy, Ticket chair-
(Continued on page 19)
Miss Muriel Crooks
Memorial Day Services to be Held on Campus
Complete arrangements have been made by the Council of Churches of South Bend and by the administration of. the University for cere-monies to be held on May 28, instead of May . 30, in remembrance o f Memorial Day. This is b e i n g done fbr the benefit of the Naval Trainees of Notre Dame who will be in classes all day . May 30. A Military Mass and parade has been planned by Notre Dame for those of the Catholic Faith. For the Protestant and Jewish Faiths, the Churches of South Bend have set aside the-Services of May 28, as a special recognition of Memorial Day.
Every military unit on the Notre Dame campus has been invited to participate in the Mass to be held at 10.1-5 a.m. at . the Memorial Door of the Sacred Heart Church. All Catholic Service men have been asked to inform their Company commanders whether or not they would like to participate in the ceremonies, and a marching order has been arranged accordingly. Each company will have a. sizeable representation of men signed to participate in the military parade.
. The Council of United Churches of South Bend has made every effort to give the V-12 trainees a more conveni-j ent and better opportunity to take thein dates for the “Week-End Maneuvers’* . to Church. Each Protestant Church of . (Continued on page 23)
3
Benediction at Grotto Ends May Devotions;
Ceremony a Long-Standing Tradition at N.D.
Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C., prefect of religion and chaplain, announced today that this coming Wednesday evening, the last day of the month of Our Blessed Mother, May devotions will close at the Grotto with special ceremonies in which the entire campus will participate. The singing of Marian hymns, led by Father Simonitsch, assistant prefect of religion, will start at 7:00 p.m. Solemn Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament will follow.
The Benediction will take place in the Grotto itself where an altar' will be erected for the occasion. A special guard of honor composed of members of the ROTC, and naval and marine units will take positions within the sanctuary. Civilian students, vested in cassock and surplice, will act as servers. Father Thomas Kelly, rector of St. Edward’s hall, will be celebrant, with Father Jo-
Mary, of the Grotto
seph Kehoe, rector of Walsh hall, and Father Charles McCarragher, rector of Zahm hall, assisting as deacon and subdeacon. Father Powers will be master of ceremonies.
Daily Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament will continue through Monday and Tuesday of next week from 11:00 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. when Benediction takes place. There will be no Adoration Wednesday, the day of the closing. The ceremonies will be completed in sufficient time for the servicemen to report for evening muster.
In case of rain, the devotions will take place in Sacred Heart church.
This is a traditional ceremony at the University in which the members of the surrounding religious houses, priests, seminarians and Brothers will join the students to show their devotion to the Mother of God.
The May Adoration with this closing ceremony is part of Notre Dame’s response to the Holy Father’s radio appeal made April 24, for a special crusade of prayers for peace. .
St. Mary’s Chemists
Develop Rare Drug
Students in the pathogenic bacteriology class, at St. Mary’s, under the supervision of Sister Amadeo, head of the school’s nursing department, have successfully planned, incubated, and developed a mold of penicillium notatum, from which can be extracted the fantastically powerful new germ-killer, penicillin.	•
The experiment took its inception when the girls decided that they would like to make the experiments solely to learn further about the drug, and to observe conditions under which it grows. They started with a culture of the mold peni-cillium notatum, obtained from a biological supply house, and this was trans- • planted under sterile conditions to a specially prepared medium, Sabauraud’s, in which the mold grows fast and de- ‘ velops a thick colony. This was incubated under slightly warm conditions for two days, after which the growing substance was removed to a darkened spot and kept at room temperature for the remainder of its five-day growing period. As a product of its growth, the mold gave off a substance which dissolved in the medium in which it was growing. That substance ultimately would have evolved into the golden red
dish powder, had St. Mary’s possessed the complicated machinery necessary for such extraction.
St. Mary’s students participating in the experiment were: Dorcas Fasan, Elizabeth Ertel, Ethel Tschida, Mary Jane Brosk, Clare Pirchio, Barbara Comerford, and Margaret Buescher.
Glee Club Presents Concert at St. Patrick’s
The Glee club, under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, presents a public concert in St. Patrick’s hall at 8:15 this evening. Before the concert, the club will sing at May devotions in St. Patrick’s church.
The program of the choral group will include sacred and secular glee club selections, featuring Gene Peciulis, as soloist. Novelties, Negro spirituals, standards, and patriotic music will be on the varied program. All are invited to attend this first South Bend appearance of the organization this season.
May 16, the club presented two con- • certs in Mishawaka, and is scheduled to present another one here, in Washington hall, Friday, June 2.
Frank Goodman is the president of this club, and he is assisted by Vicepresident Eugene Peciulis and Secretary Philip Myers. Members of the Glee club ■ are:
Vincent Meli, Garland Dowling, Richard Palla, Frank Goodman, Bernard Slater, Charles Devine, Jim Clynes, Robert O’Toole, John Caron, Edward An-guelli, Edward Politoske, Don Forgays, William Splaine, John Mullins, John ‘ Dickweiler, Chuck Russ, Jerry Putnam, Laurence Willenbrink, Gene Peciulis, Travis Marshall, Philip Myers, John Laughlin, and John Sullivan.
—Don Forgays
4
Ray Cusick Wins Warren Prize; Six N. D.
Students Place in Beaux-Arts Contest
BY CHUCK RUSS
The Beaux-Arts Institute of Design of New York City announced this week that six Notre Dame students have achieved “marked distinction” in their recsnt art competition. ’
Ray Cusick
Garnering highest honors was Ray Cusick, architecture senior from Jersey City, New Jersey, who won first place in the military highway transportation contest. He thus became the recipient of the Warren Prize, a $50 award, beating out M. E. Rolley, of the University of Illinois, who won second prize. Not content with being honored with this first-place prize, Ray went on to receive honorable mention in the Kawneer Prize, in class B, for a shopping theater entrance.
Others to win awards are Clayton Page, who received a high mention by taking a First Medal for his drawing of a showroom and exhibition place for private airplanes; Bob Engelbrecht won a second prize of $25 for his rendition of a small customs house on a highway; Charles Lugton and William Vosbeck won honorable mentions in the Kawneer Prize, along with Ray Cusick; Bob Waterbury won a half-mention award for a design of a small ferry slip; and Clayton Page became the second two-award winner by getting a half-mention for his sketch problem of a ventilating tower for a tunnel.
Ray Cusick’s problem was one concerning- the new Alcan (Alaskan-Cana
dian) highway, which is at present being used largely for military transport. Since long stretches of it run through absoluteljr wild and undeveloped country, depots of supplies, repair shops, and accommodations foi- the necessary permanent personnel, as well as shelters for motor convoy drivers were required to be in the architectural rendering. Stations are spaced about 200 miles apart; such a station was the subject of Ray’s contest. Some problems were confronted in making the plans for this station, the least of which were taking into consideration storms from a northerly direction and heavy snows in planning and designing the buildings.
The Beaux-Arts Institute of Design sponsors two competitions each semester in its altered war-time schedule, having in each competition different problems to be entered by the students of the architecture departments of the colleges and universities wishing to participate. The younger architecture students are entered in different contests and classifications than are the older students, and therefore a fair judgment is made, and the competition is fair.
Midshipmen Graduate
More than a thousand Midshipmen are making last-minute preparations for graduation and gold braid this weekend.
Saturday morning will bring the opening round for the middies, as they pass in review on the drill field, east of the Notre Dame- stadium, between 1000 and 1030. On Sunday morning, the mid-’ dies will hold their baccalaureate services at 1000 in the naval drill hall.
Big event on the social calendar will be the graduation hop on Monday evening, at the Service Men’s Center, with Jerry Wald and his orchestra playing from 9 p.m.
Wednesday, May 31, will see the climax and conclusion of activities with the midshipmen graduation at 11 a.m. in the naval drill hall. At this time, the graduating midshipmen will be commissioned ensigns in the naval reserve. Captain J. Richard Barry, Commanding Officer of the Naval Training- Activities at Notre Dame, will award the diplomas. The Commencement speaker will be Captain James Holloway, U.S.N., of the Bureau of Naval Personnel, in Washington.
Skiare Reviews Ben
Hecht's "Bedeviled"
At a meeting of the Bookmen held Monday evening, May 22, Private Arnold Skiare, USMCR, reviewed Ben Hecht’s Guide to the Bedeviled. In preface to his paper Skiare pointed out that Hecht’s book was valuable as a stimulating treatment of a great social problem: the oppression of all minorities, and especially of the Jewish people.
In the discussion which followed, various attempts to understand and combat the problem, in particular the recent Zion movement, were brought up and judged in the light of Hecht’s book.
It was decided that this was to be the last regular meeting for the semester. A final gathering will be held either June 5 or June 10 at the home of Mr. T. Bowyer Campbell, Bookmen moderator. William O’Connell will deliver a paper on German strategy in World War II, and a schedule will be drawn up of club activities for the coming semester.—Dick .4 in es
Lt, Henry Priester Dies
The War Department recently noti
fied the parents of Lt. Henry C. Priester that their son who was mis
sing in action since Feb. 4 has been officially declared killed in action.
The twenty-two-year-old flying officer enlisted in Febru-a r y of 1942, while still a Junior at Notre Dame.
At the time of his death Lt. Priester was stationed at a base in the Aleu
tians.
Lt. Priester was graduated from the twin engine school at Williams Field, Arizona, April 12, 1943.
Before entering Notre Dame, Lt. Priester, who was a resident of Davenport, Iowa, attended the Lawrenceville school in Lawrenceville, N. J.
Besides his parents, he leaves four brothers, Patrick, discharged from the Army; Edward, a student here at Notre Dame; Robert, an Air Corps Cadet stationed in Alabama; John, attending.high school at Prairie du Chien, Wis.; and two sisters, Edna and Mary, who are at home.—Bill Thompson
The snail covers about one-half mile in a week of traveling.
5 •
Panel Discussion Group Finishes Season
The Panel Discussion group on InterAmerican Affairs comprised of members of La Raza Club, and under the direction of Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., is doing its best to bring about a better understanding of Latin American problems.
With the coming of Spring, the season of the Panel has come to an end. The 1943-44 season included speakingprograms at colleges, and private clubs such as: St. Francis College, Culver Military Academy, St. Xavier College, Brownson Study Club, Faculty Club of the University of Notre Dame, Rosary College, International Relations Council of South Bend, Convent Ancilla Domini, St. Mary’s, Barat College and others.
The topics discussed in these Panel meetings bear on the economic and political, as well as the social problems of the countries to the south.
Closing the season, a group of four students presented a program at St. Mary’s College, for the Ladies of Notre Dame. The topics discussed were the “Good Neighbor Policy” by Jose Cardenas, “Education in Latin America” by Miguel J. Vila, “Puerto Rico Statehood of Independence” by Arturo Garcia, and “Revolution by Telephone” by Luis Flores.
—Photo hy Kochne
Left to right: Jose Cardenas, Luis Flores, Father Cunningham, Arturo Garera, Alfredo Nieto, Miguel Vila. Picture taken at St. Xavier College, Chicago. The girls are officers of the various university organizations.
The highlights of the season have been the invitation received by Miguel J. Vila of Chile, and Mr. Jose Cardenas of Panama, to attend an Inter-American Institute that was held in Ball State Teachers College, Muncie, Ind., on March 1. The other outstanding event of the season was a series of three talks that were given at Culver Military Academy to the Culver History and Debate society.
The position of chairman of the Panel has been rotating between Francisco Repilado and Jose B. Cardenas.
Lay Trustees at N. D.
George W. Strake, prominent Catholic layman of Houston, Tex., was elected a member of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University of Notre Dame at the Board’s annual spring meeting here on May 19.
Mr. Strake, president of Strake Petroleum, Inc., and Strake Oil Co., Houston, Tex., is a member of the Knights of Columbus and is a Knight of Malta. Formerly connected with the Gulf Oil Co., he is the discoverer of the Conroe Oil Field, Conroe, Tex., which is the third largest field in the United States. He is a lieutenant colonel on the staff of the governor of Texas, although he is a native of St. Louis, Mo. He is married and the father of three children.
Fr. Burke Commissioned
The Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, has received word that he is to report to Chicago next Tuesday to be sworn into the navy as a Lieut., senior grade. Four days later, Father Burke is to report for training at the College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va., where he will undergo six weeks of a chaplain training course.
Rev. Hugh J. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, announced that Rev. Joseph Kehoe, C.S.C., will be acting prefect of discipline during Father Burke’s absence.
Latin American Visitor
Rev. Roberto Sabaia de Medeiras, S.J., was a campus visitor last weekend. Father Medeiras, who is a prominent South American educator, is a guest of the United States Department of State.
The Latin-American president of the Social Action Association hopes to establish schools in Brazil after the war, in which the Brazilian youth will be able to make an intensive study of chemistry, all types of engineering, and commerce.
The purpose of his visit to this country is two-fold. First, he wishes to acquire men for the faculty of his new school; secondly, Father Medeiras will collect books, moving pictures, and other-data, which will be put on exhibition in Sao Paulo. This exhibition will show the spirit of the United States as seen in American life.
Father Medeiras will remain in the United States for several months during which time he will give several lectures in various parts of the country.
—Bill Thompson
t
Miss Ruth Schindler Weds Lt. Chas. Gerard
The Scholastic offers congratulations and best wishes to Miss Ruth Ann Schindler, formerly of the Athletic Offices, on the occasion of her marriage to Lieut. Charles R. Gerard, U.S.M.C., and member of the class of ’42. The ceremony took place in San Luis Rey Mission, San Luis Rey, California, last Saturday.
❖ Bradford Lariison, Lt. (jg), USNR— ❖ V-12 division — is a new addition to ❖ the Notre Dame navy family. His ❖ home is in Beverly, Mass., and he # has a little girl who is just past one ❖ year old.
v Lieut. Lamson . arrived on campus ♦♦♦ to take over his duties this week.
6
Capt. Barry Confirms V-12's Continuance
That the V-12 quota at Notre Dame will continue at its full strength of 1851 next semester, beginning July 1, was confirmed in an interview this week with Captain J. Richard Barry, USN, Commanding- Officer of the Naval Training • Activities at Notre Dame, on his return from the V-12 Conference at Columbia University, the middle of May. He quoted Vice Admiral Randall Jacobs,
Capt. I. Richard Barry, USN
USN, Chief of Naval Personnel, regarding the future of V-12 units: “When the over-all requirements of the Navy decrease, the V-12 Program must be curtailed. Present quotas in all colleges and universities will be maintained during the term of 1 July to 1 November, but there will be an over-all decrease on 1 November of approximately 25 percent. Based on present estimates, it has been decided that no V-12 Unit will be eliminated on 1 November, unless a college requests such elimination or is unable to fulfill its. obligations under the Navy contract. It has also been decided that no unit will be decreased below a minimum — roughly 250 — necessary for efficient operation. . . . Within the limitations imposed by the needs of the Service, we shall do everything possible to continue effective use of the facilities of every college and university now participating in the V-12 Program.”	’
Captain Barry also released information regarding the distribution of the continued quota of 1,851 for the coming semester. The number of deck candidates enrolled in Notre Dame V-12 be-’
yond their first college year will be increased from 50 to a total of 125. The engineering upper level specialty quota will be 45, in aeronautical engineering. Fifty new R.O.T.C. men will be assigned to Notre Dame. The number of first-term freshmen beginning their studies at Notre Dame in July will be 200, in addition to 176 new men from V-12 (a), Aviation candidates from V-5. The preMedical quota of new men is 30 freshmen and 50 in advanced standing. There will also be 100 new freshmen engineering students and 81 new advanced standing engineering students. The Marine Corps will continue at Notre Dame with 94 engineers and 95 basic students from the present unit on station. In summary, the total quotas expected to be on board as of 1 July are:
Basic .................924
Pre-Med................144
Engineering .......1...390
NROTC .................199
Marines ...............189
The grand total, including the new and present trainees, will aggregate 1,851.
Catholic Press Meets
The Very Rev. Donald F. Miller, C.SS.R., editor of the Liguorian, Oconomowoc, Wis., opened the 34th Annual Convention of the Catholic Press Association in Milwaukee, Thursday, May 11, with a keynote address that echoed every delegate’s utmost desire as a Catholic editor and an educator.
Father Miller declared, “Our prime purpose consists in winning, reclaiming and holding the minds and hearts of individual men for the truth on which their happiness depends and then making the voice of truth of Christ and of His Church known and effective in the councils of men, in the legislation of the states, in the exercise of authority and in the programs of peace that will involve all nations.”
The Most Rev. Samuel A. Stritch, D.D., Archbishop of Chicago and chairman of the Bishop’s committee on the Pope’s peace plan, was the guest speaker of the banquet meeting, attended by over 400 persons. A call to the world in emphatic tones to discard pessimism and fears in the quest for a good, enduring peace—as a fruit of our victory—was issued by the Archbishop. He counseled bold, courageous thought and frankly conceded that “foolish optimism is injurious” and advised “sane thinking as the narcotic of stupid pessimism.”
At a luncheon on Friday afternoon the delegates • met to discuss with the
Most Rev. John Gregory Murray, D.D., Archbishop of St. Paul, certain additions that would enable the Association to give better and faster news service.
His Excellency then declared, “The Catholic Press is the great channel whereby the principles and' teachings of the Church are made known in a critical day when the world urgently needs to know them. Increasingly, the Holy Father must look to the Catholic Press to make his counsels and wishes known.”—Bill Carnahan '
Critic Likes the Waves and Betty Grable
No sequence could have been more pleasing to the trainees at Notre Dame than the “stop the show” number which wound up “Pin Up Girl.” In itself the number was entirely without humor and to a civilian most anywhere it would have been insignificant. But to all the boys who have had as shipmates a group of Waves ever since their stay here, it was a certain knockout. Betty Grable, garbed in gray, led a company of Waves through an intricate routine of ordinary and fancy drilling maneuvers that would make even the M a ri n e s on campus look sick.
And it was that alone that was so funny. Betty and her company must have done some tedious drilling for many a sunny Hollywood afternoon to have achieved such precision. Each command was actually given on the proper foot at the proper time and the Manual of Arms was just so much pie for the skilled beauties. In all, there wasn’t “. . . a slip twixt the ‘hup’ and the ‘hip’.” But cheer up, Gyrenes, no doubt one of your own Diego sergeants had the pleasant experience of grooming Grable’s group.
Regrettable was the lack of a good story and the dearth of any good singing. Mentionable were the dances, the costumes in the skating number, Charlie Spivak’s band, and, oh, those marching WavesA.L •	,	.
"Memphis Belle" Outstanding
Playing with “Pin Up Girl” in the drill hall was the 8th Army Air Force’s technicolor . documentary, “Memphis Belle.” This 45-minute short was produced from a 16 mm. original filmed in the actual Memphis Belle on its 25th bombing mission over Germany by Lt. Col. William Wyler. Its scenes in the stratosphere, where, the temperature is (Continued on page 19)
7
Leahy Leaves Campus
The transition in uniforms fxom moleskins to the navy blue has been made by Frank Leahy, Notre Danie’s head coach and director of athletics who has been given leave from the university for the duration, as he took up his 60-day indoctrination course at Princeton University on Thursday morning. Mr. Leahy entered the sei vice with the rank of senior lieutenant. .
Last Sunday afternoon, in a concert sponsored by the United States Rubber Company, in Carnegie Hall, New York City, Mr. Leahy spoke to the youth of America. The occasion was the presentation of a young people’s conceit by the New York City Philharmonic O.chestra, under the direction of Arthur Rodinsky, playing such well known numbers as Peter and the Wolf, and Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy. The audience, comprised solely of school children, was selected from the various public and parochial schools throughout the city, admitted without charge.
In his talk to the children, Lieut. Leahy recalled that the late Knute Rockne had taught him a lesson never to be forgotten. It concerned the fact that his football players were going into the world, shining with football glory, and that many positions as head-coaches would be offered them. Mr. Rockne asked his players not to take these jobs immediately, because they were not prepared to assume such responsibilities. He urged them, however, to continue to prepare themselves until such time as (Continued on Page 19)
. —Smith. Bend Tribune Photo
Lieut. Frank Leahy
OBSERVATIONS
BY LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY
Excerpts from the address by Vice Admiral Randall Jacobs, USN, Chief of Naval Personnel, at the Conference on the Navy V-12 Program, Columbia University, May 12, 1944.
"WHAT THE V-12 PROGRAM MEANS TO THE NAVY"
“By the first of July this year, the program will have delivered to Reserve Midshipmen’s Schools, Supply Corps Schools, and Marine Officer Candidates’ Schools, more than 23,000 qualified officer candidates, in addition to the 2,600 officers commissioned directly from the NROTC, and 1,400 from Medical and Dental Schools. . . . Captain Richards, commanding officer of the Reserve Midshipmen’s School at Columbia, was one of the first to comment on the improvement in quality of the men he was receiving (as a result of V-12). He reported that whereas he had normally found it necessary to bilge about 150 or more of a class of 1,200 in the first month of training, he kept all but sixty of the first class from V-12. Lt. Col. Davies received similar information from New River and Quantico. .. Six hundred Marine Corps reservists in the college training program volunteered to. accept an opportunity last semester to enter Reserve Midshipmen’s Schools, in viey of the oversupply of officer candidates in the Marine Corps. .
“The success of V-12 (a) trainees in subsequent Aviation Training has been so marked that it is now proposed to substitute terms in the V-12 Program for the work previously done by V-5 candidates in Flight Preparatory Schools and the CAA—WTS Program. . . . Because the qualifications of all types of naval officers are basically so similar and because the V-12 Program makes possible quick readjustments in advanced phases of trainees, to satisfy more accurately the shifting needs of the Service, and to use more efficiently the instructional facilities of the colleges and the universities in the college program.
“The V-12 Program opened on July 1, 1943, with an enrollment of some 70,000 students because that number fitted our best estimates of the future officer needs of the Navy and the Marine Corps. '. . . It follows that when the .
over-all requirements of the Navy decrease, the V-12 Program must be curtailed. Such a curtailment is now in sight. Present quotas in all colleges and universities will be maintained during the term from July 1 to November 1, but there will be an over-all decrease on November 1 of approximately .25 per cent. Based on present estimates, . it has .been decided that no V-12 Unit will be eliminated on November 1, unless a college requests such elimination or is unable to fulfill its obligations under - the Navy contract. No unit will be decreased below a minimum—roughly, 250 —necessary for efficient operation.
. “I assure you that within the limitations imposed by the needs of the Service, we shall do everything possible to continue effective use of the facilities of every college and . university now participating in the V-12 Program. . . . I wish I could foresee the status of the V-12. Program a year from today. But if I could do that, I could also foretell the crucial events to come in Europe and in the Pacific. . . . All I can . say at this time is that the V-12 Program will continue so long as the Navy needs additional ycung officers to fight the war, and that the size of the program will depend on the magnitude of the needs.
. “We are bringing back hundreds of promising enlisted men from the Mediterranean, the Atlantic, and the Pacific, to offer them the V-12 training . . . because we consider; them of more value to the Navy as officer candidates in trainings on shore than as enlisted men in combat at sea: ... The end of the war may well find in every V-12 Unit an overwhelming majority of men who have been called back to college after combat service. . . . They are serving where the Navy needs them most. The Navy is not keeping them from combat to protect them from danger; it is keeping them in college to man ships which will later join the fleet. ... American colleges and the Navy can and do work together, in harmony and .with mutual understanding, to achieve a common goal.”	.	,	.
Seek not to destroy or diminish the . delight any humanbeing finds in any blameless thing; .or if so, let it be in: striving to lead to a-higher source of joy—Spalding.	’	.
8
Three N. D. Men
Killed in Action
97* (Bringing the count to 97 dead, 26 missing and .11 captured, the Alumni office announces the death of Lieut. Walter J. Koness, ex. ’43 of Chicago, III. He was killed in action on August 27, 1943.
Francis R. Huisking, ’37, from Huntington, L.I., N. Y., was given up by the War Department as lost in action in Italy on April 18, 1944.
Captain John F. Finn, '35, is listed as “deceased.” His home is at San Antonio, Texas. He was stationed in' the 7th U. S. Cavalry Division at Fort Bliss, Texas.—Frank Slupesky
Chemical Engineers
Plan for Busy Month
The Chemical Engineers had their* regular tri-weekly meeting last Wednesday night. Plans were discussed for the banquet which is held at the end of each year. It was decided to hold it on Monday, June 12, since this is the week preceding exam week. Probably it will be given at the Town Club or the Indiana Club.
A picnic was also discussed. The problem of transportation has always made a picnic difficult. It is believed that this problem can be solved by choosing a suitable location along the South Shore line.
A third topic was a plant trip through one of the local breweries. There was a
Schedule of Spring Semester Examinations
1944 will be held in all colleges and the' graduate Wednesday. Thursday, and Friday of June 19 to 23.
Tha examinations for this spring semester of school of the University on the Monday, Tuesday, according to the following schedule:
Classes taught at	will be examined at	■ Date
8:00 on Monday	S:00 on Monday	June 19
9:00 on Monday	• 8:00 on .Wednesday	June 21
10 :00 on Monday	10:00 onr Monday	June 19	-
11:00 on Monday	. 10:00 on .Wednesday	Jude 21	'	:
1:15 on Monday	2:15 on Friday	June 23	-
2:15 on Monday	1:15 on Tuesday	June 20	:
3:15 on Monday	8:00 oh Friday	June 23 ,	' • .'
4:15 on any day	3:15 on Thursday	June 22	' '
Classes taught at	will be examined at	Date
		-
8:00 on Tuesday	8:00 on Tuesday	June 20	--
9:00 on Tuesday	8:00 on Thursday	June 22	.
10:00 on Tuesday	10:00 on Tuesday	June 20
11:00 on Tuesday	10:00 on Thursday	June 22	.
1:15 on Tuesday	3:15 on Tuesday	June 20	--
2:15 on Tuesday	1:15 .on Thursday	June "22	- ' - ’. \
3:15 on-Tuesday	19:00 on Friday	June 23	. ~
Any classes in
Mathematics All classes in Physics 21, 22. 25, and 26	2:00 on Monday . 2:00 on Wednesday •	June 19 June 21	
Any class taught	7:00 p..m. on		
after 5:00 p. m.	Thursday	June 22	
Any examination outside the time designated for it in the foregoing schedule will not.bevalid for credit. — The period of each semester examination is one hour and'fifty "minutes. — Monday in the first column of the schedule meins. Monday. Wednesday, or Friday, and Tuesday means Tuesday; Thurs-' day or Saturday. — Students must take their examinations with their proper sections in all instances. -
— Di re ctor of Studies-
.difference of opinion as to which brewery should be visited. Final, arrangements for this and other activities are left to the Program committee and Refreshment committee.
Two very, interesting movies were shown. One was on abrasives, and the other on Diesel engines. Cake and cokes were served.
NFCCS at St. Mary's
The National Federation of Catholic College Students. met last Saturday at . St. Mary’s College. The spring meeting was the last to be held until September.
Committee reports were given and plans discussed for . next -school year. Elections were held fcr the Fort Wayne Regional Council.'” Robeit Riordan was chosen president,. and Harold . Berliner secretary.	‘
After the meeting refreshments were served in the Oriole.
Beef in the Butcher Shop Waiting for Tuesday Noon—See "Dining Hall" page. 16

i Marine Murmurs

ON THE BALL
To-night is the night! The long awaited date is here. At the Navy Drill Hall his nocturnal niles, Neptune, shall play host to some eight hundred pulchritudinous ladies, not to mention an even number of blue and green clad gushing G.I. Beau Brummels.
We trust that everyone will enjoy himself tremendously and, naturally drink no more high octane or . . . punch, than a P-38. All kidding aside, here’s a condescending bow to the fellows who have worked like beavers to put on this affair for us. To them goes our heartiest thanks and we hope they have conserved enough energy to have as good a time as we are planning to have.
WE HEAR
that Pfc. Arneson and Barta spent a day at Notre Dame last week. These two men were among the 86 who left the Marine detachment last March for Parris Island. They have just completed their forty-eight training days there and are on a ten-day furlough before reporting to Quantico on May 23, 1944, along with sixteen other Notre Dame men.
Out of eight hundred men who finished their training on May 13, 1944, the two hundred oldest were given orders to report to Quantico. The rest were sent to New River. Each month a group of the two hundred oldest men from there are sent to Quantico.
The following ex-Notre Dame Marines will report with Barta and Arneson: Pfc.’s Borschers, Burns, Dirr, Jarr, Kulbitski, Mample, Godwin, Hall, King, Marras, Nelson, Schaefer, To-mich, Reep, Stinson, and Yonakor.
Pfc. Barta gave the usual report, about P.I. — not. too tough, never be first or last, chow is good and lots of it, Notre Dame Marines are still’considered tops of the V-12 men who report to’ P.I; It is getting warm down there now, so anyone who is not planning on being one of the 189 men in the; detachment next semester had better get used to marching in hot weather.
—that Sgt. Tarro is a little jumpy here of late and seems to be suffering from something that every. “Dr.. . Drewry” can’t help. Scuttlebutt thrown around ; a bit has it that the good sgt. is working on an extra allotment from the Ma--
rine Corps which isn’t for his sick grandmother in Alaska! Yes, it could be—.
—that Fenimore Cooper is finding it hard to get out of his sack. It seems the evil necessity of having bed posts is too
much for him. Anyway in their last encounter “Fen” ended up second best; on the deck and out likea light. Stay in there, “Fen!”
—that the Chicago Tribune is sending down photographers to cover the V-12 Ball. Better dig out your best pair of shoe laces and slick down the old fuzzy top if you want to look your best in case the camera is pointed your way.
BOUQUET AND
BOO-QUET OF THE WEEK
The bouquet of this week to May 26, my gosh it finally got here!
The boo-quet to those “old salts” who sound off loud and long . about their having to parade when they don’t have a date for the Week-End. TOUGH!
HEAD-LINERS
If you can smile when things go wrong And say it doesn’t matter,
If you can laugh off cares and woe
• And trouble makes you fatter, If you can keep a cheerful face When all around are blue, Then have your head examined, Bud, There’s something wrong with you.
For one thing I’ve arrived at, There are no ands and huts,
A guy that’s grinning all the time Must be completely nuts.
A sailor and his girl were riding out in the country on horseback. As they stopped for a rest, the horses rubbed necks affectionately.
“Ah, me,” sighed the sailor, "that’s what I’d like to do.”
“Well, go ahead,” answered the girl, “it’s your horse.”
Irate Mother, at 3:00 A.M.: “Young man, do you think you can stay here all night?”	.
Marine: “I don’t know. I’ll have to call my captain first.”	- ; -
DAFFY-NITIONS
. Banshees—What we hope the O.P.A. won’t do next.
Relative—Inherited critics.
Secret of teaching—Pretending that you have known all your life what you • learned the ..hour before. . •
ON THE BALL	,-J;
Tough Apples if you’re off the ball! It was just like a fire sale ini- Macy’s
basement. To put it abruptly, tickets for the Ball are all gone: there ain’t no more, not even for the picnic. If you remember, we told you so! We’ll be seeing the faster boys on the night of the 26th.
FROM THE COMPANIES
A- RUMOR is spreading through the ranks of the company that forms on the south side of Cavanaugh that the present company commander is planning to abdicate around the first of June. Who will be his successor is unknown and a subject of much discussion. However, you can bat your old rusty razor blades that the “Eager Beavers” and the “Long Straw” men will make themselves anything but inconspicuous during the coming week.
T)EING on the ball is something Sgt.
Santos insists upon in his company and especially when something new and different is to be mastered. This time it was “Gun Salute,” a little new to some of the kids and a trifle embarrassing to some who weren’t on the Ball.
pLOSE all the way but not quite close enough was the experience of the “Praying Colonel” and his boys at Monday evening’s chow formation. Despite the wailing and moaning that filled the air as we marched to chow from the parade practice they ended up in last place in the chow line. Tough one to lose, boys, but that’s life on the campus.
SCUTTLEBUTT OF THE WEEK
' All seniors who are leaving for P.I.-at the end of this semester will get a
' five-day furlough.
’ *T understand they all used to blow fog homs in the fleet."
10
Know Your Navy
• Naval Phraseology, 3
By Lieut, (j. g.) J. J. Collins
Command—Direction by a superior- to perform a certain act in a definite way. No discretion is allowed in the manner of execution. (See Order)
Commission pennant—The pennant flown at the main truck of a ship-of-war in command of a commissioned officer, not a flag-cfficer.
Companionway—A passage for communication purposes from one deck to another.
Conning—Directing the steering of a ship by orders to the steersman.
Coxswain (coxsun)—The enlisted man in charge of a boat.
Crossing the line—Crossing the equator.
Crow’s nest—The platform on the mast for the lookout.
Cut-of-the-jib—General appearance of a vessel; sometimes applied to a person.
Day’s duty—A tour of duty lasting 24 hours.	.
Dead ahead—In line with the vessel’s keel extended and ahead.
Dead light—A round thick glass set flush and permanently into the deck or ship’s side for lighting purposes.
Dead reckoning—A navigator’s reckoning with courses steered and distances run independent of sights or bearings.
Deck, main—The. highest.complete deck extending from stem to stern.
Deck, second—A complete deck next below the main deck.	.
Deck, third—A complete deck below the second deck.
Deep six—To give something the deep six is to dispose of it by throwing over the side.	...	'
Departure—Before losing sight of land, it is the duty of the navigator- to take a departure, which consists of fixing the position of the ship by observation of the best landmarks avail- -able. This position is the origin for dead reckoning.	*	.
Derelict—An abandoned vessel at sea.
Dip—A position of a flag, when hoisted part way up a hoist. Also to. lower a (Continued on page 21) .	-
Information on "Nites" and Daze" Leaks Out
By WILLIAM FRIDAY
In view of the large amount of publicity which has been given the forthcoming “Week-End Maneuvers,” it is remarkable that so little has been said about the “Nites-and-Daze” Show-. It is our intention, therefore, to “reveal all,” so that the cash customers can have at least some idea of what to expect.
The first act is indeed a good one and the surroundings of beautiful Potawat-tomie Park will make it all the more effective. It seems that there has been some question as to the exact nature of the act, as the program committee has had difficulty in deciding just which act should be billed first. We are sure, however, that their selection for the opening performance will be an excellent one.
After the first item comes the second item, and this, too, is really an eyeopener. Rippling music, sparkling dialogue, and flashing humor will be the key-note of this act, as well as all the other- acts. You may rest assured that the sub-committee in charge of decorations will out-do themselves in providing an appropriate setting for this act, for you all know that an appropriate setting is almost essential to the success of any specialty act, especially a superspecial specialty such as the second feature of the famous Nites-and-Daze Show, fourth edition.	.
The third act, believe us, is sensational! Or in the words of Chief Broderick, “It’s Murder.” Never before in the history of Potawattomie Park has anything so gay and lively, so downright humorous, been presented. You will be amazed at the fun the program committee has arranged despite the fact that no women are on the bill. (The last time they tried , to have girls as guest-artists, there was a fire in the dressing-room; it took the firemen fifteen minutes to put the fire out, then it took two hours to put the firemen out).
The fourth, through twenty-seventh acts are each in turn just as good as those we have described, and we feel it is not-necessary to describe each one in detail as we did the first three. You can easily see from this description of the first few features of the famous Nitesand-Daze Show that you are in for a really exhilarating good'time, so come prepared to give with the belly-laughs.
, The fastest living thing is the cephe-nemyia fly, a native of Brazil, and it travels at the rate of fourteen miles per minute, or 340 miles per hour.
By SEAMAN JOHN J. CAHILL
Joe Haller . . . V-12 pre-med student . . . home in Newark, N. J., looks good at the end of each semester ... is Scholastic staff photographer . . . owns about four or five cameras . . . claims camera and equipment are usually good for a ticket anywhere - . . got his first camera when he was six . . . other hobbies include hunting, hiking, riding, reading, and working off demerits.
As far as he is concerned, Notre Dame is the only school . . . was member of Met club, Chem. club, V-12 committee, and the Bad Barbers of Alumni .. . out for football . . . won a numeral his freshman year . . . concentration on studies kept him cut last year . . . plays guard . . . has worked in steel mills, tested army trucks, worked in grocery and department stores and for the post office department.
Easy going ... seldom gets excited . . . main difficulty now is lack of time ... has time to write to only three or four girls . . . misses maid service of civilian days . . . wishes he were a Commerce man because he likes to play golf . . . would like more food and less exercise . . . pet peeve: surprise musters.
Was called “Jungle Joe” at Good Counsel High in Newark . . . won four letters in football and two in track . . . has made three trips to California ... would like to live on a ranch there . . . -once w-ore a black and blue imprint of ■ a horse’s hoof in a rather embarrassing spot for a month . . . got it breaking broncs on his uncle’s ranch in California.
Joined the navy when two of his roommates were drafted within a month ... prefers navy of all services ... of the navy, prefers V-12 for obvious reasons . . . would probably back any movement for abolition of any and all inspections ... is now concentrating on getting to med school . . . likes horses and horse races ... in women his preference runs to “healthy” blondes ... is open minded about all women . . . knows how a blind date can be at St. Mary’s ..." dislikes affected girls . . . goes for Kay ■ Kyser- and slow music . . . Dodger fan
... all-around good guy.	.
The Irish wolfhound is not only one of ’ the oldest breeds, but is the largest dog - • to be found anywhere. .	. ’
■ 11
Diamond Squad Runs Amuck at Iowa, 2-0;
Play Two at Western Michigan Tomorrow
BY HANK SLAMIN
N.D. St z v <	. —
“Scholastic" Baseball Writer
Notre Dame’s short two-game winning streak was abruptly halted last Saturday as the Irish absorbed a. 2-0 loss at the hands of Iowa Seahawks. Playing on a wet field that required burning before the teams could take the playing surface, Notre Dame was completely baffled by the one-hit pitching of Bob Raniszewski. The Iowa hurler had one big disappointment when Len Scarpelli got a piece of the ball sending a slow dribbler toward first which couldn’t be fielded in time to prevent the fleet Scarpelli from reaching first. This was the initial and only hit off the tall moundsman; it came in the ninth with one down. Only 30 men faced the Seahawk hurler during the entire contest.
Notre Dame’s Bill Martin, still in
We'll Let the Uxnp Call This One
quest of his third win, pitched good ball; allowing a mere eight hits, but a one-hit game is hard to beat. Bill encountered little trouble, except for the third frame when the Seahawks bunched three of their hits to tally the only two runs of the game. Russ Wendland, former
❖	SPORTS CALENDAR
•	I*	Baseball
❖	May 27—At Western Michigan (two)
❖	Track
❖	May 27—At Western Michigan
❖	Golf
♦	I* May 27—Lawrence College (here) -
❖	Tennis
❖	May 30—Western Michigan (here)
Northwestern basketball and baseball flash, and Dick Wakefield, one-time rookie of the year with Detroit, were the only men to tag Martin for more than one hit — each making two singles. The Navy nine threatened again in the eighth with three men on and one down. However, Martin struck out the next hitter, and a snap throw to first caught Bob Steuber napping, retiring the side. The game was played on the Cadet’s diamond at Iowa City, Iowa.
Tomorrow the baseball aggregation travels to Kalamazoo, Mich., attempting to hit again the winning path against Western Michigan.
NROTC Ball Team Loses
One, and Then Wins One
The Naval ROTC baseball team won one game and suffered their first defeat over the weekend, bringing their season’s record up to two wins as against one set-back. The Walsh Hall nine defeated a campus, collection of talent on Cartier Field last Friday, 5-3. On Sunday the Brothers at Dujarie whitewashed the Navy, 8-0, in a two-hit shutout.
Father Brennan chucked for the Sorin, et al., club and gave up six hits. The NROTC bunched five of them in the fifth' frame for four runs, after scoring a lone counter in the first on a walk, an error and a single. The opposition scored three runs off three hits from the offerings of Bud Gotta in the fifth and sixth innings, Granfield’s double highlighting the scoring.
Vince Laurita notched a double and a single as the only hits in the Sunday game with Dujarie. Brother Augustine’s hurling was superb as thirteen fanned and but two of the NROTC drew passes. Meanwhile, Dujarie was slapping out nine hits and aided by two three-run splurges piled up an 8-0 advantage. Brother Augustine helped his own cause with a double and a single.
Steamboat Johnson, former. Southern League umpire, has numerous scars on ■ his head from pop bottle wounds . . . and claims that every scar is the result of an honest decision.
“Meet You at the Lake"	-/
Indiana Heat Opens Lake ‘
The hot summer weather of the past	V
few weeks has opened the lake to local	; J
swimmers unofficially. Lack of a life- ( guard prevented school officials to fol- j low suit and put the “official” stamp f ] on the opening.	.
Notice was served by the University, f r instead, that the lake was not to be used until proper precautions were taken, and ' 1 ] until further word from the Prefect of ( Discipline was issued. Hot Indiana 1	.
weather did not permit a full understanding of this notice. Consequently, j the lake was filled with swimmers over	j
the weekend and through the after-	(
noons.	* 1
A life-guard has finally been secured and so the office of the Prefect of Discipline was happy to announce that it
would be quite all right for the students to dip in cool refreshing lake water, providing that the life-guard was on duty.
12
gpRTS T
John Lu jack Looms as First Candidate to Earn Four Monograms in First Year
BY BILL WADDINGTON	'
"Scholastic" Sports Editor
offices that classes will not begin at the lake until the first week of June, which . leaves the lake free for usage at any -,|time during the day. Later, when the classes do begin, a strict ruling will be *in effect that will prohibit students not * ;in the regular swimming class at the ' lake to go in swimming during classes. 4	——________
^ Tennis Team Awaits
n	Western Michigan
x Coach Walter Langford’s netmen, . who have been idle since their double iwin over DePauw and Indiana on Sat, ^urday, May 13, will attempt to continue ? their victory string by annexing their
/ seventh straight victory over Western
| Michigan next Tuesday on the local -•A. courts.
| The match, originally scheduled for
* May 16, has been postponed twice with
£ Tuesday’s date being set as the time for play, that is, if the weather permits.
i To date, the tennis team has shown su-
* periority over four Big Ten clubs, Northwestern, Wisconsin, Michigan, and
7 Chicago, while also defeating two Indi' ana squads, DePauw and Indiana. The Wildcats have beaten the Broncos, 7-2, for the only comparative score on which the locals may base their strategy, but only an upset would prove amazing as the Irish have had things pretty much A (Umuch their own way and should continue j to do so until the remainder of the card becomes history.
' The. Law Club has entered a team in
^the Intra-mural Soft-ball league. The "Le-
■ gal Eagles, led by Ted Ryan, are ready i to take on any and all comers in the p forthcoming competitions.
The coolest place on the campus; the only place Indiana heat can't touch.
An almost fairy-tale story is in the process of becoming reality now on the Notre Dame campus, as one, Johnny Lu jack from Connellsville, Pa., is potentially, emerging from the ranks of “the athlete” to simulate the qualifications of a superman.
Lujack—Four Award Winner?
Barring unexpectancies, John should be the recipient of his third and fourth monograms upon completion of the present baseball and track schedules. To date, he has garnered a pair of letters in football and basketball. In the 102-year history of Notre Dame du Lac, there have been but two men to win major awards in four sports, they are Rupert F. Mills and Arthur H. “Big Dutch” Bergman. Both of these Notre Dame stalwarts competed for the Blue and Gold prior to 1915 and it took a four-year span for them to realize the achievement. In Lu jack’s case, however, it is the first time in which, a player has won four monograms in a single year of competition.
Came in '42	.	-
Lujack enrolled at the University in the fall of 1942 and was heralded as a future grid great, being specifically noted for his passing ability and a very
capable successor to Angelo BertellL He won his freshman numerals but at the time, freshmen were still ineligible to compete in varsity play, the rule having been lifted this past fall.
He finished two semesters as a civilian and then returned to the campus as a
member of the Navy V-12 program in which he still retains his status today. It was during the football campaign last fall, that he was given his first chance at intercollegiate competition, starting out as a halfback and then moving to the quarterback spot where he was later to replace Bertelli who was destined to leave in mid-season for advanced Marine training. John may have been overshadowed by the efforts of All-American Bertelli for the early part of the season but when the “Springfield Rifle” left after the Navy game, John got his chance and capably became the field general who led the team to win over Army, Northwestern, and the Iowa Seahawks. .
■ Having received the moniker, “Connellsville Cannon” from local sports editor, Jim Costin of the South Bend Tribune, Lujack finished the season in high
. (Continued on page 18)
13
Irish Tracksters Topple Iowa Pre-Flighters;
Route-Man Martin Gains Triple Feature
BY JACK McGRANE "Scholastic" Track Reporter
The Notre Dame track team, led by Frank Martin, clipped the wings of the Iowa Seahawks in Iowa City last Saturday by a 73%-57% score. The Irish displayed balance and power as they copped nine first places and tied for two others.
Track Coach ”Doc" Handy
The Blue and Gold thinlies led all the way, but rarely held more than a one-point advantage. Down to the last event of the afternoon, the mile relay, they still had this scanty lead. The results of the discus throw had not yet been announced so they could hardly afford to lose any points in this contest. Fred Jones led off but was unable to keep the pace set by his Seahawk opponent. Don Lundergan regained the lead for Notre Dame with some splendid running on the second leg and passed the baton to Frank MacCauley. Taking the stick from MacCauley with no lead on the Pre-Flight anchor man, Bob Purcell fought off his desperate opposition to surge across the finish line with a one-yard margin. Shortly after this deciding race, the results of the previously con. tested discus toss were made known. Joe Kelly, Dick Quasey and Mike Lad-yko had swept the event for the Irish, giving the Golden. Domers a clean-cut victory in the final point totals.
Martin. Shines .
Frank Martin accounted. for fifteen -points, winning the half-mile, mile and 14
two-mile runs. Following him home in second place in the 880 was Dale Wares, Notre Dame marine trainee who has improved steadily since his first start in the Purdue Relays at the clo.~e of the indoor season. Martin was pressed in winning double-mile specialty but his last lap kick proved too much for PreFlighter Velasquez.
Johnny Lujack hurled the javelin better than 164 feet to capture a first after he had cleared 5'10" to tie for top. honors in the high jump. He was unhampered in this effort by his baseball togs • as he was in the recent meet with De-Pauw, instead he donned the diamond uniform later in the day to go into right field for the Klinemen against the Seahawks. Bob Steuber, former Missouri University star, won the 100-yard dash, placed second in the shot put, and, like Lujack, played in the ball game in the afternoon.	’
. Bennett Misses Two
Brad Bennett won the 220 with Bob Purcell fast on his heels to snatch the one-two spot for the Irish. Bennett found Steuber’s speed too great in the century and had to be content with second place. Purcell further distinguished himself by taking the quarter-mile.
Notre Dame was shut out in the 120-yard high hurdles and was on the way to another blank in the 220-yard lows until Wright of the Seahawks tripped and fell on the last barrier.
The last dual meet of the season will be run tomorrow at Kalamazco against . Western Michigan. The following week will find the team participating in the . Central Collegiate Conference meet at the Great Lakes Naval Training Center. The season will be concluded June 10 at Marquette, the NCAA meet having been given its site at Milwaukee.	.
Summaries: .	.	,
MILE RUN—Won by Martin (ND) ; Judge ' (S), second; Tully (ND), third. .Time, 4:34.9..
- SHOT PUT—Won by Kelly (ND); Steuber. (S), second; Sullivan (ND),- third. Distance, 47 feet, 34 inch. • .	. . - ’
440-YARD DASH—Won by Purcell . (ND); Crawford (S), second; McCauley - (ND),third. Time, 51 seconds.	.' ’ .	- '
100-YARD DASH—Won by Steuber (S);'Bennett (ND), second; Burke (ND), - third. Time, 10.5 seconds.	...	' .
HIGH JUMP—Won by Ingman (S) and Lujack (ND), tie; Sheider (ND) and Hart (S) tied for third. Height, 5 feet 10 inches.
120-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Wright (S) ; Grower (S), second; Huis (S), third. Time, 16.3 seconds.
POLE VAULT—Won by Hart (S) and Anderson (ND), tie; Scheider (ND), third. Height, 12 feet, 6 inches.	.
SS0-YARD RUN—Won by Martin (ND) ; Wares (ND), second; Stuart (S), third. Time, 2:01.S.
220-YARD DASH—Won by Bennett (ND) ; Purcell (ND), second; Miller (S), third. Time, 23.1 second.
TWO-MILE RUN—Won by Martin (ND) ; Velasquez (S), second; Kielh (ND), third. Time, 00:18.
220-YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Grower (S) ; Huis (S), second; O’Neil (ND), third. Time, 26.3 seconds. .
BROAD JUMP—Won by Strope (S) ; Steuber (S), second; Hart (S), third. Distance, 20 feet, 5 inches.
JAVELIN—Won by Lujack (ND) ; Hardesty (S), second; Purdin (S), third. Distance, 64 feet, 6 inches.
MILE RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (Jones, Lundergan, McCauley, Purcell) ; Seahawks, second. Time, 3:28.9.
DISCUS—Won by Kelly (ND) ; Quasey (ND), second; Ladyko (ND), third. Distance, 135 feet, 2 inches.
Brownson Places in
Softball Semi-Finals
Brownson’s Blues, by virtue of their 11-5 triumph over the highly favored Sorin Politicians, have gained the right to the semi-final round against the Glee Club of the Campus Softball League.
A game which saw the Sorinites take < an early lead, came to a 5-all deadlock in the deadlock in the fifth inning, then • came the storm. The big guns of the freshman club opened up and were abet- ‘ ted by several Politician errors, garnering six runs in the sixth frame, and continuing to hold that lead for the re- < maining bracket.
Brownson put a formidable aggregate on the field and applied their whole body to the swing and got several solid blows that, paid off. The Sorin boys, led by Manager Jim Casey, the betting choice in the infancy of the schedule must now face the sad plight of being . a disintegrated club with no immediate future in sight, having been eliminated from the tourney. However, Jim0 Casey has announced that his squad will con- < tinue to take on any and . all. campus / clubs that are desirous of softball games. His address is 301 Sorin.
For many years, Lou Gehrig was the only ’ local: boy with the New York ' Yankees. He was born in Manhattan. J
Irish Linksmen Garner Win Number Four;
Lawrence College Plays Here Tomorrow
BY BILL WADDINGTON "Scholastic" Sports Editor
The Golden Gophers lost a little of their gild last Saturday as the Irish linksmen made the jaunt to Minneapolis to take the match, 20-7. Despite the postmatch summaries that appeared in the metropolitan newspapers, 19%-7%, the authentic score is herewith reprinted in its entirety with the individual scoring as support.
Both Jack Fitzpatrick and Tom Kennedy, freshman aces, shot in the 140’s for the 36 holes of golf, the former getting a 147 on 73 and 74 respectively while the latter amassed a 148 total with a 72 and 76. Kennedy’s 72, in pairing with Captain Mel Wilke in the morning’s double matches, was low for the day and was but a single stroke over par - for the course, the mark being 71. Fitzpatrick’s steady golf has enabled his freshman rating to take on attributes of an old-timer who really gets his round-, trip completed in short order. His game has improved right along with the season and it reached its climax last week against the Minnesota boys.
Very Pleasing
Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., golf coach, has been very much pleased with the improved caliber of play that has existed since the first match with Purdue, the only defeat on the Fighting Irish schedule to date and that by a photo finish, 9%-8%. The boys are at their peak at present and there is good reason to believe that they will continue
Fr. Holderith, Golf Coach
to meet their opposition in fine fettle.
Especially noticeable to Father Holderith has been the way in which the boys team together. Their eagerness to give their playing partner a break in winning a hole has keynoted the season’s play and in that way, they have been able to annex many more of the individual holes, efficiently utilizing the test tactics of cooperation.
Playing under the conditions of a “perfect day,” the Blue and Gold took six out of nine points in the morning best ball found. In the p. m. single’s matches they garnered fourteen counters out of a possible eighteen, to win decisively.
Host’s Hospitality
Although Minnesota could do little to better their own cause on the links, they did come through with some solid blows at entertaining the locals. A series that has now completed its seventh meeting, Notre Dame having won six, and Minnesota gaining but a lone win, there has grown out of it a strong friendship between the two institutions.
Coach W. R. Smith, who was watching' his squad go down in defeat for the first time this season, was more than a gracious host, having met the Notre Dame squad at the train, making arrangements to house the Irish at the Continuation Study School, entertaining his conquerors at dinner Saturday evening, and then bidding adieu to the Golden Domers as they prepared to board the train back to South Bend.
Three New Matches
Sanction was received this week by the faculty board in control of athletics to add Lawrence College, Hlinois Tech, and Beai- Flying Field to the Notre Dame golf schedule. Each of the: matches will be played on consecutive Saturdays on the William J. Burke Memorial Course.
Lawrence, from Appleton, Wisconsin, will send a team to the campus tomorrow composed of V-12 trainees but little is known of their, golfing ability. On June 3, Illinois Tech, on Chicago’s South Side will make the trip to South Bend to engage the golfers in another contest while the third encounter will pit Bear Flying Field of Fort Wayne against the Blue and Gold. The latter’s team is composed of college graduates who have had considerable experience in golf and should prove more than a" worthy match.
Ending the season’s play will be the National Intercollegiate Meet at Toledo, June 26.
Summary:
DOUBLES
Fitzpatrick (ND), 36-37-73; Terry (ND), 37-39-76—2^ pts. vs. Lick (M), 36-40-/6; Bronson (M). 37-39-76—% pt.
Bessenfelder (ND), 38-39-76; Seidel (ND), 44-39-83—% pt. vs. Milner (M), 40-40-80 ; -Mack , . (M), 38-39-77—2% pts.
Wilke (ND), 35-40-75; Kennedy (ND), 35-37-72—3 pts. vs. Harris (M), 37-40-77; Cooper (M), 40-42-82—0 pts.
SINGLES	,
Wilke (ND), 38-41-79—1 pt.; Lick (M), 39-. 38-77—2 pts.	' .
Fitzpatrick (ND), 35-39-73—3 pts. ;_Milrier, (M), 37-42-79—0 pts.
Bessenfelder (ND). 35-39-74—2% pts.; Bronson (M), 35-41-76—% pt.	■
Terry (ND), 39-38-77—3 pts.; Harris (M), 42-39-S1—0 pts.
Seidel (ND), 37-39-76—1% pts.;. Cooper (M), 38-3S- <6—pts.
Kennedy (ND), 36-40-76—3 pts.; Mack (M), 38-42-80—0 pts.
Award Boxing Trophies
Bengal boxing champs and finalists in the recent campus boxing tournament, conducted under the auspices of the Scholastic, received their individual trophies, this past week.
The trophies selected by the committee were of two varieties.. For the champions, there were golden gloves containing a raised Notre Dame monogram of blue and bearing the words “Champion, 1944.” For the finalists there were silver gloves bearing a blue monogram and the inscription, “Finalist, 1944.”
For many years, sweaters were awarded to all participants in the finals. Under wartime restrictions the practice had to be discontinued. The committee, following the custom of many other schools in selecting golden and silver gloves for winners, made the same choice for the Notre Dame winners. The selection of such trophies met with the hearty approval of all contestants, and will probably be continued for the duration. It is likely, however, that a smaller glove will be selected in the future.
"Gee, I hope this guy ain't sore at mel*
15
Dining Hall Feeds 4,000 Each Meal
, Rationing Causes Standard Menu
BY JOHN O'HARA
The Notre Dame Dining hall has been confronted with a great many complexities due to wartime restrictions. Many people do not understand the problems involved in feeding Notre Dame’s four thousand three times a day.
Ho Hum! Nothing to do but prepare a meal for 4.000 men.
In peacetime, the growth of Notre Dame’s enrollment from 1800 to 3000 necessitated a curbing of further enrollment to keep the dining halls from being overtaxed.
This peacetime problem was aggravated immensely by the addition of 1300 V-7s in 1942. This situation was met by switching to a two-shift system. In July of 1943, 1800 V-12s were stationed at the University, and even though the civilian enrollment dropped considerably, the Dining halls had to change to a three-shift plan to enable them to be fed properly. That condition, with some fluctuations, continues to exist today. The wartime dining hall has accomplished what was never considered possible in peacetime.
Today the dining halls alone are feeding over 4000 people three times daily. In an average day, 800 gallons of milk, 75 gallons of coffee-cream, over two tons of potatoes and 800 loaves of bread are consumed. The usual Friday lunch requires 2400 pounds of fish. One day 3256 pounds of veal were prepared.
Father Sorin’s little dining hall, in
what is now the Carroll hall locker room, has grown to big business proportions.
The menus of the dining hall are prepared with a great deal of care. They are calculated to give each student over 3000 calories plus the necessary vitamins per day. These meals cannot, of course, meet every individual taste; but they are prepared with the idea of striking a medium.
Some people do not understand that the Navy confines itself to a food point ration system somewhat along the lines that civilian consumers follow; therefore, this has presented a problem and necessitated a standardization of menus.
Naturally, as large an organization as the dining halls has considerable
Just pick out the piece you want, and try to get it.
managerial help. The Director of the dining halls is Mr. D. C. Ford. His assistants are: Mr. Marius Badiny, executive chef in charge of all food preparation; Miss Trexler, manager of the public cafeteria; Mr. Owens, in charge of all service; “Ziggie” Kucharczuk, kitchen steward, and Steve Chacho, who is in charge of the storeroom. Under them are many workers — both students and
towns people, who keep the machinery rolling smoothly.
One of the more interesting departments cf the kitchen is the pantry, where they prepare student salads, fancy salads for the public cafeteria, food trays for the priest and officer tables, and fruit juices for both the dining hall and the cafeteria. There is much talk in the papers about sum totals of years of service put in by groups of workers, and therefore, the Scholastic boasts that it has found some sort of record in the fact that 94 years of serv- . ice in the Pantry department is credited by a group of six workers. Mrs. Anna Mester and Mrs. Clara Zacher, both Pantry heads, each have 17 years of • service, while Mrs. Laura Zwiezynski, Mrs. Lou Spitler, and Miss Ruth Smith, all helpers, have from 15 to 17 years each.
No article would be complete without mention of the men that cook the meat, - and the rest of the food that is eaten. Big Frank Messa, the fry cook, and Charlie Tomalak, the roast cook, are sorry that it is not like the old days when they had choice meats and food with which to work. The rest of the staff, mainly, Glenn Null, Paul Schultz, John Mitchell, “Rocko” Tonti, and the others, claim that cooking for such great numbers does not allow for really tasty cooking, and they look forward to the day when they will be back to normal, working with good material, and for the normal “crowd.”
Stacked row on row, pitchers of water to combat summer thirst.
16
^xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxro
THE	GREEN BANNER	|
J	BY JIM CASEY	M
N	H
Kxxxxxxrxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxs
BARBARA GRADUATES
We can hardly believe it, but the time has come for Barbara to don her white cap and gown and graduate from the Academy. Not that she lacks brains, mind you, but rather that she is fast becoming a young lady, growing beautiful and smart and clever, and versed in all the_ wiles that her big sisters at the college employ to waylay the unsuspecting innocents from Notre Dame (a trait she inherits from her mother, according to a muffled account given by her much-maligned father). Anyway, it seems but last year that she was one of the “preps” lisping- her lines in Snore White and, (though she won’t admit it now) sporting pantaloons. But now she is very much grown up, as we noticed in Little Women, dignified, sedate, and not at all interested in raiding the icebox (Gad! we’ve never eaten regularly, anyway). As is to be expected, she has a mania for uniforms, polishes her fingernails, talks in a low tone, avoids Hoosier dialects, and corrects everyone’s grammar, and thinks Don Ameche did a great job when he invented the telephone. Another generation has passed us by, as time marches on. Oh, but we’re getting old!
LILAC-TIME
Ed Sanpierre, Tom Creevy, Jim Clark, and that fellow Barches, were all local visitors last week. This alone was enough to have St. Mary’s revive their interest in the local campus, aside from the picnics which continue to flourish. And don’t ever think that there won’t be some permanent matches result from these harmless get-togethers. If you don’t believe us, ask Fanning; he is a perfect example of the unwary who goes off for a day in the open, only to come home with obligations for the next four dances in these environs. And, mind you, this sort of thing went on for three years before he was able to sidetrack the very clever beartraps in the offing.
FORTUNES OF WAR
It’s hard to believe that the Sorin hall spirit has had the very life crushed out of it. The Sorin Politicians — that hard-working, fast-breaking aggregation of athletes, have at last been defeated on the ballfield. Yes sir, they were sold down the river by a guileless freshman group from Brownson hall.
We who observed the contest from an impartial angle merely note that it was an obvious case of over-training; the crowd just can’t stand regular hours, a training table, and the attention of medical authorities who insist on keeping them in tip-top shape all the time. After a hasty consultation among the stars themselves, it was decided to make application for entry into the South Bend grammar school league. Dick Ames and Joe Walker are all for it. Besides, this will give them a chance to go “on the road” a little more often, which, we understand has been no small part of their routine up till the present moment.
NUTS IN MAY
Picnics can be treacherous affairs. This luring the unsuspecting innocents into the wilds, and then discovering there is nothing to eat is no laughing matter, unless you’re talking about it later in the cafe over a prize “Tom
As the Commerce Forum prepares for its coming elections, politics "a la Chicago" style swings into action freely and effectively.
Owens” steak. Therefore, we warn you; be sure you get behind responsible promoters. And if you think this isn’t necessary, just ask the Breen-Phillips crowd about the misfortunes of last week when off to the country they went gaily singing only to discover later that someone had forgot the “hot dogs.” Sorin, on the other hand, will make no such mistake. Experienced as they are in such matters, once they got off the porch, they not only made sure that the food .was. at hand, but likewise the (well, it was a hot day and we all kept cool). And everyone was happy, too, about the whole thing.
STATISTICS
Father Kehoe, who has some connection with the office of the Prefect of Discipline (we never cared to inquire too thoroughly into the matter) was inveigled ino playing baseball the other evening. The opposition was his own Walsh hall aggregation. In the last inning, while playing second-base, he muffed a “very easy” bobbier, and- thereby lost the game to Walsh. Gilhooly (sports authority) insists it was obviously a trumped-up job. But what did Gilhooly do about it, we ask you? Nothing, abso-
(Continued on Page 19)
17
Pressbox Splinters
BY LEO
OUILLETTE
a colt that can really travel when he hits the lane, and despite the talk about a deficiency of classy runners this year in the three-year-old ranks, he -claims there’s a lot of horseflesh in this new three-year-old wonder. . . . The chestnut colt will be trying to annex the triple
crown tomorrow when he goes in mile and a half “Belmont.”
the
w


Prior to his one-hit hurling job against the Fighting Irish last week, Bob Raniszewski, Iowa Pre-Flight’s big blond side-armer from Detroit, had done well for himself in his first two games this year. .; . . In the sixteen innings he had toiled, he had given only five hits, all singles, and had struck out twenty-two men. . . . Bob Steuber, former Missouri grid ace, and John Lujack have a lot in common. ... A couple of weeks ago, Steuber shuttled back and forth between the baseball diamond and the track field, taking a first in the shot put and a second in the discus toss while . in his baseball uniform. . . . Johnny did the same thing when Western Michigan’s diamond aggregate and DePauw’s track contingent were taking on Irish teams simultaneously within the portals of Cartier Field. . . . This column suggests that Dr. Mullally of the philosophy department leave his nickels at home when he goes out to practice putting, especially after he has been away from the game for some time.
His opponents made a habit of running into Joe Santos’ right hand during his fighting days and now the habit has spread to the handball court.-. . . What’s . the idea, Joe, why be so rough with the boys? . . . Don Aires, first baseman from Washington State who is currently leading the Seahawk baseball team with a fancy .600 to show for his first two encounters, has gained his prominence while playing in tennis shows, despite the fact that the diamond has been muddy on both occasions. . . . The reason for his lack of spikes is simply that there are none big enough to fit him in the cadet equipment inventory and none can be located in neighboring goods store . . . he needs an even 13. . . . Yale embarked upon a new athletic experiment some time back: the training of a football team by their swimming coach. . . . Although the candidates are conditioned for the grid game over a six weeks’ period, they never even see a pigskin. ... If nothing else comes of it, the Bulldog ought to be mighty efficient in the rain next fall.
Anyone watching Bob Klein play pool in the recreation hall would find it easy to understand how he “hits them where they ain’t”, on a baseball ' diamond—that boy really has an eye.
. . Pfc. Ike Cheroff of Camp Rucken, 18
Alabama, writes that the boys at that camp have developed a new game due to the lack of a ping-pong table and net. . . -. They simulated the 9’x5’ playing surface on the deck and played much the same rules as hold for table tennis. . . . He says that some of the players have developed into real experts and employ the best tactics of tennis, handball, squash, badminton, and volleyball in their game. . . . Besides, it is a lot more rugged than ping pong and' gives the whole physical nature of the individual a thorough workout. . . . They call the game “Service Ball.” . . . Well, good luck, Ike, here’s hoping your new game really takes hold and spreads to points outside your locale.
Jimmy Foxx, back in the baseball limelight with the Cubs after a year’s retirement, is the only player, in either league who has won the most valuable player award three times. . . . He turned the trick in 1932, ’33, and ’38. . . . The late Lou Gehrig, as well as those still in the wars, baseball or otherwise, Mickey Cochrane, Joe DiMaggio, Hank Greenberg, Rogers Hornsby, and Carl Hubbell have each been honored twice. . . . Too bad that Jimmy’s three-time honor doesn’t scare the Cub opposition into playing hysteria and frenzy, goodness knows the Cubs could well use that sort of unplanned psychology. . . . Doyle of the New York Giants won the National League batting championship in 1915 with an average of .320, the lowest since championship records have been kept. . . . The lowest mark in the American League was established by Jimmy Foxx in ’38 with a .349.
The fact that. Mel Harder recently won his 200th game brings to mind the record compiled by Cy Young who won 511 games during his twenty-two year career’ at the beginning of the century. . . ; Pensive’s two winning efforts in the Kentucky Derby, and Pimlico Preakness, were both the same, type of race—that stretch drive. . . . One of the Wright colorbearers of a few years back,. but now in stud, did the same kind of thing in achieving his national fame and go-ing on to later become the.world’s leading money winner, that’s Whirlaway. . . Pensive is the same color as “Whirly” •
and some claim that he runs; just like. the University at the end of the present his owner’s other great horse. . . . Tom term, being, assigned either to Midship-Young, track superintendent at Churchill : men or ‘ Pre-midshipmen school as the
Downs, however, says that Pensive .-is .
SI
FOUR MONOGRAM LUIACK (Continued from page 13) style. Taking a week’s layoff after
the
arduous football schedule, he came right back for more when he reported to Coach Ed Krause as a candidate for guard, on the basketball team. After the first few 'encounters, he gained the position of a regular on the Golden Dome cage squad.



Blossomed This Spring
Upon completion of the court season, John again went into athletic hibernation for a short period at which time he deliberated whether to go out for baseball or track. In high school, he was state high-jump champion and also managed to play an enviable shortstop position that netted him some offers from the Pittsburgh Pirates. Solving his dilemma, Lujack decided to compete for Doc Handy’s thinlies in the high jump and javelin. However, Coach Jake Kline, . trying desperately to break a five-game . losing streak for the diamond aggregate, enlisted the services of Lujack. against Western Michigan as a rightfielder, a garden spot in which he had no previous experience. His ability was not hampered by the position as he smacked out three hits, one being a . triple, and thus led the ball club to 3-1 victory of the Broncos. During the same afternoon, however, he took time out to trot across the field and try his luck at the javelin, which he won handily. In the high jump, he cleared the bar at 5'10" but his baggy baseball togs dislodged the bar in each of /three attempts. At Iowa Pre-Flight, he was able to. do both sports justice as the . track meet was contested in the morning hours, and the ball game in the afternoon. At Western Michigan this weekend, he will be at the beck and call . of both squads and only time will tell
how well he is able to divide and con- ! quer.
. Lujack, still in his 18th year, will ne- : . cessitate a change in the Notre Dame records due his spontaneous outburst of athletic prowess in a single complete sports calendar. He is scheduled to leave
S&i

course is prescribed.
V-I2 BALL
(Continued from page 3) man, will escort Miss Elaine Winter of St. Louis, Missouri. Private Joseph Brennan, St. Louis, Publicity chairman, will attend the Ball with Mrs. Brennan. “Casey" Snyder, who will direct the “Nites and Daze” Show will escort Miss Shirley Sims, of Chicago, and Joe Thornton, dance chairman, will escort Miss Helen Ayrock.
Saturday morning at 1100, a colorful regimental review will he held on the parade grounds. Weekend gue_ts are encouraged to be present to view this competitive effort. Captain J. R. Barry, USN, and Captain J. W. Finney, US-MCR, will review the unit.
Saturday afternoon at 1630 the picnic facilities of Potawatomie Park will be opened to the Ball-goers. Athletic activities and a picnic supper will keep the trainees and guests occupied until the presentation of a “Nites and Daze” show. Seaman “Casey” Snyder, in
<>*♦	♦J*	«£♦	<£•
❖ Sunday morning at 10:15, provision will be made for trainees to ‘I* ❖ fall cut for a special Memorial ❖ ❖ Mass. This function is not obli-❖ gatory, but it is hoped that each ❖ ❖ company will be well represented. ❖ •I* Both Catholic and non-Catholic ❖ ❖ servicemen may participate. Com- ❖ ❖ panies will form at a designated ❖ •I’ spot shortly before 10:00 and will ❖ ❖ march in review to the east door ❖ ❖ of Sacred Heart Church.	❖
west will be leaving this week. (Being the scholars that we are, we shall, of . course, continue with our books without interruption for a number of weeks yet.) But the point is this — we may at some time or other, inadvertently, have aroused their wrath through some statement in this column which they misinterpreted, and regarded as uncomplimentary to their personalities, their cultural content, etc. We should not like to have them depart, however, before assuring them that, regardless of our vitriolic pen, we still consider them head and shoulders above any other young group we have ever had the pleasure of meeting and insulting. If we ever said anything uncomplimentary, it was only because the opposite was obvious — so obvious that the insult was patently a bit of excellent humor. They are tops in every way. We’re fortunate to have met so many of them. They are perfect ladies, and have given us an excellent example of how pleasant life here at Notre Dame can be, because of their valuable contribution to it.
“MEMPHIS BELLE"
(Continued from page 7)
40° below, were spectacular — the exhaust from the squadron of fortresses streaming in long arrow-straight trails, like powdery ribbons. Eerie patterns of silver and white against the rich blue of the heights were caught by the electrically-heated camera; and ■ all the while the heavy, steady droning of the planes, plowing ahead, chilled blood in already tense veins.
The Memphis Belle was only one .	plane of one squadron
of one group of one Y	wing of one air force,
/p p And she was filmed on <	/ only one raid of one
£ yZ day. But through her lone activities on that yVrjx/	single day, could be
I	seen the mighty job our
air forces do so valiantly, the terrific opposition they 'flaunt so cleverly, and the chances of injury and death they accept so readily. For its drama and action, for its beautiful, informative and accurate presentation of a simple, terrifying story, “Memphis Belle” is outstanding.—Seaman George Nesbit
.	LEAHY’LEAVES
(Continued from page 8) they were capable of assuming these responsibilities. Lieut. Leahy then applied the advice of Mr. Rockne to his young audience, urging them to keep in mind the day when they would be called upon to assume serious responsibilities, and so prepare themselves now by studies, hobbies and sports. He compared the nation to three teams: the soldiers in the field; the men at home on the production line; and the youth that tomorrow must take the place of the other two teams. “Be ready,” he said, “when you have to trot out onto the field. We of the first and second teams will cheer you on because we know that American youth cannot, and will not, be beat.”
charge of -this , entertainment, promises a spectacular extravaganza. The Committee is especially indebted to Chief Broderick for his generous cooperation in arranging details for the week-end.
Sunday afternoon the week-end will be brought to a close with the presentation of a tea dance at the Indiana club. This event will begin at 1400. and will feature George Finn’s Band.
This week-end will undoubtedly go down in naval history. The USS Notre Dame will certainly have considerable difficulty in excelling “Weekend Maneuvers,” as those of you who are planning to attend will soon discover.
—Bill Byingon
M M
►i M
M
N
M M M
M M
JOSIE and JIM'S
HJNNY ITALY
NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS
CAFE
PLACE
GREEN BANNER (Continued from page 17) lutely othing! (Incidentally, what is the present status of Frank Kent, this week?)
OUR COUNTRY COUSINS
It is just possible that a great many of our avid fans in the suburb to the
M M M M
M M M M ►
M H
SUNNY ITALY 601 N. NILES PHONE 3-0678
A TRADITION AT NOTRE
DAME
SERVICE MEN: Make This Your First Stop on That Night Off!
19
B.....>iniinm>unimiuiiii>n.ii..........	11 min.. .Q ;
I	Campus Centenary I ;
I Publications	I
= Notre Dame—100 Years$4.00 i <
j	Collected Poems of	j	*-
:	Charles L. O'Donnell_____$2.50 =
1	... at the Bookstore	|	=
B umimi...   ■ <■■<■■<»■ i.in.nmiimiig
DA BRAWL
Well, it won’t be long now, meaning, of course, the Week-end Maneuvers, which to be complete, lack only referees to count the “dead” which will litter the calisthenics field Monday morning at 0615. Right at present, however, with about seven hundred Seamen and Marines awaiting with itching feet the first toot of Mr. Wald’s ensemble, and a guy with five bucks to loan as scarce as a dance bid, things look very much alive indeed. As this College Weekly with the Largest Circulation in the World has just about reached the saturation point of dance info, we will refrain from adding our insignificant nickel’s worth, and will remain content with:
Characters whose poisinalities will soive ta brighten up da danze.
Bill Dennison: Here we have a selfmade dance expert, who has all the answers from “Where is the dance going to be held, in the drill hall or the main building?” to “do you have to tip the cigarette girls?”
Bill “Town pump” Lambeau: The entire third deck of Dillon awaits tensely for the arrival of Bill’s girl, with the odds being 2-1 she’s his sister.
Richard George Palla: There’s nothing like being 21 and able to make your own decisions, is there?
John Toole: In doing his part to help cement relations between. Poland and Ireland, John temporarily forgets St. Mary’s own Miss S-.
Jim Dougherty: In the process of keeping it all in the family, Jim is escorting Bill Dunn’s sister.
LETTER OF THE WEEK
Dear Mom :
Well Mom, heh, heh, how are you? Up here at Notre Dame everything is just finej especially since I finally got Lieut. Beatty to agree with me that I should stay another semester. However, there is one mouse in the spaghetti, as they say here, that sort of clouds things up, namely the revolution in El Salva
20
dor. It seems that as two of their Generals were escaping with some important papers, the Gestapo highjacked the papers and escaped to South Afghanistan, where the wild natives cut off their heads, put the papers in a bottle and floated the bottle down the Congo, where it was picked up by the British, who, as they were flying it to Chiang-Kai-Shek, crash-landed the plane, . killing many Tibetan children, -the poor (sob) little things. I know that you will be taken with pity at their plight and IMMEDIATELY SEND TEN DOLLARS (§10.00) BEFORE FRIDAY as that is the last possible date upon which money for this worthy collection will be accepted.	.
See you later, heh, heh, .
Augie.
HAYRIDE
We wish only to mention Peter “Unconscious” Lannon who attended said affair last week-end. Pete slept during the entire trip, awaking only long enough to eat. Funny thing, but we had , an entirely different conception of hayrides.
PEEKING FROM PASSAGEWAY
E. L. Molter neglecting his duties as proprietor of the 152 CLUB while trying to raise his average in Psychology.
J. Fischer practicing flank movements, with needed emphasis on more movements and less flank. . . .
D. W. Peek losing his hair faster than his buddies can borrow his cigarettes.
G. Terlep eating, of all-things, more raisins. ...
J. Murtaugh gazing sorrowfully at his three dirty hats. . . .
J. Ott reading Life of Lou Gehrig, before going out to play ball. ...
J. Lindsay mourning the fate that befell his favorite disease, chicken pox — it was a respectable disease before Pisa-rishi caught it. . . .	.
J. McCarthy smoking the huge gar-,
"Q. N,x
7 ml	VITAMINS
HIGH-POTENCY TABLETS
VITAMINS A-D-B^Bo (G)-C-Bc
E-Niacin-Calcium Pantothenate
As Dietary Supplement ONE TABLET A DAY Will Supply the Full Daily Minimum Adult Requirement of the Vitamins of Which the Requirements Are Established.
Each small Nine-Vitamin Tablet Contains—
AS MUCH “A”
as 4 Pints Whole Milk AS MUCH “D”
as 1 lb. of Butter AS MUCH “C”
as 2 ozs. Orange Juice AS MUCH “Bi”
as 35 ozs. Raw Cabbage AS MUCH “B2”
FOR ADULTS
OR CHILDREN
as 40 ozs. Raw Green Beans
AS MUCH “Be” as 30 Grs. Brewer’s Yeast AS MUCH NIACIN as V* lb. Lean Meat AS MUCH CALCIUM PANTOTHENATE as 150 Gms. Carrots
AS MUCH “E” as in 5 mgm. wheat germ oil
90 TABLETS SBs3.50
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE
at
A wide selection of
Glasses Correctly Fitted
Est,
1900
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
Desirable Gifts
on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
QiUiinHiiniiiiiiianiiiiiiiiiiiiiattiitiiitttttiiiutHiiiiiititiiHiinciiQ
bage burner pipe imported all the way - . , from the west side of the Bronx. . . .
J. P. Moran reading and re-reading the two letters he has received this semester.
’ * UNHAPPY THOUGHT
*	• Three more weeks before Finals begin.
HAPPY THOUGHT
Four more weeks till mid-term vaca? tions.
*	KNOW YOUR NAVY
(Continued from page 11) ‘ flag part way then hoist it again.
Ditty-bag—A bag used by bluejackets f for stowing small personal gear. f	Ditty-box—A small box for stowing
toilet articles, writing materials, etc.
Dog—A securing device for making q '- doors, hatches, and manholes water;	tight.	'
- Dog watch—One of the two-houi- watches . b - from 1600 to 2000; from 1600 to 1800 1	is the first dog watch, and from 1800
/ * to 2000, the second dog watch.
Dolphin—A cluster of piles situated either at the corner of a pier or out ’	in the stream and used for docking
and warping vessels.
i • Double bottoms—Water-tight subdivisions of a man-of-war next to the .	keel and between the outer bottom and
£ 1 inner bottom. '
e	Double up—To increase a vessel’s secur? ing lines. (See Single up)	■
f Drift lead—A lead of from 30 to 50 i	pounds dropped over the side when at
( ' anchor to warn that the ship is drag-। ging-	.
I	Dutch courage—Slang for false courage-
j	due to drinking.
; Ease off—To slack up.	'
Easy—Carefully.
i	Ensign—The national flag. A junior offi-
f	cer in the U. S. Navy,
j	•
i	Eyes—The foremost portion of the
weather deck in the bow of a ship. '
Fairway—An open channel.
Fantail—The part of the stern of a ves-!sel extending abaft the stern post. In 1 ’ light craft such as destroyers and . cruisers, the after section of the main deck.
►	Fathom—Six feet.
Fathometer—An electrical sound appa-•'>. ratus for measuring automatically the L depth' of the water. ' I'x	Fenders—Canvas, wood, or rope used
i a over the sides to protect a vessel from I	chafing when alongside another ship’
j *- • or dock.
j	Field day—A day for general ship clean- .
1 ; ing, usually held on Friday in prepa-
। ration for Saturday’s inspection.
❖ MEET THE CHIEF *
»*♦ «$»
By SEAMAN TOM PAYNE
Introducing Chief Specialist, (A) (P.A.), Donald Foster Blemker, athletic instructor in the V-12 Program at Notre Dame. Chief Blemker was born in 1919 at Huntingburg, Indiana. He attended the Huntingburg High School where he was active in baseball and basketball. In 1937 he was the high scorer on the basketball squad that went to the state, finals at Butler University. Chief Blemker played guard on the team. In high school the Chief received
letters in baseball and basketball. He graduated from high school in 1938 and started at Purdue University the same year. For two years at Purdue the Chief played basketball, and Purdue was the Big Ten Conference Title winner when the Chief played on the squad in his Sophomore year. At Purdue he majored in physical education' with a coaching job as his goal, but due to the emergency he was unable to finish his college course, lacking only seven months before graduating.
Chief Blemker was on his first assignment in the Navy on November 1, 1941, when he enlisted and was sent to the Physical Instructors School at Norfolk, Virginia. At Norfolk he was transferred to the Norfolk Naval Training Station basketball team on which he
SIX CONVENIENT CHICAGO STATIONS
The South Shore takes you direct to downtown Chicago. Six convenient stations — Kensington, 63rd St., 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
played in 1941 and 1942. The Norfolk service team played the nearby university teams including Virginia University and Roanoke College, and the team rolled up twenty-nine victories out of thirty-two games. After- playing on the service team at Norfolk, the Chief was transferred to the Midshipman School at Abbott Hall on the University of Northwestern campus, where he taught physical education for five months. After his tour of duty at Northwestern University he was then transferred to the Radio and Signal School at the University of Illinois. In June 1943 the Chief received his orders to report to the V-12 Unit at Notre Dame and he was one of the first Navy Physical Instructors assigned to the V-12 Program here.
Gaelic Letters Given N.D.
Two letters of Dr. Douglas Hyde, first president of Ireland, have been added to the University’s autograph collection. Partly in Gaelic, they were written to the donor, Rev. Hugh Gallagher, C. S. C., ’00, who, like Dr. Hyde, writes and speaks that language fluently. President Hyde once delivered a course of lectures here. His friendship with Father Gallagher began after Dr. Hyde spoke at the University in 1906.
j INTRODUCING |
I	By JIM REGAN	|
PliiiiimniiiiininnininmiiininiiiiiiitiiHimimiiHiHiHtiiinufil
This week “Introducing” presents two of the veteran members of the golf team which has emerged victorious three times this season in four starts.... They are Mel Wilke and Jim Besenfelder, both of whom turned in some fine scores this year and last for Rev. George L. Hol-derith, C.S.C., golf coach.
MEL WILKE
Mel Wilke, captain of this year’s golf squad, is in his senior year, first semester. ... He is a metallurgical engineering student.... Upon completion of his courses at Notre Dame, he plans to become a steel salesman.	-
Mel attended University of Detroit High school where he participated in several sports.... While in high school Mel was a member of the golf team, was a pitcher on the baseball team, and played at center in football. . . . Also in high school he was a member of the Adelphi Fraternity.
As a result of his fine performance on the links last season, Mel was named
captain of this year’s team. . . . His best $ competitive score this season so far is a "i 75 against Michigan.... Mel’s best score $ on the home course is a 70—shot in his freshman year.... Since that time he | says that he seems to be adding to his score each year.	J
Mel’s favorite food is roast beef but 9 to his regret the dining hall doesn’t serve this dish too often.... His favorite |-school subject is metallurgy, his major I subject.... Mel professes no true hobby (with the possible exception of women)..	?
However, from the way he has been en- ». joying his third putts this season, it is [ rumored that his favorite hobby is prac- f. tising these three putts in his spare time. 5
JIM BESENFELDER	,
A two-year veteran of the golf team | is Jim Besenfelder, V-12 trainee, of Spring Valley, Illinois.... Jim is now in his second semester in the College of Science after spending three semesters in f. the College of Commerce.... He expects that this will be his last semester here . and hopes to enter Midshipmen’s School * upon completion of same.	£
Jim attended Hall Township High ~ school where he was a member -of the £ football, basketball and golf teams.... Except for a year with the freshman 1 basketball team here, Jim has confined
Have a “Coke”= Kom Er Bij, Amice!
... or how to get on with a Dutch flyer Like the Join us, pal of the Dutch flyers training in the U. S., the Have a “Coke” of the American airman means Friendliness speaking. Just as it does in your home when offered from your own icebox. Across the Seven Seas, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that rtfresbes, —has become the favorite greeting of the open-hearted.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
“Coke” = Coca-Cola It’snaturalforpopularnames to acquire friendly abbreviations. That’s why you hear Coca-Cola called “Coke”.
the globjj
high- s in
22
j
' A
his athletic endeavors to golf.... Jim shoots consistent golf in the 70’s.... His best score thus far this year is a 74 at Detroit 2 weeks ago. . . . His best score on the William J. Burke Memorial Golf Course was a 70 shot last year.
He loves to follow all sports including baseball, football and golf among his particular favorites.... His favorite athlete is Cecil Isbell who performed notably on the gridiron with Purdue University and the Green Bay Packers.... He was nn the throwing end of many touchdowns scored by the famed Don Hutson. . . . He also likes to lie down and listen to records (when not sleeping) and Duke Ellington is his favorite in this field.
His favorite subject at UND is zoology which he is still taking.... After the war he plans to return to Notre Dame and receive his science degree and then enter some scientific field yet undecided upon.
MEMORIAL SERVICES (Continued from page 3) South Bend has reserved a section of seats for the Service men and their guests. The churches have sent out to each trainee a Bulletin describing the Services to be given on the morning of May 28 in commemoration of Memorial Day. Also included in this bulletin is to
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
*
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL : SUCCESS DEFEND ON E YOUTHFUL, VIGOROUS E APPEARANCE. LET OUR E
TRAINED GRADUATES £ EXAMINE YOUR HAIR j
AND SCALP.. . TREAT = THE REAL CAUSE OF = RECEDING HAIRLINE. = FREE EXAMINATION. E TREATMENTS SI. DO. E
Phone 4-1481 i
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP I
be found with each listed Church the address of its location and the time at which the Services will begin. A special invitation has been sent by the churches to guests to attend.
The celebrant of the Memorial Mass will be Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, and the master of ceremonies will be Rev. Joseph Powers, C.S.C. The Moreau Seminary choir will assist the ministers of the Mass. Special music within the Mass has been arranged by Father Carl Hager, C.S.C.
All units making up the parade will form shortly before 10 o’clock Sunday morning in front of the post office, the point from which the parade will begin, and march to the East Entrance of Sacred Heart Church. Heading each unit will be color guard and drum and bugle corps. During the Mass, in true military fashion, the drums will be muffled and the bugles flourished at the proper times. The parade and complementing ceremonies before the Mass will be so timed that the Mass proper will begin sharply at 10:15 o’clock.
Immediately following the Mass the various units will lay a wreath at the Memorial door. Following the laying of the wreaths, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president' of the University, will preside . over the commemorative services which will include a roll call of Notre Dame’s World War I dead.
. Captain J. Richard Barry, U.S.N., commandant of the Naval Training Station at Notre Dame, will be the speaker of the day.
As a final tribute to our heroes of all wars, the unit drum-and-bugle • corps will play “Taps,” and a platgon of seamen, marines, and NROTC’s will fire a 21-gun salute.—Clint Johnson
COLLEGE PARADE (Continued from page 2)
IT’S DEFINITELY A WOMAN'S WORLD
“Purdue Captain Jane,” a registered Holstein-Freisian cow in a Purdue University herd, recently exceeded the butterfat and milk production of the average dairy cow by three times.
SPRING FEVER
Underneath this pile of stones Lies all that’s left of Sally Jones.
Her name was Briggs, it was not Jones, But Jones was best to rhyme with stones.
FABIAN THE DEALER
Mechanical Prof: “Name a great time-saver.”
Fabe Jr.: “Love at first.sight.
LIFE'S LIKE DAT
“So yer finnaly hurd from dat coilitch boy who took yer out?”
“Yah. And he’s a real gent he is. He asked me if I got home from the dance awl right.”
ONE MAN TELLS ANOTHER
Alumnus—“Why, I’m sorry to hear that. How did Zadravetz die?”
Active—“He fell through some scaffolding.”
Alumnus—“What was he doing up there?”
Active—“Being hanged.”
N. D. Men With Red Cross
Charles P. Howard, former South Bend resident and graduate of Notre Dame,' is now with the Red Cross in England, as assistant field director, officials of the University have just been advised. Prior to his entrance into’ Red Cross work, Mr. Howard was district supervisor of the farm security administration, department of agriculture, at West Lafayette, Indiana.
Another Notre Dame graduate, Paul N. Janson, from Cincinnati, is with the Red Cross in New Guinea.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jawa
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend. Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Shetland Building
L. E. Fisher. M.D.	M. J- Thornton. M.D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 Shetland Bldg.	South Bend. Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS 406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
23
MEAN
THESE
ANOTHER
BUY
^Chesterfield
<
9
■ 1


Hop in sailor...
have a Chesterfield

IT MEANS A LOT when a cigarette gives you the genuine satisfaction you get from Chesterfield.
It MEANS that Chesterfield, more than any other cigarette, gives you the things that count... real Mildness, Better Taste and a Cooler Smoke.
The reason is Chesterfield's 5 Key-words [
RIGHT COMBINATION WORLD’S BEST TOBACCOS



> ..
j : 4
Copyright 1944. Liggett & Mvtxs Toi»a<xo Co.