


n this season of caffeine, insomnia, fear and loathing one comes to the inevitable conclusion that Notre Dame's exam format is not condu­cive to optimum academic performance. On this academic sloths, diligent students and all those somewhere in between will agree. 
To students endeavoring to churn out late semester papers and catch up on neglected work, reviewing an entire semester is a terrifying pros­pect. Consider this: Notre Dame students will have their last class on Fri­day, December 13 and are expected to be prepared for exams on Mon­day, December 16. After the weekend of the fifteenth, five days of unmi­tigated academic grindstoning follow. In the past, students have had a study day in addition to a weekend. Current students also need more time to prepare for exams. 
Notre Dame prides itself on its academic rigor, yet rushes through exams while weighting them heavily in the compilation of final grades. The exam formats at some universities allot from a few days to a week for exam preparation. Notre Dame's present format, however, condenses too many exams together and allows an inadequate amount of time for substantive preparation. The preparation period for exams should be a time to unify and reflect upon a whole semester's worth of material. 
The present exam policy, by failing to allow students adequate preparation time, compels many to regurgitate material when they might have easily assimilated it --if they had the time. Exams should undoubt­edly be challenging. But learning should not be overshadowed by an ill­conceived exam schedule. 
If the current structure is to be re-evaluated · and eventually changed, then students and their leaders must take the initiative. Alterna­tives could include the addition of one or two study days or even alter­nating exam and study days. In each case, the student would have more of an opportunity to substantively integrate a semester's worth of material. Odds are, given . a little more time, students will learn more. And that is why we are here in the first place. 
-SCHOLASTIC 
-------------contents------------­
December 11, 1985 

SCHOLASTIC 
Volume 127, Number 6 

Editor-in-Chief James F. Basile 
General Manager Maher A. Mouasher 
Design Editor Peter D. Wowkowych 
Managing Editor Matthew H. Bradley 

Marketing 
Pete Cespedes/ Advertising Michael Setzer /Circulation 

Editorial 
Barb Blanchette/Saint Mary's John Dettling/Sports Mary Dolan/Departments Mary Hartney/Student Life Mike Hoffman/Nat. Affairs Jennifer Niederst/ Art Jean O'Bryan/N otre Dame 

Design 
Nick Antonakis/ Art Tim Arnold/Layout Steve Blaha/Photography John Gibbs/Cartoonist Alfredo Marr /Layout Reem Mouasher /Cartoonist Maria Murphy/ Art 
The . opinions expressed · in SCHOLASTIC are 
those of the authors and editors of SCHOLASTIC 
a~d do not neceBBarlly represent the oplnions of 
the entire editorial poard of SCHOLASTIC ;or the 
University of Notre Dame, its administration, 
faculty, or student body. Editorials, unleBB other­
wise indicated, represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editorial board. 
SCHOLASTIC is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertising, Inc, Published bi-weekiy during the.school year except .during vacation and examination periods, SCHO­LASTIC is printed at The Papers Inc. Milford; IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75 a year and back issues are .available from SCHOLASTIC. 
Please addreBB all manuscripts to SCHOLASTIC, 
Notre Dame, IN 46556. All unsolicited material 
becomes the property of Sc'HOLASTIC. Copy:. · 
right © 1985 .SCHOLASTIC. All rights reserved.· 
None of'the contents may be reproduced without 
permiBBion. 



FEATURES 
2/Driving in the Dark 
by John Affleck 

5/T'was the Night Before Finals 
by Mary Hess 


6/Gifts Guaranteed to Get You in the Spirit 
by Mary Dolan 


8/Passing Out the Gifts 
by Santa's Elves 

13/A Christmas List 
by Pam Demers 

16/When Digger Talks ... 
by Ian Larkin 


19/Mexico Struggles for StabHity 
by Rosabelle White 

21/Two Fall Mornings 
by John F,. Gibbon 

25/Interdepartmental Cooperation Saves the Day 
by Margaret Payne 

27/Peace on Earth and Goodwill to Men 
by Greta Roemer and Beth Rooney 


DEPARTMENTS 
4/On Other. Campuses 
by Paul Aiello 


10/Fiction: Christmas Brings it Back 
by John Huebl 


14/Music: Christmas Caroling 
by Rachel Nigro 

15/Coming Distractions 
Compiled by Karen Dettling 

18/Computer Corner 
by Louis Fuka 


29/The Aisle Seat 
by Theodore E. Mandell 

31/Final Word 

----------------------------------------=--­


TIhere's something a little strange_ about the dental hygienist from Mishaw.aka in· the back seat. by John Affleck . 
. When Rick pulls his cab up to her 
.. duplex, . she . fumbles for . the money to pay him, then snatches the change out of his hand. A man she says is her brother 
from 6 p.rn. to 5 or 6 a.m. every · . Thinking· back on· his Viet­almost smashes his truck into the night for the past 43 weeks, . His nam experience, Rick has afront of the cab as he backs 01,1t goal is to work a year straight. · strong· sense ·of. disillusionment, ifinto the street. Rick tells her to .not distrust, with regard to thetake care and . she says, "Yeah, "The· reason I work continu-. 
hard drug scene and to America.

heh-heh, it's a wonderful life." ally is I don't J1ke· to socialize in . "Heroine, cocaine and amphetam­
my society that much. I think it's
"What a spastic," Rick says . 

: ines? They . can take them and
boring and . mundane and I'm
as he tries to pull the cab. away . :·. cast them· off the earth. Mari ju­
pretty much · of a recluse/' : he 
from the house and "the brother" · . ·ana? I still indulge· iri marijuana
· says. "When I'm off work I drink .
cuts him off. "I don't. know what · and I. love marijuana, I think it's
my beer and read my literature."
her deal is, but we're gettin' · the :-~p.. alternative to alcohol. I don't
An avid reader, Rick tells of liis ·
hell out of here." . · think hemp hurts you iike alcohol. 
tastes in literature: "National Geo-· 
I me_an you can abuse anything.

Rick relax:(?S as he heads the · graphic, novels, and I read some cab toward the airport, taking a . books on Vietnam, but I've had You·.can abuse_ water probably if 
. · y~u drink enough. But hemp isn't cigarette out of his leather jacket · my fiil or' them." · as easily· abused as alcohol," heand lighting up. His 38 year-old Vietnam ·is an important rea­sa:ys,figure strikes one as that of a 
son Rick le~ds his reclusive lifes­
rebel from a· Jack Nicholson 
tyle. In · 1965 he joined the
movie. He is dressed in · running Marines aiici saw two tours.. of . On America and. Vietnam: "I .
shoes, jeans, · a red T-shirt ,and combat duty, from 1966-67 · and . . have a feeling that my ·youth wasjacket --comfortable, but neat. 
1970-71, before his discharge in wasted, That we were lied to ... IHis thinning blonde hair is pulled · April of '71. As a crew member . · feel bitter toward the governmentback into a longish ponytail. . 
of a PC-131 Hercules, a b:ulky . . because I don't feel the govern­
"I like the freedom of being cargo plane that brought troops· . . . ·nient. ·and _the American people my own boss," he says of being a and supplies to the front lines, learned anything from Viet_nam. cab driver, an occupation he·took Rick spent an average of seven to They're getting ready to . repeat up ten years and two months ago. ten hours a day in the air and-was the same mistak~ iri other parts of "I like the freedom of not having involved. in . combat situations the world. For example, El Salva.­
a foreman looking . over my many times. dor." Though he "accepts" the recent outpouring of sympathy for 
shoulder." He added some com­In off-duty hours, the · Vi~tnam vets, Rick notes "...
ments on the job, "Sometimes I dislike the · way a cabdriver is Marines at Rick's air base in many of these people are the ones viewed. People get into my cab Danang spent much of the time who wanted . to spit in · our faces with the attitude that a cab driver indulging in one of two vices; twelve -years ago." · is a neanderthal, that he· doesn't drugs or alcohol. "There were · have as much brains as they do. two groups; those that got stoned The ignorance to the realities But they're a small percentage. By and those that didn't. They were of. war Rick perceives in 'the 
and large people are friendly and known as juicers," Rick says.· American people, in. part,I try to · start the conversation on '·'There was a lot of drug use, accounts for his lack of desire to· which I was part of, out of bore-·
· the right foot." -spend a · great · deal of time . social­
dom and peer pressure · amongst 
izing. "I also . s~e our society as · . Rick · gets plenty of practice 

ourselves, I suppose. We're talk­
· becoming more unstable,· mentally chatting with his customers in. the ing amphetamines, marijuana and . 

unstable," he says. :taxi ··he leases from Yellow Cabs 

heroine. Especially· in 1971; when ·. in South Bend. He has worked. 
there was a lot of pessimism arid· :After the w.~r, Rick w~s -~r­
anti-war sentiment amongst the ri~d. in 1973, then divorcect: in The people in this story are ·real. Marines there ·was ·alot of-drug -1975. It was shortly after his T11e names have been changed at use. It was tolerated by our supe­divorce that he became a · cab the request of the cab driver. riors;" driver because he · needed 
z 
. SCHOLASTIC 


~ ~ v00 ~ ~ro~ mA SOUTH BEND CABBIE'S STORY 

"immediate · employment." · For Rick, it is a good way to maintain contact with individuals, yet maintain. the detachment from society as a whole which · he 
. desires. He has several customers who call on him frequently. "I like people . who are intelligent and are good tippers," he says, after a brief stop at McDonald's. "Notre Dame students are among my favorite customers because I like to watch the way they relate to each other. There are two or three regulars who call on me every week, and there are others. There's a gay guy whose ride always -costs about $2.70 and he pays me $4. His name's Gary, he's a good man. He owns his own hair salon." 
Besides routine runs and cus­tomers~ Rick's job is kept interesting through some of the 
11 DECEMBER 1985 
put-of-the-ordinary . occurrences he encounters. He has given rides to famous people, such as sports announcer Dick Enberg, and · has had women try to pick him up, · though "if you want to continue making money it's best to let them go their own way...", and has been robbed twice. 
"I picked a gentleman up at 10 o'clock at night in front of St Joe Hospital and he had a full­length trenchcoat on. I took him to the corner of Broadway and St. Joe and when .I turned around to_ collect my money,. there was a sawed-off shotgun pointed at my face," Rick recalled. "He told me· to put my forehead on the steer­ing wheel . and give him all _my money or he would blow my head off. I had $10 in my shirt pocket and $85 in my sock and he got the $10. The police never-found him, but I was thankful just . to 
have kept my life." 
As the cab approaches its final destination on the near north side, Rick is happy to talk Notre Dame football, which he follows closely along with . Indiana University basketball, and to recommend a few good late night eating places where he takes his two breaks during a shift. He says The -White Horse, on the corner of Mishawaka and Twyckenham, has the best coffee and bacon and eggs. 
As Rick pulls over to the curb to drop · me off, he . looks pretty content. Despite his wide variety of uncommon and not always pleasant life experiences, Rick seems satisfied.. "I'm not crazy,"· he says. "No more; crazy than the average person is today."• 
s 



-----------on other CtellJtn]PUSC§___________, 
Compiled by Paul Aiello 





ghosts at MSU 
time."  ·  
·  ··  ·  ·  ·  ·  
Orientation  for  the. · 1800  



. Some people believe in &hosts; students in a Michigan State University dorm believe in them because they "live" with one. A good number of sixth floor . 
residents of Holmes Hall claim to have seen the ghost of a stude~t who lived on the sixth floor and c·ommitted suicide in 1980. 
· According to eyewitnesses the ghost recently ·stole a keg of beer from a floor party and . disap­peared when chased. Similarly, the residents claim that whenever a new RA is assigned on the sixth floor, he or she is haunted by the ghost of the MSU woman who slashed her wrists, . changed· · her mind about suicide and sought help from her RA, but . died shortly after reaching .. the RA;s room. 
The lives of black student leaders at the University of Texas have been in danger for a year. An unknown group has been threatening the leader:s' lives with calls and letters to the student newspaper. UT police and administration say an "in depth . investigation" is in progress. 
. 
· 

. According to Sylvia Kenig, October 7, 1985 the Cor­. professor" ofsociology at Clemson poration of Columbia University University~ "studies over the last announced its recommendation fifteen years concerning sexual for full divestment of its interests harassment on campuses tends to , :t11 .South African firms, all $41 . show that the percentage of · ·. 'million •· dollars .worth. The women students reporting at least · · Columbia students responsible for one incident of sexual harassment bringing .. attention to this issue ranges ·from 22 to 3 7 percent." worked · for five years before 
adopting a confrontational . approach including a hunger· strike, blockade of a universityThe Chancellor's signature 

..hall and a graduation walk-out. 
is all that is needed for the 

· University of Maryland to imple-. Georgetown University has 'ment .. one of the most drastic .... recently announced its plan to 
smoking policies of any college campus. The policy wOuld ban smoking in lecture: halls, in class­rooms, libraries, hallways, .a third of the campus's dining halls and lounges and any office in which 
any non-smoker objects to smok­ing. 
"A state of excitement'; is the . theme for • Nebraska Residence . Hall Month which began November L About 12,500 students from private and public learning . institutions . across Nebraska are involved in the pro­ject participatirig . _in various 
campus events; · divest its $9 million if those com:;. panies which they have· invested in do not adopt the Sullivan Prin­ciples "in·a reasonable :·period of 
freshman at SMU · includes an 
. 
issue-oriented program · to . help students become . aware of the social .. and political. issues·· of the day. .Problems of the · Third world, inu:nigration and the changing family structure are con­sidered in small group discussions which also helps nervous fresh­men get· acquainted with one another. The theme this fall was Coming of Age:. Then · -Now "' Elsewhere. • 

4 
T'WAS THE WEEK BEFORE 
by Christine Cagney 


FINALS 



as the week before finals and all thro:ugh the dorms Not a person was stirring, all eyes on class norms.. The Seniors had left, grades no longer a care, Their grades good enough, oi: not worth a prayer. The freshmen were cramming, and so were pre-meds, With visions of pink-slips still fresh· in their heads. And I in my single · at work all alone, Had given up trying and started to zone. When out on the Quad there arose such a clatter, J sprang from my desk to see what was the matter Away to the window flew me, your narrator, And burned my left arm ·· on the damn radiator. The light of the dome, on the now frozen sod, Gave the luster of mid~day to the whole of North Quad. 
But a little old priest-­with a cold keg of beer. With a crewcut that bristled on top of his head, I knew in a moment .. he must be Prez Ted. More rapid than Pinkett his cohorts they came, And he whistled, and shouted, and called them by name: . "Now, Tyson! now, Heppen! now, Beauchamp, Miceli! On Lardner! on Gorski! . 
··and you, Cafarelli! . To Farley Hall first! · and next to B.P.! · 
And don't forget Grace! and Flanner! and P .E.! As leaves that before the wild hurricane scurry, · The fathers all flew to the dorms in a hurry. From all of the rooms they grab bed each of us, (Two freshmen were mashing, it caused quite a fuss.) But then in a twinkling, with riary a sound, 
We took them, but stood there, each glued to her spot, All wondering if later for this we'd be caught. "It's all right!" shouted Tyson, "for Ted said it's cool, It's Christmas, you know, so to hell with the rule." A wink of Ted's eye and a nod of his head, Soon gave us to know we had nothing to dread. He spoke not a word, but went straight to his work, And filled all the glasses, then turned with a jerk.· And raising his glass, the right jolly old host, proceeded delivering a Notre Dame toast He drank his draught dry, his hands 'round the mug, Then told all the students to go on and chug. But we set our cups down, said, "Shame, shame on you. Come on Father Ted, we've studies to do." 
. When what to my wond'ring They pulled out some glasses ...·. Then,.,we heard him exclaim, eyes did appear · . "Oh you're alljust no fun!
and passed them aro~nd. 

Good Lord, Father Beauchamp, tell me what have we done?" • 
11 DECEMBER 1986 



GIFTS GUARANTEED 
TO GET YOU IN THE SPIRIT 
SHOPP.ING ALTERNATIVES TO THE B_OOKSTORE ··& U.P. MALL 

the sad thing about college is that Christmas approaches at the same time finals do. Although one can try to create the Christmas spirit in college, it m:ust be done while studying for four exams and writing three papers. . Even more frustrating is that once finals are over, one makes a long trek home, gets to collapse for two days only to wake up and realize that there are just two more shopping days until Christmas. 
Many students solve this problem by raiding the bookstore and . outfitting thdr entire family from the Notre Dame clothing catalogue. If that option was exer,;, cised last year, South Bend offers an interesting alternative to N.D. sweatshirts and the limited selec­tion found in University Park Mall. Namely, the Thieves Market Mall and the Calico Garden. 
The Thieves Market Mall, , 2309 E. Edison at Ironwood, is open only from IO a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays but is well worth a visit. Thirty three dealers offer their gift-oriented collectibles in t4is antique market. 
Toys in the Attic offers a wide range· of collectibles: wooden toys, dolls and bears. The shop carries Lenox china dolls, portrait dolls and the . Faith Wick Sylvestri collection. Many exquisite imported items and finely detailed dolls .and tin toys line the shelves of this fine shop. If you are looking for a spe-­cial gift for your .. parents or grandparents, you can find some items in the $20 range but most run higher. A delicate antique chinese doll sells for $100. Treat yourself to a spin through this shop. You will be cheered by its images of an old­fashioned Christmas. 
A fun place for creative peo­ple and those with · a flair for fashion is Golden Key · Antiques with its vintage costume jewelry. Antique earrings, long beads, silver brooches and clasps cover a table o:ri which nothing costs more than a dollar. The elbow length . white gloves you've always wanted· are found here for $2. A little black _lace dress is a find at $23. The clothing is in good condition and well worth the visit for a fun piece to wear to holiday parties or a present for a friend: · 
by Mary Dolan 

Alleans Collectibles carries a large collection of figurines. Wide­eyed, pale, baby-faced characters sell under the Precious Moments label for $7 and up. If Cabbage Patch dolls are a favorite in your family, Alleans sells Cabbage Patch figurines for $7. At the other· end of the spectrum, Hummel charac:. ters sell for $45 and up. 
Imaginative Christmas ideas are inspired at Barbara's Antiques. With your own creativity or a chat with the .owner, you can find some­thing here for young and old .. Lace doilies, selling for $4, can be thrown on pillows, used to make ascots, or used as nosegays. · Grandma can use them to cover coffee tables or place un4er lamps. Full-length white linen tablecloths range from $18-150. 
Candlestick holders are the hottest seller at the Brass Shop. Again the price range is extreme; from _$5-150. Gleaming solid brass candlestick holders would look
. . . . 

elegant on any holiday table. 
SCHOLASTIC 


Marsha's Fine Jewelry offers . Sets of collectors cards ·are some unusual · pieces for either a sold at Parker's ·. Hobby Shop. girlfriend-or a sister. Gold-filled Scenes and figures from · Dallas, bangles sell at about $30. Beautiful Charlie's Angels, and ·. M"A *S*H 
''A · fun place for creative 
green tiger's eye earrings sell for will entertain the: television Jan for $25. Some bolder pieces are found $5-7 dollars. This is the place to people and those with a among their costume jewelry and shop for stamps,· coins and unusual flair for fashion is Gol­estate pieces. · post cards. Old campaign buttons 
den · Key · Antiques ·_ with 
are also available. · 
its vintage clothing and 
, , Ail other , place , , to explor~. is 
costume jewelry."
the Calico Garden in 100 <::enter.
"IT Laura Ashley lived in 
This shop offers a wide· assortment South Bend,_ she would of small, hand~crafted. items. ·_ The store is overflowing · with baskets,
decor~te her house with 
candles, sachets, .· potpourri, silk
items· from ·the Calico 
flo~ers and delicately painted
Garden." · · woodwork. If Laura Ashley lived Religious and .. secular ornaments abound. Even holiday magnets can
in· South Bend, she would decorat~ 
be found tor only $1.25. The shop
her. house with items from the Cal~ 
Dazzlers Unique certainly ao ico Garden. Boxes are covered in looks and smells good, and is really worth the visit. 
dusty rose floral print material sel~
dazzle. Worth a visit and the buy if you can afford these unique paper­ling for $12.50. The same hem is These are just a few alterna­found in powder blue, . harvest
weights, some of which sell for ' tives to help you get started. Each $200. A black and white swirl orange or .. choco\ate . brown. A . blue of the shops· mentioned is fun. to drummer boy· hand~painted on a
paperweight sells for a more rea­browse through even if funds are little box is great for storing small
sonable $50 · which· is about the low at the end of the semester. items --a real bargain for only $18. 
lowest price found. Very unusual ' , . The owners of each store are very blown glass Christmas ornaments helpful and you· might gather some
Christmas · · items are , sold are sold for $16. Striped and · color.; unusual gift ideas. At the very least, 
upstairs. Christmas cookie cutters ful, these vibrant ornaments would you might find yourself more in the 
are a favorite stocking stuffer with please any Christmas lover; ·Christmas spirit.•· 
prices ranging from $.55 to $3.75. 
11 DECEMBER 1985 




r--------------fnction 
Bright morning sunlight streamed through the window and fell upon the old man sitting slumped forward at the kitchen table. His quiet snoring filled· the peaceful room. A box of cereal, a carton ·of milk, an empty bowl, and an opened newspaper sat on the table before him. The light revealed his weather-beaten, wrinkled face and hands arid the slightly off-color patches on his shabby clothes. 
His son entered the room and smiled when he saw his father sleeping. He cleared the table, ·. and as he turned on. the faucet to wash . the dishes his father's eyes slowly opened and he pulled himself up straight. 
"Morning Pop!" Sean called cheerfully over his shoulder. "Merry Christmas, again." The old man seemed confused for a moinent, then his face broadened into a big smile. 
"Morning sonny." 

"It's beautiful outside," Sean said. 
"Is it?" 

"Yes.'' Scan finished washing the .. dishes and stacked them in the cupboard; · 
"Did you just get up?" the old man asked. 
"No, I've been up for a while, Pop." 
"Have you?" 
"Yes." 

"Did you have any break­fast?" 

by John Huebl 

"Yes, you and I ate together "It's a beautiful. day, so this morning." thought we could walk it. I'll run up and get your brace." 
"We did?" ... Sean left the kitchen and 
i'Yes." . Scan patted . his jogged up the stairs to his father's father's shoulder. "But • I went room, and then returned · down­back to bed, and it looks like you stairs where he found his father 

caught a few extra wirtks your­making his way across the livingself." 
room. "I did?" 
"Are you going out, Sonny?" Sean laughed. "Yes." the old man asked; The old man knit his brows. 
"I sure am," Sean replied.

"Sonny--'' 
"And so are you.'' Sean sat at the table , and 
~•1 am?" 

picked up the sports page. The old man focused on the section he "Yes, .Pop, ·I just. told you. 
.had been' reading before he fell We're going to ·the Christmas 
asleep. They read in silence for a party: It's anice day, so I thought 
few min~tes. Then the old man we'd · walk.'' Sean motioned him 
shook his head and mumbled ·over ·. to the couch and sat him 
something. . down. · He rolled up his father's trousers· and began working to
"What is it, Pop?" Sean asked strap the brace to his father's

him. . 
bare, white leg. When he reached "Oh, the' world. is a mess," the last strap, he noticed a sore on lamented the old man. his father's calf. "Pop, how long 
have you had this sore?" 
"Oh really," said Sean, . . amused. The old man did not answer right away. "Oh...I don't know,"
"That's right. And fresident he said finally, after thinking itTruman doesn't know a damn 

over.
thing to do about it." "Does it hurt?" 
Sean laughed. "It's Reagan, pop.'' "Well, maybe a little.'' 
"Huh?" Sean examined · the · sore. Apparently the .brace had been
Sean got up from the table. 

rubbing him. Sean sighed wearily. 
"Tell you what. There's a party at "Okay, wait here a minute; I'll bethe nursing home ·today, Pop. I right back.'' Sean ran upstairs andthought .we would go over there grabbed a bottle of disinfectarita_nd see some of your ciJd friend~, and some bandages from theDoes that sound good?" 
medicine cabinet. He went back "Oh, sure," said the old man,. downstairs, through the living although he looked uncertain. · ·room (stopping fo answer a few of 
SCHOLASTIC 





BRIHG3 IT BA(~l-< 
his father's questions) and then down into the basement, where .he unzipped his hockey bag and pulled out a shinguard. He pulled back athin canvas flap, revealing a large square of foam padding. "There's got to be some way of detaching this," he said to him­self. The padding, however, was not removable. Scan shrugged. "Oh . well." He yanked the pad­ding from the hard outer plastic, causing it to tear at two corners. Two small metal screws fell to the floor. 
Back upstairs, Sean cleaned his father's sore and Utted the 
. padding between the leg and . the straps. "Okay, I think we're· set," Scan said, helping his father :up. Sean started up the stairs to put 
· the bandages away. "Why .• don't you get your coat, dad?" Sean hollered from above. The. old man walked slowly to the living room closet and retrieved an old, worn, blue· canvas jacket He put it on and fumbled with the zipper. Scan bounded down the stairs. 
"Wouldn.'t you like to wear your new jacket?" Sean asked'. 
"New jacket?" 

"Kevin gave. you a new jacket last night." 
"Kevin?".. 

Sean lowered his eyes and paused uneasily. "You know, Kevin," he said. "My brother." 
The old . man suddenly remembered and laughed awk­wardly at · himself, shaking his head despondently and staring down at his hands.. "Oh, what's the matter with me? Of course, of 
course." 
Sean reached into the closet and brought out the new jacket, but the old man just shook his head. "No, no, this is fine." 
Sean rolled his eyes in exasperation, but decided not to argue. He grabbed his own jacket and put it on. Before they left, he put a few slices of bread into a plastic bag ·and stuck the bag in his pocket. "We can ·stop at the park along· the way and feed the ducks," he suggested to his father. 
The old man smiled and nod­ded. "Good, sonny. That's good." 
.· They left the house and started off down the block. It was an exceptionally warm Christmas --almost fifty degrees. There was snow on the ground which was quickly melting in the warm sun. 
"Do you have to work today?" asked the old man. 
"No, Pop. I'm off." 
''Oh, is it Saturday" 

"No, it's Tuesday, but I get Christmas off." 
"Christmas! Is it --Oh, yes." The old nian laughed. "I'm afraid I'm becoming forgetful." 
. "Ah well, you do okay, Pop," . said Sean. They were walking slowly. The old man · favored his right leg just a little. 
"Did you say we were going to the cleaners?" the old man asked. 
"No, Pop, we're going to the nursing home." 
"Oh. Did you say we were going to a park?" 
"Yes." 
"Is it close?" 

"Yes. You used to take. me there when I was small. Me and ·all the other kids." 
"I did?" 

"Yes;" Sean eyes seemed to look far. ahead of him· now, · remembering. "You taught us .all to skate there." 
"I did?" 

"Yes."· Sean paused. "Remember we were all talking about it last night." · 
"Huh?" 
"Remember last night?" . 

The old man stared hard at the sidewalk, his ·eyes narrowed in concentration. He shook his head sadly. "Last night...?''. 
"Everyone came over, Pop. Danny, Kevin, Ann, Mary, Erin, and Kate, and their families; And all of your kids remembered the times we had growing up --espe­cially the times around Christmas, when the whole family would skate and play hockey at the park on Christmas Eve and then come back to the house and then open the presents ·and then go to mass. It was the happiest time of the year." 
The old man laughed and smiled. "It was a happy time." 
"Yes, it was," Sean said. 

They reached the "park and sat down together on a bench 
11 DECEMBER 1985 
near the water. There was snow covering the grass right down to the water's edge, but the pond itself was free from ice and snow. Ducks gathered around, and Sean and his father tossed bits of bread to them. When the old man had used up his first piece of bread, Sean handed him another. 
"Thank you, Pat," said the old man. 
Sean froze for an instant and then looked slowly over at his father. Sean's eyes were serious and alarmed .and they searched his · father's face ·· for ·some 
recognition . of the . error. This 
hadn't happened before. But 
probably, it was just aslip. 
"Dad," asked Sean, "why did you name me Pat?" 
His father looked at him fondly. "I named yoti after my brother, Pat. And my father;" The old man's voice quivered unsteadily · as he spoke; "You deserve the name. You're a fine man." It looked as though the old . man might cry. He often became suddenly emotional and tearful. 
Sean jumped up. "Excuse 

me, Pop. Stay right here. I'll be right .back." Sean. strode quickly over to a warming house thirty yards away and walked around behind it. He pressed himself against the wall and gritted his teeth. "I'm not Pat!!" he shouted, . but not loud enough for his father to hear. Sean turned around and leaned with his back against the wall. He covered his face with his 
hands and closed his eyes. 
Why am I stuck with this old mind­less relic? You're senile. You're hopeless and pathetic. What's the use. I ought to stick you in the damn nursing home! 
Sean stood ·· against the wall 

for a long time. The snow on the roof was melting, sending a con­tinuous cascade of drops from the roof to the cement walkway below. Sean watched absent mindedly as one particular column ofdrop fell repeatedly on the toe of his right shoe and exploded. 
After a while he thought he heard his father calling, so he turned the corner of the building to check on him. His father had left the bench and was walking slowly to his left, looking all around. It was obvious that he didn't know. where .he was, or how he'd gotten there. A look of panic was building in the old man's face. ."Danny?" he cried out. He stopped and looked back at the bench. "Kevin?" · 
Scan watched him, and ~uddenly! He was five. It was Christmas Eve. He was in the city. He was with his father. There were people everywhere. It was a fair. They went to a store. His father knew the man. He got a package and left. "Hold on to my hand." Sean reached up and grabbed it. They were walking. There was music and people. He saw cotton candy. He ran to. it. . He wanted some. People every­where. Now where was he? He turned and looked.. Nowhere was father. He looked around. He couldn't see him. He was lost. Dad! Dad! He was gone;· Where should he go? Completely lost He stood and waited. Father 
· would find him. He kept looking. 
Kept looking. Strangers! .··Big · strangers! He was afraid. People kept moving. He'd lost his father! He'd never. find home! He started .. to cry. He started to run. 
Then there was a strong 

. hand on his shoulder, and he 
· turned around and saw his father, and his father said,"Now you won't be lettin' go of my hand again, will you?" Then his father bought him some cotton candy and took him home and gave him his present early --before they 
went to the park --a new pair of skates. 
Sean stood looking at his father now, who started in one direction then another, disoriented, lost, and confused, "You never lost sight of me for an instant, did you, Pop?" Sean said softly. Sean ran down the small hill toward his father. "Dad!'' he cried out, embracing the old man. 
The panic disappeared. and a smile returned· to the old man's face.. "!...forgot," he started to say. 
"Never mind, so did I;" said Sean. "Come on, we're going to a party:" 
"A party?" 

"Yes. We're going to see some old friends of yours --Norb and Herman and some other guys you used to work with." 
"Norb?" he said. 

"Yes, N orb and some others. You'll know them when you see them.;' They started walking. 
"I wiil?" asked the old man. 

"Yes!" said Sean, grabbing his father around the shoulders and hugging him again.. He felt the old man start· to lose. his bal­ance and he steadied him. "Yes, you will! You will. You will."• 
Help Wanted.:o 
TYPISTS-$500 weekly at home ! Write: PO Box 975, Elizabeth, NJ 
07207 
. SCHOLASTIC 


by Pam Demers 

. WHEN YOU CARE TO SEND THE VERY BEST 
The Mall is packed with frantic, serious-minded shoppers; TV commercials promise the "perfect" gift and students, still buried under It -can -wait pro­jects must surface to do battle with the Midwest Cold, and Indiana's 6-cent sales· tax. Yes, it's near Christmas in South Bend,· Indiana:· and no matter where you're from, you're far from home. 
Most of us · are counting · more than the days, namely the. pennies left in our checking accounts vs. the names on our gift lists. People. like Mom, Dad, and Junior :can tolerate more ND or SMC sweatgear, , and coff ce cups, but have you.:; ever con­sidered what you'd b.uy for those on your hate list? 
Sit back and have a sinfully enjoyable experience. 
Professor Professor, myopic-sighted, and . inyopic­minded, who heads up your eight o'clock Philosophy of Peace sem­inar deserves a few tickets for Rambo II --Maybe he'll sec things the American way and can­cel his course. 
. . Chris Volume who lives in the next section, but who you could just swear lives next door has earned. a golden muzzle, com­plete with a holiday pack of oats from Roseland Pets-arc-Us. 
Longdistancc Larry from Boise, Idaho, who calls to talk at 3 am every weekend --you must. remember .him in your gift-giving 
spree. Perhaps a year's worth of 
wake-up calls from your 
computer's new dialing capability 
program. 100:A Hold the line for 
22 seconds, 06:00 am. Goto · 100:A. ** Ha.Ha 
Uncle Geoffrey-the mysterv 

relative. Every year, birthdays, 
holidays, and Christmas --a red­
tinned fruitcake. Send him a 
fruitcake, maybe even use the one 
he sent you last Easter, but inter­
change the To and From labels so 
it goes to him not you. 
Sending presents to the people on your grey-list is actu­ally a very.· generous gesture. It took . time and energy to get that special something, that they · deep-down deserved. Christmas is a time for giving a little heart, so 
why not give a little heat? • 


cartoon 

Letters 

The Scholastic accepts letters from any interested· reader. Please address all correspondence · to: Letters, Scholastic Magazine, 
3rd Floor, LaFortune Student 
Center, · Notre Dame, IN, 46556. 
Scholastic reserves the right to edit for clarity and space. 
. 

SWOl{N nll\T L.IC,llT J'IJ5i W/IIIU,() AT ME 
.-------~-----------ltllU§Il.C ----------------, 


by Rachel Nigro 

· BEATING THE HOLIDAY BLUES. 
For years, my personal beginning to the Christmas season has always been on whatever date they first sing "O Come, 0 Come Emmanuel" at mass, That . carol, for ine~ was a signal for the bright fights, silver ornaments, and good cheer soon to come. 
Once I began college, how­ever, that Christmas spirit was horrendously precluded by the most dreaded of all college tradi­tions, final exams. Yet, after nearly forgetting about. Christmas as I panicked my. way through my first finals of freshman year, I decided that would happen no more. Christmas should be enjoyed --and that means the entire season. 
Believe it or not,. there is a Christmas season on campus. If you look carefully amidst the on~laught of blue books, you can 
find a little Christmas cheer. The answer lies in two words -­Christmas carols! That's right. Either sing them, hum theni, or · listen to them, but at least have one in your mind all the time while trying to make it through 
those last days before break. 
Last year, about two weeks 

before finals, I experienced the 
typical "I -have -more -work ­
than -anyone -my -entire -life ­
is -due -on -Wednesday" feeling . · . o_f doom. I went home, pulled out' the Glee Club "A-Caroling" · album and played it --three times 
iff a row. 
Christmas carols and holi­day songs are just what people want and need to allow them to escape from the hectic reality of everyday life and revel in the joy­ous spirit of Christmas. Why do you think there is such a stam­
pede to the annual Glee Club Christmas Concert? Or such excitement over the Notre Dame ·.Chorale and Brass Ensemble's holiday performance? Carols cause that . heart-warming feeling that makes you laugh when they sing "bring ·us some . figgy pud­ding," and sigh when "Little 
Drummer· Boy" is sung: 

Get into the Christmas spirit despite the. Bah~humbug of finals. Listen to Christmas carols --there are quite a few to choose from. The recortmiended dosage is at least one peiday! While you're at it, walk around c~pus and look at all the Christmas lights. Check out the tree atop St. Ed's and the star on Holy Cross. Put up lights in your own room, and throw some tinsel around. · 
"Deck the halls" and "gloria in excelsis" and all that. 
Merry Christmas! • 



·coMING DISTRACTIONS 

Complied by Karen Dettling 


DECEMBER12 
ART: Africa and the Americas : A Curator's Choice November 3 -January 19 O'Shag Gallery West 
ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion : 1985 November 17 -January ii O'Shag Gallery West 
ART: 100-Mile-Radius Student Competition November 15 -December 13 SMC Galleries 
ART: French Master Dr~wing From the Pemianent Collection November 14 -January 19 The Snite Museum of Art 
PERFORMING ARTS: "Hay Fl!ver" December 5, 6, 7, 12, 13,.14 O'Laughlin Auditorium -SMC Notre D~me I Saint Mary's Theater 
PERFORMING ARTS: Andy Williams Christmas Show Morris Civic Auditorium 
PERFORMING ARTS: Advanced Theater Arts Performance December 12 -13 Bendix Theatre -Morris Civic Auditorium 
PERFORMING ARTS: Glenn Campbell AOC 
SOPHOMORES: Christmas Fundraiser Sale of Mistletoe and Candy Canes in th·e Dining Halls_ December 11 -14 
SENIORS: Sr. Bar Mug Night · :fa;oo·; Mug · DECEMBER 14 
ART: Africa and the Americas : A Curator's Choice ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion : 1985 ART: French Master Drawings From the Permanent Collection PERFORMING ARTS: .,Hay Fever" SOPHOMORES: Christmas Fundraiser 1st Source Banlt . Christmas Party 
. AOC Arena/MR/CC Study Day (no exams) 
DEC~MB~R 15 
ART: Africa and the Americas : A Curator's Choice ART: Moira Marti· Geoffrion : 1985 ART: French Master Drawings From the Permanent Collection PERFORMING ARTS: South Bend Symphony Chamber Orchestra 
Robert W.D~maree, Jr:, Conductor Handel Messiah Morris Civic Auditorium 4pm 
SPORTS: Woman's Basketball -Northern Illinois Study Day (no exams)· 
DECEMBER 16. 
ART: Africa and the Americas : A.Curator's C~oice . ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion : 1985 ART: French Master Drawings From the Permanent Collection Final Exams (thru December 20) 

. 11 DECEMBER 1985 




WHEN DIGGER 
The basketball program had lost the momentum that -had propelled it through the seventies and into the highest echelon of respected teams. However, last season,' with the con­sistency of Ken Barlow and Donald Royal and the dazzling emergance of David Rivers as one of the prem­ier point guards in the nation, the basketball team appears to have 
What do you think of our · rankings in the pre-season polls? 
Well, I think you have to be · careful of the pre-season polls because you can get complacent or believe that you're better than you are without working for any­thing and I always get cautious. I think it is a compliment to the· seniors to come here when we were ten and seventeen the year before and as seniors build a pro­gram to where they are one of the most respected programs in the country. But I also think there are three things we have to do to complete the season. The first 
· thing is get everybody eligible for the first semester and into the second· semester, so they all can !)lay next semester. The second thing would be the second semes­ter road schedule where they've got to go beat teams on the road, which gives you the confidence to play in the N.C.A.A. tournament. And from there that gets to the third objective, which is for us to get to a regional this year. Once · you get to a regional anything can happen, and · last year we were one dribble away from accom­plishing that goal. 
Do you look at any particular polls? · 
· What's sad today is that you should rank sixty".'four teams. In th~ old . days, when thirty-two teams went to the tournament, the 

escaped its temporary lapse into mediocrity. Now, a successful season seems to be certain and the Final Four is no longer a remote possibil­ity. With guarded optimism, Head Coach Digger Phelps recently talked with Scholastic about the prospects for this season and the state of col­lege basketball. 
top twenty meant something. What you've had the last two out of three years is two teams win the national championship that weren't in the top twenty when the tournament began: Villanova and North Carolina State. So I think you have to put things in perspective, and I do, and I make sure the players understand that so again they don't lose insight into what our objectives really are. 
What is your prediction for the team? 
I don't make oredictions on records and that's what people have to understand. That road· schedule this year where you're playing at Syracuse, at Duke, at 
North Carolina State, · at Mar­quette, at De Paul, at Dayton, and then over the holidays where we are going away for four games with Providence, who is gonna be good with a better coach in Rick Patino; La Salle --we haven't beaten La Salle the last two times we played in the P;ilestera; De Paul in .Chicago who we haven't beaten in five years; and B.Y.U. who we lost to out there two years ago. I think this team could lose seven, eight, nine games and be a better team than last year's, and that's our objective: be a better team come March and get it going like we did last year and get to a regional where something can happen. 
How has this team improved over last years? 
More confidence. Rivers has 1· more confidence. I think David really has a feel for what can go l on with the players. His insight · to· nine guys on the floor at one time --he just is natural at pick­ing things out and doing things with instincts. At the same time I think the other players have a lot of confidence playing with him. Our first seven players --I don't have a starting five --I have seven players that are the veterans. We are trying to expand the bench to give us that depth which is similar to what the Lak­ers and Celtics had going into the playoffs last year. I think the bench is going to get us to the Final Four, if we are fortunate to get there. 
How do you characterize this years overall college competition? 
I think it is going to be the year. of the point guard. I think people are going to be excited because there is really no dom­inating center as we saw with the Patrick . Ewing and the Ralph Sampson era and now it's the point guard era. We are going to be playing against some of the best point guards in the country. Look at Alford of Indiana, Syra-J cuse with Pearl Washington, Johnny Dawkins at Duke, Kenny ]_· Smith at North Carolina. I think people are going to be amazed at how good Strickland is at De Paul. Every team that you look at, their personnel --it is going to be the year of the point guard in col· lege basketball. 
Do you see any underrated teams this year? 
SCHOLASTIC 

\TALKS 
¦ • • 
Yes. I think Georgetown will get to the Final Four because I think the pressure is off with Ewing being out of there, and the fact that Dalton's back, and they have some pretty good freshmen that are going to surprise people. Based on that, I think they'll play with a. lot more . confidence and 
· the fact that everybody thinks 
by I an Larkin

th~y•re not going to be any good come . March and tournament time, .· I think they're going , to be should have to have at least thirty very good. hours each school year in a 
bonafide degree program. The 
. What do you see as the big-

third thing I'd like to see is taking . 
. gest •problem facing college 
away the eligibility of. an -athlete 

basketball today?· 
involved in infractions. Take the 

When guys aren't , getting an University of Fiorida football education . that concerns me the team for example. The past two most. Fortunately enough we have years they've been on probation. an administration with Fr.. Hes.: The same football players are burgh and· Fr; Joyce where edu-playing that got them on proba­
. cation 'is a priority if they are wil­tion and yet they've been ranked ling to make that committment. At .in the polls very high which gives Notre Dame we make that com­credibility for a pro · contract. I mittment and at other schools say you take away their playing they don't. It's sad when you see time, you're taking away from the N;B.A. to.day with less than their exposure for a pro ·contract, thirty percent of those guys hav­· and if they're involved in infrac­ing college degrees. That to me is. tions they should be. penalized a false sense of reality to what the upon the extent of that infraction. real world is all about. Either X amount of games, a sea­
son, or an entire career. Once weWith all the 'recent recruiting put those three things in priority,


scandals, how do you see your 
with consistency, then· you'll see 

. role? 
college sports clean up. I'm trying to bririg the aware­


Do· you feel that players

ness about to . comeback with 

should receiv~ a stipend?

some reform. I think that part of that reform is happening th.is year Yes,. because I think stipends with • : propositions 48 and 49 . can be controlled and regulated whereby we are bringing back by the N.C.A.A.. It is time we academic credibility for admis­recognized that we are prof es­sions. This is the first class that is sionals. There is nothing wrong going .. to have..to have . at least with it. We are controlled profes­
.. elev.~n college prep units, and a sionals with these · youngsters. · "C" . average, and SAT score of They are getting room, board, and . tuition. I think ·a stipend · which
. 700 or ACT of 15 to get a Djvi­
·. sion I scholarship. Then, the can be taken out of N.C.A.A. gate . second part would· be progress receipts from Division I · basket­· towa_rds a degree where you ball would amount to about four 
11.DECEMBER 1985 
million dollars. To give every school a piece of the pie, 15 scho­larship players getting a thousand apiece, would cost. around four million and CBS pays us 32 mil­lion for ·the N.C.A.A. tournament. It would still give the N.C.A.A. 28 million. I think a stipend would knock off some of the nickel and dime cheating. After all, we are looking to put youngsters in a position where they have to go to school, have the grades to get in, and progress towards a degree, but not have time to work. I think the stipend would control that. The people have decided what they want to watch and the people, being the audiences, are the gate receipts, so these are the stars. · It is time we upgraded it a:nd give them the stipend, which again would be regulated · and controlled. It is still professional, but so what? I think Carl Lewis and Edwin Moses are profession­als when they earn $500,000, put . it in a trust fund, which is legal, . and then draw a salary from this trust fund for their expenses, and are still playing in the Olympics. 
.,
So from that standpoint it's just . another way of saying they are :jprofessionals. In college sports, it i is time we recognize that we are . ,,! professionals. We are controlling it. It is not like we're looking to give them $100,000 a year to play or get them· agents in high school. We are just saying it is time.• 
' ' 

.------------comJP1l.llfer corll1l.e.Ir -----------, 
Ce>rr-'\pLA.ters lr\"ade:: Yc:>\Jr 1-*ri'V'.acy 
by Louis Fuka 


THE WAVE OF THE FUTURE 

Today we're going to talk about · computer networks and data bases. Sounds interesting, rignt? I can almost hear the yawns. The fact of the matter is that of all the things· that have to do ' with computers that might affect your life, this one is the most likely to ~o . so. In fact, through the development of net­works, computers have the capa­city to threaten your ·privacy. 
What is a computer net­work? If you recall, we have been discussing just how a computer works. However, until quite recently, there was a problem with computers. Computers were isolated. If you wanted to use a corq.puter, you had to travel to the computer. If that computer was the family personal · computer in the living· room, well, that was no problem. If the computer was on che other side· of the world; and was the only one suited to.handle your· job, things could ·be a little more difficult. How niuch easier it would be, if only the computers could "talk" to one another over iong: distances as if it were in· the next room. This was' the main rea­son for the dev~loplllent of . the computer network. 
Tasks can be divided up and . shared among · computers. 
Redundant data processing. is . eliminated, increasing efficiency. Barriers of time and distance are effectively removed. Valuable and hard won data can be shared. These interconnected computers are no ionger thought of as indivi­dual· machines, but as part of something larger, just as an indi­vidual might be thought of as part of a social organization. · 
Here too are the origins of the database. Information is a valuable commodity, requmng great amounts of time, money, and effort to acquire, . evaluate, and update. Information of the highest quality and most recent and reliable origins is gathered in 
a. central place. and others can be charged a fee for the access and use that information. With the aid of a small computer and a device ~a:J.led a modem which allows. the computer to triinsmit and receive data over telephone lines, anyone can· gain access to a data base. 
There are thousands of such . data bases, each with infor­mation geared to suit the needs of a certain group of people. There are scientific · data bases, business data bases, and data • bases intended· for the. use of the lay­man with a home computer as well. Data bases off er. other ser­vices too, such as electronic mail, games, electronic billboards that act much as regular bill boards, and even the possibility of conversing with other users of the same data base via_ computer.. 

· Sounds great,, doesn't it? Well, there is another side to this coin. That openness · · described entails a loss of privacy. Informa­tion about individuals could be shared quickly and easily. Furth­ermore, it is a lpt easier ~o gather information that· before would have . been lost in the shuffie. Take credit cards, for , example. Sure, . they are . convenient. That convenience, however;• is paid·for by a reduction of privacy.·. Not. only • do . credit card·· companies have the ability to find out how much you spend, they can · find out where you spend it, when you spend it, even what you spend it on. They have a complete record of your paymentli. Furthermore, other companies have the ability to get hold of tl?-at. data and use it to their benefit · · . . . .· 
Think of· all the junk mail that is sent to you personally. Where· do you think they got your name?· One possible source migh( be the· magazine ·you subscribed_. to a few inonths · ago; which solo their subscription list. Scary~ isn't .
it?. . . . . . 
I 

18 


POLITICAL TREMORS SOUTH OF THE BORDER . by Rosabelle 'White 
"Do you know what SPP (the Spanish acronym for the Secretary of Programming and Budgeting) stands for?" asks Maria, a: junior at a private · school for well-to-do young ladies. · 
''No, what?'' ask' her friends anticipating agood joke. 
· "Su · Proximo Presidente (Your next President)." She laughs and her friends join in for they all know that the candidate of the Institutional Revolutionary Party . · (PRI) is Miguel De · la Madrid, the.SPF. They know that since the PRI has announced its intention of launching him . as their candidate that he will be their t!lext president. 
These young ladies show the nonchalant attitude of . many wealthier Mexicans towards their Presidential elections. . Since the PRI _,took over. fifty years ago, shortly after the Mexican Revolu­tio11, eiections have long ceased to hold any. political . importance for the people. The moment the· lam­inated pictures· of the. PRI's . can­didates ~e placed on the lamp:­posts, the succession has been announced without the opinio·n or consent of the Mexican people. 

· Americans often assume that _since Mexico is democratic; its political structure is identical to 
11 DEC~ER 1985 
The recent earth­quake this September has become symbolic, not only of existent tur"'.' n1oil, . but of trouble to come. 
our own. It is not the same. Idle talk of a possible Revolution or a coup d'etat has already begun. The recent earthquake has become symbolic, not only ·or existent turmoil, but of trouble to come. · Many of the collapsed buildings were government build­ings. The people mutter among themselves,· "Was the government breaking building codes and jeo­pardizing . our lives to save money? Who are we to · trust? Where are we to turn?" 
How do these people really feel? Even those like Maria who can afford to scoff are not really satisfied with their government. As underemployment and unem­ployment rise and prices accom­pany their ascent many· Mexicans are becoming concerned with· problems . in their electoral ,pro­cess.· 

"The whole process is a standing ' joke," says Juan, a moderately well-to-do young man, whose bronzed legs. and arms are set off by. a new white polo shirt and tennis shorts. "It is com­pl~_tely ·rotteh. Take. for . example (Arturo) Durazo, the ex-police chief. It is strange that he was permitted to do so much: run a drug,..pushing . operation, embezzle funds, and_ even then he was t.llowed to escape the country with_ so much .money. How can we tr.ust a government that per­mits .this?" he aslf:s, shrugging his shoulders. "If·the President steals from the . p~ople, lesser officials 
.,
feel even -more justified," con­
cludes Juan. ­
Juan refers to former · 
J 
President ·1ose Lopez :Portillo, a :1 
::j

·inan · who · entered offic1e with an 
,J
e~tidng, charismati~ personality and won the approval. of even the i most skeptical critics. Gradually, I however, like his predecessors, I his promises ceased to hold water; :I easily said, . easily forgotten. .I :! Accused .of robbing well over a I million dollars in · government i tunds he fled the country in 1984 to a newly acq~ired castle in · Spain, and he is presently touring Europe. 
19 

· · Corruption, in the govern­ment has made an already shaky economy even . more . unstable. Relatively rich until approxi­mately two years ago wMn an oil glut weakened the petroleum-:­based economy, .Mexico has begun to fall behind on the interest ·payments of the loan made to the government of President Echeverria (1970-1976) by the International Monetary Fund . (IMF). At that time, the funds . were whittled away and 
. pocketed by manycorrupt_ public officials.· Like so ·· i:nany · other misdeeds, this ,.one . ·passed undetected in the chaos that has come, ·.·_to characterize -Mexican 
-_politics. Lopez. P.ortillo --entered .th~ Presiclency. promising,. as-it is commonly· said in Mexico;· "The Pearls . of the Virgin", -but his proniises were crushed by_,a pJum­meting economy. · President Lopez· Portillo's vow to def end the peso to the limits of his power was met with jeers by many.Mex­icans in view .of, the fact: ·that the peso had sunk from tw·enty-five pesos per dollar to sixty pesos per dollar. in a relatively short period of time. · 
•·As prices skyrocket on subsi­dized goods such as beans, tortil­las and bread, some of _ the country's ·poor · · are _, hirniilg towards Communism. Orie clear example inay be cited in a smail town ' called Atlixco, located "in the state of Puebla (approximately two hundred _forty kilometers 
Southeast of Mexico City.) Here a 
, small : Communist commtiriity _has_. developed among the campesiiios (peasants): -Their ·1ea&fr · Juan Gomez . justifies this' by •· saying ' "This·. way we·.: poor --people·, can ­share the little that' we ·have." J ua~ Gomez anµ , his followers a:t least have a clioice.,. They ·have their ejidos : or -small conimunai , piots· to fall back on. Many poor must i-·ely -ori the few pes·os they· . can earn begging for ~lriis ;:01i: the sidewalks· of the · cities. Others· · , dream of crossing the Rio Grande 
As prices skyrocket on ·· subsidized ·goods such as , beans,_ tortillas and bread, -some of the country's poor are turn­ing toward communism. "This way, we poor people can share what little we have" says 
, Juan. Gomez leader of a 
small . .town . called . 
Atlixco. 
to earn money in the· United 
. States. For them it is not an act of disloyalty to· their patria (mother­land), but a matter of survival. "We must eat," says Etistacio Gonzalez, a young man in his late twenties. He and his wife Con­chita have four children and another is soon on the way. Their future, like many of their country­men, looks bleak. , 
With the increasing unrest, the PRI under Miguel De la 

,fadrid · ( 1982-) is -tr.ying to sal-: vage its credibility. · New cam~­paigns such a "Reforma Moral" banning pornographic magazines and movies have been inau­gurated, as well as projects like 
. "Nueva Imagen", government­supported beautification_ cam­paigns. , ··. -•· 
-Some of the goverriinent's credibility is undermined by cer­tain measures taken against the press arid against the people. Only last year,, .an outspoken reporter, Manuel Buendia was threatened· by what are believed to. be governnieilt-backecl for_c_es; he did. , not comply, and he•W~S murdered in the streets.of Mexico· City, $h()t from behind.. La:st · ·Ma:y, , on Worker's Day,' ,, a heated . protest 
· was staged by thousands of ir:ate 
-workers. It was silenced :.by 'the militia with -tanks and armed pol­ice officers. The government tried to silence the media, but the incident· was , still reported: by the IMP ACTO, a very powerful' and outspoken magazine. 
Such incidents reveal that De la Madrid still has a long way to go if he is to prove his govern­ment has broken the mold' of its predecessors. An, incident that 
_occurred in last August's elections for. senators and -representatives has cast further doubt into the minds of many . Mexicans. Pr:esident Miguel de la Madrid promised "fair elections'' but fair­ness was dubious as the ruling party won all but four -, of the country's electoral districts, in many instances by enormous mar­gins. _Reports of cheating were rampant The other seven parties have asked for a re-vote· in dis­tricts where , fraudulent elections were reported. The · re-votes, which are still pending, ~old syrti­bolic · importance for many Mexi­cans as-to the sincerity .of De Ia Madrid's promise to bring about a more truly democratic go·vern­ment even at,, the . expense, · of loosening his party's grip · on the 
reigns of power. • . . ' . ' . 
SQHOLASTIC 



TWO FALL MORNINGS 
REFLECTIONS ON ROWING N.D. CREW 


Sitting in a boat rowing furi-· ously, another boat rows quickly by with no apparent effort. You 
-look out at the water and you are going nowhere. Your coach yells: 
. "Hey." 

"What?!!" 
"Get up, you fell back to sleep." 
Crew has · often been described as the . ultimate team sport. It's . not ·· the . combined strength of the oarsmen · which makes the bo'at move quickly but their synchronized strength which allows them to . work with the river. One boat moving gracefully across the water, if all goes right. It's much like eight people trying to spin a large bicycle tire as fast as they can . by putting sticks between the spokes, pushing them hard· and then taking them out. If the movements aren't exactly the 
same, if someone hits an . extra spoke at a different speed or in a slightly different way, the tire will slow . down significantly. As an experienced oarsman once told me, "crew team" is a redundancy, 
. ' . 
The plumbing clangs, others are up. You throw on your sweats and meet a few people to walk to the main circle for prac­tice. 
. "My self image as a rational adult takes a cold bucket of water in the face every morning that I get ~P at 4:30 and. do this."· · 
"Hey Joe." 

'I 
I "Hey Big Guy." 
"I stayed up until two last night studying." 
"Oh, the value of sleep is highly overrated." 
"Listen · up Dirt Bags I need tci have yciur $35 for the trip to Des Moines by Wednesday." 

"Yeah,-and I need money for betting shirts and sweats before I order them." 
"Someone needs to give Mr. Crilly and Mr. Richardson a wake-up call." 
Whoever isn't at practice is called to be woken up. It's easy to fall back to sleep but just as easy to use the phone as ; an alarm clock, ~ince only rarely are people anywhere· else -. other than their own bed at 5:00 am. After it rings a .. dozen times or so it is often answered . by a groggy, slightly apologetic. voice . which simply says ''I'm coming." 
·<The men's. team takes offfor the 1.7 :m.ile run down to the boat­house. The women's team is still at the main circle. With the advent of the new boathouse and the subsequent 3.5 miles of running 


on Notre Dame A venue every day, the team seems _to have attracted a slightly more athletic type. New equipment, better coaching, a larger team and the fact that the running keeps us in good shape · have all contributed to the .fact that the ND crew is becoming mote arid' more com­
-petitive as a "club in a sport dom­inated by varsity programs. • Right now though, this_ riew'...found: abil:­· 
ity leads you to nothing 111ore than being· in the back of the pack if you want. to take even ·a normal paced ru:n down. to the boathouse. . The -size df the team has 
added a degree of competitive­ness,··. amongst the men· 'and between the various boats. You begin to open up in order to get in the middle of the pack, to show the rest of the team that you're also working . Your mind feels somewhat· asfeep and . your body responds . only sometimes as. you try to keep up with the set of heels in front of you..They kick up leaves which ar.e given a dull wet shine by the street lights above. 

The boats get taken out of the house one by cine by their respective. t~ams. 
"Everyone· fall in on · the 'Fido' and give me a count when ready", the coxswain yells. 
"Bow," "Two,"' ''Three. seat," "Four;"· "Five," "Six/' "Seven," "Stroke" (there are either eight or · four oarsmen · depending on the boat). 
The coxswain gets his or her boat down to the water. . 
"Ready to lift off rack ... ready, lift ... down to shoulder high ... ready, down ... walk it out house, watch the riggers (they extend out of the boat and hold the oars, therefore they are what get hit if the boat bumps into something while being carried). 
"Ready to walk to the dock ... ready, walk ... watch the riggers on the trees." 
The boat is placed alongside the dock, the oars are inserted and the team shoves off. 
A warm up begins in which various parts of the . stroke are introduced until the entire stroke is being performed. You fix your eyes on the body in front of you unless you are eight seat or "stroke." In this case no one except for the coxswain is in front of you and, therefore, your job, since everyone is following you, is to .maintain a rhythm in your boat 
· and a ,good consistent stroke or movement of the oar. 
. And on good mornings ... the boat swings together as you break your second sweat of the day. 
The coxswain calls · the boat up for full power and all eight blades go in and out of the water together ... In ... Out ... In ... Out ... Smoothly, with grace, backed by strength, through the water. The coxswain calls, "Way enough ... and down." For a moment you stop and look back as the steam off your teammates rises with the 


mist off the river. The darkness 
. casts an odd light on the whole thing. Sometime during practice the sun rises and casts 'its . pink hue on the water. 
The boats (the individual teams) usually practice for about one and one-half hours. The run home is noticeably more casual and the various. personalities begin. to rear .their . ugly heads. YOU arrive home by 7:30. . 
A FewWeeks Later: 
9:00 ·Krioxville,. Tennessee 
Having. 'weighed .iri earlier, many of the "lightweights" who having been dieting to make weight come back from their first full meal in a week:· It is· cold down by the river and the fog sits heayy in the valley as it threatens to be a typically rainy race. It was once explained· to me that the inversion of boats on top of vans ·when driven hundreds of miles draws weather fronts to wherever they eventually stop. Being · one of the lightweights, I was involved in a little weight reduction this past .week so . the food in my stomach was an unfamiliar yet 
somehow . nice feeling. Also because the .drive dowri was only IO hours· long, a few hours shorter than trips to other races this fall, we all g9t a good night's sleep and I felt well rested: . . 
Rather suddenly. the , fog begins to lift, the mist bums off, and we find ourselves in the mid­dle of a beautiful Tennessee river valley, rolling : hills, grass fields, and mansions ' overlooking the river. The sun beg1ns to · shine and it warms up enough' for the people from the various teams to walk around . in T-shirts , and shorts a,rid bag a 'few precious 
rays. 

Tlie race is called a "head" race . due to its .staggered starts. Boats go · off about every 20 seconds, or a few boat lengths 
23 

. ' ­
------~ ----~ ­
~ 
apart. The boat which covers the three mile course in the shortest amount of time wins. During the race to ensure that your time is
' 
the fastest, you try to pass as many boats as possible and get passed by none. 
All the Notre Dame boats: the four men's boats and the one womens boat, are excited about this race, the last one of the sea­son. The anxiousness in my boat and the quick but smooth current make for a fast paced beginning. You can feel the strength behind every stroke, everyone is pulling hard and our technique is only slightly off. We "walk" up on the boat in front of us. Since the oars­men are facing opposite the direc­tion in which the boat is going we can only hear the boat behind us as we narrow the gap from 3 to only half a boat length. We bear down and try to pass them. They hold us off. Four more times dur­ing the race we give it everything and go to "full power" to pass the other boat, but they manage to hold us off. 
When the coxswain makes this necessary, · yet seemingly redundant call in a race as intense as the one we were in, the oars­men respond with a few primal grunts and whatever else they can give (sometimes it ends up being just a few more primal grunts). We have very little to draw on and cross the finish line still half a boat length behind them, but since we started 3 lengths behind them we beat their time by I 5 seconds. Our pursuit of the boat has led us to a gold medal with a time of · 16 minutes .. and· 28 seconds. The chase drove both of the boats to be a full minute faster than any other boat· in the · race. Our boat is so tired that we have to stop and rest when carrying the boat from the dock to the vans a mere 100 yards away. 
In competition with many of the midwest powerhouses, Notre Dame is becoming an increasingly strong competitor. The women have won many medals and so have the men in the most com­petitive of crew categories. At Knoxville, one of the lightweight boats finished fourth, a remark­able accomplishment considering that they had an equipment prob­lem which lead to one of the oars­men spending most of his time fixing his seat instead of rowing. Not only did the other oarsmen have to do his job on top of their own, but they also had to com­pensate for his weight, which is roughly equivalent to having them row with a sack of flour in their laps. Traditionally, when an oarsman's equipment is damaged beyond repair, you see him throw his oar out into the river closely followed by himself, and he'll cheer or curse as his boat rows by. Want to motivate Y.OUr team? Try cheering from an ice cold river. 

The images of crew reoccur in your mind throughout the day : when you see the teammates whom you have grown close to -­feeling your muscles ache ·as you stand up --falling asleep as your. teacher looks you in your eyes and answers a question you just asked. As a burned out student cramming for. a test, you will be reminded of yourself sprinting at the end of a race; In times of dif­ficulty · or awkwardness, the images of the. power and smooth­ness ofrowing move your mind to drift away from your problems ..... 
reflecting . on excellence under pressure. • 
Stats: 

35 varsity men 10 varsity. women . · · 2 varsity coaches (non-paying, part~time jobs) 50 novice men · 40 novice women 
5. student novice coaches 
approximately 150 members active at any given time· 
$ 5,000 from Notre Dame $ 6,000 from alumni $30,000 from members 

$40,000 approximate annual budget 
$40,000 boathouse $IO 000 for 3 four man ·boats $30:ooo for 4 varsity eight man boats $1 O 000 for 4 novice eight man boats $ I 5:000 for oars, dock, trailer, various equipment, etc. 
$105,000 approximate total assets 
INTERDE fAKTMfNTAl COOfEKAIION 



Bill Kremer 


SAVES THE DAY 
Ifyou walk throug)Vthe art building these days, you'1night be surprised to see a 5 foot high, egg shaped half-dome among the clay pots and ceramic sculptures. At first, you might be bewildered, as I was, and . wonder whether it is a new form of expression and ifso, what it is trying to say. If you can find no answer, I suggest that you consider this: the 'egg' is the pro­duct of the seemingly unlikely marriage of two university depart­ments: Civil Engineering and Ceramics. · 
by Margaret Payne 
This shape is the mold for a fiberglass reactor. The reactor will be used · as a pilot for a system which uses biological means for removal of hazardous organic 
. compounds from the municipal sewage system of the city of Niagara Falls, NY. The project is under the direction of Dr. Lloyd Ketchum of the Civil Engineering department. Currently, Niagara Falls is using physical/chemical means for absorbtion of the active carbon, a . system which is cost and energy-intensive. Ketchum's 

solution is unique in that his sys­
tem is a biological process. A pilot 
scale sequencing batch reactor (or 
SBR) will be cast from the 'egg' 
mold and installed in Niagara 
Falls. The reactor will contain a 
bacteria which will facilitate the 
biological removal of the unac­
tivated carbon comoound. 
There · were several advan­

tages to making the reactor this . particular shape. It imitates the sphere which has the lowest sur­face area per unit volume. This minimizes energy loss at the sur­
face. The reactor needs to be deep due to the 'fill and draw' method it employ~. The affected liquid enters the reactoF and is aerated so:: that _the bacteria mixes with and· absorbs the hazardous organic compounds. The air is then shut off and the bacteria is 
allowed to settle as the clean . · 
liquid is drawn out and more 
affected liquid drawn in. Also, 
with the small access portal at one 
end, it will be easy to collect any 
volatile gases present · · 
One of the main problems that Ketchum faced in imple­menting his solution to Niagara Falls' problem was in making the reactor itself. The Civil Engineer­ing department didn't have the equipment or the personnel neces­sary to form "the reactor. The solution presented itself in the form of Bill Kremer of the cer~m­ics department. · 
Kremer set to work as soon as he was given the specifications for the mold, specifications that were the result of efficiency max­imizing . equations. The tech­niques that he had to use to form the mold were no less complex than the ones used by Ketchum in coming up with the solution to the problem itself. First, he built a wood mold bearing the general curve of one quarter of the dome. He then spread clay on top of this framework --and · achieved the shape through a subtractive pro­cess utilizing a 2-dimensional 'slice' in the correct proportions allowing for shrinkage and for the thickness of the plaster itself. After th~t he suspended the slice over the clay on its axis and used it to cut away in a sweeping motion the excess clay leaving only the shape needed. He cast four p~eces in plaster and joined them to form the dome. Two fiberglass sections will be cast from this mold, completing the construction process. 
Ketchum came to the art department aware of the ·skill of the artisan and confident that Kremer could construct what he needed. Said Kremer, "He came where things really do happen". Both departments, in this display of their cooperation, skill, ability,· ingenuity and concern for the environment have clearly stated the message that -the --egg-shaped structure in the basement of the art building carries. It is not a piece of art for its own sake, but could well be that for the _inter­
departmental cooperation that its creation embodies. • 



How to live , with someone 

· A Positive Point
who's living 


About Breast Cancer. · 
with cancer. 
When one person .gets _ 

. , __ No_w we can see it before you can feel it. When · cancer, everyone in the family 
1t s no bigger than the dot on this page. __ · 
-suffers. . . _ • 

~nd when it's 90% curable. With the bestchance 
Nobody,knows.better than we 
·of savmg the breast. 
_do how much help and -­· · understanding is needed. That's 

The trick is catching it early. And that's exactly why our service and rehabilitation 
what a mammogram can do. programs emphasize the whole 
A mammogram is a simple X-ray that's simply 
family, not just the cancer patient. 

-the best news yet for detecting breast cancer. And
Among our regular servkes 

saving lives. · · · 
we provide information and guidance to patients and-families, 

If you're over 35, ask your doctor about transport patients to and•from ­
mammography. treatment, supply home care .items . and ac;sist patients in their return to,., 

Give yourself the chance ofa lifetime. TM
everyday life. · · _ . Life is what concerns us. The life ofcaricer patients. The lives of · their families. So you can see we : 

-~AMERICAN 
CANCER . \SOCIETY'_ 
are even more than the research 
organization we are so well known
,.to be. · · · · ·­No one faces cancer alone. 

This space contributed as a public service. ­

26 



Never in history have women made such a concerted effort to abolish the threat oj nuclear annihilation as the Greenham Women have. Greta_ Roemer and Beth Rooney, along with nine other N.D. ·women, spent· one night with these wonien last year. The following article is a commentary based on that experi­
ence. 
by Greta Roemer and Beth Rooney 

Christmas is a time of peace and hope. Prayers and petitions are offered for both individual and world · peace. · Sixty miles · west of London, England, there is a group of women who protest for peace not only during the . holi-. days, but 24 hours a day, 365-. : days a year. 
Greenham Common Wom­

ens Peace Camp, established in 
1982, is the world's. oldest exist­
ing one. The community, com­
posed solely of women, "illegally" 
protests the US military base . at 
Greenham Common whi.ch was 
established to carry out the terms 
of a 1979 NATO agreement. 
Presently, there are about . 50 
nuclear cruise missiles based 
there. 
A group of women, known 

throughout England as "The Greenham Women," permanently i-eside outside the gates of tht! common land that comprises the • base. They have been there since 1982 when they staged a protest march against the base and decided to stay "until the (Cruise) . missiles leave." Court orders ban 
the women from dwelling on the 
land around the base, but the ord­
ers ar.~ ignored. Since the camp's 

11 DECEMBER 1986 



'£J?J ' 

<!J,eom 
establishment, Greenham Women have been subject to hunger, cold, discomfort, arrests, daily evictions and· assaults by both the camp's soldiers and the public. 
Greenham Women embody 
·the· idea of community. Their belongings are · shared. They spend twenty-four hours a day in each other's ·company. The make­shift -camps exemplify simple 
living. Shower and toilet facilities do not exist. Their "houses" are plastic tents. Luxuries include extra layers of clothing, blankets and a van. The van is packed within five minutes of an eviction by the base's military police. 
These women have varying backgrounds, capabilities and ideologies. Some of them live there permanently, but most are housewives or teachers who come as often as they. are able. Their 
· common denominator is their opposition to nuclear missiles. They abhor all forms of violence. Seven · small communities, · representing the seven gates of the base,. comprise the camp. Armed soldiers in British uniform guard the gates. 
On the evening of February 




28, 1985, we spent nine hours at Greenham Common with nine · other Notre Dame women in the London program. Before we left, we had heard both positive and negative descriptions of . Green­ham. We had read . newspaper 
./

accounts · which said it was an effective movement,-and others which said the women were just a bunch. of radicals. 
When we arrived at Blue Gate, the camp's centrally located public entrance, we were · a little surprised by what we saw. We felt· like we had walked into a gypsy camp. We knew it would be prim­itive, but it seemed more like a permanent campout. There was a campfire burning, and · about six women were huddled around it to stay warm. We met Missy,-a twenty-year-old Scottish woman, and Hazel, a fifty-eight-year-old grandmother. We asked them both questions and were given answers that were more than we bargained for. 

The women made room for us around their campfire. Hazel, an . older woman, looked ciut of , place· among, the other,· younger women. But she was outspoken 
27 

and shared her feelings readily. "Women come here and dare to say to us, you're special. It's a cop-out _for those women to be able to go away and . say they couldn't do it. ·. I'm 58; I feel the cold and· I don't like evictions. I'm not superhuman." 
Hazel believed: "We're· all 

· going to fry and boil in a year's time. Our children are going to die. The whole bloody world is going to be finished." Hazel stu­died the forms bent toward the fire. We were surprised and cap­tured by her passion. She looked frail. Her body twitched ner­vously and her smoker's husky voice halted. A man's parka swal­
. lowed her petite form. Her hiking boots lurked dangerously near the fire, but Hazel either didn't notice or didn't care. 
She continued urging sup­port for the community. "It's women who make Greenham and we've got to have women here. The spirit is here only because the women are here." Hazel reflected on the reality and prox­imity. of nuclear war. Her passion was · evident. "You've got to believe. You've got to know it's going to. happen. It isn't pretend. I have a five-year-old grandson. He's not going to grow up if we women don't do something about it." In the past, Greenham · has had as many as hundreds of women froin as far away as the United States, Australia and Japan. On February 28, there were only thirty. We were told that sometimes the number dropped to fifteen. 
"There is 11othing stronger . than your own willpower and 

· your own spirit," Hazel said, pointing. to the other forms around the fire. ."Any woinan that comes to Greenham has a hell of a· lot of power. She has great . power and she has to use it and use it all the time! When that power·· is multiplied ·millions ·of times, it can be very substantial. If every person who really is in the . peace movement --if every one of them actually acted, there. is· absolutely nothing the govern~ ment could do." Hazel's · eyes 
flickered. Her. body stiffened. She raised her hands in frustration. "You have .·to. believe (nuclear war) is going to happen. I know it's going to happen because . nobody is doing anything about · it" 
When asked about her mar­riage, Hazel explained: "I have a husband and' two sons at home. They don;t necessarily agree with everything . I · believe in. They recognize that if I believe that I should be here, then I should be here. In nearly• every marriage, at some.point the husband has to go away, either to war, or to. work for his firm, . and the wife is expected tq l.ook after things at home." ·This observation stimu­lated Hazel's personal conclusion. "It's important that women leave home for'peace. Women are not here just to suit men's needs. We are strong people. But with all the shit that we're given, that we're the weaker sex, we start to believe it." 
"Men's resort to violence is not a show of strength. The majority of women are powerful nonviolent people and the major­ity of men are weak violent peo­ple. Look at how many wars they've had. And did they learn? They're still eager to go off to war and. pretend they're fighting. tci save their womenfolk," she says. Hazel strongly urged · all of us: "Women have to stop being proud that men will fight for them. They have to start fighting for them­selves." 
Missy, a twenty year old Scottish,w_oman, was an 11-month resident of the peace camp. Her perception of Greenham's pur­pose was more bitter and less accepting than Hazel's. Greenham Common has come to stand for more than just a peace movement. Missy represented the more radi­cal side· of Greenham Women. Most of the women feel that men should not be a part of Greenham Common because they believe that the presence of a· male encourages viole~ce. · Missy's voice was resolute as she explained her theory: "Every time you go into the base you take the 

· risk of being hurt. I don't think . a · man could just go and sit there, whereas women do." 
Missy equates the violence of nuclear war with sexual violence: "Greenham is against violence in everything. It's not just bombs, it goes down to rape, it goes down to · all sorts. of violence. Violence is just a thing that men have brought up to show. 
t'1,at if they disagree with some­thing, they can fight back/' . 
Missy believes .strongly . in the Greenham Women's· non­violent protest: She concluded by explaining the reason for her par­ticipation: "Everybody's doing 

. something in their own way. Greenham is my 'way." 
·· Nine hours later~· we left these women with more than we expected --. not necessarily in agreement or . with complete understanding, but with · a great deal of knowledge and with admiration. We admired Hazel and Missy's spirit and drive; therr incredible endurance. They lived there every day. They slept there every night. We were miserable, cold and· ready·. to go home. Greenham. Women were not stronger than any of us~ but were sacrificing more· than we had ever dreamed.• 
SCHOLASTIC 



Boy, that looks like a good . movie. Kind of an Indiana Jones meets E.T., Back To T~e-Fum,re 
, with . the · Beverly Hills Cop, -Animal House in The Twilight Zone. Let's see it. . 
Question: Does that sounds like · a A) typical moviegoer, B) Hollywood studio executive, or 
-C) local movie theater owner? . Answer: all of the above. 
Yes,· it's the holiday season. The important time of the year .when big box office profits.·· are . made · from. s~all-minded filills. Now of~otirse,t]lis.isn't the.only 
. time ofth·e year when this capital­istic rite occurs. Any time America's youth is out of school, like_ the summertime, they're more likely · to see _a movie. This translates . to .inflated·_ profits, and also . one of two things: big name blockbusters or takeoffs of big name blockbusters. How many_ of these· movies are actually worth the five dollar admission price? Not ~any. 
, So why does this country support. such·, highway ·_· robbery, . and, :why does· Hollywood laugh all· the way to the bank?·. Because . movie goers will watch anything. ·While visions of sugarplums dance in the heads of starry-eyed audi­ences, the industry keeps feeding them saccharin. On rare occasions they will serve Nutrasweet, and once in a Halley's Comet a single sugarplum will pop up by accident But as the 20th Century Paramount of . Universal -Santas once said, "If it tastes the same; they'll never know the difference. 
Ho, ho, ho." Ah,. but they only taste the same in the ads. After the money's collected, the after­taste of a bad film lingers. 
"Brit, but, but Santa Claus would never do anything to hurt us," said Cindi Lou Who of Who­·vme. Not physically, Cindi,_ but mentally. Now go back to bed. 
The Santa of Hollywood will taint your mind with unfunny stars of Christmas past, empty boxes beautifully gift wrapped 
with full page newspaper ads, and sequenced sequels as tantalizingly tasteless as their profitable prede­cessors. Fa la la la la, la la la la 
Enough criticism. How does . one find the real snow amidst the powdered imitation? WeU, here are some tips for the holiday moviegoer so she can avoid getting coal in her stocking. First, avoid any movie distributed 
· by the Cannon Group.-Executive producers Meriahem Golan and Yoram · Globus·· are known Grinches of the ··.·. movie · world. Among their infamous · collection of profitable exploitation includes Bo :Perek's "Bolero," the recent "King Solomon's Mines" and the recent number orie box office grosser in America· "Death· Wish III." Gee, three death wishes. Give me one· and I'd wish the Cannon . Group would go ban~ krupt. 
It is beyond me why audi­ences keep going to movies like these which · reinforce • childish stere·otypes of cartoon-like violence, sexploitation, arid false vigilante patriotism. These films 
by Theodore E. Mandell . 

simply insult one's intelligence and Golan and Globus get rich by doing this ov~r and ·over again. · 
Secondly, don't see. films the day they open. Wait, read film reviews in major publications like Time or Newsweek, the_New York Times or watch Siskel and Ebert on "At. The Mo11ies." Ignore any review in USA Today, and ignore Leornard Maltiri of "Elltei'tain­
-ment Tonighe' These reviews are products of the glitzy Hollywood lifestyle.. The reviewers · worship the major studios and are very hesitant: to .criticize the "big" names ·in fear· of being · snubbed later. It is best to stay away from social climbers· like these. · 
. . .. 

Finally, be suspicious of huge advertising campaigns. Most are· initiated to create . large box office grosses from opening week audiences. After the word . gets around most .of these films· di_e, and die fast, but not without their easy buck. Golan and Globus are famous for. that practice; Rememb_er, deception is the name of the game. 
In·. fact, the movies least advertised are usually the best. The true artists make ·filnis independently and spend their money on production rather than advertising. 
-. Over the holidays, and all the time, use your common sense when seeing films. Spend your money on films · like you do on your clothes. Then maybe some year Santa will give us something we can really us_e: films which 
·enhance ·our lives. Merry Christ­mas! 
11 DECEMBER 1985 
paid advertisement 


ReDihrandt EngageDient Calendar 
from The· Snite Museum .. of Art 

• 
Handsome 52 week appointment calendar . 

• 
Contains 54 quality full-page reproductions 

· of Rembrandt's Old and New Testament etchings .from The Suite's Feddersen Collection 

•.
Ready-to-mail gift box 


• 
SP,ECIAL GIFT OFFER, $9.95 plus tax. 


Also avaiJable at..the.inuseum: The Snite Museum of A,rt Bookstore hours: · Posters at reduced rates · Tuesday-Friday· 10:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. · · Saturday-Sunday 1:00 .p.m. -4:00 p.m.
a selection of 12 Christm~S' ·cards 

Thursday evenings until 8:00 p.m.. 
· Museum publications . Closed on Mondays .. 
so SCHOLASTIC 

final word___________,;_ 
Gay
Being 
at 
Notre 

Dame 
.Contributed by. :Gays 
No coverage of life .at 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's would · · 

be complete without a thorough discussion of . · one particular minority: gays and lesbians. To be gay is to be a member of an unrecognized minority. Gay peo­ple come from every background, every race, every religion. They can "hide" their minority status from other people because, osten­sibly, they look, act, and feel just . like the people around them. But gay people are a minority in society; 13% of all men and 7% of all women in America are gay and lesbian, numbering about 22 mil­lion. So where are these· gays arid how are they affected by life at 
Notre Dame? 
Gay and lesbian people are everywhere. Notre Dame's unusual status as a mostly white, upper class, Catholic institution does not exempt it from this norm. Given that 10% of any group is homosexual, the Univer­sity of Notre Dame is the home of approximately 800 gays and lesbi­ans. · 
Again, you ask, where are thes.e p~ople? The answer must be 

at Lesbians at Notre Dame -Saint Mary's College 
· found in an understanding of the experience of befog gay or lesbian at Notre Dame. Just as heterosex­uals are not all alike, homosexuals . differ from one . another a great deal. The one· experience. we all share, however, is fear; The fear of being found out is part of every gay's daily experience. The consequences of being labelled. as homose?Cual are many. One never knows how one's roommates, friends, professors or fellow stu~ dents will react to the discovery that he or she is gay. Will I be discriminated against in class, or at· work? Will people I consider my friends alienate me because of my sexuality? With good reason, these fears are pervasive and oppressive. 
Gays at Notre Dame and St. Mary's have endured both physical and verbal abuse. They have met with ignorance and fear that foster a homophobic atmosphere that breeds violence against them. They are stereo­typed to such an extent that their humanity is obscured. Prejudice clouds the v1s1on of most members of the Notre Dame -St. Mary's community. so that gays 

are looked down upon as being less than fully human. Where is this evident? Read · the Observer.: Listen closely to conversations in the dining halls. On these cam­puses, a· racial joke -or the word ·. "nigger" -is simply not tolerated.· Yet gay · jokes -and the use ·or words like "faggot" or "queer" ­are commonplace, and commonly 
accepted.  ·  
Such  a  hostile  environ-·  
ment  leads gay  people  at  Notre  

Dame to continue living "in the closet." Gays and lesbians are forced to . live lives of deception. · They· are afraid to be themselves because they are uncertain of the· discrimination they will encounter. In addition, they are often compelled to lead lifestyles of destructive denial of their own . identities; they meticulously enact the motions of everyone else in 
order to achieve sanction. 
Should they choose to accept themselves and live as homosexuals, they are officially excluded from full participation in the Catholic Church and, furthermore, meet with condes­cension and · misunderstandin 
11 DECEMBER 1985 


"It is impossible to equivocate; the picture is bleak. . .. Suicide, child abuse, alcoholism, and drug abuse are only a few of the conse­quences of living the life of denial offered to gay people at Notre Dame as the only ethi­cal possibility." 

from many priests and . members of the religious community. This . way of living has profound ramifi­cations for the emotional well­being of gays and lesbians. The rejection gays experience -from family, friends and church ­causes many of these men and women to withdraw· from others. For fear of being hurt, many deny their · emotions and build-walls against intimacy. As a result they often become incapable of having healthy relationships. Their emo­
.Hons become atrophied from 
• neglect. 
Notre Dame is more than just a university. It is a place that prides itself on its sense of 
community and family. The faith­fulness of our alumni is legendary. The Notre Dame family extends beyond South Bend. But Notre Dame does not always succeed in incorporating all its members into the family.. Because the existence of gay men and -women at Notre Dame is barely recognized by its students and administration, we are· excluded from . the Notre . Dame family. 
S2 
"Because  the  
existence  of  gay  men  
and  women  at  Notre  

Dame is barely recog­nized by its students and administration, we ate excluded from · the Notre Dame family." 

Gay and lesbian alumni 

are different from their heterosex­
ual counterparts because they 
cannot forget their sometimes 
bitter memories of life at Notre 
Dame. The effects of the homo­
phobic atmosphere of Notre 
Dame continues in their lives 
after they leave here. Many will · 
adopt lifest-yles that damage them­
selves and the people · around · 
-them. Some marry, believing that · they will be "cured" of their homosexuality by aspiring to a heterosexual ideal. Others enter religious life, not because they have a vocation to the life ofser­vice • through celibacy, but because they yearn. for the shelter of non-sexuality. Suicide, child abuse, alcoholism, and drug abuse are only a few of the conse­quences of living the 1if e of denial offered to gay -people at Notre Dame as the only ethical possibil­
ity. 
It is impossible to equivo­cate here; the _ picture is bleak. The life of the gay man or lesbian woman is wrought with daily ten­sions and inconsistencies about which heterosexual people · need· · never trouble. In response to the struggle that many gay and les­bian people face in accepting their sexuality, a group .of · stu­dents. joined together fifteen years ago, calling· themselves .the Gay Society of. Notre Dame, · now known _. as Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame -Saint Mary's Col~. lege. 
GLND-SMC's larger pur­pose is to educate the Notre Dame -St. Mary's community at large. Yet the fact that we have been around ·for so long arid. have made only small inroads against prejudice and ignorance is signifi­cant. The · hatred .and fear ·_ that · persist reflect that much work is left to be done. Our goal is recog­nition, acceptance, and equality. Reaching out is a task that · does not end.• 
SCHOLASTIC 


Ill 
C: 
w ~ .!!! 0 
..., -"C ... I-<( <( -C: •
I--0 II:(1)-aiZ 
~~..., E:!:: 
.J """'rnE ::i cr.i a. 0 ai CD ::i !!,! a. 
0 
z 





'-'-' 
>
a,s,,.
,_,, 
l..-' 
i.i., 
~
,,., 
~ 
1.1.j 
~ 


D 







