

HEY! 

Photographers who took pictures for the October 16th "Day in the Life" issue can see their contact sheets and choose pictures from them. 
WHEN: 

Wednesday,November 9, frotn 2:00-5:00p.m. 

WHERE: 

Scholastic office, 3rd floor LaFortune COST: 4" X 5" print .......... 50¢ 


Sports 
Irish Welcome the (b)Owls With bowl picks only two weeks away, the number-one Irish can't afford a loss to the 0-7 Rice Owls. 
By Bill Stegmeier/ Page 18 
Elegant Violence At a school famous for football, the rugby club has struggled -and succeeded -in acquiring an identity of its own. · By Tony Nowak/ Page 16 
Sportsweek A roundup of the lesser-known varsity sports. /Page 15 

News 
" ... And Justice for All" The Office of Student Affairs and student government are working together to give students a stronger voice in judicial procedures. 
By Steffanie Keller/ Page 6 

Departments 
Week in Distortion Anyone could be number one on Jan. 3, if.... / Page 3 On Other Campuses Maggots in a Creighton University dining hall cause concern./ Page 4 Music New releases from the Cocteau Twins and Talk Talk are. out of the ordinary. / Page 5 Movies Pally Hearst retells a powerful story with Oscar-level acting./ Page 6 Coming Distractions A list of what's going on, both here and in the area./ Page 13 Ernie Pook's Comeek "The Wrong Candy" /Page 24 

Life in Hell 
Editorial Trying times for J-boards Judicial boards desparately need standardization. /Page 23 
,ll~1


r:~i;; 
:.:-=~---··--·::..r,~.:, 
L.-,'.; 

Scholastic is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 
and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/year and back issues arc available at $1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials. become the property of Scholastic. 
Copyright 1988 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. 
Letters 
Dear Readers, 
In this issue, four students were paired up into six teams of two, handed a wad of money, and told to critique every foodsale on campus. After all the leg work was complete, the critics gathered together to decide how many coveted stars each establishment would recieve. Finally, they sat down and began the arduous task ofactually writing the article. 
Two years ago, as a staff writer for Scho­lastic, I contributed to an article whose for­mat was modeled in this issue. I was one of the four culinary critics who wrote the even­tual cover story in 1986. 
Over a four week period, we tried to act as inconspicuously as possible as we wandered through foreign dormitories. You see, the story was to remain top secret in order to guarantee that we would not receive special 
I recall once when I was in Farley minding my own business and waiting for my pizza, a girl from one of my classes approa~hed m_e and asked who I was visiting. I was 1mmed1­ately caught off guard. Knowing very few girls in Farley Hall, I struggled to come up with an answer. All I could muster was the truth. I had to admit that I was there to try some of Farley's pizza. Boy, did I get a strange look. 
The issue turned out to be one of my all time personal favorites mostly because we recieved quite a bit of feedback. Grace Hall called the Scholastic office demanding to know why they weren't given a five star rating. And after we published a one star rating for Fisher Hall, they changed the name of their foodsale to The Lone Star Cafe. Hopefully this issue will also elicit some responses. 
This time the foodsale review was com­pleted with virtually the exact_same guide­lines. As an editor I was particularly con­


. cemed with making sure there are no con­flicts of interest. For example, no critic was permitted to review his or h~r own donn. Moreover, the writers were given complete freedom when forming their opinion of each foodsale. They were handed a set of criteria and instructed to be as fair as possible when assessing a foodsale. Don't let the light­hearted tone fool you, everyone involved took this assignment very seriously. Michael Farnan Executive Editor 

Noire Dame and Saini Mary's Scholarships Fund 
NOVEMBER 9-12 
LITTLE PROFESSOR BOOK CENTER 
6305  UNIVERSITY COMMONS  
(near  Kroger)_  
Duy  books  and  gifts  from  
November 9-12. Depos!I your sales slip In !he box al lhe slore and 15% of your purchase will go to the 


. scholarship fund. 
Ladlu or Notre Dame 



Week in Distortion/ Chris Fillio 
I n recent weeks, numerous events have transpired in the NCAA football ranks which have prompted the dreaded annual round of second-guessing and hypothetical scenarios. Around here, ofcourse, most ofthese queries concern the Notre Dame Fighting Irish and basically conform to the following model: If (name of spoiler team) beats (top-ranked national champions-to-be) and Netre Dame beats (other top-ranked contenders), then we'll play in the (January 2 big$$$$) Bowl and become national champions! Sure, it looks easy on paper. However, it may come as a shock to some Irish fans that there are, believe it or not, other college football teams and their respective, albeit utopianist, student bodies who envision their Division I ·football fantasies ulti­mately fulfilled this year. In light of this, it may be helpful to review some of these other distinct possibilities. 1) The University of Hawaii is awarded the national title out of sympathy for their undisputably cheesiest NCAA nickname. The "Rainbow Warriors" deftly flutter to the top of the AP Poll despite their lack ofa respectable record. Instead of a post-sea­son bowl, the Polychromatic Marauders sit on their laurels on Waikiki beach and listen to tunes and scores of other silly schools battling for the remaining top spots. Close behind Hawaii in the final rankings should be the Oregon D~cks, Texas Christian's Homed Frogs, the Hokies ofVirginia Tech, and the ever potent Toledo Rockets. In addition, both Clemson and Auburn are automatically eliminated from· considera­tion since their common nickname, the Tigers, sounds like a third grade skateboard gang. 2) Former Notre Dame football coach Gerry Faust returns to haunt Irish fans by winning it all in a span of three weeks in 



Bowled Over 

Ifany ofChris Fillio's predictions come true, major college football titles won't be a bow l of cherries ... just the pits 


sequently, the Miami Hurricanes repeat as national champions. 
6) Ever radical California secedes from the United States, distorting the national championship picture. ·Complications ;• ariseatthe Cal-Tech vs. Cal-State Berkeley i' game when Tech players protest against an I unfairly sloped playing field and State playersstagea sit-in. IntheChicoS4ttevs. San Diego State game, both teams forget to show up. Stanford beats UCLA but is forced to forfeit when the National Enquirer reveals the presence of a: profes­sional trombone player in the Stanford band. Fullerton and Pacific team officials decide that the only feasible neutral playing site is Nirvana and their meeting is post­poned until the year 2067. Thus, the USC -UCLA winner plays the Long Beach State -Fresno State winner in the fight for the national championship, dude. 
7) National parity reigns supreme and all teams with ten or more victories are de­clared as national co-champions. 
8) A minor scheduling conflict in the Notre Dame Athletic Department finds the Alumni interhall football team playing in the Orange Bowl on January 2. The Dogs fleece Oklahoma, 63-7, and become na­tional champs. 
9) SMU returns to college football early and defeats Illinois in the Recruiting Viola­tions Bowl, claiming the national title. It is short-lived, however, as the Mustangs 
I 
trade the title to the Miami Hurricanes for two future first-round draft picks, an undis­closed sum of money, and a player to be named later. 
10) In accordance with other current newsworthy topics like nuclear war and the future preside1!£Y ofthe United States, eve­rybody loses. Ill November. Here's the deal: on November 5, Boston College cleans house on Tennes­see and Rice blasphemes the Irish. The fol­lowing weekend, Arkansas whitewashes Texas A&M, Mississippi State clubs LSU, Tennessee embarrasses Mississippi, Baylor boils Rice, and the fateful die is cast when the Akron Zips rain on Temple's parade. On November 19, LSU rebounds to smoke the 'Canes, Texas closes the door on state rival Baylor, and USC outduels UCLA in the battle of the anagrams. Five days later, Texas A&M lassos the Longhorns and sets the stage for the last weekend in November. In the course of that Saturday afternoon, Mississippi annihiliates Mississippi State, Miami gives Arkansas the business, the Irish trample the Trojans, and college foot­ball is set back one hundred years when Temple bamboozles Boston College. 

Faust's Akron Zips win by default. 

3) Northeast Louisiana becomes the 1988 national champions. Aghast spectators watch as they soundly defeat the likes of powerhouse Nicholls State, college football mecca McNeese State, the pro-style offense ofSam Houston State, and archrivalLamar. The Indians are subsequently assured a post-season date with Columbia in the first annual Beacon Bowl. The game begins in sudden death and the first team to score is declared the victor. 
4) The Fighting Irish finish 12-0 and are NCAA national champions -temporarily. On the bitterly cold first Saturday in Febru­ary, time stands still in St. Joseph county as Mishawaka squeaks by the Irish 10-7 in a charity scrimmage, becoming the first high school to ever win an NCAA football crown. 
S) The Associated Press writers decide to change their polling standards to include school spirit, individual personality, quality of academics, and team camaraderie. Con-

·On Other Campuses 


Food For Thought 
It's certainly not for eating at Creighton University where maggots invaded the dining area. 
Excuse me, but there is a MAGGOT in my soup. You might have heard such an exclamation ifyou were in the Brandeis dining hall at Creighton University on October 1st. On that day during dinner, hundreds ofmaggots formed on top ofa counter, right next to the bread and toaster area, The Creightonian reported. Ronald Slepitza, associate vice president for student services, said a seal ofcaulk that was used to close the gap between two pieces of wood had disintegrated. He said that water made its way down the crack forcing maggots out of their hiding place. They apparently were attracted to the surface by some food that had accumulated in the crack. ''It wasn't in the food, buton the tray rail nextto the food," Slepitza said .... Well as long as it was not IN the food, Ron, it's all right. 
Should sex be guaranteed on dates? Roy Schenk, a 58 year old part-time chemist, thinks so. According to a report in the College Press Service, Schenk is hoping to generate interest in his invention the "dating contract". He hopes that soon students at 500 campuses (he has already sent the contracts to selected colleges and universi­ties) will be signing these "contracts" that will obligate women to have sex with men if the men pay for the date. Students, Schenk explained, would sign the contract before going out. Its provisions would give the man who pays for the entire evening the right to decide ifthere would be any sexual engagement "during or after the date." "Dating exists today as a form ofprostitution," Schenk said. "I'm asking women to either quit being prostitutes or be honest prostitutes." Schenk also conceded that he is "not currently dating" anyone.... Oh, now there's a surprise. 
Against whom do college campuses really discriminate? Well at Michigan State University the answer is certainly not minorities (at least not those in the college of engineering). The feeling that minorities are unfairly treated at school is widely held throughout the nation. To curb this opinion and change attitudes that have been the cause ofit, there has been a great push, in recent years, to increase public awareness and to give minorities greater help and encourage­ment while in college. At Michigan State University, however, the administration may have gone overboard. It seems that in trying to compensate minority students in the engineering school the school has decided to automatically add 0.5 to their grade point averages, the Measure reports. The school's definition of "minorities" includes Asian-Americans. This inclusion has faculty members asking the question, "How do you add something to a GPA of4.0?" 
Taking LSD will help your GPA. The College Press Service reports in a study of400 students, conducted by the Student Health Center at Duke University, it was determined that fifty-four percent ofthe students who had used LSD have a grade point average of3.5 or above. Robert Gringle of the Student Health Center said, "Duke students seem to be able to juggle drug use with the ability to keep up their grades." But in a subsequent interview he cautioned the study's results saying they were preliminary· and that drugs probably do not help students improve their grades. "There's nothing like that that we could conceivably say," Gringle maintained. ''There's 
nothing we could say about that connection or lack of connection." 

Sorority treats its pledges like cows. A sorority at the University ofMaine at Orono has lost its recognition after a hazing incident in which pledges were branded with the initials of the Greek organization. The Chronicle of Higher Education reports that sixteen Alpha Chi Omega pledges were blindfolded and driven to a cemetery, where they were asked to walk between two rows of sorority sisters. At the end of their walk, the pledges were stamped with a metal instrument heated over a candle flame. Three of the pledges received minor burns. 
The annual ranking of colleges and universities by U.S. News and World Report is out. In the October IO issue the magazine ranks the top 125 schools in five different categories. For major college institutions the University of Notre Dame ranks 18th and for small comprehensive schools Saint Mary's College ranks 6th. 

Music/ Keith Tadrowski 


Discover a New Eden 

Keith Tadrowski tempts you with new releases from the Cocteau Twins and Talk Talk 
0 .K.,you'reready. You've tried Eurodisco, sister spider, but black just wasn't your color. You've done the paisley child, but 
R.E.M. was too jangly for your ears. You 
· even tried to be a Deadhead, but then your mom bleached all your tie-dyes because she thought you had vomited on them. I think you're ready for something new. Something different. 
I will lead you. 
Listen closely. Can you hear the soft ticking of hands? Can you see the metallic glow ofLED's? These things are your ene­mies. They are the demons of time, and they must be destroyed. Clock-radio, wristwatch, or even VCR -all must be removed from your room. When you have done this you will feel more at ease because time is a relative concept -relative to the en­vironment you create. Without clocks, time doesn't exist. That Biology test tomorrow? Forget it. Friday doesn't exist anymore. Fun,huh? 
Now you're ready for the next stage. Begin by covering your windows and doors with silver threaded duck tape, blocking out any stray dash of light. Darkness is integral to the process because without light, your eyesight is numbed. Without eyesight, you 're hearing is strengthened. 
Now tum offthe lights and lie down. You see nothing. You taste nothing. You smell nothing. You feel nothing. You are noth­ing. 
Now you're ready for the music. You consider something new wave, something so "hip" WVFI would play it, but then you realize progressive isn't appropriate when you want to digress. You consider listening to new age, but then you remember how quickly you'll fall asleep listening to George Winston meandering at a baby grand or Tangerine Dream fiddling with buttons. 
You need something with the bite of new wave, but with the subtlety ofnew age.You need some new wave age, a schizophrenic blend of both. Something that feels like your little sister put liquid heroin in your eyedrops because you wouldn't let her play her George Michael tape in the car. 
First, fumbling to the stereo, you put on the new album by the Cocteau Twins, Blue Bell Knoll , their first American release. It begins with the smooth pulse of a harpsi­chord and you can almost picture the ten­sion in your body drain out and stain the carpet. Cascading guitars join the rhythm, and then Liz Frazier starts to sing, rising and swelling with Gaelic syllables, ocassionally sprinkling in a word of English or French. She moans and coos, soothes and stutters, stretching her voice like syrupy strands of cotton candy, but you barely notice the tiny shards of glass resembling sugar. 
Just as she brings you to the edge of a dream, she'll drag you away, playing the role of the scalding mother, comforting and alienating. Pillows of keyboards and gui­tars hide what could be despair, what could be ecstasy. They are a band so indescribable even they have to submit to such opaque sorig titles as ''The Itchy Glowbo Blow,""A Kissed Out Red Floatboat" and "Ella Mega­last Burls Forever." Sure, they're elevator music for punks, but they still produce some of the most beautiful music on the market. 
By the end of the album you're stained in sweat, your heart thrashing, yet you feel 
TAlK TAlK 
;,(?': . i\(t ;,,/<, \_ -V,,s. 
, _ l \\ 1· ,, ~'.'; .., -~(· ''1) :i\ ;t\ 
~­
i 
_;' I 

comforted, as if your room has transformed into some deranged, nurturing womb. 
Still, you need more. You put on the new album by Talk Talk, Spirit ofEden . Once known for their synth pop, Talk Talk have gone off the deep end with this release, but· heck, you can go over the edge with them. 
There are no radio-ready singles. No dance tracks. There aren't even any recog­nizable "rock" instruments for the first two minutes, only the drones of a bassoon and harmonium, until a distorted guitar enters with a Traffic-like riff. Song structures build and collapse, melodies remain un­sure, tracks fade into each other repeating themes of corruption and salvation. 
"I'm just content to relax then drown within myself,»singer/writer Mark Hollis quivers, and by this time you know what he means. The album may be one pretentious, overlong ballad, but it's still incredible. It's a psychedelic tapestry embellished with Mexican bass and the Choir of Chelmsford Cathedral. 
When the album finishes and the silence hits, you suddenly remember being in kin­dergarten at Christmas time and cutting stars out of crepe paper. You smeared the edges with Elmer's glue and sprayed them with glitter, but the some of the sparkles always stuck between your fingertips. 
You run for the door, but it's gone. You try to turn on the lights but you can't find the switch. You claw at the floor, blindly, you can't find the window, you can't find the stereo. You're bleeding, jumping in dark­ness, twirling like a kissed out red floatboat. Glittering. 
You're in ecstasy. II 

November 3, 1988 s 







TICE 

LL' 
The Office of Student Affairs and student government are working together to give students a stronger voice in judicial procedures 


BY STEFFANIE KELLER 


f w·
e, the people," begins the 
most famous and central 

document of the United States legal system, the Constitution. The corollary document, the Bill ofRights, makes explicit the tenets of the Constitution and guarantees these rights for all citizens. 
Therightto trial by ajury ofyour peers is an essential element in the American criminal justice system. Thejudicial procedures ofthe University of Notre Dame also provide an outlet for the presentation of disciplinary cases to a .. jury ofpeers" in the form of in-hall judicial boards, affectionately known as J­boards. 
Although J-boards are a long-standing tra­dition at Notre Dame, the current judicial council, comprised of the J-board chairper­sons ofeach hall, the judicial coordinator, the assistant judicial coordinator and the judicial cabinet, are· working to more clearly define the role ofJ-boards, according to Arty Peles, judicial coordinator. 
"From the responses that student govern­ment gathered from last spring's task force reports, it became clear that there was a · desire for more student involvement in judi­cial procedures," said Peles. ''From this response, the judicial council decided to 


form a committee to define the role ofthe in­hall judicial boards." According to the current Notre Dame Judi­cial Council By-Laws, prepared by the judi­
cial council of student government, "Any system that deprives students of the right to 
participate in establishing and enforcing standards for their own conduct not only deprives them of a learning experience, but also contradicts the idea of a university as a center for knowledge and personal maturity. 
Since undergraduate life at Notre Dame is 
organized around the residence halls, they 
represent the primary opportunity for stu­dents to accept responsibility for governing their own affairs. Thejudicial board system is established in order to meet this immediate 
purpose." 
In addition to the by-laws, ·which Peles said would also be revised this year, a section of_ DuLac is dedicated to a discussion of J­boards. Du Lac states that "students subject 
to disciplinary ~ction may choose to have 
their cases considered by the rector or by the hall judicial board. The rector shall make the 
student aware of this option in each discipli­
nary action." 
Du Lac goes on to say, ''Rectors are strongly urged to use the hall judicial board and to limit their handling of disciplinary cases to those which are truly serious or sensitive or involve pastoral concerns not appropriate for a judicial board." 

"The difficulty with many J-boards is where the line is drawn as to what the rector takes and whattheJ-board talces," said Vinny Sanchez, co-chairman of the committee to revise in-hall judicial boards. "Right now, Du Lac is a little vague. We would like to find out more specifically what these 'pastoral concerns' are." 
Feles said he agreed that the current word­ing of Du Lac is "a little sketchy. It's a little hard to define what pastoral concerns are," he said. "We would like to see something more tangible, clearer, in Du Lac." 
The Judicial Council has been working with the Office of Student Affairs to try and develop a fuller definition of the role of J­boards and the student's role in the judicial process. Feles said that Ann Firth, director of residence life and Elizabeth Pawlicki, assistant director of residence life, attended the last meeting of the judicial council to answer questions and aid the council in its committment to re-vitalize the J-boards. 
"The whole J-board area is a new one for this office," said Pawlicki. (Firth's secretary said that she would not grant an interview.) 
"It's not an area that we've been involved in previously. We (in residence life) have been brainstorming for ideas to work more effectively with the judicialcouncil and work to get rid of the perceived adversial relation­ship with this office regarding discipline." Pawlicki said that she has worked with I­.boards at other schools and would like to be a resource for students in that area. "The first step is to get a sense of where we are now," she said. 
Sanchez said that his committee is talcing steps to do just that "We're preparing an interview sheet for each chairperson regard­ing the history of J-boards in their halls," he said. ''There will also be a section aimed at the rector. H:opefully, this will give the rector and the chairperson ari opportunity to sit down and talk about the role ofthe J-board in their hall." 
Fisher hall rector, Brother Edward Luther, and assistant rector, Joseph Ross, have al­ready talcen steps to strengthen Fisher's J­board. "It's very important thatthere is a peer group who provides a standard for commu­nity living," said Ross. Fisher's J-board has met this year, under Ross's direction, to dis­cuss theories of discipline and punishment and to suggest a meeting process which would not be threatening to those brought before the board. 
"It's our duty to make them feel at ease," said Omar Al-Farisi,aJ-boardmember. "We should not be seen as an interrogation board. It is our duty to make them feel that we respect them and that we are a just commit­tee. The model that Joe (Ross) showed us would allow that." 
Sanchez said that his committee is hoping to provide, with the help of student affairs, similar training for all J-board members. "We would like to set up training sessions that J-board members and rectors could at­tend to better equip them to handle certain situations," he said. Pawlicki said that she supported this idea and her office would work with student governmei;it to implement it. 
"Our role is to be a support and a resource," Pawlicki said. "We're definitely committed to the training and we'd like toconductitand show the J-board members how they can best handle certain situations that may be pre­sented to them." Pawlicki also said that J­boards have been "a real disaster" at some campuses and that she would like to see Notre Dame's system evolve to meet its current needs: 
An additional voice that students have in judicial procedures is the recent addition ofa student representative on the board which hears appeals of cases involving suspension from the university. Previously, this board had consisted ofa five person panel offaculty and administrators. Pawlicki said that this change in the appellate system, as well as a few others were the result of a mandate from the officers of the University to examine the appellate system. 
"We surveyed comparable institutions to see how they handled appeals," said Pawlicki. From this infonnation, the Office of Student Affairs changed the appeals proc­ess. Previously, the judicial review board heard all appeals, from suspension to much lesser sanctions. Now, the board hears ap­peals only involving suspension; cases in­volving pennanent dismissal from the uni­versity go directly to the president of the university. Appeals involving lesser sanc­tions go to the vice-president of student af­fairs underthe revised system. These changes were published in the 1988-89 edition of Du Lac. 




"We feel that the new process is reasonable because the most serious offenses with the greatest impact on the student, the appeals procedures are treated differently than the more minor cases," said Pawlicki. "It's not reasonable that the minor cases would go through the same degree ofprocess as ihose in which the stakes are higher. That's the reason behind the current three-tier process." Pawlicki said that this change was made known to rectors and hall staffs during their orientatiori sessions. No fonnal notice of the change was made to the students, although Pawlicki said that each student is provided with and expected to be familiar with the new copy of DuLac provided each year. 
Pawlicki also said that a student who is involved in a heari_ng with the Office_of Stu­dent Affairs is provided with a copy ofDuLac with pertinent sections highlighted. One of these sections states, "The charged student may be assisted, but not represented by un­dergraduate counsel. The student govern­ment judicial coordinator can be helpful to students seeking undergraduate counsel." Feles said that he does not feel enough stu­
tWi,J li~e·.·to ..see. St~delif goyJrmne~t·.· a~d. stij~~nt.if!fiiri.'1f:~ally'.c6ili~:.~p•··wi~h•·a.•.g~()d.·solid·..defjniti.011•·9fa··.J~bo~td_.,ng:;• >:i!s.fu~~ti.oni•~-.•.A·••~-boar~•.s~Qµl~.·..~.~f-~a~.d_Ieany~P~.~g••!~ftti.f,•·•····
:;.,~tgh1y'._~o~fjcl~11ti~],:of/fery'. s~ti.ous,:sucli···~S··.Pa.ri~tal·..•vio1a-)· 
EFisli~r>halll-ector-··.. 
~ ..,,.,. 

dents are aware of this aspect of his job. 
"I act-as an advocate for the student," Feles said. "I can accompany them to the hearing or answer questions about the process before they go in." Feles stressed that he keeps such matters highly confidential and said that more students need to be aware of this op­tion. Currently, he said that he does not act in this capacity on a consistent basis. 
While Sanchez and Feles are looking to­ward a stronger, more clearly defined idea of student involvement in judicial procedures, in no way do they merely want to make each J-board a carbon copy of the next. 
"We want to allow each dorm to build tradition and earn respect within their J­board," said Sanchez. "We want to leave some uniqueness, yet provide some sugges­tions and guidelines so that J-boards that aren't currently being used to their fullest capactity may be." 
Ross and Luther both said that they recog­nize a certain inconsistency in J-board use from hall to hall. "There's a great variety from hall to hall here," said Ross. "The last thing that we want is for every hall to be alike. One of the purposes ofpeer discipline is that it can be more effective, though. Sometimes it's easier for the hall staff to handle a situ­ation, but it may not always be best for the hall." 

'Tm ·not sure that all rectors see the bene­fits of an active J-board," said Luther. "I'd like to see student government and student affairs really come up with a good solid definition ofa J-board and its function. Once there is a good u11derstanding, everything will fall into place from there." Luther also stressed the idea that a J-board should give only positive discipline, such as in hall serv­ice, rather than fines. He also said that the rector should retain a certain amount ofjuris­diction of what cases a J-board hears. "A J­board should not handle anything that is highly confidential or very serious, such as parietal violations or cases involving alco­hol." 
"A J-board can handle anything else, but the keyword is can," said Ross. "It's difficult to categorize things when you're dealing with people. Sometimes, the R.A. or a member of the hall staff can look more deeply into the problem and find that a particular action is a symptom rather than the problem itself. That is the tension between a strictly judicial versus a pastoral approach-we could spend 24 hours a day just handling the viola­tions without ever treating the people." 
Sanchez said that he recognizes the diffi­culties his committee has ahead of them. "Right now, we're trying to gather informa-· tioil and lay the groundwork," he said. "It's going to take a long time to build a strong foundation. That's why I wanted to chair this committee. As a sophomore, I'm committed to spending time seeing the project through." 


...is what you might get.from your hall's f oodsales, but for those less fortunate, help may be right around the corner. Here's the definitive guide to the good, the bad and 

the non-existent of hall f oodsales 
REVIEWED BY CHRIS KILEY , BRIAN McKINLEY, VIVIENNE PADILLA AND KEVIN SPROULE 
W 
ith cold weather quickly approaching and storm clouds 
looming on the horizon, students will soon start stretch­
ing their afternoon naps right through dinner. Icy sidewalks and equally frozen ears will almost certainly deter many otherwise avid dining hall fans from trekking across the snowy quad to the nearest dining hall. Maybe the thought ofone more disguised veal patty will make them long for a home-cooked meal. Since most Notre Dame undergrads are at home in any ofthe 26 residence halls on campus, it seems only natural that they would turn inward to their respective residence hallfoodsalesfor a late night snack. But why not venture to another hall and try something different? Maybe you are concerned that the pizza may be like the last SYR date you got from that dorm -cold and slimy with aflaky crust. Well, you needn't worry. Scholastic has assembled a "cracker jack" staff of seasoned samplers to put the best to the test and "pan" the imposters. During October, six undercover teams criss-crossed the campus searching for what's hot and what's not in campus cuisine. They rated eachfoodsalefromone to five. Judging was based on a variety offactors including the quality, variety, and price ofthefood. Behind closed doors, the four reviewers have met to decide the fate of all foodsales. Their findings are revealed in the following report. 
ALUMNI: Alumni foodsales makes you want to wear shades because of its bright green and yellow motif. Its menu is almost just as dazzling, except for the fact that many items listed on the menu are not actually available. In fact, the food supply was measly to say the least When I tried to ordera milkshake, onefoodsales employee said, "The milkshakes?...It's not that we don't have them, they're just nonexistent." They ought to be sued for false advertising. 
The thick crust and the sheer magnitudeofcheeseon their pizza, the variety ofchips and cookies on their shelves, and the plethora of hot dogs and pretzels try to salvage a foodsales that just left a bad taste in my mouth. The pizza prices at Alumni are reasonable: a small pizza is $1. 75 with 25 cents for each topping. They also offer two sizes of soda. To top everything off, they didn't even have napkins! [**] 
BADIN: If it's pizza you're looking for, make sure you don't go to Badin. It doesn't exist. The only thing closely resembling it is the pizza muffin, and that is a poor imitation. You are initially fooled by the generous portions ofcheese and sauce, but the fact that you have to eat it on a soggy Thomas' kills any expected pizza pleasure. This foodsales' redeeming quality is a unique menu item: grilled cheese. This well-priced snack is a great alternative for those non-pizza lovers. They also stock nachos as well as a wide variety ofcandy and soda. 
Their location, tucked neatly around the comer from the front door, is a big asset. This may encourage students other than Badinites to 
,I 
experience their "pizza." However, the best time to visit their foodsales is on Sunday nights when they close down for free post­mass snacks and drinks. I almost thought that Badin was great because they gave me chocolate cake. But then I tried a pizza muffin. [**] 
BREEN-PHILLIPS: This is a year of transition for this dorm's foodsales. Formerly run under dorm auspices, ithas now been turned over to the students, with profits going to the managers. This appears to be a good maneuver, evidenced by the vastly improved pizza. However, it is slightly overpriced, with 7" going for $2.00 and 10" for$3.50. T~.is could bedue to profit-hungry managers ortheancient oven which may shrink the 'zas. The best buy for the buck, however, are nachos, which put the Huddle to shame. Topped with two types of cheese and the option for pizza sauce, this treat makes you want 
to make a run for the border. 
A big convenience has been eliminated this year, with B.P. residents no longer being able to have a charge account It could be a blessing in disguise, depending upon how you look at it. Other than pizza and nachos you won't find much, and if you plan to eat your snack in front ofthe lounge TV you'll be sorely disappointed. Even Fonzi's magic touch wouldn't be able to make the flickering piece of crap work right. [***] 
CARROLL: Having to trek under a blizzard at night to some distant planet, just to find out that these outcasts ­

don'thaveamiserablefoodsa-A stationary bike In Howard stands in front of the ordering window. FISHER: I'd like to tell you les is a most exasperating and '---------------------------..... about all the delicious food I 
amusing experience, something out of Calvin's adventures as "Spaceman Spiff." They do have a very nice mini rec-room equipped withvideogameandotherthingssuchasadejectedoldpianothatcan still make some sweet Mozart .... But for those people that didn't even know it existed, Carroll is a-very good "haunted house." 
CAVANAUGH: Unfortunately, thebestthingCavanaugh'sfoodsa­les has to offer is friendly workers. They understand that their foodsales is in sad shape. The workplace consists ofborrowed typing tables set up in a hallway in the basement. Once I realized this really was their foodsales, I was curious to find out what they had to offer. When I asked the foodsales employee, the kind worker dutifully re­plied, "pizza and pretzels." Fortunately the pizza was good. I guess, as the Colonel says, they do pizza right because pizza is (almost) all they do. The prices were reasonable with the small pizza costing $2.00 and the large costing $3.50. Toppings were 25 cents extra. Also, Cavanaugh had a decent lounge area adjacent to the foodsales 
10 

which was perfect for makeshift dining purposes. Perhaps with better facilities they could improve, but at this point their poor selection really hurts them. [*l/2] 
DILLON: Their foodsales has been terminated this year.apparently due to a disagreement between the managers and the rector. Don't feel sorry for these guys, though, because the Night Oak is only a stone's throw away. Well, maybe you should still feel sorry for them. 
FARLEY: "Farley Foodsales" is a very original name for aboutthe biggest candy store on campus. You name it, they have it! For what I call real food, try a pizza bagel. Don't forget to remind the attendant to bum them so that they are at least warm. The same goes for their nachos and pretzels. Farley foodsales also affords the student too lazy to walk over to the bookstore the opportunity to pick up some 
common everyday necessities including laundry detergent, sanitary pads and apple sauce. 

Although the place is kept clean, a dining atmosphere is just nonexistent. The room is very hot and kind of dingy, it just makes you want to get out of there and forget about eat­ing. This may sound like a dieter's delight, but they de­liver and payment in cash or check is accepted. I've seen both the best and the worst , foodsales on this campus and Farley falls somewhere in the middle. I have to give Farley's foodsales a three-star rating for their incredible candy rack. [***] 
purchased and subsequently ate at Fisher's foodsales. I'd really like to. Butfirst, I think I should describe the huge helping ofcrow dished out by the Lone Star Cafe. Two years ago, this very publication unmercifully lambasted the Green Wave' s feeble attempt at slingin' hash. Well no more! Ample seating and an attractive eating area signal only the beginning of The Grand Transformation which has taken place at Fisher. 
The nachos sell for $1.00 with an option for nachos supreme (chili on top with extra cheese) for $1.35. Since I don't like chili, I opted for the basic nachos. I have to admit that when it comes to nacho cheese I'm a slut. I'll eat and like just about any brand of cheese, so it should be no surprise when I say that I liked them. Also, the portion is fair for the dollar you pay. 
The nachos are the perfect appetizer for the hot ham and cheese sandwich. Oh, if only I could explain the taste sensation! A fresh sesame seed bun lovingly surrounds a uniformly-melted slice of American cheese which, in tum, presses down on the tasty, lean meat. 
Scholastic 


This is a sandwich. And foronly75 cents, to boot! Ifthis isn'tenough for you, try the hamburger foronly 75 cents (cheese is IO cents extra). Delivered piping hot, this too is a pleasant surprise. Everything is great to this point, right? Well, the next obvious choice from the menu would be pizza. Unfortunately, the 12" pizza for $3 .50 was out ofmy price range, they were out of the 7" size ($2.00), and they weren't 

doesn't count. Who knows, if it's good pizza and I had gotten to try some, Fisher might be staring a big fat five right in the face. Sorry though, guys, I can only give you four and one-half stars. [****1/2] 
FLANNER: The first thing that impresses about Flanner foodsales is that. they actually sell food, not junk. Their prices are very reasonable since they sell most of their things at face value. They might only have had 2 kinds ofsoda, but they also have OJ, hot dogs, pretzels, nachos, turkey and roast beef sandwiches, and the usual chips, dips, and cookies (Gourmet!). On the subject of pizza, the combination ofa crisp, thick crust, a reasonable amount ofcheese and a topping, gets "thumbs up" from me. 
Besides the food, the clean, open dining area is adjacent to a big screen TV, which makes you eata lot more ( depending on the ads that suddenly become larger than life), or leave your food and take a cold shower, depending, of course, on the choice of programming that Flannerites might have on (which usually tends to provoke the latter). They also have video games to complete a rather perfect study break. The only thing that might not be conducive to a socializing atmos­phere is the rather dark environment which does wonders for the bar scene but not fora study break. To round things up they don 'tdeliver, though payments can be made cash or check, therefore I think they deserve a good four and one-half stars. [****1/2] 
GRACE: In recent years Sarge's has gained a campus-wide reputa­tion as one ofthe best foodsales going. Complete with a neon sign and oak booths, Sarge's gives you the impression you've entered a restaurant. It might as weII be, considering its excellent menu and huge dining area. The selection ofchips, candy, and pop is second to none. Subs, burritos, and chili-cheese dogs round out the menu. 
Yet atmosphere does not a good pizza make! Grace is supposedly a men's dorm; too bad they don't have a man-sized pizza. Atop a paper thin, cardboard-like crust is a beggars amount of sauce and cheese that only Father Nieuwland could have appreciated. This pizza's saving grace is that it is reasonably priced. Maybe this was an off night at Sarge's but I call 'em as I taste 'em. Overall, the atmosphere and selection win out and Sarge's is near the top ofcam­pus foodsales. [****] 
HOWARD: Ifyou are going down to the basement at Howard for a bite to eat you will probably be as surprised as I was. There is no foodsales. Apparently no one will run this establishment. However, Howard has placed a stationary bike in front ofthe ordering window. Cruel joke or subtle hint -you decide. No stars for food but one for the bike. [*] 
HOLY CROSS: Wow, are these guys Hogs! I mean, ifthey can eat those huge pizzas at one sitting, I say "Watch out, William Perry!" A 16" pizza retails for $5.85 and, while that may sound expensive, this is most definitely a four person project. The cook is generous with the cheese and toppings (pepperoni and sausage are available) and if you're not up for a whole 'za, slices are only 80 cents. Again, this is worth it, believe me. My only gripe is that the slice ofpepperoni that I tried was slightly undercooked and therefore too doughy. 
The rest of the menu is pretty basic. The pretzels are hot and soft and inexpensive relative to other dorms' prices (40 cents). One original item that Holy Cross offers is Gourmet Cookies. At three for a dollar, you're on your own. I am intrigued, however, by an order ofnachos which goes for $1.75. I think ifl ever go back to try them, I'll have to bring my big brother to help me finish. A spacious dining area is amenable to a positive dining experience and my experience was worth the hike to that far away place they can Holy Cross. [***] 
KEENAN: O.K., O.K ... we all know they are good, but I couldn't believe how good they really were. They have a wide variety of 

sandwiches, soda, hot dogs, nachos, etc., etc. Their pizza is really good, kind of soggy, but good. They have pool and ping-pong tables, video games, a big screen TV, and plenty oflounging room. Service is excellent! The environment is clean, comfortable, and relaxing. Zaland is the perfect alternative to our "divinely outrageous" manni­cotti orpasta bar at the dining halls. So take a break from those cereals at dinner, and shoot some pool with a good friend while wating for a pizza, for which you can pay by either check or cash. This wonder foodsales deserves 5 stars! [*****] 

i:· 
•l 
11 



KNOTT: Considering it is a new dorm we must give its ratings the benefit of the doubt, whatever that might be. Since it's ?1ew, their ambiance is, ofcourse, impeccably clean, spacious, and definitely not crowded. Their prices are a little high for the quality. Their pizza (small) is $2.00 and 35 cents extra per topping; and what you get is a very soggy combination of cheese, sauce, and topping -which in. the words ofan expert was "notawesome, not good," and not a pizza. 
So what else do they sell? Well, for warm food, you can get a ba­gel or some nachos. Then to drink, you have a wide variety ofsodas. Knott foodsales also offers a limited variet ofchi s, pop tarts, micro­
wave pop com, and some candy (you could say 'no candy' com­pared with Far­ley), but as I said in the beginning, they are new, they . accept cash, and the woinan work­ing there very in­volved with what 


he was doing. So for dedication and cleanliness I defi­nitely give Knott two stars. [**] LEWIS: For­merly known as The Bitchen Kitchen, Lewis foodsales now goes by the narrie Dome Zone. The blinking traffic light. which adorns the wall should only blink yellow ~ proceed 
Chuck Ray with caution. The Mike Hickey helps to keep Flanner's foodsa-Dome Zone also les variety one of the best on campus. should be re­
named the Loading Zone because it resembles a stock room as well as a kitchen. There is garbage everywhere! 
Fortunately, the bland atmosphere has not infected the pizza. It is made in just a few minutes and priced very well at $1.25. They only have one size, however, and that's smallby mostfoodsales standards. In fact, the overall selection is average at best. They stocka decent assorunent of chips, candy, and soda but pizza is the only hot food they serve. Eating on the run is a necessity at the DomeZonebecause there is no dining area unless you are willing to sit on the stacked up cases ofsoda that litter the floor. When leaving the Dome Zone you once again pass the blinking light signalling, perhaps, that you are in the middle of the road -it is very average. Minus one for the name 
change. [**1/2] LYONS: The resemblance ofLyons' foodsales to a closet immedi­ately tells you that you are not getting something from a kitchen. The pizza they use comes frozen and they try to add cheese but unfortu­nately this backfires. Thepizza, probably because ofthe extra cheese is uncooked in the middle and suffers because of it. They provid; your regular assorun.ent of snacks and sodas but the selection in the closet is average at best. Prices are reasonable, but. there is no reason they should not be, especially considering what you get for your dol­lar. Also, there is virtually no atmosphere at the foodsales. You must search all over the place for 
a T.V.========,,,,-~-.. · lounge if you want to eat in optimal dining comfort. It is obvious that foodsales is not a big deal in Lyons. 
Their small, poor pizza is the reason1 ,l,c;;.;. it receives only one star. [*] MORRISSEY: Alex's Bar & Vic's Grill subscribes to the belief that God helps those who help them­selves. At this Bar & Grill the pizzal >•••r?•••}•i 
is only as good as the chef the customer. When you order your ,,-,.:a.:;.JL!.PI ,i.,···•·····• ... , .....,.,,., .. , ... pizza they hand you a cold un­cooked pizza and point you toward old, decrepit ovens and say, "five or ten minutes." This original shock is immediately compounded ··by the 
billowing smoke leaving the ovens. Despite this, Alex &Vic do provide :.cos.....;""'.'':'f".~1.--",a,..,,._.,,.,JLJ,::-,• a good variety of food. They offer pizza, nachos and a few different1 <,~•·:.:.:.•:.:.:c:.:Lc n .........,... ....__......,.., 
types of burritos. · However, with these items the customer must also do the cooking. A high point of Alex's & Vic's is that they offer many different specials to accomo­date the student who wants a snack 
and a drink. The dingy aunosphere IS•tlL<..ti> ••>vT"fr'·.,,,...• ..,.,.·• is very fitting for a bar & grill. Alex's & Vic's redeeming qualities 
·····••·•···•·· •········ 

are their good selection and the hope that all students are as good a cook as I am. [***]
PANGBORN: With theadditiono l>~~fil'.;M·~:\~!~i:t\~Jfi•••~·,,y••,•.i.~•i• 
cement lions to the front porch, it is obvious that attempts are being
I •<:.,cc:;;:,c...:; 

made to spruce up Pangborn. Inside isn't too bad either. Despite its cramped surroundings, Pangbom's foodsales succeeds in turning out some decent food. 
The pizza is offered in slices ( one /.t.'{~:;.• i.~.·.~•{. 1\; for 70 cents, two for $1.10) as well as whole, which makes for a con­venient, but expensive, snack when 

no one else else in the section wants to go in on a whole pie. And, while they don't skimp on the cheese, the toppings (sausage and pepperoni are offered) are spread a little thinly. Another disappoint­ingaspect is the bland sauce which is pasted to the crust. I realize their suppliers don't fumish them with gourmet sauces, but it doesn't take much effort to liven up the flavor with some garlic, salt and oregano. Fortunately, the crust is thick enough without falling into the trap of being too doughy. And it was HOT (seeSorin'sreview)! It seems as f if these guys know when a pizza is ready to be taken out of the oven. The hot do s, which o for 70 cents, are nothing special. However, 
( . ... . ;: • •. , > <soft pretzels are the cheapest around 




1.the•<Wo·rst'.,;·..·
.. ~~ t::~!~r:i::;:h~::::~~i~~ 
;ood,s~!les;k~~li~ >~~:!e;!:.o for a dollar, are a wel-
Also on the menu, but not tasted, 
. .if; are assorted chips, roast beef and tur­
. · ' key sandwiches. A decent selection 
• of drinks -soda, lemonade, chocolate 
·• : ? ; >; and white milk, orange and apple ......:il.....;;.(i.~..~.IIfa.~~}*} ·...· ···juices -rounds out the selection. ·· ..·. ' >·. > '. ..
................................*****('' [****]
. 

,.....~;.:..•.~ ....I..;..1..:~•~f=l:.*:1'.1$ 
.~.......J...;.'.1......~ ...~J:=ti.:f::J./2 PASQUERILLA EAST: Despiteits
·.··,,·"'***:l<F·

................................ • limited space, P.E.'s foodsales man­...........;~;;~.;~.;~.;••:~..;.*~:f::* ·· • i ages to putout a decentpizzabagel for .• .• <> .'y <' ,.•..••.• ; JWl:ir j only $LIO. (Please bear in mind that c::.:::.T.:;'.:~·~:.~?T.'E.'.(~:S:f}1·f* i this statement emanates from some­

one who, before the start of this sur­
vey, was fundamentally opposed to 
the concept of a "pizza bagel.") And, ....;;.;;.•.....~;;i~..i••:~•~:.~¥¥¥ . ,;:{:, so long as you avoid the personal size ..\......:......I}.:~~];(J.(H~·*· ()' pizza, you're dining experience 
i:......;l;....:.:tc~i~L~~;{fi~,;:;, :should be satisfactory. Not great, < .. ·. > ... . :1<:1<:1< y \ mind you, only satisfactory. Unlike 
·""'.···•...'...~·~••............... 0 the pizza bagel, which is uniformly ;.;..;...~.:...JL.i.1.:1:U.:..***•··. '.: hot and well made, the personal pizza••· ·. ·.·. ;·· < / **1.•·1·2··· ./C i is prefabricated and its sauce suffers

·····················;·~~---·;;,~.·,. .-:·,:·_'. :::;
.:;}~;.u.,;:.I~.:~~~~L~IfYiri::,: \ from a third degree case of freezer .•~:..•~~i~~·~~~:•~·~·~:~:~·}1~:~'.~t1jlli·~~:~-*/'.}\!:-bum. 
:......::•..L..:~.~.L\li.L.%~'.:Y! :cS: (p~::ts,:~:~~i.0:ic.ta1t~:~~;~~; 
.~.....;J..j;••j,.....~liJ1b.,J~~H:'. "F•· priced, might enhance your dining 
[~~}f.d!i~Ifj~Jff~f.ti·\1i~~m1If~~¥1 
;:~•.~.~.L...lL.)l..1••U.lUfaoJ ,i\<.:; • ridors of P.E. Architects are strange :.......;iL.:~..~.fLL~..}3:6J :i))i people. Still, overall, the food is good 
enough tomeritP.E. three stars.[***]

PASQUERILLA WEST: Upon entering PW's foodsales, one won­ders whether they have entered a simple snack bar or a 7-11. These­lection here is amazing. Not only can you get something on the run, you can shop for weeks to come. Macaroni & cheese, breakfast cereal, Pop Tarts, yogurt, canned cheese, and crackers are just some of the items present at the PW grocery. 
This foodsales has also strayed away from the traditional pizza by offering the all-popular pizza bagel. Unlike some dorms who offer the same dish, PW knows how to cook it. For only $1.00, this item really fills you up. Other Italian treats include calzone ($2.00) and regular sized pizza. The only drawback is that the atmosphere leaves something to be desired. Instead of waiting for a pizza, you get the feeling that you are in your doctor's office waiting for a flu shot. Overall, you are bound to find something to appease the late night munchies in this couch potato's heaven. [****] 
ST.EDWARD'S: Conveniently located at the entrance to the dorm, residents and visitors are often enticed by the aroma emanating from Santo Edwardo's Pizzeria. Pizza, as usual, is the big seller, but Santo's also offers such items as corn dogs, chili-cheese dogs, and nachos. The big drawback here is lack of any dining area or display 

counters. This foodsales' service, both friendly and exceptionally quick, aids the average quality of the food. Any pizza that can be delivered in a blink ofan eye is a winner in my book, whetherit tastes like dirt or not. The pizza, in all fairness, isn't bad, but it could be better. Overall, the location and service make this foodsales a success and for that they receive three stars. [***] 
SIEGFRIED: This newcomer on the foodsales scene is a pleasant surprise. The most striking feature is its cleanliness, complete with spotless floors and counters. It's almost as though you've entered your mom's kitchen, with pizza being cook~ in the oven and Rice Krispie treats on the stove. Their workers are very friendly and dressed in bright colors (not really a basis for judging foodsales but a bonus nonetheless). One employee was even wearing "hot" pink trousers! However, their lack ofselection and stock made it apparent that they are a little green yet. 
Siegfried has followed in the footsteps of their nearly identical sister dorms, P.W. and P.E., by offering pizza bagels, small pizza, 
November 3, 1988 


nachos and about every diet pop ever STANFORD: Stanford's success in marketed in America. Given a little athletics is probably tied to their success time and a catchy name (possibly in foodsales. This pizza is good, and has Pinky's), this foodsales could be a been for several years. Whether they force to be reckoned with. [***] secret recipe or recruit good 
cooks is unknown, but the end result is SORIN: Both the pizza and dining always top-notch pizza. Fortunately, 
· atmosphere at this granddaddy of the limited working area, average selec­Catholic college dormitories prove tion, and almost nonexistent dining area disappointingly chilly. While the are overshadowed by this tasty treat. pizza initially excites the senses with !so, the prices of their pizzas are very a generous portion of cheese and a reasonable. It is apparent that this thick crust, the first bite leaves you 
foodsales has emphasized what counts wondering whether the oven is fired 
most, pizza, and left all the frills for the up. I really didn't know if I should 
girl's dorms. This aspect warrants the finish chewing it or spit it out. It was :tfour stars they deserve.[****] cold for cryin' out loud! Well, I guess you never pass up free food or WALSH: At first sight, a brightly beer, so I kept eating. In all faimesss ain ted room with ample seating space to the screaming otters, the scuttle­invites you to enter the Walsh foodsa­but has it that they were trying out a : . Ies. Caveat emptor and turn and run for new, thicker crust. Their inexperi­-or more accurately, your ence with this new fare could be the '"" stomachs. The mini-pizza for $1.00 is reason for the icy interior of a well­... no bargain; and if you are allergic to priced pizza ($2.50 for a small; $3.50 reen peppers, sausage, or pepperoni, for a large). call your Ia wyer because un benownst to 
Also available, but not sampled, the customer, these goodies come with are reasonably priced hot dogs (60 your freezer burnt, preprepared hockey cents, plus five cents for cheese), puck -I mean pizza (?). Then, to add burritos (85 cents), candy (50 cents), insult to bad quality, you even have to chips and nachos (three sizes of cook it yourself. Heck, I might as well each), and overpriced soft pretzels ·ust buy a pack of weenies and roast (45 cents), sodas and orange juice. Not too bad considering this foodsa­
Jeannie Sabin carves up a fresh pepperoni pizza at them on a stick over a flaming garbage Flanner. Kathleen McKernan can! 'Nough said about the pizza. 
les is limited to a glorified closet. Now, if they only had someplace to eat the food beside the front doorway of the dorm. On the whole, not very impressive from this 
university's oldest dorm. [**1/2] 

Kathleen McKernan 

Sean Sullivan demonstrates the secret of Zahm's success: 
The selection is sparse, and as for the highly touted popcorn: what a bust! The sign reads: "The best and cheapest popcorn on campus." Sure, but only if you're on a low salt diet or enjoy feeding birds/ducks dry popcorn. It is bland, so keep away. [*] ZAHM: Alphabetically or not, we've definitely saved the best for last. These guys have definitely made all the right moves, starting with the seldom used idea ofpizza-to-go. A person on the run can stop in and pick up a piping hot, juicy piece ofpizza right out of the oven. They have three styles to choose from (cheese, sausage, and pepper­oni) displayed on a well-kept selection table. For those with a heartier appetite, dorm residents can also order whole pizzas at very reason­able prices. The pizza is in a league by itself, and comparisons to Pizza Hut are not far-fetched. The combination ofcrispy crust, ample sauce, and delicious cheese make this foodsales the only one to blend these ingredients into a truly exceptional pizza. The selection is also outstanding. Burritos, deli sandwiches, and every brand of chip and soda on the market round out an already great menu. Nothing else need be said except that some of the lesser foodsales should take lessons from these guys in cooking pizza and serving students. [*****] 
"Never too much sauce, never too much toppings." 
COMPILED BY LISA EATON



sportsweek 
Freshman DAVID DILUCIA won the "A" flight championship of the Tom Fallon/Notre Dame Invita­tional during the past weekend. DiLucia defeated Mark Leschly ofHarvard in the finals, 6-2, 6-7 (1-7), 6--0. WALTER DOLHARE also had a strong show­ing before losing in the quarterfinals to Leschly. DiLucia and Dolhare teamed up for doubles action, finishing runner-up to a strong Wisconsin team. 
Last weekend the Notre Dame men's cross coun­try team won the Midwestern Collegiate Conference championships. Notre Dame defeated defending champion Loyola by placing ten runners in the top fifteen. The Irish were lead by seniors RON MARKEZICH, who won the event, and DAN GAR­RETT. Also turning in good performances were TOM O'ROURKE, RICK MULVEY, and RYAN 
CAHILL . The Irish are now preparing for the Nov. 12 Dis­trict IV meet in Champaign, IL. 
Last week the women's cross country team fin­ished second in the Midwestern Collegiate Confer­ence championship. The top Irish finisher was LUCY NUSRALA coming in second. She was 
closely followed by THERESA RICE, LINDA FI-
kills and no ·.• errors .. in twenty-thr~e At­t~mpts inthe Irish victory over OhioState and 18>kiHs. inthe team's. victorypver 1:,SU. Shea is. a ·consistent and• critical player for the Irish volleyball team'. 
LAR, TERESA LEMANSKI, and KEV ALEEN RYAN. The Irish are now gearing up for the NCAA District IV meet Nov. 12. 
The women's soccer team is now 13-5-1 after losing their last two games. The Irish were shut out by Dayton 6-0 and then lost to Xavier 2-1 in overtime. 
K.T. SULLIVAN scored the only Irish goal of the weekend. 
The team travels to Michigan State for their last game of the season on Nov. 4. 
After two losses and a win last week the Irish are now 2-4. MARK HANZEL, TIM CADDO, and TIM KUEHL all added a goal in the team's Tuesday night loss to University of Alaska-Anchorage. UAA scored eight goals on the night The Irish were once again 
defeated 8-3 on Friday night by Rochester Institute of Technology. Irish goals were scored by Hanzel, DAVID BANKOSKE and BOBBY BILTON. 
Saturday night the Irish defeatedR.I.T. 3-2 in over­

time. Hanzel and CRAIG KLEIS scored during regu­lation time and BRUCE GUAY scored the game win­ning goal in overtime. 
Next week the team is host to the University of Michigan-Dearborn and later travels to Dearborn to face the Wolves again. 
MARY KAY WALLER and MAUREEN SHEA led the Irish to victory over Ohio State last Tuesday 15-5, 16-14, 15-7. Sixth-ranked Nebraska defeated the Irish 15-12,15-7,15-13 on Friday. The Irish de­
feated LSU at home on Saturday 14-16,15-13,15­5,15-IO. They are now 12-9 for the season. Waller paced the team with 21 kills. The Irish travel to Eastern Michigan Nov. 4 and host the University of Michigan Nov. 5. 
tional Gatorade Oassic with victories over Penn State and Boston University. Senior RANDY MORRIS had four goals, one goal assisted by goalkeeper DANNY LYONS. Others scoring for the Irish were 
MARK CROWE and TIGER McCOURT. 
Upcoming for the Irish is the Midwestern Colle­giate Conference championship and then the season closing game against the University of Wisconsin­
Green Bay Nov. 2. 
Notre Dame wrestling opens its season Nov. 6 at the Michigan State Invitational. The Irish won the tournament for the first time last year. Returning for the Irish are ANDY RADENBAUGH, JERRY DURSO, PAT BOYD, TODD LAYTON, MARK GERARDI, TODD TOMAZIC, and CHRIS GENESER. The Irish are also gaining the support of freshmen MARCUS GOWENS, a Junior Olympian, TOM SALVINO and CHUCK WEAVER. 
The men's swimming team opens its season Nov. 3 against Texas Christian in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. The Irish are hoping to improve on their 13-3 record oflast year. The Irish are relying on veterans PAUL GODFREY, BRAIN RINI, JIM BYRNE and BILL SCHMI1Zas well as freshmen JIM BIRMINGHAM, CHARLES SMITH, JAY NASH and ROGER RAND to lead the team past opponents like TCU and Illinois-Chicago. 
The Notre Dame women's swim team opens its season Nov. 3 against Texas Christian. On Nov. 4 the Irish host the Notre Dame Relays to be held in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Key swimmers to watch are HEATHER WINIECKI, BETSY KNAUS and 
KATH LEEN McKINNEY in distance events and KATIE PAMENTER, JACKIE JONES, DEBBIE BRADY, CYNDIE SAFFORD, KATHY QUIRK and co-captain TRACEY JOHNSON in the freestyle events. 


November 3, 1988 

Elegant 

At a school famous for football, the rugby club has struggled and succeeded in .acquiring its own identity 


Ken Cleveland 

In a ruck, each team tries to get the ball Into the hands of the backs. 
eight forwards and seven backs. The for­awarded for each "try." After a try, a 

BY TONY NOWAK 

wards travel in a pack called the scrum and conversion worth two points similar to an 
R
ugby is a contact sport and serious basically are used to retrieve the ball from extra point kick in football is attempted. injuries, including severe head, the other team and then pass it out to the Scoring is also possible by drop kicking the brain, or neck injuries, paralysis or backs who run with it. The ball is advanced ball through the goal posts. This is worth death, as well as others do occur. This is how by running it forward and pitching it behind three points; the same as a field goal in the first sentence of the parental consent to a teammate before being tackled; no football. form for rugby reads. forward passes are allowed and blocking is Although rugby is like football without 
Not all members of the Notre Dame rugby forbidden. pads, the actual playing and strategy are club feel that rugby is a violent or dangerous The ball can also be advanced through very different. A rugby game as viewed sport, but those who do are vocal. kicking and dribbling as in a soccer game. from the sidelines looks more like a soccer 
"Rugby is a barbaric sport," said Jack When the ball is kicked, anyone from the game. When the ball goes out ofbounds or McLaughlin, one of the ·members of the opposing squad may retrieve it, but only the into "touch," it is inbounded in a way simi­rugby team's A-side. player who kicked the ball may retrieve it lar to both soccer and basketball called a 
Rugby club president Jim Lammers has a for his team. Also, as in soccer, the ball is "lineout." 'The teams form parallel lines different opinion, "Rugby isn't a violent always in motion. and the in bounder must throw the ball from sport." 
Players cannot be tackled So who's right? while dribbling the ball. If the number and severity of injuries suf-Instead the ball must be sto­
i· fered by the team so far this year is any len by the defense by falling indication of the violent nature of the sport, upon it or kicking it away. one would have to agree with McLaughlin. Unlike linemen in football, Ten players were injured in the first game of rugby forwards may handle the season. One rugger suffered a broken jaw the ball as a back. and another broke his collar bone. The object of the game is In order to understand why some people to touch the ball to the think it is a violent sport and others feel ground in what is called the differently, it is important to understand the "try area," a part of the field rules and objectives of the sport. equivalent to football's end­
Ken Cl8Yeland

A rugby team consists of fifteen players: zone. Four points are 
"When ou run, ou run alone."-Jack McLau hlin 16 
~---­

-----~ ~~~ ---' -~ 
over his head. He tries to throw it into the 
zone of his best jumper, or the player at the 
end of the line may break toward the center 
of the field and the inbounder may hit him 
with rugby's equivalent of a long pass. 
Ifa player is tackled while advancing the ball, he must release the ball before hitting the ground. A "ruck" then forms when the forwards from each team push against one another while attempting to push the ball with their heels to their backs outside the ruck. Once the ball is outside the ruck, the backs may pick it up and begin an offensive attack. 
The forwards are not always able to block for the backs. "When you run, you run alone," said McLaughlin. 
One of the reasons for the number of 

rugby injuries is that rugby is played without 
pads. The rugby T-shirts emphasize the 
brutality of rugby by proclaiming, "Notre 
Dame Rugby -elegant violence." The uni­
form consists of long-sleeved, collared 
shirts and shorts. According to official 
rugby rules, the players must wear shorts in 
all kinds of weather which many agree is 
rather uncomfortable on cold midwestern 
fall days. 
"Cold days make for more injuries," McLaughlin said. But as Richard "Chip" Shea says, "If you're gonna play a sport where you can crack your skull or collar bone, pants aren't gonna make a big differ­ence." 
"After a game on Saturday, you're lucky if you get out of bed on Sunday," said Lammers. 
Rugby is not an N.C.A.A. sponsored sport because it is governed by a World Wide Commission in England. However, rugby is the largest club sport in the nation. 
"Every major city (in America) has a men's club. Some have two or three. Almost every major university has a club," said Lammers. 
The rugby team has two seasons, spring and fall, in which they play six to eight games. After the fall season there is the Indiana Union Tournament; after the spring season there is the Midwest Union Tourna­ment. In the last four years, the Notre Dame rugby club has placed first once, third twice, and fourth once in the Indiana Union Tour­nament, and third once in the Midwest Union Tournament. 

The ball is passed Inbounds In a lineout 
,·•'fitfrii're•·••.·•gon11~·.. play •··•·a•... :sportrlle,re.·y~u.. Ja11 •···crac~···•yo11~••ski.n.·.or·.•colla~ .. ·. ;~011e,... pants. arefr't··gonna . >IllaJ{e,a "l>ig difference)'/
:·.:,.· •.:·.•:":•: ... ···. ,.,· ·.,·: ·_.:,: ........ 




·•••.·•>j _Jlichafc1·•·,,b~i~''·••·sh~J••·. 
,. ·····:·· ·,_.:;..,:.;..;,::·::··:..:·-, .... .. ·. 

There are the Indiana and Midwest Select, or All-Star, teams. This year three members of the Notre Dame rugby club made the Indiana Select team: Mike Ryan, Jon Monahan, and Lammers. 
The Notre Dan:ie rugby club plays most of its games against clubs from Indiana, Michi­gan and Illinois. Like all university sanc­tioned clubs, rugby receives some university funding which the club reserves for travel. "We travel by bus," said Lammers. 
The rugby club played its final regular season game ofthe fall at Northwestern in an annual contest that the players refer to as the "Ice Bowl." 
The Irish rugby club beat Northwestern 18-12 and Ryan scored two trys. 
Despite the successful finale, the team was reticent about their record. "We're in a tran­sitional phase," said Lammers. 
"There is nothing you can say about rugby to explain why you play it," said Shea who broke his collar bone in the third game of the 
season. ''The appeal of the game is the camaraderie that develops." "It's really just a big fraternity," said Lammers about the rugby club. 
"Everyone earns a nickname," added Katie Weslowski who works in the career placement office. "I'm their only fan and have been for years now." 
As in football between the backs and the linemen, a good natured ribbing has devel­oped between the backs and the scrummies. "Thebacks always drop the ball. They can't run. They can't catch," complained "Pis­tol" Pete Panacia, a forward. The backs think the forwards are ugly and stupid. 
"No experience is necessary," said · Lammers. "We like to get seventy to ninety people out (for the team). Most of the people knew nothing about rugby before coming out. Everyone gets a chance to play because there are'A,' 'B,' and 'C' sides and there is no set 'A,' 'B,' or 'C' squad. The sides are chosen by a seven man council · elected by the team." 
For the first time, the rugby team has a head coach, Art Maerlander, a graduate stu­dent at Notre Dame. However, he doesn't always just coach from the sidelines. Dur­ing practice, Maerlander plays with, and against his players. 
"I've been playing for twenty years," said Maerlander. "Fun is one of our priorities.We have a great crop of young kids. I teach .the basics of rugby. We've improved about one thousand percent since the beginning of the season." 
"There's no reason we can't be a power," said Maerlander. "Notre Dame has the athletes. Our first side is pretty serious. In the past, rugby was associated with drink­ing. Over the past few years, there has been an attempt to clean the sport up a bit. Qual­ity athletes would rather play a respectable sport." 
"Colonel Stephens is our patron saint," agreed Maerlander and Lammers. Colonel John Stephens is the faculty advisor to the rugby club. "Notre Dame has been in the vanguard of improving the image of rugby," said Colonel Stephens. 
"I really push individual responsibility," said Maerlander. "We're trying to develop a new attitude. We want to follow the Notre Dame tradition ofexcellence on the play~ field and in the classroom." Ill 

With bowl picks coming out on the weekend of the penn State game' 
, h , ,I+. d
h I

t e TlS Can t aJJ OT a 

loss to the 0-7 Rice Ow ls 

BY BILL STEGMEIER

The Rice Owls enter Notre Dame Stadium with much of the country asking, "WHO are the Irish play­ing?" The Rice game was picked up when SMU, who was originally scheduled to play the Irish this weekend, received the NCAA's "death penalty" for numerous illegal activi­ties. When the Owls invade South Bend this Saturday, they will be looking for their first victory of the season. Jerry Berndt, who is entering his third year as the head coach of the Owls, will be hoping to end his team's 14­game losing streak when Rice takes on the number one team in the country, Notre Dame. In order to win, Berndt's team will have to score on a defense that has allowed only 61 points in eight games. 
pound senior quarterback Quentis Roper, 
will have to be able to move the ball against apowerfullrishdefense. Ashoulderinjury ended Roper's season abruptly last year 
and so far this year he has been unable to generate a victory. But Roper is not the only weapon in the 
Owls' offensive arsenal, and ifhe falters, Berndt will not hesitate to go to 6-1, 190 pound freshman backup QB Bobby Schrader to lead the Owl attack. In such a scenario Roper, who is one of the team's bestathletes, wouldmovetoeitherrunning back or wide receiver. Roper also sees action as a kick return specialist. This should not beanythingnew for Irish fans. 6-4, 211 pound senior Steve Belles, the third string quarterback for the Irish, has been seeing action lately as a fullback, wide receiver and tailback. Belles even threw a touchdown out of the fullback position to sophomore flanker Ricky Wat­ters (6-2, 201) in the Air Force game. The Owls' best overall athlete may be the center, Courtney Hall, a 6-2, 260 pound senior. The All-South West Conference center will have his hands full on Saturday trying to block Notre Dame's sophomore nose tackle, Chris Zorich (6-1, 260). Hall centers a line that Coach Berndt feels is one of the best in Rice's history. 
depth in our offensive line than we have had in the past," says Berndt. "As for Hall, he's the strongest player in our program, he\s one of the quickest and he's playing healthy." 
Ifthe OwIs are going to have any success against Notre Dame, they will have to control the line of scrimmage. 6-3, 282 pound sophomore George Williams and 6­4, 237 pound senior Frank Starns have four and one half of the 12 Irish sacks this season and are the core of the Irish pass rush. 
At the skill positions, the Owls' have little depth. Their best runner may be senior fullback Lorenzo Cyphers. Cyphers led the Owls in both receiving and rushing last season and, at5-10, 210 pounds, knows how to block. 
"We really need to get the ball into Lorenzo's hands to be successful," says Berndt. "Hisplay will really be a big key for us." 
Making receptions for the Owls are sen­iors Mike Boudousquie (6-2, 190) and Chris Nixon (6-3, 195). Their biggest con­tribution comes from running short timing patterns that help the Owls keep possession of the ball. 
Such a strategy may be ineffective against the Irish defense, featuring three solid cornerbacks who have the speed to cover man-to-man tightly. Stan Smagala (5-11, 186), D'Juan Francisco (5-11, 187) 


_Th_e_O_w_Is_'_o_rn_e_ns_e~,..__ow_er_e_d_b...._5_-_9__, _17_5___"_I_£_e_el--"-co.;;..n_fi_1d_e_nt'---th_a_t_w_e~h_a_ve;;......;;;m;.;;.o;.;;r..;;....e Quarterback Rice should have a field 


~1111 lb=·~~. win ~m~ ~~:!,,~~~,~ I 

and Todd Lyght (6-1, 181)have alternated as starters at the two cornerback spots. Re­gardless of who starts, the Irish will try to shut down the short passing game. 
The Owls may then be tempted to go long against the Irish secondary, which has been reinforced by the emergence of junior Pat Terrell (6-0, 195 at starting safety. Terrell 
appears to have found his home at safety, after a stint at wide receiver. Corny Southall (6-2, 194) and George Streeter (6-2, 212) round out the talent at the safety position. 
Not only do the Irish have solid corner­backs, their linebacker corps is one ofthe best in the nation. · The play of 6-1, 228 pound junior Michael Stonebreaker has put him in the running for the Outland Trophy for the outstanding defensive player and the Butkus Award, which is given to the best linebacker in the country. 6-6, 251 pound senior Wes Pritchett and 6-6, 232 pound senior tri-captain Ned Bolcar round out a group of linebackers which have forced turnovers and given opposing offenses headaches. 
On the other side of the line, the Irish of­fense will be looking to improve upon its lackluster. performance in a 22-7 victory over Navy. Junior quarterback Tony Rice will be calling the signals for the Irish and he has gained the confidence of his coach Lou Holtz. Hot tz points to Tony Rice's record as a starter. 
"I'm not particularly concerned about statistics or anything else," says Holtz. "Just 
November 3, 1988 
look at his record. As a starter, his record is 
12-2 and ·that's with wins against USC, 
Alabama, Michigan, Pitt, (and) Miami." 
The Notre Dame offensive line, although 
unimpressive against Navy, has been im­
pressive the rest of the season. The line, 
which had less than five minutes of experi­
ence at their particular positions combined 
before the season started, has opened holes 
for Tony Brooks (6-2, 218), Anthony 
Johnson (6-0, 225) and tri-captain Mark 
Green (6-0, 184) all season. 
The line has also provided TonyRice with 
enough protection to allow him to unleash 
his 60-yard bombs to the likes of Raghib 
Ishmail (5-10, 175) and Ricky Watters (6-2, 
201). Tri-captain Andy Heck (6-7, 258) and 
Dean Brown (6-3, 283) anchor the Irish line. 
At tight end, 6-7, 235-pound freshman 
DerekBrown has been a reliable receiver for 
Tony Rice. Brown was able to break into the 
starting lineup earlier in the season when 
starting tight end Frank Jacobs went down 
with an injury. 
The captain of the Rice secondary is sen­
ior cornerback William McClay, who led 
theOwls in interceptions last year with four. 
Competition at the safety position between 
sophomores, Nigel Codrington and Sammy 
Hartman, reflects the depth in the Owls' 
secondary.Junior Everett Coleman has been 
a big plus at the rover position, coming offa . sophomore season riddled with injuries. 

The Irish may find more success on the ground against Rice. The Irish rushing at­tack, which is thecoreofHoltz's squad, may pose problems for the Rice rushing defense. The defensive line lost three starters to graduation this season. Its best player, ac­cording to Coach Berndt, may be 6-2, 235 pound senior tackle, David Alston. 
"He had a super spring after coming back from a hamstring problem," said Berndt. "He gives us a great deal of quickness." 
The rest of the defensive line for Rice is 

madeupofanumherofp)ayerswhorecejved 

... while Brooks and the Irish backfield get to ground out the clock. Allan um 
limited playing time last year. Forinstance, at the one tackle position, the competition for the starting job remains between re­dshirt freshman Jacques Torres (6-2, 285) and junior John Isaac (6-5, 240), who missed much oflast season with a shoulder injury. 
For many Irish fans, the biggest chal­lenge on Saturday may be to remain awake during the game. However, Coach Holtz is not about to look past theRice Owls, a team the Irish last played in 1974 and beat 10-3 at Notre Dame. "Rice's record is extremely deceiving 
because they haven't been out of a single one of their five conference games, " said Holtz. "Texas A&M really had to work to beat them by 14 points and Arkansas, ranked 11, had everything it could handle Saturday (Arkansas beat Rice, 24-14) in Little Rock. So don't think this isn't a very 
capable football team. It's very scary to play a team like this because all people see is that they haven't won a game yet, but it's not like they've been involved in a lot of one-sided football games." 
There are four games left that the Irish have to win ifthey want to win the national championship. But, as UCLA learned last Saturday, no game is an automatic win and each game is equally important. If the Irish can win on Saturday, they will be one step closer to a national championship. But maybe theOwls would have a better chance if it was a night game. II · 
. 
'I 

Ii 



THURSDAY, NOV. 3 

Seminars Institute for International Peace Studies Seminar (Brown Bag) "New Thinking in Soviet Foreign Policy: Reflections on My Trip to Moscow" by Prof. Robert C. Johansen, Notre Dame. In room 112 of 

the Law School at 12 noon. 

Radiation Laboratory Seminar "Sites of Electron Attachment in DNA Exposed to Ionizing Radiation Below 77K," by Dr. William Bernhard, Univwersity of Rochester (New York). At 3 p.m. in the Conference Theater Radiation Laboratory. 
American Catholic Studies Seminar on "Catholicism and the Control of Culturein Boston 1900-1920," by Prof. Paula Kane, Texas A&M University. In the Library Lounge at 4: 15 p.m. 

Lecture•·· Friends of the Snite Museum of Art and the Alice Tully Endowment for the Fine 
Arts lecture "On Discovering an Andrea 
<lei Sarto," by Dr. James A. Welu, 
Worcester Museum of Art, Worcester, 
Massachusetts. Free, in the Annenburg 
Auditorium at 4: 15 p.m. 
Swimmiri Notre Dame Women and Men vs. Texas Christian University at Rolfs Aquatic 


Center at 6 p.m. 
Movies. Wall Street at 9 and 1lp.m. in the Carroll Auditorium on the Saint Mary's Campus. Admission is $1. 


Young Frankenstein at 8 and 10:lSp.m. 
in the Cushing Engineering Auditorium. 


FRIDAY, NOV. 4 
Meetin Open Meeting for Alcoholics Anonymoui] from 7:30a.m. to 8a.m. in the Holy Cross House. 
Worksho 


Department of Economics Workshop with Maris Aguirre, graduate student in Economics, on the Argentinian Austral Plan. In room 131 of Decio Faculty Hall at 11:30 a.m. 
Swimmiri Notre Dame 
Women and Men Relays. Participants include Texas Christian, St. Mary's, U.I.C., Xavier, North Central, Marquette and Butler. In Rolfs Aquatic Center at 4 p.m. 

Lecture arid Preserita.tioii .··.·· 
SMC Department of Philosophy presents "Spiritual Communities Past and Present," by Prof. Robert Rosenthal, Hanover College. In the SMC Clubhouse at 4:30 p.m. 

Mat11eina1:ical Colloqufrim 
"Some Problems in the Representation Theory of General Linear Groups," by Prof. Stephanie Doty, Loyola University of Chicago. At 4:30 p.m. in room 226 of the Computing Center and Mathematics Building. 

Semper Fidelis Society, Marine Option Midshipmen of NROTC Year of Cultural Diversity Lecture "Marine Corps Leadership" by Maj. Gen. Jerome G. Cooper, USMCR,(ND'58) Director, Personnel Procurement Division, HOMC. By invitation only at the Ramada Inn in South Bend at 6 p.m. 


Notre Dame vs. Michigan-Dearborn at 7:30p.m. in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 




The Lost Boys at 8 and 10: 15 p.m. in the Cushing Engineering Auditorium. 
SUNDAY, NOV. 6 






Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C. will preside at the Spanish mass in the Farley Hall chapel at 11 a.m. 

The Call to Peacemaking presents "International Human Rights: Chile, South Africa and the United States," by Dean David Link of the Notre Dame Law School. Sponsored by Amnesty International which celebrates the 40th Anniversary of the U.N. Declaration on Human Rights. At 6:30p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. 
Opening Mass for the week of "Call To Peacemaking" in Sacred Heart Church at 
11:30 a.m. with Fr. Monk Malloy,C.S.C. celebrating. 
"Keeping the Peace and Protecting National Security Without Nuclear Weapons," by Robert Johansen, Senior Fellow in the Institute for International 

Debate on the Palestinian Uprising with 
N.D. scholars, Yehuda Kovacs and Edna 
Hidekel from Israel and Zoughbi and 
Jamal Abu Affcyeh from Palestine. 
Sponsored by the International Graduate 
Student Committee of the GSU at 7 p.m. in Theodore's. 
The Department of Communication and Theater presents Twelfth Night by 
William Shakespeare through Sunday, November 13 in Washington Hall. 
Tickets can be purchased in the LaFortune Box Office in the LaFortune 
Student Center weekdays from 12:15 to 6 p.m., and at the door after 7 p.m. The 
shows begin at 8: 10 p.m. Ticket prices 
are $6 for the main floor, and $5 for 
balcony. Students and senior citizens will 
be admitted for $4 on Wednesday, 
Thursday and Sunday. 


THURSDAY, NOV.10 


Women United for Justice and Peace sponsor a hospitality lunch from 11:30 
a.m. to lp.m. at the CSC Coffee House. 
;~~~~.i cl~}j,Ifr.<>up[orn··••.mE~rlli*~Hg~;,l.§.•.§Jl()•~.§<>~.fllg.. 

,~. ~J)~~.;,1::~~~~.t,qr,~Qtlrjty,\:i1.i~.t\ttl~t~~ §E.~1I~~Jif••·) )<.J····•·•:f.~•~~~~h~f.~.ti?¥t·c.·•~·~~1~~t·· ..•·iA..IIir·•··••~·~•~..~rit1?¢JJ~til11~rts.• 
E.·· .. d... •·······•.~t ....· .....·.:......·••.··.•.1· ... ·•·....•·•.·.·•··•.t .· ....·c..h ·... ......a.· 1.· .. .•··•·•... ..•. •..···..... ····•··•• ...• ....·•o·····.•...··.r.. ·.·•...•,.· ...h·•..e..·......·is..·.·.·• .· ·.·.o.·... 1..·.·•·.•·.s.... t.. ..•..c....· ...·.···•..·•.·.·..•....
.....•n.·




offi~e·at·239)soi2•or.J39-•x:
·756~t)~;) :· ....·.·.·•·•···· .· ....··.······ . . 
,.--,,,:-...,,,.,-,,-.,...,..-.,-,. 



Movies/ Mikulak & Selig 




Just Another Urban Guerrilla 
Thumbs-up and an Oscar prediction for Patty Hearst's own story 
P atty I,-Iearst has become a symbol in the public eye. To some, she represents the classic example of the nice-girl-turned-bad. To others, her actions have had a certain romantic appeal to them. The musical group Camper Van Beethoven named its most recent album, Our B elovedRevolutionary Sweetheart, for her. Although her trial was one of the most publicized in history, few people actually learned the details of her kidnapping and subsequent coversion by her captors. Now her story is told from her own point of view. Paul Schrader has adapted her autobiogra­phy into a stunning and alluring film simply titled Patty Hearst. It is currently showing at the University Park East theaters, and judging from the dismal crowd of six at the show we attended, it will not stay in South Bend for very long. This is too bad, for Patty Hearst is one of 1988's best films. The film begins on the night in 1974when ' members of the Symbianese Liberation 
, _Army entered the apartment that Patty, then a student at Cal-Berkeley, shared with her boyfriend, Steven Weed. Held at gunpoint, she was forced into the trunk of a car and taken to the S.L.A.'s hideout in San Fran­cisco, consequently becoming the most famous kidnap victim since Charles Lindbergh's son. At first Patty (played intensely by Na­tasha Richardson) was forced to live in a closetby Sin Q, the mysterious leaderofthe _ S.L.A., a militant revolutionary group. As her captors softened to her, she was allowed to live among them, although still wearing a blindfold in their presence. Like Patty, the viewer is also unable to see the character's faces, through ingenious lighting and cam­era work. 
The film chronicles her mental break­down as her captors place impossible de­mands on her father, William Randolph Hearst III, the media magnate (it was her grandfather about whom Orson Welles un­flatteringly based his character in the classic Citizen Kane). Although her father spent millions distributing free food in an effort to meet the demands half-way, the S .L.A. was not satisfied. Mentally and physically weakened, Patty began to believe her cap­tors' berations of "the bourgeoise-pig life­style" and "the lying-pig media". Believing their pronouncement that her father "loves his money more than his Patty," she began to relate more and more to her captor's beliefs than to her former ones. 
On her 58th day of captivity, she was given the choice of being set free or joining the S.L.A. Convinced at this point that her former life was a lie, she chose to become one with her captors. Finally she was al­lowed to remove her blindfold, and the viewer finally gets to see the faces belong­ing to the voices. Following intense indoc­trination and weapons training, Tania (her new name and identity) embarked with her new .c:omrades on her first revolutionary mission, a robbery of the Hibernia Savings and Loan. Announcing herself in plain view of the security camera, she let the shocked world know that she had indeed joined with her former captors. 
The film chronicles her subsequent esca­pades with the S.L.A., the death of Sin Q and other S.L.A. members in a siege, the splintering of the rest due to internal bicker­ing, her arrest in San Francisco, and her return to her former self. The jury, not believing that she had been brainwashed, found her guilty of charges stemming from the bank robbery. She remained in prison until 1979, when she received a presidential pardon. She is now married to her former bodyguard. 
Paul Schrader outdid himself with this film, one of the most skillfully made this year. Noted primarily as a screenplay­writer (Raging Bull, Mean Streets), his previous directoral efforts have fallen short of greatness (Cat People, American Gigolo). Patty Hearst should bring him new-found notoriety as director. Both the stark and surreal style of this film effec­tively convey the isolation and mental tor­ment of captivity. Elaborate tracking and crane shots and the skilled use of lighting enable the viewer to enter the mind ofPatty Hearst during her torment, along with Patty's voice-over that often quotes Hearst's autobiography. 
One of the most effective scenes is when Patty (Tania) and her comrades rob the bank. Schrader reenacts every detail from the actual robbery, mirroring perfectly the footage from the security camera that was played on every news program in America. Even we, who were six years old when this happened, had a flash of memory on seeing this -so much has Patty Hearst become part of the public consciousness. 
This film is not a historical account of 
what happened; it is told from Patty's own 
viewpoint. The film is highly favorable in 
its portrayal of the argument that she was 
brainwashed. Some may find fault in this, 
but the film has no pretensions of objectiv­
ity. What it does is brilliantly enter into the 
psyche of Patty Hearst and present her per­
sonal experience with a gripping and allur­
ing portrayal. It ends with a very powerful 
condemnation of the way the public sensa­
tionalized her experience-first iri sympathy 
for her plight, then in moral self-righteous­
ness when she didn't meet the public's ex­
pectations. 
Patty Hearst's life was made the public's 
domain in 1974, but her own experiences 
had never been revealed to the mass culture 
un ti! now. Her experience is one of the most 
bizarre and enigmatic in recent history. 
Patty Hearst superbly communicates how 
Patty Hearst, the person -not Patty Hearst, 
the public figure -dealt with her experience. 
If there's any justice in Hollywood, this film 
is a sure-fire Oscar nominee. II 


_l, 
.,_ -. 
. ,, l • !! , -. 
Trying times for J-boards 
Aeffective student groups, )-boards rarely rise above the status of a joke. And that's sad. 
The J-boards in halls and the idea of a university-wide J-board could serve two valuable functions: first, assuring that students facing punishment for hall or DuLac violations have the benefit of peer review for their wrongdoing; and second, giving J-board committee members the benefits ofserving on such a body and learning how decisions are reached. Right now, hall rectors are on their own when it comes to what types ofoffenses go before a hall J-board, or even whether or not to ever use a board's input 
The Office of Residence Life wonders why students have a negative perception of its function when its actions are largely punitive and no students can see how the office works otherwise. The reason is simple: J-boards simply aren't doing enough on a basic level. In addition, excessive concern with confidentiality also has made procedures mysterious -and thus more frightening -than they should be. 
The judicial council ofstudent government is performing a valu_able service in working with Student Affairs, trying to create consistent rules for J-boards across campus and striving for some input into university violations handled by higher administrative officers. Itis also recognizes the chief flaw of current policy: the use of the vague phrase "pastoral concerns." 
Clearly, the administration wants to help rather than punish those students with deeper problems, but the poor wording of this phrase only allows the university to deny peer review for almost any student it pleases by using the "pastoral" rubric. A parietal violation or an alcohol problem may be touchy, but those issues don't necessarily indicate a psychological or spirtual problem of the violators. Also, it is patronizing to think that students chosen for J~board, supposedly chosen for their fairness and perceptiveness, would be suddenly incapable of dealing with an issue once it became too sensitive. 
And yet the selection process ofJ-boards is inherently problematic. Those students chosen by a rector or higher administrator often will be chosen because the rector or administrator likes them. While a J-board does not need troublemakers, people who are willing to do a little questioning of authority ultimately will serve students brought before a board with greater fairness. 
The judicial council should strive for input into all areas of university discipline, demand consistent J-board standards for halls and encourage truly representative membership on these boards. It is no small task, but it is a valuable one. 

-Scholastic 


Ernie Pook's Comeek 
T'HE EPIS0D~ WO\JL.D STAR.i BY ME DOIN6 THe T\-\€ME Ml.4S tC. ANO REAL.ISTI C SWl/,\Mli-J6 MO­TIONS ON Tt\E ,O{> PAR1 Of 11\E FRONT . 
SEAT. THEN COMES TKS PART WHERE Fl.lPPcR TV~NS EVIL AND COMES UP FRoM t-t\S HIDE·A· WAY ON iHE FL.O0R OF Tl-\E BAC.K SEAT AND 
HAS TO Kt\..l. ME VSIN6. NO HANDS. FINALLY I wouLO FA\.\.. OFF THE SEAi AND fc.ipP€R. 
• wouLD G\VE ~VIL t.AUGHTER..,AND THEN IT 
ONE WAS WI\EltE M'( BROTH E~ ARNOLD IS 
FLIPPER,ONL.Y HE SECRETLY TURNS OUT ro ·BE THE EV\L FLIPPER. AND T\-\EN \'M 6VD 
.H lS HUMANFR\END WHO \-\AS TO \<EEP 
I 

SW\MMINq AWAY FROM HIM tN. HORROR. NATVR.ALL'j l WANTED TO BE EVIL FLIPPER, Sv, MY BR0Tt\ER SAID \F HE HAO TO BE BvD, 
HE  WOULDN'T PL.A~. IT JIAST WOV L.DN 'T BE­ 
WORT~  \T TO \-\\M.  :0•_: _: _. _'!).  
·. . .  -.  . .  ~  

WE PLA'jEO Ii At.t.TI-\E TIME AT FIP.ST AND THfN, I DON'T KNOW WI-\~ Bvr WE 
SOR-T OF STOPPED.. . ' JUST -ONE NIGHT IN. THE' St:AR.S PARKING LOT I ASkED M'( BROTHER. DID HE WANT TO ' PLAY IT AGAIN. •'NAl-\." l-\E SAID.AND THEN WE JUST SA1 Tl-\ERE STARING OVT 
THE WINDOWS AND NOT EVEN 'TALl<INq. -SoMeTHIN6 HAD ~PPENED. I DIDN'T KNOW 





IIJ0/JJ
Ys s e. CIJi 
q!. t,~Is E's/ CQ
olJJ1'q-o o,./)o 
Orr. ~S Ocr,
Oii,, O;,, 
s }'; ~ 



,;i VIJ""'=s
C 
\·..·'.<.<·
·;C •C---~ 
,_:,:;.z<(":!,
::::.:~r,fE:~:: ~\ /; 
-








