In This Store For Merv You Are Always A Guest
Before You Are A Customer
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St	SOUTH BEND. IND.
2
LETTERS
Brothe±- Aleuin, C.S.C., Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind.
Dear Brother Aleuin:
It is with sincere appreciation that we of the Scholastic thank you and your staff for the extra work you performed last Friday night in order that the magazine could be delivered to the students. The breakdown of the folding press Friday afternoon was most untimely, and only your extra labors made delivery possible.
Please convey the thanks of the Scholastic staff to all the Brothers who worked overtime—to Brothers Sabinus, Fintan, Fernand, Juvian, Valery, and James Edwin.
Sincerely, John Defagt,
Editor
"Teamed-up for you since ’82"
"'VVT'T'E’re symbols of a unique industrial team that W has been working for you for 65 years. With our research teammate—Bell Telephone Laboratories —we’ve helped to give you the world’s best telephone service at the lowest possible cost.
"My part of the job is to supply high quality products that meet exacting standards.
"I manufacture telephone equipment.. .purchase all manner of supplies far Bell Telephone Companies ... distribute equipment and supplies to them from stocks maintained at my factories and my 29 warehouses ... install central office equipment.
"Right now, I’m providing more telephone equipment and supplies than ever before. Using all my knowledge and skill, gained through years of experience, I’m going at top speed to catch up with the greatest demand on record.
• "Remember my name . . . it’s Western Electric.”
Western Electric
A UNIT OF THE BELL kBj SYSTEM SINCE 1882
Dear Sir:
The longer that I read’ our much-respected school publication the more comical I think that some of its articles-become. In the'April 18 edition, on page 14, there appears an article entitled “More Snow” by a Mr. Layden who ‘•'writes knowingly about practically everything.” Who is this guy anyway, who presents “a penetrating and sensitive war story, as only he can?” Was this guy ever at the front? Does he know an .88-from a pea-shooter?
Just to cite the asinine remarks, and I quote them, mind you:
“Can that nonsense,” shouted Weber hitting him across the face with the butt of his Ml . . .” Any guy who gets hit in the puss with the butt of an Ml rifle isn’t really going to feel good about it, if at all! Come now, Mr. Layden . . . really?
“The snow continued to fall . . .” In the South Pacific?
“Weber and his friends had stacked six of the bodies to form a wind-break . . .” Baloney.
“Twenty-three sharp explosions broke the still air . . .” What are these guys? Quiz kids! Or have they got an adding machine set up behind their wind-break? Pfffft!
“A lone Japanese soldier trod down the road. “Where are you going?” asked the Sergeant. “To Washington, to dictate peace terms in the White House,” he hissed wickedly.” Oh, the big, bad intelligent Jap ... he knows what he’s fighting for! Now it isn’t for the emperor but just to go to Washington to dictate
(Continued on Page 34)	_
a
i'
4
A
By John A. O'Connor
Even out of war there comes some good. In the field of science and gadgets alone we have sprinted down the lanes of | progress. Out of the electronics lab comes / radar, the super-sleuth, not yet perfected, but nevertheless promising. Along these same lines there’s television, creeping ahead, and the two-way radio, now . popularized by patrol cars and Dick f Tracy. Science’s efforts to promote man’s comfort has led to the revolutionary boxer-style shorts, a real kick-in-the-pants to the underpants industry. But chances are the greatest single achievement has come out of the biology lab: V the household deodorant. At first it was Air-Wick: just pull the wet wick out of ‘ the green fluid and the smell of cabbage disappears. Now Nil’s advertisers claim it can freshen up a musty closet, make company unaware that a mangy Dalmatian has been drooling on the sofa, replace fish or cigar smells with the clean air of the pine-scented forest. But one thing this new all-potent atmosphere refresher can’t do: it can’t take the smell out of a theatre after a picture like “Dead Reckoning” has been allowed to putrify the place. When such a deodorant comes along then South Bend’s theatre owners will leap for joy, and the paying public T likewise. Science marches on. Geronimo!
Good weather in brimming buckets-ful is bound to come to Sinusitis Hollow soon. And when it does one of the most healthful forms of athletics will return ' to the Rockne Memorial. We are refer- • ring to sunbathing. ND men will be out to acquire a tan before heading home. Even faculty members will sprawl their blue-white forms on the green mats on the roof to soak up some of that rare f stuff, sunshine. They should give letters ’ in sunbathing, then a lot of us could be monogram men. It’s strenuous climbing the stairs to the roof, and showering after. One has to be aggressive in grabbing a mat to lie on before they’re all taken. Perseverance is demanded in this r sport: one has to report daily if one is [ to show any progress. It takes a lot of skill: one has to know just how long to fry on one side before flipping over, and one must have a working knowledge of ' the proper application of Skol or olive oil. And to keep up a decent scholastic
average during the sun-soaking season is quite an achievement. It’s fast becoming a major sport.
Usually culture goes by South Bend like the Fast Mail through Weehauken. But not so of late. Between now and the time finals drop ND men to one knee in the latter part of May the following events are scheduled for this neighborhood. Sunday, April 27, Paul Whiteman’s aggregation will play at John Adam’s High with an All-Gershwin concert. Friday, May 2, Charles Kullman, Metropolitan Opera tenor, will appear at the Notre Dame Drill Hall. James Melton is due at John Adams come May 13th, and some small company brings Romberg’s “Student Prince” to the Palace on May 15th. And don’t forget Monsignor Sheen.
We look forward with excited expectancy to the annual Horseshow at St. Mary’s. This year’s event has not been officially announced yet, but it will probably come off sometime around the middle of May. If we can go by previous performances, this year’s riding and jumping contests should be most enjoyable. Of course, sometimes the horses have a rather difficult time making the jumps, but that makes it all the more exciting. And it is always wise to procure a program. The horseshow is really a pleasant afternoon:the lovely girls, the spirited horses, the prizes at stake, the atmosphere of competition and springtime and horsemanship.
❖
Something ought to be done about these formal dances. We have advocated in the past that the tux and tails be chucked in favor of something more democratic. We thought it smacked too much of after-dark militarism (you know, everybody in the same outfit, typed, no individualism, tools of propriety). But so enraged was the howl set up that we have been convinced that the boys want to play rah-rah, so let ’em wear tuxs, we don’t care. But those formal gowns the girls are wearing are getting too, what shall we say, disarming? That’s a mild word. We heard of one the other day that forced the young lady’s escort to retaliate with sun-glasses if he were not to be overcome.
If my new glove was like a Pre-Smoked Dr. Grabow pipe it wosld need co breaking ini'*
Fashioned by Linkman
Dr. Grabow Pipe. Co. Inc., Chicago it III
For
Dr. Grabow
and
other leading Pipe brands
visit
runner’s
127 W. Washington St
ike ^be&k . . .
THE HOTRE ORR1E SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victims Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867 mMaiMtiiimmiMtmiiiiitaaiMiiimiamaaaiiiuitaamiMitMiiaitiiuiMai
John Defant, Editor ASSOCIATE EDITORS H. Smith Keel Frank Keenan
REWRITE
Bob Stock Ed Snyder
Joe Doyle
NEWS STAFF Jim Clemens, Editor Shaun McDermott, Associate Editor
Bill Bradley Pete Reiner Vern Kelley George McCarthy
John Noonan Steve Valetich
Joe Herrington Lou Horning John Sullivan
Tom Murray Phil Shea John Waters
SPORTS STAFF Joe Cheney, Editor Pete Brown, Associate Editor
Dave Warner Jim Howard
Buzz Wright
Bob Leander John Krueger Bill Slavik
FEATURE STAFF Joe Wilcox, Editor Charles Carrol Carter Gerald Heberlein Bill Leavey John A. O'Connor Jerry Olwell Bob Vierhile Nicodemus
PHOTO STAFF
John Brogan, Editor Joe Haller John Koewler Gene Reynolds Gene Lorence Bob Gawne
COVER By Don Birren
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C.
________________________Faculty	Advisor
Bob Kopf _______________Business	Manager
Tom Gargan Circulation	Manager
M.	E. Varga______...Advertising
aMiatamaimaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaai
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue. New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame. Indiana.
Election of Student Council Officers
The moping students who have been complaining to the moon that the Student Council and its o'.ncers were not representing them are now going to have a chance to do something about it. It has been decided that the student body itself will elect the President, Vice-President, Secretary, and Treasurer. .The first election will be held in May. All that is necessary for nomination is a petition signed by twenty-five students. No election will be valid unless thirty per cent of the student body votes.
This change is definitely one for the good. The Council has been criticized because it was felt that it was self-perpetuating; that it kept a small clique in office who worked for their own interests. Whether or not these charges were justified is immaterial. The fact is that the students, and they alone, will be responsible for the quality of the officers of the council. If they wish to elect the campus equivalent of a Mississippi demagogue, the blame for the misdeeds of the local Bilbo will fall squarely on the students who elected him, and it will be up to them to send him back to pasture. If, on the other hand, the students elect officers who will work in the students’ interest according to their ability, the credit for the improvement will go to those who elected him.
It is quite clear, then, that the guerillas who have been sniping at the officers of the Council without benefit of franchise will be thrust into a position where all may see them put up or shut up. Perhaps a great many of the most vocal will be heard no more, but will pass into the Limbo of those who only live to snipe.
The change will also make it easier for the student council to start business immediately after returning in the fall. Heretofore, when rebuked for doing nothing, the Council has formed itself into a classic chorus and sung the song that it took time to get organized. This ditty is a relic of the past. If the Council now does nothing, it will be because it wished to do nothing; if the electorate is at all interested in getting something accomplished, it will sweep out the recumbent incumbents in the next election.
Thus, the spotlight wrill be turned on ’ the Council and on the students who elect its officers. If the student body finds itself being led like a lamb to the ward heeler’s slaughter, and then stands obligingly under the mallet, it can blame it-self. If the officers of the council decide H to play at knitting up the ravelled sleeve of care instead of doing something, they can be exorcised at the next election. The gauntlet has been thrown to the students. They can pick it up and throw it into the face of the Council, or they can kick it into the gutter and let the merry old politicians roll right along.
—Joe Wilcox
The Student Council Is On the Ball
This seems to be Pat the Student Council on the Back Week, for the SC also is deserving of commendation for the arrangements it has made to store the room furniture of students for the summer. Those who are familiar wnth the confusion prevailing previously when each individual had to arrange for the storing of his own furniture or else dispose of it, can well appreciate the SC’s elimination of the nuisance. The price, too, is reasonable. The Student Council has provided a much needed service for the student body.
Dome Notice
Art Coughlan, business manager of the DOME, has announced that students who entered the University in February must pay an additional four dollars in order to obtain a copy. The price of the DOME is eight dollars, which is allocated from the general fee paid by the students each semester. Since four dollars is allocated in each of the two semesters in the academic year, those who matriculated in February have only four dollars applied to the DOME account. In order to obtain a copy, these students must pay the additional four dollars by May 9 at the Publications Office in Room 118, Main Building, between the hours of 1:30 and 4:00 p. m.
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
r VOL. 88, NO. 22
APRIL 25, 1947
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Fr. Graner Elevated to Episcopate
Students to Elect Council Officers
In answer to the many criticisms recently leveled at the Student Council, that body decided at its meeting last Monday to amend its constitution to provide for a campus-wide election of the four officers of the Council. The amendment, proposed by Bob Uhl (Cavanaugh) ■will be incorporated into the constitution , pending approval by the University officials.
The motion provided that:
1.	The Student Council officers shall be elected by the student body not later than the fifth week prior to the end of the present semester.
2.	Nomination of candidates shall be on tickets of four (President, Vice-Presi-7 dent, Secretary, and Treasurer). These tickets are to be signed by 25 members of the student body, and are to be referred to the existing Election Committee of the Council two weeks before the election date.
3.	Nomination of officers shall be open to the student body at large as long as it complies with the preceding paragraph. (Candidates for President and Vice-President must be seniors, the Sec-1 retary’s office is open to juniors and treasurer to sophomores).
.	4. A vote of thirty per cent of the
total undergraduate enrollment of the University shall be required for a valid election. If this percentage is not cast, a re-election will be held after two weeks. If the second balloting fails there will be no Student Council for the following . year.
The primary reason for this change in procedure, according to Uhl, is “to get the four officers of the Council elected in order that the Council will be able to function as quickly as possible at the opening of the fall semester.”
k On May 12, all candidates for office will appear in the Law Auditorium to announce their candidacy and to present their views.
Consecrated Bishop In Colorful Ceremony
Amid impressive solemnity and the colorful liturgy of the Roman Catholic Church, the Most Rev. Lawrence L. Graner, C.S.C., was consecrated bishop of Dacca, India, Wednesday morning in Sacred Heart Church.
The Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., former president of Notre Dame and present Bishop of Buffalo, was the con-secrator, while the Most Rev. John Mark Gannon, Bishop of Erie, and the Most Rev. John F. Noll, Bishop of Foil Wayne, were the co-consecrators.
For fear of inclement weather, a can- , opy was erected Tuesday, reaching ' from the front door of the main building to the east transept entrance of the church. The weather, however, turned out to be bright and clear, allowing the
Bishop Graner with Father Kelly
procession to take its full route to the main door of the church.
Shortly before 10 o’clock the procession began to move, headed by the cross bearer and acolytes. Almost 100 members of the clergy participated in the procession, including members of several religious orders, secular priests, a number of richly garbed monsignori and eight visiting bishops.
Upon entrance into the sanctuary, the consecrator, the co-consecrators, and the bishop-elect vested for mass. The apostolic mandate, proclaiming Bishop Graner’s appointment was read in Latin and in English by the Rev. Thomas Richards, C.S.C., superior of the Holy Cross mission band. After the Bishopelect took the solemn oath of submission to the Holy See, the solemn pontifical high Mass, co-celebrated by Bishops O’Hara and Graner was begun in the usual manner. Before the gospel, the bishop-elect prostrated himself before the altar, while the Moreau Choir chanted the Litany of the Saints.
After the litany, the essential, very simple, yet moving rite of consecration was performed by Bishop O’Hara as he placed his hands over the head of Bishop Graner, saying, “Receive The Holy Ghost.” While the choir sang “Veni Creator,” the ceremony of anointing was carried out, during which the bishop-elect’s head and hands were an-nointed with holy chrism. The presentation of his episcopal ring and crozier followed shortly after, the former symbolizing Bishop Graner’s fidelity to his flock, the latter his jurisdiction over his newly entrusted diocese.
The Rev. Leo F. Flood, C.S.C., pastor of Sacred Heart Church in New Orleans, and a classmate of the bishop-elect, preached the consecration sermon, during which he outlined briefly the life of Father Graner from the time of his birth, through his studies at Notre Dame, the congregation’s foreign mission seminary in Washington. D. C., culminating in his ordination in 1927.
He related how the four marks of the (Continued on Page 26)
7
1,000 Nuns Enrolled In Summer School
More than 1,000 sisters representing over 25 leligious communities for women will attend the 1947 summmer school at the University of Notre Dame beginning June 17, it has been announced by Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., director of studies.
Sisters of these religious communities, located in all parts of the nation, will live in residence halls on the Notre Dame campus while studying for undergraduate and graduate degrees. In addition, many priests and brothers, and more than 1,000 other men students will attend the summer school that will continue until Aug. 13.
Among the visiting professors will be the Rev. Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C., former professor- of philosophy at the University of Notre Dame who was commended by the War Department while serving in the Chaplain’s Corps during World War II.
Father Woodward, a native of Toledo, O., who will serve on the philosophy staff, was awarded the Army Commendation Ribbon by the War Department for his excellent work while serving as As-sitant Chaplain of the Eastern Defense Command. He entered the Chaplain's Corps in 1941 and was discharged as a Major last summer.	&
Also in attendance during the summer session will be the Rev. Sister M. Ligouri Brophy, B.V.M., Ph.D., eminent sociologist from Mundelein College, Chicago, Ill-, who will offer a course in Social Problems and Institutions.
N.	D. Debaters Prove Men Smarter Than Women
Men are more intelligent than women. At least, that is the decision of an audience of Notre Dame men after listening to a debate in the Lavr Auditorium, April 15, on the subject between Rita Stalzer and Marion King of the Mundelein College Debate Team and Jim Beamer and Tim Kelley of Notre Dame’s team. The debate, tending highly towards the humorous, was highlighted by discussions ranging from girl gorillas to the relative dressing habits of boy and girl babies.
The final debate on the Notre Dame campus for this semester will be held on the weekend of May 10 when two cadets from the Military Academy at West Point will defend the question: “Resolved: That a system of Universal Military Training should be established in the United States.” This should be a very interesting question for all ex-G.I.’s on the campus.
University To Expand Research Program
Important research being conducted at the University of Notre Dame in nuclear energy, germ-free life, biology, engineering and in other fields was reviewed by some of the nation’s leading scientists and industrialists at a meeting at the University April 19-20 in the Notre Dame advisory council for science and engineering.
In making the announcement the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, president of Notre Dame, said that plans also would be discussed by university officials and the committee for expanding still further Notre Dame’s constantly increasing research program. Harold S. Vance, chairman of the board of the Studebaker corporation, is chairman of the advisory committee, which also has as members thirteen other well-known scientists and industrialists.
On April 18 the advisory committee inspected Notre Dame’s Physics laboratories and the electro-static generator (atom-smasher) at the university. The Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C., head of the department, explained the nuclear energy program being conducted at Notre Dame by a staff of brilliant young physicists. Dean Karl Schoenherr, of the Notre Dame College of Engineering, in the evening reviewed recent developments in engineering at the university.
The advisory committee completed its meeting on April 19. Besides Father Cavanaugh and Father Bolger, other Notre Dame officials who met with the committee included the Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the graduate school; the Rev. Robert Sweeney, C.S.C., executive assistant to the president; the Rev. John Burke, C.s.C., university stew
THIS WEEK WITH THE STUDENT COUNCIL
■f
The following business was disposed of by the Student Council at its regular Monday night meeting:
1.	Arrangement made to store furniture and other- articles during the summer for students. A charge of 50c will be made for each article. A canvass of the campus is now being made by John Kennedy, Thomas Nelson, Edward Newton and Al Alguier. Furniture will be picked up from the rooms at the end of the present semester and delivered to the new residence halls in September.	•
2.	An NSO Forum will be held Thursday in the Law Building.
3.	Permission granted to the Cleveland Club to hold a dinner at the Ramble Inn on the 25th of April at 7:00 p. m. Permission was also given the Law Club to hold a Farewell Senior Dinner at the Indiana Club on the 8th of May.
4.	The Student Council banquet at the Ramble Inn set for May 5th. Robert Shaw, * Social Committee Chairman, will make the arrangements.
(Other lengthier matters of interest are reported elsewhere in this issue.—Ed.)
ard, and Mr. J. Arthur Haley, director 1 of public relations at Notre Dame.
In addition to Mr. Vance, other members of the advisory committee are: Gritten I. Budd, president Public Service company of Northern Illinois, Chicago, Ill.; William Calcott, assistant driector, organic chemical division, E. I. duPont de Nemours company, Inc., Wilmington, ; Del.; M. E. Coyle, executive vice-president, General Motors corporation, Detroit, Mich.; Bradley Dewey, president, Dewey and Almy chemical company, j Cambridge, Mass.; William P. Feeley, president, Great Lakes Dredge and Dock company, Chicago, HL, and William H. F Harrison, vice-president, American Telephone & Telegraph company, New York city.
Also: Walter G. Hildorf, director of 1 metallurgy, Timken Roller Bearing company, Canton, O.; Edgar Kobak, president, Mutual Broadcasting system, New York city; Peter C. Reilly, president Reilly Chemical corporation, Indianapolis; Arthur J. Schmitt, president, American Phenolic corporation, Cicero, HL; Earle G. Smith, chief metallurgist, Republic Steel corporation, Cleveland, O.; Leland Stanford, vice-president, Sin- « clair Oil company, New York city; Dr. Albert F. Zahm, occupant of the Guggenheim Chair of Aviation, Washington.
Naval Academy Inspection i Headed by Fr. Cavanaugh
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., -President of the University of Notre Dame, was at Annapolis, Md., on April 21 and 22 to take part in the inspection of the United States Naval Academy by -< the Board of Visitors, of which he is a member. Father Cavanaugh was appointed to the board, which advises on academic and other matters, in January by President Truman.
225 Couples Attend Knights of Columbus Spring Formal at Palais Royale Friday
6;''	.
’	BY ED SNYDER
When the K. of C. has its next formal, the date will not be close to Easter nor pre-registration time if the Knights can help it.	..
By anyone’s figuring the first formal dance of the spring season, open to the entire student body, should go great
guns.
which
However, there are two factors in the future will be counted in
the figuring, namely: the cost of Easter vacation, and the $50 deposit required to pre-register for the fall term. Despite these two distressing factors, the K. of C. did have 225 couples on hand at the Palais Royale Friday night for its spring formal, and most of the 225 thought it wTas pretty nice.	‘
-’I
Shaffer pleas-
Bud Bonnot, and Joanne leaving the ball after a ant evening.
Right, Bandleader Jimmy Day leads the K. of C. couples in the Victory March. Below, dancing to the sweet rhythms o' Day's orchestra. Bottom right, Margaret Kennedy, Bill Hopke,
Jimmy Day's orchestra met with general approval. A former arranger of Art Kassel, Day featured the Kassel style of musical presentation, specializing for the most part in slow, nostalgic numbers.
As far as decorations were concerned, the dance missed the boat, hut since most folks pay little attention to them anyway, fewr couples noted theii- absence. A few candles placed on tables at random in the refreshment bar of the Palais were the only deviations from the regular ballroom decorations.

The spaces for alloting dances returned to the Notre Dame dance scene via the spring formal programs. The drinks were not on the house as was the case at the Sophomore Cotillion; nor did they introduce Misses Mary Patricia Haney and Alice Tiernan, the dates of •
co-chairmen Larry Turner and Tom Tearney. Nevertheless, everyone looked like they were having a good time, including two professors from the political science department who ventured forth to the occasion with their wives, and the usual chaperones representing Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
It is doubtful if the K. of C. made any money on the affair, but it probably didn’t lose much either, and the dance did teach the Knights a very valuable
lesson, which may lead them to have fall or winter formal next time.
a
9
Griff Williams' Band To Play at Prom Friday
With a motif of a spring evening, the Junior Prom will be held next Friday night from 9 p. m. until 1 a. m. in the Rockne Memorial, which will be decorated under soft pale lighting with spring flowers. Both the Rockne lounge and the sun terrace will be open.
Bids for the Prom, which will include a dance Saturday night at the Erskine Country Club, are still available to students in the Junior year or higher. However, tonight is the closing date for obtaining bids (price §7.50), which may be obtained from members of the committee. In order to accommodate those who do not have cash at the present time, a promise to pay will be acceptable.
Permissions until 2:30 a. m. will be effective Friday night, and the usual automobile privileges have been granted. Bus transportation to and from St. Mary’s will be provided both before and after the Prom.
Emphasis for the Prom has been placed on soft light and soft music. Griff Williams and his orchestra, one of the most popular’ in the Chicago area, are noted for their smooth music, and feature vocalists Bob Kirk and Wally King. An accomplished pianist, Williams has been called the “creator of America’s most danceable music.” A broadcast of the Prom is being planned for some time during the evening.
In abandoning the too customary afternoon tea dance in favor of the Saturday night dance at the Erskine Club, the committee took into consideration the fact that many of the Prom-going couples would prefer an afternoon of leisure and relaxation. Another factor entering the decision was the desire to provide for something definite to do on Saturday night in entertainment-staiwed South Bend.
Playing for the second dance of the weekend will be Notre Dame’s Cavaliers. Transportation from town will be available, and maps will be provided for those who are driving to the Club. Permissions until one a. m. have been grantd for Saturday night.—Shaun McDermott
ND Students Are Chairmen Of Area Youth Congress
As their part in National Youth week, April 20-27, young people of this area, representing 47 youth organizations are currently meeting in the first annual youth congress this week. Discussion programs were held on Tuesday and Wednesday, a radio broadcast tonight, and a dance tomorrow night will complete the week’s activities.
Two students of the University, Harold Coleman of 317 W. Marion St., and Frazier L. Thompson, a campus resident, are co-chairmen of the congress. Both gave introductory speeches at the opening session held Tuesday night in Central High Auditorium.
Notre Dame’s nationally-famous Glee Club was the highlight of the opening night entertainment. John Hunt, a Notre Dame student, is writing the script for the radio broadcast to be given tonight at 5:15 p. m.
Jimmy McPhee’s orchestra will provide the music for the Saturday night dancing in the YMCA gymnasium. There will be no charge for any of the activities of this congress.
Only 50 Senior Ball Bids Remain Unsold
Over 350 seniors have reserved bids for the Senior Ball. Friday, May 16. Taking advantage of the §5.00 down payment plan, the last minute rush of buyers Monday night left less than 50 bids for those who failed to obtain one.
Due to the fact that many students expressed a verbal desire to be put on the “save me one” list but were without financial assistance until the arrival of May checks, the Ball Committee has decided to put the remaining 50 bids on sale on a first come, first served basis. However, the §5 00 down payment plan is no longer in effect and the entire §8.50 must now be paid at the time of purchase. In order to conform with the optimum figure of 400 bids, to avoid overcrowding the Palais Royale the night of the Ball, there will be no more bids available after the remaining 50 are gone.	.
Those who made the §5.00 down payments are reminded that they have till a week from Tuesday, May 6, to pay the §3.50 balance. If this second payment is not paid by this time the initial §5.00 payment will be forfeited.
A recent announcement by the Knights of Columbus that they will hold their statewide convention in South Bend the weekend of May 16 has put local hotel accommodations at a minimum. Rooms are available at the Mishawaka Hotel, however. Arrangements Chairman Herb Daiker has a list of private homes in South Bend willing to house the dates of Ball-goers. Call on him in 231 Sorin if you need help.
Thursday, May 1, at 7:30, outfitters will come out to the campus from South Bend to measure up all those who are in need of formal attire for the evening. The rental price of a tuxedo with complete accessories, except shoes, is §8.50,
ND to Send Delegates To NSO Convention
With the overwhelming majority of 527 to 67, Notre Dame students decided last Tuesday to send delegates to the Constitutional Convention of the National Student Organization this summer , in Wisconsin. As a result of this vote future student forums will be held to map Notre Dame’s action at the convention, and to formulate definite objectives in regard to the form of the constitution and the program of the organization.
Within the next few weeks an election ' will be held to select three delegates and alternatives who will represent the student body at the convention. Nominations for these posts will be accepted until April 30, having started yesterday. Definite procedure to be followed by candidates was set at the student forum last * night. (Scholastic deadline prevents coverage of the forum in this issue).
At a meeting Tuesday night of the . Nomination and Election Committee, organized at a pre-Easter forum, it was decided to present a tentative procedure to the forum last night and to be sub- ' ject to the decision of that body. According to the plan of the Committee, qualifications necessary for candidates would be that they be students in good standing, and to be enrolled for the Fall semester here. It was also planned that all candidates submit a letter to Art Curran (126 Dillon), chairman of the Committee, giving information regarding the school in which they are enrolled, their year, major subject, age, a list of their extra-curricular activities and their home address. It is also the plan of the Committee to grant each candidate the opportunity to speak ar the next forum, tentatively set for May 6.
Among other developments in the past week was the selection of Al Sommers by a unanimous vote of the four NSO committees to be the chairman of the NSO activities here. Sommers succeeds John McKeon, who recently resigned. , —Shaun McDermott
while tails with complete accessories, except shoes, is §9.50. Those who fail to have their measurements taken at this time will have to pay an additional dollar rental fee. Announcement of the definite place and time for measurements will be made in Senior Ball bulletins in the residence halls.
Ball bids may be purchased from any of the five ticket agents: Jack Galloway, 220 Alumni; Jack Noonan, 104 Walsh; Hal Walters, 352 Cavanaugh; Bernard Duclos, 204 Sorin; and Gabby Hartnett, 110 Lyons.
10
425 Delegates From 107 Catholic Colleges Attend 4th National Congress of NFCCS
Four hundred and fifty delegates from 107 Catholic colleges in 25 stares gathered last weekend at the fourth National Congress of the National Federation of Catholic College Students at Toledo, 0.; adopted a new and improved Constitution; but were dissolved late Sunday afternoon through lack of a quorum

without having adopted a full program of action for the ensuing year.
Too much to do in too short a time haunted the delegates, who spent a social-less and nearly sleepless three days and nights attempting to develop and activate the organization and activities of the NFCCS.	*
Aside from the new Constitution, however, two other important proposals were accepted by the Congress. One called for an emergency program of foreign student relief, whereby each affiliated college would be urged to adopt a destitute European university for the purpose of providing them with books and other vital student supplies. The second proposal came in the form of a resolution which called for Catholic college participation in the coming constitutional convention of the National Student Organization.
The failure of the Congress to formulate a full program by adopting the resolutions which came from the various Commission meetings was felt by many to limit radically NFCCS activity for the next year. Others, however, felt that these resolutions could be the basis for a program if put into effect by the National Office and the Regional Councils.
Among the more important resolutions presented were two prepared by the Notre Dame delegation and accepted by the Veteran’s Affairs Commission. Colleges affiliated with NFCCS were urged in one to recognize the need for adequate housing for married student veterans and to make every effort to remedy the situation. Veteran delegates went on record also as favoring the Rogers Bill for increased subsistence pay to ex-servicemen attending school.
A student commission in international relations, declaring the United States had a moral responsibility to solve problems left in the wake of war, asked that this country offer sanctuary to displaced persons in Europe. The commission asked also that the United States do all in its power to balance voting in the World Council, widen powers of the international court to include compulsory arbitration and modernize United States immi
gration laws which it termed “outmoded and discriminatory.”
Work on the new constitution occupied the major attention of the Congress delegates. The Constitutional session, which began at 7 p. m. Saturday, lasted until 4 a. m. Sunday, and even then ran over
MRS. KORMENDI SCULPTURES STATIONS OF THE CROSS FOR BOYS' TOWN CHURCH
Commissioned last August by Msgr. Edward J. Flanagan to sculpture a set of the 14 Stations of the Cross for the church of famed Boys Town near Omaha, Neb., Mrs. Eugene Kormendi, wife of the University’s professor of sculpture, completed the work shortly before Good Friday, the deadline for the job.
In what is believed to be the first use of pure aluminum in sculpturing in this country, the Stations made by the Budapest born sculpturist are highly polished, reflecting light and appear even whiter than silver. According to Mi’s. Kormendi aluminum is more decorative than silver, and will not tarnish, thereby retaining its brightness. In addition the material is well suited for the light gray Indiana limestone interior of the church, which enhances the statues’ appearance.
In accepting the commission, Mrs.
into the first two hours of the Sunday afternoon assembly meeting which originally had been scheduled to hear commission reports. Foremost among the changes embodied in the new constitution was a new system of representation to National Congresses. Under this system colleges with less than 1,000 students would be entitled to two delegates, while a maximum of five delegates would be allotted to schools with over 4,000 (Continued on Page 26)
Kormendi realized it would be a race against time since certain parts of the process depended upon other people. However, working diligently in the University’s sculpture shop under the authorization of the school, she completed the work in time for the Stations to be mounted in the church before Good Friday. Her husband supervised the mounting of the statues in Msgr. Flanagan’s church. The Stations, which are circular, 22 inches in diameter, are set in niches in the wall of the church, thus providing a natural frame.
Included among her other works is a set of the Stations of the Cross in the Immaculate Conception church in East Chicago, Ind., which were carved last year. Mrs. Kormendi received her training in Europe, working in Budapest, Vienna, Rome and Paris.
II
BY PETE REINER
The general bulletin states that the Heat Power Lab is near the power house, but weary engineers swear it is much nearer’ to Detroit. At least, the walk seems that long. Many wonder about the rules of interstate commerce when approaching it. Located north of the Ave Maria Press, itself placed out in the great nowhere, the Heat Power Lab is an unobtrusive two-story, brick structure commanding a view of St. Joseph’s Lake and a rather ordinary road.
Shared by would-be mechanical and aeronautical engineers, who dote upon complicated machinery, the building was completed in 1941, shortly before the war. Sparsely equipped in wartime, when deliveries of needed equipment were held up it is now crowded to capacity with all manner of machines purchased from the N.A.C.A.
The largest and most impressive piece of recently acquired equipment is a hulking P-47 Thunderbolt, straight off the
12
assembly line. Its wings dismantled, it is doomed, like the Kiwi bird, to an earthbound existence, subject to the prowlings and dissection of its vitals by embryonic engineers. The still intact cockpit is a prime example of why flying a fighter plane is a fine art, demanding somewhat more than human skill and an elephant-like memory. Crowded with switches, buttons, dials, pedals, and whatnot, there is barely room for the pilot in this engineer’s paradise which is a weird collection of unintelligible gadgets to the layman who is neither pilot nor engineer.
* A baffling assortment of engines greets the visitor if he chances to enter by the front door. (Students who know better go by a short cut, get to classes faster by going through the back door).
All the engines are well-known U. S', types with the exception of a German turbo-jet unit. The center of the main floor, or second story, depending upon how you look at it, is occupied by a serv
ice shop. Regular maintenance work is v. performed on all equipment — the only	:
good engine is a live engine. Small parts	-
are also manufactured here.
To the right of the service shop is a bank of Electric Cradle dynamometers, which enable students to take power out- * put readings of motors. Currently being J put through the grueling paces is a Stu- ’ debaker Champion engine. Other engines are mounted on different dynamometers in the room.
An important looking Skinner Unaflow J engine commands the left side of the 1 building. In harmony with several , steam driven air compressors, it rumbles majestically, like a satisfied lion after * a meal on an explorer, as students change compression ratios at will. A water cooled friction brake applies va-lious loads to its flywheel. Nearby	1
stands a relic of days gone by—the first	’
engine to supply power to N.D. Still in good working condition, it is occasionally ■* used for experiments. Otherwise, it

simply sits and dreams its mechanical dreams of the days when it was an important toad in an unimportant puddle. The generator it drove is still preserved in the E. E. lab.
Above: Professor C. C. Wilcox gives Bob Snyder and Leo Popko a few pointers on steam driven air compressors.
Right: 100 h.p. Skinner Unaflow engine used for determination of steam :ates and thermal efficiencies.
Below, taking electric cradle dynamometer test of Studebaker Champion engine. Left to right: John Klinger, Warren Cartier, George Krull (lab instructor), J. J. Dues, Gerald F. Gass, and Leo J. Vetter.
Downstairs, in either the basement or the first floor, in what is really a soi-t of subterranean mezzanine, stands the water tanks, air conditioning machines and small apparatus labs. Classrooms also find space here, in a tangle of pipes reminiscent of the labrynthian ways of Sorin sub. Soon to be installed here is a new air-conditioning machine that can simulate any given air conditions, then direct the air into a section where students attempt to correct heat, humidity, and other health conditions to the proper levels. It is said to be able to synthesize air having anything from the musty,

acrid smell of an all-night poker session to the frosty, dry chill of a WCTU meeting. Alas for those who might expect it to modify the diabolic vagaries of Indiana weather, the machine is not expected to function in the great outdoors. The wet, murky weather will continue to come (and go?) as it chooses.
The power for all the steam engines used in the building comes from the nearby power plant; water from the force pumps which circulate from tank to tank for efficiency tests is obtained from St. Joseph’s Lake. The easy accessibility of both power and water is said to have been the decisive factor in placing the building in its out of the way location, but students don’t like the long safaris over the muddy wastes in the Spring and the arduous mushes through, drifted snow in the dead of an Indiana winter.
13
Father Joseph Rick, Bengal Missionary, Has Notable List of Firsts to His Credit
BY ED SNYDER
Rev. Joseph M. Rick, C.S.C., veteran Indian missionary, has made a habit of being first.
He was the first Houston boy to be ordained a priest.
He was the first native-born Texas priest to go into the foreign mission field.
He was the first American priest to be issued a pilot’s license by the Bureau of Aeronautics of the Commerce Department.
In fact he might also qualify as the first Holy Cross father to travel from Calcutta, India to Houston, Texas in less than a week. On Sunday, March 23, Father Rick was in Calcutta heading for a one year furlough in the United States after 10 years’ missionary duty in India. He boarded an airliner in Karachi, India at 1 a. m. Wednesday, March 26, and arrived in New York City Thursday morning at 11 o’clock after stops at Istanbul, London, Shannon, Ireland, and Newfoundland. By Saturday, March 26, he was in his home town.
17 Years in India
A man of action after 17 years of missionary work in India, Father Rick was one of the first to answer the call for aid in the recent Texas City explosion. He worked for 15 hours, caring for the injured, and searching for the dead. He told a Scholastic reporter this week of one experience that he had during the rescue work. With other workers he found a leg protruding from a mass of debris. After tiring labor, the pile of wreckage was cleared aside, but only a leg was found. It had been torn loose from someone’s body by the force of the explosion.
Father Rick was at Notre Dame to attend the consecration of the Most Rev. Lawrence L. Graner, C.S.C., to the bishopric of Dacca, India, the diocese in which he has labored during the past 17 years. Following the ceremonies he returned to Texas for a two month rest period, after which he will begin barnstorming for funds for the Bengal missions.
When in 1928, he was ordained to the priesthood, Houston Catholics rejoiced, for their city had finally produced a priest. Sensing the value of aviation, Father Rick began to take flying lessons, and many times, he says, they accused him of trying to knock the statue of
Mary off the Dome when he buzzed the campus. In 1929, the Department of Commerce issued him a license, making him the first Catholic priest in America to have that distinction. There -were other priests who were able to fly planes, but none with licenses.
Plans to Use Helicopter
His flight training, however, could not be put into practice in India. When he was assigned to the Indian mission field in 1929, becoming the first native Texas priest to enter foreign mission work, he found that the numerous rice fields in the area hampered planes from landing.. He reports now that efforts are being made to procure a heliocopter for use in mission work in the Dacca diocese.
Father Rick returned to America in 1936 for a year’s furlough after seven years abroad. During his stay in America he picked up $400 alone on the Notre Dame campus after delivering a sermon before the student body, which produced untold laughter when he explained India’s strange customs. He returned to India in 1937, and because of the war, was unable to come back for his seven year rotational leave until this past March.
His last assignment before leaving the diocese of Dacca was as secretary for post-war reconstruction. There are 13,000,000 people in the diocese, he reports, and 21 missions are now in operation. So far, 14 native secular priests have been educated and ordained for the diocese, who together with other native priests and Catholic missionaries are propagating the Catholic faith in a land of Moslems, Hindus, and wide political controversy.
Church Powerful Influence
In regard to the church and Indian political situation, Father Rick says that Christian ethics are powerfully influencing modern Hindu thought, and are recognized by many leaders as the supreme criterion of human conduct. The notable contributions made by Catholic charitable and educational agencies for the moral, social, and material progress of the country can never be ignored by any government, he states.
The church has made the most remarkable progress during the period when the forces of nationalism gathered momentum, and when antagonism to Christianity was most marked, he con
tinued. During the last decade the Catholic population has increased nearly 50 per cent.
It can well be concluded that with men like Father Rick and Bishop Graner continuing their labors, the Indian Catholic population will continue rising.
Lest it be overlooked, Father Rick now wears a moustache and goatee. However, while in India, he wears a beard, and from a picture of himself he showed to the Scholastic writer, he probably has the distinction of possessing the bushiest black beard worn by any Holy Cross father in the Indian mission field. To a man who has made a habit of setting precedent, the unique beard can only be an added mark of distinction.
ASCE Elects Charles Prescott President ”
The Indiana Section and the Notre Dame Student Chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineers will hold a joint meeting in the LaSalle Hotel on May 23, Prof. Walter L. Shilts announced.
The principal speakers at the meeting will be Mr. Samuel Hadden, Consultant for the Chicago and Michigan Auto Clubs and former chairman of the Indiana i State Highway Commission, who will discuss the “Proposed Detroit to Chicago Speedway,” and Mr. Carl Wilcox, head > of the Mechanical Engineering Department of the University of Notre Dame, who will speak on “Canol,” a war project on which he was one of the Chief En- , gineers. The Student Chapter is preparing a short entertainment program to be offered at the meeting.
r
One of the highlights for the students attending this meeting will be the award given for the outstanding talk at one of the regular C.E. monthly meetings in the Engineering Building. The leading aspirants for the award at the present time are Cy Weiler, who talked on “Traf- V-fic Control,” and Bob Reid, who explained the operation and application of “Electronic Strain Gages.” Talks at May 7 meeting are to be given by Roger O’Reilly and Edward Blake.
At a recent meeting the election of * officers for the coming year was held. Thomas “Tom” Fry was installed as President; Charles “Chuck” Prescott as Vice-President; Jose N. Duarte as Secre- . tary; and Roger O’Reilly as Treasurer. Also at a recent meeting the date of the annual “Civlis” picnic was set for May 10. The place is to be announced at the next meeting.
14
Schulte before the
ceremonies.
I
r Above, prelates who attended the consecration: Bishops Edward Hoban, Stephen S. Woznicki, John F. Noll, Lawrence

Graner, John F. O'Hara, John Mark Gannon, Joseph Albers, and Michael J. Ready. Above right. Bishop O'Hara, the con-secrator, presents the crazier, sign of jurisdiction, to newly 'consecrated Bishop Graner. Rev. Sigismund Jankowski, C S.C., is the master of the Gospel Book. Right, Bishop G.aner, vested for Mass, reposes at his private altar where he began concelebration of Mass with Bishop O'Hara. Below, Bishop Graner, attended by his co-consecrators. Bishops Gannon ». and Noll, proceeds down the main aisle and gives his firs'
pontifical blessing. Below, right. Father Philip Moore, Father
- Eugene Burke, Bishop Graner, Father Kelly, and Father





THE BIC rccc
Those who attended St. Mary’s Winter Carnival were undoubtedly amazed by the “Big Four,” a quartet of “on campus” comedians that put on an unusual presentation of humor and parodies while serving in the capacity of official entertainers for the event. Of those who didn’t attend the Carnival, a few probably have heard of the group and harbor vague ideas of its make-up, while others still are completely unaware that such a team of funny men exists here on the campus.
All four of these wits reside in Morrissey Hall; Gene Moore and Walt La Berge, both student prefects, occupy room 13, while Jack (Red) Naegele and Joe O’Hara are located in room 426. Before we treat the “Big Four” as a unit, perhaps we had better analyze each one of these characters individually.
Gene Moore, the master of ceremonies type of guy from North Pottsville, Pa., the “southern gateway to the anthracite region,” is known best for his Durante and Archie (from Duffy’s Tavern program) impersonations. Since he is intensely proud of his hometown, he delights in telling everyone about it. Any acquaintance of his who hasn’t heard of Pottsville, the “best site in the anthracite,” is a rarity. After studying at Notre Dame under the N.R.O.T.C. program in ’41, Gene spent two years as an engineering officer and executive officer on an LST. Now, with only six semester hours of credit between him and a B.S. degree in chemical engineering, he is taking some graduate courses along with the undergraduate work.
Tall, dark, and lanky Walt La Berge from Maywood, Ill., is the poet laureate of the outfit. Although he is usually quite reserved, when he does unleash his sharp, smooth-flowing wit, it packs power. He excels in writing humorous satirical verse. A typical example of his many poems is the following quatrain:
She can’t be a thief, .
Nor even a felon; But little Janie Stole Francis from Helen.
Walt who is now doing graduate work in physics, studied here in ’41 under the N.R.O.T.C. program until he left for two years of sea duty as a patrol craft skipper. .
Red curly haired Jack Naegele is a typical well educated boy from Brooklyn. Due to the fact that he is a trifle short and tubby, he is the target of much
good natured ridicule from his colleagues, who “pick on” him consistently. Thus, he might be considered the stooge of the outfit. Girls would probably classify him as “cute.” Jack came to Notre Dame in ’42, was in the navy V-12 program from July ’43 to June ’44, and then served in the navy for two years. He is now in his fifth semester as a history major.
In every comedian team there is a suave, soft-spoken lady’s man. Handsome Joe O’Hara from Middletown, Pa., fills the bill in this department. His casual manner is best displayed when he nonchalantly fashions puns from- the words of his unsuspecting cohorts. Afterserving three years in the navy, Joe is now in his seventh semester as an aeronautical engineer.
If we put these four screwballs together as a unit, we have the “Big Four.” Their performances, which combine the nostalgic flavor of a minstrel show with the spontaneity of today’s radio comedians, are built around a nucleus of corny jokes and several original parodies of familiar songs. Though most people agree that their jokes are an insult to a self-respecting sense of humor, the novel presentation of their offerings makes them entertaining. If they cannot make people laugh at a joke for its own sake, they call upon the devices of repetition and variation to* get results. Their
i
THE BIG FOUR IN PEBSON — Left to right. Gene Moore, Joe O'Hara, Walt LaBerge, and Jack Naegele.
“shower joke” is a good example of this:
(1st wit) “Did you take a shower today?”
(2nd wit) “Why, no . . . was there one missing?”	>
This, of course, doesn’t provoke many laughs, so they announce their Christmas joke:
(1st wit) “Did you take a CHRISTMAS shower today?”
(2nd wit) “Why, no . . . was there one missing?”	f
Next comes the Biblical version:
(1st wit) “Hast thou taken a cleansing by the waters ; of the public bath lately?”
(2nd wit) “Nay, why sayest thou? Wast there one missing * thee?”
Then comes the climax, the condensed version:
(1st wit) “Did you?”	'
(2nd wit) “No. Was there?”
Whereas the jokes themselves are corny, repetition and variations help put them * across successfully. Another example of their humor is the dog joke:
(1st wit) “I had to shoot my dog yesterday.”
(2nd wit) “Too bad . . . was he mad?”
(1st wit) “Well, he wasn’t exactly happy about it!”	-r
16
Their originality is best shown by the humorous parodies which they all helped to compose. In a manner reminiscent of the old vaudeville days, they introduce each song with the following fanfare: “da dum, da dum, dum, dum.” Typical ■ examples of the “songs they never completed” are:
Rockne Gym Son? w.
(to the tune of “Super Suds”) Swimming ’cause it’s good for you-oo-oo. Rockne gym, Rockne gym, Lots more fun at Rockne gym-m-m.
►	Basketball and handball too,
Chow Hall Song
(to the tune of “Heigh Ho, Heigh Ho”) Heigh ho, heigh ho. It’s off to chow we go:
You positively can’t go wrong with a mystery ball.
:	Heigh ho! That’s all I
Laundry Song
(to the tune of “Take Me Out to the Ball Game”) * Take it down to the laundry;
Take it down to the plant.
Put all your clothes in a little sack, I will bet that they never come back.
_ For it’s scrub, scrub, scrub at the laundry For they don’t clean, it’s a shame.
For it’s rip, tear, split and they’re gone At the old laundry.
* Toward the end of some of the songs Moore pulls a Jew’s harp from his pocket and plays it to give them a more “musical” ending. Other parodies they have devloped are the Mission Song (to the tune of Mission Bell Wine) and their famous South Shore Song (to the tune of On the Atchinson, Topeka and the Santa Fe).
The “Big Four” do not display their looney temperaments only when called upon for a public performance. Whenever they are together they enjoy a friendship built upon the principle: “Embarrass your buddy.” With this prin-' ciple in mind, when they are on dates together, they do not hesitate to “put on” one of their buddies, if he happens to have two or more girls which he dates at different times, by “accidentally” calling his girl a wrong name.
- Everything they do is a ritual. Whether they are tying a shoestring, writing a letter, or calling up their girl for a date, they do it with the pomp and ceremony that prevailed during the signing of the Magna Carta or the Declaration of Independence. Speaking of rituals, - one which they perform religiously, almost nightly in fact, consists of playing bridge on a cardtable improvised by placing a trunk sideways atop a wastebasket.
The motto of the “Big Four” is “having a grand time.” Now that March is past they’ve gone even madder with the hatters and hares. If they invite you to their tea party, go—you’ll enjoy it!
Local Legal Circles Desperate; Don't Know What to Do With Reasonable Man
Local legal circles were in a quandry; the Gothic corridors of the Law Building buzzed with an unusual hum of excitement. Legal whizbangs did not know whether to call up the A.P. or to close up like clams. After ponderous tomes of legal principles and dicta, THE Reasonable Man had turned up. Nobody knew what to do with him.
Worse still, the Reasonable Man did not know what to do with himself. He was quiet, almost ascetic Ellenborough Blackstone Burthistle, law junior from East Floodbank, Ill. His classmates, who never had claimed to be reasonable men, had noticed him acting queerly: all business, he gave no legal advice to befuddled engineering students, railed at no judges. Finally they got it out of him: he was the Reasonable Man. Approached for a statement, he was at first diffident, civilly evading queries in a reasonable manner. At last he opened his reasonable yap, let out with a few reasonable answers to reasonable questions.
How had he discovered that he was the Reasonable Man? It had just struck him one day. He noticed himself behaving in an ordinary way, always exercising due care and caution. It was he, unbeknown to the Common Law, who had edified it for a century. He was not only the Reasonable Man he offered; he was also the Reasonably Prudent Man, the Ordinary Reasonable Man of Ordinary Prudence, the Ordinary Prudent Man, exercising due care and caution, and the Prudent Man exercising reasonable care.
What was he going to do? As THE Reasonable Man, he would not yet decide. Quick decisions are not reasonable. He might offer himself to the supreme court as an infallible yardstick of conduct; at least he would let the court take what steps it would in his regard. It could dispose of him as it would.
But he was definitely in the way of the law’s jaundiced eye. One Judge said that the Reasonable Man never existed; he was only a legal fiction. The judge refused to believe that Burthistle existed either, maintained that a reasonable man would not so believe. Burthistle could not be heard to say, he intoned, that he was it. The judge refused to take any judicial notice when Burthistle said that The Reasonable Man DID so believe, and WAS it.
Befogged Docket, a local attorney, was even more candid than the judge. Burthistle, he said, was destroying the Common Law, the Code, and sacred legal tradition by appearing. Docket said he
might upset the whole profession; might teach others to behave reasonably, accordingly, quavered Docket, destroying lawyers completely. The lawsuit would become a thing of the past. The Reasonable Man should be determined by the court; it was Docket’s considered opinion that Burthistle had usurped judicial prerogative. He should be burned at the stake.
No stake was necessary; Burthistle put his own foot in it. When asked what he would do upon graduation, he said, “I shall, of course marry the Reasonable Woman.” That did it. As an anonymous law student pointed out, “Burthistle is a fraud. No Reasonable Man would believe that there was a Reasonable Woman.”
Burthistle was stopped. Said he, “I must have a reasonable time to make a reasonable, ordinary, prudent answer. I must exercise due care and caution under the circumstances.” When last seen, he was still exercising it.—Joe Wilcox
Funeral Services Held For Holy Cross Educator
Funeral services for Brother Harold, C.S.C., (Walter A. Grindel) aged 47, a leading educator in the Brothers of Holy Cross, were held here Monday, April 21, at Sacred Heart Church.
Brother Harold, a native of Sandusky, 0., died April 16 in Long Beach, Calif., where he was principal of St. Anthony’s High School. He formerly was principal of Holy Cross High School in New Orleans, La., and had taught at various times at Central Catholic High School, Fort Wayne, Ind., Reitz Memorial High, Evansville, Ind., and Monsignor Coyle High, Taunton, Mass. At the time of his death, Brother Harold was Principal and Superior of the Brothers’ High School at Long Beach.
Four Students Honored For Engineering Papers
Four students have been honored by the South Bend section of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers for papers prepared on “Electrical Engineering and Its Applications.”
First prize of $30 has been awarded to Myles Wood for his paper “Variable Speed Induction Motors.” Johr. Guldan and M. A. Dranchak jointly have received second and third prizes. Charles Thies has been awarded honorable mention.
17
i
IRISH TRACKSTERS HOPE TO REPEAT KANSAS SHOWING IN DRAKE RELAYS
Notre Dame will be represented by a strong and well balanced track team today and tomorrow in the annual midwest cinder classic, the Drake Relays. The Irish are entering a squad of twenty-three picked men in hopes of repeating some of the fine showings made in the Kansas Relays last week.
In addition to the usual point gathering relay groups, N. D. has men competing in eight individual events. Expected to shine in their field are George Sullivan, Luke Higgins, John Johnson, and Jack Zilly. Sullivan will take part in both the shot put and the discuss throw. Johnson is a strong entry in the discus, and Higgins a steady performer in the shot. Zilly will make his first appearance of the yeai- in the javelin throw.
In the broad jump, Jack Hunter will again be competing after a long period of inactivity caused by the lack of meets including that event. Ray Struble and Jim Miller are entered in the pole vault. Another possible entry in the pole vault is Terry Brennan who may be able to leave his spring football duties to compete.
The Irish are counting on John Smith’s regular brilliant exhibition in the high hurdles for much of their strength. Smith, captain of the spike-sters has as his running mate Jack Cauley who will also be appearing for the first time this year. Bob McDavid completes the local entries in the barrier races. He will run in the strenuous 440 yard contest, while Cauley and Smith compete in the 120 yard high hurdle event.
Completing the individual performers are Jim Murphy, Lou Tracy, and Cornie Stivers who will again be running the gruelling two-mile distance. The two-milers have been forced to run under trying conditions the past few weeks in order to gain the stamina necessary for the long race.
Five relay teams will represent N. D. in the meet, which features squads from Illinois, Ohio State, Drake and several other' midwest schools. The Irish relay team will probably be composed of Steve Provost, Ernie McCullough, Ray Sobota, and Dave Murphy. The four-mile squad of Jim Murphy, Lou Tracy, Johnny Lyons, and Gerry Johnson is expected to better the showing they made last week on the muddy Kansas track. They finished second to Drake in that contest, but were running together for the first time. The quartet earned the right to compete by running a time trial in the snow a week ago Thursday.
18	‘
Notre Dame’s two-mile group, made up of half-milers Bill Leonard, Larry Keenan, Sobota, and Gerry Johnson, is considered a potential point collector. In the sprint medley, Sobota will run a quarter, McCullough a 220, Dave Murphy a 220, and Leonard a half. The fifth squad, which will run a sprint relay consists of Frazier Thompson, Bob Smith, Dave Murphy, and McCullough.
At Kansas, N. D. faired better than expected. John Smith was an unexpected entry in the 120 yard high hurdles which he won in 15 seconds, a good time for the poor track conditions. The Mile relay team took third, finishing behind Texas A. & M. and Minnesota. In the sprint medley McCullough, Leonard, Sobota and Dave Murphy brought the baton in second behind Oklahoma. The mile squad was made up of the same men as the sprint medley team. John Johnson was disqualified in the discus after a first toss which seemed to offer great promise.
Parents of Students To Get Army Tickets
Lou Streer, member of the Student Council, assigned to investigate the possibility of student’s parents obtaining tickets to this year’s Army-Notre Dame football game, reported to the council that the Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., Vice-President and chairman of the Faculty Athletic Board, assured him that parents wishing to attend the game will receive two tickets by filling in the proper application blanks to be provided at a later date.
Mr. Streer reported that “in no case will parents receive more than two tickets.” This will not apply to all season ticket holders, benefactors, alumni, etc. who are parents. These will receive their regular allotment of tickets as they have in the past years. But they will not be able to obtain additional tickets through the special provision made for students’ parents.
Streer further stated that Father Murphy said that ‘'not all parents would be able to be taken care of but that as equitable system of distribution as possible would be made.” Father Murphy also warned that “a rigid system of checking would be made to insure against any person receiving more tickets than they were entitled to.” No definite plan of distribution has been made as yet but students will be notified in time.
BASEBALL SQUAD EFI LOSES 11-10 GA1E
’ r
Notre Dame’s baseball team pounded J t out 19 runs against two Big Nine squads1^ 1 last week, defeating Wisconsin, 9-1, and | t losing to Michigan, 11-10.	1 s
The Wisconsin tilt, played Friday on ’ £ Cartier Field, opened the Irish honyii season. It was the first contest of a twofW game series. Rain caused the cancellaQ tion of the Saturday game.	'.4
Walt Mahannah handled the mound I duties for the home team, giving six hitsrf to the visitors, while Irish batters knock-1 j ed out nine safeties against Badger hui<M« 1 ers Jaroch and Sorenson. Bobby Kleii^ and Tom Sheehan led the hitting by getW, * ting seven of the nine blows.	4 M *
Notre Dame gave its first display of! A scoring punch in the fifth inning. Mahan-1 j nah led off and walked. He advanced to third when Wilson, Wisconsin catcher* erred on Favela’s sacrifice bunt. Lavery* forced Pavela for the first out. Klein i singled to left, scoring Mahannah. Mayo flied out to left field. Schneider walked. ]
With three on and two out, Sheehan fired] ! a 400-foot triple to left center fieldL/ i clearing the bases.	Wf i
The Irish added four more runs in th^[ 1 seventh frame when Lavery’s single, Klein’s double, and the intentional pa^s of Mayo once again filled the bases. 11 is	1
EFEATS BADGERS, 9-1;
AiE TO MICHIGAN
n’
led/ time George Schneider stepped into the ids^j limelight and poled the second triple of .nd I the afternoon down the left field line. He
1 scored on the next play when Sheehan on? sin^led-
The final run came in the eighth inning vo( 5 when Klein doubled, advanced to third daM on a wild pitch, and then came home on another wild pitch.
nd I *
litsJ The Michigan game, played at Ann ck-| Arbor, turned into a scoring fracas dur-L ing the eighth inning. Picking up five eii^f .runs *n	frame, No-
tre Dame faced Michigan’s batters with an 8-5 lead. The margin, however, was
4
of an-
le®
Short-lived, thanks to Jack Weisenberger, who smashed a grand slam homer after his mates had nicked Mahannah and J John Creevey for two other runs.
ein
. Notre Dame was able to pick up two more runs in the ninth inning. Pavela
Sf,o and Lavery singled. Klein was hit by a
red
fid.
th« ?Ie, sfes his
pitched ball, filling the bases. Then Schneider singled sharply to left, send-r ing two runs across. Sheehan followed up with a towering, 400-foot drive to left field, which was pulled down by Paul White on a beautiful running catch to 'end the game, giving the Wolverines an 11-10 victory.
COACH LANGFORD SEES SUCCESSFUL SEASON FOR N. D. TENNIS TEAM
The Notre Dame tennis team yesterday opened their 1947 season by crossing rackets with Western Michigan on the local courts.	■
In pre-season speculation Coach Walter Langford said, “This year’s team looks like one of the strongest Notre Dame has ever had—probably stronger than the two unbeaten teams of 1942 and ’44.”
The Irish netsters have a rough road ahead. Coach Langford is well aware that all the opposition will be improved.
“Everybody else will be stronger with returning servicemen. We face a rugged schedule but with high hopes of getting by every opponent successfully. I don’t know which will be the toughest. 1947 is a year of uncertainty in tennis. Because of this influx of returning servicemen it’s impossible to estimate a team’s strength from last year’s record.”
The same thing goes for Notre Dame which has its share of returned lettermen from the service. Right now the battles for the respective positions are being waged hot and heavy.
Captain-elect of this year’s team is Jimmy Evert of Fort Lauderdale, Florida. In 1943 Jimmy was beaten in the semi-finals of the N.C.A.A. tournament by Tom Brown. He was No. 1 on that year’s Notre Dame team as well as being ranked eleventh in the country.

“Sweater merchant” would be an appropriate title for William Joseph Tully, of Bronxville, New York, who has already won six monograms and is well on his way to seven and eight in track and tennis. Bill is a member of the varsity track and tennis teams for the fourth straight year.
Twenty-one-year-old Tully started his collection back in high school where he won three monograms in tennis, and four basketball sweaters. Bill played his basketball at St. Patrick’s in Miami Beach, Florida, where he was selected as “AU State” forward in 1942. He played Tennis at Iona Preparatory school, New Rochelle, New York. There, he set a record by not dropping a match in three years of competition, and helped spark his team to the Metropolitan Championship each year. As a last gesture before coming to Indiana’s “bit of Ire-
Fighting it out with Evert for the No. 1 spot is Chuck Samson, one of Notre Dame’s few two-time tennis captains. He held this honor in 1944 and ’45. Chuck lost to Pancho Segura in the N.C.A.A. finals of ’44 and was semi-finalist in the doubles with Gerry Evert in the same tournament.
Gerry Evert, Jim’s brother, is a strong candidate for position but he is being pressed by Bill Tully and Bob David. Tully was top man and captain on the ’46 team, while David, Chicago freshman, is the only non-letterman in the group.
Struggling for the sixth berth are Jim Griffin, ’44 and ’45 teams, Ed Caparo, ’43 and ’46, and Joe Brown, ’45 and ’46.
Farther down the list are a great number of promising players, some of whom will get to see some action in home matches.
TENNIS SCHEDULE 1947
April 24—Western Michigan, here.
26—Michigan State, here.
28—Wisconsin, there.
30—Purdue, here.
May 3—Michigan, there.
5—Navy, there.
10—Kentucky, here.
17—Northwestern, here.
21—DePauw, there.
29-30—C.C.C. Meet, here.
land,” Bill captured the crown in the Metropolitan Junior Tennis Tournament in the summer of 1943.
November 1943 was the date TuUy entered Notre Dame, and for one semester he spent his time quietly. Then came the indoor track season, and trying a new sport, Bill gathered points in the halfmile and mile runs. He won the 880 in one of his first contests for one of the thrills of his athletic career. When the outdoor season opened he divided his time between tennis and track. In his first year he played third position on the tennis squad which won the National Collegiate Championship. The tennis team and Tully were undefeated in dual competition in 1944. He advanced to the third round of the NCAA tournament. He was runner-up to Charlie Sampson in the St. Joseph Valley tournament. Sampson and TuUy paired together to take the Valley doubles title.
Proceeding chronologicaUy, we reach 1945, and TuUy now a member of the (Continued on Page 26)
19
fydinieM' Uia
 By JOE CHENEY—Scholastic Sports Editor
While sweating out the chow line in the cafe last Sunday afternoon, Fred Earley, Leahy’s extra-point specialist, introduced me to a 225-pound, 6’4” lad from Hershey, Pennsylvania. His name is Johnny Huzvar. Remember that name because from all appearances we’ll be seeing it on the sport pages in a couple of years.
Johnny made All-State fullback last fall and has received no less than thirty-three offers from colleges across the country. Two weeks ago UCLA flew him out to California and back, and it wasn’t just to enjoy the California sunshine. Other colleges which have welcomed his visits include Alabama, Tulane, Louisiana State, North Carolina, Virginia, Iowa, Illinois, and many more too numerous to mention.
According to Johnny, who graduates from high school in June he has gradually narrowed the offers down to three schools, Tulane, Iowa and Notre Dame. We also found that Notre Dame didn’t offer him half as much as these other schools, but he included ND in the final three schools because he was thinking of later on—professional football. He believed that Notre Dame would be the best stepping stone to the professional ranks, and rightly so. Just look at the athletes who signed from last year’s squad.
The most interesting point that we learned was that Army wanted him and the means by which they tried to use to get him. It seems that Johnny’s dad works for the state of Pennsylvania, a political job of some sort. When Army found this out, Mr. Huzvar was called to the capital for a chat about his son’s future in regard to football. Mr. Huzvar was told that he would find himself with a better paying job if he could influence his son’s decision so that young Johnny would accept a West Point appointment. We don’t know how hard the elder Huzvar worked on Johnny but the kid who, by the way, runs the 100 in 9.9, told us that he was not interested in West Point. Wonder why West Point preaches deemphasizing football and then turns around and pulls tricks like this one!
Bill Earley—A Pappa—Again
Bill Earley was called home a week ago Thursday to be near his wife, who presented Bill with a new baby girl. Uncle Fred’s only comment was, “Bill played halfback when he was here, but
it looks like he would have made a swell quarterback. He’s got a boy and a girl. That’s terrific signal calling!”
A Strohmeyer Short-Short
While sipping a milk-shake with George Strohmeyer this week, he was telling us what a bad time he was having out on Cartier Field every afternoon." George had a few scratches to prove his point. It wasn’t long though before he got off on one of his orations about the state of Texas. “You know,” he confided, “Texas is God’s gift to the United States.” He paused for a moment, then looking me straight in the eye with a serious expression on his face, he said, “And I’m God’s gift to Texas!”
John Smith Wins Easily
John Smith, captain of Notre Dame’s track squad, won the 120-yard high hurdles at the Kansas Relays last Saturday. He beat Missouri’s Bob Blakeley to the tape by five yards in 15 seconds flat. Our relay teams placed second to Oklahoma in the university sprint medley, second to Drake in the university four-mile, and third behind Texas A. & M. and Minnesota in the university mile. It was somewhat of a comeback for Smith who has been sidelined with a pulled leg muscle.
Here 'n' There
Bernie Ell, the guy with the two gold domes shining in his eyes, had us in stitches the other night telling us how excited he was during last year’s Army-Notre Dame football game. Bernie didn’t go to the game, not because he didn’t want to go, but the doctor ordered him to stay home from it. At the time Bernie had high blood pressure so the doctor thought it would be best if Bernie missed that game. But the doctor had forgotten to tell him to leave his radio off last November 9th.
As Bernie tells it, “Every time Johnny (Lujack) faded back to throw a pass I faded back with him. I took out Fold-berg and Poole on one play. That was the one that Skoglund caught for a first down. Then, when Army got the ball, I side-stepped two and three blockers every time but Zilly or Martin always seemed to get in just ahead of me to make the tackle. By half time my room looked like a cyclone had hit it and the bottle of medicine which the doctor had told me to take, a spoonful every three hours, was half gone. The second half
was the same way. One time when Lujack kicked on fourth down, I booted Webster’s dictionary through my transom window. Didn’t even miss it until after the Southern Cal game! But that “quarterback sneak” play. Boy, that was something. If it had worked, we would have gone on to score six or seven more. Ya know, I don’t think my staying away from that game helped my blood pressure one darn bit. By the way, do you know Father Murray, ya know, the assistant prefect of religion? He’s a great guy, isn’t he? I went to confes- ‘ sion to him one night during football season and before I knew it, I began telling him all about that Army game. Ya know, I just couldn't concentrate on any- "* thing during last football season.”
If anyone ever asks you what the Notre Dame spirit is, just point out Bernie 4 Ell. He’ll not only tell you what it is, he’ll turn on those magic golden domes in his eyes, and you’ll see it come shining out.
Irish Nine Moves On; Mich. State Tomorrow
After taking five of the first seven games, the baseball team will really start to get into the meat of their twenty-four game schedule. From here on in there will be slim spacing between games. Of the remaining fourteen engagements eight are on the road.
Tomorrow the squad will be in East Lansing battling the Michigan Staters in the first of a home and home game series. The Spartans take their baseball seriously, as Southern college nines, particularly, will testify. Coach Johnny Kobs usually has the material and knack for fielding well organized baseball teams at State.	j-
To stop the Spartans Jake Kline will probably beckon a chucker who is the most rested following the Northwestern and St. Thomas games which were played at home this past week. A week ago Walt Mahannah treated an overflow k home crowd to some masterful twirling in beating Gene Jaroch and Wisconsin 9-1 to bag his first win of the season.
But then Kline has Jack Campbell and , Bill Sherman around too. Both have turned in creditable relief jobs this spring. Mulvihill, Creevey and Kluck al- A ready have at least one win apiece this season.
Kline, no doubt, will stand pat on the line-up he sent against the Badgers last ’ Friday. For the first time in the last three seasons there is well distributed batting punch in the line-up. Among the ,s
(Continued on Page 34)
20
Weight Lifters Show Prowess on May 22
BY JOHN A. O'CONNOR
Muscle-men of the campus will get a chance to show their prowess come May 22 when Father Lange inaugurates the first University of Notre Dame weightlifting meet, ’ihe meet will embrace all weight classes, ranging from bantam to heavyweight, and is open to novices, newcomer's, Texans, Engineers, ballplayers, anybody.
But take heed, Father Lange’s compact little gymnasium has been groaning under the swell of chests and clank of iron for some time now, as weight-lifting and body-building aspirants have sweated and strained under regular workouts. This jump on the field by regular attendants does not rule out the possibility of an outsider walking off with one of the prizes. But it does reduce it consider-erably.
Oak plaques are personally being carved by Father Lange for the winners. The plaques will be highly varnished, and of a proud size. The Manner’s name will be engraved on the copper plate.
The only three events making up the contest will be the three universally recognized Olympic lifts: the two arm military press, the 2 hand snatch, and the 2 hand clean-and-jerk.
The weight divisions are as follows: bantam (up to 123 pounds), feather (124-132 pounds), light(133-148 pounds), middle (149-165 pounds), light-heavy (166-181 pounds), and heavyweight class (182-unlimited).
Some favorites have already been tabbed in the various classes. Among the heavyweights there’s Jack Nusskern and Frank Harty, the latter somewhat doubtful because of a weak knee. In the lightheavy division there’s a whole carload of muscles. Chuck Baumann looks good. So does Mike Cutt and Jack Metallic. But Al Furman is just quietly dangerous enough to establish a school record and cop the first money. This Carrara-chisled weight-tossei* heaved up the 190-pound iron discs just a few days ago in the military press, and looks pretty hard to top from this vantage point.
Dropping down to the middle-weight class Paul Pukish looms as the ribbon winner. A novice, Pukish began training at Father Lange’s muscle mart a few months ago, and has shown such startling improvement that he is rated a favorite in his division. However Lou De-Chellis may give him a rough time.
In the lower weight divisions the num-
Seersucker
Sport Coats
You’ll like these seersucker Sports Coats because they’re so cool and comfortable, yet so well tailored and perfectly fitting! Best of all seersucker coats wash beautifully . . . will not lose their shape.
ON THE CORNER . .. MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON
21
ber of entrants Avill probably be greater, but at this writing only a few names can be mentioned as standouts in early trials. Bob McCoy in the lightweight class, Marshall Rabilio in the feather, and Gonzalo Burbano in the bantam are topnotch performers.
This latter fellow is a Venezuelan, and looks no bigger than a bird, but with his 123 pounds he can really handle the barbells. A mighty mite.
Other possible entrants in the event embracing just about every weight class are Jesse Poston, Les Hanne, Chuck Russ, Pete Reiner, Jerry Lubin, Bud Beh, Vic DeFiori and Steve Stanko. This latter entrant is doubtful.
For want of more suitable space the meet will be held in Father Lange’s private gymnasium just back of the Main Building. Right now entrants are frantically straining themselves into shape. Interested students are advised to sign up now and get to working out daily. It’s only a few weeks away.
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 19)
V-12 unit here continued his athletic successes. His track efforts improved, and he branched out in to the 1000-yard run. He ran in the Chicago Relays 1000-yard invitational run for the first time that year. Tennis proved to be his sport, as he moved to second position, and dropped only one match all season. Bill lost at Michigan, where the team went to its only defeat in a match that was held under unusual conditions on an indoor court. He won the St. Joseph Valley crown that year.
In 1946, Tully took second in the 1000-yard ran at the Chicago Relays, finishing behind Rehberg of Illinois. He became a member of the mile-relay team, in addition to his mile and half-mile duties, proving again his versatility. The tennis squad showed its estimation by voting Tully captain, and he reciprocated by playing brilliantly in the number one position. He dropped two matches, one to Bobby Jake of Northwestern, and one to Michigan State. Bill advanced. In June he was commissioned an Ensign and soon after received his discharge. Last summer he played in the New York State tourney, the Eastern Grass Court Championship, and several other contest matches. Tennis is the favorite athletic endeavor of the senior Economics major. The tall, six feet, vice president of the Monogram club won the singles handball title here in 1945. He is an ardent bridge and ping pong enthusiast, and played in both campus contests this year.
Bill is playing four positions on the
MAX ADLER CO.
ON THE CORNER... MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON
FOOLPROOF < fabrics;
are the stuff that Arrow sports shirts are made from.
Arrow sports shirts are made to be worn AND admired.
For your convenience and economy, over 90% of Arrow sports shirts, and all Arrow sport knits and T shirts are washable.
—SPOUTS SHIRTS
Look To
GILBERTS
813-817 S. Michigan St.
for
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIES
22
you need never hesitate when you see Arrow sports shirts. He
1
Arrow sports shirts have the same expert styling that goes into famous Arrow shirts—• the best, that is.
2
Arrow sports shirts (except for a few models) are all washable. Foolproof fabrics throughout save you drycleaning worries. They can take it!
3
Arrow sports shirts are reasonably priced. None of them are so high priced you’ll feel guilty buying them and then be afraid to wear ’em!
FOR THE BEST IN SPORTS SHIRTS—TRY ARROW!
power-packed tennis team this season. He completed the indoor schedule in track by taking third in the 1000-yard run at the Chicago Belays. Bill ran the fastest mile of the indoor year, and also his fastest mile against Iowa, breaking the tape’in 4:22.3. His best collegiate time in the half is 1:56.
After school, Bill plans to enter the publishing business. Tully’s favorites in their respective fields include a girl at Indiana University, tennis star Frank Parker, and track man Greg Bice. He would like to play with the Davis Cup
team, but says this is the wild dream of all tennis players. The handsome resident of 119 Sorin wants this year’s tennis team to be champs more than anything else. Bill has only one worry, where are all his sweaters coming from after this-year?
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Gung Ho! Second Marines Write Story of Invasions
- A history of the Second Marine Division will be published and distributed free to all personnel who were with the division between Jan. 4, 1942 and Sept; 2, 1945, it has recently been announced.
In order to prepare the distribution list and obtain certain other information such members are asked to submit to the Second Marine Division History Board, Room 2120, Headquarters, U. S. Marine Corps, Washington, D. C., the following information: Name, rank, serial number; unit within the division to which attached; specific incidents or actions which veterans believe should be included in the history when published. Col. D. Mi. Shoup heads the Division history board, which was convened by the Marine Corps Commandant.
23
<4 I 11<1 I AI AI I
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS
The Critics' Innings .
Last week was Old Home Week for critics of The College Parade. Every joker who had a gripe stepped up to the plate and lambasted a high, hard one. Some days columnists can’t make a nickle, but it proved one thing; some one reads the column besides our roommate. We received so much publicity via Letters to the Editor last week, that that sage individual thought it wise to cut our whole column.
Naturally, we hesitate to take issue with anyone, but one critic must be answered herewith. In the Scholastic’s basketball issue we penned a short item on the Mississippi Wonder Man, Max Palmer, of Walnut Grove, T T’, and a basketball player of sorts. Now we claim to be no experts on the Magnolia version of Hoosier Hysteria, but the source of information that we used was the Associated Press, from which hundreds of newspapers throughout the nation quote at length unquestioningly. ..The College
Parade is no exception. We still stand by the AP.
Music Review
Notre Dame on Wednesday last was treated to a concei-t by the Tamburitzans of Duquesne University. To the astounded listeners, the noise sounded at first like a cross between Spade Cooley and the Ranch House Boys with Six Sonny Brawnski’s standing on the outside tossing in unintelligible lyrics.
When the noise had abated somewhat, the rest of the program was found to be easy on the ears—and eyes. Both soloists were superb to these unmusical ears (the only syllables that we understood all evening long were “Zagreb”) and the only fault with the Folk Dancers was that there wasn’t enough of them. Golden Domers took to such culture with surprising zeal, but were amazed that the country’s list of leading cafe music did not include strumming heard nightly at the Lido.
Movie Review
Some one fell down! Last Friday, students at a neighboring college across the Dixie attended a campus preview showing of O’Connor’s pet project, Henry V, for the huge sum of Half-a-Rock. Notre Darners had to be content with a trek to River Park, a 20 cent reduction in tariff on a Blue Circle Chit, or just sit through a Washington Hall 8-reel glorification of Santa Clara and a Man with a Mania. How come no hustle from Campus wheel organizations for the cultural (and monetary) good of our little family of 4,000?
O’Connor buttonholed a stude the other day to ascertain as to whether he’d seen the spectacle or not. Reaction was typical. “Can’t take in that sequel. Haven’t seen Henry PV yet.”
The South Bend Tribune, or more likely Notre Dame’s Dept, of Public Information, booted one last week. Printed in said TRIB was a report about ND Dining Hall’s steaks, dinner music, and Drill Hall celebration. Steaks never materialized, only dining hall music was chomp, chomp of irritated students’ jaws on extremely tough roast beef. To show displeasure, Students decided almost en masse to “include themselves out,” stayed indoors during ND Night celebration which played to a much smaller
<©he Reason
the name of Parker-Winterrowd suits, sport coats, and top coats are growing so steadily is simple — our garments are quality garments at appealing prices, all with beautifully balanced lines, famous for fit, made from a broad selection of gabardines, flannels, shetlands, tweeds, and worsteds.
All orders placed during the month of April will be delivered before graduation.
A visit from you to our store will be highly welcomed at all times. .
Adler-Rochester suits and slacks are arriving weekly.	.	.
^aiker-^i'i n terrowd, Inc.
115i4-H7}6 North Main St.	Phone 3-6318	North of the Oliver Hotel
24
house than a Washington Hall address by Earl Browder.
Ah, Spring ....
Five weeks ago, we looked at our calendar (Courtesy of Dept, of Religion) and learned that spring was here . . . too bad it couldn’t stay .. . spring brings with it many things . . . it’s the time of year when farmers and ND golfers start their plowing . . . and also the season when boys begin to feel gallant and girls buoyant... it was formerly a delightful season, but now it’s obsolete except in poetry . . . and in Indiana, spring is every bit as slushy as the poetry it inspires.
And speaking of poetry, everyone will admit that it’s a gift . . . but most editors won’t even take it as that . . . but we hope our- editor is a very understanding soul ... at any rate, here goes our contribution to spring fever . . . and f love:
I think of you at night
And in the daytime too;
The sound of rain upon the roof Also reminds me of you.
Drip! Drip! Drip!
* Papal Encyclicals Answer To Communistic Atheism
The best way to defeat Communism is by a wider application of the Papal Encyclicals on social and economic justice for all men, Dr. Francis Joseph Brown, Professor of Economics at Notre Dame, said here recently before the Knights of Columbus Forum.
Pointing out that most thinking Amer-, \ icans are concerned about the dangers of > Communism, Dr. Brown added that “too few realize what Communism is or have any idea as to how it can be effectively ,, held in check.” The answer, he declared, is to be found in two Papal Encyclicals by the late Pope Pius XI—“On Reconstructing the Social Order-” (1931) and I “On Atheistic Communism” (1937), and in various statements on social and economic justice by other Popes.
■’4 Pope Pius XI, in his encyclicals, Dr. Brown declared, reveals Communism to be a materialistic and atheistic system r which not only makes a mockery of the I family, government, and society, but also ! * strips man of his human dignity and robs him of his God-given freedom.
' v “As to the second problem, what to do about Communism, the popes, impatient with the purely negative approach j of denunciation, have proclaimed a bold F	and constructive program of social jus-
F	tice and social charity in which capital,
labor, and all other groups would work for the reconstruction and perfection of society,” Dr. Brown continued. “Considering Communism primarily as a para-
sitical growth which develops wherever social injustice and social antagonisms are rampant, the pontiffs warn that, unless social justice and harmony prevail, Communism cannot be held in check.”
“Proclaiming as it does the virtues of social justice and charity, the teaching of the Catholic Church is not easy to practice. Consequently some Catholics find it convenient to disregard it. Others, serenely ignorant of this doctrine, even confuse it with Communism.
“Such moral cowardice and ignorance
are regrettable. The popes have presented the challenge to 20th century Americans and in effect have said, ‘He who is not with us in this matter is against us.’
“The modern encyclicals dealing with social and economic conditions were not written as mere rhetorical exercises; they were written to be read, studied, taught, and followed. This duty rests on all Catholics. And no amount of rationalization can release individual Catholics or Catholic institutions from this serious obligation.”
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
A QooA Pku» to-
— and traditionally a good place to meet the gang for delicious Italian and American Food.
Phone 3-0678 for Reservations
25.
Bishop Graner Consecrated
(Continued from Page 7)
Church, One, Holy, Catholic, and Apostolic are manifested in the consecration of a bishop. “Put your finger on any spot of the globe, and you will find a bishop of the Catholic Church. Are they not, then, as a group proof of universality. As an individual, Bishop Graner, a native American, bishop of the diocese of Dacca, India, exemplifies that universality.”
Father Flood expressed the joy of the Holy Cross priests at having one of their
90
7
DIXIE WALKER Pride of the Brooklyn Dodgers SAYS:
New Bleed! New Taste! New Freshness!
Made by the revolutionary new “903” moisturizing process. Beneficial moisture penetrates every tobacco leaf—gives you a smoother, milder, better smoke! Get new Raleigh “903” Cigarettes today.
own advanced to the episcopacy* and told of the particular happiness being experienced by the Kt. Rev. Msgr. Thomas B.
• Downey, pastor of St. Patrick’s Church in Franklin, Pa. Msgr. Downey, for over 50 years a priest, was in the sanctuary, witnessing the consecration of one of his altar boys, namely, Bishop Graner. Three other priests, Father Beichner, Scandlon, and Flood, all of Holy Cross, also came from St. Patrick’s parish.
In conclusion, Father Flood stated that to his mind an unseen congregation was present. Among this congregation, he said, are Bishop Crowley, the late ordi





nary of the Dacca diocese, and Father Graner’s deceased father, who, he continued, must be especially proud and joyful at this solemn occasion.
The final act of Bishop Graner’s elevation to the episcopacy took place prior to the last gospel. The newly consecrated bishop advanced to the main altar, where he was presented his violet zuchetto (skull cap), his mitre, gloves, and crozier. After the solemn intoning of the “Te Deum” Bishop Graner proceeded into the body of the church where he blessed the congregation, after presented his ring to be kissed by his nearest relatives. The majestic ceremony ended as Bishop O’Hara extended a parting kiss of peace to the new bishop, who then recited the last gospel at his own altar, bringing the rarely witnessed mass of concelebration to a close.
With his consecration, Bishop Graner becomes the sixth ordinary of the Dacca diocese, a province where the Holy Cross Congregation has labored for souls since the middle of the 19th century. Within the next month he will make preparations for his return to India and formal enthronement as ordinary of Dacca, where he had been vicar-general since 1937.
NFCCS
(Continued from Page 11) students enrolled. A modified per capita system of taxation was devised, also with a minimum and a maximum set.
The Congress opened Friday evening with an address by the President, Pat O’Meara, who said that the prime aim of the conference was to instill a sense of responsibility in the nation’s youth. Charging that college students as a group lacked a social conscience, .the Notre Dame sophomore urged the delegates to break down individualism and become more community minded.
Bishop Karl Alter of Toledo and Archbishop Richard J. Cushing of Boston folowed O’Meara to the speaker’s rostrum. Bishop Alter advocated open forums in each college and letter writing campaigns in behalf of specific projects as the appropriate media for Catholic college student action. Archbishop Cushing, in his talk, stated that American youth are the hope of the Church and Catholic youth are the hope of America.
At the Sunday morning session Martin McLaughlin and Vincent Hogan, both from Notre Dame, were the featured speakers. McLaughlin outlined the program and aims of the Joint Committee for Student Action, while Hogan presented a report of UNESCO. Both reports as well as a resolution supporting the JCSA and UNESCO were adopted by the Congress.
By JACK FRAIER and BILL PFAFF
came back on March 5th, Evoe, writer and brother of Msgr. Knox (of New Testament fame), quietly boiled under his Homburg and explained that that issue was the 5539th. It should have been the 5541st. He dedicated it to Mr. Shinwell and the Ministry of Supply. He seemed to think it was a low blow to Punch.
Our Own Little Opera Netos Off The Air (Including Symphony Department): Columbia Records have announced an exclusive contract with the Metropolitan to record entire operas. The complete sets will cost around $25.00.We’re wondering if at that price they’ll throw in a session with Boris (“da soprano’s aria goes like des—La, La, La, La—I vill illustrate on da piano — beauty-full? Yes?”) Goldovsky.
Congratulations to John A. O’Connor! CBS and the New York Philharmonic have finally heard his pleas and ditched their half-time, half-dead science speakers. Now they present racy talks on artists’ lives.
Mr. Smith got to Washington, but Mr. Bartholomew didn’t. Only eight students out of a required twenty-five signed up for his Easter tour of the capital. What-sa matter with the rest of you fellows? Didn’t you want to meet a real G-man?
Every day in every way the Cafeteria news stand is getting better and better. Late arrivals among the selection of magazines include the Nation, Neiv Republic, and Vogue. While magazines like the Nation refuse to admit that a Catholic can be anything but a blundering, superstitious reactionary (and they sometimes have justification for it, too), our Catholic University is showing far more character than they possess. It is admitting and considering the political ideas of its attackers as sincere and constructive.
Mr. Turley, the classicist who is writing this year’s catalogue, passes on a bit of provocative information. For two consecutive years, the mathematics department submittal of information on courses has included mistakes in addition. This year their total of junior hours was wrong by two, and the total for the four years was three years off. Anything that can’t be done on a log-logduplex-decitrig slide rule seems to be beyond the ken of these abstract experts. Better they should get a commerce man with an adding machine.
❖
With Bing Crosby well on his way to monsignor’s robes, the.news comes that Frank Sinatra hopes to play a priest in
“The Miracle of the Bells’ (mentioned before in these columns). We’re waiting now to see which way Perry Como will jump.
Punch, the British magazine of humor and political commentary, was a bit piqued by the February fuel shortage. The government forced them to cease publication for two weeks. When they
««
TUGS Style 6602
FINE SHOES AS ONLY
DOUGLAS CAN MAKE THEM
ftvuqtabSlweb
W.L.DOUGLAS fSHOE CO.. BROCKTON 15.MASS.
THE HAND OF A
IS BEHIND THIS TRUSTED TRADEMARK "TUGS” . . . the campus favorite of men who admire casual good looks ... easy comfort — authentic styling.
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
The young man instructor at Washington University was attempting to rerive the spirits of his class after they had received very low numerical grades. “After all,” he rationalized, “I once got an A out of a course with a 65 average.”
And someone at the lower end of the curve questioned, “Your father still teaching here?”
27
Bill Lyman
Prints of the Past 1916.
Jan. 29: A new motion picture machine has been installed in Washington Hall. Now all we need are a few new motion pictures . . . April 1: A poll taken at the Kentucky Club Smoker yesterday showed that among pipe smokers present Kentucky Club tobacco was preferred three to one . . . May 6: Herb Schmitz, the little man who runs the movie machine in Washington Hall, was locked in the new steel cage for two hours Saturday. He was forced to sit through the picture himself . . . May 12: Herb Schmitz quit his job yesterday, after more than a year of “flicking.” . . . Oct. 14: Mr. Vincent Louis O’Connor, Notre Dame’s distinguished professor- of cartooning, took second place in the Terre Haute Centennial Poster Design Contest last week. We are all proud of him. . . . Oct. 28: Crowded conditions on the campus have forced the University to put some resident students in the
Sorin Hall Subway. These arrangements are purely temporary, of course . . . Dec.
2: The Varsity football team held back on Alma for the second straight year, only edging them 46 to 0 . . . Dec. 9: It is being rumored that four more nonIrish students will enter school next semester. Entrance requirements are certainly becoming lax.
Specialization
An Engineer is said to be a man who knows a great deal about a very little and goes along knowing more and more about less and less, until he knows practically everything about nothing.
Whereas a Commerce man is a fellow who knows a very little about a great deal and keeps on knowing less and less about more and more, until he knows practically nothing about everything.
An A. B. starts out knowing practically everything about everything but ends up knowing nothing about anything, due
to his contact with Engineers and Commerce men.
Harpo of Lyons.
Friday Fish
He went to the chow7 hall
With only one wish,
That, though it wras Friday, They wouldn’t serve fish.
—“Wires” McGuire, 125 Lyons.
In the N. D. Dictionary
Name Withheld—The fellow who sends so many long letters to the editor of the Scholastic.	—Name Withheld.
College-bred—A four year loaf made of father’s dough.	—M. F. Murphy.
Local Pet Peeve
The “solid” neighbor who plays his hottest records full blast on the night you are studying for that big ethics exam coming up the next morning.
—Sack-In Sammy, Lyons.
De-Pressed
Today, she is so beautiful—
The sun, she’s shining bright.
So me, I feel a’ dutiful
To have me looking right.
It rain so hard on yesterday, (Continued on Page 31)
28

Did you, or didn’t you?
Well, uh, yes and no, Father. I uh . ..
Come clean, now. Excuses will do you no good!.
You see, Father, it was—uh—like this uh. . . .
Now listen here, I’ve wasted enough time with you already. I want the truth! And now!
Well, it was like this, Pop. I ran a little short last Friday night. My government check wasn’t due till the first of next month, so I made this check out on
your account. The K. of C. Spring Formal was a load on the old wallet, you know???
Radio Log
After eight weeks of sports spieling, Mike Hines and George Engler, proprietors of the station WND Wednesday afternoon sports shop, have decided to hang
up their paraphernalia for this season. They will be succeeded in the 15-minute sports slot by Dick Callaghan, a sophomore from Grand Rapids, Michigan. It seems that Dick could use a side-kick with a little radio know-how. Anyone interested should contact him at the campus studio, in the basement of Washington hall, next Wednesday at 2:45
Lake Placid Club, S'aranac, New York, where a couple of special shindigs will be held before the call of the Indiana wilderness beckons the students back to school next fall. Don Munsel of Saranac Lake and Larry Raville of Malone, N. Y., acting co-chairmen, announce that they are planning a get-together meeting for early May, to be relayed via the bulletin board route. All students in the Plattsburg-Malone-Saranac area are urged to get in line; students from Montreal, Quebec, are also welcome.
highprictyj
GUMANTHD 3Y
THE MARLIN FIREARMS COMPANY
Fine Guns Sin<e 1370
For Appointment Phone 3-0678
CYR'S BARBER SHOP
"South Bend's Leading Barber Shop" SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT
5 Barbers Manicurist
W. E. Cyr, Prop.
100-102 South Main Street
Chair No. 5
p. m.
Here’s a line-up of the Radio Club shows now on tap:
Streamlined Sports
(WSBT, Wed., 2:30 p. m.); a weekly review of the major campus sports. Listeners will find that their sportscaster has a new way of handling commercials; there are none.
Meet the Professor
(WSBT, Thurs., 4:30 p. m.); each week English Prof. James Ryan meets five students picked at random from about the campus. The topics discussed range from “How it feels to be a diaperchanger?” to “What do you honestly think of Notre Dame?” It’s a very unusual program.
Move Over, Chum
Make room for another club. Out of action since 1932, the Adirondack Club opened its doors again last week. About thirty students from the chilly up-state New York country got a preview peek of what was in store for them. Summer headquarters for the club will be the
DANCING every Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday at the
COMING: April 26 — JOHNNY LONG
29
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-rays and Consultation Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws Telephone 4-5661
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building L. E. fisher, M. D. M. J. Thornton, M. D.
•
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
Glasses CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus—M. Mittennayer OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street Closed Wednesday afternoons
HEARTACHE — Ted Weems EGG AND I — Helen Forrest APRIL SHOWERS — Guy Lombardo MANHATTAN SERENADE — Raymond Scott
QUIEN SABE? (Who Knows) — Jimmy Dorsey
Copp's Music Shop
122-124 E. Wayne St.
IATEST ITUNES
CAMPUS CLUBS
(Continued from Page 29)
Last Wednesday evening, the ASME CLUB took care of fifty inch-thick western-cured steaks down at the ever-popular Ramble Inn (Advertisement). Over fifty would-be engineers listened while President Ted Havely introduced the evening’s speakers: Dean Schoenherr; Mr. Carl Wilcox, head of the Mechanical Engineering department; and guest speaker, Mr. L. F. Happel, former editor of the NEW WORLD, and publisher of Catholic School Interests. Mr. Kappel’s topic was “Communism” . . . The ROCHESTER CLUB held a very informal get-together last week at the Bendix Community Center ... At the last meeting of the TEXAS CLUB, movies of the Notre Dame-Southern California game were shown. Secretary Kalen wants a little healthier show of that “Texas spirit” at the next meeting . . . The METALLURGY CLUB was addressed at its last meeting by Dr. A. R. Trocano, general manager of the Sibley Machine and Foundry Company . . . The ROCKFORD CLUB met last Wednesday evening, discussed plans for an off-campus fracus.
Met Club News
“Unless you nil that odor, you won’t kill that odor; unless you nil that odor . . .”
What odor? Well, one of the members of the Met Club claimed the attendance at Monday night’s meeting “stank.” Even President Jerry O’Reilly admitted that there were fewer New Yorkers present than there are Japanese on the Notre Dame faculty. Furthermore, President O’Reilly had a formula to “nil that odor.”
“Another meeting,” lamented Jerry, “will be held next week. We hope to have a change of atmosphere at that affair.”
Thus, the call went out for all of the boys from that baseball-happy hamlet of Brooklyn and Greater New York to creep out of their cells next Wednesday night, April 30th, and haul themselves over to the Law Auditorium to voice their aye, yes or no on the following potent items:
1.	Annual Summer Formal.
2.	Last minute plans for the combination golf-tennis tournament which will start right after the meeting.
3.	Proposed amendments to the constitution.
4.	Nomination of potential club officer candidates.
5.	Summer employment.
That time and date again: Law Auditorium, 7:30 p. m., April 30th.
Aulf Camera Shop, Inc.
Opposite the Courthouse
122 So. Main St. Phone 3-5041
FOR BETTER PRI.NJS


NEW CONTACT PRINTING PAPER Permits working in ony room during the day, or at night under electric light. Produces prints of fine tonal quality, rich blacks, better contrasts. Processes the same as any other paper.
PLENTY OF ROLL FILM IN FIVE POPULAR SIZES
Ault Photo Service also in Cafeteria
1 mAin	Practical I■OTII1	Courses to American 1-^.—Summer Term inSTITUTC opens June 30.	
DIPLOMATIC SCHOOL:	• Preparation for diplomatic service, international administration, and diplomatic secretarial work.
PUBLIC RELATIONS SCHOOL:	• Complete program in the field of public relations and publicity.
BUSINESS SCHOOL:	• Complete business, secretarial, stenographic training in English, Spanish Portuguese, French.
LANGUAGE SCHOOL:	• Elementary, intermediate and advanced Spanish, Portuguese, French, German, English, Russian.
FOREIGN COMMERCE SCHOOL:	• Export procedure, Consular documents. Foreign credits and collections. Foreign trade, transportation, air freight, traffic.
Co-educational. G. I. Approved.	
Catalog "C":	116 S. Michigan, Chicago
NEW YORK:	11 W. 42nd St. Write Secty.
30
STUDENT PRINTS
(Continued from Page 28) My pants, dey lose da’ press. So me, (just to myself), I say, “I have dem fix. I guess!”
I take dem to da tailor place, An’ dey now looka’ swell!
An’ when outside, what beat my face?
The rain, she start to fell!!!
—Attentive Abie.
Send or deliver contributions to The Student Prints, 124 Lyons Hall.
Distraction
While perusing a chemistry table A lad found a pin-up of Grable.
kills, but atomic war will have an inevitable effect on the descendants of the survivors,” he said.
“We are under an impelling moral obligation,” Dr. Burton stressed, “to our descendants not to permit atomic war just as we are under the same obliga
NAME YOUR SPORT . ..
SONNEBORN'S has what it takes!
121 W. Colfax Avenue Phone 3-3702
tion to limit the amount of radioactive damage to ourselves. The only way to avoid widespread radioactive damage is to avoid atomic war. The only way to avoid atomic war is to have peace. The only way to have peace is by world government.”
She was so really all there, That the lad did declare, “To study more chem, I’m not able.”
—Tom of Zahm.
Dr. Milton Burton Speaks On Atomic War Horrors
One hour of an all-out atomic war would produce radioactive effects throughout the world which may first become evident hundreds of years hence, Dr. Milton Burton, Professor of Chemistry at the University of Notre Dame, declared recently in an address before the annual meeting of the Illinois Section of the American Water Works Association in the Congress Hotel in Chicago.
Dr. Burton, who was associated with the Manhattan District Atomic Energy project during World War II, stressed that “mutations producible by atomic energy underline the fundamental horrors of atomic war. Biological warfare merely
STEP UP
BOTH MADE
BY SPALDING
TWINS of the COURTS
BOTH THE fiber-sealed WRIGKI*DnSON
DAVIS CUP
AMD THE piber-welded
SPALDING
Kf3>-BAT
HAVE BEEN PLAYED FOR.
YEARS BY . THE BESlZZ
tiuuks-ButTMEY SHOULD GET Tfe'CUP
YOUR HITTING POWER
These famous rackets are cold-welded of choice northern ash — with special throat reinforcements of tough fiber to give this “shock zone” extra strength! Both are made by SP AIDING. At your dealer’s.
If! 11-ply Lamination
ts 1**^
31
RADIOS
SEND IN YOUR BOXTOP AND WE'LL SEND YOU THE WORLD, RADIOS CHANT
$19.95
Good Reception
N. D. Medals, $2.25
Gifts
Stationery
Toilet Articles
BOOK STORE
Badin Hall
Normalcy—that’s what it is—good old post-war normalcy. Once again you can sit down, jot off in a hundred words or less “why I like” Beeman’s bubble gum (literary skill, of course, does not count), then build a garage for the new 1947 model Chevrolet which will be delivered scot-free to your door. Yep, the old days of something-for-nothing are back with us, tempting us with all the screeching generosity of a melting sugar daddy.
Now that merchandise has to be sold instead of bought, the advertising moguls have started throwing their client’s dough around like propaganda leaflets, and with the same desired effect. Over the air, in the papers, and on the billboards we are told what simple saps we will be if we don’t “latch onto this stupendous offer.” If you don’t bite, you are made to feel that you have lost your old equilibrium, just a moron out of step with the nation. In 1942 over §9,000,000 was given away by advertisers in 300 contests. Back in those days you didn’t buy a tube of tooth paste or a box of breakfast food because you needed it, but for the boxtop which would give you one

Here’s a natural for fun. It plays anywhere... at the beach, on trains, boats.. .and with rich, “big-set” electronic tone, always! 2 motors:
Electric (plug it in) or wind up (tubes operate on battery).
There’s no other phonograph with the unique features of Capitol’s “Luxury” Portable. Remember: it’s produced by a record manufacturer, to give you recorded music at its best, when and where you want it. Ask your record dealer for Capitol’s Luxury Portable.
more chance on that super-deluxe refrigerator that was being dangled before your eyes.
Probably the most urgent pleas to get a piece of the free dough come via the radio. The Tom Mix western opera makes its regular appeal to its “straight shooters” to inform mom to go right out and buy a box of better-than-ever Ralston, remove the boxtop, and thereupon write the name of Tom’s surplus pinto pony, for which you have an equal chance to win a real, western saddle, just like the one used by Tom himself.
If mom has the pantry shelf loaded with cereal, you’ll want to get in on Jack Armstrong’s offer. He’s a little less demanding. Just mail your name and address with 15 cents in coin to Superman in care of this station and you’ll receive by return mail a genuine atomic signet ring. “This ring,” blurts the announcer, “is awesome, amazing, atomic. It’s super, it’s stupendous, it’s . . . well, you’ve just got to see it to believe it. It’s seething with atomic fission. Just peek through the little hole in the side and see billions of little atoms go crashing, smashing in every direction. It’s terrific!” You’d think that that would be “awesome” enough, but no. “Inside,” adds the sponsor’s airborne representative, “there is a little compartment where you can keep secret messages from J ack himself!”
Then there’s the newspaper offers. “Win a home, plus §4,0C0 in cash to provide lot, landscaping and other features for your home,” reads the ad. “Just finish this rhyme: ‘Ka-Mode hosiery is spun from glass; . ..’ Of course, your last line should rhyme with ‘glass’.”
But enough of this brooding, the proof is in the pudding. You might just as well cut that French assignment short and get in on some of this unclaimed cabbage that’s floating around. If you believe in the law of averages, you have a 139 million to one chance of winning. If you believe in the indiscriminate partition of the Nation’s wealth, your share of the booty will be one thin dime—enough to cover the cost of a cup of coffee.—Bob Vierhile.
Fr. Garvin to Represent ND At Athens Classics School
The University of Notre Dame, traditionally strong in the field of clat ical studies, has accepted an invitational > be a Cooperating Institution in the American School of Classical Studies at Athens, Greece, it was announced recently
32
by the Reverend John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University of Notre Dame.
At the same time, Father Cavanaugh announced that the Rev. Joseph N. Garvin, C.S.C., assistant professor of Latin at Notre Dame, has been appointed a member of the Managing Committee of the School.
The primary purpose of the School is to continue to enrich the knowledge of the antiquity through excavations in Greece, to train advanced American graduate students, to carry on original investigations and to bring out important publications.
Each year a member of the Management Committee of the School is- chosen as Annual Professor of the School and sent to the headquarters of the institution at Athens.
Father Garvin, a native of Fremont, 0., was graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1929. He received his Master’s degree at the Catholic University of America in 1934 and his Doctorate from the same institution in 1946. He has been a member of the faculty at Notre Dame since 1940.
N.D., S.M.C. Combine In Glee Club Concert
Last Sunday, April 20th, the Notre Dame Glee Club gave a joint concert in St. Angela’s Hall with the St. Mary’s Glee Club.
For the first part of the program, the St. Mary’s Glee Club, under the direction of Loretta Martin, rendered six selections, among which were Agnus Dei by Bizet and Clair de Lune by Debussy-Elkan. The girls had fine tonal quality and gave an excellent performance.
The second part of the program featured the Notre Dame Glee Club. In the absence of Director Pedtke, who had been suddenly taken ill, Glee Club President and Assistant Director- John Fitz-Henry led the men through their paces, i In numbers like Richter’s The Creation and Let Their Celestial Concerts All Unite by Handel, the rich and powerful voices- of the men blended beautifully and harmoniously to fill the hall with a rolling chorus of sound.
In the last portion of the program, both Glee Clubs joined forces and sang Hear My Prayer by Mendelssohn, Echo Song by di Lasso, and Onward, Ye Peoples by Sibelius; soloists in Hear My Prayer were Evelyn Sabol and Penelope George. Having rehearsed together only twice previous to their joint concert, the stirring performance was a credit to the skill of Directors Martin
and Pedtke. The combined St. Mary’s-Notre Dame Glee Clubs will give another concert in the near future, this time on the Notre Dame campus in Washington Hall.
The Notre Dame Glee Club left this noon on a four-day tour and will sing in Owensboro, Ky., Nashville, Tenn., and Evansville, Ind., returning to the campus Monday afternoon.—Lou Almost
French Dry Cleaners
Main Office 22-7-209 Smith Street
SPECIAL BRANCH OFFICE FOR CONVENIENCE OF NOTRE DAME STUDENTS
822 SOUTH BEND AVENUE facing Notre Dame Avenue Pockets, zippers and all repairs reasonably done. Your Transportation One Way, Boys! Open Friday evenings, 7:30 to 9:30
EVERY NIGHT IS NOTRE DAME NIGHT at CLEMENTS GRILL 514 East LaSalle STEAKS—CHOPS
Spaghetti Dinner with meat sauce •. • 65c
33
Headquarters
for
m Mopeiut GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
Specializing in the examination of the eyes
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
LOBUND to Sponsor Bacteriological Meet
On Friday, May 2, the Indiana Branch of the Society of American Bacteriologists will hold its annual spring meeting at Notre Dame. This marks the first time that the Indiana Branch will meet at Notre Dame since the onset of World War II, previous wartime travel restrictions having limited the meeting site to more centrally located Indiana cities. The Laboratories of Bacteriology (LOBUND) and the Department of Biology are bringing the Society meeting back to Notre Dame at this time.
An interesting program has been arranged by Prof. Robert F. Ervin, who as president of the Indiana Branch, will preside at the meeting, and by Mr. Morris Wagner, of the Laboratories of Bacteriology, program committeeman in charge of local arrangements. Local and out-of-town members will register from 11:00 A. M. to 1:30 P. M. in the Biology Building. During this time, guides will be available to conduct tours through the Laboratories of Bacteriology, the Biology Department or other parts of the University of interest to the Branch members.
The meeting will be called to order at 1:30 P. AL in the amphitheater (Room 109) of the Biology building. The group will be welcomed by Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University. A short business meeting will be held followed by the scientific program commencing at 2:15 P. M. Papers will be presented before the group by Branch members, representing various Indiana universities, hospitals, medical centers and biological manufacturers.
Two papers will be presented at the meeting by staff members of the Laboratories of Bacteriology at Notre Dame. Mr. Bernard A. Teah will give a paper on “A False Ramon Flocculation Test” and Dr. Thomas D. Luckey, will present “Studies on the Microbiological Determination of Carbohydrates.”
IRISH NINE MOVES ON
(Continued from Page 8) there were five .300 hitters going into the Northwestern game. Co-captains Bobby “Huck” Klein and “Wicks” Sheehan, whose 5C0 foot poke to left center against Wisconsin still provides, cafeteria gab, were appropriately enough the leading stickers with .471 and .392 respectively. Mayo, Schneider, and Pavela also were members of the select .300 bracket. “Seeds” Petrzelka, in a depressive hitting slump, was trying desperately to shake off that tensed up feeling at the plate in an effort to return to the whereabouts of that .375 pace he hit last season.
LETTERS
(Continued from Page 3)
peace terms . . . where was this Mr. Layden when the war was being fought? .
“Pick up your guns,” shouted the Sergeant.” Guns? Do they carry those .88’s on their backs in the South Pacific when it snows? I just wish that I was a swearing man ... I’d swear! If a riflle was ever called a gun in ground-pounder training camp you usually got K.P. Does Air. Layden know what the term “K.P.” means?
In conclusion, Editors, let me say that this is just about the height of some-thing-or-other, but I’m too flabbergasted to define it. I only hope that when the editor of that article gets his draft-call notice that he doesn't end up where I did because he’s going to have toughsleddin’ in the South Pacific with those Heinie .88’s on his back . . .
Richard Elliott 123 Howard Hall
The Scholastic may flabbergast Reader Elliott, but Reader Elliott so stuns the Scholastic that it can hardly breathe the word: moresnow-wasasatiricalparody.—Editor.
Dear Sir:
In the April 18th issue of the Scholastic appeared a most violent diatribe penned by a Dick Alurphy, manager of the Canisius College basketball team. There also appeared a severe criticism of the writers of the College Parade by L. J. Halpin, according to whom we have succeeded John A. O’Connor as the Scholastic’s champion pop-offs.
We'have already written at length to the editor of the Canisius Griffin explaining our side of the story. Since you have permitted Murphy and Halpin the free- dom of your columns, in order to give their caustic pens free rein, perhaps it would not be asking too much if we were allowed to address the Notre Dame Student Body.
In the first place, I, Tom Higgins, did not pen the original article as it appeared, but I will back my colleague to the hilt as we seem to have similar convictions.
I happen to have read the original letter as written by Mr. Murphy. As I recall it, it contained several pertinent facts not contained in the letter as it appeared in your publications. Is it not true that this letter was tailored to fit the' issue? (Not so. Because of the length
34
wure the man most likely to
Succeed
Girls cut in on man! Why? Look at that Van Heusen Shirt! Famous Van Heusen collar styling sends your Eye-Q zooming. Figure-fit tailoring emphasizes the athlete in you. Style, comfort, plus magic sewmanship and Sanforized, laboratory-tested fabrics to give you many semesters of economical wear. Graduate to Van Heusen today! Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, N. Y., makers of Van Heusen Shirts, Ties, Pajamas, Collars, Sport Shirts.
... in Van Heusen Shirts and ties
of the letter, and because much of it' concerned the Buffalo Club Dance and was not pertinent to the matter under discussion, almost half of the letter was omitted.—Editor).
One of the items in question, if my memory does not fail me, was a statement to the effect that the Canisius Griffin thought so little of -the affair that it refrained from mentioning it. Thought so little of it, yet according to L. J. Halpin, the glorious free-for-all that ensued must have been second in fury only to last fall’s Zale-Graziana slugfest.
If the Canisius Griffin thought so little of the affair that it refrained from even printing it, how in the name of thunder can they criticize us for giving a onesided version of the contest? How are we expected to obtain the other side?— Through some sixth sense, or by telepathy?
According to Murphy we stabbed Canisius in the back by printing the item. Tell me, what makes a Catholic College so far above reproach that it cannot be criticized? The mere fact that a college is a Catholic institution does not place its students in ethereal realms, incapable of human error.
. . . We find it hard to believe, also, that fans there are swayed entirely by mob frenzy, acting independently of, and taking no hint from the Canisius student body, who undoubtedly sit like little gentlemen, applauding their opponents wholeheartedly, and cheering wildly for every basket made by the opposition, even as our students do.
Mr. Editor, the defense rests.
Tom Higgins
234 Sorin Hall
Ifs Adler s for
VAN HEUSEN
MIME CMNEH... MKtUMN ( WfiMNOTOM
Dear Sir:
I wish to write expressing my deep appreciation for the fine example of real poetry (as well as humorous data) in your Letters to the Editors column of April 18—by the Commerce student who wrote that Parabolic Verse. This just shows you that Commerce men have all the artistic abilities of AB men. Get that man on your . staff immediately— and the Scholastic will have a poet! Let’s have more of the same stuff he turned out. Hoping to see more of the same, I am,
Newman Eldredge
And if DOME Editor Johnny Walker, our poet-come-out-of-hiding, is too busy to take over as the Scholastic’s poet laureate we will offer the post to Edgar .4. Guest.—Ed.
35
-	library	a
-LEM^ilER LI3RARY-
aOTRE dame, local