The Notre Dame Scholastic
687
COMMENT
In giving- an account of the first day of Spring football practice at Notre Dame, one of the local newspapers g-ave in detailed fashion the itinerary of our football coach. It was stated that Mr. Rockne stopped long enough in his travels to give the boys a little lesson in football, then prepared to leave for downstate where he had other engagements. After that, all he has to do is fly out to Los Angeles to give a couple of speeches. Looks like Rock will have to coach by telegraph if the boys don’t let him alone.
And alongside the football story was the announcement that Rockne is to become head of the sales department at Studebaker’s. A wise move on Studebaker’s part, we should say. They probably figure that if they give Rock a job they will have to give him fewer automobiles gratis.
The boys who linger in Brownson “Rec” are getting round-shouldered from leaning over the new baseball machine that is holding the spotlight as an entertainment on the campus. Somebody took a lot of time to figure that contraption out but it seems to be a paying proposition. What next?
This issue carries a story concerning the naming of the two new residence halls. The fact that one of them is to be named Alumni hall will cause every senior’s heart to jump. Just think, when we go home we can tell all the folks that Notre Dame thought enough of us to dedicate a building to our memory.* Then when we return with our family years hence (?) we can point proudly to “our” building. Not a bad idea.
Henry Ford tried to pull a fast one at a recent meeting of educational highlights. He suggested that all school children over twelve years of age be paid for going to school. Needless to say he had no opposition. But think of all the support he would have from the younger masses! This phase of education has already been treated, and the statisticians have even gone so far as to figure out how much each class period was worth to us—something like seventy cents. Of course, that is only theoretical; we like Henry Ford’s plan much better.	—W. V. B.
Qiiiiittiiiitiiniuiii.itntiiiiiii.mini.luiiaiuiiittiittiiniuiiniiHtntmiiMMHMMMMuiHujMmnmmiwMinMMMiMiitiiiQ
I The Notre Dame Scholastic
| Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
=	Founded 1867
lilHHIIIIHIHIIIIHIIIIIIHIIIiHHilllHlil
EMIL
L. TELFEL—Editor-in-Chief
£	Assistant Managing Editor Neil C. Hurley	Managing Editor John E. Bergan	Assistant Managing Editor John A. Kiener	2
=	Edward E. Brennan	Associate Editors James J. Kearney	Edward R. Brennan	=
	Austin Boyle	James Carmody	Paul J. Hallinan	2
s	John Pick	William W. Corr	Lloyd Teske	2
3	The Week	Make-up Editor	College Parade	2
I	Richard J. O’Donnell	Walter V. Beesley	Daniel C. Williams	
z	Music and Drama	Feature Editor	. Campus Clubs	Z
	Frank E. Seward	James K. Collins	W. Leslie Raddatz	2
	News Staff William C. Karl, News Editor William F. Fitzgerald, Assistant Netos		Editor	
	John Conley	Anthony R. Schreiner	Lawrence Prybylski	Z
—	Myron Crawford	F. Granger Weil	Edmund Stephan	2
	Richard Molique	Walter Johnson	Joseph Degnan	•
=	William* Knox		Lawrence Dunda	2
T. Edward Carey ' Irving B. Halper Harry Burchell
Cleve Carey
James E. McFeely, Jr. Edmund Moriarty
Sports Staff
Henry B. Asman, Sports Editor
George Belting James Kearns
Business Staff
John R. Blanda, Local Circulation Mgr. Andrew McGuan, Foreign Circulation Mgr.
Frederick Bauer
Raymond J. Naber
John P. Hess
J. Albert Smith
Daniel E. Brennan
James H. Rorke, Advertising Manager
JOHN F. STOECKLEY—Graduate Manager of Publications
Merle Baldwin, Publications Office Manager
Vol. LXIV
MARCH 27, 1931
No. 22
Frontispiece ________________________________ The Week—Richard J. O’Donnell____________________ University Theatre Scores Big Hit—Neil C. Hurley_ New Dormitories Are Named—Emil L. Telfel_________ Sport Managerships Announced_____________________ A Man About the Campus—Austin Boyle______________ Book Reviews—John Pick___________________________ College Parade—Daniel C. Williams________________ The Wink_________________________________________-----
Editor’s Page----------------------------------------- Plans For Golf Team Made—George Belting—--------------- Baseball Candidates Practice—James S. Kearns----------- Basketball Team Meets With Fair Success—Henry B. Asman- Fran Beaupre, Golf Captain—Irving B. Halper------------ Splinters From the Press Box—H. B. A------------------- Gn Down the Line—Cleve Carey--------------------------
688
689
690
691
693
696
697
700
701
702
703
704
710
715
716
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC. Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dane Publications Deserve the Patronage or - All Notre Dame Men.
688
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A View of Notre Dame du Lac
The Notre Dame Scholastic
689
♦ THE WEEK ♦
While tempus fugits in the proverbially correct manner, the old campus has its face lifted in such a way that returning alumni will fail to recognize it next June. Where once was a dreary parking lot will soon stand two splendid new halls. Where once was the best touchball gridiron on the campus is now a range of miniature Alps. The lake that once made the view in front of Badin so attractive has been turned into a midget mountain range. It looks like a scene from All Qziiet on the- Western Front. A wandering freshman started over the familiar path there the other night, soon found himself in strange territory, and failed to untangle himself before the rising sun shed some light on his situation. He had been walking in circles in the darkness for so long that he’s still dizzy. If the elevation is not soon levelled off, there are liable to be some strange developments. Eddie Ryan clambered up on top of one of the .peaks and before he could get down he had developed a hearty nose-bleed. He said the mountain air was too rare for him. Eddie predicts that yodel-ing will soon be a popular sport in these parts, due to the Swiss influence of the scenery on the west side of the campus.' Mr. Ryan, incidentally, was one of the best yodelers in Switzerland before he migrated to this country. He is booked to give some specialties during the intermissions of the Chicago club Easter dance.
DlCK SULLIVAN, lately of the Scribblers, and also a recent literary figure on the campus, returned to the scene of his undergraduate endeavors to witness the production of his play in Washington hall last night. The ghost of Thomas Sloop stalked about the stage for the second time, which is far behind the record of the authentic spirit who does the regular haunting there. The latter is highly incensed at the intrusion. In an exclusive interview granted to the Scholastic last night after the production, he said that he would stand no more of it. “I have been the official haunter here since 1892,” he said, “and I’m getting too old now to be bothered by any competition.” He magnanimously agreed that young Sloop did a pretty good job of haunting, but complained that his technique was not up to par. “What he needs is experience,” he said. “He ought to spend a couple of years in a grave yard, or around the scene of a recent murder, or in some place where the haunting is easy before he tries to work in a place like this.” The older spirit stated that he finds his work becoming more and more difficult with the passing years. He finds the younger- generation much harder to deal with than any he has met since he first took up the business of haunting. He feels that he may have to relinquish his present position in the near future, due to his age, and is searching about for a substitute. So Sullivan might drop around to see him about fixing Mr. Sloop up with a regular job on the campus.
jA.T present there is hardly a sport in the athletic category which is not being participated in somewhere within the boundaries of the University. Spring football is probably keeping more young men “out of mischief,” as “Rock” recently put it, than any one other activity.- Larry Moller and his outfit are getting ready to repeat their- successes of last year on the golf links. Matt O’Brien is caring for the family’s tennis honors while his brother is taking time out for debating. Though the indoor track season has come to an end, the track men are still working out several times a week in preparation for the coming of the outdoor-meets. They are sharing the gym with George Keogan’s boys, who have been at it several weeks now, getting in shape for their debut on the diamond. The baseball men were but recently introduced to the new ball which is expected to make the pitcher’s position a lot more important than it was when the rabbit ball was in use. The seam has been enlarged and extended on the ball for this year, and curving it will be a simple matter. “Lefty” Lisicki is being carefully watched in his handling of the new ball, for it is anticipated that he may break out any day with a curve. According to the other members of the team, “Lefty” is studying a book entitled “How To Pitch For Pay,” and is sure that he can develop a fade-away that will equal that of the late Christy Mathewson. He knows how to hold the ball for every type of curve and shoot, and should be able to throw them before many more practice sessions have passed.
I N accordance with an old Notre Dame tradition, midsemester exams will begin tomorrow. There is nothing like the quarterlies to make a fellow appreciate how quickly time does fly. The semester ordeal seems to have been an incident of but a week or two ago. The psychological explanation of the phenomenon probably lies in the principle that pleasant memories are the most vivid and most lasting. Or is it the painful impressions that are so graphically retained? Anyhow, the tests are upon us, with the accompanying tired brains, weary eyes, late lights, and depressed spirits. The silver lining, however, is behind the clouds, as Al Jolson says, for when the exams end the vacation begins. And if there is anything more welcome than an Easter recess, it is only a summer vacation. Seniors, who are about to enjoy their last carefree period of relaxation and recreation, will probably nod their heads to this in sorrowful agreement. For with the coming of June they go out into a world that the recent bear act on Wall street has made even more colder and even more crueler, which isn’t grammatical, but which should impress the frigidity and brutality on your mind. We hope, therefore, that everyone within and without the University will cooperate in making this last vacation of the graduates-to-be a happy, joyous, worry-less one. May the policemen be polite. May the parents be philanthropic. May the sweethearts be sweet. And may the golden goose work overtime in filling their Easter baskets.
690
The Notre Dame Schola
UNIVERSITY THEATRE SCORES BIG HIT WITH “THE GHOST OF THOMAS SLOOP”
tic
CHEMISTS TO ATTEND NATIONAL MEETING AT INDIANAPOLIS
Richard Sullivan’s Mitchell Award Play Is A Fantastic Imaginative Production
BY NEIL C. HURLEY
“The Ghost of Thomas Sloop,” Richard Sullivan’s Mitchell award play of 1930, was presented last evening by the University players in Washington hall. Another performance will be given tonight.
The production is a fantastic melodrama with a more or less obvious moral, and it is done in a pleasing and entertaining manner. The script was well handled, while the organization and sequence of the play was expertly managed. Presented as the first all-Notre Dame production—written, acted, and arranged by students— it is deserving of praise.
The third act, it is true, has a tendency to drag, if I may use the word, but this is offset by a particularly touching climax, expertly devised. Indeed, the slowness of the final scene, though not very noticeable, was just apparent enough to take away from a perfect conclusion.
J. Edward Phelan, who is, I believe, the most proficient and mature actor of the N. D. players, again proved to be the best of the troupe by his characterization of Gimlet, the druggist, the gold-loving apothecary. His part was not a lengthy one, nor was it by any means the most important, yet so* skillful was Mr. Phelan that he literally stole the show. It was a difficult characterization, but one that was well suited to him.
Harry Merdzinski, as Thomas Sloop, the blind miser, showed talent and promise. Though I believe that he moved with too much agility for a fifty-seven year old blind man, he nevertheless was able to fill one of the most difficult parts in the play.
Roger Beirne, who so superbly portrayed Malvolio in “Twelfth Night,” was not up to his usual standard. The character of Jeffrey Sloop called for a bold, wicked, and very cruel villain, which Mr. Beirne most assuredly was not. He lacked the fervor and melodramatic attitude that was necessary by remaining too tran
quil and complacent, even in the worst of his most villainous deeds.
But do not believe that by these criticisms I am endeavoring to belittle the University Theatre production, because I am not. The presentation was, as I have said, most pleasing. The play is well-worth attending, because it emphasizes again the fact that the University Theatre is endeavoring to put before the students plays that are worth-while, both from the players point of view and from that of the audience.
Miss Julia Huff, despite her obvious youth, played the part of Mrs. Flister, the garrulous widow, rather adroitly. Miss Huff has a stage presence that pleases the audience.
In the second act, which is probably the most fantastic of all fantastic acts, an excellent lighting arrangement was devised which cast a wierd gleam over the actors.
The lighting effects throughout the play were particularly well done, while the scenery arrangement was probably the best that has been seen in Washington hall for some time.
John Sullivan showed a knowledge of his part in the production by handling the role of the Official Ghost superbly. His stage voice possibly was one of the best of the evening.
Among the other ghosts, I thought that John Ryan and Philip Airey were praiseworthy. John Perone, who stutters rather well, had a tendency to overdo his part, yet managed to conduct himself creditably.
Richard Sullivan has written a fine play. It is a play that speaks well for the winners of the Mitchell award. The players did not lack an ample script for their efforts. Mr. Sullivan is the third to win the William Mitchell award for playwriting at Notre Dame. He is now studying at the Art Institute in Chicago and at the Goodman theatre of the same city.
The spring meeting of the American Chemical society (national) will be held in Indianapolis, the week of March 30-April 3. The local section will be well represented, as a large number are planning to attend the meeting.
The department of chemistry of the University has contributed two papers, which will be presented in the organic section. “The Chablay Method of Determining Organic Halogen —Some Modifications and Its Application to Fluorine Determinations” by Thomas H. Vaughn and the Reverend J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., and “Alkoxy Fluorboric Acids — A New Series of Acids Ionizable in Absolute Alcohol,” by the Reverend J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., are the papers to be presented.
Those planning to attend the meeting are: Professors H. B. Froning, E. G. Mahin, H. H. Wenzke, H. D. Hin- ' ton, and the Reverend J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C. The following graduate and undergraduate students expect also to be present: Messrs. Harold Bowlus, Lawrence P. O’Leary, Mer-
. ritt Otto, Elmer T. Weibel, John E. Nelson, Reverend P. F. McVeigh, George F. Hennion, Donald Killian, Thomas H. Vaughn, and Henry A. Persyn.
FIVE CAMPUS CLUBS PLAN EASTER DANCES
Five campus clubs have announced dances to be held during the Easter holidays: the Chicago club, the Fort Wayne club, the Cleveland club, the Grand Rapids club, and the Youngs-	,
town club.
The Chicago club affair, as announced last week, will be held in the Main and Marine dining room of the Drake hotel on April 6.. Tweet Hogan’s and Vern Buck’s orchestras will furnish the music. The Fort	<
Wayne dance is planned for Easter Monday, April 6 at the Hotel Anthony ballroom. Instead of the traditional Mid-Day club, the Cleveland club will hold its dance in the University club. The date is April 6, the orchestra, Ed. Day’s. Easter Mon-	<
day is the date of the Grand Rapids club dance; it will be held at the Rowe hotel and will feature Duane Yates and his orchestra. The Youngstown affair will be at the Stambaugh auditorium.	*
The Notre Dame Scholastic
691
NEW DORMITORIES ARE NAMED
Will Be Called Dillon And Alumni Halls In Honor of Second President And Graduates of The University
Dillon hall and Alumni hall are to be the names of the two halls now undei- construction on the campus. This announcement was made yesterday by the University council. The first-named hall will adjoin the dining hall and face north, while Alumni hall will occupy the corner of Notre Dame'
avenue and the Dore road.
In conformity with an earlier practice of naming residence halls in memory of deceased presidents of Notre Dame, Dillon hall is named for the Reverend Patrick Dillon, C.S.C., second president of the University. A brief summary of Father Dillon’s career indicates that this tribute to his memory is timely and appropriate. This year marks the centenary of his birth, which occurred in County Galway, Ireland. An early chronicle states that he was dedicated by his mother to the service of God, and entered upon his studies for the priesthood while yet a mere boy. After the removal of his family to America, he continued his studies at St. Mary’s College, Chicago. In 1856 he entered Notre Dame to complete his studies, and was ordained priest in 1858.
After serving for a time as president of St. Mary’s College in Chicago, Father Dillon was called back to Notre Dame to discharge the important duties of vicepresident of the University. In 1865, his fourth year at Notre Dame, he was appoint
ed president and local superior at Notre Dame. He was then but a young man of 29.
During the time when Father Dillon was vice-president and president, great dork was done at Notre Dame. The University grew and prospered. Students increased in number; financial matters were placed on a surer footing; and the views for the conduct of the affairs of the University were, in proportion, liberalized and enlarged. A scientific course of studies was established and developed; and a be-
By EMIL L. TELFEL
ginning was also made in the study of medicine under the Reverend Father Neyron, then a resident secular priest. It is interesting to note that Father Neyron had been a surgeon in
Reverend Patrick Dillon, C.S.C.
Second President of Notre Dame, lStio-6S
Napoleon’s army before he became a priest. He participated in the Russian campaign, and also at Waterloo where he was captured by the British.
The greatest work done under the administration of Father Dillon was the erection of a new college building in 1865. In June of that year the old building was torn down, and in September the new college was ready for the students. The structure was a
six-story building surmounted by a colossal statue of Our Lady. This building was destroyed by fire thirteen years later, on May 3, 1879. The present Main building was erected over- its ruins.
Soon after the dedication of the new Notre Dame, Father Dillon retired
from the presidency of the University, and going to France to attend a general chapter of the Congregation, was later promoted to the position of assistant general. Returning to America, he was appointed pastor of St. Patrick’s church in Chicago, where he died after a short illness on November 15, 1868. The Golden Jubilee History of Notre- Dame remarks with terse eloquence, “He was one of the great men of Notre Dame.”
Alumni hall has been so named in appreciation of the generosity and loyalty of Notre Dame alumni. For some years the Alumni Association had been building up a fund for the erection of a dormitory to be known as Old Students’ hall. By 1919 the sum contributed amounted to §60,000. In that year- the University started its drive for a general endowment and development fund. Realizing the need of such an endowment, the alumni turned over to the University the money they had collected, with the understanding that when the endowment fund was completed, the donation of the
alumni would revert to its original purpose.
The University is now in a position to carry out this agreement and is the more happy to do so, the president of the University stated, since the relations between the alumni and their Alma Mater were never more sympathetic and cordial than at the present time.
Besides being named for the alumni, the new residence hall will be used as a general headquarters for them at alumni reunions.
692
The Notre Dame Scholastic

K. C. HAS OPEN MEETING
Knights Hear Talks by Supreme Agent and Others.
William Fox, Supreme Agent of the Knights of Columbus, addressed the open house meeting of the local council held Monday evening in their chambers in Walsh hall.
Mr. Fox gave a short talk and then asked for some member of the council to comment on the statement issued by the Holy Father, that the Knights of Columbus was the greatest organization of Catholic laymen since the time of the Crusaders. Francis McGreal, a student in the law college, responded, commenting on the statement, and supplementing this by giving his reasons for belonging to the organization.
Following McGreal’s talk, Mr. Fox continued his speech, and told of the boy guidance work being sponsored by the Knights of Columbus in both this country and in Rome. The work in Rome, he said, was carried on due to a request from the Pope, in order that the work of other American nonCatholic societies in Rome might be counteracted.
When Mr. Fox called for remarks from the council on this phase of their work, Jolin Bourke, a graduate student in boy guidance, rose and thanked the Knights of Columbus, of whom he said he was a member, for the scholarship established by them and from which he was benefitting.
E. P. Shortle of LaPorte, District Deputy of the Knights, Ernest Rib-ordy of the LaPorte council, and Louis Wickey and Cletus Kruyer of the South Bend council also addressed the meeting.
Business was done away with at the meeting with the exception of an announcement by Grand nKight Louis Buckley that the exemplifying of the second and third degrees of the order will take place during the last week in April.
An attendance prize was won by Francis Loney of Sorin hall.
Scribblers* Meeting
The Scribblers will hold their, weekly meeting in the Howard hall “rec” room at 8:00 o’clock Friday evening.
LAWYERS’ BALL SECURES JIMMY GARRIGAN’S ORCHESTRA
According to an announcement made this week by Joseph Guadnola, chairman of the Lawyer’s ball, Jimmy Garrigan and his orchestra has been engaged for the dance, which will be • held in the Palais Royale ballroom April 24. Garrigan and his band have attained more than ordinary popularity as performers at the Via Lago cafe in Chicago. He is well known to radio fans, having broadcast over station WMAQ nightly for the past two years, in addition to giving several programs over the N.B.C. network.
Chairman Guadnola is being confronted with a pressing demand for tickets, and is of the opinion that the quota of 350 will be filled the first week they are put on sale. Students other than lawyers who wish to attend the dance may get tickets from the law students, who are entitled to two each. Upon presentation of the ticket to William O’Malley, 328 Sorin hall, a “summons” written in legal form, will be sent to the women guests of the ball. The ticket sale will begin either immediately before or after the Easter recess.
NOTRE DAME STUDENT PLANS EUROPEAN TOUR
In an effort to care for the many Notre Dame students who are planning on making trips to Europe during the coming summer vacation a steamship line has appointed Edmund G. Britz of Morrissey hall, as their campus representative to handle all inquiries.
Students who are European-minded may secure from Mr. Britz all the information and details necessary for passage across the ocean, and if desired, for a sojourn of any length on the continent. The Holland American steamship company has made special arrangements to conduct a student tour, of Europe, at a price reasonably fixed to meet a student’s resources. The itinerary includes such notable places as Paris, Avignon, Nice, Monte Carlo, Rome, Florence, Venice, Interlaken, Heidelberg, Amsterdam, and London. Several day stop-overs are made in each town, so that one may fully enjoy the pleasure of each visit.
“SCRIP” OUT NEXT WEEK
Great Variety of Articles To Appear in Third Issue.
Scrip, the literary quarterly of the University, will be issued early next week, according to word' received from Louis A. Brennan, the editor. All the material has been turned in, and the magazine has gone to press. “Book-Ends” is to be omitted this issue as no significant reviews have been submitted. Much more space has been given to the strictly literary section.
“The New Humanism” by the Reverend Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., of the department of philosophy, is the feature article in the coming issue. Father Ward treats of the revival of interest in the field of knowledge in this paper. Previous movements along the same lines are used as bases of comparison.
“Typhoon, A Ballad of the Sea’s Envy,” by Morris P. Hull, appears in the poetry section of this issue. Written in the manner of the classicists this poem is very noteworthy. Several poems by Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., of Moreau seminary, are also included.
Some poems by the Reverend Francis Thornton also appear. Father Thornton has been a regular contributor to Scrip, and many of his poems have been reprinted in various periodicals. Two books of poems by him have been published, and he is a frequent contributor to many magazines.
Two short stories are to appear. One is by Joseph McCabe, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, and the other is by George Spalding, winner of the Ladies’ Home Journal short story contest. Besides the article by Father Ward an essay by Ronald Zudeck has been used in the issue.
Three Banquets Last Week
Three banquets were held during the past week in the University dining halls. Tuesday evening fifty-five managers dined in the lay faculty room. Members of the victorious interhall football team held a banquet on Wednesday night. Thursday the west dining hall was the scene of a banquet of the Usher’s club. Approximately seven hundred and fifty were present at the last-named affair.	5
a
The Notre Dame Scholastic
693
PHILIPP, BOYLE COMPOSE THEME SONG FOR SENIOR BALL
SPORT MANAGERSHIPS FOR NEXT TEAR ARE ANNOUNCED BY KNUTE K. ROCKNE
The music committee of the Senior Ball, headed by Vincent Teders, has chosen a theme song for the Ball from among a number of tunes written by campus composers. The song decided upon is a waltz, “Romance by Moonlight,” with music by Walter Philipp, and words by Kathryn Ullmen and Austin Boyle. Boyle and Philipp are both seniors at the University, and Miss Ullmen is a senior at St. Mary’s college.
The campus Jack Oakies assured the committee that just to be different they were not rhyming “moon” with “June,” although a bit of moonlight forced its way in. Committee members were unanimous in their praise of the song. A first-class publication of the number with a professional arangement is promised by the composers. The song, which is to be featured at the Ball, is a waltz which can be adapted to the fox-trot rhythm. It is planned to put it on sale by the latter part of April.
PROF. KUNTZ TALKS TO WOMEN VOTERS’ LEAGUE
Last week Dr. Leo L. Kuntz, head of the School of Education, addressed the League of Women Voters at the central Y.W.C.A. on the subject, “Some Wholesome Reflections on Feeble Mindedness.” During his talk Professor Kuntz brought up the subject of sterilization of the feeble minded. Showing that such a thing is unethical since it is a direct violation of the natural law, he went on to prove that it is also scientifically unsound. Feeble mindedness, according to Dr. Kuntz, may be either a case of amentia, in which condition most patients are entirely and permanently bereft of reason, or a case of dementia, a state which is more or less accidental and of a temporary .nature. In sterilizing then, it would be most difficult, claimed Mr. Kuntz, to separate the feeble minded into the two classes mentioned above, and to decide which class should be sterilized. Professor Kuntz concluded his talk by vigorously denouncing any remedy that has connection with sterilization.
Grams, McKean, Weiss, Colville, Spangenberg And Ross Are Given Appointments
The appointment of John Albert Grams, LaCrosse, Wisconsin, a junior in the College of Commerce, as senior manager of football for the 1931 season was announced last Tuesday night at the annual Manager’s Banquet in the lay faculty dining hall. Coach Knute K. Rockne presided at the banquet and announced, in addition, the managers of the other sports as well as the freshmen and sophomores to be retained for sendee next year.
As associates during the 1931 grid season, Grams will have Joseph E. McKean of Alexandria, Louisiana, and Charles F. Weiss of South Bend. Charles E. Spangenberg, Elmhurst, Illinois, was appointed senior manager of basketball, John Joseph Ross, Brooklyn, New York, will manage the track squad, and John A. Colville, Yonkers, New York, will take charge of the baseball team. These men will be assisted by a staff of seven junior managers and three alternates, and fifteen sophomores.
Coach Rockne was the only speaker on the short program of the evening. Mr. Rockne pointed out, in thanking the managers for their work of the . past year, that he could offer no criticism, not even constructive, on the manner in which they dispensed their multifarious duties. The past football season was one of great strain on the managers. The opening of the new stadium was, perhaps, the greatest thing in the athletic history of the University, and the way in which Dan Halpin, Jack Saunders, and Joe Lauerman handled their duties left nothing to be desired.
Coach Rockne also took this opportunity to thank Jack Hughes, manager of basketball, and Bourke Mot-sett, in charge of track, for the excellent work they have done during their seasons. Bob Balfe and Tom Ashe were reminded that the greatest
part of their duties was yet to come, and that they were expected to uphold the standard set by their fellow seniors.
In making the appointments for the 1931-32 season, Rockne pointed out that there could be no prejudice shown in the selection of the senior managers. The positions carry too much responsibility and there is far too much at stake for those in charge to pick any but the best men for the appointments. He added, for the benefit of those freshmen and sophomores who could not be retained, that in life some are better fitted for one station than for another. A failure to achieve one’s goal at first should not be an excuse for offering sympathy to one’s self or for seeking it from others. Those men who were cut from the staff were, almost without doubt, those who could not excel in this line of activity. They should, then, concentrate their efforts on success in some other- field.
At the speaker’s table with Mr. Rockne were his assistant coaches, Heartly Anderson, Jack Chevigny, and Ike Voedisch, together with the seven senior managers of this year who were the guests of honor.
The sophomores who were ap- . pointed to junior managerships included: Baker, Buhl, Fox, Kenefick, Kenny, O’Keefe and Wirry, with Martin, Sherman, and Shinners as alternates. In appointing the alternates, Mr. Rockne expressed the hope that the classification would be only a temporary one, and that these men would, by their diligent work, prove themselves worthy of a full managership during the coming year.
The freshmen to be retained are: Fischer, Gleichauf, Goldberg, Hanley, Kelly, Kotte, LeSage, Lewis, McManus, Miller, Mulvihill, Quinn, Roach, Rubin, Stockwell, and Venables.
694
The Notre Dame Scholastic
REV. GEORGE O’CONNOR
CONVERTS NEGRO GROUP
Bishop J. F. Noll Baptizes 21 In Impressive Ceremony.
As a climax to more than two years of untiring and ceaseless misionary work carried on by the Reverend George O’Connor, C.S.C., pastor of the Negro Missions in South Bend, twenty-one members of that parish were formally received into the Catholic faith, in an impressive service held in St. Joseph’s church.
The occasion .was made more distinctive by the presence of the Right Reverend John F. Noll, D.D. bishop of Fort Wayne. Assisting the Bishop were The Very Reverend James Donahue, C.S.C., Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, the Reverend James Burns, C.S.C., Provincial, Reverend William Connor, C.S.C., who had charge of the ceremonies, Reverend Michael Early, C.S.C., Reverend W. J. Lennartz, C.S.C., pastor of St. Joseph’s church, and Reverend Joseph Brannigan, C.S.C., assistant pastor.
The services began with the procession of the catechists into the church, after which they were instructed by the Bishop. Each was then baptized. The sponsors for the converts were the numerous parishioners, who gladly consented to assume the responsibility involved.	'
The conversion of this class of Negroes came as a wonderful tribute to Father O’Connor, who has devoted his every minute to this missionary work. These are not the only converts he has made, but it is the largest single class of its kind to be received in this diocese.
Child Welfare Conference
Faculty members and students of the physical education boy guidance and probation work departments of the University were well represented at the St. Joseph County conference on child health and protection, which was held in South Bend last Friday and Saturday. During the meeting the proceedings of the recent White House conference on child welfare were explained and discussed. The Reverend John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of the University, gave the benediction at the dinner meeting.
COMING EVENTS
Dates subject to change without notice.
FRIDAY, March 27 — Scholastic staff meetings, editorial, 6:30 p. m., Publications office, news and sports staffs, 7:00 p. m., 222 Main building.—Scribblers’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., Howard hall “rec.” •
SATURDAY, March 28—Mid-semester examinations begin. — Movie, “Tol’able David,” 6:40 and 8:15 p. m., Washington hall. — Examinations for classes taught at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15, and 3:15.
SUNDAY, March 29 — Palm Sunday masses, 6:00, :45, 7:30, and 8:15 a. m., Sacred Heart church.—Breakfast, 7:30 a. m., Refectory.—Metropolitan club meeting, 10:00 a. m., old Law building.
MONDAY, March 30—Examinations for classes taught at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15, 2:15, and 3:15.
WEDNESDAY, April 1 — Examinations for classes taught at 9:00 and 11:00.—Easter vacation begins at noon.—Tenebrae services, 7:30 p. m., Sacred Heart church. •
THURSDAY, April 2—Services, 7:00 a. m., Sacred Heart church.
FRIDAY, April 3—Mass of the preSanctified, 8:00 a. m., Sacred Heart church. ,
Senior Pin Announcement
Officers of the junior class have announced that a fifty cent refund will be given to all members of the class who have paid their junior dues, providing that they purchase a senior pin.
However, it has been further stipulated that only those who have paid their dues will be allowed to obtain their class pin. This means that all juniors are required to pay fifty cents over and above the cost of the-pin in order to obtain the insignia.
Members of the class who have not as yet paid their dues may do so when they order their pin. There will be no duess assessment enforced upon those juniors who do not care to purchase a pin.
MATHCONTESTTOMORROW
University Is One of Centers in State-wide Trials.
Tomorrow morning the Indiana State High School Mathematics contest will be held in twenty-four centers throughout the state. Notre Dame has been selected as the site for the examination of contestants who attend high school in South Bend or in the near vicinity, which includes the towns of New Carlisle, Rolling Prairie, Stillwell, Bremen, Concord, Lakeville, and Wakarusa. Since Notre Dame has been the place where the Edison Scholarship examinations have been held for the past four years under the supervision of Dr. Jose A. Caparo, head of the department of electrical engineering, the University was asked to conduct these examinations. In charge of the mathematical tests will be Dr. Leo Kuntz, head of the School of Education, who will also conduct the Edison examinations if they are held this year.
Each high school may send up to three contestants who are in their first or second years. The tests ■will be limited to elementary algebra. To the winners of the sectional contests will go certificates of merit, while the first three in the final examinations, which will be given by the State Teachers’ Association, will receive respectively, gold, silver, and bronze medals.
SEVEN MEN TO SERVE STAFF TRIAL PERIOD
Emil L. Telfel, editor of the Scholastic, has announced that the following men will serve a probationary period for positions on the news staff: John Rusnak, James Colvin, Waltei-Kennedy, William Blind, J. Donald Sullivan, Jack Rivers, and Joseph Kurth.
These seven men, selected by the editorial board of the Scholastic, .showed sufficient knowledge in newswriting in two examinations given them to warrant the customary trial for staff positions. The final selection of four men from this list will be made prior to the issue of April 17.
Thirty students answered the two calls issued by the editor of the Scholastic for these posiitons.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
695
MARCH “LAWYER” IS OUT
Dean Konop, Manion and Rol-lison Write Articles.
“The Case System: A Defense,” by Thomas F. Konop, dean of the Notre Dame College of Law, leads the list of articles published in the March issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer which was distributed on the campus last Monday. Professor Clarence Manion, and Professor W. D. Rollison were other members of the Law college to have articles in the Lazvyer for this month.
Lauriz Void, professor of law at the University of Nebraska; Leo Or-vine McCabe, professor of law at DePaul university; and Benjamin C. Bachrach, who is public defender of Cook county, Ill., were other contributors to the magazine.
Dean Konop in his article points out the advantages of the case system of studying law, in answer to an article which appeared recently in the United States Lazu Review. Dean Konop considered that the case system had been unjustly criticised, and presents the better view of the question in the Lazvyer.
M. Manion in his article, “What Will Become of Prohibition,” regards the 18th Amendment as irrepealable, and contends that the solution lies in the repeal of the Volstead act.
An analysis of the doctrine in the law of mortgages, and one that has great potentiaHties in this country, has been presented by Mr. Rollison in “The English Doctrine of Equitable Mortgages by Deposit of Titles or Deeds or Other Muniments of Title.” The status of the law in England has been presented with a view to determining the nature of the species of equitable mortgages.
Mr. Lauriz Void gives a very able discussion of a particular type of class legislation in “Conflicting Interests and Bulk Sales Statutes,” this type being one wherein the statutes differ greatly in their* provision.
“The Duty of an Automobile Owner to a Gratuitous Guest” is the title of an article in which Mr. Leo Or-vir.e McCabe gives a very thorough treatment of the subject.
Mr. Benjamin C. Bachrach in “The Public Defense of Cook County,” gives an account of the duties of the office he holds as Public Defender of Cook county, a pioneer in this field of legal activity.
NOTICE!
For the convenience of those leaving for the Easter vacation, the barber’ shop will be open Monday and Tuesday evenings, March 30 and 31, until 8 p. m. The shop will be closed on April 6 and 7.
AFFIRMATIVE DEBATERS DEFEAT PURDUE TEAM HERE
In its first and only appearance in’ Washington hall this year, Sunday, March 22, Notre Dame’s affirmative debating team decisively defeated the representatives of Purdue university in a discussion of compulsory unemployment insurance. According to critic Judge Professor N. J. Weiss, director of debate, Albion college, the Notre Dame team, composed of Charles Hanna, Leonard Horan, and Tim Benitz, had the edge in practically every phase of the debate; superiority in organization, presentation, clarity and rebuttal made it simple to decide in favor of the affirmative. R. W. Armstrong, M. P. DeBlumenthal, and G. C. Young, representing Purdue, directed their attack mainly against the practicability and figures in abundance, but which were, according to the judge, unconvincing. Professor Robert B. Riordan, registrar of the University, acted as chairman.
Frs. Cavanaugh, Murch Speak
The Reverend Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., of the department of sociology, was the principal speaker at the monthly meeting of the St. John Canty Literary society in St. Hedwige’s hall last Monday evening. Father Cavanaugh, speaking on the development of the mind and its relation to leadership, said that among the elementary qualifications were native ability, physical and moral qualities, with education a means of drawing them into relief. But in the development of minds, he pointed out, there are also three rough edges to be finished: personal appearance, conversation, and treatment of others.
The Reverend Raymond M. Murch, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, was the other guest of the evening. A one-act play, “Shepherd,” and a debate on “Whether Women Should Smoke,” concluded the program.
SCRIBBLERS COMPLETE CONTEST ARRANGEMENTS
Papers by McCabe, Spalding Criticized by Members.
The meeting of the Scribblers last Friday evening opened with a discussion of the final plans for the short story and poetry contests which are to close today. Concluding arrangements for the judging- of manuscripts and awarding of prizes were made. The rest of the evening was spent in the reading and criticizing of two papers by Joseph McCabe and George Spalding. They were both sketches, - admirably done, probably the best work of the kind that hash een done by any member of the club this year.
McCabe’s piece, bearing the significant title, “Nerves,” was a terse, dramatic, forceful bit of realism. It involved two characters, typical ones, who were excellently drawn, and adroitly handled. In this sketch, more than in any other that he has so far prseented to the Scribblers, McCabe proved his unusual ability in extracting from the lives of two ordinary, commonplace persons a portion which is tragic, poignana, and real as life itself. He wasted no words, eliminated superfluous description, and brought forth a sketch, artistically done and strikingly impressive.
George Spalding, who lost his amateur standing recently in the Ladies’ Home Jozirnal short story contest, read the second paper, also a sketch, entitled “Racketeering.” It contained the same characters and setting that he used in his prize-winning opus, and was almost equally well done. His sketch was enthusiastically praised.
Express Office Notice
The following professors and students have packages at the express office:
John S. Brennan, English department. Felix K. Boyle, English department. James E. McCarthy, Commerce dept. W. L. Benitz, Meeh. Engr. dept. Rev. F. J. Boland, Economics dept. Joseph Nugent, 313 Walsh hall. E. J. England, 216 Walsh hall. Leonard A. Donoghue, 104 Lyons hall. John W. Anderson, 27 Sorin hall.
Express office hours are from 12:30 p. m. to 1:10 p. m.
696
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man About the Campus
RHODES SCHOLARSHIP RULES ANNOUNCED FOR ’31 AWARDS
We walked into 109 Sorin the other day fully prepared to gather data upon what we already knew about Richard Russell Baker, the great Notre Dame public’s current man about the campus. We stayed in 109 an hour and a half, met four or five other fellows we knew, and walked out again with a fund of misinformation about Dick Baker which had little or no bearing on this article.
Two days later we tried a return engagement, hoping to catch him alone and reassemble our disjointed set of fancy facts and figures. Little more was accomplished at this meeting, so we present a running account of the two alleged interviews. Eddie Ryan, Johnny Dorschel, Jim Kearney, and John Paul Jones, Dick’s roommate, are the contributing editors.
• Associate Ryan tried to sum up everything right at the start by declaring that Dick Baker is from Lima, Ohio, now lives next door to him and Jack Chevigny in Sorin hall, and was tutored through philosophy by Eddie Ryan, our correspondent is inclined to believe all but the last statement.
Jim Kearney insisted that we head this article, “A Man About the Cafeteria” because Dick may be seen there periodically, clad in a white jacket, dusting bread crumbs off the tables and pushing chairs back into place. Kearney also emphasized the number of notebooks lying about the room, and hinted that whoever owned them all must be a “Sissy.”
Willing Helper Dorschel asserted that Dick’s greatest accomplishment is chiseling people into taking him to the movies downtown, and insinuatingly called attention to the fact that the famous attempted assassination of the Sorin night-watchman occurred outside Baker’s room. Prolonged discussion was also held on John Paul Jones, dubbed “the toughest little roommate on the campus,” and his long stories of life back home in Gallitzin, Pennsylvania.
But after all this is an article on Dick Baker, and we finally managed ’ to find something authentic about him. It is true that his home town is Lima, Ohio; that he works in the “caf”; and that he is fond of moving pictures. It is also true that an in
ordinate number of notebooks may be observed in his room. Dick’s intention to teach after he receives his degree next June may account for this thrifty accumulation of stored-up knowledge.	•
Before he hit Sorin, Dick carried on his activities in Freshman, Sophomore, and Corby. He recalls the time when he and three others were chased
Richard R. Baker
out of Freshman by Father Mooney, and had to sleep in the gym all night.
In his third year, he remembers, he was made a member of the Blue Circle, and is now treasurer of none other than the Northwestern Ohio club. Members of that organization are still hounding him for $7.50, the alleged profit from the club’s Christmas dance. They claimed that twenty-three couples were present, while Dick is sure that there were only seventeen.
In spite of his activities and popularity there are whispers that he has maintained a 97 average. In all philosophical matters he agrees with St. Thomas, and enjoys reading Bernard Shaw. His scholarly aptitude is manifested by such books on his desk as Don Quixote and Walter Lippman’s A Preface to Morals. One may also see such, volumes as Tom Playfair at Gorgonzola and The Rover Boys Up the Walla Walla. These probably belong to Jones, the long-suffering roommate. On our last exit, we found that Dick doesn’t have to chisel his way into movies. .He borrows the money from Jonesy.
Rules governing the awards of Rhodes scholarships for 1931 have been recently announced. There will be competition for the scholarships in every state of the Union. This year state elections will be held December 5th, and district committees will meet a few days later. All applications are due October 17 th. Notre Dame, as well as other universities, must select its candidates before October 10th. The men elected in December will enter Oxford in October, 1932. Their stipends will amount to 400 pounds a year. No restrictions will be placed on their choice of studies.
A candidate to be eligible must: (a) Be a male citizen of the United States and unmarried; (b) Be between the ages of nineteen and twenty-five; (c) Have completed at least his sophomore year in college.
A candidate may apply either in the state in which he resides, or in the one in which he has received at least two years college education.
The qualities which will be considered in making the selections are: (1) Literary and scholastic ability and attainments; (2) Qualities of manhood, truth, courage, devotion to duty, sympathy, kindliness, unselfishness and fellowship; (3) Exhibition of moral force and character, and of instincts to lead and to take an interest in his schoolmates; (4) Physical vigor as shown by interest in outdoor sports.
Further information and application blanks may be obtained at Notre Dame from the Reverend William H. Molony, C.S.C., 312 Lyons hall, or from the Secretary of the Committee of selection in Indiana, Professor R. H. Coon, University of Indiana, Bloomington.
Map of Palestine Made
A map of Palestine during the time of Christ, from 4 B. C. to 30 A. D., has recently been drawn by the Reverend John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of the University. Father Cavanaugh will make use of the map in the teaching of his Bible courses. The publishers, the Inter- -state School Map company of Goshen, Indiana, announce that already there has been a large demand from several institutions for copies of Father Cavanaugh’s work.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
697
EXCAVATIONS FOR DORMS COMPLETED; WORK ON FORMS PROGRESSES
Book Reviews
Progress on the new dormitories has been exceptionally good in spite of the adverse weather conditions, according to Joseph Byron, in charge of construction for the contractors, Ralph Sollitt and Sons.
Form work on the foundation of building “A,” the smaller of the two, has been completed with the exception of the inside footings. The excavation of building “B” has been completed; the farm work for the foundation has been started.
Work on the upper construction will begin as soon as the granite and stone, of which the section above the foundation will be composed, arrive.
About seventy-five men are being employed on the buildings at present, and the number will probably be increased in a few weeks.
BALL TICKETS ON SALE AFTER EASTER RECESS
Walter E. Cahill, chairman of the Senior Ball, announces that the sale of tickets for the dance will open immediately after the Easter vacation. The bids are priced at $12.50 apiece. At a later date a sale of partial payment tickets will be announced. Favors for the dance are being selected this week, and the results will be announced shortly. The committee in charge of the orchestra selection also promises a definite report soon after the vacation.
Universal N, D. Night
April 20 will be the date of the eighth annual Universal Notre Dame night sponsored by the Alumni association of the University, throughout the United States. More than 100 meetings of alumni groups will be held by various graduate clubs. The members of the Notre Dame club of Paris have already signified their intention of celebrating the event. .
The reunion of alumni from Saint Joseph Valley will more than likely be the largest gathering. A banquet in the lay faculty dining hall is being sponsored by this organization. Bernard Voll is chairman of arrangements for the affair.
Universities : American, English, German. By Abraham Flexner. Oxford. $3.50.
No one who is even casually concerned with the aims and processes of higher education could fail to become absorbed in this very penetrating work of scholarly criticism. Dr. Flexner begins with a chapter entitled “The Idea of a Modern University,” in which he sets forth the philosophical framework for his treatise. He defines his concepts in some detail, and later, in the separate sections devoted to Amercan, English, and German universities, adduces an abundance of evidence which he judges in the light of the principles set down in his opening chapter.
To conserve knowledge and ideas, to train men in learned professions, to study intensively, under the most favorable conditions, the physical world, the social world, and the aesthetic world, these, as Dr. Flexner sees it, are the concerns of a modern university. “Unlearned professions” should have no place in the university program. Among these “professions”—really vocations, callings, or occupations — he includes business, journalism, domestic “science,” library “science,” and physical education. Professions are learned, because they have their roots deep in cultural and idealistic soil. Moreover, “professions derive their essential character from intelligence.” There may be a need of training for business, journalism, and the others, but to provide this training is not the function of a university properly so called.
In his concrete criticism of American universities, Dr. Flexner confines himself to a relatively small circle of our older and most progressive institutions. Columbia, Harvard, Chicago, Wisconsin, Yale and Johns Hopkins are dealt with somewhat extensively; and none of these escapes with a clean bill of health. Harvard, everything considered, is America’s outstanding- university, Flexner concludes; but he strongly decries the inclusion of a School of Business Administration in its program, citing even a gross mismanagement of the funds by the directors in charge 'of this branch for promoting business efficiency! He notes with satisfaction, however, that Harvard has no
school of journalism, and that Yale and Princeton have no business schools. Columbia is scored on a variety of counts, chief among which are its extension and home-study courses, and also its ad-hoc courses, subjects treating minute phases of broad fields, tending toward a narrow over-specialization. Chicago and Wisconsin suffer on the same charges. Yale is severely censured for the muddled thinking responsible for its “Human Welfare Group” and its Institution of Human Relations. Johns Hopkins is noted as our best medical school, although several important deficiencies are emphasized.
It is in giving to the public what it wants without regard of principle that Dr. Flexner believes American universities have betrayed their trust. They have acceded to popular demands for all sorts of absurd courses in trivial or technical subjects—they have become “service institutions.” This is entirely antipathetic to the idea that “universities must at times give society, not what society wants, but what it needs.”
To one who is not already well acquainted with the basis of the university systems of England and Germany, the sections treating these institutions seem to lack sufficient concrete explanatory detail. The consideration there is much broader than in the American section and is especially concerned with problems of faculty administration. German universities have remained, for the most part, unmoved in their refusal to abandon principles of broad, deep, cultural education. It would appear also that their policy of leaving the burden pf securing an education up . to the individual student is most consistent with high standards of scholarship.
There can be no question about the legitimacy of many of the unfavorable criticisms brought out by Dr. Flexner. The significance of the book lies in its vigorous, fearless, and timely exposure of existing abuses and misconceptions in our higher educational order, together with constructive suggestions for remedy. As such, it is a challenge to every thinking German, Englishman, and American who is vitally interested in the universities of his country.
—Louis L. Hasley
The Notre Dame Scholastic
698
DEBATING TEAM TO MAKE EASTERN TRIP DURING THE EASTER VACATION
Princeton And New York Universities Will Be Debated By Kirby, Hanna and Benitz
As the debating season draws to a close it also approaches its climax which is found this year in the annual Eastern trip during the Easter vacation for a picked three-man team. William Kirby, Charles Hanna, and Timothy Benitz, who have been selected to represent Notre Dame, will meet undoubtedly the stiffest competition of the year, and possibly the best teams of the country in Princeton and New York universities. Leaving shortly after Easter they will be gone the greater part of the week, debating New York university in a radio debate, the third of the year, then Princeton, admittedly one of the greatest college teams of the country, at Princeton, and finally a second contest with New York university, at University Heights, New York. The 1930 debate squad instituted debating proceedings with both of these teams last year and succeeded in returning with two victories.
A most successful season and one which compares favorably with the standard established in previous years is now being concluded by the Notre Dame debate teams. At the present writing, out of eight decision debates the affirmative and negative teams have won seven. Three other contests were unjudged. Double victories over Purdue university and Michigan State, and decisions over Kansas university and the Kent College of Law featured the year. The universities of Miami, Pittsburgh, and Porto Rico were debated, but no decision was given. Of the eleven teams debated, only one, the City College of Detroit, gained a decision over the Notre Dame team.
In two radio debates with Purdue university and Kent College of Law, over station WLS, Chicago, victories were conceded to Notre Dame, the result of an overwhelming majority of votes as expressed in written responses to the broadcast.
Charles Hanna, Leonard Horan, Timothy Benitz, John Pick, and William Darrow composed the Notre Dame affirmative teams, while Wil
liam Kirby, George Allan, John Burke, Michael O’Brien, and Thomas O’Meara presented the negative arguments. The majority of these men are comparative newcomers on the varsity squad, and their work deserves special commendation.
By the close of the season four subjects will have been debated. The adoption of compulsory unemployment insurance is the resolution discussed in the majority of the scheduled debates; corporation farming was debated with Purdue university in the first radio debate of the year; compulsory automobile insurance with Kent College of Law; and finally, when the team meets Pittsburgh, the disputed resolution will be the immediate adoption of a federal system of unemployment insurance.
On Wednesday, March 25, the squad debates representatives of the City College of Detroit in an attempt to retaliate for its one defeat of the year. Shortly after Easter will be held a debate with Northwestern university, while a dual debate with Illinois will close the season a few days later^ The six remaining debates represent possibly the most difficult part of the schedule.
Questionnaires to Alumni
Lay alumni of the University are now receiving a religious questionnaire sent out by the Reverend John O’Hara, C.S.C., prefect of religion, through the Alumni office. This questionnaire is a result of the active interest many Notre Dame graduates have taken in religious affairs here. It contains a number of questions pertaining to religion and religious relationships. Principal among the queries are: “Have you influenced any Catholic young men to go to a Catholic college?”, and “How do you keep posted on current Catholic thought?”
The sales per day in the candy store average one hundred and five dollars.
BENITZ AND WILLIAMS HEARD BY MEMBERS OF SPECTATORS
The Spectators welcomed four new members into the club at the meeting held last Thursday night. The newly-elected men are: Robert Flint, Nicholas Kalmes, Edmund Stephan, and Kenneth Kreps. “Social Insurance” was the subject of a talk by Timothy Benitz at this meeting. Benitz enumerated some of the social insurance plans already in existence in America, and then centered his discussion upon the problem of unemployment insurance. Advocating the adoption of this type of insurance on the grounds that the laborer contributed an equal share with the capitalist in the production of goods, he said that the capitalist would thus be responsible for the safeguarding of the laborer during periods of depression. During such periods, the laborer is without means of support, but the stockholder still receives dividends from his invested capital. Benitz cited the success of this type of insurance abroad and in several industries in the United States.
Daniel Williams spoke on “Jazz”: Its History and Its Present Condition.” In his talk Williams enumerated the various theories concerning the origin of jazz, including the African ring shout, the Negro spirituals, Negro secular songs, the Creole and Barbary Coast orchestras. He traced jazz from its crude form in the prewar era to the modem jazz orchestra with its use of orchestral coloring, counterpoint and harmony. Jazz, being essentially personal, can still develop in any one of several directions, he said. It may continue at its present pace, and remain merely good dance music, or it may develop into the rhythmless, intricate, harmonic music of such composers as Strawinsky or the Atonalists. The future of jazz, Mr. Williams held, will be determined by the'success of either the Berlin-Donaldson or flie Gershwin school of jazz composers.
Senior Pins Are Here
Leonard Donoghue, chairman of the senior pin committee of the junior class, announces that the yellow gold pins, the sister pins, and the new guards arrived yesterday on the campus. The white gold pins had already been sent to him. All juniors should have their initial deposit of ' $2.50 in by tonight.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	699
“DOME” CLUB PAGES DONE
Editor Hallinan to Have New Features in Section.
The club section of the Dome is now complete, according to an announcement made by Editoi- Paul J. Hallinan this week. This section is outstanding for the number of new features incorporated in it. Included on the pages devoted to the larger clubs will be airplane views of their cities or districts. Instead of the ordinary “blurb” about each club, this year’s Dome has substituted rosters; upon this Editor Hallinan partly bases his boast that every student will have his name in the Dome at least once.
In getting the views of the larger cities the editors spared no effort. For one of New York Mayor James J. Walker was approached. The picture that he sent is exceptional. Other outstanding photographs are of Cleveland, Chicago, and Akron. For the district clubs the pictures are principally of well known monuments or of cities that'are typical of the districts.
Like the other parts of the Dome, the club section opens with an essay. The organizations editor, Leslie Rad-datz, contributed his on “Club Life at Notre Dame.” John Pick, in charge of the educational clubs on the campus, wrote fifty word articles on the history and aims of these groups.
SPANISH CLUB WILL HOLD ANNUAL DINNER
The Spanish club at its last meeting announced preliminary plans for a banquet to be held in the near future. Professor Joseph Martinez, director of the club, states that the affair will be the biggest in Spanish club histoiy. Plans are being made to entertain over one hundred members and guests. A meal served in Spanish style, well-known speakers, and entertainment will be features.
Lost and Found Notice
The following have articles at the Lost and Found department, and should claim them as soon as possible, as they will be held for only a limited time:
Joseph Willis, Ray Cusick, Robert P. Lewis, Joseph Clark, Robert Noll, Francis Gannon, and Gerald Barry.
ALUMNI OF NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S TO HOLD SPRING FORMAL
Notre Dame and St. Mary’s graduates of St. Joseph’s valley announce their first annual spring formal to be held in the Palais Royale ballroom on Friday night, April 17. The committee has not chosen an orchestra as yet, but several of the most prominent in the middle west are being considered. Both Notre Dame and St. Mary’s have granted their students permission to attend the dance.
Tickets for the dance are three dollars. Solicitors in every hall will have charge of the sale under the direction of Dan Halpin, who is general chairman of campus sales. The Athletic office and the Alumni office will also have tickets before and after the Easter holidays.
Mrs. J. Raymond Storey is chairman of the St. Mary’s alumnae committee, and J. Arthur Haley heads the St. Joseph Valley club’s committee. Plans are being- made to have the dance an outstanding affair on the programs of the two schools for many years to come.
K. C. TO AGAIN COLLECT OLD CLOTHES FOR POOR
The Reverend Edward Finnegan, C.S.C., pastor of Sacred Heart church, has issued to the Knights of Columbus another call for old clothes.
In response to this call Grand Knight Louis Buckley has appointed a committee to supervise the collection of clothes in the various halls. The committee will be composed of the same men who had charge of the collections at Christmas time. Frank Noll will have charge in Lyons; John Wittliff in Morrissey; August Von-Boecldin in Howard; Arthur Bergan, Badin; Charles Quigley, Walsh; Raymond Nabor, Sophomore; Frank Messina, Freshman; George Murphy, Carroll; Hart, Brownson; Leo Clark, St. Edward’s; and Francis D’Muhala, Sorin.
The men will begin the collection on Monday, March 30, and will receive contributions till the following Wednesday morning.
There is great need for clothes at present among the poor, necessitating this second call, and all are asked to aid the Knights.
“FUNNY FELLOWS” RETURN
Charter Number of “Juggler” Features Alumni.
The Charter number of the Juggler, featuring contributions by former Funny Fellows, appeared on the campus last night. The Funny Fellows society, the aim of which is to solidify, strengthen and preserve the spirit of the Juggler, made its formal debut as an active organization with this issue. K. K. Rockne and the Foui- Horsemen are among the honorary members.
The cover has the sentimental and slightly subtle significance that the “old-timers” are once more donning the mask. A cartoon of the late Dick Harrington wordlessly says . many things of a typical campus moment. A number of other contributors are accounted for in the column Campus Chatter. Alfred E. Smith, who is very busy with the tallest building in the world, sent in four sentences of congratulations. Walter Hugh Layne in a column recalls names and incidents of his Funny Fellow days and in another, the undergraduate positions, of some now famous magazine names.
High praise is given by the Funny Fellow to The Barretts of Wimpole Street, and fairly high praise to George White’s Flying High. The “old-timers” lean a lot toward Mr. Rockne and football as subjects for their- efforts.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS HOLD JOINT MEETING
A joint meeting of the Notre Dame student branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the Purdue University extension class in industrial management, was held last Tuesday evening in the Madison school, South Bend.
The speaker of the evening was Mr. G. Hanley, vice-president of the EliLilly company, and one of the vicepresidents of the A.S.M.E. He chose as his subject, “The Economic Problem in America,” pointing out that one of the chief causes of the economic depression in the United States was the spending of money faster than it was made; the installment plan being the medium through which this was largely accomplished.
700	The Notre Dame Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
AMERICAN OXFORDS
Head and shoulders above all the countless plans for collegiate reform are the new house plans of Yale and Harvard. Few closer approaches to the Oxford ideal in education have been made in this country, and none have been attempted with such a wealth of resources and broadness of plan. If it be possible that Oxford ideals and American manners can be blended into an unprecedented collegiate perfection, the new Harvard and Yale plans will most likely attain this goal.
These house plans, however, cannot strictly be called new in America. Twenty-five years ago Woodrow Wilson, perceiving that the club system at Princeton was allowing the “side shows to swallow the circus,” attempted to mould the clubs into small colleges, arranged in quadrangles, which would be presided over by a master and preceptors. He failed—it was probably the first of the idealistic Wilsonian plans to fail. But now the plan, with modifications, is being adopted again. Sentiment is now backing it.
Two magnificent structures have already been constructed at Harvard in accordance with the plan. Probably excelling any college buildings in the United States in beauty and completeness, these buildings are the nucleus of a large group which will eventually house the entire undergraduate body of Harvard. In groups of from three hundred to five hundred students, college men will live within these quadrangles. In each of them a liberal sprinkling of the most inspiring of instructors will be placed. A true “collegiate atmosphere” (vague phrase!) will prevail. Is this not an approach to the Oxford system? In exteriors at least, I believe it is.
At Yale practically the same plan is being projected. The college will be divided into eleven residential “houses,” named after great men of Yale’s past. Each house will have a “master” and a dozen or so “fellows” who will live and study with the students, the theory being that such close contact will awaken a desire for learning unattainable under the fraternity system. Professor French says that the plan for Yale is “not a system, but a life.” The men chosen for these close contacts with the undergraduates will be carefully chosen, with a view towards procuring men who will wield “a civilizing influence” on the students.
Can Yale and Harvard institute these revolutionary plans with d< -troying the traditional club system? This problem is the one which most concerns the sponsors of the plan. Apparently the fraternity system is diametrically opposed to the “college” plan, and cannot be reconciled.
It would seem that if the Oxford system were to flourish in America, it would flourish best, not at Harvard nor at Yale, but at Notre Dame. The hall system at Notre Dame in its present phase is probably nearer to the Oxford ideal of living than the systems at any other American university. Notre Dame, so to speak, has grown
up under this system. No radical departures would be necessary for a complete adoption of the “house” plan system. No fraternity problems would demand solution. Even our intra-mural athletics have anticipated any other American attempt to adopt the athletic organization of Oxford. Many educators for years have dreamed of an Oxford in America. Who will nearest approach that ideal? The question is an interesting one. Developments are taking place rapidly, and will be noted from time to time in this page.
GREAT THING, THIS EDUCATION
A student at the University of Colorado (and I think he was serious) has recently enumerated the things that he has learned in college. Here they are:
How to sleep in a chair.
How to turn off an alarm clock without waking up.
That professors don’t know everything, but just about.
That you get good grades when you’re interested, and you’re interested when you get good grades.
That Shakespeare was a good writer.
That Poe was just a pretty good poet.
That whenever you buy a package of cigarettes, six cents goes to the government.
How to read a book by scanning the first sentence of every paragraph.
That even young people are dogmatic.
That the old Greeks were smart people.
How to light a match with the thumb nail.
That it is more comfortable to wear garters.
That most professors mispronounce “isolate.”
That Presidents aren’t gods.
That girls become masculine only when they fail at being feminine.
That love is an ideal instead of an institution.
That psychology is more interesting in novels than textbooks.
That the Decameron isn’t a naughty book.
That busses are uncomfortable.
How to talk to a girl as though she were a boy.
That the mathematical chances of filling an inside straight are overwhelmingly slim.
That life is more fun than a picnic.
That Columbus didn’t discover America.
That it is bad to always split your infinitives.
That Ben Lindsey is a martyr.
That Alice in Wonderland is deep stuff.
That Barnum was right but the birth rate is increasing.
«r
The Notre Dame Scholastic
701
♦ THE WINE ♦
SPRING
Oyez, Oyez, Professor Pratt Has bought a bright New Easter hat.
DIARY OF MR. PEP
Sunday. Up betimes to read the funny papers. And so to bed.
Monday. Up betimes and to my windows. See ’tis raining without. And so to bed.
Tuesday. Up betimes and to my windows again. Still raining. What weather! (as someone has said). Dress myself in my heaviest slicker and so back to bed.
Wednesday. Up betimes and cannot decide if I shall wear my brown gaiters with my blue hat, or just brown gaiters—so to bed.
Thursday. Zzzz-z-z. Zzzz-z-z-z.
Friday. Up betimes, and needs must make great haste to attend the Easter ball . . .
Saturday (4:00 a. m.) . . . And so to bed.
TO C . . .
Something in your laughter Remembered after You had gone, Helps me carry on.
Inspiration simple
In the flashing of your dimple— When I humbly sought your love And you fled aivay amused To your station far above, Leaving after Mocking laughter.
—The Warden.
MUDDLE
Another griddle epic of old Dominion U.
J. Clarence Blf (pronounced Blif, Blifey, Bilf, etc.), whom his friends called “Bilgie” for short because he laughed so much and always had a smile for everyone, was taking his final examination. Star halfback on the football team, Bilgie’s name when correctly pronounced stood for everything that was best on the good old gridirons of the nation. But now, his career was nearly done. The time had come for him to graduate, and it seemed to be, what men call, “in the bag” that he would graduate, for all his exams, with one exception, had been passed easily. There remained only Philosophy to reckon with.
A consequent atmosphere of gloom was spread over the .campus of Dominion U. A strange, uneasy hush had settled upon the students, who sat in silent groups, dolefully shaking their heads, nudging one another, and whispering in one another’s ears. (One would think they were taking the examination.) Weak men jittered nervously. Strong men with broad shoulders were not ashamed of the tears in their eyes. Over and over again rose the murmur, “Will he pass it? Will he pass it? Oh, Bilgie, come through once more. Yea, Bilgie.”
Even the professors felt the tension, and spoke quietly, in words of but one syllable.
In the appointed room Bilgie sat calm and collected after two hours of steady, desperate quizzing by the pro-fessoi- of Philosophy 4. The young man’s answers had been successful, amazingly so. In a final attack the professor peeped out over his book and said, “Now, Mr. Blip, tell me—isn’t this a fine day for the race?”
“Yes,” Bilgie answered readily.
“For what race?” the professor snapped.
“Why, the human race,” was Bilgie’s quick comeback.
“Hm,” said the examiner, “that’s right, but didn’t I see you, Mr. Blife, looking into your book for the answer?”
“Oh, no, sir,” protested the. soul of honor.
“Well then, what goes up and down and up and down, and never goes up?”
“What goes up and—”
“Exactly.”
“Er. I hardly think I know.”
“Ah-ha. Well, I will give you one last chance. When is a man not a man?”
“A man is not a man . . .” began poor Bilgie feebly. (How the tables have turned on him now.)
“Quick, quick!” exclaimed the professor impatiently.
“A man is not a man . . . when he’s a jar.” He heaved a deep sight of relief.
“. . . when he’s a jar,” mused the professor. “I am sorry, Mr. Billif, but that is not the answer I wanted.”
“Oh,”- said Blf, “why, I only suggested it.”
“It won’t do, however. And I cannot give a passing grade to such bungling as that. Mr. Blifski, you have failed to—”
But Bilgie waited to hear no more. In confusion he fled.
How quickly the report of his failure spread, you may imagine. And with what joy it was received! Men and boys rushed fevei-ishly about as on a holiday. Students went mad with glee and started biting people. Bells were rung, whistles shrieked. Snake dances were formed. Freshmen yipped and tore, and grizzled old seniors cut capers as in their youth. Train load after train load of excited alumni swelled the crowds of revellers. An immense bonfire was started, and its flames leaped higher and higher as first the postoffice, and then the Law buildings were piled upon it. Oh, there was joy that day in college town. Everywhere men laughed and sang and said to one another, “Isn’t it great—Bilgie’s flunking that exam. Now he can’t graduate, and he’ll be back next year, and he has another year of football eligibility. Oh, boy, isn’t that great! And what a team we’ll have next year! Wotta team we’ll have!” Bilgie had come through.
CLUB NEWS
The annual Easter recess frolic of the jolly little I. Q. club will be held this year at The Mounds, the exclusive winter playground of the Badin haliers. A truck has been chartered to convey the members to the site. A fine programme of contests and games has been arranged which includes tobogganing, sand-piling, and a gay, old-fashioned mud battle. See you there. —The Weary Bumper.
702
The Notre Dame Scholastic
EDITED’/ DACE
IT CAN’T BE DONE
The College Parade elsewhere in this issue tells of the attempts being made at Harvard and Yale to introduce something like the Oxford system into this country. For years some American educators have been trying to establish the system; so far their efforts have been futile. The reasons for the numerous failures have been many and potent. In the first place, the American educational scheme is ill-fitted for any such system as that used at Oxford. American education is based too much on credit hours, marks, and regimentation; it has too much of a tendency to stress the so-called “bread and butter” aim—witness the popularity of commerce courses. At Oxford credit hours are nil; regimentation is unheard of, and commerce courses simply do not exist. Oxford emphasizes a broader education, a leisurely method that gives the student a chance to understand and appreciate learning and scholarship. What is even more important, they learn to think for themselves.
Colleges are not supposed to be trade or business schools. In England men who intend to follow a trade or a business do not attend the universities. That is another phase of American education that has done much to defeat attempts at the Oxford system. Furthermore, college education in the United States is, like so many other things in this country, a matter of mass production. The American student goes to a university so that when he has graduated (with, of course, a minimum number of credit hours) he may secure a job immediately because he is a college man. In order to accommodate this type of student the American university has become a factory. The principal difference between some colleges in this country and most factories is that in factories men have to work.
The English preparatory school also has much to do with the success of the Oxford system in England. In this country the average high school apparently wants to turn out graduates who will be able to “earn a living” after graduation. Manual training, printing and like subjects are certainly not very useful as a foundation for the cultural development of students who may desire to go to a university
where cultural courses are stressed. American high schools, with the exception of a few, rarely give the background needed for any broad education such as Oxford gives. Most American students are not fitted to take an Oxford education if it were offered them.
Probably universities in this country will go on making attempts to change the whole system of education. Their efforts will continue to be useless, however, unless they begin at the basis of all education—the students themselves and the preparatory schools. Working from the top down is useless.
—o—
EXAMINATIONS
The relentless approach of quarterly exams again starts us reflecting upon the general undesirability of all exams and of quarter exams in particular. Even the most fervent supporters of the test cannot claim that an exam lasting for an hour can give anything like a reliable idea of the real knowledge of the student, of the extent to which he has assimilated the matter of the course. True, they can defend themselves against the opponents of tests by asking them to devise a more effectual substitute; for, despite its many obvious shortcomings the.examination is the best means yet devised for measuring the depth of the layer of culture supposedly laid upon the mind by four years in college.
Though we cannot as yet dispense with •examinations we could at least cut down upon the number of them. In the Law school exams are given every semester, and law students seem, on the whole, none the worse for lack' of quarterly tests. At Oxford the students take their exams when they are prepared—or consider themselves prepared—to receive their degree, and no one has ever accused Oxford of having a low standard of scholarship. Oxford graduates, on the contrary, prove by their unprecedented deeds and by their general scholastic excellence the benefits of their university training. Therefore exams are a necessary evil, but a reduction in the number of them would probably have no evil effects and possibly many beneficial ones.

c
The Notre Dame Scholastic	703
•
♦ SPCKTS ♦
PLANS FOR 1931 GOLF SEASON MADE KNOWN AT INITIAL MEETING
2 5 CANDIDATES REPORT
Father Murch Explains System To Be Used in Rating Men; Frosh May Earn Numerals.
The Reverend Raymond M. Murch, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, officially opened Notre Dame’s 1931 golf season when he presided at the first meeting of the year, held last Sunday * morning in the University gymnasium. About 25 men responded to the call for candidates.
Father Murch explained that golf is an established sport at Notre Dame and that this year’s schedule, which is now in the process of for-• mation, will include some first class opponents, to be met both here and on foreign links. He outlined the manner in which the early season ratings would be given. All men who participated in the tournament held last fall will be rated according * to the order in which they finished the test. An elimination contest will be held, however, with each man playing the man who precedes, as well as the one who follows him in the standing. On the basis of showings made in this tournament, eight * men will be picked for the varsity squad.
Weather permitting, the University course will be opened sometime next week, with the elimination tournament starting shortly afterward. Father Murch also announced that * minor monograms would be awarded at the end of the season, and impressed on the candidates that they would be expected to win every match on the season’s card.
Following a conference with Athletic Director Knute K. Rockne Fa-* ther Murch added that there would also be a freshman golf team this year. A qualifying score for the first year men -will be made known in the near future, and all freshmen turning in cards equalling this score will be awarded class numerals.
Sports at a Standstill
The sports program has come to an abrupt standstill with the close of both track and basketball seasons more than a week ago. The athletes are at present passing through a period of preparation and will be ready for the opening of the spring program following the Easter vacation. Baseball, outdoor track, golf, and tennis are scheduled to get under way about the middle of April.
FAIR WEATHER TAKES GRIDMEN OUT-OF-DOORS
Rockne, Helpers, Drill Large Squad in Fundamentals.
Taking advantage of the belated spring weather, three hundred and fifty aspirants for the varsity football team held their first outdoor practice of the season last Monday, and have been diligently working out daily ever since. After the usual pictures had been taken, predictions made, and camera-men shooed away, the gridders went hard at it.
The first day was spent entirely in limbering up exercises, passing, punting and elementary blocking. Later the various squads held signal practice, and engaged in “dummy” scrimmage.
Coach Rockne, with his four assistants, Anderson, Chevigny, Moyni-ahn, and Voedisch, have been out daily, and hope to make the squad divisions shortly after Easter. In the Notre Dame system the aspirants are divided into four teams and one varsity squad. As the spring practice progresses the men who show aptitude are promoted from the different teams to the varsity squad, so that in September when the regular fall practice begins the men are all classified, with a varsity group all ready to begin training for the season.
VARSITY BASEBALL CANDIDATES PRACTICE
DAILY IN GYMNASIUM
LARGE SQUAD REPORTS
Smaller Group To Be Picked by Coach George Keogan for Easter Vacation Workouts.
Notre Dame’s 1931 baseball team is in the making. For the past two weeks a squad of some sixty men have been working out in the gym under the tutelage of Coach George E. Keogan. When the call was issued at the start of that period it was answered by about eighty or ninety men, but as the work progressed almost a third of that number dropped out. Now, though the facilities are limited, the men remaining are getting in fair shape for the outdoor practices which will begin as soon as the weather permits.
The official schedule has not as yet been released in its approved form by the athletic board of control, but the opening game will probably be played near the middle of April.
There are seven lettermen in the squad that is at present being shaped. Four of these are infielders, and the other three are pitchers. All of them are facing real competition, however, to retain their berths on the first nine.
A week of intensive practice will be afforded the men during the Easter vacation, when a picked squad of candidates will remain at school for a strenuous polishing off process. The weather should be warm enough by that time to allow daily practice out of doors, and the team will round into form much quicker as a result.
Though the prospect points to a nine that will be rather green for fast intercollegiate competition, the squad should face barrier for the season in fair fettle. A break from the weather man in the form of a warm Easter week ■will undoubtedly work wonders with the players. Since the southern trip is being abandoned this year, the men will be somewhat behind in their conditioning.
704
The Notre Dame Sc ho 1 a s t i c
Kenneally to Rutgers
Announcement was made by Rutgers University authorities at New Brunswick, N. J., last Thursday, that Tommy Kenneally had been signed as assistant coach for the 1931 season. Tommy, who was a quarterback on the national champions of 1929, served as backfield coach of Johnny Law’s Manhattan college gridders last season, and spent his spare time teaching in a New York prep school.
WHERE NOTRE DAME MEN MEET
“Always in the Crowd”
Don’t Be Left Waving At The Pier!
« « « «
Europe beckons you to taste its countless pleasures. Paris, gay and grand . . . Avignon, the Latin France . . . Nice . . . Monte Carlo to try your luck ... Along the Italian Riviera to Genoa and Rome ... on to Venice and Lido’s for tea . . . thru Switzerland to Heidelberg, and the Rhine . . . Amsterdam and The Hague ... a glorious windup in London . . . these places form only in part your itinerary when you travel the STCA way to Europe, the smart and thrifty way.
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Hot Chili Hot Tamales
Ice Cream .
Candy
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
327 N. Michigan St.
The STCA is prepared to handle your needs, no matter how small or large. It is founded on years of dependable service. Four former Second cabins on the New Amsterdam, Veendam, Volendam, and the Rotterdam and specially designed Tourist Third-Cabin on the Statendam offer undreamed of comfort.
STCA is more than a means of crossing the ocean.
Student Third Cabin Association Holland American Line
40 N. Dearborn St., Chicago
Campus Representative
E. G. BRITZ
309 Morrissey Hall

The Notre Dame Scholastic
705
GOOD INDOOR SEASON HAD BY BLUE IN 1931
One Defeat in Dual Competition Registered Against N. D.
Coach John P. Nicholson’s Blue and Gold tracksters have just concluded a most successful indoor season, and are now awaiting the opening of the outdoor season with greater conquests in view. Victories were recorded in dual meets over Butler, and Iowa State, while the Fig'hting Irish also retained their title in the Central Intercollegiate Conference for the fifth consecutive time. One defeat was suffered in a dual meet, and this at the hands of Harry Gill’s Illinois thinlies, who were able to record only the barest margin of victory in the most hotly contested meet of the season.
Records fell in wholesale fashion, and five new gymnasium marks now rest safely in the books, at least until next year. Four of these marks are held by Notre Dame men while the other was made by Chamberlain, of Michigan State, who broke Gene Howrey’s record for the two-mile run. Other new records were set up by Captain Johnnie O’Brien in the 60-yard high hurdles, Alex Wilson in the 880-yard run, Ralph Johnson in the pole vault, and the mile relay team, which set a new record for that event in the C.I.C. meet.
Alex Wilson, blonde Canadian sensation, and British 440 champion, had a most successful season, and deserves a much needed rest before the start of the outdoor campaign. Probably Wilson’s most outstanding achievement was the winning of the famous “Millrose 600” at New York, but practically every meet in which he competed was featured by his brilliant running, and he assumed the
1—W—1—1—W—
I
I Residence	Office
? Phone 3-4041	Phone 2-1067
i.
I
■ Dr. Edgar S. Lucas
I Dentist
I
i
I	702 J. M. S. Building
I	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
i
lion’s share of the burden because of his versatility in the middle distances.
Other outstanding performers on Coach Nicholson’s squad during the indoor season, were Joe Quigley, Captain O’Brien, Bill McCormick, Bob Darling, “Dutch” Johnson and Gene Howrey. These men were very consistent winners all through the season, and are being counted upon to score heavily for the Blue and Gold when the curtain rises for the opening of the outdoor season.
ECONOMY!
The Student's Choice
COLONIAL STAGES
TYPICAL LOW FARES			LOW RATES EVERYWHERE One Way Ro. Trip		
	One Way Ro. Trip				
New York ...		$19.00	$30.00	Cincinnati .		$ 5.95	$10.70
Pittsburgh .		 8.75	15.75	Louisville .		 6.00	10.80
Cleveland ...		 6.50	11.70	Nashville ...		 10.00	18.00
Youngstown	.... 7.40	13.30	St. Louis ...		 6.00	10.80
Buffalo 			 10.25	18.45	Chicago 			 2.25	4.05
Detroit 			 3.75	6.75	Columbus .		 7.00	12.60
Toledo 			 3.75	6.75	Dayton 			 6.00	10.80
		Reliable	Connections		
All reclining chairs Frequent Schedules			All Steel Buses Buses Everywhere		
Tickets and information
see
Leo Kletzly, / Morrissey Hall
SAFETY!
Of the newcomers, Mickey MacBeth and Charley Kelly, were, perhaps, the most outstanding. These two, both quartermilers, were just about the mainstays of the one-mile relay team, besides proving very dependable men in dual meets. Gough, too, made excellent showings in the Illinois and Iowa State dual meets, the chief burden of the broad jump falling upon him when Roy Bailie was injured. Frankfort, Dilling, and Bonomolo all showed much promise.
SPEED!
COMFORT!
The Notre Dame Scholastic
706
FRESHMEN NATATORS WIN INTERHALL MEET
Last Friday evening the Freshman hall natators scored 34 points to splash to an exciting victory in the opening meet of the interhall season. More than one hundred aquatic enthusiasts packed Notre Dame’s nata-torium and saw Morrissey hall come close behind with 31 markers. Carroll hall scored eight points while Corby failed to register a place in any of the events.
Moore, of Freshman, and O’Shaugh-nessey, of Morrissey, were the individual high scorers, each winning two events. Moore won the 40-yard and 100-yard free style while O’Shaughnessey won the back-stroke races of the same distances. Moore also turned in the best performance of the evening, finishing the 40-yard free style in the very fast time of :19.5.
Leonard won the plunge for Morrissey when he outdistanced both Morrow, of Carroll, and Dobinski, of Freshman. His best effort of the three trials was 41 feet, 11 inches.
Freshman hall made a clean sweep of the 100-yard free style when Moore, Messina, and Krseminski fin
ished in that order.
This test was the first of the preliminary interhall swimming meets which will be continued after the Easter holidays. Practice for the other halls is being held now and will continue until the vacation starts.
Summaries:
110-Yard Back-Stroke — Won by O’Shaughnessey (M); Hennessey (F), second. Time 1:25.5.
Plunge—Won by Leonard (M); -Dobinsky (F), second; Morrow (Car). Distance 41 feet, 11 inches.
40-Yard Back-Stroke — Won by O’Shaughnessey (M); Messina (F), second; McKiernan (Car), third. Time :26.9.
40-Yard Free Style — Won by Moore (F); Sullivan (M), second; Kresminski (F), third. Time :19.5.
40-Yard Breast-Stroke — Won by Georgio (M); Purdy (C), second; Marra (F), third. Time :31.5.
100-Yard Breast-Stroke—Won by McCarthy (F); Zimmers (M), second; Glennon (F), third. Time 1:31.5.
100-Yard Free Style — Won by Moore (F); Messina (F), second; Kresminski (F), third. Time 1:02.5
220-Yard Medley Relay—Won by Morrissey (Sullivan, Murphy, Koken); Carroll, second; Freshman, third. Time 2:19.5.
Summary of Points
Freshman Hall_____________34
Morrissey Hall____________31
Carroll Hall_______________8
Corby Hall_________________0
1931 GRID TICKETS TO BE ON SALE APRIL 1
J. Arthur Haley, business manager of athletics at the University, announced several days ago that ticket sales for next year’s football games will begin on April 1. Ten thousand application blanks for season tickets will be placed in the mails early next week.
It was also announced by the Athletic Association that those persons holding season tickets for Notre Dame home games will receive the choice of seats for the Northwestem-Notre Dame game at Soldier field, Chicago, on October 10. The game with the Wildcats promises to be one . of the highlights of the 1931 season.
Games to be played in the new stadium next fall will present such outstanding teams as Southern California, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and Drake.
PREMIER COACH LINE
OFFERS LUXURY WITH
BUS ECONOMY
Lavatories — Mohair Chairs — Fast Schedules — Uniformed Porters
For tickets and information call 3-6755
CENTRAL BUS STATION, 203 W. Jefferson
The Notre Dame Scholastic
707
BASKETBALL TEAM MEETS WITH
ONEY FAIR SUCCESS IN PAST YEAR
Cagers Lose Eight of Twenty Contests; DeCook, Gavin, and Baldwin Shine
Twelve victories out of twenty games was the record of Coach George Keogan’s cage squad for the 1930-31 season, completed a little more than a week ago. Not an impressive record, one must admit, and probably the poorest since Dr. Keo-gan came to Notre Dame nearly ten years ago. It is difficult to give a cause for the showing, however, and we may justly conclude that there was a combination of difficulties which the more or less inexperienced Blue and Gold squad found too great to overcome.
In the beginning, three great gaps
EUROPE
and Back...
$185
Sell Dad on the idea! United States Lines makes it so inexpensive. "Tourist Third” fares range from 8185 round trip on the palatial REPUBLIC to $231 on the mighty LEVIATHAN, 5 day speed to Europe. Remarkable values also on the flyers AMERICA and GEORGE WASHINGTON.
Travel with the college crowd. Last year on one sailing of the LEVIATHAN 60 colleges were represented. This year the Harvard-Yale track teams sail July 1st on the GEORGE WASHINGTON for the Oxford-Cambridge meet.
Come on along! Enjoy fine food ... comfortable staterooms . . . nightly dances to "red hot” college orchestras ... movies... sports on big sun decks. Send at once for the booklet, "TOURIST THIRD CABIN TO EUROPE”, and make reservations before the rush starts.
Official Fleet of the Intercollegiate Alumni Associations
Consult Your Local Steamship Agent or
UNITED STATES
LINES
45 Broadway Digby 4-5200
had to be filled. Ed Smith, “Oonie” Donovan, and Jack McCarthy were missing from the previous year, and it was no easy matter to replace them. The first part of the season was spent in experimentation and, as a result, three defeats were on the books before the season was well under way. Kalamazoo was an easy victim, but Northwestern and Purdue proved too much and annexed two run-away games before the Keogan-ites again broke into the win column against Pennsylvania and Illinois Wesleyan. Northwestern again conquered the Blue which, by this time, .was beginning to show much improvement. A fairly dependable combination had been molded with Newbold, Crowe, and Gavin alternating at forwards, DeCook at center, and Baldwin and Burns at guards. Clay Johnson, too, proved himself a valuable man at the guard position.
Four victories in a row against Ohio State, Wabash, Marquette, and Pennsylvania, put Notre Dame in a fighting mood for Pittsburgh, but the Panthers won in an overtime game on the local court. Indiana fell victim to the Keogan strategy, but Pittsburgh made it two in a row in another overtime contest at Pittsburgh. Wabash, Butler, and Army were the next opponents on the Notre Dame card, and all met defeat alike. Syracuse caught the Blue with Baldwin, who by this time had developed into one of the chief cogs on both offense and defense, on the side lines, and administered the sixth defeat of the season to the tiring South Bend squad.
The Fighting Irish eked out a one-point victory over Marquette in a return game, but closed the season by suffering defeats at the hands of Butler and Iowa university, both of whom they were favored to defeat rather- handily.
Statistics for the season show that Notre Dame outscored her opponents by a mere eight points for the season’s play, averaging 24.2 points to the opponent’s 23.8. The Blue and
WHY NOT Make Your EASTER Trip a PLEASURE Trip!
RIDE
Colonial Stages
Enjoy the most modem means of safe travel at the lowest cost.
	One	Round
	Way	Trip
Pittsburgh .		$ 8.75	$15.75
Cleveland ...		11.70
Youngstown	.... 7.40	13.30
Buffalo 			 10.25	18.45
Detroit 			 3.75	6.75
Toledo 			 3.75	6.75
Cincinnati ...		 5.95	10.70
Louisville ...		 6.00	10.80
St. Louis 			 6.00	10.80
Chicago 			 2.25	4.05
Columbus ...		 7.00	12.60
Dayton 			..... 6.00	10.80
For Tickets and Information
Ray Pellman
307 Walsh Hall
708
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A schemer! Making millions as a silk - hatted racketeer!
STARTS SAT. THRU TUES.
| WILLIAM
POWELL
In the strong story of a fascinating man who mysteriously became, in,one night of soul-recklessness, an outcast.
eorae'
■J03
'er'
’tana
Suits and Topcoats tailored from the world's finest woolens $48 and up
Trimble Hats $5 and up
A Publix Theatre
“Man of the World"
A Paramount production with WYNNE GIBSON CARROLE LOMBARD
PUBLIX PRESENT A TIONS
VITAPHONE Sound	Vodvil
Columbus Shirts $2.50 and up
JOE ALEXANDER At the Organ
New styles in Hosiery 50c and up
PARAMOUNT
Sound	News

Imported, and Domestic Men's Wear
The Notre Dame Scholastic	709
tr .
! Gold outscored the enemy 189 to 169 on field goals, but lost much ground on free throws. The Keoganites averaged almost the same as their opponents on shots from the foul line, but the enemy was given sixty-one
* more chances by virtue of Notre Dame’s 224 personal fouls to the foe’s 176.
Kassis Signs at Colorado
Tom Kassis, regular guard of the 1930 national champions, has signed to coach the line at the University of Colorado, at Boulder, Colorado, it was announced several days ago. Kassis was graduated from the Uni
versity of Notre Dame in February, and expects to take up his new position in time for spring practice. At the close of the past season, Tom received honorable mention on several all-western elevens despite that his play during the season was hampered by injuries.
Ray DeCook led the scorers with 132 points, an average of 6.6 per game. He committed more fouls • than any of his teammates, 32, but was also the only one on the squad to appear in every game on the season’s card. Bill Newbold scored 93 points to take second place among the scorers, and ranked at the top in foul shooting. The elongated forward a made 29 out of 42 attempts for an average of .690. Jack Baldwin, flashy guard, made twelve out of twenty free throws and scored 56 points for an average of nearly 4 markers per game. Both Crowe, with 68, and Gavin with 57, outscored Baldwin but failed to come up to his average since they competed in four more games during the year than did the former Englewood star.
STATISTICS FOR 1930-31 CAGE SEASON
	GP	W L	PCT.	FG	FT	FTA PCT. F. TP		AVE.	PFC
Notre Dame	20	12	8	.600	189	105	202 .520	483	24.2	224
Opponents	20	8 12	.400	169	137	263 .521	475	23.8	176
	POS.	GP	FG	FT	FTA	PCT. F.	TP	AVE.	P7C
DeCook	c	20	52	28	55	.510	132	6.6	36
Newbold	f	18	32	29	42	.690	93	5.2	29
Crowe	f>g	19	29	10	19	.526	68	3.6	27
Gavin	f,g	19	23	11	21	.525	57 .	3.0	24
Baldwin	g,f	15	22	12	20	.600	56	3.8	24
Johnson	g	14	15	6	20	.300	36	2.6	22
Burns	g	. 16	10	6	17	.353	26	1.6	35
Schumaker	c, f	16	3	1	6	.167	7	.6	9
Staab	g,f	5	1	1	1	1.000	3	.6	3
Schrader	c	g	1	0	0	.000	2	.7	1
Jaskwich	g	6	1	0	0	.000	2	.3	6
Butorac	c	8	0	1	1	1.000	1	.1	3
Koken	g	5	0	0	0	.000	0	.0	1
Farris	g	3	0	0	0	.000	0	.0	4
=PALACE=-
The Home of Entertainment in the Flesh
■ GALA RKO VAUDEVILLE I
I	YORKE & MARKS	I
■	in “The Great Lover”	H
■ HENRY J. KELLY I LIAZEED DEMNATI I
■ Mixing Mirth & Melody | Whirlwind Dazzlers I
On the Screen .
A Revelation! A Sensation!
SHE HAD TO BREAK HIM TO MAKE HIM
When he was too poor to be in conference he found time to be in love
DOORS
With
BEHIND OFFICE
Mary Astor Robert Ames Ricardo
Cortez
710	The Notre Dame Scholastic
FRAN BEAUPRE, CAPTAIN OF GOLF
TEAM, FORMER GRID, BASEBALL STAR
Good Season Expected By 1931 Leader With Entire Squad Back From Last Year
When Bobby Jones, the reigning monarch of golfdom, makes his weekly radio talks on features of the game, he can rest assured that he has at least one faithful, interested listener. For to Fran Beaupre, captain of Notre Dame’s 1931 golf team, the words of the great Bobby are so much gospel. He seldom misses these bits of wisdom on the intricacies of putting, driving, backswing, and the rest of the golfers’ bugaboos. Fran works at his hobbies, and golf heads the list.
Grosse Point Farms, Michigan, was the place, and February 25, 1907, the date that Francis Aloysius Beaupre made his bow into the world. Later, much later, he entered St. Ambrose prep school in Detroit. Here he launched the athletic career that is . now reaching a climax with a Notre
Dame captaincy. In those earlier stages, however, it was in other fields than golf that Fran Beaupre sought fame. Three white stripes for football, and three more for baseball were encircling the red sleeves of Fran’s sweaters when he left St. Ambrose in the June of 1925. Those years of baseball developed in him a love for the game that places it second only to golf on his list of favorites.
From the close of his high school course to the fall of 1926, it was F. A. Beaupre, business man, engaged in conquering the commercial world. Whether or not he ever finished that job we’ve never learned, but at any rate he called a halt to the interlude and resumed his education. A berth on Charlie Dorais’ football team was one of his primary objectives when he enrolled at the University of De
troit. He never held one, however, as his stay at Detroit ended when he withdrew at mid-year to return to the business life.
The next year — we’re up to ’27 now — found him and his brother Russ entering the College of Commerce at Notre Dame. For the first part of the freshman year, Fran deserted athletics in favor of books, but when spring football made its call he joined the rest of the school (if one is to believe the newspapers) in their workouts. He also found time that spring to get a gold ’31 for his chest by the simple strategy of socking base hits and making put outs on the freshman baseball squad. The golf was yet to come.
Fran must have gone into seclusion after this, for it is the Spring of 1930 when we pick up his record again. The golf team was being formed, and he was one of the group of niblickswingers who aimed at places on that team. Brother Russ was another. The duo made the grade, and Notre Dame’s golf stock took a sharp rise as this family act was to add many points to the Blue and Gold scores. Here our host went into an enlightening aside on the system of golf points. “Usually,” said Captain Beau-
"E
Selling Out AU Winter Goods
A Lucky Purchase of FACTORY JOBS in S8.50 to $15 values.
HI-GRADE FOOTWEAR
Smart Styles for the Well Dressed—“Edmonds,” “Osteopathic,” “Musebeck’s” and others! Black, tan, kid and calf. Many toe styles.
$3.85 "d
$4.85
MEN’S NEW SPRING
OXFORDS
Black or Tan, Endicott-Johnson make, new toes, all sizes d* 1 QP
5 to 11 *P
NOVELTY-COLORED
Corduroy Pants
All sizes, 28 to 38. Tan, Grey or Blue. Regular X’5 $2.49
GIL-BRO’S
FORMERLY — U. SI ARMY STORE 330 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Quit tutu minim tiiiiiimitiiiiiiiiiiititimmiiiimitmiimiiiiiiitiimttittiitmiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiim[a FOUNTAIN	I
EATURE	|
5 35c Combination lunch is	Q/l -
i priced special every day at  1Z V e
|	You have your choice of any 15c sand-	e
i	wich and a Meyer’s Extra Rich Malted	i
I Milk.	’	I
1	Our effort is directed to serve the best	|
|	of foods and fountain drinks at thor-	=
|	oughly cleaned fountains speedily and	i
|	courteously.	i
] I I . * STORE ]
| Corner Michigan and Colfax . |
B>immmmmmiiiiimimmmtmmimmimammmiiiiimmmimmmimimimiiiuimiiimfs1
The Notre Dame Scholastic
711
208 North Michigan
Wildroot
Hair Tonic
39c
5OC
Peau-Doux
Playing Cards
Pinaud’s $1.25 Vegetal 83c
Pepsodent Paste.........29c
Palmolive
Shav. Cream
19c
33'
Christy
Razor, 1 Blade
7c
Auto Strop bLivs.......	34c
Listerine $1.10 Bottle 64c
5©C Ipana Tooth Paste 29'
Aspirin
100 Tablets
59c
Right reserved to limit quantites
You’re Always Welcome at Walgreen’s
[■Jiiiiitiiliiiiiiittiitiiiinititiliiiiiiiiiiiiiit mint tun
| The South Bend Clearing 1
i	House Banins
| Invite Your Patronage \
1	INDIANA TRUST COMPANY	1
5	ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS I I	BANK	|
1	ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST	I
j	COMPANY	j
s AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY 1
UNION TRUST COMPANY 1 I	CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK	j
I	CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS	I
i	BANK	i
I	FIRST NATIONAL BANK	i
r»]Mtiiiii>nttttutmmiiitiiiiminniiiiiiiiitiimtitiiiiiiiiiiimniiiniiniiiiniiiiniimimiimiiiiiiiFT|
i your g | EYES
I
I
I occasionally
Have them ii examined every |i year
we hear someone boast of
i — the extreme long life of his glasses—as I though it were something of which to be, proud. I Our eyes are changing constantly, and the best I experience proves that the ophthalmic correction | provided by lenses usually requires changing 1 every eighteen months to two years. To wear | glasses longer than that means that the eyes are ! being forced to adjust themselves to the glasses, I instead of the glasses being an aid to the eyes.
I L^MONTREES
I	N—ZJl
g
I	102 W. Washington St.
I	222 1-2 S. Michigan St.
I
■—Ml—M—n—«—■—«l—-
712
The Notre Dame Scholastic
lire, “one point is given for the first nine, one for the second nine, and one for the eighteen, making a total of three. Monogram winners,” he added, “will probably be decided on a point basis this year.”
He chose this point to grow reminiscent, and he recalled the greatest thrill that golf had ever given him. Strangely enough, it was in the role of spectator that he got this “greatest thrill.””
“It was last year,” he stated, “at
the Intercollegiates at Oakmont. Boy! that is one tough course, and when Fred Brant of Pitt knocked three strokes off par in the first round, he incidentally knocked me out of the tournament. Then came the thrill. Larry Moller supplied it with the great golf that.he played to reach the finals, where he lost a thriller to Princeton’s Dunlap, 5 to 4.”’
Still on the subject of the Intercollegiates, the leader of Notre Dame’s hopes pointed out the strength that his squad will have for this year’s meet, in the presence of all the mem
bers of the 1930 team. “We were fourth last year,” he recalled, “and we’ll be well up there at the finish at Olympia Fields this June.”
If they are “up . there,” we are sure that Fran Beaupre will have played no small part in the rise. He has hitched his wagon to a high star in the golf world, and he’ll get there some day. Nor do we think it will be long until Joplin, with its Horton Smith, and Atlanta with its Jones, will have a serious rival for honors in Grosse Point Farms, Michigan, with its Fran Beaupre.
RIGHT NOW!
You will find the very best values in Sport Equipment at "RECO"
Complete Equipment for Baseball, Golf, Tennis, Archery, etc.
BUS DEPOT


We restring Tennis Rackets and guarantee work 30 days.
Special prices to teams on all Baseball goods.
THE
"RECO"
STORE
113 N. Main Street
“IT PAYS TO PLAY”
-Lowest (ojt home /
k^HAIX the parental purse string holders doubt the value of higher education? Perish the thought! It’s about time to show them the saving spirit that comes from assidnons application to economics, political history, and animal husbandry. What better way than to travel home for Easter vacation by Greyhound bus?— proof positive of thrift, wisdom and filial consideration.	•
Not only is travel by Greyhound less expensive, its far more interesting, convenient and delightful. For interesting observation, congenial companionship, and luxurious travel comfort—go home for Easter this year by Greyhound bus.
For tickets iKfvraiatieii gee •
Campus Agent
ALBERT H. MONTICELLI
117 Brownson Hall
Phone 3-0138	.
GREYHOUND
The Notre Dame Scholastic	713
CRIPPLED BOY SENDS GRID TEAM THANKS
FOR AUTOGRAPHS
A sort time ago Tom Conley, captain of the 1931 national champions,' received a request from a small crippled hoy in Philadelphia for autographs of the team and Coach Rockne. Being only too glad to do his bit to cheer up this unfortunate lad, Tom sent the autographs immediately and the other day received the following reply:	.
Dear Tom:
Fop at least four hours I have been trying to write letters of thanks to all the boys and now I am completely exhausted. I have only written letters to Mr. Carideo and Mr. Brill and Mr.
Rockne, and after all that I find I cannot write to all, but the one’s I wrote to Carideo and Brill are the same as I was going to write to all the fellows except yourself- and Mr. Rockne.
Fifteen letters in one day is too much, but I am trusting that the other boys I didn’t write to will forgive me. I know that you went to more trouble than I would ever think of going to, but I would do the same for you if I could.
Again thanking you from the bottom of my heart,
I remain,
Joseph McMullin.
Joe also included a poem which he sends to the whole team:
The words you sent to me Will brighten up my day, And so I write to you While in my bed I lay.
May the God above, And may the earth below Make your studies perfect, And grace on you bestow.
Mullins Starts Practice
“Moon” Mullins has started in at his new position as backfield coach at the University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas, and now has spring practice under full swing; Larry finished his college playing career in the Southern California game -last December, and was graduated from the University in February.
Tonight, sleep like a top!
BEFORE you go to bed, stop at the campus restaurant and eat a bowl of Kellogg’s Rice Krispies. Listen to those crunchy-crisp rice bubbles actually crackle out loud. They are a real treat.
And Kellogg’s Rice Krispies are so easy to digest. They invite restful sleep. In fact, dietitians advise a crisp cereal before bedtime. How much better than hot, heavy foods I
Rice Krispies are great for a quick lunch. Extra delicious served with fruits or sweetened with honey.
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include All-Bran, PEP Bran Flakes, Corn Flakes, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s whole wheat Biscuit.
Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — the coffee that lets you sleep.
RICE KRISPIES
You'll enjoy Kellogg's Slumber Music, broadcast over WJZ and associated stations of the N. B. C. every Sunday evening at 10.30 £. S. T. KFI Los Angeles, KOMO Seattle at 10.00, and KOA Denver at 10.30.
714
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SCHEDULES FOR BALL LEAGUES BEING MADE
The "COLFAX" knows its way about town!
Custom in appearance — essentially Walk-Over in its smooth fit—the new Colfax is a shoe you'll wear with both pride and comfort. Made of supple black calfskin.
Schedules for Interhall playground ball have been drawn, and immediately after the Easter vacation play will get undei’ way with each hall in one contest every Sunday. Officials for the sport will be enlisted from the physical education department.
Several new entries have been made in the Interclub playground ball league. Squads representing the Buffalo, California, and Monogram clubs have now been added to the list as well as the Scholastic staff entry. The schedule for this branch of Interhall sport will be made during the Easter recess, and the first games will be played on the Monday following the vacation. These games will be run off on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday evenings at 6:40, throughout the remaining two months of the school year.
$0.50
Those men who won first and second places in the first preliminary Interhall swimming meet held last week will be eligible to compete in the final contests tentatively scheduled for May 1. Practice for the second group will begin on the Monday following the vacation period, with the meet set for the Friday of that week.
Follow the old. Roman Roads ough Britain — happen on Italian Hill TownsorexperienceanAlp. A car promises you a new and joyous Europe and the freedom to see it when and as you please. If you can afford to travel at all you can tfford to motor. Reserve a car now and be sure you have one. We arrange all details. Write us or see your local agent.
S-H Of S f OR M-EN
ONE - ONE - ONE SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
EUROPE0'-WHEELS

iiycoRroRre
218 Madison Ave., New York
11 Rue Boudreau Paris
93Regent St. London
Campus Bepresentative E. G. BRITZ 309 Morrissey Hall
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Splinters From the Press Box
THE TRACK SEASON
At first glance, the recently closed indoor track season would seem to have been one of more than ordinary success. Victories in two dual meets and in the C.I.C., as well as in several individual relays and events were hung up by Coach Nicholson’s trackmen. A lone defeat in dual competition was received at the hands of Illinois.
Upon further- consideration, however, this dual meet with the Illini w*as the only one of the year which could be called major competition, and it was lost. At the Millrose and Seton hall games a questionable mile relay victory was recorded as against two defeats. At the Illinois Relays neither mile nor two-mile finished better than third. Against Butler, a “two-man” team, some of our “stars” looked very good. An overwhelming score was hung up. Iowa State, hardly to be considered in the same class with Notre Dame, gave the Blue and Gold tracksters a big scare before succumbing by a close score.
What was the cause of this showing ? True, injuries haunted the team for a fair part of the season, but not all of these performances can be blamed on injuries and sickness. Rumors of “broken training” have been heard about the campus, and we are prompted to ponder a while before condemning them as totally without foundation. In some instances, hitherto dependable men have turned in performances far below their ability for no apparent reason at all.
The outdoor season will offer these men a chance to retrieve anything they may have caused the team to lose thus far. Coach Nicholson has on his squad men who should not bow to any man in their event without the toughest sort of battle. Let us hope that before June we will see some of those customary Notre Dame battles by men who are physically as well as mentally in shape to do justice to their team. There is no reason in the world for a man to pretend to be a star, and let the coach and school place confidence in him, if he is not man enough to give his best at all times.
MICHIGAN
The Wolverines of Michigan university are experiencing a big year in athletics in the Big Ten conference this year. So far the Ann Arbor school has annexed championships in three sports, tied for the lead in another, and for second place in still another. The football squad was undefeated in conference play to tie Northwestern for the flag. Hockey, a comparatively new sport in the Big-Ten, found the Wolverines again on top when activities were brought to a close.
The cage team managed to stay in a triple tie for second place when Northwestern again snagged the pennant, and three weeks ago a well--balanced track team traveled over to Madison to take the measure of the other nine schools in a meet which produced extraordinarily close contests in every event.
Last week we read that the Michigan swimmers more than doubled the score on their closest rival in the annual Conference championships. And incidentally, the Wolverine squad of natators is composed almost entirely of sophomores. That fact makes it look tough for the other schools for the next two years.
This assortment of pennants would seem to be enough for one school in one year, but the races for the baseball, outdoor track, tennis, golf, and other championships are sure to find the Michigan school in the thick of the fight.
INDIANA BASKETBALL
As much as most of us hate to admit the supposed superiority of the brand of basketball played in Indiana, the fact that Hoosier cage squads do “go places” is self-evident. In the recent Loyola tournament, four of the eight quarter-finalist hailed from “the basketball court of the nation.” Two of these reached the semifinals, there to be pitted against each other. The little Jasper quintet entered the finals for the second time in two years only to lose out by two points.
This is an exceptional showing, beyond doubt, and may prove something as far as Catholic teams are concerned — even though an Indiana team has never won the Loyola meet. But how about the public school
teams, about whom most of this constant bragging is done? Why were they never permitted to enter Stagg’s tournament to prove their superiority? It is-all very nice to sit back and convince yourself that you are better than all others, but what does it prove in the end? You know, there were “a couple” of people out in California who were bragging about their world’s championship football team until about 4:30 on the afternoon of last December 6.
HELLO MEN!
Smith’s Cafeteria
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame
716
The Notre Dame Scholastic
On Down the Line
. . . ROBERT TYRE JONES, JR., golfer, lawyer, radio and movie star, has been appointed a captain in the organized reserve of the United States Army by PRESIDENT HOOVER . . . During his five seasons as manager of the Cubs JOE MCCARTHY did not miss a single inning from the third base coaching box . . . “POP” WARNER, who has been coaching football for 34 years, makes his own golf clubs . . . JACKIE “KID” BERG’S real name is JUDAH BERGMAN . . .
TO HAVE ANOTHER DATE
Perhaps it’s because you lack the force and vigor that are part of a pleasing personality. That’s largely a matter of proper eating — keeping the old insides in good working order. Make Shredded Wheat a part of your daily menu. Plenty of bran for a clear system, proteins and carbohydrates for strength and energy and minerals for a good complexion and healthy teeth. Dive into a bowlful of Shredded Wheat and milk each morning—or last thing at night for late supper. You’ll find the rushing easier—and the rushee more responsive!
. . . JOE HUNT, who was one of the leading quarterbacks in the Southwestern conference a few years ago, is an outfield candidate with the St. Louis Cardinals . . . “BUZZ” AR-LETT, new Phillies outfielder, requires a size 54 uniform, the largest ever ordered- for a National League player . . . BABE RUTH wears a loose-fitting 52 shirt . . . Spring baseball training at Alabama has been under the eye of JOE SEWELL, recently signed by the New York Yankees ...
. . . Concerning bargains . . . SPUGS, a 14-year-old thoroughbred was bought for §500, and in eight seasons won 52 races and more than §60,000 in purses for his owner . . . WILLIE HOPPE, dean of American billiard players, travelled 1,000 miles to play his first match at the age of 12, and won it . . . and since then he has won the 18.2 balkline crown for 16 years without interruption . . . There was a time when JACK DEMPSEY really considered becoming a wrestler . . .
. . . Since 1924, the WHITNEY stable, now conducted by CORNELIUS VANDERBILT WHITNEY, has lead all others in point of money won on United States tracks . . . JIMMY DUFFY is still fighting in California after 18 years in the ring, and in any six-round fight this boxing marvel continues to be almost unbeatable . . .ALBIE BOOTH has received the distinction of leading two of Yale’s major .teams in one year ... he recently was elected captain of the basketball team for 1932.