Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JULY i, 1885.	No. 43.
Valedictory.
by Sydney j. Dickerson, of Denver, Colorado.
Rev. Fathers, Ladies and Gentlemen, Fellow-Students and Classmates :—Among the various periods and events of college life there are moments which we all full well recognize to be fraught, not only with the happiest and sweetest recollections, but also with reflections that, perhaps, recall sad, regretful actions, and considerations that act most powerfully in influencing •our whole future career. And upon an occasion such as the present do we feel these most forcibly-exemplified. That hour, for which so many of us have yearned with fond anticipation of the joy we should feel at the completion of the preparatory stage of life’s journey, has come, with all its joys and pleasures—the realization of our fondest hopes.
To-day we stand on the portals of our beloved and honored Alma Mater with feelings of mingled pride and admiration. Proud, indeed, are we to be numbered amongst her students; and though it is not a time for sentimental regrets, neither is it altogether a day of rejoicing. For we all, even in the midst of our joy,, look back wistfully •on the pleasant and happy days of youth, and are surrounded by sad as well as gladsome thoughts. Yet, like warriors of old girt for battle, we are eager, yes, eager and ready, I trust, to enter the list of life’s contests like champions, encountering, as we all most likely will, its trials with steadfast courage and determination, thus to reap its joys and triumphs. Then, indeed, shall we feel the salutary influence of our Alma Mater and recognize in some degree the beneficial results that have accrued from her wise and careful superintendence.
We soon shall enter the tried and rugged path of life, for no longer are we boys: our Alma Mater sends us forth ready and willing to engage in whatsoever cause our country’s welfare may demand, arid fitted for the noble duty of our race. Are we prepared to meet the trials and temptations of life, and to reject the allurements to vice that may be offered ? This is a question that necessarily presents itself before each and every one of us. We alone can truly judge and make reply. Our foster-mother, with loving fidelity and care, has done her part. From untutored and ignorant children she has reared us, directing our footsteps in
the pathway of knowledge, inculcating in our hearts and minds the essential element of all true education—-the notion and love of God. Fondly and tenderly has she watched over our youthful endeavors,—here reproving, there commending; now advising, and again encouraging. But her task is now finished. With a mother’s prayer and benediction she sends us forth. Forward we start on the troubled tide of life to combat its storms as best we can, and meet with confidence and intrepidity the “ ups and downs of fortune.” And as we are now prepared—for the time for preparation and study has now passed—so shall we claim the respect and honor of our fellow-men or merit their disapprobation; for we must remember the crown of victory or the shackles of defeat are of our own making. Above all, we shall then, if we were conscientious, feel that the seeds she has sown have not fallen on barren ground, but will bloom, and one day “ blossom in eternity.”
As I stand and contemplate the days that have gone, innumerable scenes, endeared by a thousand memories, fill my mind. But why recall them? They all most likely have recurred to each and have left indelible impressions on your hearts. Let us rather reflect upon our future life. Whether that shall be for us a time of honor and fame, or the reverse, we know not. We cannot fathom the future. Some, however, may be, as it were, favored by fortune, while others may meet with trials and afflictions. Some may succeed, while others may be deprived of all that makes life pleasant and agreeable. Perchance, some one of us may be stricken in the moment of triumph when his days lie happy before him, and yet again we may have to tread the downward path of years touched and “ mellowed by the stealing hours of time.”
But in whatsoever sphere of life we may be cast, whatever fame we may attain, or with whatsoever reverses of fortune we may have to contend, with all shall our beloved college home be most fondly associated; with all her wonted lustre and brilliancy shall she shine forth; with all her fond and maternal admonitions will she be endeared, influencing us, I hope, in all our deeds, and acting as our guiding star in that dim and misty future directing us in the path of manliness, learning and virtue. Then, indeed, shall we show ourselves not insensible to the great advantages we have enjoyed, and not altogether undeserving of the time and labor bestowed on us by kind and efficient directors.
682	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

In all our pursuits let us never lose sight of the principles of justice and goodness so zealously taught us and thoroughly inculcated in our minds. May the motto “ Be faithful to thy God and to thy country” be always before our eyes. Then may we act in all security, fearing nothing. Having the armor of education to shield us, our knowledge shall be our power and God our strength.
All will soon be over. But in after years when our hearts, weary of life’s trials and conflicts, will be borne on the wings of memory to our Alma Mater, then shall we truly find her to have been a refuge from the cares and storms of life. Like the music of the waves, will come, attuned to memory’s golden harp, the voices of the past, singing sweet melodies of years that are faded and dimmed by time.	.
But the moments are flitting, and the time draws near when our final farewells must be uttered; and as I turn to speak them, my heart fails me, and my mind is flooded with remembrances familiar and dear, as years that have faded present themselves in quick succession and are gone “ glimmering through the dream of things that were.” But why prolong these sad and depressing moments?
To you, Reverend Father Walsh; our beloved and esteemed President, farewell! May God’s choicest blessings descend upon you! May your every effort be crowned with the success that has attended you in the past! may angels guard and protect you; and may you ever possess that love and respect your kind and gentle rule has produced!
To you, Rev. Fathers and Professors, who have labored so devotedly and strenuously for our intellectual improvement and physical wellfare, adieu! May lasting peace and felicity be reaped in full, and may you attain that reward promised those whose almost exclusive aim after their duty to their God is the leading of youthful minds in paths of virtue and instruction!
Fellow-students, “ Here met and here parting,” may all things go well with you! may life’s short day glide on, peaceful and bright, with no more rain than may form a rainbow; no more clouds than may glisten in the sky; and may the veiled One of heaven watch over your footsteps and bring us to meet again!
“Old Notre Dame,” abode and sanctuary of virtue and wisdom, farewell! How my heart thrills at the mention of thy loved and honored name! What tender recollections cluster round thy classic and cherished walls, thy silent walks and shady dells! Esto perpetual long mayest thou live to flourish and shine with each succeeding year! Never may stain or blemish shroud or dim thy lustre; but may thy name be sounded throughout the land, synonymous with learning and sound principles of morality!
Finally, dear classmates, I turn to you, with whom I .have toiled and labored, to speak the words of dismissal and farewell. The period of our association now closes. Here we met as boys, and here we must part as men. Arm in arm have we struggled in friendly rivalry and contest, whilst rendering mutual assistance to each other. As a
recompense of our exertions we carry forth with us a liberal education, that element so necessary and essential to social influence and position. May success and prosperity attend you ever! may you, each, attain the pinnacle of fame and honor; and when once we shall be parted miles from one another, may the hallowed remembrance of our college days bind us together in spirit, rolling back the tide of years, recalling the loved faces of one another, and again supplying the “ olden days of yore ”!	.
The Exercises of the Forty-First Annual Commencement.
(From the Chicago "■Inter Ocean?) ■
South Bend, Ind., June 23—Over fields that wave with grain, bordered and dotted with maples and silver poplars, oaks and stubborn hedges, through the perfect atmosphere of an inspiring day, looked this morning the golden figure of Our Lady from her lofty site upon the great Dome of Notre Dame, and bade the stranger welcome to z	o ___	;
the noble scholastic home of the Fathers and Brothers of the Order of the Holy Cross. This day and to-morrow the University of Notre Dame celebrates its forty-first Commencement. Its habitation was not more than a log hut in 1842, when • founded by Father Sorin, now Father General of the entire Order, whose good deeds live with him as well as they will live after him, gray-haired and advancing toward the four score. The pioneer of a great institution is still called younger than the youngest who goes forth profiting by the work of the old Father’s hands, which all are so anxious to . uplift kindly.
Notre Dame has prospered. Its limits have grown wider, its walls higher, its influence broader, and extending over the land. Four hundred students from the States far distant and apart come to it for instruction, Protestant and Catholic alike. Its acres have increased in number until there are at least 700 surrounding it, that it calls its own, to say nothing of twice that area for other than ornamental and landscape purposes lying not far away. The construction of new buildings continues, as seen at present in the completion of a Science Hall, and the laying of the first stones for an addition to the church. Largely self-sustaining is the institution, beautiful in all its natural surroundings and artificial landscape features it most certainly is.
From the main entrance of the University building the eye glances southward down a pretty vista toward the smoke and factory chimneys of South Bend, two miles distant. To the right, over the fields, you note the half-concealed roofs of St. Mary’s Academy, while upon your flank and rear glitter little gems of sparkling, wood-begirt lakes. Surely education has here cultivated a lovely home, and a lovely home is fostering the faculties for an improved education.	j
THE EXERCISES.	1
There has been much pleasure and gratification	I
for Faculty, students, and visitors alike got out of | -	■	■	- - r.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
this auspicious da}'. It was begun with Alumni Mass, celebrated by the Very Rev. Father Walsh, President of the University, assisted by the Rev. Fathers Dinnen and Stoffel. The discourse was delivered by the Rev. Father D. J. Spillard. A church more elaborate and beautiful in decoration than this adjoining the University scarcely distinguishes the leading Catholic centres of this country. The tireless hand of Professor Gregori has adorned with fitting theme every square foot where the noble subjects of church art might well be depicted. As a result he has created an interior notable for the character and variety of its decoration, and the general superiority of its execution. In the great halls of the University building equally as well this artist has bequeathed in portraiture and historical painting valuable monuments to the art treasures of the University of Notre Dame. The Alumni Association met at noon and elected the following officers: President, the Rev. Father John Dinnen, ’65; First Vice-President, Professor William Hoynes, ’68; Second Vice-President, Professor F. Devoto, ’72; Secretary, the Rev. Father N. Stoffel; Treasurer, Professor J. A. Lyons,’62; Orator, Orville T. Chamberlain,’62; Poet, Maurice F. Egan, ’82; Historian, Professor J. F. Edwards, ’76.
AT THE ALUMNI DINNER, the Rev. Father Walsh presiding, the following toasts received responses:
“ The Holy Father,” Rev. Father Spillard; “The University,” Orville Chamberlain; “Associated Alumni,” the Rev. Father Dinnen; “The President of the United States,” Judge Cleary; “ Our Country,” Judge O’Hara; “ The Press,” the Hon. P. T. Barry.
THE OUT-DOOR AMUSEMENTS
of the day have been aquatic and field-sports. At 10 o’clock people bent their steps down lanes shadowed by apple and shade trees, to the woody margin of the larger lake, and awaited symptoms of the promised regatta, which was expected in the shape of a six-oared race between two barge crews. Accidents with bad oars handicapped one crew before they took the water, and the race was forced to become a pretty exhibition, rather than a test of stroke and training. But there was some pretty pulling done by the better crew, McKin-nery, captain, and all the spectators enjoyed the affair with a good heart. The College Cornet Band performed and made the woodlands ring. A match-game of baseball in the afternoon between the University and town nines was attempted, but came to no satisfactory conclusion.
The perfect day has drawn to a happy close for all concerned, including the many visitors from Chicago and elsewhere. Among the Chicago people are Justice and Mrs. Scully, who have two daughters at St. Mary’s; P. L. Garrity, Joseph Sokup, Mr. Johnson, of the Lake Shore Road, John Gibbons, J. R. Lambin, Dr. T. W. Brophy, Carlisle Mason, Dr, Hutchinson, and Tom McGill and wife, who have two sons at the University.
Visitors here cannot refrain from pronouncing the good Fathers most hospitable folks.
* *
South Bend, Ind., June 24.—The University of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s Academy concluded the Commencement exercises of their respective scholastic years to-day. As the early risers at the University came forth to the broad porch of their handsome edifice and looked into the heavens they saw the promise of another matchless day, and they said it was good. Amid their leafy coverts the pupils at St. Mary’s saw the early rays break through the embowering trees, and they, too, became equally happy. The weather sanctioned all to-day. They rise betimes in these domains. The Commencement visitor is favored in this regard, but routine work and annual exercises go on just the same. Long before the dew had been sipped from the sweet clover that decks the roadside hereabouts the theatre of the University was filled with visitors and students, the latter keenly anxious for the speedy consummation of the literary exercises that the distribution of honors might come to pass. The exercises of the Graduating Class comprised music by University organizations; the reading of the Class Poem by William H. Johnston, of East Townsend, Ohio; and the delivery of the Valedictory by Sydney J. Dickerson, of Denver. Each of these young men performed his part with graceful speech and pleasant address. The audience, as on the previous evening, was again delighted with the singing of Master Devine, a son of Treasurer Devine, of Chicago. Yielding the stage to the Rev. Father Walsh, President of the University, attended by the venerable-patriarch of the Order, the Very R$v. Father Sorin, and others, the boys in quick- time were awarded their degrees and the premiums and medals that this institution is wont to bestow. By the hand of Father Sorin was all conferred.
(From the '■'■South Bend Tribune}'')
Grand old Notre Dame has reached its forty-first Commencement. There is comprehended in this one statement that which might be expanded into volumes of history. Only those can realize the full meaning of the forty-first Commencement of Notre Dame who have watched with jealous eye the growth of the institution since it was founded in a wilderness by the Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior-General of the Order of the Holy Cross, whose hair is whitened with the snows of 72 winters, and who has 43 times visited the Eternal City to receive the blessings of the Holy Father. The progress of Notre Dame from its small inception, through many misfortunes, to its present magnitude is marvellous to contemplate. To those who have been familiar with its wonderful growth, and to those who have spent pleasant years within its friendly walls, the forty-first commencement is invested with absorbing interest. The grand old Dome, surmounted by the beautiful statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary, the great halls with their rare
684	THE notre dame scholastic.
old paintings, the library with its 20,000 volumes of history, science and bibliology, the Music Hall and the Church of the Sacred Heart with its rich treasures of art, its great bell and silver chimes, the pleasant winding walks, the delightful groves, the beautiful lake with its silver sheen—all are fraught with hallowed memories to the alumnus who comes back again from his far-away home and business to his old Alma Mater where he was taught the lessons of obedience and veneration. __ o	_
Every spot is dear to him. The very stones of the pavements are precious reminders of by-gone days, and he venerates every nook and every corner that has around it associations of the past.
The visitors to the 41st Commencement will find much that is new to enlist their observation and study. Conspicuous among the architectural improvements is the new Science Hall which has just recently been completed, a description of which appeared in a former number of the Tribune. It is a large and commodious building, in the Romanesque style, standing to the east of the main campus, south of the conservatory of music. The neatness and compactness of the structure attract the eye of the visitor upon first entering the grounds. The building has been carefully modelled after the most improved scientific structures of Europe and will contain geological, chemical, botanical and zoological cabinets as well as a fine
• museum.
Work is also being actively pushed forward on the extension to the Church of the Sacred Heart. From present appearances the addition, with its beautiful side chapels, will be completed before winter sets in, and will enhance materially the beauty of Notre Dame.
More gifts have also been added to her treasures of art. Gregori the renowned Italian artist, who has brought fame to Notre Dame as a centre of art, never tires of adorning her walls with products of his genius, and the connoisseiir who attends the 41st Commencement will find new subjects for study and admiration.
GRAND ORATORICAL CONTEST.
The Commencement Exercises opened last Monday night in Washington Hall with the grand ’ Oratorical Contest, and exercises by the Euglossian Association. The hall was crowded with guests, a number of South Bend people being present. The programme was one of the most interesting ever given on a similar occasion in Washington Hall. The enthusiastic friends of the contestants for the Oratorical Medal made the hall resound with prolonged applause. Following was the programme;	'
Opening March........................N. D. U. C. B
Evening song (Anton Andre)........ ......'. Chorus Oration—“ National Greatness ”;.......;J. J. Conway
“ The Gladiator ’’—Personation.......... J. J. Monschein Song—“ Home! My Own Dear Mountain Home! ” , .
(C. Krebs.) Solo.;;  . W. Devine Oration—“ Oratory and Eloquence ”  .. D. C. 'Saviers Overture.........................      Orchestra
Recitation—“ The Sailor-Boy’s Dream ”..:  .J.,Garrity Prayer—“Moses in Egypt” (Rossini)—Song’ and
chorus, (Soli) W. Devine, E. Riley, Geo. O’Kane
Oration “ Patriotism ”..........T. F. Callaghan
Personation—“ The Spanish Duel”....F. H. Dexter
Oration—“ Progress of Our Age”.......D. Byrnes
Closing March.....................N.	D. U. C. B.
The judges selected to decide as to the merits of the orations and upon whom devolved the delicate task of bestowing the medal were Hon. John Gibbons, of Chicago; Hon. W. D. Johnston, of East Townsend, Ohio; ex-Mayor, L. G. Tong, and A. J. Egbert, prosecuting attorney, both of South Bend. At the close of Mr. Delano C. Saviers’ admirable oration upon “ Oratory and Eloquence” he was remembered with some handsome floral tributes, one being- a beautiful horseshoe made of roses and calla-lilies.
COMMENCEMENT.
The Class of ’85 of Notre Dame is exceedingly fortunate in having for Commencement week most delightful weather. It could not have been more favorable for the out-door sports and literary exercises than it was to-day.	r
There seems to be no diminution in the number of visitors from that of last year. On the contrary, it is thought by those who are in the habit of attending these Commencements that the crowd of visitors exceeds that of any previous year. At 8 o’clock this morning
SOLEMN HIGH MASS
was celebrated in the Church of the Sacred Heart, by Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, President of the University, celebrant; Rev. John Dinnen, deacon, Rev. N. Stoffel, subdeacon. An eloquent sermon . was delivered to the students by the Rev. D. J. Spillard. He paid a grand tribute to the history of Notre Dame and gave the students many beautiful precepts to take with them from their Alma Mater.
THE REGATTA.
Chief among the attractions of Commencement week at Notre Dame is the regatta on the beautiful lake in the rear of the main college building. It is not amiss to say that this part of college day exercises is uppermost in the minds of the major part of the students, who hail the advent of the contest with much delight. All year the bosom of the lake is disturbed every morning early by the steady dip of the oars in the hands of trained oarsmen, practising for the long-anticipated contest. A generous rivalry is developed between the crews which incites them to attain great expedi-, tion and skill in* this most exhilerating of all college sports. The young men become muscular and athletic and a strong hardihood is developed that restores the waste of mental application. Before 10.30 o’clock this (Tuesday) forenoon the banks around the lake which are beautifully shaded with trees, were crowded with spectators waiting for the contest. The crowd was much larger than it has ever been upon previous occasions of this kind. The weather could not have been more delightful for out-door sport, being neither oppressively hot nor too cool. Unfortunately, one of the crews had broken an oar early in the morning and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
685
did not feel as though they wanted to enter the contest in that crippled condition. A volunteer crew was accordingly improvised, made up of some of the old students of the University. The crews consisted of seven men each, including the coxswains, the regular crew wearing blue suits and the improvised crew red suits. The “Blues” were captained by Mr. McKinnery, with F. H. Dexter as coxswain, while the “ Reds ” were captained by Mr. Goulding, with E. A. Otis as coxswain. Tt was eleven o’clock before the crews made their appearance ready for the race. At the sound of “ go! ” there was a splash, and everybody rushed to the water’s edge. It was evident from the start that the “ Blues ” had the advantage for they were soon at length ahead, and when it came to the turn everybody cheered. On the return trip the “Reds” met with more bad luck and broke another oar, leaving the victory a very easy one for the “ Blues,” who were greeted with lusty cheers. The University Cornet Band then struck up a lively tune and the crowd repaired to the University.	'	.
THE ALUMNI MEETING.
At 11.30 a. m. the meeting of the alumni took place in one of the parlors of the University. It was attended by a large number of the graduates of other years, representing almost every profession, coming, many of them, from distant cities to visit again the halls and groves of their Alma Mater.
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on Hon. Benjamin J. Webb, of Louisville, Ky.
The Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on Martin J. Regan, of Notre Dame, Ind.; John J. Malloy, of Germantown, Ky.; Albert F. Zahm, of Huntington, Ind.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on Sydney J. Dickerson, Denver, Col.; George H. Smith, Reading, Pa.; Thos. Francis Clarke, Columbus, Ohio.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on John W. Guthrie, Carroll, Iowa; William H. Johnston, East Townsend, Ohio; James J. Conway, Ottawa, Ill.; Charles F. Porter and Henry P. Porter, Eau Claire, Wis.; Charles C. Kolars, New Prague, Minn.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on James J. Conway, Ottawa, Ill.; Thomas E. Callaghan, Cleveland, Ohio; John D. Willson, Mason City, Iowa; Henry A. Steis, Winamac, Ind.
A Medical Certificate was awarded to Frederick E. Burke, of Saybrook, Ohio.
COMMERCIAL DIPLOMAS.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to John D. Hamlyn, Butte City, Montana; Samuel P. O’Brien, South Bend, Ind.; Edward A. Howard,
South. Bend, Ind.; Edward J. Darragh, Minneapolis, Minn.; Philip C. Mullane, Alton Junction, Ill.; John W. Monschein, Elkhart, Ind.; George W. De Haven, Chicago, Ill.; Charles. F. Paschel, . Henry -J. Paschel, Council Bluffs, Iowa; William Noonanj Aledo, Ill.; William T. Berthelet, Milwaukee, Wis.; George W. Myers, Dubuque, Iowa; William C. Reynolds, Mesilia, New Mexico; Paul P. Johnson, Chicago, Ilk; John E. McCabe, South Bend, Ind.; Charles H. Spencer, Indianapolis, Ind.	. , .
Certificates for Telegraphy were given to William J. Wabraushek, Manistee, Mich.; Pedro Carbajal, Chihuahua, Mexico; Peter P. Prudhomme, Bermuda, La.; Matthew J. Clarke', Chicago, Ill.
CLASS MEDALS.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
The Class Gold Medals in the Collegiate Course were awarded to Joseph A. Ancheta, Mesilia, New Mexico; Frank J. Hagenbarth, Challis, Idaho; Hugo C. Rothert, Huntingburg,Ind.; John J. Kleiber, Brownsville, Texas.	0
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
The Commercial Gold Medal was awarded to Samuel P. O’Brien, South Bend, Ind.
[The Gold Medal for Penmanship in the Commercial Course was withheld for a time, for reasons satisfactory to the Faculty.] .
SPECIAL COURSES.	‘
The Dwenger Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to Joseph A. Ancheta, Mesilia, New Mexico.
The Sorin Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to John Conlon, Ashtabula, Ohio.	'
The ‘Corby Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to John Monschein, Elkhart Ind.
The Oechtering Gold Medal for Church History was awarded to Francis J. Hagenbarth Challis, Idaho.
The Gold Medal for Original Work in the Biological Laboratory (presented by Rev. J. A.. Werdein, Remington, Ind.) was awarded to William H. Johnston, East Townsend, Ohio. .	.
The Edwards Gold Medal for History was awarded to Francis H. Dexter, of Kansas City, Mo.'	-	.
The Gold Medal for German was awarded to Joseph Courtney, of Washington, D. C.
The Gold Medal for Vocal Music was awarded to William P. Devine, Chicago, Ill.
PRIZE MEDALS.
The Gold Medal for English EssayWriting (presented by Mr. John R. English; Columbus, Ohio) was awarded to William H. Johnston, of East Townsend, Ohio.
686
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Barry Gold Medal for Oratory (presented by Mr. P. T. Barry, of Englewood, Ill.) was awarded to Delano C. Saviers, of Columbus, Ohio.
The Regan Gold Medal (presented by Mrs. W. Regan, of Indianola, Texas, to the student of the Senior department whose record was the best for the Scholastic Year) was awarded to Joseph A. Ancheta, of Mesilia, New Mexico.
The Mason Gold Medal (presented by Mr. George Mason, of Chicago, Ill., to the student with the best record in the Junior department) was awarded to William C. Daly, of Lafayette, Ind.
The Kuhn Gold Medal of the Scientific Association (presented by Mr. F. E. Kuhn, ’83) was awarded to William H. Johnston, of East Townsend, Ohio.
MEDALS FOR ELOCUTION.
The Gold Medal for Excellence in Elocution (presented by Prof. J. A. Lyons) was awarded to Francis H. Dexter, of Kansas City, Mo.
The Senior Gold Medal for Progress in Elocution was awarded to Thomas F. Callaghan, of Cleveland, Ohio.
The Junior Gold Medal for Proficiency in Elocution was awarded to John Monschein, of Elkhart, Ind.
The Junior Gold Medal for Progress and Excellence in Elocution was awarded to Joseph A. Garrity, Chicago, Ill.
FIRST HONOR MEDALS.
[The “ First Honor ” is a Gold Medal, awarded to stu- -dents who have followed the courses of the University at least four sessions, and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to M. A Dolan, Charlotte, Iowa; A. A. Browne, Brownsville, Texas: I. C. Halligan, Union, Mo.; J. J. Kleiber, Brownsville, Texas; J. De Groot, Mishawaka, Ind.; C. F. Paschel and H. J. Paschel, Council Bluffs, Iowa; J. A. Ancheta, Mesilia, New Mexico; P. J. Howard, Pawnee, Ill.; P. J. Goulding, Chelsea, Mass.; Frederick J. Combe, Brownsville, Texas; James W. Breen, Loogootee, Ind.; Francis H. Dexter, Kansas City, Mo.; T. Becerra, Chihuahua, Mexico; L. J. Kavanagh, Des Moines, Iowa. ■
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	'
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded-to William A. Borgschulze, Hawesville, Ky.; William T. Berthelet, Milwaukee, Wis.; John R. Dorenburg, Chicago, Ill.; Michael B. Mulkern, Dubuque, Iowa; William J. Wabraushek, Manistee, Mich.; Mortimer E. O’Kane, Cincinnati, Ohio; Samuel P. O’Brien, South Bend, Ind.; William Charles Reynolds, Mesilla, N. M.; Frank J. Rogers, Des Moines, Iowa; Hervey H. Sedberry, Jefferson, Texas. ■ . . .	■
. MINIM DEPARTMENT.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to James A. McVeigh, Covington, Ky.; William
J. Henry, Dallas, Texas; Ivan Grunsfeld, Albuquerque, N. M.; Thomas E. McGuire, Elvira, Iowa; Leo W. Scherrer, Denver,Col.; Frederick W. Crotty, Rockford, Ill.; John W. Ernest, Deer Trail, Col.; William P. McPhee, Denver, Col.; John T. Kelly, Joliet, 111.	.
SECOND HONOR SILVER MEDALS.
[The “ Second Honor ” is a Silver Medal, awarded to those students who have followed the courses of the University at least four sessions, and whose deportment has given general satisfaction.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Second Honor Silver Medals were awarded to John C. Wagoner, Dennison, Iowa; John D. Willson, Mason City, Iowa.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Second Honor Silver Medals were awarded to George R. Cartier, Ludington, Mich; Samuel N. Holman, Nashville, Tenn.; Jacob Cleary, Covington, Ky.; Theodore P.Williamson, Kansas City; Richard G. Morrison, Clarksville, Texas; Philip S. Wagoner, Dennison, Iowa; Dominick C. Regan, Indianola, Texas; John Monschein, Elkhart; Joseph Baur, Manistee, Mich.; Augustus Meehan, Covington, Ky.; Frank Fehr, Louisville, Ky.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Second Honor Silver Medals were awarded to Simon Shoneman, Chicago; Edward M. Kelly, Joliet; Charlie T. Smith, South Bend; Francis B. Weston, Kansas City; Henry A. Morgan, Chicago; Cecil Quinlin, Chicago; William McGill, Chicago; Arthur D. Nester, Marquette Mich; Daniel Quill, Chicago; Fritz Kellner, Louisville; George A. Landenwich, Louisville; Irving L. Bunker, Kansas City.
SPECIAL MEDALS IN THE MINIM DEPARTMENT.
The Gold Medal of the Sorin Association was awarded to W. P. McPhee, Denver, Colorado.
The. Gold Medal for Elocution (presented by Very Rev. Edward Sorin, SuperiorGeneral, C. S. C.) was awarded to Edward F. Kelly, of Joliet, Ill.
The Meehan Gold Medal for Polite- . ness (presented by Mr. Robert Meehan) was awarded to Christopher Mooney, Chicago, Ill.
The Boland Gold Medal for Penmanship (presented by Rev. P. Boland, St. Paul, Minn.) was awarded to C. V- Inderrieden, Chicago, Ill. '
.Special prizes for improvement in Penmanship and Elocution were awarded to John Doss, of Trinidad, Colorado; Leo Scherrer, Denver, Col.; Elmo Berry, Montrose, Col.; Byron O’Kane, Cincinnati Ohio.
HONOR CERTIFICATES.
[Certificates are awarded to those students who have followed the courses of the University at least two sessions, and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.] ’	‘	.......
Y . SENIOR DEPARTMENT. . ■	‘
Felix Baca, Paul Chapin, John McMillian, R
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
687
S. McCartney, P. P. Prudhomme, W. A.Williams, Michael O. Burns, E. J. Crawford, Patrick Mc-.Guire, Vincente Padilla, H. C. Robert, T. J.
Sheridan, J. E. McCabe, John Conlon, Santiago Estrada, F. R. Meyer, John F. Troy.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Wm. Arts, W. R. Congdon, E. F. Dillon, J. H. Dempsey, J. T. Donnellan, W. C. Daly, E. J. Darragh, Thomas Flood, L. A. Grever, Arthur Hoye, J. M. Hibbeler, H. P. Kenney, G.AV. Myers, B. Macke, R. Oxnard, J. F. Portillo, Manual Real, Leon Rose, J. J. Remesh, H. H. Robinson, Charles J. Senn, Fred. C. Shaw, Minot Luther, C. E. Ruffiing, E. C. Prudhomme, L. Martinez, E. S. Ewing, F. D. Smith, F. C. Kegel.
' MINIM DEPARTMENT.
E. Berry, H. L. Perkins, H. S. Blakeslee, F. Cobbs, F. A. Piel, D. Sweet, J. Piero, J. Moncada, C. Mitchell, F. Murphy, F. Peck, J. A. Bull, J. Baker, A. Nussbaum, C. H. Mooney, J. McNulty, E. J. Doss, J. Peck, J. A. R. Hopkins, F. Dunford, J. Mitchell, L. R. Stone, L. S. Doss, T. P. Falvey, A. Williamson, E. L. Barger, E. B. Falvey, O. W. Haney, M. McCourt.
June Examinations.
[Ao Average under 60 is published.^ SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
L. Austin, 90; A. Ancheta, 100; F. Ashton, 72; A. Brown, 85; F. Baca, 95; J. Bates, 81; T. Becerra, 84; M. Burns, 88; D. Byrnes, 97; F. Brown, 74; J. Breen, 88; V. Burke, 92; G. Crilly, 70; Walt. Collins, 82; Wm. Collins, 82; P. Chapin, 90'; E. Crawford, 84; Jno. Creel, 86; F. Combe, 83; C. Combe, 80; P. Carbajal, 84; J. Cusack, 81; W. Cartier, 87; W. Coghlin, 98; W. Campbell, 83; Jno. De Groot, 88; F. Dexter, 99; P. Dwan, 85; G. De Haven, 87; C. Duffin, 80; F. Dory, 80; M. Dolan, 92; J. Flynn, 85; Jno. Fox, 90; P. Goulding, 88; A. A. Gordon, 82; E. Garcia, 80; R. Goodfellow, 76; A. Gordon, 83; H. Gould, 89; J. Horn, 85; Jno. Hamlyn, 94; j % W. Harless, 84; Jno. Halligan, 87; P. Howard, 83; E. Hotaling, 82; C. Hausberg, 87; G. Hasson, 80; F. Hutchison, 87; AV. Jess, 92; T. King, 92; , -Jno. Kleiber, 91; L. Kegel, 90; L. Kavanagh, |	94; T. Keys, 85; A. Livingston, 89; W. Loomis,
f	85; Jno. McCabe, 91; J. McMillan, 88; T. Mc-
;	Kinnery, 93; P. McGuire, 92; F. Meyer, 72; R;
|	McCartney, 83; A. McMurray, 88; A. Marion,
j	90; L. Mathers, 86; T. McGill, 83; S. Murdock,
j	92; A. Miller, 98; G. Morrison, 79; G. Meister,
|	84; W. Murphy, 84; Jno. Murphy, 80; A. Mc-
|	Nulty, 84; W. Noonan, 88; Jno. Nester, 86; J. V.
|	O’Donnell, 88; Geo. O’Kane, So; J. P. O’Donnell,
|	.80; W. O’Connell, 90; H. Paschel, 90; C. Pas-
| chel, 90; K. Perley, 80; W. Pattison, 80; V. I ' Padilla, 95; P. P. Prudhomme, 81; J. Prud-|	homme, 74; G. Powell, 84; H. Phillips, 81; H.
|	Price, 98; D. Quill, 76; H. Rothert, 98; O. Ryan,
H	83; J. D. Reach, 87; J. Rice, 80; E. J., Riley, 85;
| ■ b	■
it t
J. Rahilly, 83; Jno. Ruppe, 75; G. Roth, 78; J. Riley, 90; A. Smith, 77; T. Sheridan, 98; J. Shaffer, 85; M. Sykes, 79; D. Saviers, 85; G. Spangler,. 85; E. Schulze, 755 Snapp, 75; A. Triplett, 80; W. Tully, 92; Jno. Troy, 83; J. S. Troy, 86; W. Williams, So; G. Wagoner, 93; S. Wiley, 85; A. S. Williams, 81; M. White, 83; L. Woodbridge, 70; H. Werst, 89.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
D.	Ackerman, 71; H. Ackerman, 80; W. Arts, 84; A. Adams, 78; E. Amoretti, 90; T. Bastable, 84; W. Borgschulze, 88; E. Benner, 83; W. Ber-thelet, 95; H. Barke, 72; J. Baur, 79; F. Combe, 82; W. .Congdon, 91; M. Cummings, 87; M. Clarke, 79; M. Colina, 93; W. Chamberlain, 84; G. Cartier, St ; D. Cartier, 83; J. Crawford, 85; C. Cavaroc, 84; T. Cleary, 91; J. Courtney, 92; G. Cooper, 80; A. Cleveland, 88; L. Chute, 89; E. Dillon, 94; J. Dempsey, 80; J. Dorenburg, 88; J. Dougherty, 83; J. Donnellan, 85; M. Daly, 100; E. Darragh, 96; S. Day, 84; W. Devine, 86; L. De Haas, 84; L. Eppstein, 83; J. Emmons, 76; E. Ewing, 99; A. Finckh, 88; J. Fisher, 97; F. Fehr, 72; T. Flood, 90; R. Frain, 90; J. Grunsfeld, 83; L. Grever,S3; E. Grever, 7S; J. Garrity, 82; AV. Grimes, 81; A. Hoye, 85; AV. Hemis-baugh, 82; C. Harris, 92; E. Howard, 88; J. Hieronimus, 90; J. Hibbler, 93; S. Holman, 94; W. Houlihan, 85; F. Hagenbarth, 93; J. Hasson, 76; P. Johnson, 86; J. Kelly, 91; C. Kegel, 95; H. Kenny, 84; D. Klaner, 71; C. Klink, 77; M. Luther, 79; H. Long, 88; F. Long, 94; A. Loya, Si; R. Lewis, 78; P. Levin, 82; G. Martinez, 92; M. Mulkern, 97; A. Muessel, 90; AV. McCourt, 86; V. Morrison, 92; AV. Morrison, 92; B. Morrison, S3; R. Morrison, 94; J. Monschein, 92; G. Menig, 93; C. Mason, 91; G. Myers, 96; P. Mullane, 98; B. Macke, 90; A. Moody, 76; A. Meehan, 86; P. McGuire, 62; F. Nester, .'83; S. Nussbaum, 92; R. Oxnard, 93; S. O’Brien, 95; M. O’Kane, 91; AV. O’Connor, 89; J. Portillo, 79; E. Prudhomme, 86; E. Porter, 89; C. Regan, 75; M. Real, 93; L. Rose, 74; AV. Rattigan, 91; V. Rebori, 85; C. Ruffing, 91; J. Remish, 81; T. Reilly, 81; C. Reynolds, 95; F. Rogers, 89; H. Robinson, 89; G. Rietz, 90; A. Redlich, 775 C. Stubbs, 96; C. Senn, 87; C. Spencer, 89; J. Shields, 84; J. Sokup, 82; T. Soden, 82; C. H. Smith, 75; AV. Stange, So; E. Schmauss, 88; F. Shaw, 83; H. Sedberry, 81; P. Servis, 78; L. Shbneman, 81; D. Tewksbury, 86; AV. Thompson, 75; J- Talbot, 91; G. Tarrant, 88; F. Thurston, 82; W. Wabraushek, 96; P. AVagoner, 84; H. Warner, 83; T. Williamson, So; G. Wieting, 78; C. AVest, 94; E. Zollars, 87.
:	MINIM DEPARTMENT. .
E.	Adams, 84; AV. Ackerman, 75; J. Boos, 85; I. Bunker, 99; E. Berry, 89; H. Blakeslee, 85; E. Barger, 82; J. Baker, 92; A. Bloomingston, 90; J. Bull, 85; F. Crotty, 98; C. Campau, 80; H. Carnahan, 70; F. Cobbs, 98; F. Chute, 78; J. Doss, 84; E. Doss, 98; L. Doss, 87; J. Ernest, 94; T. Falvey, 90; F. Falvey, 86; E. Falvey, 80; F. Garrity, 90; F. Garber, So; R. Graham, 76;
688	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
A. Grimes, 75; I. Grunsfeld, 90: O. Haney, 70; J. Healy, 70; W. Henry, 99; J. Hopkins, 80; C. Inderrieden, 89; R. Inderrieden, 82; S. Jones, 90; J. Kelly, 80; E. Kelly, 96; F. Kellner, 82; G. Landen wich, So; W. McPhee,-99; A. McVeigh, 96; H. Morgan, 82; W. McGill, 89; J. Mitchell, 84; C. Mitchell, 90; C. McNally, So; J. Moncada, 79; W. McCourt, 82; W. Millard, 70; A. Mason, 70; F. Murphy, 90; F. Mainzer, 70; J. McNulty, 89; T. McGuire, 90; C. Mooney, 90; A. Nussbaum, 95; F. Noonan, 82; A. Nester, 92; B. O’Kane, 96; F. Peck, 86; J. Peck, 90; F. Piel, 85; J. Piero, 90; S. Paul, So; H. Perkins, 90; D. Quill, 92; C. Quinlin, 84; F. Rugee, So; C. Ramsay, 84; F. Salman, 95; D. Sweet, 84; S. Stone, 89; C. Smith, 90; L. Scherrer, 99; S. Shoene-man, 90; L. Tracy, 84; F. Weston, So; A. Williamson, 82.
The Union of “ Our Lady of G-ood Counsel.”
The Almighty God in His infinite mercy has deigned to enrich the town of Genazzano with a beautiful image of the most holy Virgin and Child, known by the title of “ Mother of Good Counsel,” and which, by the ministry of angels, on the 25th of April, 1467, was translated from the city of Scutari, in Albany, before it was subjugated by the Turks.
The image is venerated in Genazzano, in the church of the Augustinian Fathers; where, through the intercession of the most holy Virgin, many and signal favors, both spiritual and temporal, have been conferred by the Divine Goodness on the faithful who visit this holy shrine.
Pope Benedict XIV, of blessed memory, in his Apostolic letters, bearing the date of July 2, 1753, gave his formal approbation to the “ Pious Union,” previously established in the Augustinian Church, Genazzano, in accordance with the earnest desires of the faithful, and became, moreover, a member of it himself, as can be seen from the registers. He also granted to it several perpetual Indulgences, which were afterwards increased by Popes Pius VIII and IX; the latter of whom, always tenderly devout to the most holy Virgin of Good Counsel, made a pilgrimage to her shrine in Genazzano, and on the 25th of April 1872, desired to be enrolled a member of the “ Pious Union.” Finally, his Holiness Leo XIII, following the example of his [	lamented predecessor, the great Pius IX, desired
;	that his august name be enrolled in the Pious Un; .	ion. Let the devotion of the Supreme Pontiffs be
J	to the faithful an example and incentive.
f	This Pious Union is now canonically erected at
t - Notre Dame, Indiana, under the direction of Very I	Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., who, by the faculties reI	ceived from the Very Rev. Superior-General of
I	the Augustinian Order, has power to affiliate to the
I	Union, and to a participation in all its spiritual adI	vantages, applicants from all parts of the United
|	States. Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., is Assistant-
|	. Director.
!. A beautiful Chapel of the Union is now in process of building at Notre Dame.
(The following are among the Graduating Essays read at the Thirtieth Annual Commencement of St. Mary's Academy.)
Memories of Alma Mater.
As the hour draws near when the ties that bind us to Alma Mater must be severed, and the scenes so cherished must be shut away from our material vision, the past arises the more vividly before the eye of the mind. As the miser counts his gold, or as the artist treasures the masterpieces of the old painters, so do we recount and dwell upon the beloved associations, the familiar haunts and the tender memories that shall cling about our lives and give the deep coloring to our future existence. Not because we have here solved in some small measure the problems of scientific lore; have discovered in the landmarks of history those clear indications of an overruling Providence disclosed in the rise, advance and overthrow of nations; not because we have found that virtues in the commonwealth, like virtues in the family circle, arc rewarded: and that infidelity in nations, like skepticism in the individual, is signally punished; not that we have investigated the science of logic, the wonders of the floral world, and the alluring beauties of astronomical research;—not alone because the sphere of our mental vision has been expanded, are the associations of our school-life dear to us, but rather that we have, whilst securing all these, acquired that which is of far more importance—the discipline of the mind, the habits of thought, and the keen love of truth, which can alone obtain the happiness for which we have been created.
We have walked on hallowed ground. The King of kings Himself has deigned to constitute the Magnet that has drawn us to this place. Beneath the roof where, under His sacramental veils, He has chosen to take up His abode, we have listened, and studied, and wondered, as children under the eye of a loving supervision attend the authoritative voice of a father. Just as the flowers sleep beneath the stars, their calm eyelids closed with the pure seal of the dew-drops, so have we, the favored, grace-surrounded pupils of St. Mary’s, reposed at nightfall under the shadow of the sanctuary.
No wonder our Immaculate Patroness rejoices to give us every possible proof that she feels the love we bear her. Our borders are surrounded with the tokens of her protection. Even the waters that enfold the grounds in their gladsome embrace are dedicated to St. Joseph; and whichever way we turn, the eye reposes upon some shrine or rural nook sacred to her, whose title, borne on the fame of Alma Mater^ is a loved talisman to countless hearts in many lands. In Memory’s ertchanted realm, beneath the shadow of Mater Admirabilis, Our Lady of Mt. Carmel, Our Lady of the Rosary, and the Chapel of Loreto, our pilgrim feet shall often return and linger near those sacred shrines, our souls there enfolded in the tender recollections whose bright links, to-day, glide into the mysterious past.
. Mortal wisdom may not forsee the changing
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
phases of the future; but when aspirations worthy and true shall kindle on the altar of our hearts, and shall warm the soul into the heroism of noble deeds—in the stirring battle-cry of upright life by which the voice of delusive pleasure shall be drowned we shall recognize, like the pure strains of an ./Eolian harp, the penetrating keynote of our school life, under the protecting wing of -faith-enamored Science.
In our earthly career, whether in the sunshine of prosperity, or in the darkness of adversity; whether borne on the triumphant wings of success, or wearily treading the thorny way of obstacles and defeat, the rainbow of promise on the cloud of our gloom shall be the reminiscences of this beloved place, where, above all other sciences, that of Heaven has been enthroned, and which, by teaching us all how to accept prosperity with humble heart, has also imparted to us the secret of making even trials and misfortunes beautiful.
The physician when about to enter upon his noble charge, the law-student when admitted to the bar, the collegiate upon receiving his diploma: each presents his carefully-prepared thesis on some vital subject connected with his professional studies. Graduating from a Christian institution, what loftier theme could be found whereby to represent our most important acquisitions in the preparation for our future career than the memories of the place to which we owe, not only the cultivation of the intellect, but the higher culture of the immortal soul?	Sarah Dunne.
The Fleeting1 and the Enduring.
How vividly the light of dawn kindles the I	world into beauty! Forest, mountain, vale and
•	plain glow like some scene of Arabian enchant-
ment. How joyously the human heart responds ■	to the loveliness of the landscape! An hour passes,
j	How changed is the view before us! The brill:	iant face of nature is shrouded in the blackness of
.	darkness. A threatening tempest hovers over the
:	mountain: anon the storm breaks in its fierce
strength. The monarchs of the forest are swept to the earth; devastation reigns where an hour 1	before glowed that scene of marvellous beauty.
How fairly is represented in these changes the i	course of our mortal existence! Youth and beauty,
talent, power, wealth, and human worth delight us to-day, and to-morrow they are not. The highest hopes may be wrecked in a moment, for change is the law of earth, and its most steadfast treasures are not to be relied upon:
“ Not enjoyment and not sorrow Is our destined end and way, But to act that each to-morrow 1.	Finds us farther than to-day,”
; farther on the straight and narrow pathway to the •	enduring.
;	The flower so fair to behold, the voices so
;	charming to the ear, the odors of spring so delight-
j	ful to the senses, agreeable as they are, still are as
evanescent as the soft breezes which unfold the radiant buds, and that bear the sweet sounds of music, and the delicious fragrance of fruit and blossom upon their viewless wings. But though the senses command a fairy world of their own, sad, indeed, would be our earthly lot were there nothing above and beyond the pleasures which they afford. The pursuits of science—had they no other claim to our regard—draw our aspirations to the contemplation of that which is worthy of the immortal soul, to the exalted, to the enduring.
In the study of Geology, for example, though so ambiguous and hypothetical, are the conclusions arrived at, yet the attentive mind finds therein abundant food for useful reflection. There is a dim, though real, foreshadowing of eternity in the periods, eras, and ages that anti-date the known history of the world. In mathematics, the fixed principles, the invariable rules, the axiomatic solutions are, to our startled consciousness, but so many reflections of the Immutable. The same may be said of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and, perhaps, far more forcibly of Mental Philosophy, which leads our timid, reverent steps up to the threshold of the mystic sanctuary of the soul. Art, in its creative power, its penetration into the hidden recesses of expression—its interpretation of the language of form and color, of light and shade, of real and perspective—fascinates and enraptures the intellect, and this power becomes to the soul a prophesy of the marvellous beauty of the City of God. The science of Harmony is but the distant ravishing echo of the angelic choirs of Cherubim and Seraphim; it is but the reverberation, the faint though alluring reflection of that rhythmic “ order, which is Heaven’s first law.”
It seems strange, when we view the satisfaction received from our natural powers in the above light, that there could be any danger of mistaking the fleeting for the enduring, or the enduring for the fleeting, and yet nothing is more common. We seem born to misapprehensions and dissatisfaction. This insecurity, however, is no more than could be expected of human frailty. Our tastes, our enjoyments, even our affections are varying as the tides of ocean. We cannot deny this to be the fruit of our wayward, capricious nature; but Pope has wisely said:
“Man, know thyself; presume not God to scan, The proper study of mankind is man.”
Self-knowledge, we find, is the antidote to our fickle inclinations. The senses must be subject to the superior powers of our being in all the vicissitudes of our earthly career, then the frail barque of our happiness will be firmly and safely anchored in the enduring. Disappointments will not then bring tears to our eyes or sadness to our hearts, but, grounded in that humility which gives us a true valuation of what in the providence of God is fleeting, is changing, we shall learn to accept with loving submission whatever may be sent to us by the impenetrable, but ever just, will of the Unchangeable and the True.
Hepsey Ramsey.

690
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, July 1. 1885.
' The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DaSiE SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Eighteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate ior the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, '	Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Forty First Annual Comm en cement.
The story of our Commencement exercises is told so well in the press reports, which will be found reprinted elsewhere in this paper, that any detailed description from us is unnecessary. Everything passed off as pleasantly and as successfully as could be desired. Nature herself contributed to the general joyousness of the occasion by the mildness of the weather which favored us during those three days. The number of visitors was unprecedentedly large—which is saying much in view of the fact that each annual Commencement for years has brought throngs of friends to Notre Dame.
One disappointment there was in the absence of Maj. Gen. Rosecrans who had been engaged as the Orator of the Day, but who had been obliged to cancel his engagement, owing to the imperative and urgent duties of the new office to which he has been appointed. However, the interesting and varied character of the exercises, together with the spirited alumni oration did much towards making all forget what disappointment may have been caused by the failure of the prominent orator.
• The “ old boys ” turned out in good numbers, so that the alumni meeting was made unusually interesting and a new impetus given to the association - which promises to make this annual reunion more than ever the great feature of future Commencements. No especial business of public interest was transacted. ? The selections of Mr. O. T. Chamberlain as Orator and Mr. Maui ice F. Egan as Poet for the next Commencement are particularly commendable. The Banquet was a decided success____ the menu was choice and elaborate—and the after
dinner, speeches in response to the toasts, displayed the sound knowledge and wit of the alumni and o
several of their invited guests.
* •
* * * •
The “ Oratorical Contest,” instead of being kept in the back-ground, as heretofore, was made a leading feature of this Commencement, and the universal interest which it excited is in itself a sufficient approval of the wisdom of the change. Although there were but few contestants this year, yet it is expected that the prominence now given to the “ Contest ” and the marked appreciation of the efforts of the speakers shown by the public, as well as the great benefit resulting to the participants— not to speak of the grand prize, “ the reward of merit”—will have the effect of encouraging many to take part in future contests.
Our musical organizations appeared “ at their best,” and merit no little praise. The Orpheonic Association must first be mentioned, because furnishing one of the features of the exercises. The Cantata—“Memories of Notre Dame”—though occupying more than 30 minutes in its rendition, was well enjoyed by the vast audience that filled every available spot in Washington Hall. There were defects, it is true, but the general merit of the various numbers of the piece—choruses, solos, duetts, trios and quartettes—was such as to compensate for any youthful mistake, and at the same time show the results of skilful training.
The Orchestra and the Band wherever they played, called forth enthusiastic applause from the delighted audience. It was, however, regretted that neither contributed to the pleasure of the exercises of the last day. During the past few years, through some fault or other, but a remnant of these organizations have appeared at the closing exercises, and this year there was a total dissolution. Finis coronat opus is a motto we would suggest to the Band and Orchestra of next year. .
The exercises of the last day (Wednesday) included the reading of the Class Poem by William H. Johnston, and delivery of the Valedictory by Sydney J. Dickerson, both of the Class of ’85. The Poem appeared in the last number of the Scholastic, and the Valedictory is published in this; both productions were presented in a manner to impress the audience, while showing fourth the qualities of the minds and hearts of the speakers.
The.distribution of .Premiums, Honors, Degrees, etc., was presided over by the Very Rev. Father General Sorin, the venerable Founder of Notre Dame, whose imposing presence and the grace and dignity with which he occupied the position, gave a new charm and impressiveness to the occasion.
* * .
Among the degrees conferred on this occasion, that of Doctor of Laws is particularly worthy of note. The recipient of this highest honor in the power of the University to confer was the Hon. Benjamin J. Webb, of Louisville, Ky. The services which Mr. Webb has rendered the cause of religion and literature in the State of Kentucky, while entitling him to this degree, have made him.
x THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
one whom any institution of learning would be proud to honor. He is well known in the world of letters through his “ Centenary of Catholicity in Kentucky ” and other products of his pen, but his noblest claim to undying fame is his distinguished position as the champion of Freedom of Worship in his native State. The U niversity has honored itself in thus honoring so disinterested and fearless a de-fender of religious liberty and such a bright ornament to literature.
*
What we have written is but a bare outline of the proceedings of Commencement time. That the defects we have noted, however much they may need correction, were not so great as to mar the general pleasure of the occasion will be readily seen from the various press reports scattered through this number.
Each Annual Commencement gives ample evidence of the progress made by our Alma. Mater, as, year after year, she steadily pursues her exalted mission in the cause of religion and science. This year, more than ever, have these evidences been multiplied under the wise administration of Rev. President Walsh,-whose direction of the University, as it has been productive of such good results in the past, gives the brightest promise of yet more glorious results in the future.
* * *
In conclusion, let the old college paper say a word for itself. The Scholastic—by whatever hands it may be directed—is always the journal of dear old Notre Dame, and as such ever commends itself to all who love our Alma Mater, and rejoice to hear of. her progress. The old students can give no better evidence of the fond recollections retained of their guide and director in the pathway of knowledge than the support which they give their college paper and the good word seasonably spoken in praise of Notre Dame.
We thank all who have in any way assisted us during the year just gone by. To them, and to all our readers, with our best wishes for long, happy and useful lives, we now say
Good-Bye!
“Homeward Bound” to the Rockies.
Denver, June 37th.
Dear Scholastic:
The picnic began at the foot of the stairs in front of the dear old University building, and the bitter-sweetness .of that moment is perpetuated by the aid of instantaneous photography. Familiar forms in cassock and beretta waving us benedictions; the friends who clustered about us as the caravan set forth for the station at South Bend; the caravan itself, with banners waving, and the Minims, Juniors and Seniors, full of bright antici-, pations—that was the glad and the sad beginning of the summer vacation of ’85.
The enterprising photographer caught us again, on the fly,” just as the special train was leaving
the depot when the air was-ringing with “good byes.” After that there was nothing but mutual congratulations, flirtations and fumigations, with a dash of pond-lilies, that found their way into the laps of the ladies and the lappels of the blooming graduates, o
It were vain to tell how many promises were made before we broke up and scattered at Chicago. Of course, everybody was to go and spend happy seasons with everybody else, and to write meanwhile without fail. Then we good-byed again, and were ingeniously switched across the city to the C. B. & Q. depot, where everything was in readiness, and when the final moment came,.^^, we went out of the station, aiming straight for the bulls-eye of the Far West—Denver!
We soon discovered the advantages of the special car system. Everywhere the R.R. agents made their appearance, greeted us politely, .were closeted with Father Zahm for a few moments, took a bite with us—for they went down the.road a few miles in most cases—and then bade us farewell with a flattering figure of speech which is-infi-nitely preferable to the traditional “tickets,please.” We were all at home, on wheels, and with almost unlimited freedom. At convenient intervals our cozy little tables were actually laden with delicacies, to say nothing of . the substantial character of some of the daily courses. No stranger presumed to enter our cars. At the stations all along the way we were evidently objects of interest, and the omnipresent reporter nibbled as nimbly as the fish you the least care for are always sure to do.
There was such a making up of beds when the cars turned, as if by magic, into -wee dormitories and the boys paired off two and two above, below, in all the corners of our flying university^ and made a night of it without fear of notes or detentions.
It would be hard to say which we found the more diverting, the long, long landscape that divided as we passed through it and closed up after us; the green, rolling prairies; the hot desolation of the plains; the delicious temperature of the highlands as we approached the “Rockies” and had our first glimpse of Pike’s Peak in its mantle of snow; the muddy rivers along whose shores we glided swiftly hour after hour; the Mississippi by moon-light; the Missouri at Kansas City where Dexter and others left us—reluctantly, I trust,—and where Finlay was waiting to give us welcome; (wonder why Dick Reach was not on hand likewise?) or the very jolly time we had together, living on the fat of the land even when we were skiving through the leanest counties in the country.
We were quite luxurious as to hours and breakfast and dinner courses, and though there were some of the youngsters who ate like men and were evidently “ repeaters,” it is none the less true that frosted cake and oranges were left untouched upon the table after the multitude had been fed. Perhaps the pineapples and bananas and the open barrel of strawberries, that were within the reach of all at any hour, may account for the phenomenon.
692	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
At La Junta, we said “ good bye ” to Ancheta, and the boys from the South; it was like the second closing of a scholastic year to see them leave the station by another train than ours; but we did not disband until we came to Denver—and here we are at last.
There had been no cloud to shadow us for three charming days. Certainly, there was a kind of infantile cyclone away out on the plains, that is memorable for its magnificent atmospheric effects, and the rapidity with which we shut down the windows to keep from being inflated baloon-fashion; and there was a brisk hail-storm at the gate of the “Rockies,” but, as Father Zahm remarked, “it was only Pike’s Peak saluting us” and it delighted Signor Gregori, who was as happy as a child over the brief bombardment.
The ladies of the party were one with us, and were, ready to soothe the boy who could not eat . enough, and the Minim who dove out of a top berth in a moment of rapture; and relished the the guitar fandango-music of the Delmonico cook and the harmonicum solos of his assistant as much as the rest of us; nor did they frown at the vocal explosions that occasionally emphasized the juvenile gatherings in the smoking rooms. Thanks be theirs, and may our next excursion party boast of as elegant a syndicate, for it was undoubtedly a complete and unqualified success.
Now that it is all over—it came to a highly dramatic end; while some of the boys were doing a scene from the “ Heir-at-Law,” a proud parent entered unexpectedly, and, capturing the chief performer, precipitated the climax, for already the domes of Denver* were looming in the distance— now that it is all over, I, for one, feel as if I were lost. No more exclusive cars fragrant with the memories of Notre Dame; no more through trips without change; no more cooing Minims to be amused by the Juniors and chaperoned bjrthe Seniors; no more sitting up at all hours and doing just as one pleases, as if life were a perpetual “rec,” shifted from land to land and almost from sea to sea for the greater diversion of the students of Notre Dame! Nothing now but the bricks and mortar of the breezy burgh, and these hasty lines from your fond	Scribe.
Personal.
—Benjamin L. Euans, ’76, is a prominent physician in Chicago.
—Hon. John M. Gearin,’69, is a leading lawyer at Portland, Oregon.
—Prof. Stace has gone on a tour of inspection through the Northwestern States.
—J. J. Fitzgibbon, of ’60,,is prospering in business in Chicago. He promises to send a student to Notre Dame, who will make Greek a specialty.
—Rev. Dennis A. Tighe, ’70, Rector of the Church of the Holy Angels, Chicago, was among the old students who revisited Alina Mater to attend the Commencement exercises.
—The number of visitors, clerical and lay, at the Commencement exercises was unusually large. Our list is far from being as complete as might be expected, owing to the forgetfulness of the one appointed to attend to this column.
—Rev. D. A. Clarke, ’70, Editor of the Catholic Columbian, was a welcome visitor attending *	__ o
the Commencement exercises. He left on Thursday with the Colorado delegation and will spend a few weeks’ vacation amid the Rocky Mountain wilds. We trust his ti’ip will result in renewed health and vigor with which to continue his good work.
—John Kauffman, Jr. (Com’l) ’71, is foreman of his father’s extensive business in Cincinnati. Mr. Kauffman has this year shown a priaseworthy spirit by donating a gold medal for music at St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati,—a pretty good proof, if any were needed, that Mr. Kauffman appreciates the value of such incentives to industry and an honorable record at his Alma Mater.
—Among the numerous visitors in attendance at the Commencement exercises we have ascertained the names of the following: Rev. John R. Dinnen, ’65, Crawfordsville, Ind.; Rev. Dennis A. Tighe, ’70, Chicago, Ill.; Rev. D. Duehmig, Avilla, Ind.; Rev. A. B. Oechtering, Mishawaka, Ind.; Rev. W. Kroeger, Elkhart, Ind.; Rev. P. J. Boland, Minneapolis, Minn.; Rev. D. A.. Clarke, ’70, Catholic Columbian, Columbus, Ohio; Wm. H. Harper, of the Inter Ocean, Chicago; W. P. Rand, Detroit, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. Breen, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; F. H. Grever, Cincinnati; Mrs. Wm. M. Devine and Mrs. W. B. Smith, Chicago; G. E. Clarke, South Bend; Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Wile, the Misses Rosa and Sarah Wile, Laporte, Ind.; John G. Ewing, Columbus, Ohio; Mrs. Eugene Gilbert, Dowagiac, Mich.; Mrs. Mary Conlin, Ashtabula, Ohio; M. L. Wilkinson, Butler, Ind.; J. R. Lambin, Daniel Scully and Sarah A. Scully, Chicago; A. Springsteen, Detroit; W. T. Halley, Chicago; Miss Kate Dewey, New York; Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Sixbey, Mishawaka, Ind.; Mrs. James Murdock, Michigan City, Ind.; P. E. Warren, Chicago; E. T. Harris, Auburn, Ill.; John N. Breen, and Miss Anna Breen, Loogootee, Ind.; Mrs. A. Paschel, Council Bluffs, Iowa; J. W. Soden, Kansas City, Mo.; Dr. and Miss L. Hutchinson, Chicago; J. W. Ryan, Galena, Ill.; Miss May Graffe and Miss Emma Arentz, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; Miss Maggie Menig, Danville, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. W. D. Johnston, Mrs. Maria Humphrey, East Townsend, Ohio; Mrs. Marietta Pierce, Wakeman, Ohio; Hon. P. T. Barry, Simon Quinlan, Chicago; W. Weston, Kansas City,‘ Mo.; Joseph A. Kelly, Joliet, Ill.; P. P. McVeigh, Mr. and Mrs. Judge Cleary, Judge O’Hara, Covington, Ky.; Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Burke, Miss Helen Burke, Saybrook, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. J. Callaghan, J. E. Farrell, Cleveland, Ohio; Mrs. W. A. Bunker, Kansas City, Mo.; Mrs. H. H. Kenyon, Buchanan, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Zollars, Ottumwa, Iowa; John Kenny, Sr., and John Kenny, Jr., Ligonier, Ind.; E. Malloy,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	693
of the Herald Chronicle, Laporte, Ind.; Charles S. Warner and Roy A. Stephens, Chicago; John Sturry, Louisville, Ky.; D. T. Crilly, Miss Minnie and Master Frank Crilly, Chicago; George W. Saviers, Columbus,- Ohio; Alexander Bordon, Elkhart, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. T. W. Brophy, Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Wabraushek, Manistee, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. Thos. McGill, Miss Emma McGill, Chicago; L. and S. B. Nussbaum, Plymouth, Ind.; Miss McBokum, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mrs. Mary A. Hofferbert, Greenville, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. McMichael, Mishawaka, Ind.; Miss Ida Story, Hicksville, Ohio; Mrs. English, John R. English, Columbus, Ohio; P. D. Galarneau, Lima, Ohio; John J. McCabe, and Thomas Kiltegan, Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. P. J. Horn, Valparaiso, Ind.; Mr. George Mason, Miss Carrie Dougherty, Chicago; H. W. Hibbard, St. Louis, Mo.; W. R. Elliott, J. N. Longworthy, Terre Haute, Ind.; Mrs. H. Sweet, the Misses A. and K. Rosing, Mrs. J. Mooney, Chicago; Mr. J. McEniry, Columbus, Ohio; W. D. Keetz, Lancaster, Ohio; W. H. Welch, Des Moines, Iowa; Mrs. M. Schillo, Mrs. M. Senn, Mrs. G. Schillo, Mr. C. C. Connolly, Chicago; E. T. Hotaling, Muskegon, Mich.; A. Bruhn, Texarkana, Texas; Ida C. and Eber L. Merril], C. L. Irish, Mishawaka, Ind.; J. D. Crafts, South Bend; C. J. Senn, Chicago; Miss Katie Keyser, Philadelphia; Miss Cora Wood, Niles, Mich.; Mrs. Endlich, Mishawaka, Ind.; the Misses May and Alice Chirhart, Clay Township; Miss Clem. Meyer, Canton, Ohio; W. C. Roher, Mrs. E. T. Quinlan, Sarah Gleeson, Miss May Quinlan, Mr. A. Murphy, Mr. and Mrs. H. Lewis, Chicago; E. O. Horn, Columbus, Ohio; Mr. M. J. Cooney and Master J. J. Cooney, Toledo, Ohio; W. W. Spillard and sister, Elgin, . Ill.; Miss Grace Regan, Indianola, Texas; Miss Maggie O’Gara, Lafayette, Ind.; Mr. Joseph and Miss Constance Oddon, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; Wm.J. Mugg, Lafayette, Ind.; John McDonnell, Des Moines, Iowa; Mrs. Adam Long, Miss Etta Dexter, Miss Gertie Hyer, Kansas City, Mo.; the Misses M. and A. Gavan, Lafayette, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. P. O’Brien, Mr. and Mrs. S. Byerly, Mr. and Mrs. L. G. Long, Prof, and Mrs. T. E. Howard, T. A. De Weese, of the Tribune, South Bend.
Local Items.
—Good-bye!
—Everything seems deserted now.
—Forty-seven of us remain for the summer.
—Classes will be re-opened on Tuesday, September 8.
. —Lots of happy “prize-boys” went home with rejoicing hearts.
—The Sorins had a grand display of badges on Commencement Day.
—The 7th edition of Prof. Lyons’ “New American Elocutionist” is now ready.
—The boys are organizing a Band, to while away pleasantly the vacation hours. -
—Students returning to Notre Dame and desiring special rates should notify Prof. Lyons before Aug. 20.
—La boucherie has been temporarily transferred to the lower apartments of Science Hall. No vivisection allowed!	-
—-The system adopted in regard to the liveries during Commencement time worked to perfection, and gave universal satisfaction. ’ o
—The handsome gold medal for athletic sports won by T. J. McKinnery was presented by Mr. W. P. Breen, ’77, of Ft. Wayne, Ind.
—The members of the Junior Social Club at their last meeting voted a handsome amethyst ring to Master Joseph Courtney, of Washington, D. C.
—The retreat for the Community will open next Sunday evening, the 5th inst. The sermons will be preached by the Rev. A. Stuhl, C. SS. R., of Quebec.	.
—Prof. Ackerman has the thanks of the “Princes” for the tasteful, elegant work he has done on a niche for the statue of the Sacred Heart, in St. Edward’s Hall.
—It is estimated that there wen! thirty .or forty general or travelling passenger agents striving for o	o it o o	o
the Notre Dame and St. Mary’s travelling patronage.—South Bend Times.
—The work of improvement still goes on. The unsightly old sheds back of the steam-house in the rear of the College have been thrown down and will be replaced by brick structures.
—The twelve Minims who are spending the vacation here have class for two hours in the forenoon; the rest of the day is very pleasantly spent under the kind care of their Prefect, Bro. Cajetan.
—Two copies of the eighteenth volume of Dr. Brownson’s Works have been placed in the Library. No library in the United States is worthy of the name unless these valuable works are to be found on its shelves.
—Portraits of Rt. Rev. Bishop Marty, Vicar-Apostolic of Dakota, Rt. Rev. Bishop Chanche, first Bishop of Natchez, Rt. Rev. Bishops Connelly. and Concanen, of New York, have been placed in the Bishops’ Gallery.
—Brother Laborius has just finished several fine large cases for the Historical Department. Many interesting souvenirs of the missionaries and deceased prelates have been placed in them, and others will be added within a few days.
—Seventeen old paintings on canvas and panels are now to be seen in one of the cases in the western section of the Lemonnier Library. They -were brought from an old convent in Rome, and although greatly damaged by age, they still retain much of their former beauty. .
—Commencement week is always a busy week for Prof. Lyons, who is a most indefatigable worker’ for the success and the honor of Notre Dame. He is generally conceded tb be the busiest man about the College, and comes as near'being in • all places at the same time as it is possible.—Tribune.
694
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Signor Gregori lately gave Professor Edwards two valuable paintings on panels. Both pictures represent the Nativity, one was painted about the year 1400 before painting in oil came in vogue. The other was executed about the year 1500. Both pictures are specimens of the work done in those early days.
—The remarkable growth and improvement about Notre Dame University, even within the past year, says the South Bend Tinies was a matter of very general remark by all of this year’s visitors. Its progress is truly wonderful, the Notre Dame of the time before ’79’s great fire being a pigmy compared to-the institution of the present.
—Mr. Crescendo Arce, of Zacatecas, Mexico, a student in the Senior department, took excellent photographic pictures of some of the athletic groups of his fellows-students. Mr. Arce, although only an amateur, has shown a good deal of artistic skill in the use of his photographic apparatus during the past few months. Some of his pictures would do no discredit to a professional photographer.
—Very Rev. Father General has the deepest acknowledgments of the inmates of the “ palace ” for a very beautiful picture of Our Lady of Gen-azzano, which he brought them from Rome at his last visit. The picture has touched the miraculous image of Genazzano and this, with the fact that it comes from Very Rev. Father General, makes it a treasured souvenir, one deserving of a place of honor in St. Edward’s beautiful Hall.
—Among the resolutions passed at the convention of the Northern Indiana Editorial Association recently held in the city of South Bend, were the following:
Resolved, That we will never forget the handsome reception given us at Notre Dame University, by President Walsh and his Faculty. It will always be a bright spot in our memory.
Resolved, That our thanks are due Prof. W. J. Hoynes, A. M., of Notre Dame University, for his able address.
—A special train, leaving South Bend a few minutes after 4, bearing students and friends from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, arrived in Chicago at 6.45 Wednesday evening. The run was made in a little over two and a half hours. On the way resolutions were adopted thanking. W. P. Johnson, general passenger agent of the -Lake Shore, who secured the train, and the officials of the train and road in general, for the privilege of the train and the rapid'time in transit.—Inter Ocean (Chicago).
—“ A conspicuous figure about the College buildings ” said the South Bend Tribune, “ during the Commencement week is that of the much beloved President of the University, Rev. Father Thos. E. Walsh. He spares.no pains to make the College an attractive place for the students as well as a welcome home for every alumnus. It is his constant care to inculcate in the minds of the students a love for the institution and the precepts taught, that will make their lives redound to the glory and honor of .Notre Dame. Every student who leaves for home, either to stay or to return, goes with a
profound veneration for the wisdom and the good counsel of President Walsh.”
—This has been a gala week at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. Nature, at both places, was decked with her loveliest raiment, and human nature appeared in all the sparkling exhilaration of youth and beauty, to which were added the genius of artist and sculptor and the piety and learning which have rendered those institutions famous, not only throughout this fair land, but even beyond the seas. Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, like old wine, improve with age. Time, the great destroyer, makes visible none of his ravages there, but all is new and fresh and inspiring. The same river and lakes that the red man once bathed in are there, but they seem as of to-day rather than yesterday. Each year these grand institutions renew their youth, and though the inexorable changes of time take place, they are unnoticed, save here and there a gray head and bowed form, amid the universal spirit of improvement that pervades everything. We are inclined to believe that here may be found a veritable fountain of youth.—Laporte Herald- Chronicle.
—The Commencement season at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s never recurred under more auspicious conditions of weather, of attendance and of interest, and this covers forty-one years for the University, and thirty for the Academy. A statement so sweeping in its scope could not be safely made were the warrant not apparent to all in the troops of visitors from home and abroad, in the excellence of the Commencement work, and in the blue June sky which smiled upon all. There were some disappointments, it is true, such as the regrets at the last moment of Gen. Rosecrans, who was to have delivered the oration, but they scarcely caused a perceptible ripple in the smooth flow of the exercises. Discipline is so perfect at these institutions and resources so great that progress is irresistible. Emergencies are so promptly met that they seem to have been anticipated. The year was remarkably successful at both institutions, considering the great business depression, the number of students being surprisingly large and representing a majority of the States and territories of the Union and our sister. Republic of Mexico. Thus, whatever the times may be, whether flushed with plenty or hardened by scarcity, they go on forever, constantly accumulating and constantly t sureading in fame and good will. We have something of a local pride in all this. We flatter ourselves that Notre Dame and St. Mary’s are a part of us, since they contribute largely to the worldwide reputation our city has attained as an educational and industrial centre.—South Bend Register.
—The second game of baseball between the South Bend “ Green Stockings ” and the University Club was played Tuesday afternoon, on the Senior campus. A large concourse of visitors from various parts of the United States, who had come to the closing exercises of the University, witnessed the game, which was spiritedly contested up to the seventh inning, at which time the game was called,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
^95
owing to faulty decisions of the South Bend umpire. The score at this time stood seven to six in favor of the University Club. The pitching and catching of Guthrie and Burke, of the University nine, and Kurtz and Peak of the “ Green Stockings,” were especially fine.
At the close of the game, Mr. George E. Clarke, of .’83, made an eloquent impromptu speech to the large throng of students and visitors gathered on the campus, eulogizing the college authorities, not only for the high status to which they had raised science, literature and art at the University, but also for their marked encouragement of athletic sports and the development of a manly physique. Owing in a great measure, no doubt, to this encouragement, the students of Notre Dame would compare favorably with those of any other institution in the United States. Said the speaker:
“ Like Greece of old, Notre Dame is not content with merely cultivating the intellectual faculties; she has also her counterpart to the Olympic, Pythian, Nemean and Isthmian games, which developed the muscle and sinew necessary to the full and proper use of those intellectual faculties. We see here a campus of which Athens or Sparta might well feel proud. We have witnessed some of the manly sports—the rowing on the lake, the foot-racing, vaulting, and jumping contests, on St. Edward’s day; wre see the graceful bycicle propelled by human muscle, whirling around the campus at a speed that would shame the Greek charioteers of old, and the agile of foot and brawny of arm here wielding the ash in the national game. Notre Dame looks on with pleasure and rewards the victors with her benignant smile, while the queens of beauty decorate the victorious nine.”
Holding up the principal trophy, the grand gold medal, Mr. Clarke said:
“ This was donated by two ‘ noble Romans,’ former students of Notre Dame—Henry W. Morse and John Boyle O'Reilly, of Salt Lake City—one a leader in athletic sports in ye olden time, the other in Shaksperean drama. This medal is awarded to Florian B. Devoto, President of the Baseball Association of Notre Dame, and for a number of years distinguished in the athletic sports of the campus. This other has been donated by the University to the captain of the champion nine, who this year is Mr. Wm. Coghlin, of Toledo, Ohio. Twelve others, given by the Director of the Association, are awarded as follows: to Messrs. John McCabe, Henry P. Porter, Frederick Combe, Sydney Dickerson, R. Goodfellow, W. Tully, W. Murphy, Albert A. Browne, Micron Sykes, Vernon Burke, H. McNulty, and John D. Willson.”
As we have seen, many of these young gentlemen also succeeded in carried off class medals, premiums and diplomas in the college courses, a signal proof, if any were wanting, that the physical contributes in no small degree to the intellectual development of the student.
The Director and the Association gave a vote of thanks to Mr. Francis H. Dexter, of Kansas City, Mo., for the excellence and punctuality of his field reports during the year.
In summer time, when the thoughts of men are turned to leafy arbors and rippling brooks, towering mountains and roaring surf, the Michigan Central presents to him a choice of routes to all the Eastern and Northern resorts that is embarrassing by the variety and number of their divers attractions. The Summer Tourist and Mackinac Island folders just issued are models of beauty and taste in the typographic art, and full of interest. Copies can be obtained of any agent of the company, or of O. W. Ruggles, General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Chicago.
Saint friary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
\From the “South Bend. Frihune.” \
The Thirtieth Annual Commencement-
Nestling cosily in the shade of staid old maples and sycamores, in quiet but queenly grandeur, overlooking from its vine-clad eminence one of the most beautiful prospects on the picturesque St. Joseph River, stands far-famed St. Mary’s Academy. Beautiful for situation, its pleasant environments and sequestered beauty invite the fairest tribute of poetic fancy, and to its halls and groves are attracted the devotees of literature and the votaries of art. Under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, now closing its 29th year as an educational institution, St. Mary’s Academy, we believe, has justly earned the reputation of being one of the most thoroughly equipped and successful collegiate institutions for young ladies in the United States. Here in this pleasant retreat are gathered young ladies from all parts of the Union, who, under the guidance of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, are pursuing studies in music, literature and art. Here, under the friendly shade of stately trees, among beautiful flowers, secluded from the noise of worldly strife, these young ladies are being moulded and purified by daily contact with the lives of those who have renounced the world and have consecrated their lives, in self-abnegation, to the ennoblement of womanhood. The mission of St. Mary’s has always been to educate the heart as well as the mind. It is not the purpose nor the claim of this institution to make great scholars of the young ladies; but, while it seeks to give its students the advantages of a modern and* a classical education, it also gives them the graces and refinements of aesthetic culture. It teaches them music, painting, sculpture, and fine needlework, and at the same time inculcates in them the spirit of obedience and respect and imbues them with a reverence for that which is sacred. The beautiful promenades and pleasure-grounds, where summer-houses, grottoes, fountains, grape-arbors, statuary and flower-borders are presented to the eye in a rich enamel of verdure, invite reflection and study and lift the mind above all that is impure and insincere.
The exercises of the 30th Annual Commencement of St. Mary’s opened very , auspiciously in the Academy hall yesterday afternoon at three o’clock. The attendance at the exercises was so large that but a small proportion of the visitors could get into the hall. The others, however, passed the time agreeably in visiting the library rooms, which contain thousands of volumes of books and many cabinets of specimens. St. Luke’s. Studio, where scores of oil and water-color paintings by the students were on exhibition, had the most visitors, and the favorable' criticisms on the work shown must have been very gratifying to
696	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the Superior, Mother Mary of St. Augusta, and to the Sisters in charge for their painstaking work with the pupils. The department where needle and fancy work was shown also came in for its share of visitors, as well as the Conservatory of Music and study-halls.	’
Among the 30 classes of young ladies which this institution has sent out into the world none have ever surpassed in charming etiquette or scholarly proficiency the Class of ’85. They have attained an honorable degree of excellence in ethical culture and in all that enters into the make-up of accomplished young ladies.
Following was the programme for Tuesday afternoon, in which it will be observed that other students besides the graduates took a creditable part: Quartette and Chorus................Bohemian	Girl
Quartette—Misses Bruhn, B. English, Ducey, L. Sheekey
Chorus—Vocal Class, accompanied by Miss Gove. _ Essay—“The Fleeting and the Enduring”—Miss Ramsey Vocal Trio—“Ave Maria”—Misses Bruhn, Hale, Walsh
Essay—“Wahre Christliche Freiheit”........Miss Ginz
Aria.....................................Donizetti
Miss B. English.
Essay—“In Hoc Signo Vinces”........Miss L. Sheekey
L’Africaine Fantasie de Concert....Meyerbeer-Bendel Miss Gove.
Essay—“Rayons de Soleil”..................Miss Call
Duett......................................Rossini
Misses Hale, Bruhn.
Essay—“ Memories of Alma Mater ”........Miss Dunne
Glee.......................................Horsley
Vocal Class.
The essay by Miss Ramsey was a gem of literary execution, reflecting that which is most enduring in literary style, and was read in a clear voice, with fine enunciation. The German essay, by Miss Ginz, showed in its composition a fine conception of the beauties as well as the force of the Teutonic language. The essay by Miss Sheekey was a clever exposition of the origin of the Latin saying which constituted the subject of her essay. The composition evinced much fine literary culture. The essay in French by Miss Call was a polished piece of composition, showing her to be a deep student of that polite language. Her pronunciation is said by those who are familiar with the French to have been very chaste and most perfect. The deep affection for her teachers and companions embodied in Miss Dunne’s essay—“ Memories of Alma Mater”—rendered it a model of its kind.
The quartette opening pianissimo was entrancing. Perfect in its intonations, it gradually led up to a bright forte chorus which made the hall ring. In the vocal trio, “Ave Mariaf the parts were perfectly sustained. -The evident progress of Miss B. English since last year was shown in her rendition of “ Aria.” The instrumental solo, “ L’Africaine” (Meyerbeer), arranged by Bendel, whose style of deliverance is so replete with taste and its demand of pure technic, that his name is" sufficient to teachers who are aware that even his easiest pieces require the polish so necessary to good pianists. We are obliged to say that Miss B. Gove, notwithstanding her natural timidity, rendered this brilliant composition beautifully. The doppio tresto movement, at the close, was a perfect success.
In the charming duet by the Misses Hale and Bruhn, Miss Hale as first soprano and Miss Bruhn as second soprano, took the difficult chromatic runs and arpeggio passages smoothly. Their tones, alternately blended in thirds and sixths, were clear and harmonious. The “ Glee” song, rendered by a chorus of young ladies at the close, was taken at full allegro, bright and sparkling.
Wednesday’s programme.
The exercises of Commencement were continued at the Academy at 11 o’clock this forenoon, with the following programme:	.
GRAND ENTRANCE OF THE PUPILS.
March—H ungarian In term ezzo...Philip Scharwenka.
Misses Barlow, Carney, Shephard, Hale, Bruhn, . Sheekey, Keenan, Ginz.
Harps...................Misses Dillon and Fitzpatrick
Solo and Chorus........................Emerson
Solo, Miss Hale. Chorus, Vocal Class, Accompanied by Miss Gove.
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS—JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Solo—Air and Variations....................Proch
Miss Hale.
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS—PREPARATORY DEPART-
MENT.
Quintette...............................Martha
Misses Bruhn, Hale, Lauer, Sheekey, S. St. Clair.
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS—SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Song—“Happy Birdling”...............W-	V. Wallace
Miss Bruhn.
IMPORTANT CONCLUSIONS.
FORESTALLING ILLUSIONS.
(An Original Drama.)
The Juniors and Minims.
Allegro, Op. 8......................Robert	Schumann
Miss Gove.
Recitation—“The Legend Beautiful”........Longfellow
Miss Fuller.
Chorus—Primavera.........................C. Moderate
Vocal Class.
CONFERRING GRADUATING GOLD MEDALS — ACADEMIC DEPARTMENT.
CONFERRING GOLD MEDAL-----CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC PRIZE MEDALS.
DISTRIBUTION OF CROWNS AND HONORS IN THE SENIOR, . PREPARATORY AND JUNIOR DEPARTMENTS.
Valedictory..............................Miss	Gove
Marche Brillante...........'..........Joachim	Raff
Misses Barlow, Schilling, Horn, O’Halloran, Van Horn, Morrison, Keenan, Adderly.
Harps.......................Misses	Dillon, Shephard
The opening music of this day for the grand entrance of the pupils is always of a high standard, giving an opportunity to pupils of the advanced grade to show taste and ability. The constant change of key of the “Hungarian Intermezzo” kept the audience as much on the alert as the youthful harpists, whose feet in the constant use of the pedals were kept almost as busy as their fingers. In the second musical number Miss Hale sang the leading part, while the chorus sang, softly, a vocal accompaniment. The celebrated air with variations, by Miss Hale, was sung with flexible and pure intonation. The quartette was an admirable musical selection, and lost none of its beauties by the excellent rendering of these young ladies. “ Happy Birdlings” was rendered with such ease and grace that Miss Bruhn will long be remembered as one of St. Mary’s most successful vocalists. .

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
697
The only instrumental solo was “ Allegro”1 Op. 8, by Robert Schumann. Like some of his later works, the whole is built on a few notes—we might say almost fragmentary ideas. Three whole tones being the subject, which in this “ allegro ” are developed under his promethean pen, but never lost to the ear; they reappear in every form, peeping through their arabesque surroundings like twinkling stars, and anon enveloped in fleecy clouds of restless harmonies, to shine forth with greater brilliancy as they hold firmly their simple power to the end.
Miss Gove, in her performance so trying in intricate phrasing and degree of varied strength, and which required such a different rendition from the piece she played on Tuesday, by hei' skill made it manifest that she deserved the Gold Medal given in the First Course of the Conservatory.
The concluding chorus was delightful in its rendition.
The recitation, “ The Legend Beautiful,” by Miss Fuller, of California, was an elocutionary treat. Miss Fuller received the Prize Gold Medal for Elocution, though not completing the course as a graduate until ’87. The Valedictory by Miss Gove, was the crowning literary effort of the 30th Commencement. It was replete with beautiful thought and chaste words, evidencing much literary polish.
THE ART HALLS.
During yesterday afternoon and to-day the art halls and museum were visited by crowds of ladies, some of them corning from distant cities. The geological cabinets, full of rare specimens—some of them from the old country,—came in for a good share of the attention, but the centres of attraction were the art halls, the walls of which were covered with paintings of every description and articles of home decoration. An'inspection of these departments will convince any one that the study of the science of aesthetics is brought to a high standard of excellence in this institution.
■	THE FANCY WORK.	’
This department was a perfect paradise for ladies. The walls and tables were covered with rich specimens of arasene and chenille work of every description. Many of the young ladies who attained special proficiency in this department deserve special mention. Miss D. Fitzpatrick had the most elaborate display. She showed a fine taste for the more delicate tints, her work consisting’ of arasene and chenille work in cushions, O	•	•	7
jewel cases, handkerchief cases, mirrors, etc. Miss M. Cox exhibited a beautiful sofa pillow of arasene work. Miss M. Munger had the second finest display, consisting of pin-cushions beautiful lambrequins, plaques, mirrors and banners in satin and plush. Miss-Alice Gavan exhibited in her collection a handsome fire screen of arasene work on scarlet plush. Miss B. Lauer had a beautiful specimen of chenille work in her collection, consisting of a bird of paradise worked in red satin. Over 600 skeins of zephyr were used in this piece. Miss A. Shephard exhibited a handsome and unique
fire screen of cherry wood with snowballs worked in scarlet plush. The Misses Gordon, Miss Scully and Miss B. Snowhook also deserve honorable mention in this department.
OIL PAINTINGS.
This department was a rare feast for the eye of the connoisseur. The walls were covered with hundreds of paintings of every description and design. In this department those deserving especial mention for artistic excellence are the Misses Sheekey, Dunne, Heckard, Fuller, Munger, Scully, Gordon, Shephard, McHale and Kearney. One of the most magnificent pieces was a large parlor folding-screen of cherry wood, painted with exquisite artistic effect by Miss Munger. The work in oil surpassed anything of the kind ever before exhibited at St. Mary’s, both in variety of design and excellence. No description of this department will suffice; it must be seen to be appreciated. A whole day could be spent most profitably in this gallery of art.	•
CHINA PAINTING.
This department was also invested with rare interest for the ladies as well as for those who appreciate fine taste in decorative art* Probably no institution in this country possesses the facilities for teaching this beautiful and skilful art as does St. Mary’s Academy. The most elaborate display was made by Mrs. Clem. Studebaker, wife of the president of the Studebaker Brothers manufacturing company. The most attractive features of the exhibit were a game set, an ice-cream set, and two plaques in China. Mrs. Studebaker has certainly attained an enviable degree of excellence in this art and her work was the subject of much commendation from the ladies who inspected it. Miss Ada Shephard also exhibited a handsome gameset beautifully executed. Miss Lillie Van Horn and Miss Clara Richmond also deserve honorable mention in*this department.
The department of crayon work also showed rare talent and elicited much favorable criticism from the admirers of this art. Those who showed marked proficiency in this department were the Misses A. English,fK. Fehr and M. Fuller.
There was also an interesting little table covered with painted glassware which attracted considerable attention. This is a recent artistic innovation peculiar to St. Mary’s and was introduced during the past year. The painted glass-ware to be found in our stores in the cities is all imported, St. Mary’s now enjoying the distinction of being the only institution in this country that teaches this comparatively new art. The exhibit consisted of a . beautiful water-set painted in relief.	.
The list of students in the Academic Department upon whom were bestowed medals and special honors for having attained special proficiency in the various studies will be found published elsewhere in the Scholastic.	H.
[From the Chicago '‘'•Inter Oceanl^
At 11 oclock the University to no small degree
698	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
turned its face toward St. Mary’s. St. Mary’s revisited seems St. Mary’s a degree more lovely and peaceful than before. In all that constitutes an abode dedicated to its ends it stands an ideal home for maidenhood. When the early visitors to this Academy had wandered along its winding paths and had tarried in the observation pavilion that overlooks the gleaming St. Joseph, flowing many feet beneath this apparent plateau, so beautifully cultivated and adorned, they entered, with others, the assembly hall of the institution and awaited the beginning of the final exercises. To elevated tiers of seats the pupils, each clad in white, passed, bowing to the audience as they went with a grace both grave and stately. Their entrance was accomplished to march measures performed by eight young ladies on four pianos, with an accompaniment of two harps. In due ordei' the exercises then proceeded. There was choral and solo singing of a most pleasing quality, as well as piano performances of excellent execution and finish. A picturesque and delightful bit of semi-dramatic work appeared in the form of conversation between a dozen or fifteen of the younger pupils who prettily elaborated the moral lesson contained in this original composition entitled “ Important Conclusions; Forestalling Illusions.” The charming performance was concluded with a tableau representing the Holy Mother of Good Counsel setting aright a repentant little heart. The most exquisite individual performances of the day were the recitation of “ The Legend Beautiful ” of Longfellow bjr Miss Fuller, of Marysville, Cal., and the delivery of the Valedictory by Miss Gove, of Denver. The former was exceptional in its tenderness and grace, the latter in its sweetness and simplicity moved manyto a degree not often attained by stereotyped and sometimes perfunctory valedictories.
As at the University, so at St. Mary’s, the rewards of the year came from the hand of the same good saint in the flesh, the Very Rev. Father Sorin, Father General of the Order of the Holy Cross. Handsome were the medals, pendant from broad bands of white satin that the Reverend Father hung upon the neck of many a modest figure as it knelt to receive its honor. After the medals came the crowns, each deftly fixed above pretty tresses by the same steady hand, as light of touch as these maidens’ own. In a few moments three-fourths of the blooming bank of girls blossomed in the orange crowns that become treasured honors.
In the absence of General Rosecrans, expected for the oration, a few timely words were said by the Rev. Father Oechtering, of Mishawaka, Ind. At the conclusion of the exercises many of the visitors were entertained at dinner by the hospitable Sisters, who relinquished control of their pupils shortly after. The afternoon trains bore away many from the University and Academy; and tonight, if the brilliant nimbus with which science has encircled the head of Our Lady, aloft on the University Dome, again gleams like a star after its electric blaze, will symbolize to a diminished population the meanings of education fostered in the lap of religion.
Valedictory -
BY BELLE GOVE.
The rapid methods of modern days, when time and space seem almost annihilated, and the play of the electric fluid puts continents three thousand miles apart in close communication with one another, will never obtain in the realm of the soul. At creation the soul was stamped with the impress of immortality; and the broad sweep of the waves of eternity, the slow, retentive, solemn cycles that know not haste nor trepidation in their silent march, best accord with its native temper. Turning away from the bustle, the hurry, the evanescent impressions of the busy, thoughtless world around, we pause spell-bound, and-with reluctant feet wait at the threshold of our parting hour.
A moment may compass the destiny of a lifetime, and a life-time take its strength, its hue, the impetus of its immortal career, from a moment. Commencement days are fraught with moments such as these, hallowed with obligations that eternity alone can repav, with sacred memories too deep for words. St. Mary’s rises up before us today, as the Pharos to guide us henceforward on Time’s uncertain sea. Over the waves, in our treasure-laden barque, we are forced from her sheltering wing; but while hearts throb, and souls are grateful, never shall we allow her constant beacon light to pass from our horizon. Shall joy spread her starry vistas before us, and prosperity take her stand at the helm to pilot us onward on unruffled seas, where beauty and brightness hover; or shall sorrow cross our path, and perils buffet us along the reefs and shoals, still, ever the same, with loving glance shall our eyes turn to Alma Mater.
Who can pretend to compute the wealth that has been placed at our command? A seraph’s powers alone might solve the mystic problem ; yet so long as memory’s deep under-current—unfathomable as the soul itself—shall flow, so long shall we enjoy the income of the fortune we have striven to acquire.
Very Rev. and dear Father General:—From your personal ministrations, and furthermore from honored traditions—traditions, those messenger birds, from the mellow, far-away past—we have learned to estimate the gigantic labors and the successes you have achieved for God and truth in our own beloved America. Permit us, on this occasion, so fraught with vital interest to ourselves, to thank you, and to beg that you cherish some little memory of the “ Class of ’85.” We have spoken of traditions,—and the history of our scholastic year has added one incident of touching interest. This one tells of a loved teacher that only a few short weeks ago was in our midst,—her sweet, childlike face beaming with joy and hope and ardent desire for our improvement, who now lies cold in death. When we recall the last look, before the earth had shut the loved face away from oui' sight forever, we shall recognize, as a daily
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,	699
y-------------------------------------------------------;—•
t	renewed revelation, the power of one pure, har-
|	monious life to lead others to the love of truth.
■ When the strains of music resound, when the harmony that finds its true interpretation only in the soul of genius shall fall upon the ear, our thoughts will return to a little flower-strewn grave at St. Mary’s, and we shall bless the memory of her who sleeps beneath, and pray that our lives .may be true and pure like hers.
Rich and rare and holy as is this tradition, it is but one link in an endless chain which binds our ‘ hearts to St. Mary’s. As the Founder, the support, the inspirer of the enterprise which has given us our Alma Mater, we must in common gratitude refer our individual advantages to one for whom we shall cherish the deepest veneration, since he has been to us so true a friend. Farewell, dear Father, and may Heaven bless you!
Our venerable Chaplain and teacher: —You have given us the motto, immortalized by our great national poet, and which ever urges us to higher and nobler paths of duty. Thanking you for your i innumerable benefits and delicate regard for our advancement, and for your daily lessons, not in science alone, but in that nameless,art which, for want of. a better title, we shall call constant edification,—thanking you, dear Father, and begging you not to forget your class whose banner bears the worthy device of unlimited aspiration, we bid ■ you a grateful adieu.
Our Rev. Assistant Chaplain, our dear Superiors, and our esteemed Prefect of Studies:—We offer you our warm and heartfelt thanks. To you, our dear Mother, we owe more than words can i express. But as we are insolvent in the sense that ।	an adequate return cannot in our poverty be made,
r	we beg you to accept our endeavor to place
6 in your possession the resolve, the life-long purpose we now make, to profit by your noble instructions. Farewell, dear Mother, and may the future witness the earnest fulfilment of our prom-" ises!
Dear Schoolmates:—You are now at the entrance of the soul’s Hesperides, the broad fertile jt fields of science and .truth. Years must pass be-fore you will reap the fruits of your toil. In bid-F ding you farewell, ifwe may be permitted to offer . words at once of advice and encouragement, it shall be the wish,, that perseverance will accompany, and success attend your every effort.
.‘ Dear Classmates:—A year of unmingled tranquillity, mutual esteem and devotedness has passed into ^eternity. Memory leaves no cloud of regret upon its sunny billows. Hand in handj with hearts united, and souls attuned to the same-earnest aspirations, we have , labored together. To-day we gather for the last time, as pupils, beneath the sacred roof of our Alma Mater. For the last time, .as pupils, do we join in .the same circle. To-tnor--row we shall have passed away-from these halls. New duties, new interests, new lessons will occupy our attention; but the holy influences here imbibed shall'permeate our souls and vivify our being while life shall endure. The memories of L ' days here spent, each laurel-.crbwned and holy,
shall glide as loving'sentinels along our pathway in life; and as the wave reflects blossom and verdure, tree and swaying vine, or varied tints of the summer skies, so shall our actions respond to the impress of. those who have devoted their lives to our advancement in virtue, science and art. These memories shall be the pledges of our undying union. Joining in one ardent acclaim of gratitude to those who have imparted so sacred a gift.to our keeping; joyful hearted in the hope of our eternal reunion, we speak our loving—farewell!
GRADUATING HONORS.
ACADEMIC DEPARTMENT.
Graduating Gold Medals and Diplomas were conferred on Etta L. Call, Algona, Iowa; Sarah E. Dunne, Owego, N. Y.; Belle R. Gove, Denver, Colorado; Clara L. Ginz, South Bend, Ind.; Hepsey R. Ramsey, Crawfordsville, Ind.; Elizabeth H. Sheekey, Braddock, Pa.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
The Conservatory of Music Graduating Medal was conferred on Miss Belle R. Gove, Denver, Colorado.
PRIZE MEDALS.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine^ presented by Right Rev. Joseph Dwenger, D-D.,. Bishop of Fort Wayne, was awarded to Miss-Sarah E. Dunne, Owego, N. Y.
The Gold Medal for French, presented by-Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of. the Holy Cross, was awarded td Miss Etta L. Call, Algona, Iowa.
The Silver Medal for General Drawing, presented by Dr. J. Toner, Washington, D. C., was awarded to Miss C. 0. Griffith, St. Paul, Minnesota.
The Gold Medal for Penmans hip, presented by Feely & Co., Providence, R. I., was awarded to Miss M. Bruhn, Texarkana, Texas.
The Gold Medal for History, presented by Prof. J. F. Edwards, Notre Dame Universityj was awarded to Miss Etta L. Call, Algona, Iowa.
The Gold Medal for Elocution, presented by Miss S. C. Gleason, Chicago, Ill.; was awarded to Miss Mary C. Fuller, Marysville, Cal.
The Gold Medal in the Senior Department for General Mending, presented by Mrs. Atkinson, Baltimore, Md., was awarded to Miss Annie Heckard, Tolona, Ill.
The Gold Medal in the Junior Department for Politeness, presented by Mr. J. L. Cummings, Chicago, Ill., was awarded to Miss Belle Snowhook, Chicago, Ill.
’ The Gold Medal in the Junior Department for Superior Excellence in Good Conduct, presented by Mrs. P. A. Ducey, Muskegon, Mich., was awarded to Miss Ellen Sheekey, Braddock, Pa.
The Gold Medal in the Junior Depart-
yoo
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ent for Good Conduct, presented by Airs. M. A. Ryerson, Chicago, Ill., was awarded to Miss Grace Regan, Indianola, Texas.
The Gold Medal in the Junior Department for General Mending, presented by Airs. P. T. Barry,'Englewood, Ill., was awarded to Miss Lilly Van Horn, Fort Elliott, Texas.
The Gold Medal in the Junior Department for French Conversation, presented by Mrs. M. Stumer, Chicago, Ill., was awarded to Miss Lilly' Van Horn, Fort Elliott, Texas.
The Gold Medal in the Junior Department for Elocution, presented by Miss K. Young, New York City, was awarded to Miss Hannah Stumer, Chicago, Ill.
The Gold Medal in the Minim Department for Politeness, was awarded to Miss Ella Blaine, Helena, Montana Ter.
The Gold Medal in the Minim Department for Elocution, presented by Miss Martha Munger, Chicago, Ill., was awarded to Miss Mary Lindsey, Denver, Colorado.
[The Gold Medal in Elocution awarded to Miss Anna Murphy, in 18S3, and the Gold Medal awarded to Miss Martha Munger, in 1884, were renewed, as was also the Gold Medal in the Junior department for superior excellence, awarded to Miss Clara Richmond.]
CROWNS.
[For politeness, neatness, order amiability and correct deportment.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Crowns far excellence were awarded to Misses S. Dunne, B. Gove, E. Call, E. Sheekey, H. Ramsey, C. L. Ginz, M. Bruhn, B. Kearney, M. Dillon, N. Kearns, E. O’Connell, M. Adderly.
Crowns—Misses C. O. Griffith, K. Scully, N. BfSdy, A. White, M. Schmidt, L. Hutchinson, C. Lang, J. McHale, M. Fuller, E. Rose, A. Donnelly, T. McSorely, M. Hale, Al. Shea, L. St. Clair, S. St. Clair, B. Heckard, A. Gordon, Alice Gordon, Ella Walsh, A. Heckard, M. Scully, M. Blair, N. Donnelly, L. Carney, L. Walsh, D. Fitzpatrick.
Honorably mentioned, but not having been at St. Alary’s the required time, did not receive crowns—Alisses A. Gavan, F. Thornton, K. Schilling Al. O’Halloran, Al. Allwein.
O' JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Crowns far excellence were awarded to Misses C. Richmond, N. Sheekey, B. Snowhook, G. Regan, L. Norris, C. Prudhomme, F. Hertzog, G. Searls, Al. Smith.
Crowns—Alisses L. Van Horn, G. Stadtler, L. Trask, Al. McEwen.
Honorably mentioned—Alisses B. Erlenborn, E. Balch, T- Balch.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Crowns far excellence were awarded to Misses E. Blaine, F. Johnson.
Crowns—Alisses A. Schmauss, Al. Lindsey, F.
Spencer, B. Afurray, S. Van Fleet, E. Burtis, Dot ! Lee.
Honorably mentioned—E. Hammond, Al. Hopkins.
FIRST HONORS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Alisses B. English, J. Barlow, A. Murphy, A. Shephard, K. Fehr, Addie Gordon, Agnes Alc-Sorley, K. Cox, B. Haney.
Honorably mentioned—Misses N. Keenan, T. Bubb.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Alisses A. Keys, Al. Murphy, O. Boyer, N. Quill.
Honorably mentioned—Miss C. Servis.
(From the Ogden fress.),
Sacred. Heart Academy, Ogden, Utah.
The seventh annual commencement exercises of the Sacred Heart Academy were held Wednesday, June 24th. How well the-public performances of this institution of physical, mental, and moral culture are appreciated by the best classes of our society was evidenced by the unusually large audience which crowded the hall. But, indeed, the exercises were well worth it; they deserved even a tenfold larger assemblage.
As soon as the people present had settled down in pleasant anticipation of the enjoyable things awaiting them, Alisses Furlong, Hayes, Lewis, and Smith, with able touch, caused the two fine pianos to send forth the inspiring strains of Aley-erbeer’s“ Schiller Fest ” march, to the lively tunes of which the private vocal class entered the stage, arrayed in festive raiments and tastefully arranged so as to give the little minims the vanguard, followed up in rotation by size. This entrance march at once showed the marvellous discipline and successful training which distinguishes the teachers at the Sacred Heart Academy and has contributed so much in spreading their reputation. The choral singing throughout the evening also evinced careful schooling and betrayed many fine voices.
The Academy’s scientific education, combined with religious principles, was illustrated by able and thoughtful essays by the Misses Hayes, Dal-limore and Furlong, who treated respectively the subjects on “ Geology and Revolution,” WOman’s True Sphere” and “What is in a Thought,” in which the young ladies handled their “ comprehensive and abstruse themes in a clear manner, winningly delivered.
The choruses and solos, vocal and instrumental, were given with accuracy of delivery and a promptness that gave testimony of the painstaking management by the Sisters and the aptitude of the students. Altogether the entertainment was highly successful and redounded to the credit of both teachers and pupils.