The Notre Dame Scholastic
811
NOTES ON LIVING
Some three weeks ago we saw, for the first time, a performance of several Chinese one-act plays. The oriental drama depends on tradition for practically all of its rules; in it, grace, deftness, and smooth movement of the body, mean almost everything. If you wish to apply some label to it, you might use the term “pure art.”
But we’re afraid that those two words sound rather formal. Rather stiff, even (if you wish to apply a second label) rather “high-brow.” And what we saw was far too fine to be put away on a high shelf because of a label.
Mei Lan-Fang was the name of the main actor. His performance had roused the New York theatre-critics to a rather high pitch of enthusiasm; some of them, indeed, shouted “genius.” When he came to Chicago we determined to see the reason (if any) for the self-forgetfulness of the east-tern writers.	'
We’ll admit that we entered the theatre in a skeptical mood. We knew that all the speaking would be in Chinese, and, being somewhat unacquainted with the tongue, we were afraid that the pantomime would not suffice to counterbalance what we would lose from not knowing the language of the actors. We settled down in our seats and the curtain rose . . .
A flutter of white roses in a red lacquer boivl, a swift drift of gardenias through the heavy air, the gracefully punctuated cry of a nightingale, the tinkling of shy bells of beauty—all these “things?’ and more rose up before our eyes and ears . . . after the curtain rose.
Mei Lan-Fang, the greatest of Chinese actors, was there before us, slapping the face of Time as his long, pale, silk sleeves ran lightly over the bridge of Space; and all the time, especially during the playing of a “domestic” household drama, queer, gonged music played off stage.
And we wondered if the Chinese knew, after all, something of which we were unaware: that any life, no matter what its circumstances, if beautifully led from day to day, really moves to unseen but not unheard music.
We wondered. And then as the music wore into our thoughts, we stopped wondering. We knew, tHfen, that we were right!	—M. h. l.
..• “»       uitmGp
I ~ Ghe	|
|	Dame Scholastic I
| Disee-Quasi-Semper-VictuFus-Vive’-QuasiXiTas-Moriturus I
5	Founded in 1872	■	:
s	Murray Hickey Ley	Editor-in-Chief	z
=	Harley L. McDevitt	Graduate	Manager	
	EDITORIAL STAFF	z
	T. Vincent McIntire	Managing	Editor	•
z	Haul L. Telfel	Assistant	Managing Editor	z
z	Joseph B. Reedy	Assistant	Managing Editor	z
x	J. Archer Hurley	The	Week	z
	.	Walter Langford	The	College Parade	
z	William Knapp	Music	and Drama	•
z	Ramon G. Smith	Campus	Clubs	-
	Paul J. Hallinan	Features	Editor	
	Edward E. Brennan	Script	Editor	z
-	NEWS STAFF	Z
=	John Bergan, News Editor James Collins	Neil Hurley	Lawrence Dunda	- Howard Webster	George Allan	William Karl Austin Boyle	Richard J. O’Donnell	James Carmody	=
X	John Motz	John Pick	tjtst.tr Raddatz	•
z	James Kearney	z
Z	SPORTS STAFF	5
	.	John A. Kiener, Sports Editor ‘	
	William J. Magarral	Cleve Carey	F. Granger Weil	—
=	Harry A. Sylvester. Jr.	Henry B. Asman	James E. McFeely, Jr.	•
Z	BUSINESS STAFF Harrington J. Noon	Local Circulation Manager	
z	Chester M. Ashman. ...Foreign Circulation Manager	•
	Frederick N. Davis	Local	Advertising Manager	i
z	James L. Rizer	Foreign	Advertising Manager	
	James H. Rorke	William Sherman	John Blanda	
s	Frederick J. Bauer	Frank J. Conboy	Andrew McGuan	
	Merle V. Baldwin	Norman E. Duke	
	Vol. LXIII	MAY 2, 1930	No. 26	
=	TABLE OF CONTENTS	
z	Kron tispippp	812	
		
	Th a Wppk J Aw.Jip/t TTii.tI.ph	.	818	
		
2	K. C. Formal Held Tonight	. 814	
z	Notre Dame Mourns Death of William P. Breen—James Kearney— 816	
5	Glee Club Returns From East—James Collins	:	 817	
z	Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., Delivers Address	819	
	A Man About the Campus—Emil L. Telfel		— 820	
—		
•		
	Editor’s Page	 823	
Z	Walsh Hall: First Gold on the Coast—Vincent T. McIntyre	 824	
	Baseball Squad Splits Even on Trip South—James E. McFeely	826	
z	Two-Mile Team Wins Great Race at Drake Relays	 826	
z	“Quigley, Most Improved Runner,” Says Coach—Henry Asman	 827	
	Interhall Items 	 83-5	
z	Splinters From the Press Box—Harry A. Sylvester, Jr	 837 •	
Z	On Down the Line	 840	
z	THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manu-	
•	scripts may he addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office. Main Building:.	
z	Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing	
	at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.	
z	The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of	s x
	All Notre Dame Men.	1
Q^atiaitliimtimiiiiiiiiuitimmitiiimmiitmiitiiiiiiiiiaimiiiiiiiuilliiiiiutiiiiaieiiiiii*	luiiiiiiiiiiitnimtiimitiiiiiuiuiMNKMf		
812
The Notre Dame Scholastic
8
.. 7-
i t ?
£
I I j I ■l
I? 1.1
I|
^^TEVENSON was not a man to care much for hats, but if he had one you may be sure that he was not talking through it when he remarked that Atlas was a gentleman with a protracted nightmare. Retrospection, or what the swan does when he thinks on his ugly duckling period, will convince anyone that acquaintances with the nightmare complex of Atlas are usually dark horses to their friends. The controlling interest of eternity was foreclosed before Adam began calling a spade a spade, yet men still bicker for pedestals in the Hall of Fame, and women think their careers will never fit in a perambulator. The sanest, humanest men are those who know the unimportance of importance—they make the best friends, because they are friendly for friendship’s sake. Every institution has men of this type; we have many about the campus. They do the routine work for which little or no credit is given, yet without which nothing else would be possible. Mr. Burns, an Englishman, a gentleman, and the operator of the University mimeograph, is one of these men. He was found the Art of Living. His is the philosophy which the wily Torn Bradley expresses when he says that no man has yet succeeded in digesting the hole in the doughnut of existence.
g was eating in one of the local dens of sophistication where the cover charge only adds disturbance to displeasure. Waiters were puttering about with dishes while they jibbered at one another about whatever it is that Chinamen get excited over; husbands meekly trailing ostentatious fraus tried to appear socially inclined; while a number of college girls nibbled disconsolately on wafers and pouted over the unattentiveness of mankind. It was a typical group of our enlightened countrymen intent on impressing and depressing one another. Some students were leaving a table, when one paused a moment, bowed his head, and made the sign of the cross. Surprised women stared over their cigarettes; for a moment a man at the table next me stopped boasting of how much he had lost on the stock crash—for some are still blowing that superannuated horn—all who noticed the act felt something like a shock. And thinking it over it seemed to me that the nobility which led Crusaders to wear the eternal emblem over their armor was not much different from that which enables a man of today to openly chide this civilization with a conviction. Certainly it was not much harder to rescue the Holy Land from the infidel than it is to rescue the infidel from himself.
'J IM WALSH, whose only sins are handball and chronic weakness for Texan sunsets and blondes, reminded me that there is probably no place where raillery is more common than on this campus. What with Irish wit, being the largest boarding school, the unbalanced cosmopolitanism of South Bend, and the confining eccentricity of climate, it is no marvel. “Goofing” is here at its height. And as a teacher of skepticism this condition is not to be equalled. If after four years of being on our guard with a wary faculty, warier classmates, girls who affect the womanly, and women who affect the girlish, cynical roommates, greedy cabbies—orthodox, of course—and solicitous sales-folk,—if after four years of this constant vigilance a graduate buys unsound investments or marries unwisely, then he has no right to complain if his alumni football tickets are behind the goal posts.
814
The Not re Dame Scholastic
Mr. John Chevigny
Grand Knight
Tonight the combined efforts of Grand Knight Jack Chevigny and Edward Conner, General Chairman, take shape, and the result will be the annual formal dance presented by the Knights to their ladies. The local council has been famous for the clever dances presented annually and this year’s affair will be no exception. According to Mr. Connor, everything has been provided to make the hours pass swiftly—probably too swiftly, for the lovers of Terpsichore.
Charles Pierce and his orchestra have been secured to supply the necessary music. This organization, which has been a feature at the Pershing Hotel in Chicago, is an eleven piece band. It boasts of an excellent singing trio and an instrumental quartette doubling in
brass. Music of all kinds; jazz forthose inclined to hop, skip, and jump; dreamy waltzes for the incurable romantics; and good, old, conventional, “sweet music,” will be included in the repertoire. Many delightful novelties and intermission “breaks” will be offered between dances so that time will not lag.
What is perhaps the most novel feature of the dance is the unique favor-program. In order to secure the unusual, Edward Connor engaged the services of the nationally famous “Josten’s” to produce a program that differs from the ordinary. His quest has been a pronounced success. Each couple will be given a program in the form of a knight in silhouette. The colors will be gold, blue and silver. Inside will be a map of the world showing the itinerary of Columbus’ voyage—with a few necessary addendas. The route will be checked with marks indicating stops made by that intrepid explorer. Each stop will represent a dance. The whole journey extends from Italy, through Spain, the Azores, the Canary Islands, the Bahamas, Cuba, the mainland of America, and last but not least, South Bend, Indiana. Those who are of a practical turn of mind are requested not to question the veracity of the map since it is all in fun and the K. of C. Formal is not the place for geographic study. Then, too, the program is intended to grace milady’s memory book, which accounts for the extravagant display of color. Milady simply must have color and flash, even in the matter of dance programs.
It will be noticed that the dance committeemen total fifty-three. One of the very necessary campus evils (wise cracker) said that it is only . to guarantee an attendance of at j least fifty-three couples. Notwith- J-standing the scurrilous note of the campus wit, these men have a definite place in making the formal a success. ;
Nick Bohling and his committee of . harvesters have been selling tickets for some time. Each member of the committee has thoroughly canvassed	.
his allotted territory for prospective	-r
clients.
Miss Frances O’Brien	«
Guest of Mr. Chevigny	ik

COMMITTEE CHAIRMEN AND MEMBERS
. RECEPTION
William Kerrigan, .	Chairman
Jack Cannon Thomas Keegan Vincent Ponic Joseph A. Klefeker . John P. Manning Frank McAdams
ENTERTAINMENT
Malcolm McVean,
.	.	Chairman
Joseph Deeb
Francis Flannery
Louis J. Adessa
Donald Lusardi
. Charles Hanna Edward O’Brien
PUBLICITY
Arthur Kane, Chairman Robert Andres
John Bergan Austin J. Boyle -William J. McGoory
• Joseph R. Munnizzo4 William B: Rowen .
PATRONS Robert Streb, Chairman Frank Carideo
■William Miller Russell Scheidler John O’Malley -Edward J. O’Mahony Thomas J. Moore
The Notre Dame Scholastic
815
John Rocap, chairman of the program committee, collaborated with Edward Connor in the matter- of favors. His excellent taste and judgment prove him an expert committeeman.
The matter of music was left to the good judgment of “Toots” Cunningham. After careful investigation of the bands open for engagement, he chose Charles Pierce as best suited for the occasion.
Publicity for the dance was handled by Art Kane and six selected assist
ants. Through the medium of articles in campus publications, down-
Miss Hilda Radermacher Gziest of Mr. Connor
town newspapers, and attractive signs in the residence halls, adequate publicity has been given the dance. Earlier in the week a large figure of a knight, done in color, was placed in front of the dining hall with a placard on the shield announcing the event.
Various incidental committees— those very necessary groups—include the committee for Arrangements, headed by James T. Connors; Reception committee, under William Kerrigan; Entertainment, Malcolm Mc-Vean; and Patrons, Robert Streb. To
these men have been left countless details which must be attended to. Their enthusiastic response to the demands of Messrs. Chevigny and Connor deserves highest praise.
The formal tonight rings up the curtain on the post-Lenten social season. Once again, and for the first time since the Junior promenade, will the tuxedos be resurrected. Smartly gowned young women with their groomed escorts, will formally open the spring dance term. The hours, more in conformity with university regulation than convention, will be from 9 until 12. But while the music plays, couples will dance; the evening will pass swiftly into memory and like all good things, the fortunate attendants will carry happy memories of .the K. of C. Formal of 1930.
Decorations will not be a feature of the dance, other than ferns and cozy nooks. The committee preferred to sacrifice decorations in favor of better- music. The natural beauty of the Knights of Columbus ball-room
Mr. Edward D. Connor General Chairman
will not demand artificial decoration to lend atmosphere to the dance. The special lighting facilities built into the ballroom will be used to create an aura of subtle, blended beauty.
Every indication seems to assure another dance of unusually high calibre. Reports show that ticket sales have beep highly satisfactory. The size of the ball-room necessarily limits the attendance somewhat, and late reports indicate that the knights will entertain a capacity gathering.
The choice of patrons and patronesses was left to Robert Streb. He names the following:
Dean and Mrs. James E. McCarthy, Dean and Mrs. Thomas Konop, Mr. and Mrs. Otto Dorsey, Dr. and Mrs. Egan, Mr. and Mrs. David Campbell, Mr. and Mrs. Hartley Anderson, Mr. Charles Phillips, Mr. Paul Fenlon, Mr. John Brennan, Mr. Vincent Fagan, Mr. Clarence Manion.

COMMITTEE CHAIRMEN AND MEMBERS
MUSIC
Thomas Cunningham, . Chairman
Francis P. Dayton
Thomas Gorman
Walter A. Mortenson .
Philip Flynn
Joseiph P. Nugent
Bertram Metzger
PROGRAM
John Rocap, Chairman Martin Travers
James S. Lyons
William J. Simmons
Fred Rahaim
Gerald Smith
Edward McKeever
TICKET
Nicholas Bohling,
Chairman
Frank Gartland Willlam Harrington Walter Scholand Edward Brennan John Nelson
ARRANGEMENTS
James T. Conners, Chairman
Joseph A. Lauerman William O’Malley Austin J. Barlow Vincent J. Donohue Robert Ruppe Stanley Obelmus
816
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame Mourns Death of William P. Breen
The entire student body, and all others connected with Notre Dame, were greatly shocked, a week ago Tuesday, April 22, by the news of the death- of William P. Breen, unquestionably one of the foremost Catholic laymen in the state of Indiana. His death, which came about as the result of a combination of heart disease and dropsy, was rather sudden to many who knew him; his friends little realized that for the past six months he had kept himself alive only by the great fortitude and indomitable perseverance, which was his throughout his entire life. From March, when he received the last sacraments of the Catholic Church, until the day he died, his death seemed imminent but, rallying at intervals, he lasted throughout Lent until Easter, when death finally relieved him of his long suffering.
He was known to most Notre Dame men as a trustee of the University, and as donor of the Breen Medal fox' oratory, for he was himself a gifted speaker and wished to encourage this talent in others. 'His well-developed powers of oratory, combined with his keen, logical mind, made him one of Indiana’s greatest public speakers. His advice was always at'a premium, and it was constantly sought by others who knew that his counsel and co-operation carried weight.
Not only was he known to a re-' stricted few at Notre Dame, but because of his connection with numerous Catholic organizations, he attained national prominence. Soon after his graduation from the University of Notre Dame, in 1877, he was recognized as one of the outstanding lawyers in Indiana. On his return to his home in Fort Wayne, Indiana, after his studies at Notre Dame, he-entered the law offices of Coombs, Morris and Bell, and after two years under their tutelage he was admitted to the bar of Indiana. Mr. Breen, who was at this time only twenty years old, then associated himself with Judge Warren H. Withers, and this partnership continued for three years, when, upon the death of Judge Withers in November of 1882 he practiced law, independently, for eleven years.
His private practice grew to con-Judge Withers in November of 1882, he practiced law independently, for time with John Morris, Jr.,-the son of Judge Morris. This combination soon became recognized as one of the
most influential in the state of Indiana. Recently, however, it was dissolved and Mr. Breen became associated with James R. Newkirk, which partnership lasted until Mr. Breen’s death.
His untiring efforts in his profession brought great credit on the bar association of the state which he represented. During the years 1903 and 1904, he was President of the Indiana Bar Association; after this he became a member of the executive committee of the American Bar Association, in which capacity he served during the years 1903 to 1906. During this later period he served as a delegate, appointed by President Roosevelt, to the Universal Congress of Lawyers and Jurists, held in St. Louis in 1904.
Besides the widow, Mrs. Odelia Breen, Mr. Breen is mourned by Sister Imelda, of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame, and Sister Regina, of the Sisters of Charity, St. Louis, Missouri, both first cousins of the deceased.
COMMERCE FORUM CHOOSES EMBLEM
Two meetings of the Commerce Forum were held during the past week. A general meeting was held cn Wednesday during which a program was outlined for the remainder of the year. Included in this program is a banquet to be held about May 15th. A part of the proposed program was carried out by assigning to juniors topics on which they are to speak at future meetings. After careful consideration, a committee has chosen the official insignia of the organization. It is a key of original and attractive design, symbolic of commerce, justice, sincerity, knowledge and profits.
❖--------------------------A
NOTICE!
Students contemplating ordering football tickets for their families or friends, for the games on the Notre Dame schedule, should stop in at the Athletic Office and leave their name and address in order that application blanks may be mailed to them the latter part of July. The ticket sale opens August 1, and as all orders are filled according to the date received, it is best to place orders early.	.
------------------------—*
JOHN T. FREDERICK TO TEACH HERE	:
Professor John T. Frederick, of the University of Iowa, is to be a member of the English faculty at Notre Dame next year. According to the present plans, he will teach three courses: English 14, Poetry of the Nineteenth Century; English 16, Nineteenth Century Criticism; and English 23, Short Story Writing, Advanced.
Prof. Frederick was graduated from the University of Iowa in 1915, and took a master’s degree from that school in 1917. From 1917 to 1919 he was head of the department of -English at the State Normal College, Moorhead, Minnesota; he was assist- -ant-professor of English at the Uni- A versity of Pittsburgh for the yeai’ 1922-23. Since 1924 he has been at the University of Iowa, having been ( associate professor of English from 1924 to 1929, and professor of English for the year 1929-1930. •
He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa. >-The activity for which he is most widely known is the publishing of The Midland, the famous literary maga- , zine. In 1915 he started this magazine, and for fifteen years he has been the editor-in-chief. The offices of The Midland are to be moved to Chicago next year, so that he can attend to the business of publishing it while he X is teaching at Notre Dame.
ARMSTRONG HONORED AT < ALUMNI CONVENTION
James Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni Association here, was elected vice-president and director, for the Middle West, of the National Catholic Alumni Federation, at its convention in Washington, last month. At the same convention, John T. Balfe, of New York, was chosen to represent Notre Dame on the Exec- j. utive Committee of the Federation and Francis J. Ducey was elected a member of the Board of Trustees.
During the convention Mr. Armstrong read a paper entitled “Adult Education and Catholic Alumni.”
From Washington Mr. Armstrong went to Amherst, Mass., to the convention of the American Alumni Commission, of which he is the director in this district. At Amherst he is leading the discussion of “Alumni Financial Problems.”
NOTICE TO JUNIORS!
/ Those Juniors who have not yet made their pin deposits will please do so at once. Sample of sister pin may
. be seen in Room 423, Walsh Hall.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
817
GLEE CLUB RETURNS FROM EAST
One of the most successful Easter tours ever taken by the University Glee Club ended Monday morning when Director Joseph J. Casasanta and the thirty-four members of his traveling club returned to the campus from a twelve day concert trip through eastern cities.	’
The club first appeared at the Hippodrome Theatre in New York City, for four days. Twelve programs were presented there, and each time the men were tendered ovations by packed houses. This year marked the first time that the club has appeared on the professional stage in any large city.
Thomas J. Kerrigan and S. Jerome Roach, tenoi- and baritone soloists, were well received at every presentation. They were given many encores at every concert, except at the Hippodrome where the limited time did not permit.
Many receptions were given in honor of the men in New York City. They were the guests of the Metropolitan-Notre Dame Alumni, on Universal Notre Dame Night, at a dinner in the Fraternity Club. Easter Sunday they attended High Mass in St. Patrick’s Cathedral. This Mass was celebrated by Cardinal Hayes, to whom the club was presented following the services. The Cardinal expressed great regard for Notre Dame, and signified this by his hearty reception of the club.
Miss Ruth Etting, of musical comedy fame, was the guest of the club at a luncheon at the McAlpin Hotel on April 23. Following the meal, Miss Etting sang a number of the songs which she-has made famous.
The club topped off its New York engagement by broadcasting from WEAF over the National Broadcasting Company chain during the Radio-Keith-Orpheum hour on April 22. The network of the evening extended from coast to coast. Two songs of the campus, and one Easter hymn, were sung at that time, which marked the second time within a year that the club has sung over the NBC chain.
After fulfilling the contract at the Hippodrome, the club appeared in six eastern cities in the course of their return trip to the University. Paterson, New Jersey, was the first stop, where the concert was sponsored by the National Council of Catholic Women. Previous to the evening concert, the men sang a number of
songs for the Sisters of the city. The concert and reception in Paterson was arranged by Edward Phelan, junior manager, whose home is in that city. The club was welcomed by Mayor John V. Hinchliffe. Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, was the scene of the next concert. The Knights of Columbus were in charge. In addition to planning a tour of the steel mills and of Lehigh University during the afternoon, they gave a reception at which Mayor Robert Pfeifle presided.
Following the Bethlehem concert, the club boarded a Pullman car for .the over-night jump to Binghamton, New York. Here they were taken around the city and surrounding towns in the morning, and then they sang three times during the day. Programs were presented for the Orphans’ Home, and for the Sisters. The concert was arranged by the Philharmonic Society of St. Patrick’s Church, through Peter J. Wack of Binghamton, associate manager.
The club then journeyed to Auburn, New York, where the Knights of’ Columbus, undei- the . supervision of Charles Geherin, were the hosts. The men had time to sing but one concert here, due to their late arrival from Binghamton. They were entertained at a dance following the concert, also given by the Knights of Columbus.
Last Sunday the men attended Mass in Auburn and then traveled to Niagara Falls where they sang a concert during the afternoon. They had time to see the famous falls before returning to Buffalo for the evening concert which was given by St. Lucy’s Italian Church. Lack of time forced the club to leave the stage when the large audience was calling for encores. Buffalo was the last concert city of the tour.
Director Casasanta praised the members cf the club for their singing during the entire 'trip. Irregular hours and long rides made little difference in their work, he said. The best concert of the trip was given in Buffalo, the last stop, after the men had been traveling for eleven days. This concert marked the passing of eleven senior members of the club, many of whom have traveled with the organization for four years.
The Varsity Four, composed of Ronald Zudeck, William McAleer, Jerome Roach, and John Beljon was especially well received at every con-
SEMINARIAN WINS CONSTI-
TUTIONAL CONTEST
Notre Dame’s contestant in the National Constitutional Oratorical contest was chosen the afternoon of April 13, at a contest held in Walsh Hall. The representative of the school is Charles Lee, C.S.C., former Breen medallist and a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. His subject was “The Constitution.”
Other contestants were Walter-Stanton, a senior in the College of Law, who discussed “A Constitutional Duty”; John F. Pick, freshman in the College of Arts and Letters, whose subject was “The Constitution and Its Founders”; and Charles Vaughn, also a freshman in the College of Arts and Letters, who spoke on “The Constitution.”
Judges were Professor James F. Kirby of the College of Law, Professor William A. Downey of the College of Arts and Letters, and ProfessorWilliam J. Coyne of the Speech Department.
The winner will compete in the state contest which is to be held at DePauw University at Greencastle, Indiana.	'
STADIUM CONSTRUCTION PROGRESSING RAPIDLY All of the foundations for the new stadium have been put in, and nineteen cars of lumber have been used for the construction of the set-ups. The stadium is being erected in sections; the frame mould is set up and then the concrete poured; after that the forms are knocked down, washed and oiled, and reused. Three sections of the structure have thus far been completed. The construction manager expects to have three more finished by the end of this week.
At present there are 180 men employed. By August 15 all of the concrete work will have been completed, and the stadium will be bricked. During this week the sod from the old Cartier Field will be transferred so that it will be in good condition for the season this fall.
cert, and in particular in Buffalo, the home of Ronald Zudeck.
Jerome Parker was in charge of the managerial affairs of the club during the trip, and was assisted by Peter J. Wacks, associate manager, J. Edward Phelan, junior manager, and James K. Collins, publicity manager.	'
818
The Notre Dame Scholastic
*-------------------------------*
I
Coming Events | «------------------------------o
FRIDAY, May 2—Knights of Columbus Formal Dance, Palais Royale Ballroom, 8:30-12:00 p. m.—First Friday exercises, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 p. m.—Cleveland Club meeting, Law building, 7:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, May 3—Movies, “Hysterical Night, Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.—Track, Ohio Relays at Columbus. — Baseball, Michigan State at East Lansing.
SUNDAY, May 4—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00.— High Mass at 9:00.—Benediction at 7:30.	'
MONDAY, May 5—Metropolitan club meeting, Law building, Court room, 7:30 p. m.—Villagers club meeting, Rose Marie Tea Room.—Junior reservation of rooms.
TUESDAY, May 6—Scribblers meeting, Howard Hall “Rec” room, 7:45 p. m.—Junior reservation of rooms.
THURSDAY, May 8—Spanish club meeting, Law building, 7:30 p. m.— Spectators meeting, Journalism room, Library, 7:45 p. m.—Deadline for the next Scrip.—Sophomore reservation of rooms.—Publications banquet, Faculty dining room, 6:30 p. m.
FRIDAY, May 9—The Senior Ball.— Sophomore reservation of rooms.
PRESS CLUB PICNIC TO BE HELD MAY 8.
Next Thursday, May 8, marks the annual Press Club outing, to be held at Christiana Lake, in southern Michigan. John Bergan has arranged the picnic, and has provided for food and entertainment. The outing is given each year for the members of the Press Club and a few guests, and it promises, as always, to be thoroughly enjoyable.
NOTICE!
President Cyril Mulleri>announc-es that applications are now being received for membership in the Scribblers. The applications should state literary and other qualifications, and must be sent to Murray Hickey Ley, 327 Sorin Hall, not later than Tuesday, May 6.
❖
TOM CONLEY BANQUET, THURSDAY, MAY 8
The united Pennsylvania Clubs of the University have joined to honor football captain-elect Tom Conley with a testimonial banquet. The affair will be held Thursday, May 8, at 6:30, in the Faculty Dining Hall.
Speakers for the evening will be prominent campus figures. The list includes the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, Professor Clarence Manion, Coach George Keogan, Doctor Daniel O’Grady, and Mr. John Connelly.
Anyone interested in attending the banquet should see either Harry Francis in Sorin Hall, or Tom Murphy in Walsh Hall, before Wednesday, noon, as the number of tickets on sale is limited. Bulletins with full particulars will be posted later in the week.
PLANS PROGRESSING FOR WRANGLERS’ ORATORI-
CAL CONTEST
Plans for the Northwestern Indiana High School Oratorical Contest, sponsored by the Wranglers Club, are rapidly reaching completion. Invitations have been mailed to the most prominent high schools in this section of the state, by the committee in charge of the event. John Houlihan is chairman of the contest.
Answers to the invitations are being received daily by the club, a fact which indicates that the occasion will be the best in years. Medals and cups are being donated by Joseph MacNamara, last year’s president of the club, and former editor-in-chiei of the Juggler.	■
Enthusiastic comments have been received from the principals of many of the high schools participating, praising the Wranglers in their enterprise. Other worth-while comments have been mailed in by prominent orators and debaters in and around South Bend.
The contest will be held in Washington Hall on the evening of May 16. Judges for the event have not yet been selected, but John Houlihan announces that several well-known men are being considered.
“The contest this year will be the best ever held,” prophesies Houlihan, “if we can judge by the early response and co-operation of the Northern Indiana high schools. The committee is functioning splendidly and is anticipating a large crowd on May 16.”
Assisting Mr. Houlihan are John Wilson, Frank Noll, and Neil Hurley.
ARTICLE ON “JUGGLER” IN COLLEGE HUMOR
The Juggler, sprightliest of Notre Dame’s publications, has obtained national publicity this month as the featured college magazine in the latest issue of College Humor. A full page is given the article, which was written by John Nanovic, present Juggler editor. A cartoon by Bob Rice from one of this year’s issues also appears.
The Juggler is among the first college magazines to be written up in this fashion foi' College Humor. Mr. Nanovic rapidly sketches the history of the Juggler, one of the youngest of college comics, since its first appearance just before the Christmas vacation in 1919. At first only two men kept the book going until it was officially recognized by the school in its third year.
The author makes special note of the fact that the Juggler has always truly represented Notre Dame by being known as one of the cleanest college comics in the country. A list of former editors and the present positions of some of them are given. The article closes with mention of four former staff members who are now on the University’s faculty.
$---------------------
N. D. Academy of Science Notes
♦---------------------
Monday evening, April 28, two juniors in the College of Science, Joseph Patrick Keogh, and Paul W. Carney, read papers before the Notre Dame Academy of Science.
The two papers were discussions of ultra-violet rays. Mr. Keogh spoke on the “History and Physics of the Ultra-Violet Ray.” He explained with the aid of diagrams the principle upon which the artificial production of these rays depends.
—o—
Mr. Carney, discussed the subject: “Physiological Applications of UltraViolet Rays to Disease.” He explained how to prevent various diseases when the beneficial rays of the sun are denied the body.
—o—	"
Moving pictures were introduced after the discussions to explain how the sun’s rays are kept from the earth, and how artificial means must be taken to guard against diseases due to the lack of the sun’s beneficial rays.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., Delivers
Address on Universal Notre Dame Night
Education to stabilize man rather than to promote intellectual and moral chaos, is the idea of a university visioned and practiced by the University of Notre Dame, the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., declared in a radio speech broadcast from the Chicago Tribune Station, WGN, as a part of the celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night, Monday, April 21.
We find in the address an important reference to the philosophic and religious idea that obedience and happiness go hand in hand. “With considerable success,” the President said, “Notre Dame teaches men to obey and be happy. What gives efficacy to the ‘law of liberty’ is the free acceptance by reasonable men of legitimate restrictions. The game of life, as any other game, can be played only within the rules.”
Father O’Donnell stated that material size and numerical development are not the aims of our University. He continued by saying: “What then is the particular ambition of Notre Dame? At a time when ‘service’ is the catch-word of the hour, Notre Dame does not admit any utilitarian obligations, as those obligations are commonly understood. At a time when education has turned inward, and almost the chief study of the schools is how to be schools, Notre Dame is not experimenting in educational theories, methods, or practices. At a time when all truth is open to challenge, Notre Dame firmly holds that much truth is to be accepted, and its challengers challenged. At a time when tradition is at a discount, Notre Dame believes that, with the touchstone of what is proved in physical science and in philosophy, new truth is to be obtained. Above all, when in our day the processes of education are considered paramount, Notre Dame maintains that the pur-
EDUCATION CLUB TO MEET MONDAY
Ths second meeting of the men interested in the formation of an Education club will be held next Monday evening in the Journalism room of the Library at 8:00 p. m. At this meeting the new constitution' of the organization will be read and a name for the club will be chosen. Professors Kohlbrenner and Kuntz are active in the club’s formation and request all juniors interested in education to be present.
pose or end of education is that which chiefly matters.
“It is the business of the schools to teach; it is quite as much their business, we affirm, to make sure that the advantages of wider knowledge secured by college men shall make these men better members of society.”
Father- O’Donnell’s speech was well received throughout the nation. Many comments were received, praising the address.
SENIOR BALL ONE WEEK FROM TONIGHT
One more week and the premiersocial event of the year; one week from tonight the members of the Notre Dame Senior Class will hold their final class dance; one week from tonight the Senior Ball of 1930.
Coon-Sanders and their orchestra, the decorations, the favors, the tea dance, all are in readiness; the stage is set, the curtain is about to rise.
The dance of the year, for the men of ’30, will be a gala affair. The committees, under the direction of General Chairman Frank Dailey, have carefully arranged every detail. The Ball of this year is expected to be one of the most outstanding social events ever held by any graduating class of the University. The Ward Sisters of Aurora, Illinois, will add a novelty feature to the affair by their tap dancing.
The favors chosen by the committee in charge are Sheaffer fountain pen desk sets, colored in unique black and red designs. The decoration committee, under the guidance of Jerome Parker, will introduce a setting new to university class dances. Plans for a futuristic, Chinese motif have been worked out and now that they are perfected a distinct interpretation to the new art will be represented.
The Tea Dance, which is to be held Saturday afternoon, May 10, at the Chain-o-Lakes Country Club, will be something extraordinary in the weekend entertainment. Arrangements have also been made for a bridge luncheon at the Oliver Hotel, during the hours of the dance, for the mothers of the guests.
A nine o’clock Mass will be held in Morrissey Hall chapel for seniors and their guests. Immediately following Mass breakfast will be served in the Faculty dining hall.
819
DEBATERS DEFEAT
- PRINCETON, N.Y.U.
The debating schedule reached its climax last week when a team including Francis McGreal, John Keefe, and Thomas Keegan met and defeated representatives of New York University and Princeton, winning on both occasions by a two-to-one decision. The Notre Dame debaters were welcomed at New York University on April twenty-third, and met a team from that school on the same evening, the debate being held in Mount Vernon before an unusually large audience. Two of the three judges ruled the arguments of the visiting team to be more convincing.
Two days later the same speakers opened debating relations with Princeton at the Knights of Columbus auditorium in Trenton. The three Princeton speakers presented strong arguments but were defeated.’ Notre Dame won the votes of two of the three judges: H. P. Collins, a Junior High School principal in Trenton; John J. Cleary, a prominent newspaper editor; and Counselor Louis Rudner. Judge J. Connor, who acted as presiding officer, thanked the debaters for speaking at the Knights of Columbus auditorium and invited them to return at some time in the future.
Throughout the season the question for discussion has been, “Resolved: That the nations should adopt a policy of complete disarmament, excepting such forces as are necessary for police protection.” The logical, well-informed arguments of the Notre Dame teams, on both sides of this question, as well as their very excellent oratorical ability, made possible their truly enviable record. The squad was ably coached by the Reverend Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., professor in the economics department. Under his guidance, the teams won. outstanding victories over such universities as Purdue, Florida, Northwestern, and Michigan. The brilliant record of this year should intensify the interest of the general student body in debate work.
Contributions tc Scrip — poems, essays, short stories, and plays—should be sent to Louis C. Heitger, 305 Walsh Hall. The deadline for the next number of Scrip is May the eighth.
-------------------------------
820
The Notre Dame Scholastic
❖----------------------------❖
A Man About the Campus
1
As you are gliding blissfully over' the polished floor of the Palais Roy ale tonight, take time out from your adoring preoccupation with “Her” to give a thought to Edward D. Connor. Ed is General Chairman of. the Knights of Columbus Ball
Edward D. Connor
which is being held tonight, and, therefore, is the gentleman to be thanked for giving you the chance to glide blissfully and gaze fatuously. If you think that he does not deserve to be thanked, you evidently do not know how much work a general chairman has to do. For the past few weeks Ed has worn himself thin, dashing here, there, and everywhere, in a frantic effort to take care of the million and one details that must be taken care of if a dance is to be successful. So, gentlemen who are attending the K. C. Formal, three lusty cheers for Ed Connor! All together now—Hip, hip, hoorah!
Now isn’t that a nice beginning? We thought you would like it, and it is so very hard to please one’s public in this critical day and age. But to get back to Ed Connor. There isn’t really much to say about his first two years at Notre Dame, because his modesty was so marked that he was content with a peaceful, studious, and somewhat sonmabulent existence in which- he gave no thought to fame. For the sake of - exercise, (his motto is Mens sana in sana cor-pore), he did cavort in the infields of the Freshman Hall and the Sopho
more Hall baseball teams, but outside of that he was satisfied with his books and his pipes. (We hope that he smokes a pipe.) And O yes, he was on the Sophomore Cotillion Committee. In his junior year his activities were more numerous. The Wranglers remembered the old saw about still water running deep and unanimously elected him a member of their disputatious circle. He was also on the Junior Prom Committee that year. By that time (or is it “this time?”—Confound the English language!) getting on dance committees had become a habit with him, for he is on the Senior Ball Committee this year, and if you have read the previous paragraphs of this article you know that he is Chairman of the dance which is being held tonight. Let us see: are there any more honors? Well, he joined the Spectators, under the influence of his good friend, Murray Hickey Ley; he is an alternate on the affirmative debating team; he is chairman of activities in the Calumet Club, of which he has been a member for four years; this is his fourth year in the Knights of Columbus; and last, but far from least, he is on the staff of the Scholastic. (All Scholastic staff members who read this will now give three loud cheers; all Juggler staff members three loud jeers.)
Now for a few swift closing sentences. (Did we hear you mutter a heart-felt “thank heaven?”) Ed comes from Hammond, Indiana, which is also Tony Schreiner’s home town. He lives in Sorin Hall. He wouldn’t talk about his hobbies, but Hank Horka was more than ready to volunteer information about them. According to Hank, they are baseball, philosophy, sleeping in the afternoons, and singing—especially singing. His favorite professor is Father Miltner.
“You might mention,” said Hank, “that Joe Casasanta’s heart was nearly broken when Ed refused to join the Glee Club. Really, he has a bass voice of singular richness and force. His rendition of ‘Am I Blue’ would turn Ethel Waters green -with envy; whenever he sings that song every Sorin Haller breaks down and cries. Would you like to hear him sing it?” We said that we would; and the first few bars of “Am I Blue” started to trickle out of Ed’s throat like strips of molten lead from a blast furnace (to quote Ye Editor). After a few more bars we suddenly remembered that we had an engagement in Mishawaka. And so-------—!
PUBLICATIONS BANQUET
TO BE HELD MAY 8
The annual banquet given to the •members of the editorial and business staffs of the three major campus publications, the Dome, Jziggler, and Scholastic, will be held on the evening of Thursday, May 8, according to Harley L. McDevitt, graduate manager of publications. The affair will be held in the Faculty Dining Hall.
The principal event of the evening will be the announcement, by the Reverend P. J. Carroll, C.S.C., chairman of the Board of Publications, of the editors and the advertising managers of the publications for next year. Due to the fact that there are several candidates for the positions, much interest is being manifested in the selections. The Faculty Board of Publications is meeting this week to interview the candidates.
Speakers for the occasion have not as yet been chosen. Music will be furnished by the Notre Dame Jugglers, who have played at past publication banquets.
SUMMER SCHOOL CATA-
LOGUE APPEARS
Last week the Reverend Emiel DeWulf, C.S.C., released the announcements for the summer session, 1930. The book is set in a new and more readable style of type, and contains more information than have previous issues. The entire catalogue has been . thoroughly revised and rewritten; its organization is systematized.
Notable among the new visiting professors for this summer are: Adrian Pouliot, Springfield College of Music, an instructor in piano; Richard Seidel, Chicago Symphony Orchestra, instructor in violin; and Morton D. Zabel, A.M., Loyola University, who offers a course in literary criticism.
RESERVATION OF ROOMS NOW IN PROGRESS
Reservation of rooms for next year began yesterday in the office of the Registrar. The procedure for preregistration is: payment of 825 fee to the secretary of the University; presentation of receipt at the office of the Registrar.
Seniors of 1930-31 are assigned Thursday and Friday, according to numbers published on the bulletins placed about the campus. Juniors will reserve on Monday and Tuesday, May 5 and 6, and Sophomores on May 7, 8, and 9.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
821
ROBERT BALFE ELECTED PRESS CLUB PRESIDENT
Robert C. Balfe, of Richmond, Indiana, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected president of
Robert C. Balfe
the Press Club f o r 1930-31, at the annual election of officers held Tuesday evening. Balfe served as a m e m b e r of the Scholastic staff for two years, and is sports editor of the
19 3 0 Dome. He was. publicity chairman of the 1930 Prom, and is junior manager of football. He is majoring in journalism.
William Magarral, of Pittsburgh, was named vice-president. He is also a member of the Scholastic staff, and a noted amateur boxer. Walter Beesley, of Eureka, Utah, was elected secretary-treasurer, and George Jack-oboice, of Grand Rapids, was named editor of the club for the coming year.
CAREY, BEDNAR AND HAS-LEY WIN SCRIBBLER PRIZES
The Scribblers announce with this issue of the Scholastic the results of their annual poetry contest.
The -first prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Charles Carey of Moreau Seminary, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, for the poem “Aftermath,” which merited 272 out of SCO possible points.
The second prize of ten dollars is awarded to John Bednar of Moreau Seminary for the poem “Milkweed Near the River,” which merited 269 points.
“Moods of Summer,” a sonnet sequence by Louis L. Hasley, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, was given third place by the judges with 257 points.
Honorable mention is given to Murray Hickey Ley for his “Christmas Symphony,’ ’and “Easter Symphony.”
The judges for this year’s contest were Mr. Vincent Starrett, Mr. Benjamin Musser, and Mr. M. D. Zabel. The judges expressed great satisfaction with the quality of the poetry submitted in the contest.
MUSIC AND DRAMA
Easter week seems to mark the decline of the drama and the concert stage. Mei Lan Fang extended his stay in Chicago and brought joy to the hearts of those who had the foresight to obtain seats for one of his performances. No one has been able to explain (they have as an actual fact) why we have no one in this country like Mei Lan Fang. Perhaps if we had a few traditions somewhat older than Hollywood we might have our great actor or actress.
Of course, Libby Holman, Clifton Webb, and Fred Allen have come to the Chicago stage (at the Selwyn) to present The Little Show. Needless to say, every Notre Dame man who can, will see it. Meanwhile another Little Show is> in preparation in New York. Quite naturally the three stars will leave Chicago before long to do the same sort of thing in rehearsal for next year. Revues, intimate or otherwise, are like Sinclair Lewis. They repeat until the public can no longer stand the sameness.
Tito Schipa gave a benefit concert at the Civic Opera House on Easter Sunday. His concert, which ordinarily would have been over at five or five-thirty, lasted right up to six o’clock. On the same afternoon the Gordon String Quartet played at Orchestra Hall. Two Beethoven quartets and a

McGreal to Attend State Convention of K. of C.
At a special meeting of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus held last Tuesday evening, April 29, in the Council Chambers, Walsh Hall, Francis McGreal was elected as the local council’s delegate to the Indiana State Convention, to be held shortly, at Indianapolis. The other delegate sent will be John Chevigny, Grand Knight, who is chosen by virtue of his office; and Louis Buckley and Nicholas Bohling were chosen as alternates in case either of the two regular delegates fail to attend.
The election of delegates which came as a surprise to most of the assembled brothers was fought out between Brothers McGreal and Bohling,
❖
Caesar Franck quintet made up the program. These Sunday afternoon concerts by the Gordon group cost only twenty-five cents. Thus the audience is one of real music lovers. We liked the Franck. The Beethoven was too familiar to be more than vaguely exciting, but the Franck pounded and tore at the senses until we were found on Michigan, a badly bruised mass of Notre Dame listener.
Margery Maxwell, the beautiful soprano of the Chicago Light Opera Company’s cast, is singing leads in the presentations of this season. She has been heard by more than one Notre Dame man, which is, I suppose, a compliment to Miss Maxwell.
Helen Hayes, of Coquette fame, is going to Cleveland for a few weeks as guest artist. No one seems to know whether she will be at the Playhouse or at the Ohio, which, it seems to me, usually has a summer stock company. That will be something for the bummers-home to stop off and see. Not to mention a small terminal project that Clevelanders like to mention now and then.
Next week, if it matters to you, we will list a lot (carload lot) of Victor records from Elbel’s. We expect to have at least seven cents by next week —creditors please note.
but the present Lecturer, Francis McGreal, won decisively over his opponent. This makes the third year in succession that Notre Dame Council ' delegated one of its best talkers to represent it with other councils in the state, for it was obviously because of his powers of speech which are known to all because of his position as Lecturer, and as a member of this year’s victorious debating team, that he was chosen.
Walter Scholand who is in charge • of the annual picnic this year, also made a report concerning the arrangements which have thus far been made. The date, he announced, has been tentatively set for the fifteenth of May, and the place will be either Hudson Lake or Christiana Lake.
822
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SCHOOL FOR CHEERLEADERS TO OPEN
Next Monday, according to bulletins posted yesterday, a university cheerleaders’ school will open. Under Head Cheerleader, Dan Barton and his assistants, aspirants will be trained until the end of May in rhythm, timing, gestures, acrobatics, voice, and all the other accomplishments that a good leader must have. During the summer, candidates for positions will continue practice. In the second week of school next year a head cheerleader- and four assistants will be chosen by a committee composed of the Faculty Athletic Board, the head of the Physical Education Department, the head of the Music Department, and a committee chosen from the Student Council.
During the course of preparation for the five home games next season, silent cheering will also be studied. J. Arthur Haley has stated that students will be seated in the two middle sections of the new stadium. Thus ranging from the bottom of the stands to the top, the proper effect should be obtained.
Special lectures will be given to the men by Jerry Parker, this year’s stunt manager, as well as by the heads of the Department of Music and of Physical Education.
LOCAL BRANCH OF A.I.E.E.
HOLDS LAST MEETING
The Notre Dame branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers held its final meeting last Monday evening in Chemistry Hall. Plans were discussed for a smoker to be held on May 14, and a picnic to be held May 25.
The principal speaker of the evening was Mr. H. D. Sanborn, a representative of the General Electric Company Research Laboratories of Chicago. He gave a lecture entitled “The Mysteries of Science.” The talk was illustrated with slides.
James A. Malloy, a senior in the Department of Electrical Engineering, gave a very interesting talk on the recent trip the electrical engineering students took to Muscle Shoals, Alabama.
James O’Brien, a junior in the Department of Electrical Engineering, read a paper on the subject of “Synchronous Motors.”
Refreshments were served after the talks and the regular business. About fifty students were present at the meeting.
APRIL “CATALYZER” OUT
The official organ of the Department of Chemistry, the Catalyzer, has made its second appearance on the campus this month. The main technical article of this number was written by H. Bowlus, who received his B.S. in chemical engineering last year. The title of the article is “Relationship of Boiling Points Under Reduced Pressures,” and it goes into some detail with regard to calculating boiling points under various pressures, using the Crafts-Young equation.
“Coal Tar Products” is the very interesting topic on which W. Culp, ’30, has written in very understandable style, while the editorial, “Science and Imagination,” brings home some thoughts which are worth while pondering over.
T. A. DALY PLEASES LARGE AUDIENCE
Wednesday night, in Washington Hall, Mr. T. A. Daly, poet, humorist, and columnist, celebrated the twentieth anniversary of his appearance before Notre Dame audiences. He pleaded guilty of writing verse at an early age, read letters from his correspondents, and interpreted a number of his poems. Especially notable among the latter were “Mary Mc-Crow,” “The Contractor,” and “Father Dan O’Malley.”
ARCHITECTURAL DRAW-
INGS ON EXHIBITION
An exhibition of drawings from the Beaux Arts Institute of Design is now on view in the University School of Architecture on the foui’th floor of the Main Building. The group is one which is being sent from one university to another throughout the country, and it includes the work of architecture students from several eastern colleges. The subjects of some of the drawings shown are triumphal arches, a swimming pool, memorial museums, a steel arch bridge, and others of like nature.
❖-----------------------♦
ATTENTION!
The Commencement Juggler will be on sale Wednesday, May 7, on the campus. A Senior Ball feature takes up the center spread. Get an extra copy for your Ball guest.
A-----------------------<
CAVANAUGH AND LEAHY LEAD UPPERCLASS
NOMINATIONS
John Saunders, of Lowell, Massachusetts, and Ralph Dalton, of Bloomington, Illinois, were nominated by the members of the Junior class for the office of president of next year’s senior class at a class meeting in the gymnasium, called by the Student Activities Council on Tuesday. Saunders is junior manager of football. William Leahy, of Chicago, and Joe Gavin, varsity basketball and football player from Cleveland, were nominated foi- the vice-presidency.
John Boland, of Scranton, Pennsylvania, present secretary of the class, was re-nominated for the office. He is opposed by Thomas Monahan, of Arcola, Illinois. Roy Bailie, track stai- from Hollywood, California, and James O’Brien, of Chicago, were nominated for the office of treasurer. Only two full tickets were nominated so no voting took place.
The sophomore class presented four full tickets and several independent candidates, and the results were obtained only by balloting. John C. Litcher, of Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, general chairman of the 1929 Sophomore Cotillion, won in the voting for the presidency, as did Vincent Cavanaugh, football reserve from Chicago. Jack Cooper, of Carteret, New Jersey, and Gabe Moran, of Youngstown, Ohio, were the other nominees.
Joseph Cooke, of Monticello, New York, and Francis Oelerich, of Wilmette, Illinois, were nominated foi-the vice-presidency. They defeated Bart O’Hara, of Denver, Colorado, and Oliver Powers, of Chicago. William McCormick, brilliant sprinter from Granite City, Illinois, and Vincent Whalen, of Grantwood, New Jersey, won over Bernard Heitz, of Clarksburg, West Virginia, and Harry Argus, of Springfield, Illinois, for treasurer.
Francis Coogan, of Fall River, Massachusetts, and Leonard Condon, of Rockford, Illinois, were nominated for secretary. They ran against Joseph Laughlin, of Grand Island, Nebraska, and Robert Hartman, of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
GRID TEAM GUESTS OF ROTARY
The members of the varsity football team were the guests of honor at the weekly meeting of the Rotary Club of South Bend, Wednesday noon at the Oliver Hotel.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	823
yen AND TODD TOWN
Editor’s Note.—It seems to us that one of the chief questions confronting the college graduate is his adjustment to life after graduation from college. The question is not only pertinent to those now on the eve of finishing their collegiate work; it impinges upqn the thought of all college students insofai- as they realize the inevitable reckoning to which they must sometime come; a calculation of how the gap, between what they have learned while in the university and what they learn when in the midst of every-day life, may be bridged; and implicit in the solution or non-solution of this problem is a testing of the personal, as well as of the social value of a college education.
Because of this we believe that a consideration of certain conditions and circumstances likely to confront the , graduate, is as valid as it may be useful. The first of a series of such considerations, “You and Your Town,” . follows below.
The majority of college men, upon graduation, are quite likely to find employment in some town or city; and, while we believe that our remarks here have more than place validity, nonetheless it is to such men that we address our words.
We think that we are not unreasonable in presupposing the existence of two things, in the mental experience of the men to whom we are speaking: first, that college has been the scene of a four-year attempt to develop, on the cultural side, a scale of values which has as its norms a sense of beauty, a desire for thinking for the pl easure thinking gives, a constant awareness of the preciousness of life, and the maintenance of an enduringly tolerant attitude towards others; second, a realization that the cultural differences (if any) between you and certain of your neighbors, are a result, in the main, of their lack of opportunity to obtain that which you have had— a college education.	■
The non-existence of the first factor would mean no conflict, and hence no problem; the lack of the second would involve the initiation and continuance of an intolerably priggish and selfish mental attitude.
Now, having predicated the existence of these factors, let us look at the inhabitants of the average American town, all the while remembering that the big city is nothing but an aggregation of towns.
The majority of the concerns of a majority th0 people seem to have as their object some thing or things, that are, nine times out of ten, materialistic. As a result of this, the average man or woman seems to regard education (though in not so many words) as “a value divorced from current tangible existence in the world all about men and largely without commerce with concrete realities . . (which) . . has become an ideal to which independent existence is attributed.”
These two facts loom up as indisputable; now how are you, situated in a town or city, knowing only a few people, to change matters, as the result of your college experience and your unwillingness to see things continue as they are, and overthrow materialism by one heroic, spectacular effort?
The simple truth is that you can’t do it. But there is one thing that you can do, and that is to force a wedge for the spirit in the gigantic block of materialism. But how ?
We have our two facts, materialism, and a certain attitude tow’ard education, before us. And to make a wedge in the first, we must first dissipate the second; the tendency to regard education and what it occasions, i. e., a love for the things of the spirit, as a pretty, harmless toy that has no relevancy to real life.	'
This dissipation, it seems to us, is accomplished only by each college graduate seeing himself as the recipient of an obligation to teach. You have no classroom; you have no pupils as such; but, though you may never think of the word, your teaching of others is the outgrowth of two things; your personal conduct, and, springing out of this, the influence you may have over others (however few they may be).
And when we, say conduct, here, we mean the daily unfolding of a whole which has four parts: beauty, thought, awareness, and tolerance.
You may die unnoticed and unnoted, but one person may, quite unconsciously, have been taught by you in that your influence wove into the cloth of his or her life the threads of the spirit. That person may, in an equally unobvious manner, influence another, even, quite possibly, several others. And an ever increasing number of people may come to realize that education, in the sense of a development of, and ministering to the spirit, is something that suffuses all of Life with its glow, something that candles the darkness that is over light.
In doing this, you will be entering your wedge in the block; you will be sharing the rich “ fruits and bubbling wine for your education; and in moulding sharers you are discovering companions in things of the spirit and comrades in the good life.	—M. H. L.
/
Page 824—The Notre Dame Scholastic
By T. Vi
its cuisine. (Ahem.) you imagine chicken sa buttered rolls, cocoa, fa ice cream, and cigars sei at one of our K. of C. m ings? Would you expec three-act vaudeville or r strel show to climax a ( cago Club meeting? W; in the early days offered 4 and more.
From the standpoint scholastic and athletic usei
IN 1909, according to the Scholastic of that year, Walsh Hall was' built to “meet the demands for room by an ever-increasing student body.” In 1909 Notre Dame knew nothing of such a thing as a ‘'Gold Coast.” Democracy was supreme; luxury was somewhat removed from the lives of the ordinary Notre Dame man, unless perhaps he allowed himself the pleasure of after shave “talc” before visiting his “cousin” in St. Mary’s.
ness, the boys in Walsh, : years, seem to have been zero minus. The year 1915 W alsh, for the first time, possessors of a championship iijt hall football team. Interhall championships meant a lot those days. They moved the poet laureate of Walsh, c La Rue Lawbaugh, to commemorate in verse the import; event. Stand by, you contemporaries and supporters" Scrip and note:
The cornerstone was laid with appropriate ceremony in March, 1909. The boys of Sorin and Corby, jealous of their potential rival, predicted that no good would come of such an ambitious residence hall. You see, Walsh was intended to be one of the finest college residence halls in America. Suites with private baths were ordered for the new edifice; pressed Bedford brick was to take the place of the traditional yellow brick which clothes the older buildings of the
“WALSH HALL”
Our teams have been an awful mess, The worst in interhall, I guess, We’ve been the “goats” in every sport Our teamwork, of the “class D” sort.
campus.
Walsh was built during the presidency of the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. In September, 1909, the new hall was opened to students. Everything in the way of recreation and luxury was provided for. An auditorium (used for public speaking classrooms now) rivalled Washington hall as a place of recreation and entertainment. A billiard parlor was given the northern half of the basement, instead of the customary space for a hall library. Campus democrats pledged themselves to cherish in their manly hearts the dirsst kind of hate for the new hall.
The first rectorship, a rather doubtful honor, in the eyes of the student body, was given to the Reverend Michael Quinlan, C.S.C. In direct refutation of campus predictions his rectorship was suc-csssful and to all appearances enjoyable, both to himself and his charges. The residents of Walsh were a rather conglomerate body. “Prep” school boys as well as university students resided there. The “die-hards” of Sorin, Corby, and Badin, quick to sieze an opportunity for ridicule, branded Walsh Hallers with the most insulting epithet known to youth. Walsh Hall had gone “sissy.”
The “inmates” made the best of their fellows’ scorn and became a clannish sort. The consequence, naturally, was that Walsh became famous for its spirit. The editor' of the Scholastic in 1911 (evidently a resident) lauds the spirit editorially, remarking on the manifest enthusiasm shown in all things interhall by the “gay young blades.”
After the keen edge of rivalry was dulled, Walsh became the mecca for club meetings, entertainments, and smokers. If for no other reason, Walsh became famous for the general excellence of
Wal
»3«
The Notre Dame Scholastic—Page 825
ir
McIntire
L
Our marks in class are just as bad, Each roils at home an angry dad;
j Our “dinky” is the worst in school And “flunks” for everyone, the rule.
But now at last we’ve hit our stride On Company C we gaze with pride; All now forget the blackened past, For Walsh has won a first at last.
Naturally Walsh could not for long remain a pariah in eyes of the campus. One reason is that Walsh excelled die general excellence of its rectors. Father Quinlan ?tndered in favor of the Reverend George MacNamara, .C., one of the most popular campus priests. He, in i, was succeeded by the Reverend John Farley, C.S.C., ;1 recently rector of Off-Campus students. He was fol-sd by the Reverend John Devers, C.S.C., the Reverend rick Haggerty, C.S.C., the Reverend James Stack, C.S.C., the present and deservedly popular Father James Ryan.
The offer was accepted. Father George Albertson, who was prefect-ing on “Butch’s” floor, stationed himself in front of that gentleman’s room to make doubly sure the bet would be paid in the rector’s favor. “Butch”
waited until dark and started up the fire-escape. Friends, at the appointed moment, gathered far down the corridor and started a mock fight. This distracted Father- Albert
Dne of the favorite stories told of Walsh Hall concerns famous “bet” made by “Butch” Baujan, present coach Dayton University and former student here.
“Butch,” it seems, prided himself on his ability to “sneak without being observed by the priests. One day he made iet with the rector of Walsh and the prefects that he Id enter the hall and go to his room without being seen, i dramatic entrance naturally was to be made at night, r'
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., during whose presidency Walsh was built.
son from his mission and when he left his station to chase them away “Butch” darted into his room, winning the bet. We were unable to learn the terms of the bet, or how the rector paid it.
Another story is told of Father McGinn. Father McGinn had a demerit list, a sort of card index affair which’ seriously embarrassed more than one student. In fact, a plot was hatched whereby the list was to be stolen from under his very nose. The plot succeeded, but how, and under what circumstances, we do-not know. The particulars have been buried with the years.
Walsh retained its reputation as mecca of the plutccracy until 1926, when Howard, always a freshman hall, and Morrissey made serious bids for that honor. Lyons hall, completed a year later, all but stripped Walsh of her former glory. Not the glory of tradition or reputation, for they are exclusively Walsh hall property, but -no longei- does the “Gold Coast” bound the campus between Sorin and Dore road. Walsh still rears her head proudly; her straight, plain golden walls, standing at attention beside the pines, border the southwest corner of the quadrangle. She is still the “Gold Coast.” Howard, Morrissey, and Lyons were built to accommodate the overflow from Walsh.
This year the rectorship belongs to the Reverend James Ryan, C.S.C. He is assisted by the Reverend Frederick Gassensmith, C.S.C., and the Reverend Raymond Murray, C.S.C. They are popular, deservedly so, and enjoy the supreme confidence and good will of the entire hall. While the athletic records have not been impressive, the scholastic achievements have been quite satisfactory. Walsh will always be Walsh. Incidentally, everyone in the hall knows what the chapel looks like. They attended a mass meeting there one night.
Walsh Hall is never so popular as in the warm days of spring when the freshmen and sophomores stand in line to register for rooms for the coming year. Each has his ambitions to secure one of those roomy “doubles,” only to find that some unscrupulous fellows had re-reserved them for another year. Failing here, they register in Sophomore Hall or in Corby, and generate an eternal hate for all things “gold coastish.” Walsh has also become the favorite residence of long-term students who have spent their year in Sorin, and who have stayed on the campus to teach, study or do graduate
. work.
826
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Baseball Squad Splits Even on Trip South
Lisicki Turns in Two Wins; Palermo Is Batting Star on Trip.
WITH a record of three games won and a like number lost on the tour of the Southland, the Notre Dame ball tossers returned this week to prepare for an extensive campaign against teams from several midwestern universities. The Keogan-coached boys engaged Wisconsin at Madison on Wednesday, and are now well primed for the tilt with Michigan State at Lansing Saturday.
The southern trip carried the Fighting Irish nine to Florida and Georgia, where they took the long end of the score in two games with Georgia Tech at Atlanta, divided a doubleheader with the Florida University Gaitors, and dropped two contests to the soldiers at Fort Benning, Columbus, Ga.
The local lads lost the two games at the fort to a crew of “old heads,” and should have broken even on the two-day stand, but for a freak home run that fell with the bases loaded. However, Keogan’s proteges won three out of four of their contests with collegiate nines, and made a very creditable showing with a snappy brand of baseball.
Notre Dame, 5-0; Florida, 4-1 tells of the results of the Fighting Irish against the Gaitors. A clean sweep of the Georgia Tech series was made by the scores of 3-1 and 5-3. The soldiers showed the visitors the way by letting Notre Dame down 9-5 and 8-5. Errorless ball was played by the Fighting Irish nine in four of the games, the hot weather finally telling, and paved the way for several bobbles in the Fort Benning game.
At Gainesville, Fla., April 21 Notre Dame, 5-0; Florida, 4-1
The Notre Dame basebailers split a doubleheader with the Gaitors with scores of 5-4 and 1-0. The latter game was a pitchers’ duel between Jim Dilley, Notre Dame flinger, and
Lefty Guise, Florida’s southpaw, who has been signed by the Yankees to appear after the completion of his college course. This game was shortened to seven innings, during which Guise allowed only three hits and Dilley six. The latter pitched almost flawless ball, keeping the Gaitor’s hits well scattered except in the second inning when Sauls doubled to left field to start the frame, and Slough followed with a clean single to score Sauls and the only run of the contest.
The feature of the first game was the pitching of Lisicki, and Sullivan’s home run which came in the fourth inning after Mahoney had doubled. Sullivan’s drive was one of the longest ever hit in the Florida park. The extreme heat began to tell on the northern boys in the second game and slowed up their game a bit.
The box score:
FIRST GAME
Notre Dame B R	Forida	
	h	B R H
Palermo, ss 3 0	1	Lagamo, ss 3 1 0
Moran, cf 4 0	0	Berr, cf	4 0 0
Mahoney, 3b 4 1	1	Black, 2b 4 2 2
Feehery, rf 4 1	1	Shirley, c 4 0 2
O’Keefe, 2b 4 1	1	Fiske, If	4 10
Sullivan, lb 3 2	1	Sauls, rf	4 0 0
Nolan, If 4 0	2	Slough, 3b 3 0 1
Lordi, c	4 0	1	Evers, lb 2 0 0
Lisicki, p 3 0	0	Fisher, p	4 0 0
Mannix, p 0 0	0	
Totals 33 5 8 Totals 32 4 5
Score by innings:	RHE
Notre Dame........,....010 200 002—5 8 0
Florida ...............000 000 220—4 5 1
SECOND GAME Notre Dame	Florida
	B	R H		B		R H	
Palermo, ss	3	0	0	Lagano, ss	3	0	1
Moran, cf	3	0	0	Berr, cf	3	0	1
Mahoney, 3b 3		0	1	Black, 2b	3	0	0
Feehery, rf	2	0	1	Shirley, c	2	0	0
O’Keefe, 2b	3	0	0	Fiske, If	3'	0	0
Sullivan, lb	2	0	1	Sauls, rf	3	1	3
Nolan, L	3	0	0	Slough, 3b	3	0	0
Lordi, c	2	0	0	Evers, lb	3	0	0
Dilley, P	2	0	0	Guise, p	2	0	1
Totals	23	0	3	Totals	25	1	6
Score by	innings				It	H	E
Notre Dame				..000 000	0—0	3	0
Florida 						...000 100	0—1	6	0
(Continued on Page 828)
TWO-MILE TEAM
WINS GREAT RACE
AT DRAKE RELAYS
pHE greatest two-mile team I in the country today,”— such was the introduction Captain Joe Abbott, Joe Quigley, Brant Little, and Alex Wilson received when they appeared for their race in the Drake Relays at Des Moines, Iowa, last Saturday afternoon. And, as was remarked after the race, these Fighting Irish lived up to expectations in every way when they won a smashing victory in 7 minutes 54 8/10 seconds. With each man averaging 1:58 7/10 for his half-mile, the Blue and Gold thinlies ran away with the race, and Brant Little, running anchor, finished twenty yards ahead of Taylor of Washington State College, who made a valiant attempt to catch the flying Canadian in the last quarter mile.
The Notre Dame football relay team, composed of O’Connor, Kaplan, Brill, and Mullins, finished in second place for the second successive year. Last season Army’s fleet gridsters stepped the 440-yards in :43 9/10 with Notre Dame’s men right on their heels, and this year Tulane lowered the mark by 3/10 seconds with Notre Dame again a slight yard back.
Bob McDonald surprised with a second in the javelin, beating such men as Hokuf of Nebraska, Chambers of Illinois, Faytinger of Nebraska, and Hammond of Southern Methodist. This was the first meet of the year for McDonald and his throw of 187 feet 2 inches is a wonderful showing. He should be among the leaders before the season closes.
(Continued on Page 830)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
827
“QuigZey, Most Improved Runner,” Says Coach
Captained Cross-Country Team Although Only a
Junior.
JOE QUIGLEY, whom Coach Nicholson fondly admits is the most improved man on his track squad this year, started out to be a basketball player. In his high school days at Shenandoah (Pa.). High, Joe was one of the most dependable men on the squad and was awarded a monogram for his efforts in each of his four years there. Upon entering Notre Dame in the fall of 1927, he was content to let his brother, Tom, uphold the family name, which had become by that time well known whereever athletics were mentioned.
When school began in 1928 Joe was one of two sophomores who earned regular places on the Blue and Gold cross-country team. The rest of the team was composed of seniors—the Brown brothers, Bob Brennan, Pete Morgan, and others of equal experience. Joe and his classmate, Jim Biggins, proved to be dependable performers, however, and placed in nearly every meet.
The indoor season offered Joe his first real opportunity to prove himself, but a leg injury kept him from competition for a large part of the time and he was able to take part in only two meets—the Wisconsin and C. I. C. tests. A few weeks of practice outdoors seemed to be all that he needed, and his improvement from that time on was nothing short of sensational.
In the State meet at Bloomington he lost a close race to Orval Martin, of Purdue, who has yet to be defeated in collegiate competition. He continued with a brilliant victory over his team-mate, Don McConville, and Hackney in the Michigan State meet, and then climaxed his season’s work in the Invitation meet at Cartier field on June 1. On that day he finished third to Alex Wilson, then a member of Notre Dame’s Frosh squad, and Niblock, of the Illinois A. C., in a race in which all three men broke the field record for the half-mile. Wilson’s time of 1:54 3/5 lowered the old mark by nearly three seconds.
Quigley received the signal honor last September of being elected to captain a Notre Dame team in his
Joe Quigley
junior year. He was chosen to lead the Blue and Gold harriers through the most gruelling schedule a Notre Dame cross-country team has ever faced. His consistent work of the previous year earned for him this honor, and before the season was well under way he proved himself worthy of it. Although a check-up at the end of the season failed to show a winning percentage, the results were written off as highly successful because of the high class of the conquerors. Michigan State, runner-up to the national titlists, eked out a one-point victory, while Indiana, Big Ten champs, took Captain Quigley’s boys into camp by only five points.
During the past indoor season Joe pulled the “iron-man” stunt in every dual meet on the schedule by running both the 880 and the mile. And now he has turned his attention to the quarter-mile. All year Coach Nicholson had been looking for a consistent man to run the fourth leg of the mile relay, but De had never given Quigley much consideration. Several weeks ago, Joe got into a 440-yard time trial with Scanlon, Bradley, Mil-
Runs Anything From 440-Yds. to Mile; One More Year Left.
ler, Macbeth, and some other’ quartermilers, more for a “speed workout” than for any other reason, and surprised “Nick,” as well as everybody else, by winning the heat in the very good time of :51 flat. This exhibition won for him the fourth place on the team; “Nick” already had ample proof . of his consistency.
His best performances this year, however, have been with the undefeated two-mile relay team. In their first appearance at Madison Square Garden, New York, the team broke the existing record by nearly seven seconds, and Quigley’s running was one of the feature’s of the evening’s entertainment. Two days later, ar the Seton Hall games, in Newark, New Jersey, Don McConville replaced Joe on the relay team and Joe was entered in a special 1000-yard event with Phil Edwards, dusky N. Y. U. star, and several othei- noted eastern runners. Starting from scratch with Edwards, Quigley stuck with his more famous opponent for the entire distance and finished a slight three yards back.	.
Again in the Illinois relays, Joe’s running was the most outstanding of the Blue and Gold quartet when Coach Nicholson’s men walked away with the two-mile event at Champaign. This was the final indoor meet of the year, and the team did not run again until last Saturday, when they scored an easy victory over the best the Middle West and Far West could offer at the Drake relays. Joe ran the second .leg of the race that day and more than held his own with his opponents.
Quigley is a junior in the College of Commerce and has one more year of competition in both cross-country and in track. If his work this year can be taken as a criterion he may be expected to be one of the leading point-makers of the team next season. He has already proved his worth at any distance from 440 yards to a mile* but we do not think that he has yet reached his peak. When he does, he will be a mighty tough man to beat.
828
The Notre Dame Scholastic
BASEBALL SQUAD SPLITS EVEN (Continued from Page 826)
At Atlanta, Ga., April 23
Notre Dame, 3; Georgia Tech, 1
George Keogan’s baseball nine won a tight game from the Georgia Tech ball tossers in which Lefty Palt, Notre Dame’s sophomore hurler, and Joe Palermo, shortstop, copped individual honors. Neither team muffed the ball, Palermo handling nine chances flawlessly as well as garnering three safe hits in four trips to the plate. Palt allowed but seven hits and did not allow a single walk.
Harry Francis, flashy left fielder for the Fighting Irish, scored two of his team’s runs. He doubled to open the game and was brought in by Moran’s blow. He got on again in the eighth when he was hit by a pitched ball, stole second, advanced to third on Askew’s sacrifice, and again scored on a single by Moran. It was a hard-earned victory for the Notre Dame players who were still laboring under the handicap of sweltering heat..
The box score Notre Dame B R Francis, If 3 2 Askew, 2b 10 Moran, cf 2 0 Feehery, rf 4 0 Sullivan, lb 4 0. Palei-mo, ss 4 1 O’Keefe, 3b 4 0 Lordi, c	3	0 Palt, p	3	0	H 1 0 1 1 0 3 1 0 1	Georgia Tech. B R Pullen	4	1 Terrill	3	0 McKee	3	0 Harper	4	0 Ritchie	3	0 Waldrep	3	0 Farmer	3	0 Preston	3	0 Brannon	3	0 Jones	1	0	H 1 0 1 0 1 2 1 0 0 0
Totals	28 3 8	Totals	30 1 7 Score by innings:	RHE Notre Dame 	110	000	010—3	8	0 Georgia Tech 	100	000	000—1	7	0 Two-base hits—Francis. Three-base hits— Feehery. Double plays—Palermo to Askew to Sullivan; Terrill to Ritchie to Preston. Hit by pitcher—by Brannon, Askew and Francis.			
low. Georgia Tech was found guilty of committing four errors.	'
The highlights of the game were Francis’ steal home and a home run by Moran a moment later. Francis n got on first by forcing O’Keefe at third and then advanced to third base when the Tech third sacker threw wild to first in an attempted double play. On the next pitch Francis slid , in safely under the catcher. Lisicki ' ' proved equal to the task in the pinches ( although he allowed the opposition nine hits.
The box score:	„
At Atlanta, Ga., April 24
Notre Dame, 5; Georgia Tech, 3
Behind the steady hurling of Lisicki, the Irish took Georgia Tech into camp in a game that lacked the color shown in the tilt the previous day. Keogan’s men again turned in a flawless exhibition of fielding, but inability to hit when hits meant runs kept the score
Notre Dame			Georgia Tech.		
	B	B	h	B	R H
Francis, If	3	1	0 Pullen, ss	4	1 3	1
Askew, 2b	3	1	0 Terrill, 3b	4	1 1
Moran, cf	3	0	2 McKee, If	4	0 1	J
Feehery, rf	5	0	0 Waldrep, rf	4	0 0
Sullivan, lb	4	1	2 Harper, cf	4	0 2
Palermo, ss	5	0	1 Ritchie, 2b	4	0 1
O’Keefe, 3b	4	0	1 Farmer, c	2	0 0	■
Lordi, c	4	1	0 Dawson, c	2	0 0	z
Lisicki, p	9	0	2 Preston, lb Myers, p Quinn, p	4 3 1	11 0 0 00
Totals	33	4	8	Totals	36	3 9
SAWYER’S RAINWEAR
YORKTOWN COAT
The Yorktown Coat js the latest addition to the Frog Brand family. This smart wet-weather coat has a convertible military collar—radian shoulders and is a serviceable garment light in weight & flexible.
A genuine oiled Frog Brand Slicker is the leading wet-weather protection for college men and women.
See these garments at your dealers’.
H.M. SAWYER & SON
East-Cambridge :: :: Mass.

The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include ALL-BRAN, Corn Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets you sleep.
THRILL to the flavor of Kellogg’s Pep Bran Flakes. That’s the matchless flavor that has made them known throughout the nation as better bran Hakes.
PEP for flavor—bran for health—whole wheat for nourishment. No wonder Kellogg’s Pep Bran Flakes are so popular and so good for you.
Ask to have them served at your fraternity or campus resturant.
DR. J. M. SINGLER DR. E. A. PROBST
Dentists
405 Associates Building Phone 3-1254
PEP
BRAN RAKES
Scholastic Advertisers Please Patrons
The Notre Dame Scholastic
829
Score by innings:	rhe
, Notre Dame .............040 010 000—5 8 0
Georgia Tech...............001 020 000—3 9 4 w
Two-base hits—Sullivan, McKee, Pullen, Terrell. Three-base hit—McKee. Home run— Moran. Stolen bases—Francis, Sullivan, Pullen. Sacrifice hits—Francis, 2. Base on balls —oft Quinn 6, Meyers 2, Lisicki 2. Struck out—Quinn 1, Myers 1, Lisicki 1. Left on bases—Georgia Tech 9, Notre Dame 11.
At Columbus, Ga., April 25
Notre Dame, 5; Fort Benning, 9
Displaying too much anxiety in the pinches when safe hits meant runs, the Notre Dame basehaliers were unable to best the Fort Benning soldiers in a game which ended with the southerners on the long end of a 9 to 5 score. Mannix held the mound for the Fighting Irish and turned in a creditable record but for the three errors by his teammates, who booted the ball at the crucial moments.
The box score:
Notre Dajie	Fort Benning
	B	R H	B	R H
Francis,	If 3	3 2	Cobb, 2b	5	0 1
Palermo,	ss 2	0 2	M'Allister, lb 5	2 2
Moran, cf 4		0 2	Kjelstrom, cf 5	0 1
Feehery.	rf 3	0 0	Cooper, ss 4	1 0
O’Keefe.	2b 4	0 1	Thompson, If 4	0 1
Sullivan,	lb 5	0 0	Mitchell, rf 2	2 1
Mahoney	, 3b 4	1 1	Reddock, 3b 3	2 2
Lordi, c	3	0 0	McCarthy, c 3	1 1
Mannix,	P 4	1 1 '	Carnes, p 3	1 1
	—	—	—	—
Totals	32	5 9	Totals	34	9 10
r
t r
The pause that
gives poise

Delicious and Refreshing
LISTEN IN —-Grantland Rice Famous Sports Champions—Coca-Cola Orchestra —Wednesday 10:30 to 11 p. m. E. S. T. — Coast to Coast NBC Network —-
9 million A Day - it
^Pause
that refreshes
Comes a time (as they say) every day when it’s good to drop things—relax—and, calm, collected, cool, seek the hidden meaning of life.
Sign off for just a minute, now and then, and refresh yourself with an ice-cold Coca-Cola. Ready for you—anytime—around the corner from anywhere. Nine million times a day the Thinkers and Doers of the nation find the pause that refreshes is what keeps the world wagging.
The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Ga.
CW-8
HAD TO BE GOOD TO GET WHERE IT IS
830
The Notre Dame Scholastic
T^Sp-base hits—Moran. Stolen bases—Cooper 2, Thompson. Sacrifice hits—Palermo, Moran, O’Keefe, McCarthy. Struck out—by Carnes, 1; by Mannix 2. Bases on balls—off Carnes, 1; off Mannix 4. Left on bases— Notre Dame, 13; Fort Benning, S. Double plays—Cooper to Cobb to McAllister; Palermo to Sullivan. Errors—O’Keefe, Moran, Sullivan, Mitchell, McAllister.
At Columbus, Ga., April 26
Notre Dame, 5; Fort Benning, 8
Dropping their final game of the southern road trip to the Fort Benning soldiers, the Notre Dame team evened up the slate with three victories and as many defeats during the campaign in the South. Lefty Palt had things his own way in this game, apparently headed for a victory that would even the series, until the seventh when, with the score 5-2 in the invader’s favor, Fort Benning capitalized to score four runs.
With two out in that inning the Fort boys placed three men on the paths, and Mitchell, the next man up, hit a hard grounder along the third base line. Francis, left fielder, apparently had the ball safely covered when it suddenly took a bad bounce, hit his glove, and bounded over the low fence surrounding the ball park. This fluke home run resulted in four counters, a lead which the Fighting Irish could not overcome. Palermo led Notre
Dame in batting with a triple and two singles in four times at bat. Feehery also got a blow good for three bases. The box score: Notre Dame	Fort Benning B R H	B R H Francis, If	3	0 0	Cobb. 2b	3	2	1 Askew, 2b	4	12	M’Allister, lb	4	1	2 Moran, cf	5	10	Kjelstrom, cf	4	1	2 Feehery, rf	4	0 2	Cooper, ss	3	0	0 Sullivan, lb	4	0 1	Thompson, If	4	1	1 Palermo, ss	4	1 3	Mitchell, rf	4	12 O’Keefe, 3b	3	0 0	Willis, 3b	4	0	3 Lordi, c	3	10	McCarthy, c	4	0	0 Palt, p	4	12	Tripp, p	3	2	2 Nolan	10 1
Totals	35 5 11	Totals	33 8 13 Score by innings: Notre Dame 	002 003 000—5 Fort Benning 	002 000 42x—8 Strike outs—Palt 5; Trippe 1. Walks— Palt 3; Trippe 1. Stolen bases—Askew, Moran, Sullivan. Sacrifice hits—Francis, O’Keefe, McAllister, Kjelstrom, Cooper. Three base hits—Palermo, O'Keefe. Home run— Mitchell. Left on bases—Notre Dame 8; Fort Benning 6.
Notre Dame’s first home encounter resulted in a win for the Fighting Irish when Jim Dilley relieved Al Romanin on the mound, in the sixth inning of the fray with Armour Tech of Chicago, and kept the opposition from scoring while the home guards lambasted Simpson’s offerings to win by a score of 12-4.
TWO-MILE TEAM WINS
(Continued on Page 826)
Johnny O.’Brien fared no better 5 than fifth in the finals of the 120- ;< yard high hurdles after taking a close race from Zeize of Wisconsin in . his preliminary heat. Sentman of \ Illinois, won the final race in :14 9/10, : failing by 1/10 second to break the • meet record. Johnny placed fourth \ in the hop, skip, and jump, to be the only Notre Dame man to score in ; ’ more than one event. His distance, 'j-43 feet 5 inches, was nearly three feet short of that made by Redd of Quincy, who won the event.
Although the opposition should be ( more or less the same at the Ohio : $ Relays at Columbus tomorrow, the /-wearers of the Blue and Gold are ex- ; 7 pected to make a better showing be- f • cause of the experience gained last week. All the relay teams, and es- -y pecially the sprinters, have been working at passing the baton, and 1- -' they should prove more efficient in this all-important phase of the races in tomorrow’s games.	£
Notre Dame’s track team treks to Urbana, Illinois, Monday, where they Sy’ will meet the Illinois tracksters in an outdoor dual meet Tuesday.	Jf;

The Richman Tuxedo
The Richman tuxedo is preferred by University Men because it emphasizes style ... It is correct in every detail, beautifully tailored and perfect fitting. Made from fine black worsteds . . . facings of genuine Skinner’s Satin. The brocaded silk vest is included at the Richman price.
All $22.50
The Richman Brothers Co.
125 South Michigan Street x Open Saturday Evenings Until 9 O’clock
The Notre Da me Scholastic
CUALITY BY llllfNlf
Livingston’s
feature
--------ONE WEEK ONLY----------
Starting Saturday
Thirty
Fives”
Suits
With one or two trousers
'35
They boast of individuality, excellence in tailor work, and a variety of fabrics,
JuWinaAtonA'
with
Barbara Stanwick
Ralph Graves
Maria Prevost Lowell Sherman
----COMING NEXT WEEK-
The Sensational African Jungle Picture Now Playing in Chicago for S2.00 a Seat ....
“INGAGI”
One of the Strangest Pictures Ever Made.
One that you will remember as long as you live.
UNIVERSITY MES
832
The Notre Dame Scholastic
RE-NU
Shoe Repair and Hat Cleaners 214 North Michigan Street (Next to Granada)
HELLO MEN!
SMITH S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
Suits Pressed While You Wait 40c
Cleaned and pressed---------—75c
Shoes Fixed While You Wait $1.75 with heels
Hats blocked While You Wait 50c
Special Waiting Rooms Shoes Shined..................10c
“Modernly equipped shoeshine parlor”
“Special Dressing rooms”
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
SMITH’S COFFEE SHOP
West Washington Ave.
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
—0—
American Trust Company
—0—
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS
OF NOTRE DAME MEN
—o—
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
Say it With Flowers
South Bend Floral Company
1US. Mich, St.
Flowers telegraphed anywhere on Short Notice
11^ S. Mich. St. Telephone 3-8227
The Notre Dame Scholastic
833
FROSH TRIM KAZOO
FOR SECOND TIME
The Freshman Hall tracksters of Notre Dame journeyed to Kalamazoo, Michigan, last Saturday afternoon where they decisively defeated the Freshmen of Western State Teachers College for the second time this year. During the indoor season the Notre Dame yearlings won by a score of 62 to 24, and last week they showed enough strength in the added field events to run up 83 markers to their opponents’ 48.
The next meet for Freshman Hall will be with the Michigan Normal Frosh, of Ypsilanti, Michigan, on May 10.
Summary:
100-Yard Dash—Won by Kelly (ND); Dilling (ND), second; Scholl (ND), third.. Time :10 1/10.
Mile Run—Won by Duke (ND); Black (WS), second; Weiland (WS), third. Time 4:59 5/10.
220-Yard Dash—Won by Dilling (ND); Feuher (WS), second; Macbeth (ND), third. Time :22 5/10.
120-Yard High Hurdles—Won by Corcoran (ND); Pareden (ND), second; Guinnip (WS), third. Time :17 8/10.
440-Yard Dash—Won by Kelly (ND); Schrichte (ND), second; Bahre (WS), third. Time :51 8/10.
Two Mile Run—Won by Grimes (ND); Vaneck (WS), second; Smith (WS), third. Time 10:22 8/10.
220-Yard Low Hurdles—Won by Guinnip (WS); Corcoran (ND), second; Poreden (ND), third. Time :28 8/10.	'
Shot Put — Won by Brantfort (ND); LeJeune (ND), second; Mor-lan (WS), third. Distance 41 feet, % inch.
Pole Vault—Corin (WS) and Rustes (WS), tied for first; Malan (ND), third. Height 11 feet.
Discus—Won by Brantfort (ND); LeJeune (ND), second; Morlan (WS), third. Distance 130 feet, 6 inches .
Javelin—Won by Lereh (WS) ; Brantfort (ND), second; Scott (WS), third. Distnce 181 feet, 3 inches.
High Jump—Won by Scott (WS); Hughes (ND), second; Stoppleton (WS), third. Height 5 feet, 6 inches.
Broad Jump — Won by Dilling (ND); Scott (WS), second; Betts (WS), third. Distance 20 feet, 5% inches.
880-Yard Run—Won by Macbeth (ND); Bratt (WS), second; Hettrick (WS), third. Time 2:11.
In this age when everyone seems to work and play at top speed it is no easy matter to be “most energetic man” of the senior class. But good health will go a long way toward helping you carry off the title.
Shredded Wheat is a natural energy builder. These crisp delicious biscuits include all the food elements needed for
“Most Energetic Man”
the untiring stamina that campus activities demand. They promote the clear active mind, too, that makes hard work count for some*
thing. Eat two biscuits with plenty of rich milk every morning. It will help make you a “go-getter” in no time.
Please Patronize Scholastic Advertisers
834
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A LACE
4—❖—«j»—
Wednesday thru Friday
in
“The
Divorcee”
Saturday thru Tuesday
The Old South—Brought to the Front in this Smashing Romance
The Picture That’s Sweeping the Country . . .
Added:
VlTAPHONE VODVIL
Paramount Sound News
with
Chester Morris—Conrad Nagel
“Only the Brave” “The Virginian” surpasses himself I A picture cramed with heart-throbs and smashing action.
Home of Paramount Pictures
One of the Publix Theatres
NORMA
Shearer
GARY
GARY COOPER
and
MARY BRIAN
in

T
f 1 V
Sunday thru Tuesday
A Powerful
All Talking Drama of Regeneration—Daring in Its Theme—Thrilling in its Action—Appealing in Its Romance—
“DOUBLE CROSSROADS”
A high calibre cast with Robert Ames—Lila Lee— Montague Love—Ned Sparks—William Mong— Joseph Jefferson.
% VAUDEVILLE
Mirror of Personality
Featuring
WILLARD SINGLEY AND A CAST OF FUNSTERS.
GIFFORD & GRESHAM AND OTHER BIG ACTS
Wednesday thru Saturday
Laugh N. D.—Laugh. The incomparable Irish-Jewish Funsters
GEORGE SIDNEY CHARLES MURRAY
In their new side-splitting comedy
“Around the Corner”
AN EXCELLENT BILL OF
% VAUDEVILLE

The Notre Dame Scholastic
83-5
I INTERHALL ITEMS
Playground ball is now in full swing. The various interhall teams are having many close contests and over five hundred men have participated in the games so far this sea-3- son. A unique league of interhall men who are members of the Chicago Club has been going strongly, and keen .competition has been seen. Plenty of equipment is available for all teams and next Sunday should see the largest turnout of the play-I- ground season.
I—I
Interhall tennis has been retarded somewhat because of the inclement weather but will probably be inaugurated next week. Those interested should leave their names at the managers’ office in the gym, with Gene “Kennedy, tennis manager, or John Ross, sophomore manager in charge of tennis.
I—I
Outdoor- track will be started shortly, with the first of the two sectional track meets which will be held on Thursday, May 8. Lyons, Morrissey, Badin, Corby, Walsh, Sorin and Howard will participate in this meet.
In the second meet which will be held on Tuesday, May 14, Freshman, Sophomore, St. Edward’s, Off-Campus, Carroll and Brownson will vie for the honors.
Numerals will be awarded those freshmen who meet the outdoor requirements. Medals will be given the winners of first, second, and third places.
After a most successful indoor season the various halls are laying plans for a strong representation in the outdoor meets. The final championship meet will be held Sunday, May 18, the day following the Indiana State meet which will be held here at Notre Dame.
I—I
Interhall numerals for swimming and indoor track will be distributed at a later date. The time and the list of awards will be posted in the gymnasium soon.
I—I
There will be no outdoor interhall swimming this year owing to the shortness of the season. In the past these meets were very popular but the continued unsettled weather has hampered the development of all out' door sports.
The first interhall golf matches will be held tomorrow and Sunday. The method of scoring will be posted in the starting house and the low man of each hall is to captain his team.
The matches, time for which, either Saturday or Sunday, to be arranged by the respective captains, are as follows: Sorin vs. Corby; Badin vs. Morrissey; Lyons vs. Walsh; Sophomore vs. St. Edward’s; Carroll vs. Off-Campus; Freshman vs. Howard.
I—I
The captains of the various hall golf teams, by virtue of having turned in the lowest cards from their respective halls, and their- scores for 36 holes are as follows:
Freshman—Paul Sullivan 80-81—161 Howard—Joseph Switzer 83-81—164 Walsh—Charles Derby 83-83—166 Off-Campus—Paul Fehlig 83-83—166 Badin—Lawrence Kral 84-85—169 Morrissey—James Wardell 84-85—169 Sophomore—Wm. Slader 82-89—171 Carroll—Henry Cluver 85-87—171 Lyons—Edmund O’Connor 89-87—176 Corby—Donald Nelms	89-89—178
St. Edward’s—Fred Snite 94-90—184
I—I
Two separate tournaments have been arranged for the student golfers. There will be a varsity championship flight for the eight members of the team, and another interhall individual championship, in which all students of the University are eligible except the varsity members.
Each player may enter as many score cards as he chooses; those already turned in will be counted in the final reckoning. The two lowest cards are to count for qualification. The lowest sixteen men chosen will begin tournament play on Saturday, May 10. All qualification cards must be turned in before 7 o’clock, May 7.
BRING YOUR A. A. BOOKS!
The Athletic Office has requested that all the students bring their A. A. books with them when they come to , the athletic events being held in Cartier Field. Much trouble has been caused by students who claim they did not know the books were necessary.	Moral:—Bring your A. A.
books with you always, or you may have to watch the baseball games and track meets from the wrong side of the fence.
■ ROCKNE PLANS TO RETURN ABOUT MIDDLE OF MAY The latest word on the condition of Knute K.’ Rockne, director of athletics, was received in a letter sent by him to the Scholastic from Rochester, Minn., where he is recuperating from his leg infection.
“I hope to be back with you at least by the second week of May,” Mr. Rockne stated in his letter, and assured his many friends and students that he did not intend to leave Roches- ' ter until-the doctors discharged him. “I have had too many upsets to be taking any chances,” Rockne said, although we know that deep down in his heart there is a big urge to get back to the old battleground, see his boys in action once again, and send his voice booming across the gridiron.
FINAL CUT ON FROSH
BASEBALLERS MADE
The final cut of the Freshman baseball team was made this week by Joe Jachym, coach of the squad, trimming the huge number down to 32 players. The frosh diamond stars will meet the East Side A. C. of South Bend, tomorrow afternoon on Cartier Field at 2:30.
The complete list of those comprising the Freshman baseball team is as follows: Catchers—Gabrysiak, Hurley, S chef ter; pitchers—Intlekofer, Dames, O’Connor, Donnelley, Frill, Golden, Hall, Reilly, Dillon; first basemen—McGee, McAveny, Cummins ; second basemen—Hayes, Russo, Webb; shortstops—Eckert, Muoller, Schimberg; third basemen—Gould, Maloney, Murphy; outfielders—Harrison, Meyer, McGrath, McLoughlin. Sabo, Zarlengo, Cronin.
TENNIS TEAM PLAYS TWO TILTS IN CHICAGO
Six men strong, the Notre Dame tennis team marched to Chicago, where they met the Loyola courtsters on Wednesday, and the netmen from Drake on Thursday. The sextet of Notre Dame racqueters, winners of the match elimination contests held over last week-end, are as follows: Dick Bailey, No. 1 man on the Blue and Gold squad; Bill Reaume, Matt O’Brien, F. Peak, M. J. O’Brien, and' T. Kendall.
836
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Meyer’s Fountain Luncheonette
CLEANLINESS . . . QUALITY . . .
SERVICE . . .
Get the habit of Eating Light so you’ll Feel Right for the afternoon.
Our fountain is inspected twice daily for strict cleanliness.
QmC
Corner Michigan and Colfax
A Better Optometric Service
We recognize our responsibility in caring for the eye-sight of our patients.
Our interest is therefore of a conscientious, sympathetic nature, governed by the desire to alleviate visual defects.
LIHtVIlH S OPTOMETRISTS 2221/0 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Over 25 years of service to humanity.
Movie Reviews
Miss Hope Halpin displays rare judgment in all her comments on current theatrical offerings. Her writings are free of press agentry. Read her criticisms every day on the theatrical page. You’ll like them.
THE
NEWS - TIMES
See the whole show
You don’t have to worry about missing any of the show when you attend the theater in Chicago if you take the South Shore Line back to South Bend.
Convenient after-theater . service is provided by fast, comfortable trains leaving Randolph St. at 11:15 p. m. and 12:00 midnight, arriving in South Bend at 1:15 a. m. € and 2:10 a. m.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND
RAILROAD
The Notre Dame Scholastic
837
Splinters from the Press Box
❖----------------■-------------$
Bates, anchored by its great runner, Russell Chapman, ran a great race to ’ win the two-mile relay at Penn, bettering the time Notre Dame made at Drake by :02.1 seconds. But Bates was pushed all the way, Chapman having to come from behind to win, whereas Notre Dame led all the way, winning by some twenty yards. One cannot help thinking that Notre Dame would have done far better time had it been pushed, especially since Brant Little ran the anchor leg, and he must be pushed to run his best, being first of all a competitor. .
The annual Penn and Drake Relays have again revived the question of Eastern and Mid-Western supremacy in track and field. There is little to choose between the respective per
formances at the two relays this year, but it must be remembered that two mid-western schools, Ohio State and Chicago, divided the two first places in both major sprint relays at Penn, between them. On the whole, it looks as though the Middle West has a bit the better of the argument this year.
x
Talking baseball this spring with John McGraw, Rud Rennie, veteran baseball writer of the Herald-Tribu'he, asked the Little Napoleon of the Giants, who, in his opinion, was the best coach the Giants ever had. Without hesitation came the reply: “John McGraw. The next best was Jennings.”
X
Which reminds one of the story told of Tom Shevlin, the old Yale end, and one of the greatest ends of all time. As was the custom in the palmy era when he played, Shevlin was called back to school after his graduation to
help the coach with the ends before the big games with Harvard and Princeton. With his derby on the back of his head, and a big, black cigar in his mouth, Shevlin appeared on the field the first day he arrived at school, and was immediately put to coaching the ends. Wide-eyed and open-mouthed, the undergraduates listened to the advice which fell from the lips of one of Alma Mater’s greatest. End play in those days was somewhat different from what it is now, and Shevlin’s advice was something in this manner: “When the ball is snapped, you cross the line of scrimmage as rapidly as possible and get into the interference. Then with your hands and body you bust up the interference so that the defensive halfback can get a clean shot at the ballcarrier. That’s what you do if you’re a good end, but if you’re a Tom Shevlin you not only do that, but you also tackle the ball-carrier.”
ititiititittiitiiniiiiiHisiiiiiiiitiHtiiiiiiitittHiiiiiiiitttHiittiittiiinttiiitiiiiiinttiiisiiinitiiiiiiiiiiitttitii iitiriitiiiisttfiiiiiiitiitiinttniiiiiiiiititiiiniiiiiinitiittitiiintiHuiiinittinitiiHiniiiiiiitiiiiiiiitiitstiiii
X^Nunri-Bush
KLINGEL’S MEN’S SHOES
112 N. Main St. — Oliver Theatre
0WOUNC/^
THE
^SMFannual
MID WESTERN UNIVERSITIES TOURS TO EUROPE ^MONTREAL AN DANIA
JUNE20*
ATHENIA
JUNE 27* 59 DAYS
52 DAYS 633“
Send Coupon below for Complete Free Information.
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. 70 E. Randolph St.
Chicago, III.
• Gentlemen : Please send me, without any obligation on my part, complete details on the Third Annual Midwestern Universities Tours.
Name_________________________
Street ______________________
City______________ State-----
The Notre Dame Scholastic
839
GOLF TEAM IS SELECTED; ARRANGE SCHEDULE
With the finals of the qualifying matches being held the end of this week, to decide the golf team which is to represent the University, a tentative schedule has been arranged for the sextet of mashie wielders, which will bring them into competition with some of the most brilliant golfers in the country. The schedule has been tentatively approved by the golf committee and is now in their hands.
The card as now planned brings them into play first with Loyola of Chicago, May 10. The match to be played on the home links will be the initial varsity contest to be held on the William J. Burke University golf course.
The University of Detroit is expected to come here on May 17 and Notre Dame will play a return match on the former’s course, May 31. Notre Dame’s team will be represented in the Indiana State Intercollegiate Golf meet to be held at Greencastle, Indiana, on May 24. The Intercollegiate Golf Championship, held at the Oakmont Country Club, Oakmont, Pennsylvania, June 22, will also have Notre Dame entrants if plans materialize.
An octet of Notre Dame golfers,
six of whom will comprise the varsity squad, defeated a picked squad of Coquillard Woods golfers last Sunday on the latter’s course, 14 to 7. Larry Moller, of Notre Dame, and champion of the St. Joseph Valley tournament in 1928, was defeated by Mike Moore, but five of his teammates turned in convincing victories to sew up the meet.
The other results were as follows: E. M. Ferrias (CW) defeated Totten (ND), 2-1; L. H. Wirt (CW) defeated Halligan (ND), 2-1; Bradley (ND) defeated Earle (CW), 2-1; F. Beaupre (ND) defeated Brown (CW), 3-0; Redmond (ND) defeated Harry Elmore (CW), 3-0; R. Beaupre (ND) defeated Ransberger (CW), 2-0; and Shea (ND) defeated Dr. Leo J. Quinlan (CW), 3-0.
DUJARIE DEFEATS HOLY
CROSS IN ANNUAL MEET
Dujarie Institute defeated the Holy Cross Seminary, 27 to 18 in their annual track and field meet held Monday, April 21, in the University Gymnasium. Dujarie took seven firsts, the pole vault, shotput, 220-yard dash, broad jump, 880-yard run, and the 440-yard relay. Holy Cross won the 60-yard dash and the 440-yard dash.
Brothei- Alexander, C.S.C., of Dujarie, was high point man, winning first place in the shotput with a heave of 39 feet and taking second place in the 60-yard dash.
CORBETT PLACES THIRD
IN NATIONAL CONTEST
Frank Corbett, Notre Dame’s Breen Medallist and oratorical champion, attained further honors in the’National Intercollegiate Oratorical Contest held last Friday at Northwestern. Mr. Corbett placed third in the finals of a country-wide competition which drew the best college orators of the nation.
He won the state championship at the meet here last February and then went on to take the sectional title recently at Ripon College in Wisconsin. Here he defeated the representatives of Missouri, Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin, and qualified to enter .the national contest at Northwestern.
NOTICE!
Juniors, Sophomores, Freshmen! Remember to cast your votes in the forthcoming class elections!
in niiiminiiiiiiiiiinniiitttti intuitu niiniiinittiiiiiHiiititiitmittiiii inniiiiiiiiiii tiiiinitiiniiiiiiiiniiimriiiiitiimtiitiiiitmimnimnnmntitmnmininnitiiiHHtintnn
Ideal for the Spring Golfer
- Bags and Sticks -
including mashie	A
midiron -- putter / /I and driver ...	< • /
Rolle “Spee-Dee”, 35c each 3 for $1.00
VrOll JDdllb -Sky Line”, each . . . .45c
South Bend Watch Co.
Retail Store
Take the North Side Mishawaka Trolley Car
EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING
840
The Notre Dame Scholastic
LESS	PER
THAN ■ WJ DAY for almost a Month of Sailing!
Cruise to
ICELAND NORWAY DENMARK
Lands of the Midnight Sun by the
S. S. POLONIA, June 17
Ask for special cruise folder- 1-A BALTIC AMERICA LINE 315 So. Dearborn St., Chicago or local steamship agents.
On Down the Line
. . . The Boston teams are sure taking a beating this year . . . JACK DOYLE,' Broadway betting commissioner, quoted odds in the pennant-winning race on both the Braves and Red Sox at 1000 to 1 . . . now that’s a real handicap . . . TIM MOYNIHAN is out in Hollywood being “mugged” by Warner Brothers and meanwhile playing football before the .camera in a college film . . . LON CHANEY is gonna have to look to his laurels . . . yes and LAUREL and HARDY too, for that matter . . .
Office 3-6978
Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
Fordham Law School
Woolworth Building', New York Co-Educational Case System, Three-Year Course Two Years of College Work Required for Admission Morning, Afternoon and Evening Classes
Write for Catalogue CHARLES P. DAVIS, Registrar'
Room 2853
Office Phone 2-1067
. . . Now we’ve a little story about two pitchers . • . the first hurls for Seymour (Ind.) High ... he fanned 15 batters in a game down there t’other day and won the game by hitting a home run in the fourth inning, scoring a man ahead of him . . . the final score was four to three . . . Now this other slab artist, NELSON, by name, twirling for Sanger (Calif.) High, was fine up to the ninth inning with the game in a scoreless tie . . . the first Kingsburg High batter was struck with a pitched ball . . . ditto the second, and-double check the third . . . the crowd went daffy when he hit the fourth man and forced the winning run across . . .
Somewhere the right pipe and the right tobacco are waiting
JUST for YOU
. . . MAN O’ WAR, winner of most of the outstanding stakes. of the American turf except the Kentucky Derby, is represented by five of his sons in the entries for this year’s running of the classic . . . they are BATTLESHIP, BROADWAY LIMITED, FULL DRESS, QUARTER DECK, and WAR FLAG . . . Playboy Alley’s entrant hasn’t been announced but we know they will be represented in it ... We nominate Gately for the job . . . (advt.)
CARRY ON, man; never say die, don’t give up the ship, and all that sort of thing. Somewhere the right pipe and the right tobacco are waiting—just for you. Carry on! Find ’em!
The trick is to find both—to find, for instance, the pipe with just the shape and weight, just the balance and size and “grip” that suit you. No easy job—but it’s your job, and the world is full of pipes.
The tobacco problem is easier, for we can help you there, not only with the suggestion that Edgeworth very probably is the tobacco you are looking for, but also with some Edgeworth. The Edgeworth will smoke most benignly in your tentative pipe, and it will smoke there several times. We mean every word: several good heaping pipefuls of Edgeworth, a generous packet of absolutely genuine Edgeworth, all free and for nothing if you’d like to try it. Done? Then the coupon, please.
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos —selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality andflavorneverchange. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms— “Ready-Rubbed” and “Plug Slice”—15e pocket package to pound humidor tin. Larus & Bro. Co., Richmond, Va.
Dr. Edgar S. Lucas
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND, IND.
PLEASE PATRONIZE SCHOLASTIC ADVERTISERS
. . . BOB WALSH has been farmed out by the Yanks to the Hazelton, Pa., club in the New York-Pennsylvania league . . . JULIUS HUGHES played 18 holes of golf after dark in 75 down in Atlanta . . . first nine with a phosphorous ball and an ordinary pellet for the last nine . . . two* caddies were armed With lanterns and flashlights . . . they listened for the thud of the ball and found every one . . .
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
LARUS & BRO. CO.
100 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
I’ll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try it in a good pipe.
Wama—----------------
Street— -
Town and
- Now let the Edgeworth come.'
The Notre Dame Scholastic	841
w—aa—-Ba—m^ia—*0— aa^— nt^— »—«^»h—-aa—w—an—u^— nt—a«—aa—•>—aa——«»Jb
CLALITYBY	[
iw^— uh—-an—an—«u—an—sn^— ra—na—w-^—•——st—tm—ia^—.«—ra^— ng——m—-aa^— ta—m—tta—«—.m— at—■—aa—at—aajt |
IS U P P E N H E I M E K	i
You’ll see them everywhere this summer
SPORT-SUITS
Sports ensembles are no longer just costumes for occasions. They have become the symbol of hot-weather style and comfort—
White Flannel trousers, with easy-fitting patch pocket coats of wool or flannel, make an ideal combination for most any occasion.
We have them in a variety of styles.
MinqslonA
842
The Not re Dame Scholastic
WALGREEN’S famous
Doubl’ Rich Malted Milks

The only ‘glorious retreat' is from the heat. That's when you'll appreciate shelter and refreshments at Walgreen's.	.	.	t
WHAT MORE COULD YOU ASK FOR THE LITTLE WE ASK
A ■
.	The Notre Dame Scholastic	843
Another year of studies almost over -—
Back home again for summer vacation. Your friends will be curious to find out how a year of college has affected you. External appearances will be judged first.
Their conclusions will be entirely satisfactory if you are wearing smart Hart, Schaffner and Marx clothes.
Accessories and suits that are fctshionable and good looking may be obtained at
Sam’l Spiro & Co.
South Michigan St.	South Bend, Indiana
844
The Notre Dame Scholastic
They're All Smart!
SPRING HATS
Florsheim Shoes
Dobbs Hats
JUST out of the packing cases and onto the shelves come these shirts to you—as cheerful as spring itself. Here you will find perfection in every detail, the expert turning of the cuff, the curve of the neck, the hang of the sleeves, the setting of the shoulders.
WHITE
Collar attached
$1.95
COLORS
Collar attached
$2.15

ADLER BROTHERS
X	/