DO YOU INHALE ?
Then you're better off smoking PHILIP MORRIS
eCP rK,

...because Philip Morris is definitely less irritating, definitely milder than any other leading brand!

PROVE IT YOURSELF Take the PHILIP MORRIS NOSE TEST ... start enjoying PHILIP MORRIS today!
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER means MORE SMOKING PLEASURE!
sf PHILIP MORRIS

The Scholastic
College Parade
The firing squad was escorting a " Russian comrade to his place of execution. It was a dismal march in a pouring rain.
“What a terrible morning to die,” muttered the prisoner.
‘ “What are you kickin’ about?” asked the guard in charge. “We gotta * march back in it.”
A golfing clergyman had been badly beaten on the links by a parishioner thirty years his senior.
, “Cheer up,” said his opponent. “Remember you win at the finish. You’ll - probably be burying me some day.” “Even then,” grumbled the preacher, “It will be your hole.”
■
A script was submitted to a pro* ducer. The movie boss took one quick look at the title and handed it back to f the author with a sorrowful smile. ; The author of the story was puzzled. He hadn’t been in pictures very long.
“But you didn’t read it.”
The big boss was patient. “The .. title. The Optimist! Me and you know what it means, but how many of them thick skulls out in front is gonna know it’s a eye doctor?”
- Sleeping at the police station is all right in a pinch.
■
“I don’t mind,” said the professor, ’ “if I see a student fidget toward the end of the hour. I don’t mind seeing " him take o‘ut his watch and look at it. • But when he takes out his watch, stares at it, puts it to his ear, and . shakes it—that gets me.”
■
- The newlyweds were honeymooning at the seashore. As they walked arm in arm along the beach, the young groom looked poetically out to sea and eloquently cried out:
“Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll!”
- His bride gazed at the water for a moment, then in hushed tones gasped, “■ “Oh, Fred, you wonderful man. It’s doing it!”
■
He: “Sir, may I have your daughter [ for my wife?”
Father: “Bring your wife around and I'll see.” - ■
“Oh, my poor man,” exclaimed the kind old lady. “It must be dreadful to be lame. But it would be much worse if you were blind.”
, “You’re absolutely right, lady,” said the beggar. “When I was blind people * kept giving me foreign coins.”
stay neat all week>end in the
Van Hensen shirt
REG. T. M.
Drive off with one of these smooth Van
Heusen Century shirts in your bag and you’ll be neat from sun-up to sundown! Exclusive collar is designed for long-lasting neatness.. .has no inner linings to wrinkle... feels soft as
with the soft collar that
wait wrinkle ...aer!
fine linen around
Ifs ADLER’S for
... VAN HEUSEN
Nov. 2, 1951
3
A fellow gets plenty of these np here
whenhes got plenty of these dowa here!
Arrow Dart, with Arrow Par, Wide- Arrow Gordon Dover, Medium points $3.95 spread soft collar $3.95 Button-Down $4.50
ARROW
SHIRTS • TIES • SPORTS SHIRTS • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS
Make GILBERTS
your ARROW headquarters
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o'clock
Nationally Advertised
WATCHES
DIAMONDS GIFTS REPAIRING
xxznmaP 126 NO.MICHIGAN ST.
Special Student Rates For All Dances
Tuxedos, Full Dress Cutaways, White Gabardine Dinner Coats.
Sizes: Boys’ 3 to Men’s 56; over 500 suits to choose from.
No deposit for N. D. Students
We invite you to come in and inspect our formal attire
LOGAN'S
107 North Main, South Bend, Ind.
(In the Oliver Hotel Bldg.)
The Scholastic
The Culture Corner
Overheard in the Juggler office:
Jack Ward: “H’mmmm, your handwriting is so indistinct I can hardly read these poems of yours. Why didn’t you type them before bringing them to me?”
■ „
1 op of the Week
Jack Lambert’s new book, How To Acquire Charm and Poise, appears on the bookstands today, but . . .
j Where Is Everybody?
With over 300 of the local citizenry " in Washington for the Navy game (and anything else that might be going on) and probably a few hundred more having shoved off on four-day passes for other parts, those of us who are left ■ guarding the fort find ourselves wandering about a veritable ghost town talk-7 ing to ourselves.
4 I base my observations on our solitude on the example of Sorin House which is as empty as a Miami hotel on the fourth of July. But it isn’t so bad, real’ ly, it’s just trying to figure out what to do after you’ve seen all the movies in town. Oh well, anyone for handball at the Rock?
' Looking Back
Now you take last weekend, (“you take-it,” says-Bob Dougherty, who lost 1 a deuce on the parlay cards), what with the Sophomore Cotillion, the Purdue . game, homecoming weekend, and, oh yes, the annual convention in town of the A.B.B.U. (Amalgamated Bagle Bakers Union), it was like colorful Mardi-Gras time in old Madagascar.
Cotillion Notes
The Palais Royale was dressed up in the mid-west version of Ciro’s and the old Tracer, Al, surprised all Cotillion goers by playing “Pretty Eyed Baby” only once, (it must have been in the contract).
. The Cotillion committee is to be commended for their originality in stretching their budget by awarding blue and gold (you should excuse the expression) jgarters, as dance favors. Charmant! —
w Poem of the Week
Breathes there a man with soul so dead Who has never turned his head and said: “Mmmm-m-m, not bad!”
1	7
’ Back to Killarney
Last Saturday’s stadium tussle was
By Jack Hynes
as much a battle of bands as it was a pigskin fracas. For it marked the introduction of H. Lee Hope’s towering bagpipers, who strode majestically out on Leahy’s lot in their “official Notre Dame tartans” (now available at the bookstore) and strained their collective lungs on a highlander edition of the Victory March. In the off season, the pipers will be available for clan reunions.
But the Boilermaker music makers were not to be outdone by this latest Irish innovation. They trundled out on the field their giant bass drum (donated • by the class of ’08) and it was a breathtaking spectacle indeed, to see that sturdy Purdue lad (formerly with Lionel Hampton) whale the living daylights out of the expansive hide, an effort which obviously left the poor fellow exhausted and trembling.
Makes a Man Love a Pipe and a Woman Love a Man
Choice white Burley • Smooth and mild
e. e. cummings, jr.: “Type them! D’you think I’d waste my time writing poetry if I could type?”	,
Expose
We have been informed by several unauthoritative and undependable sources that the latest missive from across the Dixie which appeared in last week’s isue is an out-and-out fraud and that the signatures attached to the epis-: tie are purely fictitious. Let’s all look sharp, now, this quibble is beginning to take a sinister turn!
Salute of the Week
To the electricians who last Monday mistakenly tripped the fire alarm bell in the Main Building, causing classes to hurriedly adjourn twenty minutes early. Old Indestructible still stands.
Bottom of the Week
. . . it’s banned at St. Mary’s.
Nov. 2, 1951
CahmCnr
K 20% DISCOUNT ON
ALL CLEANING AND
PRESSING FOR
NOTRE DAME MEN.
NOVEMBER 2
PALACE (through Nov. 8)—Across the Wide Missouri (Legion of Decency Rating A-2) is perhaps the saddest Western to hit town . so far this year. The plot is as smooth as the Missouri during fiood time (English majors could have done better) and Clark Gable, supposedly a pioneer of some kind, plays his role with all the authority of a St. Mary’s girl at the door on Saturday night. There are some good scenic shots though (filmed in Colorado), but unfortunately, the actors and their plot keep blocking the view. The cofeature, Roadblock (A-2), can’t even hold its own, let alone save the show.
NOVEMBER 3
BALTIMORE—Irish meet the Middies in Babe Ruth Stadium with game time slated for 1 p.m. CST.
WASHINGTON HALL—Red Skelton and Fred Astaire in Three Little Words.
NOVEMBER 4
STATE (through Nov. 7)—Two old comedies back for a re-run, Up in Arms with Danny Kaye and They Got Me Covered starring Rob Hope and Dorothy Lamour.
NOVEMBER 7
COLFAX (through Nov. 13)—The Pulitzer prize-winning play .4 Streetcar Named Desire (B), comes to the screen as drama packed as the Broadway play. Even on film it is more like a play - than the conventional motion picture for it depends upon the showing of inner emotions more than action for its effect—and its effect is tremendous. Streetcar is not directed at the mass audience. It takes a discriminating viewer to understand and appreciate its excellence, so if you’re out for a gay evening this isn’t the thing to see. Marlon Brando, Vivien Leigh and Kim Hunter give some of 4; the year’s best acting.
AVON (through Nov. 16)—The Day the Earth Stood Still (A-2) is a highly credible, as well as imaginative, account of the earth’s first visitor from outer space. The picture doesn’t stray too far into the fanciful as many of the new crop of science fiction pictures do and it makes pretty good entertainment. Michael Rennie and Patricia Neal share top billing.	'
NOVEMBER 8
GRANADA (through Nov. 14)—The speculation that Hitler was killed and impersonated by a valet for the last three years of the war is the subject for the film The Magic Face (B). Luther Adler plays a subtle, but convincing Hitler. Pat O’Brien is the ace barrister in Criminal Lau-yer (A-2).
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. Jefferson On the Bus Line
"Boys will beboys "
but Cigars are aManSSmoke!
You need not inhale to enjoy a cigar!
CIGAR INSTITUTE OF AMERICA, INC.
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame


Vol. 93 November 2, 1951 No. 8
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101. October 3. 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918.
Editor JOHN J. POWERS Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE................News
PATRICK CARRICO.........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY.........Features
JACK R. VARLEY...............  Sports
WILLIAM J. LONDO........Assistant Sports WILLIAM H. FRASER.......Photography LEON GARDNER............Librarian
C. B. FARMER........Campus Circulation RONALD E. ZIER..............Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN......Circulation
JOHN' P. DEFANT.......Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association. As-sociated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue. New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad-dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185. Notre Dame. Indiana.
COVER: Co-chairman Jerry Sheehan and his Queen. Miss Darlene Samas, are shown being recorded for posterity at the social highlight of the fall semester, the Soph Cotillion. The Sophs made their debut into the formal circles of high Notre Dame society last Friday night at the Palais Royale, overlooking Walgreen’s in downtown South Bend, only two hours’ drive from the Loop. The 500 couples who peopled the Southern Plantation can vouch for the fact that the Class of 1954 has arrived socially. Al Trace’s fine music, the classy southern motif carried out in the decorations, and the smooth organization with which the different committees discharged their duties made it truly a night to remember. For more pictures of the Southern Serenade, see page 13.
—Photo by Tom Fleck.
Nov. 2, 1951
No Tears for Mrs. Flynn
The ways of the Communist Party are devious. Reds are known to many bv their ability to use any means to achieve the desired end. We got an interesting piece of mail this week that illustrates this little point.
Mrs.. Elizabeth Gurley Flynn, indicted this summer as one of the “second string” Communist leaders in this country, is now chairman of the “Self-Defense Committee of the Victims of the Smith Act.” Her duties entail the dissemination of propaganda calling for repeal of the law outlawing the C. P. and demanding the release of the convicted Red leaders in this country. She is also soliciting funds to help carry' on this valiant fight against the forces of Fascism.
Unfortunately we can’t scrape up any dirty bourgeois currency to help her right now. We do have a few remarks on the subject, though.
In a single page of copy Mrs. Flynn attempts to ally Negroes, union members, all enemies of Fascism, and all students of the Bill of Rights with her own cause. In doing so, of course, her attitude is that only the Communist Party is the real defender of Negroes, of working people, of the basic freedoms of the Declaration of Independence and of the Constitution of the United States.
We’re not going to state the obvious. To anyone at Notre Dame, statements like these should appear pretty ridiculous. But actually the letter isn’t ridiculous at all.
The whole argument, in this particular case, is an appeal to stand up and fight for freedom of speech. There is no attempt to sell any Marxist doctrine, no attempt to enlist members for the Party ranks. This is merely a call for funds and support in one fight for the principles stated in the Bill of Rights.
It is this sort of thing that the Communists are very adept at. And it is just this sort of thing that is bound to ensnare those for whom the letter was intended in the first place.
An individual’s duties to the community and the republic entail a lot more , than just paying taxes and bearing arms in time of war. An important one is the ability to see through bogus causes like this one. A thinking American has to be able to distinguish between defenses of his freedom and causes that will lead him to ruin.
He must be aware of the subtle difference between medicine and poison.
This isn’t always easy. It demands an enlightened and militant citizenry. Communism thrives on the disinterest and laziness of its enemies. It also thrives on dissension and discord. That’s why the little package of deceit in last week’s mail gives us concern.
We hope enough Americans are awake to this sort of menace. We hope too that minority groups don’t confuse the Red cause with their own. And we fervently hope that none of our colleagues in the collegiate press fall for this latest propaganda stunt. .
In answer to Mrs. Flynn’s solicitation to this magazine for help, we have this to say: We fully agree with the Smith Act that the Communist Party is teaching and advocating a crime. To us there is no greater crime than treason — treason to God, to country and to fellow man.
Any contributions we ever make will be the sort intended to cause Mrs. Flynn the utmost distress.
7
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry
s
Disease' and Mirgerv of mouth and j.i»' EMraction of teeth—N-ray diagnosib
702 J. M. S. Building but n< Bl M> Uy appnintnn nt Pit. 4-56ld

ESTABLISHED 1818
OUR "346" CLOTHES offer Brooks Brothers7 quality ...at generally lower prices
In our fine store in Chicago college men will find a comprehensive selection of our distinctive and popular "346” clothing and furnishings... specially designed for today’s undergraduates.
Casual campus clothes that are colorful and unusual . . . good-looking singlebreasted suits... and dress wear that is correct in every detail are included...all reflecting Brooks Brothers’ unsurpassed Workmanship and Good Taste.
We believe you will like our fine store ...our quality merchandise...and the generally lower prices of our "346” clothing and furnishings.
lien’s I’urnishings, Hats $|lhoes
74 E. MADISON ST. NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK ■ BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
j
I j
j i
i

DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main. St.	J. M. S. Bldg.
David Kempler
FAY’S
Quality Jewelers
Welcomes Notre Dame students to come in and visit with us.
Wc carry a large showing of fine Watches and Jewelry .. .
We maintain a complete
Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
111 South Michigan Street
Pipes or Cigarette Holders—throw it away, with the nicotine, juices, flakes and tars it has trapped. Insert fresh filter for cooler, cleaner, dryer, sweeter smoking. Imported Briar.
NEW: MEDICO CREST-*3.00
Medico's Finestl Rich Burgundy finish.
MEDICO V.F.Q. — 52.00 MEDICO MEDALIST-$1.50 Wide variety of styles and sizes. Writ. S. M. Frank < Co., N. Y„ for Bookl.t 0
MEDICO CIGARETTE HOLDERS —S1
209 W. COLFAX AVE. Paul Wehlau, Mgr.
8
The Scholastic
Notre Dame
VOLUME 93, NUMBER 8
NOVEMBER 2, 1951
Pipers to Accompany Band on Navy Trip
Father Joyce Explains Dining Hall Policy; Management, Prices Discussed by Council
Approximately 110 members of Notre Dame’s marching band are making the student trip to AV ashington, D. C., and Baltimore, Md., where the Irish musicians will share in the half time ceremonies of the Navy game tomorrow afternoon, saluting the opponents with "Navy Gold and Blue.”	'
Because the trip will cut down the number of possible rehearsals this week, Mr. H. Lee Hope expects to send his charges through their paces today at St. John’s College in Washington, D. C. The band will lead a parade from the Clifton Park station in Baltimore, where the student trippers disembark, to the Baltimore stadium.
The Fighting Irish Pipers accompanied the band and will also perform during half time. Mr. Hope stated that their appearance during the half time ceremonies of last week’s game
IRISH PIPERS
Volume Is a Problem
SORRY!
Due to budget commitments and the holiday this week, SCHOLASTIC was forced to cut the number of pages in this week’s issue. We’ll return to the regular 36 pages next week.
was strictly an experiment, with no one quite sure what would happen.
Although somewhat deficient in volume, the eight giant pipers caught the fancy of the stadium crowd and were well applauded. The pipers have been working through the last week to strengthen their volume — with only eight members in the unit, the necessity of producing enough sound to be heard all over a huge stadium presents quite a problem.
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, vice-president of business affairs, discussed the Dining Hall situation from a financial point of view with the Student Council at its meeting Monday. _
Father Joyce stated that the University policy in regard to the Dining Hall is to make sure that the student body is given good, ’ healthful food that is sufficient in quality, quantity, and variety, and will keep the students satisfied. In order to maintain such a standard, the food budget has been steadily raised during the past few years to meet rising food prices.
Although stating that the administration wanted to do everything it possibly could to see the students better served in the Dining Hall, Father Joyce pointed out that the University conducts its affairs on an extremely limited financial basis and must be careful to restrict herself, as far as possible, to its budget.
As an example of what the University is up against financially in regard to the Dining Hall, Father Joyce remarked that food costs. for this year had risen 12 to 15 per cent over last year, and the food budget had been raised accordingly—total costs to the students over last year, however, have gone up approximately five per cent.
Management Is Salaried
Neither the Dining Hall nor the huddle are operated on a concession basis—both enterprises are owned by the University and the management receives its pay on a salary basis, thereby eliminating any possible inducement to cut corners on the food in order to build up a larger commission.
In regard to the many student complaints transmitted to him through Council members, Father Joyce appeared to think that most of the griping could be traced down to the problems of variety and preparation of the food, which will always be difficulties involved in the serving of as many people as the dining hall handles. However, he did express the opinion that (Continued on Page 20)
Nov. 2, 1951
9
£
SORIN’S WITCHES
A Two-Foot Trophy
ST. ED’S BOILER
An Engraved Plaque
Sorin Witches Woo Judges To Win Hall Beauty Contest
Witches and goblins hovered about Sorin Hall last Saturday, and their presence there won for the Senior hall first place in the annual Hall Decorations Contest. The spirit of Halloween was in the air as John Purdue was depicted boiling in the witches’ cauldron.
A two-foot trophy and a plaque were awarded to the Sorinites, who will keep the trophy till next year’s contest and the plaque permanently.
In second place, by a very close margin, was • St. Ed’s and its doused boiler. The east siders erected a giant boiler with arms, legs, head, and a stomach pouring out smoke and fire. To save Notre Dame from this menace was Fireman Frank Leahy who squelched the rampaging boiler with • his hose from St. Ed’s roof.
The Juniors copped third place, as Badin Hall decorated its front lawn with a squad of infant Irish. The popular song “Too Young” was the inspiration for the Badin brainchild.
No cash prizes were awarded this year; St. Ed’s and Badin Hall each received a plaque with the place they won engraved on it. Sorin’s first place trophy, although it stays with them only a year, will have engraved on it ‘ Sorin Hall—1951” at the top of the gold front plate, and will head the list of all future winners.
The cold and rain did not dampen the efforts of the hall decorators in the least. All the halls were represented, and they did think of some very weird fates for the Boilermakers.
Starting at 10 a.m., the judges, Dr.
10
M. K. Newman, Dr. William Burke, and Mr. Robert Schultz, began their tour of all the halls. At about 11:30 they completed their rounds and came up with the winners as announced.
Military Office Issues NewTest Applications
Every student who is a selective service registrant, and who has not previously taken the Selective Service College Qualification Test, is urged by the Office of Military affairs to report to that office immediately in o^der to obtain Registration Form 106. All applications
must be postmarked not
later than
midnight on next Monday, Nov. 5, for the student to be eligiple to take the test.	,
This application will entitle him to take one of the two selective service tests which are to be given here cn Dec. 13, 1951, and April 24, 1952.
'The Selective Service System has established a testing program to provide local Selective Service boards with evidence of the relative qualifications of registrants for college study. The test scores of registrants will provide the local boards with evidence of their aptitude for continued college work.
Tests will be given to those registrants who have begun, and plan to continue, their college or university studies, undergraduate or graduate.
Fate Lies With Local Board
Scores on the test will not themselves determine eligibility for deferment, but those scores on the test will be used by the Selective Service local boards in considering the eligibility of registrants for occupational deferment as students.
Students whose academic year ends in January rather than June are advised to apply for the Dec. 13 testing in order that they may have a score on file at the time their classification or reclassification is being considered by their local Selective Service boards.
To be eligible to take the test, an applicant, on the testing date he selects, must be: (1) a Selective Service registrant who intends to request occupational deferment as a student; (2) satisfactorily pursuing a full-time college course, undergraduate or graduate, leading to a degree; (3) must not previously have taken the test.
All eligible registrants who wish to take the test should apply immediately.
a
R
Placement News
On Monday, Nov. 5, Mr. S. W. Starr, Radio Corporation of America,- RCA Victor Division, Camden, N. J., will interview the following January graduates: M.S. and B.S. electrical engineers, mechanical engineers, chemists, physicists and accounting majors.
Dr. John W. Brooks, Socony-Vacuum Laboratories, Paulsboro, N. J., will interview 1952 Ph.D., M.S. and B.S. candidates in either organic or physical chemistry.
Also on the same day, Mr. D. A. Peables and Mr. George N. Shaw of the Wright=Patterson Air Field, Dayton, Ohio, will interview engineering graduates who are to receive their M.S. or B.S. degrees in January. They are particularly interested in aeronautical, electrical, electronic, and mechanical engineers.
On Wednesday, Nov. 7, Mr. Paul Jacobs, director of training for the General Tire & Rubber Co., Akron, Ohio, will hold interviews for the company training program, which covers various factory operations, with January graduates in chemical, mechanical and aeronautical engineering, chemistry and commerce.

Openings for January Grads
On Gates, visor, Wis.,
the same day Mr. Harry D. personnel procurement superKimberly Clark Corp., Neenah, will interview accountants and
mechanical, civil, electrical, and chemical engineers. He is especially interested now in January graduates but will talk, so far as time permits, with June graduates in these classifications.
On Wednesday and Thursday, Nov. 7-8, Mr. A. R. Wilson of the Monsanto Chemical Co. will interview M.S. and B.S. chemists and chemical and mechanical engineers, both January and June graduates.
Dr. C. L. Levesque, research super
The Scholastic
visor, Rohm & Haas Co., Philadelphia, has primary interest in Ph.D. chemists (organic and physical) who will be available in 1952, and is also interested in M.S. and B.S. chemists of high caliber who will be available for employment soon.
On Friday, Nov. 9, Mr. E. K. Brown, Electro Metallurgical Co. (a division of Union Carbide and Carbon, will interview January graduates for work in production, general engineering, power, industrial relations, and research in several plant locations. His company is seeking commerce, economics, and metallurgical, mechanical, chemical, and electrical engineering majors.
Chemists and Engineers Wanted
Dr. Frank H. Hurley and Dr. H. B. H. Cooper, of the American Cyanamid Co., will interview Ph.D. chemists finishing anytime in 1952 and M.S. and B.S. candidates in chemistry and chemical engineering who will finish in January.
Also on the same day, there will be interviews by Mr. H. T. Eckstrom of the Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator Co., primarily interested now in M.S. and B.S. January graduates in electrical, mechanical, aeronautical, and chemical engineering, physics, and metallurgy. June graduates in these fields who have a special interest in the company are welcome.
Mr. V. 0. Davis, employment supervisor, Bakelite Co. (a division of Union Carbide and Carbon), Bound . Brook, N. J., will interview January, June and August M.S. and B.S. graduates in chemical engineering next Friday.
International Relations Group Features Fourth Discussion
The fourth in a series of five discussions on Communism in theory and practice, sponsored by the Notre Dame Committee on International Relations, will be held Nov. 8 at 8 p.m. in the lounge of the Rockne Memorial.
Topic of the discussion will be “The Communist Party in France,” with Prof. J. B. Duroselle acting as discussion leader.
The remaining lecture will be entitled “What Must Be Done Against the Communist World Danger.” All members of the Committee will participate, and it will be held on Nov. 15.
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, chairman of the committee, expressed the hope that more of ’the student body, especially those in the Department of Political Science and those interested in world affairs, would feel free to attend and participate in these discussions.
Nov. 2, 1951
Students, Visitors, Profs Prefer Decorations Of Dillon, Sorin, Alumni, Morrissey in Contest
Knowing the tendency of Notre Dame men to disagree with anything professed by their profs, Scholastic conducted a poll this week to determine how much student opinion of hall decorations differed from the decisions of the three faculty members who judged the contest Saturday.
The judges picked Sorin, St. Ed’s, and Badin, in that order, as the three best-decorated halls. All three halls were awarded plaques, and Sorin also gained a year’s claim to the new decorations championship trophy.
But student opinion—as expected— did not entirely agree.
Of the 39 students (excluding, to avoid any chance of bias, those who named their own halls), and 11 faculty members, 14 voted Dillon’s “wake” scene as tops. Dillon, however, had been disqualified on a technicality.
IOWA, USC TICKETS
Tickets for the Iowa game at Notre Dame, Nov. 24, and for the Southern California tilt at Los Angeles, Dec. 1, are still available at the Ticket Office.
BADIN’S BABIES
Student Opinion Did Not Entirely Agree
Eleven ND fans backed up the judges’ choice of Sorin’s Halloween theme for first-place honors.
Alumni’s “Irish-R-Inn” and Morrissey’s huge typewriter were each rated best by eight people, while eight others were divided evenly between Howard and Badin.
A few visitors commented on the decorations in naming their favorites. Said Mr. and Mrs. Stuart Allan of Des Moines, Iowa: “Badin Hall’s display of the baby team, signifying the Freshmen on the team, impressed us by its cleverness.”
Dee Eisenbeil of St. Mary-of-the-Woods College picked Morrissey’s exhibit “on the basis of construction.”
“I rate Howard Hall’s display tops,” said ND Sophomore Harvey Newquist, “if public interest is to be counted as a major factor.” Howard’s carnival theme featured a home-made gimmick whereby passersby would try to ring a bell with a metal block by hitting a lever with a mighty blow of a mallet.
Some guests had difficulty understanding the “subtlety” of a few displays. Puzzling over a sign next to Farley’s Boilermaker stewpot, Patricia Robinson of Chicago asked, “Who’s Stew Holcomb?”
11
Purdue Student Head Spends 3 Days Here
In keeping with the recently-established policy of the Notre Dame Student Council, Don Bunner, president of the Purdue student organization, spent last weekend on the campus as the guest of the Council.
BUNNER AND GARVIN
Spirit and Understanding
During his three-day stay at the University, Bunner and ND student head Jim Garvin made an extensive tour of the campus and exchanged ideas and information about their respective student governments.
Bunner, a junior in chemical engineering from Brooklyn, N. Y., arrived in South Bend on Friday night in time to attend the evening’s pep rally and bonfire. Following the rally, he and local Council Vice-President Jim Mannion looked in on the Sophomore Cotillion at the Palais Royale.
Saturday noon, the Boilermaker student head attended the President’s luncheon held at the Rockne Memorial. After the luncheon, he proceeded to the Notre Dame Stadium, where he exuberantly cheered and shouted for his “favorite team.”
Somewhat disheartened, but nevertheless “proud of the team’s determined spirit,” Don spent the evening at the Notre Dame Drill Hall, dancing to the music of Gene Hull and his Lettermen.
On Sunday morning Don visited with the members of the Notre Dame Student Council and explained to them the functions and operations of his own student administration.
Before departing for Lafayette Sun
72
day afternoon, Don highly praised the Notre Dame student bodjr for the spirit of unity shown on the campus.
“I was really amazed at the huge turnout and the way that the students followed the band around the campus before the pep rally,” he said.
ND Council President Garvin stated that this policy of inviting the student head of visiting teams will be carried on in the future, in order to “encourage inter-collegiate spirit and understanding among Notre Dame and her friends.”
Inter-American Affairs Club Goes to Christian Congress
Notre Dame’s Inter-American Affairs Club will take part in the national congress of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine in Chicago Nov. 7-10.
A “Latin American Student Session in Spanish,” which is to be held on the last day, will include the topics: (a) Latin American Students in Catholic and non-Catholic Colleges and Universities, and (b) The Confraternity Apos-tolate of College Students Among the Spanish Speaking People in the United States.
Adolfo Calero of Notre Dame will report on “The Count of Latin American Students in Catholic and non-Catholic Institutions in 1950-1951, and Projects for Increasing the Former.” The chairman of the first topic will be Miss Irma Gonzalez of Barat College, Lake Forest, Ill.
In the second topic, Miss Armida Garcia of Siena Heights College wil talk on “The Confraternity Apostolate Among Resident and Transient Mexicans in Michigan.” while Oralia Cantu of Our Lady of the Lake College, San Antonio, Texas, and Mary Carana of Incarnate Word College in the same city will report on the “Confraternity Work Among Spanish Speaking Texans in San Antonio.”
Father William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., of Notre Dame, is in charge of this section and has made all the arrangements to that effect. Following this session there will be a musical program in charge of Charles B. Crowley, also of Notre Dame.
Other activities on Nov. 10 will be meetings of Newman Club and NFCCS chaplains and faculty counselors. Problems of Confraternity work on the College level and other activities will be discussed.
The Congress activities that day will end with a general session in which all the bishops present will honor Pope Pius X.
Theatre Production Includes Glee Club
The University theatre will present its second production, Old Heidelberg on Dec. 10, 11, 12, and 13. A chorus composed of the Notre Dame Glee Club under the direction of Mr. Daniel Pedtke, will accompany the cast in this performance. Leading roles will be played by Jack McDermott and Ann Duncan.
The production is being staged by Leonard Sommer and produced by William Eisen. Technical Director is Johri D. Tumpane. Sets are being designed by Dick Byrne.
At the opening of the play, Karl Heinrich, nephew of the king, is being groomed for his future position as ruler by spending a few years’ preparation at Heidelberg University.
During his stay at Heidelberg he discovers a new life, and falls in love with Kathie, a young waitress. Shortly afterward, the king dies, and the prince is compelled to return to Heidelberg and marry a young princess.
But before his return he makes a last visit to Kathie, his true love, and here the play reaches its finale in a dramatic love scene.
THE cast Karl Heinrich ........Jack McDermott
Von Haugk ............Richard Bennett
Von Passarge   ..........Robert Roeny
Baron Von Metzing .......John Wallace Baron Von Breitenberg ...John Hilbert Dr. Juttner ..............Gerald	Godwin
Lutz—Valet de Chambre .....-.......
	 Charles	Schubert Detlev Grof Von Asterberg.....
........................ Harvey................Mueller Karl Bilz ................  Dan	Yaekel
Karl En£elbrecht....George Van Bessien Von Wedell ............Richard Walke
Rudu .................Patrick	Sweeney
Frau Rudu........... Patricia	Smanda
Frau Dorffel ......Hildegarde	Vargyos
Kathie ...................Ann	Duncan
Schelerman ............. Paul	Murphy
Kellerman ............. John Corcoran
Army ROTC Holds Exhibition
The Army ROTC unit at Notre Dame is currently displaying a number of articles of war and minor feats of engineering in room 214 Social Science Building. Booby traps, land mines, and pontoon bridges are included in the display.
The exhibition was set up f)y various staff members of the Army unit on campus, and is open to anyone who wishes to view it.
The Scholastic
Southern Serenade
glow
lion queens. That’s Sheehan and Miss
during Fall’s big social weekend.
early classes
(Below) Cotillion couples
enjoy the
Darlene Samas at music and forget
throughout the rainy aftermath, the of the night never faded.
r
The wind was raw, the evening cold and blustery, but a small bit of Northern Indiana that seceded from the South for a one-night stand knew only warmth and the smell of magnolia blossoms as a thousand beautiful belles and true Southern gentlemen danced away the hours of the annual -Sophomore Cotillion Friday night. There are few affairs so traditionally merry as a Southern Serenade, and this one was far from the exception. From the impeccable dress of the dashing gallants and the swishing formal gowns of the ladies, to the orchestra playing from the mansion balcony the evening was a wonderful perpetration of that tradition. For when the last strains of Al Trace’s music faded down the bayous, when Northern Indiana again joined the Union early Saturday morning, and all
Sophomore Class President Poden and friends take time out from dancing at last Friday’s “Southern Serenade” in the Palais Royale ballroom.
Band Leader Al Trace and “pretty-eyed baby” (upper left) make with danceable music for Cotillion goers. Poden (upper right) watches co-chairmen Jerry Sheehan and Walter Vaughan crown their dates as Cotil-
left and Vaughan and Miss Mary Lou Leim at right.
Survivor of Russian Labor Camp in Austria Tells of Ukrainian Resistance to Soviet Union
By FRANK JACKMAN
“First of all, understand, I am Ukrainian.” So emphatically stated Dr. Michael Pap, special research assistant to the Notre Dame Committee on International Relations.
“There is quite a difference, you see, between being a Russian and a Ukrainian. In 1654, the Ukraine, which up to that time had been free and independent, made the bad mistake of forming a ‘defensive’ alliance with the Russians. Bohdan Chmelnytzky, hetman of the Ukraine, concluded the treaty and was never seen again.
“In 1864, the Russian Foreign Office declared that there never had been any such place as the Ukraine. This they thought effectively disposed of all resistance. How wrong they were!”
Dr. Pap, a 31-year-old Ph.D. from Heidelberg University, is now preparing several articles on the difficulties of the Russians in the Ukraine.
Forced Labor in Austria
Born in the Carpathian part of the Ukraine, once a part of Czechoslovakia, he attended the Gymnasium at Bratislava and in 1942, due to the assassination cf Reinhard “Hangman” Heydrich, the Gauleiter of Occupied Czechoslovakia, he and many other anti-Nazi students were brought to Austria as a forced labor group to work in the I. G. Farben Works there.
While there, he learned much about the inner workings of the U.S.S.R. from the many former citizens interned in the camp. “They were all bitter. When the Soviets came to ‘liberate’ us in the latter part of the war, none of us wanted to be ‘liberated.’ ”
Dr. Pap fled Austria and went to Heidelberg, where he obtained his doctorate in Political Science.
Vivid Impression of U. S.
After graduating from Heidelberg in 1948, Dr. Pap worked with the International Refugee Organization. “There, it was the same old story,” he relates. “Students from the Soviet or from satellite countries did not want to go back behind the Iron Curtain. We had a great deal of difficulty with the Soviet Reparations Commission; they kept telling the reluctant students that it was their duty to their Motherland.”
In 1949, Dr. Pap came to America. “My first impression of your country was most vivid. My friends and I had
just gotten off the boat, and we knew very little English.
“We asked a policeman for directions and he did not curse us or order us away! He acted like a decent human being! In Europe this would not be possible. One of my friends sat down on the curbing and cried like a baby. I must confess that my eyes were not entirely dry.”
Speaks Eight Languages
From New York, Dr. Pap proceeded to Detroit, where he got a job with the
MICHAEL PAP "How Wrong They Were!"
Chrysler Corporation. He says that he was the only machinist that could speak eight languages (German, Hungarian. Czech, Slovak, Russian, Ukrainian, Polish, and English).
In 1950, he came to South Bend and got in touch with Dr. Waldemar Gurian, chairman of the Committee on International Relations, who obtained for him the position of special research assistant to the committee.
Because of his obvious knowledge of the Ukraine (his doctoral thesis was entitled The Problems of Ukrainian Statehood and Immigration), Dr. Pap was next questioned concerning the Ukraine in the Kremlin scheme of things to come. ,
“After the Russian Foreign Office’s idea of declaring it non-exxistent in 1864, its revolutionary activities were dormant until the Russian Revolutions of 1917-1920, when a Ukrainian-Gov-
ernment-In-Exile under the leadership of Alexander Levitsky emerged and began plumping for- a free and independent Ukraine. Despite the thorough penetration of the Communist Dogma elsewhere, the Ukrainians still do not regard Russia as their country.
“In 1941, when the Nazis came, the Ukrainian Partisan Army, deceived by their promises, joined them in their fight against the Soviets. Too late, they found the Germans were no better than the Russians. They, then switched sides and were annihilated by both sides. Over 270 000 men under the leader of the Hetman, Bulbar, were slain before the war ended.
“That was generally considered to be the last of the Ukrainian Nationalist Anny, but there are some rumors that there are a few still in hiding. This seems to be borne out by the fact that a group of about 170 got through the Iron Curtain to Vienna last year, and they reported that there was still resistance to the Soviets in the Ukraine.
“This fact and the fact that over 300,000 D.P.’s from the Ukraine are still resisting efforts to have them returned under the Yalta agreement and will be an important source of strength against the Soviets.
“Anyway you look at it, the Western World has some good staunch allies in the Ukraine, if the struggle for freedom be forced upon them by the Soviets. The Ukrainians are old hands at the game of fighting Russians. They have been doing it since 1654.”
Foreign Affairs Program Will Be Given by State Dept.
To obtain outstanding Seniors and graduate students with backgrounds in foreign affairs and related fields, the U. S. Department of State has announced its fourth Foreign Affairs Intern Program to colleges and universities throughout the United States.
The program, which will begin in September, 1952, will include 50 students selected through a screeningprocess designed to secure highly qualified administrators.
As was the case last year, the department will select approximately 150 trainees for the program from those who pass the Civil Service Commission’s Junior Management Assistant Examination.
Applications from Notre Dame students must be on file with the Commission by Nov. 13 so that the applicant may take the examination in South Bend Dec. 8. To apply, students should contact Dr. Paul-C. Eartholomew, head of the State Depart
14
The Scholastic
ment Nominating Board here, or the Placement Office as soon as possible.
Foreign Affairs Interns will receive nine months of specialized job training which will include courses at the Foreign Service Institute, periodic conferences and seminars, and both observational and work assignments in the various operating divisions.
JMA trainees will also participate in a six-to-nine-month program during which they will be assigned to one of the operating divisions or bureaus of the department, to be determined by then- career interests and demonstrated abilities. JMA trainees will receive permanent assignments after the successful completion of the training program.
Salaries'for both Foreign Affairs Interns and JMA trainees are the same. Those with bachelor degrees will be paid at the rate of $3,100 per year, while those with higher degrees will receive an annual salary of $3,825.
All students with a background in foreign affairs, political science, economics, public administration, international relations, and related fields are urged to apply for nomination to the Foreign Affairs Intern Program and to take the JMA exam.
The Foreign Affairs Intern and JMA trainee appointments will be in Washington, D. C. It is possible for departmental employees, after completing a reasonable tour of duty in the home service, to be considered for temporary or permanent appointments in the foreign service at one of 300 U. S. embassies, legations or consulates throughout the world.
Lawmen Launch Moot Court; Preliminaries Next Tuesday
Sixteen future lawyers, in eight teams, will square off next week in the preliminary arguments in the Dean’s Award competition of the Notre Dame Moot Court. These will be held in the Law Building, Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m.
All students and members of the faculty are invited to attend the arguments, which are to be held in rooms 100, 102, 103, and 104 Law Building.
Of special note, and particularly to the followers of the Kefauver Crime Committee, will be the argument in room 102 on Wednesday evening. It contains the basic principles which the Notre Dame representatives will argue the following week in national competition in Chicago, and concerns the right of a person called before a Senate Investigating Committee to refuse to testify before television and motion picture cameras.
Volunteers Who Tend Vetville Tykes Enjoy Icebox Privileges, All the Comforts of Home
By LARRY BREHL
Approximdtely 80 students, mostly Juniors and Seniors, comprise one of the least known organizations on the Notre Dame campus. These are the men who “babysit” for the residents of the married students’ community, Vetville.
SITTER AND FRIEND
Service, Icebox Privileges
They perform this almost vital service knowing there is no monetary remuneration involved. But a sitter is paid in other ways: he has a change to a more homelike environment, is able to stay out till midnight and study without having a midnight charged against him, and—most enjoyable of all —has “icebox privileges.” The people for whom he sits provide some sort of snack for him — potato chips, sandwiches, coke, or some other foods and beverages to which he may help himself.
The sitter is usually called by the couple desiring his services a few hours before they want him to sit. If he is able to go that evening he agrees to be at the apartment shortly before they go out. The children are generally put to bed before their parents leave, so the student can sit back and relax or begin his studies.
Of course, he may often do more than the word “sitting” implies. Any number of miscellaneous duties may require his attention and performance. He might be asked for a drink of water. The child, or children, as the case may be, generally gets out of bed and must be put back and tucked under the covers. He might have to sing a
lullaby in order to put the child to sleep; or even have to change a diaper, something that does not happen too infrequently.
The child is usually a “perfect angel” and rarely scribbles on the walls with crayons, tears up the sitter’s textbook, or make the house look as if a cyclone had suddenly hit it.
Finally the children are sound asleep in bed and everything is quiet so that the sitter can get something done.
By this time he begins to feel slightly hungry and decides to use his icebox privileges. 'Having eaten all that was provided for him, t the student accomplishes some more work. This he does until the parents arrive home to hear that he has had no trouble with the child.
And so the sitter leaves and goes back to his hall.
Any student who wishes to join the ranks of the babysitters may apply to Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., at 333 Badin Hall. Although the sitters are mainly Juniors and Seniors, all other students are permitted to apply. The time at which a student must return to his residence varies in the halls and depends upon the wishes of the rectors.
Blue Circle Screens Student Nominations for 'Who's Who'
Final nominations for Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities are expected by the Student Council at its meeting Monday, Nov. 12, when members will cast their votes.
Voting will be based on nominations submitted by the student body. Deans of all schools and presidents of campus clubs also have been contacted for additional nominees.	’
Wh.en the last name is submitted, the Sophomore and Junior members of the Blue Circle will screen the nominees in order to submit the names of the worthiest students to the Student Council for the final choice. These names will be given to the Council on Nov. 12. It is expected that fewer than the maximum number of 60 names allowed will be submitted. The Council will choose half the numbei- of names submitted. Those men who are finally chosen will be entered in the college Who’s Who.
Who’s Who is the recognition, through national publication, of the men representative of the best student leadership on the campuses of the major colleges and universities in the United States.
Nov. 2, 1951
Mass Schedule
Monday, Nov. 5—Mass of the Feast of All Saints.
Tuesday, Nov. 6—Same as Nov. 5.
Wednesday. Nov. 7—Same as Nov. 5.
Thursday, Nov. 8—Octave of All Saints.
Friday, Nov. 9—Feast of the Dedication of the Lateran Basilica.
Saturday, Nov. 10—Feast of St. Andrew Avellino.
to the apostolate among the Negroes and by Mr. David Goldstein to that among the Jews. Father James G. Keller, M.M., shows how the Christopher movement gears into the work of quickening the spiritual life of churchless people with the knowledge of divine truth.
A total of twenty-seven experts share the fruits of - their years of experience in recruiting prospects as well as in their methods of instructing them.
’Mule' of '24 ND Team To Talk at Navy Rally
“Rip” Miller, assistant director of athletics at the United States Naval Academy and one of Knute Rockne’s famed ’‘seven mules” is the featured speaker at a pep rally held tonight at the Emerson Hotel, Baltimore.
Rev. Robert J. Sheehan, C.S.C., of the University Department of Biology and Coach Frank Leahy are representing Notre Dame. Senator Herbert R. O’Conor, Mayor Thomas D’Alesandro, and Rev. Thomas J. Murray, S.J., President of Loyola College, Baltimore, will also be in attendance.
The rally, held on the eve of the Notre Dame-Navy football game in Baltimore’s Memorial Stadium, is sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of Baltimore. Proceeds from the rally will go to the Notre Dame Foundation.
Movies of Notre Dame football games and a color film of the campus will be shown. An orchestra will play for dancing, and refreshments will be served.
This week 450 ND students are in Washington for the annual football Trip*. They arrived there about noon yesterday and will leave for Baltimore and the game at 11 o’clock tomorrow. Several parties and dances will be held for the student-trippers while they are in the Capital City. The “Student Special” will bear the trip-goers back to the University in time for classes Monday.
O'Brien's 'Sharing the Faith' Adds Tips on Convert Work
Great impetus is given to the convert movement in America through the publication of the new symposium, “Sharing the Faith,” edited by Rev. John A. O’Brien of the University of Notre Dame. The symposium is published by Our Sunday Visitor Press. The volume presents the latest and most successful methods of recruiting prospects and of
instructing them in the teachings and practices of the Catholic Faith.
A unique feature of the work is that it is designed as much for the laity as for religious and shows how every Catholic can win a convert for Christ every year. The keynote running through the entire book is that the winning of the millions of the churchless people in America can be accomplished only through the enlistment of the 28,000,000 Catholic people in this apostolate.
Chapters by Archbishop Downey of Liverpool, Archbishop Duke of Vancouver, Bishops Buddy, Feeney, Noll and Hunt in addition to Archbishop Cushing give the work an authoritative character, reflecting the mind of Christ and of His Church.
Priests who are averaging from fifty to a hundred converts a year share with the readers the technique of interesting outsiders in inquiry classes and information forums and show how such public lectures easily double or triple the average number of converts.
Special attention is given by Rev. Edward J. Murphy, S.S.J., of New Orleans,
"Thanks, Willy, If There’s Anything I Can Do For You . . .
Vetville Plans Another Party
Due to the success of a previous Sports Smoker, another one has been planned by the Vetville Council for Tuesday evening, Nov. 11, at 8 o’clock in the Vet Rec Hall.
Football movies and a talk by a member of the athletic staff will comprise the program for the evening. Refreshments will be served. All married students are invited to attend. Admission is 25 cents.
NROTC to Hold Barn Dance
NROTC members and their friends are pressing their best jeans in preparation for the first Cornstalk Cotillion square dance next Friday evening-, Nov. 9, in the Drill Hall.
Country music will be provided by the Green Mountain Ramblers, with dancing from 8:30 until 11:30, and late permissions to 12:30. For dates, the man to see is Chairman Tom Bennett in 228 Alumni. The tariff is $1.20 per couple, with tickets available through class representatives.
16
The Scholastic
25th ND-Navy Game in Baltimore
REYNOLDS GOES OVER
Long Runs Through Big Holes
Dillon Trounces St. Ed's; Cavanaugh Victors As Interhall Gridiron Play Nears Completion
Plenty of precision power plays meant a 25-0 defeat for St. Edward’s when they took on their older and more experienced rival—Dillon Hall.
Dillon tallied in the first and last plays of the game. Fullback Jim Murphy ran 40 yards through the center to open the scoring, and right half Van Snider went one yard for a TD just before the final gun. In between these two six-pointers came two more, one by halfback Ed Deboer, and the other by Murphy again.
Dillon quarterback John O’Brien did a fine job of handling the ball and his blocking was one of the main reasons the Juniors gained so much yardage. The solid play of the Dillon line, both offensively and defensively, was the factor responsible for the lopsided score. The most noticeable of the forward wall were tackle George Kirchner, center Alex Dunn, and guard Don Rampolla.—Tom Moore
Cavanaugh strengthened their claim to the Eastern Division title by downing a stubborn Farley team for their
second straight victory of the campaign, 19-0.
On the kickoff Farley halfback Joe Pucenelli was hit hard and the ball squirted out of his hands and Cavanaugh recovered. Aaron Dyson’s eleven wasted no time in converting this break into a touchdown. On the first play from scrimmage, quarterback Pete Chase faded back and threw to Pat Connley who dragged in the toss for the first score. The conversion was good.
Tom Short again kicked off. Four plays later the hard-charging Cavanaugh eleven broke through and blocked a Farley punt. Alert play by Mike Laughlin who picked up the bouncing ball and raced 25 yards untouched produced their second tally. The first attempt at the P.A.T. was good, but a penalty set the ball back on the 17. The second try was wide.
Late in the first half Farley’s hopes were dampened as Pucenelli was taken from the game with a dislocated shoulder.
Irish Seek Sixth Win In Row Over Middies
By BILL NOONAN
After disposing of one of their traditional foes last week, Notre Dame’s football forces travel to Baltimore to engage another arch-rival tomorrow. Navy, which has met the Irish on the gridiron more times than any of the other nine 1951 opponents, will provide the opposition.
Year after year, Navy tackles one of the most rugged schedules in the land and this year it seems the Goat has bitten off more than he can chew. So far, in five contests, the future admirals have tied one and lost four, some of them real heart-breakers. The tie occurred in the opening game with Yale; the score was 7-7. The Navy-then made powerful, undefeated Princeton scramble for a 24-20 win. , The Rice Owls, conqueror of SMU, also knew they were in a game when they edged the Sailors, 21-14. Two weeks ago, Navy dropped a 16-7 decision to Northwestern, coach Eddie Erdelatz’s crew held a good Penn team to a scoreless standoff for three quarters only to succumb to a last-period Quaker onslaught, 14-0.
Zastrow Leads Attack
The Navy attack centers around the square-rigged Bob “Zug” Zastrow, 208-pound quarterback whose passing and
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUPS (Offense)
NAVY	NOTRE DAME
Gurski ........LE....... Ostrowski
Tetrault ......LT......... Seaman
Steele ........LG.......... PoeMer
Bryson ......... C________ Hunter
Fischer .......RG......... Bardash
Davis .........RT__________ Toneff
Balsinger ....RE_______ Mutscheller Zastrow ________________QB. Mazur
Hauff ........LH....... Petitbon Brady ..................RH.;.................. Worden Franco .................FB_ Barrett
Kickoff time: 2:00 EST.
Nov. 2, 1951
17
running tore proud, mighty Army to shreds last year. Yet, Midshipman Zastrow can be as cold as he can be hot and thus far this season, he has been a little on the cool side. He says, however, his special desire is to beat Notre Dame, having already suffered under two defeats by the Irish. One . thing’s for sure, he’ll give the ND pass defense a workout, and his running will keep the forwards on their toes also. Mike Sorrentino, a slick ballhandler, has seen extensive action this year and might get the starting call tomorrow. Bob Cameron, another signal caller is the team’s ace punter.
The halfback situation is in good hands with captain Frank Hauff, a slashing ball carrier at left half and Frank Brady at right half. Dean Smith who scored the only TD against • Northwestern might get the nod over Brady as a starter. Vets Frank Ador-ney and Ira Kane will see considerable action also.
NAVY’S ZASTROW
Special Desire: Beat ND
At fullback is Navy’s flashiest running weapon, Fred Franco, whose bursting speed makes him particularly adept at quick openers. Pile-driving Jack Wilner and Jack Perkins, heaviest back at 210, are replacements.
Defense Biggest Problem
Five of. the thirteen departing varsity lettermen were ends. This and the defensive backfield were Navy’s biggest problems in the pre-season plans. John Gurski and Jim Baldinger, famous for his sensational catch in the Army upset, will be the starting flanks. Bill Cronin and Don Fullam up from the plebes are the first line reserves. Unlike the ends, the tackles are star-studded. Paul Tetrault, 225 pounds of pure fury at (Continued on Page 20)
Southern Cal and Michigan State Win Again; Navy, North Carolina, Iowa Lose to Old Foes
By KEN MURPHY
Two of Notre Dame’s future opponents came through with victories last weekend, while the other three teams which the Irish squad has yet to face were defeated. The undefeated Spartans of Michigan State and Trojans of Southern Cal kept right on rolling along, while Navy, North Carolina and Iowa bit the dust.
Michigan State jumped to a 13-0 first quarter lead at East Lansing, but then had to come from behind in the second half for the fourth straight game. State racked up 27 first downs—19 of them on the ground—as they methodically overwhelmed the outmanned Panthers. The Spartans scoring was evenly divided, Don McAuliffe being their only player to hit paydirt twice.
Bob Bestwick, the great quarterback of the fighting Panthers, put on somewhat of a one-man exhibition, as he set a whole host of all-time Pittsburgh records by completing 26 of 39 passes for a total of 345 yards. 18 of Pitt’s 26 first downs, and two touchdowns.
Trojans Edge TCU
Out on the west coast the Southern Cal team duplicated its feat of last week and scored two fourth quarter touchdowns, then hung on desperately to edge a determined Texas Christian outfit, 28-26.
The Trojans and Horned Frogs were deadlocked at 7-7 at the half and only the heroic play of Frank Gifford, who scored two touchdowns, and Al Carmichael kept the Trojans in the ranks of the undefeated.
At Philadelphia, Navy battled the University of Pennsylavnia on even terms throughout the first three quarters, then went under fighting as the injury-riddled Quakers, sparked by the running and passing of Gerry Robinson, drove to two fourth period tallies. The Penn scoring marches 'of 71 and 49 yards were capped by end Johnny Moses and fullback Don Zimmer, who scored the Quakers touchdowns.
Tarheels Location
At Wake Forest, North Carolina, the Deacons capped their homecoming weekend and with a thorough 39-7 licking of the University of North Carolina Tarheels in a Southern Conference fray. Six TD’s and the conversinon of one out of every two extra points gave Wake
Forest their total, while they completely outplayed the bewildered Tarheels in every department.
At Columbus. Ohio, the Iowa Hawkeyes were the victims of the stored-up wrath of Ohio State’s Buckeyes as Tony Curcillo stepped in for the injured allAmerican Vic Janowicz and threw four touchdown passes, while personally lugging the ball across the double-stripe on two other occasions. Iowa, as has been the case in every one of their games this season, racked up more first downs than their opponents, but couldn’t win the touchdown race.
Clarke Cops Tennis Crown
CLARKE AND FARRELL
Probably Mainstays
Wally Clarke (left) is congratulated by Jim Farrell after Clarke won the Campus Tennis Tournament by defeating the Kalamazoo Sophomore, 7-5, 3-6 and 6-1. Clarke, a Freshman from San Francisco, was seeded No. 2 while Farrell was No. 1.
According to tennis coach Walter Langford, Clarke and Farrell will probably be the mainstays in the Notre Dame tennis attack next Spring with either one holding down the squad’s first position.
18
The Scholastic
Purdue Harriers Fall; Johansson Sets Mark
Despite the sparkling performances of the Boilermakers’ Denis Johansson and Matthews, who took the first and second places respectively, Notre Dame’s long distance boys defeated their Purdue guests, 25 to 33 in their cross country chase last Saturday morning.
Johansson, a sensational Freshman, paid no heed to the wet weather conditions as he raced over the four-mile route to break the Irish course record with a time of 19:50.6. The old mark was held by Wisconsin’s Don Gehrmann who made it in 19:59 back in 1949.
Johansson covered the home stretch “like a dash man” to use the words of a wide eyed spectator. Purdue’s Matthews also did some fine running as he put on a terrific finishing spurt to come in second with a time of 20:11.
However, the Irish copped the next five places to triumph. Once again they were led by their two stellar harriers, Jack Alexander and Benny Almaguer.
The two were side by side until the last two hundred yards and then Alexander came through with his well known finishing kick to edge out Almaguer by 2/10 of a second, 20:16 to 20:16.2.
Bob Feiler, George Helfenstein. and Con Tetrault of ND took the next three places in that order to bring the Irish their second victory in three dual meets this season.—Roger Fernandes
Kampus Keglers Under Way; Detroit Swamps Metallurgy
The Kampus Keglers opened their 1951 bowling season in fine style last Sunday, with all 36 teams occupying the Bowl-Mor Alleys in South Bend from 1:15 p.m. until approximately 4 o’clock.
As in previous years, the 36 teams are divided into two separate leagues, the Blue and the Gold, with 18 teams in each. This season, President Lou Garip-po has gotten the league underway a few weeks earlier than in the past, with the main purpose in mind of finishing up earlier this Spring when the bowling usually tends to slack off.
■ The leading result from last week’s matches saw the defending champions, the Detroit Club, pick right up where they left off last season by making a clean sweep of three games and four points from the Metallurgy Club. ,
The high single three game total last week was a 518 series rolled. by Lou Falvo of the Rochester Club, while the top score of the day was registered by J. O’Brien of the Buffalo Club with 209.
Splinters frOmth^PressboX
By Jack Varley
Last Saturday in the cross country meet between Notre Dame and Purdue, the Boilermakers’ Denis Johansson set a new mark for the Notre Dame four-mile course when he ran the distance in 19:50.6 to knock more than seven seconds off the old record set by Wisconsin’s Don Gehrman in 1949. However, in the course of the trek around the lakes, Johansson, who led the pack all the way, started to take a wrong turn. If it hadn’t been for the shouts of the three Irish harriers closest to him, the Purdue runner would probably not have won the race, let alone broken the record. It was a fine display of sportsmanship on the part of Notre Dame’s Benny Almaguer, Bob Feiler and Jim Alexander.
Sign of the Tinies	-	•
Gad, every sport is going big-time it seems. Last week, after Dillon had decisively defeated Walsh by the score of 6-0 in the interhall touch football league, Bill Gorman, player - coach - manager - cheer leader of the Walsh eleven, found this note attached to his door . . . “Good-by Bill . . . The Walsh Alumni."
Saturday’s Game
In last Saturday’s game against Purdue, the Fighting Irish didn’t score as much as they have in their previous four games, but they certainly looked, better than they did at any other time. They played as a team both on offense and defense. Several of the long runs by Paul Reynolds would not have been possible if it weren’t for the huge gaps opened by Jim Mutscheller, Bob Toneff and the rest of the forward wall.	-
While the offensive team ground out 334 yards, the defense held the Boilermakers to 98 yards on the ground. Right now, Notre Dame’s defense is rated second in the country as far as rushing is concerned.
Quarterback John Mazur turned in his finest performance thus far this season. His signal calling was beautiful in both timing and variation. There seemed to be very few times when the Purdue defense knew what to expect.
Bill Barrett’s running display was dimmed by his punting. The speedy little halfback from Chicago had a 43-yard average on four high punts . . . long enough to deposit the ball deep in Purdue territory and high enough to allow Irish tacklers to get downfield.
Prediction of the Week	■
Tomorrow afternoon Baltimore will be the scene of the silver anniversary of the Navy-Notre Dame grid rivalry. Tomorrow afternoon the fighting Midshipmen will attempt to do what four other Navy teams have done — beat Notre Dame. However, chances are that Navy won’t even gain a second tie and will fall to Notre Dame for the twentieth time; this time by a 40-0 score.
JOHN MAZUR
Nov. 2, 1951
19
Navy
(Continued from Page 18) left tackle is ranked with the academy’s all-time tackle greats. Walt Gragg and Fritz Davis, the only three-sport letter winner in the academy, are defensive standouts. Frank Dorsey, a plebe mainstay last year is also in the picture.
Veteran Bill Steele and Dave Fischer, All-East mention last year, lead the guard brigade. Bob Lowell, a ’50 starter, rates right behind them. Bill Bryson, a regular for two seasons, is the offensive center, while Ted Kukow-ski and Bernie Botula take over as linebackers when the Blue and Gold is on defense.
Notre Dame fans, many of whom will witness the game in person due to the student trip, shouldn’t have too much concern, however, if the Irish backfield works as well as it did against Purdue ... no matter how torrid Mr. Zastrow may be. Brilliant is the word for the performances of Messrs. Mazur, Reynolds, Lattner, Worden and Barrett last week.
Samuels Consistent Threat
The game wasn’t wrapped up until late in the last period. Dale Samuels,
the diminutive Purdue quarterback, was a constant threat all day and it wasn’t until Johnny Lattner reeled off a beautiful 40-yard run for a marker in the third period that the Irish could relax their breathing. Up till then it was touch and go. The Irish had taken a first half lead on Paul Reynolds’ three-yard dive over the middle, but the Boilermakers tallied once in the third period and went ahead 9-7 on a lusty 42-yard field goal by Jim Reichert. Minnie Mavraides answered this with one of his own from* the 16 a few minutes later. The sun came out around that time and the Irish were off. Leading 17-9 on Lattner’s work of art going into the fourth, Leahy’s lads pushed over two more with Barrett scoring from the two' and later on Mutscheller grabbing a short heave from Mazur to end the scoring.
Notre Dame Bees Tie Tough Purdue Squad
The Notre Dame and Purdue B squads battled to a 7-7 tie in a driving rain on Cartier Field Saturday morning.
Early in the first quarter Irish fullback Joe Caprara broke through from thirty yards out for a T.D. only to have
it called back by an offside penalty.
Later in the same quarter the Irish roared back to score. Quarterback Tom Martin passed to end Steve Gomola who lugged the leather fifty yards to the Purdue six. Martin called the same play again and it was good for a touchdown. Ted Bientz kicked the extra pioint.
The Boilermakers tied it up in the third quarter on a drive sparked by the •running of Lou Kerestes, brother of former Purdue star, John Kerestes. Kerestes plunged over from the twelve. Matt Werle converted to tie up the game.
Purdue threatened to go ahead in the same quarter when they drove to the Irish ten. Then Irish linebacker Art Nowack intercepted a pass in his own end zone and ran it out fifty-five yards to the Purdue forty-five before being-dragged down from behind.
Along with Nowack, Jim Dunlay and Pat Galvin looked very good on defense. Galvin, a freshman, diagnosing plays beautifully, raced up from his safety spot many times to nail men on the line.
The B squad will entrain next Thursday for Memphis, where they will play the University of Tennessee B squad. The following week they play Michigan State at Lansing, then the week after that on Nov. 16 they play Michigan
State here at Notre Dame.-
John Cox
RECORD SALE!
Offer Limited!
The Worlds Most
Beautiful Music
W/i LP Long Playing
BNIIEAKAILE
Uus Pct Record
Up tn 10 Selec-CLASSiCAL. SEMI-
Choase as
(p!as C O.D, postage and 35e handling charge ret erder). SAVE pottage by sending check or M.O. at 1.19 for each
CLASSICAL and POPULAR RECORDS.
record (add 35c handling charge ner o. ded order will be sent prepaid.
CLIP THIS HANDY ORDER BLANK
^•79
your
.. ALL BRAND NEW many records as you wish at only 1.19 each
Check your selections □ LP6S OKLAHOMA — Surrey Prince on tile Top. etc.
with the
fill out coupon below
□ LP52 WORLD FAMOUS WALTZES — Skaters Waltz. Say It Isn’t So, Waltz of the Bells, etc.
C LPSfl THE TEN BEST HYMNS—Rock of Apes, Abide with Me. In the
Suroet Byp and Bye. etc.
□ LP54 BEETHOVEN’S FIFTH PHON V—Complete — Radio phony Orchestra
SYM* Sy;71-
□ LP4S SCHUBERT'S SYMPHONY—(Unfinished)—National Opera Oreh.
DLP47 CAPTAIN STUBBY AND THE BUCCANEERS—Piccolo Pete, Utt It Off. etc.
□ I.P48 PIANO CONCERTO (Tsehaikcw-sky) PIANO CONCERTO — NORWEGIAN DANCE (Griep)
DLP4S POPULAR RANGE SONGS—RED RIVER DAVE—Red River Valley. I.'omo an the Range, etc.
□ LP3« ALL TIME HITS —DANNY O’NEIL and ethers. My Gal Sal. Sweet Marie, etc.
□ LP22 PEER GYNT SUITE, other GK a Comp.—Hall Concert Orchestra
□ LPI5 SOUTH PACIFIC TUNES—Some Enchanted Even in,. Bali Hai. etc.
□ LPI4 JEROME KERN’S IMMORTAL MELODIES. More and Mere. Who. Bill. ete.
O LPI3 HAWAIIAN MELODIES —LANI MelNTIRE —Aloha, My Isle ot Golden Dreams, ete.
□ LPIO LET’S ALL SING — BEN YOST SINGERS. Sweet Adeline. After the Ball. etc.
□ LP 3 SQUARE DANCES—ED DUR-LACHER CALLING—Nellie Bly.
Virplnla Reel. ete.
□ LP Z STRAUSS V/ALTZES — BOB STANLEY—Emperor Waltz. Blue Danube, etc.
□ LP I TWILIGHT TIME—THE THREE SUNS—Star Dutt. Twilipht Time, elc.
□ LPT2 TSCHAIKOWSKY FAVORITES — Andante Contabile. Barc roite, Humoresque. Fifth Symphony, ete. (Instrumental)
□ LP7I MUSIC FOR MEDITATION—Sil-ver Threads Amons the Gold. Lonp. Lonp Apo. I'll Tako You Homo Apain Kathleen, etc.
□ LPM RANGE SONGS A DANCES — Jinplo Janple Jinple. Don't Fence Mo In, Empty Saddles, Bar Room Polka, etc.
□ LP65 MENDELSOHN'S MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM (Prelude. Scher-zo. Weddinp March) EMPEROR WALTZ, BLUE DANUBE WALTZ —Symphony Orchestra
□ LP50 SWAN LAKE BALLET SUITE— ROMEO A JULIET — National Opera Orchestra
□ LP43 SACRED A SPIRITUAL SONGS— D. O'Neil—The Lord’s Prayer, The Rosary, ete.
□ LP37 WILLIAM TELL OVERTURE — Interludea Mozart Opera—National Opera Orchestra
□ LP33 VIENNESE WALTZES — BUB STANLEY—Merry Widow Waltz. Vienna Beauties, ete.
□ LP3I 1812 OVERTURE — CAPRICCO ITALIEN—National Opera Orch. chestrs
□ LP30 TANNHAUSER OVERTURE— PRELUDES TO LOHENGRIN, National Opera Orchestra
and mail immediately!
□ LP25 CANDLELIGHT MUSIC—KEN MURRAY—Souvenir. Nono But the Lonely Heart, etc.
□ LP24 CARNEGIE HALL — D’ARTEGA and Orch. Tschaikou-sky's Plane, Violin Concertos. etc.
□ LP23 WORLD FAVORITES —H. LEOPOLD SPITALNY—Pomp and Circumstances. Para Mi. ete.
□ LPI2 CONCERT TIME—Hoary Nosco —Ca. price, Indian Summer, etc.
□ LPII FAMOUS PIANO A ORGAN SOLOS— Polonaise (Chopin), Claire Do Lume, etc.
□ LP I STEPHEN FOSTER SONGS—JUANITA HALL—My Old Kentucky Home. Old Black Joe, etc.
□ LP S LATIN—Madripuero and D’Artepa—Tic* Tic*. La Comparsita, etc.
□ LP 3 EARL WILD AT THE PIANO—Chopin. Waltz la E Minor. Butterfly Etude, ete.
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE
■ Colgan* Dlsfribafiag C*.. Dept. ND43
I 4142 Armitog* Av*., CMcog* 39, IN. -■ Pleas* ship...........racercis	as checked.
I I ancle;* $...ship prapoW. Ship C.O.D....
■ Name
■ Address
Galgaaa Dlstr. Co., 4142 Amitago Avo., Chicago 39, III.
■ City > Stale.
Dining Hall Policy
(Continued from Page 9) improvements could be made in those cases where a real abuse exists, and urged the Council to continue its work in this regard.
The Council suggested the idea of establishing a student menu committee to confer with Mr. Ford, Dining Hall manager, on planning the menu for future weeks. Father Joyce thought the idea a very good one, and something that might easily be worked out. No definite action on the subject was immediately taken, however.
In order to carry its investigation further, the Stu-deni- Council voted to ask Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, executive vice- president, Rev. Charles Carey, vice-president in charge of student affairs. Father Joyce, and Mr. Ford to a special meeting of the Council in the very near future.
20
The Scholastic
The Third Degree
-------By J. L. SHEPHERD---------
Next Tuesday evening, Dr. Vincent E. Smith will address the members of the Graduate Students’ Association at 8:00 p.m. in the Law Auditorium. Dr. Smith, editor of The Nets Scholasticism and member of the Philosophy Department of Notre Dame will discuss interrelationships of empiriological and philosophical sciences. The public is cordially invited to hear this popular speaker.
A Halloween party, the Association’s first social event of the season, was enjoyed by all on the evening of Oct. 30 in the Veterans’ Auditorium. A harvest motif was carried out in both costume and decoration.
After a week’s layoff because of the Purdue game, the Graduate Students’ touch football league will resume action Saturday morning. In the initial scrimmage October 20, a mighty Physics team steamrolled the favored Biology six, twelve to six, and Mathematics forfeited to Chemistry.
Gasperini Chosen to Lead Marketing Club's 2nd Year
The Notre Dame Marketing Club, affiliated with the American Marketing Association, has begun its second year of activities under its new president, John Gasperini.
Dennis Delaney was elected vicepresident of programs; Thomas Najjar, vice-president of membership; Thomas Hellmich, secretary, and Leo Hummerich, treasurer. J. B. Searles, Jr., of the Department of Marketing, was elected faculty advisor for the school year.
Plans are being formed for an active year, which will include many well known speakers and a field trip.
The next meeting, Tuesday, Oct. 30, will have as the main speaker Mrs. Nellie Morris, buyer at Wyman’s De
partment Store, South Bend.
All new members are urged to attend this meeting. Anyone connected with Marketing or interested in Marketing is invited.
Indiana Bell Co. Spokesman Speaks Before AIEE Group
“Engineering and Construction Problems in Building the Indianapolis-Louisville Coaxial Cable” will be the subject of a talk to be delivered by Mr. Martin J. Luichinger, Outside Plant Coordination Engineer of the Indiana Bell Telephone Co., at the Thursday, November 8 meeting of the A.I.E.E.-I.R.E. The talk, scheduled to begin at 7:30 p.m., will originate from Room 212 of the Engineering Building.
Mr. Luichinger attained the rank of Lt. Colonel while serving in the Signal Corps during World War II. He served in the office of the Chief Signal Officer, having supervision over the construction. operation, and maintenance of a top secret communications system between Washington and foreign theatres of war.
By virtue of this service, he was awarded the Legion of Merit. Mr., Luichinger is also the recipient of the Bronze Star for his assistance in the re-
SUNNY ITALY
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
habilitation of the telephone system in Manila after its recapture from the Japanese. In addition, he acted as Chief Signal Corps officer in charge of all army communications associated with the Bikini atom bomb tests.
His work with Indiana Bell, which dates back to 1913, has been concerned with electrolysis, structural and inductive coordination, supplies, and general outside plant design, construction and maintenance.	"
In addition to his 38’ years of telephone experience, Mr. Luichinger is an amateur protographer of considerable renown. He is a registered professional engineer, and has been a member of the A.I.E.E. since 1927.	'	’
All students have been cordially invited to hear Mr. Luichinger’s address.
BEST AND LATEST AT
RECORD BAR
Complete line of
JAZZ—DIXIELAND—POPULAR CLASSICAL on all 3 speeds
412 S. Michigan Phone 7-3553
Don’t miss our WND shows.
"Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
ENGINEERS — RENT YOUR TUXEDOS ...
TUXEDO RENTAL CO.
206 North Main St.	Phone 4-0228
. . . Wkete tke	tkan
Nov. 2, 1951
21
~lhe l$ack
--------------------- By Bill Riley
Up on the fourth floor of Walsh, where live as fine and gregarious a group of young men as you would hope to find were you to search the whole world over, and where, incidentally, I live between September and June, we have a maid named Fidelia. No one, so far as I know, has any idea what Fidelia’s last name is. And just as surely, there is no one on that particular floor who does not know her by her given name.
Fidelia speaks very little English, and a good deal of French, the latter generally when she is disturbed with the general condition of the room and can only express her extreme distaste at our general slovenliness by going into her native tongue. At those times the rapid-fire flow of vowels and consonants is something to behold.
Unfortunately, most of us speak little French. Often we don’t know what is mangeant the good Fidelia. It becomes necessary that we employ a translator. Such happened one day in a little dispute over whether or not the room was to be vacuumed. Fidelia held, and with some precedent, it must be admitted, that her job was to sweep the floors with a broom, not a vacuum cleaner. We pointed out that it was just as easy to vacuum rugs as to broom floors. The dispute hinged over whether or not brooming and vacuuming were to be considered equivalent. Fidelia insisted, in good strong, vital Gallic, that she was within her rights. We were standing fast, though. Finally, we called in the maid from the first floor, who gave Fidelia what could be considered a fairly adequate chewing out in any language. For a week after that, we were awakened in the morning to low, guttural growls, en francais. All is forgiven now, though, the rugs are being vacuumed (faithle spirituelaire) or something like that, and we wake up each morning to a cheery “bon jour.” And we did it without the U.N.
Remember Georgia?
Something along this line happened when we were freshmen, lo these many years, in 1948. On what is now the “W” line in chow hall west, there was an elderly lady who went under the incongruous name of .Georgia. Whitehaired, dimple-chinned, she was the
22
very essence of that gentle old-age that has been glorified in mother’s day ads. She had a tempei- that was roughly like that of a two-year-old cougar with a burr under his tail. The slightest deviation from routine would cause her to explode from behind the gate (it’s gone too, now), like Whirlaway breaking at Churchill Downs, only with blood in her eye. Simultaneously she would lash out verbally and physically, verbally in a language that was strange to the ear, physically, in language common to all men. We learned how to fend off the adept kicks she aimed our way, but were stumped as to how to parry the words. It just didn’t seem effective to blast her back in English when it was obvious that she didn’t understand a word we were saying.
Then, a young man who shall remain anonymous but who is of southeastern European descent came to dinner with us one evening. Georgia cut loose. He looked at her, smiled sweetly, and said something that sounded to me like “omni sit umn golumno.” Georgia blanched, backed away, and never troubled us again. The young'man became one of those unsung heroes—men who have come through, unheralded, in the clutch.
Let’s Stop the Irish Confetti
On an entirely different subject, there is perhaps still a little to be said concerning student demonstrations at the pep rallies and games. I wasn’t in a position to see what happened at the SMU game. Giving the troops a break, it can be said that the goal line cheering was much more normal reaction to a tense moment than any attempt to sabotage SMU’s play-calling. The other stuff, including the Irish confetti, in my humble opinion, stinks. Representing the University of Notre Dame, crudity in any form, when seen by 60,000,000 or so people, hurts her reputation and yours. Pure percentages, it would seem to me, would dictate that gentlemanly behaviour be followed. To do otherwise is not only a childish play, it’s a stupid one.
And, to the nameless young men who practice their witticisms while protected by the dark at pep rallies, mocking men such as Mel Allen, who gave up his time, came from the train to the rally, with only a few minutes
to wash up and no dinner, well, boys, | you are out of there. Maybe you	|
think that you will gain admiration by	|
your heckling. Maybe you’re right. If you are, God help this place in the next few years.	I never have gone
along with this	“fuzzy-faced frosh”	j
stuff, but if that	was an example of	;
relative maturity,	maybe there’s some-	|
thing to it. It doesn’t take any guts and very little wit to be a heckler. All j it takes is an above average supply of | asininity.	' i
It seems to me that this. soi-t of ac- j tion could set back the cause of student government several years. Some members of the administration begin to believe that the students will accept more responsibility and act fairly mature, and some wise guy mouths off. P Conclusion by administration members: They act like kids, we’ll treat them like kids. Answer by students: They treat us like kids, we’ll act like kids. The | students, though, have to take the first fl step. It doesn’t take any profound insight to realize that a few instances such as the pep rally heckling will ruin	J
a lot of good, conscientious work on	:
the part of those who are trying. May I suggest, just once more, that the few get wise. You’re fouling it up.
Delay Poor Souls' Novena Till Student-Trippers Return
Student Chaplains will offer nine Masses during the month of November j for the deceased friends and relatives *1 of Notre Dame students.	.;
Boxes will be set up by the pamphlet racks in Dillon, Howard and Cavanaugh ’ halls to receive lists of names for remembrance. The names of the persons to be remembered will be placed on the .' altar where the Mass is being celebrated.	<
The annual novena for the poor souls will begin after Notre Dame men return from the Navy football trip. As is customary, it will be a semi-public novena of Masses, Communions, rosaries and adoration periods for nine consecutive days.
Rev. Richard Grimm, c.s.c., wishes to commend the general response on the part of the students for October adoration. It was among the best in recent years. Father Grimm would like to thank the third Order of St. Francis and the Y.C.S. for their work in canvassing the halls for adorers.
Missals are still being offered for sale at the offices of the Student Chaplains at greatly reduced prices. Various editions are available for $2 to $9.50.
The Scholastic
tyooihall tyotec&it . . .
Here’s your chance to prove that you too are an expert in rating football games. All you have to do is to mark in your favorite predictions in the space provided and leave them at the designated points before noon of the Saturday on which the game is to be played. What could be simpler? The makers of Medico : V. F. Q. pipes will award a 4 Smoker’s Set containing two $ pipes (as pictured) each week to the winner of our contest.
DIRECTIONS—Please circle the ten ; teams that you think will come out on j top. Also indicate your prediction as to the score of each game. In case of ties duplicate prizes will be awarded. To facilitate judging please use the form ; below. Only University of Notre Dame students are eligible.
—..................Stoop	HIgmJi at Uto JluAUe 6tdif---------------
FOOTBALL FORECAST — Games of Nov. 10. 1951
NAME	ADDRESS	• • • • •
NOTRE DAME 			MICHIGAN STATE			• • • • •
SYRACUSE 		PENN STATE 			• •
KENTUCKY 		TULANE 		• • • •
S. M. U		TEXAS A. & M			• • • •
DARTMOUTH		COLUMBIA 				• • • •
OKLAHOMA 			MISSOURI		• • • - •
WASHINGTON 		CALIFORNIA 				• • • •
ARKANSAS 		RICE 			• • • 0
STANFORD			SOUTHERN CAL		• • t •
DELAWARE			LAFAYETTE 				• ■ • * • •
Nov. 2, 1951
23
U^VERSITYV,I^Of‘ DASS
THE BIGGEST
PLUS
IN CIGARETTE HISTORY
. "No Unpleasant After-taste"
^ca
is
*
X?
3$
pa
— added to
the world's most
famous ABCs —
Always Milder
H Better Tasting





"It’s the only one
CHESTERFIELD IS
brands tested in
with the Big Husf/Wz^*^

nel found no un
THE ONLY CIGARETTE of all which members of our taste pleasant after-taste.
From the report of a
well-known research or9anlxohon
Always BuyCHESTERF^D