The Notre Dame Scholastic
IS CTS. A COPY	M A Y 25
$2.60 THE YEAR	Nineteen Thirty-four
Avoid that “Last Minute” Rush— Mal& Your Plans NOW for
GOING HOME
There are so many things to think about at the close of school, it’s pretty easy to forget that very important matter — making your reservations for the trip home. But we’ll take care of you on the South Shore Line to Chicago — and we’ll make your reservations out of Chicago, if you want us to. Better do it today—right now!
Ride the South Shore to Chicago, we’ll route you on home.
NEW FARE NOW EFFECTIVE
South Bend to Chicago
C. W. VEACH, Local Agent	f a
301 N. Michigan St.	'V'
Phone 3-3111
C5OWehoRE^
THE SCHOLASTIC is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865
Entered as seeond-dasa matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917. authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns______ Mitchell C. Tackley.
Associate Editors
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD.______________EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN---------------------JOHN E. CONLEY
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD.______________.MICHAEL F. WIEDL
Sports Staff
JOHN D. OARBINE | ED J. VAN HUISSELING [ NICHOLAS J. CONNOR__________
------------Sports Editors
____HOWARD T. WALDRON
CYRIL F. STROKER________________JAMES A. WALDRON
JOHN L. GLANZNER__________JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST
GERARD SCHAEFER________________JAMES MCMULLEN
Business Management
JOHN F. -STOECKLEY___________________Graduate Manager
__Editor-in-Chief
.Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
THOMAS J. STRITCH__________________________The Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK-----	.	Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL------------------------Staff Artist
News Staff	•
THOMAS G. PROCTOR 1	.
JOSEPH A. BUCCI J	Nem Edltors
ROY O. SHOLZ-----------------------ROBERT F. ERVIN
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY_________________JOHN W. WALKER
GEORGE R. LEYES________________;_______________LOUIS H. HRUBY, FRANK KELLY____________________VINCENT A. GORMAN
CLIFFORD F. BROWN________________IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
CHARLES A. LANDMESSER______________JOHN J. MORAN
J. DICKSON MURPHY________________.HARRY A. BALDWIN
ROBERT L. GROGAN---------------ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL
PHILIP F. WELSH------------------JOHN A. GILLESPIE
Volume LXVII
May 25, 1934
No. 26
WHERE CREDIT IS DUE
At the 90th Commencement ceremonies next week the academic leaders of the class of ’34 will receive public recognition for their scholastic achievements. Winners of departmental prizes will receive their awards ; three members of the class will have a place on the program as Valedictorian, Class Poet, and Class Orator. It is particularly appropriate that these academic honors should go to the winners of them at the close of their four college years’: the winning of them was a four year task.
Taking as representative of the group of outstanding students the three who have been named to honor positions, it is possible to inquire into their formulae for success; not as a defense of their qualifications for their honors, but as manner of public congratulations to them for having been so qualified.
Those members of the undergraduate body who are interested in the procedure involved in winning a high scholastic rating and a class valedictorianship may well consider the seven semester record of Charles N. Heckleman, A.B., ’34, this year’s valedictorian. In the seven semesters ending last February he received only four semester grades under 90, none under 88. In further demonstration of his consistency the following list of semester averages might well be submitted: 912/3, 92 2/3, 94%, 95 5/6, 97 4/5, 97 2/3, and 96 5/7. An exceptional accomplishment undoubtedly, and one well meriting public recognition.
The Class Poet is Thomas J. Stritch, A.B. Twentyfourth ranking man in the class with an average for seven semesters of 91.1, he has combined outstanding scholastic accomplishment with a greater than average interest and activity in extra-curricular work. Need it be mentioned that he wrote “The Week?” He contributed the satire section of last year’s Dome; he wrote for the Juggler and for Scrip; he was a prominent player in the University Theatre group. He has had a full four years well suited to an honor finish.
Hugh F. Fitzgerald, A.B., also in the top flight of class rankings, is Class Orator for ’34. Like the others he combined scholastic achievement with outside work of a scholastic nature. For three years he has been a
May 2 5, 1 9 3 4
member of the excellent and very successful University debating squad. He was a finalist in this year’s Breen Medal oratorical contest. He delivered the appreciation oration at the Washington’s Birthday exercises. And to those things, or better, as a background for those accomplishments, he acquired a seven-semester average of 87.4.
To them all, leaders in averages and winners of prizes, The Scholastic offers the heartiest of congratulations.
----*----
SONG OF OURSELVES
These are the last of the editorial lines that the sixtyseventh editor of The Scholastic will write for publication here. They are essentially personal lines: printed admission of- four years of pleasant work. Had we to start over on our four years at Notre Dame many things would be done differently as we went along. One feature of the four years would not be changed: we would again seek a place on the staff of The Scholastic. It was our first extra-class activity on the campus; it has been about our only one. We should like a chance to do it again, to have this phase of our Notre Dame life again at its beginning.
We have worked under friendly and helping upperclassmen; we have seen a sort of loyalty to a campus organization, on the part of the staff, that we had thought was not to be found among student members of a student group. We have had the definite pleasure and the immeasureable help of receiving, during the past year, continued willing and loyal cooperation from Mike Tackley, an excellent managing editor; and from nine other seniors who stood by a harrassed editor and contributed generously of time and effort and valuable experience in solving the problems arising out of the great physical change wrought in the magazine last fall.
If we are sorry to graduate and to leave the campus, a major share of the emotion arises from the necessity of relinquishing The Scholastic and of giving up the fun that working on it has been. To our successor John Carbine and his worthy first assistant, Ed Van Huissel-ing, goes our editorial blessing. To them and to all other staff members, the deepest of gratitude.
One
THE WEEK
Name Van Huisseling To “Scholastic” Post
By Thomas J. Stritch
Looking Backward
It is not an easy thing to face graduation with equanimity. There’s no question that the view we take now of Notre Danie and all it means is just as false as that which we
took when we were sophomores. Both represent extremes, and as usual the truth lies somewhere in the middle, no doubt. But, straining off the excesses of sentimentality, the heavy smell of the lilacs and the sheen of the lakes, there remain honest, human things that have made these four years meaningful, and have shaped in us an attitude toward living which will persist, for good or for bad, until we live no more.
For, after all, what is education, if not for such an attitude? The work of reading and acquiring facts could be done much more quickly by any intelligent boy at home. What is learned is forgotten, but the overtones of learning—the color, the atmosphere, the bent it places in our minds—will remain. It always looks silly and trite to see in catalogues that “the main business of this school is to build character”; yet, in the end, what else could it be? Character is only the sum-total of our living convictions, and most of those convictions are acquired in college. Look back, seniors, and see how many views on life you had when you came here are the same, or, if some are the same, how differently you conceive them. Yet, 20 years from now we will still retain most of the beliefs we now hold. Whether we like it or not, we become what we are during college. And it seems to me that the influences we meet in college are the most important moulds we have.
Those influences are subtle ones. Until you analyze them you hardly realize that they have been there. And, certainly, Notre Dame’s have been unique. From the nature of the
case you cannot find them any place else; and if what she has given you is riddled with holes, of whomsoever’s making, you have, at least, something you will not find duplicated.
Not the least of these has been the Church. There are those who will say that we have been subsidized by the faculty to write this, but as a matter of face we thought it up ourselves. Nowhere will you find, not even in any other Catholic college, the approach made to religion as you have found here. I do not mean so much the facilities, unsurpassed though they are; I mean more the ceremonies, the music, the attention paid the liturgy, the full, complete Catholic spirit all round us. I am glad of it.
And what fine men we have here! Great teachers, whom we will remember when all they taught us is gone; fine upright characters and true gentlemen, both among the priests and laymen. It is, I think, the presence of these men that we will remember most, and it is their influence that we will carry away more securely.
The class of 1934 is a transition class. It bridges the gap between the old Notre Dame and the new, physically and scholastically. Even the transition in athletics took place when we were here. The new buildings, now so prominent a feature, were built in our time; we saw the beginnings of the Mediaeval Institute in Philosophy, the Chesterton lectures in English and history, and the beginnings of the Leslie lectures. I think, too, that this class in a sense marked the beginning of a new type of student, and of a new student attitude. What it is everybody knows; and though perhaps it is not true, I think it is.
Our position being this we haven’t had time to be dull. We did not, it is true, enjoy the full advantages of each. We did not come in under the compact student body of the early 1920’s, which accomplished so much that was good; neither have we enjoyed the full physical advantages of fine buildings and the great gymnasium that students of the future are sure to have. But we have not had time to stagnate; things have been popping under our feet.
Underneath the crust of the class of 1934 there is a lot of energy. It seems to us, too, that it is an unusual class. It may, in the course of time, prove of unusual worth. At any rate, we are glad to have been a member of it.
The appointment of Edward J. Van Huisseling, ’35, to the position of Managing Editor of The Scholastic for the school year of 1934-35 was announced this week by the Faculty Board of Publications.
Edward J. Van Huisseling Upped again.
Van Huisseling thus becomes first assistant on The Scholastic to the newly appointed editor-in-chief, John D. Carbine. During the past year the two men have worked together as co-sports editors of the publication.
The new managing editor is a junior in the Department of Journalism, College of Arts and Letters, and has been a member of the sports staff in various capacities since early in the fall of his freshman year, 1931-32. His home is in Elmhurst, Illinois.
In addition to his duties as managing editor, Van Huisseling will conduct the campus sports column, “Splinters From The Press Box,” during next year. The latter assignment was made this week by Editor Carbine.
Campus Improvements Are Planned For This Summer
Carpenters, painters, and other workmen will be busy during the summer in construction work on the campus, the Reverend John O’Hara, C.S.C., Vice - President, announced this week.
Partial plans include the construction of a new swimming pier to replace the former one which recently collapsed after a good many years of service. The new pier will be located where the old one formerly stood and while it will be of the same length, it is planned to make it considerably wider. The contract has been given to Thomas L. Hickey of South Bend, but the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., will supervise the construction.
Two new sections of shelving will be installed in the University Library to accommodate the ever growing number of volumes.
Two
The Scholastic
Calendar
Friday, May 25
Pharmacy Club meeting, home of Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, 8 p.m.; Symphony orchestra rehearsal, Washington Hall, 6:30 p.m.
Saturday, May 26
Banquet, Senior A. I. E. E., members, Coquillard Country Club; movie, “Tugboat Annie,” starring Wallace Beery and Marie Dressier, Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:30 p.m.
Sunday, May 27
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m. Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7 p.m.; for freshmen and students in Lyons and St. Ed’s, 7:30 p.m.; University Band concert, porch of Administration Building, 6:30-6:45 p.m.
Tuesday, May 29
Movie, “Mr. Skitch,” with Will Rogers and Zasu Pitts, Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:30 p.m.
Fr. O’Donnell’s Condition
Remains Very Serious
The condition of the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, who is ill in St. Joseph’s hospital, South Bend, continues to be very serious.
Despite a surprising rally last week after his physicians had given up hope, Father O’Donnell suffered a relapse Sunday, when a septic condition developed. He has been running a high temperature since then and has been irrational most of the time. The recent cool spell contributed to his comfort, but his condition remains very serious.
(LawsClub Notes
John B. Crowe, 1051 No. Johnson St., South Bend, a Junior Lawyer, was notified by the publishers of the Law Student magazine that he will be one of the recipients of a volume of Corpus Juris. This prize is awarded each month to the ten best answers received from law students throughout the world in ascertaining the approach of the investigation of facts to a given case.
Rifle Match
Smarting from a defeat handed them a few weeks ago by Alumni in the two man interhall shoot, Dillon’s five man team challenged the alleged sharpshooters from Alumni to a revenge match and beat the Juniors by one point. It was final indoor match of the season held on the University range in the boat house.
Joseph Minarick, the team’s outstanding shot of the indoor season, was high man for the Dillon team. McGrath led Alumni men in defeat.
Class Day, Baccalaureate, Mass, and Address Feature Commencement
Exams —
The examination schedule for undergraduates has been announced as follows:
Classes taught at 8:00 on Monday 9:00 on Monday 10:00 on Monday 11:00 on Monday 1:15 on Monday 2:15 on Monday 3:15 on Monday 8:00 on Tuesday 9:00 on Tuesday 10:00 on Tuesday 11:00 on Tuesday 1:15 on Tuesday 2:15 on Tuesday 3:15 on Tuesday
■will be examined at
8 :00 on Monday
7:00 on Wednesday
10:00 on Monday 10:00 on Wednesday
1:15 on Monday 3:15 on Monday 3:15 on Wednesday 8:00 on Tuesday 8:00 on Thursday
10:00 on Tuesday
10:00 on Thursday
1:15 on Tuesday
3:15 on Tuesday
7:00 on Tuesday
Classes taught any day at 4:15 or at 7:00 are to be examined at 7:00 p.m on Monday. There will be no examinations from 8:00 to 10:00 Wednesday morning (Memorial Day). The time of the examination in any course not provided for in the schedule above will be fixed by the teacher of the course. Any examination taken outside these four days assigned will not be valid.
Monday in the left column of the schedule means Monday, Wednesday, or Friday; Tuesday means Tuesday, Thursday, or Saturday. The 7:00 in all instances is p. m.
All students are to take their examinations with their proper sections. There will be no permission for anyone to shift to another section of a course.—Director of Studies.
330 Couples Attend Annual Monogram Ball at Palais
Three hundred and thirty couples danced at the Palais Royale Ballroom at the annual Monogram Club Formal which was held Thursday evening, May 17, to the tunes of Clyde McCoy and his famous “Sugar Blues” orchestra. Hugh Devore, the general chairman, together with Tom Roach, the club president, managed the affair.
The Patrons list was made up of the following: Mr. and Mrs. Elmer Layden, Tom Conley and Miss Cecilia Maloney, Chicago, Mr. and Mrs. Joe Boland, Mr. and Mrs. George Keogan, Dr. and Mrs. Kamm, Mr. and Mrs. Edward Heily, Dean and Mrs. James McCarthy, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Petritz, Mr. and Mrs. Herb Jones, Mr. and Mrs. Art Haley, Mr. and Mrs. John P. Nicholson, Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Young, and Mr. Paul Fenlon.
WALKER IS SPEAKER
Three days of religious ceremonies, events, and festivities will mark the ninetieth annual commenceemnt at the University, which will culminate Sunday, June 3, in a solemn and dig-
Hon. Frank C. Walker, ’09. .4 Commencement Address.
nified close by addresses, the awarding of degrees to some 500 seniors, and the bestowal of degrees of honorary Doctor of Law upon four of the most distinguished men in America.
Honorable Cordell Hull, Secretary of State of the United States, is the first of these that will receive this outstanding recognition. It is awarded to him especially for his commenable accomplishments in the field of international peace, as a member of the United States delegation to the London conference last summer, and for his meritorious work at the Pan-American conference at Montevideo, Urugauy, last winter. His continuous, consistent work and study of international problems has made him one of the foremost figures in American diplomacy.
The three other men that will receive the same degrees have distinguished themselves in different fields of work. The Most Reverend John M. McNamara, D.D., Auxiliary Bishop of Baltimore, who will deliver during the Pontifical Mass the inspirational baccalaureate sermon to the seniors, will receive the degree as an
(Continued on Page 5)
May 2 5, 1-9 3 J*
Three
Shane Leslie Will Courses At
WEEKLY PUBLIC LECTURE
The announcement that Shane Leslie, outstanding Irish author and editor, will offer two courses at Notre Dame during the second semester of the 1934-35 scholastic year was made by the Rev. John O’Hara, C.S.C., at the annual Publications Banquet, Tuesday, May 15.
Completes Tour of U.S.
Declaring that it will be the policy of the University in the future to engage some outstanding man of letters to lecture on the campus each year, Father O’Hara pointed out that Mr. Leslie will temporarily fill the place left vacant by the recent death of Professor Charles Phillips.
Mr. Leslie, regarded as the greatest living authority on Jonathan Swift, English author of the eighteenth century, will offer a'course on the works of Swift and another on the works of Shakespeare. These courses will be open only to selected seniors and graduate students. In addition to this, he will give one lecture a week for the general student body with “The Catholic Movement in English Literature” as his topic. The lectures will be closed with the production of Hamlet during the final weeks of the school year.
Editor for Ten Years
Besides serving as editor of the Dublin Review from 1906-1916, Mr. Leslie is the author of the Oxford Movement, published last year, a1 life of Cardinal Manning, and other various works.
Mr. Leslie has just completed a five months lecture tour of the United States during which he spoke before a capacity audience in Washington Hall, April 24, on “The Oxford Movement.” He has since returned to his ancestral home in Ireland on which is located the famous shrine “St. Patrick’s Purgatory.”
Korzeneski Is Chosen Head
Of Phillips Cracow Club
In the elections recently held by the Charles Plfillips Cracow Club, Arthur Korzeneski and Albert Orze-chowski were both unanimously reelected to the presidency and vicepresidency respectively, and Eugene Rybecki and Eugene Kowcqek were chosen for secretary and treasurer respectively. The choice in the case of the last two was also unanimous.
Teach Two
N. D. Next Year
Bob Cavanaugh, Moe DeLia
Elected to Offices in S.A.C.
Robert Cavanaugh was elected secretary and Emilio DeLea treasurer at a special meeting of the S. A. C. held last Tuesday, May 15, in the north basement room of the library.
This was the only meeting of the new council held this year. The real work of the council with Thomas La Londe as the new chairman begins next September.
Korzeneski Elected Head of
Wranglers, Forensic Group
Art Korzeneski was unanimously elected president of the Wranglers at a special meeting last Thursday, May 17, in the Law Building. Franklyn Hochreiter defeated Richard Ballman for the secretaryship.
It was decided that an invitation banquet will be held at the Oliver Hotel next Thursday, May 24. Edwin Holman was appointed chairman of the banquet.
Gorman Elected President of Notre Dame Patricians
Vincent Gorman was elected president of .the Patricians at a meeting held last Monday, May 14, in the Law Building. Louis Grosso succeeded Raymond Brett as secretary.
Clifford Brown, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, read a paper on “Roman Tragedy.”
This was the final meeting of the Patricians for this year.
More Than 200 Members Attend Engineers’ Picnic
Ove two hundred members and non-members of the Engineers Club went to the picnic held at Lake Christiana Saturday, May 19. Most of the day was taken up by swimming, baseball, tennis, canoeing, and races.
The picnic completed the club activities for the year.
Irish Club Elections
At a meeting of the Irish Club, on Thursday night, May 17, in room 253 Sorin Hall, the following men were successful in obtaining offices: President, Jim McDevitt; Vice-President, Ed Kilmurry; Secretary - Treasurer, John Gallagher.
The meeting was the last function of the club until September.
Campus Publications’ Men Attend Dinner
Aspiring scribes, versifiers and essayists, authors and editors, reporters and cartoonists rubbed elbows with each other at the annual gathering of the campus “gentlemen-of-the-press,” in the Faculty Dining Hall at 7:00 p.m. Tuesday, May 15. For this, the Publications Banquet, Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., was the guest of honor. Monsignor Shannon of Chicago, who was to have addressed the gathering on a special topic was prevented from attending by the death of his brother.
Upon the completion of the lunch, Rev. Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., opened the general business of the meeting with a short talk in which he praised the editors and writers of the various campus publications for their fine service during the past year. He then presented to Paul F. McManus, retiring editor of Scrip, a gift for his work. This remuneration Father Broughal announced, would be continued for subsequent years.
Father O’Hara Speaks
James S. Kearns, toastmaster for the evening, then introduced Father O’Hara, vice-president of the University, who, in a very interesting address, advocated and illustrated four principles which should be followed -by all writers, especially those in the field of journalism: “To let truth rule; have an honesty of purpose; have a zeal for charity; and to beware of propaganda.”
The out-going editors, Bryan J. Degnan of the Juggler; Paul F. McManus of Scrip; Louis H. Hruby of the Dome for 1934, and James S. Kearns of The Scholastic, then expressed their sincere appreciation to the loyal helpers who had been so consistent in their efforts to make each respective issue a success. Exeditors J. Walter Kennedy, Charles J. Schwarz, and Thomas L. McKevitt— Santa Maria, Catalyzer and Lawyer chiefs — were also congratulated for their outstanding zeal in continuing the traditions of Notre Dame journalism.
Following the remarks of Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., and Rev. James H. McDonald, C.S.C., counsellor for Scrip, the Publications year 1933-34 was terminated with the singing of the Victory March.
During the banquet the pressmen . were entertained by the musical offerings of Messrs: Menard, Fromm, Tompkins, Flynn, Bott and Keough.

Seniors
All seniors are advised that Saturday morning, May 26, is the last date for obtaining tickets for the commencement exercises.	.
Four
The Scholastic
At Last—Presenting Our Faculty Adviser
“Shades of Notre Dame” Will Be Presented Next Saturday Night
By James S. Kearns
We’ll be frank with you: we held this story until the last issue because we felt that in the final week we could best escape the carefully watching eye of our adviser. But we wouldn’t skip our last opportunity to
Reverend L. Broughal, C.S.C.
Chimes, Church, Scholastic, poplar..
tell you some tilings about that adviser— tilings that we really think should be known about an individual who should, we feel, be better known.
Of course there are, really, a great many people who do know Father Broughal — psychology students, freshmen from Brownson and Carroll who have found quiet study places available in his office and in Iris own room; Fine Arts students who design and illustrate and color pieces for him at his direction; carpenters and electricians and painters, whose paths cross as he cares for a large list of tasks.
Our own path has been crossing Father Broughal’s for the two and a half years in which he has been Chairman of the Faculty Board of Publications and adviser to The Scholastic. But that is only one item in his program. He teaches philosophy classes and applies unafiling good taste to problems of campus building decoration, and to details of development that would probably escape a high pressure director.
Out of a very full campus routine, he has taken time during the past year to handle the solicitation of funds for the renovation of Sacred Heart Church. More than that he prepared the plans for the redecoration—lighting fixtures, color schemes, liturgical exactness—and at an even greater expenditure of time and patience, he personally supervised the work of the craftsmen employed.
The well-working of the Church
COMMENCEMENT
(Continued from Page 3)
eminent prelate in America. Frank C. Walker, ’09, Executive Director of the National Emergency Council, has done much in the federal administration program of President Roosevelt. He will deliver the Commencement Address at the final ceremony before taking his degree. Doctor Maurice Goldblatt, director of the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery at the University, having done much for its rapid advancement in the past few years, will receive his LL.D, degree for this splendid achievement.
To dignify and solemnify the three days’ proceedings will be the presence of the Apostolic Delegate of Pope Pius XI in America, His Excellency Amleto Giovanni Cicognani. Celebrant of the Solemn Pontifical Mass will be his honored position. This Mass Sunday morning at 9:00 o’clock in the University gymnasium, with its important baccalaureate sermon, will be the outstanding religious ceremony of Commencement Day. The Moreau Seminary Choir will sing during the Mass in its traditional harmonized system.
Commenceemnt activities will begin Friday, June 1, when alumni registration and assignment to campus halls will take place most of Friday morning. The first day will also mark the inauguration of the golf tournament for the alumni at the University Golf Course. It will continue most of Saturday.
The President’s private address to the graduating members, because of the critical condition of the President, Reverend Charles O’Donnell, C.S.C., will be rendered by the Vice-Presi-(Continued on Page 20)
chimes in recent years is the fruit of his personal application to the problem. He devised and had installed a method of manual playing that was not formerly a part of the bell-tower equipment. He has been and can be an excellent guide for a trip to the bells—a trip interesting even if it be unguided.
In a spare moment or two a year ago he had installed at the Grotto the stairway lights and the statue illumination that added so much to the nightime beauty of the spot.
. And some time when you go into the Church to see the newly-placed, beautiful triptych shrine of the Holy Face, consider that the material is seasoned poplar — and that there is precious little of it to be had locally. You’ll have a small notion of the
COMMENCEMENT DRAMA
Final rehearsals for “Shades of Notre Dame” to be given in Washington Hall at 8:00 p.m., on Saturday, June 2, give promise of a thoroughly novel and sparkling evening of entertainment. The talents of the University Theatre, the Glee Club and the Collegians have been combined and are being directed for their parts in the play by Professors: Kelly, Cas-asanta and Fagan. The many original sketches pertain to Notre Dame and her men, which fact should prove a real treat to the alumni guests returning for the Commencement Exercises.
“Wait in Line,” the opening ensemble, shows Ned Quinn at the information desk giving his directions through the medium of a song written by Jerry Roach, with words by Clay Johnson. The Old College will live again when William Fromm and Justin Tompkins as the “Old Trappers” present a skit, “It Never Touched the Ground” in which a solo will be rendered by Tompkins.
Immortalize Candy Store
Brother Leopold’s candy store with Tom Stritch and Jim Boyle in the leading parts will depict to students of today how the tastes of the “Old-Timers” were refreshed. This scene wall feature a song, “Red Salmon,” written by Prof. Norbert Engels and a poem by Andy Moynihan of the class of ’20. “The Ghost of Washington Hall” will be described in recitation style by John Lynch.
Charlie Jahr will play the part of Louie Nickels in the setting -of his one-time famous restaurant. “The Irish Toast” by Professors McCarthy and Fagan will be introduced and sung by the cast, which, besides Jahr, includes George Menard, Frank.Mc-Gahren, Hugh Fitzgerald, Bob But-. ler, Roy Scholz, and Tom Adamson.
A dramatization of an incident in the war experiences of Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., while overseas bears the title, “History Seven” and features Prof. Albert Doyle, Dave Ryan, Joe Mansfield, and Jack Sweeney.
worth of intimate knowledge of fine things when you know that Father Broughal, the man who designed the shrine, was also the one who knew where to find the needed wood — in an old passageway high in the Church.
Out of such able and patient care for fundamental details of fine things as he has long exercised, has come much of the large beauty of the campus and the buildings of Notre Dame.
Five
May 2 5, 1 93 4
May “Alumnus” Is Released This Week
By Andrew Hufnagel
The recent issue of the May Notre Dame Alumnus brought with it a batch of news of deep interest to alumni and undergraduates alike; news covering many subjects from commencement plans all the way down to information about the meetings of the various Notre Dame clubs throughout the country.
The highlight of an article, which discusses the 1934 commencement program, is the announcement that such distinguished personages as the Most Reverend Amleto Giovanni Cicognani, Apostolic Delegate to the United States, and Frank C. Walker, ’09, Executive Director of the-National Emergency Council, will attend the graduation exercises. It is observed that, if for no other reason than this fact, this year’s commencement should be one of the most brilliant that Notre Dame has ever seen.
Of particular note is an article which relates the circumstances of the finding of certain rare papers in the University archives. Many of these documents, it was found, are authentic and heretofore unpublished papers dealing with early American Catholic history. It is believed that they constitute the finest collection of such material in the United States.
Several other articles, concerning the record breaking visits of representatives from the alumni office to Notre Dame clubs everywhere in the nation, Dr. Knowles Smith’s experiments with radium minerals in Notre Dame’s engineering laboratories, and Notre Dame’s recent athletic activities, add greatly to the latest issue of the Alumnus.
Senior Ball and Tea Dance Attended by 250 Couples
Two hundred and fifty couples attended the annual Senior Ball and Tea Dance over the weekend of May 11 to 13. Harry Sosnik and his Edgewater Beach orchestra provided the music for the Ball Friday night at the Palais Royale in South Bend. Saturday afternoon, Mickey Isley played for the Tea Dance at the Chain-o-Lakes Country Club.
Russ Leonard, a senior in Commerce, was the general chairman of the Ball, and William Motsett, Commerce senior, supervised all arrangements for the Tea Dance. Much favorable comment was expressed concerning the decorations in the Palais Royale. These were planned by Robert Van Lahr, chairman of the decorations committee.
Six
CELEBRANT
The Most Reverend Amleto Giovanni Cicognani, Apostolic Delegate to the United States, who will celebrate Solemn Pontifical High Mass.
Pharmacy Dept. To Arrange Fairchild Scholarship Exam
The Notre Dame Department of Pharmacy has been given the signal honor of making out the questionnaire for the Fairchild Scholarship this.year. Mr. E. Eberle, Editor of the Journal of the American Pharmaceutical Association, made the appointment last week.
This scholarship of $500 was established in 1916 by Samuel W. Fairchild of New York. It is open to all seniors in colleges which are members of the American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy. The examination will include questions and problems in chemistry, pharmacy, and materia medica.
Each year, some pharmacy college which is a member of the Association, but which has no candidates for the scholarship is designated to make out the test and to grade the papers. Dr. L. H. Baldinger, head of the Pharmacy department, in conjunction with the Pharmacy Department faculty, will make out the examination and evaluate the papers submitted.
Pharmacists To End Year
With Meeting Tonight
Members of the Pharmacy Club will hold their final meeting of the year, tonight, in South Bend at the home of Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, Head of the Pharmacy Department. William J. Kenney, a senior in the department, is the retiring president of the organization, and he will preside over the election of officers for next year.
Fr. McAvoy Discloses N. D. Historical Facts
The centennial of the establishment of Father Badin’s orphanage out of which grew the University will be celebrated this summer. Antedating the University by ten years the orphan asylum was founded in the summer of 1834 after four years’ labor by Father Badin and his assistants. Its primary purpose was to teach the uncivilized Indians, for which purpose Father Badin secured the aid of some few nuns.
Indian School Established
In 1830 after the Quebec Jesuits and Sulpicians had ceased their attentions to the savage converts hereabouts, religious activity was revived in the old St. Joseph missions for the first time in thirty years by Father Frederick Rese, Vicar General of Bishop Edward Fenwick’s diocese of Cincinnati. Following him came Father Badin, sixty years old at the time but still strong and active. For a chapel site these pioneers chose a small hill along the St. Joe river and south of the state line, the land north of the line being Indian territory and unsettled by whites. A school for the Indians was established under Miss Algelique Campeaux who had been trained by Father Gabriel Richard of Detroit. Besides her instruction the Indians were taught to till the soil by Father Badin.
Father Badin Purchases N.D. Site
During the winter of 1831 two nuns of the Sisters of Charity from Nazareth, Kentucky, volunteered to help Father Badin in his work. A little later the state legislature opened for sale the land about the Notre Dame lakes, and during the following fall Father Badin purchased 480 acres from the Commissioner of Michigan Road land, Samuel Merrill, and Austin Morris, and 50 acres from the Federal land agent in Fort Wayne. The proposed asylum was incorporated in February, 1833 as St. Joseph’s Orphan Asylum. In August Sisters Lucine and Magdalen left their community for the orphanage, arriving in December.
By September, 1833 Father Badin had established the orphanage on the present University grounds. Two years later he left Cincinnati, and turned the grounds over to Bishop Brute of Vincennes. In 1842 Father Sorin and five Brothers took possession of the land, built the first college (present mission house), and chartered the University in 1844.
Movie Tuesday
“Mr. Skitch,” with Will Rogers and Zasu Pitts in Washington Hall, Tuesday night, May 29th.
The Scholastic
Architectural Club Holds Final Meeting
Thursday evening, Carl F. Guenther of Cleveland, Ohio, friend and former student of Professor John Miller and 1931 winner of the Paris Prize in architecture, addressed the last meeting of the architectural club, Les Bossus de Notre Dame. Guenther has just returned from Paris after three years of study at the Ecole des Beaux Arts.
At the meeting the Sollitt Prize winners were announced. The Gertrude' S. Sollitt Prize of fifty dollars and the Ralph T. Sollitt Prize of the same amount are awarded annually to seniors in the architectural department on the basis of a special problem. This year’s problem, “A Monastic Chapel,” was judged by Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., dean of engineering; Ralph Sollitt, and Carl F. Guenther.
Architectural Exhibition
The annual exhibition of the work of the students of the architecutral department will be held on the ground floor rooms of the Architecture Building. It will open May 28th and continue through commencement week.
Of special interest to the student body and faculty is a collection of water color sketches made on the campus by Professor John Miller of the architectural faculty. Mr. Miller’s work has attracted attention nationally and one of his sketches “The Dome” was recently shown by the Washington Water Color Club in its annual exhibition at the Corcoran Art Gallery in Washington, D. C.
Professor F. W. Kervick has returned from Washington where he represented the University at the convention of the Association of the Intercollegiate Schools of Architecture held May 13-14. He remained over to attend the convention of the American Institute of Architects.
Nolen Elected President Of Philadelphia Club
At the annual banquet and election of the Philadelphia Club, held last Wednesday evening, May 16, the following officers were elected for the coming year: James Nolen, President; Ray Broderick, Vive-president; Adrian Wackerman, Treasurer; Joe O’Neil, Secretary.
Plans for next year and the big alumni-student reunion to be held in Philadelphia, June 17, came under discussion. Present at the meeting was Tom Conley, assistant varsity football coach.
May 2 5, 1 9 3 i
SPEAKER
The Most Reverend John M. Mac-Namdra, D.D., Auxiliar Bishop of Baltimore, ivho will deliver the baccalaureate sermon of the University’s ninetieth commencement program.
Prof. Froning Speaks At Meeting of Chemists’ Club
Mr. H. B. Froning, head of the Chemistry Department, was the principal speaker at the final meeting of the Chemists club, May 16. The session was held in connection with a banquet at the Morningside Hotel in South Bend.
Dr. A. J. Boyle, of the Department of Chemistry, served as toastmaster for the program which was attended by 67 club members and guests. Other faculty members present were: Dr. Hinton, Dr. Wenzke, Dr. Sowa, Dr. Mahin, and Mr. Rich, all of the Chemistry department.
Notre Dame Branch Of The A. S. M. E. Hold Elections
On Tuesday evening, May 15, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Notre Dame Branch, held its elections. Paul Dougher, a junior in the School of Mechanical Engineering, was elected president for next year to succeed Joseph I. Hayes.
The other officers elected for next year are: Wesley Strehl, vice-president, who was secretary this year, and John Deebs, treasurer. These two men are also juniors, and the secretary for next year is Louis Crystal, a sophomore.
The only retiring officers are: Eugene Witchger, vice-president, and William F. Escher, treasurer.
Nine Men Get Keys Of Science Academy
Nine men received Academy of Science keys at the final session of the year, Thursday night, May 17, in Science Hall. In order to receive the key of the Academy, the student must have at least an 85 per cent scholastic average for three semesters, and must have presented an acceptable paper before the Academy.
Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science, introduced the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Vice-President of the University, who addressed the assembly. In his talk to the Academy, Father O’Hara commended the group and the College of Science for their accomplishments during the past year. He stated that he considered the Academy a unique organization in that all its members had a definite goal towards which they were striving. Afterwards, Father O’Hara presented keys to the following members: William Kenney, James Pick, Frederick Follmar, Charles Fiore, Francis Schlueter, William Bernard, Karl Schlueppert, John Hemming, and Arthur Kranzfelder.
Porterfield Presents Paper
“After These Milestones” was the title of the paper read by John Porterfield at the meeting. In it, he traced the achievements of the Academy and the College of Science throughout the school year.
Other members of the faculty who attended, the meeting were: Reverend M. J. Schumacher, C.S.C., Dr. Baldinger, Dr. Collins, Dr. Just, Dr. O’Grady, Dr. Paff, Mr. Bocskei, Mr. Reyniers, and Mr. Plunkett.
Students Favorable Toward
Campus Military Training
To the petition being circulated on the campus concerning the question of preference the adoption of military training at Notre Dame, under Government supervision, for Reserve Officers Training Corps Units has come a response, to date, of 800 total signatures, of which number 92% are in favor of military training and 5.1% against it. Of this 92%, a like percentage stated a preference for elective training, and 8% expressed a desire to have it compulsory. The canvass is incomplete to date; but, using the 800 signatures already obtained as a cross-section of the student body on a proportional basis, it is estimated that only 130 students would be opposed to the innovation. If, because of the limited number of canvassers, anyone has been unable to register a preference on this matter, he may do so with Harold May, 266 Alumni.
Seven
Dr. Just Is Speaker
At Faculty Meeting
Dr. Theodore K. Just, assistant professor of biology, was guest speaker Monday night at a meeting of the Lay Faculty Arts and Letters club held at the Oldenburg Inn. His subject was “Continental Drift Theories.”
Dr. Just confined his explanations largely to the two principal theories that have been' advanced to account for the present position of the continents on the face of the globe, indicating some of the many forces that may have influenced a rearrangement over hundreds of thousands of years. One theory holds that the continents were once together as one continent, which through a complex of forces, gradually separated and took the shapes that we know today. The other theory accounts for their disposition by vertical movements taking the form of earth-tumors, subsidences, and tangential displacement.	?
Final Meeting
Twenty-one members of the club and three guest members from other faculties of the University were present. The address was illustrated by lantern slides. The meeting, the final one of the current scholastic year, marked a departure from usual program policy in that the talk was given by a non-member. Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady was chairman of the evening.
Glee Club Gives Concert ' On Mishawaka Stage
Before an appreciative audience the University Glee Club presented a short concert of their most popular numbers on the stage of the Tivoli Theatre in Mishawaka last Sunday night, May 20.
This appearance concluded the series of favorably received concerts which constituted the spring tour of the Glee Club. Save for their final appearance in concert as part of the Commencement pragrom and in the Commencement Play, the vocalists have terminated their season which has been one of the most successful in the history of Notre Dame Glee Clubs from the standpoint of reception by audiences and music critics.
The Commencement Concert will be given at 8:00 p.m., Friday, June 1, in Washington Hall and the program will correspond to that selected by Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the club, for presentation during the organization’s Easter tour.
^\ibout the camPys
Barely does a senior class have for its president a fellow who is as universally liked and respected as is Jim
Moscow. Quiet, boyish, and yet entirely representative of a Notre Dame man is Jim of the Windy City. The Moscow part of his name has nothing to do with Russia.
Nicknames varying from Blondy to Prexy have been wished on him. Jim’s greatest weaknesses seem
to be his uncontrollable tendency to exhibit that masterly putt with bread balls in the dining hall, and the easiness with which he can blush. Jim’s blushes are different too. They don’t come all at once; they begin at his ears and work forward toward the
corners of his mouth.
Being president of the senior class this year has completed a nice little political cycle for Jim. His roommate, Russ Leonard, and incidentally Jim’s closest friend, was president of the freshman class of ’30-’31. For four years Russ and Jim have been together in everything.
President Jim likes his golfing. He is one of those shoot-in-the-low-eight-ies fellows and has been one since he started playing. Handling the hot ones on third base in indoor baseball is another of his proficiencies. His greatest sport though is Mumbly-Peg. He can be seen in Walsh’s front yard these nights “rooting the peg.” ■ Jim is a motherly sort of an individual. He takes good care of his boys on the third floor of Walsh. He lets Crawford sleep in his room, listens to the prattle of Van Lahr with great patience, and remains remarkably composed despite the vociferous barrages of that man Kiep.
Knighthood is always in flower for Jim as far as Fair Lady Jeannette of Chicago is concerned. She is one of the reasons why he goes there so often. The feminine touch so important in rounding out an individual is a prevalent part of Jim’s personality. (See Collegiate Digest of last week for picture of Fair Lady.)
The highlights of the career of President James Vincent Moscow are the two speeches a senior class president must give. One of them was delivered last February at the Wash-
. Linnets Give Keys;
Report On Profits
The Linnets, musical organization of the campus, held theii’ last formal meeting of the year* this week in Washington Hall. Keys were awarded to all the Linnet members and a financial report of the society was made by the Rev. Charles A. McAllister, C.S.C., founder and director of the organization.
Four Different Keys '
The keys were given to all members of the Linnets who have participated in the three productions staged by the club in its year of existence. To the seniors, a white gold key with a pearl inset was given. The juniors, sophomores, and freshmen received sterling silver, yellow gold, and government bronze keys respectively.
The keys are in the shape of a G clef, with a Linnet bird forming the clef. A banner, marked “Linnets” complete the clef. A musical note is at the bottom of the key. The senior keys are the only ones with a pearl in the eye of the bird. A system of changing keys every year until every member has a senior key has been devised.
Profits $808.50
Out of the proceeds of the last show, “Music’s The Thing,” the Linnets gave $304.50 to the Bengal Missions. From the first show of a year ago, “The Vagabonds,” the Linnets gave $256.00 to charity. For “Thanks For The Blow,” $250.00 was given to the St. Vincent de Paul Society. All the donations have been made over and above the expenses of the three productions. The grand total given is $808.50. The Linnets have added to Washington Hall in permanent equipment about $1,000.00 worth of lighting fixtures, stage properties, drapery, etc.
Capital City Club Elections .
The Indianapolis Club election, which was held Tuesday evening, resulted in the following officers being elected. Pat Fisher, president; Jerry Shine, vice-president; Nick Connor, secretary; and Vincent Bruno, treasurer. The retiring officers were Mike Fox, president; Jack Slattery, vicepresident; Mike O’Connor, treasurer, and Jerry Shine, secretary.
The newly elected president began plans for the summer dance and selected June 18 as the tentative date and appointed John (Baldy) Carr as chairman. Final plans will be completed in the near future.
ington Day exercises. Next week he will give the little oration that the whole class is just dying to hear. If he falters, one of his shy, inimitable blushes will more than compensate.
Eight
The Scholastic
Band Will Give Open Air Concert Sunday
Between 6:30 and 6:45 next Sunday evening, May 27, the University Band will present the much-awaited spring concert from the porch of the Administration Building. The program will be comprised of standard selections augmented by several popular arrangements.
This concert will follow the appearance tomorrow afternoon of the band in the opening parade of the Century of Progress in Chicago for 1934. As announced in previous issues of The Scholastic the parade will be in the nature of a contest between the marching musical units representing the University of Notre Dame, the members of the Big Ten and the various military groups of the national government and the state of Illinois.
For the Commencement Program the band will repeat their concert of Sunday evening. The numbers, selected by Professor Joseph J. Casa-santa, will be offered to the commencement guests at 6:45 p.m., Friday, June 1, from the Main Building.
As guest conductor of a massed band of 550 high school musicians, Prof. Casasanta directed a program of martial airs and classical compositions at the annual All-County High School Band Festival held in Berrien Springs, Michigan, on the evening of May 18.
High school bands representing the principal towns of Berrien County were concentrated in the natural bowl of Indian Fields at Chapin Lake to follow the able baton of Prof. Casasanta through such musical favorites as “Whistler and His Dog” by Pryor, Ketelby’s “In a Persian Market,” “Wedding of the Winds” by Hall and concluding with the rousing “El Capitan” of Sousa. •
LaRaza Club Entertains
Society With Banquet
The La Raza club memebrs gave a banquet in honor of the visiting delegation from the Latin American Society of the University of Michigan on Saturday, May 12. Vice-President Carlos deLandero welcomed the visitors.
After the game on Sunday, the Michigan players were given a luncheon in Playland Park. On this occasion La Raza received the Detroit cup, won in competition this year in the home-and-home soccer series between the two clubs.
Sebastian Bonet and Antonio Bus-queta were co-chairmen in charge of arrangements.
Elections for next year’s officers will be held Monday night. Members please take notice.
K. of C. News
By Ray Martin
The last official actiwity of the Knights of Columbus on campus for this year was held last Sunday, at the council Communion Breakfast. This concluding event was very well
Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C. Addresses Knights.
attended. Sixty of the Knights received Holy Communion at the eight o’clock mass in a body, and then proceeded to the Lay Faculty Dining Hall where an unusually delicious meal was served them. John Clark, chairman of this affair, acted as toastmaster.
The high point of the breakfast, and one of the high points in the council life for the year, was the talk delivered by Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C., assistant superior general, of Holy Cross Congregation. Father Irving’s presence marked the first appearance that he has made since he was the council Chaplin years ago. Father Irving, a very clear and fine dutiesspeaker, told the knights of • their duties to society after graduation. He said that they, as living models of medieval knights of the days of the round table, would be closely watched by all non-catholics, and that their attitude would often determine whether or not many of these non-Catholics would be converted. He reminded the men that they had opportunities for conversion that no priest could possibly have, because the knights could meet these men in their offices, on the golf course, participate in their general conversation, and so on. He cited examples from history, notably that of the famous U. S. Congressman, Corcoran—last of the famous old school of orators—showing how a man who knew his fatih and his facts could disprove the numerous fallacies that have developed in the last generation concerning the Catholic Church.
“Good Writing” Title Of Fr. Ward’s Book
By Vincent A. Gorman
Heading the spring catalogue of college texts published by the New York house of F. S. Crofts & Co. is a book titled Good Writing by Professor John T. Frederick and the Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., both of the University Department of English.
The text attempts to make clear and practical, for the student, the relations between thought and the principles of rhetoric and grammar. Thinking and reading are stressed as the basis for good writing, and with this view iii mind the authors have augmented each chapter with interesting and definite suggestions for writing as well as helpful guides to reading in connection with the matter covered. A . very distinctive note of the book is the inclusion of an entire chapter, near the beginning, given over to the subject “Reading.”
Elements of Rhetoric
That “We must have something to say. This is the first requirement for good ‘writing” tells the general theme of the text. It attempts to vitalize the whole task of learning to write well by putting the problems of students in a light familiar to their own world. To help the student to find something to say from the treasury of his personal experiences and those received vicariously through his reading, is its aim.
The first part treats, in thoroughly fresh and appealing fashion the elements of rhetoric and composition under such specific topics as :The Substance of writing, Reading, Ideas and Opinions, Tastes, Experience, People. A manual or handbook of reference containing rules of grammar, comprises the second part of the book.
Of Good Writing the publishers say: “Here is a book which will help the student to recognize and use his own experience as material for writing. The authors recognize that the composition course should be, for the student, at once a cultural experience and a training in technical and mechanical matters.” “The Manual .... which appears at the end of the text, is complete enough for correction purposes without being over-laden ■with details of style.”
For nearly twenty years Professor Frederick edited the Midland magazine. He is the author of two novels and a Handbook of Short Story Writing.
Father Ward has been a frequent contributor, both of poetry and short stories, to the Midland and Commonweal. He is best known for his splendid writing in the field of short story, several of his more recent stories having been selected for the yearly anthologies edited by E. J. O’Brien as The Best Short Stories.
May 2 5, 19 3 4
Nine
ATHLETICS
Irish Teemen Favored To Take Indiana State Golf Championship
Irish Baseball Team Trounces Chicago
PLAY IN NATIONAL MEET
By Nick Connor
The Notre Dame golf team will be the hosts today and tomorrow for the annual Indiana State golf championship. The ever successful Notre Dame links squad will be defending its title against five other outstanding state schools. Last year the Irish team found little opposition in capturing the state crown, and, as a result they are again picked to be the top-heavy favorites this year.
Six schools teed off this morning at 9 o’clock with one object in view, that of carrying the team trophy back to their respective institutions. The schools that journeyed to Notre Dame for the playoff of the state championship are Valparaiso, Wabash, Indiana State, Indiana University, Purdue and the defending champions, Notre Dame.
The Irish links squad won the meet last season with ease with a team total of 626. The Notre Dame team was followed by the Indiana U. squad with a total of 664. Billy Cole of Notre Dame was the low medalist with 152 for the first 36 holes. Cole will not participate in the meet this year for Notre Dame, but in all probability either Win Day, Johnny Banks, or Captain Vince Fehlig will carry off the low medalist honors for Notre Dame.
Each year the meet is stretched over 72 holes; thirty-six of them being played today and the remaining 36 tomorrow.
This year a mid-western city has been chosen as the site for the Intercollegiate golf meet. The meet will be played on one of Cleveland’s fair courses from June 25 to 30, and according to all pre-tournament dope the sporting scribes are picking the Michigan links squad to capture the team championship, with the Notre Dame squad a close second.
Last summer the Intercollegiates were played at Buffalo, and after five days under a blazing sun the Yale golf team walked off with the team championship with a total of 610. They were followed by the Michigan team with 622, while the Notre Dame squad was close on the heels of the Michigan team with 624.
The Intercollegiates are run off in two 18-hole qualifying rounds with
(Continued on Page 11)
Ten
Sport Week ---
All times given are Central Standard
Friday, May 25
Golf—Indiana State Meet, University Golf course.
Tennis—Chicago vs. Notre Dame, Chicago, Illinois, 3:00p.m.
Saturday, May 26
Golf—Indiana State Meet, University Golf Course.
Track—Indiana State Meet, Lafayette, Indiana, 12:30 p.m.
Sunday, May 27
Baseball—Interhall league finals: St. Edward’s vs. Freshman, Cartier Field, 9:00 a.m.
Golf—Interhall golf finals: University Golf Course, 9:00 a.m.
Friday, June 1
Baseball—Notre Dame vs. Wisconsin, Cartier Field, 2:00 p.m.
Saturday, June 2
Baseball—(Commencement game) —Michigan State vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field, 2:00 p.m.
Friday, June 8
Track—C. I. C. Meet, Milwaukee, Wis.
Friday, June 15
Track—N.C.A.A. Track Meet, Los Angeles, California.
Saturday, June 16
Track—N.C.A.A. Track Meet, Los Angeles, California.
June 25-30
Golf — National Intercollegiates, Cleveland, Ohio.
Notre Dame Tennis Team Engages Chicago Today
Facing the sternest opposition of the entire tennis season, Notre Dame will travel to Chicago this afternoon to meet Chicago University, Western Conference champions. Led by Captain Max Davidson, who won the conference singles, the Maroon team will be an odds on favorite to win the match. The Irish team has a squad of undetermined power and may upset all predictions.
In the doubles, the Maroons are equally as powerful. Davidson and his teammate, Trevor Weiss, successfully defended their Western Conference doubles crown last Saturday and should be unbeatable.
By James McMullen
Jake Kline’s athletes considerably pepped up by their recent activities, continued in the • same spirit last Tuesday, and avenged another defeat this time drubbing Chicago 19-6. Andy Pilney and Vic Mettler led the big stickers in the assault, the former driving out three long home runs, and Vic connecting safely four times, one of which was another round trip. Charley Huisking was on the mound for the Irish and except for occasional wild flurries, had no trouble with the Chicago bats.
Two On—Andy Up
The boys got right down to work scoring in each of the first five stanzas, and even going so far as to collect seven in the third. After Laird had passed Dunn, Pilney homered and so upset the Chicago slabman that he walked two more and allowed successivev singles by Kane and Cunha, before Mettler calmed him down with the second circuit blow of the inning. Then, in the fifth, his successor, Landford, put two men on to inspire Pilney, and the Windy City boy responded with homerun number two. A pair of singles by Wentworth and Gaul followed, but Frankie was caught trying to take third on Kane’s long liner and the fun was over.
Huisking Hurls Well
Comeford, Maroon third sacker, and Haarlow, of basketball fame at short, supplied the only punch in the visitors’ attack, and between them managed to garner four of their team’s six runs. Huisking forbid the bunching of hits however, so with the'exception of two runs in the Chicago fifth and seventh, Notre Dame breathing for the day was normal.
Pilney’s final four bagger came in the seventh with all stations empty. In the eighth the Irish made up for this neglect, when Lefty Dunn scored Fromhart and Mettler with a scorching drive through second. Huisking didn’t allow a ball to leave the infield in Chicago’s half hearted last stand.
Box score:
Notre Dame (19)
Ab R H P A Kane,2b 6 2 4 1 2 Cunha,lf 5 2 2 0 2 Mettler.cf 5 4 4 0 1 Fr’m’t,3b 4 12 2 1 Dunn, lb 4 2 112 0 Pilney.rf 6 3 3 2 0 Went’th.ss 4 2 112 Gaul.c 4 2 3 8 2 H’sking.p 3 1110
Totals ....4119 2127 8
Chicago (6) Ab R H P A W’ling.cf 3	0	0	2	1
Ganzar,2b 5	2	2	1	2
Coch’ne,rf 4	0	0	1	0
H’rlow.ss 3	3	2	3	3
Comfd,3b 4	13	3	0
Offil.c 2	0	14	0
L’rem’n.If 3	0	0	0	0
Berkson.lf 2 0 110 T’ms’n.lb 3	0	010	0
Laird, p 1	0	0	0	0
LangTd,p 2	0	0	0	1
Sherwin.p 0	0	0	1	0
xBeeks 0	0	0	0	0
Totals ....32 6 9 24 7
The Scholastic
Irish Nine Divides
Hawkeye Series
Last Friday and Saturday Notre Dame’s basebailers split a two game series with the University of Iowa nine on Cartier field to the tune of 7-6 and 17-2. A five run lead for the Irish in the first game slowly melted away before the Hawkeyes’ hard slugging, but Kline’s men came back the next day to swamp the visitors by a 15 run margin.
Notre Dame started off in great style in the first game and it seemed for the first two innings that the lowans’ strength was not up to par. Starting at the beginning of the third frame, however, Blackman, Hawkeye left fielder, steadily turned the Irish lead into defeat with long drives far out to left field. Out of five times at bat this slugger connected with four which brought in the seven runs that were too much for the local nine. With the score 7-5 against them at the end of the ninth Notre Dame tried to make a come-back. Sepe scored on Dunn’s triple, but with two down and the tying run on third a Hawkeye fielder snagged O’Conner’s potential homer and the game was over.
Frohwein Is Blasted
Saturday’s * game was just the reverse of Friday’s, and the Irish revenged their defeat by practically knocking the enemy off the field. Three home runs, two of them bringing in three runs apiece, featured the Notre Dame attack while Leonard held the visitors to the pair of runs scored in the first stanza. The Hawk-eyes started off just as the Klinemen did in the previous game scoring two runs in the first inning and holding the locals pointless for two. frames. During the fourth the Irish knocked Frohwein, Iowa star hurler, out of the box with a barrage of hits that netted them four runs. The following inning saw the Hawkeyes completely overcome by the strength of the Notre Dame attack. Two home runs helped to bring in the eight tallies that spelled doom for the travelling Hawks.
First Game
Notre Dame (6)	Iowa (7)
Ab	R H	P A	Ab R	H P	A
Kane,2b 3	0 0	2 3	St’ph’n,3b 3 3	2 5	4
Cunha,If 3	1 2	3 0	Drager,cf 3 0	1 0	0
Mettler,ss 5	•1 1	8 2	Black’n.lf 5 0	4 3	0
Rasher.rf 3	1 1	2 0	Sch’n’k,2b 5 1	1 6	3
Powell,3b 5	1 2	4 1	Baker, lb 4 0	1 10	0
Sepe,of 5	2 1	3 0	Mason.ss 3 1	1 7	
Dunn,lb 5	0 3	7 2	Clausen.rf 4 0	1 2	0
O’Neil,c	a	0 0	7 0	Schmidt,c 3 1	0 6	0
Thernes.p 3	0 0	0 4	Mau.p	0 0	0 1	0
Leonard,p 0	0 0	0 0	Ford.p 3 1	1 1	1
Beach	2	0 O’	0 0			
O’Conner 1 Totals ....41	0 0 0 0 6 11 27 12		Totals ....35 7	12 27	13
Errors—Stephens, Mason, Powell. Two base hits—Stephens, Cunha. Three base hits—Blackman 2, Dunn. Struck out—Thernes, 3, Ford 4. Base on balls—Thernes 3, Mau 1. Hits off —Thernes 10, Leonard 1, Mau 4, Ford 6. Double plays—Mason to Shultenhindrick to Baker. Winning pitcher. Ford. Losing- pitcher Leonard. Hit by pitched ball—O’Neill. Um-(Continued on Page 17)
Irish Spikemen To Compete In Indiana, C.I.C., and National Meets
Interhall
By Gerald Schaefer
The hard ball schedule was completed this week with the games played by Howard and Brownson of which Howard was the winner. Badin and Dillon played the other game which Badin won. The game between St. Ed’s and Corby deciding the championship of their league was won by St. Ed’s.
It now remains for the champions of both leagues to play a final game which will decide the campus champions. This game will be played between St. Ed’s and Freshman on Sunday at 9:00 o’clock on Cartier field. The game is expected to be a good one as both of the contesting teams have been playing very good ball.
The softball schedule fell to pieces on account of lack of interest, nevertheless they are having a championship round in that activity now. The first round was played on Saturday with Carroll, Corby, St. Ed’s and Freshman beating Brownson, Walsh, Howard and Lyons respectively. The semi-final round was played on Tuesday with Carroll beating Corby and St. Ed’s trimming Freshman. The title will be decided on Thursday when St. Ed’s will play Carroll.
GOLF
(Continued from Page 10)
the low 32 men starting on the following day in match play. The matches will be two of 18-holes each, with the final three being 36 holes.
Johnny Banks tied with Henry Kowal of Colgate for medal honors last year, each having a total of 145. The two young golfers’ cards were identical, each shooting a 73 and a 72. Two other Notre Dame men qualified, Banks for match play; Johnny Montedonico having a 158 total and Vince Fehlig 159. Seven qualified with Fehlig at 159 and as only five were allowed to enter match play it was necessary for the seven contestants to flip to see which one would enter match play. Johnny Fischer of Michigan withdrew thus making it possible for Fehlig to enter.
Although Vince Fehlig was the last of the three Notre Dame golfers to win the right toplay, he advanced than did the other two. Banks and Montedonico were both eliminated in the first round, while Fehlig went to the quarter-finals before tasting defeat.
(Continued on Page 12)
STATE MEET IS SATURDAY
By Joseph Prendergast
With Old Dame Fortune still doggedly on their trail the Irish trackmen will strive to regain some of their lo$t ground tomorrow at the Indiana State track meet at Purdue, Lafayette, Indiana.
The Notre Dame spikemen after overwhelming Michigan State here on May 12 upset the dope completely last Saturday by going against Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh, 68 to 57. Tomorrow is another day. and Nick hopes it will be another story. Coach Nicholson states that Indiana looks mighty powerful and should in all reckoning cop the bunting; but he nevertheless concedes his boys have a fighting chance. He bases his prediction on the hope that his two sprinters, Gilfoil and Frawley, will run as they have in practice, and that Joe Sullivan may gain the runner-up berth to Don Elser in the shotput.
Purdue And Indiana Strong
Indiana with two of the country’s greatest track stars in the persons of Fuqua and Hornbostel, will present the most experienced combine of the meet. Last Saturday the Hoosiers took second place honors in the Big Ten meet, Illinois nosing them out by four odd points. Purdue with Popejoy for the distances, Sandbach for the hurdles, and Purvis for the field events will present a well balanced aggregation which will be in the running all the way.
Milwaukee Gets C.I.C. Meet
On the evening of June 8 at Marquette University, at Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the annual outdoor Central Intercollegiate Conference track meet will be held. The only obstacle standing between Notre Dame and the title, at this writing, seem to be Marquette and Kansas State Normal College. Michigan State, whipped so decisively by the Nickmen here two weeks previous, is eliminated from championship aspirations. All the men now on the injured list for the Irish are expected to be recovered for this meeting. Coach Nicholson has had his share of bad breaks in regards to injuries this season. King is definitely on the shelf. Captain Joe'Young pulled a tendon, McFarlane and Shields are out with bad arches and so on down the list.
In Los Angeles, California, on June 15 and 16, or June 22 and 23 (there being some controversy as to the dates) the National Inter-collegiates will be contested. Notre Dame is certain to be represented in the affair.
May 25, 193 i
.Eleven
Coach Kline To Use Revamped Lineup In Season’s Final Games
Golfers Win Twice;
Whip N.U., Wisconsin
FACE TWO MORE FOES
By Cy Stroker
With the greater part of their season behind them, Notre Dame’s base-ballers intend to make up for their early losses in two return games to be played here next Friday and Saturday with Wisconsin and Michigan State respectively. Both of these teams have drubbed the Irish in previous battles this season.
Two Steady Hurlers
Jake Kline has been experimenting with the team all season and has finally hit upon a combine which, if the games with Iowa are any criterion, will make it hot for the visitors this week. On the mound, the Irish will have two steady hurlers, Leonard and Themes, both of whom have shown that they have plenty on the ball. It seems to be a toss-up as far as far as the receivers are concerned. Underkofler, whose work has been more than satisfactory for the greatest part of the season, will have to compete for the position behind the plate with Butch O’Neill, and Frank Gaul whose brainy work at that post was partly responsible for the terrific beating given the Hawkeyes last week. Gaul’s work with the stick was little short of sensational in that game, and it looks as though his batting alone should assure him of a steady berth.
Powell Looks Good at Third
The third sack has been covered by a number of men this year, but Powell seems to be the natural selection for the post. A former second baseman, Powell has also had a try at outfield but his ability seems to be confined to the diamond proper. His batting makes him almost indispensable to the nine. The arrival of Andy Pilney on the scene has brought about some changes in the outfield. Covering the right side last Saturday, Pilney had little opportunity to prove his fielding ability, but the fact that he scored twice in five times at bat makes him worthy of consideration. Kane, Cunha, Mettler, and Dunn complete the picture as far as the regulars are concerned; while Rascher and O’Neill may substitute ' at then* respective positions of pitch and catch.
The Wisconsin team, which walked away with a close victory over the Irish some weeks ago, will not prove as formidable a foe as might be imagined. Although they succeeded in conquering Minnesota, the Badgers have suffered some heavy losses re-
(Continued on Page 17)
Hall Golf - - -
The interhall golfers have gone a long way toward settling that championship question. Tom Dunn of Morrissey hall, annexed the upper bracket title Tuesday, when he defeated Pierce 6 and 5. He will meet the winner of the Lange-Fehlig dispute in the other fight, Sunday, for the title supreme. The lads of the fairway have worked hard out in the sun this week, and reduced both brackets from their quarterfinal forms. There is only one match to play off and the championship setting will be complete.
In the smi-final round of bracket one, F. Goddes lost to Pierce, 3 and 2, as Dunn was disposing of Mar-bach 4 and 3. Pierce’s steady work from the twelfth green on was too much for the faltering Goddes, who seemed to find the greens a source of constant worry. Dunn flashed the form that was to carry him into the finals against Marbach, to completely settle the issue at the nineteenth green. Pierce failed to match Dunn in the final as it was 6-5.
In the other bracket, Baldwin lost to Lange, and R. Byrne bowed to Lou Fehlig, both scores standing at 3 and 2. The semifinal match between Lange and Fehlig in this division will provide the other finalist to meet Dunn ’for the championship. Both won their matches with plenty to spare, Lange’s putting being exceptionally good. The big match is scheduled for Sunday afternoon.
GOLF
(Continued from Page 11)
The ultimate champion, Walter Emery of Oklahoma, won from Johnny Banks, 3 and 1, Johnny Montedonico lost to the co-medalist Henry Kowal of Colgate, 1 up. Vince Fehlig won his first match from Neil White of the University of Southern California, 5 and 4. He also emerged victorious in his second engagement by eliminating Dixie Gray of Yale, 1 up in 19 holes. He met misfortune in the quarter-finals when Yates of Georgia Tech, after a gruelling 18 holes, won the match 6 and 5.
Yale has carried the team trophy back to New Haven with them 19 different times. Other schools that have won the team trophy are Princeton with 11 wins, Harvard with 5 victories and Dartmouth one. Only six times during the past 36 years has the individual crown been won by anyone not attending those above mentioned eastern schools;
Captain Vince Fehlig and his band of par shattering golfers added the fifth victim to their already lengthy list by trouncing Northwestern University Saturday, May 12 on the local course, 15 to 3.
The Irish lost only a half point in the morning’s double matches when Banks and Montedonico vanquished -Flynn and Saielli of the visitors,, 2% to %. Fehlig and Day whitewashed Hurth and Brown of the Wildcats 3 to 0, giving the locals a 5% to % lead at the termination of play in the morning round.
Captain Vince Fehlig and Johnny Montedonico shared the scoring honors for the day, each garnering a round of 72 in the singles matches. Banks for Notre Dame playing only in the morning round shot a 75 to clinch runner-up laurels for low scoring honors. The summaries:
Day Equals Par
Notre Dame’s undefeated golf team experienced little trouble in downing the Wisconsin University golfers on Friday, May 11, at the Nakoma Country Club in Madison, Wis. The score after the day’s activities had been brought to a close, read Notre Dame 15%, Wisconsin 2%.
Winfield Day, sophomore star for the Irish, turned in the best individual performance of the day by shooting a par 71 round in the morning best ball matches, accomplishing this feat in spite of a terrific dust and windstorm which swept the course. Day shot a 77 in the afternoon tour for a 148 total, to be equalled by Johnny Banks who had identical rounds of 74.
Summaries—Wisconsin Match:
Beeneman (ND) 77, defeated Reierson (W) 80, 3 to 0; Banks (ND) 73, defeated Reid (W) 77, 2*4 to %; Montedonico (ND) 79, defeated Studholme (W) 81, 21y4 to %: Day (ND) 77, tied Ragers (W) 77, to 1%; Fehilg 75 and Day 71 (ND), defeated Reierson 77 and Studholme 73 (W), 3 to 0; Banks 74 and Montedonico 73 (ND), defeated Rogers 82 and Reid 79 (W), 3 to 0.
Summaries—N. U. match:
Banks 76, Notre Dame; defeated Brown 77, Northwestern; 2*4 to %.
Fehlig 72, Notre Dame; defeated Hurth 83, Northwestern; 3 to 0.
Montedonico 72, Notre Dame; defeated Saielli 76, Northwestern; 2% to %.
Malloy 77, Notre Dame; tied Flynn 77, Northwestern; 1^4 to 1%.
Banks 73, and Montedonico 76, Notre Dame; Flynn 78, and Saielli 78, Northwestern; 2% to %.
Fehlig 76, and Day 76, Notre Dame: defeated Hurth 79, and Brown 81, Northwestern ; 3 to 0.
T vj e I v e
The Scholastic
Nickmen Drop Meet To Pitt; Beat M.S.C.
Notre Dame To Sponsor First National Catholic Prep Meet
The Notre Dame track team fell before the Pittsburgh Panthers last Saturday in Pittsburgh by the score of 68 2-3 to 57 1-3. Each team garnered seven firsts, but the Pitt team counted heavily with seconds and thirds.
Wagonhauser of Pitt was the only double winner of the afternoon. He scored a victory in the mile and then repeated in the two mile.
Don Elser continued his consistent shot putting by tossing the iron ball 49 feet 5 inches to outdistance Bona-vita, his Pitt rival, and Sullivan of the Irish.
■ Vince Murphy met with little opposition in the high jump and won handily at 6 feet 4 inches. -Fagan and Layden finished one, two in the high hurdles and Mike raced to victory in the lows.
Connelly set a new Pittsburgh record in the half mile by negotiating the distance in 1:57. Sal Ducassa of the Irish weakened in the final stages of the race to allow Connelly to gain the victory.
George Meagher was slightly off form but managed to leap 22 feet 2^ inches to win the broad jump. Bernard won the 440 after a thrilling duel down the stretch with Kiger and Rubly. Rubly was nosed out of second place by inches.
Jack Edwards vaulted 12 feet 6 inches to best O’Dell. Pelucha of Pitt was off form and had to be content 'with a tie for third place in his favorite event.
Elsfer Sets New Records
In a vigorous assault on records, the Notre Dame track team scored an 80 1-3 to 50 2-3 victory over Michigan State here May 12. Three Car-tier Field and two Notre Dame records were broken and another tied.
The Irish garnered ten firsts to five for the Spartans. Elser and Layden scored double victories to win scoring honors for the afternoon.
Notre Dame jumped into the lead when Don Elser heaved the shot to a new record of 50 feet, 8 inches and was never headed.
Slams were scored by the Irish in the 440 and in the 220 low hurdles. Michigan State annexed all three places in the mile and javelin.
The diminutive George Meagher hurtled through the air to a new record in the broad jump at 24 feet 6% . inches.
The expected duel between Layden and Jackson, colored speedster of the Spartans, did not materialize. Layden won both hurdle races with ease, tying the Notre Dame .mark in the highs. Jackson was forced to be con-(Gontinued on Page 17)
May 25, 19 Si
Soccer---
La Raza trounced the Latin American soccer team of the University of Michigan here May 13 by the overwhelming score of 5-0.
Brias scored two goals and Gomez, Hoyos, and Roces counted once each. The La Raza aggregation was almost invincible, and only once did the Wolverines threaten to score, but Benavides thwarted their efffforts by a superb stop in front of the goal.
Tellez and Jauregui were outstanding for Michigan, but they were unable to penetrate the impregnable La Raza defense.
La Raza gained possession of the Detroit cup for this yeai' by outscoring their rivals in the two game series eight goals to none.
In the afternoon game, the Hibernians crushed the South Bend Turn-vereins 4-1. Maxwell, McGrath, and Barker counted the goals for the local soccer aggregation.
Irish Nine Fails To Even Score With Western State
The Irish failed in their attempt to even the score with Western State when they lost to them 4-2 in a game played at Kalamazoo on the 11th day of this month.
After getting two runs in the first inning to start the game with a bang, Notre Dame was held scoreless for the remaining innings, while the Teachers garnered themselves four runs to win.
Jim Leonard pitched for the Kline-men and gave only nine hits while striking out four. Dietz of the Teachers struck out five and gave out that many hits.
The runs were scored by Kane and Mettler in the first, and Berkhouser for the Teachers in the first also. Hibbard, Secory and Barnabo supplied the remaining runs in the third and eighth.
The box score:
Notre Dame (2)
Ab R H P A Kane,2b 2 10 4 2 Cunha,If	4	0	0 3	1
Mettler,ss 4 110 4 Rasher.rf	4	0	10	0
Dunn,lb	4	0	210	0
Beach.cf	3	0	0 2	0
OCon’r.cf	i	0	0 0	0
Regan,3b	4	0	0 1	0
O’Neil.c	3	0	14	0
Leonard.p	3	0	0 0	5
xFromh’rt	1	0	0 0	0
Western State (4)
Ab R H P A Berk’s’r.ss 5 112 2 N*man.3b 4 0 14 0 Miller,lb 5 0 17 2 Hibard.lf 4 12 2 0 Secorty.cf 2 10 0 0 Emory.c 3 0 17 1 Salter.rf 3 0 14 0 Bar’bo.2b 3 110 1 Dietz.p 4 0 112
Totals ....33 4 9 27 8
Totals -.33 2 5 24 12______________________ x batted for Leonard in ninth.
Errors1—Cunha. Mettler 2. Berkhouser, Hibbard, Barnabo. Two base hits—Rasher. Hibbard. Sacrifice bunts—Cunha. Left on bases— Notre Dame 4 ; Teachers 9. Struck out—by Leonard 4 ; Dietz 5. Bases on Balls—off Leonard 3 ; Dietz 4. Hit by pitched ball—by Leonard (Secorty, Barnabo). Umpires — Daley, Levan.
WILL BE HELD ON JUNE 2
By John L. Glanzner
The University of Notre Dame will sponsor the first national Catholic interscholastic track and field championships in history at Cartier field Saturday, June 2, at 1:30 o’clock, Central Standard Time.
The meet was suggested by Coach John Nicholson of the Notre Dame track team, and he has been named director of the meet by Director of Athletics, Elmer F. Layden.
Coach Nicholson is an authority on track and many other branches of athletics. He has been coaching for nearly two decades in the United States and Canada after winning the high hurdles in every major United States meet and stalling in the 1912 Olympic games at Stockholm.
Trophies Will Be Awarded
The primary purpose of a Catholic high school championship meet is the stimulation of interest in the ancient and manly track sport among Catholic high school students of the country by giving- them a greater incentive to participate and to win than they have had in the past.
Two large cups and a number of medals will be awarded Saturday evening at the Victory Banquet. The team scoring the largest total number of points will receive a handsome trophy which stands 25 inches high. The trophy is surmounted by a victory figure. The winning team in the half-mile relay will receive a smaller silver trophy of the figure of a track athlete on the top.
Elaborate Program Arranged
The following schools have signified their intention of competing: Catholic Central of Grand Rapids, Michigan; Aquinas High School of La Crosse, Wisconsin; West Catholic High School of Philadelphia; Rosary-High School of Berkeley Road, Ohio; Cathedral Latin of Cleveland; St. Mary’s High School of Columbus, Ohio; St. John the Baptist High School of Philadelphia; Catholic High School of Decatur, Illinois; Corpus Christi High School of Galesburg, Illinois; Fenwick High School of Oak Park, Illinois; St. Thomas Military Academy of St. Paul; and five schools from Chicago: St. Rita’s, Mt. Carmel, De Paul, Academy, De La Salle, and St. Ignatius.
An elaborate program of events in entertainment has been arranged so that the contestants may not only enjoy their stay but also get an idea of university life arid especially of commencement week.
Thirteen
Klinemen Lose Game
To Michigan State
The Notre Dame baseball nine travelled to East Lansing, May 10, to take a bow to the Michigan State aggregation, 8-1. The same jinx that prevented them from winning several games this season, errors, proved to be the undoing of the team against the Spartans.
In the first inning Notre Dame started off with a good show of winning, when Kane scored on Rascher’s and Dunn’s hits. When the Klinemen took the field, however, Michigan State started a barrage of hits which netted them five runs. f Notre Dame (1),-	Michigan State (8)
Ab K H P A	Ab R H P A
Kane,2b	4	1	1	0	2	Glaza.2b	5	1	0	1	5
Cunhajf	4	1	0	1	0	Kiewiki.cf	4	0	1	1	1
Mcttler.ss	4	1	0	0	3	Brown.lf	4	1	1	1	0
Rasher.rf	3	1	0	0	0	Morse.c	#»	1	1	6	1
Dunn.lb	4	9	0 10		1	McCan.rf	5	1	2	2	0
Beach.cf	3	0	0	1	0	Fielder.ss	4	0	1	3	1
Reagan,3b	4	0	0	0	3	B’tling.lb	4	1	1	9	0
Und’fler.c	4	1	0 10		0	Rouse, 3b	3	3	1	9	1
H’sking.p	3	0	0	0	0	Berg.p	4	1	0	0	3
O’Neil.c	0	0	0	0	0						
xGaul xxFrom’t	1 1	0 0	0 0	0 0	0 0	Totals ....	36	9	8 25 12		
Totals ....35 6 122 9
An Open Letter To Players On The New Tennis Courts
Well, we’re satisfied. For four long years we joined in the howl for new tennis courts. But we have them now and we admit willingly that we think they’re swell. From the looks of the patronage on the courts recently opened behind the Engineering Building it seems that a lot of the campus tennis players agree to that viewn
There is one little point that we think might help, though, and this one is up to the players. Because they form a pleasantly informal outpost for the campus, tennis courts in the University’s front yard are a nice idea. But the people who use the courts have a lot to do with the successful maintenance of that appearance.
Some hundred thousand visitors inspected Notre Dame last spring and summer. Probably that many more ■will visit here this year. Now the first impressions these people receive will have a lot to do -with their notion of the sort of place this is and the sort of individuals who go to school here. There isn’t much sense in convincing them that we don’t wear shirts.
So keep your shirt on—especially in the front yard. And wouldn’t it be a good idea, whenever possible, to assemble an entirely presentable ensemble when you’re going to play on the new courts? Tradition favors white, but if that isn’t available, something must be that can meet the public inspection accorded players on the new courts.—Ed.
Introducing...
By Nick Connor
There is a story told of the late John McGraw, who benched and fined one of his players for hitting a home run when his orders had been to sacrifice. A case similar to this befell
Norb Rascher
McGraw didn’t see him.
Norb Rascher in the Wisconsin game last year.
Notre Dame was trailing the Badgers 6 to 5 going into the last half of the seventh inning. At this stage of the game the coach of the Wisconsin nine sent into the game a fellow named Williams, a left handed relief pitcher. The first man to face him was Seidl who singled safety to right. Rascher, a left handed batter, was next in line to face Williams. Here Coach Keogan was a little dubious about .letting Norb bat it out, thinkinking that a sacrifice would be more effective. But before he could make up his mind, Norb selected his bat, went to the plate and on the first ball pitched he smacked out a screaming home run to the old tackling dummy, putting Notre Dame in the lead, 7 to 6. This hit of Rascher’s was one of the longest in Notre Dame history.
Rascher had his first taste of collegiate baseball in the Chicago game last year, when Coach George Keogan sent him in to relieve Steve Banas on the mound. Norb gave the Maroon’s but one hit during the three innings that he worked on the rubber.
The batting of our young man in question was above average last year as he banged the pellet at a .390 clip. During the course of the season he blasted out eight triples and four home runs. So far this spring Norb’s batting has been of big league caliber, his average nearing the .450 mark.
Great things had been predicted for Norb in the line of baseball dur-
Irish Win Pitchers’ Battle From Wildcats
The Irish are going around evening things up now. May 15, it was the Northwestern basebailers who bowed very reluctantly to the Klinemen, 3-2, at Evanston. Reagan, Rascher, and the capable pitching of Leonard and Huisking, were the main factors, that made heroes of the lads and gave them their second straight win, and victory number three.
Up to the sixth, the moundsmen had been having all the fun, but in that inning, Mettler was given a complimentary trip to second on a wild heave of a dropped third strike. This appeared to be the indicator, for Rascher and Dunn followed with singles, and Reagan lined out a double, Mettler and Rascher scoring two Irish runs.
In the Wildcat half of the frame Leonard, who had been pitching great ball, returned the good will, with four passes, which forced in a run. Huisking relieved him, and was bothered only in the eighth when a marvelous throw by Rascher was needed to nip McGinnis at the plate with the tying Northwestern run. Notre Dame (3)	Northwestern (2)
Ab R H P A
Kane,2b 5 0 13 1
Cunha,If	4	0	0 2	0
Mettler,cf 4 10 10
Rasher.rf	4	2	3 1	1
Dunn.lb	3	0	18	0
From’t,3b	4	0	13	0
Reagan.ss	4	0	2 1	2
O’Neil.c	4	0	2 8	0
Leonard.p	2	0	0 0	1
H’sking.p	1	0	0 0	2
Totals —35 310 27 7
Ab R H M’nski.rf 2 0 0 M’Gin’s.lf 2 0 1 Ken’dy.ib 5 0 0 Aug’t’n,2b 4 0 1 Arn’qst.ss 5 0 2 Harris,ef 5 0 3 Mack,3b 4 0 0 Wollage.c 2 0 0 Claborn.c 110 Kimbell.p 10 0 Lagger.p 0 0 0 xGansaur 1 0'0 xxCulver 10 0 zHen’koff 111
P 1 2 8 2 3 2 4 3 2 0 0 0 0 0
A 0
1 1
1 1 0
0 0 2 0 0 0 0
Totals ....34 2 8 27 9
ing his sophomore year. But one night after the football season had been completed these plans went up in smoke. In his room in St. Ed’s he was showing Art Mueller and Paul Schrenker some wrestling tricks that his brother Am Rascher, the noted heavyweight grappler, had shown him. In the course of one of his body slams he tore all of the ligaments in his shoulder, thus writing finis on any baseball career for that year.
F our teen
The Scho lastic
Klinemen Defeat Indiana for 2d Win
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
Tennis Team Loses Two to Mich. State
The sport enthusiasts of the senior class and their week-end guests were given a real treat the week of the Senior Ball, as Coach Jake Kline and his revamped baseball team administered to the Indiana nine a real old fashioned drubbing, 7 to 3.
During the week Jake recruited Matt Themes from the football team and gave the big sophomore the starting assignment in his first varsity ball game. Themes gave the wearers of the red and white but five hits up until the ninth inning when he eased up and allowed the Hoosiers four hits and two runs. Big Matt struck out nine Indianians during the course of the game.
In the first frame Notre Dame filled the bases after Kane and Cunha had walked, but a popup back of third by Wally Fromhart retired the Irish. Diminutive Curly Reagan was the first to score. He advanced on Larry O’Neill’s sacrifice bunt and scored on Pitcher Kehrt’s overthrow to first.
Mettler Drives In Two
Reagan again came through in the pinch this time in the third stanza when he drove in two runs with his timely single to center. Vic Mettler banged in two more runs in the last of the sixth with a single to right.
Indiana’s captain, Kenny Dugan, scored in the first half of the sixth on Howorth’s single. Dugan was resting on third at the time as he had just sent a triple screaming to center. Red Howorth accounted for the Hoosiers two runs in the last inning by garnering a mighty triple for himself with two of his teammates on the sacks. Themes struck out Roberts, the last man to face him in the ball game.
The box score:
Indiana (3)_________
Ab R H P A
Dugan,2b 4 110 1
Hm’st’n.ss	4	0	0 1	1
How’th.lb	4	1	212	0
Cox.cf	4	0	0 2	1
Baker,3b	4	0	14	4
H’fman.lf	4	13 0	1
Wilson,c	3	0	0 1	0
Wahl.rf	3	0	0 1	1
Kehrt,p	2	0	0 1	0
Roberts.p 10 0 11 xML’ghlin 2 0 110
Payne,lb 10 110
Notre Dame (7)
Ab R H P A Kane,2b 4 1113 Cunha.lf 4 12 10 Mettler,cf 3 1110 Rasher.rf	4	0 0	4	0
Dunn.lb	3	10	5	0
From’t,3b 4 10 10 Reagan.ss	3	12	4	0
O’Neill,c	3	0 19	1
Themes,p 3 10 11
Totals .._31 7 7 27 5
Totals ....36 3 9 24 10
xMcLaughlin batted for Kehrt in 8th.
Errors—Dugan. Kehrt (2), Baker (3). Three base hits—Dugan, Howorth. Sacrifice —Mettler, Reagan, O’Neil. Double play—Cox to Howorth. Hits off—Kehrt 6 in 7 innings. Struck out by. Themes 9. Bases on balls— Kehrt 4. Losing pitcher Kehrt. Umpires— Daley and Derose.
Golf Regulation
Father George Holderith announced yesterday that all students, wishing to play golf today or tomorrow were requested to wait until all the participants in the state tournament had teed off.
' By James S. Kearns
FOUR YEARS
On January 8, 1932, when we were sports editor of this sheet by the kindness of Editor Neil Hurley, we wrote our first “Splinters.” In the five semesters since that date we have turned out one of these bits each week with more or less regularity. Faced with the problem of writing our final column, we find that there are many things we would like to say.
Three definite feelings are outstanding in this list of items. The first is one of admiration — for the Notre Dame athletes who have played for Notre Dame during the past four years; for the way they played their games; for the sort of men they are; for their courage.
In the course of the past three years we have had, because of The Scholastic, an opportunity for a fairly full measure of contact with varsity athletics here. The contact has always been pleasant: the practice sessions we were privileged to witness, the varsity games that we saw and wrote about, the friendliness of the athletes we met and knew, the occasional trip with a varsity team— all have been fun, and we’ll miss them.
Lastly, and probably the feeling that we want most to stress now, is the gratitude we feel toward the members of the N.D.A.A. From them we have received nothing but generous treatment, a long series of favors, ever willing help, and the flattering compliment of their personal interest. Our very best Thank You— backed by sincere and complete gratitude,—goes to them all: to Business Manager J. Arthur Haley and his assistant Herb Jones; to Coaches John Nicholson, George Keogan, Jake Kline, and their assistants; to Athletic Director Elmer F. Layden and his predecessors, Hunk Anderson and J. C. Harper; to Joe Petritz, our nominee for recognition as the best college sports publicity director in the business. And with the gratitude go the best of our well wishes.
In regard to Notre Dame athletics as an institution our feelings are a little jumbled. We’ll miss having a certain share in them as a member of the student body. We’ll miss being at the battle sites for the big home games. We have no doubt that Notre Dame athletics will stay on the high plane they have occupied during recent years—a prominence not fundamentally dependable on winning or losing.
With that we close. Goodbye. Thank you. And Good luck!
By James A. Waldron
After defeating Detroit U. 6-1 on the University courts, Friday, May 11, the Irish tennis team journeyed to Michigan State the next day to add to their growing list of victories. The powerful State squad, which is undefeated so far this year, was too strong for the Irish and Notre Dame lost 7-2.
In the Detroit match, the Irish displayed fine form and swept all but one singles match. Joe Prendergast playing his first varsity match for Notre Dame defeated his State opponent 6-2, 6-3.
Michigan State’s undefeated tennis team stopped the winning streak of Notre Dame by defeating the locals 7-2. One redeeming feature of the match was the excellent play of Joe Waldron of the Irish. In the singles he defeated Goodwin of State 6-4, 6-4 and then teamed with Joe Prendergast to win the only doubles victory of Notre Dame.
After holding their favored opponents even in the singles matches, the Notre Dame tennis team weakened and the powerful Michigan State squad swept to a 6-3 win over the Irish. This contest was the first varsity tennis match to be played on the recently completed clay tennis courts located opposite the stadium. The State team, having defeated Notre Dame rather easily earlier in the season, met with a stubborn and unexpected resistance from the “court” edition of the “Fighting Irish.”
Irish Lag In Doubles
Joe Waldron, Notre Dame’s most consistent winner, Dick Kelly, and Frank Weldon kept the Irish on even terms with State by winning their singles matches. The Notre Dame attack, however, bogged down in the doubles and the Michigan team Went on to a 6-3 victory.
Summaries, Detroit Match:
Singles—Prendergast (ND), defeated Me-haen (D) 6-2, 6-3; Waldron (ND), defeated Byrnes (D) 6-1, 6-1; Zelinski (D), defeated O’Hanlon (ND) 4-6, 6-0, 6-1; Kelley (ND), defeated Morris (D) 2-6. 6-1. 6-1; Weldon (ND), defeated Dittrich (D) 6-3. 6-4.
Doubles — Waldron-Kelley (ND), defeated Morris-Byrnes -(D) 6-3, 6-3; Cannon-Fredericks (ND), defeated Zelinski-Mehaen (D) 7-5, 6-4.	-
Summaries, Michigan State Match:
Singles—Morris (S), defeated Prendergast (ND) 6-0, 6-2; Klunzinger (S), defeated Seward (ND) 6-1, 6-0; Link (S), defeated Cannon (ND) 6-1, 6-0; Loose (S), defeated O’Hanlon (ND) 6-1, 6-2; Waldron (ND), defeated Goodwin (S) 6-4, 6-4; Sexton (S), defeated Weldon (ND) 6-3, 7-5.
Doubles—Link-Loose (S), defeated Cannon-Sewftrd (ND) 7-5, 6-2; Goodwin-Kluzinger (S), defeated O’Hanlon-Weldon (ND) 6-3, (Continued on Page 16)
May 25, 193i
Fifteen
OR NIGHT
FOR breakfast, Kellogg’s Corn Flakes set you up for the day. Those crisp delicious flakes, with milk or cream, or fruit added, supply the energy you need and are easy to digest.
For a quick, satisfying lunch, eat a bowlful of Kellogg’s Corn Flakes. So much better than hot, heavy dishes that often slow you up in afternoon classes.
Then if you’re hungry at bedtime, Kellogg’s Corn Flakes are just the thing. Ask your club or fraternity steward to keep them on
hand or get them at your campus restaurant.
On Down The Line
By Nick Connor
JOE PENNER’S very good friend OZZIE NELSON was a four letter man while attending Rutgers University; winning monograms in football, swimming, boxing, and lacrosse. . . . In the recent Boston College games three BOWDOIN sophomores captured all of the places in the hammer throws. . . . During the National Hockey league season of 1928-29, GEORGE HAINSWORTH permitted only 43 goals to be scored against him in 44 games. . . . A hardy athlete was BID McPHEE of the old Cincinnati baseball club; he played second base for 22 years without ever using a glove. . . . The University of Pennsylvania finances the trip of its rowers to the Poughkeepsie regatta by holding a series of dances. . . . Both PRIMO CARNERA, heavyweight boxing champion, and JIM BROWNING, heavyweight wrestling champion, wear size eight hats. . . . ADOLFO LUQUE of the Giants and RABBIT MARANVILLE of the Braves are the oldest players in the major leagues, both being 43 years of age. . . . Nearly a hundred recruits from minor leagues have been retained by the major league baseball teams this season.
What a difference a year’s time makes in horse racing as well as in everything else. On July 1, 1933, CAVALCADE, the brown colt of MRS. DODGE SLOAN’S was so little thought of in the running of the Hyde Park Stakes at Arlington track, CHICAGO, that he paid $181.04 on $2 tickets to win when he came down the stretch the winner... In the recent KENTUCKY DERBY he went to the post a favorite at 3 to 2. . . . Another WILLARD is making a name for himself in sports in California, but he isn’t a fighter like his dad. He is JESS WILLARD, JR. and the leading hurdler of Glendale Junior college. . . . BRANCH RICKEY, vice-president of the St. Louis Cardinals, also directs the affairs of six minor league clubs — Rochester, Columbus, Houston, Greensboro, Springfield, Mo., and Springfield, Ill. . . . ALVIN CROWDER, Washington’s star pitcher, hasn’t been able to steal a base in eight years, but he’s still hopeful. . . . ED LEE, three cushion billiard champion of the U.S., also holds the A.A.U. title in the ten-mile swim.
JIMMY JORDAN, Detroit shortstop, always steps on first base when going to or coming from his position in the field. . . . LOU CHIOZZA, Philly third baseman, pronounces his name as though it were spelled “KEE-O-ZA.” He is the son of a
former Italian consul. . . . LESLIE MUNNS is reputed to be the biggest eater in baseball. ... We may see CLIFF MONTGOMERY, Columbia’s star gridder of last year, in a few movie shorts next fall. . . . REX BELL, CLARA BOW’S hubsand, was ’ a good half miler in college and won : the 880-yard championship in 1924. . . . JIM L0ND0S believes college boys are silly to play football, box, wrestle, and take part in athletics that are less liable to prove injurious is his advice. He says that collegians should be paid for the chances they take in athletics to justify them. . . . In PEKING, China, the natives are horse racing crazy and insist on twelve races a day. The jockeys are all Americans and the mounts small . Mongolian ponies. . . . The throwing arm of AUGIE GALAN, Chicago Cubs’ recruit infielder, is shorter than his left, because when he was a youngster it was broken at the elbow.
During the season of 1917, there were seven no-hit games pitched in the AMERICAN LEAGUE, including one “perfect” game. . . . Delving into the archives we find a record of the shipment of golf balls from Holland to Scotland in 1618. . . . EVERETT -HAYNES, that famous Euro pean jockey who was born in Kentucky, has crossed the Atlantic 24 times since he started his career abroad. . . . Do you know that the name tennis came with the game from France? . . . The word originally was “tenez” meaning “take this” or “play.” . . . The high spot in the athletic career of LANNY ROSS, noted radio tenor, is the :48 2-5 quarter he ran as a member of the YALE track team. . . . The largest field ever entered 'in a golf tournament was 1,151 for the U. S. open in 1931. • . . The sensational 100 yard run by RED ROWLEY of Norwich in the dual meet with BOSTON U. recently was discovered to be only over a 95 yard course. ... A faithful fan is JAMES D. LIVINGSTON, Columbia University alumnus, who has been a spectator at most of the Lions’ important athletic games in the past 55 years.
TENNIS MATCHES (Continued from Page 15)
6-0; Waldron-Prendergast (ND), defeated ' Stonebreaker-Sexton (S) 6-2, 7-5.
Second Michigan State Match:
Singles — Frank Weldon (ND), defeated Sexton (MS), 6-3, 6-4; Loose (MS), defeated George Cannon (ND), 6-2, 6-2 ; Joe Waldron (ND), defeated O’Dell (MS), 6-1, 6-2; Kelly (ND), defeated Goodwin (MS), 7-5, 6-1; Klunzinger (MS), defeated Prendergast (ND), 6-2, 6-4; Norris (MS), defeated O’Hanlon (ND), 6-2, 6-2.
Doubles — Kunzinger-Goodwin (MS), defeated Kelly-Waldron (ND), 8-6, 6-2; Rex Norris-O’Dell (MS), defeated O’Hanlon-Sew- -ard (ND), 6-4, 6-2 ; Sexton-Loose (MS), de- 1 feated Cannon-Weldon (ND), 7-5, 6-4.
The Sc holas tic -
IOWA SERIES
(Continued from Page 11)
Notre Dame		(17)						Iowa		(	2)
Ab R			H	P	A	Ab R			H	P	A
Kane,2b	5	3	v	4	1	Bazant.3b	4	1	1	0	2
Cunha,If	5	2		3	0	Drager.ef	2	0	0	0	0
Mettler.cf	5	2	2	2	0	B’manjf		1	0	1	0
Dunn.lb	5	0	0	1	0	Sch’n’k,2b	4	0	1	7	4
Pilney.rf	cl	2	2	1	0	Baker.lb	••	0	0	9	0
Powell,3b	4	1	0	0	6	Mason,ss	4	0	1	2	5
xOConner	0	1	0	0	0	Clausen.rf Sehmidt.c	4	0	2	3	0
Went’th.ss	3	2	1	2	3		Cl	0	0	2	v
O’Neil,c	1	1	1	1	0	Frohw’n.p	1	0	0	0	0
Gaul.c	2	1	1	3	1	Mau,p	1	0	0	0	0
Leonar<l,p	4	1	2	0	2	Murphy,If	1	0	0	0	0
Totals ....39 17			14 27		13	Totals ....	27	2	5 24 13		
x ran for Wentworth in third.
Errors — Schmidt 2, Frohwein 2, Drager, Wentworth 2. Two base hits'—Cunha. Thiee base hits—Kane. Home runs—Mettler. Kane, Gaul, Sacrifice hits—Drager, Baker. Powell. Stolen base—Kane. Double plays—Leonaid to Powell to Dunn ; Mason to Shultenhendrick to Paler; Powell to Kane. Hits off—Frohwein (> in four innings; Mau. 8 in 3 innings. Struck out—by Mau, 2 ; by Leonard. 4. Base on balls-—off Leonard 3. Hit by pitched ball. Wentworth, Schmidt, Bazant. Losing pitcher—Frohwein. Umpires—Daley and Derose.
BASEBALL
(Continued from Page 12)
cently, dropping two games to Illinois and one to Luther College. If Notre Dame’s playing is up to its past performances, the Klinemen stand a reasonable chance for revenge.
Michigan State will be the last and probably the most severe test of the Irish ability this year. The 8-1 trouncing which the Spartans gave Notre Dame two weeks ago was certainly not an accident. They outplayed the Klinemen at every turn and won by the same hard hitting, hard playing-tactics with which they have humbled many teams this year. Michigan State has a reputation for good baseball teams, and this season’s team is no exception. Winning most of their games by wide margins, the Spartans have proved themselves a headache for every team they have encountered.
Although its record this season has not been up to par, the work of the Notre Dame baseball team has been, all things considered, very satisfactory. The Irish teams, at least in recent years, have never been pennant winners and the schedule the team faced this year could almost be called suicidal. All of its opponents have been first raters, and a glance at the list of teams played discloses not one potential “push-over.”
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective
Residence Phone 4-6354 Shoes
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
Foot Ailments
432-34 Associates Bldg. South Bend, Ind.
TRACK MEETS
(Continued fiom Page 13)
tent with third in the highs behind Jim Fagan, and was shut out in the lows in which the Irish trio of Layden, Fagan and Link scored a slam.
In the closest race of the afternoon, Captain Pongrace of the Spartans nosed out Clyde Roberts in the final stages of the half mile to win by inches,
Tom Ottey set a new Cartier field record in the two mile which he won by 40 yards in the fast time of 9:30. After losing by two feet in the century, Jim Gilfoil won the furlong by two yards from Hart of the Spartans. Bernard, Murphy, Edwards and the mile relay team accounted for the other Irish victories.
Pitt summaries:
100 YARD DASH—Won by Fleming (P) ; Jacobson (P). second: Gilfoil and Frawley (ND), tied for third. Time :10.2.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Murphy (ND) : Atkinson (P). second; Good (P), third. Height 6 feet 4 inches.
JAVELIN—Won by Sowiski (P) ; Krause (ND), second: Gongloff (P), third. Distance 173 feet 6 inches.
ONE MILE RUN—Won by Wagonhauser (P) : Musico (P). second: Kirkpatrick (P), third. Time 4:32.6.
220 YARD DASH—Won by Jacobson (P) : Gilfoil (ND), second; Frawley (ND), third. Time :22.3.
120 YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Fagan (ND) ; Layden (ND), second; Guay (P). third. -Time .-15.3.
POLE VAULT—Won by Edwards (ND) ; O’Dell (P). second ; Howard (ND), Pelueha and Ericson (P), tied for third. Height 12 feet 6 inches.
Michigan State summaries:
SHOTPUT—Won by Elser (ND) ; Bonavita (P), second; Sullivan (ND), third. Distance 49 feet 5 inches.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Meagher (ND) ; Good (P), second: Sebastian (P), third. Distance 22 feet 2'X inches.
440 YARD DASH—Won by Bernard (ND) ; Kiger (P), second; Rubly (ND), third. Time :49.4.
TWO MILE RUN—Won by Wagonhauser (P) ; Duke (ND), second; Albright (P). third. Time 9:52.
220 YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Layden (ND) : Guay (P), second; Fleming (P). third. Time :24.5.
880 YARD RUN—Won by Connelly (P) ; Ducassa (ND), second; Keller (P), third. Time 1:57. (New Pitt record).
DISCUS THROW—Won by Faassinger (P) ; Elser (ND), second; Seifei-t (P), third. Distance 133 feet 9^4 inches.
SHOT PUT—Won by Elser (ND) : Sullivan (ND), second; McNutt (MS), third. Distance 50 feet 8 inches. New Notre Dame and Cartier field record.
MILE RUN—Won by Hurd (MS) ; Dennis (MS), second; Ottey (MS), third. Time. 4:31.
440 YARD DASH—Won by Bernard (ND) ; Bowdren (ND), second; Rubly (ND), third. Time, :50.
POLE VAULT—Won by- Edwards (ND) : Howard (ND), second; Pearsall and Tallef-son (MS) tied for third. Height, 12 feet.
100 YARD DASH—Won by Hart (MS) : Gilfoil (ND), second; Frawley (ND), third. Time, :09.7.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Murphy (ND) ;
Jackson (MS), second; Williamson (ND), Steele and Pearsall (MS), tied for third. Height. 6 feet.
120 HIGH HURDLES—Won by Layden (ND) ; Fagan (ND), second; Jackson (MS), thiid. Time :15. Ties Notre Dame record.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Meagher (ND) : Conley (ND), second: Jackson (MS), third. Distance. 24 feet. 6%. inches. New Notre Dame and Cartier field record.
880 YARD RUN—Won by Pongrace (MS) : Roberts (ND), second: Ducassa (ND), third. Time, 1:57.2.
DISCUS THROW—Won by Elser (ND) : Buss (MS), second; McNutt (MS), third. Distance. 133 ft., 3% in.
MILE RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (Rubly, Bowdren. Roberts. Bernard). Time, 3:21.7.
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
An opportunity for summer employment is offered graduates and upperclassmen of the University by Mr. E. A. Moudry of the Mokar Products Company of Adrian, Mich., who writes:
“We would like to place a number of your students in our sales department in various districts during the summer months. The work will be interesting, putting over a large campaign for a new room cooler and air conditioner. Inasmuch as this is a seasonable article it naturally carries a very splendid income to those who produce.
“We will gladly supply full .information to any student who is interested and we will arrange for a personal interview. Selling experience or air conditioning training is not essential.”
Any student who is interested is invited to write direct to Mr. Moudry for further information.
Burke’s Eye Service
1	EYES EXAMINED	j
|	GLASSES FITTED	1
| DR. J. BURKE |
l DR. W. G. BOGARDUS \
|	DR. E. C. BEERY	|
: Optometrists & Manufacturing = :	Opticians	=
=	228 S. Michigan St. =
z .	Established 1900	E
May 2 5, 1 9 3 J
Seventeen
Luckie
always in A11-Ways
kind to your throat
Only the Center Leaves—these are the Mildest Leaves
Copyright, 1934, The American Tobacco Company
The clean center leaves are the mildest leaves-7^
THESE ARE THE
MILDEST LEAVES-
IUCKIES use only the clean center
-J leaves for these are the mildest leaves—they cost more—they taste better. No top leaves because they are under-developed, bitter and harsh. No bottom leaves because they’re coarse, dirt-covered, sandy. Only the clean
center leaves go into Luckies. Then “It’s toasted” — for throat protection. The long, golden strands of fine tobacco are rolled uniformly round and firm;.. no loose ends. That’s why Luckies do not dry out. Luckies are always in all-ways kind to your throat.
A THEY COST MORE—
“It’s toasted”
V Luckies are all-ways kind to your throat
INHUMAN RACE to an early
class
When bed is behind and the first class calls, remember Kellogg’s PEP. You can enjoy a quick nourishing breakfast with a bowl of PEP. Toasted wheat. Ready to eat. Just pour on milk or cream. There’s enough extra bran in PEP to be mildly laxative.
Order PEP in your dining club, or at any campus lunch. 'Always fresh and crisp in individual packages. Delicious as a snack at night too. Easy to digest and won’t interfere with sound sleep. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
Keep g°M
I with
COMMENCEMENT
(Continued from Pass a)
dent, Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.
On Friday afternoon guests and alumni will be entertained by the baseball game between Notre Dame and Wisconsin. Following this diversion there will be a series of Reunion dinners arranged by the various classes that are especially coming in large numbers as the official reunion classes. The youngest, perhaps the liveliest, class that will observe the reunion by probably the biggest celebration is the five-year class of 1929. The Silver Jubilee Class of 1909 will observe its official reunion in excellent fashion, incited to interest by the presence of Commencement Speaker, Honorable Frank C. Walker of this class. The Dix classes of 1881, 1882, and 1883 will join the Golden Jubilee Class of 1884 to form a favorable number of senior alumni. Through this same Dix plan prominent classes of two later periods will combine to add zest and their interest to the festivities.
Class Day, June 2, will begin with the seniors’ last formal visit to Sacred Heart Church at 9:30 a.m. From here they will march as a group to Washington Hall for the exercises proper. Here Charles N. Heckelman will give the Valedictory speech; Thomas J. Stritch, Class Poet, his poetic presentation; and Class Orator Hugh T. Fitzgerald the concluding address. Bestowal of prizes, and awards, not yet decided by the Committee on Scholarships and Prizes, will conclude the morning program.
Following the afternoon of Class Day, which will be filled with several important athletic events, the annual Alumni Banquet in the East Hall of the University Dinings Halls at 6:00 o’clock will honor and fete the graduating class, amid a lavish program of entertainments and addresses.
The organ recital in Sacred Heart Church at 6:30 p. m. will be suited to the convenience of the public by the amplifiers that will be erected in the belfry to carry out the melodic tunes of the organ pipes. The final event of Class Day, the “Shades of Notre Dame” presentation, should please all who are fortunate to attend. This offering, to be presented by the combined talents of the Glee Club, University Theatre and Collegians, depicts Notre Dame life as it has existed in the days long past.
After the Solemn Pontifical Mass on Commencement Day, Sunday, President Moscow of the 1934 Class will solemnly perform die flag raising ceremony on the south-east comer of the quadrangle. This banner will wave throughout the next school year.
The momentous and elaborate end of the three day program will come with the awarding of degrees at 4:00 o’clock in the gymnasium, and with the Commencement Address by Honorable Frank C. Walker.
Phone -O®06 4-6861 Residence S-4041	X-RAY
DR. E. S. LUCAS DENTIST	
702 J. M. S. BuildinE	South Bend
Opposite Oliver Hotel	Indiana
Established 30 Years
L^^RE|S
OPTOMETRISTS 222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
Patients all over the world.
Now If Your Eyes
Require Glasses
they will be properly prescribed, correct in styling to be inconspicuous — yet enriching your personal appearance. Always painstaking craftsmanship — regardless of the amount you prefer to expend, and unvarying quality of materials so you may find Better Vision with Greater Comfort.
•	REASONABLE
•	DEPENDABLE
•	PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
The Scholastic
Twenty
An Invitation for You To Travel by Railroad When you return next Fall— assuring you comfort with speed, your convenience with safety At ''College Special" Fares SAVING YOU ONE-THIRD The Railroads of the United States and Canada are continuing reduced round-trip fares three times a year from home to school and return for students, faculties and staffs of educational institutions. Going and Return dates— GOING TO SCHOOL	RETURNING FROM SCHOOL			
Round-trip tickets may be purchased at Home Stations during any one of the periods named below:	Return portion of ticket may be used to Home Station during any one of the periods named below:		
	Christmas 1934	Spring 1935	Close 1935
Aug. 25-Oct. 5,1934 Dec. 25, 1934-Jan. 10,1935 Mar. 15-Apr. 23,1935	Dec. 10-25	Mar. 9-Apr. 20 Mar. 9-Apr. 20	May 15-June 30 May 15-June 30 May 15-June 30
Going trip must begin on date ticket is purchased—limited to reach school station within ten days. Return trip must begin on date of validation of ticket by railroad agent at school station—limited to reach home station within ten days. Tickets good over same route both ways. Stop-overs will be allowed in each direction. Tickets good in coaches, also in Pullman cars, upon payment of regular Pullman charges. Baggage will be checked under the usual regulations. No certificate or other form of identification necessary. • TRAVEL BY TRAIN			
1R. PAUL BYRNE*
LIBRARY* NOTRE DAME* IND.
I thank you ever so much—but I couldn't even think about smoking a cigarette." "Well, i understand, but they are so mild and taste so good that I thought you might not mind trying one while we are riding along out here.”
: © 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.