

"TI-IE MOST WELCOME SURPRISE 
OF THE SUMMER'! 
-Michael Medved, SNEAK PREVIEWS
Thursday 
L1[)11MBII 
An American Success Story.
open 9:30-1:00 

IPG-131 ED l~~=~~I ·~·---=--==i 
free admisshjfi, starts -\ ar 9 :30 
.. ',/~ 
Friday 

/ 
. /DJ's Dave Bruneil an.d Tom Tisa · pl;y the latest and '., best tunes!! ., 
open·· 9:30:2:00 


Saturday 

To the ;. music of ·Kris Mu~rphy 
·, , d.· .B'ry·a/n//. Rao'.'·
an 



Sunday Specilll: 
HOT DOGS-N-CH IL I DOGS! All you could ever want!! 
open 12:00-6:00 $2. 0 0 




stic 
Notre Dame'S Student Magazine 
Departments 
4/Week in Distortion: Compendious Condensations 
by John Coyle 

5/On Other Campuses . edited by Doug Anderson 
21/Music: Sizing Up Singles 
by Tim Adams 

22/Coming Distractions 
compiled by Doug Anderson 

24/Final Word 
by Tom Doyle and Mike Paese 

News 
6/The Chosen 
by Mike Wieber 



Student Life 
14/Tricks of the Trade 
by Kym Sollinger 



Cover 
10/Spring Fervor 
by Marita K urst 
12/Student/Senate Communication 
by Mark Bellavante 

Sports 
16/The Bengal Bouts' Man In The Corner by Nick Capece 
20 /Sportsweek 
compiled by Jim Maggio 
Scholutic: la publia!Md ~'dl&rins lbe 1ehool ,...,._acep& daarins aaminulon¦ aad vacation period• at Notre Dame, IN 4611G ll'lld printed at The Papen, Inc., Milford, IN '8542. The auba:riplio11 raie ii 120.00/yHr and back issue, are available 81.00/copy. The opilliom CIXJ!l'1•Dd In ..........ic an lhla ol tt11 aathon and edilon and do nol nec:N1ariiy r.p~nt lhe opiuoM d Oio oa""8 ..Ukriel board of lcholulk or lhe Univenily ol Noire o-, 1111 adminialnlion, faculty or ,tudent body. Bditoriala repruent the opinion of a ~ly of Iba Nilorhl bovd. Manacrlpb are welcome. All un1101icited materi11ol become the property of ScholHtic. lchoh18'ic • ftpNNnled natloftal}J bf.CMS~,Inc. 
• 1911 Schol.ale aaacuiH. All richla nNrYed. Reproduction in whole or part without permi11ion i1 prohibited. 
March 3, 1988 



Editorial 
Speak Up 
So Prices Go Down 
Now, while students are preparing for mid-terms, faculty members are beginning to prepare their courses for next semester. And with that course planning comes the choosing of books. Last semester Scholastic urged the Faculty Senate to look into the problem of ever-increasing book prices, to investigate the motivations behind book choices and changes and make a unified effort to reduce the students' bookstore bills without reducing the quality of education. At this crucial course planning and book ord­ering time, we have some concrete suggestions for what the individual student or faculty member can do to improve the situation. 
First off, students should make sure that professors are aware of the prices of the books they order for classes. And, if a book is not used often or is not particularly use­ful for the coursework, tell the instructor. Make your opin­ions known. Professors, despite their sometimes intimidat­ing titles and personalities, don't bite. At least not usually. Besides, most appreciate student suggestions for course improvement. Telling your professors what you think about the course's books (providing you're constructive) will not hurt you --and could very well help future stu­dents and, as faculty awareness spreads, directly benefit yourself. 
Now professors, you can easily fight rising bookstore prices. When it comes time to order books, do a little com­parison shopping. We know that the publishers seldom tell you how much a book costs. Ask. There's the mistaken belief that it's not "intellectual" to know the price of a book before you order it just as it's not suave to ask the prices offeatured meals at a restaurant. Between a smirk or two, the waiter eventually tells you what you will pay, but only if you want to know badly enough. It's time that the faculty started wanting to know the prices of textbooks badly enough. If enough of you question the publishers, they will eventually start telling you all the relevant infor­mation from the start. 
Students and faculty must work together on this one, although instructors will do the actual work. Students sim­ply must convince themselves to speak up and prompt their profs to do the same. It only takes a little courage to save what would total not a little money. 

Scholastic 
Scholastic 
Let 


interests and concerns of theWomen's Caucus Respond§ to Scholastic's Advice members. To do this, we are 
Dear Editor 
On February 4th Scholastic published an article and editorial concerning a new group on campus. At that time, the Women's Caucus had met once, and the reporter that wrote the article, Rob Hennig, did not attend that meeting. Is it possible, as the edi­torial states, for the Women's 
Have an opinion? 

Write a letter to Scholastic. 
The Editor Scholastic laFortune Center Notre Dan1e, IN 46556 
Caucus to "latch on to issues," "scare away people" or even "set up some worthy goals" after only one meeting. We don't think so. The meetings (4 to date) have been attended by undergraduate and graduate students and faculty who are concerned with women's issues. Our goal at this time, is to develop an agenda for future meetings that revolves around the 



March 3, 1988 
currently reviewing the question­naires that were distributed to those who expressed interest in the Caucus. 
We would like to respond briefly to specific statements made in the editorial. 1. You state that Notre Dame women "tend to be conservative in their thinking." This may be true of both women and men on campus, but it is not a concern of the Caucus because women's issues are neither liberal nor conservative. 2. Our intentions are not to "start small" (or large), but to provide a forum to discuss women's issues. 3. Referring to one issue that was discussed at the first meeting you state that "a women's studies department is simply not necessary: there is 
insufficient interest in such a pro­gram at this time." In fact, the possibility of a gender studies major is currently being explored by faculty members and depart­ment chairs. There was sufficient interest to discuss the issue at our first meeting, and for you to include it in you editorial. 
We do not seek your support but ask that you adhere to good journalistic principles. In your fervor to respond to a new group on campus you have presented an uninformed opinion, based on preconceived ideas, that "only serves to alienate possible members." It is better to have "lofty goals;' than low standards. 
Lauren McDermott Art, art history and design department, on behalf of the Women's Caucus 
Editor's Note: Although the Scho­lastic reporter was not present at the meeting mentioned, a Scho­lastic senior editor was in atten­dance. 
3 

. 
Week In Distortion/John Coy le 

Coyle's Compendious Condensations 
Coyle sums up many of the things troubling Domers 
The  Observer  has  News  words of a top source, "put the  The Suggestion Box  
Briefs, Busi~ess Briefs (yawn), and now those jokers have stolen Scholastic's College Briefs. Next thing you know. they will be stealing my briefs. Undaunted, I've come up with mine own ver­sion of these silly little things, Coyle's Compendious Condensa­tions. Hey man, did you hear  fun back into laundry." George hopes that his "I want your socks" campaign will help busi­ness. He has also reworded one of his top hits to ease the tension still present after the mysterious resignation of our beloved Norm. "I will be your Mother Figure/ Get your dirty shirts in by nine /I will be your cleaner, steamer/ I will be the one who has them pressed in time."  Instead of blowing megabucks to redome the Admin. Building, I say we aluminum-side the sucker. It keeps the heat in dur­ing the winter and out during the summer, never needs to be repainted and will pay for itself in only a few short years. I think a light beige or maybe a bright mauve would give the campus that contemporary look that's all the rage in the Sunbelt.  
that ... Debbie Gibson is going to be a freshman at this here university next year? She  Inside Poop (no,not some­thing your dog does on the living room floor.)  Food For Thought Someday, I going to buy Pep­siCo and change its name to Pep­siCoyle. It's just has that certain  
thought she had trouble "shak­ ring that sells.  
ing" one guy's "love". Wait until  Although I have no absolutely  Is it me, or do others feel like  
she tries  to  shak~ 7,000 under­ no  proof,  for  some  reason  I  they  are  checking  into  a  Day's 
sexed,  overmoned  N.D. 's  guys'  believe that next month's Fidel­ Inn  whenever  visiting  Regina 
love.  I wonder if she will be  a  ity magazine will report that the  Hall?  There's  a  pool,  all  the  
mechanical or ci vii engineer?  presumed  dead  Beer  Nuts,  the  rooms are singles and it even has  
Playboy and the Ladies Home Journal both rated N.D.'s males as the second hugest college studs in the "land of the free and home of the brave." And fellas, we thought we were just kidding ourselves all this time. I wonder if I can put this on my resume.  security guy hit with a plateful of cold guacamole during · the legendary food fight and a farm animal to be named later are actually agnostic, fascist, IRA­loving trout fisherman who are conspiring to turn Notre Dame into a Taco Bell for San Salva­dorian, CPA, Book of the Month  one of those motel overhangs out front. Every time I go over there I have this incredible urge to give a fake name, avoid making eye contact and hand the girl at the front desk $19.99 in cash. Imagine if you were fat, your name was Shirley and you owned  
George Michael is going to be  Club,  NCAA  tournament­ a  (ahem) restaurant,  would you  
named  supervisor  of  Saint  selecting rebels who lost a roll of  call it Fat Shirley's?  
Michael's  Laundry  to,  in  the  quarters on their way to Club 23.  


What They Don't Learn You at College 

A third-year cadet who was 

dismissed from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point has charged that his dismissal resulted from his refusal to take part in the hazing of freshmen. The cadet, John Edwards, who said he was ranked in the top 5 percent of his class, claimed he had been dismissed because he would not take part in West Point's "Fourth Class System." Under the sys­tem, freshmen are forced to submit to the orders of upperclass cadets. Mr. Edwards described the practice, which is common to U.S. military academies, as "humiliating and degrading." This is the same school which does not allow the students free access off-campus, and Edwards claims that freshman abuse is humiliating? As Major Bruce K. Bell stated, "We are not just another college or 
university." 
The .,oh so hilarious Spuds 

MacKenzie" is back in the news. John Treacy, a professor of economics at Wright State University, included the beer-pushing pooch in a recent exam as a term to be defined or identified. To Treacy's astonishment, 96 percent of the class could correctly identify MacKenzie. "Alas, the class did not do as well in identifying the two eminent economists who had been discussed," states Treacy. The results of the test went as follows: 96 percent of the class could identify what's-his-name, the dog; 29 percent could identify Adam Smith; 44 per­cent could correctly peg Alfred Marshall; and only 2 percent could correctly identify Smith and Marshall, but not MacKenzie. A more important issue for Scholastic's reading population is the lack of an advertising animal for Meisterbrau. 
As it appears that many 

professors and administrators are distressed with the average college student's grasp of popular cul­ture over more traditional items, the Chronicle of Higher Education reported its top ten list of "What They're Reading on College Campuses." Allan Bloom's book, "The Closing of the American Mind" lists at number 10, behind such classics as "Calvin and Hobbes," by Bill Watterson, "Far Side Observer," by Gary Larson, and "Time Flies," by Bill Cosby. And they're worried? 
The University of Arizona 
issued a I 962 literacy test Mississippi blacks· were required to complete perfectly if they were to vote. Out of 109 students that took the test, only 2 passed. The Arizona Black Student Association asked the students to take the test during a week­long celebration of Martin Luther King's birthday to demonstrate how Jim Crow laws were used to keep blacks disenfranchised. The Arizona students were held to the same standards as 1962 blacks. The test, which asked essay questions regarding the Mississippi constitution, did not include any ques­tions on Spuds MacKenzie. 
EDITED BYDOUG ANDERSON 
-. . -­
-




en 

Rectors are in the process of picking their Resident Assisitants for the next year and each hall is looking for juniors with slightly different qualifications. 

he first memories 
many freshmen have 
of their Resident 
Assistants have to do 
with learning 

the rules and regulations of their hall. But, RA's also end up being friends, advisors and confidants. 
"I like to be seen as a peer, as a friend," said Lissa Astilla, a Resident Assistant in Badin Hall. "But, I have to keep things in hand. If something a resident does will either get her or me in trou­ble, that's when there's a prob­lem," she added. 
That's when the selection of confident RAs becomes important. "We look for RAs who are well­rounded, mature, and have it all together themselves," said Sister Josef Riordan, rectress of Walsh Hall. 
Finding individuals that fit that description has been the chore both RAs and rectors have faced recently. Spring is the time for juniors to submit applications and for the hall staffs to decide upon RAs for the coming year. 
• Each dormitory selects its future RAs after discussion by the individual hall staffs, which is comprised of the rector, assistant rector, and the current RA_s. RA selection is based upon qualities the hall staff feels benefit the par­ticular dorm. "I look for good judgment and good character," said Father Gerald Lardner, rector of Grace Hall. 
Sister M. L. Gude, rectress of Farley Hall, looks for RAs who have good· qualities both as indivi­duals and as members of a team. "I look for integrity, compassion, an ability to relate and an inner authority and presence. But, I have to mix and match qualities. There are more than enough good applicants," she said. 
Thorough evaluation is neces­sary to find the juniors whose applications show the most prom­ise for their final year in residence. The process of selection varies from dorm to dorm. How­ever, the candidates for RA posi­tions must first present themselves to the Office of Student Affairs in the form of a standardized appli­cation. This application includes three recommendations. Two of these must come from University officials such as faculty and staff. The third choice is left to the junior; many choose former employers to provide recommen­dations. In addition, the student applicant must prepare a personal letter of intent. 
After the paperwork, the University verifies that the candidate's grade point is satisfac­tory. (Currently, 3.0 is the minimum allowable grade point average.) Then, the file is transferred to the dorm or dorms in which the candidate wishes to interview for a position for his senior year. "Most people are interested in being and RA in the 




i;1~1;~11t6itlt~,1i!1 

aW!~Cti··•:r~~~f~:~~1~:fm•.·•.·· 
I••··· 

~;d::~ i~i~~i~..._--R~{\B~fig~Y
)_l)o:rn H~11)'.-)ii , 
---­
hall in which they live," said Sister Riordan. 
Once received, the hall staff begins a review of the applications and evaluates the students through its hall's particular procedure. 
"The hall staff in our dorm interviews each individual, then there is another interview with just the rector. Each of the members of the hall staff discuss them [the applicants] and then vote on them, but the rector makes the final decision," said Father Wilfred Borden, rector of Pang­born Hall. 



In Grace Hall, each of the current RAs writes about the can­didates he knows. "We have two 



/ii·. ,~J~\io1"i~idi,~~i~('
···•·•ment•::anc1..•••·••gg~~.•••··•Fhilr,c:sC
ft~...ft<···
:;··±~·~~t~e..•.ci~t~ta•·.•.•b~~a·~~~t•··· 
.;¢ti~f1: ~rij~~IH~lit ··· .... 
teams and each applicant inter­views with both teams. The teams consist o'f three RAs on one and the rector and the three assistant rectors on the other," said Father Lardner. 
Sister Gude divides Farley's Hall staff into three groups, with whom each candidate must interview. "One group talks about problem solving for typical cases encountered in the hall. A second talks about how she [as an RA], will further hall life. The third group asks questions about per­sonal identity, questions about [the applicant]," she said. 
Badin Hall also has two inter­views: one with the entire hall staff and one with the current RAs, said Lissa Astilla. "We get two perspectives. We [the RAs] see a different kind of importance in what the applicants say. That way we come up with a good compo­site," sne said. 
Along with the interviews, the applications are considered by the hall staff. "Everyone on the staff goes over the recommendations since we are a small hall," said Father Borden. 
March 9th, all applicants will be notified of their acceptance or rejection. This is the most difficult part of the process for the rector and the hall staff, said Sister Gude. "It can be almost arbitrary, in some cases, to choose between two good people even though you don't want to." 
But the choice must be made, and Sister Riordan makes the deci­sion, in part, by selecting a diverse group of juniors to be her future RAs. "They don't all fit the same pattern. They must be persons unto themselves. We don't neces­sarily agree, but we respect each other," she said. 
Following this selection, next year's RAs uhdergo training 
· through both the University and their individual dorms. The University organizes some workshops and information in spring, but the most extensive training is in August when the resident assistants return a week before the rest of the students. Their duties and roles are clarified at this time by the Office of Stu­dent Affairs and their roles within the dorms are expanded upon by the rector and the assistant rector of the individual dorms. 
Each dorm has its own process to initiate the RAs into their role as leader and role model to the 

students. Walsh Hall has an exten­
sive program for its new RAs. "In 
fall we do team building and 
bonding workshops. We see what 
we have to give to each other. The 
job is a pastoral-ministry job so 
we must be close," said Sister •Riordan. 
Although there is no formal in-hall training, the head staff (composed of the rector and the assistant rectors) at Badin plans some activities to bring the new resident assistants together in fall. "There are some workshops. We talk to each other a lot," said Astilla. 
Through these workshops, the head staff of each hall hopes to develop relationships among the 
,J)ij~·~!, .. ;c1rE!. S'f¥~1>Jn.~ib.1;'i 
fo,r th~ir.,9\1Vt"J .. Col'ldt1~t.,.lf · 

•··.. h.e•••·••·9f?Sll•e·.·••·.~il\lV ,,.. ,t~cl~n~.. 
,,ft,1IHpg:d<>vv~.at cl•hilr,Fhes· 
·or,•::she ;mayh•'~ay, )as: ·c1· ·' ·:rri~lid}'f thi6k:yi>uihijv~ ... 
·· a<c1riri@n•· ···· ,;•·· ro1>1emI! 
., ....... ,.... . g,P, ....... ,, .... .... . :>:·· :.,'./: i·. :. \'f'I/\'.·:i<.{: ·: -:._: '.\\·: ·. ~y;y_." >F :_ ~ '. ~;:,: .t-...><. }t·• ~'.".'.S1ster::l\/bL~ :.Gude; •rec-:-: "• 
;tt~.rV;1f~,~!~Yfffl~l,1[1Jtt.~11 
RAs and themselves so that the entire group works as one team. Ann Smith, an RA from Walsh Hall, said, "It's a relationship of friendship and respect. With the rector it's a relationship of friend­ship a_nd reliability, but I'm closer to the other RAs because they're my peers." 


For Joe Rossi, an RA in Pang­born Hall, his contact with the hall staff is more business-like. "It's a working relationship with the rec­tor, but I'm friendly on the side. With the other · RAs it's also a working relationship, but we're really supportive of each other. We can turn to the rest of the staff," he said. 
In Badin Hall, Astilla sees the hall staff as a team working together. "We're like a team. We get along well since we have mutual respect. We try to take in the concerns of the administration and the students," she said. 
This role as mediator between the dorm members and the University is a vital role in the eyes of Sister Gude. "There is a two-fold relationship. The RA has a peer relationship and she is the students' closest connection to the University. The RA is the person in the middle, so the RA must command respect from other peo­ple," she said. 
Contact between RAs and residents in their hall, however, is important for them to be effective. Father Borden said, "I look for leadership and interest in dorm activities in my RAs." 
Father Lardner feels the role of 
RAs with freshmen and their sec­tion should be one of concern and leadership. "Their role with fresh­man is key. They play the role of a big brother. They share the role of leadership in the section with the se~tion leader. They should help build up section morale," he said. 
Rossi sees his post as that of a leader more than a parent in charge of enforcing University rules. "RAs are role models and senior advisors. They have a role as a policeman, but they seldom have to be one," he said. 
The resident assistants are in the public eye and must act accordingly, but they can . be friends, too, believes Ann Smith. The Walsh RA explained, "You're an RA so you're setting an exam­ple all the time. For freshmen, I'm a role model.· For sophomores and juniors, I'm a friend, too." 
RAs have roles outside the dorm as well as inside the hall. Each hall staff's obligation to the members of their dorm when they are outside the physical building vary. "Performance of .rule­enforcement outside the hall is the domain of Student Affairs," said Father Lardner. "The RAs' behavior outside the hall should set a good example," he added. 
Father Borden feels that the role of a Resident Assistant as a friend outside the hall is impor­tant, too. "If students are mis­behaving, RAs are responsible to direct them," he said. 
"RAs are responsible for their own conduct. If he or she saw a student falling down at a bar, he or she may say as a friend, 'I think you have a drinking problem'," said Sister Gude, agreeing with Father Borden. 
"With the freshmen, I've become their friend, but I still have to enforce a lot of things because of my job," said Smith. II 


UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES 
EXPANDED PHYSICIAN 

HOURS 
In an effort to better meet your health care needs, the hours in which physicians are available in our outpatient clinic have been expanded as follows: 
Open at 8:00 am Available during the lunch hour On duty from 5:00 pm -8:00 pm 
PLEASE NOTE: Above schedule is Monday-Friday 
HOURS MAY VARY WHEN SCHOOL IS NOT IN SESSION 
8 
Scholastic 



Notre Dame's Student Magazine 

is accepting applications for: 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Production Manager Departments Editor Photography. Manager Copy Chief Graphic Arts Manager Systems Manager Sports Editor Advertising Manager News Editor Controller Student Life Editor 
Applications are due by 5 p.m. Friday, March 4 Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's undergraduate may apply. Contact Kathleen McKernan for information: 
Scholastic Office, 3rd floor LaFortune, 239-7569. 

Help u Carry t eload 

March 3, 1988 9 
.., 
i 

•








ring Fervor 
Student senators are gearing up for a month of hurried business before their term ends in April. 

student opinion on plus grades." 
Carrigan wants to make sure the survey is wrapped up before he leaves office. "There's no one returning [from the current sen­ate], so there's no one to carry our torch," he said. "That means we have a lot of work to do." 
The posibility of organizing a Crimestoppers program has already been brought up at a sen­ate meeting, but no action has been take so far. Crimestoppers would provide a reward to any student who could give correct information about specific crimes, said Holst. "I would like to see a trial period [for the Crimestoppers idea] at least." 
The senate is considering several oossible ammendments to 


BY MARITA KURST 


ith  only  four  
meetings  left  
before  the  new  
senators  take  

office on April 

1, the current student senate is in a rush to finish their projects. 
The senate has its work cut out for it--reports to the Board of Trustees must be prepared and issues like a Notre Dame "Crimes­toppers" and a senate response to the University's position on apartheid must be discussed. 
"The student senate has the large task of identifying the issues which appear in the Board of Trustees reports," said Brian Holst, senator from District 1. The various topics for the reports include the honor code, minority concerns and student parking. 
Another topic Holst would like to see included in the Board reports is the senate's reaction to Notre Dame's position on apartheid. "I would like to see the senate take a stand on Notre Dame's investment policy in South Africa," he said. "I personally a<;tvocate complete divestment and, would like to see that adopted by all the senate." Holst said a short statement on the apartheid issue will be included in the reports to the Trustees. 
One of the topics on the agenda between now and April is the analysis of the surveys that were 


the student government constitu­tion, to make it less ambiguous, said Steve Viz, District 4 senator. '.'Striaght out, people [in the future] will need a strong constitu­. tion," said Viz. The ammendments have not been drawn up yet, so Viz found them "not productive to 
discuss" because he did not know if any one of them would be passed. 
One aspect of the senate's workings that has proven difficult for the current senators is the need for approval of constitutional ammendments by the Hall Presidents' Council; once the sen­ate passes a bill, it goes to the HPC. In many cases, ammend­ments that the senate is strongly in favor of have not fared well in the HPC. 
One ammendmen t that had trouble earlier this year concerned student businesses, such as Adworks and Irish Gardens, said Mike Yaeger, Chief of Staff of Student Government. A proposal was made in the senate to set up another branch of student govern­ment to be in charge of student businesses, which were governed at the time by the Student Union Board. 
The ammendment was favored by the SUB, the student body president, Pat Cooke,and it passed unanimously in the senate. It appeared everyone concerned with the student businesses was in favor of the the change of control to a Bussiness Board, said Jaeger. "The senate, plus everyone involved, everyone with a stake in it or with something to lose, was in support of the measure." 

The HPC barely managed to pass the bill, however. Many sena­tors were concerned with the one-vote margin, feeling it indi­cated a negative attitude toward the senate on the part of the HPC. 
"The senate would like to work with the HPC, but I'm not sure if that's a mutual feeling," said Car­rigan. Jaeger, who attends most senate meetings although he has no vote, feels that the HPC "frowns on the politicality of the senate." 
"Whenever a senator shows up [at HPC meetings], to present [the HPC] with a propo~al, it becomes a tense situation," said Jaeger. 
"The roles of the two bodies [senate and HPC] are completely distinct, and there doesn't need to be any kind of conflict," said Holst. 
Carrigan echoed this view, say­ing that he hoped "it wasn't ani­mosity" between the two. "'But maybe only a communication problem." Since the incoming senate is all new members, perhaps the communication with the HPC will be an area in which they will be able to make some improv­ments, he said. 

The fact that not one member of the present senate is returning next year sometimes worries the senators. It is unprecedented that no single member of the senate was returning, said Carrigan. "It's almost frightening," he said. The main concern is that the senators­elect are inexperienced with regard to senate issues. 
"I worry that the new senators may try to reinvent the wheel," said Holst. 
"If [the new senators] research what worked and what didn't, there will be no problem. I hope they don't duplicate old ideas and run into dead ends," said Carri­gan. "I was, however, impressed with those elected that I have met." 
"It won't be as nice a situation as if one person had been coming back," said Viz. Without much knowledge of the personalities of the incoming senate members, Viz 
i~;aj;st:eve i\fiz,: 
.:0ist:ri8i,i:i(4.ii, ;\!~~h~tijr ·· 

felt he could not make judgements about their ability. "The role of a senator can be learned by rhe inexperienced with time and self­initiative," said Viz. "But without initiative, the senate is a lifeless body."11. 



..·munication 
The student senate is looking to improve communication with students. 

·BY MARK BELLAFANTE 
he student senate works to improve stu­
T 
dent life. It is com­
posed of elected representatives from the student body who deal with issues that concern students and student government. 
Despite their common goal, communication between the stu­dents and senate is low; Students feel the senate wastes time and the senate feels its efforts go largely unrecognized by the stu­dent body. 
"I think the senate is a very important part of Notre Dame, but the problem with it right now is that the people that are running it don't seem to have enough contact with the stu­dents," said freshman Bill Neuenfeldt. 
The Constitution of the Undergraduate Student Govern­ment states that "the Student Senate shall be composed of the Student Union Board Manager, or his appointee, the Judicial Coordinator, the Student Body Vice-President, the Student Body Treasurer, the Chairperson of the Hall Presidents' Council, the Senior Class President, the Junior Class President, the Sophomore Class President, the Chairperson of the Freshman Advisory Coun­cil, an elected Off-Campus representative aad four elected On-Campus representatives. The Student Body President shall act as Chairperson of the Senate and vote in the case of a tie." 
"The student senate is not separate from student govern­ment. The student senate is the central decision-making body in student government. Everything else is subordinate, in a sense, to the senate," said senior Brian Holst, a third term senator from District 1. 
"Laurie Bink and Pat Cooke have done a great job, but stu­dents really have to know what is happening in student government better than they do now. We have to get the word out about every­thing that is happening," said Student Body Vice President-
elect Mike·Paese, in an interview conducted prior to his election. 
"It's a tough position. You're damned if you do and you're damned if you don't. If you're too gung-ho, you're criticized for being too gung-ho. If you're not doing anything, then you're criti­cized for not doing anything," said fifth year architecture stu­dent Jeff Otto, commenting on the role of the student senate. 


A few years ago, a very J detailed and comprehensive newsletter was sent to the student body in an attempt at furthering communication, said Holst. The student response was one of discontent due to the expense of such a project. "We're all stu­dents. The more time I spend going to Hall Council meetings and wrtiting newsletters, the less I can spend working ron concrete 
12 Scholastic 
needs]," said Holst. 
The student survey serves as an example of the senate's attempt to alleviate the commun­ication problem. It will be an annual udertaking which asks certain questions to determine the evolution of student opinion, along with timely questions to be addressed by the senate during that year. Holst referred to the survey as "a fantastic tool, one of the best things we've done this year." He added that the survey has enabled the senate "To find out what [the student body] thinks." 
"Besides the constitutionally­

mandated responsibilities of allo­
cating the $400,000 Student 
Activities Fee, appointing and 
managing all branches of student 
government, including Student 
Union Board and the student 
government cabinet, we have 
worked on sevtiral different 
issues," said Holst. 
Some of these issues include . the student senate survey, the 
plus/minus grading system, the 
relocation policy for closing 
halls, the extension of breakfast 
hours, the creation of the New 
Business Board to oversee 
student-run businesses, the abil­
ity· to charge dry-cleaning to the 
mandatory $50 laundry fee and 
the food fight reparations. Some 
of the issues that are currently 
being developed include a 
crimestoppers program and the 
senate's i stance on Notre Dame's 
investment in South Africa. 
Some students expressed dis­

satisfaction with the manner in 
which the senate handled the 
food fight issue. "Though it 
seemed that it was drawn out, it 
actually wasn't. It took as long as 
it did because we went about it 
correctly. The end result was 
something that could not have 
occurred in a week or two 
because our first option was just to pay for it [the damages]," said Holst. 
The "end result" was summed up in the senate's final proposal. It stated, "Students. cannot be forced to bear the burden of retributive responsibility without first being afforded equal contri­butive rights in terms of the regulations and policies that stu­dents are required to follow." Consequently, no Student Activi­ties' funds were allocated to cover the costs of the food fight. 
The manner in which the food fight was resolved hinged upon 


TT,1,1,,tlillllf 
:11tiQsJ1:11~.·•·• J>f ·.m~t~c:111:.•

1:~u:. de9i#E 
.·· ... ·de ·i.t~~,· 
.that 
e :fflenf 
:·,: (:f.}·(·i:, :/:J:::.-:::.:'::t{ ti}
ou tna · · 
,-·,;:,_,.-_,•·c:;· 

ifY••••••••••••·•·••·••••·•.·•·••••~!!•.•.
~igij~J9••· ar--" 
!i~ip@ti at

a~c:isio 

the joint decision that resulted from the concurrence of student leaders and administratuve offi­cials. 
"We've been trying to develop the principle of mutuality where, when decisions are made by the administration that affect stu­dents, then students should have a right to meaningful participa­tion in that decision-making. That's something that you can't really see concrete results from, but it's something that we've been successful with," Holst said. 
In many instances, the senate presents student opinion to the administration only to find the administration firm in their pol­icy. A great deal of work has been done concerning issues such as alternate meal plans for on­campus students and optional laundry service, but, for various reasons, the administration has chosen not to change their position. 
Some concrete problems that the senators deal with, which benefit students, aren't always recognized by the student body as a whole. One role of each senator is to tend to the needs of their constituents. Things such as adding a bike rack at LaFor­tune or filling pot holes in Green Field are often taken for granted. Holst sums up the situation by stating, "A lot of things that we wor!< on are kind of nebulous." 
Tom Doyle and Mike Paese, the president and vice­president-elect of the student body, hope to increase student input. "The senate or the HPC or the five or ten people [in the stu­dent government office] don't have a monopoly on all of the ideas. Notre Dame students are intelligent, and they have ideas about what needs to be done. I get upset when I hear people say that student government isn't effective. We really need to change attitudes about what [stu­dent government] is about," said Paese. "[The negative attitude toward student government] really needs to be worked out so that people can take part in everything that we're given." II 
Andy Hilger contributed to this story 

March 3, 1988 
1 · \ 
! 



Tricks; 


of 


the Trade 
BY KYM SOLLINGER 
I 
t is a strange sort of hobby. Not the kind one would expect too 
many students to have. 
Requiring balance 
flexibility, and a~ 
ample supply of 
determination, unicycling is not the most common of sports. But for freshman Chris Biebel it was the most logical to choose. ' 
"The unicycle is a lot easier to 
get around on. I've been riding it 
so long now, I can't even ride a 

[! 

bike anymore." What motivated this mathematics major from Car­lisle, PA, to take up unicycling? Mostly,it was a matter of family. 
Biebel began riding the unicy­cle about seven years ago, under the instruction of his oldest brother, Tom. Three of his four older brothers ride the unicycle. "I think the unicycle frustrated my other brother," said Biebel. Tom, the instigator of the Biebel broth­ers' unicycling, learned from his wife and taught his siblings in turn. 
"My brothers learned to ride the 'easy' way. They sat on the unicycle gripping onto a moving truck or car while learning to find their balance." Biebel insists that this isn't as dangerous as it sounds, although he learned the 'hard' way. "I just practiced sitting on the unicycle at a stand still, hold­ing onto a pole while I found my balance." 
It takes a long time to become competent on the unicycle, much longer than it takes to learn to ride a bicycle. "It took me about a month just to make it around the block. It took even longer to learn a few tricks," said Biebel. 


Not unexpectedly balance is the esse 1tial feature of unicycling. But dete1-mination is also a major fac­tor. Biebel credits his brothers for the necessary determination. 
"Most people think I took up unicycling to be different, to stand out. Actually that's not the case. All my brothers teased me into (sticking with it). I learned to ride because they pressured me to con­form to the 'family tradition', not because I was trying to be dif­ferent." 
Just the same, different is how Biebel appears when he rides his unicycle all over campus. When­ever possible he rides it to class, claiming that "it's much quicker than walking. When it rains or snows and I'm forced to wall<:, get­ting to class takes forever." 
Biebel admits that he receives his share of remarks when he rides around campus. "The most popu­lar comments are: 'Hey, .you're missing a wheel' or better yet 'Do a wheelie'. Sometimes Biebel will comply by performing the unicy­cle version of a wheelie, a small jump called a 'hop'. "They really like that," said Biebel. 
The Biebel family often jokes about unicycling as "a family thing." But unicycling is not the only hobby the brothers have in common. They also juggle. 
Once again, the eldest brother taught the art of juggling to the others. All five brothers juggle, although Chris ha$ only partici­pated for the last four years. Last The 'they' that Biebel refers to 
semester he was a member of the are professional jugglers. Through 
Notre Dame juggling club. This Tom, a professional entertainer in 
semester studying and extracurric­Atlantic City, Biebel has had the 
ulars such as the Ballroom Dance opportunity to meet one of 
Club, working in .North Dining juggling's greatest, Kit Summers. 
Hall, and playing "clarinet in the "Summers taught my brother to 
band, have forced Biebel to leave juggle. Kit even holds some world 
the club. Said Biebel, "Next year I records in juggling." 
plan on 'juggling' my schedule 
better." 
With professional guidance like 
that, it is not that surprising that 

Biebel most enjoys juggling the Biebel brothers excel in both balls since he can do more tricks juggling and unicycling. Are there with them, but he is also profi­any other family members that cient at juggling clubs, and most juggle? "Well not yet, but my old­recently has started doing rings. If est brother has a son. By the time he could juggle anything? "Bowl­he's five, he will be juggling his ing balls would be kind of fun." age in clubs," predicts Biebel. Chris insists that is not a joke, juggling bowling balls is actually Unusual hobbies to most, for done. "They even juggle chain­Chris and his brothers, they are as saws. Of course the blade is routine as a pickup game of :removed." basketball or football. II 
-------------------~-----------------~-----,
FREE SCHOlARSHIP INFORMATION FOR STUDENTS WHO NEED 

0 EY FOR COLLEGE 
Every Student is Eligible for Some Type of Financial Aid Regardless of Grades or Parental Income. 
• 
We have a data bank of over 200,000 listings of scholarships, fellowships, grants, and loans, representing over $10 billion in private sector funding. 

• 
Many scholarships are given to students based on ·their academic interests, career plans, family heritage and place of residence. 

• 
There's money available for students who have been newspaper car­riers, grocery clerks, cheerleaders, non-smokers ... etc. 

• 
Results GUARANTEED. 



For A Free Brochure
CALL 

ANYTIME l0 800•332ct3295 


~--------------------------------~--------­

March 3, 1988 
15 




Tb Bengal Bout ' 


S 
tepan Center was filled to capacity on that Friday evening last March. The finals of the 57th annual Notre Dame Bengal Bouts had begun, and the crowd of three thousand plus was screaming and yelling as the young boxing finalists sqared off in the brightly lit ring. 
At the conclusion of the 165­pound bout, head coach of the boxing club, Sean McCormick, entered the ring to present the "Bengal Bouts Award" to a man intimately involved in Notre Dame's boxing tradition. As Sean 


an InThe Corner 
7 5-year-old Jack Mooney was lending a hand to Notre Dame's young fighters at the very first Bengal Bouts. Today, only 58 years later, he can still be found in their corner, lending support and a piece or two of advice. 
By NICK CAPECE 
described this man, the boxers "The biggest thrill of the even­standing near the ring began to ing was meeting Father Hes­chant, "Jack! Jack! Jack!" burgh," Mooney recalled later. "After all those years, I finally got "And now I'd like to present a chance to shake his hand." Mr. Jack Mooney," bellowed Sean. Although not a member of the The crowd erupted in applause Notre Dame athletic department, and rose to its feet. A short, stocky Jack Mooney has volunteered his man wearing a Notre Dame boxing time for the past 58 years to work 
sweatshirt and carrying a white, with students interested in boxing. blood-stained towel stepped Even today at age 75, Mooney has through the ropes and approached not lost an ounce of enthusiasm 
the microphone standing in the for the sport. For the past seven center of the ring. Father Hes­weeks, he has been working with burgh joined him in the ring, the 100 or so dedicated Notre extending his hand to thank Moo­Dame students who have been ney for his years of volunteer preparing for the Bengal Bouts. coaching. Clad in his Bengal Bouts jacket 
16 



.. 
! .! i 
-< 

and brown cap, Mooney arrives at is helping the boxers with their the boxing room in the JACC a hand wraps. half hour before the 4 p.m. prac­Like a doctor bandaging a tice begins. Aside from checking patient, Mooney demonstrates the all the equjpment, one of his jobs hand wrapping technique to the 
Mooney, who has witnessed thousands of fights from the corner of the Bengal Bouts ring, can't do much once a kid steps in the ring. But before the fight, he often tries to take a little pres­sure off their shoulders. 
fledgling pugilists. "Make sure you get it nice and tight," he explains to the boxers. "And be sure to leave that half inch around the thumb." After showing them how its done, Mooney lets each boxer wrap his other hand, coach­ing the youngster through each step of the process. "You forgot to wrap your thumb twice," he tells one boxer. "That's OK! Try it again." 
When the practice gets into full swing, Mooney begins to walk around the room, studying each boxer's technique and giving out 
17 

~ ­
.

----~~----~~-· 

encouragement and criticism. When it comes to the fundamen­tals, Mooney is a stickler for proper technique. He will often approach a boxer working on the punching bag and stop to evaluate him. "Stick that jab straight out and bring it straight back," he yells. "That's it! You look real good, real good." Then he moves on to another boxer, looking for any flaws in the young fighter's jabs and left hooks. 
During practices, Mooney spends most of his time near the sparring ring, preparing the boxers for their sparring matches by tying up their gloves and fitting them with the proper head gear. "How do these gloves feel? Is this head gear nice and snug?" he questions. Mooney often steps into the ring himself to act as a referee for the sparring practice, all the time cal­ling out instructions to the two combatants. For a man his age, Mooney moves around quite well in the ring. 
Nowadays, the boxing room isn't as busy as it was seven weeks ago when Bengal training began. The Bengal Bouts are in full swing with only Friday evening's semi­final battles left before the final rounds on Sunday. Yet Mooney still hangs around the boxing room, giving advice to the few boxers who are preparing for their final bouts. "He's a good friend to all the kids and they all love him," remarks one fighter. "He instills a feeling of confidence in the fighters and makes them relax." 

Mooney's interest in boxing was fostered by his early child­hood experiences growing up in South Bend. As a youngster, he sold newspapers for the South Bend Tribune and had to compete with the other kids to sell papers. Mooney grew up during the Great Depression and money was tight. As a result, he often found himself in the middle of a fist fight with another kid who was trying to move in on his territory. 
"You had to be tough to sur­vive," he explains. "You couldn't let any of the other kids push you around. That's where I learned how to fight, on the streets." 
Mooney got used to fighting and soon channelled his energies into boxing. At 14, he got involved in some local boxing matches. for charity. By the time he was 16, Mooney was fighting in the Gol­den Gloves Tournament in South Bend. As he became more serious about boxing, he started to work out at a local YMCA under the instruction of his coach, George Cooper. Mooney even began to travel a bit, once representing the South Bend Tribune at a tourna­ment in Chicago sponsored by the Chicago Tribune. 
"Boxing was different back then, especially for the amateurs," Mooney explains. "When I was in Chicago, I sometimes had to fight two and three times a night." 
In his late teens, Mooney went to work for the Studebaker com-
Mooney, who learned to fight without them, now makes certain his fighters always put on the gloves. 
pany in South Bend, but he still remained active in boxing. He fought in company-sponsored matches as a way of earning some extra money. "I would make seventy dollars a night, which doesn't seem like a lot now, but it was plenty in those days," he explains. 
His most memorable moment in 
boxing came when he fought as a 
16-year old in the annual Stude­
baker Boxing Championship. 
Mooney went head-to-head 
against a southpaw for eight 
three-minute rounds and won. "He 
was big, much bigger than me, but 
I beat him good," Mooney recalls. 
Although these fights helped him financially, Mooney did not remain in boxing primarily for the money. Instead, he continued to fight because he liked the com­petition. "I would do it all over again if I was given the chance," he says. " I had a lot of fun boxing and I met some really nice people. I was even introduced to the great Joe Louis . He was a nice guy, and big, too." 
Before Mooney ended his ama­teur boxing career, he made an important contact which enabled him to stay involved in the sport. After competing in one of the Stu­debaker matches, Mooney was introduced to Dominic Napolitano. 
Napolitano, who was then a member of Notre Dame's athletic department, had recently organ­ized the Bengal Bouts boxing pro­gram for the students, and he was looking for some help. Mooney, tired of the pounding he was receiving in the ring, but hesistant to give up the sport, agreed to give "Nappy" a hand with his program. He has been doing so ever since. 
Over his five decades of 
involvement with Notre Dame 
boxing, Mooney has seen many 
changes. For one thing, the 
number of students involved in the 
program has more than tripled. 

.. 
"Back in the old days, we'd get only about thirty guys coming out, and we had to practice in a very small room over in the old field house," he explains. "Nowadays, we get ninety or a hundred guys coming out for the Bengals." 
In addition, the equipment used by the boxers today is much better. The gloves and the head gear are well padded and protect the boxers from most injuries. "As long as these guys are taught prop­erly, there is no reason why they should get hurt," says Mooney. 
Mooney believes that the sport of boxing is excellent for the young guys, and he is very proud of his invovement with the club. His years working alongside "Nappy", who died in 1986, bring back good memories for Mooney. "Nappy was the greatest," he says fondly. "He raised all the money 
)}!i~~1tt.:~~i'11 ~j\l:i!'.~111I';' 

to run the club by himself, and he . never received a penny from the 
university." 
When he is not coaching at the 

boxing club, Mooney keeps him­
self busy with some other project. 
He loves to exercise and engages 
in brisk morning walks. He also 
volunteers a few hours of his time 
in the morning to clean up at a 
local auto repair shop and occa­
sionally can be found cutting the 
lawn at a local cemetery. "Every 
once and a while I like to stop and 
visit Rockne's grave," says Moo­
ney. "I can still remember selling newspapers to him. He was a real nice guy." 
Although Mooney has worked at many jobs, season after season he returns to volunteer his time to the Notre Dame Boxing Club. "I get a kick out of coaching these guys," he says. "That's why I keep coming back." Mooney's enthusiasm for life and his love of young people keep him in the thick of the action. During the Bengal Bouts, he can be found in the boxer's dressing room, prepar­ing the fighters for their bouts. As always he gives them encourage­ment and advice. In the end, win or lose, Mooney has only good things to ·say to each boxer.."You look real good, real good." II 

March 3, 1988 19 
I -I 
I 
:­

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
The Irish women's basketball team 
sports a record of 18-7 following a win over 
Valparaiso and a loss to DePaul last week. 
The squad completes its regular season 
non-conference schedule Wednesday, when 
it travels to Chicago to face Illinois-Chicago 
at 7:30 p.m.(CST). 
Valparaiso proved to be no match for the Irish, who cruised to a 91-56 win at Valparaiso. Notre Dame quickly erased an early 11-2 deficit to take a 42-34 halftime lead, then followed with early second half · runs of 8--0 and 12--0 to take command of 
the game. 
Five Irish players scored in double fig­
ures, led by SANDY BOTHAM with 26 
points and CATHY EMIGHOLZ, who 
recorded career-highs of 14 points and 8 
rebounds. 
The 22nd-ranked Blue Demons snapped 
Notre Dame's six-game winning streak at 
the Joyce Center on Sunday, edging the 
Irish 69-68. 
HEIDI BUNEK and MARY GAVIN led the Irish with 22 and 12 points, respec­tively. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
The women's tennis team (5-6) had a 
rough time last week in dropping three 
matches, losing to Colorado 7-1, Miami 
(Ohio) 7-2, and Illinois 8-1. 
Things don't get any easier for the 
Irish, as they hit the roa,d to take on a pair 
of tough Big Ten teams this weekend, Ohio 
State and Michigan. The Irish travel to 
Columbus to face the Lady Buckeyes. on 
Friday, and will then head to Ann Arbor to 
battle the Wolverines on Sunday. 
The only win against Colorado came 
from the third-ileeded doubles team of 
CATHY BRADSHAW and JACKIE UHLL, 
who downed Brigit Fink-Jensen and Patty 
Burbridge 6-4, 2-6, 7-6 (7-5). MICHELLE 
DASSO posted two wins at the No. 1 sin­
gles slot as she defeated Kathleen Boyle of 
Miami, 4-6, 6-2, 6-4, and downed Kathy 
Neil of Illinois 1-6, 6-2, 6-3. 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
The Notre Dame women's swimming 
team (9-7) finished it1 season at the 
Women's Midwest Independent Invitational 
Championships in Chicago !Mt weekend, 
taking fifth place overall with 422 points. 
The Irish set nine University i;ecords ­
por 


including all of the relay records -at the Invitational. BECKY WOOD took first place in the 100-yard breaststroke, setting a University record with a time of 1:08.27. She also placed second in the 200-yard breaststroke with a school-record time of 
2:27.53. CHRISTY MOSTON also broke University records in the 100-yard back­stroke (1:01.8) and the 200-yard backstroke (2:12.27), taking third and fifth place in 
each event, respectively. 
WOMEN'S FENCING 

The women's fencing team finished second to Wayne State at the Great Lakes Championships, held last weekend in Detroit. Top performers for the Irish included ANNE BARREDA, who took fourth place, and KRISTIN KRALICEK, who placed fifth. 
The Irish travel to Evanston, Ill., on Saturday to fence in the NCAA Midwest Regional qualifying tourney. 
MEN'S FENCING 

The Notre Dame men's fencing team continued its winning ways as it captured the overall team title at the Great Lakes Championships last Saturday in Detroit, MI. The Irish were led by freshman sabre­man LESZEK NOWOSIELSKI and junior epeeist TODD GRIFFEE, each of whom won his respective weapon and qualified for the NCAA Championships in the process. 
The Irish men also travel to Evanston this Saturday to compete in the NCAA Midwest Regionals. They will attempt to qualify up to six fencers for the NCAA Championships, which will be held in Princeton, NJ, between March 21-23. 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
The Irish men's swimming team (13-3) will host the Midwest Independent Invita­tional Championships Thursday through Saturday in the Rolf's ,Aquatic Center. Preliminary events begin at 12 p.m. and final events at 7 p.m. each day. T1'e Irish finished eighth in last year's meet. 
TRACK 
The Notre Dame track team hosted the inaugural running of the Alex Wilson Invi­tational last weekend. Although no one from Notre Dame qualified for the NCAA Indoor championships, the Irish did turn in some outstanding performance¦• 
Fint-place finishers !or the Irish 
ATHLETES .OF ···tH,EWEEK 
·Bun~k; ii juni~/ r()i'~ · ward • on the Irish women's . · basketball .team, .. J.>roke •·•the. ····1,000•·: career~p()111'.>t barrier.... wednesdayI acoring 28 point~ in an -;>87-69 
•Notre•· 
:··:' :.>:··: ......... ·:: .. :·:. <\\ .. ·:.: :·>:.. :: : .. ·.·..:.:.-.,:.. ... ::. , Dame win· over Cleveland State. The 6:. 4 All-America candidate Milwaukee leads lier te~m>in (1~.5 /·•ppg.) '<reboundirtg ·.. (8..8r ,md·•·. blocked .shots. {36),. artd ~arlier • set • a school record for •most p<lints scored a game (32 vs. Marquette);· · 
··•""toBo tR11=iee ·· 
Griffee, a junior epeei3( from Niles, ;.. MI, ...-·Iecl. ..·..·the Irii!h· frendng team to .the 1 • overaU ·•title at> t_he ' Great Lakes Cham­
.pionshi P>~atur4~Y· in Det,oit by \Vin­a ,13:-i score. I11. the . 
ted )Vart1e Sti\~_e's• :}Of, -~o•··· Wrap ?·1P·•··Jiff himselffor the . 
. ·. ; rith; 
included distance runner PAT KEARNS, sprinter TONY RAGUNAS, and high jumper JOHN COLE. 
This weekend the Irish will send 11 members of its team to compete in Prince­ton, NJ, at the IC¼A track championships. 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Despite injury and illness, the Notre Dame men's tennis team (8-4) enjoyed a good week, winning three out of four matches. The Irish upset Purdue 6-3, lost 6-3 to Colorado and defeated Bowling Green and Cincinnati 9--0. 
Senior captain DAN WALSH improved 
his undefeated record to 12--0, .following ii move from his usual No. 4 spot to play two matches at No. 3 and one match at No.2 singles because of Irish injuries. 
The Irish host two more matches this weekend before finally hitting the road for spring break trip. They face Marquette Friday at 8 p.m. and tangle with unde­feated Big Ten power Ohio State Saturday at 10:80 a.m. 
COMPILED BY JIM MAGGIO 

Music/Tim Adams 
Sizing Up Singles 
.... 
-t's been along time since 

pretty ace, if a bit familiar­
delivers a Motorhead-ish fist to 
I addressed the issue of 

sounding, and it even comes on 
the collective solar plexus of 
1 singles, so that's 

vanilla/blue-colored wax, so look 
upper-(and lower-) class Char­
what this column will 

hard kiddies. 
lotte residents. One minute 
be about. Ready? 
"Hardcore" (the music form, 
they're decrying that the "NC 
.... 
~ . f.
OK, so I've given my air 

not the pornographic one) is an 
royalty are ruining my life," the 

share of abuse to recent efforts 
oft-misused term, especially by 
next they're telling a "white 

by the Cure, but somehow I for­
those who have no clue as to 
trash" woman to leave her lousy 

got to mention that they managed 
what they're talking about. It 
husband and wise up for once. 

to put out one of 1987's best sin­
began in 1980-81 as a reaction to 
Great chant-along stuff, and one 

gles, "Just-Like Heaven." Yeah, I 
the co-opting of the original 
of my main turntable hogs lately. 

know that you're all probably 
onslaught of punk/new wave, 
Two unusual singles that 
thinking, "But the by-line says 

but soon turned into a parody of 
popped up in Chicago record 
this column is written by Tim 

itself, and became as boring and 
stores recently are the God Bul­
Adams, not Ann Seifert!" and 

status quo of what it originally 
lies' "All I Want is My Mamma" 
normally you'd be· right in think­

. railed against. Good hardcore, as 
and Flophouse's "Flopdisk" EP. 

amply displayed by the likes of
ing that. But I saw the video for 
As insane as it is, the God Bullies 

Minor Threat and early Die
this one just about every time I 
song is the lesser whacked-out of 

Kreuzen, consists of fast, loud,
watched "120 Minutes" on MTV 
the two. Combining primal 

angry music, as streamlined as it
during Christmas break, and 
Stooges thud with shrieky,

is pissed off, and most impor­
heck, the song just hooked me. 
Oedipus-to-the-nth-pow er 

tantly it has a true power to it.
Seriously, this is better than 
vocals, it's a laff riot if you're 
anything they've done since way, 
What hardcore isn't is stuff 
into nihilistic stuff. Mindless, 
way back in the beginning of 

like the cool Brit-influenced 
but fun. 

postpunk of Breaking Circus or
their career, probably because 

the funky garage rock of Min­
it's absolutely devoid of any 
"Flopdisk" is a numbered edi­

neapolitans the Baby Astronauts, 
artsy tendencies whatsoever. A 
tion of 500 single, but I'm not 

music that admittedly shares ..a
great little melancholy love song, 
sure these guys have got to worry 

punk background, but has pro­
with kinda sprightly guitar notes 
about it selling out. Even I had a 

gressed way beyond the stagna­
cascading over a cool strumming 
difficult time of getting into it, 

tion levels experienced by the
background, and best of all, 
so I hardly expect your average 

hardcore genre.
singer Robert Smith not whining 
Debbie Gibson fan to go search­
for once (a miracle to these ears). 
However, one excellent group· 
ing for it. Suffice it to say that 
Really, pretty boss. 

has emerged that puts the bite 
it's weird and noisy and it seems 
Chicago's Naked Raygun also 

back into punk rock, or hard­
to go on forever. But it's also 
released a goodie in '87. Titled 

core, or whatever you wanna call 
pretty good. 
"Vanilla Blue," it's probably 

it. Antiseen, from Charlotte, NC, 
Oops, barely any space to dis­
their furthest extension into 

look like a bunch of scumbags, 
cuss the Fantastic new EP by St 
melodic territory yet, although 

but on their recent 1 called EP 
Louis sludge-mongers Drunks 
anyone who's been listening will 

Royalty, they literally rock away 
with Guns. Three tunes: "Zom­
tell you that all their stuff is just 

any preconceptions you might 
bie," "Leprosy," and "Enemy." 
about the hookiest guitar­
Zero social redeemability. Max­

have had about their music. 
dominated drill-press tuneage 
imum grit 'n' groan. Great rock
Focused and powerful at the 
around. Anyway, the single is 
'n' roll. Snappy ending, eh? 

same time, Antiseen's music 

Coming Distractions March 4-11 

Notre Dame 
Notre Dame Communication and Theater ·''Amadeus'' Washington Hall 
8:10 p.m. March 2-5 
Thursday, March 3 
Faculty Clarinet Recital Nicolas Morrison, Notre Dame Annenberg Auditorium 
Chicago 
CONCERTS: 
THE INSIDERS Park West 322 W. Armitage March 2 
UNCLE JON'S BAND Park West 7644 N. Sheridan March 4 
THE BUDDY GUY & JUNIOR WELLS BLUES SHOW Park West 7644 N. Sheridan March 5 
THE LEATHER EXTRAVAGANZA Riviera Night Club 4746 N. Racine March 5 
SMC Center for Spirituality Fourth Annual Madeleva Lecture in Spirituality "Women and Teaching: Themes for a Spiritual of Pedagogy" O'Laughlin Auditorium 
7:30 p.m. 
THEATER: 
"Coming Attractions" Theater Building 1225 W. Belmont Thru March 6 
"La Cage aux folles" Candlelight Dinner Playhouse 5620 S. Harlem Thru May 15 
"The Nerd" Royal George Theater 16,H N. Halsted 
This week Tuesday -Sunday $19.50 -$24.50 Includes Dinner 
"Singin' in the Brain" Roxy Theater 1506 W. Fullerton Limited Run 
Frichy, March 4 
Films 
"True Stories" Annenberg Auditorium 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
Academics 
Department of Economics Public Policy Workshops Room 131 Decio Hall 
11:15 a.m. 
DANCE: 
CHICAGO REPERATORY DANCE ENSEMBLE Civic Theater Wacker Drive at 
Washington Thru March 6 
Michiana 
Forum 
"The,Last Emperor" 
8:15 p.m. "Broadcast News" 7 and 9:30 p.m. 


22 Scholastic 
COMPILED BY DOUG ANDERSON 
Friday Forum at the CSC "The University and Social Change?" 
Room 124, CSC 12:15 -1:00 p.m. 
Traininit Session 
for the Women's Care Center Knights of Columbus Hall 6:00 -10:00 p.m. Also Saturday and Sunday 
Sports 
Tennis ND Men vs. Marquette Eck Tennis Pavilion 
3:00 
University Park East 
"Cry Freedom" 5 and 8 p.m. "Serpent and the Rainbow" 7:30 and 9:30 "Action Jackson" 
7:45 and 9:45 p.m. "Ironweed" 7 and 9:45 p.m. "Fatal Attraction" 7 and 9:30 p.m. 
"Frantic" 7 and 9:30 p.m. 
University Park West 
"Hope and Glory" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "Shoot to Kill" 
7:15 and 9:46 p.m. "Good Morning Vietnam" 7 and 9:30 p.m. 
Ready 
Wrestling NCAA Western Region Field House 
6:00 p.m. 
Saturday,March 5 
First Saturday of Adoration Corby Hall Chapel 9:00 -10:00 a.m. 
SMC Department of Music Concert Church of Loretto 
8:00 p.m. 

"Batteries Not Included" 7p.m. "Return of the Living Dead II" 9p.m. "Three Men and a Baby" 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
100 Center 
"Eddie Murphy Raw" 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. "Planes, Trains and Automobiles" 7 and 9 p.m. 
Scottsdale 
"A Night in the Life Jimmy Reardon" 
7:46 and 9:45 p.m. "Shoot to Kill" 
7:15 and 9:30 p.m. 
Sports 
Tennis ND Men vs. Ohio State Eck Tennis Pavilion 
1:00 p.m. 
Basketball ND Men vs. Marquette Joyce ACC 
2:00 p.m. 
Town and Country 
"Moonstruck" 
7:45 and 9:45 p.m. "She's Having a Baby" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "Three Men and a Baby" 
7:10 and 9:40 p.m. 

March 3, 1988 
Final Word 



Allladeus Lives Again 
By Tim Sutton 


:.' ....::·:·-:.,.·:•::.,_:..}.::,_:-,.:-··-·,:',.c,.':'::·.:;.:..:,.,_:,:,_:_:,:·=.·,.: 

···'\·i•·•~stiH(•· ••;·tx~~f~8........ 11~t~8~j\'f~Wi~~~ ffg·:t··

Arna.'< >/··•by e11t.poot is·J:"igm.for.J
Jl~tet\{iScllaff~r< ;ggction..•.··r:>uri~g.x<tll?it.~o~~
opep,e~(at.•.\Y~h... .••·•·. }?,sas(!<i .•..gofll ttt.h.<th~.};
·..ingte>n :El;:ip;. the ;•andleveLof . .. "tion 
•.. F~1rnin~tiq~•.•····.·······•()f \R~.ft~n./ .U•i)j.. 
.s.ix.\:,1Ji~f¼f :.Rr>· .11J(!n~i'fr/····••i g7pf1t... rx srp,~>
.r·········

·•.~~hr~i-s~h·•and.>cop,s..i-u...t.i?n:rit.)is·•·· . 8urg )yptg7$t.f8s )hi
;:til·•••.·•~Ill#itfous.. ·•·•pio<:1.ij9ijpn ~hiclj· istl1at••. t119r 88.11?Sr 
stretChf~ the .•. ;:trtistic.Mfnits .•·of••. ~u Jh¢~ter•······ SJCP~Pt~~F \•.·~.o···>\.s 
tllo~e in:.. '%h0 .. ·..·.•.. •.·.••</B<lMJsig;:tte~;. · ITTPK~e. ~.m.fl.1(!ys. ?J.hY rn.. 
1f11<l~fPS. }~.<••·al.$(). <l(BI8~1.I9Jie>t1 ·•··· .· Y/pl~r;f1Erc•c1ifferepfr~.·
R.<r.~f:c,flrTt~u.it.~~•·.····tRrth..s;.·••"Y,.inip· gn,•···•·••8M~$~, jgx~·.
tpg;n~}{~.t~ge. I:Wr89.R!1¥:J:?i5ff... ·· i \·•· )i?··•·911 ~81fr?. ·. . liFX(!
5z-eq95ic;§xtu.rg(t~l.~r~X~.80Pt·.~11.e······ >. fil0)"~9.···•·t()()k\ ..... //···<•·•/iit11 
play< ?tliat<..•.• will>·•···•b.e/p(!rfo.rllled 'f?fiXS· :>tr.o.fs?sor •. ·. 
thrp11~liJpe•.·•~eeke~ci} .i11s,·•• f~li(!t pl.~YJ is.j
Whe~ :E>rp[7~s.q ·S .. ~f..l.../i~ .. ... saw .. ,·••i..g.1~xy:i~.. ······•· (··•?i e.rfro tWBM.•.••f... '~~,•.. ~m,g ... ?,,... .,.9.ulq.1?9· ~r~~1:. \/•/.•••·.•·••·i•···••··
F.0~q$.l'.~M1•••.~ci<:litio.~·•:tg:;i11.f/the~te.r (!recii.rn.r()¥?ff'·•·•·tll.s
s~~.9~>li~l'.(!;•····bpt··· t119¥F11f<tff~.t •..••. tlie. ,;~}~>()~ll ig.r(!.jµgic.:.s••·.·•Pe.fp.rf
·gi.ay\ .:}fr9<ltecl.•·•.·••·•••·••·I31.~11•Y.I•••••J9f1111ic.:~li i t?•••.·~.9(!••·•·••l11S.ITTt . ...SJi.Q11i
pi-()~!S!fl§.. ;Jffat\h9 ~9~·'rs ffclci~ci.}.t .· !.,·,·ta·· itreai ~.:.R¥.t #. 
to .ff· ···.§t qf ·g~,,,~, 11s.: '%fh?:tW;h MP:}:.:. c1.ir ·. . <9texr?r ,u.~ .. ..~~i; 01~: ~§ iR;# •. ·········t:••·· ~¥}s9:
:c9.fi.~9rn.~Jt8.11.\~p0#t:·. gl~x\:wi as< Mozar.t;./at1d <ho 
·.sc~~?F1"~Bh9.r·•··•· "Y.i.11.....••··•··•·····••r¥9ft,·•···•··•frn: #\ L§iff'~~~ Itill••J.b.e 
feS$8.1". ;rt.~.llert·•sugg(!~J.fq.Jtli~tJli(! r~7tf~~Dt~~¼r­
pl~}':•8p¥}<i·•J:>(! grod.Mc9<:1.,~t \Y~Sli7 e.tfo¢µ~]Jof. tthe. 
i11?t8ff.)ff~~M:•/..)1P:mi~J!-I~t9.tx· .. •1· :sa:rr····· e 'j~Ill~9~. J.q tA.~.:;r{· ofess· i.~lf;{I$e::: •...,;,.;r·•.••······..•·!
·~y~µ~sinff\Jli~tL '.~~ < e<r.ealiz/!sithat
. )·•··•··••.••. /.i/··/ 

.:wqr~)~~~~.~·••.0 n·•·•.tff(!.••••. RS8/¥c;•H?11.iin . ·•····•·····•·iY ....>•·········Wat•.i ... ~~••i ;Can· re 
Ja11p~.rtpf.x.1.•~..~.?t;.§Jn?~tf~h?~s5~.is ·.11i.11sJ.•·p11t..·nrx,(!z-·· ei?ne;r
mor(!c1;to "Y~hi11g.tp. •. Hs st~gf ·~.f¥:t @e~· . . sf.s .f,i .•.ony.F'~tii1.1.ar~:l{ tJt(!!" .s;.1:>~~01\A .i...1... •.•·••.u·•...•.··.... e..• ... ••.••..••.·•.•t j§ mt
..·.•.···.·r •. ..o.·.·. \.•·•·.· 

·Krr#·· ..J< ~st\&l·· . >.t?f$~5•8.s ·iy9s '}irn ~trqti<
•Ne·~ ...~g.e ·.~.• :~t~?. ·:1\:i~M i§ .riyjill'..~is ······· •r• <•· ;:tli(!.rt.
i11ct1ne......... )tpp.rp~i9er ........ ,·••j·•·······(!CfSS;:tl°y••·•·····.•·.······ :1y•··<lSSUgl.(!s· ..tff~t•·t~irt.1.1e•.•·••c.~eJ1:>.//···ropmfe.r tffe tfclfnif<lkTaclli11~~: <·•.· !.r~cifcl;•r.qt xi.fm.o.§~tr·i "Yffe~.9t·­
ti9nsr t()·•··\Pf.••·Pe.rfpz-~i~.;. figgin?...... :••· 9...... e.....n.·.. ·.•c..•..fi.pre.•s~.P..t...s.xi.ts.·.. 9....1.•. f: i~.•. rth./.f.•....


had;to;).pf>f11<>lr11.tecin'.:~~?Ye..... Jffe: ,: ..·#~t9fo!'-:1?~.fl~t]t~~..t,tti.fn.:t~.. n·· . 
. • .. ·•::. 1:fl&~~w~1mit):;~,tii?~(ai:·. '~simf~<!(.fgM.~~ijtiR~jVJ?.e.11 .~Ui.rt:ffa~iP~.!tt1:~tirf~.tsieijq<!J1l 
··.. ···•····· .ft9f~lsf.:,§~~M.r ··.~.~.trqx9~:?~f i.r,~ns!?8fl~.~~t,X~i, 
::_-;.::::;::··

CiC>nfi,g<!nt.< abouf. :.~t.tll. ·~,Icins•.. ····•·•¥9#r:t;.i~~·.•···•·•b?.ttl<:fi<:tgi ,./__.-.-=------=·, :: __ /(_.:,,_,-,--=------,,? 
-··=··-··· t,.,·.·_,_._._. ____::::::.,.,.,··=·:.. =··::·~/-,=.:,.-.J/:=::-== :·· 



~ 








