and Pigskins on your feet
This Douglas Shoe is a real buy at $E.95
What could be more appropriate at a University famed for football than to sport this genuine Roser’s Pigskin. The more you wear this Douglas Shoe, the better it will look. Note the stylish wing-tip toe and the real plantation Crepe sole. Another college favorite is the Douglas Skibo. Stop in and see Carmi Belmont—our campus representative — at 1020 N. Francis Street.
$5.95' $4.50 $3.50
W. L. DOUGLAS STORE in South Bend
210 South Michigan Street OPEN SATURDAY EVENINGS
Did you know that radio broadcasting stations from coast to coast are linked by more than 53,000 miles of special telephone circuits?
Even before the earliest days of broadcasting, Bell System engineers developed means of transmitting sounds of all kinds by wire. These have been improved constantly to transmit the extremely high and low sound frequencies of music and entertainment.
Just as years of telephone research stand back of today's special broadcasting circuits — so the research of today is helping to solve the communications problems of tomorrow. Another Bell System contribution to your daily life.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Ocfc-S.-lOtT?-Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188
Vol. 72	May 5, 1939	No. 24
NAUTICAL THEME. MEMORIAL SETTING TO GREET SENIORS
BY FRANK WEMHOFF
Chairman Ryan After four years. . .
In the beautiful campus setting of the new Rockne Memorial the annual Senior Ball will be held tonight.' The departing seniors and their guests will be first to attend a school dance in the Memorial. Freddy Martin and his famous orchestra, has just completed a successful run at Chicago’s Trianon, will furnish the music. Martin’s fine band is no novelty to the Notre Dame campus as they also played for the Senior Ball in 1936.
The theme of the Ball is a unique nautical atmosphere. The dance floor is decorated to resemble the main deck of a liner. The ship’s superstructure has been built at the back and on its small lower deck the band will play. On each side of the floor are two white crow’s nests with blue N.D. monograms on the front. The lower half of the walls is colored in dark blue to signify the ocean waters; the upper half is in light blue to signify the sky. Above are blue overdrops and streamers of nautical pennants.
- Queen of the Ball and guest of * General Chairman Joseph Francis Ryan is Miss Ellen M. Drescher of
Buffalo, N. Y. President of the Senior Class Richard O’Melia, will escort Miss Hedwig Shroyer of Champaign, Illinois.
Dancing hours for the Ball are 9 to 1 and students must be in their places of residence by 2 a.m.
Pierson Thal and his orchestra will play for the tea dance on Saturday afternoon from 2 to 5 at the Chain o’ Lakes Country Club.
On Saturday night seniors will be given 12:15 permissions All times noted for the Ball and other events are Central Standard Time.
The official song for the Senior Ball has been written by Richard J. Brown, Lancaster, 0., senior in the College of Commerce. It is entitled “Lazy Summer Rhapsody.” Othei’ songs were submitted by Alfred Pa-cetta and Jack Collins. Freddy Martin himself selected the song from the three written and wrote the orchestration.
The Senior Ball will occupy a special section of the Dome. Pictures of the Ball will be rushed to Milwaukee by plane immediately after the dance is over.
For the feminine guests the committee in charge of favors has selected gold lockets with the University seal on the outside. The programs are of embossed metal with a study
How to Get There
Parking facilities: Drive to the main entrance of the University, turn left and follow the road to the south side of the Memorial where the cars will be taken. The main entrance to the building will be used.
To get to Chain o’ Lakes Country Club take Lincoln Way West (Route 20). Turn left on first road beyond the Bendix airport; at the next crossroad turn right and follow the signs. The clubhouse is about seven miles from downtown South Bend.
President O’Melia
. . . Tonight’s their night.
of the Memorial on the covei* and a sketch of Rockne engraved inside.
Patrons and Patronesses for the Ball as announced by the committee are: Mr. and Mrs. A. J. O’Melia, Mr. and Mrs A. P. Lauck, Mr. and Mrs. A. B. Fipp, Mi-, and Mrs. L. D. Ryan, Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Carmody, Mr. and Mrs. C. B McVay, Mr. and Mrs. B. L. Casey, and Mr. and Mrs. A. H. Keith.
For the convenience of those attending the Ball a special mass, in addition to the regular masses in Sacred Heart Church, will be celebrated in the Alumni Hall chapel at ten o’clock.
General Chairman Ryan announces the following head of committees: Tea Dance, Paul Donovan; music, Raymond Schleck; tickets, Michael Blessing; favors, Francis Lauck; arrangements, Frank Reppenhagen, publicity, Carl Nagel; patrons, Chas. Englehart; programs, William Waters; reception, Louis Bemish; invitations, William McVay; decorations, Ed Simonich; entertainment, Donald O’Melia; floor, Joseph Dray.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ABSURDITIES PROMISE GREATEST SHOW
Sunday night at eight—in Washington Hall—takes place the first showing of the Monogram Club’s Absurdities of 1939. There has been the usual heavy advance sale of tickets, reports Bill Condon, chairman of the ticket committee, but there are still many good seats available for all four nights, May 7th, 8th, 9th, and 10th. They are all forty cents, and all are reserved.
That standard attraction of all Absurdities shows, the Irish Ballet, for the first time, goes in for imitation.
Chairman Condon
See him for tickets and lessons.
Scene Two is an outdoor dancing class at St. Mary’s. Later the versatile ballerinas drop their Grecian dancing mood for a Slavic, then a French mood, stepping off a polka in one scene, and the Can-Can in another. All the dance numbers were specially styled and adopted for the Absurdities by Miss Marie Buczkowski of South Bend.
The Linnets and their band supply most of the musical background for the show which Ed Fulham built around the central theme of a Monogram Club election campaign. The Linnets, among other selections, are presenting a novelty song of Father Eugene Burke’s, “When Father Writes a Letter Home to Dad,” and a return rendition of Father Burke’s most popular ballad, “St. Mary’s on a Sunday Afternoon,” the hit sensation of last year’s Absurdities. The Four Horsemen of Swing alternate with the band, providing a number of hot and noisy musical interludes. There is also an informal drumming contest between Bill Dunham, the Gene Krupa of last year’s show, and the newcomer Jack Kelly.
NOTICE
Students who desire to join The Scholastic staff for next year, or who have manuscripts of stories, sketches etc. to submit, are invited to call at the editorial rooms, Ave Maria Building, between seven and eight o’clock, Sunday through Wednesday evenings.
THE WEEK	By BILL DONNELLY
Notre Dame Man’s
Dream Comes True
J. Pat Gorman, manager, and two of his track proteges, Curt Hester and Kenny Collins, went out to Drake’s Kappa Kappa Gamma Sorority House after the Relays last Saturday. They had heard that there had been open house for Relays competitors out there the year before and, though they had heard nothing about it this year, they decided to check up on it. They were right; there was open house again. There were fifty girls, tables full of food, and they were the only three fellows there. “I wonder why so few fellows have dropped in,” one of the girls remarked. “You sent out the invitations, didn’t you, Helen?” “Why I thought Alice was supposed to do that. Didn’t you send them, Alice?” “I distinctly remember that that task was assigned to you,” Alice said.
So our three heroes filled their faces with food and their arms with Kappa Kappa Gammas (metaphorically speaking) and lived in supreme bliss and contentment for a few hours. “You must come back next year,” the fifty girls said as the boys were leaving. ' “We will,” Curt and Kenny promised, “but don’t forget to forget the invitations again.” Gorman secretly cursed the fact that he is a senior.
Top of the Week
The Senior who sent a girl an invitation to the Ball and inserted a card on which he had printed the words—“Guess who?”
The Gigolos
THE CAST OF CHARACTERS:
Four St. Mary’s girls.
Four Seniors from Alumni Hall.
THE TIME:
Last Friday evening.
the place:
The Oldenburg Inn.
the crime committed:
The four St. Mary’s girls took the four Seniors from Alumni Hall to dinner.
MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION:
George “Red” Neumann ate fourteen pieces of chicken.
POSSIBLE SOLUTION OF THE CRIME:
To-night is the night of the Senior Ball.
The Ideal Audience
It was a mistake to give Curt Hester and. Greg Rice parts in the
Monogram Absurdities. Their place definitely should be the most prominent one possible in the audience for they are each an author’s dream of what the public reaction to his work should be. At rehearsals Curt sits looking with mouth agape and an intensely animated expression on his face as he devours every word on the stage, and Greg laughs so loud and so heartily at everything funny in the play (and there is quite a bit to laugh at) that he even starts the actors laughing at themselves. These two are certainly perfect stooges for any author.
Boomerang
We hear that one of those fellows who always pretends he is sick and goes over to the Infirmary for a doctor’s excuse whenever he sleeps through a class finally got caught up with. The fellow tried the trick last Saturday morning and the doctor had him put in the isolation ward. “B-but I’m not that sick,” the fellow told the doc. “I’m just sick enough that I couldn’t go to class. Can’t you give me an excuse and a pill and let it go at that?” “We can’t take any chances,” the doctor said as he grinned behind his back (a difficult feat; try it some time) and by the time they let the fellow out the whole week-end was shot.
Odds and Ends
The most startling class election poster of the past week appeared in Dillon Hall, printed crudely in red crayon, and crying—Revolt! The time has come to arise and demand these men—Ivan Burkovitch, Dictator; Emil Igelovitch, Commissar of Propaganda; Feydor Somersky, Field Marshal; Georgecovic Duffinsky, Commissar of Society; Petrovitch Markorsky, Commissar of Finance. We hear that only one of these radicals is actually eligible to run for office. . . . There was a little ten-year-old girl at the Drake Relays g e 11 i n g autographs from as many Notre Dame fellows as she could. When we asked her how come, she said, “Oh, I’m going to go to St. Mary’s of the Woods when I grow up.” Maybe she thinks some of us will still be here ten years from now. . . . We hear of several sophomores who caught a couple of little fish in the lake, cleaned and skinned the fish in their rooms, and then brought them over to the caf where they had the girl behind the steam table cook the fish for them. Undoubtedly the fellows were Agrarians.
May 5, 1939
5
LAST MINUTE DRIVE BULGES PRIMARY
Tibbett Likes Cab Calloway and Cole Porter, But Miliza Korjus—Never Heard of Her!
By William C. McGowan
There were no political speeches, screaming sound wagons or radio confidences—just a drive of solicitous campaigning. And half of the student body walked or were pushed to the primary elections, held downstairs in the dining hall last Tuesday
A last minute drive bulged the bal-
Dan Donovan
He took the boxes away.
lot box and the work was done. The S.A.C. men, led by President Dan Donovan, carried off the bags of fate and party members bit their fingernails while waiting for the verdict.
In the senior division Boisvert and Coleman grabbed top place for the presidency; -Hunthausen and Hufna-gel for vice-president; Biagi and Noonan finished close for the office of secretary and Pindar and Joyce will scramble to guard the treasury.
The contest for junior presidency will be between Mulvey and Marquardt. Talty and Maloney will be in the running for the office of vice-president; Doody and Tormey will fight it out for the scribbler’s position and Clark and Essich will be the candidates for the office of treasurer.
The hard fought battle for possible sophomore presidency was won by Jack J. Kelly and Jack Boyce. Sco-bek and Link will reach the finals in the vice-president division; McGrath and Sturbitts are in the running for the office of secretary and Crimmins and Donadio and Quinn will be in the finals racing for the treasurer’s position. The reason for a third man going into the finals here was because of a mistake in ballot printing which was not rectified until midday.
Final voting for senior offices will be on Saturday; junior officers will be elected on Monday and the present freshmen will vote for their coming year’s officers on Tuesday.
“I don’t like to give interviews be-, fore a concert. It makes me nervous,” . said veteran Lawrence Tibbett.
So I waited until the intermission to go “backstage” at the Gymnasium. Mr. Tibbett wasn’t nervous then, and people crowded in to shake his hand or to get his autograph. He smiled good naturedly as he shook half a hundred hands, and chatted pleasantly for a moment with each autograph seeker. Even after the crowd had gone, and as he sat crouched forward to sign a small heap of programs, he answered questions headily and at easy length.
Admires Notre Dame
“Your university has an admirable spirit, and everything impressed me as being part-of a very unified whole. The campus, of course, is beautiful.”
“Mr. Tibbett, a student who belongs to the University glee club wondered what was the most difficult feat for a baritone.”
He stopped signing programs, leaned back in his chair and rubbed his forehead for a moment. “I should say that it is most difficult for a baritone to sing a ‘simple line’ of music sweet-. ly, simply, and without tonal strain.” There was a pause before he added that “Sustaining notes of the higher
Second Issue "Review of Politics" Presents Sane Views on Today's European Troubles
By Vincent DeCoursey
The reader who does not accept naively the opinions of newspaper reporters and writers for the weekly magazines, would do well to read the second issue of the Review of Politics for a clear insight into political realities based not on editorial policy but with a historical and philosophical approach. The two issue old journal, published by the University, is edited by Dr. Waldemar Gurian, Dr. F. A. Hermens, and Mr. F. J. O’Malley.
In this second issue is a pertinent discussion of the most recent thought on the crisis of last September and an attempt to comprehend the meaning of the Munich Pact by Sigmund Neumann, Professor of Government at Wesleyan University in the article
register is also exacting on a baritone —or on any singer for that matter.”
I had been asked to ask Mr. Tibbett what advice he .would give to young, serious singers. The question was on my pad, but my eyes somehow passed it over and lit on “jitterbugs” and “swing.”
“Night and Day” Favored
“Jitterbugs and swing are simply fads of the moment, short-lived affairs that will be gone soon. A few swing bands are good: Cab Calloway, for example, is interesting.” Mr. Tibbett smiled when he acknowledged “Much classical music is dull, while some popular music is good. For instance, one of my favorite pieces is Cole Porter’s Night and Day.”
The intermission was nearly over when Mr. Tibbett assured me that Johann Strauss Il’s waltzes were “really delightful music,” and that he had seen and liked the stage production of “The Great Waltz.”
“Then perhaps you enjoyed the motion picture version of the show, with Miliza Korjus, the soprano who has become so popular?”
“I’m sorry,” concluded Mr. Tibbett, “but I didn’t see the movie. And as for Miliza Korjus, this is the first time I’ve ever heard of her.”
“Europe Before and After Munich.”
Probably the most interesting article in the issue is the penetrating analysis of the “Psychology of the Totalitarian Movement” by. Etienne De Greeff, Louvain University, Belgium, in which the author gives an entirely new insight into this political ideology.
If American politics be the subject of interest, Dr. Hermen’s “1938 Elections and the American Party System” should furnish quite a bit of material for thought. Other articles in the issue are by Donald Davidson, Vanderbilt; C. J. Friedrich, Harvard; Desmond Fitzgerald; Herbert von Becherath, Duke; and Jerome G. Kerwin, Chicago.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
OUR DAILY BREAD
Archbishop Spellman of New York Received Honorary Degree at 1935 Commencement
Liturgy
A Layman’s Liturgical Year by Ernest Oldmeadow, former editor of the London Tablet, is a book of more than passing importance. Dom An-scar Vonier, O.S.B., Abbot of Buckfast, (see Commomveal, April 28), whose brilliant pen is now, alas, stilled forever, writes the preface. He says: “For all Catholics the glories of the Liturgy ought to be their natural milieu; they ought to act it, they ought to sing it, they ought to expound it and, not least, they ought to write about it, in prose and in verse, if God has given them talent.”
The author does all this for he is a man of wide knowledge and practical piety, which is something other than pietism. The book is a series of lay essays on Catholic Liturgy bringing the practicalities of this workaday world into focus with the seasons and feasts of the year. The history and theology of these, briefly and adequately sketched, furnishes the background.
-Mass Calendar: May 7 to 13
Sunday 7 — Fourth after Easter. Semi-double. 2d prayer St. Stanislaus. Bishop. Martyr. 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Preface of Easter.
Monday 8 — Apparition of St. Michael, Archangel. Greater Double. 2d prayer Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Tuesday 9 — St. Gregory of Nazi-anzen. Bishop. Confessor. Doctor. (Died 389). Double. Mass: In Medio (Common.) 2d prayer Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo. Epistle: Justus.
By Mark J. Mitchell
The appointment of the Most Reverend Francis J. Spellman to succeed the late Patrick Cardinal Hayes as Archbishop of New York brings joy and honor to Notre Dame. For it marks the second time in less than a year that an honorary alumnus of the University was raised to a high office in the Church. The other, of course, was Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli, now His Holiness Pope Pius XII.
Archbishop Spellman delivered the baccalaureate sermon at Commencement here in 1935. At this time also the University conferred upon him the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa.
In his sermon, he said, “As a plan for your life as men living and working in the world, that is, for your business or your cultural or your professional life, I would recommend: First, That you remember what you have learned. Second, that you continue to read and to study and to learn, especially about your particular subject. Third, that you live and profit by what you have learned.
Urges Prayer, Mass, Communion
“. . . For . . . your practical Catholic life: First, without prayer it is impossible to be saved. . . . Second, make up your minds this morning that never through your own fault will you miss Mass on a Sunday or a Holyday of Obligation. . . . And this is the last: That you receive our Divine Lord in Holy Communion' at least once each month, because our Blessed Lord must be merciful to a soul that has been faithful and devoted to Him.”
The new archbishop was born May 4, 1889 at Whitman, Massachusetts, the eldest of a family of five children. His father, William Spellman, and his mother, Ellen Conway, were born of emigrant Irish parents in the neighboring towns of Whitman and Kingston, respectively.
He received his early education in the public schools of Whitman, and took his A.B. at Fordham in 1911. He studied at the North American College at Rome, from 1911 until 1916. In that year he was ordained, and received the degree of Doctor of Sacred Theology from the College of the Propaganda in Rome.
Duties Many and Varied
Returning to the United States, he assumed parochial duties in Boston, and soon became assistant chancellor, Director of Diocesan literature, and a member of the editorial staff of the Boston Pilot. From 1925 until 1932 he was assistant in the secretariat of state under Cardinals Gasparri and Pacelli. In 1932 he acted as secretary to the Cardinal Legate to the International Eucharistic Congress in Dublin.
Cardinal Pacelli consecrated him bishop in 1932, and on September 8, of that year he was made auxiliary to His Eminence Cardinal O’Connell, Archbishop of Boston.
Besides his visit to Notre Dame in June 1935, he accompanied Cardinal Pacelli on his trip here in October 1936.
Wednesday 10 — St. Antoninus. Bishop. Confessor. (Died 1459). Double. Mass: Statuit (Common). Prayer proper. 2d prayer Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Thursday 11 — Ferial. Semi-double. Mass of preceding Sunday. 2d prayer of the Blessed Virgin (Concede). 3d Church or Pope. 4th Anniversary of Consecration of a Bishop. Alternate mass: Votive or Requiem.
Friday 12 — Sts. Nereus, Achilleus, Domitilla and Pancras. Martyrs. Semi-double. 2d prayer of the Blessed Virgin (Concede). 3d Church or Pope. 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Alternate mass: Votive or Requiem.
Saturday 13 — St. Robert Bellarmine. Bishop. Confessor. Doctor. (Died 1621). Double. Mass proper. Credo. 2d prayer Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Most. Rev. Francis J. Spellman and Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.
Archbishop Spellman receives LL.D. in June, 1935.
May 5, 1939
7
ELECT DEANE LAW CLUB PRESIDENT
The Prekowitz-Roche political machine still controls Law Club politics, for its candidate, John Joseph Deane, third year law student from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, last Monday afternoon walked off with the Law Club presidency after a typically close election. It was Deane’s sixth straight triumph in campus politics; he was secretary of the senior class in 1938 and was secretary of the Law Club last year.
The Deane ticket nearly scored a clean sweep as two more of its candidates were elected to office. Charles F. Daly, third-year student from Ventnor, New Jersey, became vice-president, and Russell J. Dolce, first year man from Chicago, stepped up
President Dean Six straight.
to the post of secretary. A lone member of the opposition, William T. Meyers, first year student from Elgin, Illinois, survived the Deane avalanche and was elected treasurer. Meyers was a member of the ticket headed by George B. Morris, third year lawyer from Detroit.
Stewart Roche is the outgoing president of the Law Club, and Frank Donlon is the retiring vice-president. Deane moves up from the secretary’ post to the presidency. Edward F. Grogan, the power behind the Deane throne in the recent elections, is the retiring treasurer.
Both the primaries and the general elections this year were under the direction of Ernest Lanois.
Graduation Invitations
Distribution of the University Commencement Invitations — ten to each member of the graduating Class, without charge—will begin Saturday morning at 8 o’clock in the Alumni Office in the Main Building.
Saturday, the hours will be from 8 until 11 A.M. On Monday and Tuesday, hours will be from 8 until 12, and from 1 until 4.
CONVOCATION HONORS 150TH ANNIVERSARY OF WASHINGTON'S FIRST INAUGURATION
By Jack Willmann
Four speakers filled the confines of Washington Hall with patriotic speeches as the Academy of Politics held a convocation in commemoration of the 150th Anniversary of George Washington’s Inauguration and the Constitution. Chairman Frederick E. Sisk opened the convocation with an erudite statement of the
w   i'^——.hi., hi	। law
Wranglers Pick Meier As Only New Member
•
William Meier, freshman Arts and Letters student, Faulkton, South Dak. was the only new member accepted by the Wranglers at their semi-annual induction Tuesday, May 2. The new member is the brother of Richard Meier, former Wrangler president; he is also a member of the “B” debate team.
At the same meeting it was announced that James Reedy, of St. Catherine of Sienna grade school, Chicago, was the winner of the Wrangler cup, symbolic of first prize in the city-wide oratorical contest sponsored by Mount Carmel High school for Chicago’s parochial schools. The cup was donated for the Wranglers by a former member of the organization. Master Reedy was the final selection from a field of over 1,000 contestants.
James Withey will deliver the final speech of the regular meeting season at the meeting next Monday night. Final plans for the annual banquet will be announced by Vincent DeCoursey, who is to be the toastmaster.
A.S.M. to Hear Mahin
Mr. W. E. Mahin, son of Dr. Mahin of the department of metallurgy, will be the speaker at the Technical session of the American Society of Metals meeting next Wednesday.
A former editor of the Catalyzer, Mr. Mahin was a graduate of Notre Dame in 1928. He is at present in charge of metallurgical engineering in the Westinghouse East Pittsburgh Works. In 1933 Mr. Mahin received his M.S. from Carnegie Institute of Technology, attending night school while a metallurgist for Vanadium Corporation.
His address Wednesday will concern “Tool Metallurgical Engineering.” In the business meeting before the technical session officers for next year will be elected.
purpose of the gathering and a brief background of the adoption of the Constitution. The Notre Dame Sym-
Chairman Sisk Washington was honored.
phony Orchestra opened the program with some classical selections.
John J. Killen presented a vivid picture of ‘“The Critical Period in American History.” He sketched the pessimism and unrest that marked the spirit of the Constitutional Convention and the prevalent sentiment for a monarchy. It was only after a compromise that the convention managed to stay in session to mould the mightiest of American documents.
Harold Bowler discussed the “Separation of Powers” and how it was and is the central theme in our Constitution. It is the philosophy that demands power as a check to power. The executive appointive power is shared with the Senate; the Judiciary is selected and approved by the President and Senate; and the President has veto power over legislation of the Senate. The unconstitutionality of the N.R.A. in the case of Schlecter vs. United States was a further protection of the separation philosophy.
At this juncture,. Chairman Sisk read several telegrams which expressed the regret of several prominent statesmen who could not be at the convocation. The names of James A. Farley, Alfred M. Landon, and Frank Murphy brought cheers from the assemblage.
From the debating realm came Frank Fitch to present a forceful (Continued on Page 22)
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE
By Fred E. Sisk
Nearing the End
Through funds collected by the student relief drive at the University of California at Berkeley, seven refugee students from Germany will be given scholarships next year at the California school. . . At Northwestern they have a $47,000,000 pen. . . It takes its value from the fact that Northwestren retiring President has used the same pen to sign documents which have brought the school $47,000,000 during his 19 years in office. . . . For the spring quarter of school Ohio State has 11,689 students enrolled. . . They’re “raising the roof” at Princeton. . . The “roof” in this case is one for the new Princeton Library, and an undergraduate drive for funds wall be used for the financing of the roof.. . More queer college financing is under way at Loyola in Los Angeles. . . This time it’s a drive for student contributions to pave Loyola Boulevard before their Commencement. . . When the annual Senior Cakewalk takes place May 16 at the University of Kansas, those “on the inside” expecting passes will find themselves “on the outside.” . . . Reason: Their contract with Kay Kyser’s band prohibits free tickets being given out. . . The University of San Francisco boasts of football windshield stickers with the most elaborate design in the nation. . . Remember, World’s Fair publicity is contagious.
Half and Half
Girl: “At times you seem manly enough and at the other times you seem absurdly effeminate.”
He: “Er-ah it’s hereditary. You see, half of my ancestors were men and the other half were women.”
—Auburn Plainsman
—o—
Questionable Quotes
Under an editorial heading of “Some of Our Best Friends Are Co-eds,” the Varsity News of the University of Detroit rambles on to say: “In answer to ‘Why isn’t Notre Dame a coeducational school?’ authors of the Notre Dame University religious bulletin say: ‘Well, when you see girls all day long, either you waste time on them and don’t do your work, or you get sick of them and don’t like them, or you’re an extraordinary man.’ We are extraordinary.”
Ah, you modest fellows. We bet you tell all the girls that.
DEBATERS END YEAR WITH .700 AVERAGE
By John F. Dinges
Notre Dame’s debate squad has just completed one of its most successful seasons, winning nearly seventy percent of its encounters.
The season opened at Manchester where the A squad affirmative team, composed of Frank Parks and Milton Williams defeated: Eastern Illinois Teacher’s College, Lake Forest, and St. Ambrose, and lost to Western State Teacher’s College, Wabash, and Illinois Wesleyan, The A squad negative team, made up of Frank Fitch and Albert Funk, took the decision from Capital, Manchester, Oberlin, Illinois Normal, Indiana University, and Western Reserve.	'
At Iowa the affirmative beat Parke College, South Dakota University, Wichita, and lost to Iowa, Westminster, and Sioux Falls, the latter on a forfeit due to the illness of a debater. The negative team won over Northern Illinois Teacher’s College, University (Continued on Page 21)
Sleuth Shadows Suspicious Character and Cuts Himself Into Great Cake Mystery
By Ed Huston (G. 51)
The criminals on the Post-office bulletin board go unapprehended month after month. We are very much disappointed in Bill the Policeman and we have assigned our ace operative G. 51 to the case. At present he is practicing on local talent.
Inspired by the recent Dickson, “Tarzan,” and other killer stories we determined to become a detective and capture criminals. The “We Smellem-Out Detective Agency” enrolled us as one of their ace pupils. After an intensive six weeks’ course of peering over transoms, walking on tip-toe, and reading other fellows’ mail we were ready for graduation. With the diploma came a tin star, a toy pistol, and a Sherlock Holmes cap.
For a while we thought that Mike, Mascot Terrier, would be a great help to us in smelling out criminals. Unfortunately he was so accustomed to the tangy and highly individualistic odors of Scrap’s emergency ward that he could hardly recognize less potent smells. With a great deal of regret we took Mike back to his clothes wire and went alone to the post office to wait for our criminal.
The post-office is an ideal place to wait because it is the center of love, financial, and disciplinary action, and everybody, even Freshmen, comes there once in’ a while. After studying
"FORCE OR REASON?" ASKS FR. MILTNER
Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, was the keynote speaker last week at the 13th annual conference of the Catholic Association for International Peace held at Washington. He favored strongly an international conference to adjust differences between nations and preserve world peace.	.
Citing militarism and fear as the principal -factor in the obstacles to peace, Father Miltner said, “It is not difficult to understand why it is so much easier to make people war-minded than conference-minded, why the theory of militarism gets the reputation of common sense realism, while peace makers by comparison are regarded as about as important as an old ladies’ sewing circle.”
At the close of the convention Father Miltner was elected vice president of the association.
the bulletin boards for latest news of criminals we sat down in a corner to wait for action. We got no action, only ink blots from a fellow who came in to sign a money-order and had a leaky pen.
Just as we were ready to give up our chase a very furtive character entered and glanced around the room. We shrank so far in the corner that our back became a right angle. The criminal had the fighting look of a cornered weasel. He hurried over to the window, slipped a piece of paper to Brother Post-office, got a big square package and hurried out.
“Gosh!” we thought, “maybe he’s going to blow up the dome.” We ran out after him ready to give our all for the good old dome.
The fellow walked very briskly, but he kept looking back as he walked, and every time we had to duck. We ducked behind so many trees we felt like a squirrel. He went right on past the Main Building into Zahm Hall, and we rushed up just in time to see him enter a room. We tried the door but found it locked. Undaunted we remembered formula twenty-three for ■opening locked doors and yelled, “Telegram.”	.
He opened the door and we burst in (Continued on Page 20)
May 5, 1939
9
RADIO
By Bernard Feeney
Suspender-Lender, Aeronautical Expert, and Press Agent—Meet Murphy, the Manager
Absurdities Preview
If you want a sample of what to expect at the coming Monogram Show, tune in WSBT tonight at 8 o’clock. At that time bits from the Absurdities, including music, dialogue, and satire will lend themselves to the local microphone for the listener’s consumption. Crazy sketches and moments of insanity will be interspersed with the Linnets and their band, and Mike Mandjiak’s swingsters, all of which furnish music for the show. This broadcast takes the place of “College Quiz,” which will resume under head quizzer, Walt Johnson, next Friday night.
The Man Behind the Voice
This week we talk of Dan Sallows, a Dillon Hall Junior from Brooklyn, N. Y. Starting in local radio last year in Ed Heinz’s “Sketches,” he remembers particularly one drama named “Vampire.” It called for a loud scream, so Hal Sitt was selected as the best screamer at Notre Dame. “When Hal let go,” Dan relates, “he almost blew the engineer out of the control room!” This year Dan has been handling general announcing. Along with radio, he sings ■with the Glee Club, and is a member of both the K. of C. and the Metropolitan Club. He plays golf, and collects stamps and curios.
News Nuggets
National: Fred Waring will return to the air in mid-June with a program that may make network history. His 25-piece orchestra and 30 singers will introduce a quarter hour chain of Monday through Friday broadcasts over 82 NBC stations. This is believed to be the biggest time and talent expenditure of its kind. It is reported Waring will receive $20,000 a week!
Local: The broadcast of a Wranglers meeting originally scheduled for this week will be heard next Tuesday at 8 p.m. Also scheduled for some time the early part of next week is a dramatization of the life and music of the famous composer, Franz Shubert.
WFAM-WSBT Log (Standard Time)
6:45—Mon.: Faculty Talk 8:00—Tue.: Wranglers Meeting 8:15—Wed.: The Periscope 8:30—Thurs.: Music Appreciation 6:45—Fri.—Politics Forum 8:00—Fri.: Campus Quiz
7:45—Sat.: Our Economic Outlook
By John Donnelly and James Quinn
The life of the average football-, baseball-, basketball-retriever is not one of “all work, etc.” While it is true that the gravely consequential — though lightly noticed — performances of the managers is a heavy burden, yet humorous incidents occur on occasion and they serve to make the yoke set more easily. So here are set forth, more or less informally and quite disjointedly, some of the amusing happenings in the life of Murphy the Manager. (We’ve selected the name “Murphy” in view of one coach’s remark, relative to the former lack of
Ex-Managers Donnelly and Quinn A Preview behind the scenes.
Irish on the football squad ,when he told an inquirer that all the Irish at Notre Dame were either class officers or managers.)
One afternoon the senior football manager breezed into the manager’s office with the tidings that there was to be a punting contest staged that day out on Cartier Field.
“There’s a slight wind today,” mused the Number One manager, as he was supervising the preparation of a chart. “I wonder how much difference it will make in the distance and angle of the kicks.”
“Why don’t we get some dope on the wind from the South Bend airport, Paul?” one of his juniors jocularly inquired.
To the junior’s surprise, Paul conceded that this idea had its possibilities, and the information was secured, via telephone, from the airport meteorologist. When the report of the punts was submitted, it had this addendum: “A six-mile-per-hour southwesterly wind was at the punter’s backs.” No further reference was made to the occurrence and it apparently was forgotten by everyone concerned. Some weeks later, however, the managers were properly astonished to. see an allusion, in a Chicago newspaper’s sports columni, to the
detailed punting reports at Notre Dame!
No 'Money Wasted
An example of the skittery mental attitude a freshman may have when singled out for special attention by the almighty senior football manager is the case of the yearling who was buttonholed by his chief in the stadium locker-room a half-hour before the kick-off of the opening game of the season.
“Here’s two dollars and twenty cents,” said the head man. “Run around to the ticket-office at Gate 14 and get me a two-twenty ticket.”
The freshman took the money and started off at a trot, returning in a few minutes with two tickets clutched firmly in his hand.
“Here you are, George,” the frosh panted. George gazed at the proffered tickets and then asked, in a fatherly tone:
“Why, why did you bring me two one-dollar-ten tickets?”
“George,” the youngster said, thoughtfully, “when I got down to the ticket-window, the man behind it said they were all sold out of two-twenties —I knew you wouldn’t want the money wasted, and you evidently wanted two dollars and twenty cents worth of tickets, and—well—here they are!”
Time Out for Identification
One incident concerns a coach more than it does a manager, although the latter was responsible for the discomfiture of the former. Upon reaching the team's hotel, at the conclusion of a football trip, there were two policemen waiting to be of any assistance necessary. The manager stationed them on the floor on which the team was quartered, with explicit instructions to allow no one not connected with the official party to set foot on that particular level of the building.
A short time later the manager was hastily summoned to one of the stair wells, where the policemen were staving off a well built young fellow who claimed he was one of the assistant coaches. In truth, he was an assistant coach! He was quartered on the floor below and had elected to use the stairway instead of waiting for the elevator. He had no credentials to -verify his statements to the unknowing and the cops were hard-boiled. Profuse apologies were traded all the way around and the curtain came down on the scene.
(Continued on Page 19)
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THEATRE
By Vern Witkowski
MUSIC NOTES
By WILLIAM MOONEY
Unless one remains in the vicinity of the campus an extra day and night following the final examinations he will not be able to witness the next offering of the University Players. For on the evening of June 2 the group will present its version of two shorter plays of the universally loved Anton Chekhov.
This is the first time the group has attempted a program as difficult as this. There are crosscurrents of mood to be dealt with; there are difficult lighting effects to be procured; there are character interpretations that will definitely test the true strength of the actors.
The first play to be seen is “On the High Road,” longest and most representative of the author; the second, “The Tragedian in Spite of Himself,” is a delightful two-character interlude. Having started rehearsals, the Players and Father Coyle are centering their aims on a worthy cap with which to seal a year of successful stage presentations.
Russian Theme
Concerning the playwright whose works should be attempted by any self-respecting theater group, amateur or professional: Although Russian in mood and theme, Chekhov has grown close to the hearts of theaterfolk throughout the world. Directors are proud of having produced a successful Chekhov play; actors are anxious to portray Chekhovian characters ; playwrights have long attempted to discover the secret of his creative power.
There is no affectation in Chekhov. The effects he creates, the striking control he wields over the simplest of human emotions are genuine, unadorned, real. He treats tears and laughter, joys and sorrows with a mastery that shows his deep knowledge and understanding of mankind. If the slightest tinge of superficiality in dealing with human nature ever peeps out of one of his dramas, we can blame only the character being treated; we cannot blame Chekhov. The playwright merely wrote what he knew of the complex man; he did not determine the character’s reactions or his fancies. .
Thus we find a true note in all of ' the dramatist’s works, true hate, true love, true despair, and we cannot deny that when an audience watches a Chekhov play, it sees people that it has seen countless times before in different clothes, with different accents, and with non-Russian names.
The attempts to make this Music Week the greatest of all were, on the whole, successful.
The concert given by the Linnets was noteworthy for one thing—The Novachord as demonstrated by the Chicago organist and teacher, Mr. Wilson Doty. Mr. Doty proved himself to be an accomplished performer on the Hammond organ, as well as a proficient revealer of the wonders of the Novachord. His efforts were very
Pianist Mooney Now a critic.
well received. Tony Donadio, the possessor of a beautiful tenor voice, forms the backbone of the Linnet’s Glee Club. His voice is capable of thrilling any audience, but his solo failed because he was obviously not prepared.
Tibbett Generous
The praises of the Tibbett concert have been loudly proclaimed. A few have criticized the concert because some of the compositions on Mr. Tib-bett’s program were unfamiliar to the majority of the audience. But he more than made up for this by the generous way in which he responded with encores.
On Wednesday evening the Notre Dame Glee Club combined with the symphony orchestra to present a slightly unbalanced program. This year’s glee club had never sung as well as it did Wednesday night. The voices were evenly balanced, the contrasts between fortissimo and pianissimo were well controlled, and they seemed better able to maintain a true pitch. The boys were more sure of
their parts and paid closer attention to the direction of Mr. Pedtke. It is regrettable that the concert was not better attended. The symphony still struggles, almost hopelessly, with a lack of instrumentation. Little can be expected of any symphony unless all the sections are more complete. .
Crandell Best Recitalist
On Thursday evening the students of the Music Department gave their recital. Mr. Wilson Crandell, pianist, was by far the most outstanding of the evening entertainers. His technique is reliable, and his selections were carefully prepared. He falls short, however, in the deeper and subtler phases of interpretation. He is a pianist of great promise who should round out his formations with greater concentration on tone quality and expression. Each of the other soloists gave creditable performances.
The gymnasium was literally packed for the South Bend Symphony concert, which featured Percy Grainger, pianist. We wish to correct the misprint of a recent issue which said, “Mr. Grainger has long been considered the world’s greatest pianist.” Although he is a highly talented pianist, it would be rash to refer to him as the world’s greatest.
Grainger Brilliant
Mr. Grainger gave a stirring performance of the first movement of Tschaikowski’s B-flat minor concerto for piano and orchestra. “For sheer brilliance and grandeur; for variety and intensity of color; for commanding breadth of conception it would not be easy to find any music of this type a rival to the first movement of the concerto.” Mr. Grainger met, with superb mastery, the requirements of this great composition. In all his selections his tone was deep and rich, and his interpretations were carefully and beautifully wrought. The South Bend Symphony, conducted by Mr. Edwin Haymes, performed admirably considering its youth. The orchestra has been in existence only three years, and in that brief period it has grown into a praiseworthy organization.
Much crdeit should be given to Mrs. Ethel Stuart Gaumer, manager of the orchestra. She has handled all the details involved in managing an orchestra and in arranging concerts, particularly this last concert. A woman of Mrs. Gaumer’s ability and energy must be greatly appreciated by the music lovers of South Bend.
May 5, 1939
II
VINCENTIANS
By Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
What kind of office is necessary for an organization such as the Notre Dame Conference of the St. Vincent de Paul Society? One of the fellows describes what he saw and heard when he made a plane reservation in the office before Easter vacation.
“I was impressed first by the furnishings and by the decorations. It certainly looked like an office. There was a big desk in one corner ■— the desk of the Executive Secretary as I later found out—with a smiling fellow behind it. He introduced himself as Frank Itzin and I met Father John Kelley, the spiritual director of the Conference. I told Frank what I wanted, and he called the airport in South Bend to see what reservation could be made. While I sat down to wait for the report, I noticed that Father had been dictating a letter to Frank. The reservation was made, and I asked if I might stay a few minutes to see just what work the office handled.”
He then described the decorations he had seen in the office. “The various colorful posters and calendars of bus and airline companies caught my eye. There was a big map of South Bend which covered a god part of one wall. Over at the side I saw another desk, and behind the door the office supplies stacked in a locker like those in the students’ rooms. Father’s dictation was interrupted again by a ’phone call. It was from the Vincentian Service Bureau in South Bend. The Bureau called to ask the help of the N. D. Conference on a coal case.
“You may remember that the week had been cold and unsettled; an old couple needed coal to tide them over until it warmed up. One of the Conference members came into the office, and Frank told the Bureau that he would call an office discussion and ’phone back the decision. I looked over the pictures of past N. D. Vincentian groups while they discussed the coal case. Frank called the Bureau and told them to order the coal.
Everybody Work#
“Soon after that the Treasurer came into the office with the collec-- tions from two meetings. They helped to offset in part the coal bill. Another member dropped in for money to purchase milk tickets. On the way out he ran into a fellow worker who was bringing in some old clothes that he had collected in one of the Halls and the family worker relieved the other of a sweater and shirt to take to his needy. I left before Father could finish that letter.”
The Vincentians wish to thank sincerely all those who made the Spring Sport Dance the success that it was. More on this later.
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS
By Graham Starr
Catapulted into the foreground this week is Joe F. Ryan, Buffalo, N. Y., who claims the distinction of establishing a precedent on the campus— that of originating the idea of having the Senior Ball in the Rockne Memorial. But to look at him now one wouldn’t think that he ranks as the auspicious person he really is, for he looks disheveled and haggard. Reason: running himself ragged because
of the approaching Ball which Joe regards as a utopia because his home town girl, Ellen Drescher, is a-comin’.
The car-wrecker (his friends think he should get a job in Hollywood driving off cliffs, etc.) is the power behind the throne in the Buffalo club. When he talks they (meaning you) sit up and take notice because of his advocacy of “No further schooling” and “I haven’t cracked a book in four years.” Look at his average for verification of his boast__
Running into different channels, we find our hero to be quite a man in the “leisure” and athletic fields. Was guard on the St. Ed’s champion interhall football team three years ago. Not contented here he loomed as Morrissey’s checker champion his sophomore year, and worst of all has become a bridge fanatic — eats it, sleeps it, and practically lives it. He has pondered at times, even to the extent of making a cross word puzzle for Red O’Melia—probably the most
work he has done in his life. He was O’Melia’s campaign manager last year when Red ran for the presidency of the senior class.
One of the “errors” the senior makes is the taking of many weekends. If it isn’t Bay City, it’s Chicago for the only man who has never had repercussions as far as getting money or its equivalent is concerned.
By the way, he is chairman of the Ball tonight.
APT
By Don Driscoll
In any discussion of the development of a distinctly national art in America, an art true to the character of the American people, the name of Winslow Homer is sure to be mentioned. His work is an affirmation of all those virile qualities requisite to such a development and to such an art.
Winslow Homer was our first great marine painter. His early years in art were spent as an illustrator for Harper and Brothers. During the Civil War he portrayed the life of soldiers at the front for their publications. After the war he gradually drifted towards his great life work— that of portraying fisher folk in their relation with a sea of various moods, that of storm tossed breakers on the rocky coast of New England being the predominant theme. “The Gale,” “Watching the Breakers,” “The Fog Warning” are typical of the titles of many of his canvases.
Honesty and ability to work were dominant characteristics in Winslow Homer. He had his own idea about talent. To him it was “nothing but the capacity for doing continuous hard work in the right way.” Though one cannot deny that he himself worked incessantly nevertheless it is difficult to believe that he did not possess a goodly measure of that talent which he sought to dismiss and ridicule as something that really did not exist. If hard work is all there is to talent then at least he had talent for hard work.
Clean, Virile WoA
In fitting tribute to this truly American artist, Augustus Saint Gan-dens, America’s greatest sculptor, said; “Winslow Homer personifies the cleanest type of fresh American virility. Sober, earnest, and full of movement Iris pictures go direct to the point with originality of vision, and with that strange power of the big man who does subconsciously the thing so often felt, but seldom expressed.”
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Mark J. Mitchell______________________Editor-in-Chief
Vincent DeCoursey____________________Managing	Editor
William P. Mahoney___________________Literary	Editor
William C. Fay___________________________News	Editor
Donald Foskett_________________________Sports	Editor
Tom Powers________________________________Art	Editor
Rev. L. V. Broughal, C.S.C..........Faculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, Post Office Box 155, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Wednesday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff 6:30 P.M.: General Staff. 7:00 P.M.
Vol. 72	May 5, 1939	No. 24
Senior Boll Opens New Era
TONIGHT for the first time in approximately six years a Notre Dame dance will be held on the campus. The newly opened Rockne Memorial will be the scene of the 1939 Senior Ball.
Many students have repeatedly expressed a desire to see at least the class dances held on the campus. Physical difficulties made this impractical until the completion of the Memorial this spring.
Plans for the Ball promise a successful fulfilment of this long desired change. It may well be that this is the beginning of a new phase in Notre Dame dances. Again, the set up may prove unworkable. However, in any case, it is worth trying. For we feel that the move is laudable in as much as it seems to satisfy a great majority of the students who attend such affairs.
To those responsible for making the change possible we offer sincere wishes for success. To those attending the Ball we extend a hearty welcome to the Notre Dame campus.	—Mark J. Mitchell.
They Say It's Not Useful
THE date 1776 means many things. To the politician it is the beginning of our “freedom from the British yoke.” To the capitalist it is the date of the first sunrise in England and America, when a flood of light burst from the pages of Adam Smith’s Wealth of Nations, and the Industrial Revolution took the first step of its sweaty march. Most important, educators consider it the baptismal day of the useful sciences, and the date on the tombstone of liberal education.
Every student is asked from time to time what course he is taking. If an engineer is asked he acquits himself well: “I’m studying civil engineering.” “Well, what use is civil engineering?” “When I have finished, I’ll be able to build bridges,” ... or highways, or buildings. It is no matter. The questioner is satisfied that the student’s knowledge is useful.
Try another. “I’m a pre-medical student.’ “What use is your course?” “I’ll be a physician capable of curing the sick.” A very useful fellow!
Even a commerce man! “Business administration is my field. When I’ve finished, I’ll be able to manage an office, run a bookkeeping machine, or play the stock market. There’ll be no end to the things I can do.”
The Liberal Arts student steps forward slowly. This is no fun for him; he knows the hand is valued higher than the head. Listen—“I’m an arts and letters student.” “Don’t wince so! Are you studying anything in particu-ular?” “Philosophy is my major subject.” “What use is Philosophy? You can only teach with it, and there’s no money in that. You can’t build a bridge, set a broken arm, or manage an office. So, what is the good of it?” . . . Many students in this situation have no competent answer, but a good one was written for them a century ago by Cardinal Newman; he called this particular discourse “Knowledge Its Own End.”
He defines liberal knowledge thus: “that . . . which stands on its own pretentions, which is independent of sequel, expects no complement, refuses to be informed (as it is called) by any end, or absorbed into any art, in order duly to present itself to our contemplation.” Newman quotes Aristotle in defense of his own definition: ‘Of possessions, those rather are useful which bear fruit; those liberal, which tend to enjoyment.’
The delight in Newman is the about-face he makes possible in the attitude of the arts and letters student. From hangdog dejection, the Philosophy major can zoom to an exalted status and plague the former heroes with condescension. Only Newman’s remark that “a gentleman . . . never inflicts pain,” restrains him now from reminding the useful scientists with no little irony:—■ “Let me not be thought to deny the necessity, or . . . benefit, of . . . what is particular and practical, as belongs to the useful and mechanical arts; life could not go on without them; we owe our daily welfare to them. . . . I only say that Knowledge, as it tends more and more to be particular, ceases to be Knowledge. . . . When I speak of Knowledge, I mean something intellectual.”
Thus does the Philosophy major’s gentlemanliness curb any outburst that might displease the commerce students, pre-meds, or engineers further, such as:—“We are instructed, for instance, in manual exercises, in the fine and useful arts, in trades, and in ways of business; for these are methods, which have little or no effect upon the mind itself, are contained in rules committed to memory, to tradition, or to use, and bear upon an end external to themselves. But education is a higher word; it implies an action upon our mental nature, and the formation .of a character; it is something individual and permanent, and is commonly spoken of in connection with religion and virtue.”
However, the arts and letters scholar can afford this maganimity of silence. Newman has repaid him far beyond any play of vanity, and happiness comes from within himself. His reward is awareness that although his knowledge is not useful, it is significant; that while it is not fruitful, it is conducive to enjoyment; that though he be a pauper, he is possessed of treasure.
—William C. McGowan.
May 5, 1939
13
Intellect And Man
By john j. McGovern
By courtesy of the participants THE SCHOLASTIC is pleased to publish these two papers which preceded the formal discussion at the annual Philosophical Disputation by the Schoolmen.
Deny man an intellectual faculty and you lower him to the plane of brute animality, in himself a purposeless being, incapable of defending himself against the attacks of other animals.
In this paper I wish to confine myself to that all-essential faculty by which man is made the superior of other animals—that inorganic potency which has for its object the abstract essence of material things. Herein I am assuming the existence of this intellect.
Because of man’s rational, immortal soul, he is distinguished from all other things on this earth. Through this potency he is able to order other objects for his gain. Were man reduced to mere animal instinct, never would we see progress. By comparison: we’ve seen the crude nests birds have built since time immemorial—in no way does the nest of the bird of today differ from that of its predecessor of three thousand years ago. Examine man: his first shelter a crude affair, is today an abode abounding in comfort. Why? Because Divine Goodness has graciously endowed us with a faculty which we call the intellect. This intellect is responsible for every mode of convenience, conveyance, and everything else which goes to satisfy man, and make his life an easier, fuller, and more pleasant one.
If we are so irrational as to deny an intellect, we must continue on and affirm that every intricate device, heretofore admittedly produced by man’s mind, is but a production arising from chance. Chance we might presume has been the causative factor in some devices, but never, never can we say that it has been the cause of so many things as we are able to see about us.
Just as all knowledge is based on man’s intellect, so too is science, of which we hear and read so much. Science attempts to discover general truths, permanent facts, necessary relations and universals. Such truths,
facts, relations, and laws are of incalculable value for mankind in general, since they are the stepping stones of material and intellectual progress. Destroy the validity of these and humanity is poor indeed, because its highest form of knowledge, that of the intellect is essentially false and unreliable.
All of you at this Disputation admit the presence within you of a cognitive faculty. Without this faculty in no way could you understand what I am saying. Speech follows only from thought, or more properly—the intellect. Further—without the intellect, we maintain that all art is accidental. Maritain on art has said, “Art is before all intellectual and its activity consists in impressing an idea upon a matter.”
Through his intellect man is capable of choice. The free will of man is instrumentally the cause of his choosing one good in preference to another. But it is the intellect which in regard to man is the ultimate cause. The will is itself less perfect than the intellect. To the good apprehended by the intellect, the will adds the note of desirability; thus limiting it. The will can desire only that good which is apprehended and presented to it by the intellect. Moreover, the intellect gives the will its reason or motive for acting. Thus by means of the intellect, we are able to explain man’s free will and choice—a problem of such vital significance that it has been in dispute since man began to think.
Subjectively speaking, religion, the one thing to which all have adhered, is fundamentally based upon man’s intellect. Religion, defined as the act or form by which men indicate recognition of a God, can only exist because man can think. Through our intellects we can understand our creation, our dependence upon something, we can appreciate the manifestation of design in the universe, all of which lead us to God. Why? Because man through this rational faculty can
predicate a relation of subject to predicate because of the objective identity existing between them, and • upon this posit the existence of a God —the basis of every religion. It is in religion that the ultimate spiritual roots both of society and of the individual find their expression—which, roots alone, answer the problem of social survival.
Finally, only the intellect of man can direct him to his ultimate end— the reason for his existence. Man acts for ends by which he hopes, to increase his happiness. As an infinite series of subordinated ends is wholly impossible, man does act for one final end. Man by nature desires the good; he is only happy when he has attained that which is good in every respect. So man’s final end is that which, is good in every respect, or God. Now God is spiritual in nature, so our ultimate end can he obtained only in a spiritual manner— that is through the intellect.
Because of our insufficiency, our ultimate end is obtainable only in the next life, so our present existence is but a means to an end. God has given man means to obtain his ends—but this means has been presented to us through our intellect. Our intellect has been given the natural law, which is to guide us in all our actions. By our intellect we naturally know we are to avoid evil and do good. It is through reasoning or the intellect that man is able to apply this all-embracing law of God to particular actions. and circumstances. So, in short, we can truthfully say that through our intellect we apprehend our last end, and moreover, the means to attain it.
Deny to man this noble faculty, deny its commensurateness with being, deny the spontaneous and necessary principles which flow from being, and gradually man will fall into precisely those aberrations and absurdities so characteristic of contemporary thought.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Search for Certitude
By JOHN WALSH
All will agree, certainly, that the epistemological problem has dominated modern philosophy. From the advent of Rene Descartes to our own times, philosophers have struggled to answer satisfactorily the question, - “Can man know reality?” Indeed, hesitating on this fundamental problem has been costly. Philosophers have almost neglected to investigate what man does know.
However regrettable this may be, it will be admitted that man’s ability to know reality must be established. Otherwise all philosophical investigations will remain mere sterile nonsense! Sterile, because man could never know or judge everyday events; nonsense, because facts would degenerate into mere fancies.
Before tracing the various solutions given to the problem of certitude, a word should be said regarding knowledge itself—which is, after all, the real source of the problem. Knowledge is the result of traffic between matter and mind. But mind is immaterial; body, material! Mind is unextended; body, extended! How then can the gulf be bridged? How can man know reality? How can he be sure of the validity of his knowledge? These are the quetsions which many great minds have tried to answer. It is my task to present their various solutions to you as fairly, yet as briefly, as is possible.
The natural starting point is, of course, Descartes. Descartes, the father of modem philosophy, was the first to attempt a proof of the existence of a knowable external world. Until his time, and his attempt—no one had questioned this fact. But, after evaluating Descartes’ proof, some philosophers denied the world’s existence, others denied the mind’s existence. Why? Simply because Descartes introduced an excessive psycho-physical dualism between mind and matter, soul and body. He made it impossible for the mind to transcend itself and know the world. Moreover, to bridge the gap, he had recourse to Plato’s theory of innate ideas. Descartes, by failing to consider man as a unit, was led to the conclusion that man can know nothing but his ideas and the states within himself.
Naturally, succeeding philosophers differed with Descartes. They offered many theories. Confusion resulted.
Malebranche, an immediate disciple of Descartes, contended that all human knowledge resulted from “an intuitive intellectual vision of truth in the Divine Mind”; Spinoza espoused a similar theory; Leibnitz theorized that God had, from all time, established a harmony among bodies.
In England, at the same period, there was developing, not extreme intellectualism, but sensualism. Locke reduced all knowledge to a subjective awareness of mental states. His immediate disciples, Berkeley and Hume, widened the gap between mind and matter, Berkeley saying that the external world had only mental existence; Hume holding that the human mind could know only the phenomena or appearance, of things. This phenomenalism, by the way, found, in the last century, such brilliant exponents as John Stuart Mill, Thomas Huxley, and Herbert Spencer. It is sometimes called “Empiricism because it distorts the function of sense experience in knowledge, by attempting to reduce all thought to mere sense processes.” Or it is called “Idealism, owing to its reduction of all knowledge to knowledge of mental states ... or, as Subjectivism, on account of its implied or expressed denial of any power in the knowing subject to transcend itself in the process of cognition and so attain to any knowledge of extramental reality.”
Of the same origin was Comte’s “Positivism” which claimed that the positive sciences held the key to the data of sense experience. Agnosticism, too, grew from Phenomenalism, as it denied any knowledge beyond the senses.
Immanuel Kant, at the end of the eighteenth century, made a remarkable effort to rebuild knowledge. His conclusions were “that the human intellect, speculating reflectively on the data of sense experience, is confined to a knowledge of mental appearances or phenomena, and can attain to no knowledge of extra-subjective or extra-mental reality; but, that by a consideration of the practical or moral dictates of our conscience, each of us can attain to subjective, per
sonal certitude or conviction in regard to the principles of morals and religion,—the existence of God, the immortality of the soul, and the reality of human freedom and moral responsibility.” Thus, in effect, he splits the mind into two isolated compartments, and tries to reconcile specul-lative scepticism with moral dogmatism.
It remained for Hegel to unify the elements of Kantian thought. Epistemologically, he held the “sole object of knowledge to be the subject’s own conscious states or representations.” But by insisting that “the rational alone is real” Hegel foredoomed his great system.
Philosophers, then, sowed a seed of “deep distrust in the capacity of man to arrive by way of intellect at a valid knowledge of reality.” Thus men like Dewey and Bergson treat the abstract intellectual concept as a mere symbol and try to find reality by virtue of a direct and conscious intuition.
All this, then, is the outgrowth of Descartes’ excessive dualism. Taken altogether, a double trend is seen. If the mechanistic or body side of Cartesianism was followed, there developed empiricism, positivism, materialism and scepticism; if the spiritualistic or mind side was overemphasized, there developed ontologism, transcendentalism, and monistic idealism. In short—separationism fostered chaos.
A reaction was to be expected. More common sense views of knowledge were inevitable. Pragmatism, neo-realism and critical realism illustrate a saner outlook. Today the ability of the mind to transcend itself is being affirmed by many respected philosophers. A kind of presentative realism seems to be developing.
This last position is the Aristote-lian-Thomistic-Scholastic view. The animated body is the bridge between the mind and the world. To hold any other theory is to do one of three things: to reduce mind to matter— and fail to explain intellectual knowledge; to sublimate matter to mind and explain away sense knowledge; or, finally, to sever completely matter and mind and therefore fail to account for man’s combination of sense and intellectual knowledge.
May 5, 1939
15
THE WEEK IN SPORTS
STRONG DE PAUW NET TEAM PLAYS IRISH
FIRST DUAL MEET OF SEASON FINDS NICKMEN FACING WELL-BALANCED OHIO STATE SQUAD
The Notre Dame tennis team will entertain the DePauw University net squad here tomorrow, and from the way things stand right now a victory for the Irish seems somewhat improb-. able.
Handicapped in two meets this week against Western State and the strong Chicago Maroons by an injury suffered by Jack Joyce, sophomore netman, the Irish, from present indications will need plenty of luck to come through with a victory.
Pedro de Landero, genial coach of the local racquet-wielders, commenting on the possibilities of a victory, stated, “we might win with the breaks.”
Among the veterans of the DePauw invaders will be the Indiana State Intercollegiate Singles Champion, Ed Lindsay. Lindsay and Bill Fay will be “right at home” in the singles matches, for it won’t, be the first time they have met. Last June in the Indiana State Intercollegiate Tournament, Fay and Lindsay battled furiously in hard fought matches, with the latter winning in close sets. So tomorrow, of Fay has anything at all to say over the proceedings, the champ will have his hands full.
In recent matches the Irish have depended chiefly on Fay and Walsh for points, both men playing consistently against all opponents. Whether Joyce will be ready for competition in the DePauw meet, is at this time unknown.
Notre Dame, after starting the season in fine style with three wins, to a tie against Kentucky U. at Lexington, and fell to a strong Michigan State squad last Saturday. Monday the Western State invaders handed the Irish their second consecutive defeat.
Following tomorrow’s match, the locals will prepare for their invasion of Northwestern, Monday, May 8. Thursday, May 11, Michigan will be host to Notre Dame at Ann Arbor, in what is expected to be one of the closest fought battles on the Irish schedule.
Returning from Michigan, Coach de Landero will drill his men for the annual Indiana State Tennis Tournament to be held Thursday through Saturday, May 18 to 20, at Earlham College, Richmond, Indiana.
By John Quinn
Highly pleased with the split efforts of the track team last week at the Penn and Drake Relays, Coach Nicholson sends his track squad against Ohio State team at Columbus tomorrow. This is the first outdoor dual meet of the year for the Irish.
Irish Golfers Prepare For Michigan, Purdue
By Robert B. Voelker
Notre Dame’s well balanced golf team, with brilliant victories over Illinois, Marquette and Chicago, invades the Purdue course May 6 and then returns to meet Michigan at Notre Dame May 8.
Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C.
Guides linksmen towards new honors.
The National Collegiate Athletic Association recently ruled that all Big Ten matches would be played with only four-man teams instead of the usual six. The Irish are not required to hold to this ruling, but they will do so if requested.
Though the Irish linksmen are all familiar with the course at Lafayette, their primary objective is to maintain accuracy off the tees. This is necessitated by the unusually narrow fairways which are studded with trees.
The Irish team will face three vet-
( Continued on Page 16)
Ohio State gave a brilliant preview of what they are able to do when their crack quartet smacked down a new record for the mile relay at Drake last Saturday. The work of Howells and Lewis promise competition from the quarter mile down to the century that will push the N. D. sprinters to their limit. Another Buckeye performer who rates with the top in the mid-west is Whittaker in the mile and two mile.
Injuries Reduce Squad
Nick’s team will be under steam except for Dougherty and Lawrence Dougherty, who came up unexpectedly as a point-winner for the Blue and Gold as a broad jumper, is still hampered by a pulled muscle and will stay on the campus; Lawrence won’t be able to compete in the hurdles but will go along for a leg in the mile relay.
The recent meetings of the two teams began five years ago and the standings read three to one in favor of the Buckeyes. Ohio State took the first three meets with Jesse Owens showing the way. However, last year Nick’s boys ended the Scarlet and Gray monopoly by a 81-49 victory. When pressed for a forecast of tomorrow’s outcome Nick said, “I think we can win this one, but with such men as Lewis and Howells in the meet, Ohio State can make the running tough.”
Coach Nicholson has reason enough to believe his trackmen can take the meet at Columbus tomorrow, if one is to judge from performances of last weekend. Bud Faymonville proved he is one of the greatest weight stars ever to wear the Blue and Gold when he broke the Penn Relays discus record for the second year in succession; and Ted Leonas’ beautiful performance at the same meet showed he has arrived. At Drake the work of Captain Greg Rice and the two-mile relay team bodes no good for Ohio State.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
IRISH RENEW OLD SERIES AT MICHIGAN STATE SEEK REVENGE AT NORTHWESTERN THURSDAY
COTTER LEADS LYONS TO SWIM VICTORY
By Pete Sheehan
Tomorrow afternoon will mark the third time in eight days that the Irish baseball team has trotted out on a Michigan diamond. Last week the boys played at Ann Arbor where they were not very successful. Today a previously postponed game with Western State Teachers will be played at Kalamazoo and
tomorrow the Irish travel to East Lansing to meet Michigan State.
Then the Blue and Gold will return to the campus until Thursday when they trek to Evanston in an attempt to avenge a defeat dealt out by the Wildcats in April.
Mike Mandjiak or Rex Ellis will probably get the call against the Teachers. Norv Hunthausen who very capably shut the Broncos out at Car-tier Field will probably be saved for Michigan State on Saturday. Mike may get the call because it will give him a chance to shine before the home town crowd.
Michigan State and Notre Dame have met 51 times and the Irish have a lopsided edge, 32-19, in this series. The series was begun in 1907 and the Blue and Gold won out, 1 to 0. The biggest task the Irish are confronted with is silencing the bats of Coach Koh’s sophomore batting stars—Casimir Klewicki and Norman Duncan. These infielders are the main offensive and defensive threats of the State team.
The Irish expect to make a better showing against the Wildcats Thursday. In the previous game both teams played poor baseball. The extreme cold made it difficult for everyone while the strong wind was particularly troublesome to the fielders. Minnesota won a double header from the Purple last week-end but the Wildcats are confident that they will start a victory string against Wisconsin today and continue to win through next Thursday. The Irish hold a 22-13 edge in this series, but have not defeated the Wildcats since 1936. Shinkevich, Smith and Lustig are the big guns at the plate.
Ray Pinelli, Capt. Joe Nardone, and Chet Sullivan continue to pace the Irish hitters. “Heimie” Crane is developing rapidly at second and Jim Behe, who has replaced Pinelli in right field, is an excellent fly chaser. Art Verhoestra’s work behind the platter is stamping him as the greatest receiver Notre Dame has seen in recent years.
The University of Michigan recently held a spring sports day at which 3,000 high school athletes and coaches were present. Feature of the day was the Seventh Annual Spring Football Clinic.
Mike Mandjiak Back to the home town.
GOLF TEAM PLAYS (Continued from Page 15)
erans at Purdue. Johnny David, Purdue No. 1 man, is an exceptionally long driver who probably will cost the Irish some points. Next in line are Ray Bask and Carl Freese, two veterans whom Walt Hagen says are just plain “tough.”
The Michigan meet will probably be a four-man affair also. Jack Every, Michigan No. 1 man, can put his 135 pounds behind the ball and drive farther than most college golfers. Jack rates a one stroke handicap in the Detroit district, and hence will furnish real competition for the Irish. Two other veterans of Notre Dame matches, Palmer and Ress, will give the Irish trouble both in the long and short play.
Both teams will be hard to beat but Purdue has the edge because the Irish golfers lack the “feel” of the Purdue course, and this may cost them the match.
Because Notre Dame has one of the best balanced teams in its golf history, Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., has trouble determining just whom to enter in match play. In both the Purdue and Michigan meet, Tommy Sheehan will be number one man. Tommy is in good form even though he took a trimming from Harry Topping, Chicago ace, last Monday. Sam Neild, Irish number two man, is suffering from a bad cold he caught the windy cold day of the Marquette match in Milwaukee.
Nos. 3 and 4 are being valliantly contested by the other members of the Irish squad.
By ]ohn E. Lewis
Almost a team in himself, Sophomore William Cotter on Thursday evening of last week dove and “he swam and he swam” (probably affected by that new song, “Three Little Fishes”); and when the milky-green water of the Memorial swimming pool had levelled off and the judges had completed the compilation of points, Cotter’s residence, Lyons, had won the Interhall Swimming Championship.
Cotter alone amassed 20 points of Lyons’ 23. His own total beat Freshman Hall, capturers of second place, by one point.
The S. A. C. - sponsored meet was very much a success. This was obvious from the very large entry. In the preliminaries of Wednesday there were 2 entries in the 100-yard free style, 40 in the 50-yard free style, 34 in 50-yard breast stroke, 23 in 50-yard back stroke, 15 in low board diving, 10 in high board diving, 12 teams in 200-yard relay (free style), and nine teams in 150-yard medley relay. Much work was done to put the meet over by the Memorial officials, Dan Donovan, president of the S.A.C., and the hall team managers. Joe Mulligan was head of the victorious squad.
Very good time was clocked in the events, the speed of the swimmers here comparing very favorably with the marks established elsewhere in college swimming meets.
Dillon’s team, composed of Bill Burns, Neal Gleason, Tom Mulligan, and Chris Quinn won the first event, the 200-yd. free style relay in 1:51.8. Sorin’s relay team of John O’Leary, Walt Johnson, Richard Benedict, and James Petrillo took second place. Bob Bischogg, John Soong, Chuck Dillon, and Ed Gallegos comprised Morrissey’s entry in this event; they finished third. The men from Freshmen Hall, Tom Reilly, Bob Burns, Rom Perez, and John Dee, were fourth.
William Cotter of Lyons, L. Donovan of Zahm, and Charles Paterno of St. Ed’s finished one, two, three in the 50-yard breast stroke event. Winning time was 32:4.
In the 50-yard back stroke event Bob Levernier of Freshman took first place in the very good time of 30:6. Larry Bracken of Lyons and John Griffin of Cavanaugh were second and third respectively.
Lee Hastings of Freshman, M. Vo-nesh of Zahm and Tom Reilly of Freshman secured the points of the 50-yard free style. Hastings’ time was 26:1.
(Continued on Page 21)
May 5, 1939
17
IRISH TENNISTS HIT LOSING STREAK
Won 3, lost 2, tied 1: that is the way things stand for the tennis men of Pedro de Landero, after a hard week which saw them tie Kentucky, and lose to Michigan State, and Western State.
The Irish left a rain-spattered court Wednesday afternoon in Lexington in the last round of the doubles match that might have decided the tilt. There had been four hours of play, when the match between Kentucky’s Bobby Boon and Lee Huber and Notre Dame’s Whitney Gregory and Fred Simon was cancelled, leaving a locked score of 4-4. The singles had ended 3-3, while the doubles were fixed at 1-all. Huber defeated Fay in the first single affair, 7-5, 6-4. Gregory (N.D.) defeated Ragland 5-7, 6-3, 7-5. Ruel Foster (K.) defeated Jack Joyce 6-3, 6-1. Boone caught Simon of the Irish to the tune of 6-0, 6-4. Bowler (N.D.) tripped Holbrook 7-5, 6-2; and Walsh of Notre Dame took over Garrett 6-0, 6-2. The doubled events were divided, Fay and Joyce Iosint to Ragland and Foster 6-4, 6-3, while Notre Dame’s Lewis and Bowler overcame Brostow and Holbrook 6-2, 6-1.
Back home again from Kentucky, Coach de Landero set his forces to offset the visiting net-men from Michigan State. But the Spartans were more than prepared, as they toppled the Irish 6-3, to hand the locals their first defeat in five starts.
In the singles Bill Fay and John Walsh were the only Notre Dame victors. Incidentally, it was another win for Sophomore Walsh, who has been undefeated as yet in five matches. Fay and Walsh combined to win the only double match for Notre Dame.
Fay’s score over Struck was 6-3, 3-6, 8-6. Olson (M.S.) defeated Gregory 10-8, 6-3. Perkins (M.S.) won over Simon 6-3, 6-0. Kositchek (M.S.) took one from Don Gottschalk 6-4, 6-1. Foltz of the visitors defeated Bowler 8-6, 6-2, and Walsh smothered Rowitz 6-3, 6-0. The doubles saw Simon and Gregory fall to Struck and Olson 2-6, 6-4, and 6-1; Fay and Walsh won from Perkins and Kositchek 6-2, 7-5; and Foltz and Gibbs clinched the victory from Bowler and Lewis 2-6, 7-5, 6-3.
Seven members of the University of Michigan swimming team have been selected as members of a team that will tour England next summer for a series of exhibitions. The team will leave New York on next Sept. 6, and will be away six weeks.
INTRODUCING
By Eddie Huff
Class elections raged this week, but one of the most sensational campus elections was carried on in Notre Dame’s “Castle of Tradition,” Sorin Hall, senior site. Lawrence Andrew Doyle, Coach Jake Kline’s first baseman, “campaigned” George O’Neil, Pelham, into office as “President of the Summer School,” and George’s first reciprocal act was to reward
Larry with—not the chairmanship of a formal dance—the “Valediction of Summer School.* ’
And now Larry is up to that little patch of allopecia in extra-curricular duties because he is president of the Notre Dame - New Jersey club, 120 members gross.
When Notre Dame was having a big day against Purdue on the Car-tier diamond a fortnight ago, the New York Yankees were represented on the sidelines by a talent scout who was dispatched to this district to look over the eldest of Michael Doyle’s three sons. Mr. Doyle’s second son will matriculate at Notre Dame in the fall, when he comes from Morristown High, coached by “Bus” Griffin, ’29, a former Irish infielder.
Larry partook of the Catholic Action Congress at St. Mary’s recently, and he displayed evidence of his bashful meanor by tipping his hand rather obviously. Following the lectures on Saturday evening, the Men of Notre Dame were invited to a social in Le-Mans Hall. Before entering upon a new and strange venture, Larry blessed himself as Notre Dame men are wont to do before battle. But after a cursory glance about the ballroom Larry elected to conclude the catechetical sessions with a brisk walk back to Sorin—“Loyal Larry’s” first date west of the Delaware River in four years.
DIAMOND TEAM WINS ONE. LOSES ONE
By Bill Scanlan
Shortstop Ray Pinelli, whose father is well known as a major league umpire, slapped out three hits to drive -in seven runs as Notre Dame’s baseball squad mastered Indiana, 12 to 7, Monday afternoon on the local diamond.
In another game over the past weekend, the Irish lost when Michigan’s Pitcher Danny Smick came through with a sensational two-hit performance to win, 9 to 1, in a game played at Ann Arbor.
Pinelli’s outstanding contribution to Coach Jake Kline’s offensive maneuvers against Indiana was a home run with the bases loaded in a five-run scoring spree in the seventh frame. Aiding Pinelli in the offensive department for the Irish was Sullivan, third baseman who hammered out three singles and a double for four hits in five trips to the plate. Farrell, who replaced Doyle at first base, contributed two safeties in aiding the Irish cause during his debut.
Norvall Hunthausen hurled all the way for the Irish but got into difficulty during the third and eigthth innings when Indiana piled up five of its seven-run total. Kosman upheld the outstanding play for shortstops during the game by hitting a home run for Indiana with two mates aboard.
In addition to his sparkling play offensively, Ray Pinelli handled eight chances in the field, including a sensational stab at Tom Gwin’s hot ground in the first inning.
Captain Joe Nardone, lead-off man, was Notre Dame’s only offensive threat against Michigan. The Irish captain collected both hits off Smick, and tallied the lone run when he came in on Ray Pinelli’s outfield fly in the eighth inning.
Michigan landed upon the offerings of Pitcher Mike Mandjiak, Notre Dame’s ace left-hander of other years, for six runs in the eighth.’ He was handicapped by poor support as his mates contributed six errors.
Coach “Dutch” Lonborg of the Northwestern University basketball team is apparently looking forward to the 1939-40 cage season already. Lonborg is at present conducting spring practice for the Wildcat squad. He lost five veterans from last season’s team and will rely on five other veterans in addition to a promising group of freshmen eagers. Ad Vance will captain the Purple next winter.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX By Andy Wilson
From the point of Anew of sports, last week-end was the biggest Notre Dame teams have had all spring, what with the Irish playing the Irish in the football stadium, the track team scattered at Drake and at Penn, the tennis team entertaining Michigan State, the baseball team visiting Michigan Saturday and meeting Indiana at home Monday, and the golf team up at Marquette Saturday and playing host to Chicago Monday.
As usual the annual Spring Practice football game, with its scrambled lineups, allowed individual players to shine, but demonstrated very little about the probable strength of next year’s team as a whole. Steve Sitko showed that he is still a fine blocker, Bill McGannon that he is a very shifty runner, Lou Zontini that he is a hard runner, Crimmins and Peplen-jak that they are valuable sophomore backfield prospects for next fall. Ben Binkowski played his usual fine defensive game for the Old Timers.
Interesting was Bill Hofer’s 40-yard almost-good place-kick, the Old Timers’ spread - formation, and the head-on collision between Senior Ed Simonich and Sophomore Milt Piepul, the biggest’ backfield men in school. Simonich is the only man we ever saw who did not budge when Piepul hit him head-on. We are glad we weren’t in between them.
The outstanding accomplishments were turned in by our divided track team, and the all-winning golf team which trimmed both Marquette and Chicago by good margins. At the Penn Relays, Ted Leonas won the high jump with a six-foot four-inch jump, and Bill Faymonville heaved the discus 163 feet 4 inches to break the Penn record and his own personal record. This would easily have won the event at the N.C.A.A. meet last June, in which Faymonville finished third. Dave Reidy, running in the liigh hurdles, was eliminated in a preliminary heat, by having the misfortune to be placed in the same group with Fuller of Virginia, ultimate winner of the event. The sprint relay team was also eliminated in a trial heat.	'
Out at the Drake Relays, the greatest runner in Notre Dame’s history, little Greg Rice ran a 9:10 two-mile, a 4:12.5 mile, and a 1:54 half-mile, in two days, setting a Drake Relays record and an American Collegiate record for the two-mile run, boosting his teammates into a lead they were never pressed to hold in the two-mile relay, and almost making up a 40-
yard deficit to bring his four-mile relay team in second to Oklahoma A. and M. The sprint medley team failed to place against a tough field on Friday. John Dean did 13 feet two inches in the pole vault, but failed to place.
If a distance - runner has ever turned in performances comparable to Greg’s within two days’ time, we have never heard about it. Johnny Woodruff of Pitt ran three good races in two days at the Penn Relays, a hard 220, a quarter in :47.4, and a half in 1:51.2, but we do not feel that his performances at these short distances equal Greg’s feats in the longer runs, between which recuperation is slower and longer rest is needed.
Any number of interesting details about the Drake meet were told to us. Coach Nicholson, not expecting to find such severe competition, sent his four-mile team west with instructions to head right on out to the Pacific if they failed to win. He figured them capable of between 17:30 and 17:32 _— which he thought ought to be enough to win. But no less than jiijte other teams entered the event fully convinced of their own ability to win the race — Wisconsin, Marquette, Drake, Missouri, Michigan State, Ohio State, Oklahoma A. and M., Purdue, and San Diego State. San Diego sent only a four-mile team to the relays, definitely feeling that they could surprise the whole field.
Whitaker of Ohio State, Feiler of Drake, and Mehl of Wisconsin, Greg Rice’s chief threats in the two-mile run, were deliberately held out of that race in order that they might be “set” for bringing in their teams to victory in the four-mile relay.
As it turned out, Oklahoma A. and M„ anchored by Forrest Efaw, won the race in 17:29.6, Notre Dame coming in second in about 17:31. This was the second year in a row that the Irish had broken the Drake four-mile relay record and still finished second. Missouri set a record of 17:34.7 last year, with the Irish right behind, both under Indiana’s former record of 17:40.
The Irish two-mile team, Drake Relay champions, almost didn’t get to the meet. Coach Nicholson hardly figured them to get any place against teams like Wisconsin, Iowa State, Illinois, and others. He finally let them go—and they came home with a surprise win. Collins ran the first leg in about 1:58.1, passing to baton to Hank Halpin in second place. Halpin ran a 1:57.7 leg, and finished in third.
(Continued on Page 20)
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
k.-“Heads or Tails" . . .
With NOTRE DAME MEN it’s always
niLLr*
for the Best
5c — HAMBURGERS — 5c PIES
CHILE
317 North Michigan Street Just north of So. Shore Station
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lene or Frame repair eervice in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
May 5, 1939
19
MURPHY THE MANAGER
(Continued from Page 9)
Oftentimes a manager is shoved into the shadow of the eight hall through unpredictable complications. • When the football team stopped overnight in a small town on the eve of a game, the head of one of the civic promotional clubs appeared on the scene and solicitously offered to procure theater tickets, at a special rate, for the use of the team. The manager, after consulting with the coach, told the public minded citizen that the offer was acceptable, with the stipulation that the team was not to be exploited by any kind of publicity relative to its attending the theater. The civic functionary assured the manager that nothing of that nature would take place, so the manager light-heartedly accompanied the team out to the practice field. On his return, the manager found the good Samaritan waiting in the .hotel lobby with a copy of the local newspaper.
“I thought you wouldn’t mind if we just tucked away a small item about the team attending the Bijou,” he said. “You know, just a little plug for the theater.”
The “little plug” was “tucked away” in a box on the front page!
No Trouble At All!
Whenever any of the teams go East, they are invariably met by a character who has constituted himself mascot-in-chief. He is always ready to be of any aid possible, even to the length of undergoing physical injury. In fact, on one occasion, when the gridsters complained of a steamy locker-room, the mascot neatly solved the problem of ventilation by shoving his fist through a window instead of opening it in the conventional fashion. The trainer had to use some few minutes of his valuable between-halves’
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
ASK US ABOUT OUR NEW PLAN TO PROTECT YOU AGAINST THE COSTLY BREAKAGE OF GLASSES.
LEMONIBEES Optometrists and Opticians Est 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
time in patching up Steve’s lacerated hand and wrist.
Preparedness must be a watch-word of the managers. They carry more equipment stuffed in their pockets than is ordinarily found in one of the equipment trunks, from thigh pads to ammonia inhalants. The zenith of efficiency, in our estimation, was reached on the 1935 Ohio State trip. One of the junior managers on that excursion noticed that an assistant coach had a worried cast of countenance. Correctly reasoning that more Ohio State power was the cause of concern, the junior asked what the trouble was.
“I’ve just discovered that I forgot my suspenders,” was the response to the query, “and when I change clothes I don’t know how in the world I’m going to keep my other pants up.”
Without uttering a word, the junior hastily peeled off his coat, unhooked his own galluses and handed them to the grateful coach. This should solve the mystery of why that junior kept one hand in his pants pocket throughout the duration of the trip.
It is incidents like these that make the manager’s life liveable. If there were not some crevices through which pressure might vent, the “men behind the guns” would look more harassed than they ordinarily do. So, if a man-
NOW!
The Monogram on Schaeffer Pen and Pencil Sets Complete color selection Variety of pen points
GOLD MONOGRAM on the pocket clip NO EXTRA COST
Sets.....$5.00	to $15.00
Single Pens..„$2.75 to $10.00
DOME PLAQUES —29c
Notre Dome BOOKSTORE
ager should suddenly chuckle to himself while walking across the campus, don’t get the idea that he’s becoming a fit subject for ar psychopathic ward —he’s merely recalling what a hard time he had convincing someone on a trip that there were really lights in an upper berth, after that party had burnt an entire box of matches, one by one, trying to discover where Mr. Pullman had hidden his -electrical conveniences.
Straight down the Fairway!
No Traffic Delays when you GO by
SOUTH SHORE
No blind hazards or hooks or slices about it—your trip the South Shore Line moves along the quickest, surest way to the place you’re going. SAFE—all the way— and dependable every time.
CALL
MR. C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent 301 N. Michigan Street Phone 3-3111 for more information about
Tickets and Service
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORfc * SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
SOUTHJOR[:
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 18)
Then Greg Rice running the the third leg, passed the leaders on the last turn and burst into a 15-yard lead on his home-stretch kick. Curt Hester, could have equalled Greg’s 1:54.6 half if pressed, just had to hold his own, running a 1:56.1 anchor lap to bring the team in 15 yards ahead of Wisconsin.
Most amazing performances, we thought, were those of Ken Collins, junior half-miler. Besides his fine 1:58 lead-off leg in the two-mile, he ran a brilliant :49 quarter in the first lap of the sprint medley on Friday, finishing barely a step behind Big Ten quarter-mile champion Harley Howells, running for Ohio State. The Irish lost out in the sprint medley, however, because the sprinters were all at Penn, and the quarter-milers, Hank Halpin and Al McMeen, running at an unfamiliar distance, lost a lot of ground on the next two 220 legs.
Congratulations to “Scrap” Young, who was elected trustee of the National Athletic Trainers’ Association at DesMoines last week.
SLEUTH MAKES GOOD
(Continued from Page 8)
shouting, “Where is it? Where is it?” Sheepishly he answered, “Under the bed.” We pulled out the package, opened it, and found a big cake. We took half the cake as circumstantial evidence, and the other half as our fee for solving the case. We let the fellow keep the box, with the warning that next time it would go harder on him.
This first venture was so successful that we decided to go into the business permanently and now have two assistants—Beagle-nose Ray, son of a caterer, who can smell food three halls away, and Strong-arm Butch, who acts as muscle man.
SUNDAY — May 14th
MOTHER'S DAY
Flowers wired anywhere.
Remember your Mother in the sweetest way—Flowers!
CORSAGES — Senior Ball
SOUTH BEND FLORAL 114 South Michigan St.
FLY..
Notre Dame Students
Many future jobs will require a college education and a pilot's license.
You may now include flying in your education if you have the written consent of your parents. The best way to travel is by air. LEARN TO FLY.
LOW RATES—$3 per half hour lesson. Guaranteed solo, $45.00.
INDIANA AIR SERVICE
Bendix Reid Phone 3-2455
N. D. representative: Ed. Minczewski, phone 4-1913.
DENTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG.. SOUTH BEND
How’s Your Color Scheme Today?
Take advantage of the marvelous effect of harmony in colors — but take no chance of losing ground socially because of a gosh - awful color combination.
We can show the right ARROW in color and style.
[MB
May 5, 1939
21
LYONS WINS SWIM MEET
(Continued from Page 16)
Another first for Cotter was in the low board diving. He collected a score of 146 in this event, followed by Tex Greene of Sorin, and Ben Binkowski of Alumni. Greene took first honors though in the high board event. He secured a score of 141. Cotter and Binkowski tied for second place with a score of 139.
Hastings of Freshman won another “first” in the 100-yard free style to give him second place of the highest individual scores. His time in this event was 59:4, and he was followed by Chuck Dillon of Morrissey and Bob Finneran of Freshman.
Lyons copped the 150-yard medley relay in 1.31:3. Its team was made up of Larry Bracken, Cotter, and Gordon Love. Cavanaugh, with John Gullaume, Jim Asmuth, and Don McNally, finished second. Zahm’s team of P. Knowles, L. Donovan, and T. Walker was third. John Donahue, Charles Paterno, and Henry Dowd of St. Ed’s got the fourth-place points.
DEBATE SEASON
(Continued from Page 8)
of Kansas, Denver University, Augus-tana College, while losing to Hastings and DePaul.
The Delta Sigma Rho tournament at Wisconsin netted the Irish affirmative victories over Beloit and Iowa State and a defeat at the hands of Kalamazoo, while the negative triumphed over Oklahoma and Wayne University, and losing to Wisconsin.
On their home rostrum Notre Dame affirmative lost to Michigan State while the negative beat Michigan State, Florida, and Dartmouth. The recent Dartmouth victory was won at St. Mary’s and judged by Prof. K. N. Robinson of Northwestern University.
How to pick up a good-looker!
Whether or not you are having glamour trouble, Arrow Shirts have a way of stepping up your appearance. They not only make you look better — but feel better. They have the Mitoga tailored fit, smart new patterns, and the
THRROIT SHIRTS
The negative team won fifteen out of eighteen debates while the affirmative team won eight and lost seven, not counting the forfeit at Iowa. A little before the trip Parks, the reg-' ular man was taken ill and replaced by Wintermeyer who made the trip and was in several debates but before the last one was stricken with appendicitis.
Flynn, Grady, Wintermeyer and Meier of the B squad received their keys. They sometimes competed in A squad debates which will give them experience for future work.
Three varsity debaters, Parks, Win-termeier, and Fitch will be lost to the squad by graduation. Frank Fitch will have finished his third successful year of debating.
*21» *3.S0
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
POLITICS CONVOCATION (Continued from Page 7)
speech on the “Interstate Commerce Clause.” Most of his material concerned railroad litigation, and he traced the legislation and court action from the famous Gibbons vs. Ogden case to the formation of the I.C.C. which was a blatant failure in the beginning until the secret rates, rebates and pools were eliminated.
From the “Cradle of Liberty” came Boston’s William G. O’Hare to bring the session to a stirring close with a dissertation on the “Bill of Rights.” He invoked the Divine and Natural Laws as the basis for the “right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.” His very powerful picture of the outrages that occur in the dictatorial states in the name of liberty left his audience in an appreciation of their privileges to claim citizenship in the United States where such an inspjiring convocation can be closed with the singing of “The Star Spangled Banner.”
Freshman Oratory
The preliminaries of the annual Freshman Contest for Oratory will be held in the auditorium of the Law Building on Monday and Tuesday, May 15 and 16 according to the following schedule:
MONDAY, 4:10 P. M., May 15—1. Mendon Cunningham; 2. Litizetti: 3. McVay: 4. William Meier; 5. Thomas J. Zahm.
MONDAY, 7:40 P. M., May 15—1. Brooks; 2. G. F. Feeney; 3. W. E. Scanlan; 4. T. W. Tearney; 5. Charles Waechter.
TUESDAY. 4:10 P. M„ May 16—1. Harry Connors; 2. Jack Donovan; 3. John Mead; 4. D. M. Ryan; 5. Peter Scullion.
The finals will be held on either Tuesday night, May 16 or on Wednesday, May 17.
NOTRE DAME MEN
We invite you to enjoy GENUINE
ITALIAN SPAGHETTI
30c
Delicious Meat or Mushroom Sauce and Real Parmesan Cheese
SENSATIONAL
New
VASSAR
Hide
Own
S3®
$395 $295
Write for the name of the store nearest you, and for a complete descriptive folder.
' 14^2
Re
Swim Trunks
As Snug and
sponsive as Your


T TERE’S eye-appeal plus! Brief, bright, ballast-free! A A Vassars are fashioned to fit with plenty of “hold”
“SINCE 1914 —FINE FOOD”
Stratigon Restaurant
114 N. Michigan Street
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND
belt or bulky built-in supporter, because you actually don’t need them! No matter how hard you swim, dive and exercise, Vassars never bind, chafe, roll or slip... no readjusting anywhere. Just, day-long comfort and freedom.Bqually favored for wrestling, handball, rowing, squash, and other vigorous sports.
Conservative or broadminded colors in a choice of two fabric-combinations: high-luster rayon outside, soft lisle inside, “Lastex” in-between...or mercerized yarn outside, fine wool inside, “Lastex” in-between.
Vassar Company • 2529 Diversey Parkway • Chicago, Illinois
MONOGRAM ABSURDITIES (Continued from Page 4)
The show has a very well written script. Bill Faymonville, who actually is president of the Monogram Club, in the show is a candidate for the club presidency. In order to win the election, he not only has to attract votes, but rather like Hercules and his labors, Candidate Bill has to fulfill a certain number of conditions, or pass a number of tests. It is the fulfillment of these conditions that makes up the plot-thread of the show. There are no weak scenes; but as presented in the last rehearsal, one of the strongest and funniest was the insane third scene, in which Candidate Bill, performing one of his labors, under ? goes a stiff comprehensive examination from five members of the faculty, while stooge Chick O’Brien hides under a desk with a pile of textbooks, prompting Bill after every question.
COLLEGE MEN ONLY!
Feature The
NEW PALM BEACH SUITS
Let Spiro's help you to receive a reward of $10 up to $100.
Smarter in a dozen different ways. Cooler and lighter than ever. Dollars less in cost than a year ago—that’s just part of the story of the new Palm Beach Suits. For the. rest, visit your favorite clothier today. Have him point out the unique features of genuine Palm Beach. Still time to write a statement of 50 words or less answering this question:
WHY DO COLLEGE MEN PREFER PALM BEACH SUITS AND SLACKS?
The ten best statements win ten awards:
Contest will end Wednesday, May 31st
SEE THE SUITS, SLACKS and FORMALS
at/PIRO'S
121 to. Michigan St.
i i I
I
I
71.zct.cti
in South Bend
FIRST AWARD.........  $1OO
SECOND AWARD.......... $50
THIRD AWARD........... $25
FOURTH AWARD.......... $15
SIX AWARDS EACH OF . . .	$1O
DUPLICATE AWARDS IN THE EVENT OF TIES
Only men duly enrolled in a recognized American college or University are eligible. Letters must be postmarked not later than May 31—and must contain your college, class and name of your favorite clothier. Winners will be notified by mail after June 15th, so be sure to state your mailing address as of that date. Selections by Contest Editor will bind company and contestants. Entries, contents and ideas therein become property of
GOODALL COMPANY • CINCINNATI, OHIO
Palm Beach Suits $15.50 * Slacks $4.75 * Evening Formats $18.50
Outstanding
Combinations
BIG BILL LEE,	CHESTERFIELD,
outstanding for its can’t-be-copied combination of the world’s best tobaccos.
BIG BILL LEE
Pitching Star of the Chicago Gubs. An outstanding pitcher in the National League.
Chesterfields’ can’t-be-copied blend makes them outstanding for refreshing mildness.. . for better taste...for more pleasing aroma. .. outstanding for real smoking enjoyment.
When you try them you will know why Chesterfields give millions of men and women more smoking pleasure ... why THEY SATISFY
hesterfield
The RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette to^cos
Copyright1939
Liggett & Myems Tobacco Co.
They’re Milder... They Taste Better