amd scholastic
DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER- VICTURUS-VIVE- QUASI- CRASMORITVRVS
Vol. LI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, December i, 1917.
No. 10.
Well Done.
BY C. L. -
'Y'O-DAY the boys are laurelled With glories richly won,
In east and west they gave their best, And now the fighting’s done.
We tell them to their face we’re proud Of every mother’s son. '
But while we greet these heroes, Let’s lift another’toast
To the football men who left us /
To join a greater host,
The team whose line across-the land Reaches from coast to coast.
Here’s hoping they come.-back to us, Every mother’s son,- .	.	;
.Once more_when .peace?returns .to earth To silence every gun;
But come or stay on that glad day, Soldiers, we cry, “Well done!”
The Season of 1917.
CHARLES W. CALL.

OU boys keep coming out and practicing, and we’ll fool some of these wise ones before the season is over.” That’s what Coach Harper told his
men one rainy day in September when things looked particularly dismal for the Gold and Blue. A heavy and foreboding schedule stretched out ahead and the team for the moment seemed to be disheartened by the gloomy outlook.
Much has .been written about the character of the teams of this wartime season. “Athletics are being. continued chiefly for the benefit of the youth of the.land;” “Many .of the best players have joined the service’ ■ ‘Not too much
emphasis is to be laid upon victory or defeat,” this and kindred captions. filled columns in the’ daily papers at the inception of the season. But with the playing of early games enthusiasm and competition became as brisk as ever, and, as in other years, it was pretty much a question of winning rather than losing with what material a team happened to have.
Notre Dame had given nobly of her. 1916 . squad to*Uncle Sam-. Of the players eligible for further competition Bergman, Fitzpatrick, Murphy, Slackford, Mclnerriy, .Grant,. O’Hara, Meagher, Kasper, and Coughlin had joined the colors.. Not one was on-hand, when practice opened on September 15th.
Coaches Harper arid Rockne made no attempt to “alibi” for their scant material; they? simply announced they would get alorig some way with what men would show up, arid then they started to work.	'
’ Kalamazoo proved unusually feeble in the opening game of the season and Notre Dame had no difficulty in running-up 55 points while holding the Michiganders scoreless. Then came ‘ the trip to Wisconsin. Eighteen of the twenty-six men transported to Madison were representing Notre Dame for the first time. The heavy Badgers were fought to a standstill and the teams left the field without a score being made. The same powerful defense for which Notre Dame has long been noted was working well, but the offensive power had not developed.
At Lincoln, Nebraska, on the following Saturday No.tre Dame ran into a team of veterans, a team that .was not only as good- as the Cornhusker team of 1916 but one that was immeasurably better. The.. Gold and Blue fought valiantly but could not score. The ' •only touchdown of the season scored against Notre Dame came in this game, and the western team won by a margin of seven points.
Back on Cartier field after two scoreless, games Notre Dame pounced upon the South
146
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Dakota Coyotes and ran over and around them for a total of forty points. It was evident that the patient work of the coaches was having an effect, and for the first time during; the season Notre Dame looked like a scoring machine.
Then the Army loomed up ahead the following Saturday. Capt. Phelan had been called to the war and the cause seemed nearly hopeless. Some guessed the score would be as high as 40 to o against Notre Dame. Others hoped for a closer defeat. What happened? “Tex” Allison simply jumped into the place made vacant by the leaving of Phelan, jockeyed the team through three quarters of the game, hoarding the players’ strength for' a supreme effort if the
With half the backfield that beat the Army unavailable it did seem a little dubious for the representatives of the West. But Harper shoved Bahan and Pearson into the breach left by the injuries to Allison and Gipp. The Army game tactics were eschewed, though once more Notre Dame, played with the hope that when the telling “break” would come she would be able to rally just enough strength to score. The chance came in the third quarter. Foiled at gaining through the line, and having no one to forward pass accurately, Brandy, hero of the Army game, booted a placement goal from the 45 yard line. Notre Dame played strictly on the defensive during the rest of the game, and
THE 1917 SQUAD.
hoped for “break” appeared, and then when the opportunity did show up he uncorked a couple of forward passes, and with the ball on the seven yard line sent the hitherto unknown Brandy straight through for the only touchdown of the game. The Army could only score a safety following the blocking of a Notre Dame punt. The Fast woke up to the fact that Notre Dame after all was one of the really great teams of the year, and that Coach Harper was just as resourceful as ever.
Morningside and M. A. C. proved comparative!}’' easy victories for the Gold and Blue, but the loss of Gipp in the former game and Allison and Stanley in the latter was a heavy price to pay for such hollow gains.
Critics, not having learned their lesson at West Point on November 3rd, shook their heads when Notre Dame prepared to face the renowned W. & J. team on November' 24th.
the curtain rang down on the 1917 season a few minutes later.
Those six victories, one defeat, and one tie game, constitute the most enviable record Notre Dame has made since 1913. Notre Dame made this record because her men were fighters, because neither coaches nor players would concede defeat before a game was played. They had faith in themselves and their faith gained them much. Team work stood out as a conspicuous quality of the team. Personalities were smothered, and no one man let his own gain mean more to him than the good of the team.
A typical example of the spirit of the men occurred in the Notre Dame car that was to bring the victorious Gold and Blue back from Washington & Jefferson. Some one started to compliment Joe Brandy, scorer of all the Notre Dame points made in the Bast, this season,


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
: , J	J
| on his beautiful placement kick of the afternoon.
| He blushed and cut the speaker short by insist-j ing that Bahan had held the ball so perfectly ’ that anyone could have kicked the goal. Bahan was present and disclaimed any credit by insisting that Madigan had passed the ball so accurately that he did not have to move it six inches for Brandy. Madigan claimed the line held so well that the passing and placing before the kick was mere child’s play. Any one of these fellows could have “nominated” him-
The Coaches.
Automobile salesmen make much of the fact that their cars should be judged on past records. Any car looks good enough in the beginning to sell itself, they argue, but the car the public will eventually support is the one that proves itself over a span of years. Reliability and durability appear to be even more precious qualities than mere ability. This is true of a man as well as of a machine.
self a hero, and such was the high calibre of his play that no one would have disputed him.
Enough praise can not be centered upon the Notre Dame coaching staff for the part it played in making Notre Dame one of the remarkable teams of the year. In other years Harper and Rockne have had to stand the jibe that most anyone could develop a team from the squad of men of “boilermaker” proportions with which they had been blessed. This year things were different. At the height of its success the Notre Dame team averaged 166 pounds per man, and the backfield could not muster more than 14S pounds a person. The Gold and Blue football teaching staff could fashion a gridiron team from the remnants of a county infirmary.
Truthful James Up to Date.
BY P. ED. O’METER.
Which I wish you’d get hep
To a fact that’s quite plain:
That for punch and for pep
When there’s need of a gain, Our feather-weight half-back’s a hummer
Which the same any kid can explain.
Yes; Joe Brandy’s his name,
And I shall not deny	'
In regard to the same
That it sure fits the guy,— At least the rear-end of it, Brandy,
Though the Joe-end of course is awry.
Tor there’s no name but one
That has just the true ring
To express what he’s done:
And we herewith unsling
The word that should go before Brandy,
And the same, if you get me, is Byng.
Jesse C. Harper is a man 'with, a record. One-half a decade of achievement at Notre Dame
JESSE c. HARPER.
lies behind him, but he had spent twenty-nine years before coming to us preparing himself» for his task. After finishing his preparatory school work at Morgan Park Academy he entered the University of Chicago in 1902. Handicapped by lack of weight, Harper did not make the football team until his senior year when he played end and halfback on the championship team that defeated Michigan 2 £0 o. He was a member of the baseball team three successive seasons, working behind the bat and in the outfield. His last athletic feat for the Maroon team was to wallop out a three, bagger in his final time at bat’in his senior year against Illinois.
Harper’s first coaching experience came in 1906 when he took charge of athletics at Alma College, Michigan. He remained there three . years, and won the intercollegiate championship of the Wolverine State in 1908.
148
• , /
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Then he went to Wabash College. There he won State championships with his basketball and baseball teams and secondary championships with his football team.
Since coming to Notre Dame he has placed football on a plane with the best teams both in the Bast and in the West. He jumped into national prominence his 'first year when in 1913 he defeated the Army, Penn State and Texas. That team captained by Knute Rockne was at once the wonder of the athletic world. Much is heard to this day of that immortal Dorias-Rockne forward passing combination that startled every team it met.
But Notre Dame had wonderful material
KNUTE K. ROCKNE.	,
- - 1 in those days. Harper inherited a coterie of finished football players,' and that gave critic3 material from which to predict his failure after the first “flash in the pan.” With the Yale . catastrophe and the Army reversal the following year the “I told you so ” parade lengthened out. Harper offered not a word in rebuttal. He simply kept on with his work and before the season was over had his team faced about and it scored decisive victories against Carlisle and Syracuse.
Aside from one point, a defeat at Nebraska, due to the failure to . kick a. goal following a 'touchdown, Harper and his men bowled over . everything in 1915. The Army and Texas were again victims. In 1916 the Army succeeded in beating the Gold and Blue, but M. A. C. and Nebraska were defeated.,
. .When Harper arranged the 1917 schedule months in7 advance of the declaration of war on the part of this country lie was congratulating himself on his good fortune at having sufficient football material in sight for unbeatable teams for at least' two years. Consequently
he was not a bit careful about the calibre of the teams he chose for this year’s eleven to meet. 1 Bnough good men to make a first-class football ' team were lieutenants in the national army 1 before-the season opened, and when practice did start there were not a half dozen veterans of any description from the year before. Harper , did not complain. He merely went to work. | Though the defensive strength of his team developed quickly its offense had not material- | ized by the Wisconsin and Nebraska games, f Captain Phelan was called to the Army with | the playing of the Cornhusker game.	|
No one conceded his team a chance in the I universe to defeat, the future Army officers at i West Point. .But that’s what it did. Between | the Nebraska game and the’Army game he had perfected a forward pass attack that could not | be denied. Bollowing the .Army game he lost | Gipp and Allison in succession, and one-half < the backfield with which he had beaten the soldiers was interned in hospitals. Bven sym- ' pathizers shook their heads as the Notre Dame ’ tutor departed with his depleted flock for the f game with Washington and Jefferson. The team that had' battled Pitt, the greatest eleven | of the year, almost to. a standstill would anni- j hilate the light eleven once more representing < the West. W. and J. did nothing of the sort. The teams proved, most evenly matched, but < Notre Dame proved itself the better coached | team and won by a small margin.	I
Harper has ever been progressive since coming | co Notre Dame. He innovated the three-year I eligibility rule, has advocated and co-operated with the faculty in obtaining a high grade of scholarship, has shown himself relentless in enforcing all rules of amateurism. He has countenanced nothing but the highest grade of I sportsmanship.	|
Harper showed exceptional judgment early 1 in his career as a coach for the Gold and Blue. | That was when he “took unto himself” Knute 1 Rockne, an assistant who has' done much for | him. What Harper thinks of Rockne and what 1 Rockne thinks of Harper is too affectionate for J space here.
Harper was a great man in 1913 when he > flashed across the athletic horizon with an un- ■ beatable team of veterans; he was a far greater . man during 1917 when he moulded a team from I the greenest of material and battered his way through the heaviest schedule in the history of js Notre Dame with just one defeat.	■
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
149
The Members of the Squad
BY CHARLES W.’ CALL.
Captain James Phelan.'
Captain “Jim” was permitted to lead the 1917 team in only three games before Uncle Sam dressed him in khaki. But in those three ■games—against Kalamazoo, ' Wisconsin, and Nebraska—he showed a generalship that Byng might envy. Working with men most of whom were playing their first games of intercollegiate football, he furnished the head-work and the encourage. ment which the team so badly needed. At Madison he did the punting and was an important factor in offsetting the long kicks of
Simpson whose toe threat- • ened throughout the contest to humble the Gold and Blue. Immediately after the Nebraska game Phelan had. to hurry to Camp Taylor as a member of the draft quota
of St. Joseph County. “Jim” has played his last game for Notre Dame; he is already engaged at Louisville in getting ready for the much bigger game at the front in Flanders.
.	Frank Rydzewskl .
“Big Frank” was the champion notoriety gatherer of the team. Sporting writers warned about him, looked at him, then “raved ’’ through columns over him. And the best part of the proceedings was that Frank deserved every bit of praise that he received. Without a doubt this last season he was so far the better of any man he faced that there was :no comparison. -No one could stop-him, and the-combined attention of two or three men “playing” him in - certain games, only served to bother him. Frank^ never-failed to feed the ball with the utmost accuracy to .the backs r on the various shift.plays and befuddling formations for which Notre Dame is famous. Ryd-zewski stopped many
an opposing rally. by intercepting forward passes. His great height and shiftiness-made it almost impossible for an alienrBack‘to shoot a pass over his head. He acted' as '-captain in several. games after the departure of Phelan. This season closed his, football career "at -Notre Dame. • \
’ Dave Philbin. ■ J■
Right tackle on the. line was puncture proof throughout the schedule, for the reason, to wit, that Dave Philbin was fighting over there. Intercollegiate football is now a closed book for
Dave. With his one year at the University of Oregon and two at Notre Dame,- his record will' stand ready comparison with that of any of the great men who have gone before him. He has been the kind of. 1 unassuming, silent, good-natured, .fighter that a school hates , to -part with. No man.on the .team is more genuinely respected by his teammates or fellow students than the big Ore
gonian. Notre Dame will miss his- terrific charging and blocking, his deadly tackling and hjs good-fellowship. . .	' ■, .	.
. Frank Andrews. -	' :	.
Andrews played the tackle that Philbin
didn’t, which means that left tackle also ■ was . *
well administered this year. “Bodie” was unfortunate in having his shoulder badly bruised on two or three occasions, and as a consequence he did not really reach his top form until the game with-the Army.: In that and in the't following battles he fought like a tiger. Always confident, 'aggressive,, reliable, he is a man that would be noticeable on'any team. It is a comfort’to know that he'has another year of eligibility. '	.	‘ z
.	Thomas King. .	_
■ .Tom King’s intercollegiate football career is complete.. It is a story of the success achieved by a determination that cannot be discouraged.
Two years ago when he first appeared on Cartier Field he seemed, physically too insignificant
I
150
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
PHILBIN
ever to make the Varsity. It soon became apparent, however, that he was a fighter to the finish, that he was out for recognition, and that he meant to get it. For two years he kept trying for the team, but only getting into a game now and then when something happened to one of the regular ends. This
year he won his place as a regular. With the war cloud hanging close to his head, he developed wonderful defensive ability on the right extremity of the Notre Dame line. Always fast on covering punts, he improved wonderfully in catching forward passes. He is captainelect of the basketball team, but he is under the impression that Uncle Sam will need his services before the winter season opens.
David Hayes
“Dave” Hayes has but one creed when he is on the gridiron— and tha£ is fight. Determined, relentless, fearless, untiring, he fought to-a standstill every man he faced this season. While, he possibly lacked the experience and finesse .of King, the two formed a
HAYES
combination on the extremes of the line that was reliable rather than spectacular. Hayes improved from game to game under the tutelage of Notre Dame’s great 1913 captain until in the later games of the season Dave was an extremely crafty end man. Hayes probably made more good tackles, and effectively blocked more men, and received less recognition for his fine work than any man on the team. But that bothers Dave not a bit. When it comes to humility, saints could not, improve on his unassuming disposition. He takes his reward in the pleasure of knowing he did his work well, and his reward is ample. This was his first year on the team.
.	. Clyde Zoia.	.
' ' - -	‘ ’ : - ' ’	-	*	1
Zoia hung around Notre Dame until the beginning of his third year before he announced
his Varsity aspirations. After a poor start, due to some minor injuries more than anything else, Zoia made good with a vengeance. Called upon to face meh who weighed on an average over 200 pounds, the Woodstock wonder always gave more than he received at left guard. Zoia is a speed demon for a man weighing 170 pounds, and the s_peed and frequency with which he broke through the opposing line to tackle the man carrying the ball brought him into prominence. There is one severe criticism of Zoia, however, that could not be omitted in a review of his-playing this year and that is to charge him with criminal negligence for not having tried for the team before this year.
Edward Madigan.
Madigan was promoted in mid-, season from the position of substitute center for “Big Frank” to that of regular right guard. Madigan typifies probably better than any other man on the team “the fight’n’ Irish” spirit that provoked so much comment among Eastern sport-writers. “Slip” can think and fight with such lightninglike speed that Harper simply could no longer select a line-up and leave him out. Madigan proved his versatility in the W and J game. First replacing DeGree, then Rydzewski, he played throughout the game an uncomplaining and unproclaimed hero
for the Gold and, Blue. Without him the
Notre Dame attack would have been paralyzed. He has another year of competition.
Leonard Bahan.
In civilian clothes Bahan is about the last man in the school a critic would choose for football material. Reserved, quiet, almost bashful, nothing suggests that he might be a potential pigskin artist of the highest type. No one noticed Bahan before the Kalamazoo game. In the latter
KING
half of that struggle
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
with the Celery City institution his long end runs from ha'lf-backimmediately proclaimed him as a star in the making. Though he played doggedly against Wisconsin and Nebraska' he received such a battering in those two games that he , was incapacitated for nearly a whole month. Coach Harper used him alternately at halfback and quarterback in practice. It is well that he did. With Allison out of the game with an injured vertebra, Bahan piloted the team through the W. and J. contest with all the acumen of a-veteran. His judgment was excellent and his strategy clever. For two. more seasons Notre Dame will be blessed with his presence.	/
Joseph Brandy.
“Too much” seemed more appropriate than “Joe” to the Army and Washington and Jefferson teams following Notre Dame’s two invasions of the Bast. It is more or less of a distinction to have scored the
MADIGAN
only points for Notre Dame in the- Bast in 1917— the points that won two games. Brandy made the best use imaginable of his 137 pounds. He blossomed out as a punter in the M. A. C. game, only .to surprise everybody by kicking the winning field goal in the last contest of the season. Brandy and Bahan were the modern Siamese twins of the Notre Dame eleven. Their playing was much alike, and so are their dispositions. Brandy is so shy that he sports the most resplendent blush on the slightest provocation. This was his first Varsity competition. •
.	William Allison.
“Tangoing Tex,” disconcerter of the Army, South Dakota and-Morningside, had his season cut short by a peculiar injury during the M. A.
151
C. game. A vertebra was injured in such a manner that though it were possible*for 'him to play in the W and J game it would have been foolhardy. Allison has more mental than physical attributes on the football field. He has an athletic mind after his years on the baseball diamond, and it was next to natural for him to step into the quarterback position after Phelan left and run the team successfully. His peculiar accent added spice to the already singular Notre Dame attack, and he had the future* Army officers at West Point “all fussed” with his “Hip! Hip!” repeated a little differently each time. He was the most accurate forward passer on the team, and he would shoot the ball to the ends and the backs like a bullet. His greatest asset was confidence—he knew he was going to beat the Army. '
George Gipp.
After having reported for the team late in September and being out of the. first two games, big . George Gipp was just getting back to his 1916 freshman form when he met with the regrettable accident which broke his leg in the Morningside game at Sioux City. Gipp was not at his best in the Nebraska game following his first week of training, but against South Dakota he played ? brilliantly. Then at West Point he distinguished himself by long end runs, forward passes, and vicious tackles. He was the man,
more than any other, accountable for the ball’s
being placed at that vantage point seven yards from the Army goal, from where Brandy ploughed •through the soldiers for a touchdown at the opening of the fourth quarter. All wish George a speedy and ^complete recovery from his serious injury. ‘
Walter Miller. v
Halfback, fullback,1
BAHAN
halfback, fullback!!
152
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
BRANDY
work in the W. and J.
That is about as fast as Walter Miller had to alternate between two positions this fall. Wherever he was stationed, however, he gave the best that was in him. He improved with great strides as a line plunger, and his tackling was one of the strong points in the scond-ary defense of Notre Dame. He punted for the team on several occasions, and his game in
particular was noteworthy. He out-distanced the renowned Mc-Creight so that Notre Dame gained on. every exchange of punts. Miller is not as heavy as some of the fullbacks that have gone before him, but he has the fight and the knowledge, and they were enough during the present year. He will be eligible next year.
Dudley Pearson,
Pearson does not let his good looks interfere with his football playing. He had a bit of hard luck at different times in the season, but his brilliant finale in the crucial contest with W. and J. more than repaid him for his hard
1	GIPP
work daring the season. A smashed shoulder in the South Dakota game prevented him from, getting into the game for several weeks. -He is;a fine open field runner and has as good success as any one in line boring. “Dud” is .a Sophomore.	.
. Robert McGuire. ■-
“Bob” is.the type of player that the Notre Dame coaches like to meet. He appeared for pre-season .practice in the right state of mind, willing, "anxious’ and industrious. The ex-WalshHall'star imbibed a great man)' of the fine points of the gridiron game this fall, and he improved ais rapidly , as any of his teammates as the season progressed. He played tackle in' place of Andrews in a few games, and he never
failed to hold his own when given a chance. He had the physique and the disposition that go to make up a great player, and by the time another season rolls around he no doubt will be a star. He has two more years to-.plhy..
Raleigh Stine.
“Red” waited for a long time an opportunity to show what a football player he is under fire. After playing in a game here and there during the early season he got his first big chance against W and J. After DeGree and Rydzewski had left the game Harper sent him in at right guard though he had practiced at tackle most of the year.' He fought like a wildman and the Easterners soon found out that there was not the semblance of a weak spot in the center of the Notre Dame line because two of its giants had been removed. “Red,” like “Bob” McGuire, was an apt pupil at football all season and he improved greatly. The two are the best kind of material for T918. Stine’s eligibility has two more years to run.
Walter DeGree.
Notre Dame’s punter of 1916 never reached his top form at any time this season. The Wednes-day following the first game of the year with Kalamazoo, DeGree was unfortunate enough to have his right knee severely wrenched. He did not attempt to play until the Morningside game, but he did not last long in that contest. After another long rest he started
the game against W. and J. only to slip on the snow-covered field on the first formation following the • kickroff and fender himself useless for the final game. He played less than an hour during the entire season. He has another year left to play.
Basil Stanley.
For all-around scrappiness Stanley cannot ’
ALLISON

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
be beaten. Lighter by far than the rest of line aspirants, he kept fighting and improving until he literally forced himself into the recognition of the coaches. If there was any fault to find with Stanley’s work it was his overanxiousness. He was so aggressive at times that he could not restrain himself. After having received his
miller	rudimentary football
at Wabash he quickly adapted himself to the Notre Dame style of play, and had he not been unfortunate enough to have his leg broken when he was commencing to be of great value to the team his record would have been even
greater than it is.
Thomas Spalding.
This distinctive Kentuckian was so good an end throughout the season that it seemed unfortunate that he was forced to compete with such capable and non-injurable ends as King and Hayes. Spalding, like Zoia, was eligible for the Varsity in former years but never tried for the team. He played a hard and heady game throughout this season, but on account of the puncture-proof qualities of the regular extremity men he got but little chance to show his real worth.- Spalding’s tackling was his strong point, though he drew on his baseball ability to good advantage in handling the forward pass. He is ineligible for further' football competition on account of his two years on the Varsity nine.
Maurice Smith.
Plowings stenography, knitting are difficult in the beginning and so is football. Smith was never clothed in a gridiron
mcguire	suit previous to this
year. He did not appear until late as- a candidate for the team, and for the first few afternoons tried for an end position. Immediately after Harper shifted him to halfback he gave promise of developing into an offensive star. He did his best work, how- ever, in the M. A. C.
game at fullback, to which position he was shifted when Walter
*53
PEARSOX
Miller was unable to play. Smith was a most reliable man on defense, and his tackling was of the “your down” type. He will be playing for Notre Dame in 1918 and 1919.
•James Ryan.
“Big Red” Ryan was sub-fullback on the team all season. He found some difficulty adapting himself to the shifty style of Notre Dame football in the beginning, but in common with the rest of the newcomers developed rapidly with the progress of the season. Ryan is a hard and conscientious worker, and though he still has a lot of football to master he is distinctively a comer, and is a much better player for the season just past. He will be eligible for the team for two more seasons.
As in all lines of endeavor, so in football some men though fighting every’ bit as hard as their fellow-men are •
destined not to make such brilliant showings. . But perseverance, determination, that" I’ll give-all-I’ve-got-arty way” spirit is • what makes men great after all, and because one football man does not' reach the same measure of success as another football man is no indication that he lacks qualities that will go for success in the
STIXE
larger things of life.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
DE GREE
Powers had to learn football from the ground up this fall, that is, he had only a meagre knowledge of the game as it is played in intercollegiate circles. He worked hard, however, and by midseason was rated as the best sub-end after Tom S p a 1 d i ng. Though he showed up well in practice, things did not shape themselves so he
his opportunities in scheduled games were few, he nevertheless gave a mighty good account of himself when the chance was afforded him. His great speed enabled him to make several long gains against the Michigan ‘ ‘ Aggies ’ ’ and on one sprint he circled right end for fifty yards and- a-touchdown. This was not Barry’s year, but it is coming.
Ronchetti tried hard to become a . fullback
STANLEY
could play in many scheduled games. He exhibited a lot of stick-to-it-iveness and will be a handy’- man to have around next year. This was his first year.
“‘Abie’ and ‘ Gineral ’ are all right, but cut out this ‘diminutive’ stuff,” ordered Lockard one day to a newspaper correspondent. Frank isn’t exactly a dwarf, yet he’s built low, and very naturally a trite adjective like “diminutive” was bound to be applied to him. Lockard got but few chances to show his worth under fire, but the way he ran the team in the fourth quarter of the M. A. C. contest proved beyond a doubt that he will be a most valuable man for Notre Dame a year from now. He has not had much opportunity to try his forward pass, but it is the general comment on the gridiron that he “throws it” well. Lockard, like Barry, is an
because the team needed one at the beginning of the season, but after the first game Coach Harper decided to shift him to guard. There he acted as substitute in all the important games of the year. “Pete” is a good plugger, always faithful and ready to give everything he has for the team. For a big man he is unusually shifty on his feet, and he played a good consistent game at guard whenever the chance afforded. He has completed his years of eligibility in football, but he is out already and hard at -work with the basketball team. He will be a strong man in that sport this winter.
To Holton, Kelly, Andres, Morgan and others, great credit is due for their part in making this year’s eleven what it was. Regular and consistent workers, they .practiced every day with
old-timer at Notre Dame. He has seen a lot of
their teams and their
Gold and Blue foot
SPAULDING
ball from the sidelines, and with the passing of another twelve months , lie is going to execute a lot of it between the sidelines. He has two years more to play.
Barry, the ex-protege of Brother Gaje-tan showed a “lot of stuff'’ during his first year of eligibility for. the Varsity. His work at halfback commanded the attention of the z coaches, and though
to render an}’’ service
they could is deserving of high praise. They will be in the old fight when the next season opens:
Take it all in all, it was a great team, and- its fine achievements this season show . forcibly the superior value of a s mod th working machine over mere weight, especially whe nthe dynamo that turns the.wheel is the Notre Paine spirit.
fine spirit of willingness
RYAN
155
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Verse for tije Varsity
The Old Second String.
Go on, yell your head off, and sing,	*
They’re deserving the best we can bring; -	‘	•
And I have a hunch	*	,
. There’s one other bunch	' '
. As worthy—the old “second string.”	•
.	. '	. T. D. M.	-	-
s '
To the Team.	Home From the Army Game.
you played the game, and played it well, You tried to make your team the best
That ever fought for the Gold and' Blue ‘
On glory-fields from East to West.
You gave your courage, strength and will, •
To guard the honor, spread the fame,
Make jubilant the hearts of all
The happy sons of Notre Dame. ,	.
Great teams, like yours have come and gone,
The shadow of their greatness lies
Across the fields where once they played.
But now beneath high foreign skies /
And in strange meadows far from home, Where Death- has spread a sovereign spell, ‘
Their blood has helped' redeem the soil,— '
They too have played'the game, and well.,-
’	W C. H.
' The Phantom Team.
Qne night, I dreamed I went , ’ Out to the field, pitch dark,
On some vague errand bent.	,
I neared the gate, but-;—hark!	.
What whistle shrills at night?
Who is it pants and strains? .
I peer! The brief moonlight	'	■
‘ Shows all before it wanes. .
, The secret I have found:
' Who taught the team to fight? “
The phantom players downed
The varsity'.that night!
• Heroes of long gone by.	’ '
In spirit they were back ‘
To teach the varsity	’
Their-grit and their attack.
’ •	•	V. F. F. '
captured the station a thousand strong
With the roaring of cheers and the “ Victory? song; •
Their train pushing in needed never a light, - ,	.
A volcano of red-fire flared up in the night.
Rockets showered the engine whose whistle and bell .
Were all lost in an ear-smashing “ U. N. D. ” yell.
As the heroes climbed down it was with consternation, They found themselves caught in a monstrous ovation;
Then behind the brass band and the snake-dancing
•	' throng -	'
The glorified team rode amid the hoarse song Of the mob always eager to cheer and adore, And especially ready to count up that score. /	.
'	;	.	' .	. ' V. F. F. ■
• That W. and J. Victory.
y^HEN some scribe will tell the story. ■
Of our Fighting Irish glory	' ,
And the great things that our football team accomplished all the way,	- .
He may tell in language polished * t - '	.
Of the hopes N. D. demolished, ■	. :
But I am gleeful just because N. D. beat W. and J.
You may shout in admiration
At the way our aggregation ' ,	.
Held the prize stock of Nebraska in a fiercely fought melee,	*	-	. .	.
But let me tell you, -brother, .	•
. If they had not won another/.	.
They’d have gained my staunch fidelity by beating - W. and J.	.	‘	.
.. Then, of course, West Point .was battered,. \ ' And their vaunted power shattered, ' . < ~ ’ By stopping .Elmer Oliphant in a most .decided way.
Why, say,—this N. D. spirit,
- There’s nothing that comes, near .it, . . ...
And I can shout, and shout again, that-we beat-
. W. and J. r .	. J. T. J.
156
THE NOTAE DAME7SCHOLASTIC
'	a*-
The Freshman Team.
BY ALFRED W. SLAGGERT, ’2 6.
The__disheartening prospects of next year’s Varsity, due to the response of Notre Dame’s gridiron knights to the nation’s war call and the loss of Rydzewski by graduation, is totally eclipsed by the classy squad of yearlings whose . heady playing brought smiles of contentment to Harper and Rockne this year. We have Capt. Donovan, former St. John meteor, “Dutch” Wrape, Vohs, Dooley and Murphy to ’ head^the blue ribbon entries. In addition, there is a host of other gfidders, who, after a season’s grilling under Jake Kline, have developed the. essential requisites for a successful team next year.
The all-Fresh team this year, although not overwhelmed with its usual quota of yearling stars, was, according to critics, the equal of any former freshman team, not excluding the wonderful squads which produced Cofall, Miller, Callahan, McInerney and recent pigskin immortals. Pitted against the Varsity three times a week, they bore the brunt with exceptional rigor and. were never beaten by
COACH KLINE
more than fifteen points. Before-the regular schedule opened Kline’s proteges held the . Varsity to a 12 to o score in a game that was the equal of any steen here during
the entire
season. Capt. Donovan, Dooley and Murphy provided the spine thrillers for the side-liners by pulling off a string of spectacular eye-openers.	-
Capt. Donovan led his squad against Culver for the Freshmen” s first scheduled game and the soldiers were downed in a 13 to 7 go, Hogan and Donovan scoring the markers. The red-topped? captain played his usual driving game and was ably assisted’by the remarkably defensive tactics of Vohs, Wrape, Dooley and
Murphy. The men were apparently off form, around Cartier Field as a regular in 1918. due to injuries received in stopping the plunges Owens is a husky with, beef, fight and ability, of W. Miller, Bahan and Brandy during the “Bddie” Dunn played'a hard and consistent Cartier scrimmage programs, and were defeated game whenever called upon and makes up in
First Year Aggies 7 to o. M. A. C. put up her usual warlike front and was fortunate in holding Donovan, Dooley, Murphy and Wrape, et al, to a lone ringer. What the M. A. C. tilt demonstrated at each consecutive play is that 'the Miles and Wrape end'combination can fill the wing boots of any college eleven with exceptional credit.
The University of Michigan stellar backfield, aided by a line outweighing our boys twenty pounds to the^man, succeeded in getting on the long end of a 19 to 3 score. The Michigan Freshmen concentrated their football knowledge in the first half when they gathered their only points. But the second chapter wasn’t exactly a sequel. The N. D. Freshmen braced and out
played their rivals in every department of the game. Hogan dropped a daisy from the 38-yard line and Donovan was leading a charge to a touchdown when the whistle put an end to the scoring.
At ends Miles and Wrape worked consistently, both being equally good at receiving forward lunges and getting . down under punts. These lads show every' indication of looming up strong for the Varsity wing jobs and under the line tutelage of Rockne should develop into a class with the famous mentor himself. Hoar played a good game as ah end insert.
At tackles Bloom and Vohs work
ed like demons, insisting on being in every play. Vohs is, perhaps, the hardest tackler ever seen in Notre Dame Freshman annals. He is a bear on the defense and opens up regular boulevards for the backfield. He is the surest bet for a Varsity tackle position next year. O’Connor was one of the best, among the tackling candidates.	-
Murphy and Owens held down the guard position in true yeoman style. Murphy is particularly good on the offense, and.it would not be a surprise to see the big brunette dashing
by the strong Kalamazoo. Normal team, but the fight what he lacks in weight. v
defeats only inculcated a fighting, determination Cooney was a find at the pivotal position, to pull off .future thrillers.	He. passes accurately, and considering his lack
At M. A. C. the Freshmen tramped over the of experience at the central cog he did remarkably
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
.157
well. He possesses the rare combination of being a sure tackler, a crack offensive player and an all-around footballer. Mersch, the chubby lad from Frankfort, Indiana, played a fine game at sub-center, but lacked a little in ranginess which, however, did not hinder his efforts at Ferry Field.	''
Hogan, made a good, brainy quarterback. He excels in the kicking department, being a
toe artist of no mean ability. Maher replaced him occasionally, and between the two the position was well taken care of.
At left half Capt. Donovan needed no sub
stitute. The sandy-haired lad was elected captain before the Culver game and sustained his ability for leadership during the entire season. To begin with he is a Varsity cinch for 1918 by virtue of his all-around experience and football sense. He can pick a hole with precision and has a 42 centimetre drive, intercepts forwards for a pastime, is a tower of strength on the defense, and surmounts these talents with the necessary, Irish fight. Big tilings can be expected from this husky individual from Massachusetts. Lombardo, despite a lack of ex
perience, landed a regular berth at right half and put up a consistent, scrappy argument for his position. “Red-” Granfield filled his shoes on several occasions.
freshman team
Big Dooley at fullback distinguised himself so consistently that a mediocre class of playing was impossible of association with the driving Easterner. Like Donovan, he is an adept at picking his way through, a line and tears a defense to tatters. His specialty is dragging along upwards of a half dozen tacklers for a few * extra yards. Possible Varsity t backfield men better look to their ’laurels, for Dooley will undoubtedly make a smashing debut into fast company next autumn.
The season as a whole was. pleasingly successful.. Although considerable inroads were made upon the available material because of war conditions, and although several injurious
handicaps insisted on bobbing up, Kline and his men upheld the honor of Notre Dame wherever they chanced to stop off. Donovan, Dooley,
Murphy, Miles, Wrape and Vohs were the best men uncovered during the season; but- in eclipsing the game efforts; of the lesser lights, they did not detract from the glory due to the entire scrappy 1917 all-Fresh Eleven. -------------------------------
The Interhall Season.
ALFRED W. SLAGGERT, *20.
When Walsh and Brownson staged the last scene in the Interhall Classic for 1917; the curtain closed on one of the" most eventful
seasons in the history of Interhall'competition. Consistent, snappy,’ clever playing characterized each battle, but as the season progressed it was evident that Walsh had the superior ' team, humbling her rivals in a series of consecutive defeats. Nearly any one of- - the Intefh’all aggregations couldhave acquitted itself in varsity fashion against a good many secondary college teams; in fact, this very , stunt was accomplished several times during the season. »
Walsh in ’winning the championship is especially deserving of
victory; for it followed a consistent form of training'Jand scrimmage during the entire season.
FIRST TEAM	SECOND TEAM
Kirk, Walsh..'— -------L E_________White, Corby
Miles, Sorin-----------R E________Shanahan, Walsh
Flaherty, Walsh----------L T._________■._Baker, Sorin
V. AValsh, Sorin.---------R T_______McFeeley,.	Walsh
W. Walsh, Corby._________L G....VanAkeren, Brownson
Giblin, Sorin____________R G._______Grabner,	Corby-
Whitehead, Walsh---------C....______Blackman, Sorin
Mohardt, Brownson....._„L H.________Fennesy,	Walsh
Woods, Walsh______________R H______iGalagher,	Walsh
Babcock, Corby-----------F. I.______Billeaud, Walsh.
Mulligan, Sorin--------Q__________Wheeler, Walsh
Jake Kline, Referee . Pete Noonan, Umpire
The above men were chosen from the respective hall lineups at a conference of .their coaches and the referees of the season and therefore represents- a uniform concensus of choice.
Kirk at left , end was undoubtedly the most versatile man occupying that position. A fast.
man down the field under punts, a dean,’consistent tackler and a toe artist of exceptional ability, .the Walsher put up ’ a clever game.
158
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Miles issued the strongest bid for the other wing position, and with Kirk as a running mate a more aggressive combination could not be desired. .Miles has an interference-smashing style that enables him to get the runner with regularity. As the receiver of Mulligan’s aerial ■ lunges he'put the Sorin team within reach of many a touchdown. “Dog” White, Corby’s featherweight end, and Shanahan of Walsh are exceptionally qualified to hold down the same positions on the second team.
At left tackle, Flaherty the beefy'Walsh star, was peerless. He whs equally brilliant on; the defense and offense, stopping all line smashes on his side and opening -wide paths for the Walsh backfield men. Sorin hall contributes V. Walsh for the right tackle position. He plays a fearless, heady game, is impenetrable on the defense, and as a mate for Flaherty he eliminated all possible contenders by virtue of his all-around ability. Baker of Sorin and McFeeley of Walsh closely rival the first choice for the tackle jobs and are placed on the
second team.	'	:	, half. For the .position at right half a galaxy of
W. Walsh playing left guard, for the-Corby backfield men are available. “Joe” Woods of squad made a splendid showing- in every battle . Walsh Hall who-although somewhat light is he entered. . At right guard “Vine” Giblin extremely .fast, a; sure tackler and a bear of
was a unanimous choice. Both-these.men are . an' eri.d: skirter. “ Joe” showed up big in all rangey and weighty and have the punch and ■ .the important interhall, goes and. is given the position :at right. Among the other back-
nervy, scrapping ability essential to their positions. Closely shadowing the. first teamers are big Hank Grabner of Corby and Van Ackeren of Brownson. It is conceded that Grabner with a little development would round into one of- the best defensive players hereabouts. The husky lad from Winemac has beef to spare and is as shifty and swift as a rabbit. Van Ackeren was one of the superior scrapping units of the phenomenal Brownson pony eleven, and starred consistently on the Brownson line.
The position at centre presented a quandary,
several men being of an eligible 'calibre. White- line for a big gain when called upon, which was head of Walsh’was the key to every Walsh quite often. He is undoubtedly the cleverest -
attack and. defense tactic. He is an# accurate player that the Interhall season has brought passer, can ppen holes on the offense and "was into pigskin, limelight, and undoubtedly would
passer, can ppen holes on the offense and "was
a big factor in every drive of the Walsh defensive develop, into a star if put under, the proper formations.. Blackman of Sorin is given the tutelage. Billeaud holds , down the ^fullback ■ pivotal position on the second eleven. Possessed position on . the' second team, starring with : of small stature, but overcoming this handicap Wheeler, Fennessey and Gallagher in the with peppery work oh: the turfed rectangle, Walsh line smashing tri-umvirate.	.
Blackman showed up many of his Herculean Slick; Sanford, Hallett, Parker, W? Billeaud, ’ opponents. .	‘	. Schofield and Devine also played creditably
The awarding of the quarterback berth also duringtheseason and. are deserving of honor-presented the coaches ;with; a-big dilemma, able mention. ..	. .	.,
Both Mulligan and Wheeler ran their teams with sterling generalship and were equally adept at hurling the oval with big league precision. Mulligan, how,ever, had a shade on Wheeler ,in advancing the ball particularly around end, the varsity. tra ck captain and erstwhile fast, ten-second man displaying. his mercurial prowess on 'every drive. Wheeler on the other hand has the ability to run his team smoothly and to get the plays away fast. Both men, however, are excellent subjects for pigskin tutelage. The coaches placed Mulligan at the helm of the first team and Wheeler is signal caller for the second squad.
Mohardt, a husky from Chicago, was the big gun in every Brownson tournament, starring against every defence, he opposed the entire seasom He has a driving plunge that makes ever}’ dash good for a big gain. We can readily concede big things for the Brownsonite under proper coaching. Concerning his sterling football ability nothing can be said that would be an exaggeration. Mohardt is placed at left
field men 'who. have displayed themselves creditably are Hennessy and Gallagher, the second team halves, Sheehan, Murphy and Jenny.- -	.
. There could, be but one choice for, the full- . back position. Babcock, ex-Rensallaer High School star and 1916 Purdue all-Fresh backfieldman is without a peer in interhall ranks. : As a player of plass .Babcock holds a position of superiority over any contemporary. He has speed, bulldog courage and ability, to hit the
THE NOTRE
A Ballad of Old Players.
1 LIGHT my pipe and seem to see i j, . Arising out of the black old cob Forms of the players that used to be, ' Dorais and “Deac” and Eichenlaub.
Players of later time can’t rob Them of the fame they garnered here,
Mention their names, and our hearts still throb,— Here’s to the players of yester year. .
1 .
To enter the house of memory—
The door swings wide when you touch the’ knob-Is a privilege precious indeed to me . And pleasant after the long day’s job.
In memory’s halls I can still hob-nob
*	With heroes of old, without a peer,
Feeney and, oh, yes, Eichenlaub—	.
■ Here’s to the players of yester year.
Of course, I but mention two or three, (On this account don’t think I’m a snob,)
-r	But the fellows who won their prized “N: D.”
(See “Athletic Guide”) are*a regular mob.
Now don’t imagine I heave a sob
To .think of the past; it brings me cheer 1 To recall, say, a chap like Eichenlaub— , Here’s to the players of yester year.
My pipe is out, but the faces bob
>	In and- out of my musing clear—	.	•
Let’s see, did I mention Eichenlaub?
Here’s to the players of yester. year. -	.	v-	O’D.
-------------------
N. D. Athletes in Camp Elsewhere.
BY THOMAS J. HANIFIN, ’19.
. In past years a football player’s career closed’ with his graduation from college. All his hard-earned skill was of no further use to him after he.had played his last game at school, except perhaps as a coach. But now this is not so. Camp and professional teams now offer a new field and real athletes have no end of oppor-.tunities. As was to be expected, many Notre Dame men have availed themselves of this •chance, and are startling the country with their achievements. Down in Camp- Sherman at Chillicothe, Ohio, Farwick of last year’s' freshman. team, “ Hoot ” King, and Ray Eichenlaub,' Notre Dame’s champion, fullback, are displaying a quality of football such as that
DAME SCHOLASTIC	159 .
section has seldom seen. . In'the East at Camp Devens, Newport News, “Mal” Elward, the . varsity end in the years ’13, ’14, and ’15, and Callahan, freshman center in ’14, are holding down their favorite positions on- “.Cupid” • Black’s renowned aggregation. At Paris-Island, South Carolina, “Jack” Meagher, fleet, end on the varsity line last year, and. “Ken” Berkey, freshman end of last year, have been defending the wing positions for the Marines’ • team. This combination was broken up last Thursday, however, when “Ken” sailed for “Somewhere in France.” On the Camp-Grant;
. team at Rockford, Illinois, “Zipper” Lathrop, varsity tackle for three years, ’12, ’13 and <14,; is playing in the line. When Grover. Malone; of the 313th Engineering Corps at Camp Dodge, _ near Des, Moines, -is not running down I. W: W. disturbers, he is running down punts for the camp team, with “Cy” Kasper as his interference. • Leo Vogel is playing halfback for the ofiicers’ team , at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, and-: has been hitting the line hard all season. At Fort Sheridan, “ Curley Knowers andJoe. Pliska, varsity halfback in.’12, ’13 and ’14, are playing the game with all their old-time fight. .. .
An outstanding feature in the games of the camp teams is the recklessness with which the ' old Notre Dame stars are piling' up scores. In not a few instances they have scored all the points of the game. At numerous other times it has been the Notre Dame man who was responsible for his team’s scoring, either by his starting or completing a forward pass or by furnishing the runner superb interference. The recent game between the representative teams , of Camp Shelby at Hattiesburg, Miss., and ,that of the 84th Division at Camp Taylor, in Louis- -ville was another case of “Greek against Greek. Playing for the Taylor team were .Harry Baujan at right end, Keith Jones at-left tackle,. “Little Dutch” Bergman, as right half, “Fritz” Slackford, as fullback,-McCarthy at. right guard, “Jimmy” Phelan, as quarterback- for ’ a part of the game, and J. O’Hara/as substitute at left half. Opposed to them was-a team that had been coached by one of the greatest players that- ever .wore the Gold and Blue, ./‘ Pete” Vaughn. - On his squad were John Miller, at fullback, “Red” Fitzpatrick at-right half, .and, -“Chet” .Grant, the,sp.eedy sophomore of, last year’s varsity squad at quarterback. Camp , -Taylor won"the game by a 52-10-21 score.. Camp Shelby might have made the score more , .
i6o	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
even if she had had more Notre Dame men. They very evidently constituted the strength of the Taylor team. The Notre Dame men on both teams lived up to -their reputation as fixed stars.' “Chet” Grant, substitute quarter for Jimmy Phelan on last year’s Notre Dame squad, achieved a sixty-yard run for a touchdown, making the distance in next-to-notliing time. During the entire season, our little Mercury has been dashing down the field for runs ranging from forty to eighty yards. Another disadvantage to the Shelby team was the loss of “Red” Fitzpatrick in the second quarter, when he suffered a fracture and dislocation of the leg in a buck over tackle. The Louisville Times declares Slackford “the greatest linesplitter seen on the field for years,” and says “he could always be relied upon for a piledriver gain through the line.” The open-field work of Bergman was a revelation to the Southerners. To quote from the Courier-Journal,—“In the third quarter Bergman was given the ball for a run around left end, but before he had gained fifteen yards he had doubled back and forth and merged somewhere in the direction of the left end. In the course of his advance he slipped oat of the arms of at least seven of the Camp Shelby warriors, and it seemed as if the whole team made an effort to down him before* he was stopped.” We are not surprised to hear this, for open-field running was the specialty of the speedy “Little Dutchman” when he was -with us. The performance of the other Gold and Blue satellites on the team reflected much credit on Coaches Harper and Rockne by their expert skill and art which the masters had drilled into them as members of the varsity squad.
Several other graduates of our gridiron have distinguised themselves this season on various professional elevens. Down in Youngstown, Ohio, we find ex-Captain Stanley Cofall,’managing, and playing left half. With his “Patricians” are Freeman Fitzgerald at center and “Gillie” Ward and ‘‘ Lep ’ ’ Stephan at the tackle positions. With this combination of former varsity stars the “ Patricians ” have won the “ Pro ” championship of Ohio. On the “Bull Dogs” of Canton, Ohio, “Cap” Edwards opposed Stephan at tackle, when the Canton combination went down to defeat. “Bill” Kelleher and “Red” Miller played a few games with the Youngstown team.. '	■
In Detroit, Ray Whipple is written up as the
most phenomenal player at end that has ever drifted into that district. The sensational work of Benny Allen for the “Maroons” at Lansing last Sunday certainly deserves notice. Benny scored all of the points for his team, 21, and played a wonderful defensive game in helping to whitewash his opponents.
On the Fort Wayne “Friars” we find such renowned old-timers as the famous “Gus” Dorais, all-American quarterback a few years ago, “Al” Feeny at center, and Joe Pliska at half when he can get away from camp on furlough. At Pine Village our unassuming Emmet Keefe is playing that silent, heady game that made him such a favorite with the students here. An opponent never knows that Keefe is in the game until a play is started against him, and then it becomes evident by the promptness with which that play is broken up, and Keefe never fails to open a gap in the opponent’s line when he is called upon.
“Big Dutch” Bergman is the redeeming fe.ature of the Wabash A. C. He is showing his heels to opposing tacklers as frequently as he did while playing with Notre Dame. “Big” Dutch is always fast enough to get away for several long runs in each‘game. “Sam” Finnegan is teaching the high school team of Boise, Idaho, the rudiments of the game, and “ Charlie ” Bachman is coaching the DePauw University team at Greencastle, Indiana. Charles Crowley is instructing the varsity at the University of Dallas. '
In all games in which the old Notre Dame players have had part, it has been a noticeable fact that it was seldom necessary to make a substitution for the Gold and Blue “gridder.” In some-camps it has happened that our varsity “subs” and members of our freshmen teams have gotten regular places over members of all-conference and all-western stars from other schools. This is interesting information, because it goes to show the 'comparative quality of our football men, the kind of coaching they get,' and it reflects credit upon the spirit and work of our “subs,” men who have been kept off the varsity, not because they were not good, but because others were better. It also suggests that many of the Notre Dame “subs” would be stars elsewhere, and the wisdom of Notre ■ Dame’s policy to continue her athletics in the face of great difficulties is evident now in the sturdy fellows she - has sent to the military camps.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
161
The Dipping of the Colors.
Among the distinctive traditions in the athletics of West Point is the custom of “dipping-the $ colors” before the big game of the year. This ceremony has been peculiar to the Army-Navy game ' for decades, and it now distinguishes the Army-Notre Dame game as well. Just before this great inter-sectional contest-begins, the West Point cadets in full dress march from their barracks to “the Plains.” Midway in line of parade are borne the Stars and Stripes and the flag of the Army corps. When the football field is reached the color-bearers accompanied by the cadet band proceed
The Dipping of the Colors.
to the center of the gridiron; the rest of the cadets form a great hollow square bordering the field. The Academy yells are given, West Point songs are played by the band and* sung by all the cadets, the flag is saluted, and the cadets then march to their places in the stands. When the band ceases its music the yell-master assumes charge and the Army cheers are given again, the great cheer for the national emblem coming last as a fitting climax. The colors are then dipped solemnly three times to the cadet stands. A cheer for Notre Dame follows, and the colors are dipped once more. The simple but striking ceremony is'over, and “the Plains” awaits the great battle between the men of West Point and the meh of Notre Dame.
To the Varsity “Tex” gave the pep, That sure made that old Army step, With his “hike’- and his “hip,” With Brandy and Gipp, . -
He killed West Point’s great two-year “rep.”
' L.'McL.-. * * *
Now Haig with some Irish and Scotch
Of Germany’s line made a botch;
While our wee bit of Brandy Likewise came in handy
The Army’s brave record to blotch.
C. M.
When Allison hollered out “hip!”
He jumped in the air over Gipp;
He turned twice around,
And lit on the ground, ■ While Gipp through the Army would rip.
D. J. P.
' •***
Now Harvard and Yale only play ; Informal football, so they say, It’s shocking, is’t not, •
■ To think they’ve forgot The formal New Englander way.
IF. H. R.
162
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Captain for 1918.
“Who will lead the fightin’ Irish on the gridiron in 191S?” one naturally asks when1 he realizes that Captain Jim Phelan has closed his football career and is practising for other and sterner battles. This question was answered by the votes of the warriors themselves gathered around a festive table in the Oliver Hotel last Sunday evening. It was the last meeting of the whole squad; for “Tex” Allison was about to leave for home preparatory to entering camp, and Frank Rydzewski would be off for enlistment in Chicago in a day or two. The choice of the players was Frank “Bodie” Andrews of Rock Island, Illinois. “Bodie” is a player-who knows the game thoroughly and has the. enthusiasm that can inject the “fight” into his men. When the business of the day was completed, the players settled down to an evening of good-fellowship. Coach Harper acted as toastmaster. He complimented the players on ' their gallant fight all through the season, saying he. considered it the most successful year he had ever had at Notre Dame. The victories which Hie team won in spite of almost insuperable handicaps were due, in his opinion, to its machine-like work and to the fact that every man, regular and substitute, gave all that he had in him. Tom King spoke briefty saying he was sorry to leave the “ole” town. Allison also, expressed his regrets at the necessity of severing the ties that bound him to the team. Dave Philbin complimented the team on the fight it had shown all the year, saying that in after life in other battles the memory of this year’s ? fight against odds would be an incentive to
victory then. The following men were awarded monograms: Captain Phelan, King, Hayes, Spalding, Philbin, Andrews, Stine, McGuire Zoia, Stanley, Madigan, Rydzewski, Allison, Brandy, Bahan, Pearson, Smith, Gipp, and Ryan.
Over There.
Through the kindness of Lieut. Joseph Gargan (LL. B., ’17), who is now with the American Expeditionary Force in France, we have received a copy of the Paris Edition of the New York Herald of Nov. 6, from which we clip the following account:	■
NOTRE DAME BESMIRCHES
... ARMY’S GRIDIRON SLATE.
Despite Fierce Onslaughts of Oliphant, West Pointers’ Plunging Back, . x They Are Trounced, 7-2.
(by commercial cable to the herald.)
West Point, N. Yr, Sunday {delayed in. trans-' mission).—Despite the 'redoubtable onslaughts of Oliphant,, right half-back and captain of the West Point Military Academy’s football team, the Army lost its ■ first big gridiron struggle of the season to Notre Dame here, yesterday afternoon. -The final score was 7 to 2.
. Notre Dame, always a knotty problem for Eastern college teams, pulled a trick play in the last quarter that caught the Cadets off their guard and resulted in a touchdown. The goal was kicked. The soldiers made, their-two points on a safety following the first kick-off. McQuarrie, Army fullback, almost crashed through the visitor’s" backfield defence in the third quarter, but the Notre Dame quarterback saved the game by dropping him in his tracks with a vicious tackle.
Score by periods..........1	2	3	4—
’	Notre Dame.............   o	o	o	7—7
Army.__________________   2	o	o	o—2
• THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
163
The Everlasting Spirit.
^2 AS ever such a team ' As ours is to-day,
Shattered and broken,	'
Still fighting its way.
Just as of old, With spirit as bold And hearts, as true For the Gold and Blue.
Everlastingly,
Pluckily, ’	■
Splendidly,
In mightiest clashes,	■
With line-splitting smashes,	■ .
Passes and dashes;
Round the ends slipping, For, victory ripping? . Never was such a team
As ours is to-day.
Though shattered and broken, Still fighting away.	V.- F. F.
----------------------
Some Football Facts.
A review of the.football pages in “The Notre Dame Athletic Guide,” published last year by Father Michael Quinlan, reveals many facts of interest. We select the following as samples for our gridiron fans.	-
Since her first game of football, on the 23rd of November, 1887, Notre Dame has been involved in 195 inter-collegiate contests on the gridiron, of which she has won 144, tied, 13, and lost 38. In these games she has scored 4928 points aginst 962 for her opponents. The largest total for a single season was 389 points made in 1912.
The first game in 1887 was with Michigan University, resulting in a score of 8 to o in favor of the visitors.. The second was played the next year with the same school,' with a victory of 26 to 6 for Michigan.
. In her second year of football, • 1888, Notre Dame. met Michigan on the 20th of April, the same team again the .-. next day, and the Harvard School, on the<6th of .December. Her first victory in football was won in 1888 against the Harvard School by a score-of 20 to o. In 1894‘the season was opened promptly on New. Year’s Day in a /game with Chicago University, .resulting 8 tol o-for the Maroons.
In a.schedule of nine games in 1903 Notre Dame did not permit her. opponents to score,
while she amassed against them a total of 192 points.
The largest score ever made by the' varsity was in 1905 when she rolled up 143 points against the American Medical; the second largest was the* 116 score against St. Viateur’s-College, in 1912.
From 1906 until 1913 covering eight full seasons, the Gold and Blue lost but three . games, defeating within that- time such teams as Pittsburgh, Michigan Aggies, Indiana, Purdue, Marquette, Penn.State, Michigan, and West Point. On November 12, 1910, Notre Dame started the biggest drive in her history, going through practically four full seasons without defeat. The spell was broken in October 17; 1914, in the game, with Yale. ’
In our thirteen contests with Eastern teams, we have won nine, lost three, and tied one.. The schools met were Pittsburgh, Penn State, Syracuse, Carlyle, Washington and Jefferson, and the Army. In these games Notre Dame counted 160 points, her opponents 106. In three games with Pittsburgh, the reputed champions of the East this year, Notre Dame achieved two victories and a tie. Pittsburgh did not score in anyone of the three games. Of these thirteen games, six were scoreless for the opponents and two for Notre Dame. .
In her five contests with the Army team at West Point Notre Dame has won the first, third, and fifth, scoring in all 66 points, against-65 by the Cadets, as follows:
Nov. 1, 1913, N. D. 35; Army 13 .	'
Nov. 7, 1914, N. D. 7; Army 20 Nov. 6, 1915, N. D. 7; Army, o ' ' Nov. 4, 1916, >N. D. 10; Army, 30 . .
Nov. 3, 1917, N. D. 7; Army, 2
.The contests in which Notre Dame-has broken even with her opponents were: ■	Oct. 2, 1894,	N.	D.	6;	Albion 6.	r.
. Oct. 13, 1897,	N.	D.	o;	Rush Medical o. .
Nov. 18, 1899, • N. D. 10; Purdue ro. > .
.	Nov. 3, 1900,	N.	D.	6;	Beloit 6’.	:
Sept. 28,. 1901,	N.	D.	o;	S. B. A. C. o.	.
Nov. 22, 1902,	N.	Dl	6;	Purdue"6.
. Nov. 14, 1963,	N.	D.	o;	Northwestern	o.
Nov. 2, 1907;	N.	D. o;	Indiana o.
Nov. 25, 1909,	N.	D. o;	Marquette o. '
• Nov. 28, 19'10,	N.	D.. 5;	Marquette 5.	.
’ . Nov.. 4, 1911J	N.	D. 6;	Pitt o. - ' .	J
Nov; 30, 1911,	N.	D. 0;	Marquette o.	<
Oct. 13, 1917,	N.:	D. o;	Wisconsin o. .	’
'	.	Richard J. Dunn, ’18.
164
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
||otpe]||anid^^ DISCE-QUASPS^WER-VICTURUS-VI^
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
VOL. LI*DECEMBER 1. 1917-NO. 10
Board of Editors.
Delmar J. Edmondson, ’iS
Charles W. Call, ’iS John A. Demmer, ’18 John L. Reuss, ’iS
George D. Haller, ’19 Thomas F. Healy, ’19 Brother Austin, C. S. C., ’iS.
—All things considered, Notre Danie’s football season just closed is, we should say, the most remarkable one in her remarkable athletic history. And now that The Football Season, the smoke of. the big battles has cleared away, we may with a very pardonable pride take our final glance in retrospect. The outlook at the beginning of the year was a dark blue. The schedule, which had been arranged in view of normal circumstances and with no anticipation of the conditions that actually prevailed, was the heaviest we have ever had, and perhaps no other school in the country had suffered more thorough depletion of its football force by the call to arms. In the predicament, however, Notre Dame lost no time deploring her plight, she conceived no dainty adjective to explain the circumstances, she coined no .pathetic phrase as - an apology for her remnant squad, she sought no sympathy by advertising in the daily papers the wreck that patriotism had wrought upon her gridiron machine, and least of all did she play any piece of footlight foolishness in cancelling her schedule because a number of her'star athletes had answered their country’s call to war. She did none of these things, but set to work to make the best team she could out of the material that was left; She had. some very 'definite dates at Madison, at Lincoln, at West Point, at Sioux City, and at .Washington, Pa., not to* mention several important receptions at home, and she meant to to be. in those places respectively as best she could according to agreement. But above all, it seemed to her that in view, of the military training of the American youth there was much more reason for athletics in the colleges this year than there had ever been
before. Coaches Harper and Rockne corailed all the possibilities and proceeded to ..initiate their tyros in the mysteries of the pigskin with a view to standing them up against Elmer Oliphant
- and other, old-time Titans of the gridiron. The bantam Joe Brandy, for example—of whom the public may have heard this last month or so—played last year in the local consolation conference as a member of the Corby ‘Chicks.”
The one redeeming feature of the situation was the spirit with which this war-time company • of youngsters .went about their plainly hopeless task. They seemed to feel, as none but themselves felt, that it devolved upon .them as a matter of course to do the impossible in making Notre Dame’s record this year as good as the old ones. In the prosecution of the schedule a persistent succession of accidents and the loss of strong men by military draft made each coming contest seem more hopeless. But in every instance the next-best was promptly put into the breach, and the doughty squad of fighters for the Gold and Blue drove on against the next line. And so .they battled to the finish, against great and growing odds and against several of the strongest elevens in the land. The result is common knowledge with all who follow college football. One defeat by the veteran team of Nebraska, a tie with the eight old players of Wisconsin, and victories over Kalamazoo College, Morningside, South Dakota, Michigan Agricultural, the Army, and Washington and Jefferson, was not bad. Considering all the circumstances, it was glorious.
It is not necessary'' to comment on the coach- • ing which developed ex tern-pore such a finished team out of the rawest material. Nor shall we waste any words trying to praise the work of the lads who, without experience, by sheer pluck and push, have made this year’s record so unexpectedly phenomenal. What they did is its own best compliment. : Suffice it to call attention to the. fact that the strong teams mentioned above were able to score altogether only, nine points on them, Nebraska one touchdown and the Army a safety. We have a lurking susipcion that our football men of 1917, like the many others of other years now in training at'the various military camps, are just abopt the kind of young fellows .our Uncle Samuel wants for the . hard job/he has in hand, the kind that , will make his heart glad'when some . months hence they -will hit the Hindenberg _ line on their way to Berlin’-.	‘
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
!	Local Mews.
I	____
I	-	/
!>	'	—The Kentucky Club is to hold its annual
banquet December 15. Further details will be announced later.	-	•
—Lost—A cop}* of the Veritas magazine. Valuable, because it is necessary for the completion of a set. Kindly return to Rector’s office in Sorin..	,
—Eugene McMenamin and Allen Page of Brownson Hall have entered their names for the bird contests which is being conducted by the Indiana State Board of Forestry «
—The department of Journalism has just received one hundred and twenty-five selected editorials in phamplet form. They are to bez used for study in editorial writing by the Senior class. •	.
—Students will be pleased to hear of the recent well-deserved promotion of our military K instructor of last year, George A. Campbell, to the rank of captaincy. Captain Campbell
. is now stationed at Plattsburg, N. Y.
—Elmer S. Riggs of the Field Museum of' Natural History of the Universiy of Chicago delivered an instructive and well-attended lecture in Washington Hall Saturday, Nov. 24.
1	- This is Mr. Riggs’ second visit to the University.
• 2—Students possessing newspaper clippings expressing comments upon the Notre Dame team by football critics are requested to lend the same to any editor of the Scholastic in order that the contents may be put on record.
’ All clippings will be returned.	.
- *• \ - , -
—Members of .the Kansas City Club will send, greeting cards to all former students of Kansas City who are now in some branch of government service. The club has decided to charter .a special car for the members going home for the Christmas holidays.
. .—Brownson Hall has resumed its usual cheerful atmosphere since the return of Brother Alphonsus from St. Joseph Hospital. The com- munions and masses offered by the Brownsonites during the . illness of their rector undoubtedly
• played, a great part in liis speedy recover}7.
,	—The Minim.First Team took on some'out-
side, talent last' Saturday afternoon when they defeated ■ eleven huskies from South Bend, one of them being a dusky fullback. The little fellows so outclassed the invaders that
165
our reporter quite lost track of the score.
•—The Sisters wish to extend through the Scholastic their sincere thanks to the Notre Dame Glee Club for an evening’s thorough enjoyment. The singers may be assured of the fact that the quality of the entertainment was deeply appreciated as well as the spirit ' in which it was given.
—A poem entitled “On the Battle Field” by Mr. Charles Jones, was the feature of last Sunday’s (program in the Holy Cross Literary. Society. An interesting paper was read by Mr. Roche; a declamation given by Mr. Nagel; a short-story by Mr. Bilecki, and an essay read by Mr. Witucki.	-
—The Poetry Society held its regular meeting Sunday evening. Discussion of routine news, consideration of the ebullitions of a South Bend bard, and other matter was followed by criticism and appraisal of the members’ products. “In a Mirror” by George D. Haller and “Fulfillment” by Brother Xavier were voted the best submitted.
—The following telegram was received by the President during the week: “The pastor and members of the Holy Name Society of Saint Anthony’s Church, Bellevue, Kentucky, wish to congratulate you and your football team on . their glorious victories.” Many thanks, Ken7 tucky rooters! We congratulate ourselves upon our victories—and upon our friends.
—-The following members of Carroll have been awarded athletic monograms for work done during the football season: Charles McKeown (manager), Geroge Barry (captain), Charles Connolly, Raymond Girardin, Jose Aviles, Fernando Aviles, Robert Follett, Mansel White, Leonard Judae, Jolin - Bulmer, George Ward, -Gustavo Madero . and William Hodoshi.
—The- Butcher ?Boys of South Bend, who " were defeated by the Carroll Hall team two . -weeks ago, returned with reinforcements last Sunday, bent upon downing their former -op- ’ ponents. The Carrollites, however, refused \. to be beaten and proved themselves the original v Butcher boys themselves by slaughtering, lie . invaders, reinforcements and- all. The final score was 48 to o. ,	.	?	:
—The regular, conference of Holy Gross , priests was. conducted in the reading room of Holy Cross Seminar}7, on November 22. The -papers read were as follows: “The Sacrament
THE NOTRE DAME. SCHOLASTIC
166
of Extreme Unction” by Father Gorka,—discussion by Fathers Scheier and Sherrer; “The Priest and the non-Catholic, ” by Father O’Neill,—discussion by Fathers Vagnier and Minnick; “The Holy Father on Preaching” by Father O’Donnell, — discussion by Fathers Irving and McGinn.	'
—The University has just received a collection of the relics of Major-General Don Carlos Buell, of Civil War fame. They consist of fifty maps, many volumes of correspondence, the General’s war manuals, his diploma from West Point, pistols, sabre, saddle, uniform coat and the coffin plate bearing his name. The articles were presented through the generosity of friends and relatives by Father Linde-smith, who was himself a Civil War chaplain and whose family has seen service in every American war.	’
—Wednesday evening, Nov: 28, William S. Hart again reformed for the benefit of the students, but this time reward followed not upon reformation. “Wolf” Lowry was a story after the Hart routine, bad' man plus good girl equals ^reformation plus happiness and a triangle. In this play, however, the divisors or something got mixed, and “Hart’s” though trumps, met the joker and lost out. If William S. Hart were to combine with a Bret Harte we might get an original as well as interesting picture occasionally.
—A Catholic paper of established reputation has been offered for sale to any member or members of the Notre Dame School of Journalism who may wish to enter “that particular field. The paper in question has episcopal approbation, is in a sound financial condition and boasts of carrying the largest amount of legal advertising of any Catholic paper in the United States. The present editor is retiring on account of old age, having been connected with the paper for twenty-five years. Anyone interested can obtain information from one of the instructors in
the Department of Journalism. '	.
—One of the “scarcely” populated halls .which has hitherto enjoyed privileges en masse, now finds itself frequently flooded with darkness at an exceedingly early hour. An unfortunate resident of this hall slipped down the stairs in the darkness' a short time ago, disturbing the slumbers of the guardian to such an. extent that in order to (avoid?) similar mishaps, he now turns off the lights every time a mouse
starts up the stairs. A dictionary'- of psychology tells us that it is much easier to find one’s way in the light than in darkness, but “she” may be wrong.
—Father Cavanaugh and Father McGinn spoke at the meeting of the South Bend .Zionist Society in the Temple Beth-El Sunday afternoon at which Judge Hugo Pam of Chicago, brother of Dr. Max Pam, founder of the Notre Dame school of journalism, delivered the principal address. The Zionist movement in South Bend is headed by Rabbi Liebert of Tempel Beth-El. Herman Ries, president of the society, Max Adler and A. R. Mayerfield. The move’ ment represents an attempt to recover for the Jewish people the land of their forefathers in Palestine.	'	’
—The Senior class has voted to give the entire contents of its treasury’ to the fund which is to be raised towards the purchase of a Notre Dame ambulance for the American Ambulance Field Service. For this purpose it is necessary* to raise five thousand dollars. Father Matthew *
Walsh is treasurer of the fund and those to whom its collection has been delegated are: Frank Monaghan, Leonard Mayer, James Hanlon, • Joe Riley, Cornelius Whelan, and Edward
Harbet. The project was initiated by the seniors who have prepared, a circular letter to - be sent to all parents informing them of the proposed action.
—The Varsity was informally entertained while in Washington, Pa., by the local council . of the Knights of Columbus. A program was arranged and refreshments were served, after which John J. Curran’, local Grand Knight, spoke as did also Dr. S. H. Rinehardt, lecturer 1 of the council. Rev. Thomas Zacharski of the Cannonsburg said a few words and acting Captain Rydzewski replied . for the team. Assistant Coach Rockne also spoke briefly. The N. D. Alumni of Pittsburgh also laid tentative. plans for a banquet after the game, but the early .leaving-of the team prevented their being, carried but.	.
—Through. one /of those mistakes which so frequently occur in the handling of copy, no announcement was made of a rather important '
happening at the University recently. We refer to the formation of a Notre Dame Golf Club. Through the influence ? of Father . Michael Quinlan, an organization has been effected and ; the membership, already numbers about thirty.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	167
Aba recent meeting in Walsh hall the following officers .were elected for the year: Rev. Michael Quinlan, honorary president; 'D.. D. Smith, president; D. J. Edmondson, vice-president; B. C. Kirk, secretary-treasurer; C. F. Baine, auditor-of-accounts. Although a- similar organization existed at the University in time past, we feel sure that this one has come to stay.
—Dr. Frank J. Powers has secured a very satisfactory arrangement with the State author- ' ities. Students of anatomy in the medical school will not lack, under this arrangement, ample material for dissection.
—Students in the agricultural department with Prof. Johns, made a trip of inspection to the plant of the Burnoil Engine Co. in South •Bend recently. Mr. Bowers of the'Burnoil Co. entertained his guests with a highly instructive address.	.
—The Fort. Wayne Journal-Gazette of recent issue gave very' complimentary reports of the missionary labors of Reverend George Finnigan, C. S. C., and Reverend Bernard Mulloy, C. S. C., in the Cathedral parish of that city. Both Fathers are members of the Holy Cross Mission Band, the latter having recently returned from a month’s work among Kentucky churches.
—James P. O’Neill, a resident of Brownson Hall in 1883, was recently promoted to the rank of Brigadier-General. In his time Mr. O’Neill was an enthusiastic member of the Notre Dame. Cadet Corps,’ and upon leaving school enlisted in the service of . the government. He • saw active service in Cuba and in the Philippine . Islands, and participated in the battle of San Juan Hill in the* Spanish-American War. His many Notre Dame friends congratulate him upon his well-merited ’ appointment.
—Lieutenant Paul Perigord, a priest who resigned his position as professor of Theology at St. Paul’s Seminary to enlist in the French army-at the beginning of the war, visited the university Saturday. Before returning to South Bend to lecture before the Rotary club, the French soldier-priest paid a visit to Rev. Gilbert Fran pais, Superior-General of the Congregation of Holy* Cross at St. Joseph’s farm. Father . Perigord has been wounded many times and has received .five^decorations for valor, one from the hand of Marshall Joffre himself. He is in'this country following President Wilson’s request for speakers t° arouse French war spirit in
America. During his stay he is also serving as instructor in the training camps. Father Perigord expects to return and address the’ students.
—The department of South American history has just received from the Rev. Dr. Zahm, C. S. C., its founder, a collection of some fifty volumes and several hundred photographs and slides dealing with South’America. The shipment contained also many articles of interest for the museum—an Indian hammock poisoned arrows, an Argentine saddle, a mate gourd and bombilla, flags of various countries, etc. Among the books, special interest attaches to'Garibay’s “Compendio de los Quarenta Libros de las Chronicas, y Universal Historia de Esapna,” an exceedingly rare work in four parchment-bound quartos, printed in Barcelona in 1628. The collection of pictures includes the Argentine exhibit at the San Francisco exposition and a special set of views of Chile prepared for Dr. Zahm by the Chilean Embassy in Washington.
Besides the South Americana there are a great many books and objects of art for the general library, and the “Woman in Science” collection. Among these there are four exquisite tapestries, representing respectively St. Mark’s of Venice, the Bay of Naples, the Roman Colosseum and the Great Mosque of Cairo.
—Thirty members of the New England Club enjoyed an old-fashioned Thanksgiving Day dinner at the Farmers Trust Inn on the evening of Thursday last. Raymond Murray presided as toastmaster and the principal guests of the evening were Rev. John McGinn and Me Miles W. O’Brien of the South Bend Lathe works. A. feature of the occasion was the appearance of representatives from each of the New’ England States in the .entertainment and talks accompanying the dinner. The following participated: John Ambrose, Walter O’Keefe, Patrick- Granfield, James Dooley, John Massuer, James Sullivan, Thos. Lavery, William Baker, Wilfred Riley, Vincent Fagan . and Dave Hayes. The affair was carried out with the success usually attending the New England Club functions.
. —A packed house greeted the Notre Dame and South Bend talent taking part in the Red Cross concert in Washington Hall last Monday evening. Besides realizing close to four hundred dollars, the concert was a success from the entertaining standpoint.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
i68
The Notre Dame orchestra was at its best and opened the program with a stirring, well-played overture. Then following the Star Spangled Banner, the Glee Club sang two numbers which were well received. The songs by Mrs. Barnes, who combines a pleasing personality with an excellent voice, were exceedingly well sung. “Duke” Staples made the audience laugh with his character songs, in spite of the fact that some of them recalled John Riley of last year’s Glee Club. Miss Helen Guilfoyle proved herself an artist in solo work as well as in accompanying. Her playing showed remarkable technic, and' with true expression and shading, no doubt could be left as to her ability. G. Lawrence Ott sang two songs composed by Professor John D. Becker of the University conservatory. Both were tuneful and well sung. Mrs. Gertrude Miller Trash and Jose Corona did well. Walter O’Keefe was one of the big hits with his Harr}'- Lauder impersonations and songs.- Charles McCauley upheld his reputation in his “Ten Minutes of Ragtime,” and was an appropriate choice for the close of the evening’s performance. All in all, the’concert was a big success.
—Although the Minims and Carroll do not participate in interhall athletics, -the boys of both halls deserve a mention in any athletic number of the Scholastic. Some of our brightest football stars of the past and present learned the rudiments of the game while wearing the knickerbockers of those departments, and the future seems to promise even more than the past. Among the minims, football activities this year were on a par with other years, which means that practically every minim was the member of one team and sometimes of three and four. Every recreation presented a game or two and in no case was the scoring a runaway—which indicates considerable tackling and defense ability. In Carroll the “Teenie Weenies,” or ex-minims, showed a degree of team work which was surprising in’ youngsters, and on every occasion when they hooked up with the heavier teams from South Bend, they finished with the higher score to their credit. The first team of Carroll, along with its subs, presented some very promising material which will undoubtedly count in interhall activities later oh. Even the Brownson Chicks found the Carrollites a- tough proposition and the heavy teams which visited the University from South Bend had no chance at all. Stars there were in
the teams mentioned above, but the less flashy players toiled sb hard to uphold the honors of their respective teams that we refrain ,from mentioning individuals. Here’s to the Carroll IJ and Minim teams!
The Glee Club Concert.
The Glee Club gave its third annual concert in Washington Hall, Tuesday evening. The < entertainment was of a high quality throughout, showing a careful stud}'- of technique, a classic selection of numbers, and an exceedingly pleasing rendition. The strains of the National anthem began the evening. The overture “Lustspiel’’ was given by the finest orchestra r’ we have known in years at Notre Dame. Too much credit for its entire performance can not be allowed its industrious director, Mr. Dillon Patterson. The opening song, Grieg’s “Landsighting, ” was very'- effectively rendered. Perhaps tire gem of the evening was “The Sword of Ferrara,” which was characterized by nicety of finish, distinctness of enunciation and emphasis, and was given with spirit. -	. i
Jose Corona sang several well-appreciated ■■ solos. Mr. Corona has what is styled a Spanish tenor, and he is a capable and finished artist. a Walter O’Keefe, picturesquely costumed, gave “A Wee Bit. of Skotch.” To style him the Harry Lauder of Notre Dame were insufficient praise. He has a natural and unassuming stage presence that is pleasing, a good voice and skill as a monologist. Charles McCauley pleased with “Ten Minutes of Ragtime.” His dramatic singing of “Over There” was the best of his selections. He -is a gifted interpreter of the modern ragtime spirit.	|
The entire program was agreeable and well- -encored. The-Banjo-Mandolin Club was regrettably absent. If suggestions are permitted, a little variety in the offerings of the Club as a^ unit would not be amiss.	j
: ' -—-—■	;——	!
-	I
Obituary.	-
■ -	'	'	■	■	t
To Brother Owen, C. S. C., a member of the junior class, we offer our sympathy, on the	;
death of his mother, Mrs. Patrick Lynch,	|
Kalamazoo, Michigan. Although.;, her passing was rather sudden it was not s unprovided, for	i
all her life was she a model. Catholic. May , J her precious soul rest in peace.	/.
-	>	’	i
-	-	s
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	169
Personals.
—John Hanna, former student of the Engineering course at the University, is a machinist’s mate on the U. S. Ship. Michigan. •
—The United States' District Attorney’s office seems to hold a certain fascination for Notre Dame men.’ We have just received .the news that Elmer Whitty, old student and formerfootball player, is now an assistant U. S. district attorney.
•	J	.	...	•	*
—Clement E. Ulatowski (EE-B., ’11), former Varsity football player and later member ;of the Cubs, is now serving his country in the na^y. If “Clem” still retains his old batting . eye, he will surety send a good-many, .of the Kaiser’s torpedo pitchers to the. bench. .
—Eieutenant Joe Gargan of the U. S.. Marines writes from “somewhere in Erance” that he is in charge of a machine gun unit, and. hopes, to be sent to the front soon.. After, three years-of cheer leading at Notre Dame, going .“ over-the top’’ should be a matter of the least consequence to Joe.	(. ..	•	...	•
—Coach Andy Smith of. the University of-California football team' would ■ like. to bring Notre Dame out .there next year for a “real big game” and the year after to play us in Chicago. California claims .the. Pacific;coast championship, and knows where to look for. a worth}'- riyal.	......... ; .
-—Being a superb • quarter-miler has not satisfied, the ambitions of John Plant (E. E., ’14), ex-track captain of the Varsity, who has entered Rush Medical College. We feel confident that.no matter how much “Rush’’ there is in. it, we .will find our diminutive sprinter leading the field.	:	•	’
—The proposition that “Some lawyers are honest” has again been.proved in the case of Harold-Madden (EE. B., ’15). He is employed in the Trust Department of the Chicago Savings Bank and Trust Company. Your classmates and University friends wish you a rapidadvancement in your chosen profession, Harold.
—Some of the present generation on the’ campus have frequently - asked, ■ ‘ What has become of ‘Eefty’ Clerkin?” Eeonard was a student in Brownson Hall in ’i3-’i4, but is now pursuing his studies in St. Vincent’s High School, Akron, Ohio. : “Eefty” ’is starring in all branches of athletics , at St* Vincent’s; Perhaps he will return to us next year. (
—Forest Fletcher, star track man (’09-13), and member of the American track team that won the Olympic Games at Stockholm, is again serving his country on a foreign field. This time Forest is Sergeant in charge of the Washington . and Eee University Hospital. Corps which is now serving in France. We hope to see our old friend again on the winning team. ■.
.—The friends of Edmund Sylvestre (EE. B., ’17) will be interested in learning that he is now. serving his country “somewhere in France”. “ Eddy.” received a lieutenancy in the adjutant general’s department, and has been working, in Washington up to his departure for France two weeks ago.. Notwithstanding the fact that we can enjoy “Eddy’s” congenial smile only in retrospection, it is, nevertheless, gratifying to know that.another Notre Dame manis-mak-ing good in the service.	■	.
—Eieutenant E. A.- (“Nig”) Kane (C. E., ’14) is stationed .at Fort Eeavenworth, Kansas. > - Because “Nig” used to-keep Brother;Florian busy quelling disturbances in St. Joseph Hall, don’t for a minute imagine that “ Nig” is serving a sentence at the Fort. On the contrary he. is serving his Uncle Sam and longing for a cruise on the Atlantic,: with 'France as a destination.. If “Nig” gets a chanc.e to rough-house the Kaiser, Wilhelm will wish that Brother “Flo” was around to separate them. -
—We print the following interesting .extract from a letter received by Father. Foik from Bernard Voll, a graduate of last year and varsity debater, who is in the second Officers. Training. Camp at Fort Oglethorpe, Tenn.: '
Life in this camp is everything that you have heard about it and then some. From the attitude of‘ the commanders, it seems that they intend to eliminate -the physically unfit and those who lack the necessary stamina. I do not know, nor does anyone else, what is the status of each candidate; but one thing is certain,—I can stand it physically,- and I think I have the stamina also. N. D. gave me that * if I did not possess it before, so if I am eliminated it will be for some other reason.I have been in • the trenches thirty-six hours, eight of which I was in water up to my knees. . . This week we go into the trenches for three days and two nights, which will be the hardest test of all. Next to trench work comes guard duty—twenty-four hours of which I had in rain and cold. But with all its faults I like the life and mean to stay with it, if possible, to the end, when I, hope to continue my studies.	.
The best of luck to you, “Bernyl” With all 7 that Notre Dame “pepper” you can’t help but succeed.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC-
i7o
Dr. Bank’s Lecture.
Dr. Edgar Banks, the noted archeologist, gave an interesting lecture Saturday evening on ancient Crete. Knossos, capital of Minos the legendary king of Crete, and the famous labyrinth of the Minotaur, were thrown upon ‘ the screen exactly as recent excavations have revealed them. The love tale of Prince Theseus, the story of conflict with the Minotaur, the tragic home-coming of the hero and the suicide of his royal father, in connection with the recently unearthed scenes of these exploits, gave zest to a subject which might otherwise have been dry. • ---------------------------------
Noted War Chaplain Speaks.
Friday afternoon the student body attended one of the finest lectures ever given in Washington Hall. L’Abbe Patrice Flynn, Cure de Suresnes (Pres Paris) and Aumonier Militaire, gave an account of his experience in the great war. The patriotic French priest spent twenty-two months in the trenches as chaplain, and is at present touring the country in the interests of his government. From a heart overflowing with grief, yet without rancor, Father Flynn pictured the gay, indomitable spirit of his country—the heroism and faith of its soldiers. He expressed himself as feeling quite at home in America since this nation is now one with France. The Abbe described the havoc of war, the cities devastated, the armies fallen, but particularly the heroic sacrifice ' of the chaplains and Catholic soldiery of France. He told of the remarkable revival of faith over all the land; of soldiers dying like heroes and saints. He also gave a graphic ' picture of that epic conflict—the retaking of the outer forts of. Verdun. Following the lecture, Father Flynn exhibited views of trench life and of the French soldiers,—“my boys,” as he affectionate^ called them.
“The spirit of France” will no more be an abstract phrase with us at Notre Dame—we " have seen it personified. The sorrow over a stricken fatherland which still has room to forgive; the brave heart and the gay smiles in the face of death; the pathos that laughs with a voice shaky with tears; childlike faith and happy love—this is France. And L’Abbe Flynn had but to speak to us of what he knew to show us the throbbing heart of . France.
Notre Dame . Upholds Western Honors Again.
Before the ardor of Eastern critics cooled after the unlooked for defeat of the Army, the Gold and Blue slipped quietly back into Oriental territory and snatched another game a week or two ago, this time from the strong Washington and Jefferson team. Two victories in the East within twenty-two days is a record probably never before attained by any Western team.
The W and J game was a thriller from start to finish, with the outcome always in doubt until the last whistle. Notre Dame entered the game with her man power close to the minimum only to.be robbed of the services of DeGree and Rydzewski before the game had fairly started. Madigan and Sjine, fortunately proved most. ' capable substitutes, and the loss of the two stars looked like the incentive that rallied the remaining men to the supreme effort that resulted in a concerted drive down the field and a field goal that won the day.
When one considers that Notre Dame gained first down on but three occasions and that not a single forward pass of the three attempted was completed, it will be seen what a desperate assault the Gold and Blue waged in the third quarter to bring the ball to a point where Brandy could send it flying over the crossbar. The W and J team was by far the heavier, and weight counted more than usual on a field where chalk lines were invisible and broom paths in the snow indicated the yard lines.
From the beginning it was evident that W and J was out to win and they used every- . thing in their repertoire to gain an advantage. The game was scarcely under way before forward passes and peculiar formations were unpacked to disconcert, if possible, the invaders. Nineteen times they sent forward passes flying toward the Notre Dame goal, but so effective was' our boys’ defense that only a small fraction of that number were completed and the total yardage gained did not exceed fifty yards.
Notre Dame played a style of game adapted directly to her resources. Bahan steered the team from quarter, and acting under instructions did not try a forward pass in the forepart of the game, continually kicking on second or third downs. . The reason for the non-passing । attack was that Notre Dame had no-one who j could throw the ball accurately, andJMiller’s | constant gaining on every exchange of punts |
f
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC '
171
with McCreight was preferable to the uncertain advance by rushing the ball.
Notre Dame waited hopefully for the break that would give her any kind of a chance to score. Because Notre Dame had been billed as “the foremost exponent of the forward pass in intercollegiate football” was no reason why Bahan should hazard the ground gained by Miller’s punting and the brilliant tackling of the Notre, Dame ends and tackles behind the line of scrimmage.' At the psychological moment, however, Bahan attempted two aerial thrusts, and though neither was successful, they served to extend the W and J secondary defense sufficiently for Bahan and Brandy to execute the placement goal from the field. .That bit of strategy gave us the victory.
The daily press reviewed the gaime in detail. An example follows:	-
On a snow-flecked field and with, a frigid temperature prevailing, Notre Dame defeated Washington and Jefferson at football here this afternoon, 3 to o.
Brandy’s placement goal at the 34-yard line in the third quarter, with Quarterback Bahan holding the ball, constituted the only scoring of the contest, which . was the first ever played between these teams.
Neither team had any decided advantage at any time and after the first half it looked like a scoreless tie unless some "break” might occur that would provide an opportunity for the fortunate eleven. This "break” came in the third quarter, when a W & J man tackled Brandy after the latter had signaled for a fair catch in receiving McCreight’s punt. Once before the W and J tacklers, in their eagerness to down the man taking a punt, had hurled Brandy in his tracks when he threw up his hand for a fair catch.
The usual 15-yard penalty for the foul was given Notre Dame on the second occasion and the ball was placed in scrimmage on the W and J 25-yard line. Then Notre Dame endeavored to put into execution its much-vaunted forward pass attack, but the W and J secondary defense was alert and smeared two in succession.
THS KICK THAT DECIDED
Then Bahan cleared a little space at the 34-yard line for an apparent placement goal. Brandy had tried for a placement earlier in the game and it had been blocked, being a weak attempt. It did not look at all probable that he would succeed this time under the field conditions that prevailed, and with the W and J forwards always rushing through on kicks, but Brandy, who had distinguished himself earlier in the year, on the visitor’s first visit to the East by scoring a touchdown on the Army, stepped forward quickly when the ball was passed, and. sent the ball high and far between the uprights. The goal could have been kicked at the 45-yard line, as it had wonderful distance.
' Washington and Jefferson had much the better of the first half. It rushed the ball for three first downs -during this time, twice in the initial quarter and again
in the second period. In addition, it secured two first downs through fouls committed by the Westerners.
Notre Dame did not make a single first down in the first two periods and but three all told during the contest, these all coming in the third period, when it showed its one real consistent offensive.
BRACE COMES TOO DATE "
W and J braced toward the end of the game and registered two first downs in rapid succession, making two more than Notre Danie throughout the contest.
But the red and Black failed again to show any scoring power in its running attack and never seriously threatened the alien’s goal.	•
Washington and Jefferson started off like a winning team in the initial quarter. Notre Dame received the kickoff and was quickly forced to punt when it found an impregnable barrier in the Red and Black line. John Tressel, the WT and J right end, who was moved into " the backfield on the offense, jammed through a tackle for 7 yards after McCreight had run an end for four.
W and J mixed in a few forward passes with its running attack and carried the ball to the Notre Dame 40-yard line. Here Notre Dame held and forced a punt.
The Red and Black cut loose -with another display < of offensive strength early in the second period, registering another first down and ramming the ball through the line for steady gains, while an occasional forward pass was successful.	'	„■	'
But Notre Dame again halted the advance and, assisted by a 15-yard penalty meted out to Captain McCreight’s team, held off the Washington and Jefferson onslaught without being in serious danger. „
* CAPTAIN IS BANISHED
Then came an incident that came near proving disastrous for the Western eleven. At about the middle of the second period an official claimed he detected acting Captain Rydzewski, the giant Notre Dame center, in the act of striking a Washington and Jefferson player. Referee Crolius ordered the big Pole from the game. The visiting players and coaches protested . ' that Rydzewski had not struck an opponent, but had merely used his hands in a proper defensive manner.
The protest failed to stand, however, and Notre Dame was penalized half the distance to its goal, the ball being taken to the 21-yard line. Made desperate by the setback the Notre Dame team fought like " tigers on the defensive. A line play and two W and J forward passes failed to gain an inch .and McCreight tried for a placement goal at the 30-yard line, Quarterback Stobbs holding the ball.	'
The ball was picked up by Bahan, who ran it back . to the exact line where W and J had previously held it, the 21-yard line. .	'	„
The third period saw Notre Dame tearing into the Washington and Jefferson defense Tor the only consistent and sustained attack by either team during the entire contest. After receiving the kickoff W and J was forced to kick, McCreight getting off a very weak punt, which went, to Notre Dame in' midfield. With Bahan and Pearson carrying the ball most of the time and the quarterback calling his own signal two out of -three times, Notre Dame advanced fie ball steadily. Then W. and J‘ held and Brandy tried a placement goal on the 35-yard line. The Washington and Jefferson
172
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
forwards rushed through and blocked the attempt, x but Notre Dame showed itself a lucky team again by recovering for first down on the W and J 15-j'ard line.
COMES THE BIG CHANCE
Notre Dame opened up again with its slices off tackle and with Bahan carrying the ball until it had gone to the Red and Black 15-yard line. Here Henry and Stein got busy, and on two successive downs hurled back the Notre Dame backs for an aggregate loss of ten yards. An onside kick caught by Ruble brought the ball back to the 20-yard line and W and J kicked out of danger apparently.
But the foul in tackling the man trying to make a fair catch was disastrous and gave the Westerners their one big opportunity, which they took advantage of. W-and J had a heart-breaking piece of hard luck in the fourth period, which, if the "break” had1 gone the other way, would have given the Red and Black a touchdown and a victory.	'
Notre Dame in its own territory was stopped dead by the Washington and Jefferson defense and Miller went back’ to kick. Henry tore through the line .like a streak of lightning and blocked the punt. Three or four players of both teams rushed after the bounding ball, but a Notre Dame man managed to fall on it on its own three-yard line, with a half dozen Red and Black clad figures fighting desperately to get it.
Had W and J got the ball then, nothing outside a miracle could have prevented it from scoring.
VISITORS BEST KICKERS	•
About the middle of the fourth period W and J enthused its supporters by a fine display of forward passing. Taking the ball in midfield, McCreight began to shoot the leather forward on short lobs to Tressel, Carroll and Stein. Two successive first downs were made, and the visiting backs were literally standing on their heads, unable to fathom the play. W and J ' tried once too often, however, and lost the ball on downs when it failed to complete this play on the fourth down.	.
Notre Dame played a dilatory game toward the end, kicking on first down and merely staving off a score.
The Notre Dame line defense at times was brilliant, the tackles and ends particularly ploughing through and making tackles. The same was true of the W and J. tackles. In kicking Notre Dame had much the better of the argument, Miller’s punts gaining over Mc-Creight’s on almost every exchange.
Bahan featured in his running with the ball, while McCreight and Tressel were forward pass stars for the Red and Black. Stobbs was the most consistent ground-gainer for his team in a running attack. The game in detail follows:
FIRST PERIOD
Washington and Jefferson won the toss and'elected to kick off. Notre Dame defending the south goal. Pearson returned the ball five yards to the 25-yard line, Pearson ran around the W and J left end for five yards. DeGree of Notre Dame was hurt in the first rush and was 'forced to leave the game, the first he had , started in this year.' He was replaced by Madigan.
Brandy gained a yard at the other end, then fumbled
but recovered. Miller punted to Stobbs, who was thrown at the W and J 35-yard line. M'cCreight circled Notre Dame’s left end for four yards. Tressel made first down through Notre Dame’s right tackle on the W and J 47-yard line.	'
Ruble failed off Notre Dame’s left tackle. A forward pass through McCreight was incomplete. A forward pass, McCreight to’Tressel, gained six yards at Notre Dame’s left. Bahan received McCreight’s punt and was thrown by Henry on the Notre Dame 27-yard line. Pearson gained two yards at W and J’s left side, and Brandy gained three more at W and J’s right end.
McCreight made a fair catch of Miller’s punt on the W and J 30-yard line. Tressel made two yards at Notre Dame’s left guard. Zoia broke up a W and J forward pass. Miller received McCreight’s punt and was thrown on the Notre Dame 45-yard line. Bahan slammed through center for five yards. Pearson got three yards off W and J’s left tackle. Miller was held for no,gain in a plunge at center. Miller was hurried in his punt and sent the ball out of bounds on the W and J 30-yard line.
King tackled McCreight after the W and J captain had made four yards. Tressel, running from kick formation, got three at the Notre Dame left end. McCreight was stopped for no gain at Notre Dame’s right guard. McCreight in a plunge at the opposing left tackle made first down on the W and J 46-yard line.
Madigan hurled Ruble for a four-yard loss trying Notre/Dame’s right end. Washington and Jefferson failed on a forward pass. McCreight’s punt was taken by Bahan, who returned to the-Notre Dame 41-yard line. Miller punted to Stobbs, who made a fair catch on the W and J 35-yard line. Stobbs got three yards at center. Tressel ran the Notre Dame right end for three yards. End of first period. Score: W and J, o; Notre Dame, o.
SECOND PERIOD
A forward pass, McCreight to Carroll, made first down in midfield. Stobbs gained two yards in a dash at center. Stobbs tried to make a forward pass but was tackled for a four-yard loss before he could throw the ball. Brandy broke up a long forward pass. Bahan signaled for a fair catch on McCreight’s punt but he was tackled by a Washington and Jefferson man, and Washington and Jefferson drew a 15-yard penalty.
Pearson lost a yard trying Washington and Jefferson’s left side. Miller failed at the same spot. Stobbs made a fair catch of Miller’s punt on the Washington and Jefferson 36-yard line. Andrews broke through and tossed Tressel for a 12-yd. loss at N. D’s left end.
Zoia got Ruble from behind after a two-yard gain. McCreight’s punt was allowed to fall to the ground and it struck a Notre Dame player. Henry picked it up and ran to the Notre Dame 34-yard line. McCreight hit center for two yards. Stein dropped a perfect forward pass from McCreight. Tressel was tackled by a Notre Dame man before' he had caught a forward pass from McCreight.
Washington and Jefferson got first down where the foul was committed on the Notre Dame 40-yard line. Stobbs gained two yards at center. Tressel failed to gain running at Notre Dame’s left end. Acting Captain Rydzewski of Notre Dame Was put out of the game for
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
striking a Washington and Jefferson player and Notre Dame penalized half the distance to the goal, putting the ball on the Notre Dame 21-yard line.
Madigan, took Rydzewski’s place and Stine replaced Madigan at right guard. Washington and Jefferson did not gain in a line play and then failed at a forward pass. Another Washington and Jefferson forward pass failed. With Stobbs holding the ball, McCreight tried for a placement goal at the 29-yard line. The ball went short and Bahan carried it back to his 21-yard line.
Brandy ran the Washington and Jefferson right tackle for three yards. Pearson did not gain at center on a criss-cross play. On a kick play through center Bahan gained three yards. Miller made a wonderful punt when the ball was rolled back to him.
Stobbs ran the ball back to the Notre Dame 3S-yard line. Washington and Jefferson lost five yards on a forward pass, McCreight to Garbisch. Ruble gained nine yards on a second forward pass from McCreight.1 Stine broke up a Washington and Jefferson forward pass as the half ended. Score: Washington and Jefferson, o; Notre Dame, o.
THIRD PERIOD
• Philbin now acting captain of Notre Dame. Neither team changed its lineup. Madigan kicked off for Notre Dame. McCreight ran the ball back 15 yards from the five yard line. McCreight slipped off Notre Dame’s left tackle for .two yards. Bahan took McCreight’s punt to the W and J 45-yard line, a gain of ten yards.
Miller tore around the W and J right end for seven yards. Bahan gained two yards at center. Bahan made Notre Dame’s first down in a plunge at the W and J left Guard. Ball on W and J’s 32-yard line. Pearson gained two yards at the W and J left end. On a criss-cross play Brandy failed at the W and J right side. Stobbs broke up a Notre Dame forward pass:
Brandy’s attempt at a placement goal at the 40-yard line was blocked and Brandy recovered on the Wand J 38-yard line. Bahan broke through the W and J line for 15 yards and first down. Bahan again carried the ball, taking it four yards at W and J’s left tackle. Pearson gained two yards at the W and J right tackle.
Pearson made first’ down on the W and J 15-yard line. Henry tossed Bahan for a loss of two yards at the W and J left end. Miller tried a forward pass, but Stein got him for a five-yard loss before he could throw the ball.	.	.
Ruble got Bahan’s kick and returned it to the W and J 17-yard line. Brandy signaled for a fair catch on McCreight’s punt; he was tackled, and W and J drew a fifteen yard penalty, the ball being on the W and J 25-yard line. Brandy gained one yard at W and . J’s right tackle. A forward pass, Pearson to Bahan, was incomplete. Stobbs broke up another forward pass.
. With Bahan holding the ball at the 35-yard line. Brandy kicked a placement goal. Score: Notre Dame, 3; W and J, o.	.
Stein kicked off for Washington and Jefferson. Philbin received the ball and was thrown on the Notre Dame 33-yard line. Brandy went out of bounds for no gain. Third period ended. Score: Notre Dame, 3; W and J, o.
FOURTH PERIOD
Bahan gained three yards at W and J’s right side. Miller hit the same side for six more. Henry blocked Miller’s punt. Miller tore back and recovered on the four-yard line. Miller punted from back of his own goal. Stobbs ran the ball back to the Notre Dame 35-yard line.
Tressel slammed through Notre Dame’s left tackle for four yards. King dropped McCreight for a three-yard loss at the Notre Dame right end. Carroll caught a forward pass from McCreight and gained four yards. McCreight failed at a try at drop field’goal at the 33-yard line, the ball going over the goal line. Notre Dame put the ball in scrimmage on the 20-yard line.
Brandy failed to gain the W and J right tackle. Pearson was stopped for no gain at the W and J right end. Bahan, on a quick dive at the W and J left guard, gained two yards. King threw Stobbs in his tracks on the W and J 46-yard line, when he caught Miller’s punt. A forward pass, McCreight to Stein, gained six yards.
Stobbs jammed through center for a first: down. Tressel caught a forward pass from McCreight and ran eight yards. Stobbs garnered two yards more and a first down. A forward pass, McCreight to Stobbs, gained six yards. W and J failed on the next forward pass. Notre Dame broke up a forward pass.
Notre Dame took the ball on downs on its 22-yard line when a W and J forward pass failed.. Notre Dame failed in two plays at the line. Notre Dame failed for the third time, ‘Bahan carrying the ball. Miller punted out of bounds on the W and J 25-yard line.
McCreight’s punt was allowed to roll along the field, going to Notre Dame on its 22-yard line. Pearson was thrown on the Notre Dame iS-yard line when he caught McCreight’s punt, Stein throwing him back five yards when tackled.
Smith replaced Stein and Stein went in for Garbisch. Bahan got three yards at the W and J left guard. The same play on the other side failed to gain. Brandy was stopped for no gain at center, as the game was concluded. Final score: Notre Dame, 3; W and J, o. Hayes..__________________L	E------------------Carroll	.
Andrews__________________L	T-----------------Henry
Zoia_____________________L	G______________Wimberly
Rydzewski_________________C------------------;.„Guy
Degree..................  R	G________________Straw
Philbin.................R T____:_______:___Garbisch
King. ........i.......—R E-------------------Stein
B ahan....................Q------------------Stobbs
Pearson.'.______________L H----------------Tressel
Brandy :----------------R H.-----------------Ruble
Miller._________..._______F.-------------McCreight
Notre Dame______________________o o -3 o—3
Washington and Jefferson—.-.____b o o o—o
Substitutions—Notre Dame: Madigan for Rydzewski, Stine for Madigan. Washington and Jefferson: Stein for Garbisch; Smith for Stein. Goal from placement—Brandy.	Missed goals from placement—
Brandy, McCreight. Missed drop goal from field— McCreight. Officials: Referee—Fred J. Crolius, Dartmouth. Umpire—Harry S. Hammond, Michigan. Linesman—J. G. Durfee, Williams. Time of periods— Four of 13 minutes each.—Pittsburgh Dispatch.
174	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
All-American Teams.
By Paul Purman.
Of the Cleveland Leader.
Bolen, Ohio State____________________________ End
Von Heimburg, Navy.......................    .End
Cobb, Syracuse_________________________    tackle
Hauser, Minnesota...................       tackle
Sies, U. of Pittsburgh___________________   guard
Culver, Michigan___________________________—guard
Rydzewski, Notre Dame______________________center
Strupper, Ga. Tech____________________quarterback
Oliphant, Army._____■._____________________halfback
Harley, Ohio State_______________________halbfack
Berry, U. of Pennsylvania:^_________________fullback Honorable mention as of all-American calibre:
Andrews, Gipp, Brandy.	'
* * * -By Haze Clarke Of the Indiana Daily Times. FIRST TEAM	POSITION	SECOND TEAM
Royse, DePauw____________L E..,.......Risley, Indiana
Hathaway, Indiana________L T......Hannicker, Wabash
Julius, Indiana__________L G.......Bake, Rose Poly.
Rydzewski, Notre Dame.____C__________Pierce, Indiana
Ingles, Indiana__________R G......Bondurant, DePauw
Berns, Purdue____________RT_____Philbin, Notre Dame
King, Notre Dame_________„R E_______Minton, Indiana
Craven, Indiana____________Q—-_______Hume, Purdue
Brandy, Notre Dame........L H__________Allen, Purdue
Bahan, Notre Dame_________R H______Huering, Indiana
Hufiine, Purdue____________F..........Keever, Indiana
blew, and more calamity befell. After a brilliant stand on. their own two-yard line, from which >. thejr forced their opponents back and steadily j back until the ball went over on downs, their | punt, alas, was blocked, and the agile foe had 1 fallen on the ball behind the goal, and the' score | stood thirteen to six against my .team.	|
What happened now was in its way Homeric. | A quarter was up, but the teams—some inscru- t table ground rule, perhaps—did not .change I goals. Ten.minutes remained to play. In those | ten minutes, with the odds all against them, still ’ fighting into that twenty-mile gale and against i the storm of derision ■ which blew from the
victorious non-combatants, the weaker team stiffened, and plunged and plowed, gaining four yards here and six yards there, lining up with speed and snapping the ball with precision, ■with no trick plays but on straight football, twice in ten minutes they crossed their oppo7 nent’s goal line, and the game was won. There were no long runs, mind you; there was only a series of short, steady, consistent gains, without the waste of a minute of time. It was a triumph of brains and determination over time and tide, that bitter December wind might reasonably have chilled older and stouter warriors.
An All-American Finish.
BY WALTER CAMPUS.
»	The football season is now over: it closed
• Sunday afternoon on the Minims’ campus.
;	There was a game whose object, as lucidly
'	explained by one of the rooters, was to deter!	mine which of the two second teams was
second. In other words, it was a contest to >	pick the next-best team to the best, or, in still
,	other words, to establish the altogether second;	ary importance of the third team. Accordingly,
’	the game was one of prime importance. Alas
for its complete chronicle in history, the present '	writer missed the-flrst half. He. came upon a
।	scene of already developed conflict, the tides of
| v battle' swaying now this way, now that, the J	spectators as definitely cleft as were the opposing
|	factions on the field. There was no neutral
■ anywhere, and the writer, who came in the dispositions of an innocent bystander, soon ' found himself a raging partisan. He picked the team that was at a disadvantage, a strong east wind in their face and the score against f them, by one point, seven to six. The ill wind
There were no long gains, I have said, but it soon became evident that whenever the ball ; went for six yards or more it was carried by . the left halfback, a chunky Olympian who | couldn’t in all his life have seen more Than ten Decembers. Of course, there were other good players on both sides, but it was this battling halfback that led his battered teammates-down .the field, making the second of his I two touchdowns just as the whistle blew, the I triumphant whistle that blew his team into' I first place against all the winds that blew. | ' Of the rejoicing that followed, not even | Homer could fittingly write, and it- occurred to g us that if some of the bored and jaded reporters 1 and special writers of sports who are drawing | a comfortable salary by. describing the over- | coats they themselves wear at an All-American , g clash, it occurred to iis that even these hardened i survivors of their own youthful enthusiasms i might have known in the keen December, wind 1 that swept the Minims’ campus last Sunday £ afternoon a tingling reminiscence of a time i ..when some things.mattered, when perhaps even h football was real and worth while. .	I
Postcript: The name of the battling halfback i is, by the way, Smith.	..	dg

H
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
HARVARD ANO YALE WRANGLED So MUCH IN AN OLD GAME -THAT Wy HAD TO FINISH IT OUT 8Y MOONLIGHT
OVER THE CROSS-BAR . JT COUNTED AS A GOAL and won the game for Princeton .
KEE? MV 1 5E W-T “ ‘VON T
Yuh?
DILLON - o0he Carlisle Indians.
SLIPPED THE BALL UNDER THE BACK OF HIS JERSEY AND RAN !05 YDS To A TOUCHDOWN - BEATING HARVARD
NoTre dame has been fooling 'em this year with HELMETS MADE To LOOK LIKE A FOOTBALL	•
EXETER WAS BEAT
I5S-0 SY HARVARD
IN L383
FADS IN FOOTBALL. '
—The Commercial Advertiser, New York.
176
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Safety Valve.
More care has been taken this year in selecting the all-hall teams than ever before, owing to the high price of soap and the absence of steam in Sorin Hall. We have tried to be absolutely unfair in the selecting of the players as some of them were relatives of the selecting board. Let u’s say at the outset that Bernard Heffernan of Sorin, would have been our.first choice for fullback were it not that he is ineligible, having played three years on’the. Valve team. ‘ This year’s team is not an informal one like the' Harvard and
hand to distinguish him from Venus de quarter Milo.
Berra our centre is a buster of a boy. He is bulging out of his clothes on all sides and in all directions. He . is not very good at carrying classes, but could, we think, carry a football if it were tied to him. He is a very refined sort of hippopotamus and is as gentle as a locomotive. He might sit down in the middle of the field and’ refuse to play if he were tired but a little petting would bring him along. This is Berra’s third and last year on- the team.
- ’ J. Butler, better known as Mary, or Marie, or May, as you choose, is a’whale of a player. Aside from the
Yale elevens. It is very'formal, and the games played fact that lie’s the laziest player on the team and hasn’t ”	' enough to breathe regularly, he is a bright,
by these players will be formal affairs. Evening clothes like pajamas and bath-robes, however, will not be used, because the games will, be played in the afternoon. The new Prince Albert’ style of football suit will be the dress and the stove-pipe style of head-gear. The players of this team will treat the ball as tenderly as though it were a baby. They may caress it or pat it or embrace it, but far be it from these perfect beings to fall on the ball. The player must take the ball gently place it under the right arm, raise his hat to the tackle or guard through whom the play is supposed to go, saying, “pardon me” and proceed. Should his oppo-
got “pep”
fresh,—yes, very fresh boy with a mouth like a bath tub and a couple of piano-legs that could not be broken with an axe. • Nothing would please the crowd better ’than to see Mary going down the field carrying the football like a shopping bag and throwing kisses to all the spectators.
Mitchell Newgass, our right tackle would scare his opponent stiff. One look at his phiz would make the strongest player faint. He shaved last Labor Day and has been bragging about it ever since. He has the cutest little smile and his voice is like the gurgle of a
nent be so ungracious as to impede liis headway the rain pipe. Aside from being a good bunter and bean-
’ man carrying the ball may shake his finger naughtily at his opponent exclaiming, “Gracious me!”
bag artist, he can play dickery-dickery-dock. Mitchell,
Himebaugh, A			L E			.Walsh
Cook, N			L T..	  .		,... Walsh
Swift, Richard			L G					Sorin
Berra, H.				C				Brownson
Butler, J			R G				Brownson.
Newgass, M				R	T.			Brownson -
Scates, W.					RE:			St. Edward ■
Durnin, J____
Foohey, P____
Riley, E_____
Garibaldi, D..
..Corby ..Corby ..Walsh Carroll

L-H.
„F„.
take the ball and proceed.	.
From St. Edward Hall we have chosen Dicky Scates as end. He has been at the end of nearly everything in St. Edward for the last ‘.year. He is a sure tackler as far as we can judge from watching him tackle his meat at dinner.
Our quarterback is Mr. James Durnin. We call him mister because he is such a manljr fellow. He knows as much about: ;running a team as he does about running an airship1 or- a hair shirt and that’s going some. Mister Durnin refuses to call signals ’ because they remind; him’-pl his math class in which he bats 40%.
If hdHyould’-stay around the school long enough to get acquainted with the team he would be a marvel.
We^have Paul Foohey. of Corby placed'at halfback. P.	• 'at -	,	' '
He is .half -back? in. his classes and would find little and tackle spectators who happened Mo', be,' minding . trouble ifi doing1 the same in football. His ability, to their own business on the side lines. Our-one fear is fake punt, or .'to'fake anything else has led to our '
We have placed Adelbert Himebaugh at>left' end on
account of his fleet footedness. /He is',, a: veritable
butterfly who would sweep down the .field-bn - punts,
that we would not have sufficient bread arid ijam to’ ’choice. He has a viblet colored voicie and’ his honeyed feed this wing-man. A sandwich or pop-corn'vjvagKn
would be liable to distract Himebaugh in the middle of a play and he would leave the field never to return. Adelbert (a pretty name indeed) has already won the title of “Champion Rester of America.” He certainly can rest.	•
Nathan Cook has been placed at left tackle on account of his gall. This young pest would so annoy.opporing players that they would give up in> disgust; . He is - a
words fall’like mortar on the heads of his admirers. Once given the.balrhe would in all probability look at the quarterback and say “Why'don’t you send it by parcel post?”	-	•
E. Clark Riley an angel-face youth . with a head that looks like a sunburned pancake,; has been placed at halfback because when • the different rectors fired him out of their halls we had no other place left for him. He is such a sweet boy, with winning ways and kidney feet. He steps on his. neck when he runs, but other-
bright fresh boy with dark blue .eyes and a nose. His '
cute little face causes acute pain when one has seen.him wise he would be a darling halfback.
work it for five minutes.

Richard Swift would make a guard/e pluribus unum, sine qua non, sic semper. tyrannus’V He-uses his feet and hands well and his head would be good for stopping
And now .dear reader comes our fullback, Garabaldi of Carroll. His’speed has been the one factor that has
stood by him.-It certainly has stood. We never saw speed stand so long in one place before. His knowledge opposing players or something. He knows little about- . of handling monkey wrenches and pie plates is uncanny, football, but he certainly loves his' teachers, which. Once started with the ball he' would be liable to go to must be considered in these times of- war. Richard Elkhart or Goshen. He will carry a sewing machine comes from Sorin Hall and will carry a fan in his right on his left arm so as to be recognized by the spectators.