f CheNovre Same Schokisdc AdCepcisemenCg , .• - - ' / -
STYLE is like a table d’hote—its charm lies in a constant change of subject. Society Brand Overcoats are ready to go forth on the first Blustery Day. Nothing that is florid or flamboyant, nothing that is “too utterly utter,” but style models with that glove-like softness of tailoring and that* spruce simplicity of cut which compel admiration without seeming to court it.
Quality and Value are terms which have just become commercially fashionable. At this store they are not the fluting fashion of a season, but the Erinciple, policy and practice of a fe-time.
? Society Brand Suits and Overcoats, $35 to $100.	* . ..
ADLER BROTHERS
Notre Dame Athletic Store . Hany Poulin, Manager .	;
“ON THE CAMPUS”


f.
the Moure Same Scholastic Advertisements
Dr. Walter A. Hager
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT
Telephone BM 52
N. W. Cor. Lafayette St.	.	_ .. „ , T j
■nd Washington Avc.	Soiltil Bendy Ind*
..............- - ■■ ■ - ■»
Mike’s Restaurant
and Lunch Room
H. E. GROSS » SON. Props. '
105 E. Jefferson Ave.. South Bend	Home Phone 6183
Res Bell rr 63
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTIST	■
611-612 J. M. S. Bldg.	_	, T ,
Cor. Main st. and Wash. Ave.	South Bend, Ind.
4 ■■■■■■■■■■■■..........-	- - ■
Nobile’s College Inn
HEADQUARTERS FOR CANDIES , FRUITS AND ICE CREAM
STUDENTS’ ORDERS FILLED PROMPTLY
108 South Michigan Street
Phones: Bell, 602; Home, 965
Onia:	PHONES Rxsidxmcx: ■
Bell 886. Home. 5842.	' Bell, 3561. Home, 5702
DR. JOHN A. STOECKLEY DENTIST No. 511. Corner Suite	Wash. Ave. and Main St.
J. M. S. Building ~	. South Bend. Ind.
DR. F. W. VAUGHN SURGEON DENTIST ' and ORTHODONTIST
608 J. M. S. Building . South Bend, Ind.
“WALK-OVERS"
THE STUDENT’S SHOE WALK-OVER BOOT SHOP 115 S. Michigan St
Bell Phone 581	'	Will call at Uinrtrsity
Home Phone 2451	by afpoiaiauat
Chiropodist
L- L. ROBERTS
Office and Residence, aaa S. Taylor Street, South Bend, Ind.
«, ■■■■■■ ■ ■ .. . ■ ■ ■ ■ ... ■
With the Largest and Best Equipped Printing Plant in ' Northern Indiana, and the most skillful workmen, we are prepared to meet your most exacting requirements. '
L. P. HARDY CO.
417-433 & St Joseph st	South Bend, Indiana
Klingel & Kuehn
SHOES OF QUALITY
Between Oliver Opera House and J. If. S. Bldg. , SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
T5* f at Reasonable Prices. Special atteatica
Bicycles T
/	. . st. Sawara nan* Nctra iMac. -
Anderson Brothers & Bultinck
109 West Colfax Avenue	South Bead. Indiana ;
Baker’s Shoes “FOR MEN WHOCARET kkclubivs nr inu "ntunttT nr m 114 W. Washington, Ave. Strath Bend, Indiana
theF light of the vision
_ By CHRISTIAN REID
THE AVEMAR1A	- NOTRE DAME.IND.

Scholastic

DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER VICTURUS- VIVE- QUASI- d^XS-MORITVRVS
Vol. Mil.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, November 8, 1919.	No. 7.
The Hermit’s Song.
BY JOHN H. MOYNIHAN, 23.
^OME find joy in the organ’s solemn note; Some are captured by a harp’s refrain;
Some, on murmuring water love to dote, Or, on the melancholy mfisic of the rain.
Some say there’s rapture in a woman’s smile, Or laughter of a child in their delight;
But the melody that charms me all the while, Is the music of the silence of the night.
Last Thoughts of Kingsley.
BY ROBERT E. O’HARA, ’20.
I.
INGSLEY was my chum. Despite ten years of di:Terence in age, “Ninny” and I were most necessary to each other.
7 When with laggard steps he came out on the porch at almost bed-time, I used to tell * him fairy tales, in which I believed more truly than the young cynic for whom they were coined; and when King finally fell into a sleep full of dreams which I was to hear the next morning, I would carry* him up to bed. You may judge for yourself how intimate we were; and as his intimate, I feel that I may lie allowed
to give an impression of his character, which' making it for his birthday, in the middle of - may be done by,saying that he was a truly August, and now he would spend that day in - angelic little devil.	Pittsburgh.	/
$ We-had exciting adventures in those days; When we reached the swing, Kingsley became
the most famous, perhaps, being that ip which my host oh a trip by special train to Pittsburgh.
Kingsley killed a tiger, which tiger was none As we rode he pointed out the scenery in the other than I myself crawling over the floor . lordly way in which his father would have done . with a seal-skin , rug draped over me. Another it fora cubof myage. .	.
, notable episode was the one in which Kingsley, “Bye thebye, Mr. Kentland/’ I.said to him
■ having been put into the bath-tub at Kentland’s, as the train speeded smoothly, “ why are. you
? came bursting—quite naked and still dripping— going off to Pittsburgh, if-1 may ask the ques- f through the once trim hedge of boxwood which-, tion?” .	.	;
;	-	that occasion, I, , “Oh, those steel milis therehave beencontinu-
fourteen at the time and gallant, attempted to carry him back into the house for his sister. That was about the first time I had ever spoken to Kingsley at dose quarters. I saw much more of him after that. But all good times have to end.	: .
One July day, when he was six years old and I was just sixteen, Kingsley came over to tell me some news. He stopped when he came to the back fence, and announced shrilly:
“We’re going to go to Pittsburgh, Bob!”
“You are?” I replied. I wondered what the joke was to be this time.
“ Uh-huh, ” he responded; “ we’re going to go
to Pittsburgh, ’n your mother can have our grapes this fall.”
“When' are you going, young fellow?” Definite questions always procured grandly indefinite answers when “King” was fibbing.
“Next August,” he panted, as he. essayed valiantly but hopelessly to pull his fat body over the fence. I got out of the lawn swing where I had been sitting, went over, and made that evidently impossible feat unnecessary. After I had lifted him over, we walked in silence towards the swing I had just vacated. The news 4 rather shocked me, for I knew that ! would miss Kingsley terribly; and besides, another week would see completed that fleet which I was . carving for him out of some poplar .wood left over from the repairs on our house. I was




98	Nocre dame Scholastic
ally wanting me—and this time they made me an offer which was quite irrefusable.”
I knew then what Mr. Kentland senior was going to do in Pittsburgh as well as if that gentleman had told me himself. When Kingsley had apparently had his fill of scenery, he began to be a trifle restless.
“This is only one of my private cars,” he informed me. “There’s a diner on this special, too. Let me show it to you.”
I followed him into the diner, which happened to be our kitchen, where in his most lordly way, he directed me to sit down, and then ordered Charity to fill my pockets with ginger-snaps.
“Loahdy, Chile,” replied that busy person, “yo’all knows as well as Ah does wheah dey is. Yo don’ ’spec’ me to stop mah wuhk to get ’em foah yo’, does yuh? Mistah Bob, doan’ yo’ know no better’n to bring dis chile ’roun’ when Ah’s busy? Heah dey is; now run ’long, ’n’ doan’ bothah me no moah!”
We went into the library, which, as my host informed me while taking the ginger-snaps away from me, was the sleeping coach, and there he finally went to sleep, dreaming of Pittsburgh, and I carried him home.
II.
The first of August was a memorable day. I took King up to our attic, and showed him the navy which I had so laboriously carved for him, and which now seemed destined never to be launched upon the rollicking waves of the bath tub. Then we went down to the kitchen, where Kingsley made his last raid upon the ginger-snaps, submitted t rather gracefully to being kissed by Charity, my sisters, and my mother, refused calmly but very firmly the offer of a wash rag, and then went up to the attic again for a last look at the navy. He finally decided upon taking one of the boats along with him, picked it up and gripped it in his chpbby fingers as we went down the stairs.
I went home with ‘ ‘ King ’ ’ to say a sad goodbye to the.Kentlands. Presently they went outside, to say good-bye to my family,—all except Kingsley and me, who were left in the hall. With everything that had made it a home, even the furniture, gone, the house seemed' like a dead .
body. I knew, however, that the place would* never be anyone else’s; to; me it would always be Kingsley’s yard, Kingsley’s house, and his hedge. '	.
off the floor and hugged him, until he had quite lost his breath and I was panting, and then I sat down on the steps and cried like a big baby. Loath though he was to show any affection, he wormed his way into my arms and sat on my knee as I sat on the steps of the stairway, until the families had said their goodbyes, and were calling for him. '
“See you later, Bob,” he said in his most grown-up way, as he squirmed off my knee, “and don’t act like a little baby.” I laughed, picked him up, and rode him on my shoulders.
“You’ve got the right dope, King,” I admitted, “there’s no use crying over spilt milk.”
“Gid-dap!,” was his only reply. I took him out, set him down on the sidewalk, and when a street-car-came along my little friend “King” went away. I watched the car till it disappeared, and then went back forlorn. Somehow it seemed that this chum who had been so much to me had gone out of my life for good.
That evening I ate no supper; I hardly closed my eyes that night; and the next morning, I clipped the hedge with a dismal sense that there would be nothing to interfere with its future growth, no more a fat body to make gaps in its shapeliness. Up in the attic the navy still waited to be launched.
III.
Three years passed , and I had become a * Junior in college, when one day there came in a letter from home with the news that Kingsley' had been a victim to the influenza plague. I saw no stars in the-sky for nights after; instead there were Kingsley’s eyes, twinkling and laughing, grieving and brooding into mine. • Then I went home on a short leave.
*
I went up tp the attic, and there, in the midst of the unlaunched navy, lay a ginger-snap. A large bite was gone out of one comer, and it was as hard as stone. I still have that ginger-snap; -the oceanless navy still lies bn the floor of the attic. Those two relics are all that I have to remind me of Kingsley, for the gaps in the hedge are grown together. There is a star, too, from which Kingsley always seems to look at me—and then there is one other reminder: out in the garden is a little grass-rimmed stone slab, . ’on which at one,time were painted the words: \
A’-/:-A KITTEN - ' /'	•	'
WHICH KINGSLEY LOVED -
' -? .	/ AND. WHICH .<■ : -
■	'	' DIED.	.
^eNonvdcnnedcholascic
99
Theodore Roosevelt. •-
BY EDWARD W. GOULD, ’23.
The
American people are just now, with
characteristic tardiness, beginning to appreciate the late Theodore Roosevelt. Too few of our citizens realized the value of his opinion, but these few saw that he was the pre-eminent . American, the only American who could fully and forcibly express the will of his people. His death was untimely because he was still fighting—he died with his boots on. Most of the details of his long career will be quickly forgotten, but the imprint of his character on American affairs and ideals will last as long as the memory of Washington and Lincoln.;
When he succeeded the wise, gentle, and cautious* McKinley, he suffered by the comparison. The American people feared that . . wisdom was to give place to inexperience and rashness, peace to war. They imagined him a war-mad, blood-blinded militarist. Then he reassured them by his willingness to accept counsel and advice. Upon taking the presidential chair he had to overcome the impression the people had of him. They saw him only as the leader of Rough Riders in the bloody combat at San Juan* Hilt; they imagined him striding to and fro in the East Room in full uniform, the medals on his chest tinkling in tune with the rattle of sword and scabbard. He had created his ideal and had clung to it with amazing tenacity, and because of this his fellow-men-immediately misunderstood, shook their heads wisely, and agreed that he was impulsive and . hasty, ill-balanced and intractable.
He was called dangerously impetuous, but it would seem that he was thus described simply - because he had no regard for governmental, red-tape and stupid tradition. An instance of this was his demand for the immediate return of the American soldiers who lay in the trenches before Santiago, threatened with the deadly yellow fever. While in public service he always maintained his independence, no matter what political pressure was brought to bear upon him. He showed his natural quality of leadership . when he secured the confidence of the older and
too ready to declare him in a rut. We fail to distinguish between a man in the rutand Jones, _________	the grind l have infinite admiration for jones. .more experienced men of his party in the He has patience. He travels slowly. but.he
1	.	gets'somewhere. He is a ceaseless workerrather
For a considerable time after he bolted the than a “brilliant. We ought to have fewer men Republican convention in 1912,.. he seemed to in the rut and more grinds.
■ , have lost his grip oh the American people but Yet to many. of us the prospective- job of
retained his prominence by his frequent and masterful contributions to our leading magazines. It was not until the Great War broke out in 1914 that his voice again became the dominant note in American public life. He directed his . literary efforts against the German government, and his' attacks reached a. climax upon the sinking of the Lusitania. He then turned his -attention to the Administration at home ahd it was his powerful articles more than the finely phrased orations of Wilson that swung our nation into line with the forces of the Allies. But some of the American people still disregarded his wisdom and foresight, and mistook, his ' solemn warnings and thunderous denunciations for the rumbling of the surf on Oyster Bay.
Not until death had overtaken him, not until he had fought his last battle did he receive the full measure of appreciation that he sc richly deserved. The world, now joins with -America in mourning the loss of a great and just man, the modern Justinian and Belisarius in one.
}

Routine.
BY FRANK E. DRUMMEY, ’21.
Many of us would escape routine. We are abhorrent to it. We have in the choice of our curriculum shunned anything that pertained to monotonous regularity. We delight in nebulous speculation, in romance and sensation. Well we know that a life of thrills and mundane success is not without lure. But often we forget that treasures are stored in an unpainted, unglamoured life- of toil. .
Not that the man who puts himself in a rut and stays there is to be commended.* The . man in the rut only slides. He never goes up; . always he is in danger of dropping lower. Routine has made the man in the rut a slave. But we are apt—too apt—to delegate worthy men, to the rut class. We know that Jones studies much, goes out little, says little, is not brilliant, and is limitedly known, and we are


A

$ I

IOO
Moure dame Sdiokwria

!?


teaching, with its inevitable monotony, is loathsome. The conception of working day after day in a factory is -impossible; while the mere thought of a life like that of the section “hand” is not to be entertained. If we, however, in the mad fight to achieve this chimerical freedom from routine, would only stop to think, we would see that routine- is inevitable. We would see and know that God in His perfect creation made order and system the law of the universe as well as the road-bed of human progress. His spheres move on schedule. In three hundred sixty-five days the earth circles the sun; twelve times a year the moon’s full face is visible. Time itself, that absorbing mystery, -is the music by which the world moves. Half of each day is given to darkness and sleep. Winter, spring, summer, autumn pass in unvarying rotation. Everywhere is routine.
Let us inquire into our daily lives. Where can we look without having routine stare back at us? The good farmer gets up, works, and goes to bed with the sun. The young factory . worker “rings in” at seven and “out” at six. How long would the prosperous grocer keep t prosperous if his hours of business were not regular? How long would a doctor be trusted if -he were erratic? How far would a lawyer’s nerve take him if he did not plod? What talented singer or popular actress is there that has not the recollection of long strenuous hours of practice? Glance .even into the daily life of the President; it runs on a definite schedule.
■ Like work, routine is the law of our lives. To fight it is useless. We ought rather to adopt it and make our lives conform to it. On the framework of routine let us plaster our habits— good habits. America’s. greatest psychologist _ .	said that we should consign the ordinary affairs of
our round of existence to habit so that our minds might be free for more intellectual work. In

Ah promise you, really ah do, nevah moah will other words, let us accept routine. Let us form. I roll dese. babies agin. An’ Mistah Ghost, habits of regularity. Let us transfer from our heah am mah' winnin’s.”
In all haste the colored feUbw laid put the
conscious to our sub-conscious minds the burden
{jT
of daily duty. Many of us will-remain poor, gains of the night,^the. gains in .which he had -Many of us will do the.plain work of the world taken, so much: pride and found so much joy.
: that -must be done. All of us seek or shall seek He was still takingthecoins from his pockets that illusive thing—happiness. He. who. seeks when there came a ioud crash behind and rinse -
. happiness in immunity from the world’s routine to him. Whether the .wind, now quite strong, will some day feel chagrin..He who conquers, had blown downa dead limbi 'or whethera.
. with routipe his:tool, will, after many trials, company of ghosts were opening'; an attack, t . ~find real happiness. Forhappiness comes from Jasbodid'.'notfsta^Fasterthan wind _ within. •	~ ^or ghost was;his flight hbnte^
ofdaily duty. Many of us will remain poor
- Jasbo’s Ghost.
BY H. W. FLANNEY, ’23
Jasbo was on his way home in high spirits; he had been the winner at dice that night at Rastus Herrman’s Cafe. The joyful jingle of the money in his pockets, accelerated by Jasbo’s fond fingering, was as the lullaby of his “Mammy” in the days of his childhood. Small wonder that Jasbo, with such distraction, gave little attention to where his feet were leading him. Under such circumstances feet often go astray, and this night the pair that belonged to Jasbo wandered into the very center of Coon Hollow Cemetery. The “darkey’s” whistle had changed to a low song:	-
“Stabs ah in de sky, '	.
De boids ah sleepin-in de nests;
. Close yo little eyes and Lay yo haid on Mammy’s breast. ' Yo Mammy is—”
There was a rustling of the leaves behind; the song, the. walk, the jingling, the joy,—all ceased oh the instant and a chill ran up Jasbo’s back. His eyes opened wide and showed him. where he was. Arpund him bn all sides stood the white tombstones and the trees in their gaunt, grotesque forms. Here and there a bush sighed sadly in the wind. But the tombStones were not all tombstones to Jasbo; he saw white-robed figures, some of which stood with extended arms to receive him. There were the shudders of the ghosts, and low whispers, the noises of the leaves and the bushes in the -breezes of the night; an owl added its note to the weird concert ; and a weasel rustled through the leaves',; bn its midnight outing.
In fright Jasbo fell upon his face before one of the stones that marked a grave: “Oh, Mistah Ghost,” he cried, “ mahcy on mah soul!
'Sfie Nocre dameSdxjkMdc
ioi
The Sheep.
BY EDWARD MCENIRY, ’23.
JHE incessant roaring of it, ’ And the deaf’ning clamor of it
Sickened him.
All day and night,
All hours.
It" never, ceased,	■	-
And yet, he was in its midst, Nbt on his own account. Not that he was willing:	.
Only because, they called him, He went. "	.
A few men	-
Armed with papers
And pens
And brass badges	'
There was a whistle* and the brown figures At his side '	■	. -	- ’	/
Leapt to the top of the wall, :	...	.
Shouting,	•	.
With blood-lust in their cry. : Not so he.	.	‘
Instead, to the darkest recess of a* cave - - : He-crept, -	.	.	.
And crouched,	.
And listened,	.	-
And he trembled.
It was there they found him, Still trembling.
Drove
him to it.
In six And a
short weeks were the trenches, scrawny boss:	■	.
Not the good old boss,
• The Irishman Burke, But a blond little rant With a spiked mustache And white hands. At first	•
He did his old work. The digging of a trench. Not the old trench that he knew. But a deep one
That afternoon, - - •	,
There came down the road	.
A group of men:	-
He was in their midst Thinking that this was only More marching—	.
That was all it meant to him, anyway. Just marching	.	.	.
And digging.	’
Out they trod ’ .	'
Till theyjcame to a rain	—
Of a little building .	. .
With a blank wall. , Against this he was faced. At this point he,began to wonder. But before his. sluggish thoughts Began to group themselves, Eight shots rang out as one.	’
And
wide
With tunnels in the sides And many comers. .
" But soon-	”
They put a. rifle
And- a beautiful Dawn appeared. ■
And a In, his
wicked'looking piece of steel hands.
The squad lowered their guns To see him lying bn the ground, A shattered mass of flesh, And he trembled, And died. .'
. It was
at this time
. That his only pal Nocolai, the Finn, _	-
Was removed from beside him, - Obliterated, .
Strewn to the winds, ’ By a loud blinding noise..
:	That thought stuck in his mind
All night ;
. And he trembled.	'
Varsity Verse.
- One dawn he was roused • • By a thunderous increase "
In the roaring, of it	-
" - And the deafening clamor of. it.
He had been in it z
Long enough to know •	. ..
That this loud hue - : ‘
' Meant the return of men; ..-
. Ghastly,'	-	<<-
- ..Groping, .	.7 .	.
. . Crawling, .
A Bloody men,	. J '
- And he trembled.’ . . : . . >
•. • - Time Out. '	.
My watch has been left at the hockshop, To get me nine dollars in doUgh, I’m not sure just when I will see it. But here’s why. I let it go. '	.
_■_ _	• _ - •	-	- * f _
I’ll see" the team whip Indiana, It surely will look good- to me, . .
And when I.collect all. my bettings, . My watch will codie back, to me.—
Philosophers. -
' So near and- yet so/far, .	-
Notre Dame and St. Mary’s are, . And the freshman being-of course a jay
-Hears this with great.dismay.'	.
The . seniors, juniors and sophomores, too. Realizing.that they cannot undo .	'
. This verymournfulsituation
? Simply regardit with sober contemidatibn.—». K; '
r
,2
*■

Moure dame Scholastic
102
Little Rose Arore.
BY LEO L. WARD, *20.
That bright, cool, summer morning the whitehaired figure hobbled through the low door of his Kerry mountain cabin with more agility than - usual, and his face was radiant with more than the flooding sunshine. He smiled now and then as he sat thoughtfully smoking his great, strange pipe. Finally he awoke from his delightful dream-journey back to the days of youth, and looked down curiously into the valley below. Half way up the mountain, which was on this side a gradual yet rather steep incline, carpeted here and there with the mountain grass, scrambled a little group of children. All of them were clothed in white, and the little group gave an additional touch of tenderness to the morning beauty of the mountain. The old man smiled tenderly and a mist overcast his bright blue eyes. Rising to his feet, he stood watching the little . white party struggling toward his cabin. Then he sat down again on the humble bench beside the cabin and wiped a tear from his eye with his big blue handkerchief. As if by force of habit, his withered hand made a slow, reverent sign bf the Cross, and he raised his saintly face toward Heaven as he softly murmured, “God bless their sweet young souls.”
This venerable saint had lived in the solitude of this mountain home for twenty years. Throughout the valley the old Irish folk loved to tell their children of the goodness of Unde Dan O’Leary, who lived on the mountain so that he might be nearer to God. He had lived in the valley many years before, but in one of the valley’s historic storms he had lost his good wife and his three little children. Since then he had ' forgotten the world and consecrated himsdf in prayer and meditation to Him, who, as Uncle Dan himself said, “could care for them iver so much bither thin mesdf.” Hence it was with pious gladness that the good Irish mothers often saw their children clamber up the mountain to spend a few happy hours listening to the did Irish fairy tales and the stories of Saint Patrick told them by Unde Dan. .
Of all the children of the valley Unde Dan loved best the beautiful little Rose Arore, daughter of Michael Shaughnessy, who was doubly proud of his daughter because of Unde Dan’s fondness for her. It was Rose that always sat on the old man’s right knee when he was
telling his magic stories, it was Rose that could stroke most tenderly his long, silken hair, and it was Rose that he kissed first and last when his little visitors came and went. When Uncle Dan had left the valley for Heaven, Father Burke and others often asked, “How would little Rose remain? for she was truly a flower growing daily in the love-gardens of his saintly heart.”
Today the old friend of the children, who to them lived at night among the very stars, was more eager and happy than ever to ^welcome the little white-dad joys of his heart. Yet there was at the same time a strange feebleness in his step as if in his sanctity he had forgotten the earth so completely that he seemed but to be waiting to walk the ways of Heaven. Finally the breathless little group scrambled over the last rock to the feet of Unde Dan. But his smile soon changed to wonder when he saw the tears in their eyes. “What be the matter, children?” and his kind voice was kinder than ever. Between their sobs he learned that “last night there was another awful storm, and this morning our little Rose is dead.” Uncle Dan only sank back against the cabin and smiled a peaceful farewell to his little friends before he started up the paths of Heaven to find his little Rose Arore. - '
The Heritage of Notre Dame.
BY MARY E. SULLIVAN	.
•	(.Student in Summer School.)
(Reprinted from the Grail for September, 1919, by permission of the editor.)
Now in these reconstruction days as during the worldwar, the most momentous of all history, every material thing has special significance and appeal. But what is so significant and so appealing to all humanity asT the flag for which,the soldier fights, and bleeds and dies? Every nation pays homage to its flag for it is the symbol of patriotism and the ideals of its people. At home, at sea, in foreign lands its citizens hail it as a sacred thing. In time of danger men rally to its defense. At very sight of it hearts thrill with renewed love and reverent -awe. After victory in a great cause, a tattered emblem • of heroic deeds and loving sacrifice is brought home to be doubly hallowed in the hearts of men.
One of the most interesting of such historic relics is to be^een in the art gallery of Notre Dame, for as in every land and every treasure-house of art, battle-scarred flags are preserved as sacred relics, so here at hallowed Notre Dame. This flag, however, is not. our own Red, White, and Blue; it is not the tri-color of France, nor the banner of Old England. It is the same'Irish flag rare in' fabric, torn by shot and shell, which the colorbearer carries so proudly beside “Old Glory” in Paul -Wood’s famous picture, “Absolution Under Fire,”
7V'
'Sfie Noure dameSchokwuic
103
hung in the same gallery. It is the banner under which the gallant boys of the Irish Brigade fought to save the American Union on the historic field of Gettysburg. The picture shows the men massed in columns of regiments, with the wounded and dying lying all about, and in the very whirlwind of the battle, kneeling to be absolved.	-
We turn from the painting to examine the real flag of the Brigade. A golden hafp and many sprays of delicately shaded shamrocks, evidently embroidered by loyal women fifty years and more ago, adorn it. One can easily imagine how intimately patriotism and devotion were woven into the dainty stitches which display, besides the harp and shamrocks, the following memo-
rial,—
" Presented by the citizens of New York to the 63rd New York Volunteer Regiment, Irish Brigade, Brig. Gen. Thomas Francis Meagher commanding, in’grateful appreciation of their gallant and brilliant conduct on the Battlefields of Virginia and Maryland in the war to maintain the National Domain and the American Union. November, 1862.”	,
We learn that the Irish Brigade was composed largely of volunteer recruits from New York City, that it had the greatest number of Catholic chaplains, and that they followed the men into every fight. Again turning our attention to the flag we read “Fredericksburg, Chattanooga, Yorktown, Fair Oakes, Gaines Mill, Allen’s Park, Malvern Hill, Antietam,” important battles fought by the Brigade prior to the presentation • of the flag.
The memorial fittingly enclosed in embroidered wreath of laurel recalls to mind the brilliant record left on the pages of American history by Irish patriots. The record testifies that there were six Irishmen among the authors of the Declaration of Independence and eight Irish signers to it, among them the patriotic Charles Carroll of Carrollton. We remember the thrilling stories of the lrish at Bunker Hill; of John Barry, the first commodore and hero of our infant navy; of the martial ardor of Col. Anthony Wayne and Col. Stephen Moylan, aid-de-camp to Washington and leader of the fearless Moylan Dragoons. Thus our thoughts flow on in vivid dreams of real history. In them we see Irish blood flowing in copious streams through all the wars' America has waged. .
In the Civil War there rode forth the gallant Col. Mulligan and the dashing Gen. Phil Sheridan, “the whirlwind with spurs.” The last officer killed in that deplorable war was an Irishman, the brave Gen. Thomas Smythe. He fell near Appomattox but a few ■ hours before Lee’s surrender.
' The courageous Enright was the first American soldier to lose his life in the world-war. He is one of the thousands of boys of Irish ancestry who went "over there” to fight for democracy and freedom.' Patriotism and true citizenship have been the keynote fonlrish-' Americans in the past, and are their inspiration in the present. The same high' enthusiasm that impelled
brave Irishmen to come to America has thrilled their descendants in the great struggle to conquer autocracy. -
America championed the cause of the oppressed and, fired with zeal and steady purpose, her brave sons . marched off to prove that no small country, whose sons = love her better than their lives, shall ever be hopelessly
vanquished. The sons of Irishmen were among the two million, one hundred thousand American boys carrying the standard of democracy and freedom. They were on and behind the battle-front in Italy and in France. There, true to the traditions of their forefathers, they held precarious positions and rushed into . battle with magnificent audacity. They fought to win and they battled desperately to bring our flag safe home to us.	-
The loyal sons of Notre Dame, students and priests alike, be their ancestry what it may, set an inspiring example of. true patriotism. They prove convincingly their belief that love of country comes next to love of God. They are, indeed, the kind of men who, “ere they .
' fight kneel down to pray.” They are men who feeY
that Belgium’s' day and Ireland’s " day of reconstruction dawns”; they are of the sinew and fiber of the great American nation, “the arbiter of the world’s destiny defining the terms of lasting peace and democracy, and . the rightful independence of the small nations.” -
Accordingly, next to “Old Glory” the tattered Green Flag consecrated with the "Stars and Stripes” at Gettysburg, a symbol of faith in God and of martyrdom in a great cause, is now and ever will be sacredly treasured at Notre Dame. Meanwhile America, mindful of the past, in her companionship of the oppressed . will not overlook the just cause of the island across the . sea. America must and will demand for her fair play and humanity.
In the present thrilling days when we greet our boys . in khaki and in blue returning from the fight "for an honest world in which nations keep their word; for a world in which man is held more precious than the state,” when patriotism is the keynote of our every word and act, we look expectantly among the treasures of Notre Dame for other manifestations of patriotic . zeal: Nor are we disappointed in our quest. Entering Administration Building we see a Service Flag containing two hundred and ninety-three stars, many of which have turned to gold.
Surely this great university has contributed its quota of loyal sons who promptly cast aside long-cherished ambitions, and hurried to the front when they heard the urgent call. Priests as well as students responded with good will. Nine Fathers of the Holy Cross, true to the ; heritage of Notre Dame, le^ this peaceful scene to \ serve as army chaplains,—Rev. Matthew Walsh, vice- . president of the university, Rev. Ernest Davis (gassed). Rev. Charles O’Donnell (who served in France and Italy), Rev. John McGinn, Rev. Edward Finegan, Rev. George Finnigan, rector of the seminary. Rev. Frederick McKeon (served in Porto Rico), Rev. James O’Brien, Captain (still in the army). Rev. George
Sauvage, exiled from France during the period of religious persecution, and for twelve years instructor, in Holy Cross Seminary at ‘Washington, D. C., had. returned to Europe for the first time and was visiting' Switzerland when the war broke out. He entered the French army, did long and valiant serviceas a soldier, was commissioned an officer, and acted also as a chaplain -whenever occasion and circumstances required his services as such. .	. -	. /
Eight Notre Dame priests served as chaplains in the J Civil War. A monument erected to the memory of one bears witness to his heroism. It is the imposing Corby



Will
a®
104
'Sfie Howe domeSchokwcic I ’
i■
i
!SJ
ir_ tf
iS
HL
statue on the campus in front of Corby Hall, Samuel Murray, sculptor. The striking picture, "Absolution Under Fire,” in the Art Gallery, Library Building, portrays the same historic incident.
The statue represents Father William Corby, C. S. C., for four years chaplain of the Irish Brigade, Army of the Potomac, in the Civil War half a century ago. This famous Brigade fought in’ all the important battles of the East from Fredericksburg to Antietam and at , Gettysburg. The bronze figure of Father Corby stands on a rock brought from the field of Gettysburg and is a replica of the statue erected to the soldier-priest on that historic field, Oct. 29, 1910. With uplifted hand, he is seen administering general absolution on the second day of the great battle.
On Friday, Oct. 28, 1910, addresses were delivered in Xavier Hall, Gettysburg, by Rev. Walter Elliott, Paulist priest of the field of Gettysburg, and by the Very Rev. Father Cavanaugh, C.S. C., then president of Notre Dame. Father Cavanaugh offered the opening prayer at_ the unveiling of the statue on the battlefield the next day.	•
- "The replica on the grounds of Notre Dame was unveiled and blessed on Memorial Day, 1911.” The address was delivered by the Very Rev. John P. Chidwick, famous chaplain of the ill-fated Maine. It is interesting to note that Father Corby lived until Dec. 28,1897, and was laid .to rest in the little cemetery beyond the lake at Notre Dame.
The painting, “Absolution Under Fire,” is the work ■ of Paul Wood, a protege of Gregori, who lived at Notre Dame for twenty-one years and executed the beautiful mural paintings in the church of the Sacred Heart. Wood was a promising young student greatly admired ' by Gregori. He was killed in a- hotel fire in Chicago before the composition of a picture which, he considered, would be the grert achievement of his life. It was to represent Rev. Father DeSeille, C. S. C., partaking of .	the Holy Viaticum at the altar rail in presence of a tribe
of Indians. -	'
Maj. Gen. Clair Mulholland, then a colonel in the Irish Brigade, thus describes the scene depicted in "Wood’s picture, “Absolution Under Fire,”—
“The scene was ihore than impressive; it was aweinspiring. Near-by stood a brilliant throng of officers who had gathered to witness this very unusual occurrence, and while there was profound silence in the ■ ranks of the Second Corps, yet oyer to the left, out by the peach orchard and Little Round Top, where Meade and Vincent and Hazlitt were dying, the roar of the battle rose, swelled, and reechoed through the woods, making music more sublime than ever sounded through cathedral aisle.
\ - “ Father Corby stood on a large rock in front of the Brigade. Addressing the men, he explained what he
... was about to do, saying that each one*could receive the - benefit of the absolution by making a sincere act of contrition' and firmly resolving to embrace the first opportunity of confessing his sins, urging them, to do their duty, and reminding them of the high and sacred nature of their trust as soldiers, and the noble object for which they fought. The Brigade was standing at 'Order Arms!* As he closed his. address, every . man. Catholic and non-Catholic, fell on.; his knees
. with his' head bowed down, . Then,, stretching his
right hand towards the Brigade, Father Corby pronounced the words of absolution.
" I don’t think there was a man in the Brigade who did not offer up a heartfelt prayer. For some, it was their last; they knelt in their grave clothes. In less than half an hour many of them were numbered with the dead.” Who can fail to imagine the peace of soul of those gallant gasping boys as they yielded their souls to God? How sweet to them the thought, “I have been absolved.”
Naturally, the traditions and records of that -great day at Gettysburg have special significance for the men of Notre Dame. With such a heritage of heroism and devotion it is not strange that during the crucial, days of the world-war they throbbed with patriotism and marched off eagerly to fight for the freedom of the world.	-
Thoughts. „
BY JUNIORS.
A pessimist is a man who wears a belt and suspenders at the same time.
If you do not believe in the “grind”, consider how the finest flour is made.
Aman’s character is often reflected by his opinion of the world in general.	.
One type of pest is the fellow who is never missed because he is always present.	.
Green students may envy the trees, which lose their verdure so quickly in the fall.
We all hope to be remembered after we are dead, -but few of us could say for what.'	'
Would it be worth while to the world if it could have you live your life over?.
The last thing a man doubts, whereas it should be the first, is his own judgment.	-	.
‘ The drama of life, like other dramas, has its stage hands playing their necessary parts unnoticed. .	-
One wild did not know why British soldiers are called red-coats, might find explanation on most any page of Irish history. .
Greater happiness is achieved in giving up the things of this world than in getting them. ’ '	.
It is not unexeeptionally true that “Where there’s a will there’s a way”, as many Bacchanalian throats .will testify.. . z
Of the three hundred “Day-Dodgers” there are not more than two. hundred and fifty who claim one of those , rooms , in the. renovated wing of Sorin. ... .	. \	.
r



$fie Nocre domeSdickwincr
i?5
DISCE-QVAS1-SEMPER-VICTURUS VIVE QUASI- CRXSMORffVRVS
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
VOL. LIII.
NOVEMBER 8, 1919.
NO. 7-
Board of Editors.
William C. Havey, ’20 Charles A. Grimes, ’20 Cornelius Palmer, ’20 Thomas H. Beacom, ’20 Alfred N. Slaggert, ’21 Arthur'B. Hope, ’20
Francis Farrington, ’20
Robert E. O’Hara, ’20 Paul- Scofield, ’20 Thomas J. Tobin, ’20 J. Sinnott Meyers, ’20 Paul R. Conaghan, ’20 Leo L. Ward, ’20
William H. Robinson, ’20
Secretary of War Newton D. .Baker recently announced that the War Department' has completed its plans for the re-institution of the
Reserve Officers Corps . in Military Training the colleges and universities in the Schools. of the country. In addressing the undergraduates of Lehigh University, at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, Mr. Baker said, “The institution of these units in the colleges of the country will greatly aid in putting America in a position to preserve peace by rendering evident our power to resist' aggression.” He paid tribute “to the glorious part played by the colleges of the country in the recent struggle.” ‘‘ More thap fifty thousand of our Army and-Navy officers in this war were drawn from the one hundred and fifty institutions of learning.” In conclusion he said: “Discipline will here be taught the young men.
we may very possibly come into conflict sooner or later, despite the proposed covenant of peace, and now is the time to prepare for such a struggle. The college men will be the ones chosen to lead the American- people in future * war, if it comes, just as they are to-day the trained leaders of the citizenry. .Hence we hope to see these units promptly established in all the colleges of America. The result of . training will be a stronger manhood, a better " citizenry and a more secure nation. Whether -we are to have more war or not, a strong national life is the foundation <of national success.—j. s. m.
The assistance of Americans, and especially of. American college men, is being asked in behalf of the writers, artists, and scientists of Russia.
Revolution and the rise of Aid for Russia. Bolshevism have wrought great injury upon them.
Many have been driven as fugitives from their homes and deprived of the means of subsistence; not a few have suffered violence and death at the hands of the Soviets. Such conditions should, appeal to the charity of everyone who is a. friend of the Russian people and of their culture to do what he can for these oppressed ones in their extemity. A society has recently been formed in this country for the purpose of rendering material and moral aid to the Russian-men and women of letters and science who are suffering as a result of the chaos and persecution in Russia. The concrete aims of this organization is* to bring many of them to America, to find employment for them in our universities and . other schools, and finally to promote the publication of their works and secure-due protection of the authors’ rights.
What is Discipline? It has been called the Any American who has studied the history of
habit of quickness and precision in thought and action combined with a regard for authority. And certainly this factor lies at . the bottom of all successful team work, for military successes are the result of such teamwork.” These units will train the young men of America in the elements of warfare and will render them better men and better citizens. Although many of ; our youth are, at present, strongly opposed to the project, because of the nearness of the war through which we have just passed, they will doubtless realize before long the necessity of our-being prepared for war. There are at least two powerful nations with whom
the Russian people of the last few decades cannot but feel a sympathy for their present lot and be impressed by the lofty motives of their true / leaders in thought, men and women who have devoted their lives and made untold sacrifices to free the great mass of Russian peasantsfroin the yoke of tyranny. These leaders have a fervent conviction that by educating the people of Russia, there can be established a sound social, political, and economic order. Our sympathy with these lofty motives should prompt us to ,< contribute what we can to the support of these writers, artists, and scientists, to the end that what is best in'Russia may be saved.—C.R.P.

106
Noure dame Schokigcic
,tr
Li

ft
f $ t
ri

The Indianapolis Trip.
The Notre Dame spirit came to life and became very healthy last Saturday at the Notre Dame-Indiana football game in Indianapolis. The' winning of the game was rather to be expected, but that we could out-yell the Indiana crowd was something which we had hardly anticipated. Our cheer-leaders outclassed theirs and our rooters, though outnumbered two to one, showed that they had a vocal power second to none in the State. .
Our Varsity Band was by no means so large and impressive as we would like to have had it, but that was a very minor deficiency. “Where’s your band?” inquired a Crimson enthusiast in the press stand. “Where’s your football team? ” retorted John W. Head, sport editor of the Indianapolis Star. We might add that the Indiana cheer-leaders kept themselves high and dry up in the stand, out of the rain, while Slaggert, Denny, and Dempsey were conspicuously out in front in the weather, where they could be seen as well as heard.
- Indiana even allowed her parade to go by the boards because of the fain, but the N. D. rooters were there rain or shine, marched through the principal streets, around the Circle, past the Indiana headquarters at the Claypool Hotel,
University Bulletin.
All items for the current Scholastic should be submitted not later than the noon of Wednesday.	x
Lost: A key ring with four or five keys on it. Finder please return to room 326 of the Main Building.
Day students have an opportunity of receiving Communion every morning from 7130 to 8 :oo in the basement chapel.
• Lost: A pocket-book containing about $28.00 in cash and a check for S59-.00. The finder will receive a liberal reward if the nioney is returned to room 207 in Badin Hall. -
Coaches Rockne and Dorais wish to express through the Scholastic their sincerest appreciation of the splendid spirit manifested by the students of the University who attended the Notre Dame-Indiana game at Indianapolis last Saturday;	.
The Thanksgiving recess will begin at noon on Wednesday, November 26th, and end at noon on Friday, November 28th. Any student
and broke up into a mass-formation at the N. D. headquarters in the Severin Hotel, where they leavinS the University before or returning after this period will suffer the usual class
announced their arrival to the team with the biggest N. D. U. that was ever heard.” The Gold and Blue was everywhere in evidence.
In the evening after the game the- students went to the “Football Ball” at the Claypool, or to witness “Tumble In,” at the Murat Theatre. The two teams were guests of Mr. Nelson Trowbridge", manager of the theatre of the latter attraction, and earlier in the evening the team was sumptuously dined by the Notre DameClubof Indianapolis at the Columbia Club.
The trip was most successful from every point
penalties.
Adi professors of English in. the University, Father O’Hara, Prefect of Religion, and Brother Alphonsus urgently invite every student to become acquainted with the best Catholic literature—of which an excellent collection has been made during the past several years by Brother Alphonsus, and is now open free of charge to all students, in the Apostolate Library of Brownson Hall. . ‘
of view: The students conducted themselves	~------
in a manner most creditable to the “largest The Student Activities Committee has.ap-school of its size in America.” It has a spirit pointed Alfred N. Slaggert as cheer-leader for which at its best cannot pe beaten. Outweighed, the year. Jack Dempsey, Harry Denny, and the football team cannot be stopped; out- Frank Fitzsimmons have been officially selected
numbered, the rooters make the “N. D. U.”
as assistants. 'All cheering at varsity contests
ring out triumphantly It is to be hoped that the during the year is to be under the direction of - spirit may not be allowed to go to sleep now that these men alone, and the selection of all yells and songs will be made by them. Slaggert urges
we are back at home. Let us on the contrary intensify it much further for the next occasion.
•	.	---R. E. p’H.
every student to memorize carefully all of the Notre Dame yells and songs.—l. L. ward.


'&fie Noure dame Scholastic
107
Lecture by Mrs. Joyce Kilmer.
On Thursday afternoon Mrs. Joyce Kilmer lectured to the English classes of the college department on “Poet Personalities.” In the absence of the President and Vice-President, the " speaker was introduced by Father O’Donnell, who made the point that Mrs. Kilmer would give an “inside” talk on certain interesting personalities connected with the poetic movement of our day. Intimate and personal Mrs. Kilmer’s lecture proved to be. It was a delicate and difficult task she set herself, to speak frankly of her friends and critically of their
. CurrentPower” will be treated by Robert Arend work. Yet this she accomplished with charm of anj william Wenzel.
' manner and keen literary insight. Some of the poets considered were, Margaret Widdemer, Anna Hempstead Branch, Helen Parry Eden, Sarah Cleghorn, Sara Teasdale, and Edith Thomas. Typical poems by these authors were read from memory. In conclusion Mrs. Kilmer favored us with two beautiful poems of her own.
- There was only one regrettable feature about this delightful lecture, and that was a slight cold prevented the speaker’s voice from carrying to all parts of Washington Hall. In spite of this, Mrs. Kilmer was given excellent attention, and the applause which followed indicated how deeply she ha'd pleased an undergraduate • audience.
Local News.
—Because of the Students Mission the Brownson Literary and Debating Society did not meet on Thursday, October 29th, and the program for that evening was postponed to Thursday, November 6th.
—The work on the Sorin “Rec” room is now finished and the students of the hall are planning a smoker to open the clubroom. With the renovated pool tables and the new equipment, the upper classmen will have one of the best centers of amusement on the campus.
—The demonstration which occurred at the Auditorium and. Orpheum theatres in South Bend, on the evening of November ist, has been denounced mildly enough,in the Notre Dame Chamber of Commerce as a characteristic episode of woefully irresponsible “Preps.”
—At the meeting of the Students Activities Committee on Wednesday evening, November ’ 5th, the Chamber of Commerce was given
charge of the local arrangements for the Army-Notre Dame game being held this afternoon. This includes the wire reports of the contest and this evening’s celebration.	•
—The Notre Dame Chapter of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers held their biweekly meeting on Monday evening, November 3rd. “The Principle of Radio Transmission”
. was the subject of papers by Oscar Sidenfaden and George Sullivan, seniors. For the next meeting James Trant is scheduled to speak on k “Transatlantic Radio Communication! ” “The Vacuum Tube as a Generator of Alternation
—Lecturer Alfred N. Slaggert furnished the local Knights of Columbus with a well-balanced entertainment program at the regular meeting of the Council on Tuesday evening of November the fourth. Father Maguire gave a talk on “Prophets and Profits,” which was as novel and interesting as the title would suggest. Harry J. McCormack and Thomas Howard proved such efficient comedians in their humorous sketch that they were immediately engaged for the Knights of Columbus’ Vaude- . ville.	x
—The Freshman Class at its organization meeting on Thursday, October 30th, attended only to the matter of election of officers for the year. Paul Castner, of St. Paul, Minnesota, a student in the Commerce Course, was elected president; W. E. Shea, of Dayton, Ohio, vicepresident; Arthur Garvey, of Holyoke, Massachusetts, secretary; and J. Stanley Bradbury, of Robinson, Illinois, treasurer. -Judging from 1 the enthusiasm which prevailed at the meeting, the Freshmen will make themselves felt in the , class activities of the year.	,
• —By mistake the names of the heads of the several departments in the College of Engineering were omitted in the account of the recent ; faculty appointments published in the S€holas- . Tic of last week. They are-Professor Martin t McCue in the Department of Civil Engineering, Professor William L. Benitz in the Mechanical, ' / Jos6 A. Caparo, Sc. D., Ph. D., in the Electrical . Department,. Knowles Smith, Ph.'D., in the Department of Mining, Reverend Joseph .7 Maguire in the Department oi Chemical-/\ -Engineering, Professor Edward J. Maurus in 5 ’ Mathematics, and Professor Francis W. Kervick ? in the Department of Architecture. . :	*






61
108
'Sfie Nocre dameSdidcwcic
li:
5
fl

—On Wednesday evening, October'29th, the Varsity Quartet and the “Jazz” Band entertained the members of the South Bend University Club. Mr. Harry Denny (’22), who is remembered as the prominent violinist of two years ago, made his first appearance of the year in a specialty number which received generous applause from the clubmen. Between orchestra . selections the Varsity Quartet, composed 'of Messrs. Slaggert, Musmaker, Domke, and O’Keefe, staged an act of music mirth and nonsense which was repeatedly encored. Mr. Charles Davis (’21) deserves much credit for the performance of his “Jazz” Band. -The enthusiasm with which these and the other'acts were received augur for the Glee Club a most_ successful year.
—The Knights of Columbus vaudeville, the proceeds of which will go to the fund for the Social Center Building, will be given in Washington Hall, on Wednesday, November 12th. The bill presented will include, among other numbers, Frank Fitzsimmons in a somewhat different monologue, Charles Davis with his 1920-model jazz band, George O’Brien and Charles Butterworth in a comedy sketch that is said to be sensational, O’Keefe, Musmaker, Slaggert, and Domke in a take-off of Notre Dame life, written by Paul Scofield, and the New England Club in minstrelsy, advertised as “bigger and better than ever.” Mr. O’Connell, head of the vocal department, will sing, and Harry Denny, soloist , with the Glee Club of 1916-17, will again appear with his violin.
—On November 1st the students , of Holy Cross Hall tendered a formal welcome to their superior,' Father George Finnigan, C. S. C., in the form of a Halloween entertainment.
Finnigan, to whom the entertainment was a complete surprise, concluded a memorably merry evening for the Seminarians.
—The director, the officers, and the board of governors of the Glee Club announce the following members as the personnel of the club for the season of 1919-20: first tenors, Jose Corona, J. C. Powers, S. Steinle, M. J. Tierney, E. Smoger, P. Kiley, R. Dumke, E. M. Moore, R. A. Gilmore, E. Toth, J. Ambrose, and H. Bowden; second tenors: A. W. Moore, J. D. Rosenthal, J. W. Connerton, T. J. Tobin, F. Dressel, P.Gessler, J. L. Musmaker, G. Taylor, H. W. Fritz, M. Storen, and E- W. Clancy; first basses: J. W. Clancy, W.A. Castellini,T.H. Beacom, W. J. Douglas, R. Gonzalez, L. L. Lally, H. Leslie, P. Loosen, P. Scofield, M. Foote, P. Conaghan, and A. Abrams; second basses: E. Fredrickson, J.. M.. Maag, P. G. Powers, P. Nagle, M.- Doran, L. Laux, J. P. Dower, M. McEnery, W. Furry, F. Fitzsimmons, A. N. Slaggert, and J. L. Locke. The dub, under the direction of Mr. George F. O’Connell, will give its first concert in Mishawaka, on the evening of November 25th.
—That'the local Chamber of Commerce is a live organization has been further demonstrated by its meetings of the last week. On Monday evening, November 3rd, Section One, of which P. J. Powers (’20) is president, listened to two very interesting reports:, one by Vincent Donahue (’23) on “The Importance and Principal Features of the Liberty Bond Campaigns,” the other by W. J- Shea (’23). on “Taxation for Flood Prevention.” On the same evening; the members of Section Two were privileged to learn a great deal on “Trade
pj
Acceptances in Connection with the Wholesale ' A banquet was served in the refectory at six- Grocery Business”, from a talk delivered by .
1
2
I
rj
thirty, and during the courses the Seminarians presented some very entertaining acts. The dining room was attractively decorated in orange and black, and was given a seasonable effect of “spookiness” by an ingenious arrangement of electric lights. The Seminary Orchestra furnished selections which elicited liberal applause. Charles Palmer’s opening address was followed by ‘‘Ten Minutes of Minstrelsy,” presenting Messrs. Falyey and Robinson, “A Few Songs” by Edward Reilly, and “Humorous Revelations” by William Havey. A number of
T. J. McDonald (’23). The speaker has had not a little experience in the wholesale grocery business in the West and hence was able to answer in a practical way- all . the questions
asked by the members at the conclusion of his speech,. The second report of the evening was . . on the “ Relation Between . the Chamber of . Commerce and the Farmer” by Mr. Earl C. O’Donnell (’23). The mutual help of the two was pointed out by'the speaker in a convincing manner. . President . A. C. Ryan urged the . members -to keep in dose touch with the activities of the organization-and made the suggestion	_
the University Faculty were guests, and Fathers	_	_	___
Lennartz,Miltner, and -Marshall delivered the that those-really interested in-jthe Chambef 'of ‘
post-prandial remarks. The response of Father Commerce, should; subscribe to some of the

&


IMS
'fcfie Noure dame ^diokwckr..
109
current commercial periodicals. At the meeting of Section Three on Tuesday evening Romaine Reichert (’20) gave a very good report on “The Banker’s Interest in Improved Farming Methods.” Wm. E. Miller spoke on “Overhead Depreciation Items in the Lumber Business.” The members of this section were able to make the initial contribution of $60 to the National Association of the Roosevelt Memorial Fund.
' —Tierney-O’Keefe.
Athletic Notes.
Notre Dame, 16; Indiana, 3.
■ Whilst football ambitions were being wrecked on a number of gridirons last Saturday, Notre Dame’s “Rockmen” in Indianapolis fought through rain and slush and mud for their fifth successive victory of the season. The defeat of Indiana’s “Big Ten” entry marked the completion of the state-championship foundation for the “Western Title,” which is slowly but surely, as it seems, coming our way. Notre Dame Jias today one of the two undefeated teams of the West. Critics grant her the Indiana title, and a victory over the Army at West Point
today will win high recognition in the East every breath.
and greatly enhance Notre Dame’s claim to Western honors. The Army’s defeat of Boston College, who had trounced Yale, and their seven-to-three contest with the Syracuse deven makes today’s contest at West Point the crucial .battle of the-season.
Saturday’s game was played under conditions in every way unfavorable to the lighter team of . Notre Dame. Five thousand football fans crowded info the covered stands of WashingtonPark to witness the battle in the mud and rain. The six hundred Notre Dame men cheered to
hoarseness the efforts of their favorites and all yard dash and a pass over the line being recalled, but drowned the noise of Indiana’s “howling The ball went to Indiana, but the “Catholics” host.” Playing on the clayey section, of the held them gainless for three downs; when the kick came on the fourth down, Heartly Anderson
' field during the first half, the Gold and Blue lost three chances to score, thereby saving the Crimson a defeat of some forty or fifty points. Indiana, though greatly favored by. the weather and the condition of the field, failed to make
any impression at any period of the game. Only	.
once did Steihm’s men achieve a first down' from failed to kick goal. In the next kick-off Gipp’s. scrimmage, and_that not until the third quarter., toe sent the oval beyond the goal-line, and on . Every, man of the Notre Dame line held his the first play , from Indiana’s twenty-yard line opponent to a~ standstill and repeatedly broke ’ Notre Dame took- the ]»allona.fumble.,I’asses through - and downed. the opposing backs for ’ ^^or a touchdown failed. With onty afew seconds
serious losses. Kirk distinguished himself at the receiving end of the aerial attack in the . third quarter and the giant Madigan kept the. Indiana center well worried for three full quarters. The chained lightning of. the N^D.X backfield tore up the mud area for good gains, Bergman leading the attack with a total of eighty-four yards of Notre Dame’s one hundred and sixty-five gained by scrimmage. Gipp circled -the ends for fifty-two yards, which was more ,, than the Crimson total of yardage. .Throughout the game Captain Bahan and Slackford pounded the Hoosier line for consistent gains. The-Varsity offense made fifteen first downs, while its defense stopped the Bloomington men for downs on every occasion but one.
Football critics agree in declaring the Notre Dame machine to be one of the few consistently powerful teams of the West. All of them proclaim the “wonder” backfield without an equal within the last decade, and from every side comes praise. ' for the fighting quality of one of the lightest lines in the country. The uncanny sureness of the aerial offense and the precision of the interference on such a field , as that at Indianapolis opened the eyes of. the football experts, who paid tribute to Coaches Rockne and Dorais with
The first quarter of the game went scoreless. Notre Dame promptly carried the; fight into Indiana territory at the beginning and kept it there throughout-the game, except for a few minutes of the last period. Three times the Gold and Blue carried the ball across the sea of . water and day but failed to put it over, for the reason that the heavy mud made the driving too ’ difficult and the slippery ball rendered the pass too risky. With sod under foot in the second period, Notre Dame marched twice to the Crimson goal before scoring, Bergman’s thirty


ripped through the defense, blocked the kick, and fell on the ball on the five-yard line. Two plunges gained, and in the third Gipp went over -with the ball; he fumbled, but Slackfoid safely recovered the ball for a touchdown. Bahan



IIO
Moure Some Schokreric
j
to play, Gipp sent the ball over the bar from his twenty-three yard line, and the half ended with the score, Notre Dame, 9; Indiana, o.
At the opening of the second half Indiana made her only first down in scrimmage, and then lost the ball in mid-field. The Notre Dame forwards were breaking through play after play and downing the Indiana backfield men in their tracks, and all of the Hoosier passes but one were broken up. Taking the ball on their own fortyyard line, Notre Dame by four straight first-downs marched to the goal, Gipp taking the ball over and kicking the goal. Rockne then rushed in his reserves in number, saving his best “bets” for today’s big battle with, the Army. The quarter ended with the substitutes battling on . even terms and with the score 16 to o.
The last quarter was a hard fight to keep the Crimson from scoring. Mathys failed on a forty-yard kick, and penalties for Notre Dame soon put Indiana into a position to try again for their points. After failing to gain three yards in three downs, Risley barely scored a place-kick from the twenty-yard mark. More substitutes were sent in by Rockne, and before the end of the game he had had nearly every one of his
t
s
3

few minutes.
least a
squad in the fray for at Line-up and summary:
NOTRE DAME		INDIANA
Kirk	•	L E	Donovan
Coughlin.	L T	Risley
H. Anderson	L G	McCaw
Madigan	C	Pierce
Smith	R G	Mumby
DeGree	R T	Leonard
E. Anderson	RE	Pope
Bahan	_	Q B	Mathys
Bergman	L H	, Williams ~
Gipp	_ R H	- Minton
Slackford	F B	Ross
Score by Periods:		
Notre Dame.		-	-	0 9	7 0—16
Indiana. 		__ 	 n n	n 11
Touchdowns: Slackford, Gipp. Drop kick: Gipp.		
Place kick: Risley.	Goal from touchdown: Gipp.	
Substitutions:. Notre Dame—Brandy for Bahan, Mohardt for Gipp, Phelan for Slackford, Walsh for Bergman, Trafton for Madigan for Smith, Shaw for Degree, Barry for Mohardt, Dooley for H. Anderson, Meagher for Trafton, Pierson for Brandy, Connors'' for Madigan; Indiana—Bowser,for Minton, Ryle for Ross, Lohrei for. Pierce, Faust for Mathys, Hiatt
’i
for Williams. Yards gained from scrimmage: Notre Dame, 161; Indiana, 49. Yards of penalty: Notre Dame, 30; Indiana, 10. First:downs: Notre Dame, 15; Indiana, 1. Forward passes: Notre Dame, 6, .with three successful, for 47 yards; Indiana; 3, with ■ one successful, for 5 yards. Officials: F. E; Gardner
(Cornell); umpire, A. G. Reid (Michigan); field
judge, A R. Coffin (Cornell); head linesman, Guy; Lohman (Springfield Y. M. C. A.)
—E- M. STARRETT.
The Army Game.
Encouraged by their decisive victories over Nebraska and Indiana, Coach Rockne’s men enter the big clash with West Point this afternoon—but with Bergman and Malone on the side-lines. The disability of these.men is a very serious- handicap. With the dashing Bergman nursing a stubborn limp, the Cadets’ stock receives a decided boost. The West Point-Notre Dame fray, is the intersectional pigskin classic of the year and is being watched with interest by gridiron “fans” throughout the country. Notre Dame has defeated West Point in three out of five games in which she has scored a total of sixty-six points against sixty-five for the soldiers. Coach Rockne, left for the East with twenty-two men Thursday afternoon. Wire reports of the game play by play will be received and published in the Gymnasium.
***
Notre Dame Freshmen, 36; St. Viateur’s, o.
Miller’s fighting freshmen took the scrappy eleven of St. Viateur’s into camp last Saturday in a one-sided victory, 36 to o. Playing under the same conditions as the Varsity at Indianapolis, the first-year men went through the St. Viateur’s line at will and by way of diversion staged a series of neat forward passes. Castner and Coughlin, the backfield stars, scored most of the points for the Gold and Blue. Degree and Larson played sensationally on the line, wrecking the Viatorian formations regularly. The . Freshmen meet the strong yearling eleven of Michigan Agricultural Cdllege on Cartier field this afternoon. The visitors come with a victory over Albion College to-their credit.
_ -	. Cross-Country. . .
Rockne’s Marathoners are rounding into shape for the annual cross-country run to be staged some time this month; . Captain “ Eddie ” . Meehan is putting the distance men through the -paces. The Notre Dame sqiiad will run at
Crawfordsville if their showing in the coming event pleases , the Coach. Prizes to, be awared to the .first five men that cross the- finish mark have been donated by Hull and Calnon, “Abe” . Frank; Wyman’s, and Spiro’s, all of South Bend.
-The Athletic Association wishes, to extend
% S'

-r
'^fieNoure dameSchokwck?
through the {Scholastic thanks to the donors for , their very encouraging interest in Notre Dame activities.
. _ ***
Corby, 24;' Badin, 6.
The Corby football team eliminated all claimants to the Interhall football championship last Sunday by defeating Badin’s fast eleven, 24 to 6. McNamara’s warriors were completely -routed by the clever backfield of Corby. Ficks and Sharp carried the ball through the Badin
line consistently, and Blieverhecht was a tower themselves in any other manner. However, we are all
of strength in the Corby forward wall. The Brownson-Sorin game scheduled for the same day was called off, the Senior Hallers having agreed to forfeit the game to Brownson in the event that they meet defeat at the hands of Father Haggerty’s men tomorrow. Should Sorin upset the expectations by defeating the Corbyites, the game with Brownson will be played at a later date.	•
***
A game of sparkling football, replete with thrills and thuds, was played by two Carroll Hall elevens on Thursday morning. The names of the teams did not transpire until one of them holding the long end of a 12-0 score,‘got together after the game and gave nine rahs for the “Ex-Minims,” their defeated rivals. Whereat the vanquished gallantly did the same for “The Dashing Irish,” under which modest monicker the victors had won. Grant and Watson of the backfield were certainly dashing, in all directions, and Captain Healey was no less certainly Irish, while Chambers and O’Donnell were alive on the line. For the Ex-Minims, Lacy and “Cackles” Welch were creditably in evidence. With the start they haye, they will, no doubt, be dashing Irish next year.
—A. M. SLAGGERT.
We received a few days ago from an old student the following communication concerning
itself. We probably have as a matter of fact a the letter from “An Alumnus and Former “great admiration” for this unknown Alnrimns Athlete” and the replies thereto, published in . b«t no admiration whatever for the letter which \
two recent numbers of the Scholastic: -	Chicago, Illinois,
October 28,1919.
Editor the Scholastic,	.
Dear Sir:	"
Now that many of the hammers have been brought out of discard on account of the letter from the Alumnus and Former Athlete and the' replies to it, suppose we take account -of the stock and find out what is being
accomplished, and -let us try to look at the condition from an unbiased view-point.	"	.
On the one hand we have an Alumnus who'is abso-. lutely a Notre Dame man from start to finish, a-man who has never failed to come across with his assistance . whenever he has been asked. I am sure his motive was splendid.	\
On the other hand we have students who also have a most generous amount of Notre Dame spirit mid enthusiasm, and when it appeared to them that - a cudgel was being raised against some of the conditions they had considered almost sacred, they resented it, and we must congratulate them for this spirit. It is typical and we really couldn't expect them to conduct
interested in the greatest good for the greatest number and let us not misunderstand the motives oLany.
When a boy leaves Notre Dame, he is imbued with a spirit of love for his Alma Mater which is so strong that no one dare lend one word of insinuation against it, but as this man rides on the waves of experience, which is bound to come, his love, while not a bit less, -is less temperamental and his spirit while pure may possibly be somewhat mellowed.- Because of these conditions I think we must have great admiration . both for the Alumnus and Former Athlete and for those splendid students who are always willing to take up the battles of their college, whenever a possible antagonist appears.	-
Anyway it is mighty interesting and has surely ' started what I believe will be the most interesting column in the Scholastic.
-	Yours very truly,
Chester D. Freeze.
We are more than glad to learn on the word of . Chester Freeze the real character of our “Alumnus and Former Athlete.” It now appears that he merely had—as any one may have now and then—“a day off” on the 4th of October last. ' We are sorry that an Alumnus who is “ absolutely a Notre Dame man from start to finish” should have done himself the injustice of writing about ‘ ‘ the fighting Irish spirit ’ ’ on that particular day. Had he signed his name to his note of criticism, as he should, have, due allowance might readily -have been made for his mistake. Again, it is submitted to any intelligent person that the. “ splendor of the motive,” which prompted that letter did in no way appear in the letter^


he addressed to the writdr of the “Athletic .
Notes.”
Finally, we see not as yet any the slightest 1 reason why we may not in all justice and . propriety-use on occasion the terms “ Fighting a Irish’’'and “the fighting Irish spirit ” in spealdng -and writing of the Notre Dame athletic teams..
. .	—Tie Editor!





7
$fie Nocre dome Scholastic
112
The Indianapolis Fan.
I like to watch a ball game when the clouds have opened up
And almost drowned the players on the grid.
It seems to be so cool when players flounder in the wet And get a peck of dirt beneath their lid.	-
I like to see a.player.who is fairly oozing mud; Somehow he seems to make the longest gains. Some folks I know would rather stay at home and smoke a pipe—-
I love to watch a ball game when it rains.
I like the rheumatism and the colds that rooters get . From standing in the bleachers ti!l they’re drenched
And shouting idiotic yells that no one understands Until their'vocal cords are almost wrenched.
The rooter gets neuritis, but he has the sense to know He won’t succeed unless he takes the pains—
Some folks prefer to see a game beneath the boiling sun, I like to watch a ball game when it rains.
I’ll Say You Did.
Well, fellows, I got a bad cold out of the trip and my stomach has gone back on me, and I’ve flunked in two classes as a result of it all, but yet I consider it a huge success and I’m going to ask to go to Lafayette when the team goes.	.
/'Robert,” she said, looking at him with all the tenderness of a bird about to~ swallow a worm, “I would be so very, very happy and life woqjd be so rosy if. only I just knew that you gave up that horrid game of football. Think darling what it may mean to you and to me—a broken leg! a dislocated hip! an internal injury that may prove fatal—”	'
“But, you don’t understand,” he said, as he held her .. little white hand and smoothed the back of it as though it were a purring cat; “there really isn’t anything to it. Why I think no more of putting on a football suit and playing against the' strongest eleven' that was ever gathered together than of going'in to supper?’
“Good gracious,” she gasped, as she staggered for- ' . ward and fell in his arms, “what on earth do you people get for supper? ”	.
Prefect:—How is it that at midnight, boys, - You were not on the campus?, . ... . .
.	Students:—We cannot lie, we left because	•
' The watchman tried to vamp us. <
A western college has in several papers an advertisement for students with these captions:
Have you a little devil in your home? .	'
Why scold your son when we can break his back?
-If we can’t make your boy study we can at least make him miserable.
We may not make your son a saint but he’ll surely be a martyr.	.	" ■
“I have a. private stock," he said—
My young heart jumped with glee— “I’ll treat you, comrade, if you’ll please
Come cellarward with me."
■	. We tip-toed down and, as I watched,
.	. Into a chest he dove*
And bringing forth a lump of coal He thrust it in the stove.
We have heard many learned orations . Concerning the League of Damnations—
But amongst old and young
. The golden Shantung _
Has surpassed all our anticipations.	'
X.	*	*	' z	-
Walshite—My dad will have to be darn good in fractions to figure out what mark I get in Math, in the next exam.	'	.
Or Is It a Fixture?
He tried to whisper in her mouth;
' The maiden bade him “nix,”
For he had on his upper lip	- .
■ A failure like Al ^icks.	. ..
,	- Really? -.
A senior is one whose mouth looks like the opening under a Drop .Letters Here Sign.
' . ■ ' ' ♦** • ' . .
. - Memory.	. ' .
In fancy now I see her face;	. '
It neverlooked sofair,	, •
And here’s the Spearmint gum she chewed
■Stuck fast beneath my chair.	'
Talking. of movie stars, -why doesn’t Rockne use Barry more? . . •	.	’	.	.
7 song hits;; ‘ ■/.	. ' ;	’ ’
I’m forever throwing shovels.	\	.	. ... :.
♦ This is absolutely nrre naryJar therfaytue., / / • ;	/

■
the Notre &ame Scholastic Advertisements
Yellow Taxi Cab and Transfer Co. Main Office. Cor. Mich, and Colfax Ave.
BELL 514 HOME 5515
CAB AND BAGGAGE SERVICE
One or two passengers, - - -	$1.00
Each additional passenger, ■ - -	.30
Special trip for Baggage, - - - - $1.00 Each additional Trunk, ----- .50 Suit Case, - -- -- -- -	.25
The Oliver Hotel
European Plan
BEST IN THE WEST
300 Rooms	Fireproof
THIS HOTEL OPERATES _ PERFECTLY APPOINTED
CAFES
CIGAR AND NEWS STAND BILLARD HALL BAKE SHOP
BARBER SHOP , HAIR DRESSING AND
- MANICURING PARLORS
CARS FOR ALL OCCASIONS 7-passenger cars for parties, touring, etc. RATES REASONABLE
SELF SERVICE DINING ROOM OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Waiter service after 9 o’clock P. M. if desired.
Auditorium Hotel
CHICAGO
CAPE JACK 0/ Low Comfortable Collar ofwide reputation
Tion(ollars
OLDEST BRANDK AMERICA
MI* BV	__
MAX ADLBR CO. SOUTH BBKIL HUA
On the comer of Michigan Boulevard and Congress Street, in the theatre and I**—center*.
Special attention <shown students and alumni of Notre Dame.
JOHN J. CALVEY, Manager
Che Noure Same Scholastic Advertisements
No. 126
Mechanics Tods
Draughtman’s Tools.
The First National Bank South Bend, Indiana (Oliver Hotel Building) .
Capital, $ 105,000 - Surplus and Profit, $ 145,000
G. E. Meyer & Son
Hardware Merchants '
115-117 West Jefferson Boulevard (Opposite Portoffice) Fine Cutlery	South Bend, Ind.
♦
A. L. HUBBARD, President.
J. M. STUDEBAKER, JR., Vice-Prest.
C. L. ZIGLER, Cashier.
C. J. WHITMER, Ass’t Cashier.
SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT AT REASONABLE PRICES
The Dome
Official Portrait Photographer
McDonald
Wb Issue FOREIGN EXCHANGE at Lowest Market Rates and Letters of Credit Payable Throughout the World
Try Our Traveler’s Cheques
211 South Main St	c » a r a
opp. Pact one*	South Bend, Ind.
Spalding
Foot=Ball Goods
BALLS, GOALS, GUARDS, PADS, SHOES, ETC
In addition of course—
... Spaldirg Eqmprnent fa^ other Athletic Sport '
■	■	'’SEND FOR' CATALOGUE .'
A. G. SPALDING&BROS.
■ ar, STATE STBBBT.CBICACO
Ideal Laundry Company
Nabil” ’■
Three collections a weekhat iNotre Dante. Leavejyouppaek-n ^esatthe x
. Ndtre l^uxie News Stand
Cox Sons & Vining 72 Madison Ave., New York CAPS AND GOWNS
Silk Faculty Gowns and Hoods. Lowest Prices. Best Workmanship. Gowns for Judiciary, Pulpit and Choir
Schuler, Kilngel & Co, Wholesale Fruita and Produce
CitizensNationafBank ' : and Trust Co. ■
. 112-14 W. Jefferson Blvd. South Bend, Ind..
X
/
I
7

ri
ri'
Unibcrsitt’ of >otre Gattie
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
to tf to
College of Srto anb better*.
Departments of Ancient Classics, Modem . Literature, History, Political Economy, Sociology, Domestic Commerce, Foreign Commerce, Journalism, Library Science.
College of ^rienee.
Departments of Chemistry, Physics, Bi-■ ology, Pharmacy, Agriculture.
College of Srrfjiterture.
Departments of Construction, Design.
College of engineering.
Departments of Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Mining Engineering, Industrial Engineering.
} A
College of T-fl^1,
College of Jf ine 9rt& «
Departments of Artistic Drawing, Painting, Cartooning, Instrumental Music, Vocal Music.
V.
■Preparatory AdjooL Variant Courses.
&t €taarb$an* For Young Boys.

Notre Dame is recognized by all educators, by die press and by the public as a college whose work is of die same grade as that of die most highly endowed colleges or the best state universides. Its atmosphere is strongly Catholic and no • young man who has ever attended die University of Notre Dame can escape its influence in after life.
ft

r
The discipline is paternal, and aims at giving young men die fullest liberty consistant with earnest study and manly Christian character. Rooms. at reasonable rates. Catalogue sent on application.
Address:
THE REGISTRAR
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA
B
sssssssssss^sssssssssssssssssssssssh^^s^ss^se^s^sshss
1