Make friends with WINSTON'
WINSTON
TASTES
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.
1
I BsM
1 Z E
I N	_
LIKE A
CIGARETTE
SHOULD/
GOOD'
N £ ’ i A v 0 R
Enjoy finer filter smoking!
cl 6
Find out how good filter smoking can be! Make your next pack Winston! You’ll like the flavor, because it’s full and rich-tasting. And just as important — you’ll like the exclusive Winston filter that lets the flavor come through for you to enjoy. Try Winston for finer filter smoking.
Switch to WINSTON America's best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette!
E.E.’s, M.E.’s, A.E.’s, Math, Physics & Chemistry Majors:
APL wants graduates eager to accept the challenge of responsibility
The Applied Physics Laboratory (APL) of The Johns Hopkins University is a unique organization. Its professional staff, including both junior and senior members, is allowed a measure of responsibility and initiative much greater than in many other research and development organizations. A stimulating environment where teamwork and individual initiative are fused results in a high degree of creativeness and professional gratification.
For years APL has pioneered: the first proximity fuze, the first supersonic ramjet engine, the missiles TERRIER, TALOS and TARTAR. With a staff of 1275 APL technically directs the Navy's Bumblebee guided-missile program, including the work of 21 associate and subcontractors, among them leading universities and industrial organizations.
Location & Facilities:
The combined facilities of APL and its contractors provide staff members with an unparalleled situation for advanced research and development. A PL’s own laboratories, recently completed, encompass 350,000 sq. ft. Their locations in suburban Washington and Baltimore, Md. allow staff members to enjoy suburban, rural or urban living and the manifold cultural and recreational facilities of both cities.
APL maintains a splendid program of staff benefits, including financial assistance for advanced study. Salaries compare favorably with those of industrial organizations. For detailed information on staff opportunities for men with higher-than-average grades contact your Placement Officer or write: Professional Staff Appointments.
Representative On CAMPUS
Tuesday, Dec. 4
Contact your Placement Officer today to secure an appointment with the APL representative.
The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory
8621 Georgia Avenue, Silver Spring, Md.
i
November 16, 1956
3
SMOKERS EVERYWHERE ARE DISCOVERING WHY
Viceroys
ARE SMOOTHER
The Notre Dome £
Scholastic
Vol. 98 November 16, 1956 No. 8;
- •-=	€
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus	/	'
Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus	-
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, ' Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of , -postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized : June 23, 1918.	...
*
Charles McKendrick
Editor
JOE NORTON
Associate Editor
Twice As Many Filters
AS THE OTHER TWO
DAVE THOMPSON i Associate Editor
€
JIM STEINTRAGER ..... .News	Editor f
JAMES McDONALD .......Copy Editor:.
DAVID KUBAL .......Feature Co-Editor-, JOHN QUAGLIANO ....Feature Co-Editor GEORGE CLEMENTS....Assistant News
The exclusive Viceroy filter is made from pure cellulose—soft, snow-white, natural!
C1956. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.
JIM DULAN ............ Assistant	News -
JOE HEIMOSKI ..........Assistant	News .
BOB VONDRASEK........Assistant News.^
HARRY McKEE...................Assistant	Copj^
MARSH PIDGEON.........Assistant Copy:
DON STUHLDREHER.—Circulation Mgr.', HARRY CONLON .............Business Mgr. '
JOHN GLAVIN.................Sports	Editors
BOB EARLY................Assistant	Sports ~
MIKE FITZPATRICK.........Assistant	Sports1’
News Staff : Tom. Banchoff, Mark Bradley, Jack Coughlin, John Fitzpatrick, John Ford, f; David Karnath, Bob LaMontagne, Jin^; Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Jerry Leppek, Jim Naughton, John O’Hara, Ed Plumly, Walt r Rudge, Dave Schwartz, Pete Stafford, Jim i Sutter, Bob Williams, Jim Yoch.
Sports Staff: Pat Defoe, Jim Goethals, Jack Grady, Tom Gugert, Roger Laur, Jim Merz, Greg Rogers, Ed Rohrbach, Ted Thompson, Doug Zilliox.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, Bruce Huot, • John McMahon.	i
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c^

-------- g
The Scholastic ri
Uitu
* Suez folly
The front pages of America’s daily newspapers have been filled for the past several weeks with developments of worldwide consequence.
The event that I would like to discuss is the combined French-British intervention into the Israeli-Egyptian struggle gm the Suez Canal region. Whether or not we realize it at the moment, the Middle Eastern crisis could well play a definite role in shaping of our lives. Certainly, this situation presents a grave challenge to the GOP’s claim in the recent campaign that peace is a hallmark of their administration.
When the Hungarian people revolted several weeks ago in an attempt to secure freedom from the Russians, the free world stood by to await the inevitable outcome—the subduing: of the revolution and a return to the Communistic regime. Aid was not rendered to the rebels: casual state-^nents and sympathy alone were offered to the Hungarian nation.
Yet the free nations of the world knew that the Russians were on the hot seat. They had to quell the rebellion while at the same time maintain face with the other peoples under their rule.
It was a golden opportunity to burst the Communist balloon.
But the British and French could not resist the urge to reopen the Suez shipping lanes. It would be hard to find ^vidence that they, the British and French, were not the *nes who prompted the Israeli to attack Egypt. The announcement of Anglo-French support to Israel stole the headlines from the bloodshed in Budapest.
The UN in attempting action on both situations bogged down in a slough of parliamentary procedure. The U.S. blushed and turned its head to the upcoming election. The people of Hungary were left alone to fish for themselves.
Egypt has now accepted a Russian offer of 50,000 troops to defend the Suez. The Hungarian revolt has been reduced £o a counting of the dead.
The British and French will be held liable if their greedy action turns out to be the fuse for World War HI. Diplomatically their intervention was faulty; morally it was unjustified. They have let the Russians off the hook to slaughter countless Hungarians, and to cement relations between themselves and the Arab states.
Maybe we should direct our prayers to God to enlighten ^he British and French so that their future actions will not Endanger the welfare of the free world.—C. McK.
o
honor system
w ednesday night a combined panel of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students met in O’Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary’s to discuss the question “The Honor System—To Be or Not Be.” The panel members analyzed the question logically; first of all stating the principle under which they were proceeding and then exploring some of the fundamental ideas upon which a student community is based.
Most important of these fundamental ideas examined by the panelists was discipline. The panelists carefully stated that they were primarily concerned with a system that would maintain necessary order in a student community. Discipline, they agreed, is the vital instrument maintaining this order.
Now they were not speaking of discipline in the sense of punishment, but in the sense of regulation and direction of action. And it is on this idea of discipline that any discussion of an honor system has to be based. The panelists agreed that ideal discipline is self-imposed, and that the ideal honor system would be one operating under this concept.
I agree with this too but I also see that it is the most difficult obstacle to the installation of an honor system at Notre Dame. Unlike one of the panel members I feel that Notre Dame students on the whole are not basically kind, generous, honest, and virtuous. I think that the stringent regulations of the University and the significance of the Prefect of Discipline’s Office bears me out in this. This is not to say that Notre Dame students on the whole are basically unkind, ungenerous, dishonest, and evil; it is merely recognition of the frailty of human nature. Complete selfdiscipline and a self-regulated honor system at Notre Dame would be very difficult to bring about. ’
It seems to me that an honor system as such cannot be effected in a half way manner or only in a certain phase of student life. When the question was put to a referendum two years ago it was voted down by a good majority. At that time many of the students saw only that it would require them to “rat on their buddies” if they saw them cheating in class. But there were also many who felt that such a system was inoperable on a general level and .resented the idea of having a watered-down honor system that would probably be applied only to academic life.
If the students are to accept an honor system, they will do so only if it covers the entire scope of campus life. This means that such things as morning and night check, night lights, all the things that the University now regulates for the purpose of maintaining a well-ordered community, will be left up to the student’s self-imposed honor. It seems doubtful that University officials would consider this practicable.
The ideal is a commendable one and I have no doubt that the panelists at St. Mary’s and those people promoting the honor system are sincerely working for the welfare of the students. I would be happy to have them prove that an honor system at Notre Dame can include the entire scope of campus life.—J. N.
November 16, 1956
5
9 '
OWN YOUR OWN
"IVY LEAGUE" MODS. TUXEDO
STEP out at your next formal occasion in your OWN tuxedo . . . the latest Ivy League model with the smarter looking narrower lapels, less padding, tapered sleeves, natural shoulders, no pleats in the trousers. They’re lighter-weight, too . . a mixture of wool and Dacron . . . that keep their press, hold their shape, and are more comfortable to wear. See them now at the Campus Shop.
39.50 to 59.50
DRESS RIGHT . . . You can't afford not to!
On the Campus—Notre Dame
The Scholastic
PAY
PAY
PAY
FEB
MAR
On the Campus—Notre Dame
can't afford not to!
DRESS RIGHT

YOU can buy a new Ivy League model tuxedo for less than it costs to rent an older model for all of the formal occasions you’ll want to enjoy while in school. And, of course you can charge it the Campus Shop way . . . just like you can charge all of your clothing purchases here. Buy it now, pay one-third in February, one-third in March and one-third in April. No carrying charges, of course. Come in today and be ready for the holidays ahead!
£
^GILBERT'S
November 16, 1956
Everybody Picked On J. Paul Sheedy* Till Wildrool Cream-Oil Gave Him Confidence
"What's this I hear a vulture breaking up with your girl ?” asked Sheedy’s roommate. "I don’t know,” wrailed J. Paul, "She gave me back my diamond wing and told me to hawk it. What makes her carri-on so?” "Beclawsyour
hair’s a mess,” said his roomie. "If feather a guy needed
Wildroot Cream-Oil, it’s you.” So Sheedy went to the
store and pecked up a bottle. Now he’s flying high with his tweetie again, beakause his hair looks handsome and healthy, the way Nature intended. Neat but not greasy. Wildrootcontains Lanolin, Nature’s finest hair and scalp conditioner. So don’t you stick your neck out taking chances with messy hair. Get a bottle or handy tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil the nest time you’re at the store.The
7
WILDR0OT g
CREAMOIL |
girls’ll soon be talon you what a handsome bird you air!
LANOLIN
* of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, AT. Y.
Wildroot Cream-Oil
gives you confidence
It WK loott OAiDwr
LAST 4 WEEKS!
C*OOMt M Uli
•tWVK MTMH
NOW
‘ Q0QOQOQ
WILL NOT B F ^HOWN
COLOR BY TECHNICOLOR
PALACE
THEATRE CHICAGO
WILL NOT BE SHOWN
ANYWHERE E L S E . . . W I T H I N 300 MILES OF CHICAGO!
SEVEN WOHDERS-WORLD
I The Greatest Warier.
TECHMtCOLOM
RANDOLPH AT LA SALLE ST.
A Nd o v e' 3 -00 5 5
/>	-	...	(r'
ABOUT ‘DOTERS’
Editor:	1
I am one of a special breed. I am a ; Noter Doter.
Webster defines a “doter” as one who ; “loves to excess,” which is a fairly £ accurate definition of just what a Noter . Doter is. Mr. Joe Taft, in his own “de-^ luge of bold type statements,” printed ' in the Nov. 2 issue of the Scholastic, . has attacked that group of university students who love to an excess the spirit, determination, and fight that is -instilled in them upon attending their first Notre Dame pep rally.	'
Mr. Taft mentioned a few pertinent ” points in his essay, but for the most part his attempt to inform the students^/ of ND was rather vague. He goes to C great lengths to tell us what we are ; supposed to believe a Notre Dame man ' is, what we are supposed to shy away ' from to become a good Notre Dame man, ' and then attempts to define the “real” s. Notre Dame man. This last effort was l nothing more than thirty-five lines of jumbled ideas.	£
True, the University of Notre Dame is not just a place where someone can^ come to exercise his lungs. Nor is it, rt however, only a place to “grasp the •>. universality of knowledge.” All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. The spirit, pride, and enthusiasm that Jack ■ displays in backing the athletic teams -of Notre Dame is not to be torn apart . by those who simply aren’t stimulated , by the idolatry of a losing team. \
The Fighting Irish are an institution. £ They have been for many years, andfi will continue to be, the favorites of fans throughout the country. They are experiencing a losing season, but the spirit f of Notre Dame that has been written •; about on the pages of every top news- £ paper in the country, the spirit that has $ been feared by coaches and players of £ Irish opponents for decades, the spirit jh that has been animated and strengthened (J by Notre Dame students foi’ a halfcentury will live on.	£
This special breed of Notre Dame i men—for they too are men—branded by V the author of “A Day of Reckoning” as ;• Noter Doters are the underlying force . of that spirit. They are those who fight • down to the last minute of every game, ■ those who attend evei-y rally and cheer । until their throats give out at every	i
game. I am proud to be a Noter Doter.
Jim Naughton	*
249 Cavanaugh	£
Editor:	1
Congratulations to Joe Taft for his	|
appreciation of Noter-Doterism. We	c
must applaud a man who will declare	[
the fabled “Notre Dame Man” to be	|
more than just “the twelfth man”—a _ |
(Continued on page 32)
The Scholastic I
•by Bryan Woods
letters, clothes bis 10 weekend
LETTERS AGAIN
- Once again I have a letter for the “Letters from Love-sick Lads and Lasses” part of the column. This time from one of the troops. I think his terrible predicament has meaning for us all.
Dear Escape,
I have a problem and only you can help me, I hope. I came here this year ^as a freshman and my girl friend came to St. Mary’s at the same time. We come from the same town and went steady all through high school. 'In fact she still has my class ring and letter sweater. But now she says that she can’t go out with me even once a week.
She says that she has figured out her schedule very closely, and that I can take her out to dinner every other Saturday night. I must admit that I • have my choice of where we eat, as long as it is Eddie’s or Alby’s. But then I have to take her back by cab so she will have time to get ready for her date that night. I asked her if this was fair and she got real mad.
She said she was shocked that I could be so selfish. Didn’t I realize that there was a 7 to 1 ratio, and that the other _ six guys have to have a chance too. When I mentioned that perhaps I could have a Saturday night, she said that I ought to be willing to start at the bottom and work up, since that is the democratic way. Well that seemed reasonable, but then I made the mistake of saying that I supposed I could date other girls.
• .She really got mad then. She asked ‘ if going steady meant nothing to me.
November 16, 1956
I told her that if she was dating others, I couldn’t see why I shouldn’t. She said that in her case it was only being charitable and fair, whereas on my part it would be very selfish.
That is the way things stand now. The only time I see her is over a steak dinner twice a month. It still doesn’t seem fair, but I put it up to you. What should I do?
Mixed up.
Dear Mixed Up,
It’s guys like you, always wanting more than your fair share, who make things tough around here. Just be patient, wait until you are a senior and you may have worked up to Saturday nights. Now Won’t that be worth waiting for? Besides, yours is a common case, and you don’t hear others complaining, do you? So try to see her side of it.
AT YOUR SERVICE
If you too have been wanting to jump on the Ivy League bandwagon, but have been held back by a lack of the necessary loot, I have good news foi* you.
For example, have you had your eye on one of those Poplin suits in gay, collegiate, olive-drab that is just the thing for those unseasonably warm days we’ve been having, but haven’t been able to scrape together the required 40 bills, hold your breath.
We have managed to get hold, never mind how, of, 50 sets of World War II Army fatigues, had them tailored to the natural look, and now offer them to you at only 20 bucks apiece. They really look good. •
You can hardly tell where the chevrons were sewed on, though the names on the back still do show a little. But if you get here early, you may find .one with your own name. But you better move fast. The supply is limited and a bargain like this one won't last long.
But hold on. That’s not all. By now you have seen the new striped blazers in all the colors of the rainbow, and if you are going to do this Ivy League bit right, you’ll be wanting one of your own. Here again is a chance for you to save, save, save.
By an unbelievable stroke of luck I picked up a number of brand new awnings at a fire sale last summer! ’ And are they ever colorful. I took them to the same tailor that did such a sharp job for us on the fatigues, and he made them up into 20 official-type blazers. At ten bucks, and with a choice of colors yet, how can you go wrong?
ESCAPE VISITS BIG 10 CAMPUS
In order to get the scoop on what weekends at a Big Ten school are really like, your correspondent journeyed to Madison, Wis., home of the Badgers, for their game with Northwestern last weekend. Don’t believe all the talk you hear about those schools. The parking situation is terrible when every other man has his own car. And you have to walk all the way down to the basement of the frat house to get a beer. And with all those good looking girls around, you don’t have time for really enjoyable things like card games, touch football, or quiet evenings in your room. See what I mean, they really don’t have it so soft.
9
FRIGHTENED RABBIT Marc
by TONY SPERANZA
Alexander Nikolaevitch
Tcherepnin


“Art is the undeviating determination of work to be done.” Maritain: Art and Scholasticism.
With the arrival of the 1956 Festival of Arts, the Notre Dame campus.hosts three of the most prominent figures in the world of art. These men have brought a fund of important ideas and insights into literature and fine art. The ^Festival is an annual program sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters under the direction of Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., Dean of the college. Taking part in the Festival will be: Alexander Tcherepnin, composer, pianist, and lecturer; Cleanth Brooks, literary critic, author, and teacher; and Joseph R. Shapiro, art collector and lecturer.
was born in St. Petersburg, Russia in 1899. At the age of thirteen, he gained wide attention for his now famous work: “Bagatelles.” By the time he reached his 25th year, he had between thirty and forty published works to his credit. Among his early triumphs was the presentation of his ballet in Covent Garden, London.
In 1917, the Revolution in Russia interrupted his musical activities, and the Tcherepnin family, which harbored little sympathy for the new government, sailed to Istanbul, then on to (Marseilles, and finally to Paris where they settled.
While in Paris, Tcherepnin attended the Paris Conservatory where one of his professors soon became impressed by his
WOMAN
IN DESPAIR
Mestrovic
November 16, 1956
11
ALEXANDER TCHEREPNIN
work. This professor publicized his name within the music circles of Paris; and as a result, he was soon applauded by European audiences, and a lifetime career as a concert pianist and composer was begun.
Tcherepnin arrived in the United States in 1934 on a tour which was to take him across the world. For months he traveled from coast to coast delivering lectures on the new trends in music and performing his own works as both conductor and pianist. Since 1949, the United States has become his adopted country. He was invited to teach at De Paul University, Chicago, where his expert guidance has produced a number of prize-winning concert pianists and composers. In addition to his teaching position at De Paul, Tcherepnin has also lectured and performed at many lead
ing universities and colleges, including the University of Notre Dame.
Writing about Tcherepnin as a com-poser, Howard Taubman of the New York Times says of his opera, “The Farmer and the Fairy”; “Its theme has simplicity and chann and it has effectiveness.” Felix Borowski of the Chicago Sun-Times comments on Tcherepnin as a pianist: “Tcherepnin possesses great technical skill, percussive power, and an impregnable sense of rhythmical security. Not often has a pianist been accorded such an ovation as was given Tcherepnin.”
Cleanth Brooks is an author already familiar to the students in the College of Arts and Letters, since many of them have encountered his book, Understanding Poetry which he edited in connection with Robert Penn Warren. Others in the University may have used his book, An Approach to Literature. His best know work is The Well Wrought Urn, a collection of analyses of ten great English poems.
Born in Kentucky, Brooks received much of his education in the South, attending Vanderbilt University and Tulane University. Later in his educational career, he traveled to England where he did work at Exeter College, Oxford. From 1935 to 1942, while teaching at Louisiana State University, he edited with Robert Penn Warren the distinguished Southern Review.
Literary scholars, regardless of whether or not they agree with his views, are compelled to recognize Brooks as a leading American critic. He has done much to popularize the school of technical critics, a group which devotes its studies to the element of form in literature.
At present, Brooks holds a professor-
THE PIETA Mestrovic
THE YOUNG ARTIST
PERSEPHONE AND DIONYSUS
O’SHAUGHNESSY ART GALLERIES
12
The Scholastic j
FRIDAY, NOV. 16
THE NATIVITY Mestrovic
- y Yf**
AFTERNOON
4 p.m.—Cleanth Brooks in the O’Shaughnessy Art Galley, topic: “Robert Penn AVarren and W. H. Auden: Some recent developments in the problem of religion and modern literature.”
EVENING
8:30 p.m.—‘Death of a Salesman,’ Washington Hall.
9 p.m. to 1 a.m.—Arts and Letters Ball, Tn Modern,’ LaFortune Student Center.
SATURDAY, NOV. 17
TUESDAY, NOV. 20
8:30
£:30 fast.
EVENING
p.m.—‘Death of a Salesman.’
SUNDAY, NOV. 18
AAORNING
a.m.—AB Ball Communion Break-
November 16, 1956
AFTERNOON
1	p.m.—Opening of gallery Open house in O’Shaughnessy American Education Week.
exhibit.
Hall for
2:30 p.m.—‘Death of a Salesman.’
MONDAY, NOV. 19
AFTERNOON
2	to 5 p.m.—Art Gallery open.
EVENING
8 p.m.—Gallery talk on modem ait by Mr. Joseph R. Shapiro.
AFTERNOON
3:30 p.m.—The Works of Calder—Movie.
4:30 p.m.—The World of Paul Delvaux —Morie.
EVENING
8 p.m.—Alexander Tcherepnin, concert Washington Hall.
THE PROPHET Mestrovic
ship in English at Yale University where he has been teaching since 1947.
Perhaps one of the best examples of those men who are caught up in the magnetizing attraction of the fine arts is Mr. Joseph R. Shapiro. Shapiro, a wealthy Chicago manufacturer, has for years nursed a fondness for painting and sculpture. Well-known within the art circles of Chicago, he is both a personal friend and patron to many of the famous artists of our day. His special fascination is modem art, and his private collection, which is kept at his home, abounds in many fine specimens of contemporary painting and sculpture. The Notre Dame Art Gallery is grateful for his generous donation of a number of exemplary examples of modem art.
On account of his familiarity with art and artists, Shapiro has been invited to lecture at many universities and colleges. He has also appeared on television.
The 19-56 Festival of Arts was begun Tuesday, November 14, with the premiere presentation of Death of a Salesman, the Pulitzer Prize winning play by Arthur Miller. The play, which will also begin the 19-56 season for the University
LOOSE DENSE, Kandinsky—EQUESTRIENNE—Marc
L to R.—WITHOUT SUPPORT, Kandinsky
'of Notre Dame Theater, stars George O’Donnell of Notre Dame and Carol Ann Cruse of Saint Mary’s. In the past, the University Theater has shown remarkable capabilities in staging first quality dramatic productions in an authentically professional manner. Death of a Salesman runs from November 14 through November 17, with a possible matinee on Sunday afternoon, November 18.
The cinema portion of the Festival will begin with a film which has been acclaimed as one of the most notable documents on modern art. From Renoir to Picasso is a study and comparison of Renoir, Seurat, and Picasso. Each artist is treated in the light of the characteristics of his work: Renoir, the sensualist;
MR. I. A. O'SHAUGHNESSY
Seurat, the intellectual and Picasso, the instinctive artist. Those who have seen the picture have found it to be a stimulating introduction to the entire field of modern art.
Later in the week, two films will be shown: The Works of Calder and The World of Paul Delvaux. As opposed to many pictures concerning artists and their work, the first picture mentioned
is not a documentary, but rather it is a g moving, almost abstract interpretation J: of the artist’s work. Films on Art, a^- f publication of UNESCO, has this to say'' fe about The World of Paul Delvaux: “Probably the most beautiful film on art hitherto produced. It gives a breath- | taking vision of the dream world. It is § a film in which all the magic of the b unfamiliar comes into full play.”
14
The Scholastic

The Other
by jim McDonald
Jim McDonald, our author, is an English major and hopes to go into the teaching profession. Besides English, Jim occupies the position of Copy Editor on the Scholastic. ‘The Other’ is his first contribution of fiction this year, and he dares you to extract any meaning 'from it.

“Dammit quit that, willya? Stop it now!”
He shrank back toward the door of the car, never taking his eyes off the head.
“Quit it! Dammit now! Stop!”
A There was silence 'and the head moved closer. The eyes were blinking and the mouth was open in a wide grin.
“How in the hell can you do that without bleeding? How? put it back on now, dammit!”
The head was moved back by the hand which held it and placed back atop the neck.
“That’s better. I wish you’d quit ^doing that. It’s really odd, you know it?”	'	’
“Sure. That’s why I do it.”
“Well, don’t do it any more. I really mean it. It gives me the creeps.”
“Why?”
“It just does, that’s all.”
He turned away and looked out the window of the car. It was dark and there was no light except the glitter of • the street lamp nearly a block away. There was no moon in the sky and the stars were not out. There was nothing to the night except the deep empty murk and the glow of the streetlight—no sounds except for their own voices.
If he takes his head off again I’m leaving—he thought, and took a drink from his quart of beer. He looked over * and the other was also taking a drink.
“It’s good beer,” he said.
The other nodded and smiled and took another drink, scratching his head as he did so.
“Keep your hands off your head!”
“I wasn’t going to take it off.”
“Well don’t.”
• “I was just scratching.”
“AU right.”
“Turn on the radio.”
The other reached over from behind the steering wheel and turned the dial. There was static and then music began to play. It was powerful music—deep and crashing like a storm—swift—with a pain in the melody.
“Get something else.”
“Why? That’s good.”
“I don’t care. Get it off. It bothers me.”
The other started to turn the dial again but then the music stopped and they heard the announcer’s voice. He was talking about Pepsodent Toothpaste. The other began to cough and they could not hear when the announcer gave the title of the next selection. The music began to play and he turned off the radio.
“Don’t turn it off. I like that.”
“I liked the other one 'and you wanted me to turn it off.”
“I don’t give a damn. Turn it back on.”
“No.”
He reached to turn the radio back on and then the head was in front of his face again, held in the same hand, grinning and not bleeding.
“Dammit, put that back on. I told you not to do that.”
The head moved closer and the eyes blinked and the mouth moved. He grabbed at the head and tore it out of the hand. The other’s body slumped against the steering wheel and the eyes stopped blinking. One was open and one was closed.
“Close your other eye.”
There was no answer and the eye did not close.
“Then open the other one.”
There was no answer and the eye did not open.
“Are you dead?”
There was no answer. He looked over at the slumped body and held the head in both his hands. The hair needed combing.
He started to reach foi- his comb, but stopped because the other must be dead now since the body was so motionless and there was no response from either the head or the body and there was no
reason to comb the hair of a lifeless head.
He opened the door and got out of the car. It was still dark and quiet but the moon, was beginning to show from behind clumps of clouds and the other’s beer was spilled on the floor of the front seat. He put the head under his arm and finished his quart of beer. After throwing the bottle away, he set the head on the curb and climbed back into the car. Holding the body under the armpits, he lifted it away from the steering wheel and shoved it over the seat onto the floor of the back seat. Then he got out of the car, picked up the head, got back in, closed the door, slid behind the steering wheel and placed the head on the seat beside him. He started the car and it moved away, the headlights like white shafts ahead through the night.
He wondered what to do with the other now. He could not take him home because if he did then the other’s mother would be angry at him for killing her son. He could not take him to his house because his mother would be angry at him for bringing the other in minus a head. He drove on and tried to think.
He decided that the best course would be to dump the other’s body in the gutter and roll the head down a sewer. Then he could go home and he would not have to worry about it. That would be the best way. Then he realized that he was driving the other’s car and that he would have to dispose of that, too. The other’s mother would be hysterical if the car disappeared, and she was a widow. The other and the car were all she had. It would simply not be the decent thing to do.
He stopped the car and picked up the head and looked at it. The least that he could do would be to comb the other’s (Continued on page 19)
■November 16, 1956
15
“I don't really care about your world views!”	?
16
The Scholastic
0PON
PITTSBURGH e
. and he said that SMC can't hold a candle to us!”
Nothing like a student trip for relaxation.
photography by DAN SHEEHAN
November 16, 1956

The Student Court... A Responsibility of The Student
By DAVID SWARTZ
During the past fevr years the Senate and the President have been working hi well defined areas of student activity, while the judicial branch has remained almost totally undefined and non-existent as a functioning part of student government.
The lack of this basic part of a democratic government has been recognized recently, because there is a need for a balanced government with a branch that could not only interpret the regulations passed by the legislature, but also protect the students and other members of the University personnel from injustices rising from these regulations. So the basic concepts of the judicial wing of student government have been worked out on these lines.
LIMITED JURISDICTION
The purpose of the judicial branch, as it exists now, is only to operate in the field of student government. First, it may prosecute in all areas of student government where there are violations of student laws and regulations. Secondly, it may consider for prosecution any case where a student, faculty member or University employee feels he has received injustice resulting from these regulations. It has no jurisdiction in the field of University discipline except where the University has given express permission to function.
The judiciary is composed of two separate parts, the administrative, represented by the Judicial Commission, and the operative, represented by the Student Court.
The administrative is composed of an advisory committee, headed by the Judicial Commissioner. Its job is to objectively screen cases submitted so that the court can operate efficiently, supply facts about student government operations, and handle all prosecution requests from students, faculty members, or University employees.
The operative part, the Student Court, is composed of four Associate Judges and a Chief Justice. Three judges, including the Chief Justice, constitute the
18
minimum number that may sit on a case. The court rules on the jurisdiction of the Student Senate, Campus Clubs and other student organizations. It is run very similarly to a regular appeals court, with the defendant being allowed the right of council, no jury, and the Judicial Commissioner acting as prosecutor in cases involving the Senate. The penalties imposed are monetary fines, which go into the campus charity chest.
OBVIOUS DEFECTS
There are, however, some obvious defects in our court system which it seems cannot be corrected. First the court lacks a police force that could catch violators, serve summonses, enforce decisions, and perform all the other duties of a regular police force. But this defect also has a defect. The students wouldn’t stand for it. If the plan was put into effect those students who have always had a yearning to put the pinch on someone and who volunteer for police duty, would find themselves hanging (in effigy, of course) from a nearby tree.
The second thing that is lacking to make it a student court is a jury. A student should be tried by his peers. But there is no need to repeat any old jokes about jury duty; if it is so hard to get someone to serve in a regular- court, the student will not be more willing.
The third difficulty is that the hall rector can override almost any sentence pronounced by the Court. In last year’s hall elections the Court prosecuted violators of the Blue Circle regulations regarding campaign posters. In quite a few of the cases, proceedings had to be dropped against the defendant because the rector had previously approved the placement of campaign literature. The idea of working with the hall councils in giving violators campuses may run into the same restrictions because in the matter of hall discipline the rector has the final word.
So even though the Court system has taken an important step in its development it seems as if more steps will be confined by the University administra
tion at one end and the students on thekf - j other. In view of this, can the Court’s jurisdiction be broadened and strengthened? The Court is now handling long overdue library fines as well as summer storage complaints and its Senate work. In a University like Notre Dame where a great part of the student’s life is already regulated by the Student Manual, there are few other- things that the... Court can act in. The students will not^ yet accept the Court as an instrument of Government for their good. The judicial branch is not only concerned with the enforcement of Senate and Blue Circle regulations, but also of correcting those regulations where the welfare of the student is concerned.
As an example of this, the Court this year handled summer storage claims, _ and awarded §54 in damage complaints^ for the students, something in which they would not have been able to obtain justice by themselves.
Any student, if he has a valid complaint against the Senate or any other student organization, may have it brought before the court by filling out a form for the complaint. These foi-ms are available in the Student Government Office in the Student Center. q.
All requests will be acted upon as quickly as possible. Now, under the new setup, the student can do more than complain about injustices, he can get compensation for them if his claim is valid.
Despite the many arguments that are being used for the abolishment of the Court, the few goods that have been produced have to be accepted as a justification of the beginning of such an institution.
A SMART START
The advent of Student Government on this campus was small and insignificant, but 'after years of nursing and competent administration by the students the government has evolved into something that is worthwhile; worthwhile in that _ the students have had a chance at experience in handling a great deal of responsibility. This responsibility is both objective and subjective, in that it is directed, primarily, to their fellow students, and then to themselves.
Therefore in view of these facts the students have a duty to retain this facet of government. It is, admittedly, a good idea. It shows an amount of demo- । cratic thought despite its weaknesses, but if hampered by narrowness, there is doubt whether it will reach any of its expectations. The Court is caught so firmly between students and University that it will have to build its prestige without conflicting with the University or student. It hais a precarious and „ pessimistic future, but it must succeed.
The Scholastic
V • 'The Other'
(Continued from page 15) hair—it bothered him the way it was. H	He took a comb from his pocket and
i;	began to run it through the other’s hair.
He tried to close the open eye and to b open the closed eye but he did not suc-ceed. He shook the head but it did not £ rattle.
He had no idea of what to do. Shifting to his knees, he turned and leaned over the back of the seat and looked at the body on the floor. It did not move. The head was still in his hands and he tossed it into the air about four inches. He got out, tucked the head under his am, opened the back door, and got into the back seat. Shifting the body to a sitting position, he picked up the head and put it back atop the neck. Instantly the closed eye opened and the grinning mouth closed.
“Why in the hell did you do that? Who in the hell do you think you are? You had no business doing that!”
“I thought you were dead.” “Hell no, I’m not dead.” “But . . .”
“You ever take my head away from me again and I’ll never speak to you again.”
“Well, don’t take it off!”
“I’ll take it off whenever I please!” “The next time I’ll just grab it from you and toss it out the window!”
“You better not.”
“Then don’t take it off.”
| They were both silent. The other got | out of the car and into the front seat.
I He followed and got in where he had ► Wbeen sitting before it had all happened, s	“Want to get	some more	beer?”
j	“No. Let’s go	home.”
-	“All right.”
The other started the car and drove off. They were not far from his house i and soon the car stopped in front of it. s He started to get out.
’ “Wait a minute.”
£ “You keep your head on, now.”
“I wasn’t going to take it off.”
“All right.”
“I’m sorry I took it off.”
“Well just don’t do it again.”
“I won’t.”
“Okay.”
“Do me a favor, willya?”
£ “What?”
“Don’t tell Cathy about it. I don’t want her to think I’m odd, you know?”
“All right, I won’t, but just don’t take it off any more. It gives me the creeps.”
“Okay.”
He closed the door of the car 'and walked up the driveway to his house. VThe other drove off.

At the Movies
COLFAX
Friendly Persuasion. (A-2) Gary Cooper, Dorothy McGuire. A warm, human story that recounts the trials and tribulations of a Quaker family in southern Indiana during the Civil War. The plot for the most part concerns itself with the struggle of the Quakers to remain out of the war even though their homes and land are threatened by the rebels. William Wyler does an excellent job of directing and the background music is more than ably supplied by Dimitri Tiomkin.
Summing up: Gary Cooper doesn’t make poor movies.
AVON
Lust For Life. (A-2) Kirk Douglas, Anthony Quinn. Reviewed in last week’s SCHOLASTIC, and it’s even better this week.
Silent World. (A-l) Nov. 21. A better than average underwater travelogue. It won the 1956 Cannes Festival top award, the Gold Palm. The picture was filmed in the Mediterranean and Red Seas, the Persian Gulf, and the Indian Ocean.
Summing up: An accurate, authentic picture of the unique underwater universe.
GRANADA
Julie. (A-l) Doris Day, Louis Jourdan, Barry Sullivan. Louis Jourdan is a neurotic concert pianist and husband of Doris. He is more than slightly off his rocker, with an irresistable yen to kill people who frustrate his purposes. He has already dispatched her first husband which Dodo finds out one night much to her amazement and concern. Louie attempts to do her in but she escapes and takes a job as an airline stewardess. You can guess what happens when he gets 20,000 feet in the air and tries to kill her, or can you?
Summing up: What happened to those light-hearted musicals of Doris’s like LOVE ME OR ME LEAVE?
STATE
Ceiling Zero. (A-l) and Dive Bomber (A-2) Nov. 16-17. Two old war pictures that were pretty good the first time, but that was so long ago.
The Best Things In Life Are Free. (A-l) Nov. 18. Gordon MacRae, Dan Dailey, Ernest Borgnine, and last but not least, Sheree North. One of the best musicals to come out this year. It has more plot than most, in that it is based on the partnership of DeSilva, Brown, and Henderson.
Co-hit: Burning Hills. (A-2) Tab Hunter, Natalie Wood. A typical western about how justice triumphs over the power of the cattle baron. However, the scenery is excellent, and, if you haven’t seen the other picture, it is worthwhile.
RIVER PARK
Land Of The Pharaohs. (A-2) Nov. 16-17. Richard Burton, et al.
A spectacular.
Co-hit: Glory.
Moby Dick. (A-l) Nov. 18-22. Gregory Peck, Leo Genn, Richard Basehart. One of the few movies that ever turned out better than the book. Under the direction of John Huston the viewer gets the impression that the actors are really living their parts. The character of Captain Ahab is excellently portrayed by Gregory Peck. Orson Wells gives a stirring sermon as Father Mappie.
Summing up: If you haven’t already, do.
Co-hit: Vagabond King. (A-l). Kathryn Grayson, Oreste, Rita Moreno. The work of Rudolph Friml is brought to the screen by a very capable cast.
PALACE
Canyon River. (A-l) Nov. 16-17.
Co-hit: Navy Wife. (A-l).
Man From Del Rio. (A-2) Nov. 18.
Co-hit: Flight To Hongkong.
WASHINGTON HAU
Death of a Salesman. University Theatre. Through Sunday. 8:30 pjn.
November 16, 1956
19
SUCCESS IN ‘DEATH’
by David Kubal
ON THE COVER: Jon Siddle depicts on the cover the plight of George O'Donnell, the lead in ‘Death of a Salesman’. The play is currently running on the revamped stage of Washington Hall. Arthur Miller’s prize winning play on American materialism will continue until Sunday night.
“It was a tough one. It was a challenge, but it was, I believe, a challenge met.” So stated the life-blood of the University Theatre, and director of its current production ‘Death of A Salesman’, Father Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C.
Certainly, this is the opinion of this writer, and most of those who have been fortunate enough to witness, perhaps, the best play attempted on the Washington Hall stage.
No amount of description can justify the beauty and force that crossed into the audience. However, it was not without mistakes. Mistakes that hide among the integrated whole, but not entirely secure.
The first act moved painfully slow at times. The authbr, Arthur Miller, used the first three-quarters of an hour to supply the audience with necessary facts, liut the action, that he did supply was not employed to full advantage by the actors. Lines and movements became
stilted and hackneyed. Direction is at fault here, but also shallow interpretation by the players. The most glaring offender was Carol Ann Cruise who portrayed Linda, the salesman’s wife. George O’Donnell, as Willy (the salesman) and Dan Ferrone, as Happy, one of Willy’s sons, can be also accused.
During the last few scenes of the first act, when the other son Biff, played by Phil Donahue, discovers that his father has contemplated suicide, the production begins on an up-swing which does not subside until minutes before the final curtain. At this time Donahue displays a brilliant talent and sensitivity which he carries through, along with fine interpretation, to the end. During his last scene with Willy, Donahue reaches the height of dramatic success as he breaks down in his father’s arms. At this point the audience was not outdone by Biff.
■ The play revolves around Willy Loman, who living in his own dream world, close to insanity, pictures himself as a topflight salesman and his two sons with unlimited potential. He is pitfully wrong in both. O’Donnell portrays this part so masterfully that he is Willy Loman. Through his skill he evokes from the audience a beautiful amount of pity and fear. His transitions from reality to past, and back again are handled very well. Mr. O’Donnell’s performance will not be outdistanced in a long time.
-K
Miss Cruise toward the end of thei;<^ first act and throughout the remainder X of the play becomes the suffering wife	-
of Willy Loman. A feeling of despair,	J
fear, love, and pity -wend themselves ' throughout her dialogue and actions which are climaxed at the funeral of : her husband. A newcomer to the Notre Dame stage, Miss Cruise by this performance promises to enthrall many _ ■ future audiences.	& ;
Dan Ferrone plays his part of a selfish man who has never grown up quite adequately. He brings out Happy’s complete unawareness of the situation, which is darkened by his egotism, completely and competently.
Robert Sassen and Reginald Bain enact Charley and Bernard, the neighbors of the Lomans’. The neighbors ■ stand opposed to Willy’s materialistic j -centered world with an almost complete : set of true values. Both Sassen and Bain repeated their fine performances from last year’s ‘Caine Mutiny Court Martial’.
Also to be complimented among the minor roles are Michael Sophy who played Uncle Ben, a pompous millionaire, a bit too pompously; Paula Lawton the other woman in Willy’s life; and . Eugene Leyval who provided delightful ; comic relief as Stanley the waiter. Also included in the cast are: Jackie Baumer, Georgia Ann Weber, Betsy Finneran, and Michael Kennedy.
Not to be omitted are: Mr. Fred Syburg who coached the performers, and Mr. Gilbert Rathbun who managed the setting, which was extremely well done, and lighting.
This production by the University r Theatre was, to repeat, done very well. It shows weeks of work. It reaches well ! over the accepted standard of a college pei-formance, and for this reason worth- = while seeing. Without a doubt a chai-lenge met, struggled with, and subdued.

20
The Scholastic
• 'Modern' AB Ball Set for Tonight in Center: Galante Orchestra to Create Musical Setting
Surrounded by a setting of famous modern paintings, 310 AB men and their dates will dance “In iModem” tonight from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. in. the LaFortune Student Center. Al Galante and his orchestra will provide the music for the ball, held in conjunction with the annual Festival of the Arts.
Miss Patricia Branley, of Rochester, Minn., will reign as queen over the weekend’s festivities. Miss Branley is a senior education major at St. Teresa College in Winona, Minn. She will be escorted by Chuck O’Neil, general chairman of the dance.
During intermissions, the dancegoers will be entertained by a quartet of Notre Dame Glee Club members. A contest will be conducted to identify one of the paintings on exhibit, with a prize awarded to the individual who comes the closest. The dates will be given miniature beer mugs as remembrances of the ball.
Late permissions for those attending the ball will extend until 2 a.m. There will be no admission to the dance after
Keenan Elected Head Of Group Presidents
Ed Keenan, Met Club president, was elected board chairman of all student organizations’ presidents at a meeting held last Tuesday in the Smith Amphi-9 theatre of the La Fortune Student Center. As chairman of the board, under the new 'Student Senate constitution, Keenan will also serve as student organizations’ senator.
The purpose of the meeting was to elect a seven-man advisory board and to discuss this year’s developments concerning campus clubs. Other board members elected were Tom Mulcahy, a Milwaukee Club; Bud Freidheim, Chicago Club; Don Breitenstein, Aescula-pian and Wisconsin Clubs; Greg Con-ron, AIEE-IRE; Bob Kuhn, Admen and California Clubs; and Fuller McBride, Irish Club.
As members of the board, these men will act as agents in crystallizing club opinion and policy. The senator’s job will be to represent the various campus g clubs both in the Senate and to the Administration. In turn, Senate and University legislation and policy will be voiced to the clubs by the board and the senator.
Othei- business of the meeting was the discussion of a proposed movie pool, since many of the smaller clubs on campus are financially unable to show a " series of full-length films.
10 p.m. The usual car permissions will extend until 2 a.m. tomorrow morning.
Tomorrow afternoon, the Liberal Arts men and their dates will attend the North Carolina game. In the evening, from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. in the Navy Drill Hall, there will be the annual “Varsity Drag” sponsored by the Monogram Club. Ed Pistey and his Lettermen will provide music for the occasion.
Sunday morning, there will be a pri-
PATRICIA BRANLEY
Queen "In Modern"
vate Mass in the Pangborn Hall Chapel. After Mass, there will be a Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn. Rev. Daniel O’Neil, C.S.C., Freshman Class chaplain, will be the featured speaker.
General Chairman Chuck O’Neil is aided by Ray Lescher, business manager; Jack Simmerling, decorations; Dick Allen, reservations; Frank Brophy, tickets; Jack Bure, refreshments; Ron Francis, Communion Breakfast; Jerry Lun-den, entertainment; and Tom Judge, publicity.
FOREIGN STUDENTS
All foreign students are invited by the Human Relations Club to Thanksgiving dinners with families in the South Bend area. Those interested should leave their names and adresses in the YCS office of the LaFortune Student Center, or in 204 Lyons.
Debaters Take Third In Year’s First Meet
Last weekend, the Notre Dame debate team took third place in the first major tournament of the season at the University of South Carolina, Columbia, S. C. Participating from Wednesday to Sunday, the team won eight out of twelve debates against representatives of 25 eastern and southern colleges and universities. The question for debate was the national collegiate topic, “Resolved: that the United States Should Discontinue Direct Economic Aid to Foreign Countries.”
Representing Notre Dame were juniors Paul Coffey and Jack Martzell, on the affirmative side and sophomore Bob Dempsey and senior Pat Curran on the negative. Curran and Martzell also reached the final rounds in impromptu and extempore speaking respectively.
Last Thursday and Friday, two Notre Dame juniors, John Hirschfeld and Bernard Morris, won eight out of nine debates in an exhibition series in Pittsburgh, Pa., against the University of Pittsburgh.
Alternating as affirmative and negative teams in successive rounds, they appeared before combined, audiences of about 12,000 people. The individual audiences rendered the decisions in the contests on the topic of the Supreme Court ruling on segregation.
Students Offer Prayers For People of Hungary
Over 1500 students attended “Prayers for Peace” services Tuesday evening in Sacred Heart Church. Following public recitation of the rosary, Rev. Stanley Parry, C.S.C., delivered a sermon which emphasized the Hungary crisis. The services were closed with Benediction.
Father Parry lauded the courage of the people of Hungary in their futile struggle. “They preferred death, in a hopeless bid foi’ freedom, to a prudent life of enslavement. By their act of truly heroic proportions, they have illuminated again the truths by which we live.”	•	.
Our responsibilities in the situation were clearly defined by Father Parry, not in the light of governmental diplomacy, but in the course" of action that the individual must take. “We cannot remain spectators before this noble committment. The very circumstances of the Hungarian uprising against Bolshevism focus attention on the spiritual character of the issues that are at stake. The issue is one of truth, not some national advantage.”
November 16, 1956
21
DON COSSACK DANCERS Russian Antics
Don Cossack Dancers to Appear Nov. 30; General Admission Tickets Still Available

The Gen. Platoff Don Cossack Chorus and Dancers will appear here on the Washington Hall stage Friday evening, Nov. 30. The performance will begin at 8:15 p.m.
The Don Cossack Chorus was originally organized in Prague, the capital of Czechoslovakia in 1927, under the direction of Mr. Nicholas Kostrukoff. The membership of the chorus has always comprised the best of the vocal talent ■obtainable among the White Russian emigres who fought Communism in Russia as early as 1918-20.
Since its inception in 1927, the chorus has toured all five continents and has 19 times crossed the equator, visiting 67
ND Representative to Attend Annual Architecture Institute
Senior architecture student James Burlage will journey to Washington, D.C., next week to represent Notre Dame at the second annual Student Forum of the American Institute of Architects. The forum, which will be Jheld next Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, will draw representatives from all the accredited schools of architecture in the United States.
Chief topic of discussion at the forum will be the adoption by the institute of an annual publication on architecture which, it is felt, will be profitable to .architecture students and the general public alike.	-
Burlage is the president of the Notre Dame student chapter of the institute.
22
different countries. The chorus first came to the United States on Jan. 3, 1939, arriving at Seattle from Honolulu and during its 13 year stay in this country has given more than 1600 concerts.
The Boston Post has said of the group: “When they stamp onto stage in perfect formation with their erect military bearing and bright uniforms you get your first impulse to cheer—and your second when they begin to sing.”
Tickets for the performance will be sold on Nov. 28 and Nov. 29, with the box office being open from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. and from 6 to 8 p.m. On Nov. 30, the day of the performance, the box office will be open from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. and from 6 to 9 p.m., 45 minutes after the performance has started. Tickets are priced at $.75 for balcony seats, and $1 for seats on the main floor.
NAVAL PROCUREMENT
Representatives from the Office of Naval Officer Procurement will be present on the campus this coming Monday and Tuesday.
The purpose of their visit is to interview applicants for the Navy’s Officer Candidate programs, including naval aviation. This is particularly aimed at seniors interested in obtaining a commission in the U.S. Navy after graduation.
Interviews will be conducted in the Dining Hall, main entrance, on both days.
Attorneys to Advise Law Students Today
Eight attorneys, representing a cross . section of the legal profession, are participating today in an Institute on the ' Practice of Law at the Notre Dame Law School.	j
Members of a panel which will advise r Notre Dame law students on how to launch their legal career will include Charles Fox, Jeffersonville, Ind., president of the Indiana State Bar Association; Julius Holzberg, labor attorney and professor of law at the University of Cincinnati; James Swift, vice president and general counsel, Southwestern Life Insurance Co., Dallas, Tex.; and John Christenson, Columbus, -O., formerly special counsel of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Other panelists will be Arthur Gem-mer, deputy attorney general of Indianapolis, Ind.; Paul Hellmuth, of Hale and Dorr, Boston, Mass.; Merle Miller, of Ross, McCord, Ice and Miller, Indianapolis; and Leo Wolford, of Middleton, Seelbach, Wolford, Willis and Cochran, Louisville, Ky.
According to Dean Joseph O’Meara, T • the panel of experienced attorneys will discuss whether a young lawyer should ’ open his own office, join an established • firm, seek a government position, or go J into industry. They will also explore ; how active participation in politics may i affect a young lawyer’s career.	:
Other questions likely to be aired, g Dean O’Meara said, are whether a new f member of the bar should practice in ■ his own home town or settle in some I other community, and whether he should	i
be a general practitioner or develop a	i
legal specialty.	;
Physics Majors Form Club;
Constitution Draft Scheduled	,
A Physics Club is currently in the : process of organization on campus. Under Faculty Advisor Prof. Darwin Mead of the physics department, the club has been formed to allow the physics majors of Notre Dame to mix informally and to get acquainted with each other and the science faculty.
So far, the functions of the club have been carried on through class representatives. Permanent officers are to be elected later this semester. The class representatives are Mike Halloran, senior, Jack Radzminski, junior, and Jim Short, sophomore. Greg Hussey has been acting as secretary.
Committees have been organized and are currently drafting a constitution and planning programs and entertainment. Several dinners and faculty mixers have been planned.
The Scholastic
Students Sympathize With Hungarian Revolt; Favor Moral, Physical Support for Patriots
AFROTC Group Conducts
Varied Activities Program
Three members of the Notre Dame
World-wide attention has recently been focused on the bloody Russian suppression of the revolts in Hungary. In relation to this affair, the Scholastic ^conducted a poll of student opinion this ^week regarding the action of the Russian government.
Notre Dame students overwhelmingly felt that the Hungarians were thoroughly justified in their revolt. Bill Griffith, an AB junior from Smithfield, Tex., commented: “Anytime that people are ruled by a puppet regime which is governing badly, there is a justifiable cause for revolt.” Paul Schierl, a political • science senior from Menasha, Wis., added the point that: “The Hungarian people had been oppressed politically, economically, and socially, and had been
Stop Your Thumbing, Police Warn Students
a South Bend police and the office of Wthe prefect of discipline are presently cracking down on student hitchhikers.
Notre Dame undergraduate regulations wain that hitchhiking is prohibited by the State of Indiana 'and subject to heavy fines. The University allows first offenders to go free after recording the offense. If repeated, the student is subject to a severe penalty according to the conditions.
£ Despite the current bus strike, the University has not altered its policy. South Bend police have been instructed to overlook hitchhikers who “thumb” rides from the curb, for the duration of the strike. This is not allowed by University officials.
Rev. William J. McAuliffe, C.S.C., acting prefect of discipline in the Rev. Charles I. McCarragher’s absence, has a stated that students have been flagrantly w violating these rules.
In an open letter to the students, Pat Logan, student body president, has also warned that hitchhiking, even in the . appointed area at the Circle, may be abolished. Objections have arisen because students hitchhiking in the roadway have created a traffic hazard. Students are reminded that they should stand by the signs appropriate to their destination. Logan adds that the hitchhiking at the Circle is a privilege, granted in 1954 by the University and that it can be taken away if abused.
Fr. McAuliffe warns that traffic regulations should not be taken lightly. Last weekend, two students received a fine a of $14 apiece for jaywalking, which is w also being watched closely by officials.
exploited by the Russians since the end of the Second World War.” Chuck Doherty AB senior from Somerset, Pa., said that: “The revolt was justified on the grounds that the natural rights of the Hungarian people were impeded.”
U. S. ACTION FAVORED
Most of the students interviewed felt that the U. S. should have taken some definite action in the crisis, though they were not certain as to what extent this inteiwention should have been carried. As Dohei-ty said: “The U. S. could have taken stronger steps by condemning this action on the part of Russia, by breaking off diplomatic relations with Russia, and by refusing to recognize any Russian-dominated government in Hungary.” Some felt as Dave Karnath, AB sophomore from Kenmore, N.Y., that: “Once Russia invaded Hungary, we should have sent in troops. Though this might have led to 'a third world war, we still had a strict moral obligation which we have to uphold in the face of (Continued on page 30)
“They certainly are trapping the old course for this tournament.”
AFROTC Cadet Wing, Tom Mahoney, Tom Berg, and Paul Pikell, attended Indiana District Cadet Wing functions at Bunker Hill AFB in Peru, Ind., on Nov. 10. The functions were sponsored by Ball State Teachers College.
Cadets attended studied selections of cadet wing staffs, merit-demerit balances, cadet evaluations, and cadet ex-tracurriculars. Dan Bergen, cadet commander, said that several staff members will soon attend a similar meeting at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor.
Other AFROTC future activities include the journey of 40 cadets to the Arnold Air Development Center in Tulahoma, Tenn. The trip is one of several planned for this year.
Bergen also announced that the Notre Dame AFROTC Drill Team will participate in the Fifth Army District Drill Team competition in Chicago and the Intercollegiate Drill competition in Washington, D.C. The cadet rifle team is to compete in the national Hearst Trophy Rifle match.
Noveniber 16, 1956
25
24
The Scholastic
Scett*
ND FACES NORTH CAROLINA IN HOME FINALE
• Local Sailors Compete
InTimmeAngsten Meet
Improved Tarheels Attempt to Make It Seven;
Hornung, Seniors in Last Home Appearance
Once again the Notre Dame Sailing Club n’t 11 spend the Thanksgiving weekend in Chicago as the guests of North-westem University, to compete in the Timme Angsten Regatta, one of the greatest of the collegiate sailing tournaments in the country. The Timme Ang-W sten is made up of eight teams who gain berths through elimination trials throughout the Midwest, the host team, and one or two of the top flight Eastern squads. This year the teams will be Purdue, whom the Irish defeated last week, along with Wisconsin, Marquette, Michigan, Wayne, Ohio State, and Ohio Wesleyan, all of whom gained their berths last weekend.
Sailing for the Irish ■will be Bernardo " D’Almeida in the “A” division and Ron Meissner in the “B”. Bernardo Gaillet will do the crewing for D’Almeida and Lou Morgan will crew the “B” events.
USE FIBERGLASS DINGHY
This year the Irish will be using a new type fiberglass, 12-foot dinghy which they have never sailed in before. However, Meissnei- points out that this 0 situation prevails with most of the teams entered, so that the team that is first to get the feel of the 'boat will be the team with the advantage.
Last Saturday and Sunday the Irish gained the right to participate in the Regatta by defeating four other teams in the elimination trials held at Purdue. Notre Dame finished on top with 102, followed by Purdue with 100. Illinois Institute scored 81, followed by Cincin-™ nati and Indiana.
NOSE OUT PURDUE
As the scores indicate, the meet turned in to a two team duel between the Irish and Purdue. In the 20 events, the Irish and the Boilermakers were tied three times, while they changed the lead on eleven occasions. The largest spread between the two teams the entire afternoon was three points.
Bernardo D’Almeida was high scorer among the “A” division skippers, amassing 50 points, while Lou Morgan garnered 52 points to finish second among the skippers in “B”. Pete Raffetto crewed for Morgan, while Bernardo — Gaillet and D’Almeida teamed in “A” " for the Irish.
by ED ROHRBACH
Tomorrow afternoon the 1956 edition of the Fighting Irish make theii- last appearance in the Stadium against a North Carolina eleven that almost matches Notre Dame’s dismal six defeat showing so far this season. However, the Tarheels, with five losses, have won two of their last four games and tied one. Their fifth defeat was to Tennessee, the nation’s No. 2 team, by a score of 20-0 after playing inspired ball for three quarters. Last week they thumped Virginia, 21-7.
For the Irish Seniors, it will be their last home appearance. Paul Hornung will probably be the only senior starter but regulars Jim Morse, Lou Loncaric, Jim Milota, Jim Munro and Bob Scannell will see a great deal of action. Dean Studer and Sherill Sipes probably will not play because of injuries.
Notre Dame has never been beaten by North Carolina, having subdued the Tarheels seven straight times since the intersectional rivalry began in 1949. Carolina has always put up a strong first half against the Irish but always too, ND has managed to make the Tarheels wilt under applied second half pressure. Exceptions are the 1950 and
ED SUTTON
Elusive Tar Heel back
’51 struggles in which Notre Dame squeaked by on one touchdown margins.
Carolina coach, Jim Tatum, returning to his alma mater this year after a very successful nine year tenure at Maryland, has brought with him the split-T formation and this fall’s squad has the backfield depth to make it a constant scoring threat.
Quarterback Dave Reed, though not a particularly good passer, ranks third on the team in rushing. His favorite back, for getting the call on the option play is right halfback Ed Sutton, by far the squad’s finest runner. Sutton, whose forte is speed built on a 200-pound frame, has averaged almost six yards per cany this season and tallied four of the Tarheels’ seven TD’s up to the Virginia game.
Lany McMullen and Emil DeCantis alternate at the other halfback spot and both can pass on occasion. McMullen is noted for his hard running and DeCantis relies on speed. Fullback Wally Vale, moved this season from end, has developed into a powerful charger and is one of the countiy’s finest punters with a 44.1 average. McMullen is the only
(Continued on page 29)
JIM TATUM
Made the big switch.
November 16, 1956
25
Irish Fencers Prepare for Season Opener;
Coach Langford Faces Loss of Eight Starters
by JIM GOETHALS
An aggregate of some 70 fencers have begun practice in preparation for the 1957 fencing season which • commences Feb. 2 when they meet Buffalo and Oberlin at Notre Dame.
The squad, which includes 30 varsity members and 40 freshmen, is very much lacking in experience due to the loss of eight of nine starters to graduation, with only six returning lettermen. However, Coach Walter Langford, who is beginning his eleventh year as head coach, asserts that “they have a great deal of potential and with substantial improvement in the next four months of training they could very well be as successful as last year’s squad.” The 1956 fencers compiled a 15-2 season record.
Among those departing seniors of last year was 1955 NCAA epee champion Don Tadrowski who finished the season with a 37-9 record which was tops for the squad.
Coach Langford estimates that the epee division will be the strongest of the three divisions, as has held true in recent year's, with the sabre the weakest and most inexperienced of the three. The epee has been beaten only twice in the last 54 meets over a period of four seasons and both times by the narrowest of margins, 5-4.
Those who are regarded at this early period of practice as the nucleus of the squad are Co-Captain Dennis Hemmerle and Dick Colman in epee, Pierre DuVair and Joe Blazina in foil, and Co-Captain Jack Ryan and Dick Fagan in the sabre division. All are returning lettermen.
COACH WALTER LANGFORD Loses eight starters
Hemmerle, DuVair, and Blazina boast the best individual records of last season of the returnees with marks of 35-7, 16-6, and 8-5 respectively.
To this date, the most promising nonlettermen to play a supporting role in the foil division are sophomores: John Lauerman, John Shields, Chuck Duggan, Tom George, and Ted Bares. In the epee: Juniors John Kearns, Ron Farrow, and Terry Laughlin, and sophomores Don Clancy, Jim Bragon, and Jim Jock are progressing most noticeably. Senior Art Price, Juniors Joe Klein, Jerry Meyer, and Ed Wornicki, and Sophomores Tom Lee, Pat Green, and Klaus Muller’Bergh look the sharpest in sabre division.
1957 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
The Athletic Department announced today the 1957 University of Notre Dame football schedule.
Sept. 28 Purdue at Lafayette Oct. 5 Indiana at Notre Dame Oct. 12 Army at Philadelphia Oct.	19	Open
Oct. 26 Pittsburgh at Notre Dame Nov.	2	Navy	at	Notre	Dame
Nov. 9 Michigan St. at E. Lansing Nov.	16	Oklahoma at Norman
Nov.	23	Iowa	at	Notre	Dame
Nov. 30 So. Cal. at Notre Dame Dec. 7 So. Methodist at Dallas
Very ably assisting Coach Langford in producing a top-notch fencing team year after year here at Notre Dame is Mike De Cicco, one of Notre Dame’s all time greats in fencing. Mike, incidently is only one of four in the history of fencing at Notre Dame who had previous experience before doming to college.
As to the schedule which faces the Irish fencers in February and March, Coach Langford believes that Wisconsin, Illinois, Michigan State, Ohio State, Detroit, and Iowa will offer the toughest competition in that given order. Illinois and Wisconsin are the only teams to have beaten Notre Dame with any consistency since the war years and only one other team, Iowa, has beaten the Irish fencers more than once since that time. Illinois has the winningest overall record against Notre Dame with a 6-6 mark. Wisconsin is second with a 6-9 record.	.

JOHN MICHNO
Irish hope in CCC and IC4A
MSU Poses Threat To CCC Title Hopes
Michigan State, Ball State, Marquette, . and Drake will provide the competition. * today as the Irish Harriers defend their Central Collegiate Conference crown in	•
Chicago. The Michigan State Spartans	;
who defeated the Irish earlier in the	>
season 19-36 are favored to upend the	t
harriers who have captured the crown	;
for the past two years.	i
Last Friday the Irish tasted defeat	J
for the third time this season at the	:
hands of Indiana who also defeated the	.
Wilsonmen earlier in the season in the	:
Indiana State Championships held in	■
Indianapolis. The harriers, shooting for	;
their third straight mown, finished second to their downstate rivals by a score of 33-37. Bill Abele of the Hoosiers garnered top honors, hustling the four miles in 20:37. Tony Pentino, also from [ Indiana, finished second in 20:39. Mike ; Haverty and Captain John (Michno finished third and fourth respectively for * the Irish, posting times of 20:47 and 20:49. Ball State finished in third place with 116 points.
This Monday, the harriers will face their stiffest competition when they journey to New York to compete in the IC4A Cross Country Championships. They will again face defending champion Pittsburgh and Michigan State, the heavy favorite, as well as the top squads of the East, including Syracuse, Penn State, Manhattan and St. John’s.
Mike Haverty, John Michno, Dale Vandenberg, John Burns and Ed Mon-nelley will 'be five members of the ND squad. The sixth man will be picked ' later and will be either Neil Wallace, , j Bob Huetz or Stan Wegrzynowicz. * j
26
The Scholastic
• Irish Trip Tarheels;
Extend Streak to 39
Notre Dame had four football victories A in 1950, and all four victories were close. The point spread of the combined Irish advantage in those four contests was only 31 points. But, on Saturday, Sept. 30, no one knew this was going to be a close year.
Through 1946, 1947, 1948, and 1949 Frank Leahy-coached teams had run up 38 wins without a loss. North Carolina’s Tarheels were not rated as a serious threat to the Irish string and "most experts had Notre Dame pegged as 27 to 31 point favorites.
The wails of Leahy were having no takers. He said, “the game can go either way.” It almost did.
Notre Dame, won the toss and elected to kickoff. Tom Higgins took the short kickoff on his 27 and started up field. A brace of hungry Irish tacklers tore into him, shaking the ball lose.
•burns recovers
Paul Burns dived for it and Notre Dame had a first down on the North Carolina 32.
Bill Barrett smashed the right guard for three yards. Jack Landry, now an Irish freshman coach, hit through the center for six yards, behind a vicious block by captain Jerry Groom. With third and one on the 23, Landry bolted "for six more yards and the first down.
But, ND was penalized back to the 38 for clipping. Bob Williams faded, and fired a pass just out of the hands of end Jim Mutscheller in the end zone.
On the Tarheel 38 with 4th and sixteen, the confident Irish ipunted, feeling sure they would score in a matter of minutes. William’s punt, aiming for the sidelines, went into the end zone, and ANorth Carolina took over on the 20.
Left Half Bud Wallace fumbled the direct snap from center and Mutscheller fell on the ball on the ten yard line. . Barrett scooted around left end for two - yards. Bill Gay skirted right end for four' more. Landry added one up the middle. With fourth down and three facing him on the North Carolina three, Williams elected to throw. He tossed a ^quick pass just over- the line of scrimmage to Mutscheller who barrelled into , the end Zone for the score. Joe Caprara convei-ted and Notre Dame had a 7-0 lead with only four minutes gone in the first quarter, but it was fifty-four min, utes before the Irish scored again.
Throughout the remainder of the first i ^half, the Irish defense headed by Mut-! "scheller, John Helwig, Bob Toneff, and
I November 16, 1956
Groom, limited the Tarheels to only one penetration into ND territory.
Notre Dame drove inside the North Carolina 30 twice before the half ended, but the offense sputtered, and the Irish had to be content with a seven point half time lead.
On one occasion, Barrett raced from his own 15 to the North Carolina 33 on a wide sweep, but the Tarheels held.
The temper of the game seemed to change at the outset of the third period. Landry fumbled the opening kickoff and North Carolina had a first down on the ND 18 but the Irish held and took over on downs. Notre Dame was forced to punt and Tarheel Dick Bunting returned it 13 yards to the NC 38.
BUNTING SPARKS ATTACK
On first down, Bunting circled his own right end for eleven yards and a first down just short of the mid-field stripe.
Bunting picked up three yards over the middle and fullback Bill Hayes tossed a 14 yard pass to right half, Bob Gantt. Bunting then swept wide around the Notre Dame left end and raced to the Irish eight yard line.
The Irish dug in and Bunting lost two and Hayes was stopped at the line of scrimmage. Hayes was then smothered on third down.
On fourth down, Bunting passed, but defensive left guard Paul Burns picked off the aerial and returned it 45 yards to the North Carolina 49.
Irish partisans felt that the upstart Carolinians had been put in their place but the Tarheels stopped the Irish offensive surge. The ND line held and Bunt
IRISH BARRETT OFF AND RUNNING
Blockers form os ND bock heads for Tar Heel territory.
ing got off a bad punt, but the Irish again failed to move on offensive although they took over on the NC 30.
Nine plays later, the Tarheels had scored the tying touchdown. Hayes smashed over left guard for eleven yards, and only a desperation tackle by John Petitbon stopped him from going all the way.
Hayes then passed to left end C. C. White for a first down on the Notre Dame 44. On second and seven, Hayes passed eight yards to right half Jack Cooke for another first down.
WALLACE SCORES
On second and six, Hayes bolted over center on a delayed buck to the ND 20. Bud Wallace, redeeming himself for his first quarter bobble, broke loose to the four, and then swept around right end for a touchdown.
Fred Sherman converted to tie the score with nine minutes remaining in the final period.
The Irish and Tarheels traded the ball twice, and when North Carolina seemed to be generating an offensive drive, linebacker Dave Flood intercepted Hayes’ pass and returned it to the ND 44.
Landry picked up seven, but the Tarheel line held twice. On fourth down, Williams calmly passed to Landry on the NC 37.
With four minutes remaining and the score tied, Billy Gay failed to gain over center, and Barrett dropped Williams’ pass. Williams then passed to Landry for nine yards. On fourth and one, Williams smashed into the center of the line, just barely making the first down on the 26. On first down, with two minutes remaing in the game, Williams caught the Tarheel defense unawares, and lofted a touchdown pass to Mutscheller in the end zone. Caprara converted. The last victory in the string of 39 was assured, 14-7.—Joe Bride
27
TIME OUT
The football season is quickly coming to a close with most of the bowl participants still undecided, but there is a great deal of speculation as to who will compete in the five major bowls—Rose, Orange, Cotton, Gator and Sugar. With Tyler, our capable prognosticator, we have reviewed the top teams in the country and have come up with our probable bowl contestants.
Without any hesitation we will name Oregon State as the Pacific Coast representative. They all but eliminated their nearest rival in Stanford last Saturday. Both UCLA and Southern California have a chance to win the Conference crown but both are ineligible. We will have to string along with Iowa’s mighty Hawkeyes as the Big Ten representative but both Michigan and Minnesota have a chance. The Wolverines have lost two Conference games and must play Indiana and Ohio State. The Gophers have only lost one but they have a tie which may haunt them all winter. Still remaining on their schedule are games with Michigan State and Wisconsin. Iowa still must face Ohio State tomorrow, but we see both Michigan and Minnesota each dropping one more game leaving the Hawks home free.
The Orange Bowl Committee can start mailing their tickets to Clemson, S. C. and Boulder, Colo. The Tigers will be the Atlantic Coast Conference winner despite the fact that they will get knocked off by Miami, an independent, tonight. The Buffalos from Colorado have lost only to Oklahoma. Missouri has lost only one too, but they have two less wins and still must face the Sooners.
In the Cotton Bowl, it will be the Vols of Tennessee against the winner of the Southwest Conference. It appeared that Texas A&M would be the team but they were slapped with probation again by the NCAA. Right now, Texas Christian, Baylor or even Southern Methodist could take the crown. The Mustangs face an uphill battle with games against Arkansas, Baylor and TCU left on the schedule. We’ll stick with TCU if Jim Swink and Company can pull out of their tailspin.
The Gator Bowl will find Texas Tech, upset victor over TCU last Saturday, against one of the top Eastern teams, Syracuse, Pittsburgh’ or Penn State. We’ll pick Syracuse, the No. 1 team in the East in this one.
The Sugar Bowl will feature the Southeastern Conference’s No. 2 team in Georgia Tech. Theii- opponent is anybody’s guess and the Sugar Bowl Committee is going to find that it will have trouble finding teams outside of the South from now on. The Louisiana senate has passed a bill banning interracial sports. This leaves teams like Syracuse, Pitt and Penn State out of consideration because all have Negroes on their teams.
What gripes me is the reason for which Gov. Earl Long passed the bill. He said that the majority of the people of the state wanted the bill. If this is the truth then the majority of the citizens of Louisiana don’t deserve to be citizens of the United States.
As soon as the bill was passed Notre Dame immediately withdrew from the Sugar Bowl Basketball Tournament. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive Vice President, had the following to say in a letter to the tournament committee: “As you know, the University of Notre Dame has member's of the white and colored races among its student body and on its athletic teams. It would be a violation of our policy to discriminate against any boy because of his race. Since this is incompatible with Louisiana’s recent legislation we have no alternative but to remove ourselves from further-consideration.”
It would be a credit to intercollegiate athletics now if the NCAA would remove the dollar signs from their eyeballs and take the same kind of stand. Let’s see how much power the NCAA really does have. •
PREDICTION OF THE WEEK
Last week, our Irish played their best full ballgame of the season. Maybe they can salvage part of a dismal season. This week: Notre Dame 19, North Carolina 13.—J. G.
Soccer Club Triumphs 5-3;
Tops LFA in Two Overtimes
The newly formed Notre Dame Soccer Club played and won their first match Saturday, November 3. The match was played against Lake Forest Academy, at Lake Forest, Illinois. The final score was 5-3.
The teams were so evenly matched *■ that it took two overtimes to settle the contest. Julio Villareal and Juan Iniguez both scored twice for the victors and Lawrence Moore tallied twice for Lake Forest.
The game was witnessed by some 550 enthusiastic soccer fans including quite a large number of young ladies from Barat College.
The game was arranged by a groups of Latin American students with the permission of the University. The win. was something of a feather in the caps of the locals as Lake Forest plays a full schedule of games and is considered to be one of the better prep soccer teams in the area.
TYLER’S PICKS OF THE WEEK
Georgia Tech over Alabama Southern Methodist over Arkansas Army over Pitt Auburn over Georgia Baylor over Nebraska Syracuse over Colgate Colorado over Utah Pennsylvania over Columbia Cornell over Dartmouth
Duke over Wake Forest	.
Florida State over Mississippi So. ’ West Virginia over Furman Oregon State over Idaho Illinois over Wisconsin Michigan over Indiana Oklahoma over Missouri Southern California over Oregon Coll, of Pacific over Hardin Simmons Penn State over N. C. State Texas A&M over Rice Maryland over South Carolina < Stanford over Washington UCLA over Kansas Kentucky over Xavier Miami over Clemson (tonight) Michigan State over Minnesota Tennessee over Mississippi Navy over Virginia Notre Dame over North Carolina Texas Tech over Tulsa Holy Cross over Marquette '
(Sunday)
LAST WEEK
20 Right; 3 Wrong; 2 Ties
SEASON
111 Right; 31 Wrong; 3 Ties Pct. .782 j
28
The Scholastic
DiCK DEASY
Hawkeye right tackle and co-captain
Irish Face Tarheels
(Continued from page 25) senior in the backfield contingent.
A In the line, Carolina is weak, especially at tackles, though they have good overall speed. The ends are about the best fortified forward positions with five returning veterans. Leading the corps tomorrow will be senior Larry Mus-champ and 210-pound Buddy Payne. Though capable defensively, the ends lack offense prowess as shown by the fact that two halfbacks, Sutton and DeCantis, lead the Tarheels in pass receiving. Lanky Don Redding has been a starter at right tackle and is only a sophomore. Paired with him will probably be John Bilich, a hefty 218-pound senior. Protecting the middle for North Carolina are guards Don Kemper, a fastdeveloping sophomore and Jim Jones, a light, 185-pounder. Stewart Pell has very satisfactorily filled the center slot with his 230-pound frame. He is the ^Tarheel’s most probable lineman to gain raiational recognition.
Iowa Next
Iowa’s Hawkeyes, showing a surprising 6-1 season’s performance, take time out from their battle to be the Big Ten’s representative in the Rose Bowl and play host to the Irish a week from tomorrow >n Iowa City. The Hawkeyes combine a solid defense that has allowed only 57 points against them with a basic T offense. This offense is polished with split-T and single-wing variations, that has piled up 130 points so far for them in the 1956 campaign.
The Hawkeyes will be out to avenge ^ast fall’s thrilling 17-14 victory by *4otre Dame that was accomplished on
Paul Hornung’s last minute field goal. In the long seines, extending back to 1921, ND has been victorious in eight games, been stalemated on three occasions and after allowing Iowa a three game edge the first three times they met, has never lost.
Last week the Hawks defeated previously unbeaten Minnesota, 7-0, to become the top Western Conference prospect for a Rose Bowl bid of the league’s eligible teams.
SUCHY BOLSTERS LINE
Bolstering the middle of the line for Iowa is 205-pound, co-captain Don Suchy. Named “Lineman of the Week” in the Hawkeye’s only loss against Michigan, Suchy, from his center-linebacking position has been a tremendous factor in the Hawks unexpected ’56 showing. At guards are Hugh Drake, if he has sufficiently recovered from an injury, and Frank Bloomquist, a junior veteran. Bob Commings, weighing only
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
NORTH CAROLINA		NOTRE DAME
Payne ....	1 F			 Royer
Russavage		L.T			 Geremia
Jones 			LG......			 Shulsen
Koes 		r		 Sullivan
Kemper ..		R.G			 McGinley
Redding ..		R.T			 Nagurski
Robinson		R.E				 Wetoska
Reed 			Q.B			 Hornung
McMullen		R.H			 Lewis
Sutton ....			R.H			 Ward
Vale 			F.B			   Just
KICKOFF—1:00 p.m., C.S.T.
173 pounds, will spell Drake if he is not ready. Dick Klein, a 260-pound “moose” at right tackle has a similar counterpart in Al Karras, 235 pounds, on the left side. In Jim Gilliam and Jim Gibbons Iowa has one of the outstanding end combinations in the nation. Gilliam was sidelined last fall with a broken leg, but has fully recovered, and Gibbons, who filled in for Gilliam in 1955, blossomed into the team’s most frequent pass catcher and scored three TD’s.
At quarterback will be Ken Ploen, an able field general and dangerous runner. Ploen is one of the best backs in the country in running the option play. Bill Happel, though bothered by a bad leg, leads the team in ground gaining at light halfback. At left half will be either Don Dobrino, averaging five yards per carry, or, if he is still injured, Bill Gravel, a chunky 180-pounder, will start. Fred Harris, who first took over a starting berth at fullback in the ’55 Notre Dame game, packs plunging ability with a remarkable talent for defensive work.
Cavanaugh Upset Win Sparks Interhall Play
Cavanaugh upset league leading Zahm 6-0 last week to put the Eastern Division of the Interhall Football League in a four way tie for first place. Sunday, Lyons and Badin fought to a scoreless tie to give undefeated Dillon undisputed possession of first place in the Western loop.
Cavanaugh, Zahm, St. Edward’s and Off-Campus are all tied for first place in the East with three wins and one loss apiece.
Dillon leads all alone in the West by virtue of Sunday’s battle between Lyons and Badin which ended in a scoreless tie. Lyons is in second place, a game and one half out of first, with two wins and one tie. Howard is in third place, two games out, with two wins and two losses. Badin is in fourth place, with one win, two losses, and a tie. Sorin is in fifth, three games out, boasting one "in against two losses. Morrissey is in last place with four losses.
Cavanaugh pulled the big upset of the season by beating league leading Zahm 6-0. Jim Wysocki and Tony Shallhoub were the standouts for Cavanaugh, with Jim Wysocki .sparking a 50-yard drive in the last few minutes. The touchdown came on a pass from Tom Hirams to Tony Shallhoub with 40 seconds left in the game.
In other games Sunday, Badin and Lyons fought to a 0-0 tie which cost Lyons a chance to go into first place. Breen-Phillips forfeited to St. Edward’s.
In games played last week, Dillon blanked Howard 9-0. . Off-Campus defeated Farley 2-0 by virtue of a forfeit. Also Morrissey forfeited to Sorin 2-0.
FORREST EVASHEVSK1
Coach and poet
November 16, 1956
29
Hungarian Revolt
(Continued from page 23)
any consequences.” Most students felt as did George Oser, junior AB-physics major from Houston, Tex.: “We could only have done what we did do, give moral support.”
The majority of the students felt that the United Nations should have taken some action. As Lucio Noto, AB sophomore from Englewood Cliffs, N.J. said: “There was a moral obligation of the U.N. to help Hungary.” Some, agreeing with Karnath, felt that: “The only effective action would have been force, and this should have been realized from the beginning.” A few, like Oser, believed that “The U.N. could not legally act in an internal crisis. As the situation turned out, the results were better than if the U.N. had acted, since the purge,
‘"■’Wf."’
though hard on the people, is making € | the card-carrying Reds disgusted with ] the Communist Party.”
“At the very least, the Anglo-French affair in the Near East served to distract attention from any action that the Russians may have taken in Hungary,” said Griffith. As Noto pointed out, “The , U.N. would probably have taken a more i positive action had not some of the main .. powers, Britain and France, been concerned with the Near East.” Karnath added: “Because of the action taken by the western powers in the Near East, the Russians found it easier to act in Hungary the way they did.”
The attitude of the students in general were summarized by Doherty. “This is definite time for- the U.S. to wake up to its active responsibilities. There can be no compromise in the abso-* lute values of man.”
How KEARFOTT'S
Training Program Works...
A “learning by doing” philosophy is basic at Kearfott. As an assistant Project Engineer, you are given assignments in several engineering laboratories to determine in which you can make your best contributions and find your greatest satisfaction. Under the guidance of senior engineers and specialists, each man takes his project through from inception to final production, thus acquiring a broad experience background. Success depends on individual initiative and resourcefulness.
A Subsidiary ot General Precision Equipment Corporation
137S MAIN AVE., CLIFTON, NEW JERSEY
KEARFOTT
is interviewing on your campus
Monday, November 26
Make you)' appointment now with your College Placement Office
Kearfott’s leading position in the development and production of aircraft control and navigation instruments makes the company a fertile ground for the young engineer to develop his talents and gain the experience which means success in his chosen profession.
Assisting in the design and development of today’s most advanced systems, the graduate engineer quickly gains in knowledge of the functions and applications of the gyros, synchros and other components which comprise systems. You will share in Kearfott’s vital role in TACAN, inertial guidance, stable platforms and other servo mechanisms for today’s most important jet aircraft and industrial development.
In addition to close association with the engineers whose work has set new standards for the industry, you enjoy an educational assistance program to help you further your formal education, supplementing the “learning by doing” program through which you will choose your field of special interest.
Decentralized plants provide ample opportunity to become familiar with top management and distinguish yourself through initiative and imagination. Salaries and benefits are liberal, and advancement is based on your own value and contribution.
NOTE: If you cannot attend an interview on this day, please write for more information tai Robert J. Sperl, Technical Placement Supervitor, Engineering Personnel Office.
tt COMPANY, INCORPORATED

30
The Scholastic
V *Student Senate Makes Two Appropriations: [ Campus Clubs, NFCCS Receive $150 Grants
Two appropriations of $150 were made by the Senate during the past two weeks. One appropriation was allocated to the campus club movie fund while the other was given to the NFCCS for their "national dues.
The Senate approved the appropriation to the campus club movie fund at its Oct. 30 meeting. Under the plan, two or three small clubs who are normally unable to show films will guarantee to pay half the cost of the film with the Senate absorbing the rest of the cost through the fund.
A change in Senate membership was ©brought about through a constitutional amendment. Instead of the Tri-Military Council being represented by its chairman, it is to be represented by a special appointee of the council.
With the election and invocation of
YCS Slates Program •For Student Retreats
The YCS has recently announced a new program making closed retreats on campus available to students during the school year. A committee, under chairman Tom Eisenhauer, has been working with Rev. Michael Foran, C.S.C., director of weekend retreats for students at the new Retreat house, located near — the Fatima Shrine.
" These retreats, each accommodating 60 students, will answer a long-felt need at the University. In the past students have had to travel to make retreats; the new system will eliminate this inconvenience. In addition, the new program will be constructed especially to answer student needs and interests.
Eisenhauei- announced that the first of the retreats will be given on the week-Aend of Dec. 7, from 6 p.m. Friday until 5 p.m. Sunday. It will be conducted by Rev. Regis O’Neill, C.S.C., a former member of the Notre Dame speech department, and is open to any student. The response to this first student retreat will largely determine the feasibility of expanding the program.
The committee will request a minimum donation of ten dollars from any ©student who wishes to attend the Dec. i 7 retreat. This will be forwarded to ; the retreat director as a partial defrayal : of the expense of conducting the retreat. | Reservations will be accepted next Mon. day, Nov. 26, to Friday, Nov. 30, from 4:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the YCS office in the LaFortune Student Center. ^Further information may be obtained at "the YCS office.
the new Senate a few weeks ago, the Senate committees have now been established and filled. They are: finance, Vic Clesi, Bob Kiley, and HaiTy Wasoff; rules and agenda, Dick Donovan, and Bob Pleus; budget, Jerry Brady, Pat Logan, Bob Kiley, Jerry Murphy, and Harry Wasoff; policy, Tom Cahill, Martin Kelly, Dick Meyer, and Pete Salsich.
Other committee members appointed were: infirmary house, Vince Campbell, and Bob Schwenker; international affairs, John Cusack, and George Strake; Rockne Memorial house, Tom McMurtry; Student Senate ceremonies, Joe Ryan; and student rates, Tom Cahill, Bernie Pellegrino, and Albert Mooney.
At the Nov. 7 meeting, Tony Yurchak, inter-campus commissioner, explained the importance of Notre Dame’s position as the largest Catholic men’s university in NFCCS. He submitted, in addition to his request for national dues, a report explaining the function and purposes of both NFCCS and NSA. The dues were approved after a short debate.
Wranglers, Bookmen Form Freshman Club
Freshmen interested in joining the Freshmen Wranglers and’Bookmen Club are invited to attend a meeting next Tuesday in Room 331 O’Shaughnessy Hall at 8 p.m.
The purpose of the organization is to stimulate and organize the freshmen and to prepare them for university life. This preparation includes the development of understanding and an appreciation of the liberal arts.
This new organization will be under the moderation of the two upperclass clubs, the Wranglers and the Bookmen, until January when they will elect their own officers and become an independent club.
The original Wranglers has as its theme this year “The Contemporary American Mind.” Papers presented so far this year include an essay on Thomas Merton by Tom O’Brien, club president, and one on Ernest Hemingway by Gaiy Gates. “The Place of Thought in American Life” was presented by Doug Cole and a papei- on Billy Graham by Sal Asselta.
The Bookmen have for their topic this year “Freedom and Revolt in Modern Literature.” The first two papers this year were presented by Harry Heyl on Arthur Rimband’s A Season in Hell, and the “Outsider” a theme on modern Literature.
BE IN CHICAGO THANKSGIVING?
DON’T MISS “JAZZ for MODERNS”
IN PERSON COUNT BASIE & HIS ORCHESTRA ERROLL GARNER & HIS CONCERT TRIO GERRY MULLIGAN SEXTET AUSTRALIAN JAZZ QUINTET CHICO HAMILTON QUINTET KAI WINDING SEPTET 8:3Q P.M. THANKSGIVING EVE NOV. 21 1:30 P.M. THANKSGIVING NITE NOV. 22 MAIL ORDERS—SEND MONEY ORDER & SHF ADDRESSED ENVaOPE $2.75—$3.75—$4.75 TAX INC OPERA HOUSE WACKER
umns UBUBYui INK ©IP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
MICRO CONTACT LENSES
You are invited to come in and get full details about this amazing optical development.
mAWTURB0W XpPTOMCTRIST
Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777 207 W. Washington
* Diamonds
• Jewelry
• Watches
J. Trethewy JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
November 16, 1956
31
Repercussion
Before You Give Your Next Party...
Come in and hear Columbia’s
exciting new HOUSE PARTY Records...Entertainment for
you by America’s top stars!
Each 10-inch HI-FI ® only
SJ98!
We have dozens of albums in stock, mciuding:
Soft and Sentimental JO STAFFORD
Get Happy
FRANK SINATRA
Dreamy Dancing
SAMMY KAYE
Lover’s Laine
FRANKIE LAINE
Mambo
XAVIER CUGA1
Lights! Camera! Action!
DORIS DAY
Dor Single
BING CROSBY
Hano Reverie
LIBERACE
Tenderly
ROSEMARY CLOONEY
(Continued from page 8) man for whom the “wholeness” of this “Notre Dame Man” is his integrity, not his cheering number. We are saved by one man who can hold his head high under the intellectual burden of a losing football season!
Jerry Hornback 117 North Shore South Bend, Ind.
SHOCKED FRESHMAN
Editor:
After reading the letter of “Shocked Senior” in the November 2 issue of the Scholastic, I was slightly shocked myself—shocked to find out that “the student body of Notre Dame exhibited one of the most shocking displays of school -spirit I (Shocked .Senior) have seen here in four years, at the Oklahoma game last Saturday.” Our Shocked Senior said, in effect, that the general attitude of Notre Dame at last week’s game resembled that of the Ivy League schools: (“In the Ivy League schools, students go to the games for diversion, not to back the team.”)
He then went on to explain how disturbed he was that some of the fellows * seemed to be taking more interest in bags of popcorn and the St. Mary’s section than the game on the field, which we lost 40-0. I then found out that the Notre Dame man “Has certain duties, one of them being to help the team in his own way by a fierce loyalty, win, lose, or draw.”
All this “Shocked Freshman” can say is that if going to football games and 7 cheering for the team ever becomes a “duty” and not a diversion (like it is for Ivy League schools), then he’ll stop going to football games. And if the Notre Dame man ever becomes so phony or so mechanical that he feels it’s his “duty” to cast off such insignificant things as popcorn and St. Mary’s girls to join the “cheering throngs chanting the Victory March”—if a Notre Dame man ever becomes one of these, then • 1 I’ll transfer to any Ivy League school.
Michael Major 150 Zahm Hall
For the life or your jiarty look for this jabei
Notre Dame Bookstore ON THE CAMPUS
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed at 7 the University Press Office in Farley Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of 3 lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented - 7 days before insertion date.
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
JOHNS HOPKINS—Tuesday, Dec. 4, Placement Office.
STANDARD OIL—Monday, Nov. 19. Placement Office.
KEARFOTT—Monday, Nov. 26, Placement Office. T)
The Scholastic
32
' Hornung, Sipes Antics Will Highlight 'Drag'
Tomorrow night, from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m., in the Navy Drill Hall, the Monogram Club will present their annual club dance, the “Varsity Drag,” with Ed Pistey and his band providing the | music.
Tickets for the dance, sold this past week in the halls, will also be available at the door tomorrow night. The ticket price is $1.
The Monogram Club and the Student Senate are jointly sponsoring the affair. Proceeds from the dance will be split, with the club receiving 60 percent of the profit and the Senate 40 percent.
) Paul Hornung will serve as master of ceremonies for the intermission program, which will feature the antics of Sherrill Sipes.
Chairman of the dance committee is Joe Morelli. His date, Miss Shirley Fitzekan, a senior at St. Mary’s, will be crowned queen. Miss Fitzekan is a sociology major from Nebraska City, Neb.
Chicago Club to Hold Dance In Sherman Ballroom Nov. 21
The Grand Ballroom of the Sherman Hotel will be the scene of the Chicago Club’s Thanksgiving Dance on Wednesday, Nov. 21. Johnny Palmer- and his orchestra will provide uninterrupted dance music from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m.
। Bids for the dance can be purchased from the various hall representatives of the Chicago Club at a cost of $4.50 for members and $5 for non-members. The sale of bids will end Wednesday neon or when the 650-couple maximum has been reached. Bids may also be reserved for friends through the hall representatives.
i Military Award Presented To 13 Army ROTC Students
Thirteen members of the Notre Dame Army ROTC were awarded the Distinguished Military Student badge last Monday afternoon. Col. Edwin Grenelle, professor of military science, made the presentation.
The Distinguished Military Student • jaward is given for proficiency in drill, military class, and general University scholastic work.
Those given the award were Donald Barr, Frederick Bell, Roger Bennett, Joseph Bosse, Michael Burke, John Harper, William Jehle, Eugene Kuecks, Burton Lesh, Peter Noznesky, Paul Schramm, Lloyd Stauder, and Edward Weinmann.
November 16, 1956
iMolu it-hb at am/
Do you think you have no talent for dancing... that good times and popularity can’t be yours? Well, here’s good news for you Whether you’re a timid beginner or just an old-fashioned dancer, here’s your chance to find out that you can be a sought-after partner and have more fun without risk-
ing a single penny.
You see, the Arthur Murray Way of learning to dance is different, better than any other. That’s because you not only learn all the latest steps but develop your dormant personality, gain confidence while you’re learning.
This you do at our Student Parties, a very important part of your course. At these parties you
meet new people, dance with all types of dancers, get the feeling of being out in public. Even timid people become confident and their true, attractive personality comes out at these parties.
So don’t wait. Come in now and have your free lesson. Get started on a new life of more good times and popularity than you’ve ever had before.
^*••*2^7
and Saturday*
Visit our Thursday*
Copr. 1962—Arthur Murray, Ise.
ARTHUR MURRAY Schoo! of Dancing
120 E. Wayne St. CE 2-3339
When in Chicago listen to the best in jazz at the BLUE NOTE
Nov. 14 RICHARD MALTBY
Nov. 28 KAI WINDING
Dec. 5 FATS DOMINO
Dec. 19
DUKE ELLINGTON
Coining
DIZZY GILLESPIE OSCAR PETERSON
Your best musical buy! Sunday’s matinee
5 to 7 p.m.
The Blue Note
Madison and Clark
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next .to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
126 N. Michigan, South Bend CE 2-1202
33
Hack
by Hal Blakeslee
sex education by whom?
Submerged beneath, the news of elections and international crises, there flows a steady stream of controversial subjects which rear their ugly heads every time the headlines get dull. One of these topics is sex education.
In the Nov. 9 issue of Collier’s, Dr. Gelolo McHugh has written an article entitled “What Americans Need To Know About Sex.” The article is the result of five years of research in which 7,434 adults and adolescents were polled to determine their knowledge of sex. According to Dr. McHugh the results reveal a staggering display of sexual ignorance.
IGNORANCE
Perhaps his facts are correct—perhaps not, but they do raise a question worth considering: is the “amazing ignorance” among adolescents to which Dr. McHugh refers a good or a bad thing? His answer is that sex education is a deterrent to promiscuity, that it lifts the cloud of mystery around sex and reduces the temptation to premarital affairs. Naturally his research has borne this fact out.
In fact, his research has supplied him with an answer to a question that really must have been a tough one at one time. Dr. McHugh now can even explain the wrong of premarital relations. He says:
“The possibility of pregnancy is not the only reason for refraining from relations before marriage; in fact today it is not even the most important reason. Protection from such a possibility does not mean that a young person can escape the emotional impact of sex relations. As I have said before, premarital affairs frequently compel young couples into marriages they do not want by entang
ling them in emotional commitments they would not other-wise make.”
So speaks an “expert” on sex education. There is no mention of God— of morality, or of the commandments. Right and wrong is determined by the number of people who perform a certain act and by the psychological and physical effect it has upon them. The absurdity of such a set of values is apparent to us as Catholics. Unfortunately those values do not seem absurd to a great portion of our population. They are the values which Dr. McHugh and others like him use to counsel the youth of today.
EMOTIONAL SHOCK
If the strongest argument against premarital relations is the possibility of emotional shock, it is no wonder that a large share of oui- modern youth considers itself shock proof.
The whole controversy over sex education rings a decidedly flat note it seems to me. First of all, people have populated this earth for quite some time now, and somehow the human race has struggled through the fields of ignorance so successfully that most countries have more people than they know what to do with. This does not necessarily mean that sex education cannot be better handled, but it does show that there is no danger of annihilating the race by omitting classroom movies on sex.
The real issue appears to lie in who is to be the educator and how much should he teach. I wonder if it would be too primitive in thought to suggest that parents be the primary teachers and that their teaching should depend on the age and character of their children. This system seems to have 'been fairly effective for over 5,000 years now.
SENSATIONALISM
There is another- interesting side to the current alarm over sex education. Be it a sociological investigation into the breeding habits of the Pueblo In-<s! dians, or a peek into the private life of a Hollywood star, sex is a subject that draws readership, increased circulation, money.
It is not surprising that a poll of the nation’s sex habits should make the pages of a popular weekly magazine. It would be surprising if a poll of the nation’s religious ignorance made those same pages.	~ .
Admittedly, men such as Dr. McHugh know a great deal about the habits and practices of a group of people, but their knowledge does not automatically qualify them as advisors and counselors. They can only explain what is—not what should be.
Catholics have often been reminded of the dangers of materialism. They have been educated to combat it. Yet,^ materialism is such a vague concept ~ that one hardly knows where to look for it. It permeates our daily lives to the point that its presence passes by without notice. Materialism is loosely defined as a godless outlook on life. What could be more godless than a philosophy which holds premarital relations to be wrong because of the emotional instability that the act might inflict upon^ l its agents?
There is no denying that surveys and polls are useful in our society. They help us see how people think and how
they act. That is their purpose. It is not to proclaim that since people act a certain way, that their way is the right way.	'
34
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
How would
graduate deg
affect my chances
for advancement
at Du Pont?
Nettleton wants to know:
ree
John c. Nettleton expects to receive his B.S. in chemical engineering from Villanova University in June 1957. He has served as president of the student chapter of A.I.Ch.E., and as secretary of Phi Kappa Phi fraternity. John is now wondering about the pros and cons of advanced study in his field.
answers:
Robert J. Buch, M.S., Ch.E., came to the Engineering Development Section of Du Pont’s Grasselli Research Division from the University of Louisville four years ago. Since then, he has engaged in many kinds of chemical engineering work, from pilotplant operation to evaluation of the potential of proposed research programs. Within the last year, Bob has taken the responsibility of procuring B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. technical graduates in all phases of chemistry and chemical engineering for the Grasselli Research Division.
But I’ve noticed this at Du Pont. Once a man lands a job in his chosen field and actually begins to work, his subsequent advancement depends more on demonstrated ability than on college degrees. That’s true throughout the entire company—in scientific work, administration, or what not.
So an advanced degree is not a royal road to anything at Du Pont, John. But when coupled with proven abilities, it is unquestionably helpful to a man in research and development work. It often gets him off to a faster start.
AN advanced degree would undoubtedly have a favorable i effect in technical work, John, but let me enlarge on that just a little. In your own field (and mine, too) a higher degree is considered to be evidence of ability in carrying out original research. It is therefore helpful in obtaining work in research and development, where that skill is definitely important. You might say that it gives a man a head start in proving his ability in those areas.
It’s less important in some other areas, though. For example, in production or sales work ability for handling human relationships is just as important for advancement as technical competence. If an engineer is sold on production work or sales, a graduate degree in marketing or business administration might be more helpful to him than advanced technical training in getting started.
Are you interested in research work?
About 2,000 Du Pont scientists are currently engaged in research, aided by some 3,500 other employees. Laboratory facilities of the highest quality are available at the Du Pont Experimental Station near Wilmington, and elsewhere throughout the country. Information about research at Du Pont is given in “Du Pont Research.” Write for your copy of this free 28-page booklet to the Du Pont Company, 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
«ES.U.J.P*XO»*
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING_____THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Watch “Du Pont Cavalcade Theater" on television
(jive Modem
smoke modern DM
alive!
Today—America’s fastest-growing cigarette.
©Liccett a xMyers Tobacco Co.
Free Yourself of old-fashioned ideas.
Let your taste come
Enjoy the richer flavor of modern living.
Get full, exciting flavor through El’s Miracle Tip
FREE UP!
FRESHEN UP YOUR TASTE!
Only the modern miracle of L&M’s pure-white Miracle Tip brings all that flavor through to you. No other cigarette . . . plain or filter. . . can match it.
L&M tastes Richer . . . draws Easier. . . smokes Cleaner.
UGGETT‘*y«S TOBACCO