Jane Greer says: “I was a band singer when a picture magazine asked me to pose in the new WAC uniforms. Hollywood saw my picture, liked it and overnight I was in movies.
From then on, it was hard work and perseverance.”
Start Smoking Camels Yourself!
Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are America’s most popular cigarette. See how mild and flavorful a cigarette can be!
/STARTED SMOK/RE CAMELS
after fryrhg mahy braods. /
-fbuhd Camels'm/ldmess aod flavor
-far more eojoyabfe -than -the rest:
IajHI/ -too! l/dhy dorlt you try
Camels today j


Ct	MLDNSO ahd FLAVOR.
AMELS AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE
THAW AMY OTHER. CtOARETTE I
Special STUDENT Rates
go vest, young man
This advice, irresistibly borrowed from Horace Greeley, especially applies today to men on the campus. For bright, colorful, cheerful vests are the order of the day, and night, too. Particularly these handsome styles, tailored with care and skill by Revere. Do come in and. let us show you the appealing selection.
Sophomore Cotillion
Tuxedos .............—- $5.50
Shirts, Black Bow, Jewelry'
White Suspenders .....-$1.50
Complete .....- —........$7.00
OXFORD—Dashing striped corduroy front, rayon lined. All-worsted knit back, pearl buttons. 3 colors S, M, L
$5”
HARROW— Rich-looking California rayon and orlon check front, rayon lined. All-worsted knit back. Pearl buttons. 3 colors. S, M, L	<E95
•	Over .800 suits to choose from.
•	All styles and sizes
•	Boys’ 2 to Men’s 56
Tuxedos, Full Dress, Cutaways, White Gabardine Dinner Coat1; Single and Double Breasted
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell. No Deposit for N.D. students and faculty.
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend
In the Oliver Hotel Bldg.
ALDANHAM — Distinctive Parker-Wilder solid color all-wool flannel front, rayon lined. All-worsted knit back, fancy brass buttons. 3 colors. S, M, L $6??
Robertson’s Rose & Katz
October 16, 1953
Natural History
THE NOTRE DAME
Scholastic
A Buck’s an Indian Maiden’s dream; To a doe, just another “guy”;
But a buck invested in City Is any buck’s best buy!
Clubs
City Club shoe* are a "natural” for the college man. They give you smart, distinctive styling, real comfort, and they’ll stand up under rugged use. They’re "right” for the active man with discriminating taste. Priced right, too.
$895 to $15’5
CftyClub
SHOES OF • DISTINCTION FOR MEN
I True • Esquire Argosy • Sport American Legion
51TK ’
Vol. 95 October 16, 1953 No. 4
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
The Professor Who Couldn’t Say “No” OR. • • What to do when you can’t afford to flunk
Once there was a Professor who was reluctant to Flunk the Team’s Top Muscle-Man ... a fullhack named Printwhistle, of impressive Physical Proportions but intellectually a Lump. The Professor sought a Loophole. “Printwhistle,” he said, “I am no pedant who believes that the sole purpose of education is to cram the Mind with Facts. Rather is its aim to broaden the Mind and make it more Productive. If you can come to me within 24 hours with one — just one — original and worthwhile Idea, I shall not Flunk you.”
The dejected Printwhistle explained his Dilemma to his roommate. “Relax,” ^aid the latter. “Simplest thing in the world” . . . and he expounded a stratagem.
Next morning the evidence was in. Telegrams ... hundreds of ’em ... on the Professor’s desk, from practically everybody on the Campus. All bearing the same message: “Printwhistle must not Flunk. Old Blackstrap needs him. This Approach is his Idea.”
Did it work? Well, there’s a certain All-American named Printwhistle whose voice shakes with grateful Emotion when anyone mentions Western Union in his Presence.
When you want to Swing a Deal . . . Telegrams work wonders. They’re grade-A Date Bait, great for coaxing cash from home, practical for arranging anything from a Weekend to a Job Interview. When you want to get inside the Opponent’s ten-yard line . .« ~ ' Western Union carry the ball.
105 N. Main St. Telephone 3-6101
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER .................News
FRED C. ECKART ...............Copy
JOHN A. ADAMS ....Assistant Copy PAUL J. LaFRENIERE....Assistant Copy JOHN E. SLAVICK ........Features ROBERT B. FROLICHER .....Sports JERRY D. BAIER ...Advertising B. JERRY CAMPBELL ...Circulation BOB FOWLER.......Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE.....Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT—.Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Bill Burnett, Dick Connelly, Carroll Dowden, Ellis Joseph, John Manion, Jim Mason, Dick Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan, Pete Sturtevant, Mike Ward.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Dick Bennett, Gordon DiRenzo, Bob Fowler, Jim Galde, Bob Huddleston, Bob Mackey, Gerry Trafficanda, Ed Turner, Dana Weithers.	'
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
OUR COVER: The two graven images portrayed on the cover don’t necessarily represent typical Notre Dame students, especially the one with a beard and an ivy wreath. These are only two of the stone-carved figures which decorate many of the buildings dotting the campus. This particular carving is situated above the western door of the Law Building. This week’s feature, on Page 11, shows more of these curious architectural features—with one question: “Who are they” supposed to be?
—Photos by Bob Huddleston
4
The Scholastic
by Ken Murphy
Top of the Week
The Third Herd plays for the Arts and Letters Ball at the Indiana Club tonight . . .
Alias Richard Tracy
First, just to set the record straight, that is not really Dick (hose-nose)
Tracy staring at you from this column — it’s merely a caricature of yours truly — a little gem dreamed up by our industrious, hard-working, wise guy of an editor. If he’s not careful I’ll sue him for libel or slander or defa
mation of character ... or something.
I
I
I
r
3
s
Freshman New Deal
A gigantic freshman social program got underway last Sunday with various mixers all over the place intended to enable the neophytes to become acquainted with members of the opposite sex from St. Mary’s College and Academy, St. Joseph’s Nurses Home, and a few Daughters of Isabella.
“The purpose of these socials,” reads the official edict, “is to provide the Freshmen with an adequate orientation in the social phase of student life at Notre Dame.” How about that! “It is felt,” continues the treatise, “that there has been an inadequate social life among the freshmen.” The freshmen have' only been here a month. What about the poor seniors! They’ve been here three years longer than the frustrated freshmen and after that long, pal, “it’s been so long that you’ve nearly forgot.”
Then, between a couple of very important looking parentheses, the report informs us that a survey of the freshman class last year showed that 87 per cent of the class believed their social life to be inadequate.
Not to be outdone by anybody, not even Gallup himself, your persevering reporter went out and canvassed the seniors on what they thought of their social life. Here, for the first time in print anywhere, are the startling results :
Reply	Per cent
1) Oh, it wouldn’t be so bad if
they’d quit raiding Dragoon’s....... 24 2) The movies at Washington Hall
are getting a little better......... 13 3) I refuse to answer on the
grounds of self-incrimination....... 27 4) Tennis, anyone?....................   36
So, while the freshmen are traveling to the far reaches of St. Joseph County mixing it up with the local squaws, the Seniors continue to cavort on the green pastures of Badin Bog with their footballs, softballs, baseballs and the like. I’m all for some senior suffrage myself.
Don Gels and All the Little Gazelles
For a few anxious moments at the Senate dance last Saturday eve we were afraid we had stumbled onto a portion of Freckles Godfrey’s talent scout program. But it was only Don (Notre Dame’s answer to Woody Herman) Gels, auditioning various thrushes for the position of girl vocalist with his aggregation.
It wasn’t bad—in fact, I think it’s a pretty good idea — but we’ll reserve judgement until we see if they draw stubs from a hat to decide the top kick of this deal too. Incidentally, they’re still pulling queens from a hat. And while on the subject, emcee Phil (high atop the dance floor) Bolin pulled a boner at last WEEK’S shindig. He forgot to have the beaming beau buss the beaming queen. Don’t feel bad though, Phil, even all-Americans pull boners at the mike now and then.
Lowest Deal of the Week
A certain editor running his own picture in a certain issue of a certain campus publication.
Shades of Lonesome Gal
It seems that the latest addition to the staff of radio station WNDU is a young lady who sounds quite a bit like the gal of Lonesome fame. As if this wasn’t tough enough on the troops, they have placed her on the “Letters from Home” show to top it off. 'Some of the troops may end up not going home.
Traubel Warbles
We noticed in the WEEK’S news that one Helen Traubel, an operatic soprano of sorts, has quit the Met to go night-clubbing. Her first engage
ment since letting her hair down was at the Drafty City’s Chez Paree and we’re still trying to figure out if the motivation behind the whole thing is the fact that she’s suddenly gotten hep or if it is the fact she is hauling in approximately ten grand per compared to a measly one grand per at the Met.
But whatever the motivation and whatever the outcome, Miss Traubel can’t even come close to a certain Tucker lady and as far as this corner is concerned, Sophie is still the last of the red-hot mamas. In fact rumor has it that Helen may be down to the Victory Dance tomorrow. night to audition for the job with Gels.
Bottom of the Week
. . . but the place is too small even to dance in, let alone start a stampede in.
Reilly Chemistry Lectures Feature Sweden's Melander
The annual Reilly Lectures in chemistry at the University began Wednesday in room 123 of the Nieuwland Science Building featuring Dr. Lars Melander of the Nobel Institute, Sweden.
In addition to a talk today, Dr. Melander will present lectures next Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. They will continue on Oct. 26, 28, 30, and Nov. 2, 6, 9, and 13. They all begin at 4 pan.
Dr. Melander’s subject for these lectures will be “The Use of Nuclides in the Investigation of Organic Chemical Reaction Mechanisms.”
Moreau Holds Open House; Tour Displays Seminary Life
“It seems all the students on campus have heard either about Dujarie or Hdly Cross, but they only have an inkling of these seminaries.”
This just about summed up the opinion of the Moreau seminarians who are conducting an open house this Sunday afternoon from 2 to 5 to correct this notion. Through a display of the seminary life and a tour of the farm, gymnasium, football field, and other parts of the grounds, Notre Dame students will become acquainted with the houses and the seminarians.
Moreau is actually the half-way mark toward ordination. The seminarian is given his four years of philosophy there; then he goes to the Holy Cross house in Washington, D. C., for his four years of theology.
Rev. Bernard McAvoy, C.S.C., superior, has extended a cordial invitation to all ND students to visit the Moreau house, located on the road from the Grotto that leads to St. Mary’s. Refreshments will be served.	’
October 16, 1953
Oops, Wrong Number!
"A Rose is a Rose is a Rose . . ."
A college student decided to add several new shirts to his wardrobe. So one Saturday afternoon, he strolled into the local haberdashery store. “Let me see a few of those Van Heusen Pan-Am Pique Shirts the whole campus is raving about." he said.
“No wonder everyone is raving about Pan-Am Piques,” said the clerk, laying several on the counter. “They’re smart, comfortable, and come in Van Heusen’s sensational new short collar styles. What’s more, I have a complete line of smart new collegiate colors—as well as white. And they’re only §3.95.”
“I’ve never seen a smarter shirt,” admitted the student. “I’ll take one in each color. And can I open a charge account?”
“Certainly,” replied the clerk. “What is your name?” “Size Six-and-Seven-Eighths Jones,” replied the student. “Size Six-and-Seven-Eighths Jones? What kind of a name is that?”, asked the puzzled clerk.
“Well, when I was bom my folks didn’t know what to call me,” he explained. “So they put a lot of names in a hat, and by mistake my near-sighted father pulled out the size ticket!”
So said Gertrude Stein. But poor Gert never got a chance to see the roses and other flora species South Bend Floral has to oiler your date for the Sophomore Cotillion’s “Fashion in Fantasy.”
South Bend Floral offers you perfect taste in corsages . . . the freshest, most fragrant flowers obtainable, expertly corsaged to put that sparkle in your date’s eye without putting a dent in your wallet.
We’ll be glad to assist you in choosing the perfect corsage for her dress.
South Bud WmoI
114 S. Michigan St. Ph. 3-8227
Microtomic
SPAGHETTI	RAVIOLI
CHICKEN	STEAKS
We Cater to Banquets and Parties
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant
Open Sundays
610 NORTH MICHIGAN
3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
GLASSES FITTED
SATISFACTORY OPTICAL SERVICE IN SOUTH BEND
FOR OVER 50 YEARS
Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER
Associates
228 So. Michigan St.
Tko proferonto of looting Engineers and Draftsnoo Microtomic —the finest example of research in drawing pencils. Designed to stand the most rigid drafting room comparisons. Test them today I
Only Microtomic offers you—
HI-DENSITY LEADS
Lines are absolutely opaque to actinic rays.
ABSOLUTELY UNIFORM
Every Microtomic of the same degree marking is identical.
NEW DUSK GRAY
Professional men acclaim it the best color for a drawing pencil.
BULL'S EYE DEGREE MARKING Easier Io read — easier to find — positive identification.
ALSO
Choice of holders and Microtomic leads.
EBERHARD
FABER >i",el849
TRADE MARKS Rf«#V S. PAT. OFF.
The Scholastic
The Scholastic
Volume 95, Number 4	Notre Dame, Indiana	October 16, 1952
First Arts Ball Tonight at Indiana Club
Woody Herman Orch Serenades A.B. Men
AB Ballgoers will spend “An Evening at the Gallery” at the Indiana Club tonight from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. in the first formal dance of the year. The Ball will bring to an end the week-long Festival of the Arts, although the modern art exhibit will continue into November.
Tom Moore and his date Genevieve Somers, a junior from St. Mary-of-the Woods, whose home town is South Orange, N. J., will reign over the Ball.
Ball Chairman Moore and Co-chairmen of Decorations, Bob Obermeyer and Charley O’Neill, have added original student paintings to the decorative scheme.
Woody Herman and his famed “Third Herd” will serenade AB men and their dates. Along with Woody and his renowned dance tempos, Dolly Houston, vocalist, will join trombonist Carl Fontana and pianist Nat Pierce in entertaining the dancegoers.
Those attending the dance will have 2 a.m. resident hall permissions; the usual car permissions for the night will also be granted.
Tomorrow afternoon a box luncheon in O’Shaughnessy Hall will inaugurate a new “first.” The hour-and-a-half luncheon will enable guests to tour the new building and lunch more quickly.
The Notre Dame-Pitt game will be the chief attraction of the afternoon at 1:30 p.m. as ballgoers will sit together to watch the first home game of the season. Tomorrow night, the Student Senate will hold its weekly Victory Dance at the Drill Hall. This time it will be Don Gels and his orchestra for the student rate of one dollar.
The gala weekend will come to a close Sunday morning following the 9 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church with a Communion Breakfast at the Morris Inn. Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, will be the guest speaker. Bob Ettel-
Easter Vacation Lengthened to Twelve Days; Between-Semesters Holidays Cut to Weekend
Major changes in the University calendar that will affect both the midyear and Easter vacation periods have been announced by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs
The first major change is the extension of the Easter vacation period from seven to twelve days. Four extra days, formerly given to class in the week after Easter, are now part of the Easter vacation period, so that Easter vacation will extend from Wednesday, April 14, until April 26, the second Monday after Easter.
To create this new calendar the traditional semester vacation has been elim-
GENEVIEVE SOMERS
Queen AB The First
brick is handling all arrangements for the affair.
Other committeemen include: Larry Dolan, tickets; John Keenan, hotal reservations; Jim Zavatone, transportation; Jay Baier, business; and Tom Godfrey, publicity.
inated. The first day of class for the Spring semester will be moved up to the Monday following the last day of examinations at the end of the Fall semester. The new exam period is scheduled from Friday, Jan. 22 to Friday, Jan. 29.
These changes have resulted from the continued insistence of parents and students, according to Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C., assistant to the vice-president.
Father Lochner states that the new periods are prompted by the demands of time and economy.
“To provide the student with a vacation that will enable him to spend enough time with his family to make the trip worthwhile and to decrease his travel expenses for the term has been cur main idea in making the change,” Father Lochner states.
“Formerly the student who lived some distance from the campus was not able to leave between semesters because of the limited period. The Easter vacation was also short and much of the time was spent at Church and not visiting with the parents who are providing the education,” he added.
“With this one long vacation period, the travel expenses will he cut and the break will occur at an advantageous position in the term, not just three weeks after the Christmas recess,” Father Lochner continued.
There will be no absences from class, not even “triple cuts” permitted the last class before Easter vacation, nor the first class following the vacation, except in cases of illness.
A new procedure for registration for the Spring semester is also on tap. Instead of the usual registration days set aside at the beginning of the Spring semester, registration will take place before the close of the Fall term.
All accounts for the Spring semester must be settled in the Office of Students’ (Continued, on page 12)
October 16, 1953
7
Fieldhouse Rally Tonight Welcomes Irish Home
A mammoth "welcome home” pep rally will launch the 1953 home football season of the Fighting Irish tonight at 7:15 in the Fieldhouse.
With two down and eight to go, the football squad will have 4,000 students and Arts and Letters Ballgoers cheering and chanting them to another victory. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, Head Coach Frank Leahy, and the nationally known Notre Dame Glee Club will furnish the highlights of the evening.
Run-Down of Foes Set
Father Hesburgh will welcome the students and guests with a brief talk. It is traditional for the football coach to address the students before the first home game, and Coach Leahy will do just that as he speaks of Pitt and the rest of ND’s opponents. The Glee Club will entertain the crowd with selections suitable for the eve of the first home game.
Leading the enthusiastic students in the songs and yells will be Cheerleader Captain Ed Hannan, “Tex” Saunders, Ev Hatch, Bob Keegan, Ed Healy and Bill Keegan of the cheering squad.
The University band will provide music in the spirit of the occasion.
Co-chairmen for the pep rally are Fran Romance and Jim Deline of the Blue Circle.
CHEERLEADER SQUAD COMPLETE FOR 1953-54 SEASON Full Crew Opens Action Tonight at Pep Rally
Broadway Hit Which Introduced Shirley Booth Opens University Theatre's Season Thursday
Next Thursday night in Washington Hall the University Theatre will launch its season with the production of the Broadway hit play Three Men on a Horse.
Written especially for the stage by John Cecil Holm and George Abbott,
Saint Mary's Soph Cotillion In 'Paris Enchante' Aroma
The sophomores of Saint Mary’s College will start the social season rolling across the Dixie with their annual Sophomore Cotillion tonight.
Cotillion chairman Jackie Smith has announced a “Paris Enchante” theme featuring appropriate decorations which highlight a Paris street scene complete with an outdoor cafe.
Ed Jarrett and his orchestra will serenade the sophs and their guests while dancing in “Paris at dusk.” The affair-will be held in the Louis XIV Ballroom of LeMans Hall with dancing from 8:30 p.m. until 11:30 p.m. Dress for the affair is semi-formal.
Chairman Smith is assisted by Mary Lou Abell, hostess; Jean Bain, bids; Joan Garvy, invitations; Joann Petrolle, orchestra; Mary Carey, decorations; and Barbara Fox, refreshments.
the play, a farce-comedy, introduced to the American public Actress Shirley Booth in her first starring role. Long a popular production for summer theatre and college groups, the play is making its initial appearance at Notre Dame.
The scene of action is a large eastern city. Irwin, the lead character, writes verses for greeting cards for* a living, and dopes horses in his spare time'. Not content with this way of life, he enters into league with three gamblers to forecast the Fillies in a big way. Complications set in, and the play unfolds.
As the cast is not large, Three Men on a Horse is especially suited to the Notre Dame Theatre. The role of Irwin is played by Jerry Godwin, who will be remembered for his roles in Brute Farce and Comedy of Errors last year. Irwin’s wife Audrey is played by Rhody Oppenheim, who, while a newcomer to Washington Hall, is well-known to all who have attended St. Mary’s musicals. In Miss Booth’s role of Mabel, the chorus girl is Denni Egry, who appeared in Brute Farce and Skin of Our Teeth.
The three gamblers, Patsy, Charlie, and Frankie, are portrayed respectively by Marshall Desmond, a senior making his first appearance with the Theatre, and two freshmen, John Kent and Joe Brennan. The name, Brennan, will be familiar to those who saw last May’s student musical in which Joe’s two brothers also portrayed mobsters.
Another of the six freshmen in the cast, Tom Bloomer, is cast as Harry the Bartender. Mr. Carver, Irwin’s boss, is Dick Gerken, well-known from the Vile Bodies and Cocktail Party productions. From hackstage to the footlights as the elevator boy, comes Ed Sexauer, who has assisted behind the scenes in other plays.
Clarence is James Ryan, a freshman. In the role of the Swedish maid is Hildegrade Vargyas. Others in the cast include John Meagher, John Lester, Richard Six, and Charles Menk.
Summing up the expectations of the play, Director John Tumpane says, “We have a good cast and a good play, and we can promise those who attend a good time.”
Assisting Professor Tumpane are John Kirby, technical director, and Marion Leszczynski, stage manager.
Scheduled for five performances from Oct. 22 through Oct. 25, the play will provide the sophomores with an added opportunity to entertain their dates on the Cotillion weekend. The time of the evening shows is 8:30, and the matinee on Sunday is at 2:30 p.m.
8
The Scholastic
Gurian Lists Lectures In Foreign Relations
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, Ph.D., head of International Affairs, at the University, has announced the opening of a series of lectures on Foreign Relations to be conducted by the Committee on International Relations.
The first lecture will be a discourse on “France and Germany,” delivered by Prof. J. B. Duroselle and Dr. K. H. Knappstien. Professor Duroselle is the well-known French professor of history and political science. Dr. Knappstien is currently the German Consul-General in Chicago. The discussion will be presented Nov. 9.
Mr. Ladislav Feierabend has been called upon by the committee to discuss “The Conquest of the Iron Curtain Countries by Soviet Techniques” on Nov. 13.
Professor Duroselle returns to the speaker’s stand for the next of these informative discussions and will speak on “The War Against Communism in Indo-China,” scheduled for Nov. 24.
Professor Duroselle ends the program of talks, Oct. 27, by a report on “Catholicism in France Today.” The lectures will be held at the Rockne Lounge, starting promptly at 8 p.m.
Guys, Gals, Two Bits—Initial Mixer
Card playing and dancing to the music of Don Gels’ combo highlighted the first Blue Circle mixer of the season. Some 300 Saint Mary’s girls attended while over 400 Notre Dame men, excluding all seniors, gambled two bits for a looksee. Before long, the card tables were deserted and the dance floor was crowded with mixing couples. A few selections by the Glee Club concluded the three-hour-long mixer before the gals departed in special buses for their “home” across the Dixie.
Hero'dotian Discussion Group Plans First Meet Wednesday
The Herodotians, a history discussion club,- will have its first meeting next Wednesday in the Rockne Memorial lounge at 7:45 p.m. The general theme of the discussions this year will be the relation between history and literature through the ages.
To stimulate initial subject matter for the discussion, two papers will be given. Following the reading of these two essays the floor will be open for debate.
The first paper is to be presented by Dr. Anton-Hermann Chroust on “The Interplay of Poetry and Philosophy is the Beginning of Greek Philosophy.” The second paper, by Dr. John N. Hritzu, deals with “The Aeneid as a Historical Document.”
The Herodotians are composed primarily of juniors and seniors who are majoring in history, and are under the guidance of Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the Department of History.
The president of the club is Roger Valdiserri, who will act as chairman, and Robert Denne is the secretary. Joseph Leonetti will lead the discussion period following the talks.
Concert, A.B. Ball Wrap Up Festival Week
Climaxing the week-long Festival of the Arts, the renowned Notre Dame Glee Club will concert weekenders today at 4 p.m. in Washington Hall, while the long anticipated Arts and Letters Ball caps the festive-filled celebration at 9 p.m. at the Indiana Club.
The Glee Club, known to many through its annual appearance on Ed Sullivan’s “Toast of the Town” television show, will sing a variety of selections including Gaudeamus Igitur, Crudfixus, and Ave Maria.
The Arts and Letters Ball will bring the Festival of Arts to an end tonight at 1 a.m. Woody Herman and his “Third Herd” will provide music while AB men celebrate their first ball.
Throughout the week, students and interested spectators were treated to various art exhibitions. On Monday, Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., presented a sculpture demonstration. That same day, the documentary The Louisiana Story was shown in Washington Hall.
On Tuesday, Founder’s Day, a Solemn High Mass was celebrated in Sacred Heart Church. That afternoon and evening, The Informer and The
Strong Man were shown in the Engineering Auditorium and Washington Hall respectively.
George Buehr, distinguished art expert and lecturer, conducted a gallery tour of the modern art exhibit on Wednesday, and later that day lectured on a “Painter’s Point of View” in the Nieuwland Science Hall.
The dramatic production of Hedda Gabler was presented Wednesday night in Washington Hall. The dramatic reading was directed by Michael Casey.
The Fine Arts Quartet continued the Festival of the Arts on Thursday presenting a concert in Washington Hall. The works of Haydn, Piston and Beethoven were played.
Richard Sullivan lectured on the “Intention of the Novel,” on Thursday in O’Shaughnessy Hall..	.
The exhibition will continue throughout the month and is open to students, South Bend area residents, and visitors to the University. Exhibit hours are from 2 to 5 and 7 to 9 pan. on weekdays, and on Sundays from 1 to 9 pan. During Saturdays of home football games, the gallery will be closed.
October 16, 1953
9
Final Plans Complete For Soph Cotillion
Completion of several last minute arrangements filled the spotlight as the big Oct. 23 Sophomore Cotillion weekend draws near.
Entertainment Chairman Bob Cur-rane announced that the “Forget-me-Notes,” a quartet composed of Notre Dame students has been signed to fill in the band intermissions with their close quarter harmony. The group, composed of John Goedecke, Charles Hickman, Bob Kesteloot, and Joe Casurella, has planned a repertoire of several songs, and will perform as they stroll about the dance floor during the intermissions.
General Chairman Elrie Chrite has announced that favors have been arranged for, but they are being maintained in secrecy. They are reported to be ’’something that will please everyone.”
Mrs. Laura Jenkins, who will decorate the Student Center, has promised to give Decorations Chairman Bob Bund-schuh a helping hand with the facelifting chores. Bundschuh has already given evidence that the decorations will be something extraordinary.
Saturday night, the University Theatre will present Three Men on a Horse, a comedy starring Gerry Godvan in the lead. The Cotillion committee has secured a block of tickets to the Saturday night performance, which will be available for dance goers.
Those who purchased certificates for football tickets when they bought their bids are reminded that the certificates must be exchanged for the Georgia Tech tickets between Monday and Wednesday at the Athletic office in Breen-Phillips Hall.
Student Trip Ducats on Sale Today For ND-Penn Game
The Notre Dame-Penn Special will leave for Philadelphia at 4 p.m. Friday afternoon, Nov. 6, arriving in the City of Brotherly Love at 10 a.m. Saturday morning, according to Mickey Moran who is in charge of this year’s student trip.
The Special will leave Philadelphia at 2 p.m. Sunday afternoon arriving in South Bend about 6:30 Monday morning.
Round-trip fare will total $37.65, which will include a buffet supper on the train Friday night as well as breakfast Saturday morning. Box lunches will be distributed during the return trip Sunday. Game tickets will cost an additional $5.20, and can be purchased with the train ticket.
Arrangements have been made with
'Moonlight Bay' Motif For Engineers' Ball
Engineers will be swapping their slide rules for paddles when they go sailing on “Moonlight Bay” from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. at their annual Engineers’ Ball, Nov. 13. Bids for the semiformal affair, set at $3.75 each, go on sale Oct. 26.
Chairman Jack Nashert has announced that Dick Carlton and his orchestra will provide the music. Both music and decorations will conform with the theme, “Moonlight Bay.”
Aiding Nashert in the organization of the ball are William Till, business man-
JACK NASHERT
Oversees Engineers' Ball Plans
ager; Ed Christiano, ticket chairman; and Lee Brockway, publicity chairman. They anticipate their largest ball to date with an expected attendance of 160 couples.
Dick Carlton, who plays “America’s smartest music,” has previously been engaged at clubs and hotels throughout the country, including the Colonial House in Palm Springs and the St. Moritz in New York.
the Hotel Adelphia for students who wish to stay there. Accommodations will cost $3.00 for the night.
The Philadelphia Club will sponsor a dance Saturday night. The Club has a blind date bureau set up in the . dininghall lobby for those who want dates.
Tickets for the student trip will be sold until 5 o’clock this afternoon, and from 7:30 to 9:30 this evening. Monday, tickets will be sold from 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9:30 p.m.
Placement News
Present Notre Dame students in any college who have any interest in attending the Graduate School of Business Administration of Harvard University vail have the opportunity to learn more about the school when Eugene R. Myler, a Notre Dame graduate of 1951, visits the campus on Monday, October 26.
Mr. Myler will spend October 26 in the placement Bureau in the Main Building. Those who wish to talk to him are asked to register in the placement Bureau as soon as possible so that a suitable interview schedule can be arranged in advance.
Mr. Myler, an Economics major at Notre Dame, enrolled at Harvard in September, 1951, and received his master’s degree in business administration there last June. He is currently in charge of student placement in the school’s Placement Office.
In discussing his forthcoming visit to Notre Dame, Mr. Myler called particular attention to the financial aid program prevalent at the Harvard Business School. It is designed to insure that all applicants otherwise qualified will not be denied admittance to the school because of financial need. Details of this program will be presented here by Mr. Myler.
Parnell, Langford Speak Before Language Groups
Prof. Walter M. Langford and Prof. Charles E. Parnell will represent Notre Dame at two Modern Language meetings in Indianapolis next Thursday.
Professor Langford, head of the Department of Modern Languages here, will speak before the Indiana Chapter of the American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese. His topic for the annual fall meeting will be “The Short Story in Spanish America.”
He will give a resume of the development of the short story in Spanish American countries with comments on a number of short story writers of those nations. Also included in his talk will be a comparison of the short story in Spanish speaking lands with that in the United States.
Speaking before the American Association of Teachers of French, Professor Parnell will use the title, “Opportunities for the Study of French in the Province of Quebec.” The topic will be treated -with regards to the possibilities of an American student learning French while attending a Canadian university. It will also take into consideration the student’s troubles with the study of French in such an institution.
10
The Scholastic
WHO ARE THEY?
Two Notre Dame men were walking past the Law Building on their way to Liberal Arts, when one of them pointed his finger and said, “The gargoyle of Notre Dame.”
The other looked in the direction indicated and saw that a stone dragon was looking down on them from his position on the wall of the building. That is, he thought it was a dragon. On second thought, maybe it was a bird with extra-long teeth, or could it be a student writhing in agony over an assignment?
The two guys were late for class because they tried to figure out just what “that thing” was.
They never did find out.
Walk by the Law Building yourself sometime and just look at those things on the walls, if you want to see the reason for then- quandry yourself. Or you can pick your own puzzle on the walls of Dillon, Alumni, Morrissey, Lyons, Howard, and the Engineering Buildings. There are gimmicks on all of them.
But don’t worry if you can’t be certain what the story behind them is, because nobody knows just what they
The crying coach of Howard points
sorrowfully to his record book.
Photos by BOB HUDDLESTON
A perpetual game of baseball on the door of the Dining Hall.
are or what they mean. Nobody, that is, except the people who designed them. And maybe they don’t even know.
Of course, the idea that you can try to find a story behind these figures is based on the assumption that you even know that these things exist. Most people don’t.
The average guy will look at the pictures on this page and wonder just what they have to do with Notre Dame. This, in spite of the fact that the average student walks by these buildings at least six times a day, and walks into them probably as many times.
The only man on the campus who knows the least bit about these figures is Mr. Paul Byrne, the Curator of the art galleries. But all he can really tell you is that the Law Building, Alumni, and Dillon were designed by Francis Kervick, who collaborated with Vincent Fagan on the trio of Morrissey, Howard and Lyons; and that Maginnis and Walsh designed the Engineering Building.
As to the figures themselves—“They are just figures, stone decorations. No special importance.”
So there you are. They’re just figures. And that’s all that you can find out about them. Some do have an obvious story behind them, like the crying coach on Howard—Frank Leahy, perhaps— but not many of them. You just have to accept them as one of the least of many Notre Dame mysteries.
ABOVE: A pick and shovel man for Engineering.
BELOW: And a snarling, guardian gargoyle, too.
October 16, 1953
11
B-X Totals S6,000.
Manager Dave McBride announced this week that the Book Exchange has completed its best year of business since its opening ten years ago.
Selling approximately 3,000 books during the first school week, the exchange did a §6,000 business.
Slips were redeemed in the week following for a record total of §5,300. There was also a record number of checks mailed to graduates.
McBride said the B-X will be open the remainder of the semester on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 1 to 3 p.m.
Keith Supervises Drill Team
The Air Force ROTC drill and rifle teams are currently being organized.
The drill team, under the supervision of Lt. Col. Elmer L. Keith, has been practicing every Monday, Wednesday, and Thursday on the grounds immediately west of the football stadium. John F. Wallace, senior, is the commanding officer of the drill team this year.
Last year the drill team performed before and during the halves of several home football games, at the military ball, and at other University events.
Captain Oliver W. Cairns, head of the rifle team, has announced that 16 men are currently firing with the Air Force rifle team.
Commerce Lectures Begin
The Advisory Council for the College of Commerce has initiated a series of lectures for the coming year. This series began Wednesday in the Law Auditorium.
“This series is being conducted in an effort to acquaint students and the public with the wide scope of opportunities in the commercial field,” said Prof. Thomas P. Bergin, assistant head of the Department of Business Administration.
The speakers included John T. Kirby, industrialist and Claire E. Griffin, educator.
All seniors in commerce attended the talks.
Mr. Kirby was vice-president of the W. R. Grace Co. of New York for many years. Living in Latin America for 20 years, he has been decorated by the Chilian Government with the order of the Legion of Merit.
Mr. Griffin is a professor in business administration and has taught in noted universities, including Dartmouth, Johns Hopkins, and the University of Michi
gan. He was a member of the National Advisory Committee on war training.
Story of Maria Goretti Published
The Maid of Corinaldo, a story of Saint Maria Goretti, an Italian girl who died in 1902 while defending her virtue, was published here yesterday by the Dujarie Press.
The simple story of the peasant maid who was canonized in 1950 by Pope Pius XII, was written by Brother Sabinus Herbert, C.S.C.
The book is the latest in a series of juvenile works, principally lives of the Saints, to be published by the Dujarie Press. The books have been written by various Brothers of Holy Cross under* the direction of Brother Ernest Ryan, C.S.C., who is the author of more than 40 titles for children, widely used in schools throughout the country.
Brother Sabinus, author of The Maid of Corinaldo, is both a writer and a printer. He is superintendent of printing at The Ave Maria Press and has lectured before trade groups. He wrote a syndicated article, “Will Irish Humor Too Decline?” and is a member of the Catholic Press Association.
Medical, Dental Exams Listed
Application blanks for the Medical and Dental College Admission Tests are now available in the office of the dean, Room 248, Nieuwland Science Hall.
The application for the medical test must be received by the Education Testing Service, Princeton, N. J., not later than Oct. 19. The test will be administered here on Nov. 2 by the Department of Guidance and Testing.
The applications for the dental test must be received by the Division of Educational Measurements, Council of Dental Education, American Dental Asso., 222 East Superior* St., Chicago 11, Hl., before Oct. 16. The Chicago testing centers will be closest for Notre Dame students.
Both the medical and dental tests are for those students who plan to enter a professional school in Sept., 1954.
Projection Equipment Demonstrated
Mr. Everett Warren of the Department of Audio-Visual Aids recently demonstrated opaque projection and disc reproducing equipment to the Department of English.
The opaque projection equipment is used for the projection of black and white and color materials of opaque
nature. This equipment will be used by the Department of English to facilitate learning and enrich the curriculum of the students here.
ROTC Officers Speak on Defense
“Strategic Committments of American Defense” is the title of a discussion to be presented by the Graduate Student Association on Thursday evening at 8 p.m., in the Law Auditorium.
The program will feature talks on military aspects of U. S. foreign policy by senior officers of the three ROTC units on campus.
Majoi* Chimento of the Air Force will speak on “The Polar Concept in Air Warfare.” Major Roy Bass of the Army will discuss “Western Europe and Germany,” and Commander Masterson of the Navy will analyze “Military Problems in the Far East.”
All graduate students and faculty members are invited to attend.
Architects Prepare for Exhibit
After recently completing a Festival of Arts exhibit, the student architects of Notre Dame are preparing for a round-robin exhibit scheduled for Nov. 1.
Fifteen schools from various parts of the country will participate in a round-robin exhibition of student architect projects. The exhibit will start at Virginia Polytechnical Institute, sponsor of the exhibition, and travel to all of the participating schools.
At each school the exhibit visits, the exhibit of that school will join the traveling team until all the projects are accumulated for a huge display.
Chairman Tony Genovese’s committee of ten, which organized the exhibit for the Festival of the Arts, is expected to run the show for the round-robin also.
Air Force Enrolls 722
The Air Force ROTC enrollment here totals 722 cadets, according to Col. Melie J. Coutlee’s recent announcement.
Divided into their respective classes there are: 159 seniors, 121 juniors, 223 sophomores, and 219 freshmen. All the classes are entered in the new curricular program of the AFROTC.
Academic Changes
(Continued from page 7) Accounts between Jan. 4 and 18. Undergraduates may complete their* registration and secure their class cards for the semester in the Office of Academic Affairs during the two week period from Jan. 11 to 25.
. This registration can be done during free periods while the first semester is still in session, but all students now in attendance must have finished registration by Jan. 25.
12
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Pitt Panthers Sharpen Claws for Irish
DON PENZA
Leads Irish in Home Opener
Five Close Games Open Interhall Grid Campaign
The 1953 edition of the interhall football league got into full swing last week as five teams emerged victorious in close, hard-fought battles.
In one of the best games of the week, Alumni downed a hard fighting Lyons team, 13-6. The game got off to a rather unusual start as Alumni’s coach, Marty Vieth, had his own kick-off recovered by teammate Tom Short in Lyons’ end zone for a TD. Vieth converted to put the seniors ahead, 7-0, with less than a minute gone in the game.
Alumni began rolling again in the second period, this time Vieth hitting end Short on a 35 yd. pass play and another Alumni tally. Shortly before the half Joe Sassano’s Lyons team started to click. Quarterback Don Costello connected to end Brad Bailey for the lone Lyons score.
The fourth quarter provided one of the best plays of the game. Vieth passed to end Don Zech who scampered 40 yards to pay dirt for another Alumni TD only to have it nullified because of an illegal use of hands penalty.
Farley’s strong eleven had all it could (Continued on page 16)
ND Seeks Revenge For Last Season's Loss Against Rugged Pittsburgh in Home Opener
By BOB RUHL
Attempting to gain revenge for the 22-19 humbling of last year, the Irish lock horns with the potent Pittsburgh Panthers tomori'ow afternoon in the home opener. The Leahymen, protecting a clean slate by wins over the tough Oklahoma Sooners and seasoned Purdue Boilermakers, could find tough sledding with the Panthers.
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UP
PITTSBURGH NOTRE DAME
Zombek ..... LE ___ Shannon
Cessar 		.... LT	.. Varrichione
Hunter 		.... LG			  Lemek
Johnson ...	... C	..._. Schrader
Grunder ....	.... RG			 Mavraides
Kraemer 			.... RT			 Hunter
Dietrick 		... RE	.. Penza (C.)
Ford 		... QB		 Guglielmi
DiPasquale	.... LH		  Heap
McCabe ....	.... RH		 Lattner
Epps 		... FB			  Worden
Kickoff Time—1:30 C.S.T.
Head coach Red Dawson’s crew sports a 1-1-1 record this year, but maintains a potential threat to any gridiron foe on a given afternoon. Pitt ran into a stone wall in their initial clash with the spirited West Virginia Mountaineers and came out on the short end of a 17-7 count. Bud Wilkinson’s scrappy Sooners tried denting the heavy Panther line, but found the going too tough and settled for a 7-7 tie. Last week, the double-duty twins, fullback sensation Bobby Epps and quarterback Henry (Model T) Ford, combined to give the Cornhuskers of Nebraska a 14-6 beating.
The Dawsonmen, a recognized power in the east, boast of a young team made up of 24 sophomores, 18 juniors and only 8 seniors.
The Panther forward wall averages a little over 200 lbs. of dynamite. Big Eldred Kraemer, 200 lb. tackle, leads the hard charging Pitt defense. The 24 yr. old junior can go both ways with equal versatility and won a position on the Football Writers All-American team of last year. The other tackle slot is capably handled by 20 yr. old sophomore, Bill Cessar.
The middle of the Panther line was a doubtful link in the defense as the season got under way, but sophomore John Cenci, guard, Harold Hunter and Bob Ballock, guard and center respectively, both juniors, have left no doubt in the minds of their opponents that they can hold their own. Oklahoma found it almost impossible to punch holes in this rock wall defense and Nebraska was forced to go to the air to gain their one touchdown.
Captain Dick Dietrick and Joe Zombek make going around end a hazardous
DICK DIETRICK
Pitt Captain Ace Receiver
October 16, 1953
13
occupation and can haul in the pigskin when needed. Dietrick, a 6-3, 215 lb. senior, caught 31 passes for a total of 424 yards and one touchdown last year. Zombek is only considered a fair pass receiver, but the 6 foot, 185 lb. senior's main asset is his unquestioned prowess as a defensive stalwart and bone-crushing blocker.
Field-general Ford leads a classy crew of Panther ball luggers whose main asset is their terrific break-away Tunning. Ford, a stumpy 5-10, 180 lbs. of football magician, runs the power-packed Panthers out of the power T and orthodox single wing.
But the big threat in the Pitt backfield is standout senior, Bobby Epps. The 21 year old 185 lb. flash, has gained a total of 502 yards rushing in 106 tries, caught 19 passes for 219 yards and has scored seven touchdowns in his two year tenure with the Panthers. In this year’s Oklahoma contest, the sensational Epps plunged through the Sooner line and threaded his way 73 yards down the sidelines, outrunning the entire Sooner defense to give Pitt the tie.
The halfback positions are manned by a pair of high-stepping speedsters, junior Richie McCabe and sophomore Ray Di Pasquale. The 5-10, 165 lb. D.i Pasquale was considered the best runner on last year’s Freshman squad.
The Irish should be in top-notch physical condition to meet the Panther .invasion. Only minor injuries have hampered the team thus far. Captain Don Penza and tackle Art Hunter have bruised shoulders, Guard Ray Lemek came up with bruised ribs, and AllAmerican halfback Johnny Lattner was sidelined by a pulled muscle. All were able to take part in last week’s scrim-

by Bob Frolicher
Panthers Better Than Record
Tomorrow when the Irish face Pittsburgh in Notre Dame’s home opener, they will be tackling a team that has the experts in some ways puzzled. Shortly before the season started, the Panthers were picked as a possible
ELDRED KRAEMER Pre-Season All-American
potential power ,in the east. So far Pittsburgh has played some erratic ball, failed to live up to expectations, and still has the sportswriters guessing. In their opener against West Virginia, they were upset 17-7. The following week they turned around and tied the powerful Sooners of Oklahoma 7-7, and thhn last Saturday barely squeezed by Nebraska, 14-6. However, their 1-1-1 record thus far is very deceiving. According to assistant coach Wally Ziemba, who together with head coach Frank Leahy scouted the Panthers last week in their tight battle with the Cornhuskers, Pittsburgh is an underrated team. “Many people think because the Panthers lost to West Virginia they aren’t any good, but they fail to realize at the same time that the Mountaineers have one of their better clubs this season,” Ziemba stated. He also considers Pitt fullback Bobby Epps one of the best in
the country. He added: “I’ve watched Pitt for the last five or ten years, and they always give the Irish a tough time.”
mages.
HENRY FORD
“Model-T” Set to Roll?
Rugged Defensive Squad
In Pittsburgh Notre Dame will be facing their toughest defensive team to date. In the Pitt-Oklahoma clash, the Sooners registered only six first downs, five of them in the first half, against the air-tight Panther defense. Bobby Epps, Pitt fullback, gained 73 yards on the ground to outrush the entire Sooner backfield in that department. Their stout defense is left tackle Eldred Kraemer, a standout who needs no introduction to any of Pitt’s 1952 opponents. The change from the two-platoon system has had little effect on Kraemer who has proved he can go both ways.
1 Do Irish Rafe No. I ?
No, stated Gene Kessler “noted” sports columnist of the Chicago Sdti Times in his October 12 column. According to Mr. Kessler, Michigan State can’t let up this season since they joined the Western Conference, and they have humbled three strong opponents while the Irish just squeezed by Oklahoma and mauled a weak Purdue team. In his book, the Spartans rate the coveted No. 1 spot. However, what our “noted” writer failed to take into consideration is that Notre Dame can’t let up either. To most schools their clash with the Irish is their big game of the year, and they point only for that game. If they come out victorious, their season is a success. Another point our Mr. Kessler seemed to overlook is that his favored Spartans face this supposedly “WEAK” Purdue team later this season. Now isn’t it a crime that our future “No. I” team should schedule such a “breather” too.
Prediction of the Week
Notre Dame faces their third (“Breather” of the season, Kessler style), but the Irish should be able to squeeze out another victory over another “WEAK” team, 20-7.
14
The Scholastic
Pitt Nips Nebraska; Engineers Extend Skein As ND Foes Win Five, Lose Two, Tie One
Spartan Cinder Team Outruns Irish, 23-33
While Notre Dame had an open date last Saturday afternoon, the Irish future opponents were busy compiling a five-win, two-loss and one-tie record on the nation’s gridirons. Pitt, Georgia Tech, Navy, North Carolina and Southern Methodist all came out of last Saturday’s contest on top, while Penn and Iowa lost, and Southern California tied.
The Pittsburgh Panthers, playing before 20,000 homecoming fans, including scouting Irish Coach Frank Leahy, took advantage of five Nebraska fumbles to down the Cornhuskers, 14-6. Pitt scored first in the initial period after a 66 yard march, with Bobby Epps going over center for the remaining one foot. Nebraska bounced back in the third quarter with their only score, but in the final period, Pitt drove 56 yards for the clinching touchdown, Henry Ford hurdling over from the one foot line. It was Pitt’s first win of the season.
Georgia Tech preserved the current longest undefeated streak in college football by outlasting Tulane’s Green Wave, 27-13. The Engineers’ victory was due mainly to the brilliant running of halfback Leon Hardeman, who garnered 45 yards in eight carries, and the bull’s eye passing of Bill Brigman and Wade Mitchell. Tulane, who scored first in the opening period, was never in the game after* the “Hamblin’ Wrecks” scored twice’in the second period.
Navy’s passing attack was a little too much for the Big Red of Cornell, as the Middies rolled, 26-6. Navy’s fullback, Joe Gattuso, tallied twice, both in the third period, on a plunge of two yards and a 33 yard jaunt.
North Carolina stayed in the unbeaten ranks by scoring two touchdowns in the fourth quarter to beat Wake Forest, 18-13. The Tarheel scores were set up by two 40 yard gallops by Connie Gravitts.
Pennsylvania meanwhile was dropped but hard from the ranks of the undefeated by the Bears of California, 40-0. The Bear’s third string halfback, Jerry Drew, provided the big thrill of the day with his 91 yard romp around the Quakers’ right end.
Iowa, who plays here Nov. 21, dropped a tough one to powerful Michigan, 14-13. The Michigan hero was reserve quarterback, Duncan McDonald, who came off the bench in the fourth quarter to pitch a fourth down four yard pass to end Gene Knutson to knot the game at 13 all. Louie Baldacci promptly added; the extra point and the Wolverines had the ball game.
The Trojans of Southern California ranked seventh nationally, were surprised by Washington last Saturday, being held to a 13-13 tie. The Trojans were outplayed by the Huskies, and it was only by the two long runs of Aramis Dandoy and Lindon Crowe that the Californians averted an upset.
Last Friday night Southern Methodist rolled over Missouri, 20-7, principally on the running of Jerry Norton and Dale Moore and the passing of Duane Nutt. The Mustangs scored on just seven plays the first time they had their hands on the ball, going 57 yards. Moore scored the second Mustang touchdown in the second period, going over from the two foot mark.
I CONQUERED MY
INFERIORITY COMPLEX
Arthur $ inane hour at Artnu
You can really dance after the first lesson!
When you can swing out on the floor and dance expertly, you, too, will feel proud—not inferior any more! Arthur Murray himself had a complex in his youth—and overcame it by becoming an expert dancer. And today experts trained by him will help get rid of any “I.C.” that hinders you—in society or in business.
In just a few hours your "dated” dancing will be transformed—you’ll know the latest steps—you’ll be a popular partner. Don’t wait! Phone MU 2-4647 or come right to the studio fora Free 15-minute dance analysis.
ARTHUR MURRAY
2-3339
Notre Dame’s Cross Country squad was defeated by the Michigan State College harriers^ 23-33, in a dual meet at East Lansing last Saturday.
Lyle Garbe of Michigan State won. first place in the meet by covering the four mile distance in 20:46.8. Closest man to him was the Irish captain, Jack Alexander, who finished 50 yards behind Garbe. Third was John Cook, Michigan State; fourth, James Daley, Notre Dame; and Ron Barr and Dick Jarrett, Michigan State, tied for- fifth.
Tomorrow Coach Alex Wilson will take his squad to Milwaukee for a meet against Marquette. The Wilsonmen will again be seeking then* first win since the 1951 season.
Copr. 1948-Arthur Murray Inc.
120 E. WAYNE ST. SOUTH BEND
October 16, 1953
15
NABICHT BROTHERS
Pittsburgh Menu FRIDAY—Wonderful Selection of Seafoods
SATURDAY—Steaks, Chicken, Seafood OPEN-WEEKDAYS: 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.
SATURDAYS: 11 A.M. to 12 P.M.
CLOSED SUNDAYS
NOTRE DAME 34 Nabicht Brothers Predict:	PITTSBURGH 7
South Bend's Oldest Catering Family
Nabicht Brothers
Private Dining Rooms for Special Parties
1415 LINCOLN WAY WEST	2-3138
ENGINEERS, SCIENCE MAJORS
A representative of the Du Pont Company will be on this campus
October 23
to interview Bachelor and Master degree candidates majoring in
Chemistry
Chemical Engineering Mechanical Engineering
Metallurgical Engineering
Contact your placement office for an interview appointment
Interhall Football
(Continued from page 13) do to squeeze out a 6-0 victory over a spirited Off-Campus. The lone score came in the third period when Jack Casey intercepted a Murphy pass and romped the remaining 35 yards untouched.
With but a few minutes remaining in the first half, O-C worked the ball to Farley’s 15 yd. line on long runs by Tom Gunning and Chuck O’Connell, but the half ended before they could score. Late in the last quarter, Off-Campus again threatened as a 40 yd. pass play from Gunning to George Zimmerman, and power plays by O’Connell and Gunning put the ball inside Farley’s ten yd. line. At this point Farley attempted various stalling tactics, and the game ended with the ball on the three yd. line.
A powerful outside running game and superior team speed enabled Zahm to blank Cavanaugh, 6-0, in the opening tilt for both frosh elevens. Zahm’s lone scoring came in the second period when they recovered a Cavanaugh bobble on their 11 yd. stripe. On the next play quarterback Ray Miller pitched an 11 yd. pass to left end Stan Plucinski in the end zone. The Cavanaugh forward wall rushed the kicker, and the try for conversion was deflected.
On the ensuing kickoff the Cavanaugh team was driven back to their own two yd. line because of penalties and long losses. The alert Zahm line crashed through, and they had two more points on a safety to end the scoring for the game.
St. Edward’s opened its 1953 season ■with a 12-0 victory over B-P, last year’s interhall champs. St. Ed’s opened its scoring in the first quarter when Jerry Ryan swept left end for 25 yds. and a TD. In the second period Tom Hawkins
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
’Ei. U. S.PAT.O^r
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER UVING... THROUGH CHEMtSTRT
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
CONTACT LENSES Phone 4-5777
207 W. Washington-Oliver Hotel
16
The Scholastic
tallied St. Ed’s second touchdown on a 40 yd. jaunt behind excellent blocking. The defenses played a standout role in the second half.
In the only other game played in the first week of competition, the lads of Morrissey defeated Dillon, 12-6. Dillon scored early in the contest, but could not hold onto the ball long enough to do further damage.
Dillon kicked off, but three plays later Morrissey was forced to punt from its own 20 yd. line. Guard Fred Eckart blocked the kick and Jim Bums recovered for Dillon on the three.
Morrissey tallied the tying marker with only moments left in the first quarter, as George Matt went 25 yards on a cross buck. Their winning touchdown came on the last play of the second period, with Matt passing to fullback Tom McIntire for 25 yards and the score.
Rich Gains Semi-Final Berth In Campus Tennis Tourney
Unseeded Jim Rich has volleyed his way into the semi-finals of the annual Interhall Tennis Tournament. Rich, a freshman, defeated another freshman, Tom Guilfoile, 6-3, 6-4, in the only quarter-final match played thus far.
After the last sets of the final qualifying round were over, Rich, Harry Pagel, Fr. Reilly, Jack Stuhldreher, Tom Ryan, Dean Richards, and Guilfoile, who was later eliminated by Rich, remained. Pagel won by default over Badin’s Dick Schmitt, and Fr. Reilly took a 6-3, 7-5 victory from Don Guertin of Andre House. Guilfoile outserved Farley’s Freddie Gardner, 7-5, 6-2, and Stuhldreher easily whipped ninth-seeded Frank Lynch, 6-3, 6-2. Dark Horse Rich dropped G. Stake, 6-1, 6-4, and Richards beat Bob Kuhn by 6-1, 6-0 scores.
You Always Get a Square
Deal at Breen’s
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING BREEN’S Jeweler
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
ENGINEERING SENIORS...
North American Aviation Los Angeles will interview here
Monday, NOV. 2
A representative of North American Aviation, Inc., the company that designed and produces this country's top fighters, the new F-100 Super Sabre Jet and F-86 Sabre Jets, will be on the campus Monday, November 2, 1953, to interview winter graduates for positions at the company's Los Angeles, California, and Columbus, Ohio plants.
Junior engineering positions are available at North American. For details contact the Placement Director as soon as possible.
”	“	—	'	1	"J,
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
"Go bury your hood in tho sand," shrieked Sheedy’s chick. You’ll never put a wing on my finger until you start using Wildroot Cream-Oil on that messy hair. It’s America’s favorite hair tonic. Keeps hair combed
without any trace of greasiness. Removes goose, ugly dandruff. Relieves annoying dryness. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test.” Paul looked so good the very fuzz time he used Wildroot Cream-Oil, his pigeon egged him on until he proposed. So why don’t you buy a bottle or tube today at any toilet goods counter. And necks time you have a haircut, ask for Wildroot Cream-Oil on your hair. Then no gal will ever give vou the bird.
* of 131 So. Hams Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Company* Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
CMUKnCMH
mmihs uou
October 16, 1953
17
by Gordon Bergquist
What are my grades? Where do I stand in my class? How many years e? What’s the best service? How do I get a commission? Do I want to make a career out of it?
It is questions ■ like these that make many people shudder and condemn the average college student as the worst of the draft dodgers. And to a certain degree, they are many students who
scrape and pull for a scholastic deferment for their four college years and then get married as quickly as possible to try to get out of military service on grounds of dependency.
It is also unfortunately all too true that there are some men who are better off in the army than in college. A good number of students have no business in being in college. There always will be a few in any university who barely pull through in their marks, goof off for eight semesters, and then proudly pass themselves off on the unsuspecting community as college graduates.
It must be admitted that these are unusual times but there seems to be no need, even in such times, for a wholesale cheating of the American people. It is also unfortunately true that many college graduates and students seem to to think that they are some sort of exceptions to the rules that hold for the general public. And if there are any that doubt this, they have only to listen in on a few of the allegedly more serious bull-sessions around the campus!
One of the outstanding marks of the American youth of the present is his ungodly worship of “The Deal.” The smart man is the one who can make a deal for himself even if it causes inconvenience to others. It does not at all bother the college “man” if, because he escapes military service, some fellow is pulled off the farm and thrust into a uniform. It doesn’t bother the college man because he has the misbegotten idea that he is somehow better than that fellow from the farm. It goes without saying, that he isn’t—and his college degree gives him no assurance that he is any more intelligent.
It seems that even intelligent students lose their reason and start screaming gibberish whenever the question of military service comes up. And their only thought is how to get out of it or make for themselves the “Big Deal.” Now I do not lay any claim to the title of militarist. I don’t like the idea of a career (for anywhere from two to five years) in the service. I have as much desire as the next man to lead a normal life, but for the life of me, I cannot see that there is anything so frightening or horrible about military service. As many persons have pointed out, it is just as dangerous, or even more so, to take an automobile out on the streets and highways.
It’s about time that the student took a little practical lesson from his courses in the social sciences. Let’s face it. This country and the people in it are going to be living in a state of armed readiness for a good many years and we might as well get used to the fact that the military is going to be a part of everyone’s life.
I draw no complaint with those who prefer one service to another, or with those who have some sane and intelligent reason for remaining out of service for a certain length of time. This point then brings us to the other side of the argument.
Those who make the sweeping generalization that all college students are draft dodgers are far from right, even considering what has been said above. I don’t think that even the Chiefs of Staff can see the point of having a qualified college graduate lugging an M-l in the front lines. This is so for the same reason that generals are supposed to take care of their personal safety—they’re too valuable.
Acting upon the presumption, too
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 S. MICHIGAN
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
often unhappily proven false, that the college graduate has at least more acquired knowledge, it is only common sense to take advantage of that knowledge. A good deal of the fault here lies with the military men themselves. They have ably planned far in advance the requirements and supplies of atomic weapons, munitions, food, and clothing. Unfortunately, they have neglected to make the same well-thought-out plans for the requirements and supplies of men.
I fail to see why, but it seems to be a part of the American tradition that we be caught short-handed in any national emergency. There are indications that perhaps this concept has passed, along with the notion that our oceans are sufficient defense against any aggressor. But it takes two to make any bargain or contract work. Not only does it take planning on the part of the military, of which there are evidences recently, but it also takes planning-on the part of the potential draftee— a person who, in the college ranks at least, shows nothing but disorganization and panic at the present time.
Xlre we stretching things a bit? Maybe — but when you find out how mild and sweet and refreshing the Medico pipe can be, you’ll go for Medico, too! It’s the replaceable filter in Medico that makes the big difference. That little filter traps dangerous nicotine and tars, disagreeable juices and flakes.
That’s why countless smokers, beginners and old timers alike, who never enjoyed the pleasures of a pipe, now enjoy the clean mild fragrance of Medico — the pioneer in filtered smoking.
Try a Medico Pipe. See why Medico’s filter has sold over a billion to date!
YOU’LL LOVE THE FEEL OF the CUSHION-BITE in the
MTE PROOF NYLON STEM O
"IEP^coci.m’3» t & MEDICO V.F.Q«^y
VMinriityit stytesart sins. Vritt JMctHtKjKjLY.OJnlrtM I
MEDICO FILTER PIPES
18
The Scholastic
' IS


The world’s most famous towers are, left to right, the Eiffel Tower, the Tower of London and the Leaning Tower of Pisa.
But in America, the tower-come-lately (extreme right) may rapidly become as familiar as the old landmarks of Europe. It is one of the Bell System s radio-relay stations which speed telephone calls and television programs coast to coast.
In May, 1948, these towers connected only five Eastern cities. Five years later the TV network included 95 towns and more are being added all the time.
Being the first network of its kind in the world, the planning, research, engineering and construction requirements are providing real opportunities for the kind of people who like to pioneer.
If working on new developments appeals to you, check with your Placement Officer for the details on employment with the Bell System. There are positions open for electrical, mechanical and civil engineers, as well as business administration and arts and science graduates.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM fAj
CHOICE OF
Copyright 1953, Liggett & 5Bers Tobacco Co,