NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, March 15, 1890.
Vol. XXIII.
No. 27.
Knuckles or Wings.*
“Thou art not fit for this dark realm of strife.”—Racine.
Thou of the gentle rap, return, return!
' Thou art so rare a soul that we
Would call thee back from that most blessed bourn
Where thou must dwell; oh! let us see
One glimpse of thy sweet face,—a look of thine Would be as pearls in darkest waters flung, Or as the moonlight calm on some murk night,
Or as the taste of some rare vintage fine: Return, return!
Thou didst not'crush our knob in fiendish grasp;
Thou even didst omit the usual round
Upon the floor without; no sound did rasp
Our silence. Thou didst not pound
Upon the panels as is ofttimes done
By those who scale in vain our transom high;
One gentlest knock, and then, as fading sun Thou didst away unto the silent sky!
Return! return!
The Bings of Saturn.
BY WM. P. M’PHEE, 'go.
I.
The teachings of Holy Writ in regard to the origin of the universe—its creation out of nothingness—lie at the foundation of all scientific progress and development. But many theories concerning the operations by which the universe attained its present form and arrangement have been propounded by the thinking men of various ages. Ancient philosophers taught that the universe had no origin, but that it existed from eternity in the form in which we now see it. Modern philosophers have, however, developed a theory, not in conflict with the Scriptu
* Impromptu on hearing a gentle knock and seeing no one.
ral doctrine of the origin of the universe, which seems to have prevailed among thinking men, and which has been confirmed by many of the scientific discoveries of modern times. It seems to show beyond reasonable doubt that the universe could not always have existed in the same form and condition in which it is now presented to us, but that there was a time when the materials which now compose it were masses of glowing vapor, and that there will be a time when the present state of things will cease. This theory is generally known as the “nebular hypothesis”—a theory most carefully worked out, especially as to the details, by the distinguished astronomer and mathematician, Laplace. His theory, however, has been somewhat modified since it was first formulated by him more than one hundred years ago, as since then there has been discovered the great principle of the conservation of energy which naturally necessitated a few changes.	.
It is asserted in this hypothesis that at one time the material which now composes our universe, was a cloud of intensely heated vapor. This immense glowing mass had a globular form and revolved on an axis, in consequence of which it became very much flattened at the poles, and assumed the shape of an immense lens. Gradually as the motion became accelerated, the centrifugal force at the equator equalled the force of gravity, and rings of nebulous matter were abandoned. These rings, which resembled the rings of Saturn, revolved around the central mass as a whole, for a while, then they broke and collected into single globes, and thus formed the planets of our solar system.
Of all the planets produced from this nebulous mass, the most interesting by far is the planetSaturn. Although Jupiter, with his mighty bulk and attended by his wonderful retinue of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
422
satellites, commands respect, yet he cannot compete in beauty with the marvellous system of Saturn.
Situated at a profound distance in space, which sometimes approaches to nearly a thousand millions of miles, Saturn performs his mighty revolution around the sun in a period of over a quarter of a century. In his globe we see few features which awaken in us any exceptional interest; but when we gaze on the beauty of the ring-system which surrounds him, the liveliest feelings of interest are kindled within us. As the unaided eye fails to disclose any of the marvels by which the planet is surrounded, the interest which is attached to it seems to commence with the first telescopic observations. The ancients attached no exceptional importance to him, except that his gigantic orbit formed the boundaries of the then known planetary system.
About the year 1610 Galileo completed his refracting telescope which, though comparatively small, yet was an immense aid to his powers of observation. With it he discerned the spots on the sun as well as the mountains of the moon. Encouraged by these brilliant discoveries he turned his telescope on the planets and.beheld the wonders of the satellite system of Jupiter and the beauties .of the crescent of Venus; but when he observed Saturn he was astonished, nay more, perplexed. To him the planet appeared triform; and to add to his amazement, as he continued his observations, he saw the two lesser bodies gradually become smaller and smaller until they had entirely vanished, and the planet appeared as simply a round disc like Jupiter.	'
Upon their reappearance these objects were subjected to constant observations, until, in 1655, when Huyghens, with increased telescopic powers, determined the true nature of these bodies. He announced his discovery in a cryptograph. As all attempts to decipher it were unsuccessful he thus secured for himself a few years to test his theory. After he had verified it in every detail he announced the interpretation of the cipher, which when translated into English is: “The planet is surrounded by a slender flat ring everywhere distinct from its surface and inclined to the ecliptic.”
He furthermore thoroughly established the existence of the rings by the many delicate tests to which he submitted it, and after many calculations he predicted that the planet would appear circular about July of 1871. His prediction was practically fulfilled; for. during the month of May of that year the rings vanished.
II.
The existence of the rings having been confirmed by these tests and observations, astronomers of succeeding ages have labored to discover more and more the wonderful features of these rings/ Among those who have taken a prominent part in these researches-we meet the names of such illustrious astronomers as Cassini, Hadley and Herschel of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, and Bond, Trouvelot and Dawes of our own day.	.
It was in 1675, just as Saturn was emerging from the rays of the sun, that Cassini discovered a dark, concentric line which seemed to divide the rings into two unequal parts. His discovery was thoroughly investigated by Sir William Herschel who, with his unrivalled instruments, followed up Saturn night after night for several years, and made a minute examination of the ring-system, but particularly of this line. He observed that the color of this line greatly resembled the color of the space intervening between the globe and the inner edge of the rings, and he therefore concluded that this line was an opening or space intermediate between the two portions of the ring.
Before the year 1850 it had always been supposed that the two rings, divided by the black line of Cassini, embraced the entire ring-system of Saturn. In that year, however, a third ring was discovered independently by two prominent astronomers. On the fifteenth of March, of that year, Professor Bond, the distinguished astronomer of the Harvard" Observatory, discovered a dusky ring situated between the inner ring and the globe, and announced his discovery to the astronomical world. Ten days afterwards, Mr. Dawes of England, while observing Saturn, perceived the same ring, and announced the fact before the news of Bond’s discovery had reached England. The newly-discovered ring had not the brilliancy of the other rings, and for that reason it was christened the “crape ring.”
It has been argued by many that this third ring is a new formation, otherwise it could not have eluded not only the immense instrument of that keen observer, who devoted so much time to the study of these rings, Sir William Herschel, but also the telescopes of many others of the earlier observers of Saturn. It is probable however that this “crape ring” is not a recent addition to the ring-system, as the observations of Hadley seem to show that it was perhaps seen by him in 1720, or even previously by Cassini..	.	.. “ '
The nature of" these-rings has always^ been a subject of wonder and investigation:by mathe
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
4*3
maticians and astronomers ever since their discovery. The theory first presented regarding their structure was that they were solid; but this is very improbable as it is easily demonstrated that a homogeneous and solid ring surrounding a planet could not'long remain in the state of equilibrium, but that it must be precipitated upon the planet by the slightest disturbing force. . The discovery of the “crape ring” naturally suggested many new questions concerning the stability of the rings. In refuting the theory that they were homogeneous and solid rings, ■Laplace had assumed that they were composed of many narrow and rigid rings; but here he left it. So when Prof. Pierce took it up he had to go over the entire work Laplace had done on the subject, and then start anew. He demonstrated that the stability of a system of rings required so fine an adjustment of so many narrow rings as to make the system far more complex than Laplace had ever conceived, and that even then “the slightest disturbance by external or internal causes would cause one ring to infringe upon the other; ■ and we should thus have the seed of perpetual catastrophes.”
The idea next advanced was that the ringsystem was a fluid mass; but this was disposed of by Professor Maxwell who, in his investigations of the nature of the rings, showed that if they were oceanic rings they would inevitably become wave tossed, and that these waves would increase to such a great, extent as to break the ring up into separate fluid particles.
The only theory remaining is that these rings are not continuous masses, but must consist at present of a multitude of separate bodies, each of which travels in its own course and is entirely independent of all the other bodies. It is evident that by this theory only are all the peculiarities characteristic of the ring-system explained. No difficulties are encountered in it except that regarding the various degrees of brightness of the different rings. But even that is easily surmounted when we consider the fact that some of the rings are of a higher state of condensation than others, and this would necessitate various degrees of brightness. The dark ring is then most probably composed of a number of sparsely strewn satellites; for only such a combination as this could produce a shadow corresponding in appearance to the dark gray color of the belt of Saturn.
All the recent observations of the rings seem to show that changes are going on constantly throughout the entire. ring-system, but more especially in ’ the dark ring. . Shortly after the - discovery of it by-B ond, in 1850, all the promi
nent astronomers, who studied the planet, observed that the outline of the planet could be distinctly traced across the entire breadth of the “crape ring.” During late years, however, it has been noticed that the planet’s disc is visible only through the inner half of the ring’s breadth. From these observations it is quite evident that great changes have been taking place in that ring, and moreover that these changes may be attributed to the fact that the satellites of the dark ring are becoming more thinly scattered, or that the outer portion of it is becoming more compact by receiving stray satellites from the inner part of the bright ring.
Although Saturn with his system has been the object of the astronomer’s-telescope and the subject of his mathematical researches for more than two centuries, yet all these observations, however well they may elucidate the beauty and marvels of his system, seem to have done little more than establish the existence of the rings. We know nothing with certainty of their structure, and until the great mathematical theory of Saturn, which must eventually be written, is finished, the marvels of the ring-system must remain to us a mystery.
Labor Organizations.
Removed as we are from the world’s conflicts, and with such peaceful environments, many of us are prone to disregard the great and the overshadowing questions of the hour. Every political canvass resounds with the notes of tariff, civil service, and labor reform. The fact that these questions are. an issue [indicates a needed reformation.
Within the last few years the labor movement has forced consideration. The next few years must see the adjustment of the differences between capital and labor, or grave and terrible evils will result.
Labor is man’s common lot, be his station lowly or exalted. We make a distinction, however, as to the classes of labor. There is certainly a difference between a man toiling in the mines or working in the fields and one in the counting-house or in the office. And it is partly this distinction, so marked, that engenders many. of the disputes. No one will dare maintain that labor lacks dignity and nobility. It is a groundless assumption that labor is without certain and sacred rights.
The teachings of the Saviour of the world, as made known to us in the tenets and. precepts of the Christian Church, have for eighteen cent
424
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
uries shown the worthiness of honest toil. Now if work is both dignified and necessary we may proceed, without further elaboration, to discuss the point at issue. Are Labor Organizations conducive to the best interests of a country? We think they are. The causes which render such organizations not only worthy but absolutely necessary are: (i) The domination of capital; (2) The inequalities of wealth and poverty before the law; (3) The discrimination and exorbitancy of our system of taxation.
The distresses arising from the aggressions of capital are of no recent birth. Peruse the annals of the past; history is fraught with countless examples of civil strife occasioned by wealth’s aggression or penury’s discontent. All the bloody conflicts and domestic struggles of ancient Rome, from the Gracchi to the establishment of the Empire, may be narrowed down to a contest between the classes and the masses. And let me emphasize this fact: that a country’s weal or woe depends, in a great measure, upon the friendliness between capital and labor. ' Now the question naturally presents itself: What is the present condition of the laboring men? If they were the serfs of power and opulence in times gone by, they are more so to-day. When your ancestors and mine were the slaves of ancient Greece and Rome, raiment and daily sustenance were no care to them. But to-day, with all our civilization and our enlightenment and our vaunted progress, in a neighboring state there are hundreds of men out of employment and hundreds of wives and children starving— actually suffering for the common necessities of life—and all through the caprice and arrogance of a monied aristocracy.
We are confronted with a stern reality. When these oppressed and tyrannized workingmen unite for common interests; when they pool their issues and seek to redress their wrongs by lawful measures, they are branded as anarchists and socialists, and the ban of the corporations' lavy is placed upon them—I say corporations' law, because all our legislation, for a quarter of a century, has been hostile to the best interests of labor.	.
We may boast as we please of the sanctity and the equality of our judicial tribunals, but the stern and incontrovertible fact stares us in the face that there are members of our judiciary as susceptible to the influence of the “almighty dollar” as men in other walks of life. How difficult it is to convict the minions of wealth, be the evidence ever so conclusive! How rarely are the great railroad corporations beaten in a .legal contest! There are monopolies and trusts
to-day which are boldly and deliberately trampling upon the mandates of our courts, and they do so with impunity.
Another source of social disorder is the inequality of our system of taxation. If our direct system is vicious, our indirect system is outrageous. Though the wealth is-centred in the few, the taxes are borne by the many. A poor man is taxed upon the face value of his freehold. The bondholder and the monopolist, worth untold millions and living in a brown stone front upon some fashionable avenue, hand in their figures for assessment. And need I say that they are very kind to themselves?
And now permit me to say a word in regard to our indirect system, which is misnamed a Protective Tariff. It is only protective inasmuch as it protects the rich and burdens the needy. Our present tariff has been defined, and well, as a “tax which pillages the many to enrich the few.” It affords protection to a few manufacturers upon our coast to the detriment of a majority of our people. While the price of manufactured articles is increased there is no corresponding advance in wages. A tariff discriminates against labor in favor of capital.
Against such discrimination workingmen are forced to organize to protect their common rights. The philosophy of their coalition is that “in union there is strength.” Capitalists unite into companies and associations. They consolidate their wealth that they may reap a larger per cent, from their investment; Labor has learned a lesson. Daily toilers hope by combining to accomplish that which, if divided, would be impossible. Bankers have their protective associations; lawyers and doctors unite for common interests. Why should not the laborer, the locomotive engineer and the mason do likewise? .
It is a mistaken idea entertained by many that we enjoy the rights of the present by the grace of Government. Our Government gives us no rights; nor can it. Its province is simply to protect us in those inalienable rights with which we are endowed by our Creator; and it is only when governments fail in their sacred duties that protective organizations are necessary. Labor is the source of all capital, and therefore its rights should, in a measure, be respected. But monopoly is deaf to the voice of justice.
Probably the best representative labor organization that we have is the Knights of Labor founded in 1869. For some time its existence was kept secret to shield- its members from dis-chargement. The Knights have adopted this
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
425
motto “That is the most perfect government in -which an injury to one is the concern of all.” This association demands: the abrogation of all laws which do not bear equally upon capital and labor; the substitution of arbitration for strikes, the prohibition of child labor, and of the importation of contract pauper labor. It demands the enactment of a law securing both sexes equal pay for equal work; it demands the reduction of the hours of labor to eight per day, so that laborers may have more time for social enjoyment and intellectual improvement, thereby enabling them to reap the advantages conferred by labor-saving machinery which their brains have created. It further calls upon governments to establish a purely national circulating medium, issued directly to the people, without the intervention of banking corporations, which money shall be legal tender for all debts public and private. Finally, it demands the reservation of public lands for the actual settler.
These demands are so direct and explicit that they cannot be misunderstood. They are certainly reasonable, and should be conceded. There is not a single one of these demands which, if granted, would not further the best interest of the masses. I cite the Knights of Labor in particular, because their platform of principles is an embodiment of the grievances of all other trade unions and labor societies.
These organizations must not be confounded with socialistic and anarchistic societies. They are not identical, nor even kindred. One teaches its members that the wrongs they complain of are the results of unwholesome legislation, and the remedy must come through wise and judicious law-making; the other teaches that all legislation is vicious in itself. One would reform the present evils; the other would destroy the existing order. There is no bond of sympathy or kindred spirit between them.
Again, labor organizations are great educa-cators. The political questions of the hour are their themes of discussion, and whatever has a tendency to make honest and intelligent citizens must be good in itself. If they possessed no other merit,’this should commend them. Labor organizations are the implacable foes of monopolies, trusts and combines, and every one who has the best interests of his country at heart should applaud their existence.
The labor question is one of the great problems yet unsolved. Let us trust that our day may see its solution. If the wisdom of our statesmen prove successful it shall go ringing down the unborn years, a boon to nations yet to corner Now, as we.are but in the morn of a
second century, let us hope that our Government, born of the fealty of loyal hearts and hallowed by the life blood of devoted patriots, may never be the scene of such terrible disorders as have rent other lands less favored than our own. Let us hope that the prosperity of our present is but a foretaste of the greatness of our future.
J. B. Sullivan, ’91.
Impressions on the Pre-Raphaelites.
The Pre-Raphaelite or aesthetic school in literature is a creation of the nineteenth century, founded by Dante Gabriel Rossetti and continued by Wm. Morris and Charles Swinburne. Although literature has had many schools of poets, that of the Pre-Raphaelites is entirely original and vastly different from all of them. It is a very peculiar school, and because of its rare originality and strange peculiarities is hard' to define or to name. Hence, because its members affect the manner of the Pre-Raphaelite painters, it is called the Pre-Raphaelite school, and also the Renaissance of mediaeval feeling; because they aim to write pleasingly rather than logically—thus following “the science of the beautiful in art and nature”—the name aesthetic school is given to it. The chief peculiarities of the school are these: the aim to write pleasingly and to conventionalize and make everything concrete.
The best selection to study in order to get the flavor and an understanding of the school is Rossetti’s “Blessed Damosel,” in which he describes an angel looking down from heaven and awaiting his coming. Here we get a description of a heavenly spirit with a concreteness that is almost startling; as, for instance, the representation of the angel warming by contact the golden bar on which he leans. There is also a good example of the aesthetic quality in the description of the Blessed Mary surrounded by handmaidens, who, instead of being chosen from the number of the great saints, are selected for their euphonious names.
Rossetti, the founder of the school was a painter before he decided to devote himself entirely to literature, and had gained an excellent reputation as an artist. The best of his poems is the “ Blessed Damosel ” already alluded to. Although this cannot be called a very popular poem yet it is a famous one, because it was the first production of the new school, and immediately attracted much attention by its entirely new qualities. While Rossetti was an Englishman by birth, he was an Italian by descent; and
426	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
much of his attention was given to the study and translation of the Italian poets with whom his tone of thought was in thorough sympathy. His work called “Dante and his Circle” is an admirable one for students of that great poet as it gives a true insight into Dante’s life and surroundings.
The first poet to imitate the example of Rossetti was Wm. Morris, who, early in his career as a poet, associated himself .with the Oxford and Cambridge 'Magazine—an organ of the Pre-Raphaelite movement. His best poem is “The Earthly Paradise.” Later in life he started in London a manufactory of aesthetic decorations for homes, though he still continued to give some attention to literature.
The other member of this school, Charles Algernon Swinburne, is a poet whose prose is not at all commendable, but whose poetry—the best of which is “Atlanta in Calydon”—though diffuse and at times sensual, is wonderfully rythmic.
Although Rossetti and his colleagues do not deserve to have their names enrolled among the great poets, yet they have founded a school entirely new^in literature, and one which must be carefully studied by every student of English.
J. W. Meagher, ’91.
Books We Have Bead.
BY MEMBERS OF THE CLASS OF ENGLISH LITERATURE.
“ Great Expectations,” by Chas. Dickens.
I.
So much has been written about Dickens’ more noted works as “ David Copperfield, “ Bleak House,” etc., that I have chosen his “Great Expectations” to review. It is said of Dickens that he was the first author to write about the poor and the depraved classes of people, as writers formerly considered only kings, knights, or “good society”; but he seems to describe and depict life as it really exists. All his characters, even their names, are drawn from nature and real life. It is said he would walk all over London to find a name to suit some of his characters. All his books teach practical lessons of life, and “ Great Expectations ” is no exception to the rule in this respect, and also as to depicting the life of common people and outcasts.
The hero of the story is introduced to us as a young orphan boy whose parents had died before he saw them, and his first fancies, regarding what they were like, were unreasonably derived from their tombstones. Thus he formed an odd idea that his father was a square, stout, dark man, with curly, black hair, and that his
mother was freckled and sickly. His name being Perrip and Christian name being Philip, his infant tongue could make of both names nothing more explicit than Pip; and so he came to be called Pip.
While in the churchyard he is suddenly confronted by an escaped convict. Note the author’s vivid description of the man; how he seems to make him stand before you. “A fearful man, all in coarse grey, with a great iron on his leg; a man with no hat, and with broken shoes, and with an old rag tied round his head; a man who had been soaked in water, and smothered in mud, and lamed by stones, and cut by flints, and stung by nettles, and torn by briars; who limped, and shivered, and glared and growled, and whose teeth chattered in his head.” This con„ vict has a great deal to do with the future of young Pip, although unbeknown to him for a long time.
Pip’s parents having died when he was an infant, he had been brought up “by hand” by his sister as she termed it. She was more than twenty years older than himself and married to one Joe Gargery, a blacksmith. “ She was a very clean housekeeper, but had an exquisite art of making her cleanliness more uncomfortable and unacceptable than dirt itself.”
Her husband “was a mild, good-natured, sweet-tempered, easy-going, foolish, dear fellow—a sort of Hercules in strength and also in weakness.”
Some time after his meeting with the convict he is sent for by a Miss Havisham, an immensely rich and grim lady, who lived in a large and dismal house, and who led a life of seclusion. She wanted the boy to come there and play. She had been deceived early in life by a man who had deserted her on the wedding day. If it had not turned her brain completely, it at least hurt it and warped it, as from that time she had become morose and melancholy, never going out of her room, never seeing the sunlight. She had a fancy she wanted to see some one play, and so had sent for Pip. There was a young lady, or rather girl, there who had been adopted by Miss Havisham when a mere babe. This girl was very pretty, and, under the training of Miss Havisham, had grown proud, haughty and vain, and Miss Havisham took a-delight in rearing her to break the hearts of men. Time went by when Pip was notified by a lawyer that some one who was not to be known wanted to educate him and make a gentleman of him and also to make him his heir.- Pip and all his friends supposedall the time that it wasMissHavisham. And so he went to London, was educated, and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	427
grew up to be a good-looking young gentleman. It finally turned out that his benefactor was the convict he had met in the graveyard. Pip had been kind to him, fed him then and the convict conceived a great love for him. He had escaped from the officers, gone to Australia, had been very successful and accumulated riches, and all to send to Pip to make him a gentleman. As he says to Pip when discovering himself to him:
“ The blood horns of them colonists might fling up the dust over me as I was walking; what do I say? I says to myself, I’m making a better gentleman nor ever you’ll be! When one of ’em says to another: ‘He was a convict,’ what do I say? I says to myself: if I ain’t a gentleman, nor yet ain’t got no learning, I’m the owner of such. All on you owns stock and land, which on you owns a brought-up London gentleman?”
He was in danger if caught, as he had been sent for life, and if caught it was death; so Pip and a friend resolved to get clear of London by going in a boat on the river and shipping on some foreign packet. This they did, or attempted to do, but were discovered by the officers. Their boat ran down and the convict was hurt, and died soon after from his wounds.
The young girl Miss Havisham had adopted was named Estella. Pip was much in love with her and met her after he had become a gentleman, and, wished to marry her; but she said she knew, nothing of love, and married a stupid old fellow, an enemy of Pip. Pip refused to accept any of the, convict’s money, and it all went to the Crown after his death. Estella’s husband died and Pip. met her some years afterwards. .Their meeting.was affecting, as she had really loved him, and saw what she had lost in marrying that stupid old fellow. They met in the ruins of Miss Havisham’s mansion. The book closes thus:
" I took her hand, in mine and we went out of the ruined place; and as the morning mists had risen long .ago when I first left the forge, so the evening mists were rising now; and in all the broad expanse of tranquil light they showed to me I saw the shadow of no parting from her.”
W. P. Blackman, ’92.
Science, Literature and Art.
—The Russian Government, it is stated, has announced its intention to begin operations soon on the great railway across Siberia. The total length of the line will be 4,375 miles.
—Congress has passed a resolution for the erection of a statue to Christopher Columbus. The proposed statue will be of bronze and will cost $75,000, and is intended to be erected in the city of Washington on the site of the present Peace or Naval Monument, which now disfigures the approach from Pennsylvania avenue to the
Capitol Terrace, and which will be removed to a public reservation in another part of the city. It is intended that the unveiling of this monument to the great discoverer shall celebrate the anniversary of Columbus’ landing.
—Prince Waldemar of Denmark is testing a new submarine boat, built after the idea of Jules Verne’s famous craft. It is like a fish in form, and can go below the submerged chains in harbors, can run round buoys, and can cut cables and wires with the shears at its keel. It is as easy to hang onto the davits of a vessel as a life-boat. Two men who work the vessel have stayed in it several hours under water without feeling inconvenience. They take with them a supply of oxygen, and they can eat their meals quite comfortably. The inventor is M. Goubet, after whom the boat is named.
—At London, England, and Bremen, Prussia, the longest day has sixteen and a half hours. At Stockholm, Sweden, it is eighteen and a half hours in length. At Hamburg, in Germany, and Dantzic, in Prussia, the longest day has seventeen hours. At St. Petersburg, Russia, and Tobolsk, Siberia, the longest is nineteen hours and the shortest five hours. At Torneo, Finland, June 21 brings a day nearly twenty-two hours long and Christmas one less than three hours in length. At Wardbury, Norway, the longest day lasts from May 21 to July 22, without interruption, that is to say the sun is never set in that time, and in Spitzbergen the longest day is three and a half months. At Philadelphia the longest day is somewhat less than fifteen hours, and in Montreal, Canada, it is sixteen.—Nature.
—The book that William O’Brien wrote in prison is to be brought out soon after Easter by Longman, Green & Co. It is a historical novel, and the title is “When We were Boys.” It deals with the Fenians, and several Irish-American characters are introduced. A part of O’Brien’s book met with an accident similar to the one that befell Carlyle’s French Revolution. O’Brien lost the first eight chapters, and at one time it seemed as if his health would not allow him to rewrite them. He has, however, just now completed the missing part of the book. It is already in process of translation into French and Italian.
—John Boyle O’Reilly says that poetry flourished in Ireland 3000 years ago. This is another proof that the good old times were not so very good after all. But, hold on; maybe it was real sure enough poetry, and not the sensuous caterwauling which so often passes for poetry nowadays. The ancient Irish were too rugged, and sturdy a people to have any use for the rondeaus and triolets which are making the American people so weary.—N. K Tribune.
Quite right; there were no rondeaus allowed; and when an ancient bard was discovered with a triolet on him, he was buried alive under a huge pile of earth. Hence the great mounds of antiquity, quite common in Ireland, and the singular fact that even modern Irish poets avoid the deadly triolet.—Boston Pilot.
428	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
yublisljtTi tbtrn Sat urban buring Eerm Jumt at N. B. Hnthtrsitg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, March 15, 1890
Staff.
J.	W. Cavanaugh, ’go,
. H. P. Brelsford, ’gi;	Wm. C. Larkin, ’go,
H. A. Holden, ’gi,
W. P. McPhee, ’go,	C. T. Cavanagh, ’gi,
J. B. Sullivan, ’gi,	•
Joseph E. Berry, ’gi.	D. Barrett, ’go,
R. Adelsperger, ’go.
—Most young men, and students especially, do not seem to appreciate the importance of the military drill in physical development. We are not as sturdy and as muscular as our forefathers of a generation ago. To-day, we are visited with a multitude of ills to which they were strangers. If we look around us we see scarcely a single instance of perfect physical manhood. Some are round-shouldered, others narrow-chested and many deficient in this or that, but few perfectly formed. Military men, as a rule, are healthy and well-formed. What we need is some systematic and regular exercise. The military drill is an excellent example of this. The process of going through the manual of arms expands the chest and straightens the shoulders. The march develops the muscles of the legs and gives the body that easy and graceful carriage so characteristic of the soldier. Many of our universities have taken an advanced step in this matter, and have made the military drill compulsory. Some even have organized regularly enlisted companies, under the laws of the State. While we are not prepared to go thus far, whatever has tendency to promote the health and strength of the young has our warmest sympathy and cordial support. If we expect profit by our mental improvement, physical development must not be neglected.
The “Laetare” Medal.
We take pleasure in announcing that the “Laetare” Medal, which the University bestows each year in recognition of the eminent services to Literature, Science or Art of some distinguished Catholic layman, will this year be given to the Hon. William J. Onahan, Comptroller of the city of Chicago. The Medal will be presented to-morrow (Laetare Sunday) by his Grace the Most Rev. P. J. Feehan, Archbishop
of Chicago. In our next issue we shall give a more extended notice of this award and the recipient, who is so well deserving of this the highest mark of distinction which the University can confer. j
St. Patrick’s Day.
On Monday next the heart of every son of Erin will throb with love and pride for Ireland’s revered Saint. Wherever there beats an Irish heart, wherever there lives a son of the downtrodden, landlord-ridden Emerald Isle, there shall be joy and lifting up of true and grateful hearts. Despite the brutal despotism of the English government, the love for all that is Irish still exists. The old green flag is still bright notwithstanding the assaults of British Landlordism and public slander. Centuries of inhuman treatment, of fanatic rule have failed to dim its emerald sheen, or dampen the love and faith in the hearts of its brave and noble defenders. Amid the roar of battle and the falling of timbers that flag has waved pure and unsullied amid the sobs and groans of Erin’s children; the memory of its past glory has made it sacred forever. Evictions have failed to wipe out the love for its shreds; and brutal, ignoble, forever-shamed England shall lie in the dust, while the Banner of Green shall wave triumphant before a sympathizing world.
The honor and love for St. Patrick still exists as fresh and pure as when his sainted feet blessed the ground on which he trod. His memory has been the solace and support of generations of ill-used and uncomplaining sons. His great zeal and devotedness, his love and sympathy for those to whose conversion he gave his life, has not only placed him among the greatest of God’s elect, but gained for him a place in every heart of Irish love until the works of man are past and the world shall be no more. His great charity won the people; his perseverance gained the end. The sweet, holy manner of his exemplary daily life gained for him the pride, the honor and the love of his chosen race; the Faith he sowed in Irish hearts still holds the place he gave it. Years of tyranny and bloodshed have failed to quench its flame; and now, amid the trials and sorrows that fall upon an unoffending and cruelly wronged people, that divine fire shines put as bright and strong as when St. Patrick trod the hills of Erin. Days of persecution have but fed it; years of misery have but made it brighter; arid'shihihg out as a beacon to all the world.iCreflects the dark and bloody record of England upon the pages of history.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	429
The devoted sons of Ireland and the Irish cause rejoice as ever, and lend their aid to suffering brothers in the dear old home. The world unites in lauding the praises of St. Patrick and the justice of Ireland’s cause, while they condemn the attitude of the British government. The glorious day of Erin’s Saint is always kept with honor at Notre Dame. The celebration is under the auspices of the Columbian Dramatic Association, and they will this year present to their appreciative audience “The Triumph of Justice”—a drama in three acts. The caste is well filled, and we have every reason to believe that the high standard of the Columbians willjbe maintained by the present members.
_________	________ E. B.
[Communicated.] Catholic School-Books.
Editor Scholastic:
The question of school-books for Catholic schools and the prices that should be paid for the same seems to engage the minds of some of our public men and Catholic publishers. Now while we have several series of Catholic schoolbooks more or less meritorious, especially in the line of Readers, U. S. Histories, and at least one Geography—Catechisms, Sacred Histories and Hymn books need not be mentioned—there seems to be a lack of such books as are required and used by advanced classes. This defect forms the basis of the complaint embodied in the report of the schools of the Diocese of Ft. Wayne, which says:
"After careful consideration we find, Rt. Rev. Bishop, that the books used in the advanced classes are entirely too high in price, and it is the unanimous expression of the;Board .that an arrangement should be sought in the near future with Catholic publishers for a very considerable reduction.”
Now, on examining the report we find that books used in the advanced classes are not issued by Catholic publishers; they are not even the work of Catholic authors. For we find Grammars by Bullion and Harvey; Arithmetics by Davies, White, Ray and Robinson; Natural Philosophy by Steele, Peck’s Ganot, Gilleta Rolfe, Martindale Wells, Warner Cather; U. S. Histories by Barnes, Quakenbos, Eclectic, and even Swinton! (Who does not remember the Boston school-book war caused by “Swinton!”) Physical Geography by Guyot; Physiology by Brown, Campbell and others.
Now while we are heart and soul in favor of Catholic school books for Catholic schools even for advanced classes there seems to be a lack of such books by Catholic publishers and Catholic authors. We know of one recently published by W. Sadlier entitled “First Steps in Science,” edited by Prqf.M.E. Egan, an excellent work and one that should. be introduced into all Catholic schools, I would be glad to see
published in the Scholastic a list of books by Catholic authors and publishers that might replace the publications we are now compelled to use in the higher classes.	X.
[Another desideratum is a good edition of the classical Latin authors not annotated by bigoted non-Catholics. —Ed.]
Mardi Gras.
II.
The scene at the night parade was a realization of the dreams of the painter and poet—a glimpse into the realms of fairy-land. The floats fitted up as gorgeous thrones, castles, triumphal arches, chariots, flowery gardens, woodland views, rugged mountains, pagodas and pillared temples—all shimmering with rainbow hues in the powerful glare of blazing torches and electric lights that hung over the streets and balconies—transported the spectator in spirit to the splendors of Bagdad under Caliph Haroun Alraschid, or to the glory of Shushan in the days of the great Assuerus. Mighty conquerors in resplendent harness; monarchs and queens in royal robes of state, attended by generals, courtiers, soldiers, priests and maids of honor; the gods of Olympus, presided over by Jove with his flaming bolts, genii and sprites from Elf-land in gossamer robes of silvery sheen; graceful damsels arrayed in unison with the vegetable and mineral kingdoms, or with the meteorological phenomena which they represented; festoons of flowers, brilliant combinations of light and form and color, formed a kaleidoscopic panorama which dazzled, astonished and delighted not only the warm-blooded and enthusiastic Southerners, but our sober, matter-of-fact men from the icy North. It is admitted by the “oldest inhabitants” that the pageants of Feb. 18, for correctness of construction, beauty of design, harmony of color and magnificence of display, surpassed anything of the kind ever before witnessed in the Creole city. The combined processions in the evening embraced over forty tableaux.
The Proteus parade comprised: Proteus as Prince of Elf-land; Proteus riding the Waves; Elves of the Marsh; Elves of Malaria, of the Ocean, of Ferns, of Cobwebs, of Vegetables, of Sound, of Light, of the Tropics, of the Dance, of Shells, of Perfumes, of Games of Chance, of Flowers, of Metals, of Dreams, of Winter. The Comus procession had for its subject: the reappearance of his Mistick Krewe in the Palingenesis of its life-work, namely: Palingenesis of Comus, Comus, Paradise Lost, Mythology, English Holidays, History of America, Scenes from Life, the Animal Kingdom, the Feast of Epicures, Journey of Laila Rookh, the Five Senses, History of Louisiana, Faery Queene of Spenser, Homer’s Iliad, Darwin’s Origin of Species, Envoys from the Courts of the World to the Court of Comus, Four thousand years of Bible History, the Aryan Race, the Metamorphosis
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of Ovid, the Aztec Race, Norse Mythology, the Worships of the World, History of Ireland.
These parades cost annually the snug sum of from Si5,000 to 825,000. This year they must have exceeded the latter figure. The expense is borne entirely.by the clubs that organize them.
• These associations perform their work with the greatest secrecy and mystery; their members are designated and known among themselves by numbers, and few, if any of them, are known to the public at large. Among the principal are the Court of Rex, the Mistick Krewe of Comus, the Krewe of Proteus and the Knights of Momus. Among the minor societies established for such scenic pageantry are the Phorty Phunny Phellows, the Independent Order of the Moon, the Twelfth Night Revelers. They number each from 100 to 200 members. About one half of the members are cast for processional roles, the others superintend the construction of the floats and the preparation of the paraphernalia belonging to them. .
The parade is scarce over when the work of the next year begins. A Float Committee and several sub-committees are appointed; a Captain is chosen and invested with dictatorial powers. Artists are employed to make sketches or designs for the next great festival. The proper decorations are discussed and selected. The costumes are made by the most skilled artisans of Paris. A corps of costumers, armorers, gilders, painters, carpenters, carvers and workers in papier-mache are called into requisition to manufacture the properties which surmount the floats.
The wonderful structures are usually made in the yard of a cotton press or in some out-of-the-way place to escape observation. A few days before the parade,, boxes , containing the costumes and other trappings are moved into some large building, generally a warehouse situated in the neighborhood of the floats. Here on the day of the procession men and women, in masks, dress in the costumes adapted to the characters which they are to sustain. They then take their places in the floats as they are driven by. The grand exhibition is quickly put into marching order by mounted marshals, and is escorted by policemen,, special dfficers of parade and masked torch-bearers carrying huge reflectors if it be night. Wagons with ladders, scantling and mechanical tools follow at intervals to render assistance or make repairs in case of an accident to the bulky vehicles. As soon as the procession enters a large thoroughfare, the numerous bands begin to play, bombs are exploded, rockets light up the sky, port-fires of every color blaze, the side-walks are thronged with the eager masses, the balconies and windows filled with enthusiastic spectators who rend the air with cheer after cheer as the gorgeous floats pass by.
The pageant over, all the actors in it, still concealing their identity, appear at the brilliant masquerade balls Avhich are given by them to
their friends and the prominent society people of the city. The Rex reception and ball was given at the armory of the celebrated Washington Artillery; theProteus ball was held attheFrench Opera House where tableaux were also given by the maskers; the Comus Society affair took place at the Grand Opera House. When the solemn hour of midnight strikes, the Captain’s whistle sounds; the guests depart; the Mistick Krewes exchange their gaudy costumes for their ordinary habiliments; the gloom of Lent broods o’er the city. Next morning the gay revelers frequent the churches to have the penitential ashes strewn upon their heads.
Society doffs for a season its brilliant Parisian plumage. Worth and the great sartorial artists get a short respite from their mighty labors. Balls, suppers, lunches, teas and theatres are eschewed by the elite of the Creole community. Visits are, however, exchanged by the ladies, and clubs by the gentlemen, though small talk loses much of its spiciness and volume through the scarcity of society’s foibles upon which it is wont to feed. If Lent be only metaphorically observed as to fasting, ashes and sackcloth among people of fashion, it serves, however, as a means of recuperation to body and mind, heart and soul, so long fagged and intoxicated by the Circean cup of social gaieties. That it is a blessing in disguise is now admitted by all the wise.
'Y\\& Living Church—the leading Western organ of the Episcopalians—enjoins upon its readers “Abstinence from ordinary social amusements and gaieties; more diligence in the practice of public and private prayer, as well as some form of real self-denial in meat and drink.” In fact, if our gay pleasure-seekers understood their own interests thoroughly, and wished to possess “a sound mind in a sound body,” they would go so far as to follow the counsel of the ablest physicians, such as Doctors Arbuthnot and Ducaisne, by practising the rigorous fast and abstinence which the Church enjoins. But as this is not to be expected, it is well that they conform somewhat externally even to the spirit of the season.
But how true are the words of Solomon! How quickly sorrow and mourning follow joy and merry-making! The very night of the Carnival a conflagration took place in the heart of the city, on Canal and Bourbon streets; which laid in ashes six of the principal business establishments, and afforded an illumination, compared with which the brightness of the night pageant was but as an. ignis fatuus or glowworm’s light. The night following five other business buildings succumbed to the demon of fire. Losses are reckoned at over half a million dollars. The Insurance Companies-.must foot the biggest part of the bill. Too bad we can’t all insure against those fiery regions .which Swing and Ingersoll pooh, pooh! or paint as pleasant winter resorts, but where a cotton jacket won’t save a sinner.	. S. .
. New Orleans, Feb. 22,1890,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC..
43i
Books and Periodicals.
—The March St. Nicholas begins with an exciting adventure, “On a Mountain Trail,” told by Harry Perry Robinson. Two miners fight a pack of ravenous wolves with dynamite, blowing the brutes into what the boys call “smithereens.” . Mr. Taber illustrates the story with vigor. A delightful story is “Jack’s Cure,” by Susan Curtis Redfield. Jack runs away from home, and having been forced to take a place as “maid of all work” soon concludes,.as Dorothy’s saucy song reminds him that there is “no place like home.” W. A. Rogers has drawn the excellent illustrations to this story. Mrs. Preston tells of “ George and Nellie Custis,” the children of Mount Vernon, who seem to have been not so essentially different from our own boys and girls. The article gives us a pleasant home view of the great Washington himself, as loving grandfather, courteous host and careful landed proprietor. Some old portraits are reproduced as illustrations. Alice Maude Ewell depicts for us a Virginian comedy of the old days when housewives were ducked for gossiping. The delicate humor of the character drawing, the wholesome interest of the story, and the perfection of the simulated “old style,” make this well worthy to be ranked with the previous contributions of this author. Another of Mr. Elbridge S. Brooks’s Comedies for Children will be gladly welcomed by young amateurs, and in “Friends or Foes?” they will find excellent dramatic effect, adapted to elaborate or impromptu representation.	'
—Among the prominent music publication houses of the country is that of George Willig & Co., Baltimore, Md. We have recently received from them two “Masses” by J. L. Batt-mann, who in these compositions reveals the possession of musical gifts bestowed by nature and enhanced by careful training. The “ Masses” are—one in F and the other in C—both adapted for two voices. The same publishers also issue “Sacred Heart Hymns,” compiled by R. S. H., and dedicated to the Rt. Rev. James O’Connor, Bishop of Omaha—a collection of pleasing motets which will be found most acceptable to all our choirs. .	.
—Received—From Little, Brown & Co., Boston, Mass, “Myths and Folk-Lore of Ireland,” By Jeremiah Curtin. An extended notice of this contribution to Irish-folk-lore will be given in a future number of the Scholastic.
Exchanges.
—The Hesperian has the following:
“ It is, we suppose, perfectly legitimate for the Ottawa Owl, Niagara. Index, arid the Scholastic to bestow compliments back and forth among themselves. Nor would we for a moment infer that mutual sympathies prompt the compliments. Yet, after all, they are liable to seem rather slim to mere secular mortals.”
To be sure, it is perfectly legitimate! just as
legitimate to recognize merit as it is to decry the absence of it; and when the Hesperian succeeds in elevating itself to the rank of the Oivl or Index, there shall be none quicker to recognize and approve the change than the Scholastic. We would like very much to say pleasant things about the wild Nebraska sheet; but, until it sheathes its puny blade and augments its literary tone, truth forbids.	.
—Nowadays we sometimes hear it said that poetry must retreat abashed before the advance of stern science with its painful exactitude; that poetry is the expression of imaginative doubt destined to disappear in.time, before the complete knowledge attending scientific certainty. A.writer in the College Times of Toronto,*in an article on the “Poetry of the Future,” strikes the root of the whole subject, when he says:
" For we do not live by knowledge alone. The highest cravings of the soul are not satisfied by a chemical equation or the hypothesis of Darwin.”
True: so long as human nature endures, and grief bows down and happiness elates, so long will poetry remain the exponent of the human heart. Indeed it seems, as the writer referred to says, that “ Science is widening immeasurably the poetic field rather than limiting it.”
—“The Legend of Mourner’s Rock,” a poem in lambic blank verse, is, from a literary stands point, the best thing in the latest North Carolina University Magazine. The author excels in descriptive lines; for instance, in the following there is the true poetic spirit:
“ The storm had passed, and moving toward the South ' The clouds majestic-like a curtain raised,
Displaying in the West a crimson sky
' Across whose surface purple clouds were driven, ' Like phantom skiffs upon a mystic sea."
And in these:	•
“Towards the North a giant hill upreared
Its shaggy form, and frowned upon a vale. _ Lying prostrate at its feet through which a stream Went gleaming here and there ’mid light and shade And scented eglantine whose bending buds With fragrant breath stooped low to press a kiss Upon its crisping tides.”
—The exchange man of the Fordham Monthly, indulging in a few generalities as a prelude to his monthly review, says among other things:
“ Some of our best exchanges are'those published in the back woods at colleges and academies, scarcely known outside of their own State. Enterprise and ‘ push ’ are the secrets of their success, and are the only remedies for third class papers.”	■
Verily, there is truth in this! |And, by the way, it is not particularly to the credit of the Eastern colleges, haughty with renown and supercilious with age as they are, that Western college publications, representatives often of “third class colleges,” should so easily and distinctly surpass them in journalistic rank. The reason is not far to seek: as the Fordham Monthly says, it lie's primarily in the enterprise and “push” characteristic of the Western ’ and more vigorous spirit. The decadence of the “effete East” is already manifest in some of her college papers. Apropos of this we might advert to the location of the World’s Fair in Chicago, but we forbear.
432
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Personal.
—All at Notre Dame rejoice at the speedy recovery of the venerable Father General Sorin from the illness from which he suffered early in the week.
—Bro. Philemon, C. S. C., Director of St. Pius’ School, Chicago, paid a flying visit to Notre Dame one day last week. He came for the purpose of securing another teacher for the school entrusted to his charge, which is in a most flourishing condition. The Brothers are meeting with marked success in their efforts to train the Catholic youth of St. Pius’ parish, and in this they receive most practical encouragement from the zealous and energetic pastor—the Rev. F. S. Henneberry.
—The Laporte Plain Dealer has the following concerning two former students of Notre Dame:
“ One of the most popular pastors in this city is Rev. J. B. Crawley, of St. Peter’s Catholic Church. It would not be saying too much to state that Father Crawley is beloved. This affection is not confined to Catholics alone, but is shared with all who have been brought in contact ■with the good priest. His life has been devoted to his Church and the doing of good works. To him the parishioners of St. Peter’s Church owe much, and their love and respect for the venerable pastor is commensurate with his affection for them. Another popular pastor of the little brick church was Rev. Father Sullivan, who is now located at South Chicago. This good priest was particularly devoted to the sick. He was everywhere ministering to their spiritual and temporal wants. Many of his parishioners who are in humble circumstances will have cause to remember him. He was thoroughly devoted to the work of the Church.”
—The adaptation made by Prof. M. F. Egan, LL. D., of Notre Dame University, of the famous ‘ play “Le Pater,” by Francois Coppee, for Mr. Augustin Daly, was produced at his theatre here, last week, under the title of “The Prayer.” The beautiful moral of forgiveness of our enemies is told in the most delightful, smooth-flowing blank-verse that has charmed those who listened to it during the week. Mr. Daly was much pleased with Mr. Egan’s work. Miss Rehan interpreted the role of Mlle. Rose in her usual careful manner, and gave a surprise of versatility to her many admirers. It was altogether an Irish-American histrionic success, since the play was adapted by an Irish-American author, rendered -by two Irish-American artists, Miss Rehan and George Clarke, and put on the stage by an Irish-American manager, Augustin Daly. —Irish-American.
—Mr. John Corby died at his residence in Detroit, Mich., on the 2d inst. The deceased was the brother of Very Rev. Provincial Corby, and was a student here in ’54 and ’55. May he rest in peace!
—We have received the sad news of the death of Mr. John F. O’Connell, of ’75, who departed this life at Seattle, Washington, Feb. 2, in the 32d year of his age. From press notices of his native city, Springfield, Ill., we quote:
“Mr. O’Connell was formerly engaged in the lumber
business in this city, and removed several years ago to Highmore, Dak. Since leaving here he has been prominently connected with different railroads, and for sometime had head-quarters in the city of Mexico. At the time of his death he occupied a responsible position with the Pugets Sound Shore Railroad company. He was highly educated, being a graduate of Notre Dame University, Ind., and his extensive travels and large experience of men and customs in different countries gave him great advantage both in business and social relations.’’
His former professors and friends at Notre Dame extend their heartfelt sympathies to the afflicted family. May he rest in peace!
—Dr. William T. Rowsey, a student of the Class of ’56, and one of the most prominent and popular physicians of Toledo, Ohio, died in New York city on the 3d inst. The Toledo Commercial says:
" William T. Rowsey had the largest practice of any physician in Toledo, having over 1,800 patients on his books. He was born at Cincinnati, August 29,1838. He was a descendant of an old French family of Virginia, on his father’s side, his mother being a native of Ireland. He lived in Cincinnati till his fourteenth year, when his parents moved to Toledo. Soon after he entered the University of Notre Dame, Ind., and was there four years. He then entered the law office of Wm. Baker, Esq., of this city, but finding the law distasteful, began the study of medicine with Dr. A. F. Bissell. He attended the Hahnemann Medical College in Philadelphia and the Homeopathic Medical College of Cleveland, graduating at the latter institution in 1862. He first practised at Logansport, Ind., for three years, and then came to Toledo where he married Miss Henrietta F. Folsom, in 1869. During the quarter of a century that Dr. Rowsey practised in Toledo, he built up a magnificent practice which was a monumental testimonial to his skill as a physician and his worth as a man. Kindly and affable, he was loved for his personal qualities, as he was trusted and admired for his professional skill. Dr. Rowsey was a member of the Onio State Homeopathic Association, was a clear and forcible writer on professional topics, and a frequent contributor to medical journals. During his life he closely applied himself to his profession and had few outside interests, except in his family life, which was a very happy one. Physicians are seldom more popular than was Dr. Rowsey. He was a welcome visitor wherever he went, combining social qualities with professional services, and, it is said, has cheered up and saved the life of many a despairing patient by his hearty, cheery manner. His loss will be felt most deeply.”
During'the past two years Dr. Rowsey’s son has been attending the classes of the University. The many friends of the family at Notre Dame extend their heartfelt sympathy in this affliction. May he rest in peace!
Local Items.
—The Rotunda is strewn with boards.
—The Law debate was a grand success.
—The frescoing of the interior has begun.
—Have you seen the new “bird’s-eye view?”
—The Seniors played football last Thursday.
—“Apples’Tikes a draw, but he got the worst.
—As usual, spring to-day, winter to-morrow.
—The toboggan-slide still standeth forgotten and forlorn! *. . . . .
—The St. CeciUans will appear in public ere many weeks. .	. .	'	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,	433
•	—The Juniors had a set-to in base-ball on the 13th inst.
—The would-be base-ball magnates are doing some lively work just at present.
—Elocution classes are again in full "blast,” and are largely attended as usual.
—Horace says his feast-day is near at hand, too. April 1 comes on Tuesday this year.
—A new bird’s-eye view has been made of Notre Dame and placed on exhibition in the students’ office.
—Lamar M wants it emphatically understood by his many admirers that he did not give a temperance lecture.
—Skating was brought to an abrupt conclusion. The boys, however, made good use of what little there was! .
•	—The next essays are due on April 15. Although “’tis better late than never,” ’tis better early than ever. Verbum sap!
—A stranger, in passing through the corridors would unhesitatingly decide that ours is a board-zw^-school. Scaffolding for the artists—eh? ' —Bulletins for the months of January and February were read in the Senior and Junior study-halls last Sunday evening. Messrs. Ahl-richs, N. Sinnott, F. Vurpillat, and Hummer of the Seniors, and M. Quinlan of the Juniors received perfect bulletins.
—The 3d regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held in St. Edward’s Hall on Monday, March 10. Avery interesting debate was participated in by C. Connor, J. Loonie, G. Bixby, J. O’Neill, P. Stephens, D. Elkison, W. Connor and E. Falvey. Declamations were made by E. Elkin, C. Connor, J. O’Neill and W. Walsh.
—The 25th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was called to order Wednesday evening, the 12th inst., with the Rev. Director, Father Walsh in the chair. After the reading of the criticism on the previous meeting by Mr. J. Flannigari, a very interesting debate was engaged in by Messrs G. Weitzel, E.DuBrul.P. Murphy, J. Boyd and J. Fitzgerald.
—The Juniors have excellent base-ball material this season. There are two strong batteries, numerous good infielders, and the air swarms thick with speedy outfielders. What is needed now is a regularly organized association on the plan of the Seniors. Such a movement would enhance interest in the game and materially benefit all its members. Let the Junior baseballists ponder over this.
—A meeting of the Class of ’91 was held last Monday in the St. Cecilia Society room for the purpose of organizing a Class Association. Prof. M. F. Egan, LL. D., presided; J. E. Berry was appointed Temporary Secretary, and the following committee appointed -to look after matters pertaining to officers who will be elected at the next meeting: Messrs..H. Meagher, C. Cavanagh and L. Hoover. A committee on. a motto and .
symbol, consists of Messrs. A. Leonard, E. Hughes and J. Wright. The next meeting will be held Tuesday, the 18th, at 3.30 p. m.
—Moot-Court.—The University Moot-court was in session Saturday evening, March 8, Judge Hoynes presiding. The first case called was Metzger vs. South Bend Bank. Burns and Blackman attorneys for plaintiff, Dougherty and Long attorneys for defendant. The case was opened by Mr. J. Burns; he stated concisely the cause of action, after which the following witnesses were examined: Messrs. Flynn, Long, Herman and McKeon. Mr. Burns examined the first witness and showed considerable skill, securing several good points. Mr. Dougherty cross-examined the witness in a very pleasing manner. The plaintiff succeeded in finishing their testimony, and the defendant introduced one witness.
—Rumors are afloat to the effect that a new and complete set of stage accoutrements has been secured for Washington Hall. This is a move in the right direction. Probably no American college can boast a theatre of such beauty and dimensions as our own. Still it cannot be ’ denied that thus far scenic effect has notreceived all the attention merited. In our last play, for example, it was very uncomfortable for an audience to see local stars struggling over a'dusty floor—one endeavoring to precipitate the other into the watery deep, while the audience expected the waves to flood the stage and get among their skirts at every moment. It would cost but little to supply Washington Hall with these "needful auxiliaries,” and the expense incurred would be more than compensated by the advantages which our future Booths and their audiences would enjoy.
—The third regular meeting of the Philodemic Congress was held Saturday evening, tile Sth inst., Mr. H. P. Brelsford in the chair. The minutes were read and adopted. Owing to the absence of two distinguished democrats, the republicans were enabled to defeat the-meas-ures of their opponents, while hot gaining any advantage themselves. After some discussion regarding the politics of Mr. Hempier, it was referred to a committee to act permanently, consisting of the Rev. Director, Mr. C. T. Cavanagh (rep.), and Mr. R. Bronson (dem.). No new bills introduced, the majority report of the committee on “Ways and Means” was favorable to house bill No. 1; the minority report was subsequently the adverse. Mr. N. J. Sinnott (rep.) then opened the discussion on house bill No. 4.. He was answered by W. Meagher ( dem.); others taking part were: J. B. Sullivan (rep), R. Bronson (dem.), J. J. McGrath (rep.), J. R. Fitzgibbons (dem.),.W. Morrison (rep.), E. Berry (dem.), Geo. Cooke (dem.). Upon the motion of Mr. Meagher the meeting adjourned.
—The new building in process of construction directly south of Science Hall, is to be a substantial brick structure, two stories high, one hundred and seven feet long by forty feet wide.
434
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
I
It has been expressly designed for the Department of Mechanical Engineering in all its branches. It is expected that the new structure will be under roof before “Commencement” time, and ready for use by the first of September next. There will be large and commodious rooms for metal and wood working, rooms for O 7 mechanical drawing, besides rooms for lectur-o7
ing on mechanical engineering and cognate branches. Besides this building there will be constructed an annex fitted up with the latest modern appliances to be used for foundry work and blacksmithing. The new buildings will be well lighted, and in beauty of design will be in keeping with the many others at Notre Dame. The department of mechanical engineering is to be as well equipped as that of any similar institution in the United States. No pains or . expense will be spared to give students in this department every possible advantage. For those .who are unable to take the regular course of mechanical engineering a special course of manual training will be instituted. The world moves and Notre Dame progresses.
—The Law Debate:—A fair-sized audience assembled in Washington Hall last Thursday evening to grace the second public debate given by the Law Society. The exercises were opened by a short address from the chairman, Col. Wm. Hoynes, LL. D., upon the merits and the importance of the question at issue. The speaker stated that the debate should be treated in no partisan manner, but the question argued upon its interest to every citizen in the land.
The question chosen was “Resolved, that the Senate Bill providing for the Voluntary Emigration of the Colored race from the United States to Africa, or other foreign parts, should become a law.”
■ A digest of the arguments advanced by either side may be reduced to the following:
.	Affirmative.
- i. It is impossible for two distinct races to live in equality under the same government.
.	2. The negro is not, and never will be, the equal of the
white man, socially or mentally.
3. The negroes are a menace to our peace and prosperity.'	•
..	Negative. ■	•
. i. The intermingling of races is conducive to common prosperity. ’	.	.
2.	Congress has no authority or precedent to support it in exporting the negro.
3.	Justice to the negro is the only solution of this problem.
Mr. J. Hepburn-opened the debate for the affirmative. His paper was well written and his . . delivery forcible. Mr. Hepburn took the extreme view of the negro problem, and advocated forcible expulsion in case they declined to emigrate voluntarily; his remarks were well received. ... Mrl F. Long followed for the negative. He presented a fine rhetorical effort; his periods were ’ ■ well rounded, and his arguments logically drawn.
The effect of Mr. Long’s speech was sensibly '■'' ^weakened’, however, by the monotonous’tb'ne of ■ Misdelivery.' /Mr. E/Lan'e
of argument advanced -by his colleague, Mr. Long, and made some telling blows. His article was well composed and showed evidence of deep thought and careful study. His delivery for the most part was good; but at times the enunciation was too rapid to be distinct. Mr. Lane also wandered from his subject and devoted too much time to overturning straw giants of his own manufacture. Mr. J; Flynn closed for the affirmative. This was Mr. Flynn’s debut into the polemic atmosphere of Notre Dame. His friends expected much, and they were not disappointed. Mr. Flyhn’s effort was the most oratorical one of the evening. His thoughts were clothed in elegant diction; his sentences clear and clean cut, and his logic forcible and direct.
The monotony, of the debate was relieved by vocal solos rendered by Messrs. F. Long and C. Ramsey. The selection, “My Old Kentucky Home,” by Mr. W. Blackman and Quartette called forth an enthusiastic encore. In regard to the young men taking part in the exercises we have nothing but words of praise. They acquitted themselves well and reflected credit upon their society.

5^
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Allen, Bovett, Barrett, H. Brannick, Benz, Burger, Brelsford, Bachrach, Cassidy, Campbel, G-Cooke, C. Cavanagh, L. Chute, F. Chute, Delany, Davis, Dyer, Dinkel, Jas. Dougherty, Daniels, P. Fleming, Ford, Fehr, Fack, J. Flynn, Garfias, Galen, Grange, Houlihan, Herman, Heard, Hackett, B. Hughes, E. Hughes, Hummer, Hempier, Hoover, Hayes, Hynes, J. S. Johnson, J. A. Johnson, Karasynski, Kearns, J. King, Krembs, F. Kelly, J. Kelly, ■ Kunart, Lesner, Langan, Lair; Lancaster, A. Larkin, W. Larkin, Lane, Lynch, Lahey, F. Long, L. Long, McWilliams, McAuliff, McKee, McPhee, McCon- ’ logue, Morrison, J. McGrath, Metzger, Meehan, Murphy, J. Newman, W. Newman, O’Brien, W. O’Neill, Powers, Phillips, Paradis, Portilia, F. Prichard, H. Prichard, Paquette,* Paris, Rothert, Roberts, Reedy, L. Sanford? J. B. Sullivan, Schaack, D. J. Sullivan, Standard, Sanchez, O. Sullivan, Stanton, V. J. Vurpillat, F. Vurpillat, Wright, Youngermann, Zimmerman. • '
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Anson, Adler, Aarons, B. Bates, E.-Bates, J. Brady, T. M. Brady, T. T. Brady, W. Brady, Blumenthal, Bruel, Bradley, Barclay, Burns, Crandall, Cunningham, Cudahy, Coll, Campbell, Collman, O. DuBrul, Delany, Doig, Dempsey, Drumm, DeLormier, Elder, J. M. Flan-nigan, J. Fitzgerald, C. Fitzgerald, A. W. Funke, A. M. Funke, Fleming, Gibert, Gerlach, Garrison, Girsch, Gross, Galen, Grund, Hull, Howard, Hambaugh, Hack, Hesse, Hahn, R. Healy, P. Healy, Hagus, Halthusen, Heller, Hoerr, Ibold, Jacobs, Kearney, L. Kehoe, Kellner, V. Kehoe, Kutsche, J. Leonard, Lenard, Lamberton, Lorie, Lamme, Murphy, Maurus, Maher, L. Monarch, Mitchell, Merz, Jos.-McPhilips, A. McPhillips, F. McKee, McNally, McIvers, McCormack, F. Neef, A. Neef, Neenan, Otis, O’Brien, O’Rourke, Putnam, Palmer, Pomeroy, Quinlan, Quill, Roper, Spurgeon, F. Schillo, Scott, Seerey, Sokup, Sutter, Spalding, Stapleton, Swan, Smith, Treff, Tivnen, Tetard, Tinsley Welch, Weston, Weitzel,'Weise, Ward, T._Whalen, Wolff, White, Young, Zinn. '
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	.	'
Masters Ayres, Adler, Ball, O. Brown, F. Brown, Blake, Burns, Beirs, Bixby, Cornell, Crandall, W. Connor, C.
- *: Omitted byjnistake for four weeks. \ ?’ . r ■

Hf
Bag
jS-Ey?
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	435
Connor, Covert, W. Crawford, A. Crawford, Coquillard, Croke, Durand, Elkin, Eckler, Ezekiel, W. Finnerty, T. Finnerty, Fischer, Frankel, Falvey, Fuller, E. Furth-man, W. Furthman, C. Furthman, Funke, Flynn, Girar-din, Greene, Gilbert, D. Gilkison, A. Gilkison, Grant, M. Henneberry, Hoffman, Hamilton, Hendry, Holbrook, Jonquet, Krollman, Keeler, Kuehl, Klaner, Kern, Lonergan, Londoner, Lonnsberry, C. Lamberton, Levi, Loonie, Loomis, Montague, Maternes, Marre, H. Mestling, E. Mestling, Myers, McGuire, McPhee, McPhillips, Marr, Mosier, C. Nichols, W. Nichols, O’Neill, Oatman, Priestly, L. Paul, C. Paul, C. Packard, J. Packard, Roberts, Ronning, Ryan, Stone, W. Scherrer, G. Scherrer, Stephens, Thornton, Trujillo, Vorhang, Vandercook, Washburne, Walsh, Wilcox, Wever, Weber, Wolfe, G. Zoehrlaut, C. Zoehrlaut, Zeigler.
Class Honors.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Messrs. Bradley, T. T. Brady, Dyer, Flannigan, J. Fleming, Fisk, Ford, Garrison, Heard, W. Hayes, Hesse, Johnson, Kearns, Knoblauch, Maher, Mulroney, Mier, Metzger, Rebillot, F. Schillo, Scott, Talbot, Ward, A. Funke, Girsch, Giblin, Gibbons, Hynes, Lesner, Mitchell, Murphy, J. Newman, Putnam, Stapleton, Treff.
List of Excellence.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Book-Keeping— Messrs. Fisk, Gibbons, Lancaster, G. Long, Lesner, J. Newman, Putnam, Fack, Paris; Arithmetic—Messrs. W. Burns, Knoblauch, J. Newman, Fisk, Garrison, Lesner, Gross; Grammar—Messrs. Metzger, Fack, Heller, J. Walsh, Merz; Redding— Messrs. Paris, Bergland, Lansing; Orthography—Messrs. Des Garen-nes, Abt, H. Leonard, Crandall, Bradley; Geography— Messrs. Bradley, Weston; United States History—Messrs. Beltink, Metzger, S. Bachrach; Penmanship—Messrs. McAlister, Schwarz, Ouigley.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Arithmetic—Masters E. Elkin, Browning, C. Connor, Roberts, Loonie, Greene, Walsh, Wever, Hamilton, A. Crawford, Durand, Stephens, Brown, Wilcox, T. Burns, .Ronning, C. Furthman, Londoner, Trujillo, C. Griggs, W. Furthman, W. Scherrer, G. Scherrer, Hoffman, C. Packard; Grammar—Masters O’Neill, Elkin, C. Connor, BarbourJMarr, Gilbert’, Browning, W. Nichols, Fal-vey,.L. Paul, Ziegler, Vandercook, Brown, J. Griggs, D. Gilkison, Stephens, Marre, Myers, W. Connors, McPhee, C. Lamberton, Grant, Finnerty, Thornton, Cornell, W. Crawford, A. Crawford, Wever, Zoehrlaut, C. Furthman, Henneberry,:MpGuire, Holbrook, 0. Brown; Geography —Masters Falvey, Elkin, Crane, Browning, Barbour, J. Griggs, F. Brown, D. Gilkison, Stephens, Myers, Walsh, Mattas, Hamilton, McPhee, W. Crawford, Wever, Ronning, Henneberry; Orthography—Masters C. Connor, E. Elkin, Gilbert, Loonie, Nichols, Grant, Bixby, McPhillips, C. Lamberton, Hill, Thornton, C. Griggs, Covert, Mattas, Levi, Montague, Ezekiel, O. Brown, Priestly, Wever, Ronning, J. Flynn, A. Gilkison, H. Lamberton, Ayres,.Girsch, Londoner; Reading—Masters O’Neill, C. Connor, Gilbert,. Greene, Durand, Crane, W. Connor, C. Grant, Mattas, Washburne, Vandercook, W. Crawford, G. Zoehrlaut, Montague, Holbrook, O. Brown, Wilcox, T. Burns, Girardin, Priestly, Beirs, Londoner, Loomis, E. Mestling, Vorhang, Trujillo, Blake, Ball, C. Nichols, Ryan, Fuller; Penmanship—Masters Roberts, Stone, Gilbert, Barbour, Elkin, McPhee, Myers, Walsh, Mattas, Eckler, A. Crawford, Wever, Vandercook, J. Flynn, E. ’Mestling, Ball, C. Nichols, Loomis, W. Furthman, J. Packard; Christian Doctrine—Masters C. Connor, D. Gilkison, Loonie, Gilbert; Roberts, Falvey, Cornell, M. Henneberry, Finnerty, W. Connor, W. Crawford, Girar-■ din, Trujillo, A. Gilkison, W. Furthman; Piano—Masters Washburne', C. Connor, H.-Gilbert, Barbour, Londoner, Klaner, Hamilton, Krollman, F. Brown, 0: Brown, W. Crawford, A. Crawford, Cornell. ,	....
St. Mapy’s fiGademy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The pupils’ Infirmary is under obligations to Miss M. Bates and Miss H. Studebaker for favors received.
—March 7 found eager petitioners for extra recreation; so two hours were granted, and enjoyment was the programme, of course, in honor of St. Thomas Aquinas.
—Much anxiety was felt on Monday and Tuesday last, owing to the illness of Very Rev. Father General; but,to the great joy of all,he is much improved. '
—Miss Irene Stapleton has just completed a copy of a head in crayon; so faithfully is the work done that many visitors to the Art Department could scarcely tell the copy from the model.
—The Second Senior History class held a competition on Saturday last which reflected great credit on the members. The leaders in the mental contest were the Misses K. Morse and L. Nickel.	•
—Very Rev. Father General presided the academic meeting of Sunday, March 9, at which Miss L. Dolan gave an interesting recitation, and M. Louis McHugh read “Little Maid Bertha’s Stork.”'
—Very Rev. Father General lately honored St. Luke’s Studio.by the presentation of a beautiful chromo, a copy of Millet’s famous “Angelus.” Sincere thanks are returned the generous en-courager of all that is best in art.
—St. Teresa’s Literary Society is one of the most interesting in the Academy; the attention of its members having been drawn to the beauties of poetry, of verse-making there is no end. By persevering in their present efforts, we may be able soon to present some “spring poems.”
—The visitors of the past week were: C. J. Becker, Mrs. M. McPhelim, Miss J. Murison, Mrs. P. G. Bush, Mrs. O. Burdick, Miss D. Fitzpatrick, Mrs. E. M. Wagner, Chicago, Ill.; H. C. Franck, New York; Mrs. G. Philion, Mishawaka; B. Roberts, Topeka, Kansas; J. J. Locke, Denver, Col.; S. Carroll, Miss M. McCaffrey, Logansport, Ind.; Miss F. Riddle, Manchester, N. H.	'	.
Words-
“Words are lighter than the cloud foam of the restless ocean spray;” and yet. each one’s life is but the record of their potency-. Since ail nature thrilled under the first beams of light that came in answer to the Almighty’s fiat— “Let there be light”—have words exerted an influence not to be measured by man’s, powers. The Israelites of old heard the wdrd of God amidst
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
thunder and lightning; and the medium through which the Creator communicated with the creature must be worthy our serious study.
History bears us out in assigning importance to this coin of the heart. It needed but a single word from Nero, and his subjects were deprived of life. See the thousands converted by St. Peter’s first sermon, and can we still say words are trifles? It was customary among the ancients to bless the eldest son on his assuming some important position in life. So great was their faith in the power of this benediction that if the blessing was withheld, courage failed them and success seemed impossible. We read of the effective word-painting of Cicero, of the multitude that were held spell-bound by the magic of his sentences; we behold the crowds following Abelard to catch but a drop from the fountain of his knowledge, and we realize the strength that lies in human utterance.
The soul’s manifestations are words; they are the voice of the heart; but when once freed from the tongue they become our masters, and we, like the vassals of tyrants, must do their bidding. Thus we all feel their sway, be they the offspring of severity or of gentleness.
The thunder of a Sinai may tell us the power of words; but as gentle influences are often strong, so soft words bring forth abundant fruits. Some one has beautifully said: “I have known a word so softly whispered that only the angels caught its sunshine as it fell.” It dispelled the ' clouds of sorrow from a weary soul, and raised the drooping head of one of earth’s poor creatures. Ah, who has not felt the charm of kind words! A mother’s words have often brought a strayed child back to virtue’s path; and how frequently in the hour of temptation do those tender, loving counsels of a parent resound in the heart to draw us back from the precipice down which the tempter seeks to hurl us.
While the office of words may be to soothe and heal, to comfort and to strengthen, they may often carry desolation to the heart; such is the case when an unguarded word touches upon the foibles of poor human nature and wounds the feelings of another. Again, a whirlwind of passion, assisted by the unbridled tongue, sows many discords sure to result in a harvest of bitter regrets.
History’s pages will grow dim, memory will lose its hold on loving expressions, and kindness or unkindness will be to us, as if they had never been; but there will yet live words, the words of Him who reads the motives and inmost recesses of the heart, and of Whom was written: “ Jn.the beginning was the Word, and the Word
was God.” To Him must we give an account, for he has said: “Heaven and earth shall pass away, but My word shall not pass away.”
Rose Van Mourick {First Senior Class').
Boll of Honor.
[For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, correct deportment and observance of rules.] .	.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Adelsperger, Ansbach, Ahlrichs, Bates, Balch, Bernhart, Bero, Bovett, Beck, Butler, Barry,Cunningham, Cooper, Curtis, Crilly, Churchill, Cochrane, M. Davis, C. Dempsey, N. Davis, S. Dempsey, Dorsey, Dolan, Donahue, De Montcourt, Flannery, Green, Ganong, Gordon, Hammond, Healey, Homer, C. Hurley, Hurff, H. Hanson, Holt, Hagus, Harmes, Hale, Hutchinson, M. Haight, Hughes, Hemelspeck, Kimmell, Koopmann, Lynch, G. Lauth, Lewis, McFarland, Moore, N. Morse, M. McPhee, Maher, McCarthy,McCune, Marley, M. Moore, L. Nester, O’Brien, Otis, Piper, Penburthy, Patier, Rinehart, Reilly, Roberts, Rinn, Stapleton, Spurgeon, Schiltz, Studebaker, M. Schermerhorn, N. Schermerhorn, Thirds, Tormey, Van Mourick, Violette, Wurzburg.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Burdick, E. Burns, Black, M. Clifford, Cooke, M. Davis, B. Davis, Ernest, Evoy.Girsch, Hickey.Holmes, C. Kasper, Mabbs, McGuire, Meskill, O’Brien, O’Mara, Patrick, Philion, Quealy, E. Regan, Ruger, Shirey, M. Scherrer, Sweeney, A. Tormey, E. Wagner, I. Waldron, Wood, Wright, N. Wurzburg, Young.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Adelsperger, Coady, Crandall, 'A. E. Dennison, Eldred, M. Egan, Finnerty, Girsch, K. Hamilton, M. Hamilton, McCarthy,L. McHugh, M. McHugh, Porteous, S. Smyth, N. Smyth.
• SCHOOL OF ART AND DESIGN.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Graduating Class—Miss M. Schiltz.
ELEMENTARY PERSPECTIVE.
2D Class—Misses M. Hurff, K. Hurley, A. Hammond, M. Fitzpatrick, S. Crane, N. Davis, S. Dempsey.
3D Class—Misses S. Hamilton, M. Shaefer, M. Violette, T. Kimmell, M. Clifford, M. Tormey, K. Ryan, H. Hanson, E. Dennison, M. Otis, A. Penburthy, C. Ruger, C. Dorsey, A. Mullaney, A. Hanson, K. McCarthy, A. Girsch, I. De Montcourt, M. Burns, L. Kasper, M. Scherrer.
WORKING IN CRAYON.
Misses I. Horner, I. Stapleton, M. Hull, A. Wurzburg, L. Ernest. '
painting in water colors.
Misses L. Curtis, N. Morse, M. Piper.
OIL PAINTING.	•
Misses J. Holt, A. Regan, B. Hellmann.
General Drawing.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Misses S. Dempsey, H. Hanson, A. Thirds, M. Rinn, E. Dennison, M. Otis, M. ]ungblut, G. Clarke, K. Ryan, G. Lauth, T. Kimmell, K. McCarthy, C. Beck, M. Schermerhorn, L. Bernhart, H. Nacey, A. Hanson, E. Adelsperger, F. Murison, M. Patier, M. Fosdick, M. Kelso, A. Koopmann, A. Lynch, K. Maher, N. Schermerhorn, A. Ahlrichs, N. Hale, E. Churchill, I. McLoud, M. Rose, J. Calderwood, H. Pugsley, S. McPhee, M. Byrnes, A. Ryan, L. Bovett, R. Bero, B. Hepburn, R. Butler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. Clifford, B. Davis, E. Evoy, L. Black, E. Quealy, E. Philion, F. Soper, F. Palmer, C. Ruger, B. Wright, M. Wagner,’ N. McGuire, E. Regan, I. Mabbs, M. Davis, A. O’Mara, J. Patrick’, K. Sweeney, L. Young, M. Co'oper, A. Girsch, I. Cooke, C. Robbins, G. Shirey, L. Mestling, G.Kasper,,A. Torm^JennieSpiyth, M. Culp, S. Meskill. ' !	.......