•FT0TIWME^0^
•Pis^E'Q^si-stnPE^VifjV^v'S' Vivt-^sp^Asy^otyTVi^/s*
Vol. XXXIII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, Midsummer Number, August, 1899. No 1.
Students’
Advantages.
Reverence lies at the base of most of our admiration for institutions- of past generations; and especially is this true of the great institutions of learning. I do not for a moment want to set < myself up for an iconoclast; many things deserve kind consideration at our hands, which they do not receive, and what does it boot if we pay an exaggerated respect for objects unworthy of it, as long as the ideas we entertain of the things in mind are noble, it can x matter little to us now.what the merit of the originals were. I suspect that if we could peep into a Harvard lecture room of the seventeenth century we should be vastly amused at some of
REVEREND PRESIDENT MORRISSEY, C. S. C.-
class-room in the days of Henry VIII. what rem arkable opinions on physics and chemistry we should hear advanced. Coming down to more recent 7 times we should find this hero - worship accorded institutions diminish in inverse ratio as we s draw near our own day.	1	-
Literary men are,* in a sense, great in- f stitutions; although the diking for the creations of any author are purely questions of individual taste. We may read and form an opinion on a novel of some dead writer, Cooper for example; but our criticism, unless we be very great in : the world of letters, will have little in- .. fluence over the minds of other men. I for one think that Cooper is greatly , overrated. In the,.
the opinions advanced, say in anatomy, by grave, white-haired professors, and received without a suspicion of error by eager students; and if we were of a mind to step into an Oxford
early years of this century he was called our. greatest novelist, and justly so;. but when other and greater writers came to' the front few critics were found courageous enough to give
NOTRE DAME. SCHOLASTIC
them their proper places, and to assign Cooper his place. Only the other day I saw an article in a magazine, that makes some pretense to literary acumen, which placed Cooper next to Hawthorne among American novelists of the past and present. The critic was a' bookman of some repute; sufficiently well known at least to secure consideration of his opinion. I have since determined that he read Cooper as a boy, that he was prejudiced in the novelist’s favor by ultra-favorable criticisms, that he was incompetent at the time to judge for himself, and was indisposed in later years to test the merit of his boyish opinions. It does no harm to a boy or a girl to idealize Cooper’s heroes and heroines; but these idealizations should not be permitted to hinder an acquaintance with folk that dwell in the pages of later and greater novelists, and are vastly more human and more worthy.
Now all the considerations that apply to literary men, apply to institutions of learning. A century ago when our colleges couldj be numbered on one’s fingers it was fitting to designate this or that institution as the greatest of its kind; but time has wrought changes. New places of learning have been established and grown to a greatness that is denied them in popular opinion, merely because men cleave to the old, and measure efficiency by years. The Greek master was wise when he said “ wisdom lies in action, not in years.”
The truth is the changes of time are more numerous and, in most cases, more excellent than we will allow. The spirit of “best” that haunts everything done by Americans, whether it be the building of a warship that concerns the nation, or of a court-house that concerns a county, stimulates the creative and executive powers of the whole people, and permits nothing to escape its influence. This is the spirit that has created our marvelous electrical apparatus, our excellent means of communication with one another and with the outer world, our vast manufactories, and our great institutions of learning.
Notre Dame has not escaped the influence of progression; for the results of assimilation may be seen even in educational institutions. It could hardly be expected that men educated in the best Universities in America and Europe and infected with the world-throbbing spirit of innovation, would return to pass their lives in the lecture rooms of Notre Dame and leave their ideals and ambitions at the college portals. The religious and professors who
comprise the Faculty of Notre Dame have kept abreast of the mighty discoveries in every branch of knowledge, and through their exertions the curriculum of Notre Dame has steadily advanced. But it is difficult to secure to Notre Dame the position in the popular mind that her excellent courses deserve, although it is recognized in the faculty halls of other universities. It is hard to convince the great Catholic population of our country that the struggling college of fifty years ago has been evolved into a great institution with special departments in law, science, classics and letters. The growth has not been rapid; the policy of the administrators has been conservative. When a department was needed it was created; and when it was once called into existence it was not allowed to sink into mediocrity.
When the mathematical sciences became so varied that it was necessary to specialize in one department in order to become proficient in any particular branch of science, courses were established in civil and mechanical engineering; when electricity had advanced to the dignity of a science, a course was founded in electrical engineering; biology has its lecture rooms and laboratories; and now that journalism and economics and architecture have taken their places among professions, courses in these subjects have been established.
There is always a reaction from excessive legislation, and the Classical Course,—which a century ago had attained in all universities a degree of excellence incomparably beyond that of English letters—was exposed to a hostility that in many institutions gradually reduced the efficiency of the course to a name. Notre Dame has always preserved the standard of excellence in this course that was set in the beginning.
The English Language and Literature is no longer only an art; it is a science as well, and as such it must be studied. But English is an agglutinative language, and its literature is an agglutinative literature. Latin was the chosen vehicle of the thoughts of great Englishmen for a hundred years after Shakspere’s death; and the teachings of Newton, Bacon and scores of lesser names were entrusted to the Latin language for preservation. For this reason a reading knowledge of Latin is necessary to any English course that makes the slightest pretense to thoroughness: for fifteen hundred years most of the great productions of men’s minds were expressed in Latin; the great histo
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
3
ries of antiquity and sources of Roman law are written in Latin; all modern sciences—chemistry, mechanics and biology, which includes medicine—have borrowed their nomenclature from the Latin language; but more important
the Classical Course may be given: a knowledge of the terse style and thought set forth in Csesar and Tacitus, the poetic beauty of Horace and Virgil, the moral and philosophic disquisitions of Cicero and Lucretius, the mirror
than any of these considerations is the indisputable truth that natural flexibility in the use of English and force of expression is secured by a knowledge of Latin literature. A few of the reasons for requiring as much Latin from grad-uates_in the English Course as from those in
of Roman common life reflected in Terence and Plautus, and the eloquence and majesty of the mighty Cicero’s orations, are in themselves of incalculable benefit, and the best foundation for work in any vocation, be it what it may.
Modern thought has been-so greatly influ
4	NOTRE DAME
enced during the past century by German and French thinkers that broadness of grasp of any subject demands a reading knowledge of one or both of these languages, and it is necessary to have done satisfactory work in at least one to be graduated from the English Course. An excellent course has also been established in Spanish. It includes daily class-room conversations in that language. This is providing against the time when our recently acquired colonies will call vast numbers of Americans to open up and develop their resources; and anyone with a conversational knowledge of Spanish will find his chances of success greatly increased.
The English work in the English Course is emphasized strongly from the beginning of the Freshman year to the end of the course. The head of the department believes that the best way to gain an acquaintance with pure English in order to weave it into a style that carries evidences of personality, is to write— write—write. There is a vast difference between the crude theme of the Freshman and the thesis of the medal essayist, with its flexible, balanced sentences; but no force is so powerful in working the difference as the grinding out of daily themes. While this practical work is being done, the principles of style, verse, and the thousand and one odds and ends of knowledge, so essential to a bookman, are being learned from text-books and lectures. The last two years are spent, for the most part, in reading and in analyzing the playsKof Shaks-pere. Members of the senioi' class in the English Course are ex-officio members of the Scholastic staff, and articles for it must be forthcoming at regular intervals.
The' most cogent factor in American life is the newspaper, and however much we may dislike to admit it, the journalist is a greater power in moulding public opinion than the teacher. With the “freedom of the press,” of which we Americans are wont to boast so much, it can not well be otherwise; and since the condition exists, and demands for competent journalists increase, the best way for education to gain the ascendency over the popular mind is to train the journalist, and taste the sweets of noble efforts nobly directed of his exertions. For this purpose a course in journalism has been established. In order to insure a high degree of excellence the course is open only to postgraduates, and a prerequisite for graduation from the course is the acceptance of work by some standard publi
SCHOLASTIC.
cation. Political Science, a branch of knowledge too little explored by would-be journalists, is considered and studied from every side.
This is a day of specialists. The time is past when a man, even with the marvelous ability, industry and genius of Leonardo da Vinci, can master most that is known of art and science. To be proficient in any branch of science, a thorough acquaintance must be had of the elements of biology and mathematics; but this must be augmented by the most exhaustive search in the field of work chosen, and a thorough grasp of minutiae.
While Notre Dame does not award the degree of Doctor of Medicine, the Biological Course is so thorough in equipment and instruction that the best medical schools of . America invite graduates from Notre Dame to their courses on the strength of diplomas. They give the students advanced standing, and make it possible for them to finish their Medical Course in a year’s less time than is usually required.
Within the year a course in pharmacy has been created. A degree is-given for two years’ resident work; a postgraduate course of one year, devoted mainly to Pharmaceutical Chemistry, is open to graduates. During the first two years over 800 hours a year is given to laboratory work; the postgraduate course has over 1000 hours. This.department has as its head a practical pharmacist.
Ours is an age of scientific achievements. We have bridled forces whose essence we can not explain; we have read the secrets of bygone ages concealed by the debris of hundreds of thousands of years. Yet . nothing is superfluous in nature; no creation is insignificant. The scourge of ages, small pox, is impotent to resist .the virtue of an antitoxine generated in a,cow’s blood to resist the advances of a harmless animal disease known as cow-pox.
It is therefore a natural sequence that studies dealing with forces of nature, such as electricity, mechanics, surveying, should require four years of special application to lay a stable foundation for future work, in the field of anyone of them. The engineering, courses at Notre Dame are not surpassed by those of any Polytechnic institution in the country. The best proof of this is the ease with which Notre Dame graduates secure positions; indeed there are instances within the past year where corporations have sought the services of students before, they had received their degrees.	,
The work accomplished by the electrical
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5
engineering class of ’99 has received more mention in the great dailies than that of any other engineering class in the country; for the • class of Notre Dame enjoys the distinction of successfully sending messages by wireless
of one of the great dailies to give practical illustrations of the benefits to be derived from wireless telegraphy; and in the presence of experts from the great universities of the West he demonstrated the kind of work that
telegraphy farther than they have been sent by any person or party of persons ,in the United States; indeed the head of the Electrical Department, assisted by members of his classes, was invited to Chicago at the expense
was doing at the University of Notre Dame.
Another course has this year been created at Notre Dame to meet the demands of our age,—a course in Architecture. ' It may, with all truth, be called an extension along special
6
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
lines of the courses in mechanics. Practical work will be a feature of the course.
- The Law Course at Notre Dame is kept constantly before the public eye by the distinction that is coming to graduates of this department. The standard of the course has been raised in the amount of college work essential to admission to the course; in addition several distinguished jurists have been added to the lecture course. A candidate for admission to the Law School must have at least freshman standing in the University, and must have completed three years of satisfactory work in the Law School before getting his degree. The efficiency of the work in the Debating and Elocution departments may be inferred from the decisive .manner in which Notre Dame’s Debating Team won in the contest between our institution and that representing the University of Indianapolis.
There is no occupation quite so noble as the formation of character,—the moulding of the thoughts and actions of generations that will perform their parts when their instructors have been laid in the ground. For this reason it would be manifestly unjust to one of the most important departments of Notre Dame, both in number of students and in the results achieved, not to dwell for a space on the preparatory school. That there is a great advantage in entering the lower courses at Notre Dame and continuing through intermediate grades to the collegiate classes is evidenced by the broader scope and more general mastery of the knowledge gained by those who have received practically their entire education at Notre Dame. The work in the Commercial Department is especially thorough. There are two faculties in the University whose fields are as widely separated as the results achieved,— the collegiate faculty proper and the faculty of the preparatory course. The latter faculty devotes its attention to studies that are essential in a business life—commercial law, bookkeeping, the mathematics of the counting house, and those banes of a small boy’s school life,—reading, spelling and grammar, which, however much the little fellows may object to passing sufficient time to become learned in them, are sure to be a source of pride and a mark of culture in later years. It was Ruskin, I think, who said words to the effect that a -gentleman may have peculiarities connected with his. mode of living, but never with his manner of speaking, writing or reading.
kJ	. F/E. Hering.
Will Study Journalism at Notre Dame.
Notre Dame University Opens a New Course In Fall—A Daily and a Magazine Will Be Printed in Way of Teaching.
{Times-Herald, Chicago.)
OURNALISTS are born not made,” has been a trite saying for years. The universities would like to disprove it, and some of
them are already trying to do so. The demand for educated as well as experienced men in the field of journalism—reportorial and editorial— has brought about the establishment of courses of journalism in a few of the universities of the country. Experiments of this nature have been made at Pennsylvania, Cornell and the Columbian University, and while the results have not been announced, the courses are said to be popular. The latest venture of the kind is to be made at Notre Dame University at the opening of the next term. This will be the first school of the kind to be established in the West, and, according to the curriculum of studies, the course will be on a more elaborate scale than those which have already been inaugurated at other colleges. The degree to be given the first graduates of the four-year course of journalism in 1903 will be that of .Bachelor of Letters. A hard postgraduate year will follow, and then students will receive the degree of Master of Letters in Journalism.
WILL BE A HARD SCHOOL.
The schedule of studies for the course is most thorough, and is calculated to discourage the indolent student who might think to escape hard work by drifting into the study of literature and similar attractive branches which lead to a degree. A practical test of the ability of a candidate for the degree of Litt. M. is the fact that the required thesis for graduation is a sketch, poem or story, which shall have been accepted for publication by one of nine of America’s leading magazines’ The entrance requirements are practically the same as those for the other courses, the main characteristics being the extraordinary attainments the course demands in English, political economy, history, political history, philosophy, elementary law,-theology, modern languages—French, German and Spanish—and the practical studies—phonography, telegraphy and typewriting. ,
The class of journalism proper :does not; appear until the fifth—the postgraduate—year.
NOTRE DAME
It will be taught every day. It consists of daily exercises in reporting, lectures on methods of news-gathering, the practical difficulties that lie in the way of the, reporter, the interview, “ making up ” a newspaper, critical study of the daily papers, editorial writing, regular department work,. proof-reading—in fact, all that touches newspaper work.
The founders of the course have the laudable ambition to turn out not reporters alone but editors as well. That the work of the course is not to be theoretical alone is evidenced by the fact that a competent newspaper man will be placed in charge of it. Negotiations have already been made with capable editors, who rank near the top of their profession, and are thoroughly skilled in every detail of the work.
TO BE TREATED BY AN EDITOR.
This director of the course will take charge of the class in the post-graduate year, and will train the students in all the practical work . of the profession in which they receive their master’s degree. He is to give them the benefits of his long experience in the newspaper world and direct them in the proper path to a successful editorial career. The college weekly, the Scholastic, which already has a high standing among papers of its kind, is the medium through which the embryo editor may display his ability. The column known as “Locals” will give the campus reporter an opportunity to cultivate the very necessary faculty of observation, while the other columns are to be devoted to more serious efforts in the line of editorials, book reviews, etc. During the junior and senior years of the course, the Scholastic is to be issued daily for the benefit of the students of journalism. This plan was tried successfully during commencement week for the last two years. The University has its own printing office, where another magazine, the Ave Maria, and numerous books are printed. The college library, the shelves of which contain some 60,000 volumes, will also be helpful for reference to the students of the literary courses, and, in the new library building, which is expected to be completed before the first class of journalists are. graduated, the students will have perfect facilities for reference in their work.
.	' ARRANGING THE COURSE.
Arrangements for the course are at present under the direction of professors in tfie literary course, and the main effort now is to get a ' . competent director for the classes of journal
SCTlOLASTIC.	t
ism. Difficulty was found ih sepatatiiig the new course from the English course, which has been one of the most successful at the University for years. Many of the students who showed aptitude in the study of literary classes were at a comparative loss when it • came to the classical languages and mathematics. In forming the curriculum of studies for the students of journalism the professors at the college substituted for these studies three modern languages, which were thought to be more useful for newspaper work. Thus the purpose of all good teaching—a liberal education—was not lost sight of. o	„
• Notre Dame’s Priests and Soldiers.
Professor O’Malley is at present engaged in . b7 making a list of the Notre Dame students that	■:
served in the army and navy during the Civil	<
and Spanish wars. We sent sixty men in one	b
company at the beginning of the Civil war, / b and two members of this company became	'
Brigadier Generals. At that time one hundred .	. : .
students who were minors enlisted, but these ‘7'"\-.b were all sent back by the Government to the ■ ’ mercy of the yard prefects. They, however, 'bb received no lines for going out of bounds on ; j that occasion. Seven members of the clerical 777 faculty of the University were army chaplains 7.. during the Civil war, and three of these died 7 from exposure in the service.	. ,
In the Spanish war there were Notre Dame. bbb men in every branch of the army—regular	; ? 7
and volunteer. There were some in the navy . 7 5 also. One Notre Dame student was lost on the Maine. Professor O’Malley wishes to ’777-b< make the list as complete as possible, and he 7b; -5 would be thankful for any information con- 7^ cerning our students in either war. Please’ 777,-send the student’s name in. full, his- rank, bbbT-regiment, etc.	,	.	~ -77'.771
* ‘ ;
'	* #	7 ,	. . "	■ - '	■ r ’
Some one has been interested lately in.look- : -bbTS ing up the number of priests in the Catholic ’ Church that have been students, at Notre 'bbTbj Dame. The incomplete list- so far ; made ; bb| includes Archbishop Riordan, of-San ' Eran- •. . 1-cisco, Bishops Flasch of LaCrosse, Burke'of 7'777 St. Joseph, Mo., Hurth of Dacca, India, ;and . 77 7 7b Manogue of Sacramento. Bishops Flasch7and 777 Manogue are dead. There are one hundred 7 b and eighty-six priests on the, list, thirty-six bbb of whom are dead. These men are 'distributed. . 7 b b'b all over the United States. .	--h-'-b'777b
. 8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WREDM SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame, August, 1899.
ISublts^cb cbrrn Saturtap 'burins 0Trrm ®tmr at &,. 3. Snibcrsitn.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address:	THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Coming- Year.
It is one of the signs of the healthy, development of Notre Dame that it has grown steadily in efficiency, influence and favor from year to year. Fifty-five years is a small period in the life of a great college, but that period has meant much to our Alma Mater, for it has witnessed her growth from a log-hut in the wilderness to her present gigantic proportions,—a collegiate city with numerous Halls filled with students from all the states and from most of the countries of the western hemisphere. Her endowment has been simply men of heroic devotedness and fine scholarship. Utterly unaided by the benefactions of the wealthy, she has forced her way into a place which other universities have attained only through millions of endowment.
Notre Dame’s growth, we have said, has been steady and gradual, but this year she has advanced by leaps and bounds. Three new courses have been added to her curriculum of studies, making a total of thirteen courses. Architecture, History and Economics, and Journalism will henceforth have their votaries, as well as Arts, Laws, English, General Science, Biology, Civil, Electrical and Mechanical Engineering, and Pharmacy. The Collegiate Faculty, it need hardly be said, has proceeded with the utmost caution and sincerity. Students of the past four years do not require to be told that the multiplication of courses and degrees has not been in any sense or in any degree a matter of inflation; it has rather been a matter of deepening, -broadening and solidifying. In no. vaunting spirit, but in merest justice to itself, the governing body of Notre Dame invites comparison between the courses offered at.our Alma Mater and those of any other American college. < Itis needless to say that the confidence of the public in the University has been one of the great factors in its success. It has stim
ulated the faculty immensely, and it has made possible the material and educational improvements which have transformed Notre Dame within the last decade? During the present summer the applications for entrance have been vastly more numerous than ever before in the history of the University; unless all signs fail, the next collegiate year will break all past records in this respect. To accommodate the large influx of students a new Hall will be opened in September, and more than a hundred new rooms will then be available for students. Holy Cross Hall has also been enlarged to almost double its former capacity.
It will surprise no old student to hear that the administration has eagerly availed itself of the vacation time to carry out a number of general improvements. For example, a large new steam-house has been erected just off the campus of St. Edward’s Hall, and henceforth all the college-buildings will be thoroughly and' instantaneously heated from one set of boilers through a series of underground tunnels.
Notre Dame, then, looks forward to the new year with even more confidence than ever । before. She is grateful that her efforts in behalf of Catholic education in the new world have been so promptly and so generally recognized by the public. She feels persuaded that, under God’s blessing, a great future stretches out before her, and she is doing her best to prepare herself for the large activities which ] that future will entail.
Forty Years a Priest.
The sixth Sunday after Pentecost will hold a conspicuous place in the annals of the University as the day commemorative of the fortieth anniversary, of the ordination of the Reverend P. P. Cooney,-who for half a century has been identified, in one capacity or another, with Notre Dame. .	,
Father Cooney was born in the County of Roscommon, Ireland, iniS32. Five yearslater his parents emigrated to the United States and settled on a farm, near Monroe, Mich., where the young Cooney attended the public schools. From his sixteenth year to his matriculation at Notre Dame, in 1851 he was entered as a student at a branch school of; the University of Ann Arbor. Later he pursued his studies at St. Charles’ College, Maryland, and at St. Mary’s Theological Seminary, Baltimore, and returned for ordination to Notre Dame in 1859;

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
From that time to the present, Father Cooney has been an active member of the Congregation , of Holy Gross, and has won for himself the love and esteem of his fellows by the sweetness of -his disposition and by his faithfulness to duty.
But not only his fellow-religious, but a host of' laymen, Catholic and non-Catholic, have learned to appreciate these qualities as the following letter, one of many, evinces:
Rev. Father Cooney:—My heart thrilled when 1 saw a notice.in the “Times Star” of a presentation by your regiment in honor of your 67th birthday, and I take the liberty of addressing you. Doubtless you will have no recollection of the writer—but while life lasts I will never fail to love and reverence the name.of “Father Cooney.” A name that has for years been a household word in my family.
During the Chatanooga and Atlanta campaign my regiment at times was closely associated with yours, so I had many opportunities of witnessing your heroism and devotion to duty—the nobility of conduct, that won the hearts of all the men in my reginient. I wish to call your attention to one particular instance—that of a wounded man in front of Nashville whose face was ' literally torn off. I assisted in carrying him to a spring where you tried to alleviate his suffering by giving him a drink through a gourd that you had improvised so that the water would trickle on the palate in his throat.
You informed me the next morning that the poor sufferer died at midnight, and you w£re with him till the last. Your words of sympathy and comfort made a • lasting impression on me, and I can never think of that scene without strong emotion.
And now I have a favor to ask of you, I greatly desire your picture, a small photo, or if this is asking too much, your autograph would be highly , prized.	.
With high respect I sign myself late private Co. I 40th, 0. V. I.	David Gruber.
Cottageville, Jackson Co., West Va. .
There is no need for us to review the public period of Father Cooney’s life. It is familiar to all from the columns of the daily press. It has been the inspiration of many a paragraph. We shall content ourselves with appending a brief account of how the anniversary was celebrated at Notre Dame.
' At nine o’clock the members of the'Com: muniiy and a host of friends repaired to the College Chapel where Father Cooney, assisted by Father Hagerty of St. Mary’s and Father Regan of the University as deacon, and subdeacon respectively, sang High Mass.
The Reverend Father Morrissey, the President of the University, preached the sermon. The occasion was certainly one to provoke eloquence, and to say that our eloquent President handled his theme admirably is a commonplace to those who know Kim. He took for his text the words,‘‘ How beautiful upon the mountain kare the feet of him that
9
bringeth good tidings and. that preacheth peace.” After a fitting introduction upon the . ' . dignity of the service of God and the consequent dignity of the priesthood, he spoke most feelingly of Father Cooney’s long- life in the ministry, of his arduous years as an army chaplain and of his fruitful labors as a missionary. In closing, Father Morrissey congratulated the reverend celebrant in behalf of his confreres in the Community, in behalf of the Faculty of the University, and in behalf of his relatives and friends attending the celebration.
THE CHALICE USED At THE CEREMONY HAS A HISTORY. .
When the Civil War broke out in 1861, the Irishmen of Indianapolis, Ind., commenced to organize an Irish regiment of that State. In June, 1861, O. P. Morton, Governor of Indiana, wrote a letter to Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., then President of Notre Dame University, asking for a priest to take charge of this regiment as its chaplain. The position was offered to Rev. P. P. Cooney, ' C. S. C., and he at once accepted it.
These brave men could not see' their faithful chap- ’ lain leave them after four years’ service without giving him some token of their gratitude and love. They. therefore, on the day he resigned, presented him? with Siooo in “greenbacks” for the purchase of a gold chalice and a set of vestments, and requested him to pray for -them when using these sacred articles. .After the war his various duties made it difficult, if not impossible, to .	.
give the attention necessary' to procure these articles in the shape he wanted them. Last February: Father Cooney selected the Andrew Messner Company of Cin- \ cinnati, Ohio, to make the chalice. This company has . produced a masterpiece of skill and art such as does not exist in the United States.'	.
The chalice is ten inches high, made of solid gold. The diameter of the cup is four inches, and its depth is in proportion. In weight the chalice is over 24. ounces and . is of Gothic design. The diameter of the base or foot of the chalice is six and a half inches.	•
There are six “fields” around the base or foot of the chalice. On the central or front field is represented (in . , medallion enamelled) the priest dressed in alb and stole, " with the Bible in his left hand, standing on- the Gospel side of the altar ready to preach during Mass. ■
The soldiers are seated at each end of the altar and in front in the form of a semicircle. Above, this central . scene and under the knob is placed a cross set oma-mented with precious stones, and rays of light emanating .. from it. On the right field or Gospel side is Represented, .'. . _ in medallion enamelled, the scene of the chaplain giving ?	-
drink to a wounded soldier on the field of battle. The . - ; priest is represented in the midst of the wounded 5 serving them in every way possible. On the left field or . Epistle side is represented, in medallion enamelled, the \ scene of the priest giving Holy Communion to.soldiers. Behind the priest is a small altar on which there' are two . lighted candles and a crucifix. On the rear field is represented the-scene of the Sisters serving, the;sick and wounded soldiers in the field hospital.' The following -inscription tells the story:	. .. .;	•
“This gold Chalice was presented to the Reverend P. P. Cooney, . ; C. S. C.,_by the:35th (Ist’lrish) Regiment, Indiana Veteran'.Vol- ‘ . - * i unteers.ofwhichhewas Chaplain during the Civil War , of
IO
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Physical Exercise Room and Gymnastic . Apparatus.
While much attention is being given from year to year to perfecting and augmenting the curricula of studies in the various departments of the University, the President and Faculty
through life. On the other hand, rdund of drooping shoulders, hollow chest and any kind of awkwardness are decided drawbacks. Physical exercise is of as much importance to the development of the body as vocal culture to the voice. Notre Dame sees all this, and consequently has built and equipped a gymnasium that is second to none in the West.
EAST END OF THE PHYSICAL EXERCISE ROOM.
have not been unmindful of the great benefit accruing to students from physical exercise. They realize that the development of the body must go hand in hand with the training of heart and head, otherwise the education would be incomplete, and even of little value if the cultured mind were not in a sound body. And apart from a hygienic point of view, the physical training which a young man receives during his college days has often a most decided influence on his future, for a graceful figure and easeful bearing are, to say the least, great helps in the struggle
On the second floor, west side of this building, is situated the spacious Physical Exercise room. Its dimensions — 100x 40—afford the ample space required both for the installation of the apparatus and the training and exercising of students. No expense has been spared in fitting it up with all that is best and most modern. A glance at the accompanying photographs will give an idea of its size and the completeness of its furnishings. The equipment is so complete that the frailframed student as well as the robust athlete finds everything suited to his health and temperament.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
ii
In the Sanctuary.
The visitor has much to be interested in at Notre Dame. Each of the various edifices on
the college grounds has an attractiveness quite its own. Of all the buildings, however, none.is so generally admired as the great Gothic structure known as the Church of the Sacred Heart. The interior is richly decorated, and altogether presents the appearance of a grand cathedral. Indeed, it often serves the purpose of a cathedral, since solemn pontifical ceremonies are by no means an uncommon occurrence. During the past year bishops and archbishops from various parts of the world were seen in its sanctuary, prominent among whom was his Excellency Most Rev. Sebastian Martinelli, D. D., Apostolic Delegate for the United States. In this way the students have an opportunity of being present at some of the
most solemn services of the Church. As a matter of fact, they take a lively interest in all that tends to make the ceremonies in the sanctuary grand and impressive. A great many of them assist in cassock and surplice. In this connection it might be said that to all at Notre Dame it was a source of edification to see among . the acolytes members of the graduating classes in law, letters and arts. The accompanying picture shows a group of the servers gathered near our Lady’s Grotto.
All were under the able leadership of Mr. James McGinnis who acted as master of ceremonies. On very solemn occasions this office was entrusted to the Reverend William R. Connor, C. S. C.; and great credit is due him for the efficient manner in which he performed his duties.
I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
A New Dormitory Building.
The modern American student must have his private room. He is no friend of communism, and he shrinks from the thought of community life. In vacation he loves the freedom of the open air, and when the yoke of study is placed upon him, he calls for “more room.” He has imbibed this spirit of college liberty from a soil that exhales the fragrance of individualism. Hence he is ever ready to exclaim with the ideal American student, O. A. Brown
times more attractive to the modern student by the introduction of rooms in the place of common study-halls and common dormitories.”
Sorin Hall, which was built to meet this demand, has proved a grand success to the University. Corby Hall is destined to be the complement of Sorin Hall, with this difference, that, whereas the rooms in the latter Hall are given to students of the Freshman, Sophomore, Junior and Senior classes, Corby Hall is in-
CORBY HALL.
son, “I was never less alone than when alone.”
The Faculty of Notre Dame University was aware of the truth of this long ago, and yet had some misgivings as to the practicability of the idea. Catholic colleges had not tried it in America. Notre Dame made the experiment and found it a success. This was ten years ago. So it is quite in harmony with Notre Dame’s view of the matter that, in the Congress of illustrious educators assembled in Chicago some time ago, one should make the following declaration: “Catholic college-life will be many
tended for students preparing for the regular college work. Rooms are free to students of the Junior and Senior years.
The new Hall has one hundred and eight well-ventilated rooms, and its situation is on the brow of St. Mary’s Lake. The diligent student will find a place where distractions are unknown, and the lover of natural scenery will soon discover suitable material for the cultiva- . tion and development of his literary tastes. Corby Hall will be opened in September of the coming scholastic year.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
13
A Visit to the Studio.
DURING the past year it was a saying at Notre Dame that an empty hour could always be profitably spent in the studio of the Art Department. This came to the ears of the writer so frequently as finally to give him the impression that he was missing something; so one day towards the end of June he wended his steps to the Main Building, fourth flat, north, to see for himself. And he was not disappointed. He found much to
reach an end; they are desirous of doing this by the right means.
Professor Paradis kindly explained the system of teaching. The main object is to develop individuality in a student, so that with a good understanding of the principles of art he may interpret nature according to his own temperament. Everything that leads to a slavish habit of mere imitation is discountenanced. The work is done altogether from cast, object and nature.
A CORNER OF delight the eye and a great deal more to in-,	struct the mind.
Although Professor Paradis has had direc-1	tion of the studio but a poor ten months, his
methods of teaching have produced excellent results. The chiefest of these results was apparent from a glance, not at the finished ■	pictures that crowded the walls, but at the
earnest faces of the men who sat before the easels. A new spirit has been infused into the students. They realize now what a course in art signifies. They are not merely content to
THE ART ROOM.
In the elementary course drawings are made from casts of ornaments which are purely geometrical, or ornaments of which the elements are living forms; then architectural elements, such as pedestals, bases, shafts and cornices, serve as models, until finally the student is prepared to draw from casts of the human figure. This rather severe study is supplemented by frequent lectures on per-. spective, by criticisms, and by sketchings from simple and familiar objects.
In the second course, besides drawing from
14	NOTRE DAME
the antique of heads, busts and figures, there are introduced still-life drawing, sketches of landscapes, composition in landscape, applications of perspective, occasional studies of the head from the living model, sketching from the costumed model, still-life in water-colors and lectures on the history of art.
The Life Class, of course, is devoted chiefly to drawing and painting from life. The student is required to learn the elements of artistic anatomy and to make anatomical studies from the collections in Science Hall. He then takes
SCHOLASTIC.
angelo, the Achilles, the Fighting Gladiator (Louvre), and Houdon’s Anatomical Figure. .
With these may be mentioned also the following busts and heads: Asiaticus (Paris), Brutus (Rome, the Capitol), Cato (Rome, the Vatican), Cicero (Rome, the Capitol), Dante (Florence, Uffizi), Agrippa (Louvre), Venus (Vatican), A Centurion (Naples), Ariadne (the Capitol), Psyche (Naples), A Vestal (Vatican), Niobe (Vatican), the Two Daughters of Niobe Florence), the Apollo Belvidere, the Antinous, Bacchus, Juno, Mercury, and Demosthenes
up landscape painting and drawing for illustration, and gives the rest of his time to portraiture and historical composition.
As a glance at our illustrations will show, the studio is abundantly supplied with material for carrying out this work very thoroughly-To the old collection of casts there has been recently added a new one which was carefully selected at the National School of Fine Arts in Paris. Among the full-figure casts the most noteworthy are the Diadumenos (British Museum), the Doryphoros (Naples),'the Disco-bulos, the Venus of Milo, the Slave of Michel-
Besides this equipment, there is a complete set of decorative and architectural ornaments, taken from monuments of antiquity, the Middle Ages and the Renaissance, as well as some anatomical pieces and a number of elements of the human figure (hands, feet, etc.,) from the antique.
The work accomplished by members of the studio last year was very creditable. Nearly all the finished pieces were exhibited at Commencement, and many of them were pronounced exceptionally good. Mr. Fox’s work in charcoal, Mr. Cooney’s copy in red chalk of
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Raphael’s cartoon for his picture of St. Catherine, Mr. Elitch’s studies in charcoal, Mr. Svendson’s in water-colors, Mr. Bouza’s pencil sketches from life, and Mr. Scheubert’s still-life drawings were all greatly admired. For the benefit of the Scholastic’s readers who were not then present some of these art treasures — not necessarily the best—have been reproduced on these pages.	5
It will be noticed that amongst the drawings there are three or four which depict unmistakably local scenes and personages. These were the output of the Saturday Sketch Class, an adjunct of the studio, to which great prominence was given during the year. The Sketch Class is open also to students in the department of Mechanical Drawing,— a very wise provision when it is remembered how serviceable to an engineer is the capability of jotting down with rapidity and accuracy the lay of a stretch of land, the conformation of a mountain side, the arrangement of strata in a hill. And the students of the department of Mechanical Drawing have not been slow to appreciate this privilege: some of the best sketches came from their hands. Unfortunately, the frequent rains of spring and the continuance of cold weather made much open-air work impossible this year; still, the men of the Sketch Class seem to have discovered a multitude of subjects within doors. One or two of these subjects had no wish to be
discovered either; for, notwithstanding the solicitation of friends, they have always refused to sit for 'the photographer. In spite of this, however, their true images have recently been set down in black and white, and are herewith given to the public. Were we called upon to criticize our own reproductions of the sketches, we should feel obliged to say that in particular instances the process of reduction has had a somewhat disastrous effect. The fact is that, here and there, the “sketchiness” has gone altogether out of the figures, leaving in them a finished effect which is not by any means desirable. But this shall never occur again.
Besides the Sketch Class, the students themselves have an organization called “The Crayon Club,” the object of which is to sketch college scenes and do illustrative work. One of our pictures this week, represents “The Crayon Club ” ready for a jaunt into the country. As in the case of the Sketch Class, the work of the Crayon Club is brought into the studio for criticism, thus rendering recreations quite
16
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
as profitable as the hours of study. At the beginning of next year, the Scholastic means to invite several gentlemen of the Crayon Club to form an artistic staff. So many persons and things are “happening” in our college life from time to time that there is really a need of clever hands to make undying record.of them. Besides Avhich there are initial letters and department headings and tail-pieces and — any
number of fine’things in the same line, that your Scholastic ought to have.
While it may be acknowledged that the work of one year, no matter how earnest it may have been, is not a fair test of a system of teaching, nevertheless, it is due to the members of the studio to say that their efforts have gone far to make Professor Paradis’ methods acceptable to the strictest critic. J. L, T.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
l7
Our Minims.
One of Kipling’s most touching tales concerns itself with two little drummer boys who lead the van of an English army against fortifications defended by sharp shooting Afghans. During the skirmish the English are repulsed, and retreat. But when they have withdrawn a sufficient distance to enable their commander to reform ranks, he simply points to the field that the men have so recently deserted. There in full view of the enemy, within half-rifle range, are the two little drummer boys, proudly holding their position, drumming vigorously, and sustaining the honor of England. Even the Afghans shouted their
that will speak forth in after years in the deeds of good men.
There are many men in the length and breadth of our country who passed the early years of their lives under the maternal eyes of the Sisters. The discipline that holds over the University students, however, is relaxed when the boundaries of St. Edward’s Hall are crossed. Six hours a day are passed, to'be sure, in the class-room, but not more than two of them are consecutive, and between whiles the little ones play. They have every form of , sport that the University men are given to,— and more; for in'addition to baseball, tennis.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
FOR BOYS UNDER THIRTEEN YEARS OF AGE.
admiration of such courage, and took care not to shoot the little drummers. With the sternness of love the English charged—charged irresistibly—and the victory was due to the children. On the athletic field nothing inspires the Varsity athletes to such efforts as the shrill abjurations of the Minims,— the pets of the whole University, from the quiet religious to the most harum-scarum Carrollite.
There are nearly one hundred Minims, ranging in age from six to thirteen years, living in St. Edward’s Hall under the care of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. There is only one object in view in the education of these little ones—to lay the foundations of characters
basket-ball and gymnastics, the little ones do not think it beneath their dignity to play “tag,” marbles and spin top; and, must we confess, the Carrollites, who have passed the years of such childish sports, are the most interested spectators.
It is remarkable how proficient these little ones become in the elementary branches of study. Delightful receptions are given by them from time to time, and the recitations and musical numbers call forth deserved praise. Nearly all the Minims are dressed in Cadet uniforms, and are drilled in much the same manner as the Carrollites; the Minim Company rejoices in the name of the Sorin Cadets.
i8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Carroll Hall—Some Uniformed Companies.
This year’s catalogue of the University contains an announcement to the effect that all preparatory students of Carroll Hall are required to give two hours a week to Military Drill; moreover, it is obligatory that they shall have uniforms. This regulation is quite
in harmony with the policy of the officers of the University, whereby they wish to show a proper regard for the physical as well as the mental training of the young men entrusted their care. The new gymnasium, the enclosed athletic field which is promised, the granting of
privileges for playing games outside of our home grounds,— all go to emphasize the same fact. So also the solicitude of the faculty evidenced in guarding against an excess of anything in this line makes it clear that the attention given this phase of college life is for the best interests of the student. Therefore it is that the requirements for military drill may be regarded as a complement of physical training. During the past year, under the guidance of Professor Jerome J. Green, several companies were organized. The accompanying illustrations afford the reader an opportunity of contrasting the conditions of military life at Notre Dame in two widely separated periods of its history. Things are not now as they used to be in the “good old times.’’ And yet there is no essential change, so far as the men with gun and sword are concerned.* Notre Dame’s sons are still inspired with what is noblest in the soldier—a strong sense of duty and true patriotism. They have always been animated with such a spirit, and so they have fostered a healthful love of country. No doubt, there will be a notable improvement in military drill by the closing of the next scholastic year; nothing is such an incentive to patriotism as the sight of our nation’s flag and a gallant band of the boys in blue. The students themselves feel this thrill of patriotism when military manoeuvres are done with vigor and snap.
Mr. John H. Cody, ’59, Ft. Wayne, a Notre Dame Continental Cadet.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Baseball—Last Season and. the Varsity.
In less than a half decade of years Notre Dame has jumped from an almost unknown quantity in athletics into one of the most important factors of the Western college world. Whatever be her success in years to come, the future generation of students will point back to the present years as the starting-point of all our. athletic career. True it may be that we have been in the various games for a number of years; but, nevertheless, our teams were always looked upon as an inferior class; and visiting teams of the larger universities stopped here more in quest of practice games than for real sport.
A decided and much-wished-for change has taken place. What the sentiment of other colleges regarding our teams is, may be learned from the following statement made by one of the directors of athletics in the University of Illinois. It was on the occasion of his visit to our triangular field and track meet of March n. Our baseball manager was talking to the Illinois director regarding a prospective game of ball, that the Illini were to play with the Varsity while they were making their Michigan trip, and remarked that a game of ball here would be fine thing for Illinois before they went on the diamond at Ann Arbor, as it would be nothing short of a first-class practice game for them. “Well,” said the gentleman from our neighboring school, "that is a very modest way for you to put it. I do not know that your team would be so easy for us that we could call on you to furnish a practice game. It might be more advisable for us to stop here on our way back from Ann Arbor.” Matters were thus arranged by the manager of the Illini, and the game resulted in a splendid victory for the Varsity.
And so we have moved in all branches of athletics, more especially in the track and fieljd department. Three years ago we had no team at all. This season we finished up second in the West and first in the State. This is not a poor record tor our second year. The football team, too, has made its way into prominence during the past two years; but of this and the track team we have said enough. Baseball is more in season now, and we shall tell of the Varsity nine and the games played. ■
To begin with, our schedule for 1899 was double that of any. previous year. We played more games on the home diamond than ever
before, and made four trips away from home, playing a total of twenty games and missing three that were scheduled. One of these three games was the one to be played with Indiana University. The Varsity, was at the state institution ready for the game, but was prevented from playing on account of rain. The other two games were with Wisconsin and Syracuse, .. both of which universities failed to keep their respective engagements for April 28 and June 14. In all, the schedule contained twenty-three games exclusive of five scheduled with the reserve team. Out of the twenty games played the Varsity won fourteen and lost six. Of the six lost, the Fort Wayne League team captured two, Michigan two, Oberlin one and the South Bend Greens one. Had we taken the last game from Michigan we should have been tied with them for first place, as we had defeated the other big teams of the West. .
A notable innovation in this year’s programme was the playing of four games with the Fort Wayne League team. Two of them went to the Varsity, and one that was lost went by the small margin of five to four after a ten-inning struggle. By breaking even in the series of games with this team of veteran players, the Varsity showed.early in the season that it would make the best record ever put down in black and white for the Gold and Blue. The following week our victories at Purdue and De Pauw were not at all unexpected. The defeats administered to Illinois, the Hamilton Club, Chicago University and Nebraska were all brilliant, and set the team up fifty per cent, in the estimation of the "rooters.” Toward the close of the season, however, we were unfortunate in taking a big slump in batting. In the Oberlin game we could not win with only two hits; the South Bend game slipped away because we could only hit Bailey three times, and to give Mich- . igan due credit we lost to them because they had the better team.
The personnel of the Varsity is next in order. Before speaking of the men that finished the season we wish to inform our readers that the Varsity was unfortunate at the outset in losing its heavy batter and never-failing right-fielder, Mr. Peter E. Follen. While the team was' away on its Indiana trip, Mr. Follen was taken sick with appendicitis, and . never put on a uniform afterwards. His loss / weakened the team greatly for some time, for we had no one to fill his position. Now for : . the men that played:	f . ; .	.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Angus D. Macdonald (Capt., 1st Base).
Mr. Macdonald, the unanimous choice for captain, was not only an expert at filling his position on the field, but was a trustworthy leader. No man on the team could put more confidence in the men than he, and none were more sportsmanlike in the games. A first-class fielder and batter, he was respected by his own players, by visiting teams and by the “rooters” as well. He is re-elected to captain the team next season.
Norwood R. Gibson (Pitcher).
Our diminutive, dark-complected twirler was the backbone of the team. For the third season Gibson stood on the pitcher’s slab and kept opponents guessing and swinging at his curves with little effect. Nothing need be said of “Gib” in this write-up, for he is too well known to our readers,and the Scholastic will not give him any introduction.
Philip B. O’Neill (Catcher).
“Peaches” O’Neill, the speedy thrower and sure back-stop, was the find of the season. Cranks said when we lost Powers that no one could handle Gibson’s speedy curves. Yet O’Neill with his accurate eye did the catching in a most creditable manner. The only thing to regret is that some league magnates have their eyes on the youngster, and Captain Macdonald may lose him before the next season opens.	,
Leo Holland (Pitcher).
Holland, a new man in the Law School, was another find. He was a good substitute for Gibson and proved himself a first-class pitcher. In his first game against Fort Wayne he held the leaguers to two hits, and won easily. He is expected to be with the Varsity next season
Thomas Mulcare (Pitcher).
Another member of our pitching corps, and one that never lost a game, is young Mulcare, the ex-junior. “Mui” played his first season with the Varsity, and will be with us for two or three years yet during, which time we expect much of him.
Robert Brown (Second Baseman).
Just mustered out of Col. Grigsby’s Rough Riders, Brown went at playing ball like his comrades went after the Spaniards. He guarded the- middle sack in good military style and allowed none of the enemy to get away from him. He is a good fielder and a heavy hitter.
Charles Fleming (Third Baseman).
“ Chuck,” famous for his speedy left arm and quick fielding, spent his second season at covering third base, and performed his part in a highly satisfactory manner. Fie is the fastest man on the team and beats any one in the West at fielding bunted balls. He is a hard hitter, and in one game, out of six times at bat, made two singles, two doubles and two triples.
Robert Lynch (Short-Stop).
“Bobby” Lynch at short is a good, sure man. He covers a great amount of ground and succeeds in being just where his services are needed when the ball arrives. He put in his first season with the Varsity, and will play with us again next year.
John F. Farley (Left Fielder).
The “Tiger Lilly” in left field goes after fly balls with the same dash that he goes after a runner on the football field. Farley was one of the hitters of the team, and many a man that crossed the plate did so because Farley had helped him along with a clean drive hit over the infield. John will be with us again and will be welcomed on the diamond next year.
Matthew Donahoe (Center Fielder).
Little “Mat” is the star-fielder of the West, and no man ever tallied that dared put a ball in his territory. He is fast on his feet, covers a great deal of ground and throws from deep center to the plate as accurately as one would shoot with a rifle. Mat has two years to play yet, and is one of the most valuable men on the team.

Alfred Becker (Rt. Fielder,Sub-Catcher).
Toward the close of the season, Becker was ooked upon as the surest hitter of the team. He was put in right field to fill Follen’s place, Ibut is not so much at home there as when rbehind the bat. He catches well and throws o bases accurately.
Charles D. Daly (Sub).
Daly, a new man from Patterson, New Jersey, played sub in the out and infields and could be elied upon to go in a game at any time. His nly fault was in being weak at the bat.
* *
This is all for the ’99.Varsity. May their uccessors wear the Gold and Blue as worthily bthey 1
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Holy Cross Hall is situated in a delightful spot on the outskirts- of the university buildings. It is reserved exclusively for students who aspire to become priests of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. The seclusion of the place, surrounded by an oak grove between two lakes, makes this Hall especially suited for quiet, earnest study.
The history of Holy Cross Hall, dates back nearly as far as that of Notre Dame itself, and most of the Fathers of the Holy Cross look to it as their lesser Alma Mater. In 1846 the Hall began its existence, and in 1889 the corner-stone of the present building was laid.
In this quiet retreat, the sound of the hammer and the voices of workmen now help to break the monotony of the summer days. Before the beginning of the next session, Holy Cross Hall will have another story added to each of the present wings of the building, and will next year be able to accommodate a larger number of students.
The enlargement of the hall was a need long felt, and in spite of other improvements that called for particular and immediate attention, work has already been begun. With the opening of the scholastic year, Holy Cross Hall will be able to accommodate many more students than in previous years; for want of room had long barred many energetic men from pursuing their studies.
The students of Holy Cross Hall are now afforded all the opportunities of a thorough classical training at Notre Dame, and all the chances of finished philosophical and theological courses. Such interest and encouragement shown by the authorities are certainly calculated to make the students^ who are to be future priests of the Congregation as learned and devoted as their sacred calling requires.	,
The excellent record of this year’s baseballteam was possible only because of the splendid
schedule arranged by Manager Paul J. Ragan. He worked untiringly for the success of the - Varsity, and showed much tact and judgment in handling the delicate business that fell to his position.
Noticeable during the season just closed was the praise given again and again by neutral and even hostile newspapers and critics to the
gentlemanly.conduct of Manager Ragan’s men on the. Notre Dame field and on foreign diamonds. This was in consonance with the policy supported by his predecessors in office that the Varsity should not be simply an aggregation of ball players, but a team composed of University men,—students in the strictest-and most honest sense of the word—and that they were students and ball players is shown clearly by their class-records and score book.
Holy Cross Hall.
Footnotes.
'  ’ •
This spirit is typified in the person of the Manager. In addition to his many executive
duties he found time to make a good record in the Law Department, to act as the Chief Editor of the Scholastic, and, finally, to win the Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, one of the most coveted prizes in the gift of the University.
■ * . ; ■ * * ■
Through the courtesy of Mr. John H. Cody ’59 of Fort Wayne, Indiana, we print an
interesting picture of a Notre Dame Continental Cadet. The thoughtfulness of Mr. Cody is but another manifestation of the interest that the real alumnus holds for his Alma Mater, and it can best be shown by remembrances of this kind. The Scholastic shall always be interested. in hearing of the success of any of the old students, and any information regarding them will we are sure, be acceptable to our readers.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
BROWNSON CAMPUS	THE NEW GYMNASIUM
On the Side.	'
• College rules are generally rigid enough; f they have to be rigid, else they are a worthless institution. No doubt, every college boy learns the truth of this sooner or later; nevertheless, these rules are not so regularly severe as to admit of no diversion. At various times during the year the students find opportunities for going “beyond bounds” without dread of • punishment. Squads of bicycle riders take an occasional trip off to the St. Joe Farm. Here, too, the track team spent a few jolly hours as a substitute for the “ cross country run.” Off toward the northeast, •	beyond the school
house, where politi-L	cians ‘ gather in bus-
loads at springtime, are the picnic grounds, a favorite resort of the Minims and Car-rollites. The accompanying illustrations show what a change । is wrought in the appearance of some during a few hours spent in exploring the woods and wading in the state ditch. There is one other resort worthy of mention,— Haney’s. Time was when the “Stile” was a name’and’place that
was second to none in its claims for love and remembrance. ’Tis now no more. Haney’s is, in a measure, its substitute, gathering about it, as it does, so much that for years to come will remain fresh in the minds of the upper classmen. There finely-appointed dinners were served from time to time, when parties of our fastidious and novelty-loving youth came down on the watchful inn-keeper. Scarcely ever was he taken unawares. Haney’s will not soon be forgotten. Then, too, there is many a lovely landscape here and there in the neigh-
24
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
BEFORE THE ATTACK.
borhood, which charmed, the eyes and thrilled the souls of those' who, late in springtime, were wont to go abroad for an evening walk. Far and near on lane and highway are the thorny milestones that mark the wheelman’s puncture stations. He will not soon forget the long, tedious journey home when his outfit for “quick repairing” was far away. Down the St. Joe River whefre the Red Mill stands is one of the old-time haunts with the history of nearly twenty years carved on the near-by bridge. Some day they will come back again—they who were at college long ago—and they will find a new companionship there on the bridge.
AFTER.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The N. D. U. Track Team, ’99.
A15HERE is nothing does young men quite 1 so much good as competition; whether the contest be one of intellectual acuteness or ath-■ letic prowess; whether the outcome be victory or defeat, certain lines of character are developed that tend to influence the life of the man. I often muse on the lessons of history, and to my mind there is nothing in the lives of the pagans that is so attractive as the homage paid to the .victorious heroes of the Olympic games by the bards of Greece. There must have been a’ fine depth of moral goodness in the wearers of the olive wreaths, that could call forth such sincere, musical praise as that offered by the great Pindar. And then the other athletic nation of antiquity presents itself in a vast panorama of years—the stalwart Romans, thriftily working afield, pure in their lives, strong in their manhood, worshipping the austere heroism that springs forth in primeval nations, and laying the foundation of later generations that were to conquer the world. Both of these nations were greatest when? Why, when love of games and desire for personal athletic superiority pervaded the breasts of their young men. The downfall of these two peoples that have been told in epic and lamented in song came when the love of fieldsport and the desire to excel therein departed from the nations; when they were content to watch the feats of trained gladiatorial slaves, and applauded the courage of barbarian races destined to conquer their masters.
The President of the University of Illinois in a recent article set forth his opinion, that in-the present wars the vast superiority of our soldiers over those of the enemy, is due more to the national love of athletics and the discipline and- character development that come from contests, in which men are pitted against one another, than to any other cause. For this reason 4t is a matter for rejoicing, not only among the alumni and students of Notre Dame, but also among the members of the Faculty, that we have made such vast strides in systematizing and developing our athletics.1. The greatest,advance of the past year was undoubtedly made in track athletics; perhaps because an advance in this branch of sport is more noticeable from the fact that in previous years the excellence of the track team was not so great as that of the baseball and football teams. There should be no stint in the
praise given to the members of the track team pf this year, however; for young men, most of whom have not had more than two years’ work in their special events and many of them only one, who can defeat the- great teams evolved at the Universities of Michigan, Wis- -consin and Illinois, and secure second place among all the colleges of the West,these men, when we consider the high average of their class work, are worthy to be lauded and to receive the thanks of Notre Dame. •
The Notre Dame track team participated in more meets than any other team in the West; and these meets without an exception were contested in by foremost college teams. We have been victors over such worthy opponents as Chicago, Michigan, Illinois, Northwestern, Wisconsin, Iowa, Purdue and Indiana; in fact, we have defeated, in one meet or another, every team in the West. We won our State Championship handily, and that without a suspicion of professionalism being charged against any athlete.
There were three meets where our energies were especially put forth — the Triangular Meet with the Universities of Illinois and Chicago, which we won; the meet to decide the State Championship, in which Purdue, Indiana and Notre Dame were represented, which we also won;, and the Western Intercollegiate, in which teams representing fourteen Western universities and colleges com-, peted, in which Notre Dame secured second place.	•'
Our most popular meet was the Triangular meet. It was held March n, to celebrate the , opening of our new gymnasium, and marked the first really great athletic meet in which we ever entered. Not until the last event— the running broad jump, won by Captain . Powers—was the winner decided; and when the students and friends of the University understood that the Chicago team, which has been building four years and which was' considered unbeatable in the West, was second to Notre Dame, the high-water'mark of our. athletic happiness was reached.	.
Through the envy and political jobbery of . some of the smaller state institutions, the date of the l. I. A. A. was changed so as to force us to break faith with the University of Chicago,. or forego the pleasure of contesting for. the State Championship. All other, considerations were ignored, however,.and‘Notre' Dame in- : formed Chicago that she would'stand by the pledged word of Manager Eggeman. The
26
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
true state of affairs was presented to the Universities of Indiana and Purdue, and these institutions refusing to sanction the palpable breach of faith insisted on by the smaller state schools, withdrew from the 1.1. A. A., and Purdue, Indiana and Notre Dame formed a state
Triangular league which is to exist for at least five years. The first annual meet of the Association was held at Purdue, and Notre Dame won handily. The meet next year will be held at Notre Dame the last Saturday in May.
Our athletic strength had been so apparent
and our athletic standard so pure that there was not a dissenting vote to our application for admission into the W. I. A. A. Notre Dame sent her strongest team to the great meet held at Chicago, June 3d. Competent critics gave the first three places to the Universities of
Chicago, .Wisconsin and Michigan, placing Notre Dame fourth or fifth. Even bur most ardent rooter hardly expected better than third place, thinking that the veteran ^teams of Chicago and Michigan,—the former University with 2000. students on her class rolls, and
NOTRE DAME
the latter with close to 3500 students,—with their high salaried trainers and instructors, would certainly surpass the young men representing Notre Dame. The story of the meet held that warm June day on the Ravenswood field is history now, but never again will Notre Dame be referred to as a minor institution in athletics. Through all the competitions, some of which were disgraced by scenes that called forth stinging rebukes from the press, Notre Dame’s athletes struggled manfully and gentlemanly, and secured the high rank for their Alma Mater without making an enemy of an institution or an individual.
Three names stand forth to which should be given the greatest praise for these achievements—John W. Eggeman, Manager; J. Fred Powers, Captain; and J. F. Engledrum, Trainer. Manager Eggeman with limited means was called upon to equip and to pay the expenses of a team which was to meet the best talent in the West. He not only fulfilled his part to the letter, but he did more: he entered his team in five meets, and by shrewd management paid all expenses out of his share of the receipts, something which has never been done by any Notre Dame manager. Captain Powers deserved and received the respect of his team. In every meet he was the greatest point winner, and popular voice pronounced him the greatest athlete ever competing at a Western intercollegiate meet. J. F. Engledrum had to meet all the little annoyances necessarily connected with the development of a new team. He did not have the achievements of a successful predecessor by which to guide himself, and the team he was to evolve had to meet athletes trained by the most experienced trainers in the country. No higher praise for faithful work can be given than the records made by his men.
Of the members of the team praise should be given to each, although the number of points won by individuals were not equal. Previous experience and natural endowments are necessarily important considerations in the achievements of an athlete, and it was to be expected that some events should have better performers than others. The work of Captain Powers has already been mentioned. The next most conspicuous member of the team was P. J. Corcoran, who is easily the best man at the shorter distances in the West. Gaffney surprised all critics by winning the quarter-mile bicycle race and breaking the W. I. A. A. record at Chicago; Connors, although not in the best of condition at the end of the year, attracted
SCHOLASTIC.	'
attention as the coming mile runner; Eggeman scored needed points in the weights; Duane, O’Brien and O’Shaughnessy were placed in? the short distances, and Glynn was Captain Powers’ mate in the field events. Among, the other men who won points or attracted favorable comment are Grady, Smith, Shea, Murray and Hayes. With one or two exceptions, these men will be back next year,	.
What is our goal next year? After the W. I.
A. A. Prof. Stagg said to Manager Eggeman: “I know what team will win the Western Intercollegiate next year.” Our giant manager smiled in a pleased way and said, “ So do L”
F. E. H.
Powers is All-Around Champion.
FAMOUS NOTRE DAME ATHLETE MAKES A
REMARKABLE SCORE.	-
(Chicago Chronicle.}
New York, July 4.—The Amateur Athletic Union held its annual all-around championship meet on the grounds of the Knickerbocker Athletic Club at Bergen Point this afternoon. There were four competitors—J. Fred Powers, representing St. Paul’s Lyceum of Worcester, Mass.; E. C. White of the New York Athletic club; A. Sanderson of the Toronto Y. M. C. A., and J. E. Moran of the Star Athletic club of Long Island city. A. C. Kraenzlein, holder of two world’s records, did not compete, having sprained a wrist a few days ago while practising the pole vault.
Powers’ total score was 6203 points, beating all scores but that of 1897, when E. H. Clark of the Boston Athletic Association scored 6234%. White, who was second to Powers, won in hollow fashion last year, and an idea of Powers’ performance can best be gathered from the fact that White was more than 1500 points behind him. Powers is a native of Burlington, Vt., is 24 years old, stands six feet and one-quarter inch and weighs 182 pounds. He is a student at the University of Notre Dame. Summary:	‘
Hundred-yard dash—E. C. White, first. Time; 0:10 3-5. Putting sixteen-pound shot—J. Fred Powers, first. Distance, 40 feet 1% inches. Running high jump—Powers, first. Height, 5 feet 11 inches. Eight hundred and eighty yard walk—Powers, first. Time, 4:28 4-5. Throwing six-teen-pound hammer—Powers, first. Distance, 106 feet 8 inches. Pole-vault—Powers, first. Height, to feet 4X inches. One hundred and twenty yard hurdle race— Powers, first. Time,-0:18. Throwing fifty-six pound weight—E. C. White, first. Distance, 21 feet 6% inches. Running broad jump—Powers, first. Distance, 21 feet > 8% inches/ Mile run—A. Sanderson, first. Time, 5:36.
JVC j EE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
A. Final Word.
Notre Dame is situated eighty-five miles east of Chicago, and two and one-half miles north of South Bend, Indiana, the largest manufacturing city in Northern Indiana. South Bend is on the direct line of the Grand Trunk and the Lake Shore railroads, and is the terminal point for the Indiana, Illinois and Iowa, the Vandalia and the South Bend, St. Joseph and Southern railroads. The Michigan Central
any of the following lines: The Wisconsin Central, Northwestern, Milwaukee and St. Paul, Maple Leaf, Rock Island or Burlington; from the South and Southwest, the Wabash, Santa Fe, Monon, Big Four, Vandalia,* Illinois Central, Louisville and Nashville, Queen and Crescent; from the East and Southeast, the' Grand Trunk, Lake Shore, Michigan Central or Baltimore and Ohio and Pennsylvania lines
1
connects by a spur from the City of Niles, Mich., six miles north of Notre Dame, and runs two trains each way every , day.’ This latter road runs directly through the University grounds, and all trains make a stop, but passengers having baggage would do weir to have it checked to South Bend,.even though they should get off at Notre Dame,’as carriages do not meet ; these trains = except when ordered by , telegraph. The Notre Dame Bus and Transfer
Line have carriages at | the depots in the rieigh-boring city to meet all
. trains.
Students coniirig from d the West and North- • west generally reach the ?
college via Chicago over |
connecting with,the Vandalia, or Ohio Central, connecting with the Lake Shore at Toledo.
Those coming from points in Northern and Central Mexico can reach the University almost in direct line from El Paso, Eagle Pass or Laredo connecting with railroads leading to St. Louis. Those from points further, down, in Southern^ Mexico, Central America arid. South .
America can reach Notre.; Dame very readily by taking ship at Vera' Cruz or Southern ports either for New Orleans, Galveston or New York. From the West Indies, . Cuba or Puerto Rico the ' best, way. would be to come via New York .or New Orleans instead of Tampa and Miami.