
Can't figure out what to write? 

Please send _ years of Scholastic to: Name: ___________ 
Notre Dame's 
Address:_____~---­City:_____State:_Zip:___ excuse not to 
Please make checks payable to : 

write home. 
Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x _ years =$_ 


holastic 
Aye, Aye, Coxswain Coxswains on the Notre Dame men's crew team steer their team to victory, despite some occasional rough rides. by Ed Kroemer/ Pagels 
Sports 
A Bird in the Hand? The Irish put their number-five ranking on the line against a team that makes opponents see red -or even cardinal. by Terry Lynch / Page 16 
Sportsweek A roundup of lesser-known varsity sports, featuring Athletes of the Week./ Page 15 
Departments 
Week in Distortion Some suggestions for jazzing up the dull campus routine./Page 3 On Other Campuses The football game that would never die./ Page 4 Music Great da11ce tunes that even an alternative rock music fan enjoys./ Page 5 Coming Distractions A list of what's going on, both here and in the area. /Page 20 Final Word Rob Hennig writes that it's time to get serious about theelection. / Page 22 Ernie Pook's Comeek "17 Things"/ Page 24 Life in Hell 
Editorial 24-hour LaFortune the central issue Students should press for a 24-hour lounge./ Page 23 
Cover photo by Allan Lim 
Scholastic is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/year and back issues are available at$1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic. · · 
Copyright 1988 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. 
September 29, 1988 
Letters 

Policy· 
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University 
· students should include their year in school and col­lege. Faculty members should include their depart­ment. All letters must be signed. Names will be with­held upon request in certain instances. 
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the 
.laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholas­tic style. Because of space limitations, Scholastic can­not print all letters received. 
Address all correspon-· dence to: 
The Editor Scholastic LaFortune Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Show Off Your Bad Attitude With A 
SCHOOL IS HELL T-SHIRT 
Other Stunning Designs: 
• WORK IS HELL 
• LIFE IN HELL /Thc Cl"ssio 
• 
BONGO 

• 
I SWEAR TO GOD · 



I DIDN'T DO IT 


Week In Distortion/ Chris Fillio 

Hey, Wake Up 
And stay awake! Chris Fillio offers a few tidbits of advice that will keep students on their toes 
Nowthatthefirstfewweeksof presently occupied by St. Joseph's classes have gone by and the High School, Holy Cross Junior Col-freshmen have adjusted -----lege,andSaintMary'sCollege. This somewhat, it is probably a good time wlH . F,~:,, ye•• . _ would allow some student groups to mix things upa bit on campus. Here U'11,Krv R.1~M,111 tN l-H r. · · like ROTC and the Young Dictators are a few suggestions to keep every-1-iC. WAI r. oQ ,-:. 11 Club to exercise thier talents in a body more attentive and on their toes: F 1 ~s' 1-t Fr AND Tht"' more realistic manner. As well as 
i<_lli,t+f ? CR,DCl-li" 

1) More freshmen fiascoes. ~ l1.1Li.!K~ J..t~, t<1:tP this, there would be much less fric­Doesn'titseemlikenofreshmenhave ~ 'f:'..t,;,:~t--~-~"•~~;-,/ tion between political groups if all 
it nearly as bad as you did when you ~ decisions are to made by a single were a freshman? Well,ofcourse, the _____./\. -______./ monarch, who would of course ex-solution is quite simple -. emplify the best interests of each and 
revenge. \}(l1/\('-:--\ ­Signs around campus like "Freshmen every student and faculty member.
v·l '-~ (!)use other dining hall" placed on both F)-::-c")o)Q\ 5) Create your own entrepre­dining halls, or "Class of '92 Keg (, ~ ~ neurial ventures. On each night of Party at 10:00 p.m. Third Floor c21 "~ final exams,shutoffthemainpower Memorial Library" should separate -~ in the computer labs. Then set up the Einsteins from the simpletons. f( stands in the dining hall to sell old 
2) Ridiculous ads in the Ob-~ term papers at exorbitant prices. On server. Most lunchtime readers casu-;\ football weekends, rent a golf cart at ally skim over the basic "I need MSU -,( ~ (!J the golf course and use it to shuttle GA's $$$$" or "Hey, Skeezix! ,/ltfil people around campus. Borrow ThanksfortheEcon notes"personals. (r ,-freshman <logbooks and sell lists of How about a few off-beat ones to get "Best Bets for your SYR" to upper­people's attention? "Free Miami tick-classmen. When the time comes for ets", "Digger is a managerial genius", football and Keenan Revue tickets, or "Mishawaka high school girls hire some cheap labor (in the form of
'---------------------' 
looking for dates to ND SYRs" are sure to building rather than the bookstore, and stu-young city kids) to stand in line, and rake in catch a few second looks, as well as some dents will enjoy a short trip through Niles on a few bucks by raffling off their prime frantic phone calls. their way to St Louis Street. positions. 
3) Basically confuse people. Most stu-4) New student government Come These are just a few ideas to get you dents do not realize the degree to which they election time, abolish the present form of satarted on your road to total campus aware-jeopardize themselves simply by the clothes student government and start from scratch. ness. A veritable cornucopia of ideas they wear. If you see someone wearing a Electing a king instead of a bunch ofpower-abound which can be used to liven up your letter jacket with his or her name embroi-hungry student politicians should set the owneverydaydrablife,andeventhelivesof dered, walk by them and say, "Hey, Dennis! tone for some interesting changes. In fact, those around you. In a matter ofweeks, you That was a great stunt you pulled off campus why wait? Maybe the time is right for some will be the envy ofall ofyour peers. Just re-Saturday night. I wonder if those cops ever type of insurrection or coup d'etat. Student member whatP.T. Barnum said, "There's a found out!" In addition, give inaccurate participation is the key. One such power sucker born every minute.'¦ directions. Most visitors would undoubt-play which all are sure to support would be Chris Fillio is a junior Econ/CAPP major. edly prefer to head over to the aerospace the annexation of the large tracts of land His comical wit will be here regularly. 
On Other Campuses 






Practice Makes 

Perfect 
Troy State wins on the football field, while Indiana State University staff 


members win ... er, uh, lose on the scales 
Five and one-half hours, two fields and a whole lot of im­provisation later, Troy State defeated visiting Southeast Missouri State in a game played September 3, Sports Illus­trated reported. The game began at 5 p.m., but during the s~cond quarter, two of the six banks of lights at Memorial Stadium myste­riously went out. There was stiII some daylight left, so th~ game continued. However, with rain falling and Troy State leading 19-13 with 12:41 left to go in the game, another two banks shut off. Officials from both schools conferred and decided to continue the game at Troy State's Iigh ted practice field one-third ofa mile away. The practice field, however, presented the situation with several problems. None of the yardlines were numbered, and because of a steep embankment just beyond the north end zone, each team was forced to move north to south on offense. After a 2 1/2 hour delay the teams again took the field. The game finally ended at 10:25 p.m. Tom Ensey, the Troy State sports information director, best summed up the game: "Coaches are always saying that games are won on the practice field. Well, this is one game that really was." 
Employees of Indiana State University are tackling a weighty problem. More than 60 faculty members and staff employees have set a goal to shed up to 36 pounds (no, that is not a misprint) apiece in a new weight-loss program sponsored by the university. The Chronicle of Higher Education reported that the new program, called Operation Weight Loss, is a 12-week support program de­signed to help its participants rid themselves ofexcess "body space" by modifying their psychological and nutritional behavior .... We can only hope the good example set by the faculty will be help to control the ever present "Freshman 15" problem. 
Cover the manholes, the aliens are coming! And that does not mean the kind from outer space. Like most large universities, the University of Texas at EI Paso (UTEP) has an extensive system of underground storm sewers and tunnels. Unlike most schools, 
\ 
t-------=-~ --~ 
__-_,.,______ -·--7 
t/w,e..W. 

however, UTEP is very near the Mexican border. It seems that as the Mexican economy gets worse the tunnels are in use much more frequently. Curious? Well, according to The College Press Service , UTEP officials said the school's underground tunnels have become a link in the flow of Mexican workers illegally entering the United States looking for jobs. 
Got any extra dirty socks? Yes? Well, send them to Illinois House Speaker Michael Madigan care ofthe University ofIllinois student body. According to The Chicago Tribune, U ofl students -faced with what they deem excessive tuition increases -are collecting dirty socks to send Lo Madigan after he blocked a tax increase that would have helped stymie rising tuition costs. Instead, he whole-heartedly backed a bill for the financing of the new White Sox stadium. 
And in Colorado, a judge ruled that a couple had the right to sue the Colorado State University Veterinary Teaching Hospital because it apparently killed their llama during an examination.... Their what? II 

Music/ Keith Tadrowski 
debut album "Surfer Rosa," produced by Big Black's Steve Albini, is chock full of hooks, off-key vocals, and the right degree 




Party Rock 
No, it's not $9.95 and we won't throw in the ginsu knives free ... but Keith Tadrowski tells all and offers his favorite party tunes 
Ihave a guilty pleasure. I suppose everyone has a least one that is too embarassing to admit; but, after long and careful thought, I have decided to announce mine publicly-I like party music. On a regular basis, "Mony Mony" or "Burn­ing Down the House" will never find its way on my turntable; it's usually occupied by Cabaret Voltaire, Smiths, Clan of Xymox, or some other neo-depressed gloom band. But when I'm at a party, the last thing I want to hear is the Cure or Joy Division singing about their favorite funerals. A good party song is something that gets the adrenalin flowing, heightens the at­mosphere, and makes everyone feel good. A great party song turns the taste ofPabst into Heineken. There are a lot of good party songs, but there isn't a huge supply of great ones. The following is a list ofsome of the great party songs in my opinion: 1. "Blister in the Sun" -Violent Femmes. This is only one of the many masterpieces of sexual repression from the Femmes' first album, but it still ranks as my favorite. Simple bass, bad vocals, and a cheap snare drum suprisingly add up to a rousing anthem of "big hands." When friends from other campuses come here, they often ask me why eveyone plays the Femmes here so much, but at a school this repressed, it's no wonder. 2. "Housequake" -Prince. This cha­meleon mesh of house, rap, and James Brown lives up to its self-proclaimed "bad­destjam in the land." From the opening yelp of "Shut up, already ... damn!" to "Shock-a­lock-a-boom," "Housequake" is crammed full of catchphrases _and call-and-response vocals that demand an opportunity to catch laryngitis. A perfect song for gathering syr­inges, injecting coffee vodka, and thrashing· across a crammed sauna. Naked. 
3. 
"Take the Money and Run" -Steve Miller Band. This classic makes the list almost entirely on the basis of its machine gun handclaps after the geographical sig­nals of"El Paso" and ''Texas". Blues guitar and solid drums frame this homage to greed, crime and the American way which every­one can relate to. Plus, the bad guys win in the end. Who could ask for more? 

4. 
"(I Can't Get No) Satisfaction" -the Rolling Stones. It's the riff. Over and over this classic riff, da-da, pulling you, da-da­da, to the cold keg, da-da-da, ofgolden beer. A song so deceptively simple, but so power­ful, it's almost tangible. Sure, your lips aren't as big as Mick Jagger's, but you can shout along. Go ahead. 

5. 
"Rock Lobster" -the B-52's. The definitive dance song on any party tape, it's so campy it could appear in the Rocky Hor­ror Picture Show. Bizarre and catchy 60's nostalgia, this ode to sun, sand, and killer fish hasn't aged a day since its release a decade ago. It's still downright weird. There's nobody on the earth who can listen to it and not laugh at singer Cindy Wilson's impersonation of a piranha. Irresistable, yeah. Simply irresistable. 

6. 
Any song by the Pixies. The Pixies are America's greatest party band, but they still remain virtually unknown. Bred in Boston, this young band seems poised to steal the sacred crown from the Femmes with their brand of acoustic punk and sur­real, occasionally Spanish lyrics. Their 


of adolescent angst 
7. 
"Centerfold" -theJ. Geils Band. The song is virtually ignored nowadays, but put it in the tape deck, and the crowd will go hysterical. I promise. It has all the ingredi­ents ofa great party song: sing-along vocals, crunching guitar, and the all-time favorite topic ofparty songs-sex. Unfortunately, J. Geils were never able to equal it again. 

8. 
"Twist and Shout" -theBeatles. You keep looking at your watch. The beer's warm, the crowd's dead, and the music's lame. Suddenly, you find yourself consider­ing going to Theodore's and you realize you must be running a fever. Then, this beautiful girl in a baby blue sweater appears in a white haze and brushes against you. She smells of cherry blossoms. She looks at her watch and starts to leave. Then, the Beatles start blaring from the speakers, and you 're over­come by emotion. You grab her in your arms, her golden hair flying in the breeze. "Shake it up, baby," you scream. ''Twist and shout." She is not your mother. 


Yep, that's it The end of the list Find these songs, tape them, live them. Just don't tell anyone that I admitted I liked them. My reputation's at stake. As soon as I finish typing this, Bauhaus is going back on the 
stereo. I promise.II 

Movies/ John Mikulak and Scott Selig 

Sifting through the Video Pile 
F orom eeriness to eroticism, video rentals make the nightlife a little more reasonable 
In this age of the video, it is invariably less expensive to rent a tape for a night than to pay a ridiculously high admis­sion price to a theater. Therefore, we are offering our picks ofvideos to fit a range of particular moods. 
EERINESS 

Angel Heart (Directed by Alan Parker. Stars Mickey Rourke, Lisa Bonet) 
More than a conventional film noir, Angel Heart is steeped in the supernatural and is mainly set in the voodoo-drenched backwoods ofLouisiana. Full of deep mys­tery, sadistic crime, and haunting foreshad­owing, this film guarantees to put a shiver up your spine. 
Blue Velvet (Directed by David Lynch. Stars Dennis Hopper, Isabella Rosellini) 
Lynch's exploration of the seedy under­side ofsmall-town America is a perfect film for your dark moods. Dennis Hopper's bril­liant perfonnance as the evil Frank, com­bined with the film's subtle sarcasm and shocking brutality, make for a chilling venue on your VCR. 
Tough Guys Don't Dance (Directed by Nonnan Mailer. Stars Ryan O'Neil, Isa­bella Rosellini) 
This movie is told largely through flashbacks as Ryan O'Neil tries to recon­struct the insanity and murder that has oc­cured in the wake ofan alcoholic binge. The mise-en-scene , unconventional narrative, and bizarre characters combine to create an exceptionally creepy film. 
Gothic 

(Dffected by Ken'~\tars 
Julian Sands) 
The eccentric director Russell goes all out in a film that centers around the events that inspired Mary Shelley to write the novel Frankenstein . She draws her inspiration from a hallucination-filled night spent at the estate of the infamous Lord Byron. Gothic is a mature horror film for the intellectual who gets high from a nice dose of fear. 


DEPRESSION 
Sid and Nancy (Directed by Alex Cox) 
Anyone familiar with the Sex Pistols knows about the downfall to heroin and eventual death ofbassist Sid Vicious, along with the murder/suicide of his girlfriend, Nancy. This stunning and often surreal love story captures both the liberating madness of the punk movement and the numbing inertia of heroin addiction. It's the funniest film that will ever depress you. 
The Seventh Seal (Directed by Ingmar Bergman. Stars Max Von Sydow) 
Actually, any Bergman film will do for this category, but this film is an all-time favorite. Even though many construe the ending to be one of hope, you can never climb out of the well ofdepression inspired by Sydow, a knight who returns fonn the crusades to be confronted with a world suf­fering from the black plague. His sense of loneliness becomes acute as he grapples with his loss of faith in aGod of abandon­ment. 
The Purple Rose of Cairo (Directed by Woody Allen. Stars Mia Farrow) Although full of the gentle humor that often defines Woody's genius, this film, set 
during the depression, leaves the viewer with feelings of empty sympathy for the lonely character of Mia Farrow. Farrow is superb as a gentle woman who learns that illusionary cinema can only provide a brief respiie from the cold harsh facts of the de­pression. 
Pink Floyd's The Wall (Directed by Alan Parker. Stars Bob Geldof) 
Freud would have had a field day with the script/soundtrack to this musical film. Set to Pink Floyd's classic album, The Wall, it chronicles Floyd member Roger Water's psychological isolation and breakdown. Bob Geldof turns in a memorable perform­ance as the rock star named "Pink". A must for your neurotic moods. 

VIOLENCE 
A Clockwork Orange (Directed by Stanley Kubrick. Stars Malcolm McDowell) 
Viddy well, Droogs, as four young mal­cheks engage in some ultraviolence. Set in . a futuristic Britain, where gangs ravage helpless victims, this shocking film puts the young anti-hero, Alex, in the throes of a repressive government's mind control ex­periment. A fine portrayal of the sick off­spring of a sick society. 
Rollerball (Directed by Nonnan Jewison. Stars James Caan) 
This 1970's version of the future does seem dated now, but its message is poignant. The world of the future is run by corpora­tions that have eliminated social violence by channelling it into a brutal and deadly sport called Rollerball. Thegame, which includes metal spikes and motorcycles, mangles and 
Scholastic 
~------~­

-~~ --~ -------~ --------..:.~ ~~ --~ ...-. ~ 

kills players in a manner only dreamt of by If you can watch this film and explain gives a seductive perfomance. The plot, football fans. its plot coherently while not on drugs, then meanwhile, twists and turns almost as much 
you're lying -about not being on drugs. as Turner's and Hurt's bodies. Scarface (Directed by Brian DePalma. We're not even going to try to explain the Stars Al Pacino, Michelle Pfeiffer) film, except that it deals with sex, drugs, The Hunger (Directed by Tony Scott. Stars , 
This 1980's version of Al Capone has English grammar, mind control, and insane Catherine Deneuve, David Bowie, Susan / ! Al Paci no as a Cuban emigre-turned-Miami asylums. Have fun! Sarandon) / : cocaine lord. The drastic violence depicted Blood is a tum-on, and this is one sexy I as he rises from a street punk to the leader of Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory vampire movie. We'll let Catherine ii a drug empire will leave adisturbing imprint (Directed by Mel Stuart. Stars Gene Deneuve bite us any day. Tliefilm is al-I in your mind. Who could ever forget the Wilder) luringly shot, especially the scene in which chainsaw scene where ... Anyone who tells us they've seen a Deneuve seduces Sarandon. Girl-meets­.j 
world made of candy run by an incredibly girl; girl-bites-girl -what more could you .i Robocop (Directed by Paul Verhoeven. cynical gentleman with his army of little ask for? 
' 
Stars Peter Weller) orange men is definitely on acid. "But the 
This action-packed film (playing on film is for children!" Oh, come on, remem­Crimes of Passion (Directed by Ken campus on Oct. 14) concerning the future of ber the boat ride through the tunnel? Tell us Russell. Stars Kathleen Turner, Anthony law enforcement is a subtle commentary on those Oompa-Loompas weren't having a Perkins) such themes as the morality ofthe corporate bad trip. Subtitled "The Days and Nights of world, as well as the distinction between China Blue", this film sets Turner as a suc­humanity of the flesh, and that ofthe spirit. EROTICISM cessful executive during the day, a beautiful Oh yeah, Robocop also has tons of gratui­prostitute named China Blue at night. An­tous violence that guarantees to sastisfy the 9 1/2 Weeks (Directed by Adrian Lynn. thony Perkins is the insane minister out to bloodthirsty. Stars Mickey O'Rourke, Kim Basinger) "save" China Blue. Ken Russell uses this 
Ever try watching this film with your plot to explore the problems ofmale-female parents? Not a very comfortable situation. relationships in the 80's. Perversely con­PSYCHEDELIA This is a film essentially about O'Rourke ceived and crafted, this film will shock you 
and Basinger having sex. Its' paucity ofplot one minute, arouse you the next. ¦ Altered States (Directed by Ken Russell. is almost com­Stars William Hurt, Blair Brown) pensated for by 
For his first film, Hurt turned in an Adrian Lynn's intense performance as an obsessed psych brilliant and profin this 198Hilm. Searching for alterna­sensual direc­tive states of reality, he explores the per­tion. He cap­sonal effects ofsensory deprivation and hal­tures eroticism lucinogenic drugs. Blair Brown is his pro­in its essence. fessor-wife convinced he's going insane. A great film to The "trip" sequences in this film will blow watch with a your mind. Remember: Reality is a relative date. concept. 
Body Heat Performance (Directed by Nicholas Roeg (Directed by and Donald Crammell. Stars Mick Jagger) Lawrence 
A gem of psychedelia, this.film has a Kasden. Stars mobster-on-the-run posing as an out of William Hurt, . work juggler in order to get a room in Mick Kathleen: Jagger's freak~out haven for the weird. Try Turner) to follow the plot as it runs through drugs, A steamy: sex, crime, and the concept of identity. film noir set in , Some great camera work and acoustic num­the hot sum-: bersby Jaggerare supplemented by his ode­mer of the' to-androgeny groove moves. Deep South. 
More than End of the Road (Directed by Aram Ava­
t~mperatures. Rieb llkaBAle·v~.~the~o lrnmtlll or li!'M. 
kian. Stars Stacey Ke,ech,JamesEarIJones) ' nse as Turner "'"""""""""""""'' ···················-··. September 29, 1988 7 






Labor Pain 


Notre Dame's labor scene has not always been quiet, as evidenced by the ',, push for unions on both a clerical and faculty level in 1978 
BY MIKE WIEBER 
f T
he maid outside my door right now is very skilled in machine work and she can work with her hands, but ... they keep her in the hall vacuum­ing," said Teresa Ghilarducci, an assistant professor in the economics department refer­ring to Shirley Jackson, a memberofthe uni­versity staff. She is one of about 2,000 people under the supervision ofRoger Mullins, director ofhu­man resources. "I think there are people technically you would consider underem­ployed,>' said Mullins. The term "underem­ployed," in the business sense, refers to people who possess skills which they are unable to employ since there are no jobs available in which they can fully utilize their knowledge. "But, I'm sure there are Ph.D. and master's degree people who want to stay in the academic environment." Mullins oversees workers in secretarial, service and maintenance (which includes building and service employees and skilled tradespeople); technical employees who work in research laboratories; library em­ployees; and, administrative workers. He has presided as director for three years now; but, many years before he arrived, labor relations became an issue at Notre Dame. 
n the 1970s, the largest and most sig­
nificant disputes between the workers 
and the administration arose. Both the faculty and the staff felt pressure to struggle for a say in matters concerning their wages and treatment 
The Teamsters union made a push to un­ionize the staff on campus. The Observer rated the Teamster efforts the "Top Campus Story" of the 1977-78 academic year. It 
I 

reported: "Controversy surrounding the at­tempt of 21 groundskeepers to unionize broke out on Oct. IO (1978). The university announced its intention to fire the groundskeepers who were attempting to un­ionize with Teamsters Local 364. University officials stated they had been planning for some time to contract services and would no longer need the present force of workers." 
After workers, students and faculty raised a "furor," the Observer reporter that "Notre Dame subsequently withdrew its plans to lay off the 21 workers. In the following months, the controversy grew to engulf unionization of about 200 other university workers ... unfair labor practice charges against Notre Dame and hearings before the National Labor Relations Board." 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, who was then president of the university, resisted the movement. "Father Hesburgh was opposed to the unionizing of groundskeepers, food service, housekeeping and laundry person­nel by the local Teamsters union in 1977 to 1978," said Father Patrick Sullivan, an ad­junct assistant professor in the sociology department 
In an open letter to the university, which ran on page one of the October 14, 1977 Observer, Hesburgh wrote: "So that there is no misunderstanding of our present inten­tions, I wish to state that the University has been exploring and will continue to explore the question of the efficiency and economy ofother non-academic functions on campus, as well as groundskeeping, with an eye to contracting them or dropping the function." 
Hesburgh did not like the connotations of 
the Teamsters, according to Sullivan. "He 
stated that he was opposed to it because ofthe 
image the Teamsters have nationally. He felt that it was influenced by the Mafia with corruption and practices not to the best bene­fit of the workers and employees," said Sul­livan. 

Sullivan, however, said he disagrees with this feeling. Although these connotations might be true at some levels, according to Sullivan, the local Teamsters had proved themselves to be true to both the employee and the employer. 
Hesburgh and Philip Faccenda also raised other more financial matters about the union. Hesburgh wrote: "If we are to improve salaries, wages and fringe benefits for all who work here, while avoiding astronomical increases in tuition, we simply have to intro­duce economics of operation." 
Faccenda told the Observer on August 31, 1978, that "Notre Dame does not want the Teamsters on campus. If the workers are unionized there is no question that it would affect students tuition." 
The NLRB became involved with the issue when the board brought unfair labor practice · charges against the university, which were settled in part by re-establishing a university­run food service and a university agreement that it would not "subcontract any work or threaten to subcontract in order to discourage support or membership in Teamsters Local 364," the settlement read. 
Later, the Teamsters petitioned for a rep­resentation election, which is an employee vote on whether or not they wish to be repre­sented by a union. The university and the Teamsters disagreed further over how the election would occur. The Teamsters wanted separate bargaining units, such as the groundskeepers and laundry workers, to vote on unionization rather than the entire campus work force, which also would have included 


8 


secretaries. The NLRB ruled to dismiss the Teamsters' petition for separate bargaining units, and talk of unionization on campus stopped. 
The union never made its presence known well enough to overcome its image and Hesburgh's subsequent disapproval, to firmly establish itself on campus. Thus, the staff employees on campus remained inde­pendent of a formalized labor structure. 
Leading the ranks for the faculty in 1978 were three men: Thomas Shaffer, dean of the Law School; James Robinson, assistant chair of the Eng­lish Department; and Thomas Swartz, col­lege fellow in the College ofArts and Letters. "There was a concern for faculty participa­tion in university governance," said Swartz. But the issues had arisen several years earlier, when in 1974 the Faculty Senate considered the advantages and pitfalls of adopting a union to represent them in matters concerning working conditions and eco­nomic and governance questions. "They sent out questionnaires, put out a report and talked about unionizing," said Harriet Flowers, secretary of the senate. "There seemed to be a centralization of power into the provost's office. Decisions were made from the top which flew in the face of collegiality," said Swartz. This sense of unity among the university community is essential to strong academics, according to Swartz. "There was clearly a mood of 'them and us.' A university is a strange place. We're all part of the same fabric. We're all scholars and the faculty was frustrated," he said. When some of the faculty felt that there was a deterioration in this community, they looked to unionization as a source ofrenewed strength. "The faculty, out of frustration, turned to unionization as a solution. They had a card campaign where people say that if an election were held, they would vote for a union," said Swartz. "About one-third of the faculty would be a part of the bargaining group. This was an amazing fact," said Swartz. "They need 30 percent to sign union cards, then the NLRB will come to hold an elec­tion," said Ghilarducci. The union which the faculty was to join is 
September 29, 1988 
called the American Association of Univer­sity Professors, according to Ghilarducci. She foresaw many benefits, beyond those which Swartz hoped for. The primary advan­tage that she cited involved the "formaliza­tion" process that a union relies upon. Through this, the workers are better able to suggest creative promotions, and promote underemployed laborers as well as create a healthier and safer environment. 
But an election was never held. Support had been rallied behind the effort, but never realized. "There was a major change in the administration. That was a signal to the faculty that their message had been heard," said Swartz. 
That administrative change was the resig­nation of Father James Burtchaell from the office of provost, the university's number three position which oversees academic af­fairs. "The provost who seemed to be the source of some of the faculty discontent chose to resign to full time teaching and research," said Swartz. Burtchaell is now a professor in the theology department. 
Swartz, however, was quick to defend Burtchaell's administrative style. "Jim ­Burtchaell's view of what this place should be about was right on the money. He had a clear view, one that was forward-looking." 
Nonetheless, Swartz felt Burtchaell tried too hard to achieve his goals. "There was an impatience, and perhaps correctly so, that others were moving too slowly and he had to do it all. He took it all, and this is hardly the thing to do in a university. There was an administrative styleofJim that unnecessarily caused a disruption. Not the substance of what he had, but, by and large, it was folks concern on his style," Swartz said. 
Shortly after Burtchaell left, Timothy O'Meara assumed the position of provost. "Tim O 'Meara came from the lay faculty and raised our salaries something to the level of other universities," said Swartz. 
This was a successful solution l(? the'issue, according to Swartz. "Tim O'Mearakeeps a very low profile ... we:ve.,.·been joined by wonderful colleagues and the university has made a conscious effort to bring the best faculty," said Swartz. 
Swartz added that the issue of salaries is important, even though this was not the rea­son labor union talk arose. "Raising faculty salaries so that you begin to approach the levels of universities that take themselves seriously is the only way to attract the best faculty." 
Despite the overall success of the faculty in the area of wages, some academic resources were lost in the dispute. "We lost some ofour scholars. One of those was Tom Shaffer, an internationally known scholar and dean of the Law School," said Swartz. Shaffer re­turned to his position as dean this year after a decade of absence. 
For the past ten years the subject has been dormant There has been little or no talk of unionization on campus. Ghilarducci, how­ever stressed the potential. "It is possible. The groundskeeper's (would have to unite) again, then the food service workers and then 
the laundry service," she remarked about one particular scenario. II 
.!fif;itiie;at,:ie~1¢


}(!.f~nt~~l.lY \cYOU·······i·.••wo.~I.d . :.8g~~id~r·•···•Rn~.erem.ploJred~./~~lnl'ips~r!there~re:Ph.i_ ·:Qr J1tncl•x·••·m11ster's .•>degree..•·r~ij.otl~iffitj 'fij11fto.stay·in. .. the academic< environ; ·.•·.•..........•.··•mie'inJti.x,; • · • t · >• • · .· · 
-:..-.-,.:.c.-,::,.-__-.:":-.-.-·: .-..... _.· :"'°.':-: ..-/ _\·:, . ·:-.:::-:-.: :: •, ·--:.'-_ 

' lR.rig~f l\1tilll11s, dire~tor. ·ar.aufu~ti\tJ$.hrcfs_•••·-•·-•·• // 






tan 


Although the subject oflabor unions has been dormant for 10 years, many of the problems remain unsolved 

BY ANDY HILGER shown itself to be honest, independent, and helping to support his or her family, and, in 
hey tried to form a union before I interested in helping workers and not imped-many instances, is burdened with the entire 
started working here," said one ing the best interests of the institution or responsibility of paying the bills. Although 
'T 

full-time campus employee, who company financially," contended Father the individual will be awarded some fringe 
asked not to be identified "and the ot Patrick Sullivan of the Sociology Depart-benefits, according to Teresa Ghilarducci, fired." This worker was asssitant professor of eco­referring to the 1978 at-nomics, the yearly salary tempted unionization of for such a person can be the groundskeepers. They calculated to approxi­were not fired because of mately $9,000 per year. any attempt to organize a This figure falls below the union; rather, according to $11,203 poverty level fora 1978 Observer reports, family of four in 1986 they brought in a union according to theJournal of after they were told of Economic Literature. The their impending layoff. p;,,.....,._ Notre Dame Economics 
Along with this flawed ,_,,....._ department estimated that notion of the past, many this figure has risen be-workers are very dubious tween 3 and 4 percent each with regard to the motives --....;,;.:__,_ year since then. 
and potential effects of the -~......-.. "Many students get paid unions. "I've worked .,..---more than the clerical with unions before and F-"""-"---'-'---------..;...._----__;.:==--'=-'----~~,.;_i workers. People who are nothing really good has Full-time din in hall workers have taken on additional hours recent! supporting families are come out of it," said the same worker. ment. getting paid less (than some of the student 
"It is true that some nefarious influences are When a person from the South Bend area employees)," said Ghilarducci. within the Teamsters union at national and takes on the job ofa maid at Notre Dame, that One problem is created by the lack of stu­sometimes local levels. However, the local individual is faced with a starting wage of dents willing to take jobs working in the Teamsters union in the South Bend area has $4.50 per hour. This person is almost always dining hall. Full-time workers, who are paid 

10 



between five and 10 dollars per hour, have had to fill some of the empty slots created by the absence of students. This has created some work weeks of more than 40 hours along with work days that, on occasion, range between IO and 15 hours, according to one University Food Service employee. 
Roger Mullins, director of human re­sources at the university, contended that the salaries paid to the workers are comparable to thoseoftheSouth Bend community. "Wedo a salary survey every year. We compare ourselves to the service industry in South Bend. (NotreDame)pays 102percentofthe market (in terms of salaries). We are slightly above average," stressed Mullins. 
Approximately two thousand staff and one thousand faculty members make up the uni­versity payroll for full-time employees. This can further be broken down into 25 percent secretarial, 50 percent service maintenance, 15 percent technical and 10 percent adminis­trative, according to Mullins. 
Notre Dame serves as the second largest employer in the metropolitan South Bend community, trailing only Bendix. The me­dian household Effective Buying Income (EBI) for Saint Joseph's County is $25,562, according to the South Bend -Mishawaka Area Chamber of Commerce. 
"I think one of the things that the univer­sity does well is take care of the faculty and staff. In the past few years, things seem to be on an upbeat," said Mullins. 
Some of the ways in which the university "takes care of' the staff involve health, life, and disability insurance as well as retirement pensions and paid time off. "Financially, those are very big items for the university," stated Mullins. 
Mullins also touched on the direction in which benefits to clerical workers is headed. "We are moving to a flexible benefit pro­gram." One in which the workers can "choose a program based upon their family needs and redirect the benefits." 
But Ghilarducci had quite a different inter­pretation of the care that Notre Dame pro­vides for its employees. "My impression is that there is very little upward mobility," remarked Ghilarducci. She also noted that staff members don't get football or basket­ball tickets and, until two years ago, they had to work at the university for IO years before 
September 29, 1988 
' ' 
' 

''It has been the Church's teaching f<>r al~ost;J~O 


ilf(~'.?:E~~ilf1 
have fffr niotaf tight···to organiz~unions of tlleiri choice." .'."Father Patrick Sullivan.·.· 



they could send their children to school at Notre Dame with the customary tuition break that a faculty member who has been em­ployed by the university for only two years receives for his child. 
Although many people are employed by the university for several years -the average length ofservice for a Notre Dame employee is nine years -Ghilarducci considers the turnover rate to be rather substantial. "(The university) sure doesn ~t encourage (lengthy service) by giving large pensions." 
Another area in which Ghilarducci feels that the university could improve involves promotions. "(The administration) really 
A Holy Cross Hall maid relaxes during her break. 
I
: 
:I 
I 

should put their minds to internal promo­
I

tion." She also attacked the manner in which the university scrutinizes their workers. ''They would probably be much more aware ofthe minority ofpeople doing poorly at their jobs. It's sort of defensive attention rather than (positive reinforcement)." 
Mullins, on the other hand, defended the environment of the workers. "In terms of training our management staff, we spend a lot of time teaching them management skills. We have about 275 managers. That has been helpful in maintaining a positive work envi­ronment," he said. 
There have been recent uprisings among laborers at Harvard, Wayne State and Brown Universities, all involving unions. While Harvard workers push for a union, Brown and Wayne State's unionized employees are rallying for better working conditions (see related story). No such labor unions exist on the Notre Dame campus. 
"It has been the Church's teaching for almost a hundred years since Pope Leo XIII' s Rerum Novarum (On the Condition of La­bor) that workers have a moral right to organ­ize unions of their choice," said Sullivan. "This right has been emphasized as just as equaliy applicable to Catholic institutions as other work scenes by the Economic Pastoral of United States Catholic Bishops," he con­tinued. 

"I think that there is a greater formality when a union is formed," stated Ghilarducci. The health and safety of the employee, crea­tive ways to promote workers and the promo­tion of the underemployed, people who have skills which exceed the demands of their current position, represent the primary issues that a union can be effective in resolving, according to Ghilarducci. 
One possible group that could emerge to organize the laborers is the local South Bend Teamsters union, the group that stepped in during the controversy approximately 10 years ago. After 17 months of negotiating their efforts to unionize the groundskeepers, dining hall workers, maids and laundry per­sonnel fell through. 

While no unions exist on campus, Mullins likens one particular position to that of a union. "We have employee relations repre­sentatives who function as a union steward would function-for example, talking with staff and helping management with a disci­plinary problem." Anywhere between 65 and 70 percent of that person's time is chan­nelled toward this environment, according to Mullins. 
Sullivan emphasized the importance of a bipartisan decision making body in labor management relations. "It's understandable that the administration or management of any institution or company would prefer to deter­mine its workers' wages, fringe benefits, and working conditions. Yet, workers in institu­tions and companies have as equally moral a right to engage in collective bargaining through their own representatives, as profes­sionals in the legal, medical, and any other area have a right to form associations to advance their professional interests," said Sullivan. 
"Furthermore, such a right is enshrined in the preamble of the National Labor Relations Act, the primary la\)Or/management legisla­tion in the United Sfates, and many United Nations documents on human rights," he continued. 
With regard to relations between labor and management at Notre Dame, Mullins cited an open forum situation as one of the most posi­tive aspects. These forums have been an ef­fective means of communication in recent years, according to Mullins. "I try to talk with the staff quarterly in an open forum. Those have been very successful...We need to con­tinually work on how we're communicating with theNotreDamecommunity," he said. "I have tried to open up communication. We try to talk about needs which helps us to head off any unrest which may develop," continued Mullins. 
"One of the biggest advances of open fo­rums is that it gives people the chance to ask why decisions were made," stated Mullins. "Ifthey could only understand why a decision was made that doesn't make sense (to them). We place emphasis on rational," he contin­ued. 
"Management is how we want to be treated on a day to day basis. That may not cause you to like the decision but at least it will cause you to understand it," concluded Mullins. 
Sullivan addressed the issue of labor/man­agement relations with respect to a labor union. "To argue that labor unions are bound to disrupt an educational, health care or any other service community is a failure to meet the challenge of creative labor/management relations. Especially is this so when manage­ment theory is more and more oriented to worker, co-management, and gain sharing," said Sullivan. 
Are people paid according to their skills? Is there equity between workers? Do they par­ticipate in the decision making process? The answers to these questions, according to Ghilarducci, determine the degree to which a labor union could be effective. 
"To the question, 'Is a labor union possible at Notre Dame?' the answer depends upon: one, the desire of the employees to have a union of their own choosing; two, the re­sponse of the administration to creative la­bor/management relations; and three, the re­sponse of any union and the administration to Catholic social teaching on social justice ­specifically with regard to the mutual respect and accountability of workers and employ­ers," stated Sullivan. 
Ghilarducci conciuded her assessment of the condition of management and labor rela­tions with an analogy to the marriage bond. "For a while, men thought that they wanted dumb partners; but, after a while, they real­ized that two equal partners have a more productive relationship than (people with) an authoritarian relationship." Ill 




STRIKI DIFFERENCES 
The issue oflabor relations has suifaced at a number ofcollege campuses 

BY CATHY FLYNN 

f O
ne, two, three, four, we know Brown can pay us more; five, six, seven, eight, come on Brown negotiate," screamed protesters at a Brown University demonstration on behalf of union workers last Friday. In response to a university decision to impose cost-sharing of health insurance premiums on union 
workers in plant, operations, food services and the library, about 200 students, union members, and professors gathered to rally support for their cause, reported the Brown Daily Herald, the student newspaper. 
Controversies like this one are not unique to the Brown campus. Several other univer­sities on the East Coast are facing similar situations. 
Harvard University is in the midstofa labor controversy. "For the past seventeen years, the support staff has been trying to form a union," Melissa Hart of The Harvard Crim­son, the student newspaper, said. Objections from a "paternal, condescending board" have forced the issue into the hands of the law, according to Hart. 
Harvard administrators said their reason for opposing this most recent attempt of the workers to form a union was an unfair elec­tion. When the workers voted with regard to forming a union last May, the administration 


across the country 

said that the union kept illegal lists ofvoters. This would make the results of the election, which was a 43 percent marginal vote in favor of unionization, null and void. 
Issues that pushed workers at Harvard to unite include low pay, respect, and equality, Hart said. "Women's issues, such as child­care and maternity leave are also reasons that the seven-man corporation (the board pro­

testing the union) opposes unionization," said Hart. 
Currently, the Harvard case is in the hands of the court, which is trying to determine whether or not the allegations of the Harvard administrators are true. 
Disputes between labor and management are not, however, always confined to argu­ments over whether or not to unionize. 
Wayne State University, for instance, is cur­rently voting on whether to conclude the tentative agreement they now have with their faculty. The faculty members were on strike for two weeks before a tentative agreement was reached and they returned to work. The clerical workers at Wayne State are still on strike and have not reached an agreement with the administration which would allow them to resume working. "Despite this in­convenience," said Robert Wertner, a spokesman for the department ofpublic rela­tions, "the climate is not really tense. Only 450 to 475 employees are actually on strike out of more than 6,000 people who are em­ployed by the college," Wertner said. "There is some slowdown in transcript production and financial aid applications," he said. 
The unions that currently are protesting at Wayne State were formed in the 1970s, Wertner said. Because Wayne State Univer­sity is in Michigan, its unions are protected by a state law that requires the public univer­sities to recognize labor unions. 
Indiana, on the contrary, has no collective bargaining laws at all. Because of this, "the environment in Indiana is different than in Michigan," said Richard Macek, profes­sional employment coordinator at Indiana University. It differs also from private uni­versities which are governed by the National Labor Relations Act 
"Public colleges or universities in Indiana nelly of the personnel department said. At the present time, there are no outstand­operate on a voluntary basis when it comes to There were three elections held by the work­ing conflicts between Georgetown adminis­unionization," Macek said. He added that ers before they had enough votes to form a trators and their labor unions. However, the this point is illustrated by the fact that Indiana union. "Stipulations of set collective bar-unions were formed based on a "perception 
University chose to operate under a un­ionized system while Purdue, another pub­lic university in Indi­ana, has chosen not to. 
"The 1960s were a time of growth in the public sector towards more unionization," said Macek. "Indiana 
'.'t#~ ·x~<>9s i~er~ ~iti111e ~f gf,?iir!~ i,11 t~f:;~~~lit:~~BtP:f)2~}
····•wrr.~s·····lll?re····lllli9niz~ti?n.·\!ll~i~nal.Jiji,Y.rr~.itf'ii1~A~~t?~l1·.

,titl~iiltlff1~tt~~iz;i:i:~t:it:~r~:r~~~; 
University's decision in favor of unioniza­tion was symptomatic of what was occurring across the nation." Unions have existed in a "positive environment" at Indiana Univer­sity for twenty-two years, said Macek. There have never been any strikes, according to Macek. 
Similarly, the relationship between the staff at Georgetown University and the administration is "very good," Patricia Con-gaining rules must be adhered to ifa union is to be formed," Connelly said. These rules require a certain percentage ofthe workers to vote to elect the particular union they wish to join. 

"The union package is expensive," Con­nelly said. ''The workers make a contract on how much they will pay for the package, but if that is minimal, the university picks up the tab." 
on the part of the vot­ing body that im­provements could be made with the help of a union," Connelly said. The opportunity now exists for collec­tive bargaining on the part of the workers, although Connelly "can't see (a strike)

happening here." 
Even though the threat of protests does not seem to be an issue at Georgetown or Indiana right now, it remains one at several universi­ties where labor and administrations clash. The echoes can still be heard at Brown where protesters continue chanting, "What do we want? Justice. When do we want it? Now."lll 

Scholastic 

COMPILED BY JIM MAGGIO
p rt w ek 

MIKE O'CONNOR. They finished first, second, and fourth respectively in their opening meet against 
'· ......:: .... :·/:..:: .>,.>

Georgetown. The Irish continued their winning ways last week 
ATIILl!:TE•·••{)E
by recording their second and third shutouts of the 
THEWEEK: .
season, beating Western Michigan 3-0 and Birming­ham-Southern 5-0. Forward RANDY MORRIS 
The Irish women's cross country team also plays 

P.}A U ··•L 
host to the National Catholic Championships tomor­
scored a goal and an assist in both contests, while 
ODLAND: Od~ 
row at Burke Memorial. Their starting time is 3 p.m. 
keeper DANNY LYONS recorded both shutouts. 
Jarid, a soph~rriqre
The ladies' field will feature 20 teams, including Notre Dame's third 100-point scorer with two goals 
forward BRUCE 'TIGER" MC COURT became 
from Edina, MN,
Providence, Boston College, and DePaul. 
Senior captain THERESA RICE and freshman
against Birmingham-Southern. 
f asthe.highestfinisherforth§ Nbh{p~fuf
LUCY NUSRALA, both coming off strong finishes in 
Notre Dame plays its final regular-season Mid­
ipe11's·.tennis·teaipin·theNavyA,l•l•S~riff
a dual meet against Georgetown, are expected to lead Detroit tomorrow night. They then travel to Wiscon­
western Collegiate Conferenc~ game at home against 
an injury-riddled squad. Sophomore JENNIFER 
ence,roufllaryi~nt. ·.Qdlat1.d fi~1~hed Stx;P~d·. 
LEDRICK is listed as doubtful for the meet, while
sin on Sunday to take on the Badgers at I p.m. 
in the#7 singles flight toJ)qug Brownyf
T~xasA&Mi . . ......· ....·.. ·.

senior TERRY KIBELSTIS is probable after missing last week's practices due to an injury. 
Notre Dame posted a 1-1 mark last week, losing to Midwest rival Purdue 13-15, 15-11, 11-15, 7-15 and defeating Rice 15-7, 15-13, 15-8. MAUREEN SHEA 
Notre Dame opens its fall season on Oct. 2-3 at the had ten kills and no errors in 20 attack attempts against 
Indiana State Championships in Zionsville, IN, at the Rice, while TRACEY SHELTON added three service 
Golf Oub of Indiana. They last won the state champi­fmisher for the Irish was sophomore PAUL OD­aces. 
onships in 1978, edging Purdue 758-760. LAND, who took second in the #7 singles flight. The Irish will play host to Butler tomorrow and 
The Irish will be led this season by co-captains The Irish arc out of action until next weekend, Western Michigan on Saturday. They rank eighth this 
PAT MOHAN and DOUG GIORGIO. Mohan was when they travel to Muncie, IN to compete in the Ball week in the NCAA Midwest Regional Poll. 
last year's team MVP, while Giorgio led the Irish to a State Invitational. 
second-place fmish last year at the state champion­ships, placing fifth overall with a 153 total (76-77). 

The Notre Dame men's cross country team plays host to the ninth annual National Catholic Champion­
feated last week, running its record to 13-0 with wins ships tomorrow at 4 p.m. at the Burke Memorial Golf 
The Irish women's golf team fmished 19th out of over Anderson College (9-0) and Illinois (7-2). So­Course. A field of 25 teams is expected to compete in 
21 teams last week at the Lady Northern Invitational in phomore SARAH MAYER remained undefeated in what is traditionally one of the most competitive 
West Lafayette, IN. The Big Ten Conference swept singles play and has lost only once in doubles action. Midwest races. 
the top three team spots, led by Indiana, Ohio State, The Belles travel to Upland, IN tomorrow to take 'Ibc Irish will be looking for good performances 
and Minnesota. on Taylor University. They return home Saturday to from DAN GARRETT, RON MARKEZICH, and 
Notre Dame takes on these and other Big Ten play St. Francis-Joliet at 9:00 a.m. teams at the Michigan State Invitational tomorrow and Saturday. The 54-holc tournament will be played at

•i ,:\;\J.:Cx:)L)S:. 
the Forest West Golf Course in East Lansing, MI. 
The Saint Mary's soccer team also kept its unde­



l~~~~£;/2jf 
feated record intact last week, shutting out illinois­Chicago 4-0 and Purdue 3-0. GREER GILLILAND Notre Dame recorded its fourth consecutive shut­and KELLY FRALEIGH scored goals in both con­

Il,~!f~'~#M 
out at home on Sunday, defeating St. Joseph's College tests.
SHE:tTON. 
3-0. The other victories last week came at the hands of Western Michigan (5-0), Wheaton College (1-0), and Adrian College (7-0). 
The Irish will host Saint Mary's College tomor­row at Moose Krause Stadium, marking the first time these two teams play one another in varsity competi­tion. 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team opened its 1988-89 season at the Navy All-Conference Tourna­ment in Annapolis, MD last weekend, facing players from four of the nation's top-25 squads. The top 
Saint Mary's will play Notre Dame tomorrow at Moose Krause Stadium for the first time in varsity competition. They then travel to Adrian, MI on Sun­day to battle Sienna Heights. 

The Belles' record stood at 10-9 last week, follow­ing losses to Goshen and Xavier in match play and a quarterfinal fmish in the IU-PUI Tournament. Saint Mary's defeated Goshen and DePauw in the tourney, led by the solid play of PATI KNOBEL. 
Saint Mary's travels to Grace College on Tuesday for an important league match-up. 

September 29, 1988 

I 
TH 



Thelrish put their number-five ranking on the line against a team that makes the opposition see red 

BY TERRY LYNCH 
OK., sports fans, let's get one thing 
traight: The mascot ofStanford is 
the Cardinal. As in the singular: one cardinal. Don't ask for any reasons, because, after all, this team is from Califor­nia, and the sixties influenced the school heavily. During that decade, Stanford switched its mascot from the Indian to the Cardinal. And if you ask where the "s" is in "Cardinal," you're just as likely to get the response, "Hey, dude, it's on the helmets." 
What do you expect from a state that elected Jerry Brown and Ronald Reagan as governor? It's a strange state. 
And yet "S" might as well stand for "strangers." The last time Notre Dame played Stanford, for instance, Ara Parseghian was Notre Dame's head coach and Lyndon Johnson was president. Quar­terback John Huarte, who would win the Reisman Trophy at the end of the season, guided the Irish to a 28-6 win. 
It's been a while. So long, in fact, that few would have thought back then -to say nothing of last year -that teams such as Michigan, Michigan State, Purdue and Stanford would amass a whopping com­bined record of 4-8 after three weeks. So much for Notre Dame having one of the toughest schedules in the land. 
But it's time for the 3-0 Irish to move out of the Big 10 and into the big time: Pac-IO football, as in UCLA, USC, Washington and Arizona State. 

And Stanford? Granted, the Cardinal is 1-2 and coming off of a 7-3 loss against Oregon. But hold on a minute. Both of Stanford's conference games -the other against USC -were lost by four points each time. Stanford led both games going into the fourth quarter. 
"What I told the team was that it was an unfortunate loss," said Stanford head coach Jack ("John's dad") EIway after the opening 24-20Ioss to 5th-ranked Southern Cal. "But 

we now know the level that we can play at." 
Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz ech­

oed Elway's sentiment about the 
Cardinal's potential. "(Stanford) easily 
could be 3-0 with a few breaks. They were 
up 13-0 against USC and led until the final 
minute of the game. The Oregon game 
turned out to be a real defensive struggle 
that could have gone either way. So there's 
no question in my mind that we 're going to 
have all we can handle this week." 
What it all comes down to is this: Stan­

ford is beatable, but not quite as beatable as 
the unbelievably pathetic 1-2 Purdue team 
that the Irish squashed 52-7 on Saturday. 
The Cardinal, regardless ofthe missing "s," 
should not be taken lightly. Considering 
that this game is the first in a series ofeight 
during the next ten years, with an option for 
an additional ten years, that's important.. 
So how does Stanford do it? It doesn't 

hurt that the school begins classes this 
week, allowing the football team to have a 
virtual semipro status in the month of Sep­
tember. 
Academic thoughts aside, the Cardinal returns 16 starters from last year's 5-6, injury-prone team that began with a blazing · 0-4 start. The Cardinal lost Brad Muster, Stanford's second-leading career rusher and receiver, to the pros, which gave Elway cause to change the offense. The Cardinal now operates the old run-and-shoot, which is a pseudonym for "sandlot ball," the idea being that the offense throws the ball a lot, 

but only talces what -:~;:~Jt that's right, the the defense gives it. .. ii:JJ Oklahoma offense As the Stanford -could manage press guide brags, against 'SC last "some coaches say week. But other that when (the run than Volpe, no and shoot) is run Cardinal has properly, it is very rushed for over 52 difficult, if not im-yards. In the re-possible, to stop." ceiving depart-
Well, let's see. ment, Johnson will The Cardinal of-pass to junior tail­fense has done well · back Charlie so far, averaging Young (12 recep­324 yards per game, tions for 182 yards) most of them (201) and sophomore through the air. But wide receiver the defense has Chris Walsh (11 been most of the for 114). problem so far, giv-Defensively, ing up 326 yards per defensive tackle game (146 rushing, Lester Archam­180 passing), and beau(6-5,255)and shooting down ~-=-~ ..,.,_=~,,-i nose guard Ray whatever the of-Huckestein (6-2, fense runs up. Rice, left, is primarily an option quaterback. Brian Johnson, right, is known as a passer. 265) are both solid 
Stanford quarterback Brian Johnson, pound guard Andy Papathanassiou ( defensive players, and junior linebackers meanwhile, spends a lot of his time out in pronounced papa-than-uh-SEE-you), Rob Hinckley andJono Tunney have played left field -literally. Aside from putting the line is dominated by seniors. Sinclair, well so far this season. some fairly good statistics on the board (50 aside from being an all-America candidate, The Irish should be wary of Cardinal of89for580yards,2TDs,3int.),Johnson's has distinguished himself by starting in punt return specialist Alan Grant, a 5-10, only other notoriety is that he was the start-every one of the 37 games over the past four 187-pound senior comerback. Grant was ing leftfielderon Stanford's national cham-seasons. first in the nation in 1987 in average yards pion baseball team last spring. He posted per punt return (16.52). That fact should be equally competent yet unimpressive stats in Junior fullback Jon Volpe (72 rushes for significant if only for the fact that Notre that sport (.319 avg., 24 RBIs, 10 doubles 324 yards, 3 TDs) docs most of the running Damehadapuntretumerofitsown last year and 2 home runs). for the Cardinal, and leads Stanford in re-in Tim Brown, and has one this year in Ricky 
The last quarterback from Stanford to ceiving as well (13 catches for 84 yards). Watters. start in those two sports, you may recall, Although small (5-7, 195), Cardinal Stanford will play a well-rested Notre was John Elway, now of Denver Broncos coaches rate Volpe as the strongest pound-Dame team when the game begins at 6 p.m. fame. Notto worry, though; thatisaboutthe for-pound player on the team. No wonder; Saturday in front of a national cable audi­only comparison between the two athletes. Volpe could dead liftS 15 pounds and bench ence. Fullback Anthony Johnson is ex­
"Stanford has been known as a passing 335 in high school. "When Jon gets the peeled to return to the Irish lineup after team, ahd Brian Johnson certainly enables ball," drools the press guide, "visions of a missing the Purdue game because of an them to maintain that image," said Holtz. 'Pinball Wizard' are conjured up ... He ankle sprain. Substitute Tony Brooks' 110 "He's certainly the most capable passer seems to gain momentum at times after yards on 11 carries against the Boilennak­we've seen this year, and that should be a bouncing off people." ers, however, will be tough to forget. good test for our secondary." Amazingly, the only reported Irish in-
The offensive line is impressive, and "Volpe isn't big," said Holtz, "but he jury after Saturday's journey to the bottom probably the mainstay of the team. All five certainly is effective, and their offensive of the depth chart was a bruised knee suf­starters are returning to the Cardinal line, as line is big and experienced." Volpe can also fered by Steve Belles. Something definitely well as its two top replacements. Led by 6-come up with a big game here and there, and strange is going on, but we should have 3, 280 pound senior center Andy Sinclair, his 98 yards against Southern Cal were nine known that already; the letter on Stanford's tackleJohnZentner(6-5,288)and6-4,265-more than the entire Oklahoma offense -helmets tipped us off. II 




AYE, AYE, COXSWAIN 
Coxswains on the Notre Dame men's crew steer their team to victory 
BY ED KROMER

'S itready!" _ 
Kristi Galli barked the com­
mand in anticipation, waking her 

novice men's crew from their pre-race stu­
por. She felt nervous. Everything about her 
first race was different than she had imag­
ined: All preparation seemed to have been 
cast aside. 
Facing her crew at the start of the three­

mile Maumee River Regatta course, Kristi 
sat on the hard, thin coxswain seat at the stem 
of the old wooden racing shell. Soon, she 
would be the victim of rough, inexperienced 
oar strokes that would toss her about like an 
oversized man in the seat of a county fair 
bumper car. She relied on her concentration 
to cushion the blows. 
Ahead lay an unforgiving obstacle 

course littered with ocean swells, icy winds, 
and hairpin turns -threeofthe indigenous and 
unfriendly quirks ofrowing. This trial by fire 
for the untested coxswain and crew included 
an unwelcome and dangerous surprise: a 
river-swallowing barge plodded toward the 
boat in mid-race. Only quick thinking and 
clever steering averted the threat to both 
Kristi and her crew. 
But now, before the race began, there 

was no signal, no premonition of the danger 
to come. Now, there was only Kristi, her 
crew and the other boats, stiffly awaiting the 
beginning of the race. "Composure," she 
demanded from her spinning head. "Don't 
give them anything to think about but row­
ing." The flag.dropped, she brought the boat to full power and the race began. 
KristiGalliandLizButlerarecoxswains -those small women who seem to do little but sit in the back ofrowing shells, yelling at the rowers-for the Notre Dame men's crew. The title derives from the Old English combina­tion of "swain" and "cox," meaning "boy in service to the boat." The contemporary coxswain is often a fully matured female and the service to the boat is more complex than it used to be. 
It's an unlikely position: two small women involved in a sport where size and strength are paramount. Galli and Butler chose to face daily discomfort, sit still in ·a sport of motion and be the most misunder­stood part of a puzzling form of racing. 
"After a while, I found out how much a coxswain can help a boat," said Butler. "My only obligation is to steer, but I can also act as a mini-coach." 


On the lakes near her home in Barring­ton, IL, Butler developed a love for boating, which led her to the Sailing Club's stand at her first Notre Dame activities night. But before her pen could reach the sign-up sheet, she was whisked away from the crowd by a pair of tenacious recruiters from the Rowing Club, in search of extraordinarily large and small specimens. Butler had the dimensions to fit the latter bill and the demeanor to cox boats. After a short stint on the novice team, the men's varsity called her up to fill an open position. 
"At first I couldn't understand the role of a coxswain," she said. "I didn't think the rowers gave them so much attention and respect on the water. Oncelrealized that they did want to hear what I said, it was easier." 
Of course, it's in the oarsman's best interest to heed the calls of the coxswain. · Sprinters, cyclists, and even swimmers (aside from the backstrokers) can see where they are headed. But the oarsman, due to his ba~kward motion, sees only from whence he came. Because any rubber-knecking can 


Liz Butler is learning to row 

throw the instable shell off keel, the cox­swain must become the eyes for eight rowers during their time on the water. "Sound steering is basic, but important," adds Galli, a men's coxswain for three years, who might have learned this skill growing up in Philadelphia, a sort of rower's Mecca. Instead, it was only after she left the famed Schuylkill River and its Boathouse Row for a more famous Golden Dome that crew first hooked her. 
Both being of diminutive stature, Galli and Butler fit rowing's gilded slipper, the coxswain seat. During the fall and spring seasons, they walk the thin line between too heavy and too light. If they step below the llO pounds allowed to coxswains of men's crews, the boat must carry sand as ballast. Step above and the boat has to pull more weight than its competitors. Because races are often decided by fractions ofseconds, the pounds add up. 
The coxswain's basic function is to steer. Mastering this talent is vital to racing efficiently and to averting boats, bridges, and debris which threaten the lives of both the crew and their fragile boat shells. Steering can be taught to a point, but most of the learning comes by trial and error. 
"It's hard to learn because nobody really knows how to coach coxing," Galli said. Inevitably, mistakes lead to learning. "One ofmy first times out in a varsityboat,Isteered too close to a bridge and slammed the oars," Butler remembers with a wince. "No rowers or equipment were hurt, but I felt completely responsible for my mistake." 
After they became comfortable at the helm of their boats, Butler and Galli found themselves responsible for coaching their crews. Both have found it difficult to be competent instructors and hard taksmasters for the team without having experienced the sport from the oarsman's sliding seat. 
Butler plans to take time offfrom coxing lo learn to row. "I want to know what's going through (the rowers') heads," she said. "I want to be on the other side for a while." 
Galli has already taken action to better understand the struggles of rowing. Last winter, she entered an indoor regatta, rowing the equivalent of a 2,500 meter sprint on an ergometer. She got a feel for the anguish of stationary racing, with all the pain but none of the motion of a boat race. 
"It felt like hell," she said. "I was next to this monster from Purdue. She finished in about nine and a half minutes and I finished about two minutes later. I hit the point of exhaustion that rowers hit, where the senses are dulled, the mental drops out and the physi~al takes over." 
This type of experience helps the cox­swain gain the confidence ofhercrew-a vital asset during training and racing. Proven skill, loyalty and an even temperment go a long way towards earning respect "It's important to be in control no matter what happens," said Galli. "(The rowers') confi­dence in me is just as important as their ability to row." Even the strongest cre':V can find itself treading water without a depend­able skipper. 
This sense ofimportance is the thing that keeps Galli and Butler in the coxswain seat despite the bodily and vocal wear and tear it promises to those who fill it. Some strong words can come from these small bodies, and, ifnol for the invention ofthe "Cox Box," 

ir~t:t<~diiiaii.'t+·
f§liiiati1tr~i\WiJ1~····.••



>§*s*~i~;.rr~111(t·· ; · 
~•···•••ttia(fth~irq~~rs)
··ntifo·•··11~artwfiat1·•·i·· 
\:\\/~:'.}\'(\/,::.-::·:: ·:_:-:;i\f//::"·::.' :)-:;;-:-.::{:\·:;:._=':, :::t;),
··\1fewas easier.,,.




ifl{i#]f~'Rtii
.• ~::rnen?s:'crew:!, . 


a voice-saving intercom system with speak­ers throughout the hull ofthe boat, coxswains would spend their lives invariably hoarse. 
Because Butler and Galli are the ninth members of racing eights, their only objec­tive is to help their boats go faster. But the quicker the boat moves, the more violently 
the coxswains are thrown. The ultimate coxswain reward comes after a gold-medal performance, when the oarsmen ceremoni­ously hurl their ecstatic coxy into the drink. Some thanks. 
Being women on a men's team, with all of its pristine atrocities, can burn the senses of less-calloused types. Galli and Butler expect and receive no special treatment from the boathouse fraternity. 
"I would be insulted ifl were treated like a girl," said Galli. "I don't want them to think they can't tell me when I'm doing something wrong." 
Butler and Galli sacrifice their after­noons and weekends for crew, an obscure sportthat's very name expounds its complete team orientation. "When I think of coxing, I consider myself as one of the people in the boat to make it faster," Kristi says. "I'm just doing it in a different way." 
One hundred meters to go. Ten strokes to the finish. The oarsmen need their cox­swain now to summon the last stores of energy from their spent bodies. 
•'Final Ten," Kristi called, "All you've got now!" They crossed the line after more than twenty minutes of racing: eight men slumped over their oars in exhaustion and one coxswain, voiceles~ and emotionally 
spent, but proud of her crew and herself. ¦ explosive when Harmon becomes 




THURSDAY, SEPT. 29 

involved in a passionate affair with Connery's daughter. Fascinating characters, torrid romance, and realistic Committe for Western European Studies action sequences are combined in this and the Department of Economics Lecture electrifying thriller from Peter Hyams, the "The Rise of Fordism and the Collapse of 
direstor of Running Scared.
the British Vehicle Industry," by Prof. Wayne Lewchuk, McMaster University, Canada. At 4 p.m. in room 131 Decio 

Scruffy the Cat with special guest Green Faculty Hall. 
at 9 p.m. in Theodore's. Free admission with N.D. or SMC ID.
College of Business Administration Year of Cultural Diversity Lecture "Minorities 
FRIDAY, SEPT. 30 
in Corporate America," by Roy S. Roberts, Vice President, NAVISTAR, Inc. at4:30p.m. in room 122 Hayes-Healy. 

Open Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous from 7:30a.m. to 8 a.m. in the Holy Cross Center for Critical and Interpretive 
House. Studies Lecture concerning Critical Feminism Philosophy, Legal Theory, Deconstruction. "Feminist Politics and 
The Law School Year of Cultural the Category of Women," by Judith 
Diversity lecture "Immigration Reform' Butler, George Washington University. 
and Education: The Changing Legal Co-sponsored by the Gender Studies 
Status of Students in the United States," Committee. From 4:30p.m. to 6:30pm. in 
by Prof. Michael A. Olivas, University of the Galvin Life Science Center. 
Houston. In room 220 of the Law School Courtroom from 12 p.m. to 1 p.m. 
Dept. of Philosophy Prospectives Series in Orientation and Open House for students Hesburgh Program in Public Service 
Philosophy Lecture on Freedom and Self­interested in the Hesaburgh Program as 
Realization by Prof. Raymond Geuss. At well as those taking the concentration. In 
3:30p.m. in the Library Lounge. room 115 of O'Shaughnessy Hall from 6:30p.m. to 7:30p.m. 
Center for Applied Mathematics Colloquium "Applications of Algebraic Geometry to Problems in Kinematics," by 
Planes, Trains and Automobiles in the 

Dr. Charles Wampler, Mathematics Dept., SMC Carroll Auditorium at 9 p.m. and 
General Motors Research Laboratories in 11 p.m. 
room 226 of the Computing Center and 
Mathematics Bldg. at 4 p.m. Presulio at 8 p.m. and 10:15p.m. in the Cushing Engineering Auditorium. Academy-award winner Sean Connery is 
Friday Forum at the Center for Social a disciplined commander at the Presidio, 
Concerns, open to all faculty and staff. the illustrious military compound near 
"The Cultural Mosaic of American Golden Gate Bridge. Mark Harmon is a 
Catholicism," by Prof. Jay Dolan, hot-blooded young SanFrancisco cop 
Director, Cushwa Center for the study of assigned to help Connery solve a brutal 
American Catholicism. at 12:15p.m in murder at the base. A tense situation gets 
room 124 
































SATURDAY, OCT. 1 
MONDAY, OCT. 3 

South Bend Symphony Pops Orchestra, Law School Admission Test in the 
Newton Wayland, conductor. Gershwin
Ohayo at 7 p.m. in the Annenburg 
Cushing Engineering Auditorium from 8 and Co. featuring George Gershwin, piano 
Auditorium. The spontaneity of youth is 
p.m. to 3 p.m. 
and Pamela Brooks, soprano. Sunday,

contrasted with the hypocrisy of adults 
Oct. 2 at the Century Center at 7:30 p.m. 
11 
in this satirical comedy by one of the 
Call (219)284-9111 for infonnation. 
SMC vs. College of St. Francis, Joliet, at 
cinema's most accomplished directors of 
the SMC Tennis Couts at 9 a.m. 
children. Spies at 9 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. This unbelievably fast­Alcoholics Anonymous Closed Meeting 


The Taming of the Shrew through paced thriller is augmented bysponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Saturday at 8:00p.m. on the Bethel College directorFritz Lang's use of manyAssociation and the Center for Social Campus in the Center. Presented by the 
cinematicdevices-sharp, abstract set 
Concrns in the multi-purpose room of the Four Winds Group. 
designs, illumination with menacing 
Center for Social Concerns at 9:30a.m. 
shadows and cruelslashes of light, and a chilling real-but -unreal script. 


ND Women vs. Western Michigan 
TUESDAY, OCT. 4
University at 3:30 p.m. in the JACC. 
University Park West Eight Men Out 7:00, 9:30 
D.O.A. at 7 p.m. in the Anne~burg 
Cocktail 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 
Auditorium. In this grisly exceptional 
Notre Dame tries to make it 4-0 vs. 
Passenger ofDeath 7:40, 9:40 
noir about a poisoned man reporting his Stadium. The ND Band will feature Stanford at 6 p.m. in the Notre Dame 
own murder to the police, hoping to 
University Park East
provide enough clues to identify the 
special music entitled "Lovely Ladies of Kansas 7:45, 9:50 
killer before the poison takes full effect, 
Song" during the halftime show. 
Nightmare On Elm Street IV 7:15, 9:15 
we become voyeurs watching with 
Who Framed Roger Rabbit 7:45, 9:45 
fatalistic satisfaction the playolit of this 
Young Guns 7:30, 9:35 
chilling and bleak near-masterpiece. 
Hamburger Hill at 8 p.m. and 10: 15 p.m in A Fish Called Wanda 7:45, 9:50 
Weekend at 9 p.m, in the Annenburg 
the Cushing Engineering Auditorium. 
Big 7:30,9:30
Auditorium.This outrageous work mixes the Screaming Eagles fought and died to While the rest of the world wondered why, 
eroticism, slapstick, violence, political 
Town & Country
rhetoric, and virtuoso camerawork to 
get to the top of Hamburger Hill. Vietnam Dead Ringers 7:05, 9:25 
present an epic vision of the last throes 
veteran Jim Carolatso wrote the hard­The Last Temptation ofChrist 8: 15
of consumer society as it destroys itself 
hitting screenplay for this unbelievable Moon Over Parador 7:10, 9:30 
in auto wrecks and disappears into the stewpots ofcannibalistic revolutionaries. 
story of war at its worst. 
Scottsdale Cinemas 

SUNDAY, OCT. 2 
Kansas 7:00, 9:30 
South BendArea 
Who Framed Roger Rabbit 6:45, 9:15 Rector of Sacred Heart Church Year of 
Forum Cinema 
Cultural Diversity Mass. Bishop Wilton D Betrayed 7:00, 9:25 Gregory, Chicago, Illinois, celebrant and Coming To America 7:10, 9:30 Scrabble Players Tournament homilist. At 10:30 a.m. in the Sacred Nightmare On Elm Street IV 7:45, 9:45 
open divisions for six rounds beginning a 11 a.m. Saturday, Oct 1 and four rounds Heart Church. 
100 Center Cinema 
beginning at 10 a.m. Sunday, Oct. 2. At 
Tucker, A Man And His Dream 7:15, 9:30 
the Marion Inn, 1615 N. Baldwin Ave., 
Harpsichord Recital by Darlene Catello at Willow 7:00, 9:15 Marion.
4:00p.m. in the Notre Dame Little Theater. 
Final Word 



Serious Politics 
The Presidential race is heating up, and Rob Hennig thinks public awareness should, too 
BY ROB HENNIG 


Now that we have finally had a chance to see Dukakis and Bush square off in a public debate, maybe we can stop making jokes about these two candidates and start getting seri­ous. For toolong we have been exposed to the merciless trashing of both presidential aspirants. No one, it seems, has been quite able to take either Bush or Dukakis seri­ously. The question that I wonder is, why? Both Michael Dukakis and George Bush would make fine presidents. True, neither of them is as photogenic as Ronald Re­agan, but Reagan was an actor for so many years before his political career. Ifneither are brilliant orators, they have, at least, most of the credentials that make one qualified for the Presidency. Dukakis has been by most accounts a 
fairly good governor with a solid record of 
achievement. Doubt that record as you may, but the people of Massachusetts saw fit to elect him in 1982 over an incumbent governor and have since re-elected him by a wide margin. Dukakis ran an effective nomination campaign that demonstrated his ability to reach out to a broad audience. 
Bush has been a loyal and hard-work­ing vice president. He has taken a fairly boringjob in stride, giving it his best effort. He has been in governmental positions most of his life, displaying a rare commit­ment to public service. Indeed, Bush is perhaps one of the most qualified individu­als ever to run for the Presidency. 
What both Dukakis and Bush further display is a sense of integrity and sincerity. Each wants to be president not just out of personal achievement, but also out of a larger sense of furthering our nation. They are both determined to advance upon per­ceived shortcomings ofthe Reagan years. It is as if there were a higher calling to which each is striving to reach. In a time when public cynicism might be well-founded with charges ofscandal and corruption in govern­ment, both Bush and Dukakis seem to me a breath of fresh air that is sorely needed by our nation. 

George Will, in a recent Newsweek article, quoted one Democratic source as saying, "They're both losers, but one of them is going to be president. So why not ours for a change?" Such words are no longer funny. Not only do they degrade the two fine men running for President, they degrade the high office for which they are running. 
I can't help but think that we are all the poorer when this type ofthinking is perpetu­ated. To claim either Bush or Dukakis is not "presidential material" is to ignore the his­tory ofmost presidents. After all, Harry Tru­man said his conventional wisdom was not of presidential timber. Nor, arguably, were Abraham Lincoln, Theodore Roosevelt and a host of others. 
Yet each ofthese individuals rose to the office. Men are not made presidents, they become them. Maybe we should all keep this in mind the next time we are tempted to denigrate our present contenders. 
Rob Hennig is a senior Economics major from Gaylord, Michigan. ¦ 

Editorial 


24-hour LaFortune the central issue 
Before LaFortune renovation, there was 24-hour space in that building. There is no logical reason why that could not be re-institued. The Office of Student Activities, however, decided not to bother to reassign 24-hour space. Excuses included security worries and attendance that did not reach some arbitrary golden mean. 
Granted, Tom Doyle and Mike Paese did what two previous student government administrations could not acquired 24-hour study space available to students. And Bill Hickey, director of University Food Services, should~ praised for being open-minded about the issue and for keeping the Oak Room open throughout the night. 
But things may change. Hickey recently indicated that unless student attendance and food purchases increase during the wee hours, it won't be worth it to keep the room open, even with financial compensation from student government. Considering that the whirl oftests and papers has yet to start going full throttle, worry over lack ofOak Room support still is a little premature. At the same time, students should make an effort to use the Oak Room in order to keep the obviously valuable service going. 
There is no need in disputing Hickey's claims that the Oak Room is losing money. After all, breaking even was part of the deal he made with Doyle and Paese. But the point is that the issue of the 24-hour space shouldn't have had financial strings attached to it in the first place. Student government, which did a good job in finding a flexible partner in Hickey, may have tried too hard to establish 24-hour space. 
Part of LaFortune could remain open through funds given for building security at a price comparable-and probably less than -the food services compensation. LaFortune isa far better, more central location for a 24-hour lounge, which would get better student support. The Oak Room's situation on the far end of campus discourages North Quad residents and especially Mod Quad residents from making the trek. 
But convincing an office that does not want 24-hour space in LaFortune to agree to even a trial period for that space will be difficult -despite the fact that the same building had kept the basement open for years previously. A path of stronger resistance, albeit much stronger resistance, might achieve the extended LaFortune hours that previous generations of Notre Dame students took for granted. 
-Scholastic 
September 29, 1988 23 
I 



Ernie Pook's Comeek 



BAG ~::~_J -=----::::::0. I 
THE MANHOLE cove~ IS "THI: HAR!H:ST BECAUSE MA(U~ s HAS TO STEP OUT Of T\-\~ C.ru>ss ­WAl..K TO 6e--r \T. QvR ,Q1.Q SAFET~ PATfU>L AL.WAYS LcT ttER.,BvT 11\\S YE'AR.'s Tl-½1Nl(S MA'P.J-'3S lS DOING lT J"IISTTO D1Sfl_€SP€l.T li\M AND THE P,vL.£S OF TAAfflC SAFETY• MA1l-1.~S 1R\EO TO EXPi,AIN IT TI) HIM Bvr HE R.EPORlE_O· 1-\ER ANYWA~ AND MA~L0 S 
~ ---· ~ ~~ 
THEN COMES A TREE BP.ANltt, A l~C.Kf D WINDOW, A WHITE Rot'...K IN THE AL.LE~, THREE' 
OlL SPOTS FR.oM A CAR, THE VIDRIN~S GAJlAGE oooRJ MIL TRVXl~Lo's TR.AlLER., 
rwo STOP 516NS ON 2.5'™ lliE' VIRGIN MAR.~ 
AND WE THREE BtRD BATHS, THE" MfTAL D06 ON MP.S. P1NKWATE~'.s GATE' AND TIIE"tJ HER. LAST THING; THE MAN HOLE COVER.. 
UP ON 2'iT..tt WHE~E me PATRDL.S lR.oSS 
us. 


24 


. ~~.,..,..-~-. . ~ 
... -. 


-------------------------------------,:1>
O 


L---------~--.J_------,------...1.---.--------....t/4u:.,-,a-1!:: 
m 
:-J 
N 
~ 
CI) 
ex, 
CD 0:, 
? 
+ b 
~ 

L--------+---------+-----:.-:..::...::_------1,---------,}"' 
C, 


Ct+APteR L./­

r\OW -to BE A ,uRBULE.N1 J-~EAR-OLD 
o TIPS FOR TOOPLERS n D0£5 MOMM~ JUST tJor 0€T IT? if; THE.tJ SPELL-IT ouT !=OR HEQ. ~ 
.I DON'T \CNOw 1-lOv.J, I c
1/l

00t-l'i WMNA, AtJD !:,OU "' C,tlN'i MA\:c Mc. -""'-1 
i 

J\JSTl.OOkHOW IMPRESS'Ec>SHI:. 1~•. ~ 


BIGGER AND BETTER THAN EVER! 
1.,'11COL1i 
OCTOBER 3-8 

Fireside Chats, October 3-7, 12:15 at the ISO lounge 
Ethnic Entertainment, October 3-7, 12:00 on the Fieldhouse Mall 
Culture on the Quad, October 3-7, 12:00 on the Fieldhouse Mall Josiah (Reggae Concert) October 4, 8:30 at Theodore's 
TASTE OF NATIONS, October 8, 9-1:00, Stepan Center 
Miriam Makeba and Hugh Masekela, October 9, Concert at 8:00 Stepan Center. ­sponsored by Multicultural Exectutive Council 
',' 

-i 








