
SCHOLASTIC 


-~•" . 

. 
. 

\ 
\ 
\. 
\.
•\'~ ·, 
·~­
·~,"·.~ \'" 
'~ 
.\t::.. 
~,\{·
' 
,,, 
·\ 
February, 1985 

INSIDE THIS ISSUE 
I. Ireland 
. Love Relationships: · Romancing the Dome ·college Suicide Plus Fiction by Chuck Ehrman 

Laurel-Ann Dooley 

•



I.e. 

"For in every act of love and will-and in the long run they are both present in each act-we mold ourselves and our world simultane­ously. This is what it means to em­brace the future." 
Dr. Rollo May 
Psychotherapist 
Love has everything to do with justice. Chocolate brown Jim with his fifty-two-year-old cigarette­saturated voice wants us to remember that. The Urban Plunge, a forty-eight-hour descent into the bowels of an American cfty explodes the term "poverty" right before our middle-class eyes. We find the debris scattered across our manicured lawns and our consciences and we are forced to admit that a tale of two cities, one wealthy, white and comfort­able; the other needy, black, and in misery is in reality a trashy novel about ourselves. To be poor, we discover, is to lack the will to love, the only commodity of change, the only thing we really need tomorrow, if tomorrow be worth reading to our children. 
Suffering has a fallout that no one escapes. Running to the suburbs, or to a mind-set of cynical acceptance .of the status quo (you know, 'we will always have the poor') is as absurd a venture as building a bombshelter to withstand a bomb no one cares to survive. Christ found the table of a simple fisherman more bountiful than that of a pharisee. Hypocrisy has a way of eating up all your resources. Judas found that out when he left supper with his best friends, and for thirty pieces of silver betrayed his teacher with a kiss that impoverished his will to love and therefore his will to live. 
Love has everything to do with life. Paradoxi­cally, suicides seem to tell us more about life and what makes it valuable than about death and what makes it cheaper than thirty pieces of silver. Dr. Rollo May describes our culture as a spiritual and emotional wasteland, a slum of the soul. To claim that we are one big family here i:it Notre Dame and 
St. Mary's is to claim a standard for community 
that counts individuals as more than parts of a sum. 
It is to claim that we have a table bountiful enough 
to nourish our spirits, as well as our minds and our 
bodies. Suicide should make us stop and listen. 
"Therefore never send to know for whom the bell 
tolls;' the poet John Donne writes. "It tolls for ·thee." 
Love has everything to do with marriage. 
According to Donne, the death of a stranger 
diminishes each of us because our lives are plotted 
on a map of interconnections. That gives us a crude 
sketch of a profound truth that marriage affirms. 
No one is an island; (and now for some mathemati­
cal magic) two can become one. The willingness to 
love another person for better or worse, in sickness 
and in health, till death arises only from a bold and 
ardent desire to join hands with another and 
thereby encircle one's future, one's whole life with 
the commitment to love. 
True romance is not for the faint of heart. 
Chocolate brown Jim, ~ith his tough Philly accent, 
wants us to remember that. D 

Kathleen McGarvey Editor-in-Chief 

.. ······----. . . _, :·."'. -~ 
. . . 


·scttOLASTIC 
. . 
Volume 127, Number 4 

FEATURES 
6/Streetwise: Gotta Beat the Streets by Bud Luepke 

8/The Proximity of Crime by Theresa Hardy and Anne Gallagher 
9/Looking for Answers by Sue St. Ville 
IO/Beware of Yuppies by Kevin Conneely 
12/Choosing an Alternate Route by M. J. Murray 

15/When Opposites Attract •.. What Are We Doing in Love? by Kathleen Doyle 17/ A Ring by Spring by Vic Sciulli 20/Courtship and Marriage: An In­terview with Reverend James T. Burtchaell by Colm Connolly 22/Kiss Me Kate by George Maney 
25/Heeding the Call of Vatican II Opus Dei: A Rebuttal by Kevin Baldwin 
29/I Love Ireland by· Vivian Ostrowski 


ELAN 
34/The Unchosen Choice 
by Laurel-Ann Dooley 
36/Poetry 
39/A Rose by Chuck Ehrman 


DEPARTMENTS 

Letters 2; Calendar 3; Notables 4; Artistic Opportunities 40; WSND 42; idle banter 44 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Kathleen McGarvey 

General Manager 
Mary Ellen Arn 

Editorial 
Jim Basile/News/Sports Editor 
Kathleen Doyle/Campus Features 
Editor 
Ann Gallagher/Saint Mary's Editor 
Timothy Gianotti/Culture/Fiction 
Editor 
Fred Zimmerman/ Executive 
Content Editor 

Graphics 
Darryl H. Daniels/Executive Design Editor Kathleen Keifer/Art Editor 

Marketing 
Patrick D. Conboy/Advertising 
Editor 
Tom Curtin/Distribution Manager 
Dan Poorman/Business Manager 

Advisory Board 
Prof. Elizabeth Christman 
Mr. Michael Garvey 
Prof. Marjorie Kinsey 
Prof. Robert Schmuhl 
Dr. Linnea Vacca 
Mr. Paul Matwiy 

Design Staff 
Jean O'Bryan 
Thomas D. Grantham . Becky Miklos 
Th~ opinions expressed in Scholastic 
are those of the authors and editors 
·of Scholastic and do not necessarily 
represent the opinions of the entire 
staff and editorial board of Scholastic 
or the University of Notre Dame, its 
administration, faculty, or the stu­
dent body. 
The magazine is represented for na­
tional advertising by National 
Educational Advertising Services 
and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. 
Published monthly during the school 
year except during vacation an_<;J e~­
amination periods. Scholastic 1s 
printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre 
Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription 
rate is $9.00 a year and back issues 
are available from Scholastic. Please 
address all manuscripts to Scholastic, 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All un­
solicited material becomes the prop­
erty of Scholastic. 
Copyright © 1984 Scholastic I All 
rights reserved / None of the contents 
may be reproduced without permis­
sion. 




Letters 
Dear Editor, For 65 years now, I have been an avid and loyal reader of the _Not:e 

· Dame publications. But the article m the October issue, A Short History of the Brothers of Holy Cross by Kevin Herbert, distressed me no end. 
Professionally in the Archives from Volume I, we have depended on the Scholastic to give us accurate and documented materials on the Univer­sity and the people on the staff, but this issue has broken that chain. The article had several serious errors in the dates, name of the founder of the Brothers, and misinterpretation of the facts included. 
After reading the article, I inquired from Brother David Baltrinic in Columba Hall, Notre Dame, how this could have happened. He assured me that he had given Kevin Herbert cor­rect information about the Brothers and their history, and that he had re­quested that Kevin bring him the com­pleted article before publication to be sure of accuracy. Kevin did not keep his promise to do so. . 
Please find some way of presentmg a corrected version of the History of the Brothers of Holy Cross in an early issue and help restore credibility in Scholastic reporting. 
With deep regret but best wishes, I 

.am Sincerely yours, Brother Edward Sniatecki, 
c.s.c. 
Archivist Alumnus of the Class of 1925 
Dear Editor, 
Just a note of apprecia­tion for the recent issues of Scholastic. The verve of the articles, the various layout, and the over-all color of the production make one reluctant not to keep the issues. Prof. Thomas O'Meara Dec. 8, 1984 

Photo Credits 
William Clifford, 21, 41, inside front Ted Mariani, 16 Courtesy of Students from the Ireland Program, 1, 29, 30, 31, 32 Scholastic Archives, 6, 14, 40, 41 

Editor's Note: Scholastic regrets errors appearing in October's report of the "History of the Holy Cross Brothers." Please note the following corrections: The Brothers of Holy Cross were founded by Rev. James Dujarie under the name of the Brothers of St. Joseph. In 1835, the brothers merged with a small group of priests to form the Congregation of Holy Cross. In 1841, the congregation's missionaries opened a school in Indiana. In 1842, Br. Charles Harding began work on constructing the early buildings of the University of Notre Dame. In 1946, the Congregation expanded to form two · societies, priests and brothers. In America, the society of brothers is divided into three prov­inces. Each Province elects its own provincial leader at a provincial chapter meeting every 3 years. The administrative branch of each prov­ince consists of a Provincial and counselors elected by each Province. The Superior General of the entire congregation is elected every 6 years. The Congregation of Holy Cross runs other colleges and high schools, many of them in the Midwest. Brother Andre is known to have visited Notre Dame only once or twice. The renowned Holy Cross brother died in 1937 at the age of 91. He was beatified by Pope John Paul II in 1982. • 
Dear Editor, 
Congratulations to Peter Carter on his well-written and deeply disturb­ing article concerning Opus Dei, "Li­censed to Sanctify." It is frightening to know that an organization so closely resembling a cult exists within the Church. It is terrifying to know that Opus Dei enjoys the Pope's favor. 
Opus_Dei's unhealthy views on mortification, censorship, and sexual­ity are a reversion to pre-Vatican II days. In an age in which the Church needs to move forward with society, Opus Dei is a step in the wrong direc­tion. 
Jeff Hayes 
Old College 


Illustrations 
Tom Grantham, 23 Scott Isley, 17 Robert Sponseller, 33 

Cover Design 
Curtis Cormane 
..../ 


February/March· Calendar 
February 16: 
The South Bend Sym­phony will be featuring Grant Johannesen at the 
For those of you that piano during its perform­haven't already noticed, ance, 8:00 p.m., Morris there. is more to South Civic Auditorium. 

Bend than just snow. 

. During February and February 17: March there are more than 
The musical, "Ain'tenough things to do in the Misbehavin', " will be area that will take the performed at Saint Mary's chill right out of you! 
College, 8:00 p.m., O'Laughlin Auditorium. 

February 22: 

Thk Music Masters Orchestra will be featuring a program of dances. Performances will be held at the Canterbury Theatre at 8:00 pm. The theatre is located at 9th and Franklin in Michigan City, IN. 

March 10: 

The Elkhart Symphony will be performing classics by American Composers at #3:30 pm at the Concord Performing Arts Center, Elkhart. 


February 22: 
The play, "Pardon Me, Madam, Your Influence Is Showing," will be performed at Bethel College, 8:15 p.m., Goodman Auditorium. 

February 24: 
The Midwest Pops Orchestra, following the format of the famed Arthur Fiedler of the Boston Pops, will perform at 7:30 p.m., at the Century Center. 

March 1-2, 7-9: 
"Electra;' a play by Sophocles, will be put on at Notre Dame, at 8:00 
p.m., in Washington Hall. 

March 2: 

The opera, "The Barber Of Seville;' 
will be presented by the Michiana 
Opera Guild, at 8:00 p.m., at the 
TBA. 


March 9: 

The South Bend Symphony Chamber Players will give a concert at 8:15 
p.m. in the IUSB Auditorium. 
But then again if a bit of culture just isn't what you want, or if you just feel like being outdoors in the "white stuff," then why not try some of the great Cross-Country ski trails at the Saint Joseph County Parks?! The trails are open 10 a.m.-4 p.m. on weekdays, and 10 a.m.-5 p.m. on weekends and holidays. 
*The trails at Saint Patrick's are primarily flat to rolling, and cover a distance of 6 miles. Bendix Woods, with it flat and open trails to its twisting and challenging slopes and turns, has over 5 miles of trails. The rental fees at both parks are $2.00/hr. for the complete outfit (partial rentals are availa-. ble). A driver's license or $20.00 is required as 
deposit, · · · 
•At Potato Creek State Park in North Liberty, IN, there are over 8 miles of groomed trails in the peak of the snow season. You may use your own equipment or it can be rented at the park. Rental fees for equipment (in sets of skis, boots, and poles only) are available for $2.00/hr and $1.00/each additional half hour. A valid driver's license is required as deposit. 
Maps of the trails at each of these facilities are available upon request from the Department of Parks and Recreation. 0 

NOTABILJE§ 


$375,000 Endow­ment for Humanis­tic Studies Chair 
When Dr. Bruno Schlesinger formed the Humanistic Studies department at Saint Mary's College nearly thirty years ago, he was pioneering a new ap­proach to undergraduate education that centered around the study of J udeo­Christian culture. Re­cently, a challenge grant of $375,000 was awarded to the College by the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH); the money will be used to endow a chair in the Humanistic Studies department in honor of Dr. Schlesinger. "It is very fitting that we name our first endowed chair in honor of one of our great teachers, Bruno Schle­singer. His effect on students and his leadership and development of our programs in the humani­ties are extraordinary;' said Dr. John M. Duggan, President of Saint Mary's College. 
In this technological age, many have urged collegiate scholars to specialize in a specific field. Schlesinger, a native Austrian and an alumnus of Notre Dame, purposely 

avoided excessive speciali­zation in his formulation of this program. "Our graduates, who read and wrestle with the ideas of Augustine, Descartes, Burke, Marx and others have some sense of the enduring problems of civilization. They have been exposed to issues of freedom, human rights, authority and law .... we think we can prepare young women to approach their careers with confi­dence;' says Schlesinger. 
By receiving this grant, Saint Mary's has been honored as one of forty-six educational and cultural institutions across the country. The College was chosen on the basis of its ability to plan and administer high-quality humanistic programs efficiently and stably. 

And the Survey Says. 
In November, 1984, caught up in the barrage 
of surveys and questionnaires, the·Scholastic polled
Silent Night, Enter­

200 women at Saint Mary's College to examine _
taining Night 

their opinions about the magazine. On the advice 
Theatrical royalty recently graced the stage of O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. Dubbed the "Prince of Mime;' mime artist Keith Berger put on an actioi:i­filled, one-man show, "Mime-Over-Matter;• on January 25. 
Berger, who gained fame as a New York City street mime, has studied this silent art in both France and the United States. Although he has performed before Presi­dents and crowned heads of Europe, Berger has most recently been involved in pleasing the general audience, with his antics in "Broken Toys;' an off-Broadway play which he wrote and starred in. He has also appeared in both movies, including the new HBO film, "Funny Faces" with Red Skelton, and commercials for such national companies as Chevrolet. 

of Mr. Shannon in the Business department, one teacher in eight departments was given 25 surveys which he/she passed around to be completed during the initial minutes of class. The results were very informative. 
Of students surveyed, 62 % were Juniors and Seniors, 16 % were Sophomores and 12 % were Freshmen. 
Of students surveyed, 59 % read Scholastic often, 28 % read Scholastic sometimes, 13 % never read Scholastic. 
When asked whether or not they were pleased· with the magazine as it stands, 
61 % said yes 
22% wanted to see more Saint Mary's works 
7% had no comment 
Patty Brennan: Patty is a senior Communica­tions major at Saint Mary's from Oak Lawn, IL. She is a frequent Notables writer. 
4 

..  ~  .  
.  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  :~  - 
.  - - 
- .  . . ..  .  

Sophomore 


Literary Festival 
Gregory R. Miller 
A Literary Celebration 

John Updike writes in Hugging the Shore, his latest collection of essays and criticism, "I keep looking out the window. The clean horizon beckons. All sorts of silvery shadows streak the surface of the sea. Sailboats dot it, some far out. It looks like literature. What a beautiful sight!" Each ·year since 1967 sophomores at Notre Dame have celebrated this "beautiful sight" with the week-long Sopho­more Literary Festival. 
In 1967 one sophomore completely organized a campus event.celebrating the life and works of William Faulkner. This first "festival" was a great success. Inspired by this success, a group of sopho­mores in the following year organized what is now known as the Sophomore Literary Festival. This unique event has gained a great and widespread 
reputation. Many of our day's finest authors, including Kurt Vonnegut, Arthur Miller, and Tennessee Williams, have been guests of the festival. 
Sophomore Literary Festival 1985 will add nine more names to this impressive list of guests. A diverse and challenging group of authors will be speaking at this year's event, to be held from February 24 to March 1. In addition to delivering readings or lectures, the writers will conduct smaller workshops and will be available at recep­tions and in classes. 
Novelist and short story writer Hortense Calisher opens the festival. Her many works cover a wide range of themes and places, yet all show a great love and mastery of the English language. Calisher's works, which have bee!). nominated for three National Book Awards, include The Collected Stories of Hortense Calisher, Mysteries of Motion, and Saratoga, Hot, anew collection of short stories to be published in the spring. 
Novelist John Irving also highlights the festival.· Irving, one of our day's most unique authors, bridges the gap between serious and popular American fiction. His works are characterized by autobiographical detail and a blending of exaggera­tion and the bizarre with the commonplace and the ordinary. Since his fourth novel, The World According to Carp, Irving has written The Hotel New Hampshire and The Cider House Rules, which will be published in the spring. 
Mary Gordon, author of the bestselling Final Payments and The Company of Women, will also deliver a reading. Gordon acknowledges that "the metaphors of Catholicism, the Catholic way of looking at the world" have influenced both her and her works. Her novels deal with intense personal struggles and range through. a multitude of themes. Gordon also has a book soon to be published. 
A diverse group of poets will attend the festival. Howard Nemerov, one of America's most respected poets, has published his poetry, along with fiction and nonfiction, consistently since 1947. He was awarded both the National Book Award and the Pulitzer Prize for The Collected Poems of Howard Nemerov. Alan Dugan has also won the National Book Award and two Pulitzer Prizes. His earnest style is highly crafted and often humorous. He has recently published New and Collected Poems, 1961­1983. Jon Silkin, poet, critic, and the editor and publisher of the poetry quarterly "Stand;' has established himself as one of England's most important living poets. Silkin's exploring and mannerful poetry reveals inner contradictions and the relationship between life's positive and negative forces. Michael Anania, literary editor of The Swallow Press, captures in his poetry a sense of land and people, the historical past, and the passage of · time. Anania has recently published The Red Menace, a powerful and poetic first novel. 
Playwright and novelist Joanna Glass also joins the guests of Sophomore Literary Festival 1985. A native of Canada, her novels include Reflections on a Mountain Summer and Woman Wanted, for which she is writing a movie screenplay ..Her latest play, Play Memory, was produced on Broadway and nominated for a Tony Award. 
Author and critic George Hunt completes the list of writers participating in the festival. Currently the editor-in-chief of "America» magazine, he has written major analyses of the works of John Updike and John Cheever. Updike writes, "Of the explica­tors of my work whom I've read,. Hunt seems to be the most scrupulous and ingenious in tracing out the religious/philosophical veins within the corpus." 
As chairman of Sophomore literary Festival 1985 I am honored to carry on a fine Notre Dame tradition. Our guests promise to further this_ tradition of excellence and make the 1985 festival a meaningful and stimulating experience. D 

5 


._-,-,.-.~z:::::-.;.::,;~ 


Streetwise 
Beat 


··streets 
ByBtid Luepke · 
Standing on the corner in my Izod sweater, I hesitated at the feeling of being grossly misplaced. Across the street was an old station wagon on a vacant lot. Its tires were taken and its window smashed. The houses were old and falling down, and scattered pieces of litter blew in circles on the street and lawris. The inhabitants glanced indifferently at our group, the whites of their eyes flashing. · 
Twelve Notre Dame-St. Mary's 
· .students, participants of the Urban Plunge program, stood in the inner city of North St. Louis. Fr. Kleba, our guide, had just narrated to us the tale of the neighborhood and of the ignorance, fear, and bigotry that gave birth to its decay., The story ends, of course, with these houses eaten by time and lack of funds, their stewards living like mice, hungry, cold, afraid. 
Sobering stuff for an inveterate suburbanite. But I had, after all, joined the Urban Plunge to learn, experience, and become aware. 
The Urban Plunge started in 1968 when Fr.· McNeill took a group of college students into the Inner city of 

'.­ 
.  ·.  ,  ,  
.  '  
.  .  .  ~  
- ~  .  .  .  
'  ..  

lb l t, )1.% i ~ ' #iS· 1.!.:lZ!rnZL. " 0 f t? 

Chicago. Since 1975, when it became organized nationwide, over 1500 students have participated in the weekend program. Program director for Notre Dame Sarah Webb Phillips says the Urban Plunge helps a student to gain perspective on his classroom learning. The Plunge is education which takes a student out of academic book learning and puts him in touch with the most pressing issues of today's society, she said. While the Urban Plunge serves, for some students, as a· point of depar­ture for further social work or follow-up courses on issues discussed on the plunge, the overarching objective of the program is to bestir in the student an awareness of himself as a Christian. By confront­ing social problems and some very special people, a student confronts himself. He sees the way others have . used their imagination and energy to ' grapple with these problems, and this is a challenge to his own imagination and skills. By evaluating the experience conscientiously as a · Christian; orie comes to greater knowledge of himself and his relation to society; he sees how he, using his talents, can help people, and realizes that he, because of his talents, must help people. 
We were waiting and freezing on the porch of Otis Woodward's Lutheran Outreach Office. Fr. Kleba told us to imagine those people whose heat was either turned off or broken·, who would be cold all winter. That was hard to imagine, but I became mtich colder. 
When Otis came,· he was dressed in a sheepskin vest, across which a wooden cross bounced, dangling several inches beneath his broad smile. Many years of carrying people too weak to walk had made him muscular and energetic. As we filed 
into his office, which was also his 
home, he indicated a room on the 
right piled to the ceiling with food. 
Another was full with blankets. · 
"This'll be cleared out in a week. 
We're gettin' snow tonight," Otis 
explained. We filed into a third 
room, and after some general 
shuffling into the chairs with which 
the room had been randomly 
appointed, Otis sang us a song he 
had written and told us about 
himself and his work. That is, what' 
we would call work; he said what he 
does is "a celebration:' He's housed, 
clothed, and fed thousands, and has 
even delivered several babies. He 
knows everyone in the neighborhood 

personally and could tell the grim 
situation of each. Although Otis 
smiles a lot, he's also a tough guy. He 
says he's had to be. He's been shot 
twice and his wife has been killed. 

But he saw Christ, he told us, in 
every person he's met. As we left 
Otis, he gave each of us a hug, and it 
felt natural and good hugging him 
back. 

We next visited Sr. Agnes Marie Baer, organizer of the New Lifestyles Program, which counsels prostitutes and helps them to get jobs. Unthink­ing judgments of potential employ­ers, landlords and others, as well as the low self-esteem of the prostitutes makes the process of reintegration into society lorig and difficult. Sr.. Agnes says that·prostitutes are often blinded by all the poverty and fear that has saturated their past; they don't see a way out of their own misery. Sr. Agnes herseWmust supply that sight, the work to make it possible and the hope to make it desirable. It is her loving energy which enables some prostitutes to escape into a life free from degrada­
tion; · The American Indians are also misunderstood, and I believe they wiU never be understood by anyone but themselves. They come from a way of life that worshipped the universe and called the earth their mother. But society has raped their mother, snatched Indian land away and paved it. The American Indian lived by the ways·of nature; today's society lives by a clock. Many Indians can't fit into society, and are· unemployed and imprisoned. We visited the American Indian Center of Mid-America which ministers to about 2000 Indians. The center·helps imprisoned and unem­ployed Indians. It struggles to keep Indian religions alive, but much . ignorance arid bigotry makes that difficult. The three Indian women who run the center had, as children, their braids cut off and were made to · be ashamed of their race and religion. · Walking back through the cold streets, I thought I should realize that I could never understand some people and the way they live: The poor, prostitutes; Indians; all deserve a respect which recognizes their background and the lifestyle they successfully, or not, have had to · overcome. If I had no job, no money, no hope, I too might be indifferent. I realized that a lot of problems result when people make judgments on 
others before knowing the underlying 
circumstances. They believe they 
understand the whole situation . before recognizing what it actually 
is. Such is arrogance. It is always 
better to know that you don't know. 
The first day of the Urban Plunge 

had been one of learning in order to 
recognize our ignorance. The next 
day, we worked in order to learn. We 
_all broke up to different centers. I 
~orked-celebrated-at a child 
.development center, where I played 
and laughed with little kids, many 
very poor and with only one parent. 
When it was time to leave I found I 
had learned much about these kids 
and about myself. 
The students of the Urban Plunge 

convened at a soup kitchen. We ate 
lunch with people who live on the 
street and most of whom were 
mentally ill. I sat next to an older 
black man (he said he was fifty) and 
a younger one with a broken arm 
who didn't say a thing. Down from 
him were two dirty white men 
tattooed and toothless. 
The older black man talked to me. 

He was from New Orleans. 
"A man don't have a chance down 

or up here. Can't get a job." 
"Why's that?" 
"Up North they don't care what 

you are. Whether black or white. 
But here; you're either black, white, 
Jew, Italian, You know?" 
"Uh huh." He went on. 
"I got two boys in New Orleans. I 

told them to go North while they're 
young. Me, I'm too old to be movin' 
around. Hell, I'm just waiting to 
die." He got up to leave and took 
about ten sandwfohes that were set 
out and threw them in a box for 
himself. 
On the Urban Plunge, you learn., that many people need help in many ways. But you also find people who · have the energy and Christian love to implement their ideas to meet those needs. Presenting such phenomena before you, the Urban Plunge asks how you as a Christian, business­man, doctor, lawyer, etc., will·fit into a society of racism, ignorance, and arrogance. Ultimately, the Plunge is philosophical because it demands reflection upon yourself, society, and how life should be lived. But, more deeply, it is a window on the vision of Christ. D 
Bud Luepke, a sophomore from St. 
Louis, Missouri, is a frequent · 
contributor to Scholastic. 
7 




I 
I 
i i 
I 
l 
I 
rs::=;:; i-·S1·P I -~-I es;f ?t-* r-1 ? $$ I 3 
NOT.llBLJES 

The Proximity of Crime 
Jane Doe is five feet, five inches tall with brownish hair and brownish eyes. She has lived a rather comfort­able middle-/upper-middle-class life in Anytown, U.S.A. Jane has been fortunate enough to attend Saint Mary's, a prestigious Midwestern Cath?lic women's college. Although clothmg and money have always been made available to her,· Jane soon be­gins a habitual ritual of stealing-a cute jean jacket here, an easy ten dol­lars for the bars there. She steals from the laundry room, the bookstore and even from her roommate. Sometimes Jane does it for a quick buck, some­times for thrills, and sometimes she just can't help it. 
Theft is a major problem and con­cern in our country today. Janes Does exist in all walks of life and are very prevalent on college campuses. The problem of Jane Doe, the middle­class, well-educated criminal and Saint Mary's College is not a growing problem, rather it is a continuous one. A student may not be "ripped off' more_ than once, but many are victimized at least one time in their four years. The irony of the situation lies within the results of the following survey: of thirty women randomly inc terviewed who each felt Saint Mary's was a safe place, twenty-six had had at least one thing stolen .. 
Perhaps crime can be partially cast off as negligence on the part of the students. Many women leave their doors unlocked when they go out let clothing sit in the washers and d;yers for endless periods of time, and leave personal belongings lying about. Al­though many of the items stolen have only petty value, according to a Le­Mans Hall resident adviser, many of 
the women are setting themselves up to be victimized. She feels that they are merely tempting potential crimi­nals. 
Yet, well~known criminologist, Stanton Samenow, in a dialogue with writer George Harris, relates that of­ten criminals "steal when they can pay for the proceeds" (Journal of Counseling and Development, De­cember, 1984/vol. 63). Samenow re­peatedly insists that the problem lies within the cdminal, not the :victim. 

By Theresa Hardy and Anne Gallagher 
"We found that crimi~als, rather than being victims of adverse circum­stances, are victimizers. What im­pressed us was not the circumstances from which criminals came but the way they reacted to those' circum-. stances . . . for example; most poor · people are not criminals and many well-to-do people are, so crime does· not simply stem from poverty." 
Samenow describes criminals as ­people who believe that '!the rules of society apply to everyone but them­selves." Dr. Mary E. DePauw, Direc­tor of Career and Counseling at Saint Mary's, agr~ with this definition or' ­
· the criminal, especially when de­scribing such behavior at the College. She believes that at Saint Mary's there are two groups of students who need counseling. The first group she classifies as the "tight and need loos­ening" group. These women feel pressured in the academic sphere and often express anxiety over such things as job potential ·or a test score. To these students, flunking a test or get­ting a rejection letter isn't the real concern; to them, they have just failed or been rejected in life. 
On the other end of the spectrum, there is the "loose and need tighten­i_~g" ~oup_. g~ngruent to Same_now's description of a criminal, . many of these students don't seem to realize. that the rules. apply to them. They don't view breaking the rules (and the law) as a Christian issue. For many of these merely self-aware peo-. ple, says DePauw, their faith provides only the distant desire of getting to heaven, not a means whereby they can pattern their daily lives. 
Many crimes at Saint Mary's go unreported. Pat Rissmeyer, Director of Residence Life, believes this only paves· the way for the offender to re~ peatedly steal, and thus the victim often fails to get restitution .. When a crime is reported, and the alleged of­fender is caught, the offender must go before the Judicial Board._ The Board, comprised of nine students is the law ;governing body that d;als with problems related·to breaking of 
~c 
campus policies. Rissmeyer says that theft offenders often, when up before the Board, will admit their ,guilt when a valid accusation is made against them. 
The Judicial Board; in delivering its sentence, attempts to enforce Christianity in its "punishment" by having the_ guilty party _compensate the victims. The philosophy behind such actions is linked with the Board's concern for the law and the offender. While Saint Mary's believes its rules are good and real, it still holds that punishment alone doesn't necessarily bring about _<;:hartge in a person. All sources agree that people make choices to be a.certain way and these choices can include a decision . 
to change~ For the people that deal with crime at the College, comp1Uni­cating and aiding the criminal and the potential criminal is the best way to stop crime from ta.king place on campus. 
Although crime-ca_n stem ..from mental illness, even those crimes, ac­cording to Samenow, -are rationally, planned out at some level. Even the pettiest thievery involves thought. Perhaps, therefore, .the problem at Saint Mary's lies within those who cannot live up to the challenge of the Christian call, the ones who have be­come frustrated with the value sys­tem they are called to abide by. -Tllese "Jane Does" _have rationalized _away their interest in others and tossed aside their Christian responsil;>ility; . perhaps through guidance they ca,n learn the ramifications of their er-, 
rors. El · · , .. 
Theresa Hardy: Theresa is ·a junior · English Literature and Business dou­
. ble major. She originally· hails from sunny Santa Barbara, CA. This is her first contribution to Scholastic .. 
Anne_ Gallagher: Anne is .a senior 

. English· Literature and Writing dou-·. ?le major from Binghamton, NY. She · 1s currently Saint Mary's Editor. · 
8 

. C

The Notre Dame community is a sleepy place. It is sheltered from the rest of the world by more than miles. A different atmosphere prevails at this place where high standards of achievement are common and ques­tions of values and ideals a:-e consid­ered significant. It is a place where it is easy to keep the reality of the out-. side world at. bay. But last semester, when a student •and a former student took their. own lives this reality came . · · a little closer to Notre Dame. The news of the deaths, first one, then the. other spread quickly but quietly. They left the community feeling hol­low and shocked, and caused it to step back and reflect on itself and these acts. Suddenly, the issue of sui­c_ide was brought to the forefront of our minds. It caused us to reevaluate our community and ·ourselves as we tried to find -answers to the questions of why and why here. 
These are not questions that are easy to answer-or, perhaps, are an­swerable at all. According to Patrick Utz, Director of Psych Services, "we don't know why people commit sui­cide." It is even more difficult for us to understand when suicides occur within the Notre-Da'me community. This is· a community based on the Catholic values which hold life sa­cred. Traditionally, the Catholic Church has considered suicide to be a sinful act. This in itself may make it less of an option for some members of the community. Although the Church is more sympathetic to the suicide to­day, its commitment to life as a gift may work in a positive manner to dis­courage the act. The negative force of the moral aspects of suicide and the positive attitude that existence ought 
Sue St. Ville is a senior Liberal Studies major from Tulsa, Okla­homa. This is her first contribution to Scholastic. 

members. According to Utz, the com­munity should be sensitive to the re­ality of the problem in society and to the fact that suicide can occur at No­. ·.tre Dame. We should be aware of · · · · · people who may be suicidal. In most cases, potential suicides give off no­ticeable signs of their state of mind . .$uch things as excessive depression, changes in eating or sleeping habits, · · --·-·the giving away of prized possessions By Sue St. Ville and talk, even jokingly, about com­mitting suicide may point to a poten­
to be cherished combine to make No­tre Dame a place that, at its roots, is life-affirming. 
Notre Dame is also a co~munity that is tightly kriit. As isolated as it may be from outside communities, on its inside it is an integrated network. Its members are very involved with each other. Rectors, the Freshman Year Center, Psych Services, and the Campus Ministry program all are highly visible support systems. Stu­dents, too, are attentive to each tial problem. At Notre Dame, with­drawal from usual activities and friendships has been common. 
Usually, when a person has a prob­lem 'the normal reaction is to comfort them and assure them that their situ­ation will improve. Utz says that, in the case of potential suicides, the ap­proach should be different. The mind-set towards the person should not be reassurance, ·but rather· assess­m ent. The problem should be brought out in the open, the warning signs considered, and the person re­
"... the deaths in the Notre Dame community are disquieting. They make us wonder what can be done to reBeve the problem and what changes, perhaps, should occur in the attitude of the university and its members:' · 
other. Because of its atmosphere, No­tre Dame is a difficult place from which to withdraw. 
Perhaps it is due to its character that few suicides have occurred in the Notre Dame community. In the past ten years, out of the approximately 90,000 students who have been at Notre Dame, there have been five sui­cides. This figure is much lower than statistics across the nation. It is estis mated that. in 1983, out of every 100,000 people ages 15-24, there were 11.7 suicides. The problem of suicide is steadily increasing. In 1950, 
4. 9 out of every 100,000 15-to 24­year-olds took their own lives. By 196;5 the figure had risen to 8.1. In this sharp increase, suicide has gone from the fifth leading cause of death . · for 15-to 24~year-olds to the second. It is preceded only by accidents. 
Still, the deaths in the Notre Dame community are disquieting. They make the reality of the act shockingly apparent in our own community. They make us wonder what can be done to relieve the problem and what changes, perhaps, should occur in the attitude of the university and its 
£erred to a psychologist. It should be noted that most people are not equipped to deal with a friend who may be suicidal. It is a problem which is particularly difficult to deal with because often when a person seems to be on the upswing emotion­ally he is inost likely to commit sui­cide. His relief from pressure may be the result of his decision to kill him­self and not the sign of his overcom­.ing of an emotional problem. Because of the elusive nature and seriousness of their problem potential suicides re­quire the help of a professional coun­
selor. · · The place of suicide at Notre Dame should, above all, be held in perspective. The community has been more fortunate than most. But the suicides that have occurred have been tragic and shocking. They have brought the reality of a problem that is on the rise in society into our usu­ally isolated university. Our sensitiv­ity to suicide has heightened and this awareness should serve to make us more conscious of the warning signs of suicide and the actions that might prevent its occurring. D 
"If these upwardly mobile hot tub fanatics are capable of political 
involvement, it is usually to secure the interest on their government 
bonds or to rezone an old neighborhood so that there is room for a 
critical mass of delicatessens, furriers, and $200,000 townhouses." 
Beware of 



Yuppies! 
By Kevin Conneely 
One can see them in virtually any metropolitan business district. Some of them have gravitated to quiet neighborhoods in North Chicago, Portland, and Atlanta. We probably all know some of them by name. My older sister is one. I'm sure of it. You would be hard-pressed to find one in South Bend, but there are probably two or three milling about. They have new clothes, new ideas, and a new name. They are Yuppies (Young Urban Profession-als). 
In quite another context, Thomas Hardy spoke of a certain disposition as "the mind adrift on change, and harassed by the irrepressible New." Today, all over America, "the New" is the quest of the Yuppies (rich, young social climbers who turn . heads with every move). Whether it is the new cheeses from Paraguay, the New Balance running shoes, the new consulting job, or the new condo, the Yuppies can and do afford whatever is sufficiently new to set themselves part from mainstream America. 
Newsweek Magazine devoted a cover story· in a recent issue to the Yuppies and their search for urban happiness. If it is the 'Year of the· Yuppies," as Newsweek boasts, then it is probably only a matter of time before the habits, aspirations and clothing styles of these 25 to 39-year-
Kevin Conneely is a senior Government/Philosophy major from Sterling, Illinois. This is his second contribution to Scholastic. 
olds infect and affect the attitudes 
and palates of students at Notre 
Dame. For some, the time of arrival 
may have already passed. Notre 
Dame students have demographic 
characteristics which could make 
them prime targets for BMW dealers 
and health spas five years down the 
road. Yuppies are hatched from the 
upper middle class and from private 
schools and are taught to swim their 
way into corporate America. As 
Newsweek pointed out, the swim­
ming is done very pragmatically 
("Point A to point B, and step on 
it!"), and it is done for everyone else's 
admiration. Does this sound like 
your roommate? Does it sound like 
your ex-roommate? Worse yet, does 
it sound like you? If being a Yuppie 
is your highest aspiration or if it is 
your worst nightmare, you can read 
The Yuppie Handbook (Pocket Books, $4.95) to see where you stand. A much more pragmatic 
method would be to take the 
following test: (known to some as.the 
PYAT:pre-Yuppie Aptitude Test) 
1) Do you presently shape your gludimus maxim us in a health club? 
2) Would you feel gauche wearing the same suit or dress to two differ­ent dances in the same week? 
3) Do you have running shoes that 
cost more than $60? Do you run in ·· them? 
4) Do you have a desire to fix up an old warehouse and then live there? 
5) Do you want the corporation that hires you to pay for an annual vacation in Europe? 
6) Did you vote for Ronald Reagan in the last presidential election? 
The answers to 1-5 above will determine your ''.Yuppiness." If you · answered "yes" to 1-5, you should be singing the praises of honey­mushroom quiche and attending "network parties" in no time. If your · answers were "no:' there is still a chance that you can live in the suburbs and drive American cars. The answer to number six above does not help to determine whether you will be a Yuppy in the near future, and that is one of the saddest facts about the whole Yuppy movement. There is no political motivation in this elitist fringe. It is sad that the same youngsters who fought and sang and marched with their hearts in the Sixties now only have the social energy to buy and buy with their credit cards in the Eighties. 

Now, please do not misunderstand the picture of Yuppies as being drab or colorless. The picture is closer to that of a revolving kaleidoscope. At one time the image isa·cold, geometric perfection in whose hard lines are the drive and singles . · mindedness of the Yuppy work ethic. A one-quarter turn of the kaleido­scope presents the image of a dollar sign luring young professionals and managers to work hard and play hard and make sure that the Ameri­can Express Gold Card gets plenty of use. Another turn of the cylinder brings to sight a collage of donations to the Audubon Society, Gary Hart T-shirts, and crunchy".granola ..• 
Still, you can turn that kaleido­scope indefinitely and never find the scene of a political consensus. The Kent States and the King marches and the Dylan songs of their younger days are dim memories now. The conservative suits like those their parents worked in fit fine from nine­to-five, and they can wear them all the way to the bank, but today's pinstripes traverse a different moral character. The one thing that talks loudest from the Yuppy camp is money. If these upwardly mobile hot tub fanatics are capable of political involvement, it is usually to secure_ the interest on their government bonds or to rezone an old neighbor­hood so that there is room for. a 
-
1, 


critical mass of delicatessens, 
furriers, and $200,000 townhouses. 
The point for those of you who answered "yes" predominantly on the highly predictive PYATis this: How long can Yuppies look through rose­colored Vuarnet glasses before the disillusionment sets in? By the time present undergrads at Notre Dame reach Yuppy status, two conceivable problems could rise up. One is a recession (in which case there may not be enough Dom Perignon to go around). Another possibility is that a political issue could rise up that requires national consensus and political action (forced upon a group that abhors both consensus and politics). A recession would probably not destroy present Yuppies, but it would stop the swelling of their ranks. The second possibility, forced politfcal participation, could awaken the slumbering consciences of Yuppies to their materialism and some of its empty motivations. 
It seems inevitable that some of 

the Class of '85 here at Notre Dame will step into the world of the Yuppies. Good candidates are the 
· people who show up after Christmas vacation with dark, rich tans. What is important to remember is that our older friends in that 25 to 39-year­old category have inherited and invented a different history than ours. They remember living in homes with bomb shelters. Those people were out of diapers a few years when JFK and Medgar Evers were shot. Their leader was Jerry Ruben, while ours is Eddie Murphy. The whole Vietnam experience engulfed their lives, but for us it was a confusing map behind Walter Cronkite on the Evening News. If present Notre 
Dame students want to enter their 
world, where there are lobster and 
three different colors of wine in the fridge yet no one eats at home, then 
N.D. students have to see what Yuppies have endured and given up to be where they are. 
I do not want to condemn the habits and beliefs of all Yuppies everywhere. There are many good intentions and simple joys that can motivate their lives. (Besides, a lot of Yuppies are really nice people; my sister, for example, would let me borrow her Saab anytime.) I think that some of the bad press that Yuppies are getting stems from a confusion over the move that these people have made from love beads at Woodstock to Brie cheese in Manhat­tan. One of the young professionals interviewed by Newsweek reinforced the irony by saying that the election of 1984 was a good one because Reagan's overwhelming success secured her financial future and allowed her to give Fritz Mondale a conscience vote. 
I offer a caution to those of you majoring in pre-Yuppy here at Notre Dame. You step into more than bay­side art shops and two-career relationships when you enter the world of the Yuppy. The fashions and the political derailment both carry a high price tag. Eventually, if Yuppiness is for you, you will know where to go to get it. But for the time being, let's keep life under the Dome free of Grey Poupon mustard and a preponderance of dorm-room VCR's. . 
ACE IS THE PLACE WITH THE HELPFUL HARDWARE MAN 
• 
GARL>EN SUPPi.i ES 

• 
HOIJSf.W ARES 

• 
HARDWARE 

• 
sPORrING GOODS 



~OURS-­. 
• 
PAINTS 

• 
TOOLS 

• 
PLUMBING & Elf.CTRICAL <;IJPPI.IES 


FREE PARKING 
FRONT & Rf.AR 

219 DIXIE WAY NO. IN RCSEI.AND 
272-7535 

MERRICK'S 
Maple Lane 

Pharmacy 


Closest to Notre Dame 18075 St. Rd. 23 
272-7747 





BIG@ 

LUMBER CENTER 
• .ARMSTRONG CEILING TILE • POWEii roo.s 
• 
CABJNETS • lUMBU! 

• 
Pll'WOOD • HA.RDWA.RE 


• OI.YMPIC STA.IN • Pf.UMBING & 
• PANEUNG ElKTRICAl SUPPLIES AND MUCH MUCH MORE 
EASY 
___ JL_ 

~j~p: 

272-6500 
125 DIX.IE WAY NORTH 
ROSELAND 
11 





CHOOSING AN ALTt: 
tions. The certainty of Hfe and a reg­
ular paycheck that is most often 
available in a 9-5 job is missing in 
volunteer service; anyone who 
chooses an."alternative route" does 
not know exactly what to expect, and 
this is probably one of the best as­
pects about this route-little disap­
pointment and many new situations 
and adventures become a central part 
of the experience. 
In a sense, choosing a volunteer service program is similar to choosing a college; there are many options. Like a high school senior choosing his new alma mater, people go about choosing a volunteer program in vari­ous ways. Some people do a full~scale search; others from the beginning know exactly what they want; and others (probably the large majority) find themselves somewhat surprised where they end up. There are pro­grams-that are church-related (Mary­knoll, Jesuit Volunteer, Holy Cross Associates); programs sponsored by the government (Peace Corps and ACORN); and programs for teachers and youth ministers (Channel and Vida). Some programs request that 
volunteers have specific skills such as nursing. In the end though, the choice depends on one's personal wants, desires and needs. The follow­ing reflections are from letters writ­ten by five former volunteers who sought out different programs in or­der to satisfy their individual wants and needs, All are members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and have done service work sometime 


VOLU
. I 
in the last three to twenty years. 
Geoffrions and Peace Corps 
Charles and.Moira Geoffrion, both full-time Notre Dame faculty mem­bers, found themselves part of the ac­tivist sixties. In reflecting back over his service experience Charles writes, "The heady feeling in the Boston of the early 1960's for two college up­perclass students was unlike any pe­riod in America. The world was call­ing, there was nothing we couldn't do. Newly independent nations were calling for help. All we needed was some (not much) talent and lots of good will. President John Kennedy Imagine having a job where the monetary assets are small, but the personal rewards are so high that they compensate for the dollar difference. Although few of us enroll as college freshmen envisioning that our first job after graduation will pay next to nothing, perhaps it is even more far­
12 
By M. J. Murray 
fetched to see ourselves deviating from the traditional post-graduate choices of the 9-5 job (if there is actu­ally such a thing), graduate school, and/or marriage. For the college sen­ior who chooses an "alternative route" in volunteer service there is something more than just those op­gave us the opportunity to go for it by · establishing the Peace Corps." Charles and Moira graduated from college in June 1965, married in July and began their two-year involve­ment with the Peace Corps that Au­gust. Charles continues, "Our simple faith in institutional structures was shaken by immersion in a maze of bureaucracy. We then learned (al­though we may not have fully recog­nized) the essence of volunteer serv­ice. Organizations and long-range plans do not help people; people help people. After arriving in a West Afri­can village, "we gave away our wrist­watches, learning that most of the world's people live at a very different pace and struggle with more basic needs. No, we could not wipe out dis­ease and feed nations.· We did, how­ever, touch the lives of many individ­uals. We did make a difference for a few. Mostly we -gave respect, face to face, holding hands, not judging but . caring,_ not critical, but concerned. For years we stayed in touch with friends made in Africa and savored the first lesson in· reaching out: that you always get more than you give:' 
Mike Garvey/Catholic Worker 
Michael Garvey, assistant director of Notre Dame Public Relations, is one of those people who "drifted" into volunteer work. After a year as a. _volunt~er in. a Gitksan Indian Vil­lage, Garvey became· involved in the Catholic Worker movement. The Catholic Worker is a movement founded by Dorothy Day in 1936. 

greatest benefit" from his volunteer 
experience. Yet, in answering the 
question of how the experience 
shaped his life,· Garvey writes, "I sup­
pose that living in the same house · 
with very poor people for four ·years has helped me to recognize how very little poor people differ from wealthy people. I, my wife, and each of the other people who worked at our house can recount different moments when it hit each of us over the head that we were as pathetic, really and truly, as the most pathetic wino, junkie, prostitute or madman who walked in the door. We did not con­descend to the people we lived with, not because we were humble, but be­cause it simply became impossible. In our very bones we knew that their brokenness and vulnerability, their . ugliness and despair were only more graphically expressed than our own:' 
Jim Cavanaugh/V.E.S.S. 
Often it is the case that people 

choose to do volunteer work directly 
after they graduate.· Jim Cavanaugh, 
at the age of 29, chose•to become 
part of an organization called Volun­
teers for Educational and Social Ser­vices (V.E.S.S.). Cavanaugh chose to be a volunteer so that he could "re­main within a community support system while making a more long­term career decision." Cavanaugh spent the year as a C.C.D. coordina­tor and feels that the most beneficial part of his experience was "learning to improvise in fragmented situations and meeting many like-minded peo­
-'------------------------------------------------------. 
felt "it provided the greatest number of options and placements." In look­ing back over his years in Portland he writes, "JVC shaped my life dramati­

:({NATE ROUTE
___.,... cally from the first few days. The Corps challenged me with its funda­mental values of spirituality, simple 
I 
lifestyle, social justice and commu­nity. I enjoy the simplicity of the val­
I ues and continue to find new mean­ing in them." 
Fran Cackley/HCA 

Holy Cross Associates, a program sponsored by the Priests of the Holy Cross, has similar goals to JVC. Fran Cackley, a 1982 N.D. grad writes of her HCA experience, "HCA was. not something I considered for a long time. In fact, it was the week before 
· i:he deadline that I first heard of it, looked into it, and decided it could offer a unique and challenging op0 portunity.'' After her experience Fran recalls that volunteering "demands much giving, listening, humility and personal challenge. The reward of it is finding that by being vulnerable and by letting go, everything comes back in another life-giving, spirit­building form. One is forced to look at people, not paychecks. One discov­ers· a challenge of heart and con­science; which hopefully is only the beginning. Volunteering gives oneself a chance to become immersed in ad­venture and uniqueness; to explore . and open oneself to life. It's a time to take risks and be secure that those risks are appreciated and loved. It's a time to offer talents and the gift of 
.oneself." 
If ·one would put all five of these former volunteers in a line he/she would be quite amazed by how dif­ferent they are in appearance. There 
· is really. no single outward sign that 

NTEER PROGRAMS 
The movement consists of houses which provide unconditionai hospi­tality to homeless and transient peo­ple. Garvey, ·whose parents had been longtime readers of the newspaper published by the movement, was well aware of Day's philosophies. When · asked why he chose to become part of the Worker, he responded, "I had al­ways thought of the movement as a series of great adventures and I was still young enough to crave adven­tures above all else." It was at the Catholic Worker house in Davenport, Iowa; that Garvey met Margaret Quigley who eventually became his wife. This, Garvey says, was "his 
pie that showed him the value of al­ternative lifestyles:• When asked if he'd encourage others to spend· time in a. similar way, Cavanaugh re­sponded by saying; "the poor in spirit of the world need the volunteers and the volunteers rieed the poor in spirit. Jesus volunteered, isn't that reason enough?" · · 

John McBride/JVC 
John McBride, a Notre Dame psy­chology graduate student, chose to. take part in the Jesuit Volunteer Corps the fall following his gradua­tion. After looking into various pro­grams McBride chose JVC because he 

brands an ind,ividual as a "volunteer." Volunteers cannot be easily distin­guished like the hippies of the 60's or the yuppies of the 80's. Instead, what . volunteers have in common comes from within them: a desire to learn, to grow and to give. No one type of individual possesses these attributes. · Instead, these attributes are within each and every one of us if we choose to tap them. Although volunteering 
·. isn't" the only way in which w_e can grow and give of ourselves, for many people it has proven to be an excel­lent way to add depth and richness to their lives. 








====ROM 
WHEN OPPOSITES 
ATTRACT ... 
by Kathleen Doyle 
A little while back Kenny Rogers and Dottie West had a hit single called "What Are We Doing in Love?" That title is a question that is probably asked at some point or other in just about every romantic love relationship. No doubt that led partly to the record's success. 
There is another view, the suppos­edly objective view from outside the relationship. How often have you 
\ . . ..
asked yourself or someone else, "What could she possibly see in him?" Sometimes the couplings we find ourselves and others in are quite·· incomprehensible. 
Imagine for instance the following couple: He is decisive, independent, and in control of his emotions. She is indecisive, dependent, extremely emotional, and easily excitable. A mismatch? No, not necessarily. The two may be involved in what psychologists term a mutual projec­tion system. 
William Tageson, Associate Professor of psychology at Notre Dame, said that in a mutual projection system the two involved in the love relationship project onto each other both negative and positive qualities. 
"As children and young adults we develop in a one-sided way," Tageson said. "That's proper and necessary because we must find a place i:p society and fulfill certain expecta­tions, especially those related to the main social roles of male and female." 

As we grow older, we develop certain qualities to fulfill those expectations. Sometimes the develop­ment is one-sided and other potenti­alities are neglected. According to Tageson, those unused qualities remain within us, waiting to be nurtured. 
When these undeveloped qualities are found in another there is a strong attraction. "You can tell projection by the emotional charge that accompanies it;' Tageson said. 
"An example would be a person who sees herself as good, incapable of violence or destruction, and who then becomes fascinated by such characteristics in another. She could simultaneously condemn and be fascinated by violence. Violence is a part of us." · 
The mutual projection system theory is developed from and supported by the work of the depth psychologists, including Freud and Jung. Dr. Charles Kramer, a former psychoanalyst and founder of the Family Institute of Chicago, devel­oped the theory and coined the term "mutual projection system." 
The crucial point in a love relationship is when one or both of the individuals involved feel disillu­sionment or irritation with the other person. 
"At that point the person has to ask 'Am I being realistic or fair? Am I looking for certain qualities and projecting them onto her?' He has to share it with the other person and 
... WHAT ARE WE DOING IN LOVE 
understand where that person is coming from;' Tageson said. 
Once the individuals recognize their differences and their projec­tions, they can work to develop those qualities which are lying latent within them. For example, the extrovert who has been attracted to the introvert may realize she was looking for someone to hold her down. She might then realize she needs to .control her spontaneity and to limit her overwhelming social life. The introvert, on the other hand, may realize that he has used the extrovert as a source of vitality, living vicariously through her. He would need to learn to develop that within himself and to pursue activities he finds exciting and enjoyable. 
In this way, love becomes a creative process. By identifying the qualities we have failed to develop by recognizing our admiration of them 

in others, we are more likely to 
nurture those qualities. We can 
become more "whole," less one-sided. 
We can develop "the other" within 
ourselves by fostering those qualities 
that we have until that point lacked, 
though admired in the beloved. 
"Romantic love can create 'the other' as well as the self," Tageson said. "I like something-that Maslow said: 'Love isn't blind; non-love is blind.'" 
In other words, when we love someone we are more likely to see qualities in him or her that others don't see. Others may be "turned off" by other characteristics and, .not being attracted to him or her; fail to look beyond the obvious and immediate. Hence, the reason why others, standing back from the relationship, so often fail to under­stand what the attraction could be. 
When these positive qualities, unnoticed by most others, are recognized and appreciated by the loved one it can be a source of great satisfaction and encouragement and an addition to self-knowledge. 
"Infatuation" is a first cousin to the dynamics of a mutual projection system. "Infatuation" generally carries a negative connotation, but Tageson said it's "okay.'' 
"I mean, it's exciting. The Greeks called it Eros. And it can cloud judgment. But if one can step back from it and can reclaim the projec­tions and can see what he needs to develop within himself, it can be a 

source of growth." 
The chances of survival for a relationship originally based on or triggered by infatuation depend on the extent to which the attraction is based on realistic qualities. 
"If the attraction is 90 % projec­tion and 10% reality, I'd say there's little chance compared to 50 % projection, 50 % reality," Tageson said. 
" 'Psychological re­search shows that stable heterosexual relation­ships are based on shared values ·and expe­riences. . . . The advan­tages are there if what the couple shares is a balancea set of qualities. 
"Seventeen-and 18-year-olds probably have not had much experience in determining how much is.reality. They may get married and discover it rather harshly. But where the person has had several relation­ships there is a better chance of getting a more realistic appraisal of what's happening within the· relationship," Tageson said. "Of course tha:tdepends. In some 
instances people fall in and out of love and never learn." 

College students may be prone to infatuation if they haven't experi­enced it before. According to Tageson, college students can be classified both as late adolescents and as young adults. At this point they are in the process of mate selection and are moving toward increased intimacy in relationships. It is also a time of confusion for many and it is not uncommon for someone who feels confused to become infatuated with someone who appears to be more "together." 
Ofcourse not all love relationships are based on the theory that "oppo­
sites attract." After all, "Birds of a feather flock together" and it seems that such relationships have advan­
tages. 
"Psychological research shows that stable heterosexual relationships are based on shared values and experi­ences," Tageson said. "The advan­tages are there if what the couple shares is a balanced set of qualities. Then the people involved are more tolerant, more satisfied with less 
than perfect. 
"There can be advantages, for example, if in the relationship the male can be both macho and sensitive. And if the woman can be firm and assertive as well as nur­turant and compassionate." 
Some psychologists believe that people who are more androgynous are more successful at maintaining stable love relationships. This is thought to be so because they possess qualities of both sexes and so can . respond flexibly to different situa­tions. Such persons also tend to be more tolerant of the foibles of others. Tageson said that there is some clinical evidence to support the androgynous theory. A Notre Dame graduate student is currently conducting research in this area. 
Love relationships of both the "opposites attract" and "birds of a feather" type can be a source of growth. 
"Romantic love relationships require an awareness of what's going on," Tageson said. "If you don't become conscious of what's uncon­scious, it can create problems.'' 
For the. Greeks,. Eros, romantic love, was considered to be a path to knowledge. Indeed, romantic love provides a way to knowledge of self, "the significant other;' the world and God. 
So, it's okay if you're emotional and he's stoic; if you're loud and boisterous and she's quiet and reserved. You just hav_e a lot to learn, that's all. D •.•. 


QING 

by 2Prino? 
VIC SCIULLI 
Seniors who have close boyfriends or girlfriends or who, are engaged may find their senior. year a time when two futures must be planned. In the past mal).y people thought-that it was a good idea to leave college with a close relationship established with someone of the opposite sex. Traditional pressures for men and women to get engaged were strong in decades past but more recent trends have seen the average ·marriage age go up. There have been many theories to try to explain this trend. some attribute the increa·se in marriage age to a more cautious attitude, citing alarmingly high divorce rates as the major reason. Others believe the trend can be explained by the desire of many young couples to establish themselves · in their careers before making a commitment to marriage. The "pressure" to get marri!!d earlier traditionally has been greater for women but statistics show that more and more women are waiting longer to get married and to have families. 
What is the trend here in the Notre Qame/Saint Mary's commu­nity? Are the stereotypes of the "ring by spring for the SMC chick" and the "very career-oriented Notre Dame woman" true? Scholastic spoke with five senior women who are or were recently involved in close relationships with men about their relationships to learn whether the traditional pressures of the past for a woman to get married or engaged are still being felt. 
AnnaMarie Furleigh, a Math/ Computing m'ajor and an Air Force ROTC cadet at Notre Dame, strongly disagrees that there is 

•pressure for women to get married after college. AnnaMarie has been dating the same Notre Dame man, also in ROTC; for two and a half years and ha~ beenengaged for over a year but denies she ever fel_t pressure to become engaged. "If there ever was any pressure, it was pressure to go.on and be indepen­dent, never just 'get married; " she said. AnnaMarie and her fiance will not know until May the results of their "dreamsheet," the form that all ROTC students fill out indicating their location preference. "We both want to be married as soon as possible after graduation but it all depends on where we are stationed," she said. "We would like to be stationed together on the same base in Colorado but I think I'd rather remain unmarried and apart than married and apart. If we are stationed apart we'll just have to bear with it and request to be stationed together." 
AnnaMarie feels very strongly that young women are not under any pressure at all to get engaged. "I think there is more of a pressure for women to start careers and be independent, even those women who have steady boyfriends." She ac­knowledges hearing the "ring by spring" type stereotypes of women but "never thought they were based 



_on any truth." 
Karen Kruzan's situation and 
feelings are similar to many of 
AnnaMarie's. Karen, a Math major 
at Saint Mary's, dated her boyfriend 
for a year and a half before he 
graduated from Notre Dame last 
year. He is currently stationed at an 
army base in El Paso, TX. Karen, 
who describes their relationship as 
"very serious;' acknowledged that his 
Army duty and her career objectives 
place obstacles on their future 
together. "We were going to get 
engaged during Christmas break but 
decided to wait a bit more. I didn't 
want to get engaged just to 'hold on.' 
We talk at least once a week and 
thought that this would be best. I'm 
not sure we'll be engaged in the 
future; the big thing is the Army." 
Though sh_e denies feeling pressure 
from family, friends or social dictates 
to get engaged, Karen admits many 
of her friends looked at her hand for 
a ring when she returned to school 
after Christmas break. "Lots of 
people asked me if I got a ring for 
my twenty-first birthday and I was 
bothered by it. Everyone doesn't talk 
about it (being engaged) around 
here; it only comes up when some­
one comes back and says 'I'm 
engaged.' I don't like other people 
expecting things of me; I have 
enough expectations of myself. I'm 
glad that I didn't get engaged 
because I know that when I do get 
engaged it will be for me and him. I 
wanted to make sure I wasn't getting 
engaged for my friends." 
Karen said she has heard her share· 
of the "SMC chick"stereotypes but 
doesn't believe that they are so true 
anymore, "if they were ever true at 
all. Some women put pressure on 
themselves (to get engaged);' she 
said, "but society puts pressure on to 
be a career woman. There is more 
stress on being yourself." 
Colleen Flynn, a nursing major 
from Santa Barbara, CA, has been 
dating a Notre Dame man she's 
known since the end of her freshman 
year. "There's lots of pressure if · 
you've been dating for three years;' 
she said. "People say 'it's about time' 
and ask me 'so why aren't you 
engaged?' It's too early for me to' 
make arrangements for the future.'' 
''I'm bothered by the stereotype 
that '75 percent of the seniors at 
18 
Saint Mary's are engaged' and 'a ring by spring' and acquaintances looking at my hand for a ring;• she said. "People get excited if I don't say Tm getting engaged.' I feel that people expect it." 
Colleen doesn't believe that pressure on women to get married comes from families. "Sometimes I think that the pressure is really a love so strong that physical separation would be unbearable for a couple. Pressure could also come from a fear of going out in the world on one's own and that it would be nice to have someone." 
Colleen laughingly points out that her mother tells her not to feel pressured into getting engaged though she married in a time where pressure was more prevalent. "It's so important to get established and move on your own two feet. It's too impractical to think you can get married and just hang out. 
"Sometimes," she says, "people create their own pressures and get so wrapped with the unknowns that they get themselves in a frenzy," she said. 
ment for the future--,we know each 
other well enough ... but are not 
ready to make any commitment 
except that we'll always be friends. 
We're not sure we're the best ones for 
each other yet. We're not sure which 
way is the way you love somebody 
though we both love each other." 
Despite the closeness of their relationship Denise says she is not being pressured to get engaged, and that the women she knows feel the same way. "Marriage is in my life but it's not a goal right now because there are other things I wantto do first. I can't give my energy to the situation· yet. If there is a pressure then it doesn't affect me." 
Denise's view on this matter is not 
shared, by AnnaMarie who said she 
doesn't see marriage as a situation 
where "one partner is burying one 
interest for another. Couples can be 
married and have their career or 
other interests ... though I know 
sometimes one will be sacrificed for 
the other." 
Denise says that for now both are content in being the best friend to each other after graduation. "In the 

" 'The social climate was different in the seven­ties.... It definitely wasn't fashionable to have a steady boyfriend then. . . . Today's women realize they don't have to prove themselves like we thought we had to. Women of the eighties have the same skills and drive as the women back then but feel that they don't necessarily have to prove themselves to the rest of society.' " 
Not all the women interviewed have boyfriends from Notre Dame. For the past four years Denise Spring has been very close to a Princeton junior whom she met at a college science program the summer after her junior year in high school. Since then the two have seen each other ~bout two to three weeks each year but have grown closer despite the great distance (she is from Sacra­mento, California, he from Philadel­phia). Since then the relationship has developed.from what she describes as a lighthearted relationship to the point where they both talk about the future and the possibility of getting married, though she says an engage-. ment wouldn't happen for at least a few years. 
Denise, a biochemistry major and the current editor-in-chief of the Notre Dame Science Quarterly, is delaying graduate school for at least a year to spend a year with the Jesuit Volunteer while he complet~ his senior year at Princeton. · 
"We haven't planned an engage-future if that is all that is meantto be, both of us would be happy but we still keep the possibility of marriage open. I don't feel sorry about not being engaged but wish I could be more sure about the relationship.'' 
Unfortunately, not all relationships last until graduation. Monica Lorimer had been dating her boyfriend since November of their sophomore year before they broke up recently. Monica, who describes herself as "very realistic;· says there were pressures in the relationship but getting engaged before graduation was never one of them. "There was never any pressure for me to get engaged. I feel too young for it; I can't fathom spending the rest of my life with someone else (now)." 
While they were dating Monica said they talked about getting married at some point but that she planned to complete medical school before doing so. "Theonly possible way was to go to medical school and to wait and see how stable the relationship was after two years or so and then react.I never thought about getting engaged while at Notre Dame." 

~---------~  ·.  , .  .  - .  
.  . .  '  .  .  .  .  .  ~..  - 
. .  .  
.  '  ..  
.  


Though Monica, a pre-med major from Oak Park, Illinois, says she was never under pressure to get engaged, she says she is finding more women are becoming engaged. "It's not so much pressure as finding it (engage­ments) more true. There's more talk about it now." 
Monica as well as AnnaMarie and Denise mentioned the high divorce rate as something they have all thought about. Monica says that having divorced parents is one reason why she never felt pressure into getting married. "I've always felt more of a pressure to be careful about whom I marry," she said. 
Monica believes it is important to "take time out" before getting married. "Not everything you think right now is what it seems and things will change." 
Stereotypes are one thing she doesn't believe in. "Sure, lots of things are said on a very general level ... 'a ring by spring,' yes, but not on a specific level. Everyone goes around saying them, but how many really believe them?" 
Kate Stratigos, a former assistant director of admissions at Saint Mary's, believes there is a little more pressure now for women to get engaged their senior year than when she was an undergraduate at Saint Mary's in the late seventies. She .. points to the woman's movement in­the country at the time as having a strong influence on the political and personal attitudes of students then. _ 
"The social climate was different in the seventies," she said. "Women were more cause-oriented, especially in regard to the women's movement. They felt that they had to make a place for themselves. It definitely wasn't fashionable to have a steady boyfriend then. It just wasn't what you should do. Today's women . realize they don't have to prove themselves like we thought we had to. Women of the eighties have the. ­same skills and drive as the women back then but feel that they don't necessarily have to prove themselves to the rest of society." 
Stratigos thinks that today's women have more role models than women did in the past and that these role models show women they can combine a career and marriage 
successfully. 
"I have the feeling women have a little better perspective on things than women in the past. These women may have thought 'I don't feel I have the choices' and saw 
. . 
. . 

marriage as the only choice. I think there can be a good mix between family and career. In the seventies ­that wasn't considered; it was more 'make way for yourself first, then a family.'" 
She believes that today's Saint Mary's women have these role models in the female professors who teach there. These faculty members (women comprise half the faculty at Saint Mary's) have kept parallel interests in their lives and are married and have children as well as teach. 
"Women can do what they want to do. They can see a balanced view­point at Saint Mary's: married women with children who are also successful and experts in their field.'' 
A 1979 graduate, Stratigos says she is infuriated by the stereotypes of Saint Mary's women and that such remarks were not tolerated when she was a student as much as they are now. "In the seventies we would fight if that type of commentwas-made in context or in copy, even picket if we had to," she says. "Now the women get mad but think it's futile and not 
" '. . . lots of things are said on a very general level . . . "a ring by spri:r:ig;' yes, but not bn a specific level. Every­one goes around saying _ them, but how many really believe them?' " 
worth the response. I wish they had 
more fight in them." 
Stratigos thinks it is the men who 
perpetuate the perceived stereotypes 
that Saint Mary's women are 
different from Notre Dame women. 
"That's what's so crazy about it;' she 
said. "Most of the women see lots of 
similarities." 
Stratigos believes that from the 
students she has worked with in the 
past there are pressures on women in 
terms of relationships and in terms of 
careers. "Women want everything 
right away. T~e feeling isn't there 
that things come gradually. They are 
not comfortable if it all isn't there 
right now and think it won't ever 
come. Many women have their entire 
life set right out of graduation. It's 
no longer the thinking that it's OK to 
start at the bottom and work your 
way up. Women want to start at the 
top in their careers and in their · 
relationships: There is a lot of self­
inflicted stress." 
Professor Janet Kourany thinks 
there are still "traditional pressures" 
. ) ­
. . 

on women to get married, even at Notre Dame where women "seem to be very career-oriented.'' Kourany, an adjunct associate professor of philosophy at Notre Dame, has taught the course "Women: Alterna­tive Philosophical Perspectives" since last year and says she receives a lot of interesting and surprising questions from her students. 
"I was surprised by the form of their questions," she said. "Shall I get married or shall I have a career? The two seemed very incompatible to them. There are lots of traditional women here. In the traditional mode you can't see how to hold down a dual life with a career and marriage. I am surprised by the concern of coordinating marriage and career. I thought we were beyond that stage;" 
Kourany says that what worries her the most is when women think of their options as being limited and warns that they shouldn't feel there is just one alternative. "There are different roads to take." 
One thing Kourany notes from her contact with students is that some women who say they are not feeling pressure to get married "may be so career-oriented they are oblivious to the pressures." She adds, however, the distinction that there may be other reasons that cause some women to be more aware of the pressures than others. In class room discus­sions, however, Kourany says she plays the devil's advocate. "I want them to work out their views for themselves." D 
Vic Sciulli is a senior Economics and Computer Applications double major from Pittsburgh, Pennsylva­nia. This is his first contribution to Scholastic. 
() 

19 

--~-----~-_~---.. ­
. ­
. 

Courtship and Marriage: 
An Interview with Reverend James T. Burtchaell By Colm Connolly 
Editor's Note: Fr. James T. Burtchaell is a professor of theology at the univer­sity. His book .For Better, For Worse Sober Thoughts on Passionate Prom­ises will be published next month by Paulist Press. 

"People prepare more for childbirth than they do for marriage; they prepare more to go into business than they do to go into family. There is more concern to pass on wisdom about riding a two-wheeled bicycle without training wheels ... than there is about forming the kind of friendships that might grow into courtship, that might lead one towards marriage." 

Studies indicate that 1 of every 2 marriages in this country ends in di­vorce. How do you account for this alarming rate? 
Marriage, to be a happy experi­ence, requires people to be generous, forgiving, mature, and self-possessed. It is not surprising that significant human failings would contribute to a breakdown of marriage and since hu­man failing is a very normal part of many people's experience, you can ex­pect that many marriages and fami­lies would encounter great grief. 
But you could go on to say. that a major reason for widespread divorce is divorce itself. People who marry with the understanding that mar­riage is a hedged commitment may not encounter aggravation or aliena­tion immediately, but actually they have a problem from day one because their undertaking towards one an­other and towards their children is al­ready conditional. Their attitudes to­wards forgiveness, recovery, reconciliation, and growth would be drastically different from the atti­tudes of people who understand that 
they have irrevocably tied their future to that of their partners. The accept­ance of divorce has almost created a spiral effect which has increasingly weakened the ·marital bond from the beginning. And yet, many people do marry with the understanding that marriage is a permanent commitment, only to face circumstances later in life which, they would argue, forced them to separate. 
In our society it is increasingly easy to feel forced to abandon a marital commitment because so many people surrounding us disbelieve that mar­riage is a commitment you must cul­tivate. So, just as bankruptcy is part of the background thought of any­body who has gone into business, di­
20 

vorce is part of the background thought of anybody who has gone into marriage-even though neither party may anticipate that they would be faced with that eventuality. Evidently, you believe that society does not adequately prepare young people for marriage. 
Most people have no preparation at all for marriage. When you consider that it is likely to be the most drastic decision of your whole life, it is amazing that our society has no ex­pectations that you should prepare for it. · 
People prepare more for childbirth than they do for marriage; they pre­pare more to go into business than they do to go into family. There is more concern to pass on wi_sdom about riding a two-wheeled bicycle without training wheels, about driv­ing, and perhaps, about· drinking, than there is about forming. the kind of friendships that might grow into courtship, that might lead one to­wards marriage. It is stupefying to think of the almost determined re­fusal of our society to believe that it has any wisdom to pass on to younger people about marriage. The church, of course, is an exception to that. How so? 
The church has a long and stub­born belief that she has an accumu­lated wisdom drawn from many, many centuries of experience-a wis­dom that younger people have a right to hear. The wisdom, first of all, says that marriage is utterly serious, that the decision to marry is a lifetime de­cision, that it is irrevocable. The church invites people to give them­selves away and to believe that unless they do give themselves away, it is ex­ceptionally difficult for them to grow out of selfishness into the mature de­velopment of love that Christians as­pire to. 
Secondly, the church has become explicit in broaching with candidates for marriage the issues that appear to be very important for them to consider-issues like the sharing of money and goods, the sharing of inti­macy, the sharing of work, and the sharing of children. The church acts on the conviction that it is too dan­gerous to leave these matters undis­cussed. And so we have a variety of programs to help people discern what marriage entails and whether they and their partners are really ade­quately prepared to make that under­taking. Given the church's resolve to properly prepare her young .people for mar-· riage, how do you account for the fact that the divorce rate for Catho-. lies is not significantly less than the divorce rate for individuals qf other religious persuasions? 
That is a recent finding. Catholics in this country have been made to feel very different from the dominant culture which was so much in the 
control of a Protestant majority-just as Jewish people and those of oriental religions and Native Americans have been excluded. And it was a mutual thing in that Catholics,· like those other groups, were pleased that they followed their own convictions. They thought that their own convictions were better than those in the domi­nant society. 
But somewhere in the course of this 

century, Catholics came to feel bash­
ful and inferior and ashamed of their 
traditional separatism; they made 
great efforts to be accepted as part of 
the dominant American culture. The 
result is that Catholics have increas­
ingly surrendered· their· own tradi­
tional perspective and convictions to 
those of the dominant culture which, 
although it might appear to be Prot­
estant, is actually not Christian at 
all, but quite secular. 
It is no surprise that the conviction needed to believe that it is a good thing to remain faithful to a spouse and a family even in a time of great sacrifice or humiliation is one of those Catholic traditions that has re­cently eroded. You spoke of the necessary progres­sion from friendship to courtship. Would you comment on this? 
. There is a time in life when most young men and women are eager about finding their future spouse. Older tradition had adults take a de­termined hand in governing the social contacts of men and women at that age. As marriage increasingly became a decision· made by the spouses in­stead of their families, and as that decision was expected more and more to be ·a romantic choice, there was a concern that the mutual acquaint­ance and judgment of the young couple would be mature and sensible. 
In our time,J suppose, a great con­cernis that men and women have the encouragement, the opportunity and the ambition to become true friends well before there is any proposed courtship. It is very questionable whether many young men and women have any adequate idea about how to become friends. Many people omit that stage and are on the prowl 
· for courtship, for some form of pre­mature union. It is very unlikely that an individual in this frame of mind 
· could even understand what a mar­riage decision could be. In our time the choice of spouse is often very im­pulsive and blind. • If marriage is not· supposed to be a romantic choice, is nof romance still an important aspect of courtship or preparation for marriage? · 
I take romance to indicate the spontaneous ·attraction and affection which men and women discover for one another and which leads them to want to be companions. People who have much experience or who have had other people's experiences shared with them, know that romantic feel­ings are an entirely unreliable indica­tor that two people would be wise to marry one another.. 
Very often courtship· will end in disappointment, anger, or lack of in­terest. Itis sad but true that many people today expect romantic feelings to last indefinitely. On the strength of those romantic feelings they are un­willing. to take· a serious look at the character of their partner or even of their own. They imagine that mar­riage stands, not on,the constant per­sonal growth ofseveral human be­ings,,but on an almost chemical compatibility that they are experienc­ing. They enter marriage not as an active choice, but as i passive event. It is not surprising that little growth follows this type of marriage. 
Marriage does not depend on the compatibility that emotional response suggests. It rests on a much deeper generosity and commitment which will allow people to grow together. 'No two people are made for one an­other. That is why I like to say that it is not whom you marry that is cru­cial, but how you marry. Romance can hardly be a reliable indicator of marital choice because anyone who marries can expect to be romantically aroused by other people after they have married. Is there an optimal period for court­ship? 
Here the tradition has a sort of simple wisdom. It is observed that it takes a good while to settle down enough to be discerning about what kind of companionship you are in­volved in, to sober up, to be dispas­sionate about the lifetime choice that faces you. And so, there is a tradi­tional warning that courtship ought not to be too abrupt. Too many mis­takes are made through impatience. 
On the other hand, people have 
observed that courtship can evaporate 
without people knowing it. Two peo­
ple can continue on in companion­
ship which really is not leading any­
where and they don't face up to this 
fact. So, there is no ideal length but 
there is a concern about the two ex­
tremes. 
What do you find peculiar to court­
ships at Notre Dame? To courtships 
involving college students in general? 
Well, most students are here with a 
very significant dependence on the 
support of their families. They are 
grateful for it, yet they have generally 
not spent significant time when they 
had to support themselves-not just 
financially, but in every way. The 
fact that they have not had to enter a · society of strangers, make their way in work and companionship, and largely become their own person has to be at least a disadvantage in facing the maturity that marriage requires. For many people, the decision to get married is not to join two indepen­dent lives into a new and greater un­ion, but simply to bring two very de­pendent people into a relationship that is not generous at all. Then you think it is ill-advised for college students to become involved in courtships? 
Well, just to look around our own 
campus one can see people who. are 
very different in their degrees of ma­
turity. For some of them, the day 
when they are independent adults is 
far off. For others, it is long past. So, 
it is difficult simply to make a gener-. 

alization there. 
I might add that one of the great difficulties many couples encounter today is that they are not self-reliant. They enter marriage with all sorts of unspoken understandings about how they are going to be taken care of. If two people like this get married, then they might have an arrangement but they do not have much of a marriage. Their bond cannot survive much 
stress. 
One of the advantages that we might have at the university is that men and women are much more likely to come together as even part­ners. One of the patterns which has so frequently led to divorce in our time is what I call the syndrome of the acquiescent female. Many young women, for one reason or another, find that they become attractive to men by babying them: they make ex­cuses for them, they wait on them, they adapt themselves to their inter­ests, they subordinate themselves, 
Unfortunately, the kind of men that 
they attract are men who· for their 

part find that they can be attractive to women by allowing women to serve them. This, in its turn, brings out the worst in those men, Although it appears that one partner ·is gener­ous and the other is selfish, in fact they both are selfish and immature. 
Marriages between partners caught in this pattern can endure as long as the woman does not confront the man. But if she starts to grow and to wish for something mutually gener­ous, by that time the man is so spoiled that he regards her as being outrageously selfish. Most people know what follows after that. I think that at a very demanding and co­educational university, women are less likely to give themselves a,yay on these terms and men are less likely to be interested in that kind of 
woman. . 
Colm Connolly from Wilmington, Delaware, is a junior in the Program of Liberal Studies. This is his first contribution to Scholastic. 
By George Maney 
(Read this section to yourself_ in an obnoxious gameshow host v01ce.) 
Helio, everybody, and welcome to our show, Famous Lovers-Past and Present, where· · you, the audience, attempt to identify famous lovers bas:d on t~e couples' description of their relat~on­ship with each other. Now so~et1mes these descriptions can get a bit nasty. Remember that on our last show that famous couple of old, Odysseus and Penelope, got quite heated, what with her asking him about Calypso and he wondering how many suitors she had "had." Well, I can tell you there was plenty of excitement, and we promise you more of the same today. Weve got six great couples with us on the show, and you ll meet them right after a·word from our sponsor. 
(Read this section to yourself in the 
K-Tel record guy's voice.) 
Tired of hearing how original every other couples marriage proposals were? 
In a bind because you lack creativity? 

Not any morel Now there's the new Rontell collection of 50 unique and special marriage proposals. Here is just a sample of what's included. This particular proposal comes from the campus of ·Notre Dame. (You have to imagine this part.) 
A young couple sits in a posh restaurant finishing their dinner. He is a senior who will be attending law school next year. She is a senior who will be working next fall. They have been dating for exactly three years this evening. Now, having listened to him explain that he cannot marry her at this time due to career and economic considerations, she finishes her meal in silence. She had expected much more from this evening. Suddenly the maitre d' brings three roses to the table and presents them to her. Upon closer inspection she discovers that the three stems are bound together by a diamond engagement ring. He kneels beside her and proposes. How beautiful! 
So, when you've met the perfect woman-the one you want to share the rest of your life with-and it's time to pop the big question, order the new Rontell collection today. It is something you will always treasure. 
To order, send $19.95 in cash, check, or money order to: 
Rontell Marriage Proposal Collection 
Box2A 

Gullible City, CA 93707 Or call, toll-free 
1-800-BIG-RING 

That number again 
1-800-BIG-RING 

Operators are standing by .. 
But wait! There's moreHf you order now you will ·also receive a coupon good for 15 % off your Pre­Cana fees-redeemable in all Catholic churches nationwide. Again, that toll-free number is: 

1-800-BIG-RING 

Thank you. Were back! You're tuned in to 
Famous Lovers-Past and Present. A 
famous couple will come on stage . . and give the audience clues about their identity by describing certain aspects of their relationship, but with a twist. They'll describe themselves as if they were Notre Daine students. The audience will 


then try to match the list of names they were given beforehand with the couples. At the end of the show, we'll reveal the lovers' identities so you can see how you did. Today'slist of couples is the following: 
Rhett Butler and Scarlet O'Hara Romeo and Juliet Prince and Shiela E. Liz Taylor and Whoever her latest 
is Lucy arid Schroeder Maj. Frank Burris and Margaret 
Hoolihan Prince Ch~rles and Lady Di OKI On to couple number one. (M denotes the male, F denotes the female.) · · 
M: On our last date, an SYR, I got a little drunk and wandered off. Anyway, she leans out my window and yells "where for I art." How em barrassingl 
F: You were embarrassed? I was the one left alone! Maybe our parents are right in opposing our relation­ship. 
M: If anything ever happened to me you'd kill yourself, and you know it! 
Thank you, couple number one! On to the second couple. 
M: Describe.a typical Friday evening together? Well, after I've turned in my roommates to the rector for DuLac violations, I meet her at the library. 
F: v\'e study together because we're in similar fields. I'm in nursing, and he's in premed. Then we talk about ROTC for awhile. Then, about 
11:00 we ... M:·We go back to her room, have a few drinks, .. ·. · 
F: Shut up! And don't interrupt! 
M: Sorry, honey. 
Thanks, couple number two! Let's go to couple number three! . 
F: At first I thought it would be neat to go with a musician. They're usually so sensitive; especially to pretty, pretty girls like me. 
M: Arghlll 
F: But all he does is sit at the piano and play his stupid Beethoven, and ·. I'm sick of it. 

M: I wish you'd just leave me alone. You're too aggressive for me. Weren't they ·great? Here's couple number four! 
F: (Bats her eyelashes and tries to control her parasol as it goes with ·· the wind.) 
OK, before you meet any more 

couples, let's hear another word from 
our sponsor. 
· ·Men, at last it's here! The Rontell 

collection of marriage proposals. 
Now you can rest assured that your 
proposal will contain the originality 
you want it to. Just look! 
Two seniors decide _to end their las·t 

night together at school by taking a 
stroll around a lake on campus. , 
Coming to a flat, grassy area they sit 
down and discuss their plans for the · 
next year. ·suddenly, he gets up, 
walks to the edge of the lake, and 
kneels down to pick something up;. 
He returns with a bottle of cham­
pagne, chilled by the spring lake 
water. He proposes~she accepts­
and they toast their future together. 
How romantic! You don't want to miss this offer. To order send $19.95 in cash, check, or money order to: 
Rontell Marriage Proposal Collection 
Box 2A 
Gullible City, CA 93707 
Or call toll-free 
1-800-BIG-RING 
Call now! We're back again and ready to go with our fifth couple! 
M: I get delirious whenever she's around. · 
F: He's so great! He's made me a star, given me a red Corvette, and now he's building me a purple house. 
M: We'll probably get married around 1999. 
That's all for couple number five. Now let's meet the sixth couple. 
F: Oh, we're so much in love. Why, we'll be getting married shortly, or are we already married? I forget. 
M: We're engaged!! Gosh, how many times have you been engaged? 
F: Too mariy to count. I lose track. Only one more couple to ·go, and 
here they are now, couple number severil 
M: I say, be a good sport and have a maid press my riding jacket.• 
F: Can't you see I'm taking care of little Harry? Do it yourself! 
M: But I'll be late for the polo match! 
Now that you've met all the 

•couples, let's see how you, did. Couple number one is none other than Romeo and Juliet. 
All the way from.the 4077th in Korea, couple number two is Majors Frank Burns and Margaret Hoolihan. 
Couple number three hails from the pages of the Sunday comics. They are Peanuts, Lucy and Schroeder. 

Couple number four is Rhett Butler and Scarlet O'Hara. _ The fifth couple is made up of the infamous Prince and Shiela E. 
Liz Taylor and whoever her latest beau is are the sixth pair. And finally, couple number seven · is that royal duo, Prince Charles and Lady Di. Well, thanks for tuning in, and I hope you'll join us ·next time on 
Famous Lovers-Past and Present. 
George Maney from Tulsa, Oklahoma, is a senior in the Pro­gram of Liberal Studies. This is his second contribution to Scholastic. 

24 



HEEDING THE CALL Of VATICAN II 


'· .. OPUS. DEi: -A REBUTTAL 
By Kevin Baldwin 
Monsignor Josemaria Escriva de 
· Balaguer was a man with a super­natural mission, a mission to reassure lay Catholics that they too could and should participate in the full life of the Church. Anticipating the Second Vatican Council's promulgations on the role of the laity by more than three decades, Msgr. Escriva founded · Opus Dei in 1928, and through it has taught that sanctity is expected of all · Catholics, not just priests-and 
religious. · _ 
Opus Dei itself promotesJay spirituality by calling men and women to.sanctify themselves in the world,both through their professional workand ii) their personal, .family, and social duties. Dedicated to the will of God and possessing an untiring concern for-all souls, Msgr, 

· : Escriva sought to establish an organization.lh!it would provide lay people with a spiritual formation conducive to their role in the secular -world. The secular world was not to be shunned, but sanctified. Faith and competent work must go hand in hand. Professional life should not be void of holiness. Msgr. Escriva encountered opposition when he·.first proposed these ideas. Many in the Church felt that only the clergy and religious were called to a certafo state -of holiness. The.laity were not excluded · from holiness, but were certainly riot expected to act like "canonizable" · 
saints. It was not until the Second · Vatican Council that the laity were universally called to a life of sanctity, thus prompting CardinalAlbino Luciani of.Venice, before his election as PopeJohn Paul I, to remark that Escriva was a "revolutionary priest . , . vaulting overtraditional · . barriers." Popes John XXIIJ; Paul VI, and John Paul II, architects and imple111enters of Vatican II,· have also seen Escriva's. Opus Dei as a signifi­cant part of the revewal in the post­

_. conciliar Church; Rev. George. William Rutler, ·an associate pastor .in New York and Contributing . Editor of the New Oxford Review, comments on this mo~entin light of the reform; "What Newman taught about the work.0of priests and laity in the ecclesial economy, Escriva implemented a:s a working model 30 years before the Council, and it may be realized soon enough that Opus Dei is the Council's Lumen Gentium in action." Theologians and bishops through­out the world support such a view. The prominent American philoso­pher and theologian, Dr. Germain · Grisez, who teaches at Mount St. Mary's Seminary in Emmitsburg, Md., and who is not a member of Opus Dei, speaks of the organiza­tion's role in the coming years ahead: "Something like Opus Dei is going to be very important in the renewal of the Church along the lines marked out byVatican IL For the Council calls for a Christian life which is at once more in touch with the world and more oriented toward heaven. . Opus Dei is suited to the program of the Council, in that it takes people where they are, in their secular occupations, and forms them toward living in and with Jesus in glory here in the world:' Grisez goes on to explain how Opus Dei's spirit reflects a contempo­rary synthesis of the old and the new. "A very important aspect of the reality of Opus Dei which shows its significance for the emerging Church in its renewed reform is that it is really new in many ways, an up-to­
date movement which fits the situation and needs of today. At the same time; all of the Opus Dei people I·know are marked by deep· fidelity to Catholic tradition. They are not old-guard conservatives. But they are conservative with respect to what is important-the truth of the Catholic faith, the model of holiness· in Jesus, and the sacramental life of the Church." 
Opus Dei's becoming the Catholic Church's first personal prelature in 1982 indeed shows that it is emerg­ing as an important movement within the Church. The prelature, an organizational structure conceived by the Second Vatican Council, gives Opus Dei autonomy with worldwide, nonterritorial jurisdiction. This hew status provides the organization with a more flexible means of furthering the· Church's evangelism. This prelattire was granted by the 
"Opus Dei is involved w,ith at least 200 social service agencies through­out the world. These programs and centers arise in response to spe­cific .social needs at the initiative of qualified 
professionals." 
Vatican's Sacred Congregation For Bishops with the overwhelming ­approval of bishops worldwide. The Sacred Congregation explains the reasons behind its decision. "We can therefore describe· as historic this 
j 
25 

--------~-~--~ -­
decision which transforms into 
concrete reality a new, fertile and 
promising possibility envisaged in the 
pastoral legislation of the Second 
Vatican Council." The Congregation 
goes on to praise the spirit, organiza­
tion, and apostolic methods of Opus 
Dei, especially noting the outstand­
ing pastoral service that it has been 
providing hundreds of dioceses for 
over fifty years. . . . . 
When the Holy See erected Opus . Dei as a prelature, it stated that Opus Dei has put into practice the laity's mission to sanctify themselves and the secular world. How do Opus Dei's 72,000 members from over 80 countries accomplish this task? First of all, the members resolve to do all human work, no matter how insignificant~ with the greatest perfection possible and with Chris­tian perfection (for love of God's will and as a service to mankind) .. This is how each member sanctifies his secular profession and social a"uties. Each accepts his vocation from Gqd .. as a gift and knows that at the end . . of his life he will be asked to return· that gift in the best condition . : • possible. The act of fulfilling one's ·. vocation is a co-creative act, as Msgr. Escriva explains. "Man's duty to ·· . • work is not a consequence oforigii;ial. sin, nor is it just a discovery of : modern times. It is an indispensable · means which God has entrusted to us here on earth. It-is meant to fill our . days and make us sharers in God's · creative power.". . 
Opus Dei members do all ~f this by combining complete freedom in professional, social, economic, and political expression with lpyalty to the Church's teachings in faith and morals as expressed by the Pope and bishops, a loyalty which is demanded by the decrees of Vatican -II and which has distinguished the life of every Christian martyr and saint. • Opus Dei members also. adhere to . the standards of traditional :Cathoiic piety, practices recommended to all · Catholics by Vatican IL These . · include daily Mass, Communion, . mental prayer, frequent confession, Scriptural reading and daily rosary; 
Opus Dei members are loyal to the Church and to Vatican II and do not, as Peter Carter's rec:nt artible "Licensed to Sanctify" •(Scholastic,'.. Dec. 1984) claims, harbor a pre. Vatican II mentality of the body or of intellectual inquiry. First of all, the Churph_.has never held the ·· • supposed pre-Vatican II position that 



r£~·~~i~ lt{~I,
sacred because God became flesh in :.t:;,:J~qpeJohnPaulJI pr~fding at.the ordination oft ·------------~---tI:i?:·:~~ll:~erer~~picturedliere), an·Ameri~ 
the person Qf Jesus. The Carter article accuses Opus Dei of such a position because of its practice of 
. ~raditional fasting, penance and voluntary sacrifices, practices that are freely chosen for the most positive of reasons. As a football player trains his body and builds up strength through the painful break­ing down and building up of muscle 

. ,t , ...... • . " 
tissue that accompanies weight­lifting, so an Opus Dei member builds up moral strengh through voluntary sacrifices such as rising early or being cheerful when he · doesn'.t feel like it. These are ancient Catholic practices that are used by Catholic religious orders throughout· 
the world. 
Opus Dei's so-called "censorship 

J. 
! . I 
policy" came under criticism by Carter as well.-What needs to be explained is that Opus Dei members can read such authors as Marx and Hegel if proper care is taken. Ideas, like drugs, can be very dangerous if people are unfamiliar with them and ignorant of their consequences .. The Church continues to hold that texts containing grave moral or doctrinal error are not to be read except in a responsible teaching environment. 


Peter Carter's article also accuses Opus Dei of maintaining sexist policies. It claims that the purpose of the women's. apostolate is to exclu­sively serve the Men's Branch of Opus Dei. To the contrary, most Opus Dei women do not serve in that apostolate at all. The great ma·ority of women in Opus Dei work in such professions as law, medicine, journalism, education, and business. In fact, the Women's Branch of Opus Dei is administratively separate of and independent from the Men's Branch, a situation unique among Catholic institutes when Opus Dei was created. 
Opus Dei members are a diverse group, but there is one characteristic that distinguishes them all: genuine charity. In fact, many are drawn to the movement by this impressive characteristic. Joseph O'Donnell, a Vice-President of the American Mining Congress in Washington, D.C., recalls his contact with a friend who was an Opus Dei member. ''It wasn't so much his knowledge about the Church and religion that impressed me, but his kindness and sincerity." O'Donnell is himself now a member. There is no doubt that Mr. and Mrs. Richard Ellis, also of the D.C. area, have drawn many into the movement by thefr example. Dick Ellis presides over an informal boys' club in his home, bringing together youngsters for religious instruction, sports, and character formation. In addition, he conducts "study circles" for men, which are sessions of instruction and discussion on topics related to the practice of the faith. Mrs. Ellis, confined to a wheelchair, runs three groups of her own-for working women, for young mothers, and for older married women. These initiatives are matched by many other Opus Dei members in student 
·residences and centers throughout the United States in cities such as New York, Boston, Washington, Park Ridge, N.J., San Francisco, Provi­dence, Miami, Houston, Dallas, Los Angeles, Milwaukee and St. Louis. 
Here in Smith Bend, the Opus Dei center, Windmoor House, is located at 1121 N. Notre Dame Avenue. Most centers offer retreats and evenings of recollection, doctrine classes, and study groups in lay spirituality for members and nonmembers alike. In addition, Opus Dei operates the University of Navarre,, one of Spain's finest schools, along with universities in Peru, and Colombia. It also runs Kianda College in Nairobi, Kenya, the first integrated women's school in East Africa, along with several high schools throughout the world. 
Opus Dei is also involved with at least 200 social service agencies 
. throughout the world. These programs and centers arise in response to specific social needs at .the initiative of qualified profession­
s. The Midtow~ Center in Chicago alworkers in electromechanics and change society. "The purpose of your was started by educators and other industrial design. The center also institution is the sanctification of Hfo professionals to· serve the Hispanic sponsors Neighborhood Educational lived in the world---to be completely and black populations of the city. In Programs for young people and immersed in it and yet to_ transform Central and South America Opus adults, and provides training in it and redeem it with Christ's own Dei operates centers for rural various sports. love. _Truly, yours is a great ideal, development like the Farm School of In serving humanity Opus Dei not and o·ne which from its very begin­Montefalco iri Mexico where a three­only aims at fulfilling the material _ ning has foreshadowed the theology year farm training program_ and a needs of others. It is concerned with of the laity which later has charac­two-year high school are offered to the development of the whole terized the conciliar and post­the farmers and workers of the person, with the spiritual, physical, conciliar Church .... Is there any surrounding areas. The Ellis Center intellectual, arid emotional growth of ideal more beautiful and more in Rome, begun at the request of those whom it serves, Opus Dei moving than this? Inserted into Pope John XXIII, benefits the po?r combines academic and vocational humanity, commingled with. it, this on the outskirts of Rome by runnmg training with physical exercise, · humanity that is so happy and yet so a high school that offers day and spiritual direction, community sad, you seek to love it, to enlighten evening sessions and a professional involvement, classes on the Church's it, to save it. May you be blessed and school that special!zes in trainin$ teachings, and encouragement of a ever eager in this your goall" disciplined lifestyle. All of this is If Christianity is to continue to''As a football player fostered within an atmosphere of influence the world and offer hope selflessness and genuine caring .. and salvation to all, the laity must trains his body and Through such human and Christian heed the Second Vatican Council's builds up strength formation Opus Dei prepares both · call to "universal holiness."Opus Dei through the painful members and nonmembers for future provides lay Catholics with the professional, family, and social guidance and support that enablesbreaking down and duties. them to dedicate their lives to theirbuilding up of muscle There is a growing enthusiasm in faith. In sanctifying their work and the Church for Opus Dei because it family Hfe, they can blaze a trailtissue that accompanies is so unique. It offers the Church through the secular world thatweight-lifting, so an what no religious order is able to: · millions will follow, This was Msgr.Opus Dei member · the ability to penetrate and re­Escriva's vision, his supernatural Christianize all aspects of human mission. Lay Catholics should reflectbuilds up moral strength society and culture. Pope John Paul on such a mission, and take advan­through voluntary sacri-­II has praised Opus Dei for offering tage of the opportynity that. Opus f. . ,, Catholics this rich opportunity to Dei is offering them. .ices....  
W.E TREAT STUDENTS AS THE PROFESSIONALS o·F TOMORROW! . . We have the supplies for every need of commercial and-fine artists, industrial architects, engineers, draftsmen, graphic • • ~ • • I designers and more. We also carry the largest supply of creative talent books in the area and offer Custom-Framing, _Prints and Unique Gifts. WE TRULY APPRE.CIATE YOUR BUSINESS. HOURS: MONDAY THRU FRIDAY 8:30 am -5:00 pm SATURDAY ·10:00 am·-3:00 pm M MAKIELSKl INC. -SERVING AREA ARTISTS FOR OVER 73 YEARS 117 NORTH MAIN • SOUTH BEND, IN. 46601 • 233~2409 IL 

• 

.Iii 
. I: 



By Vivian Ostrowski 
Brochures about the Ireland Pro­gram explain opportunities, activi­ties, classes, and accommodations. These organizational and factual bits of information pertain to everyone in­volved with Irish foreign study. Un­like any other program offered at No­tre Dame and Saint Mary's, the Ireland Program involves a deep and total immersion by thrusting students directly into Irish living, schooling and thinking. The heart of the Pro­gram, however, cannot be captured in broad overviews. The notion of a Program which exists on paper alone is a meaningless abstraction; instead, the Ireland Program is asum of the experiences of each individual who plunges into it. The following vi­gnettes offer reflections on the May­nooth experience. Considered sep­arately, they introduce Ireland vet­erans as individuals with different backgrounds, goals, and interests. Considered together they offer the human element of a Program which lives beyond the brochures. 
Renee Yung, a Saint Mary's senior, feels that fate sent her to Ireland; no Irish "roots" compelled her to travel to the Emerald Isle, yet that trip emerged as a significant time in her life. For Renee, the Ireland Program was an awakening. "I became aware of a world with social, cultural, eco­nomic and educational differences." Americans in Ireland face different houses, different expenses, a different 

language. The immersion into a 
neighborhood and small town made 
these everyday details more profound 
than the more general differences in 
geography and curriculum and ab­. stract culture." 
Renee describes the Program as an 
"Ideal Year." "Our expenses were 
met, our classes did not bind us to de­
tails and deadlines, and three thou­
sand miles guaranteed our indepen­
dence from family and college. We 
were free to experience anything; we 
were 'given a year' in an idyllic set­
ting of sea, sky; mountains, and 
cliffs. Each American lived with his 
or her own style. "We touched how 
the Irish live and, at the same time, 
were able to touch our own Ireland 
and our own year." 
Kathleen Hennessy too has her own 
story to tell. Kathleen is 100 % Irish; 
the program, for her, was a natural 
ex tension of years of Irish step­
dancing lessons and ballad singing. 
But the program took her beyond 
new steps and songs; Ireland pro­
vided her with a place to grow. 
Appreciation and independence 
marked Kathleen's year. "Luxuries 
were luxuries, not necessities." Our 
standard of living changed in Ire­
land. We were dependent upon the 
coal company for heat, the bus driver 
for mobility, and ourselves for most 
everything else." Kathleen developed 
a greater appreciation of her parents' 
efforts to make her life easier and more comfortable; she learned to dis­tinguish between the comforts she "enjoys" and the comforts she "de­serves." Her newfound self-sufficiency led to independence, and this inde­pendence led to cooperation. "We helped each other understand what we were doing there. Moreover, we attempted to reconcile our American · ways with our Irish neighbors' ways. This personal interaction forced stereotypes to disappear." 
As a social work major at Saint Mary's, Heather Holland is acutely sensitive to people's attitudes to the life that surrounds them, and to Heather, the life of Ireland was found in its music; the• Irish stance toward music.is indicative of the Irish stance toward life. Irish people sing and 
play musical. instruments for enjoy­ment. They do not care whether they are "good" or not for everyone is enti­tled to be a part of making music. They take an active part in music as entertainment; many events end with guitar playing and singing. Tradi­
-tional music is an important element as well. "Messages, such as a unified Ireland; are conveyed through folksongs and evoke strong feelings of patriotism in the Irish and their visi­tors. Ireland's long history is commu­nicated to every generation. Ameri­cans, on the other hand, often listen or take a passive stance toward music and other entertainment. Americans watch TV while the Irish sing." 



Mike Burnett decided to go abroad after watching the movie "French Postcards," in which American ex­change students have great times in Paris. The fun, he concluded, made the risk worthwhile. · 
Mike likens the average Irish stand­ard of living. with that of America fifty years ago. Ireland is predo~i­nantly rural. The urban areas which exist sport fewer conveniences than their counterparts in the United States: many families heat their homes with fires of peat and coal; bi­cycling, walking, and hitchhikin~ re-.. place privately owned automobiles. · Attitudes, too, about the secular world and the Church seem old­fashioned-neither Women's Lib nor· Vatican II plays a vital role in ev­eryday life. . · . . · 
The notion of necessity changes from America to Ireland. "Necessities for us insure comfort and enjoyment. Necessities for the Irish insure health and basic needs." Mike learned ·to sympathize with European perspec­tives on world issues; he learned to · view America critically and his social conscience grew tremendously. "I .am more aware that America has a re­sponsibility to the world, and of what that responsibility is." .· ... 
Just·as Mike became critically 
·aware of the American responsibility to Ireland, Bridget SuUivan's year in Ireland encouraged the development of her political activism. Bridget felt displaced in Ireland-flown with dif­ferent. people to a• different country. with different customs formed by dif­ferent histories. She realized· that knowing a culture is an important el-. ement in knowing a person. Bridget found that just as she lives American 
'culture and experience, ·so an Irish person lives Irish culture and experi0 
. ence, and aNicaraguan lives Nicara­guan culture and experience. Percep­tions of reality differ according to circumstance;· "American experience ., is not global experience. Once Ameri­cans realize that our country ·is not the center of the world nor our cus-· toms the paradigm of human behav-. ior, ·weWill acknowledge. the. rightof other nations to struggle for their own identity-'using their own priori­ties and criteria." 
Excitement greeted Nancy Bren­nan's decision to try the Ireland Pro­gram; according to her Irish­American neighbors in Yonkers, New York, Nancy was moving from "God's University" to God's Country." 
Nancy did not view Ireland through "tourist-colored" glasses, however. "Too often, Irish-Americans and other visitors see only what they want to see: castles, churches, freck­led faces, Aran sweaters and Water­ford crystal." Nancy discovered the 
realities of modern Ireland when try-· ing to come to grips with ·the urban 
·problems resulting from industrial­ization, She worked,· for example, at SIMON-a shelter in Dublin for homeless m.en ·~ver forty. This· per­spective made apparent the tension between a romanticized, pastoral "old country" and an economically unstable country., with poverty and unemployment. Through her experi­ence there, she began· to understand that there is more to Ireland then just the beautiful countryside. 
When Mary Burke sat downto talk about Ireland, she prefaced her re­marks with, "Listen, I've only got half an hour." She caught herself immediately-"What an AMERI­CAN thing to say!» Mary chose the Ireland Program for specific· reasons: independent living, a mral commu­nity, and a liberal arts curriculum. The independence and freedom of the Program allowed each student to 
.set hisor her own priorities. Mary . . found that the Ireland group of .students-individually and collec­tively~was most important fo her. 
"A special bond· exists between people who experience a Program together; we spent our year learning to listen to each other." . 
The II:eland Program offers a Notre Dame/Saint Mary's student the op­portunity to explore a beautiful coun­try where stretched throughout its 
·green expanse lie the lyrics and laughter of the Irish pubs, the eco-· nomic hardships of a developing economy; and the strength and indi­

. viduality of a rugged people. But at the core of the Ireland Program is the experience of being displaced and detached-living in a foreign culture. · Separation from family, familiar en-· vironments, conventional ideas, and 
· easy answers inspires new thoughts ·and a fresh world view in each par­. ticipant. Particular insights differ for each, but all value the independence and awakened respect for the differ­ences between ,peoples. D 
Vivian Ostrowski: Vivian is a· se­nior majoring in English Literature and Philosophy at Saint Mary's. She lives in Campbell, OH. 




ELAN 


TU( ARTS 


The Unchosen Choice 
Quivering with effort; the pointed foot strained towards the tired ceiling fan Hke so many' other feet in the small rehearsal room. I;feltoddly detached from this foot despite its apparent connection to my leg and I eyed it critically. Nice arch. Could be better. Needs work. My thoughts came in gasps, keeping 'time with my shallow breathing. 
The piano pounded relentlessly as 
Madame Petronovich's voice cut the · heavy air. "Turn out from the hip. " Extension:• Was she saying that to · • me? I forced my leg higher, feeHng · 
the familiar protest of overworked· 
muscles. Glancing sidelong at the 
frozen forms next to me, I coldly 
evaluated each dancer .. Karin-nice 
line but too sta.tic. Beth-strong 
ankles, a bit on _the heavy side. 
Lydia:--good balance. 

"You will ple~se keep your eyes looking in the proper direction." The command issued in the Russian woman's thin monotone brought my gaze sharply to the frorit of the room and sent shudders-of apprehension through my body. "If you cannot maintain your concentration you may as well leave .right now;• the 
by Lau!el-Ann Dooley. 
voice. continued, mercilessly repri­manding.· Tears stung my eyes and I bit hard on my lower lip. 
The music stopped and the carefully held positions collapsed like broken marionettes. Dancers drooped over barres and gulped the air, replenishing spent fibers and · tired-tendon~ with precious oxygen bef01:e the ritual began again. I stretched a cramped calf, catching my reflection in the mirrored wall. My _moist skin was pale, atribute to endless hours spent in this room, and I thought of the senior class beach trip I was missing. They would just be getting there now, unloading · coolers ·and Coppertone,. nursing hangovers with Budweiser. No concentration problems there. 
· '"I.'endu front and side and repeat;' th~ voice was saying. I went through the motions of preparing for the • exercise, my body memorizing, my mind wandering. John;Banks would probably be there, splashing through the surf after a runaway Frisbee. 
. And Lisa Johnson; stretched out on a . beach towel, getting thrown into the waves and affecting annoyance. "Ronde de jambs three, four, and 
arabesque five;" Ther~ were no clouds today. A really perfect day. They'd probably have a cookout ... hot dogs and hamburgers ... so many calories. 
"Preparation one, two." The music began and curved arms responded, floating gently upward as taut legs burst into a flurry of movement. I let my years of training dance for me and continued my musing. I really would have liked to have gone. I might have even attempted to play volleyball. I smiled to myself. 
"Miss Roberts, I believe I have already spoken to you about concen­tration. I will not do so again. I don't want to have to ask you to leave." 
The sand melted into hardwood floor and startled, I adjusted my position. Dammit, no more crying. 
can't let her see me cry. That would 
do it. I'll do a really good adagio 
and I'll make sure to get in the front 
row so she can see me. Desperately I 
plotted to stave off the panic that 
was gripping me. I'll do a triple 
pirouette if it kills me. Maybe I 
could take some extra classes next 
week. 

A patch of diffused sunlight 
dappled abandoned pointe shoes and 
bounced off the mirror. Madame 
Petronovich pulled the curtain shut. 
Oh please, don't let her be mad. I 
bit my lip and hoisted my leg high. 
D 

Laurel-Ann Dooley is a senior :,AmEiric:an Studies major from Fort i.,".uu.t:H~=.,, Florida. Former editor of Scholastic, has contributed to the magazine 
·­
'" ·c\.:::::::--------~··"'~~ 

Laugh and fay with foe/'. , < rriybeastly1friend. . .. pays and fine \vine<· ·... ' shall never run dry. Nor \vilfyo~tloins_,+; .·. <<·.··be,fossasurprise•• · 'foday th,an tornorrq"'7, · Laugh and fay with ine . my beastlyfrie!].d.. 
nAugust summer's ba 

·, iCbme\i.rid sifh 1:>yJne
uch like ap 

. ___ MyJriendiy b~a.st.
sLwaitirigt 

Ilock.. high,Qihraltat ' 
frie11ds are nig 

_--.-.. _ o:i1 waterystfaits,
ndJaughter · leil 

Misty-kissed.wavesJh;it 
om buildingfo 

. . trade pain fCJr plea.sure 0 .building top, . :t\nd bac_kagaip. .. < > ..
nd',backagain, 

Ccirne and sigh by foe
there is icesd-ea. 

< •. my friencUy beast.
obe had> ·_.___ ·. __-. 

Smile ,and singo'erin:e 
nd sun ai:i.d.cfoii 

. _. · _iny fiendish lover,··-· 
ance heel ahdto 

Acantide of/ . ,,
nd lazy reeds 

· __-._ rising falling 
wave to and fro, · 

Ba~s arp~ggios ·<:
days are,hota, 

.. of thedominant; ave to and fro, Curious key. _--....,•• aysafehot Sniile a.rid sii:lg o'er rile am of:love, ·. . / rriy fiendishJovei-. 
.Be a godd f~How. . You're charming.·. > . -_-_·--.-_· ·-. ·bold/, 
.· •·sm~lyth~re's,held . -.•...· -· -A sweet secret uritold;c: 
So.,.. ·._·__ .___ _ _.· ____ ·· Laugh anc:llay with me . · i i my lovely fiend. . / _ .•-.•_-Tomorrow'.s secorid -coniing ·· dies withouitoday. ­A i'evelation , ·..·' .. •·· < in crimson tone_:, Saying;please:do _· --_._. --· Laugh· and lay with me· . . me lovely fiend. . 
• p ---~---• ---'-. , 
-------. -~. ; \.. .,,.. ~ ~ . , . . 

.· ,ur.lips never to ur being ~mbr • 
FroIllour fitst ki~s >··•· . 
Qur lips liav<ft611ched·· Alrof each of· us. 
·., ith orir firsfki .. etmichedgne'ano 
·.· .·. ly.thah vvit 

Meeting the Night 
A room's soul strikes back _at the night, 
A disheveled bed is shredded·by cries of desperation. The rebellious two die and die as their teeth meet, Their eyes dilate and prove windows to the pitch. 
The furnished room spits its phlegm and stale, Plants choke as bodies wriggle and pull apart. Attempted escape is the steaming of sheets, A momentary forgetting until what you flee is what you view. 
This chaotic business of night, A brief respite from the terror of loneliness Is symptomatic of the plague, the catastrophic privation. And when the soul hardens a:nd disappears, 
Who can make amends? Only God can create some~ing from nothing. 
As for loneliness Speaking in tongues is an ecstatic wrap. . Half-baked transcendental rµutterings bring together two, 
·· I assume. Or, intellectualism can be another cloak, · But when one book is done,. "you'd better read another. 
Beyond thjs don't you see When clever eyes meet there is nothing more Than windows to an empty core. Peacock Feathers 
So if you can still cry, follow me. She'll know 
My love

Let us peer through the vale of tears, 
When I show off 
Telling each other what we see. My peacock feathers. 
And if it is just loneliness, My Jaguar,
Let's fill it up with you and me. 

Private beach; Income, bottle of Moet ('cause Playboy said so); .
By David Roop 

My yacht. Swimming in the pure-blue 
· waters of the Virgin Island:shore. whatever she wants! She couldn't ask for more. 
·My peacock feathers 
· Determine whether She'll ignore or accept The true love she can expect 
· From my heart. 
Anyone can see that My heart's got so much to give. 
By Sam Moore 

by Chuck Erhman 



Fiction 

Old Man McDuff pointed to the ground and then looked at the woman beside him. 
"What is it, McDuff?" she asked. 

"It seems strange, but !-_believe it is a rose. Now fancy that." McDuff thought it odd to happen upon such a thing in a public park. 
"Perhaps someone was taking it to his lover and happened to drop it, quite by accident, and not knowing that he had done so, went on his way, only to be saddened when he reached his destination." He stooped and picked up the flower, resting it in his hand. 
"Perhaps not;' said the woman. "Perhaps the gentleman met his lover in this exact spot, and gave to her the rose you hold. And then, after the man had departed, she, not really in love with him, decided to toss the rose down on the ground, to die. The man never knowing what she did." 
"I should hope not;' answered McDuff. "Rather, I should like to think that at this moment, the young man is out searching for the rose, his heart in dismay. And if that is the case, then we should put the flower back and be on our way, hopeful that he can reclaim his lost treasure." 
"No, he would not come back." The woman took the rose from the man and brought it beneath her nose. A smile cut across her face. 
A twinkle came to McDuff's eye as he watched the woman. "Perhaps the rose was sent from Heaven, a symbol of our love, of our relationship. It may indeed show the beauty of our association." 
The woman gave a lighthearted laugh. "I should think not. Rather, it seems to show just how fragile and weak our union is. I could easily crush this rose, destroy it. The same is true for us, I believe. We could easily fall apart, crumble, fade. That is what the rose tells us, if it tells us anything at all." 
"But that's it!" said McDuff, alive with expression. "The beauty of our relationship lies in its delicacy. And the rose shows it all, with stunning truth." 
"Nonsense, McDuff." The woman handed the rose back to the man. 
McDuff stood with the rose, silent for some time. "No;' he said at last, putting the rose back where he had found it. "This rose was not for us. I do not believe we were intended to find it. No, our discovery has been a mistake." 
He looked at the woman. She looked at the man. 
"I do feel," McDuff mused. "And I am almost sure now, that the rose was left here, not for us, but for someone else. Left here by a man struck with love, for a woman to come and find. AI)d the lovely lady may very ,vell be coming here now, right this moment, to see what the rrian in her life has left her to discover. How I do love romance. It is simply enchanting. How I would enjoy to meet these people." 
"You have it all wrong, McDuff," said the woman.· "You do not understand. How blind men can be. No one would leave a rose out in the open for everyone to see; lovers are more discreet. The rose is simply a flower, and only that, standing for nothing, not meaning anything." · .. 
McDuff chuckled a bit, aware of his folly. He stood next to the woman, she next to him, both about the rose. In time they walked off, the rose a fading memory. D 
:I Iii 
,,I 
artistic opportunities 
PLAYWRITES 
Deadline: March 1, 1985 
The Acting Ensemble 
Repertory Theatre 
Company of South Bend is offering a "theatrical experience for playwrites" focusing on the creation of original works for the stage. $100.00 and a full stage production will be awarded to the winning play; $50.00 and a stage · reading will be granted to the runner-up. Playwrites must be eighteen years or older and must reside in Indiana: Only one full­length play per writer will be accepted, although more than one one-act can be submitted. Plays must not have been previously produced. 

INDIANA ARTISTS SHOW 
Deadline: February 19, 
1985 
The Indianapolis Museum of Art is handing out more than $5,000.00 to artists who are present or former residents of Indiana. The event is called the "70th Indiana Artists Show;• and artworks of almost all media are welcome: painting, sculpture, 
·constructions, metal, 
ceramics, stone, wood, 
plaster, plastics, works on 
paper, textiles, glass, 
documents of conceptual 
projects, mixed media, 
and photography. Pieces 
submitted must have been 
crafted since June, 1983, 
and must be the original 
work of the artist. 
Preliminary entries will be· 
taken in 2x2 color slides, 
and each artist may 
submit a maximum of 
three. 

CHRISTIAN WRITERS 
Deadline: March 1, 1985 
The William B. Eerdmans 
Publishing Co. is taking submissions of fiction, 
poetry and critical essay. 
$75.00 worth of books will 
be awarded to the first­prize winners in each category, $50.00 worth to the second, and $25.00 
worth to the third. The contest is open to all regularly enrolled under­graduate students, and the entries should reflect the writer's Christian Faith in some way. And of course, all entries must be original and previously unpub­lished._ 

WORLDLY POETS 
Deadline: March 29, 1985 
All poets residing on this planet are most cordially invited to compete in the fourth annual Salute To the Arts Poetry Contest sponsored by Triton College in River Grove, 
IL. The competition is divided into three the­matic categories: Har­mony, Betrayal and Opportunity. Poets are asked to submit a single piece on each of the three selected topics. Winning submissions will be published in Ariel, the Triton College publication for the Arts. Poems must be the original work of the artist and must not have been published previously. 
_REGIONAL ARTISTS EXHIBITION 
Deadline: February 22 & 23, 1985 
Artists living within 100 miles of Fort Wayne and over eighteen years of age can be in the running for $4,000.00 in cash awards from the Fort Wayne Museum of Art. All types of work will be judged, and a nonrefundable fee of $10.00 qualifies an 
artist to submit one or two entries. Purchase awards · will be given, and all artists will be encouraged to offer their work up for sale. The museum will claim twenty-five percent of the total price as commission. 


SCULPTURE COMPETi­TION 
Deadline: March 1, 1985 
$8,500.00 is being offered to sculptors residing or studying within the states of Arkansas, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan and Ohio. The Whirlpool Corporation, "expanding its commitment to cultural and educational advance­ment;• welcomes both the professional and the amateur to submit a 35mm slide of a selected piece of sculpture to the 1985 Whirlpool Sculpture Competition. All pieces must have been completed within the last three years. 
Winning sculptures and a selection ofrunners~up will hit the road on a touring exhibition which will run through St. Joseph, Ml, Evansville, IN, and Ft. Smith, AR; sales will be encouraged, with no commission charged by Whirlpool, unless the sculptor indicates otherwise. Artists may submit a maximum of three entries. 
REMEMBERED POETS 
Deadline: March 8, 1985 
Kent State University announces the eleventh annual Hart Crane Memorial Poetry Award competition for any and all poets. $100.00 will be given to the winning poem, and the poem will be published in Icon, Kent State's literary magazine; honorable mentions may also be published. Poems must be previously unpublished. 
SENIOR ARTISTS 
Deadline: March 15, 1985 
RSVP is offering a chance 
for promising college 
seniors, majoring in art in 
a matriculated curricu­
lum, to win thousands of 
dollars, free advertising, 
card stock reprints and an 
opportunity to have their 
work seen by more than 
10,000 buyers all over the 
world. The aim of the 
competition is to identify 
the best new talent among 
college seniors and to · provide them with an 
introduction to the 
professional marketplace. 


NATIONAL ART SEARCH 
Deadline: February 28, 1985 
Sun Cards, Inc.-a manufacturer and distributor of greeting cards and related station­ery designed for the black 
. consumer-announces a National Art Search. The search is a project con­ceived to identify artists who wish to have their artwork reproduced on the commercial market, to select new designs for inclusion in the Sun Cards line, and to help provide national and international exposure for the selected artists and their work. $1,500.00 in cash and a trip for two to the National Conference of Artists (NCA) convention in Dakar, Senegal, will be given as awards to the chosen winners. All entries must be in full color and must depict either full or partial figures of one or more black subjects; and entries must be submitted in slide form. The competition is open to all artists. 
HIGH PRICED POETS 
Deadline: March 15, 1985 
The Chester H. Jones Foundation is offering more than $1,800.00 for poetry submissions. The selected winner will receive $1,000.00, and there appears to be a lot more where that came from. Information and entry forms are available from the foundation. 

I l 
' 
I: 




Bach/Handel/Scarlatti Tercentenary (APR) 
Alexander's Feast 
WSND will broadcast Alexander's Feast on February 22 at 8 pm. In honor of St. Cecilia's Day, Handel composed a scintillating account of a famous banquet. Alexander's Feast is a setting for John Dryden's famous ode subtitled "The Power of Musick." 
Saturday Afternoon Opera 
February 2 VERDI: Otello 9 PUCCINI: La Bo­
heme 16 WAGNER: Lohengrin 23 TCHAIKOVSKY: 
Eugene Onegin March 2 PUCCINI: Manon Lescaut 9 VERDI: Ernani 
16 WAGNER: Die Mei­stersinger von Nurn­berg 
23 GERSHWIN: Porgy and Bess 30 PUCCINI: Tosca 

Studs Terkel Almanac 
"It was always a badly kept secret 
that Studs Terkel's own life was as 
singular and interesting as that of 
any of the people he interviewed 
..." (Michael Arlen) 
Since graduating from the University 
of Chicago Law School in 1934, 
Studs has been a playwright, 
acclaimed author, disc jockey, radio 
and stage actor, radio commentator, 
lecturer, panel moderator, jazz 
columnist, television personality, 
music festival host and civil service . employee. For more than 25 years, 
Studs has hosted his Peabody Award­
winning program, "The Studs Terkel 
Show." 
The program's form is eclectic, including musical and dramatic presentations, literary readings, interviews, documentaries and discussions. Some of Studs' memora­ble interviewees have been Buster Keaton, Woody Allen, Norman Mailer, Marc Chagall, Tennessee Williams, Janis Joplin, Aaron Copland and Carl Sandburg. 
February 15 
Studs talks with Father Jensen and Sister Malherek of the Maryknoll Or­der about Central America. 
February 22 
Lena Horne converses about music. 
March 1 
Studs in conversation with John Ta­teishi about his book And Justice For All: An Oral History of the Japanese American Detention Camps. 
March 8 
Studs with Mike Royko, discussing and reading from his new book Like I Was Sayin'. 
March 15 
Lisel Mueller converses with Studs about her recent translation of The Selected Poems of Marie Luis Kasch­nitz. 
March 22 
Eleanore Langer discusses her biogra­phy of Josephine Herbst, a singular woman of the 20's. 
March 29 
In conversation with Studs is Tevere Macfadyen, author of Gaining Ground. 
Chicago Symphony Orchestra 
February 14 
Claudio Abbado, conductor Cecile Licad, piano SCHUMANN: Piano Concerto in A Minor, Op. 54 SCHUBERT: Symphony No. 9 in C, D. 944, "Great" 
February 21 
Kurt Masur, conductor Annerose Schmidt, piano PROKOFIEFF: Piano Concerto No. l in D-flat, Op. 10 SIEGFRIED MATTHUS: Piano Con­certo DVORAK: Symphony No. 8 ·in G, Op. 88 

February 28 
Sir Georg Solti, conductor Franz Mazura, bass-baritone (Moses) Philip Langridge, tenor (Aaron) Aage Haugland, bass (Priest) supporting cast Chicago Symphony Chorus (prepared by Margaret Hillis) Members of Glen Ellyn Children's Chorus (prepared by Doreen Rao) SCHOENBERG: Opera, "Moses and Aaron" 
March 7 
Daniel Barenboim, conductor BEETHOVEN: Symphony No. 6 in !:, Op. 68, "Pastoral" DEBUSSY: Prelude to Mallarme's "Afternoon of a Faun" SCRIABIN: "Poem of Ecstasy;' Sym­phony No. 4, Op. 54 
Marchl4 
Claudio Abbado, conductor Zoltan Kocsis, piano BOULEZ: "Notations" I-IV RACHMANINOFF: Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini, Op. 43 MENDELSSOHN: Symphony No. 4 in A, Op. 90, "Italian" 
March 21 
Leonard Slatkin, conductor Joseph Guasfafeste, double bass (Mr. Guastafeste is also CSO Princi­pal Bass) BACH/RESPIGHI: Prelude and Fugue in D Major, BMU-532 WM. KARLINS: "Reflux" ELGAR: Symphony No. 2 in E-flat, Op. 63 
March 28 
James Levine, conductor Johanna Meier, Judith Blegen and Marvis Martin, sopranos Florence Quivar and Isola Jones, 
mezzo-sopranos Giuliano Ciannella, tenor Ryan Edwards, baritone John Cheek, bass Chicago Symphony Chorus (prepared by Margaret Hillis) Wisconsin Conservatory Chorus (pre­pared by Margaret Hawkins) Glen Ellyn Children's Chorus (pre­pared by Doreen Rao) . MAHLER: Symphony No. 8 in E­flat, "Symphony of a Thousand" 
~­
--~~ ----------~~---­




idle .banter 
-Timothy Gianotti 
I watch the lonely trail of a ciga­rette rise up to join the thickening overhead fog in the stuffy, cramped cafe. My eyes wander, and they fall on the face of a big man two seats down the bar. Amidst the black razor stubble, a dirty scab stretches across his cheek. I don't want to know how it got there, so I stick my nose in the chipped coffee mug which sits steaming on the co?;1ter before me. At fifteen cents a cup, 1t s the best deal in town. Besides, I really like this place-old men with broken teeth sipping coffee and eating chili at the counter, younger men with deflated dreams crowding around tables behind, a woman or two in worn-out men's clothes sit joking by the door, and Dorothy Day thumbtacked to the wall, overseeing the whole operation. There is something here that I cannot find in my middle-class neighborhood across the river. 
The front windows are fogged up from ·the cold. I never thoughf it got this cold in Portland. There isn't much to see outside anyway ... a dirty street, an occasional police car driving by, perhaps a nearby resident walking past with a small bag of groceries in hand (they can never afford to buy the big ones). There used to be a discount food store alongside the cafe, but after Connie left for Seattle, it had to close. No one filled the gap. The other local store is more expensive, and they sell booze. Thunderbird and Maddog are the big sellers. I guess they got more business than Connie did anyway. Everyone misses her though. 
The guy working behind the counter is awfully nice, young too (the beard he is growingis still pretty thin). And I think he is probably full of idealism and left-wing politics (most of them are). It probably won't be too long before feeding these p~ople takes a higher priority than changmg the . world; ithappens, you know. Now this is just my personal opinion, but it looks like he still wants to change the world. He's awfully nice. Maybe he'll be one of the stronger ones who don't give up so easily. I hope so. 
Somebody comes in off the street, and a gush of icy wind follows him like a shadow. I shiver and wait for more coffee. He squeezes on the stool next to me and I say hi with a smile. He brightens up as the nice guy fills our cups, and we start to talk . . . about the weather, his divorce, the company he used to have. You can always .count on good hello's down here. The story isn't an unfamiliar one, but I listen . intently anyway, nodding and com­menting as we go along. He eventually finds a place to stop; I shake his hand and say good luck (it seems to mean so much more than good-bye). I walk outside onto the dirty sidewalk and quickly pull my hat on. It is really cold. 
Now I don't know too much about 
Valentine's Day, but I hope they have a 
happy one back in Portland; I hope it's 
a warm one, too. D 
Nntic.e 

Qtolumns submitteh for JJ.ble ~ an.:. ter are ·now soliciteh from tlJe en­tire stuhent ho.by. t!leahline for tlJe :!illlurclJ issue is 1H ebruary =:L.1'. in tfJe ~clJolastic ®ffice on tlJe tfJirh floor of i.Gailfortune. 





PA ID 
Notre Dame, Indiana Permit No. 7 

---..... 
i. 
' 









