This book is not to ba sross the Library
.*ft V.
Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY $3.00 THE YEAR
Oct. 13
1933
^hat ZNew juggler
It’ll knock your block off!
"DID YOU SAY 15 CENTS?"
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub- ^F| k I	I I	B
z vs s	I he INotre Dame Scholastic
scripts may be addressed to r,.	„	Ty ,	tz1 zi • x-r nr
THE SCHOLASTIC Public DltSCO QUdSl S&flbpCT V ZCwJMT'lJLS VlVC QUflSl (jTOS M01*ltUTUS cations Office, Main Building.	FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns...
Mitchell C. Tackley.
....Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor
Associate Editors JOHN D. PORTERFIELD_____________EDWARD J. O'BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN.................  JOHN	E. CONLEY
Departmental Editors THOMAS J, STRITCH.......................... The	Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK................... College	Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL.________________________Stafi Artist
. Sports Staff
JOHN D. CARBINE___________________NICHOLAS J. CONNOR
HOWARD T. WALDRON.........EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING
Netos Staff EDWARD F. MANSFIELD_________________________News Editor
THOMAS G. PROCTOR--------------------4ssfstant Neus Editor
JOSEPH A. BUCCI----------------------Assistant News Editor
JAMES A. BYRNE........................... FRANK	KELLY
ROY O. SCHOLZ________________________ROBERT F. ERVIN
MICHAEL F. WIEDL_____________________JOHN W. WALKER
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY______________________PAUL J. DOYLE
GEORGE P. LEYES_________________________LOUIS R. HRUBY
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY ___________-_____Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
October 13, 1933
No 4
THE CAUSE AND THE RESULT
Ninety-one years ago next month a young French priest founded a Catholic university in a drab, sparsely-settled Indiana. The priest was the Reverend Edward A. Sorin, C.S.C. The school is the University of Notre Dame.
Because today is the feast day of St. Edward, patron saint of Father Sorin, Notre Dame celebrates Founder’s Day. It is a time of conscious tribute on the part of Notre Dame men to the courage, far-sightedness, and industry of the founder. Indeed, the very existence of the University, the activities of its student body, its faculty, and its alumni, are constant tribute to the man: ' his unquenchable ambition for Our Lady’s school was the foundation stone on which they are all built.
Father Sorin must have been essentially an optimist. No one, strengthened by anything less than absolute faith in the future,. could have maintained so hard and so prolonged a struggle. Poverty and famine, recurring at frequent and regular intervals, blasted away his hard-won progress with discouraging completeness. Climacter-ically, in 1878, when conditions were beginning to be tinged with the light of achievement and better times, fire razed the finest buildings of the college group.
It is tradition that the reconstruction of the Main Building was started, by Father Sorin himself, before the bricks of the one destroyed had cooled. In that spirit of obstacle-conquering, of uncomplaining acceptance of a hard burden, is the explanation of Notre Dame.
The University’s history reads like a romance. Her present is a worthy complement to her past. Her future must be secure as long as the spirit of her gallant first president continues undiminished at Notre Dame.
AESOP AT NOTRE DAME
Campus conversation seems to have hit a new low. Rumor-peddling has long been a major share of small talk in these parts. But in the past three weeks, and more especially in the past ten days, its exponents have apparently taken control of the whole situation of campus conversation.
Admittedly very little can be done about it. Just as certainly, though, something should be done about it. Complete inanity and boredom will necessarily be the
October 13, 1933
results of the present trend if it is unchecked. With well over half the student body repeating and embellishing stories and bits of information that are “straight goods; so-and-so told me and he knows,” what conversational ability now exists here will soon be stifled.
The wildest tales and those that create the most unrest, are the one of holidays, personal back-biting, the “inside” stories of football developments. None of them is worthy of attention, yet all of them receive a superabundance of it. Not inconsiderable, either, is the inconvenience the mounting fables cause to persons concerned: the subjects of the reports or the individuals who must devote hours to quashing the prevalent errors.
If campus talk must be founded on the fantastic, it should be honestly that. There ’ should be no parenthetical assurances that it is authoritative information. Likewise, it should be steered away from all subjects of real importance. The steering must be done by the persons doing the talking.
CONCERNING THE STUDENT TRIP
To the S. A. C. for its selection of the Northwestern game as the student football trip, The Scholastic offers hearty approval. The Council has, apparently, been guided by a desire to do the best thing for the largest number, always a wise policy.
The selection was, of course, the only one reasonably possible. There are campus groups which shouted for other games but they were so definitely in the minority that there could be no question of acceding to their requests. The supporters of the Army game in New York, for example, were completely out of proper line. The trip to Gotham has annually been a sort of unofficial student trip and will probably be continued as such.
The New York trip, even were the railroad rates reduced to the hoped-for figure below thirteen dollars, would have necessarily been far more expensive than the Northwestern trip will be. A ticket to the Army game is priced at $4.40; the highest the ticket price can be at Evanston is $2.75. Thus the total necessary expense, transportation and game ticket, for the Northwestern game will be less than half of the railroad fare alone to New York.
.	One
THE WEEK
By Thomas J. Stritch
“Not to Eat, Not for Love”
It seems rather bootless, as they say, to find jolly little fits and starts to catch the fancy out of last Saturday’s sport. For conversation has frothed mile-high over that happening. It has outdone the clatter of dining-hall furniture for a solid week now; and Sunday, when the rain marooned the dining-hall eaters for an hour after dinner in the Cafeteria’s Peacock Alley it rose to a crest hitherto unsurpassed, we feel sure. The number of last-minute quarterbacks mounted to gigantic proportions; and everybody agreed they had seen Snifter pull a dumb one whether they had or not, or whether it was Snifter or not. Every possible angle has been churned over and over again out of the mouths of the once-faithful, and to most the conclusion seems to be that it looks like a long, hard winter. Apart from the frenzy, however, no little of which is the part of the pep meeting Friday evening, we smile at extremes.
Absorbing as the topic has been, since misfortune is always more interesting than good fortune, we feel that some of the aspects of the exhibition have been unfairly slighted, like wrestling champion Mehringer’s grin. For instance, the debut of the new deal in cheer-leading. If that brave quintet had performed at last year’s Haskell game they would have been a seven weeks’ wonder. They were marvelous, simply marvelous. And the return to handsprings! Until three years ago, it had been customary for the head cheer-leader to master the art of turning handsprings for the delectation of his audience, but we thought it had been discarded for ever. Then came this new crew, with three hand-springers to make up for all those years of emptiness. They’ve got a lot of new formations, too — yes, we think the cheer-leading can be counted on.
And to those who have been turned . away by the policeman at the taxistand countless times when they wanted to come up in back of the halls in cars, it must have been a very pleasant sight to see the huge Minerva struggling vainly to get out of the mire in front of the Commerce Building—where there isn’t even a road—shortly after the game.
•
Lead-in
For two years the subject of radio aerials has been a matter for spirited discussion between the department of discipline and the students. Even
Two
now you may see its effects; the halls on the quadrangle are shorn of the wires, but the Morrissey group wears them nattily, from every spot of bark on the trees.
But not long ago a Corby entrepreneur won a short-lived triumph. He attached his wire to Father Corby’s finger on the statue outside the hall.
No Greek Letters
Notices of campus club meetings have begun to sprout with a will. The Brownson rec room is perennial host this year to all the states of the Union by representation, and to no few of the clubs exploring the higher life. Freshmen fall geographically into one of the city or sectional clubs, where, in most cases, the lower life is taken care of, and then they may, if they choose, take hold of the higher life: we never get into Life with a capital L, Deo gratias.
But it is a sad fact that the higher life is but imperfectly taken care of. The Wranglers, in recent years the most active of such clubs, still function well; and the Patricians, of all of them the most determined not to die, holds on to an existence with a tenacity which is amazing. But the Scribblers, for years the most desirable club on the campus, died two years ago of paralysis; and the Spectators, next in importance, dissolved last year by mutual consent—acclamation, even—of all its members. The higher life takes a lot of punishment.
Such clubs as the French and German circles, and the Academy of Science and Commerce Forum will always be alive, of course, but their scope is limited. They deal with a stock in trade that is very tangible, and they get what they go out for. But we don’t have any playground for the freakishly intelligent: we need a good perfectly useless club as far as anything to be gotten out of it is concerned.
Or maybe the higher life is getting just what’s coming to it.
Social Notes
The faculty and students of the University of Notre Dame, neither of whom had anything prepared for class, sincerely regret Signor Marconi’s inability to attend their reception on Wednesday, last.
The Bryan J. Degnans (she was a Doyle) will hold a coming-out party for their different step-child, Juggler, on Monday of next week.
Herbie Kay To Play For 1933 Cotillion
Herbie Kay and his orchestra have been selected by the Sophomore Cotillion officials to play for the second year men’s annual formal. The dance will be held Friday evening, October 2^in the Palais Royale ballroom, South Bend.
The programs, designed by William Ellis, ’36, will be done in the contrasting black and white color scheme with the figure of the Dome, in gold, on the front cover. Palms, ferns, and an electrical Notre Dame sign will lend an atmosphere of suavity to the Palais ballroom on that evening.
“At the Pittsburgh game, Saturday, October 28, students and their guests will occupy the east stands in the stadium, opposite the Notre Dame cheering section,” said Edward Sullivan, president of the Sophomore class. The tickets for the game will be §3.60 per couple. They may be secured by presenting the Cotillion tickets and the A. A. books at the Athletic Office.
The deadline for the sophomore ticket sale is October 21, at eight o’clock in the evening. Other upperclassmen may purchase tickets from October 21 to noon, October 25. Absolutely no tickets will be sold after that date. There will be seventy-five tickets available for seniors and juniors; only those requests numbered among the first seventy-five will be honored. Jack Sweeney, 336 Morrissey Hall, is in charge of reservations for upperclassmen.
The dance will be from nine to one o’clock with the privilege of two o’clock permissions for those students attending, according to an announcement made this week.
The patrons are: Professors George Hennion, Earl F. Langwell, Thomas P. Madden, Paul C. Bartholomew, Stephen C. Bocskei, William J. Holton, William L. Benitz, Raymond J. Schubmehl, George Rohrbach, Philip H. Riley, and A. Bagle.
More Men In Glee Club;
Personnel Now Numbers 76
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta added eight names to the Glee Club roster this week. The new members now total 56. The entire personnel of the Glee Club numbers 76, including the twenty veterans of the summer tour.
Following are the latest additions: First Tenori—Edward J. Fitzmaurice, John M. Sullivan and Thomas. W. O’Brien; second tenori — Arthur G. Hoene and Patrick Quigley; first bassi—Herbert Kenyon, John T. Donovan and James C. McDevitt.
The Scholastic
V
I
Calendar
Friday, October 13.
Founder’s Day; October Devotions, Basement Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.
Saturday, October 14.
October Devotions, Basement Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, 12:30 p. m.; Football, Varsity vs University of Indiana, Bloomington, broadcast station WSBT., 2:00 p. m.; Movie, “Dangerous Crossroads,” Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:15 p. m.
Sunday, October 15.
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m. Benediction Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p. m., for freshmen and students in St. Edward’s and Lyons Halls, 7:30 p. m.; Interhall Football, 1:15 and 3:15 p. m.
Monday, October 16.
October Devotions, Basement Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.; Patrician Meeting, Law Building, 7:45 p. m.; French Club Meeting, Carroll Rec., 7:45 p. m.; Bookmen Meeting, 8:45 p. m.; Accountants’ Club Meeting, Accounting Room of Commerce Building, 4:15 p. m.
Tuesday, October 17.
October Devotions, Basement Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.; Wrangler Meeting, Law Building, 7:45 p. m.; Symphony orchestra practice, Washington Hall, 6:30 p. m.
Wednesday, October 18.
October Devotions, Basement Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.; Engineers’ Club meeting, 7:45 p. m., Auditorium of Engineering Building.
Thursday, October 19.
October Devotions, Basement Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.
Official Bulletin
The following bulletin was issued from the office of the Prefect of Discipline this week:
“Your attention is directed to Rule 12 of the disciplinary regulations.
“For a more accurate determination of the meaning of ‘restricted districts’ as banned by this rule, be it said that any place where hard liquor is sold or immoral conduct is encouraged comes within the meaning of the rule. Any student seen on the premises of such an establishment is subject to suspension for the first offense and permanent dismissal for the second. The same penalty holds for the use of intoxicating liquor.
“If you need the help of disciplinary penalties to keep you away from these occasions of sin, this aid will not be withheld.”
October 13, 1 9 3 3.
NAME GRUNDEMAN HEAD OF REVAMPED BLUE CIRCLE
Sendoff ---
The entire student body met in front of the post office early this morning to give a send-off to the football team which subsequently left for Bloomington, where they clash with Indiana tomorrow. Cheers for the team and for individual players, including this week’s captain, Hugh Devore, were followed by the singing of the “Victory March.”
Several hundred students gathered in front of the west gate of Cartier Field yesterday to cheer the varsity gridders as they came off the field following theii- final practice session before the Indiana game tomorrow.
Indiana Game Will Be Broadcast Over WSBT
Station WSBT, the South Bend Tribune radio station, will broadcast the Notre Dame-Indiana game tomorrow afternoon beginning at 2 o’clock, it was officially announced early this week.
Bob Kennett, station announcer, will handle the microphone and send the details of the contest to thousands of listeners all over the state.
T. H. Vaughn Speaks To Indiana U. Faculty Club
Thomas H. Vaughn, of the chemistry department of the University, addressed the Indiana University Faculty Club in Bloomington Wednesday evening on the subject of “Synthetic Rubber.”
The faculty club meeting was held the evening before the opening of the Indiana Academy of Science meeting at Bloomington. Vaughn was in Bloomington for the latter meeting, in company with several other members of the Notre Dame chemistry department.
CONTENTS
Editorials ................... 1
“The Week” ................... 2
Sophomore Cotillion .......... 2
Blue Circle ................   3
First Issue of “Juggler”...... 5
Knights of Columbus Neivs .... 6
“News of the Week” ........... 7
“Man About the Campus” ....... 8
“Voice of the Campus” ........ 9
“College Parade” ............ 10
Indiana Game ................ 11
Kansas Game ................. 12
Interhall Football .......... 12
“Introducing” ............... 13
Fall Golf ................... 13
“So They Say” ............... 14
Splinters ................... 15
SELECT 35 MEMBERS
Reuben A. Grundeman, Senior in the College of Commerce, has been appointed chairman of the newly-reorganized Blue Circle, George H.
Reuben A. Grundeman Chairman of Blue Circle
Shields, president of the S. A. C., announced today. He was chosen from the group of 35 members selected from the full list submitted to the office last week.
Great care was exercised in the selection of members, inasmuch as the purpose of the organization is honorary as well as utilitarian. Appointees will be privileged to wear Blue Circle keys.
25 Seniors; 10 Juniors
The 35 members admitted include 25 seniors and ten juniors. Four memberships to be annually reserved for the editors of the four major publications go this year to James S. Kearns, Editor of The Scholastic; Joseph B. Degnan, Editor of the Juggler; Louis H. Hruby, Editor of the Dome; and Paul F. McManus, Editor of Scrip.
The rest of the members follow:
Seniors: John P. Quirk, Stuart H. Osborne, Larry W. Sexton, Thomas G. Roach, John B. Land,i^J'ohn J. O’Connor, Donald F. Dugan, Joseph R. Glennon, Edward M. Farley, Robert W. Butler, Edward Joseph Butler, Joseph E. Vaughn, Vincent J. Reishman, Robert W. Hughes, Raymond W. Gilger, William J. Motsett, Frederick R. Sullivan, John J. Dorsey, Edward F. Vyzral, Hugh F. O’Neil, David J. Paskweitz.
Juniors: John F. Clark, John J. Jordan, Chester J. Smith, William R. Oakes, Dominick M. Vairo, Lincoln E. Wurzer, John F. Pogue, Thomas G. Proctor, James J. Sullivan, Robert J. Donahue.
Three
Two Magazines Print Articles By J. Petritz
Two articles by Joseph S. Petritz, ’32, a graduate in the Journalism Department of the College of Arts and Letters, and at present Publicity Di-
Joseph S. Petritz Advocates Catholic Education.
rector of the University of Notre Dame, received recognition in Catholic literature recently.- One of these articles, “Why Catholic Education?” was printed in the September issue of The Mirror, published in St. Louis, Missouri, and the other, “Idols of Youth” appeared in the October magazine of The Eikon, printed by the Redemptorist Fathers in Toronto, Canada.
In the former article Petritz sets out to prove the need of Catholic education by listing four basic premises, namely, the value of higher education itself, the desirability of a Catholic education, the meager cost of Catholic education, and the Church or Canon Law concerning education in Catholic institutions. Taking these points one by one the author points out the economic necessity of a college education. “The college degree is an economic necessity,” he writes. “The earning power of the college graduate is much greater than that of the non-college person. And once a position is secured, this education helps the man to mingle comfortably and intelligently with his superiors.”
Concerning the faculties of Catholic and non-Catholic institutions Petritz says, “Men and women who have devoted their lives in general to the service of God and in particular to the field of instruction, have a greater zest in their studies and fewer distractions than the layman or lay-woman.” As to Catholics education itself, “What does it profit a man if he- gains an encyclopedic store of facts if this knowledge and self-im-
(Continued on Pa<re 6)
Billy Sullivan, ’33, Former Irish Baseball Star, Weds
The marriage of Miss Louise Barthman, of South Bend, to William J.,Sullivan, Jr., ’33, better known to Notre Dame and the baseball world as “Billy,” took place in the Dillon hall chapel last Monday morning, October 9, with the Reverend James A. Fogarty, C.S.C. performing the ceremony.
Sullivan, who was graduated from the University law school last year with a ranking of third in the class, was an outstanding member of the Irish baseball team for two years, and played with the Chicago White Sox in 1931, ’32, and ’33. He had received his A.B. degree here in 1931.
Mrs. Sullivan, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Barthman of South Bend, formerly attended St. Mary’s.
The couple left soon after the ceremony for the home of the groom’s parents, in Portland, Oregon, for a short visit. From there they pain to go to Hawaii, New Zealand, Samoa, ana Australia, returning to California in January, and to Chicago next summer.
Juniors Slow in Responding To “Dome” Picture Notices
Work on the 1934 Dome is progressing slowly, it was announced from that office recently. Much of the preliminary organization has been completed, and staff members are being appointed.
Richard Prezebel, well known campus artist has been assembling art layouts, and has succeeded in planning the art theme of the book, in his position as art editor. He is being assisted by several members of the sophomore and freshmen classes who answered the call for staff candidates recently.
William Burkhardt has been appointed managing editor, in which capacity he is at present supervising the photographic department in its work of obtaining pictures of the Junior class.
Work in that regard has been considerably retarded by the failure of the Juniors to respond to the notices posted. They are cautioned that the expiration date for obtaining a sitting has been moved up because of the limited time allotted to them. All pictures of members of the Junior class must be taken before Oct. 30. It will be necessary to post an additional fee after that date in order to insure their appearance in the Dome.
The photographer is on the campus every day except Saturday, in the Dome Studios, Walsh basement. The hours are from 1:15 to 5:00 p. m, A simplified procedure now makes it possible for pictures to be taken in a short time.
Catholic Peace Group Will Convene at N.D.
Tentative plans are being formulated for the regional meeting of the Catholic Association for International Peace to be held at the University on Sunday, November 19th.
The object of the association is to develop the proper attitude toward world peace, and thus to remove as far as possible the danger of war. This it seeks to accomplish through public meetings, study clubs, and the publication of special committee reports.
The National Association meets once a year, usually at Washington, D. C. Several regional meetings are conducted at other places throughout the country.
It is planned to have a one day meeting with morning and afternoon sessions, and a dinner session in the evening. The various speakers will be announced later. '
Redecoration Work In
Church Progressing Rapidly
The whir of the spray gun, the blue flame of the welder’s torch, and the pounding of hammers were perceptible in the Sacred Heart Church as the renovation work progressed this week. The walls of four of the six private chapels have now received their gray finish and the scaffolding has been raised in the fifth.
The two transept fixtures are now being installed. These fixtures, solid bronze, are ten feet high and five feet across at the widest part. A stem of twenty feet connects the upper end of each with a quarter-inch steel cable leading down from the garret of the church. Each of the cables is held by a winch which makes possible the raising and lowering of the huge lighting units which weigh eight hundred pounds.
The light sockets, 48 in all, have been wired in three circuits, so that one-third, two-ihirds, or full illumination may be controlled. When all three circuits are being employed, light up to 2,500 watts strength will be diffused through the 90 glass panels.
Wranglers To Sponsor Interhall Debate League
President Arthur A. Sandusky of the Wranglers announced late this week that the club will again sponsor interhall debating competition this year.
Announcements of the chairman in charge of the activity and of the questions to be debated will be made in The Scholastic next week.
Four
The' Scholastic
Editor Of ‘Brooklyn Tablet’ Speaks Here
EDITOR DEGNAN WILL RELEASE RENOVATED “JUGGLER” MONDAY
‘‘The Press is the Power of the World Today” said the Reverend Francis J. Healy, editor of the Brooklyn Tablet, noted Catholic weekly, to the seniors in Journalism Wednesday afternoon in an informal lecture. He continued saying that “what the writers say in the newspapers is the destiny of a nation.”
Father Healy, a native of New York, has a wide acquaintance among the leading journalists of the country. He was a personal friend of the late Frank Ward O’Malley, and has had associations with Ring Lardner, Walter Winchell, Frank Wallace and Ed Sullivan as well as a host of other writers.
Journalism Has Bright Future
Outstanding in his remarks to the journalists was Father Healy’s statement that the future of Journalism is much more promising than any of the professions. He said that the radio is not taking away the popularity of the newspaper, but is strengthening its hold on the people.
Father Healy’s advice to the modern writer is to be sincere and earnest and to work diligently at the task of improving himself. From the hundreds of successful men in Journalism known to him, Father Healy said that not one of them attained prominence except through hard work.
In conclusion, Father Healy told the Journalists that a newspaper man made as much as he is worth—anyplace from $15 to $200 a week. He stated that the editor of the New York Times receives an annual salary of $75,000.
German Club Holds First Meeting Wednesday Eve.
The newly organized German club held its first meeting of the year last Wednesday evening with more than 30 enthusiastic Germanic students in attendance. Professor Wack presided and explained the aims of the club and the procedure for the year.
“Der Deutsche Verein” will hence-x forth be the name of the club, which will meet every two weeks during the school year. Since no officers were carried over from the previous year a committee of five was named to select candidates for the various club offices, to be voted on at the next meeting.
Reverend Bernard J. Ill, C.S.C., veteran professor of German at the University, gave a short talk in which he pointed out the value and importance of the study of the German language.
Notre Dame Men Talk At Indiana Academy of Science
Three members of the Notre Dame . department of chemistry are scheduled to present papers to the chemistry section of the Indiana Academy of Science, now in session at Bloomington. The Academy meeting is being held from October 12 to 14.
Thomas H. Vaughn will present a paper entitled “Sodium in Liquid Ammonia as a Dehydrohalogenation Agent, and its Uses in the Synthesis of Acetylenes.”
The Reverend J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., recent recipient of the Moorehead medal for acetylene research, and F. J. Sowa will present two papers: “The Interaction of Acetamide and Alcohols, Acids, and Amines in the Presence of Boron Fluoride,” and “Some Evidence of the Course of the Rearrangement of Alkyl Phenyl Ethers.”
Another paper from the Notre Dame department was presented at the meeting. The paper, “Side-Reactions in the Picon Synthesis of Alkyl Acetylenes,” was prepared by T. H. Vaughn, R. R. Vogt, and Father Nieuwland.
Dr. Theodore K. Just, Ph.D., has recently finished a paper on botany to be read at the meeting. Also, in the botanical section of the meeting, papers will be read that were prepared by students in Dr. Just’s classes last year and last summer.
Appearing last week was Volume 42 of “The Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science,” containing seven articles by scientists from Notre Dame.
The topics on which the works of Notre Dame men were published are as follows:
Botany, Rev. J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C.; Metallurgy, E. G. Mahin and J. A. Toussaint; Bacteriology, two articles by J. A. Reyniers.
Chemistry, G. F. Hennion, H. D. Hinton, and Father Nieuwland, in collaboration; Thomas H. Vaughn and Father Nieuwland ; Thomas H. Vaughn.
Air Movie Shown Last Night
“The Eagle and the Hawk,” an excellent picturization of the air, starring Frederic March and Cary Grant, was shown in Washington Hall last night, prior to the holiday today in honor of Founders’ Day.
The movie scheduled for tomorrow night in Washington Hall is “Dangerous Crossroads.” Football shorts will also be shown.
MAGAZINE IS ORIGINAL
By John E. Conley
The Juggler of 1933-34 will make its initial appearance on the campus next Monday evening, Oct. 16. An advance copy has been reviewed and
Editor Degnan
The new “Juggler” is different.
the reaction to the efforts of the staff was most favorable.
Under the guiding hand of Joe Degnan, Notre Dame’s humorous publication has taken on a decidedly new aspect. There is no attempt to ape any outstanding magazine, but rather the aim of the editor is to make the Juggler' strictly a campus magazine. It may be truthfully stated that he has accomplished his end admirably.
Art Work Is Exceptional
Art Editor Doyle draws the cover, and it is something new and pleasing. It is done in three colors and tones the book up considerably. There is also a distinct change in the makeup for which the art editor is also responsible, and he contributes many of the thought provoking cartoons scattered here and there throughout the issue. Singson, Melchione and Newberry carry on in the old manner.
Dick Prezebel, caricaturist extraordinary, sketches lifelike resemblances of Jim Kearns and Hugh Devore for the continuance of “Keyhole Portraits.”
The written material is short, snappy, and to the point. Here also there are several innovations, one of which is entitled “Astray in the Loop” and written by Bill Dreux of last year’s staff. It is a sparkling word picture concerning happenings in that important part of the Windy city.
“Rhythm Beats” a decidedly inside (Continued on Page 7)
October 13, 1933
Five
2500 Students Attend Initial Pep Meeting
The first cheer of the 1933 season echoed through the University gymnasium last Friday night as twenty-five hundred Notre Dame men roared their support of Coach “Hunk” Anderson’s latest addition to a long line of Fighting Irish teams.
The pep rally followed the traditional parade irom the dining halls to the gymnasium after the evening meal.
Judge Albert Doyle, ’27, of Mishawaka, acting as master of ceremonies, introduced the captain chosen for the Kansas game—Harry Wunsch, left guard. Wunsch thanked the students for their enthusiasm and asked that it be kept high throughout the season to fire the team with the spirit needed to carry them through the long schedule.
Captain Wunsch then introduced the members of the 1933 squad from the gallery at the west end of the gym. Proolnged cheering and shouts of “speech . . . speech” forced many of the players from their seats to answer the enthusiastic demands of t'_e crowd.
^on Wilson, NBC football announcer from the West coast who is to work in the Midwest and East this year, was the next speaker introduced by Master of Ceremonies Doyle. Wilson came through with a gracious, witty talk, receiving in turn big cheers from the assembled students.
Frank Coughlin, 1920 captain and now a local attorney, followed Wilson with a fiery appeal for support of the team to the end of the schedule, voicing the opinion that student body faithfulness is at least seventy per cent responsible for the team’s success.
The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. closed the hour and a half rally with a talk deftly interspersed with humor. He brought out in a splendid way the spiritual connotations and practices surrounding Notre Dame football.
“The Victory March” by the University Band concluded 1933’s first pep meeting.
Much praise for the work of Cheerleader Jim Clark and his five assistants was heard from the crowd as it left the gym.
Former Editor Visits Campus
Edmund A. Stephan, ’33, editor of The Scholastic last year, was a visitor on the Notre Dame campus last week.
Stephan, a resident of Chicago, is attending law school in that city. He was accompanied by Pat Crowley, also a graduate of last year’s class.
Six
K. of C. News
By Ray Martin
Did anyone miss that smoker Wednesday night? Tough luck. You’ll sit through many a one before you’ll have as good a time as you would have had if you were there. It was swell. And every one of us owes a great evening to the committee of George Wenz, Glynn Frazer, James Lovely, and John McLaughlin. Brother Frazer, by the way, was the author and star of the play presented.
The evening started with the presentation of a silver trophy to Brother Donoghue by Professor Buckley for winning the golf tournament last spring. A short explanatory address on the building fund followed. The play was one of the hits of the evening. Its theme was apropos of the day, and it was very well carried out. Miss Eileen Morefoot made a very charming Isabella. A unique touch was added when John Caresio and Dave Ryan engaged in an exhibition fencing bout. You know, Columbus was supposed to be quite a fellow with the foils himself, but he’d have to be pretty handy to play with those two.
A few songs by Russell Stemper, and Bill Schenk’s piano, brought the crowd out of the bloodthirsty frenzy that followed the fencing, but the zest for the gore was awakened, but not sated, when Max Marek showed how it’s done on the Golden Gloves team. Since blood wasn’t immediately available, cider and sandwiches were thrust at the ravenous crowd, and it was a creditable substitution. (The Grand Knight says that if you missed it you aren’t in line for any cider. Now aren’t you sorry.)
PETRITZ
(Continued from Page 4)
provement are not accomplished for some reason higher than themselves and himself? Not until President Roosevelt inserted Christian principles into our economic scheme did the state show signs of economic stability.”
Further the author points out the contacts with students and professors leading clean lives, the costs of education at Notre Dame, and the Canon Law concerning Catholic education. “A survey of the New York School of Social Work shows that the average student in that city spends $95 per month, exclusive of tuition, $100 more a semester than the minimum cost at Notre Dame.”
In the article, “Idols of Youth” Petritz deals with the subject of football. He gives praise to several of the players who have been outstanding on Notre Dame’s teams for the past two or three years.
‘Santa Maria’ to Hold Short Story Contest
The Santa Maria, quarterly publication of the local council of the Knights of Columbus, will sponsor a literary contest this year, according to plans announced this week by Editor Walter Kennedy.
Awards will be given for the outstanding short story and poem submitted by the contestants. Since this is the first contest of this nature to be conducted at the University for a number of years, it is anticipated that great interest will be displayed by the student body.
Although final plans are still in the making, it has been decided that there will be two cash prizes, one for the prize winning short story and one for the prize winning poem. Suitable awards will be given to the second and third best works in both divisions of the contest.
A committee of three headed by the Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C,, editor of the Ave Maria, will decide the winners.
Competition is open to all students of the University who are not professional writers. Manuscripts submitted as assigned classwork will not be accepted, and all work must be original.
Further details will be announced in next week’s Scholastic.
Andreoni Names Membership Of New Rally Committee
Tony Andreoni, chairman of the Blue Circle Rally Committee, this week announced the names of the men comprising the committee. Reverend P. H. Dolan, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, George Shields, president of the S. A. C., and Andreoni selected these men from a list submitted to Father Dolan last spring.
Functions of the committee will be supervised by the S. A. C. and Blue Circle. Reverend C. A. McAllister, C.S.C. will act as faculty adviser of the group. Beginning this week, the members will meet regularly with Father McAllister to plan for pep meetings and similar undertakings. Preparations are being made for the Pitt rally, probably the largest of the year.
A few more appointments are to be announced soon. Committeemen already chosen are: John McLaughlin, Ed Hallauer, Don Martin, Tony Pugliese, Rube Grundeman, Jim Forrest, Dave Paskwietz, Frank Dunn, Larry Sibr, Frank McGahren, Joe Weiss, Tom Proctor, and Larry O’Toole.
A path worn across the lawns now means two in the spring.
The Scholastic
j
Jugglers Ready For
Initial Appearance
The personnel of the Notre Dame “Jugglers,” campus dance band, was announced this week by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the Department of Music and leader of the reorganized group. This popular dance orchestra has been totally revamped and consists of 13 pieces, including the leader. A second band, or group of reserves, is also maintained in order that the original thirteen be kept intact as a unit.
The first appearance of the “Jugglers” is scheduled for October 28 when they will play for the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh football dance. The affair will be given by the Junior class and will be held at the K. of C. ballroom in South Bend.
Personnel Of Bands
The personnel of the “Jugglers” is comprised as follows: Harry Poulin, piano; James Marohn, accordion; Joseph Bucci and James Ross, violins; Paul Guarnieri, 1st trumpet; George Huntzicker, 2nd trumpet; Charles Fiore, trombone; Robert Demer, 1st Eb Alto Saxaphone; James Bordeaux, 2nd Bb Tenor Saxaphone; Edward Zimmer, 3rd Eb Alto Saxaphone; George Vesey, Tuba; Joseph Argus, drums.
The second or reserves consists of Clare White, 1st Trumpet; Clare Burger, 2nd Trumpet; Joseph MacDonald, Trombone; Terry Austin, Trombone; Frank Barbush, 1st Eb Alto Saxaphone; Philip Ott, 3rd Eb Alto Saxaphone; Bernard Murdock, 2nd Bb Tenor Saxaphone, and Glen Porter, Drums.
NEW “JUGGLER”
(Continued from Page 5)
informational type of column, divulges many of the secrets of the theater and radio world.
Such well known campus writers as Tom Stritch, Clyde Craine, Paul McManus, Bob Cahill, and Harry Burchell have many witty, satirical and well organized contributions, not to mention the editor himself who con--tinues “In the Old Juggler Vein” with his customary gusto.
It is indeed really difficult to enumerate all of the commendable results achieved in the first attempt of Degnan. The only satisfactory method is to purchase a copy and derive a half hour of hearty laughs. It might be noted that the price of the magazine has been reduced to fifteen cents which is another inducement to indulge in the best Juggler in recent years.
October 13, 19 3 3
News of the Week
By Paul J. Doyle
On Monday of this week National Administrator Hugh Johnson ushered in the government sponsored “Buy Now” campaign. The importance of consumer co-operation was stressed in the opening speech of the drive when he said, “. . . payrolls cannot be maintained. . . unless every consumer in the land does his or her part.” Unfortunately little publicity has been given, so far, to this essential phase of the NRA program.
New York, verging on bankruptcy, is also on the verge of a new era in its city politics.' Joseph V. McKee, leader of the Recovery ticket, forges to the front as the favorite in the coming Mayoralty race. Tammany’s organization has split up and down, inside and out, in the rush of its members to the McKee standards.
Fiorello LaGuardia, on the Fusion ticket, promises to be a more serious rival to McKee than Tammany’s John O’Brien. For a Tammany supported candidate to run third in a New York mayoralty election, is an event almost unprecedented in the city’s political history.
- Grandfather Depression should receive some share of credit if the overthrow is successful. The people of New York, who in the past complacently acknowledged graft and incompetency in their local government, have been roused to immediate action by high taxes and the fears of city bankruptcy.
The restoration of the Hapsburg royal family to the nominal head of the Austrian government would not surprise their former subjects. Chancellor Dollfuss would continue, however, to manage the government in a situation somewhat similar to the arrangement existing between Mussolini and King Victor Emmanuel of Italy.
The World Disarmament question at Geneva resolved this week to a discussion among the former Allies of, “What must be done with Germany?” The Germans desire some sort of arms equality with the other powers, and this either by their own re-armament, or by the disarmament of the Allied nations.
Blue Circle Notice!
The Blue Circle will hold its first meeting of the year early next week, George H. Shields, President of the S. A. C., announced today.
S.A.C. Plan Pitt Pep Meet In N.D. Stadium
The idea of an outdoor pep meeting before the Pitt game is being considered by the S. A. C. officials, according to George Shields, president. The rally would be held in the Stadium with the speakers utilizing the public address system. An open-air affair of this kind is not without precedent on the campus, a similar meeting having been held there the night prior to the dedication of the Stadium. Mayor Kelly of Chicago and other prominent men are being sought for the program. There will be no pep meeting before the Indiana or ^arnegie games.
Preparations are also being made for the Purdue and Southern California assemblies. Efforts will be made to secure George Ade, famous American humorist and Purdue graduate, John McCutcheon, well-known cartoonist of current events for the Tribune, who is also a Purdue alumnus, the Governor of Indiana, Paul V. McNutt, and others for the pep meeting to precede the Purdue clash.
There will be no bonfire this year, but a big display of fireworks will be given on the field behind Freshman hall on the eve of the Southern California game.
Prof Phillips Welcomes
New Cracow Club Members
The Cracow Club held its first meeting of the school year Sunday morning at ten o’clock in the Law* Building. The Cracow Club is the Polish student organization of Notre Dame. There were 21 members present, seven of whom were new members.
Professor Charles Phillips, faculty adviser, extended an official welcome to the new and old members. In his address he stated the purpose of the club is to be cultural as well as social The meeting was presided over by President Korzeneski. Korzeneski spoke of the aims of the club. The minutes of two meetings held by the officers and the executive committee were read by Secretary Karnasiewicz.
French Club to Meet
The French Club will hold its second meeting of the school year Monday night at 7:45 in Carroll Rec. There will be another fencing exhibition under the direction of Harold May, historian of the French Club. This time the exhibition will be given with sabers. President Menard describes May as “a past master” at the art of fencing with the saber.
Seven
Wrangler Discusses ‘House of Tomorrow’
“There are three characteristics that show the difference between our present homes and the homes of tomorrow, namely, architecture, external decoration, and structure materials,” said Eugene S. Blish, senior member, addressing the Wranglers Club last Tuesday evening. This meeting was held at 6:30 in the Law Building.
Blish’s topic was “Architectural Design of the House of Tomorrow.” He opened the talk by pointing out how our “way of living” has changed during the last decade or so. Blish then described various kinds of homes throughout the world, showing that the type of home denoted the characteristics of the people in that particular country, and vice-versa. “America has gone modern in its home,” he said. “The progress of today will have its effects on the home of tomorrow.”
Will Have To Be More “Homey”
As examples of tins trend to modernism in homes Blish described the modern homes and the modernistic buildings of the World’s Fair in Chicago. “I do not believe that the American people will take to the design or external decorations of these homes and buildings, nor will they accept the interior fixtures, lighting, heating, and so forth,” the speaker stated. “No doubt the House of Tomorrow will have to be made a great deal more “homey” than it is in its present design.”
In the line of business, preceding the talk by Blish, the purchase of plaques and interhall debating were discussed. It was decided that the interhall debating season should be carried on just as it was last year. Final plans will be made at the next meeting.
Prof. Meyers Gives Talk To A.B. Lay Faculty Club
The Arts and Letters Lay Faculty Club held its first dinner and meeting of the year Monday evening, October 9, at the Oldenburg Inn in South Bend. About twenty members attended.
Professor Frederick I. Myers, of the Department of English, gave a talk concerning the history of polar navigation. Following this discussion members of the club asked a number of questions about various phases of the talk, all of which Professor Myers capably answered.
Mr. Rufus Rauch, also of the English Department, acted as chairman during the discussion.
Eight
\
'S~\bout the camPus
vV W
“Men of Notre Dame, Seward is ready!” Thus did Edward James
Seward, Elyria, O., trumpet his ap-W	proach to an exam
w	J last year; thus also
did he sound the \	) key-note to his prac-
VI	|< tice of living. For
\	/ it is the essence of
X / Seward that he is always prepared; he is the Boy Scout motto in action. You
V-.’-A/W	may see him with
\»	three notebooks in
each hand on his way from Corby to Science; and if he sees you he will flash you the best smile on campus and pat his notebooks affectionately, for he has mastered them.
A philosophy major, he lives by his principles—those awful blue cords of his are as eternal as the laws of thought. Not essaying many things, what he does he does well, by the application of just enough energy. His high scholastic average isn’t the full measure of his knowledge, for there’s no glitter to Seward, no line. He’s plain, solid matter. He carries the attitude over into his constant pursuit of sport, and is eminent in handball, touch football and swimming. He’s the sort that buys radios and things and pays for them out of his' allowance, on the installment plan. He’s the perfect man, and he drives everybody nuts, nuts, nuts with his perfections.
His conversation is a series of bellows of purposely trite inanities. Coming back in September he greeted everybody with “Why, hello there, Jack! Heard you were at death’s door.” For testament of his point he will appeal to the youth of America, the Woodmen of the World, or any such. And he sings continually and abominably.
“They’re giving me three diplomas this year,” he says, “One for me, one for Sullivan, and one for Stritch. I pulled them through, and I deserve the reward.” Selah.
Prof. Davis Addresses N. D. Commerce Men
John Hess, president of the Commerce Forum, opened the first meeting of the year Tuesday evening in Carroll Rec with a short talk on the purpose and aims of the club. After a short business meeting, the principal speakers of the evening, Professor A. E. Davis of the College of Commerce, and Professor Patrick Manion of the College of Law, were introduced.
Professor Davis spoke on the “Social and Economic Effect of the NRA.” In speaking of the NRA as a new experiment he said, “We cannot assume that all workers can do all jobs, nor can we assume that employees can bargain successfully with employers. We must pass aside the classical thought; we cannot assume any of the classical ideas of free price setting.”
“The legal aspect of the NRA” was the subject of Professor Manion’s address. He said that the “Blue Eagle is merely a psychological symbol to instill confidence.” When asked his opinion of the outcome of a Supreme Court test he replied: “If put to the Supreme Court during this period of crisis, the decision would probably be in favor of the NRA.”
Application blanks for membership may be obtained from any members of the Forum. The next meeting will be held Tuesday, October 24, in Carroll Rec.
Library Receives Many New Books This Week
The following is a partial list of the new books w’hich are now available in the University library:
Economics—B. S. Kirsh, The Recovery Act; Ordway Tead, Labor Relations Under the Recovery Act; L. Vallenstein, Business Under the Recovery Act; E. C. Buehler, American vs. British System of Radio Control; Royal Institute of National Affairs, Monetary Policy and the Depression.
Fiction—Mrs. B. Aldrich, Miss Bishop; Edna Ferber, They Brought Their Women; F. Mauriac, Vipers’ Tangle.
Religion—Christopher H. Dawson, The Modern Dilemma.
Journalism—J. V. Hinkel, (Notre Dame alumnus) The Contributions of Adolph Ochs to Journalism.
Bibliography—F. K. Drury, What Books Shall I Read.
Lawyer’s Canes
Seniors in Notre Dame’s College of Law, in keeping with a longstanding local tradition, are privileged at any time, to carry canes about the campus.
The Scholastic
Press Club Organizes At Thursday Meeting
Press Club reorganization plans assumed definite form yesterday afternoon at a well-attended meeting-in the Journalism room of the University library, with Charley Heckel-mann, senior, acting as temporary chairman.
Although additional details of membership regulation, conduct of activities and meetings, and election . of officers for this twenty-one year old club are still in the making, progress thus far in the revamping work is quite complete.
Outstanding among the innovations this year is the new rule concerning membership. Two classes of members are to be recognized: active and associate. Active membership is to be granted to those students engaged in some journalistic pursuit outside the department curriculum, such as campus publication work, correspondence for outside papers, conection with South Bend publications, statistical and research activity, and preparation of journalistic data for the club files.
Associate membership is intended for those students enrolled in courses in the department, but as yet connected with no work outside that of the regular courses. Entrance into the designated outside work makes the associate member a candidate for active rating. Associate members are eligible for attendance at lectures by visiting newspaper men and various faculty members, and those special sessions to be designated later.
Emphasis was placed on the fact that the type of participation entered depends upon the attitude and activity of the student, and not upon an arbitrary invitational membership plan. Necessarily, a committee will • pass upon applications.
Election of officers will take place after the complete reorganization has been set in working order. Officers are to be chosen from the ranks of active members.
Committee meetings are to be held next week, and their reports will be made at a general meeting to be announced later.
New Editor for “Annals”
Among other changes made in Notre Dame publications in recent months was a change of editors on The Annals of Our Lady of Lourdes. Brother Leonard, C.S.C., is editor of the magazine now.
The Annals, published monthly at the Ave Maria Press by the Confraternity of the Immaculate Conception, has undergone a complete change of makeup under the new editor.
October 13, 19 3 3
Voice of the Campus
Question and Answer
Editor of The Scholastic:
Supper in twelve minutes, indigestion for twelve hours. One of the Notre Dame traditions that outsiders are unaware of is the rapidity of eating our meals. . . .
Farmers in Iowa take a half-hour for meals, politicians in Washington take half a day, but students at Notre Dame are allotted twelve minutes. At times I eat so fast that when I get outside I have to pondei- for a moment to be sure whether I’ve eaten or not.
. . . Men must eat to study and since we are men and do study, we must have food. Professors think we flunk because of too little study . . . we flunk because of too little food. Give us more time to eat, and we will give more time to study.
B. G.
Try sitting at the table and eating for a while, B. G. Under the dining hall system, it is the eaters, not the waiters, who can set the pace.' Since seeing this letter first, we have timed every meal, barring breakfast which has no final bell, and none was less than 18 minutes, 21 minutes was the average.
The bell for final grace at any meal is not absolute, unfilled persons are free to remain and finish in their own style.	—Ed.
Another Vote
Editor of The Scholastic:
The students are deservedly en-thusiatic about the new lighting fixtures in the church. Gone is the eye strain from exposed bulbs. But would you get across this suggestion: Why turn on all the lights when the sun is streaming through the windows? Can’t something be left to the imagination ?
Yours, Q. E. D.
Engineers* Club to Meet
The Engineers’ Club of Notre Dame will hold its first regular meeting on Wednesday, Oct. 18, at 7:45, in the auditorium of the Engineering Building.
Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Engineering, will address the members. Elections will be held for the office of vice-president and important announcements will be made.
All members are cordially invited to attend the meeting, and are requested to bring their membership cards.
University Observes
Founder’s Day Today
Founder’s Day was observed at the University today, October 13, the feast of St. Edward, patron saint of the Reverend Edward J. Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the University.
The usual suspension of classes was in effect, but the traditional Founder’s Day Mass in Sacred Heart church could not be celebrated because of renovation work still under way there. This was the first time in a number of years that such a procedure had to be adopted. Masses were held in the hall chapels at 7:30.
Coincident with the observation of Founder’s day is the fifteenth anniversary celebration of the completion of Notre Dame’s golden dome, famous the nation over. The construction of the dome was made possible almost entirely by the determined efforts of Father Sorin in backing the project to place the image of the Blessed Virgin high over the campus, “ . . . enthroned, as we had so long wished to behold her, in all splendor of a most glorious queen, taking possession of her precious domain,” as he expressed it in one of his letters.
Bookmen Accept Three New Members at Monday Meeting
Three new members were elected to the Bookmen last Monday evening filling the vacancies left by the graduates of last year and bringing the membership to the constitutional quota of fifteen. The new members are, Alfred Loritsch, James McDevitt and Harry Cozan. Loritsch and McDevitt are juniors, while Cozan is a sophomore. They will formally enter the club at the next meeting.
After a lively discussion, three more books were added to the club’s list to be purchased this week. When completed the list will consist of fifteen books of all types which will be circulated among the members by the club librarian. These books are discussed at the meetings.
James Fitzpatrick, chairman of the program committee, announced that the Bookmen have been fortunate in securing Mr. Paul Byrne, Notre Dame librarian, to address the club at the next meeting to be held Monday evening at 8:45.
Philosophy Majors Notice
Juniors and Seniors' majoring in Philosophy are requested to meet with the Head of their Department, at 10:30 a. m. Sunday, Oct. 14th, in Room 4 of the Law Building. Matters of general interest and importance will be communicated to them at this meeting.
Nine
Brett Is Speaker At Patrician Club Meet
College Parade
By James T. Fitzpatrick
Symphony Orchestra To Play October 29
The Patrician Club of the University opened its second meeting of the year last Monday evening, at 7:45, in the Law Building, with the reading of a paper entitled “Roman Literature From The Time Of Its Inception Up To The Time Of The Latin Fathers Of The Church” by Raymond Brett, secretary of the club.
In his resume of the history of Roman literature Brett said, “Rome strong, cruel, just, rich, found that the Greeks had something that she lacked, and that something, in a word, was beauty. The Greeks worshipped beauty, beauty in form, in color, in literature, in humanity, in thought, in expression, in religion. Rome said let us be cultured too, for we cannot have the Greeks whom we have conquered call us barbarians. And so formal literature— what we call literature—began to be cultivated by the Romans.
Literature A Mere Episode
“Roman literature,” he pointed out, was always utilitarian even where it was least expected. When the Roman wrote he intended to meet some difinite need—sometimes it was avowedly commercial.
“And so literature seems a mere episode in the lives of the Roman people. For perhaps five hundred years they had none in the strict sense of the word. For the three hundred years or so they imitated the Greek literature successfully. Then, the genius of the people turned back again to unliterary and practical subjects mostly. One must think of Latin literature as something apart; the torch of culture passed from Greece to Rome and then on to the modern cultural nations of Europe and to us,” he concluded.
Turley Defines Classicist
Upon the completion of the reading, Mr. John P. Turley, instructor in Latin, recommended the publishing of the most credible papers, advocated constructive criticism of the papers, and defined a classicist as: “a man who takes the best of the past and combines it with the best of the present.”
In addressing prospective members of the club, Richard Ballman, president, said, “Modem classics will be discussed in comparison with the ancient classics. The club affords interest not only to those studying Latin and English, but to those in the economic, philosophic, and historic fields.”
Meetings will be held every other Monday, at 7:45.
Ten
Clothes make the columnist: O. O. McIntyre is one of the best dressed men in the country. . . yours truly has perfected an unique ensemble for informal wear.
But to get on with the story:
Via The Purdue Exponent, a co-ed a t SOUTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY went to the dean’s office to borrow a nickel for a phone call and asked the secretary to add it to the tuition bill. A new solution of the salt-and-penny problem!
The Daily Texan reports a freshman refusing to go in the University Union Building because his grandfather was a general in the Confederate army.
Forecast for Cambridge and vicinity : Equinoctcial Zephyrs.—Harvard Crimson.
0 yes, we have fall breezes in Ann Arbor, too.—The Michigan Daily.
Via the Southern California Daily Trojan, “All the mistakes in names we might make during an entire semester would be a small item compared to a similar mistake made by 2,500 SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA students last Saturday when they misspelled Tom Lieb’s name in the rooting section for card stunts.”
From the same organ comes this choice bit: “A student at MARQUETTE UNIVERSITY was taking a final in philosophy. He didn’t know much about it, but he managed to fill three pages of his examination book. Then he couldn’t write any more on philosophy so he filled in with, “Well, that’s all I know about philosophy, and as you won’t read this far anyway, I’ll just describe the baseball game yesterday instead.” He then wrote seven more pages about the game and—yes, you’re right—the professor never discovered it.
❖
A wisecracker in The University News (ST. LOUIS UNIVERSITY) says, “Things are improving—people are even taking their bills out of the envelopes.”
sJj
VASSAR recently got out an injunction against a candy company for making “Vassar Kisses.”
* * * *
Society item: “The bride was dressed in white, trimmed with wide lice.” (The modiste who designed that outfit was pretty lousy, we’d say.)—Daily Californian.
* * *
One of the best ways to distinguish
The Notre Dame symphony orchestra under the direction of Professor Richard H. Seidl will make its first appearance of the year Sunday, October 29, when they will play at the Seventy-fifth Anniversary celebration of the Fort Wayne diocese.
The symphony wall play the “Raymond Overture” by Thomas, “Long Live the Pope” by Ganss and Handel’s, and Hallelujah Chorus from the “Messiah.” In the latter two numbers the orchestra will accompany a chorus of 175 mixed voices.
The personnel of the Symphony orchestra has been announced as follows :
George Barber, Frank Barbush, J. Ben Beyer, William Burns, John Carey, Thomas Carroll, John Desmond, Charles Doknalek, Donald Draper, Professor Leclaire Eells, William Ellis, Jih Fesler, Charles Fiore, Louis Grosso, Paul Halbert, Martin Hendele, Al Hiegel, Joseph Hughes, Frank Joyce, Frank Karl, Jim Kauffman, Bernard Keffler, Ed Kilmurry, Robert Klaiber, Brother Linus, C.S.C., John McNeill, John Murphy, Bill Page, Joe Petritz, Roy Scholz, John Sharpe, Ed. Theis, Robert Lousdale, John Yungen, Mile Yri-berry.
Irish Club’s Second Meet Scheduled for Sunday A. M.
The Irish Club’s second meeting of the year has been scheduled for next Sunday morning at 10:30 by President John J. O’Connor.
Old members are asked to be present, and to bring with them any students seeking amission to the club. Organized last year, the club seeks to quicken interest at Notre Dame in the spirit of Irish history, culture, and tradition.
Applicants for membership may see Hugh O’Neill, 233 Walsh, John O’Malley, 239 Morrissey, or William Kenney, 321 Sorin.
1
I £
I
i
Cleveland Club to Meet
President John Venables has announced that the Cleveland Club will hold its first meeting of the year at 7:45, next Thursday evening in Brownson “Rec.”
a freshman from an upper classmen, since the gentlemen of the first year no longer wear the green lid, is observing that the freshman will often run to avoid being late for class— Purdue Exponent.	.
* * *
What this campus needs is an old ox road.—The Alabama Plainsman.
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
——1 "■ ■ ..
La Raza Club Whips Illinois Varsity 2-1
IRISH TO TRY COMEBACK AGAINST STRONG HOOSIERS
Out-thinking their heavier and faster opponents from the University of Illinois, the clever La Raza soccer club of Notre Dame defeated the Illi-ni by a 2-1 score last Saturday morning on rain-drenched sophomore field. It was the fourth defeat for Illinois, which was mid-western soccer champion last year, in seven years of varsity competition.
La Raza edged out the husky Illinois outfit through the sparkling defensive play of Captain Valdes, who prevented many opponents tries for goal from his left forward berth, and the tricky offensive passing of Leo Brias. Brias continually dribbled and passed the ball through the Illinois outfit to give his teammates a shot at the goal. Both the LaRaza goals were made on passes from Brias. The first was kicked by Carlos Yriberry, who played a fast running game at center forward, and the second was booted by Jaime Gomez.
The Ulini started the scoring in the first quarter on a running kick by Hayes, the left forward. Hayes had come up the field fast and took a pass on the dead run for the first tally. After this score, they were prevented from further tallying by the goal-rendipg of Benavides and the defensive play of Valdes.
The LaRaza outfit used a short passing attack and kept the ball on the ground as much as possible. Their taller opponents, on the contrary, kept their kicks high and used their heads to butt the high arching balls. Anderson and Strezepek were the outstanding defensive players for Illinois, while Hayes was the offensive star.
The LaRaza club is composed of Latin-American and Spanish speaking students of Notre Dame. They work out their own team-play and take care of all expense themselves.
Lineup and summary:
La Raza (2)	Illinois (1)
Benavides .............G___________ McMahon
Busqueta_____________ RF______________ Cohn
Valdes (C) ___________LF________ Schachtman
Bonet _____________ .RH.____________ Florio
M. Yriberry __________CH_________ Strezepek
E. Creel _____________LH_____________ Hayes
Hoyos ................RW___________  Rumana
Gomez _______________.RF___________ Jackson
C. Yriberry _________CF______ (C) Anderson
Brias ________________LF_____________ Morse
Singson --------------LW	Priddle
Goals—Hayes, Gomez and C. Yriberry. Referee—Alex Mitchell.
History —
1898—Indiana 11, Notre Dame 5. 1899—Notre Dame 17, Indiana 0. 1900—Indiana 6, Notre Dame 0. 1901—Notre Dame 18, Indiana 5. 1902—Notre Dame 11, Indiana 5. 1905—Indiana 22, Notre Dame 5. 1906—Indiana 12, Notre Dame 0. 1907—Indiana 0, Notre Dame 0. 1908—Notre Dame 11, Indiana 0. 1919—Notre Dame 16, Indiana 3. 1920—Notre Dame 13, Indiana 10. 1921—Notre Dame 28, Indiana 7. 1922—Notre Dame 27, Indiana 0. 1926—Notre Dame 26, Indiana 0. 1927—Notre Dame 19, Indiana 6. 1929—Notre Dame 14, Indiana 0. 1930—Notre Dame 27, Indiana 0. 1931—Notre Dame 25, Indiana 0.
Total—Notre Dame 262, Indiana 87.
Notre Dame—Won 13, Lost 4, Tied 1.
Thirteen victories against four defeats and one tie. That is the way Notre Dame’s football record with the University of Indiana will stand tomorrow afternoon when the Fighting Irish take the field against the Hoosiers in the nineteenth gridiron meeting of the two universities.
The first game played in 1898 resulted in what the Scholastic called a “startling upset.” Notre Dame had gone through three contests with Illinois, Michigan and DePauw. Indiana, on the other hand, had lost the only game which it had played. Inexperienced as they were, the Hoosiers were not even expected to give Notre Dame a hard fight. “But,” commented the Scholastic, “when the heavy linemen and the stocky little backs appeared, the crowd felt a shiver passing along its spinal columns and it was evident that our men were in for a hard game.”
During the first half, the play was fairly even, and the period ended with Indiana leading six to five. But the Hoosiers finally forged ahead in the second half to win by the score of eleven to five.
A player named Farley made Notre Dame’s touchdown in this game. Captain John Farley who for two years consistently starred for Notre Dame and whom the Scholastic called “the idol of two universities” is now (Continued on Page 15)
DEVORE IS CAPTAIN
By Howard T. Waldron
With “the man who played the best game against Kansas,” Hugh J. Devore, leading them in action, the Fighting Irish will journey to Bloomington, the home of the Hoosiers of Indiana University, for a renewal of an ancient rivalry that began back in 1893. Coach Hunk Anderson appointed Devore captain for this week because he wanted a fighting leader for what is probably the most important game on the schedule.
Last week the Irish met a tough, fast and experienced defensive club in the Jayhawks of Kansas and were held to a scoreless tie. The blocking of the Notre Dame forward wall was weak, the tackling was ragged, and the quarterbacks lacked the precision and decision usually symbolic of Notre Dame signal-callers. This week they meet another big, tough defensive team, and a victory is essential to set the Irish back on the path to a successful season.
Hoosiers Have Heavy Line
If the Irish can march through the Crimson for the winning touchdowns, it will give them the confidence necessary to meet such foemen as the Army and Southern California. Not only the veterans, but the unseasoned sophomores will benefit greatly from a win over the Hoosiers. The other alternative with Indiana on the strong end, can be left to conjecture.
In Indiana the Irish will meet a club similar in many ways to Kansas. They hav a big, experienced line that hits well over 200 pounds; they use the Warner offense with its wingback variations, and they are a tough club. Although their offense isn’t the most powerful in the midwest, they play an alert game at all times and are prepared to take advantage of any breaks. Last week they tied a good Minnesota team by recovering a fumble for a touchdown. Against Miami in their opening contest, they scored on a blocked punt in the last quarter. They should give the Irish a tough, hard-fought battle.
Contrary to most teams, the Hoosier ends are the biggest and heaviest on the line. Ed Antonini, left end, (Continued on Paste 16)
October IS, 1933
Eleven
POWERFUL KANSAS ELEVEN HOLDS IRISH TO SCORELESS TIE IN OPENER
Five Interhall Games
Played Opening Day
JAYHAWK LINE STRONGER
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
Notre Dame failed for the first time since 1901 to win its football opener when Kansas held the Irish to a scoreless tie in Notre Dame Stadium last Saturday.
The Jayhawks, picked by everyone but themselves to suffer defeat, were successful in upsetting the dope mainly because their under rated line continually poured through the Notre Dame forward wall and raised havoc with the green-clad backs before they were able to get underway. Mehr-inger, Clawson, and Beach, of the visitors, took turns spilling plays in their infancy.
Johnny Peterson was the leading Kay-U offensive threat. He circled the ends and bucked the line with much success. In the opening period he reeled off 41 yards in three plays and then snared a flat pass and traveled 18 yards before being downed.
The Irish showed a few signs of going places, but eleven fumbles, two of which were recovered by Kansas, coupled with those charging Jayhawk linesmen, stopped Anderson’s crew time and again in the middle of potential touchdown parades.
The Notre Dame line flanked by Devore and Vairo was woefully ineffective when blocking and leading interference was their task, but was nothing less than a stone wall when the Jayhawks got within striking distance of their goal. Thrust after thrust was repelled at times when a yard or two would have meant a complete change in the complexion of the game.
Kitty Gorman, Moose Krause, Tom Roach, Harry Wunsch, Rocco Schir-alli, Hughie Devore, Dom Vairo, and Joe Pivarnik composed this stalwart unit of defense that halted all but the elusive Peterson in the breath-taking second half.
The Irish appeared on their way to a score immediately after the opening kickoff. Frank Gaul returned the hoot to his 30-yard line. Lukats went into action at this point and with the aid of Ray Brancheau, who grabbed a pass, from Nick for 25-yards, the Blue and Gold marched the pigskin to the Kansas 16 yard stripe where an incomplete forward pass on the fourth down gave the Jayhawks the ball.
Dumm punted out of danger but the Irish backs failed to penetrate the opposition’s defense and lost possession of the oval on the Kansas 39 yard line. Three running plays by Peterson and a pass, Dumm to Pet-
erson, brought the play to the 18 yard stripe of Notre Dame.
Here Beach fumbled on the first down and Lukats recovered to end the 59 yard march. Banas punted
	Standings			
Group I.	W	L	T	Pts.
Dillon 				 1	0	0	2
Freshman 			 0	0	1	1
Brownson 			 0	0	1	1
Morrissey 				 0	1	0	0
St. Edward’s		 0	0	0	0
Carroll 			 0	0	0	0
Group II.	w	L	T	Pts.
Corby 			1	0	0	2
Badin 			1	0	0	2
Lyons 			 0	0	1	1
Walsh 			 0	0	1	1
Howard 			 0	1	0	0
Alumni 			 0	1	0	0
Nick Lukats
N. D.’s biggest offensive weapon.
out of danger, but Kansas came back strong when Dumm rolled a kick out of bounds on the Irish four-yard line as the quarter ended.
Elser’s quick kick was blocked and recovered by Kansas on the 13 yard line. The westerners were stopped cold. A pass into the end zone gave the ball to Notre Dame on their own 20. An exchange of punts put the Irish back on their ten yard line. After Elser booted out to the 25 yard marker, a forward pass, Hafford to Brinkman made it first down on the 14 yard stripe. Brinkman’s attempted field goal was wide as the half ended.
Play in the third quarter was concentrated in Notre Dame territory with no scoring threats in evidence until late in the period when Pilney’s fumble was recovered by Dees on the Notre Dame 33 yard line. Dumm passed to Nesmith for first down on the 19 yard stripe. Nesmith carried the ball off tackle and through center for three plays, bringing the oval to the 10 yard line as the quarter ended.
Nesmith then failed to make first down by inches on the first play after the intermission and Notre Dame took the offensive. On the first play Andy Pilney streaked off tackle for 27 yards. Kansas was penalized 15 yards for holding. A pass, Pilney to Vairo, made it first down on the Kansas 37 yard mark. The threat died when Mike Layden fumbled and Mehringer recovered on his own 37 (Continued, on Pace 15)
A number of Jack Elders, Frank Carideos, Bennie Oosterbans and Tim Moynihans were uncovered as the 1933 Interhall season was formally opened last Sunday with five very interesting games.
In Group 1, Freshman hall played the first year men from Brownson through 60 hectic minutes of football to a standstill. The score at the end of the half was 0 to 0 and at the end of the game it was still 0 to 0. The freshmen from Dillon found a lot of trouble with their second year opponents from Morrissey and it was not until the last half that they were able to eke out a 12 to 0 victory. The Carroll eleven believing that the game was called off because of the rain failed to put in an appearance. But St. Edward’s has no team this year so the Carroll grid team suffered very little.
In the past, St. Edward’s has always had a scrappy team on the field, but this year somethting is lacking and from all indications the sophomores from St. Ed’s will have to content themselves with watching the other halls perform this fall.
In the second division the strong Corby eleven found little opposition from the third year men from How- . ard, as they ran rough shod over	1
them for a 30 to 0 score. Lyons and	j
Walsh battled to a 0 to 0 draw before ] several hundred fans.	i
On Sunday in Group 1 Freshman * will tangle with Carroll on the Min- ' ims field. Brownson will form the opposition for Morrissey on Cartier No.
1. It is hoped that St. Edward’s will have a team to oppose Dillon, and if they do, the game will be played on the Brownson gridiron. All of the games in Group 1 will be played at 3:00 o’clock.
In Group 2, on Cartier No. 1 Corby will meet Walsh for the first time this year, and on the Brownson field Lyons will try to give Alumni another drubbing. Howard and Badin will clash on the' Minims field. All of the games of the second division will start at 1:15.	.
Twelve
The Scholastic
Purdue And Indiana
Meet Harriers Here
Coach John P. Nicholson announced a change in the cross country card this week. The previously scheduled dual meet between Indiana and Notre Dame has been cancelled in favor of a triangular affair involving Purdue, Indiana and the Irish. This event will be staged here on November 11th, the date previously set for the dual meet with the Hoosiers.
Unless an outsider steps up and attracts attention, the starting quartet in the initial meet of the campaign will be composed of Eddie King, Joe Young, Clyde Roberts, and Leo McFarlane. Norman Duke is the fifth man according to current ratings. McFarlane has been showing his heels to the squad in practice recently and appears to be headed for the number one position.
As the squad takes more definite form, Nick becomes more optimistic concerning the outlook for the coming season. Michigan State looms as the only stumbling block at present. Other teams are going to make the going tough but Nick feels his team has it in them to take their opponents in stride.
Scribes and Announcers Here For Kansas Melee
Many of the leading sport writers of the country attended the Notre Dame-Kansas game last Saturday. Among those in the press box were Wilfred Smith of the Chicago Tribune, Harry MacNamara of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, Francis Powers of the Consolidated Press, George Kirksey of the United Press, Paul Mickelson of the Associated Press, and Earl Power of the Kansas City World Herald.
Don Wilson and Gene Rouse reported the game over the western network of the National Broadcasting Company. Pat Flannagan described the play for the listeners of WBBM, Chicago. Bob Kennett took care of the local fans with a play by play description over WSBT, South Bend.
The Fox, Pathe and Paramount newsreels took pictures of the game.
Accountants to Meet
There will be a meeting of the Accountant’s Club on Monday, Oct. 16, at 4:15 o’clock in the Accountancy Room of the Commerce Building. Election of officers will take place and plans will be made for the coming year, according to Stewart Osborne.
Introducing...
By John D. Carbine
Thomas Anthony “Kitty” Gorman, regular centei' on this year’s edition of the Fighting Irish, scored his first, and up to this writing, his only touch-
Thomas “Kitty” Gorman Veteran Center
down in his varsity game. This came against Indiana in 1931.
Notre Dame had run up a comfortable lead so Coach Anderson decided to send Gorman in for Yarr in order to give Kitty a chance to gain experience. Gorman was far from nervous in his first varsity game. He had not been in five minutes before he intercepted a Hoosier pass and dashed thirty-five yards for the touchdown which put the game on ice for the Irish.
Prospects Bright For Kitty
The Irish center came to Notre Dame from St. Philip’s of Chicago in 1929. He reported for freshman football and was first string center on the yearling team. “Kitty” also played freshman baseball.
He played “B” team ball in 1930, but when the 1931 season rolled around, he had improved to such an extent that he rated second only to All-American Tommy Yarr. “Kitty” saw quite a bit of action that year and seemed to be destined to become first string center on last year’s team.
Competition, however, cropped up unexpectedly. Ben Alexander developed into a first class center and Jack Robinson came up from the depths of the sixth team to lead the Irish centers when the season ended. There was little to choose between Gorman and Robinson, and the two worked almost interchangeably on the varsity at the center position.
This year Gorman appears to be able to fill with satisfaction the center position in the Irish line which such men as Tommy Yarr and Tim
Day Wins Golf Meet; Breaks Course Record
Winfield S. Day won his second consecutive golf championship Sunday on the William J. Burke course. In the afternoon round the slight sophomore shattered the existing course record by shooting a brilliant 70, two under par, and as many shots under the former best card turned in on the local course.
Trailing by five strokes as he teed off for the morning round, Day fought adverse weather and shot a 76 for eighteen to pick up for strokes on Johnny Banks, the leader, who went around in a wavering 80.
Gets Five Birdies
Playing in the same threesome in the final round of the tourney, the leaders, two strokes apart, matched shot for shot on the first nine and holed out in 35s, one under par.
The La Grange ace wabbled on the final nine while Day continued his record breaking performance to come in at 35 to complete the new low net of 70. Final tabulations show Day leading wnth 302 and Banks a stroke behind at 303.
On his record- breaking parade, Day knocked off five birdies to offset a fair morning card of 40-36 for a 76.
The inclement weather kept several of the starting contestants from finishing out the tournament. Of the thirty-six original entries only fourteen completed the full seventy-two holes.
Day’s championship card is as follows :	
Out: 4 3 5 3 5 In: 44443	2 4 4 5—35— 2 5 4 5—35—70
The tallies of the full 72 holes ;	those who finished are:
Day	302 Banks	303 Montedonico 306 Fehlig, V. 308 Green	319 Nevils	321	Kunz	322 Stillwagon	327 Fehlig, L.	328 Como	337 Pierce	340 Nolan	436
Moynihan have held in the past.
While at St. Philip’s Kitty played football and baseball. He was captain of the grid team in his senior year, all-Chicago Catholic Interscholastic center for two years, and All-Ulinois center for one season. At St. Philip’s, Kitty had as teammates, Austin Downs, who was quarterback for the University of Georgia for three years, and Dick Fencl, Northwestern end.
He played against Jackie Sullivan of Northwestern for three years in high school and when the two clash in the Notre Dame - Northwestern game in Dyche Stadium on November 18, it will be the third time they have met in intercollegiate competition.
October 13, 1933
Thirteen
So They Say
“With a little luck, just a small break, the bristling Jayhawkers might have trotted off with a victory today for their gallant, surprising stand. Five times the Jayhawks shook the Irish backs on their heels today in their gallant but futile drive for the precious score.” Associated Press Dispatch in The Philadelphia Public Ledger, of Oct. 8.
“A crowd of 25,000 was amazed to see the Notre Dame team go to pieces in the final period and commit a series of mental and physical errors which smothered every rally the Irish started. Blocked punts, fumbles, faulty field generalship and ragged passing made the Notre Dame team look worse than if it had been beaten.” — George Kirksey (United Press Staff Correspondent) in the Memphis Commercial Appeal of October 8.
“A frustrated, demoralized Notre Dame football team was held to a scoreless tie by a fighting University of Kansas eleven today in a masterpiece of mistakes.
“Whatever visions Notre Dame had of regaining the national championship went glimmering today. There won’t even be any undefeated season for the Irish unless they can do an about face over their form today.
“As was the case last year, Notre Dame quarterbacks—five of them today—were guilty of the worst kind of judgment.” — George Kirksey in the Detroit Free Press of October 8.
“A Kansas football cyclone roared out of the western plains today to shatter and topple a prized Notre Dame gridiron tradition that has stood like Gibraltar for 32 years. Before 20,000 fans the fighting University of Kansas team battered down tradition with surprising ease by holding the highly vaunted Notre Dame team to a scoreless tie.”—Associated Press dispatch in the Sedalia, (Mo.) Democrat and Capital, of October 8.
“Every phase of Notre Dame’s offensive was bottled up by the scrappy Jayhawks. The running game functioned at times, but like last year, it was no good inside the 20 yard line. The failure of the passing game is shown by the fact that only three of the ten passes attempted were completed. The Notre Dame backs never had an opportunity to get under way because the Irish line
Fourteen
failed to block up to standard.”— Jack Ledden in the South Bend Tribune of October 8.
“A powerful band of Jayhawks from Kansaas smashed Notre Dame tradition this afternoon when they outfought and outplayed the Irish in the opening game of the year. Neither team scored but it was Notre Dame which held Kansas to a tie, and the Irish, at the end of the afternoon’s vain effort, retired in confusion, demoralized as no Notre Dame eleven has been in many years.” — Wilfrid Smith in the Chicago Tribune of October 8.
“The eleven from the University of Kansas surprised Notre Dame today by outplaying the Ramblers and holding them to a scoreless tie in their opening game before 20,000 spectators at Notre Dame stadium.”—Associated Press Dispatch in the New York Tinies of October 8.
“He (Devore) played 55 minutes of relentless football, recovering several fumbles, making most of the tackles on defense, smashing through the intact Kansas interference for many of them and turned in the best offensive blocking of the afternoon.”—The Chicago Herald and Examiner of Oct. 10.
“At Notre Dame the boys are getting ready to make up for Saturday’s sins by trouncing Indiana. But the Hoosiers say, ‘If Kansas tied ’em, we can beat ’em’.”—Chicago Tribune of October 10.
“Individually Notre Dame is a better team. We had two games under our belts and were in better physical condition. Our quarterback used much better judgment than Notre Dame’s. But we couldn’t have held them much longer. That final gun was the most welcome sound I have heard in years.”—Doctor Forrest Allen, athletic director of the University of Kansas in an interview with Arch Ward of the Chicago Tribune Oct. 10.
“A Notre Dame football team that was impotent on offense, pitiful on pass defense, and apparently demoralized as the game wore on, gained a scoreless tie with the University of Kansas eleven in the first opening game the Irish have failed to win since 1901.” — Indianapolis Star, Oct. 8.
The smallest of the tackles brought to Chicago by Stanford for its Northwestern game tomorrow weighs 220 pounds.
Play Reaches Fourth Round In Tennis Meet
With another week of play behind them the contestants in the fall tennis tournament are now competing in the fourth round of play. The third round was completed Monday and the fourth began Tuesday afternoon. The favorable weather that has been in evidence since the inception of play, has speeded the tourney up to a point where it now appears that doubles play will get underway soon.
Result of the third round:
Kelly defeated Specht.
Shapiro defeated Quinn.
Shine defeated Campon.
J. Waldron defeated Schmuhl.
Bott defeated Lynch.
Fitzpatrick defeated Gibson.
McGinnis defeated O’Hara.
Ford defeated Fredericks.
Feeley defeated Siekmeyer.
Prendergrast defeated Measer.
Cashman defeated Malloy.
Garland defeated Kaufman.
McFadden defeated Ward.
Carrico defeated O’Connor.
Fallon defeated Demer.
O’Hanlon defeated W. Leiser.
Shapiro defeated Deichman. Cannon defeated Anderson. Ditton defeated Sausville. McNulty defeated Crego. Lee defeated Reese.
Annis defeated Ellis.
Seward defeated Farrell.
Puterbaugh defeated Daly.
Allen defeated Vervaet.
Miller defeated Ward.
Hackenbrueh defeated Leiser.
H. Waldron defeated Le Mire.
Ziepprecht defeated Kramer.
Miles defeated Effinger.
Weldon defeated Nolan.
Scores of the fourth round:
J. Waldron defeated Shine.
Bott defeated Sausville.
McGinnis defeated Fitzpatrick.
Feeley defeated Ford.
Garland defeated McFadden.
Fallon defeated Carrico.
Puterbaugh defeated Allen.
Notre Dame Tradition Of Scoring Power Endangered
A Notre Dame tradition as old as Notre Dame football is in danger of destruction this week for the first time in 16 years.
Never in the 45 years of football here has Notre Dame been held scoreless for three consecutive games. Indiana can break that record tomorrow by blanking the Irish, for the last two Notre Dame games, Southern California and Kansas, saw the Irish fail to score.
Not since 1917 had a double shutout been recorded against the Fighting Irish up to last week. Such an event has happened only six times in history.
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
SUSPENDED JUDGMENT
One by-product of the scoreless tie last week was a demonstration of the power that the name Notre Dame still has in the world of intercollegiate football.
Had any other team, favored so strongly in advance, been held to a scorless tie in its opening game, the country’s grid fandom would have roared for days with cries of “overrated,” “all through,” “can’t take it!” But not about the Fighting Irish.
True enough there were plenty of comments about the disappointing showing of the Irish. But we didn’t see a single line to intimate that maybe, after all, Notre Dame didn’t have a good football team. The consensus was definitely that the Irish are potentially great but lacked the co-ordination to capitalize on their strength.
The sporting world, writers, second guessers, and ordinary fans, are waiting for another test before they begin to pass definite judgment on the 1933 Notre Dame varsity. That’s the way Splinters sees the situation too.
Naturally we were stunned: no one was more firmly on the bandwagon than we. But we’re still there. We are a long way from being convinced that the Fighting Irish no longer fight. And if they will fight, the team has the man power, the plays, the system, and the experience to come through.
Late tomorrow afternoon in Bloomington we expect to have a definite opinion on the Blue and Gold varsity. In advance we’ll say that we expect this sort of an opinion: Notre Dame has a strong good team, slow in starting, but destined to go far before the shadows reach midfield at Yankee Stadium Dec. 2.
SCORECASTS
Last week: 21 winners, four losses, two ties. For the season (two weeks): 38 winners, six losses, three ties.
The upsets in our selections last week were the local scoreless battle, Nebraska’s smashing win over Texas, Carnegie’s equally impressive triumph over Temple, the downfall of the two Pacific coast giant-killers, St. Mary’s and Santa Clara, and the Minnesota-Indiana tie.
We’re enlarging the field this week to take in 36 games. For the benefit of those who like to check up on our
October 13, 19 33
luck, we’ll classify the selections each week to make the checking easier.
NOTRE DAME 6, INDIANA 0.
N. D. Opponents
Carnegie 20, St. Xavier 0.
Pittsburgh 13, Navy 6.
Stanford 7, Northwestern 0.
Purdue 14, Minnesota 0.
So. California 13, St. Mary’s 6.
Army 27. Delaware 0.
'	East
Dartmouth 34, Bates 0.
Villa Nova 13, Bucknell 0.
Colgate 20, Rutgers 6.
Columbia 46, Virginia 0.
Fordham 13, West Virginia 0.
Pennsylvania 14, Franklin & Marshall 0.
Harvard 27, New Hampshire 0.
New York University 6, Lafayette 0.
Princeton 33, Williams 0.
Yale 13, Washington and Lee 0.
Middle West	'
Michigan 14, Cornell 0.
Nebraska 20, Iowa State 7.
Kansas State 20, Missouri 0.
Michigan State 13, Illinois Wesleyan 7.
Ohio State 20, Vanderbilt 6.
Syracuse 7, Ohio Wesleyan 0.
Chicago 14, Washington (St. Louis) 0.
Wisconsin 13, Illinois 0.
South
Auburn 13. Georgia Tech 7.
Tennessee 6, Duke 0.
Louisiana State 14, Centenary 7.
Tulane 20, Maryland 12.
Florida 7, North Carolina State 0.
Georgia 13, North Carolina 6.
Texas 13, Oklahoma 0.
Rice 20, Southern Methodist 13.
Far West
Washington 20, Oregon 7.
Washington State 34, Montana 0.
Oregon State 7, Gonzaga 0.
HISTORY
(Continued from Page 11)
Father John Farley, rector of Sorin Hall.
In 1901, Notre Dame conquered Indiana to win its first championship— the championship of Indiana which was largely due to the efforts of Lou Sammon “who never lost a yard.”
The most thrilling game of the series occurred in 1920 when Notre Dame finally won 13 to 10 after trailing ten to nothing with but twelve minutes to play remaining. It was George Gipp who, weaving his way through the entire Hoosier team, scored the first Irish touchdown. Then on a hidden ball play, the Indiana players swarmed all over Gipp only to be awakened by the frenzied yelling in the stands in time to see the Irish quarterback springing over the line for winning touchdown.
In the last six games between the two universities, Indiana has scored only once. That was in 1927 when the Hoosiers avoided a coat of whitewash by scoring six points early in the game.	•
KANSAS GAME
(Continued from Page 12)
yard line. Dumm punted on the third down to the Irish 20 yard line. Layden lost four yards when he fumbled.
Elser dropped back to kick but the boot was blocked. The ball rolled toward the Irish goal where Bonar scooped it up and fought off three tacklers before gaining the one-yard line where he was thrown. Elser then booted up the field. Notre Dame soon gained possession of the ball agin on their 40 yard line.
Joe Beach replaced Lukats and the Blue and Gold took to the air in a last desperate effort to score. On three consecutive plays, Beach was unable to find a receiver in the clear and lost 28 yards to the Notre Dame 31 yard line, where Kansas made its last bid for a score. Nesmith attempted a field goal between the same uprights that made Johnny Baker famous, but the Irish forwards broke through and blocked the kick.
A long pass, Costello to Peters, was ruled complete for interference on the Kansas 34 yard line. The final play was a pass, Costello to Pilney, who was halted on the 20 yard line.
Statistics show that Kansas out-gained the Irish from scrimmage and made more yardage on passes. Notre Dame, however, outdistanced the visitors, ten to seven, in the matter of
first downs.	‘
The lineups:
Notre Dame (0)	Kansas (0)
Vairo ______________LE.------------Casini
Krause______________LT.---------Mehringer
Wunsch (c) __________LG---------Kvaternik
Gorman C-----------------------------------------------Watkins Pivarnik_______________________RG- Dees
Roach _____________-RT.___________Clawson
Devore __________—RE---------------O’Neil
Gaul QB---------------------------Hafford
Lukats______________LH.----------Peterson
Brancheau ___________RH--------------Dumm
Hagan---------------FB--------- (c) Beach
Substitutions: Notre Dame — Millner for
Vairo, Schrenker for Shiralli, Schiralli for Wunsch. Solari for Gorman, Bonar for Gaul, Pilney for Lukats, Tobin for Brancheau, Layden for Brancheau, Banas for Hagan, Elser for Banas, Fromhart for Bonar, Beach for Lukats, Peters for Devore, Moriarity for Fromhart, Caldwell for Moriarity, Costello for Beach.
Kansas—Sklar for Dees, Hall for Peterson, Brinkman for Hall, Nesmith for Dumm.
Referee—Frank Birch, (Earlham) ; Umpire —Nick Kearns, (DePaul) ; field judge—Don Lourie, (Princeton) ; head linesman—Joe Mad-igsohn, (Michigan).
Frosh Smoker Planned
Plans are progressing for the annual Freshman Smoker, to be held this year on Oct. 18 or 19, according to George H. Shields, president of the S. A. C. Entertainment will be furnished by the freshmen themselves, and will include boxing, wrestling and possibly,’ songs and specialty numbers.
Fifteen
Strong Hoosier Team Tests Irish Tomorrow
(Continued from Page 12)
scales 2xa pounds without his socks and is an exceptionally fine defensive player. His fellow wingman is Fitzhugh Lyons, a huge negro hitting the beam at 210 pounds of bone and muscle. Lyons ran 56 yards last week against Minnesota, with a recovered fumble, for the winning touchdown. As a sophomore, he played regularly against the Irish team of 193x and gave the opposing right-halfs plenty of trouble.
Three Veterans In Line
Three other veterans of two years competition play in the line. Angle-wyer, a big tackle; Beeson, .a two hundred pounder, who plays either center or tackle; and Jones, a reconverted fullback, who is now at right guard, complete the array of two year veterans. The others are as big and as tough as these three men.
Dauer, veteran right halfback, is the signal-caller this year and does most of the Indiana passing. H. Sawicki, at left half, does the ballcarrying and plays a fine defensive game. Sullivan is at the other halfback berth, with Walker in the fullback position.
To meet this array of big, defensive Hoosiers, Coach Anderson is banking on the same team that failed to click against the Jayhawks last week. Drilled hard on fundamentals, the Irish should go into the game prepared for a fight and well able to meet the attack. The only change in the line-up will find Don Elser, the big Irish fullback, on the first string in place of Steve Banas, who is playing with the shock troops.
A Battle Of Lines
The Irish are prepared for a hard game and determined to redeem themselves for their showing against Kansas. A decisive win over the Indiana team is necessary if they hope for a successful season. Indiana, on the other hand, is determined to succeed where Crimson teams since 1906 have failed and take Notre Dame into camp. It should be a battle of lines, with the Irish backfield replacements giving them the edge for victory.
Coach Anderson is expected to start the following eleven, rated as his best, against the Hoosiers:
Ends—Devore and Vairo; Tackles —Roach and Krause; Guards—Pivar-nik and Wunsch; Center—Gorman; Quarterback—Gaul; Halfbacks —Brancheau and Lukats; Fullback— Elser.
Sixteen
On Down The Line
By Nick Connor
“Ramming” RALPH GRAHAM, one of the nation’s leading scorers last year, scored 24 of his team’s 25 points in their opening game last week.......ORVILLE ALBERTS, prominent Philadelphia huntsman, has ridden horses a total of 262,000 miles. . . The combined rosters of the teams composing the BIG TEN conference numbers 589 players. Because several of his gridiron candidates have to work after classes, Coach WILEY, of Friends U., decided to call all to the field at 5:30 a. m. daily. . . ELIZABETH RYAN has won i? championships at Wimbledon. . . LOUIS A. CARR, widely known West Virginia sports official, fell dead while refereeing a high school game. . . . ELLSWORTH VINES, former national tennis champ will turn pro for a stipend of §50,000.
A back injury may keep Mrs. HELEN WILLS MOODY from ever being able to play championship tennis again. . . . Catcher FISCHER made 20 straight put-outs last year . . . NORMAND CHAMPAGNE, right handed pitcher whose left arm is paralyzed, has won 13 successive games for the Pawtucket Boys club . . . LAWRENCE ELY, center on the Boston Redskins was given his release because he made 10 bad passes from center in a recent game . . . 85 men turned out for the A and B football squads of the United States Military Academy this year . . . ERNEST “GOOF” BOWYER, back field coach at Florida, was captain of three high school teams, and also captain of football at Florida in 1928.
Miss SUNNY LOWERY, after two attempts, succeeded in swimming the English Channel. . . JOE CONNOLLY, outfielder on the famous Boston Braves “miracle team” of 1914, is now a farmer and state representative. Ten airplanes carried the ARMY football team to the Davis-Elkins campus for a recent game. . . “HANK” DECKER, golf pro at Excelsior Springs, Mo., recently took only 21 putts to hole out on 18 greens . . . PENN STATE’S football squad this year is 100 per cent Pennsylvanian. . . The longest golf match, over 1500 miles, was played by PAUL DENSON and BILL LAIDLY, who started July 4th, ’32 to drive balls along the roads from Amarillo to Los Angeles.
PAUL CUBA, Pitt’s great tackle in 1932, has signed to play pro ball
with the Philadelphia Eagles . . . GORDON SMITH, who weighs 165 pounds and is 5 feet 1 inch, is Tennessee’s watch charm guard this year . . . In 20 of the 29 World Series held so far, the winner of the first game has proven to be the ultimate victor . . . About 3,000 harness racing drivers are employed each year and their average wage is $2,500 . . . WILLIE KLEIN, who sold for $150 as a yearling, finished in the money in nine consecutive starts this season . . . JOHN VILLEPIGUE, coach at the Camden S. C. high school, uses a metronome to teach his proteges perfect timing.
Kansas Celebrates “Victory” With Huge Welcome Rally
Kansas University greeted her football team, returning from their scoreless tie with Notre Dame, with a monster pep meeting in the Kansas stadium at Lawrence.
On the day the Jayhawks were to reach home, handbills announcing the rally were spread over the Lawrence campus. The bills read as follows:
RALLY!I
of all interested in the team that “whipped” NOTRE DAME
COACHES WILL TALK THE BAND WILL PLAY TEAM to be PRESENTED
STADIUM
EIGHT O’CLOCK TONIGHT
KU KU’S, JAY JANES, FLYING SQUADRON, AND FRESHMAN
OUT
EVERYBODY OUT
Partial Itinerary For The Indiana Trip Is Announced
A partial itinerary of the varsity football trip to Bloomington for the Indiana game tomorrow is as follows:
Friday A. M.—Leave campus at 7:40, student send-off. Leave Pennsylvania station for Indianapolis at 8:00.
Arrive at Indianapolis 11:30. Luncheon at Indpls. Ath. ’ Club at 12:00.
Friday P. M.—Arrive by bus at Martinsville, Ind., (Home Lawn Sanitarium). 3:00 Practice at high school field.
Saturday A. M.—Mass at the Martinsville Catholic Missions, 8:00. 11:45 Leave by bus for stadium.
Arrive South Bend Saturday night, Pennsylvania station, 11:15.
There was a student informal rally at the practice field Thursday afternoon after practice. The students met the team as it left the field at 5:15.
'■The Scholastic
^ie^lasses &
You’re THERE with a
ACQUAINTED
COME
OtA/e have just the right pipe for you in our large selection.
A complete line of TOBACCOS, CIGARS CANDIES, COOKIES BEVERAGES CIGARETTES at Popular Prices FREE PAPER MATCHES!
CROSLEY
Darlin Dual Ranse ■ UCBURRA Superheterodyne
ONLY $23.9s Complete with Tubes
Here is a Crosley 1934 new 5 tube radio that will make you sit up and take notice. It’s just about 5 years ahead of the times. It gets what you want the way you want it.
Serving You Is Our ‘Pleasure
Notre Dame Candy Store
“Just East of Washington Hall’*
DAVIDSON SALES Co.
107 E. MONROE ST. Open Evenings
CoovincinqTestimonq
That
WEBSTER’S HM COEEEGIATE
Is the Best Abridged Dictionary “I ean hardly believe I shall ever apply te It any test ft will not creditably sustain. It is an amazing product of accurate and usable scholarship.” said H. L. Seaver, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Presidents and Department Heads of leading Universities agree with this opinion. Webster's Collegiate is best because it is based on the “Supreme Authority”— Webster's New International Dictionary. 106.000 entries including hundreds of new words, with definitions, spellings, and correct use; a dictionary of Biography;
* a Gazetteer;rules of punctuation;use of capitals, abbreviations, etc.; a dictionary of foreign words and phrases. Many other features of practical value. 1,268 pages. 1,700 illustrations.
Seelt At Your College BookstoreorWritefor Information to the Publishers.
G. & C. MERRIAM CO. SPRINGFIELD. MASS. ,
ATTENTION!
Free Examination ❖
Is Your Hair Falling?
Bothered With Dandruff? Itching Scalp. Etc.?
Try Us For Satisfactory Results.
Let Us Restore Your Natural Growth Of Hair ❖ RELIANCE HAIR GROWING SHOPPE 230 W. Washington Men Only Private Entrance Phone 4-6771
LUCKY SI
Copyright. 1933, lie American Tobacco Co.
It’s not by accident that Luck burn so evenly. For each and e packed—filled to the brim with ‘s Turkish and Domestic tobaccc no loose ends. That’s why Lucl
ALWAYS ikejinest tobaccos
ALWAYS tkejinest workmanship ALWAYS Luckiesplease!
its toasted
FOR THROAT PROTECTION—FO1
[OKERS
BROADCASTING FOR PROFIT
By Harvey P. Rockwell

9
I
. draw so easily, y Lucky is fully :et, ripe, mellow Round, firm— j are so smooth.
One hundred dollars a minute seems rather good money for one to earn by broadcasting, and yet this amount is received by both Amos and Andy.
It was shortly before the war that America was introduced to the new baby, radio, which up to that time had been the brain child of the experimenter. So now that the infant was growing stronger, the public was glad to welcome him into their homes. He was known then only as a polite youngster, seeking to please and entertain with concerts and perhaps a comedian or two. This order was followed closely up to December, 1930, for the value of advertising by broadcasting was still a matter of question.
The depression commenced to bring about a change, for our little boy was becoming a man, and he seemed to want to become a salesman. Large companies commenced to undertake ambitious programs which cost from half a million to two million dollars. The National Broadcasting Company Red Network and supplements received $12,880 an hour, its Blue Net-w o r k and supplements received $11,740, and the Columbia System, $16,660 an hour. Hence in 1930, NBC took in $20,000,000 as against $25,-900,000 in 1931. Columbia received $8,586,000 in 1930 and $11,621,000 in 1931. Thus where a company merely sponsored a program by name, as did the Ipana Company who christened the Ipana Troubadours, they began to insert some real advertising. Still there was no mention of price, for we must remember oui’ young man was very polite. Soon, with much tact and diplomacy, he began to evade the price inhibition. Harold F. Ritchie the distributor of Eno Effervescent Salt, did this by saying that a trial bottle could be obtained for less than the usual price of two packs of cigarettes, or in reality, twenty-five cents. The General Cigar' Co., accomplished the same result by saying that a Robert Burns Panatelia could be obtained for the smallest silver coin or ten cents. So with Richmond Brothers and others.
But let us look more closely at the thousand or more programs that are broadcast each week. Only about 100 are commercial programs. Hence we have about 64% sustaining, or fill-in programs. And since only about one-fifth of the commercial program is advertising, we have about 93 out of each 100 minutes given to entertainment. The sustaining programs are very important. So much so that Columbia spends $3,000 a day to present good ones.
Now, perhaps, we might take a moment to glance at the actual value of broadcasting as an advertising
medium. In order that we may remove the possibility of extraneous influences, such as newspaper and periodical advertising, consider the Burjois Company who use only radio advertising. In 1929, Burjois went on the air with a sketch of Paris life called “Evening in Paris.” However, since the audience was unfamiliar with the Burjois Co., it remembered only the title of the sketch and soon it began to ask for Evening in Paris cosmetics at the drug stores. Thus Burjois started a new line which they named after the sketch and which has been much more successful than the original.
Another example is that of the G. Washington Coffee Company. Here was a company which was barely making expenses. In September, 1930 it went on the air with Conan Doyle’s Sherlock Holmes stories and more than doubled its business in the following six months.
A more graphic example may be shown if we considei- a part of the Robert F. Elder survey made in 14,000 American homes. Elder, an economics professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, with a system much too complicated-to be outlined here, allotted a certain percentage to each of several different products which he found in homes having no radios. Then he made a comparison for homes having radios. The results of a few are tabulated.
Company	No radio	Radio
Pepsodent Co. 				.100	202.4
Barbasol Co				100	183.0
Palmolive Co. 				100	115.1
Lux Co			100	115.5
General Cigar Co. .		100	125.0
Lucky Strike Co. ...			100	114.6
Cremo Cigar Co. ...			100	116.7
In order that the negative side could be examined also, he did the same in the case of products which were not advertised by radio at the time. The results of a few are again tabulated.
Company	No radio Radio
Colgate Co..............100	77.0
Listerine Co............100	68.3
Ivory Soap Co...........100	89.5
Chesterfield Co.........100	94.1
Squibbs Dental Co. .....100	95.7
So we see that the erstwhile infant, Broadcasting, has grown to a full-fledged salesman, capable of paying such stars as Ed Winn $5,000 a broadcast, and Morton Downey $9,000 a week. Indeed, he has well proved his worth.
Note: The statistical data used in this article was obtained from an article entitled An Appraisal in the September, 1932, issue of the periodical Fortune.
ETTER TASTE
r
Your
MR
COMPLETE YOUR
EDUCATION!
No Notre Dame student’s education will be complete without a few visits to the World’s Fair. And what better way to go than via South Shore Line. . . speedy, convenient, direct to the Fair gates. . . and low in cost 1 No waits, no confusion. Hurry! Before the Fair closes!
For more information call Mr. C. W. Veach, City Passenger Agent, phone 3-3111, or write Mr. R. E. Jamieson, General -Passenger Agent, 140 S. Dearborn Street, Chicago.
RADIO
Not in
SOUTH BEND
But-
Here at
NOTRE
DAME
You’ll find the most complete service laboratory in this vicinity.
Stetson
Hat
can take it
LOW COST ROUND TRIP SOUTH BEND CHICAGO $0-60 with 9 day return limit
Come in and inspect our equipment. We’ll be glad to discuss your particular Radio difficulty with you.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE * SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
s°uM0Rl
Our consultations cost you nothing.
We’re always available from 12:30 to 1:00 p. m. and from 6:30 to 7:30 in the evening.
Phone:
Office 4-5661
Residence 3-4041
X-RAY
DR. E. S. LUCAS
DENTIST
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
South Bend Indiana
The Address is 155 ALUMNI HALL
Harvey P.
Rockwell
The Radio Doctor
THAT’S what value means in a haL Your Stetson has the stuff,in it to stand a beating—open car, rough weather, anything you hand iL And all the time it keeps smiling—keeps that smartness of line and beauty of color which makes you admire a Stetson.
New Stetson styles are being shown now. Ask particularly to see the new Suede Finish and color mixtures.
dbe heifer atorea
IB. StetseM
Now!
and save yourself letters and postage.
Let us mail The Scholastic home for you — from now until Christmas for only one dollar postpaid.
The folks will read all about campus affairs, the football season, how you’re getting along in Club circles.
I	•
Give them this week-by-week record of your school year.
Phone, write, or call the Publications Office, 232 Administration Building—
ANYTIME FROM DAWN TO DUSK
At the University
Board of Publications, Notre Dame, Ind.
IND.
IB. PAUL BYRNE LIBRARY, NOTRE DANE

jtellme something..
what makes a cigarette taste better
WHAT makes anything taste better? It’s what is in it that makes a thing taste better.
CHESTERFIELDS taste better because we buy ripe tobaccos. These ripe tobaccos are aged two and a half years —-thirty months. During this time the tobaccos improve—just like wine improves by ageing.
CHESTERFIELDS taste better because they have the right kind of home-
the cigarette that's MILDER ’ ;
the cigarette that TASTES better
< © 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.