t
THESE HANDS ARE PRICELESS I
They protect the American way of life • • • our homes, our freedoms, our future.
These Hands, sensitively trained to respond acutely to the com-
mands of an alert mind and courageous heart, are the hands of a
United States Air Force Pilot.
The skillful touch of these hands attunes the blasting speed of modem jet aircraft to effective missions in discouraging any enemy. These hands are supremely capable of flying and fighting these machines with devastating effect.
These Hands belong to young, spirited American men (not supermen) who desire to live unmolested in a free America ... who want to enjoy the same rights and opportunities open to all real American people.
These Hands belong to our sons—yours and mine. Youths who must decide today how they can share in defense of our nation and also better themselves. To insure greater chances of their success, today’s college men should be encouraged to complete their education and then serve their country best by enlisting as Aviation Cadets in the U. S. Air Force.
Theirs is the choice of becoming either a Pilot or Aircraft Observer. After graduation as Second Lieutenants in the U. S. Air Force, they wear the silver wings of flying executives and begin earning nearly $5300 a year.
These Hands represent a man ready to qualify for this tremendous task because he is between
the ages of 19 and 26 years, unmarried, and in excellent physical condition, especially eyes, ears, heart and teeth. He possesses at least two years of college and the inherent urge to fly.
These Hands shape the destiny of America... the difference between our survival and oblivion.
The U. S. Air Force needs the hands, the minds and the hearts of young Americans who desire to make the American way a greater way of peace and happiness for all.
WHERE To Get More Details
Visit your nearest U. S. Air Force Base or write direct
to Aviation Cadet, Headquarters, U. S. Air Force Washington 25, D. C.
2
The Scholastic
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty
% Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.20
JOE NABICHT’S RESTAURANT “Chicken in the Rough” 213 N. Main Open Sunday
TWO Jackets in ONE
You will be pleased with this skillfully tailored reversible Weathercrest jacket: Made of America’s finest fabrics in color combinations to suit your taste. Pearl Grey reverse to Wine. Slate Grey reverse to Navy. Luggage Brown reverse to Luggage. Sizes 36 to 50.
$1695
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan	Open Every Evening Till 9
Take the Michigan Street Bus
MEDICO
•	T,W. Exqvisile BurgtrndyFimtf,:
IV MEDICO V.F.O.-’l With NEW NYLON BIT.
t = Exclusive! Guaranteed Bite-Proof! i.’ | ‘ Odorless! Tasteless! Cushion Bitet ?; p	MEDICO MEDALIST->1.51	-j
; When filter turns brown—in Medico s i: Pipes or Cigarette Holders—throw - j : it away, with nico-
;; tine, juices, flakes, U tars it has trapped.
Insert a fresh filter for cooler, cleaner c and dryer smoking.
Imported Briar. (
h	W^e voriety of styles eed sixes.
p WriteMedkonoes.lac_N.Y.22.forSeoHe* •
Oct. 24, 1952
EATON'S CORRASABLE BOND
has a high faculty rating — it erases without blur, blear, or blemish
You're "grade A" on this magical typewriter paper1. It banishes your mistakes forever, finishes up with a clean groomed look that just can't fail to impress favorably.
Test it: make a mistake, flick it off with a pencil eraser, type over it — see how Corrasable erases without a trace! Try it: note faculty reaction io such clean precision. Use it for keeps: save time, temper, money, and watch your grades hit that upward zoom!
IF YOUR REACTION IS: "THIS I GOTTA SEE" — Slop in soon for a demonstration or io make your own test.
only Eaton makes Corrasable Bond
Notre Dame Bookstore
Semper Fidelis
Editor:
Have managed to garner a quick 15 minute respite from my military labors to drop off this epistle to you all and inform you of my whereabouts. Not that anyone particularly cares where I am; but this is new, stationery and I’m anxious to show it off.
Life under the globe and anchor is far removed from life under the Golden Dome. And the campus cynic goes on record right now as saying that he prefers the latter life (recruiting officers can be especially disarming people — heed them not!)
There are enough ND lads down here to start an alumni club. John Haley, Bill Toohey, Chip Duncan, Jim Manning, Joe Stanocheck, Jerry Schaub, Bob Doelmetsch, Ray Sliney and a host of others are wearing the olive green of the Corps — a bit ruefully, perhaps, but wearing it at any rate . . .
A last wish for the very best to the entire staff and especially to “The Week.”
2nd Lt. Jack Hynes, U. S. Marine Corps, Camp Upshur, Quantico, Va.
For the uninitiated, Jack Hynes teas the Scholastic’s “Week” columnist last year.—Editor
Cheers
Editor:
Maybe you can tell us what happened to our cheerleaders the other Saturday afternoon! It seemed that they could have made considerably better use of the opportunities provided by time-outs and the spaces between downs.
It seemed that most of the cheers given on Saturday were led by various groups within the student body itself. Our cheerleaders are undoubtedly excellent as tumblers, but so were court jesters.
And while we are on the subject, what about that part of the student body fortunate enough to be located South of the 20-yard line? There are no cheerleaders to lead us or even to tell us what cheer is to be. given.
We would also like to go on record as being in favor of the flash-card system as reported being considered by the Student Senate.
The boys of’ 211-212 Alumni.
See editorial.—Editor
(Continued on page 6)
4
The Scholastic
By Mort Luby
Top of the Week
The sophomores have Jimmy Palmer for the Cotillion . . .
The Never-To-Be Answered Question
We were sitting on the front steps of Walsh Hall this morning, taking stock of some of that pulchritudinous femininity that always invades the campus on the eve of a home game.
As we sat there, making a valiant effort to make our stares as unnotice-able as possible, we were accompanied by another old campus luminary whose thoughts ran along the same well-trodden path.
“Why,” he groaned, “do all the creeps get such good-looking dolls when there’s a couple of cute items like ourselves around?”
Ours was the universal reply. “I don’t know. I fist don’t know!”
Bogball
Even with the whole country gripped with the hysteria of college football, there are no gridiron thrills that can match the feats of those stalwarts who make Badin Bog their humble stadium. Never disconcerted by mud, snow, rain, sleet, or homework, these valiant athletes spend their entire first semester existence engrossed in a busy activity which they jocosely refer to as “touch football.”
The other day we observed a scene which we fancy is quite typical of the boy gridders. There was a dispute as to whether a tremendously long downfield pass of 7% yards had merited the receiver a touchdown. Confusion was almost unavoidable as the goal line was represented rather nebulously by an imaginary line stretching from the Bog’s lone fire hydrant to a point
somewhere on the second column to the
right on Badin Hall’s majestic front
porch. Their chests heaving furiously from the exertion, members of both rigidly-disciplined squads stood over the ball, screaming at each other like young Durochers.
Suddenly assuming the role of the peace-loving arbitrator, the star quarterback of one of the teams stepped into the midst of the melee and said sternly, “Let’s go down to Joer’s and settle this thing.”
“Yah, Joer’s!” they echoed in notso-angry unison. And the controversy was forever ended. Amen.
A Mixer Without Mixers
The drill hall vibrated with the happy voices of the many boys and not-so-many girls who attended the
Mixer last Friday. The center of the floor was a dense core of St. Mary’s girls and Notre Dame men tripping the light fantastic to the trumpet tooting of Don Gels.
Seymore Senior, who had dressed carefully in his best grey flannels, was naturally startled when he saw one
From Carton To Icebox-To Hospitality
ionite UNOta authobity or ini coca-coia company by
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
unescorted damsel standing along the sidelines. After ambling nonchalantly towards her, he said (in. his best casual. manner), “Nice'dance; except they let too durn many freshman guys in.”
“I suppose you are an upperclassman,” she frowned.
“Why, yes,” said Seymore, beaming proudly.
“Who wants a senior?” she ranted. “They’re all smart alecks with pot bellies and thin hair.”
“Ah, but who likes fat hair,” Seymore countered briskly and began sucking in his stomach.
Just then a nattily attired tot in a green tweed suit and pink tie came strolling by. He stood about 150 centimeters tall and was slurping noisily on a raspberry popsicle.
“Are you a freshman?” she sighed adoringly.
“Well . . . (swallowing half the popsicle) . . . yes.”
“Oh goody!” she squealed. Then after picking him up bodily, she started towards the dance floor. And then to her bewildered captive, “Nice dance; except they let too durn many senior guys in . . .”
Cotillion Capers
The sophomore class (or should we say last year’s freshman class?) have done it again! Last year-it was Benny Strong who provided the sonatas for the Big Dance. This year, after many moons of careful planning for the Cotillion, they acquired “Dancing Shoes” Palmer and his 15 twinkle-toed musicians, and three people who play the harmonica, and a mysterious “famous Hollywood personality.” The harmoni-cats will be there for the benefit of any nostalgic old Irishmen who want to hear the 1947 version of “Peg o’ My Heart.”
Bottom of the Week
. . . who is Jimmy Palmer? (Thank you, Jack Hynes)
Oct. 24, 1952
5
OCTOBER 24
FIELDHOUSE (7:30 p.m.)—Wanted: several thousand deep male voices to blend with the Cotillion guests and the freshmen in cheering the team on. Father Joyce and Moose Krause will speak.
WASHINGTON HALL (through Oct. 26)—Curtain rises at 8:30 p.m. on the second and slightly less hectic performance of the University Theater’s Comedy of Errors. Free—and good at twice the price. (Sunday matinee for the kiddies.)
PALAIS RO YALE (9 p.m. to 1 a.m.)—Cotillion couples will pack the Palais tonight to sway to Jimmy Palmer’s music. The mad dash back to campus ends at 2.
COLFAX (through Nov. 5)—The movie version of Ivanhoe (A-l) —Scott minus the umpteen pages of scenery—is a risk for book reports but a sure bet for fine entertainment. Stars two Taylors, Bob and Liz.
GRANADA (through Oct. 29)—The dancing team of Marge and Gower Champion does well as stars of Everything I Have Is Yours, a typical musical with good tunes and stale plot. Gilbert Roland plays a prolific rascal in Apache War Smoke, which has a little of everything, good and bad.
OCTOBER 25
STADIUM (1:30 p.m.)—As underdogs, the Irish have won two; as favorites, they’ve lost and tied. Saturday’s game will show whether ND can straighten itself out in this topsy-turvy season.
DRILL HALL (8:30 to 11:30 p.m.)—Rumor has the chem majors working on a special glue for halfbacks. If it works, this week’s Student Senate stomp may be a real victory dance.
OCTOBER 26
RIVER PARK (through Oct. 28)—Where’s Charley? (A-l), the jazzed-up version of Charley’s Aunt, stars Ray Bolger at his liveliest. June Allyson plays a sort of Joyce Jordan, girl interne, in The Girl in White (A-l).
STATE (two days)—Randolph Scott and Joan Leslie galavant in an upper-level horse opera called Man in the Saddle (A-2). Bogie’s back, too; this time in Sirocco (B) with Marta Toren. Same plot, different leading lady, different town.
WASHINGTON HALL (8:30)—If the audience is exhausted after an hour, think of the poor cast. Last chance to see Comedy of Errors before they lead the actors away.
CAMPUS WARDS AND PRECINCTS—Now is the time for all good . . . etc. Election (mock) Day at Notre Dame, and everyone can vote (once) for Ike and Dick or Adlai and Sparky. •
OCTOBER 29
AVON (through Nov. 4)—Caribbean (A-2)—another pirate yarn. Arlene Dahl in full color helps.
Letters
(Continued from page 4)
Thank You Kindly, Ma’m.
Editor:
Though Life may sell 10,000 copies And comics devoured by pint-sized
Hoppies;
Still for us they hold no more appeal Than “Red-Heart” does for you at meals.
Holiday’s found in the homes of the smart set
And Esquire ranks high with ND men, we bet;
But again we repeat these aren’t to our taste
For these magazines seem to us a waste.
Yet, on the whole, we dare to say If college girls could have their way With wild acclaim they’d no doubt pick As their first choice ND’s Scholastic.
Name Withheld
Marygrove College
P.S.: Keep up the good work.
Sorinite In A Fog
Editor:
In the column titled “Once Over Lightly” in last week’s magazine, I read the formula for computing the “fog index” of a given passage of writing. I do not doubt the accuracy of the reporters, but I can’t agree with Mr. Gunning’s claim that his formula really illustrates whether or not a passage is foggy.
Studying sociology this evening I ran across this passage:
Educability is delimited and configured by the selfsame mechanisms; for educability does not depend upon a formless kind of plasticity. It depends upon the structured nascencies of the mind as a growing organism. The human mind is a minutely architectured action system which has an embryogenesis and a developmental morphology, manifested in patterns of behavior.
The above paragraph has, if I am correct, a fog index of 10, 3.7 points lower than Mort Luby’s column! According to the column, the Student Manual has a fog index over twice as high; perhaps the University will accept a plea of ignorance when next I break a regulation.
Patrick Shanahan
249 Sorin
6
The Scholastic
Vol. 94 October 24, 1952 No. 5 Founded 1867
Discc Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO ..................News
PETER K. CONNOLLY ....Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE .................Features
JOHN F.	SAND...................Sports
WILLIAM	F. NOONAN	....Ass'L Sports
THOMAS	C. MURPHY ........Advertising
WILLIAM	KERWIN .............Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Tom Bennet, Tom Bosse, Bill Burnett, Dick Callaghan, Irv Carrig, Joe Casser-ella, Bill Copeland, Doug Cole, Pat DiPasquali, Frank Donlon, Carroll Dowden, Fred Eckart, Paul Fullmer, James Gallagher, Bob Gorman, Dick Hairsine, _ Tom Hartzell, Joe Leaser, Karl Martersteck, Bill Moore, Henry O’Bryan, Jim O’Shea, Dick Rupp, Jerry Shea, Dave Schlaak, Ray Schlitzer, Peter Sturtebant, Mike Ward.
SPORTS STAFF:. Erwin Alfonsus, Warren Ashbaugh, Lou Bourjaily, Tom Caplet, John Cywin-iski, Bob Ettlebrick, Bob Frolicher, Jack Healy, Jack Kirby, Bob O’Malley, Don Swiegowski, Walt Touhy, Tom Welly.
FEATURES: Dan Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike Long, Matt Malison, John Slavich.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeCrick. Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, Jerry Sheehan, Bob Swanson. "
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and lamina. tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Cleveland from the lakefront — a panoramic view of what the student-trippers will be seeing at closer range. At lower left is the Municipal Stadium, site of the ND-Navy game. Right of center in the background the Terminal Tower dominates the downtown area. For an explanation of what Cleveland has to offer, see pp. 18 and 19.—Photo Courtesy Cleveland Chamber of Commerce. _
Editorial Policy: The Election
The editors have been asked many times in recent weeks whom the Scholastic would support in the coming election, if anyone. And if so, why; if not, why not? With the election only 10 days away and with articles of a political nature beginning to appear in the magazine, it is time that we state our position regarding national politics.
First of all, the editorial policy of the Scholastic is vested solely in the editor and whomever he may choose to consult. Here we are confronted with a paradox, because the minute the magazine leaves Notre Dame the statements on this page may be interpreted as representative of the entire University.
In all matters we try to make the editorials more than a personal opinion, voicing our interpretation of student opinion, or stating what we think is best for the University as a whole. But in matters completely outside Notre Dame, such as a national election, it would be difficult, if not impossible, from the partisan viewpoint of one or two individuals to represent the entire University. . And certainly we would have no more than a 50-50 chance of correctly expressing Administration opinion or policy, which policy outside readers might construe our words of wisdom to be.
Therefore we deem it inappropriate, imprudent, and even unethical for us to superimpose our political views onto this page and pawn them off as the hallowed voice of Notre Dame.
Actually, some of us like Ike, some like Adlai, some like both, and some like neither. But regardless of how much we might like to use space to further the man of our choice, editorially this magazine will support neither candidate, and will clear the decks for expression of all points of view.
Accordingly, this week we offer a digest of the platforms of both parties, and next week the case for Stevenson and the case for Eisenhower, written by prominent professors, will be presented for your serious consideration. We have no possible counterpart for the account of the jaunt on the Governor’s special train which appears in this issue, but it is a factual account and not a mirror of editorial opinion.
The floor is now open for exposition of the partisan feelings of all who -wish to be heard. In all things political, the Scholastic will act as referee instead of a high-handed thought leader.
Spread Joy and Cheer!
On the eve of another home football encounter, a short remark about the cheering at the Pitt game seems appropriate.
While we agree that the cheering was not up to Notre Dame par, we feel that the cheerleaders are bearing the brunt of disgruntled feelings caused primarily by loss of the game. Also we would like to point out that the “Echo” yell is now verboten, and that the lads were given specific instructions about being polite with regard to opposition cheers and band numbers.
The cheering season is still young, so bear with, and cooperate with, the cheerleaders and see what happens. If no improvement is shown, then we’ll join the critics, but not now.
Oct. 24, 1952
7
Mn Ideal Gift for or by an N. D. Man
THE REVIEW OF POLITICS
Published quarterly by the University of Notre Dame
WALDEMAR GURIAN, Editor THOMAS T. McAVOY, FRANK O’MALLEY, Managing Editors
Typical articles of vital and lasting interest:
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
BACKGROUNDS OF MODERN CULTURE
H. Butterfield,	The Tragic Element in Modern International Conflict
Mary Bromage.	De Valera’s Formula for Irish Nationhood
M. A. Fitzsimons.	Britain and the Middle East: 1944-1950
Waldemar Gurian.	From Lenin to Stalin
Stephen Kertesz,	Interplay of Soviet and Western Politics in Post War Hungary
Hans Morgenthau.	World-Politics in the Mid-Twentieth Century
Robert Strausz-Hupe. U. S. Foreign Policy and the Balance of Power
N. S. Timasheff. The Strength and Weakness of the Soviet Union
AMERICAN
CIVILIZATION
Aaron I. Abell,
Origins of Catholic Social Reform in the United States
Robert B. Dishman, Mr. Justice White and the Rule of Reason
Peter F. Drucker,
A Key to American Politics.- Calhoun’s Pluralism
Thomas T. McAvoy.
The Catholic Minority in American Culture
Hannah Arendt.	The Imperialist Character
Alfred Cobban.	An Age of Revolutionary Wars: Historical Parallels
Alois Dempf,	The Significance of Medieval Intellectual Culture
Robert M. Hutchins. The Theory of State: Edmund Burke
Hans Kohn, Yves Simon, Eric Voegelin. Luigi Sturzo,
Romanticism and the Rise of German Na'ionalism
The Secret Sources of the Racist Ideology
The Formation of the Marxian Revolutionary Idea The Philosophic Background of Christian Democracy
RELIGIOUS APPROACHES TO MODERN SOCIETY
I. M. Bochenski.
Jean Danielou.
On Soviet Philosophy
Marxist History and Sacred History
Otto1 Karrer,	Newman and the Spiritual Crisis of the Occident
Robert McCloskey.
John U. Nef. Clinton Rossiter, Marshall Smelser.
American Conservatism and the Democratic Tradition The University of Chicago and the World, 1929-1951 The Political Philosophy of Franklin D. Roosevelt The Jacobin Phrenzy: Federalism and the Menace of Liberty, Equality and Fraternity
Jacques Maritain. Frank O’Malley, Josef Pieper.
Heinrich Rommen.
Leo R. Ward.
The Person and the Common Good
The Wasteland of William Blake
The Social Meaning of Leisure in the Modern World
Church and Sta'e
Humanism and the Religious Question
WALTER LIPPMANN says: “I regard the Review of Politics as having very few equals and no superiors in the English-speaking world in the serious discussion of international politics.”
THE REVIEW OF POLITICS
University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana
8
SUBSCRIPTION BLANK
To the Editors of THE REVIEW OF POLITICS Notre Dame, Indiana
Please enter my subscription to THE REVIEW OF POLITICS for.......... year(s), at $4.00 per year.
Name ...............................................................
Street ...............................    ..........................
City.........................     Zone...... State..................
Q Check enclosed	Q Please bill me
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
VOLUME 94, NUMBER 5
OCTOBER 24, 1952 *
Soph ’Carolina Moon* Beams Tonight
Stevenson Stresses Social Justice, Morality As Necessities in Fight Against Communism
Governor Adlai Stevenson, Democratic candidate for president, last Wednesday bid modestly for Catholic support in the coming election before one of the largest crowds the Navy Drill Hall has ever seen, spicing his speech with many biblical and encyclical quotations and stressing the importance of social justice in modern society.
Almost 4500 persons applauded the Governor as he entered the Hall with his party, the governor and lieutenant governor of Indiana, and the reception committee of the University.
The governor, appearing refreshed and relaxed after his trip from Chicago was introduced by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, president of the University, who mentioned the University’s pride in welcoming both candidates for the presidency. Father Hesburgh added that though the position of the school in political matters was a non-partisan one, it is important in these times that individuals be interested vitally in important matters.
Governor Stevenson’s speech was by his own words, a serious one, and the interested audience listened, for the most part, without applause.
Though he prefaced his address with his usual informal wit, the governor settled quickly to the matter of his subject, that of meeting the present Communist challenge. He repeatedly recognized the Church’s foresighted opposition to the earliest advances of Communism, and praised Church leadership for its decisive stand.
“Your church leaders,” he said, “have approached this disease, Communism, not with a politician’s bombast, but with the care and method of a doctor. They have sought its causes,
and finding the causes, have pointed to the cure.”
He made repeated reference to the common precepts of the Church and the policies of the Democratic party, especially those on the social responsibility of the government to those “who have the least bargaining power in life’s market place.”
The governor repeated, by inference, his party’s stand on supporting the laborer and farmer, and restricting discrimination by the FEPC.
He recognized the difficulty of carrying out these policies, but directly addressing the students, he said, “You bring ideals with you, ideals of citizenship, which some who are older have lost. I don’t think those ideals would be served by my offering you softer fare. Your holding to those ideals seems to me essential to the future of democracy.”
Ending his speech, Mr. Stevenson then endorsed Indiana’s governor, Henry Schricker, present on the stage, for U. S. Senator, and Dr. Charles Price of the University’s Department of Chemistry, who is running for Democratic congressman from Indiana.
Sustained applause followed the governor’s 15-minute speech, as he left with his party, which included Mr. Paul Butler, Democratic national committeeman from Indiana, Mrs. India Edwards, Democratic national committeewoman, and Mr. Edward F. Voorde, Democratic chairman of St. Joseph county.
A waiting police escort afterwards drove the governor and his entourage to the Crippled Children’s Hospital, then to the Studebaker plant, where he addressed the employees.
Evening's Rally Starts Off Gala Weekend
The highlight of Notre Dame’s Fall social season will take place when over 450 sophomores and their dates will glide around the floor of the Palais Roy-
MISS MARILYN SHAUGHNESSY
Queen of Carolina Moon
ale at the annual Sophomore Cotillion.
Bathed by the silvery beams of a romantic “Carolina Moon,” the dancers will promenade to the mellow rhythms of Jimmy “Dancing Shoes” Palmer and his orchestra from 9 p.m. to 1 ami. Intermission entertainment is to be provided by the nationally famous Jerry Murad “Harmonicats.”
For tonight’s occasion, the Palais has been transformed into a summer courtyard of colorful fantasy. In harmony with the theme there will be a huge silver quarter-moon, under the arch of which the prom-goers must pass to enter. Stars of luminous crepe will twinkle against a background of navy blue “sky.” (Continued on page 32)
Oct. 24. 1952
9
MISS MARY HOAG
Reigns at Court Tonight
Lawmen Step Tonight at 'Autumn Nocturne'
An unusual law court of ballads and beauties will be reigned over tonight by Miss Mary Hoag, a St. Mary’s senior from Chicago, at the Student Law As-sociation’s* 42nd annual Law Ball at the South Bend Country Club.
Featuring the theme “Autumn Nocturne,” the lawmen will step to the strains of Bon Gels and the Lettermen from 9 to 1 a. m.
Miss Hoag will be the date of General Chairman John Connelly, a senior from St. Paul, Minn.
Guest of honor for the evening will be Dean and Mrs. O’Meara of the College of Law, while other faculty members will also attend.
Dates to be Subpoenaed
Dates of the lawmen will receive the usual invitation in the guise of a subpoena ordering them to appear at the affair for participation in the festivities.
Chairman Connelly has borrowed from Cicero to express his promise on the dance’s success with the adage “De minimis non curat est,” which translates: “The law does not concern itself with trifles.”
Connelly will be assisted by the following- committee chairmen: John O. Celusta, bids and publicity; Robert Savage and William Freer, decorations; Paul Votilla, transportation; Andrew Walsh, arrangements; William Fleming, dates and William McMillian, music.
Student Trippers Ready Cleveland Invasion; Rally, Victory Dance Highlight Navy Fracas
Over 900 students and band members will leave the Notre Dame campus, for the annual student trip to Cleveland next Friday. With a full schedule of activities planned for the weekend, this year’s jaunt promises to be no exception to the fun-packed student trips of the past.
Those students who have purchased student trip tickets will leave from St. Mary’s siding (located behind the Biology Building and power plant) at 4 p.m.
Box lunches, included with the trip ticket, will be served enroute. It is expected that the train will arrive at Union Station in Cleveland about 10 p.m. From Union Station, the regular trip’s 300 students will proceed to the Cleveland Public Auditorium where they will leave their baggage and check accommodations.
A pep rally staged by the Cleveland alumni will be held Friday night at the Carter Hotel starting at 9. Jack Lavalie, former Notre Dame star and presently a prominent pro football scout, will be master of ceremonies. The rally will be a continuous affair with dancing and refreshments. I.D. cards will be required for admittance.
In addition to the 525 students going by train, another estimated 600 are traveling by their own means. Consequently, a representative cheering section will be assured for the rally and the game.
Saturday morning, which is a Holy Day of Obligation, Mass fox* the students will be said at St. John’s Cathedral on Superior Street. Likewise on Sunday, a special student Mass will be said. Times of these Masses are yet’ to be announced.
Students who are registered and thus entitled to free game tickets can obtain them by presenting their I.D. cards in person at the Sixth Street entrance to the Cleveland Public Auditorium between 9 and 12 Saturday morning. All student trip tickets are on the 50-yard line.
Saturday night after the game a Victory Dance will be held at the Carter Hotel. Tickets will be sold for this dance up until time of departure from Notre Dame. They can be purchased for $2.00 either from Jim Libertore in 274 Dillon Hall or Bill Woodward, 307 Sorin Hall. Tickets will also be available at the door of the dance but the price will be $2.50.
Bill Meyer, the assistant chairman who has handled arrangements for the
pep rally and the dance has announced that blind dates will be available for the Victory Dance. Four Cleveland schools have been contacted and it is hoped that all Notre Dame men desiring dates will be accommodated.
On Sunday, the train will depart from Union Station at 4 p.m. and will arrive in South Bend about 9 p.m.
Students on the official student trip will have all classes after 4:20 on Friday excused. Since Saturday is a Holy Day there will be no classes. At Cleveland the members of the student trip will have 1 a.m. permissions on Friday night and 3 a.m. permissions on Saturday night. Faculty moderator for the trip is Father Norton.
The men responsible for this year’s trip are: Hugh Braun, chairman; Bill Meyer, assistant chairman; Bill Kil-minster who handled the trip survey; Bill Unger, head of the ticket sales; and Jim Libertore and Bill Woodward who handled the dance tickets.
FROM THE GENERAL
Dear Father Hesburgh:
I regretted very much missing the opportunity of meeting you on my visit to Notre Dame, but I understand beforehand the sad reason for your absence. (Father ’Hesburgh was in Cincinnati, attending the funeral of Mr. Charles F. Williams, a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees of the University.)
My visit was one that I will always cherish as one of the outstanding days of my campaign. The warmth and enthusiasm of the reception gave me much encouragement. My heartfelt thanks to you and to all the others who made this a memorable occasion for me.
Your thoughtfulness in asking me to return means a great deal to me. I shall certainly look forward to a future visit to your great university—I am only sorry that this cannot be done before Election Day, but I know you realize that our schedule has been completed to November 4th.
Again my sincere thanks for the great honor which you paid me.
Sincerely,
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
10
The Scholastic
Moot Court Juniors List Opening Debates
Junior division of the Moot Court will open its first oral arguments of the year next Tuesday and Wednesday evenings. Sixteen teams of two juniors, each from the College of Law, will meet in eight arguments.
Judging each argument will be a law senior, a member of the faculty, and a lawyer from South Bend.
Winners of the finals of the Moot Court competition last June, Dave Thornton and Len Prosperi, will represent Notre Dame in the district competition to be held in Chicago Nov. 20-22. The ND team will argue the case for the state appellant.
Pairings for the first round junior division in next week’s competition are: Carl Eiberger and Sam Adelo vs. Dick Fisher and Jack Burke — the student judge will be Dave Thornton; Ed Burke and Don Prebenda vs. Will Pollard and Joe Heilling — student judge, Len Prosperi; Don Bebenek and Jack Bradshaw vs. Jim Roemer and Tom Roemer — student judge, John Sullivan; Tom Murray and Len Valko vs. Will Priebe and Paul Pressler — student judge, Ed Canary; Ben Moses and Dick Cotter vs. Jim Bleyer and Sam Rodino — student judge, Jack Burke; Ed Reardon and John Rozic vs. T. J. Bergan and Elmer Farinella — student judge, Joe Harrison; Dick Betasso and Jack Zi-mek vs. Joe Delisi and Carmi Belmont — student judge, Dick Murphy; Jack Malik and Frank McManus vs. Frank Kane and Joe Straub — student judge, Bill MacMillan.
Students Must Mail Applications for first Draft Deferment Examination Here by Nov. 1
Applications for the first of two Selective Service Qualification Tests to be given at Notre Dame on Thursday, Dec. 4, 1952, must be postmarked no later than Saturday, Nov. 1.
This test will be the first half of the Selective Service System’s bi-annual effort to provide local draft boards with evidence of college students’ aptitudes for continuing their college work without fear of the draft.
The second of the two tests will be given in the Spring of 1953.
The tests, which will be given at examination centers throughout the United States, Alaska, the Canal Zone, Hawaii and Puerto Rico, will be used by the Selective Service local boards in considering the eligibility of registrants for occupational deferment as students. The scores themselves, however, will not solely determine eligibility for deferment.
To be eligible for the test, the applicant must be a Selective Service registrant; must be satisfactorily pursuing a full-time college course — undergraduate or graduate — leading to a degree; and must not have previously taken the exam. The applicant must be already entered on his first year of college work.
Tickets for admission to the test may be obtained by submitting the official application card to the Educational Testing Service, Princeton, N. J. The application blank and a mailing envelope are available at any Selective Service local board or from Rev.
Robert Woodward, C.S.C., at the Office of Military Information, located in the Main Building.
Applications for the Dec. 4 test must be postmarked no later than midnight Saturday, Nov. 1, 1952. Applications postmarked later than Saturday, midnight, Nov. 1, 1952, will not be considered for the Dec. 4 test.
The Selective Service Qualification test presupposes no schooling beyond the ordinary high school preparation for college. Its nature is to examine the student’s ability to read with understanding and to solve new problems by using general knowledge.
Some of the questions are based on reading passages, charts, tables, or graphs. To answer these questions, the student will need not only to understand the reading passage, chart, table, or graph, but also to apply general principles in the field of knowledge involved.
Besides mathematical problems designed to test the student’s ability to comprehend and use numerical relationships, there are also problems based upon the meaning of words and their relationships to other words.
Each student’s score on the test will be forwarded to his Selective Service local board of jurisdiction for use in considering his occupational deferment as a student.
According to the Educational Testing Service, which prepares the tests, it will be to the advantage of the student to file his application immediately for the testing date he selects.
ASME List Tops 100; Mahoney New Head
The American Society of Mechanical Engineers’ student branch at Notre Dame boasts one of its largest memberships in recent years. Over 100 mechanical engineers are already members and it seems likely that the membership will continue to increase.
Chairman of the society this year is Mike Mahoney, assisted by Jerry Yentz as vice-chairman, Bill Nelson as secretary, and Art Lewis as treasurer. The Honorary Chairman chosen by the students was Mr. Harold Murphy of the Department of Mechanical Engineering.
“The purpose of the club,” as Mahoney explained at the first meeting, “is to broaden the student’s acquaintance with the engineering professional society of both students and graduates, while at the same time to place the proper emphasis upon both the practical aspect
of engineering and the social relaxation and entertainment of the club.
Mr. William R. Dooley, placement director at the University, was engaged as the first guest speaker. Mi-. Dooley stressed the fundamental qualities that prospective employers will observe in their interviews with engineers. He also spoke on the general importance of extra-curricular activities and their relative bearing upon job selections.
A few of the A.S.M.E. activities this semester include a banquet, a communion breakfast, a local field trip, and a guest speaker from Allison division of General Motors in Indianapolis.
The A.S.M.E. meetings will continue to be in the Engineering Auditorium on alternate Thursdays at 7:15 p. m. New members may still join at regular meetings.
REV. ROBERT WOODWARD, C.S.C.
Military Information Advisor
Oct. 24, 1952
11
Three ND Debate Teams Debut in Chicago As Squad Prepares for Weekly Radio Show
The debate team opened its travelingseason against three Chicago teams yesterday as Prof. Leonard Sommer, team coach, announced he sent six new men to the Windy City for their intercollegiate speaking debuts.
Tom James and Pete Loedding debated against three groups of freshmen girls at Mundelein College. James was a former varsity debate man for the University of Alabama before coming to Notre Dame this Fall. Loedding is a member of last year’s high school national championship team, as determined by the National Forensic League. After the debates, both were guests of the college at an informal supper.
Freshman Bill Weldon and Sophomore Dick Schiller debated twice at the University of Illinois’ Navy Pier Extension. After an informal luncheon the speakers met two different Illinois teams on the national intercollegiate topic, “Resolved: the Congress of the United States Should Enact . a Fair Employment Practices Law.” The two other Notre Dame teams also used this topic.
The University of Chicago was host to the other Irish squad composed of Freshman C. Elrie Crite and Sophomore Ron Davis. Davis had four years of high school experience. The six were accompanied on the trip by Junior Bill Hank, who is currently instructing the team’s 60 new men on the fundamentals of debate.
Al De Crane, president of the debate team and national debate award winner, announced he was going to use eight more of the new men on the team’s radio show, “Topics of Importance.” Tentative plans call for four of the men, yet to be announced, to discuss a Fair Employment Practices Commission and the other four to search for the best weapons the free world has in its fight against Communism.
The shows are two in a series to be ' aired over midwest stations each week on topics that affect every American. DeCrane is the show’s moderator-director, and the announcing chores are handled by Bill Hank. The show can be heard locally every Sunday afternoon at 3 over WHOT. DeCrane announced that this week’s topic will be, ‘'McCarthyism.”
Panel members who will attempt to clarify the issue will be Carolyn - Len-nig and Jean Bennish of St. Mary’s College, and John Houck and Hugh Braun of Notre Dame.
“I feel it’s a topic which should be of interest to all,” said DeCrane, “for regardless of whether the people of Wisconsin retain or repudiate Senator McCarthy in November, the system called ‘McCarthyism’ will long be a topic of major importance.”
Campus Knights Hear Holy Cross Superior
Rev. Christopher O’Toole, C.S.C., superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, spoke before the Knights of Columbus meeting Monday evening in the Walsh Hall chambers. He gave a brief talk on the Holy Cross missions in Bengal and eastern Pakistan.
Father O’Toole told of the Holy Cross missionaries who left Le Mans, France
REV. CHRISTOPHER O’TOOLE, C.S.C. On Holy Cross Missions Abroad
100 years ago next month for- eastern Pakistan. The territory they were first assigned to covered approximately 180,000 square miles, yet had only 25,000 Catholics out of 25,000,000 inhabitants.
There are now four archdioceses and one prefecture in eastern Pakistan. Father O’Toole noted that this was tremendous progress due to the almost insurmountable obstacles of land, climate, and, most difficult, radical Moslems.
“It is extremely difficult to bring the Moslems into the Church, due to their rigid adherence to their bible, the Koran, and the social consequences they must suffer for leaving their religion.”
As a result the Moslems, who have a high regard for the Christian missionaries and many of the Catholic doctrines,
are being educated in Christianity, but not baptized. Many of those so educated have attained positions in the higher professions and are thereby able to spread their Christian influence and lay the groundwork for many conversions in the future.
The missionaries have built a number of elementary schools, two high schools, and a college. Necessary expansion is being furthered through the proceeds from the Bengal Bouts.
According to Father O’Toole, “Many tribes beg for the missionaries to educate them.”
Father O’Toole also told of the establishment of hospitals in Pakistan and India by Medical Missionary Sisters and pointed out the great need for more medical and financial aid. “If we Americans could help in this respect, it would greatly help the American cause in the Far East.”
Father expressed his gratitude and the gratitude of the Holy Cross missionaries for aid received through the Bengal Bouts.
Sunday Show Brings Forth Student Talent
If you hear your roommate singing like Mario Lanza, or the quiet next door neighbor trying to impersonate Milton Berle or Arthur Godfrey, don’t be disturbed. It’s not the weather or the studies that has made this change in them. They’re only practicing for Sunday afternoon’s Talent Show.
The shows have been revived again this year by Joe Desautels after rocketing to success a few years ago. The object of this program is to bring Notre Dame talent out into the view of the other students and to provide an enjoyable program for the students of the University.
Application for this program is open to anyone who thinks or knows he has some talent for entertainment—whether it be singing, dancing, or acting.
Auditions are held every Thursday night in Washington Hall at 7:30.
Results of the auditions will determine what four students will appear on the special WNDU radio program held every other Wednesday night at 8 o’clock.
Three judges will determine the winner on the radio program. The two regular judges, Geary Becker and Don Gels, plus a guest panelist compose the group. An applause-meter will be used in the finals to be held in Washington Hall on Dec. 11.
The first program ended in a tie between Alex McAngus and Bill MacMillan.
A prize of $50 will be given for first place and a $25 prize for second place.
12
The Scholastic
*Z4e	Become . . .
Strangers on a Campaign Train
What happens on a presidential campaign train? A fascinating question must have a fascinating answer, so fellow editors Bob Finney, Don Carbone and myself proceeded to investigate at first-hand. We three were fortunate enough to be included in the press party of Gov. Adlai Stevenson’s special campaign train from Chicago to South Bend last Wednesday, through the courtesy of Paul Butler of South Bend, Democratic national committeeman for Indiana.
It would be difficult to single out any one aspect of the trip as the most striking since the whole thing was such a highlight in itself. Yet, I was particularly impressed by the casual, easygoing nature of the entire party. An aura of quiet confidence pervaded the train. There was little excitement to disturb anyone’s countenance, although the early morning hour probably provided an assist in that respect. We were also amazed at the youth of the party, particularly of Stevenson’s aides,
By TOM FOOTE, Associate Editor
all of whom appeared to be under 35.
As a matter of fact, the only problem that beset the party was the absence of Mr. Edward Voorde, Democratic chairman of St. Joseph County who failed to catch the train, which left Chicago at 7:00 a.m. And although we were minus our press badges and some news releases because of his absence, we were more than satisfied with the whole trip.
Introduced to Dignitaries
We were introduced by Butler to various members of the press; to Mr. Nelson and Mr. Blair among other-prominent aides of Stevenson; and to such dignitaries as Mrs. India Edwards, Democratic national committeewoman, and Mr. Ernest Ives, brotherin-law of the Illinois governor. Mr. Ives, who has spent his career in the diplomatic service of the United States, described the governor’s campaign as “gaining altitude every day.”
Members of the press party passed
the time by reading and discussing newspaper accounts of the latest campaign developments. We were free to move about the train as we pleased and availed ourselves of any opportunity to pick up news releases and chat with members of the press.
Eventually, we stumbled into Stevenson’s car more or less intentionally rather than by accident, and after having observed him at breakfast, were asked by a porter to withdraw until the governor had finished.
“Had Never Seen The Campus”
The crowning point of the trip as far as we were concerned finally came as we were pulling into South Bend when Butler presented us to- Stevenson personally. Despite the urgency of the moment, the Democratic nominee invited us to sit down, and we chatted pleasantly for a few minutes. He emphasized that he was “eagerly anticipating his visit to Notre Dame since he had never seen the campus nor even (Continued on page 24)
Oct. 24, 1952
13
DON GELS AND HIS LETTERMEN
Young Mon With A Trumpet
Don Gels Replaces Hui on ND Bandstand; Anthony Styles Create 'Music With a Mood*
By PHIL BOLIN
Three weeks ago in the Palais Royale Ballroom, a tall, nervous young man gripping a trumpet stepped forth into the spotlight to make his first appearance as the leader of his newly acquired orchestra. His name—Don Gels.
Despite his nervousness, he handled himself like an old Basin Street musician and by the end of the evening Gels and his Lettermen had made a great hit with all who attended the Texas Trot.
Gels began organizing his orchestra last spring after he bought it from his former band leader, Gene Hull. Although the orchestra is named after him, he is also in partnership with saxophonist Jack Bradshaw.
The main problem that faced Gels when he bought the orchestra was finding new talent to replace the vacancies created by those who graduated last spring with Hull. After several auditions which were held at the beginning of the semester, Don filled the empty spots and the practice sessions began.
Members of'the'orchestra are: Bradshaw, Jerry Gatto/ Jim Ferron, Bob Brown, and Frank Flaherty, Jr., on saxophones; Herb Dir and Gene Henry on
trombones; trumpets: Gels, Sam Zeril-lio, Dan Snyder, and Phil Tardio; bass, Harry Kenny; drums, Larry Seihorst; piano and arranger, Pat Tobin; and vocalist, Joe Desautels.
Gels, Bradshaw, Seihorst, Dir, Henry, and Desautels were all members of Hull’s orchestra last year.
Basically the new band’s music is the same as Gene Hull’s. However, the number of fast tunes has been reduced to meet the great demand for the slower melodies. By doing this, Gels hopes to reach a happy medium so that the crowds will enjoy the dances more.
A Commerce major, Don is an 18-year-old Sophomore who hails from Chicago. He attended Mt. Carmel High School where he also had a small dance band. Two of his present band members, Gatto and Kenny, were members of his old orchestra.
Gels, who can play the piano as well as the trumpet, credits his grandfather— a piano teacher—for his musical talents. When Don was old enough, his grandfather taught him to play the 88 keys and encouraged him to take an active interest in music. At ten, he began to
take trumpet lessons, and he has been playing the horn ever since.
Don claims that his favorite band leader is Ray Anthony, whose style he hopes to duplicate. He is also a jazz enthusiast, and consequently has a great admiration for Stan Kenton.
One of the feature attractions which Gels and his Lettermen hope to sponsor at Notre Dame this year is another jazz concert similar to the one held last Spring. No definite plans have been made as yet, but Gels thinks that the concert will probably be held sometime during the second semester.
Besides conducting his own dance band, he is a member of the Notre Dame marching and concert bands, and the South Bend Symphony Orchestra.
As for the future, Gels hopes to work for a musical publishing company and operate a dance band on the side. Who knows—Don Gels may someday be another Ray Anthony.
Placement
As the Placement Bureau swings into its second week of scheduled interviews, representatives of Standard Oil, General Electric, Swift, Lockheed, and Bendix will be here to select from the January graduates.
The Toledo Edison Company will interview mechanical and electrical engineers on Monday. On the same day Standard Oil of New Jersey will seek chemical, civil, electrical, and mechanical engineers on all degree levels.
Tuesday will bring General Electric to interview B.S. and M.S. chemists and chemical and metallurgical engineers for the Chem-Met program. M.S. and Ph.D. chemists and M.S. chemical engineers will be sought by Standard Oil of Indiana on the same day. Also, Bendix Products Division will interview B.S. and M.S. aeronautical, mechanical, and electrical engineers.
On Wednesday, Lockheed Aircraft will interview B.S. and M.S. aeronautical, mechanical, and electrical engineers, plus mathematicians in the same degree levels who have had experience with electronic computing machines. Also on Wednesday, General Electric will return to seek applicants for the Test Engineering and Physics program from the graduating mechanical, aeronautical, and electrical engineers and physicists. Beech Aircraft will interview B.S. and M.S. mechanical, electrical, and aeronautical engineers, on the same day.
Swift and Co. will interview January A.B. and Commerce graduates interested in sales, accounting, production, and office administration on Thursday.
14
The Scholastic
Hall Voting Increases Student Senate Roll
Science, Liberal Arts Buildings Approach Completion, Ending Long-Range Program
Fourteen new seats were added to the Student Senate last Monday with the election of the hall councils, and their presidents. Each hall president is assisted by three other elected council members.
The Hall Council System will be headed by Floyd Blair as Vice-President of the Student Senate.
This system has been unofficially assigned to handle student planning for the new Student Union in the old Science Museum. It will also work with the hall rectors on the bi-weekly hall meetings, and it is hoped that the presidents may eventually take over these meetings which were originally begun to facilitate student and administration relations.
Ray Korzen of the Blue Circle was Chairman of the Elections Committee.
New Senate members are:
Ed McGinn	Alumni
John Ryan	Badin
John Mullen	Breen-Phillips
Ron Coury	Cavanaugh
Pat Montroy	Dillon
Tom McNeill	Farley
Nash Navar	Fisher
Mike O’Toole	Howard
G. R. Hicks	Lyons
Joe Saunders	Morrissey
Walt Werner	Sorin
Al Degnan	St. Edward’s
Pat Mulrooney	Zahm
Fr. John O'Brien Will Speak Tuesday on Marriage Failure
Rev. John A. O’Brien, Ph.D., will give a talk on “Why Marriages Fail” Tuesday at 8 p.m. in Room 101, Law Building.
Father O’Brien, lecturer in the Department of Sociology, is one of America’s best known priests. He has lectured in Europe, at many American universities, and in most of our larger cities. For many years he was in charge of the Newman Foundation at the University of Illinois.
In recent years Father O’Brien has devoted most of his time to research and writing at Notre Dame. He conducts a syndicated column each week in the Catholic press.
In next week’s lecture he will report on some of his most recent research on the cause of marriage failures. His study of this problem will be published soon.
The Nieuwland Science Center, already partially occupied this Fall, and the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building are the final projects of a long-range expansion program which also includes the already completed Morris Inn and Fisher Residence Hall in addition to the revamping of the University’s power facilities.
The Nieuwland Science Center, named in honor of Father Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., noted chemist and botanist who discovered the basic formula for synthetic rubber, is a three-story structure built in the modern functional pattern of architecture, designed for utmost utilization and efficiency.
Some of the building’s classrooms and, especially, the lecture halls have already been put into use this semester. The $2,000,000 building, construction of which was made possible by the gifts of thousands of alumni and friends of Notre Dame, will also house laboratories and offices of the Departments of Chemistry, Physics, and Mathematics which are now located in the Science Museum and Chemistry Building.
The Liberal and Fine Arts Building, which will be ready for use in the Spring of 1953, is also a three-story structure which will combine the mod
WORK PROGRESSES ON POWER PLANT ADDITION A $2,000,000 Revamping of Heat and Power Facilities
ern functional and traditional-collegiate gothic types of architecture similar to that of Dillon and Alumni Halls.
All the departments of the College of Arts and Letters will be transferred to this $2,000,000 gift of I. A. O’Shaughnessy, president of the Globe Oil Company of St. Paul, Minn., and former president of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame.
In addition, the building will also be the new home of WNDU, the campus radio station, which is presently situated in the Fieldhouse. Extra space on an added floor will contain studios and classrooms for use in training future radiomen.
A modern timepiece will grace the tower of the building, and should be of immeasurable value to the lads who tarry ’til the last minute before class.
Besides the new buildings, a comprehensive $2,000,000 revamping of the heat and power facilities at the University has been partially completed. This includes a new steam plant, doubling the capacity of the previously existing heating facilities, which will be in full operation with the onset of cold weather. Installation of a new electrical generating system, which will provide electrical power for all foreseeable expansion at the University, will be completed in about a year.
Oct. 24, 1952
Hall Prexies Take Seats on Senate in Time To Approve $4800 Budget for School Year
The Student Senate, including its 14 new hall representatives, met Monday evening to wade its way through a full schedule of business.
After considerable discussion, the new Student Senate budget was approved. Treasurer Jim Hutchinson presented the tentative 1952-53 budget, later approved with minor changes. The budget will apportion the sum of $4800 now in the Senate treasury contributed by the students at registration.
Continuing with financial matters, the Senate approved of Chairman Tom Field’s budget for the Campus Charity Chest, which will dispose of about $6000 during the coming academic year.
With Decoration Weekend coming up, the Senate then assigned $75 to be used for prizes in the Hall Decoration contest. Prizes will be §40 for the winning hall, $25 to the second hall, and $10 for the third. Decorations, which will be handled by the Hall Councils, should be completed earlier than game time this year to give visitors to the campus the opportunity to see the winning decoration.
It was then decided by the Senate to close nominations for offices of the Freshman class on Nov. 4. Elections fol* the freshman officers will be held Nov. 11, with the Blue Circle in charge.
Dance Manager Floyd Blair reported on the Victory Dance of last Saturday night, and gave the names of the balloon shower winners. They are: Dorothy Ernst and Dick Caw; Faye Ray and Bud Parker; Schevaun Robinson and Richard Gobbie; Margaret Menard and Jim Hill; and Ann Auman and Paul Brooks.
With $6000 given to the Charity Chest and $4777 in the Student Senate Fund, the official budget was spread over 15 different items. The total amount allotted was $4800.
Each hall is designated to receive an average of $50, and the four classes will divide $700 among them. The requisition for awards is $200.
The Blue Circle, which spent $350 last year, will have $400 for this year’s expenses. ■ The expenses of the secretary and office of last year’s Student Council amounted to $140 — this year $180 has been set aside for the above use.
With the actuality of a Student Union now realized, the Senate allocated $100 for preliminary expenditures of the project.
A cut has been made in the budget for delegations, amounting to $250,
while last year $378 was spent by delegations.
The Student Small Loan Fund, which is available only to clubs and campus activities on a 25-day basis with the amount not exceeding $30, will have $300 for its use.
Non-varsity sports (wrestling, sailing,, and tumbling), which are not subsidized by the University, have been allotted $300.
The National Student Association will receive $350. The service and welfare budget totals $300.
Last year $216 was spent for maintenance and restitution for damages and losses. This year $250 has been set aside for that purpose.
Vetville and ‘graduate students have been allotted $200. Victory dances receive a budget of $400. Printing costs last year totalled $130, so $175 has been reserved for this year’s expenses.
Senior Jaunt Ticket Sale Begins on Nov. 4
Final plans have bene made for the Senior jaunt up to East Lansing for the Spartan-Irish clash. Ticket sales will begin on Tuesday, Nov. 4.
Tickets will be sold on Tuesday and Wednesday in the basement of the Dining Hall from 5 to 7 p. m. They will be sold on a first-come, first-served basis. All seniors must present their ID cards when purchasing tickets.
The complete trip ticket will include the round-trip train ticket and a pass for the game, costing $8.75. The train ticket alone will cost $5.15. No game ticket will be sold without the purchase of a train ticket. This is necessitated by the fact that there must be at least 300 students taking the trip to obtain the special train and accompanying rate.
The trippers will travel with the team and departure time is set for 8 a. m. on Saturday. Planned arrival time in East Lansing is 11:30 a.m.} EST.
No dance or mixer is planned for after the game and the train will return with the team on the same day. If, however, a student should not return with the train, he forfeits the right to use the return ticket.
All students who are taking the trip, regardless of age, must secure a letter from their parents granting cut permissions for Saturday classes. The letters must be submitted to the Rector’s office by Friday, Nov. 14. Off-campus students must submit their letters to the Prefect of Discipline.
Bolin, Moran Named Junior Prom Heads
Tentative plans for the Junior Prom are now being formed under the direction of Juniors Phil Bolin and Mickey Moran, who have been named as general chairmen for the dance.
In an effort to make this year’s Junior Class weekend the best on campus, Bolin, an AB junior from Mansfield, Ohio, and Moran, a College of Commerce junior from Memphis, Tenn., have already made several contacts
PHIL BOLIN, MICKEY MORAN
Junior Prom Co-Chairmen with name bands throughout the country.
Under the new Student Senate ruling, there will be six activity committees, which will handle decorations, tickets, arrangements, flowers and other accommodations. Positions on these committees, both as chairmen and members are open, and the chairmen have requested that all members of the Junior class who wish to fill these positions must file applications to Bolin or Moran before Dec. 1.
They ask that each applicant present his qualifications, based on past experience or otherwise, before the mentioned deadline in order to qualify for leadership of the committees.
Definite arrangements have been made setting Rockne Memorial as the site of the dance. The chairmen have also set a definite date as the last Friday in April.
Bolin may be contacted at 120 Walsh, while Moran lives in 336 Badin.
The theme for the prom has not yet been selected.
16
The Scholastic
REPUBLICAN or DEMOCRAT?
By PAT CARRICO
Every four years a political tornado hits the U. S. and sweeps over the land in a whirlpool of back-stabbing and fancy hand-shaking. It sometimes leaves in its wake unemployed mailmen, red-faced pollsters and broken politicians who make a habit of gambling the wrong way.
This November’s twister could turn out to be one of the most devastating in U. S. history, because it will represent what seasoned politicos think is the crucial hour foi’ the Republicans. It could result in the collapse of the two-party system if the G.O.P. fails.
A quick glance at the candidates of both major parties and highlights of the platforms which they represent might give the student who is eligible to vote a clearer picture of the situation and afford him with some basis on which to make his selection:
Eisenhower
Ike: won the G.O.P. nomination because of his popularity and because he has the greatest chance of winning the sorely-needed independent vote; has the background of a brilliant military career where he acquired a thorough knowledge of the problems facing western Europe during service there; is recognized as one of the nation’s greatest leaders because of his capacity as general of the army and leader of men ; maintains a generally strict adherence to provisions of the party’s platform.
Liabilities: never had been close to a political convention until he came to Chicago on July 5 to set up headquarters for his nomination push; has no voting record on important issues because of his previous military service; blanket endorsement of all Republican candidates for public office — including such controversial personalities as Senators McCarthy of Wisconsin and Jenner of Indiana; tendency to rely too much on advice of party’s dictatorial politicians because of his relatively inadequate knowledge of domestic affairs.
Stevenson
Adlai: claims favorable background of practical experience in international, national, state politics (e.g., former senior adviser to U. S. delegation at U. N. General Assembly, special assistant to Secretary of Navy Frank Knox in 1941, Governor of Illinois); has tendency to alienate himself from claims of Truman administration and maintain political independence from
party machine; is acceptable to both Northern and Southern wings of Democratic party; self-criticizing, hardworking man; shrewd, serious thinker.
Drawbacks: lack of universal popularity with the public up until the time when party members began considering him as a possible presidential candidate; Hiss case—worked with or near Hiss in U. S. Agricultural Adjustment Administration in 1933, State Department in 1945, U. N. General Assembly in London, 1946; horse meat scandal—although not directly involved, he was forced to fire Charles W. Wray who has since been indicted for accepting bribes to distribute horse meat in place of beef in Illinois.
Platforms
In drawing up its platform, the Democratic party has been content to
elaborate on the New and Fair Deal policies, extending the many benefits to an even greater number of potential Democratic voters. By doing so the Democrats hope to maintain the status quo, thereby keeping the same votes which have insured ’ their custody of the political keys for the past 20 years.
The platform would aid everybody— farmers, consumers, tax payers, the aged and infirm, and even baby sitters.
General composition of the G.O.P. platform can be divided into two groups: charges against the Demo
cratic administration and pledges of amendment.
Concrete promises of the Republicans’ platform include a collective security pact in Western Europe to check Russian advances, and end the “neglect of Far Eastern affairs,” support of the U. N., and the buying of good will in foreign countries. Ike also was responsible for the insertion of a stringent preparedness policy, calling for the development of air power and a concerted effort by various branches of military service for readiness on land, air, and sea.
Specific Issues
Civil rights: Both parties soft-pedal the issue in declaring that the responsibility of eliminating racial, religious, and nationality prejudices would fall necessarily into the hands of the fed
eral government if state control proved to be inadequate.
Social welfare: Neither candidate could create an issue when both agreed that federal intervention should only manifest itself in the form of funds for social welfare programs as handled by the state.
Internal: Adlai squirmed out of this one by deviating from the party line when he himself implied that there was a “mess in Washington.” Although not quite as emphatic as Ike, he wants to reduce federal spending, the increasing national debt, and high taxes.
Oct. 24, 1952
17
The Terminal Tower dominates the downtown scene.
CLEVELAND
Lake City Offers Full Weekend For Student Trip to Navy Game
Photos Courtesy Cleveland Chamber of Commerce
SINCE its consolidation in 1848, Ohio’s largest city has grown fanwise from the Lake Erie shore, radiating from the twisting Cuyahoga .River to the east, south and west. Within this area is Cleveland’s Municipal Stadium — first stop for Notre Dame’s 1952 student trippers and site of the annual Notre Dame-Navy skirmish.
What else is in Cleveland? Look around. Along the Cuyahoga River are The Flats — Cleveland’s industrial area — where mills, factories, loading machinery, and warehouses of immense proportions are sprawled. Spanning the Flats and the whole Cuyahoga Valley is the High-Level Bridge which offers one of the best panoramic views of Cleveland’s industrial empire. From here you will notice that all of Cleveland’s avenues lead to the Public Square, which is dominated by the Terminal group of buildings. The 52-story Terminal Tower, Ohio’s tallest building and the most familiar symbol of Cleveland, throws its long shadows like a sundial marker across the downtown district.
The architecture in downtown Cleveland penetrates but little beyond the last half-century. Most of the buildings erected in the 1870’s and 1880’s have been razed. An attempt at group architectural unity began with the Cleveland Group Plan, with its Mall — the civic center that extends from the main business area to the lake. The Union Station, once part of this plan, was eliminated, but in its place the Municipal Stadium rose to accommodate large open-air festivities. Around University Circle, the Cleveland museum of Art, Severance Hall — home of the Cleveland Orchestra, and the University medical and hospital buildings complete the notable Terminal Group —■ the city’s largest commercial unit.
In the suburbs, homes begin to show the relationship to each other that is characteristic of Shaker Heights. The magnificent mansions that once made Euclid Avenue the symbol of Cleveland’s industrial dynasties have fallen before the onslaught of urban forces, but in the farther reaches of the city their successors flourish.
While you’re there, you might be interested in the following points of interest — their location and history.
PUBLIC SQUARE, a 10-acre plot that is now the radial point for most of the city’s important thoroughfares. Divided into four quadrangles by intersecting streets, the Square provides space for monuments, outdoor forums, and, during the winter holiday season, a huge community Christmas tree.
The DETROIT-SUPERIOR HIGH-
LEVEL BRIDGE, spanning the Cuya-
18
The Scholastic
If
The Cleveland
hoga River Valley from W. 9th St. and Superior Ave. to Detroit Av. and W. 25th St., is a $5,000,000 structure opened in 1918.
The TERMINAL TOWER BUILDING, S.W. corner of Public Square, is 52 stories high and is Ohio’s tallest building. With the railroad station beneath, it was constructed at a cost of $119,000,000 and was opened in 1930. Adjoining Terminal Tower Building on the east is a large department store; a hotel forms a north wing, and to the south on Prospect Avenue are three offices, all units of the development. Built to tie in with the terminal project and regarded as part of the group, the United States Post Office on Prospect Avenue connects directly with the terminal facilities.
The MOSES CLEAVELAND STATUE, quadrangle of Public Square, was erected as a tribute to the city’s founder. Legends have it that Cleaveland altered its name by a casual quirk. On July 1, 1832, the compositor of a freshly launched newspaper, the Cleveland Gazette and Commercial Register, had to drop one letter from his masthead to fit his space. He chose the first ‘a’ in Cleaveland, simplifying the spelling for posterity.
The STADIUM HOTEL, S.E. corner of W. 6th St. and St. Clair, was opened in 1854. The old iron balcony facing west on the second floor* was the scene of many political speeches. President Andrew Johnson, making a plea for leniency toward the South, was hissed by an antagonistic crowd in the street. Later, the text of Johnson’s speech was used in the impeachment proceedings against him.
CLEVELAND COLLEGE, N. side
Museum of Art
of Public Square, is housed in an old yellow brick building and was once occupied by the Chamber* of Commerce. Since its opening in 1925 as a branch of Western Reserve University, it has enrolled more than 40,000 students of all ages in both day and evening classes in arts and sciences.
The FEDERAL BUILDING, 225 E. Superior Ave., was the first structure arising from the Mall group plan for
Aerial view of part of Cleveland’s cultural center. At left, Epworth-Euclid Methodist Church; center, Cleveland Museum of Art and Fine Arts Garden; right. Severance Hall, home of the Cleveland Orchestra; lower right, Amosa Stone Chapel of Western Reserve University.
public buildings and completed in 1910 at a cost of $4,000,000.
The CLEVELAND CITY HALT., Lakeside Ave. and E. 6th St., is a five-story Vermont granite building completed in 1916 at a cost of $3,000,000. On permanent display in the main lobby is a copy of one of America’s most famous paintings, The Spirit of ’76.
MILLIONAIRES’ ROW, Euclid Ave. from E. 22nd St. to E. 40th St., was built during the golden age of nineteenth-century business and industrial expansion. Today, relatively few of the old mansions remain; tarnished by age and the sweep of commercial progress they have been transformed into rooming houses, night schools, medical clinics and night clubs.
The CLEVELAND MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, 2717 Euclid Ave., boasts displays that include 50,000 specimens of mounted birds from all parts of the world, a study collection of mammals, shells, fossil fish, preserved insects, and a collection of autographed letters from many celebrated scientists.
The CLEVELAND PLAY HOUSE, 2040 E. 86th St. is one of America’s most distinguished and successful civic theaters.
UNIVERSITY CIRCLE, spreading (Continued from Page 32)
Oct. 24, 1952
19
Machine Football and the Student
by Bob Haine and Frank Goerg—Illustrated by Bob Fowler
Machine football, or coin machine football if you prefer, has been with us for over a decade. You can read or hear about it almost anywhere — from football coaches, college administrators, sports columnists and college students. Our concern is the relationship of the student to machine football, nothing more. This article poses only one question. Does college football belong to the students, or are they merely spectators?
According to modern theory, three groups are concerned with football: students, spectators, and the financially interested. In the early years of the game the sole purpose was for the recreation of the students, an outlet from the tedious routine of academic work. Gradually, town folks began to watch the students play. As interest grew, the number of outside spectators increased and an admission charge was tacked on. Admissions were to pay for equipment for other sports lacking spectator appeal. The idea was still recreation and the student was still considered the most important factor, but the admission charge developed an evil. The profit motive began to replace the student welfare concept. It became clear that the better football
team a college had, the more people would watch them play. More people meant more money, and naturally, a larger* profit. Schools began to stress good teams for the money and not solely for the recreation it would give their students. The snowball began to roll, pushing the average student into the background and finally into the grandstands. He sits here today, completely overshadowed by a machine of which he is only a minor part.
Growing Student Unrest
Because of the financial interest in the game today, it is clear that the , original position of college students has changed. Today, a team is “attached” to a student body by a thread-like relationship that may be snapped by the unrest machine football has injected into student bodies throughout the nation. A large number of students are not concerned with how the game is
played—winning has become the essential factor.
This can easily be illustrated. Ray Eliot, the prominent Illinois coach, entered a campus movie house at Champaign shortly after his Illini had suffered a 14-7 loss to Northwestern during the 1950 season. When the newsreel camera focussed on the Illinois bench and Eliot, students climbed onto their seats to drown out the sound track by chanting “Goodbye, Ray.”
“Win or Else!”
Perhaps the cause of a great deal of this student unrest stems from outside factions that demand their part in the machine football act. One of the most outstanding intrusions has been that of the alumni, a group that functions with or without the administrative consent of a university.
Most illustrative of this situation in-
20
The Scholastic
volves Marchie Schwartz, one-time AllAmerican halfback from Notre Dame, and later head football coach at Stanford University. Early in the season Schwartz received a letter written by a Los Angeles lawyer informing him to “win this year or take the consequences!” When Stanford stumbled before UCLA and Washington, alumni began to organize secret meetings. A San Francisco gossip columnist received a poison pen note inquiring “What unpopular Bay Area coach was threatened with a punch in the nose by his players?”
Schwartz Resigned
When Stanford tied Southern California the next week, Schwartz was given a new five-year contract by the Stanford administrators in an effort to quiet the rumors of previous dissatisfaction. Then Stanford lost to Army 7-0. Behind-the-scene workers rolled up their sleeves. Phone calls and pickets plagued Schwartz wherever he went. For the remainder of the season, snarling rooters, alumni and students followed Schwartz from the playing field after a Stanford loss. At the end of the season Schwartz had become the goat of machine football. He resigned.
Is this type of reaction an inspiration to students? It would certainly seem to help the students develop an attitude of reproach and ridicule towards coaching staffs and school ad
ministrators. Why do alumni continue to injure student attitude? Perhaps they fail to see its effect.
The Move From the Game Class
The question arises whether football is a part of an educational program? What end does it serve to promote the academic welfare of the average student? There is no doubt about the enjoyment that a student receives watching his alma mater fight it out on a Saturday afternoon. However, in most cases the student only sees his team four or five times a year, a total of perhaps 12 hours. Yet, can we objectively approach the situation to measure what student pleasure used to be when playing the game instead of watching it?
Machine football is open only to those young men who have outstanding high school records or exceptional physical talent. The average fellow who yearns to kick a football can do it on the sandlots, not on the gridirons of most universities. Right now college football is moving out of the game class. It is, in some institutions, a business that involves two functions: playing football and receiving a check. We have reached the point where football players serve a purpose in the game rather than the game serving the players.
At one time, football was a means of
improving the mental attitude of its: participants. Those who play it noware burdened with the rugged ordeals of practice. It is conceivable that some institutions will give credit hours for the sport. For the time required to play it, they should.
The Student Dilemma
All this leaves the student in the approximate vicinity of the end zone to watch the fracas. A spectator? Undoubtedly! It would be ridiculous to assume that, as a spectator, the student is treated as the most important factor. Choice seats are sold for financial gains — catering to student spectators would destroy the coin-machine aspect of the game. This was brought out last year in an article by Rev. Hunter Guthrie, S.J., who explained why Georgetown University dropped intercollegiate football. Father Guthrie stated that Georgetown University “decided that football was founded for the students, not spectators.”
A Big Business
“Football, said Father Guthrie, “is no longer a sport, but a big business in neon lights.” -
Where does this leave the student?
Today, his hands are tied by a machine. He is no longer an important factor in collegiate football. He * doesn’t own his team, nor does he know his team — his interest in most cases extends only to what happens between 2 and 4:30 p.m. on a Saturday afternoon. As a spectator, he has become the pawn of outside pressure groups, along with coaching staffs.
Higher authorities realize the dilemma, but unless they act to curb it, the sport will never be returned to the students, wdiere it rightfully belongs. -
Oct. 24, 1952
21


a-'/-!
a -z.r^^-'i^
^he Other Side
On the boards. . .
Since the Comedy of Errors was scheduled to open too late for review this week, we thought we’d drop into dress rehearsal last Sunday and pick up a few tidbits. First, we found the production presently on the boards of Washington Hall a reasonably uncluttered view of one of Shakespeare’s earliest comedies. Cut down from five to three acts, it is definitely Tumpane directing with, an assist by Shakespeare. However, it does display an encouraging trend in our University Theater.
One thing that caught our attention was the costuming. To describe this we have to go against a theme set in our first column. Now it’s orchids to SMC’s Home Economics Club headed by Lynn Fellbarth and supervised by Sister Roberta. A professional touch. We hear they had some trouble fitting certain of the boys, though. The ND boys were confused on the fall fashions and had a difference of opinion concerning the hemlines.
Also there was a story about two erstwhile frosh. It seems that they started off toward Holy Cross Hall for their fittings. After one detour through the graveyard, they finally ended up in Le Mans. But give ’em time, they’ll learn.
There was only one fault we could find with the appearance of the costumes, and Mr. Tumpane settled that when he boomed, “This is a pagan play. There’s no place for medals. The wrist watches have to go too!” Thus all anachronisms were banished.
Switching from the costumes to the people in the costumes, we saw a familiar face. There was Walter Swift playing his usual role, Walter Swift. We hope he got a Toni for his wig before the opening curtain.
But don’t let the costumes draw your attention from the scenery. This is Dick Byrnes’ biggest and most lavish accomplishment to date. Possibly he’s trying to become another J. Rank DeMille. Who knows?
In conclusion, this isn’t the best production of Shakespeare you’ll ever see, but it is Shakespeare. It shows, at least a little maturity in the Student Theater.
From Little Bohemia:
A feeling for the drama is running wild at Notre Dame. The inmates of Sorin
Hall, who bill it as “the only hall on campus with a front porch,” are trying to organize the “Sorin Players” to present plays on said front porch. Still smarting over the fact that there are no picture postcards of Sorin, the men from the “hall of tradition” say this is only one of their moves for greater recognition.
Rumor has it that first among these attempts for fame will be forthcoming Sorin Student Trip. This trip will be to the North Carolina game tomorrow, and it may or may not be followed by the Sorin Hall Tea Dance with no coats, no ties, no girls, no dancing, just tea!
Shaving Golf. . .
John Galsworthy, in his play Escape, has one of his characters mention that he can shave with only 32 strokes. Always sticklers for accuracy, we checked on this and decided that the man who can get a clean shave with less than 50 strokes is either a liar or a beardless freshman. We organized a contest among ourselves, and the lowest score was 125 strokes. This was accomplished by Mr. Werner.
If you think that you can do it in less than 50, the rules of the contest are simple. One must have a decent beard to begin with, count every little flick of the razor, and finally, be clean shaven enough to take out his best girl.
This last requirement is reckoned on the testimony of competent onlookers, while the first two depend upon the contestant’s integrity. Too bad, the contest has been won before it started. Frank Jackman, a denizen of Sorin Hall, claims that he can shave in eleven strokes. He still has to prove it.
Hemingway
On Sunday afternoon, November 2, when most of us will still be in Cleveland after the Navy game, there will be a discussion on WHOT of Hemingway’s newest, The Old Man and The Sea. Tape recorded a week or so ago, this discussion promises to be a lively one, featuring four panelists from Notre Dame who are steeped in Hemingway lore. For the troops who are sticking around that weekend, it might be a good idea to time it in.—Gerry Voit, Walt Werner, Jack Dilenschneider.
Last time, we discussed cynicism as it has affected the American people. This week we shall attempt to be more objective in our analysis by considering the problem of cynicism as it applies directly to the Notre Dame student.
You often see and hear campus cynics. They have a habit of being bitter and sarcastic, and they don’t mind at all if they say the wrong thing, because they “don’t care.” They tear down rather than build up, sneering at all authority to which they must subject themselves. Seniors are traditionally afflicted with this malady more so than anyone else although with some it starts as early as the sophomore year. Few students have been able to escape it completely, and those that do are either extremely well-adjusted or else quite naive.
A Nice Guy at Heart
Thus, the following analysis has been written with the intention of providing a little insight into this acquired trait. It is not intended either to denounce or defend it. I have already said that cynicism is a common characteristic of seniors, and the fact remains that I am a senior. To some extent then, this treatise may even involve a little self-analysis. If so, perhaps I may profit by it as well as you.
Is there such a thing as a sincere or genuine cynic on this campus? I doubt it. I’ll even go so far as to say that the most cynical cynic here is not really one at all. He is only putting on a front, a false one perhaps and to some extent, a brave one. Really, he is a nice guy at heart.
Ideals vs. Reality
It would hardly be fair to say that the ND student becomes cynical because of his environment and the supposed injustices of the University. True, most cynics are outspoken critics of University policies, but this is only because they find fault with everything that crosses their path. The heart of the problem, I think, is really this: Cynicism is just a phase in growing up. It hits a person at the time he must make an unprecedented adjustment to. the responsibilities of life. Essentially, then, cynicism is the result of a conflict between .ideals and reality.
Most students at Notre Dame have high sets of ideals. If they didn’t, you couldn’t say much for their Catholic (Continued on page 32)
22
The Scholastic
WMIt Mike Chatter
Opera-Lovers Note:
The complete opera this Sunday will be Wagner’s Der Meistersingers. As you know, this particular work is a little long to fit in the three hours we allot for the Sunday opera. So, since we hate to cut any of it, the opera, this Sunday only, will start at 1:00 p.m. instead of the usual 3:00 p.m.
Bugs, apparently, are to be expected from time to time in the equipment, and most of us get to be rather blase about the whole thing and don’t let them get us flustered. But one of the freshman announcers last week was having trouble with his mike on his regular 1:00 p.m. five-minute news show. After being forced to start over three times, he finally went into his show, “Due to technical difficulties, we now bring you five minutes of the latest news ...”
There is a lot of misconception on the campus as to just what WNDU is, what it does, what its problems are, and why in heaven’s name do we need sixty staff members when only one guy talks into the microphone and one guy operates the board for him at any given moment. I don’t think I will be wasting space if I take a few inches each week to briefly explain each department individually. The station itself interests each of its sixty odd members. I only hope I can make this “expose” interesting.	‘
In general, WNDU is not the same kind of a station that you are used to. Instead of broadcasting through a tower, as do most stations, we broadcast through lines in the heat tunnels. These lines emanate from two transmitters, one in the basement of Cavanaugh and the other in Dillon.
By means of coils, tuners, etc., these lines are made to carry a weak, but stable signal to each hall on campus. When the line reaches a hall, the signal is put into the electrical power lines of that hall, and the signal then radiates from this power line into each room, where it can be picked up by any normal AM radio.
The second big difference in our operation is that all our staff members are students, whose professors expect them to submit a certain minimum amount of school work. This, as you can well imagine, often interferes with their work on the station. (We never talk about station work interfering with school.)
—Bryan Coughlin
. . . For A Perfect Cylinder of Tobacco
In the interests of science I sat in front of TV the other night and “tore and compared.” So save your own cigarettes and sit back and take advantage of my independent survey.
First it was tried with “another leading brand” and it was no good at all. Just one loose end after another, but I must confess that I found no hot spots. Anyway, this part of the survey shows definitely that “another leading brand” is pretty sad without any paper on it, which perhaps could be worked into another commercial — something like “Take away the paper and what have you got?”
Then I tried it with a Lucky, after first opening the window so the fragrance of that light, fine tobacco wouldn’t unsteady my fingers. To my great surprise after removing the paper, there, standing at attention, was a perfect cylinder of tobacco, just like they said there would be.
In this age of claims and promises
Mt . . .
"Don’t worry about the blind date. All Joan's friends are nice.”
it is very gratifying to find one idol without clay feet or loose ends.
As a result of this study I unhesitatingly recommend Luckies for anyone who wants to tear his cigarettes. It has also been found that tearing is better for your health than smoking — you can tear two packs a day without any cigarette hangover the next morning.
As a final result I would like to make the following recommendations to the manufacturers and the would-be tearers: 1) To the manufacturers, perforate the paper along the seam for easier tearing. I've seen Red Barber do it in one tear on television, but I can’t do it in less than two. 2) To the tearers, stand on a tobacco-colored rug while tearing, and 3) “tear carefully, so you won’t dig into the tobacco.”
If tearing becomes a fad I don’t know in what position the cigar and pipe manufacturers will find themselves, but there won’t be any “tears” in their eyes.—Bob Finney
Oct. 24, 1952
Will 1+Be Ike or Adlai? ND Decides Tuesday
Ike or Adlai?
That will be the question put before the Notre Dame student body on Monday and Tuesday.
The Academy of Political Science, in an effort to better acquaint the school with voting procedure, is sponsoring the mock national election under the co-chairmanship of John Reidy and Joe McDade.
Last Spring General Dwight D. Eisenhower, the GOP presidential candidate, romped to victory in the Republican mock convention held here at Notre Dame. Early in this semester, General Eisenhower made a short tour of the campus and gave a talk to the student body.	‘
Governor Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois, the Democratic nominee, made his Notre Dame appearance on Wednesday.
All the political talk that has been cascading around campus will then be put into a practical pattern and a concrete result will be fabricated.
Two men from each floor of every hall will serve as election officials for the voting. Each resident hall will represent a ward, and each floor a precinct.
Although this election is being held to determine which national political party is strongest at Notre Dame, it is also being used to introduce those students who have never voted to election procedure.
The political science majors are conducting the mock balloting with the cooperation of the Student Senate.
Campaign Train
(Continued from page 13) observed the Fighting Irish in action on the gridiron.” He also pointed out that his approaching visit would be only the third collegiate stop of his campaign. Previously, he had spoken at the Universities of California and Wisconsin.
Our conversation came to an abrupt end as the train pulled into Union Station amid the cheers of hundreds of Studebaker employees, leaning out from all windows of the huge plant. “We Want Adlai,” “America Needs Stevenson,” and “Welcome Stevenson” banners hung from the sides of the factory, with only one or two “I Like Ike” signs dissenting. After one of his aides pointed out this spectacle to him, Stevenson bounced up boyishly, exclaiming as he left us, “Oh, I guess I better wave.”
A few minutes later he was speaking to a throng of some 15,000 South
LOSE SOMETHING?
Students are reminded that Notre Dame maintains an official Lost and Found Department on campus. The department is located in the Office of the Prefect of Discipline, Room 232 of the Main Building.
It has been announced that a number of lost articles are now being held at the department. Students who have lost any belongings since the beginning of the semester are advised to call at the office as soon as possible.
Benders from the Lafayette Blvd, viaduct, telling them that he was quite impressed with the size of the crowd considering the early morning hour; then adding good-humoredly that it was an unusually early hour for himself. Most of his remarks were devoted to the Democratic theme, “You Never-Had It So Good,” interspersed with such witticisms as “There are some who claim that Indiana is a Republican state, but that was before schools were built.”
After the party boarded cars and busses, the caravan moved towards Notre Dame, most streets being lined with onlookers along the way. The most amusing incident along tire route occurred on Angela Blvd, when the motorcade passed a group of four or five youngsters bearing a sign that read, “This precinct is all Ike’s.”
Then, the meeting with Father- Hes-burgh at the Circle, a short tour around the campus, an appealing appearance at the Drill Hall, and it was all over.
yCS Members Hear Fr. Parry In Christian Politics Discussion
“The Role of the Christian in the Political Order” concerned the YCS Sunday morning during the first in a series of planned discussions. The discussion group heard mass at 8 a.m. in the Howard Hall Chapel. Father Parry spoke on the symbolism of Christ as the King of men and his relationship to the lives of mankind.
After breakfast Father Parry again spoke, this time developing a theme of practicality and idealism in political life. The ensuing discussion was aimed at the realization of the responsibilities falling on a Christian political leader.
Father Parry pointed out that the Christian politician will encounter hardship and frustration in the pursuit of his ideals.
Nov. 7 Opening Date For Graduate Exams
Graduate Record Examinations, required of applicants for admission to a number of graduate schools, will be administered at examination centers throughout the country four times in the coming year, Educational Testing Service has announced.
This Fall, candidates may take the GRE on Friday and Saturday, Nov. 7 and 8. In 1953, the dates are Jan. 30 and 31, April 17 and 18, and July 10 and 11. Officials of the ETS advise each applicant to inquire at the graduate school of his choice which of the examinations he should take and on which dates. Applicants for graduate school fellowships should ordinarily take the designated examinations in the fall administration.
The GRE tests offered in these nationwide programs include a test of general scholastic ability, tests of general achievement in six broad fields of undergraduate study, and advanced level tests of achievement in various subject matter fields. According to ETS, candidates are permitted several options among these tests.
Application forms and a Bulletin of Information, which provides details of registration and administration as well as sample questions, may be obtained from the Notre Dame Department of Testing and Guidance or directly from Educational Testing Service, P. O. Box 592, Princeton, N. J., or P. O. Box 9896, Los Feliz Station, Los Angeles 27, Calif.
A completed application must reach the ETS office at least two weeks before the date of the examination for which the candidate is applying.
Wright-Patterson Recruiting Group Will Visit ND Nov. 17
Wright-Patterson air force base is sending a recruiting team to the Notre Dame campus on Monday, Nov. 17, for* the purpose of interviewing engineering students interested in employment at the Dayton, Ohio, base.
The need is urgent at the present time for Junior Engineers at the GS-5 level. Recruiters are especially interested in students with a background in electronics, electrical, mechanical and aeronautical engineering. The entrance salary is $3410 per year for a 40-hour work week. Overtime is paid in excess of 40 hours per week.
Personnel officials at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base urge all applicants interested in employment as Junior Engineers to contact the Placement Bureau.

24
The Scholastic
Winless Tarheels Face ND Tomorrow
'Big Three' Opponents Win as Navy Falters
By ERWIN ALFONSUS
Three of Notre Dame’s remaining six opponents continued their usual winning ways, while the other three met with defeat. Oklahoma, Michigan State, and Southern California won easy victories, but Navy and Iowa were trounced, and North Carolina lost by two points.
North Carolina, the next opponent on the Irish schedule, returned to the football scene after a two-week absence with a 9-7 loss to Wake Forest. The Tarheels led 7-6 late in the final period by virtue of halfback Chalmers Port’s 72-yard touchdown run and Tom Adler’s conversion. Then in the last minutes of the game Quarterback Charlie Motta fumbled, and Wake Forest recovered on the Carolina 15. A field goal attempt with but a minute and 16 seconds remaining was good and gave the Deacons their margin of victory.
Navy suffered its first loss of the season when highly ranked Maryland trampled the Middies, 38-7. Maryland ('Continued on page 30)
Snavely's Newly Employed Split-T Offense Tests Irish Defense in Second Home Game
By BOB FROLICHER
When North Carolina invades Notre Dame stadium tomorrow, the Tarheels will be seeking their first victory in the four-game series which began in 1949. Carl Snavely’s forces first lost to the Irish, 42-6, at New York and then were defeated by Notre Dame, 14-7 and 12-7 in the succeeding two games.
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP (Offense)
NOTRE DAME NO. CAROLINA
Penza ...........LE. Kocarnik Murphy...........LT.. Opifz
Seaman .....LG________________ Fonti
Schrader ......C........Mullens
Alessand’i	C...RG.... Patterson
Poehler ..........RT. Yarborough Hunter ..................RE_.. Adler
Guglielmi	....QB...........  Newman
Heap ........LHB........  White
Lattner.......RHB............ Parker
Worden .....FB.............  Wallace
KICKOFF TIME: 1:30 CST
The Tarheels will also be out to register their first win of the 1952 season. They lost their home opener against the Texas Longhorns, and just last week fell before Wake Forest, 9-7, on a last-minute field goal by the Deacons.
Carolina Suffers Double Loss
It was a tough loss for North Carolina, who besides losing 20 lettermen through graduation last year, just resumed their football relations after a two-week lapse because of a polio outbreak at school which spread to two members of the football, squad along with three other students.
After a disappointing 2-8 record last season, one of the worst under a Snavely-coached team, Coach Snavely decided it was time to switch from the single wing, although he didn’t believe last year’s squad was as bad as the record seemed to indicate.
The newly installed split-T is under the watchful eyes of George Barclay, highly regarded and successful split-T
JOHNNY LATTNER EVADES PURDUE TACKLER
Tom Seaman (62) Prepares The Way
NEIL WORDEN PLOWS OVER FOR TOUCHDOWN Fullback Scores Second Tally Against Purdue
Oct. 24, 1952

KEN YARBOROUGH
Outstanding Offensive Charger
head coach of Washington and Lee, recently added to the North Carolina coaching staff. Barclay was a Tarheel All-American guard in 1934.
Splft-T Poses Problem
Although the Tarheels do not lack quarterback depth, the main problem is to find a quarterback capable of handling the new split-T. In spring practice Carmen Annillo from Union City, N. J., a sophomore at 175 lbs., and Charlie Motta, a 176-lb. junior from Teaneck, N. J., showed the greatest promise. Annillo is a poised ball handler, clever faker, and a quick-trigger* passer, while Motta, who was generally considered the Tarheels’ number one signal caller but was stopped with an ankle injury, is expected to be in top shape for the Irish clash.
Always pressing behind the one-two punch of Annillo or Motta are Lou Britt and Dick Lackey. Britt saw some action in both Carolina contests and is considered a strong runner. Lackey, a junior returning monogram winner, received great praise from Otto Graham of the Cleveland Browns during spring practice.
Halfbacks Led By Parker
The brightest spots on the team are the halfbacks. The left halves are led by sophomore Larry Parker, a 6-foot, 190-lb. All-Conference freshman last season. He is considered the top runner on the team and is expected to be one of the Tarheels’ greatest. Maurice Young, a shifty 5’9” runner and John Gaylord at 181 lbs., who averaged 3.5 yards last year, back up Parker.
On the right halfback side the Tarheels have Bob White, a converted fullback, and Billy Williams, a 164-lb. jun-

BUD WALLACE
Leading Carolina Punter
ior. Both suffered injuries last year, but are expected to have a good year in ’52.
Fullback Bud Wallace, a 5’11” senior, rounds out the backfield. Wallace was one of the nation’s leading punters with a 39.9 average and tied with the graduated Dick Wiess as the team’s high scorer with 24 points. “Bull” Davidson, considered a terrific runner, was the number two fullback until he was stricken by polio a few weeks ago.
The Tarheel coaching staff has been very well satisfied with the showing of the defensive line. The tough defenders are headed by senior tackles Tom Higgins and George Norris.
Norris, an All-Southern selection a year ago, is a potential All-American. Higgins, a rugged 220-lb. senior, has
LARRY PARKER
Tarheel Halfback Biggest Threat
been the spark of the defense both in practice and in the games. As a freshman he started as an end, was moved later to offensive tackle and then shifted back to the defensive line.
Against Texas he helped to bottle up the Longhorn ace runner, Gib Dawson, to 24 yards in 10 carries. He is capable of being used for double duty.
Teaming with Higgins at right tackle is freshman Jim McCreedy. The tackle who hails from Montclair, N. J., has been an up-and-coming lineman since the beginning of the season.
The guard spots are spearheaded by a 190-lb. junior, Paul Hursh, and sophomore Jimmy Neville, a small but aggressive 190-lb. 5’9” fellow. Sophomores Steve Opitz and George Foti are also expected to see quite a bit of action.
Dave Mullens will undoubtedly fill in the center spot vacated by Andy Mi-keta. Junior Seawell, a 6’1” junior, is Mullens’ replacement. Tom Adler, a varsity end last season, has worked himself ahead of freshman Will Frye and sophomore Dick Stamer at right end. Adler tips the scale at 210.
Sonny Ridenhour who received a head injury last season, gets the nod as safetyman. Jim Lamert has moved up to the varsity and will give some added strength to the line. He is a freshman.
Two weeks prior to the Wake Forest game, North Carolina had only been holding brief workouts. However, since the danger from the polio epidemic is believed to be over, the Tarheels have been working hard in preparing for the Irish.
The Fighting Irish pulled one of the major* upsets of the week when they toppled previously unbeaten Purdue, (Continued on page 28)
GEORGE NORRIS
All-Southern Tackle

26
The Scholastic
Off-Campus Edges Dillon 7-6 in Final Minute; B-P, Cavanaugh, Morrissey Also Gain Wins
By TOM WELLY and BOB O'MALLEY
Last week’s action in the interhall football league furnished two exciting thrillers as Breen-Phillips and the Off-Campus team came from behind to defeat Farley and Dillon respectively.
Off-Campus 7, Dillon 6
The Dillon-Off-Campus clash was a scoreless battle until the final two minutes. Up until this time both squads had engaged in a tight defensive duel with neither team being able to break the deadlock. However, Mike Laughlin broke the ice in the fading minutes of the game as he went around the O-C left end for a touchdown. The extra point attempt was good but only to be nullified by a penalty. On the second try Dillon attempted a rushing play which was thwarted by the Off-Campus line and the score remained 6-0.
With only time for a few plays remaining the Off-Campus team returned the kickoff to their own 45. On the very next play Jim Pudlowski, the O.-C. quarterback, threw a perfect pass to Don Yaor who ran the remaining distance and the game was again tied. The same combination of Pudlowski to Yaor chalked up the extra point and that was the ball game, 7-6.
The Dillon touchdown drive featured the running of Mike Laughlin and Bob Chickey. Mark Tolle and Vic Riley played an outstanding game on defense for Dillon and were thorns in the side of the Off-Campus attack all afternoon long. For the winners it was the fine passing combination of Jim Pudlowski and Don Yaor which proved to be the difference between victory and defeat. George Zimmerman, ace defensive lineman, led the O.-C. line in a game which was one of the most exciting affairs seen on the Intramural field for a long time.
Breen-Phillips 6, Farley 2
Cartier Field was the scene of the battle between Farley and Breen-Phillips with B.-P. triumphing 6-2. Again it was the case of a perfectly executed pass play bringing a team from behind to ultimate victory.
At halftime Farley led 2-0 as a result of an alert line trapping of “Rink” Castorine, B.-P. halfback behind his own goal as he attempted to get loose after picking up a fumble.
This score stood until midway in the third quarter when Dick Rust passed to “Goose” McMullen for a Breen-Phillips touchdown. The play covered 57 yards and ended the day’s scoring.
Brad Bailey, Farley quarterback, kept his team in the game as a result of his fine passing but the superior line play of the Breen-Phillips team gave Coach Ralph Weiss’ boys the edge. John Raub and “Bones” Hamles led the B.-P. defensive team.
=•>=
Cavanaugh 7, Zahm 0
The chips are down in the Interhall Football league, and the Sophomores from Morrissey and Cavanaugh were up to the challenge last week. The men from Cavanaugh, coached by Tom Parsley, took the measure of Joe Sassano’s Zahm team, 7-0. Over in the Western Division Morrissey pushed St. Edwards around to the tune of 26-0.
In the hard fought tussle between Zahm and Cavanaugh it was a question of who would get the big break, and it happened to be Cavanaugh. They completed a ten yard pass for a score after it had been set up by a sixty yard aerial play. Tom Murray racked up the six points on the pass from Tex Tyson. Up front for Cavanaugh End Ralph Ciszew-ski played fine ball while Joe Raffarty and Brian Gallagher sparkled for the defensive platoon. Zahm’s weak pass defense was again the sore spot, but the defensive line was tough. Fullback John McCaxtan ran well but had no blocking from the offensive line.
Cavanaugh looked good in rebounding from their scoreless tie the week before with a fine Breen-Phillips team. These two teams have the same record, a win and a tie (with each other), but Breen-Phillips must defeat the tough Zahm team while Cavanaugh faces a weaker Farley outfit.
Morrissey 26, St. Ed’s 0
In the Western division Morrissey, after a rough 6-0 loss to a top-flight Dillon crew, simply had too many guns for Jim Wilson’s St. Edward’s eleven. The issue was nevei- in doubt as Coach Gordon Bergquist’s boys scored early in the first stanza and were never headed thereafter. The big, fast Morrissey forces were paced by Fullback Mike Fox who tallied twice, Tim Devereux and Mike Ward, both of whom scored once. The alert Ward scampered 95 yards •with an intercepted pass for his counter. Butch Vallase and Tackle Fred Turner were outstanding in the Morrissey line that outfought the St. Edwards forwards all afternoon. For St. Ed’s, Bob Costello was a fine back behind practically nonexistent blocking.
Bush Enters Scoring Race; Lattner, Worden Pace Team
The surprise appearance of tackle Joe Bush in the scoring column highlights the Notre Dame offensive statistics following the season’s fourth game against Purdue. Bush recovered an Irish fumble on the paydirt side of the Purdue goal line last Saturday for the first touchdown against the Boilermakers. Right halfback John Lattner and fullback Neil Worden lead the scoring parade with three touchdowns in the four games played to date.
Notre Dame’s statistics for four games are as follows:
JOE BUSH
Scores On Recovered Fumble
RUSHING
Times Carried Yds. Avg.
Lattner  69	323	4.7
Worden  47	169	3.6
Heap ________________________31	135	3.9
Guglielmi ___________________ 23	85	3.7
Carey________________________ 17	27	1.6
McHugh 3’	9	3.0
Reynolds 4	7	1.8
Paterra 1	5	5.0
SCORING TD PAT Pts.
Lattner 3	0	18
Worden _______________________3	0	18
Heap 2	0	12
Guglielmi 10	6
Bush 10	6
Mavraides  0	6	6
PASS RECEIVING
No.	Yds.	TD
Lattner 12	159	1
Heap 9	109	0
Hunter______________________ 3	62	0
Worden 9	52	0
Penza______________________. 3	31	0
O’Neil 1	12	0
Carey 1	—11	0
PASSING
Att. Comp. Yds. Avg.
Guglielmi_________ 61	28	279	.459
Carey 17	8	116	.470
Heap  4	2	19	.500
Lattner ------------ 2	0	0	.000
Morrissey Ties Prison, 6-6
Fresh from a 26-0 victory over St. Ed’s, Morrissey traveled up to Michigan City to tangle with the Prison team, (Continued on page 31)
Oct. 24, 1952
Irish Favored. . . . Watch Out
So far this season Notre Dame’s football forces seem to enjoy the position of being considered the underdog. Last week against Purdue, and two weeks ago against Texas the Irish managed to come through when the chips were down. But when the chips were on their side of the field against Penn and Pittsburgh, Leahy’s lads did a beautiful job of fouling up the parlay cards. Tomorrow the Irish, without relishing the fact, once again hold the role of favorites, and inasmuch as this is an odd-numbered contest, the Notre Dame* camp is one of apprehension and wonderment, since the Irish have yet to emerge triumphant in an odd-numbered battle in which they were favored.
For the most part, this has been an unfortunate year for North Carolina. Coach Carl Snavely’s opinion that his material was more suited to the split-T formation than the long-standing and conventional single-wing, backfired when Carolina ran into a red hot Texas aggregation in their first game of the season. Then, on account of a sudden polio epidemic, the next two games
Fencers Open Drills; Five Lettermen Return
Coach Walter Langford’s varsity fencing team began workouts in the Old Gym last Monday in anticipation of an 11-meet schedule which is tentatively slated to open Jan. 17, 1953, with Northwestern, here. Langford pointed out that, although the schedule is yet to be approved by the Athletic Board, practically all of last year’s opponents will be faced. They include Northwestern, Illinois, Michigan State, Wisconsin, Ohio State, Iowa, Indiana (a newcomer to inter-collegiate fencing competition), Chicago, Detroit, Cincinnati, and Case Tech, of Cleveland. Several triangular meets are also under consideration.
Only five monogram winners greeted Langford who is starting his seventh season as fencing coach at Notre Dame. Capt. John Mooney, a senior from Cleveland, is expected to be the outstanding performer. Other lettermen include seniors Dave McBride, of Chicago, Pat .Mulrooney, of Eagle River, Wis., Jim Hurley, of Newark, N. Y., and Rod Duff, a junior from Peabody, Mass. Other experienced men are Charles Cazeau, of Rochester, N. Y., and Bill Lezzo, of Cleveland, both
were cancelled. Last Saturday the Tarheels dropped a 9-7 decision to Wake Forest, in a contest for which they had only three days preparation. This coming week however, the Carolina team is in its best shape of the season and the Irish know they are in for a rugged contest, especially since the results of the last two years prove that the Tarheels mean business when they play Notre Dame. In 1950, the Irish won 14-7. Last year it was 12-7 in favor of the greenshirts. In both games, the Notre Darners had to come from behind in the final period to win.
Prediction of the Week
This rejuvenated Pressbox is optimistically superstitious over tomorrow’s contest with the Tarheels. It is the fifth game for the Irish, and if you turn back the pages of your record book you will see that ever since their first game with Penn, Notre Dame has increased its touchdown output by one in each successive tilt, so that tomorrow we look for them to score five. Notre Dame 33, North Carolina 7.
—Jack Sand
seniors, and juniors Jerry Brainerd, of Amarillo, Texas, Dick Hull of Honolulu, Hawaii, Gerry Finney of Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich., Tony Mandolini, of Chicago, and John McGinn, of Des Moines, Iowa.
Mulrooney, Hurley, Finney, Mandolini and Cazeau are in the sabre division. Action with this weapon is far more spectacular in that the target is limited to the upper part of the body.
McBride, Duff, McGinn and Lesso are in the epee division where there are no conventions, and touches are valid on any part of the body.
Captain Mooney, Brainerd, and Hull are in the foil division where contact is restricted to the upper* part of the body and the target is divided by four imaginary lines.
Despite losing nine members of last year’s team Coach Langford appears reasonably optimistic. He stated, “I hardly expect to equal last year’s record of 9-2, but if they win seven of eleven I will consider it satisfactory.”
Brian Duff, a brother of Rod, is acting as assistant coach. Duff, the former Irish star, is now a graduate student.—Warren Ashbaugh
ND vs. Purdue
(Continued from page 26) 26-14, at Ross-Ade stadium last Saturday.
The game was marked by a possible record of 21 fumbles which proved costly to the Boilermakers. Purdue was only able to recover three of their 11 miscues, while the Irish managed to recover seven of theirs.
Notre Dame didn’t waste much time before they registered their first tally. Rex Brock fumbled on the kickoff runback which Jackie Lee recovered. It took the Irish only four plays to score, Joe Bush recovering a fumble by John Lattner in the end zone. Mavraides kicked the extra point.
The Boilermakers struck back late in the first quarter on runs by Phil Klezek and Max Schmaling and the accurate arm of Dale Samuels. Samuels passed to Bernie Flowers on the two and he scampered over. Samuels’ try for the point was good, and the game was all tied up.
However, the Irish were not to be denied. They pounded their way to the Purdue seven and here Carey called for a shift to their former box formation which caught the Boilermakers napping, and caused them to be offside. Minutes later, Neil Worden bulled over from the two. ■
Notre Dame struck again just before the half ended. Guglielmi’s first pass was intercepted by Phil Mateja, but Mateja fumbled, and Varrichione recovered. On the next play Guglielmi passed 47 yards to Lattner who took it on the one and stepped over. A holding penalty, following the conversion, forced the Irish back and Mavraides’ second try for the point was wide.
Brock started off the second half by again fumbling; this time Dave Flood recovered on the Purdue 23. The Irish however, could not find the drive to score and Mavraides’ try for a field goal was wide.
Purdue was next to score. A Carey fumble was recovered by Purdue on the Irish 35. Two plays later, Evans, who had replaced Samuels, fired a pass to Flowers who grabbed it and ran over for the score. The point was good.
The Irish held, and scored their last tally with about three minutes remaining. A 41-yard toss from Carey to end Art Hunter moved the ball to the Purdue 27. Successive runs by Worden and Lattner pushed the ball to the 12. Carey then hit Don Penza with a jump pass on the three. Worden carried over for the score and the try for the point was blocked.

28
The Scholastic
Cagers Start Practice For 22-Game Slate
By BILL NOONAN
The familial- sound of the bouncing basketball is once again being heard on the field house hardwood as the Notre Dame hoopsters begin practice sessions for the 1952-53 season.
The Irish will face a 22-game schedule featuring some of the nation’s leading outfits. There will be ten home and twelve away games with Creigh-
NORB (GOOTCH) LEWI NS Ki
Irish Basketball Captain
ton, one of the five newcomers to the Irish schedule, providing the opposition in the opener on Dec. 3. The other new teams are Kansas State, UCLA, Holy Cross and Bradley. The first two will do battle with ND in the Spartan Classic which replaces the annual Hoosier Classic while the Crusaders, perennially one of the country’s top fives, will be part of the two-game eastern trip, the other half being the traditional clash with NYU. It will mark the first time since 1935 that these two great Catholic schools have met in basketball.
Johnny Jordan, in his second year as Irish mentor, has the difficult task of replacing three of 1951’s starters, Leroy Leslie, Don Strasser and Entee Shine. The loss of Leslie by graduation might be paralleled with the loss of Dan Bagley the year before. Leslie set an all-time Notre Dame scoring record last season, and his shoes will not be easily filled.
On the bright side of the picture is the return of six lettermen and several
other experienced players from last year’s squad which won 16 and lost 10. Norb “Gootch” Lewinski, a steady per-former for two seasons is the captain and starting center. He is 6’5”. Dick Rosenthal, also 6’5”, who was second to Leslie in scoring, will play one forward, with Joe Bertrand, third in total points last year, at the other front court post. Both are juniors.
Leading the candidates for the guard spots are senior set shot artist Jerry McCloskey and sophomore Jack Stephens. Double monogram winner Jim Gibbons, a good floorman and junior John Reynolds, a lefty push shot artist will also see considerable action at guard.
Bill Sullivan is expected to spell the starting forward along with football star, John Lattner. Joe McGinn, an ace dribbler and soph Tom Sullivan are reserve guards and hefty Dick Honingford a center replacement.
One of the big question marks is 6’9” Dick Wise. If the skyscraping sophomore, who saw little action last year, comes through as a suitable sub for Lewinski, it would help immensely.
Right now Coach Jordan is hoping he can round his unit into good working order for the tough early season grind. The fact that Stephens is lending his talents to Frank Leahy’s football squad and that Bertrand broke his hand in a brief fling at the grid sport
Notre Dame Students Portrait Specials
Special No. 1 3 5x7 French Gray $9.50
A Special value from South Bend’s leading photographers
McDonald Studio
116 W. Colfax _	_	_	_ Phone 4-8891
this fall hinders his plans considerably. However there is a good bench from which to choose, and it seems pretty certain the basketball Fighting Irish will be ready for the Creighton invasion come Dec. 3.
University of Notre Dome BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 1952-1953
Dec. 3 Creighton at Notre Dame 6 Indiana at Notre Dame 13 Marquette at Milwaukee 17 Loyola at Notre Dame 19 Kansas State at E. Lansing 20 UCLA at E. Lansing 27 Butler at Indianapolis 31 Northwestern at Evanston
Jan. 5 Holy Cross at Boston 6 NYU at New York 14 Purdue at Lafayette 17 St. Louis at St. Louis 19 Bradley at Notre Dame 31 DePaul at Chicago
Feb. 4 Butler at Notre Dame 11 Louisville at Notre Dame 14 St. Louis at Chicago 16 Mich. State at Notre Dame 18 Marquette at Notre Dame 21 N’western at Notre Dame 25 DePaul at Notre Dame
Mar. 3 Kentucky at Lexington
6 Black and White proofs to choose from
Special No. 2 6 5x7 French Gray I 8x10 French Gray both for $ 15.00
Oct. 24, 1952

'Big Three1 Opponents
(Continued from page 25)
poured it on the Middies for three quarters, while the Navy didn’t tally until late in the final period. Tempers flared as three Navy and two Maryland players were ejected from the game for unnecessary roughness.
Oklahoma continued in its drive for its fifth successive Big Seven crown as the Sooners drove to a 42-20 win over previously unbeaten Kansas. Spotting the Kansans seven points in ' the opening period, Oklahoma roared right back with three touchdowns in less than 14 minutes. Quarterback Eddie Crowder guided the attack with his fancy ball handling and spot passing, while halfbacks Billy Vessels and Merrill Green led the touchdown parade with two apiece. Fumbles set up the first Oklahoma T.D. and interceptions of Jayhawk passes accounted for the next two. Kansas threatened several times in the second and third quarters, but the Sooner powerhouse soon proved too much for the Jayhawks.
Spartans Continue to Roll
Top rated Michigan State continued its dominance over its foes by routing Syracuse, 48-7, for its 19th straight win. Coach Biggie Munn’s Spartans scored twice in each of the first three
Spend a little time, surprisingly

(little money at Arthur Murray’s and you’ll step right into popu-
larity. What fun you’ll have at
dances! You’ll gloat over compliments! Yes, your winning combination for learning any new dance is Arthur Murray’s unique Magic Step Method and the brilliant teaching of his charming experts. Come in or phone for a free dance analysis. Studios open 10 A.M.-10 PM.
quarters and once in the last period to completely outclass the Orange eleven. Sixty-one players were used by the victors. On the opening kickoff the. Spartans tackled a Syracuse player in the end zone for a safety and M.S.C.’s first two points. Safety man, Jim Ellis took a Syracuse punt and returned it 59 yards down the sidelines for the first Spartan T.D. State made 24 first downs to 12 for Syracuse and gained 359 yards rushing to their opponents’ 90.
Losing their fourth consecutive game of the season, the Iowa Hawkeyes fell before their Big Ten foe, the Wisconsin Badgers, 42-13. Iowa safety man Bernie Bennett returned a punt 63 yards for a touchdown in the first period, but the Wisconsin line and secondary tightened, and held the Hawkeyes scoreless until the final period. After Bennett’s opening counter, the Badgers rolled to six touchdowns before Don Inman’s pass hit end Dan McBride for a last period Hawkeye score.
Trojans Gain Fifth Victory
Unbeaten Southern California picked up its fifth victory by whipping Oregon State, 28-6. State recovered a Trojan fumble and scored to hold a brief 6-0 lead, but a 51-yard pass by
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE
CALL a
2-3339 now
Above Copp Music
Jim Sears brought one touchdown and a recovery of a Beaver fumble brought a second before the first quarter ended. Coach Jesse Hill experimented with three quarterbacks—Jim Sears, George Bozanic and Charley Ane—and each guided the team to at least one touchdown.
Next week’s schdule of games finds Navy tangling with Pennsylvania, Oklahoma battling Kansas State, Michigan State meeting a tough Penn State eleven, Iowa facing Ohio State in another Big Ten affair and Southern California attempting to best California’s Golden Bears.
An overall record to date for Notre Dame opponents is as follows:
W. L. T.
Pennsylvania ......... Texas ................ Purdue ....................
Pittsburgh ................ North Carolina ............ Navy ...................... Oklahoma .................. Michigan State ............ Iowa ...................... Southern Cal...............
3	0	1
3	2	0
2	11
3	10
0	2	0
3	10
3	0	1
4	0	0
0	4	0
5	0	0
26 11	3
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS Welcome to
128 W. WASHINGTON
[health I SPOT | [SHOES
For Men Women Children
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
The Scholastic
Irish Sailors Finish Third
In Chicago Area Eliminations
Last weekend Notre Dame’s Intercollegiate Sailing club placed third in the annual Chicago Area eliminations for the coveted Timme Angston Memorial Cup. This award is presented each year to the college with the most points after the qualifying rounds are over. Lake Michigan is the site of the races.
Notre Dame entered two boats in the Regatta. Skippers for the Fighting Irish were Ed Rodgers, who led Notre Dame with 29 points, Don Street and Dick Uhl. Our crew consisted of Bill Carson, Bob Miller, Dwight Douglas, Walt Wolf and Greg Defraytas.
The two-day affair had fair weather for sailing. On Saturday the winds were blowing at 15 to 20 miles per hour. Just light winds prevailed on Sunday. The finals will be held on the Thanksgiving weekend.
Points
1.	Northwestern ........... 72
2.	Wisconsin .............. 64
3.	Notre Dame ............. 59
4.	I. I. T................. 51
5.	DePauw ................. 50
6.	Washington of St. Louis.... 44
7.	U. of Chicago .......... 39
Kampus Keglers to Resume Sunday; Buckley New Prexy
A total of 36 bowling teams composing the Kampus Keglers will resume their Sunday afternoon activities at the Bowl-Mor Recreation Sunday.
Presiding over the Keglers this year are Ernie Buckley, president; Lou Boui*-jaily, vice-president; Jerry Fons, secretary; and John Roy, treasurer.
As usual the league will be made up of seven-man teams, each team representing a recognized campus organization. All those who are interested in bowling should contact the captain of their particular club’s bowling team as soon as possible.
The competition promises to be just as difficult this year as it has been in past years. The teams are divided into two leagues, Blue and Gold, of which the Gold should provide the more interesting competition, since most of last year’s top teams are grouped into one league.
The season’s activities will be topped off with the annual banquet, usually held in early May, at which trophies will be presented to the winning teams and the individual prize winners.
Interhall
(Continued from page 27) and was forced to settle for a 6-6 tie. It was a sloppy first half. The Prison was the first to threaten on a long pass, but the stout Morrissey line held. The ball changed hands constantly in the first half, and after 30 minutes it was still a scoreless duel.
Morrissey was first to strike in the second half. A blocked punt by John Darago moved the ball within scoring position, and quarterback Pat Galvin carried it over on a one-yard plunge. Jim Burns missed the extra point.
The Prison fought back with a series of short passes that earned them to the goal where a pass deep in the corner of the end zone was good for the TD. Their
Van Heusen's new
gswm RMBEt

KIRKMAN FLAKES^

COMPLETELY
WASHABLE
Tub it, scrub it—you can’t wash out the rich, luxurious look of your Van Heusen Van Gab Gabardine. It’s America’s favorite rayon gabardine sport shirt... because it’s completely washable in any and all suds. You’ll like the comfortable collar that looks great open or closed ... with or without a tie. And Van Heusen’s Van Gab is styled in a host of washable new campus colors.
try for the extra point was blocked by Coleman.
On the first play from scrimmage after the kickoff, a Galvin-Devereux pass and ran play which covered 70 yards, was good for a touchdown. However, the play was nullified because of an ineligible sleeper.
Again on a block punt Morrissey worked their way to pay dirt but this time the officials ruled that end Jim Bums had caught the pass out of the end zone.
The Prison’s best weapon was their short passes. Morrissey’s backfield was sparked by Pat Galvin while the line standouts were John Darago, Butch Val-lase, John Woepell and Jim Bums. The off-tackle slants of Fullback Mike Fox were also very effective.
PHILLIPS.JONES COHP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
Oct. 24, 1952
BEE DEE MUSIC CO.
1330 WINNEMAC	CHICAGO, ILL.
The Midwest's Greatest Mail Order Discount House Huge Discounts	3-Day Delivery Service
UNCONDITIONAL GUARANTEE ON LP Records — All Brands RCA Victor • Zenith • Webcor Radios, Phonos, Etc. Sunbeam • Gen. Electric • All Other Makes Electric Appliances
B.S.O.C.
Cotillion
(Continued from page 9)
The Palais stage will be a study in aluminum, while the courtyard will be enclosed by “fences” of white.
Chosen to reign over this distinctly Southern spectacle will be an attractive Yankee queen—Miss Marilyn Shaughnessy of Milwaukee, Wis. Miss Shaughnessy will be the date of Cotillion Chairman Tom McIntosh. She is in her senior year at Whitefish Bay High School in Milwaukee and plans to attend Northwestern University upon her graduation in June. An active participant in school activities, she is a cheerleader, as well as president of her local sorority chapter. Her ambition is to be a professional model.
After attending the pre-game pep rally, and then switching into formal attire for the prom itself, the sophomores and their guests will resume festivities for the week-end tomorrow afternoon when the scene will shift to the Notre Dame Stadium and the grid contest between the Fighting Irish and the North Carolina Tarheels. The week-enders will viwe the game from the stadium section especially reserved for them.
Tomorrow evening they take to the dance floor once again, this time in the Navy Drill Hall, for the usual postgame victory dance. Don Gels and his combo will be on hand to furnish the music for this affair.
(Big shirt oh cafnpus)
in in of
You’ll be a B.M.O.C. in this sportshirt by Manhattan. The style is right, the tailoring has a handsome, custom flair, and above all, it's dis-
tinctive. Rayon gabardine a variety of colors. Come and see our complete line Manhattan men’s apparel.
Monday store hours:	Tuesday through Saturday:
12 noon to 8:30 p.m.	9:45 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.
Cleveland
(Continued from page 20) north, east, and south from Euclid Ave. E. of E. 107th St., is the center of Cleveland’s college life.
CASE SCHOOL OF APPLIED SCIENCE, Euclid Ave. at University Circle, is the oldest independent college of science west of the Alleghenies. The enrollment averages over 1,500 men students.
WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY, 10940 Euclid Ave., E. of University Circle, is comprised of 11 schools and colleges, including law, medicine, and liberal arts.
SEVERANCE HALL, N.E. corner of Euclid Ave. and East Blvd., is the $1,000,000 home of the Cleveland Symphony Orchestra.
The casual “I spent two days there so I know” critic has often labeled Cleveland “an overgrown country town.” Perhaps your opinion will be much the same. Such a label finds confirmation in the ample width of the principal streets, the spaciousness of the residential area, and the informality of the people. No single industry
32
The Scholastic
dominates the city to bring nervous booms and slumps — Cleveland’s fortunes fare with those of industry as a whole, rather than any segment of it. And its industrial aspects — the ore docks and coal platforms, the smokestacks in The Flats, the stir of lake steamers in the harbor — seem less hectic than is usual in a city of over a million people.
The Other Side
(Continued from page 22) upbringings. Ideals are vital for the individual. Without them, he would have no incentives whatever. Yet, the individual often finds he has been a trifle over-idealistic, that ideals unfortunately cannot always be put into practice as he would like them to be. The competitive world we live in just doesn’t work that way. The young adult finds that he may have to tone down some of his ideals, readjust them, in some cases, compromise. Because he finds that things aren’t quite what he expected them to be, he becomes a little bitter about the whole thing.
A Sure Cure
But I hardly think this bitterness is sincere. Most of it is a defense mechanism. It gives the youthful critic more confidence in his dealings with the world if he can denounce it, belittle it, bring it down to his own level where he can engage it on equal terms. His cynicism unconsciously serves to bolster his ego. Later, after he acquires more confidence, he will also acquire a new perspective and come to acknowledge things as they are.
Thus, I don’t believe there is any sure way to prevent campus cynicism. It is too ingrained in the individual’s self-expression — his ambitions, drives, successes, and disappointments. Yet, unfortunately, there is a sure cure for it — the complete maturation of the victim.
Next Week: Adlai — and Ike.
—Tom Foote
FOR A LONG TIME we’ve suspected that today’s college man would no longer “gladly die for dear old Siwash.” Neither does he play ukuleles and sing “Alma Mater” at the drop of a beanie.
We believe, too, that when it comes to sportshirts the college man is no different from his older brother in town. He doesn’t go for
fads and screwball styles. But he does go for smartness, good workmanship ... and above all, value.
That is why we believe you’ll like the new selection of sportshirts by Man hattan®. For they have all these qualities, plus a distinctive air that sets them above the ordinary shirt.
So ask for Manhattan___________the college man’s sportshirt.
Oct. 24, 1952
33
By Paul Zaleckl
Richard Sullivan’s book, Notre Dame, contains numerous passages that offer an entertaining insight into the University. In one of the more interesting ones which appears early in the work, the author relates an experience he had some time back. If I remember correctly, the story concerns an old priest who was coming from what must have been a somewhat dreary faculty meeting. Apparently a bit weary, the priest remarked that there must be an all-loving personal God to account for the fact that this place survives in spite of human frailties.
I am not sure of the point which Mr. Sullivan continued to develop in this section of his book, but it seems to me that this anecdote contains a type of humor that is all too rare these days. The main character in this incident knew enough of life to be able to poke fun at himself and at the things he held dear. Such an attitude is not very prevalent today.
Not too long ago Al Capp expressed similar sentiments in his Life article on why Li’l Abner married. Capp sensed a change in this country’s outlook which prohibited revealing the comical aspects of other Americans. He quoted several instances when he was accused of being un-American because of some incidents in his cartoon strip. Just as an aside, it is somewhat unfortunate that Li’l Abner did marry. The cartoon is not so good as it used to be.
Dislike of Criticism
Perhaps this wariness to take a joke is but an aspect of a dislike of criticism in any form. Criticism, regardless of its merits, naturally is not cherished. Since we associate ourselves with our work and activities, there is a personal element involved. This attitude toward criticism even may lead us to defend some stand which we do not heartily accept simply because it has been attacked.
No one desires anything' uncomplimentary said about them, regardless of how well meant. Nowadays, however, not only is criticism not wanted, but, in a sense, it is even feared. Perhaps it is an aspect of our times. Beginning with an upsurge of debunking and discrediting in literature a few decades back, an incessant vogue for criticism
has permeated almost all phases of life. The attacks upon governmental employees are too numerous to cite, but they illustrate the point quite well.
Indeed, it has become, to a certain degree, sophisticated to be cynical and to regard almost everything as something to denounce and tear apart. What has arisen from this situation — and it - is to be expected — is an intense opposition when any criticism arises. Aspects of it can even be seen at Notre Dame.
The student government in all probability suffers from this condition more than any other group. Frequently the reaction to student government is one of criticism. The response, in turn, is that the government cannot do anything if the students are not behind it. “It’s up to you,” says the government. The student then responds, “What’s up to me? All I can do is vote once a semester and offer some suggestions occasionally.”
Dilemma of Student Government
This barrage of comments covers up, I believe, what may be called the dilemma of student government. It is undoubtedly true that the Senate undergoes attack when anything goes wrong — even if it is not its fault — and receives hardly any notice for its achievements.
Like many others, then, the student government has come to fear criticism. Whenever they have experienced an unfavorable response, be it this year or before, they have striven to defend theii’ action, or inaction, as the case may be, and to give the reasons why.
What has arisen from this bantering back and forth is an unfortunate situation, not only because it helps neither party, but also because it covers up the almost insoluble problem of student government. Almost everyone at the University has a different concept of what the Senate should do, especially now that we have a new system in operation.
That student government is concerned with extracurricular activities is fairly certain. Indeed, most of its work quite easily falls under this category. After this, however, its function is difficult to determine. Consequently, when the Senate does or does not do
something which conflicts with what any student feels it should do, criticism is bound to result.
Take, for example, the difficulties faced in obtaining accommodations for the student trip. The delay was not the fault of the Senate. Events were beyond their control, as is often the case. Nevertheless, because it was a Senate project, the student government was criticized for it.
=❖=
Attack and Counter-Attack
In this instance, as in others, an explanation can be given. There are always two sides to every question. To do so, however, would only lead to an overabundance of attack and counterattack which is bad, almost as much as no criticism whatsoever. Rather than mean that everything is running smoothly, the latter situation probably would reveal that no one cares enough about the student government to find out what it is doing.
In spite of the unfortunate dislike, fear, and even a feeling of persecution, that stems from criticism, it is not necessarily an unhealthy situation. Much good can result from it especially when it is constructive. Of course, this latter phrase, constructive, may be in some instances a kind of mask which makes what we have to say sound better.
Even when some particular' comment is unfair, however, at times it may paradoxically be a backward compliment to student government. It may reveal that the student who offers some criticism believes that the Senate can do more than the Senate itself thinks it can. In other words, some students may have a more ambitious outlook on student government than the senators themselves have. As St. Thomas, the philosopher, says, “Nothing is all bad.”
If the Senate, then, is going to become overly worried about criticism and either attempt to refute all of it or try to please everyone all the time, student government faces a rather difficult year. It simply cannot be done.
The same can be said for almost any other group. Criticism, in any of its forms — serious, satirical, humorous, or what-have-you — has to be taken for what it is worth. Much good can result from it if it is given and accepted in the right spirit. When it is overdone, however, as it has been in past years —■ in government, literature and elsewhere — it becomes worse than worthless. What we need today are more men of the same temper as the old priest that Richard Sullivan has written about.
34
The Scholastic
Aquinas
Library and Book Shop
YOUR
Catholic Shopping Center in South Bend
110 E. LASALLE ST.
RESTAURANT 610 NORTH MICHIGAN
3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
SHOES NEED FIXING?
Why Go Downtown?
• BETTER SERVICE
•	BETTER WORK
•	LOWER COST
PAUL'S SHOE SHOP
Behind Main Bldg.
TYPEWRITERS FOR RENT All Makes—Large Selection Students Special Rates 3 Months for $8.75—
One Month, $3.50 Rental may be applied on Purchase. Sales Service all Machines Michiana’s Largest Dealer SUPER SALES CO.
Phone: 66328	315 W. Monroe
South Bend, Ind.
UP FROM THE BEHCH you can't line unless you break into the line-up
the opening Eyes of his tunately the
A third-string quarterback named Witherspoon had a Laudable Ambition. He wanted to be first. string quarterhack. Particularly to start
game under the Admiring Number One Girl. Unfor-coach was a Hard Man to
FRANKIE LANE made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes.
Spaghetti Ravioli Chicken	Steaks
Convince. So our hero, undismayed, uncorked a Master Plan.
Two weeks before the opening game, the coach got a Telegram. Message—“Ten reasons why Witherspoon should be first-string quarterback. First. Witherspoon is resourceful. Witness this approach-” Each day the coach received a similar Telegraphic Tribute to the Sterling Qualities and Gridiron Prowess of Witherspoon, ending on the tenth day with “Witherspoon knows the T-formation to a T. Incidentally, his father is considering endowing a new gymnasium.”
Who started Saturday? Our boy, naturally. Did very well, too. Played all sea-
son.
‘Just one of my Finds,” the coach
murmurs modestly, when found in the New Athletics Building.
Nothing puts a point across as convincingly as a Telegram ... whether you’re trying to get a “Yes” out of a Coach, a Chick or that Checkbook at home. (Fact —when it comes to prying Pesos cut of a Recalcitrant Parent, a Telegram is just about the world’s Best Crow-bar). Whatever your message, it’ll Mean More when. it goes on the Yellow Blank.
105 N. Main St. Telephone 3-6101
Oct. 24, 1952
CHESTERFIELD
FIRST PREMIUM
QUALITY CIGARETTl
TO OFFER BOTH REGULAR & KING-SIZE
MU
fo
LIGGETT 4 MYERS TOBACCO CO.
LIGGETT i MYERS TOBACCO CO.
^2?
FOR CHESTERFIELD
EITHER WAY YOU
LIKE EM
CONTAINS TOBACCOS
HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY
OTHER KING-SIZE
CIGARETTE
ASK YOUR DEALER
OF BETTER QUALITY &





BOTH regular and king-size Chesterfields are premium quality cigarettes and come in the smart white pack.
BOTH contain only those proven ingredients that make Chesterfield the best possible smoke: the world’s best tobaccos, pure, more costly moistening agents (to keep them tasty and fresh), the best cigarette paper that money can buy—nothing else.
BOTH are much milder with an extraordinarily good taste and, from the report of a well-known research organization — no unpleasant after-taste.
BOTH are exactly the same in all respects. There is absolutely no difference except that king-size Chesterfield is larger—contains considerably more of the same tobaccos—enough more to give you a 21% longer smoke, yet costs very little more.
Buy CH ESTE RFIELD-/^^ Milder
Copyright 1952, Liggett & Mnts Toucco Co.