^■-
>S\« K
I
^•*
ZS61 SI HMdV
A1O 3H1NI ONIUdS

K 8 ga
j
42 '.




New Aviation Cadet Program Offers Special Advantages To College Men Now Preparing for Military Service
Here is valuable postgraduate training that money can’t buy! As an Aviation Cadet you can receive instruction and training worth thousands of dollars—at the same time you are serving your country. You can choose— immediately—between being a Pilot or Aircraft Observer in America’s swiftly expanding Air Force. The Air Force encourages candidates to stay in school and graduate. Seniors and students with two years or more of college who anticipate early entrance into military service can receive unmatched training in flying and leadership for the years ahead.
3. Accomplish Flying Aptitude Tests and enlist for two years only!
4. The Selective Service . Act awards you a four-t month deferment while * awaiting class assignment.
WHO MAY APPLY AGE—Between 19 and 2672 yean. EDUCATION—At least two yean of college. MARITAL STATUS—Single. PHYSICAL CONDITION—Good, especially eyes, ean, heart, and teeth.
HOW TO QUALIFY
5. Immediate assignment to Aviation Cadet Training Classes starting July 19, August 19, October 2, and November 19, 1952.
I, Take transcript of college credits and copy of birth certificate to your nearest Air Force Base or Recruiting Statfbn.
6. Attend Aviation Cadet Training School for one year—either as Pilot or Aircraft Observer. Get $105 monthly plus food, housing, uniforms, and other benefits.
Appear for physical examination at your nearest Air Base at Government expense.
7. Graduate, win your wings. Commissioned second lieutenant, begin earning $5,000 a year! Receive $250 uniform allowance, 30-day leave with pay.
WHBIE To Get More Details
Visit your nearest U. S. Mr Force Base or U. S. Army— U. S. Air Forco Recruiting Station or write direct to Aviation Cadet, Headquarters, U. S. Mr Force, Washington 25, D. C.
2
The Scholastic
LETTERS
Compliments Students
Editor:
I think that the seniors especially, and other students too, will be particularly interested in the comment I recently had from an employment interviewer who had spent two days on the campus.
He wrote in part as follows: “As I told you, I was very much impressed with the poise and the general ‘all-around’ good manner in which practically every student presented himself. Notre Dame is imparting to its students something which other schools could well emulate. . . .
“ ... It was a genuine pleasure to visit Notre Dame and a unique expe-* rience to talk with such a fine group of seniors.”
. I am proud of the fact that campus employment interviewers generally are well pleased with the students they talk to here. Our seniors and graduate students, so the visitors tell me, are exceptionally well poised and display unusual evidences of mature attitudes toward work.
All of us can justifiably be happy about this splendid reaction to the effects of Notre Dame education.
William Dooley, Placement Director
We Apologize
Editor:
I feel sure that Scholastic could not have been aware of the classification of “Pal Joey” by the Catholic ■ Theatre Movement when the advertise" ment was secured and published (The Scholastic, April 4). This play has been evaluated as “wholly objectionable” (The Register. April 6) which is identical to the “condemned” classification of movies by the Legion of Decency.
However, I do feel that the persons responsible have been delinquent in the moral obligations of their positions consciously or not. As Catholic men, ive all should and must be aware of our responsibilities to our fellaw man.
Name withheld.
ENGLISH ESSENTIALS
Juniors and seniors who have not yet passed the Freshman English “Essentials” examination may take the examination Tuesday, April 29, from 7 to 9 p.m. in Room 253, Main Building.
...when men
on
ARROW SHIRTS
ABHOW w------------->►
SHIRTS • TIES • SPORTS SHIRTS • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS
Make GILBERT’S your ARROW headquarters
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
April 25, 1952
THE DU PONT
DIGEST
Thurman W. Kaiser (at right), B.S.Ch.E., Purdue ’50, supervises tests of improved process for making neoprene intermediates.
Ch. E’s at Du Pont
Plant development work is solid background for a future in chemical engineering
[ FOURTH OF A SERIES
The work of production supervisors at Du Pont, as discussed here last month, is aimed at getting better results from existing processes and equipment.
In contrast, the job of plant development groups is to find ways to improve methods and products, and advise management when changes should be made for economic or technical reasons. Chemical engineers in this work are responsible for lowering process costs, adapting the product to new uses and improving product quality to obtain a larger share of the existing market.
These duties provide an understanding of the fundamental aspects of the business, as well as a broad view of Company operations. The training and experience a man gains as a member of a plant development group—often a first assignment at Du Pont—is an excellent background for any field he may move into later.
Conducting a development study usually involves obtaining data from
H. E. Graham, Jr., B.S.Ch.E., Georgia I. T. *48, and J. F. Carley, Ph.D.Ch.E., Cornell *51, study a plastic compounder-extractor-extruder for improvements in making plastics.
laboratory, semi-works and plantscale experiments, estimating profits and investments, and consulting with sales, research and production personnel, also with auxiliary departments such as Engineering, Chemical and Purchasing, and with outside authorities.
Here are typical problems solved by plant development groups:
John Purdom, B.S.Ch.E., Ohio State *49, and Kenneth Kehr, B.S.M.E., North Carolina State ’50, discuss diagram of a process for improved recovery of a nylon intermediate.
1.	Prompted by obsolescence and wearing of equipment, experimental studies and economic comparisons were made on the entire process of isolating dyes. Methods in use called for crystallization, filter pressing and tray drying. It was found that a rotary vacuum filter with a continuous rotary steam tube dryer, air conveyor and a dust collection system reduced costs about $50,000 a year.
2.	Production of sodium silicate was to be increased substantially, but the tank-type furnace at the heart of the process proved a bottleneck. The furnace design, including exit and
Reid Earnhardt, B.S.M.E., Cornell ’44, M.S.M.E., Carnegie ’48, and Rene M. Le-Clare, M.S.Ch.E., M. I. T. ’51, check installation of improvements in plant equipment. entry ports, was improved, and its capacity enlarged at a small fraction of the cost of a new furnace.
With the rapid growth of technological improvements all over the world and increasing competition, plant development work assumes greater and greater status. The Ch. E. entering such a group at Du Pont finds a wealth of opportunity for his skill and ingenuity.

BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING . . . THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Entertaining, Informative — Listen to “Cavalcade of America,” Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
4
The Scholastic
By Jack Hynes
downtown supper clubs to neighboring beverage bistros.
A move is afoot for the student council to purchase a large moving van which would leave the circle on the half hour at reduced rates. And another proposal made was that we march on City Hall, but it’s too long a walk.
One of the latest Transitads feat-
Top of the Week
Spring and warm sunshine arrive early at ND. . .
The Last Mile
Easter vacation having been done away with, we find ourselves back at the calendar checking off the remaining thirty-odd days till liberation and tallying up our credit hours, to make sure we are in that long’, gowned line in the stadium come June 1st.
But this gun lap period promises to be lightened considerably by the usual dazzling array of proms, dances, picnics and long walks that have always gone such a long way in making Spring on the Notre Dame campus a veritable paradise of leisure.
“Sophistication”
The Juniors touch off things tonight when they bring Hal McIntire and orchestra into the Rockne Memorial for the Junior Prom. The campus will be flooded once again with visiting-charmers and the men of Alpha Sigma Sorin (the only ND fraternity recognized by Wellesley and Bryn Mawr), will undoubtedly while away Sunday morning on their- porch reviewing-stand, much to the consternation and embarrassment of promgoers taking their dates to church. But that’s the way we do things here at Notre Dame. Senior Soiree
The grizzled Seniors themselves will take over the second weekend in May, presenting Ray Anthony in the Navy Drill Hall on May ninth. The theme of the Senior Ball, “Dancing in the Clouds” has been scored by some as a very unoriginal title, but then, we are a very unoriginal group. Tickets are now on sale, incidentally, at nine dollars a copy.
Play Ball!
It’s baseball season once again, as you no doubt have noticed, and campus experts and prognosticators are laying odds all over the place.
Bob Dougherty, WND sports head, broke out on opening day in a conservative chartreuse shirt with one cuff autographed by Mel Allen. Bob is tagging along with the St. Louis Brownies this year, in the hope that
Bill Veeck will hear of it and give him a Job with that three-ring circus he calls a ball club.
Native Chicagoans are, as is their perennial custom, stoutly defending their White Sox and Cubs, a bit of good Samaritanship which again looks to be wasted effort.
The fast East coast set, they can easily be distinguished by their regimental ties, seersucker jackets and daily quoting of Ed. Smith, are again about their seasonal occupation of knocking the Chicago clubs. The easterners, and I am proud to include myself in their number, have never been supporters of the Cubs or White Sox mainly because of the hysterics and histrionics of a few of the Windy City sportcasters. These twaddlers would be doing their respective idols more than a good turn if they farmed themselves out to Barnum and Bailey as Midway barkers. Their vocal talents lie more in that direction.
Comes the Revolution . . .
The high cost of living- has finally hit the N.I.T. The round trip from the circle to the village jumped to an astronomical 30 cents last April tenth and the newly issued bus tokens have almost become legal tender and barter on campus.
The move has also precipitated the formation of walking clubs composed of those who have switched from the
SUNNY ITALY
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
ured on the N.I.T. reads, -“You are the Boss in this Land of Brands?’ Well, I knew we were being educated for something—golly!
Bottom of the Week
. . . The monsoon season is just around the corner.
NEW LOW AIR TOURiST RATES Effective May In.
ROUND TRIP NEW YORK TO SHANNON om> $433.80
LONDON*	Only 486.00
PARIS	Only 522.00
FRANKFORT Only 563.60
•Via Prestwick or Shannon IFores subject to government approval. Good low-cort meals available on alanoj
KLM Royal Dutch Airlines <72 Fifth Avenue, New York 19, N. t
Please send full information on ne»
KIM dir Tourist Rates to Europe
■ NAMfa...........................  ’
• ADDRHSS ....................... ’
L---------
“Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
April 25, 1952
5
APRIL 25
PALACE (now playing to April 29)—The Las Vegas Story (B) finds Jane Russell running around the gambling dens of that Nevada city. In due time a murder takes place and the ever present Miss Russell is, of course, a prime suspect. Much intrigue follows, there is a chase by helicopter, and between all the goings-on, Jane still finds time to sing a couple of songs. There are better things in town to see than this. Whispering Smith vs. Scotland Yard (A-2) is all about murder and blackmail in merry old England. It doesn’t save the double feature, though.
GRANADA (to May 7)—How a Mountie gets his man only to be saved by his prisoner is the theme of The Wild North (B). Wendell Corey is the purposeful Mountie and Stewart Granger is the inevitable French-Canadian trapper suspected of murder. The picture suffers from the too-simple story and the static scenery of the Canadian Rockies. It’s beautiful but also monotonous. Any chance this double-bill had of being half way decent is shattered by the co-feature Talk With a Stranger (A-2). It’s one of those boydog stories.
COLFAX (now playing to April 29)—Gene Kelley’s first musical since his Academy-Award winning An American in Paris, Singin’ in the Rain, is held over until next Tuesday. Following that in will be Paramount’s all star circus ertravaganza, The Greatest Show on Earth (B). It’s a look at the spectacle of the circus and the people who make it up. There is a story there, too, which contains, for reasons known only to the writers, the subject of mercy killing, part of the reason why the film received a B rating. It could have been left out entirely and will probably hurt at the box office what is a truly fine picture otherwise.
AVON (to May 9)—Aaron Slick From Punkin Crick (A-2) is a pleasant little musical comedy starring Alan Young, Dinah Shore and Robert Merrill. It’s a story about city slicker getting out-slicked by a couple of country bumpkins. There’s a lot of slapstick before the thing finally gets straightened out. Shore and Merrill give out with songs along the way, but there are no operatic arias from Merrill. If you laugh easily you won’t mind this picture.
APRIL 26
WASHINGTON HALL—People Against O’Hara.
APRIL 30
PALACE—Mickey Rooney’s best film in years is a musical with an Army setting Sound Off. It’s the old Rooney in this one, and the picture has been enthusiastically received in sneak previews. Life behind the walls is the theme of My Six Convicts (A-2), adapted from the best seller by prison psychologist Donald Williams. It’s a human story told with compassion and understanding, with the usual prison-story violence left out. Best double feature in town this week.
CANOE TRIPS
in the Quetico-Superior wilderness. At a price a student can afford. For free colored booklet and map, write:
Bill Rom, Mgr., Canoe Country Outfitte-s Box 717 C. Ely, Minnesota.
• fUROPt
ALL-EXPENSE (INCLUDING STEAMSHIP)		
TOUR “A" M 28 I DAYS ■ 5951 Includes		I TOUR “B" 47 I days 1'895
		I [AU. of Tour 8 ]
Cuxhaven	1 Bremen	1 Amsterdam 1 Volendam Haarlem The Hague Rotterdam Marken Antwerp Brussels Liege Bastogne Luxembourg Hamm Verdun Rheims Paris * Versailles Le Havre		I PLUS 1 Interlaken Geneva Aix-Les-Bains Grenoble Cannes Nice & Riviera Genoa Milan Venice Padua Florence Bologna Perugia Assisi Rome Cassino Naples Capri
RATE INCLUDES EVERYTHING: All transportation, hotel accommodations, meals, sightseeing and taxes. TOUR A—Leave N.Y.C. July 3 on S.S. Italia. Return on Italia July 30. TOUR B—Leave N.Y.C. July 3 on S.S. Italia. Return S.S. Argentina Aug. 18. * in Paris, Continental breakfast only RESERVE NOW! Write, wire or phone your Travel Agent or JOS. PERILLO & SONS •tout. C 4545 Third Avenue, New York City Tel. LU 4-8300		
6
The Scholastic
Vol. 93
April 25, 1952 No. 24
Discc Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101. October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918.
Editor
JOHN J. POWERS
Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY
Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE .............News
PATRICK CARRICO ......Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY.......Features
JACK R. VARLEY ..............Sports
THOMAS FOOTE ........Assistant Sports LEON GARDNER ........Librarian
RONALD E. ZIER_____.......Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN ____Circulation JOHN P. DEFANT.____Faculty Moderator
NEWS: Phil Bolin, Larry Brehl, Vai Chun, Pete Connolly, Mike Ducey, Fred Eckart, Carl Eiberger, Paul Fullmer. Bob Gorman, Jim Harrington. Ted Kintner, Joe Leaser, Matt Malison, Bill Moore, Gorman Redding, Bob Rust, Al Suwalsky, Mike Ward, Irv Carrig, Frank Donlon, Jerry Burns.
FEATURES: Sal Asselta. Jay Conlon, Charles Hands, Joe Imbriaco, Harrs- Siemonsma. John Slavick, Bill Stapleton, Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta.
SPORTS: Mickey Carroll, Roger Fernandes. Bob Frolicher, Ray Humble. Tom Moore, Ken Murphy, Bill Noonan, Jack Sand.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Dick Bennett, Bob Huddleston, Jack Quetsch, Jerry Sheehan, Bob Swanson.
ADVERTISING: Tom Murphy.
Chaos, Organization — And Promise
The spotlight this week was on an interesting and different activity, for college men, anway. For three strenuous evenings, an odd mixture of chaos and organization filled the navy drill hall as the fledgling politicians at Notre Dame tried to select the 1952 presidential nominee for the Grand Old Party.
It’s not our place to comment either way on the convention’s final choice, but we can certainly comment on the choice of holding the affair in the first place. It didn’t really matter whether the convention was Democratic or Republican. In fact we know of a good number of ardent Democrats who considered themselves Republicans for the week. The important thing was that the convention was prepared for and conducted in a rather serious manner.
Despite the fact that most of the delegates had a whale of a good time all three evenings, most of the campaigners were in dead earnest about their favorite candidates. We think all of this is encouraging. Without any practical experience, young men of today are expected to take an active interest and even participate in politics. Things like the mock convention this week help overcome this handicap and work up interest.
Some of the lads who took part this week will undoubtedly play an active role in political life some day in the future. And everybody who took part will be electing the political leaders of the future. We hope they learned at least a little about this sober and trving business of nominating and electing leaders in a free republic.
The back-pat of the week, then, goes to the Academy of Political Science for a fine job. The club and the convention officials—and Chairman Bill Lewis, in particular—created an activity that makes all the future politicians and voters at Notre Dame look like very promising material.	■.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, c:-cept during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185. Notre Dame. Indiana. Subscription $4.00 per year.
COVER: Playing on a swing isn’t the usual thing for a colege man, but Tom Driscoll caught the Spring bug like everyone else last week and his wan. derings about the city form the ■ feature starting on page 17. Photo by Bob Huddleston.
Vote 'Yes' Next Week
Also along the political line, but a little closer to home, is the fact that the recently-approved “3R” student government constitution will be put before the student body for ratification next Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday.
It seems that there should be no need to urge students to ratify a plan which they have already decided is best to serve their interests, but the small percentage voting in the recent ballot shows apathy toward student government. Hence another reminder that a good student government is the place for your gripes— not the corner table in the caf. If the constitution is not ratified, we will be back to the status quo with all progress and hopes for progress destroyed. Failure to ratify will be an admission that you don’t care to have a voice in running your affairs.	'
The vote of a majority of the students is needed for ratification of this constitution. The Student Council is making it very7 easy for you by circulating the ratification petitions to the halls. So you don’t even have to leave your room— just lie there and say “yes” when a man for the plan comes around.
April 25. 1952
7
The
Commonweal
A Weekly Journal of Opinion Edited by Catholic Laymen
Recent Contributors:
JOSEPH ALSOP • WILLIAM F. BUCKLEY, Jr. ALEX COMFORT • DOROTHY DAY • WALDEMAR GURIAN EMMET LAVERY • CHARLES MALIK
JACQUES MARITAIN • FRANCOIS MAURIAC • EUGENE J. McCARTHY SEAN O'FAOLAIN • HENRY RAGO
H. A. REINHOLD • LEO J. TRESE • MARTIN J. TURNELL GERALD VANN • EVELYN WAUGH
Foreign Reports by: GUNNAR D. KUMLIEN • ROBERT BARRAT
Stage: WALTER KERR • Screen: PHILIP T. HARTUNG
Columns by: JOHN C CORT • FRANCIS DOWNING
□ $7 a Year
18 Weeks $2
SAMPLE COPY ON REQUEST
386 Fourth Ave., New York 16, N. Y.
Check one of the boxes, print your name and address belox and return the lower part of this advertisement today.
5
The Scholastic
Juniors Promenade at ^ock7 Tonight
Hal McIntyre's Music Begins Big Weekend
By BOB RUST
Casting oft their scholarly exterior, 550 men of the class of ’53 will assume an appearance of suavity this evening as they d»nce in an atmosphere of Junior Prom “Sophistication” in the Rockne Memorial.
Miss Barbara Campbell and Miss Peggy Curtin will reign as queens for the’ evening. Floyd Blair and Jim Hutchinson, co-chairmen for the dance, will escort them.
Miss Campbell, a graduate of Jordan High School, Jordan, N. Y. and Blair’s fiancee, is a senior in the School of Nursing at Syracuse University, Syracuse, N. Y.	.
Miss Curtin, Hutchinson’s date, is a junior Dietetics major at St. Mary’s College. She graduated from Marquette High School in Tulsa, Okla.
“The band all America loves,” Hal McIntyre and his Mclntots, featuring Miss Jeanne McMannus as the vocalist, will provide the music. Adding to the “Sophisticated” atmosphere, will be the Jerry Costello Combo, which will play in one of the Rockne Memorial rooms. The “Octette” from the Glee Club will entertain at intermission.
Sometime during the dance a ticket stub will be drawn from a box and the winning couple will be “Mr. and Mrs. Sophistication” for the evening. A bouquet of flowers will be presented them.
Bus Transportation is to be provided to the Indiana Dunes State Park Saturday afternoon. Busses will leave the circle about 1 p.m. Tomorrow night the usual Student Council dance will be' held in the “Rock” amid the sophisticated decorations.
Sunday morning all will attend Mass, have breakfast, and tour the campus. Sunday afternoon the prom weekenders say “good-bye.”
MISS PEGGY CURTIN Queens of Jim Hutchinson . . .
ND Claims New College Blood Drive Record With Nearly Half of Student Body Pledged
A total pledging of some 2436 Notre Dame students, for an overall 49.5 percentage, has set an unofficial national collegiate record for blood donations, topping the 41.32 percentage record which students of Holy Cross had previously set.
The Notre Dame blood drive, conducted through the cooperation of University students and the Red Cross, closes today. The drive chairmen have announced that a 61.3 percentage of on-campus Irish pledged blood during the two donation periods.
This past week has marked the giving of an approximate 1500 pints by Notre Dame students to the Chicago area mobile blood unit. This unit, headed by Mrs. Georgianna Adduci, an alumna of St. Mary’s College, has
MISS BARBARA CAMPBELL . . . and Floyd Blair
been operating at the Children’s Hospital on Notre Dame Avenue.
■The initial drive conducted April 3 and 4 by the Fort Wayne mobile blood unit contributed 265 pints of blood to the Red Cross, through the efforts of university students and the committee backing the blood drive.
All students who pledged and donated blood were given cancelled cuts in cooperation with the office of the prefect of discipline.
All Blood for Fighting Men
Fruit juice was served to each donor before his blood was taken, and a complete lunch was provided afterwards. Each donor also received a lapel pin which he can wear to signify his dona-(Continued on Page 33)
April 25t 1952
9
Benny Strong to Highlight Frolic Setting For Expected 400 Freshmen Next Week End
four stay senators will be chosen from _ the 1952-53 senate to complete the total of 30 in the 1952-54 body. Hall senators will be elected in September.
On Friday night, the second of May, the Rockne Memorial will be the scene of the Freshman Frolic. From 9 to 1, the yearlings and their dates will dance to the music of Benny Strong and his orchestra.
Although often billed as the “man who sings the old songs,” Benny Strong is currently playing the present top tunes with a style that all visitors to the Edgewater Beach Hotel enjoy immensely.
A Chicagoan by birth, he has done much of his entertaining in that city. Featuring vocalist June Hovis, Strong has played from coast to coast and has made several recordings for Capitol Records.
Three years ago he made one of the top recordings of the year in his arrangement of “That Certain Party.” Though his orchestrations are his prime means of entertainment, Mr. Strong also knows the value of ensemble and novelty numbers in a modern dance program.
His melodical baton wall put dancing rhythm into the feet of nearly 400 couples in the “Rock” on Friday. With “'Nocturne Parisienne” setting the theme of the evening, the freshmen and their dates will begin a week-end of entertainment prepared for them.
There are 2 o’clock and car permissions for the dance. Dress is formal for the girls and optional for the boys. Bids are §5.50 and may still be obtained in the Dining Halls or room 326, Breen-Phillips.
A “Continental” aura will prevail, instilled by the scenes, both classic and common, of Paris life. Weather permitting, the south terrace of the Rock will be dotted with tables, as well as the transformed light and heavy apparatus rooms.
On Saturday afternoon, activities will be shifted to the Palais Royal foi-an afternoon social. “After the Parade” will last from 4:30 to 6:30 o’clock following the Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Parade which is being held at 2 p.m., the same day. Light refreshments will be served and the dancing will be done to the music of a combo.
On Sunday morning, the final event of the week-end will be held in Sacred Heart Church and the Morris Inn. The Freshman Communion Breakfast is one of the first social affairs taking place in the Morris Inn. Father Theodore
Hesburg, C.S.C., will be the guest speaker and the four rectors of the freshman halls will be invited to attend.
Prices for the Saturday social and the Communion Breakfast are $1.50 and $3.00 per couple respectively.
BENNY STRONG “The Old Songs” and New
Although hotel accommodations in downtown South Bend are all taken for the week-end of May 2, 3 and 4, the ticket sales committee has many rooms available in town homes.
Council Seeks Vote For ’3R1 Plan Monday
Ratification of the revised Student Council constitution, submitted by Jim Garvin, will begin next Monday. Ratification will be accomplished by a petition in each of the residence halls. The new system will take effect immediately after half the student body has signified their approval.
Preparations for the election of the numerous officers of the new “Student Senate” and class officers have been started by the Blue Circle. Nominations open on April 29 and close May 4. Elections will be held May 12 and 13 so that as large a number of students as possible will have a chance to vote.
Under the proposed system there will be 30 elected members of the Student Senate. This is to include the four class presidents, a senator from each college, 14 hall senators, an off-campus senator, a Vetville senator and a graduate school senator. Next year
Other Officers on Cabinet
The remaining class officers are not being neglected, although they are not included in the Senate membership. They will form part of the executive cabinet which provides the means of administration and execution of measures passed by the legislative body. The four vice-presidents will head the hall council system, the four class secretaries will form the secretariat, and the four treasurers will form the financial department.
The YCS, the Blue Circle and the NFCCS are also integral parts of the executive cabinet; each will send their top official to sit on the cabinet.
Four commissions will form the heart of the executive cabinet. They are the Academic, Spiritual, Social, and Physical commissions. Each will have a head appointed by the student senate president and confirmed by the Senate. Each commissioner must have an 85 average, a clear record, and not be a senator.
Each commission will have a charter which is to be ratified by the Senate. It will be composed of two officers, a council of clubs, and associated bureaus.
The How and Why
Sanctions which the Student Senate is empowered to exercise are: revocation and suspension or origination charters, withdrawal of permissions granted by itself, suspension of individual rights exercised under the con- -j stitution; recommendation for disciplinary-action by the University.
Functions of the Student Senate will be: authorization, regulation, and initiation of student activities; approval and inspection of student organizations; to choose students to represent the student body; to impose sanctions on infractions of its regulations.
The purposes of the Student Senate are expressed in the preamble to its constitution. The main purposes set forth are: to achieve the educational aims of the University by the cooperative effort of students, faculty members, and administrators; to form men who will be able to take positions as leaders in society by the proper development of extra-curricular life; to represent and express the needs of the student body; to train students in the process of democratic government.
—Al Suwalsky

10
The Scholastic
• Council, Debate, Publications Men Dominate Dome Award Winners for 1952 School Year
The highest awards honoring N.D. Students have been announced this week. The annual Dome Awards have been given to four members of the Senior class. The precedent of giving these awards started in 1922. The awards represent the efforts of foul' years of service while at Notre Dame.
The four winners are: William Dempsey, Jim Garvin, John Powers, and Jim Mannion.
The Dome Award, in the shape of a key etched with the N.D. seal, crystal-izes the recognition of service that these men have given the student body and the school during their tenure.
Their efforts, rewarded by these citations, really represent the aggregate efforts of the student body to improve the standards that they found at N.D. as freshmen. The four men singled out represent the four most outstanding examples of contribtuion.
The Dome Award committee consisted of Ray Earls, Don Carbone, Bob Finney, Frank Link, Bob' Phillips, Ed Raque, Jack Alessandrini, Tom Reidy, and Floyd Blair. The committee presented these traditional awards on the basis of academic achievement and extra-curricular excellence.
Bill Dempsey hails from New Ulm, Minnesota. His work on the Debating team has been nothing short of outstanding. Other activities include WND staff membership and the Acad
emy of Political Science. Bill served as secretary of the Class while a sophomore. He is the highest ranking senior in the graduating class, and was elected to Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges. He will receive a Bachelor of Arts and Letters Degree this June.
Jim Garvin was elected to Who’s Who
BILL DEMPSEY
Debater
Among Students in American Universities and Colleges both in his Junior and Senior years, and the Scholastic voted him Man of the Year in his Junior year. He served on the student council all four years, his senior year being President of the Council. Jim was president of the class his sophomore year, the same year taking over the general chairmanship of the Mardi Gras. In his Sophomore and Junior years, Jim was the senior delegate to the N.F.C.C.S. Convention. His home is Toledo, Ohio, and he will receive his Bachelor of Arts and Letters degree this June.
Jim Mannion calls Clayton, Missouri, home. He was Chairman of the Honor System Committee his Junior year, also serving as President of the Class the same year. He was elected to Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges in both his Junior and Senior years. He will receive his bachelor of Science Degree in Commerce this June. Jim was vice-president of the Student Council this year.
Jack Powers is on the Master Plan Committee this yeai* that was sponsored by Jim Garvin. This plan was approved in a student election and will be officially ratified later this spring. He was elected to Who’s Who in American Universities and Colleges his senior year. His Junior year he 'served as News Editor of the Scholastic, and this year he became Editor of the campus magazine. Jack participated in WND’s presentation of the program, •‘Meet the Press.”
JIM MANNION . . . Statesman . . .
JIM GARVIN . . . President . . .
JACK POWERS . . . and Editor
April 25. 1952
11
Capsule Culnel
The attraction between studying and not studying is proportional to the mass of his bloodshot eye?, inversely proportional to the square of the distance between the dinner table and the upstairs desk.
“If this lecture has run overtime, it is because my watch has stopped,” the prof said.
Voice from the back row: “There’s a calendar behind you.”
“I hear that you lost quite a lot of money in the market crash. Were you a bull or a bear?”
“Neither; ju.t a plain, simple jackass.”
Flat-nosed Teacher: “Now, students, watch the blackboard while I run through it once more.”
“Young man, does your mother know you’re smoking?”
“Lady, does your husband know you speak to strange men on the street?”
Alumnus: . “How about the team? Are they good losers?”
Coach: “Good! They’re perfect.”
“Mommy, mommy,” bawded the little girl. “Daddy just poisoned my kitty.”
“Don’t cry dear,” replied the mother sympathetically. “Maybe he had to.”
“No he didn’t,” screamed the heartbroken child. “He promised me I could.”
Grandpappy Morgan, a hillbilly from the Ozarks, had wandered off into the woods and failed to return to supper, so young Tolliver -was sent to look for him. He found him standing in some bushes.
“Getting dark,” the tot ventured.
“Yep.”
“Suppertime, Grandpa.”
“Yep.”
“Ain’t ye hungry?”
“Yep.”
“Well, ain’t ye cornin’ home?”
“Nope.”
“Why ain’t ye?”
“Standin’ in a b’ar trap.”
A young man walked into a drugstore and asked the druggist, “Do you handle fly paper?”
“Yes,” the druggist replied.
“Then wash your hands and fix me a ham sandwich.”
Sophomore in cafeteria: “Looks like rain today, doesn’t it?”
Second Soph: “Yes, but it smells like coffee.”
Miracle Drug Discoverer Speaks at Notre Dame
Dr. Selman A. Waksman, discoverer of streptomycin and Chairman of the Department of Microbiology at Rutgers University, was the 1952 Nieuwland Lecturer in Botany. He’ delivered three lectures in the Biology Auditorium on “Actinomycetes and Their Antibiotics.”
The lectures will be published by the University of Notre Dame Press as one of the volumes in the series of Nieuwland Lectures in Chemistry and Botany.
Dr. Waksman has been a pioneer in the development of the field of soil microbiology. Some of his more recent honors are the' Albert and Mary Lasker Award, the Amory Award of the National Academy of Science in 1948, and the John Scott Award in 1949 for outstanding -work.
The Biology Department sponsored two seminars this week following Dr. Waksman’s appearances. Dr. Frederick J. Hermann, botanist at the Bureau of Plant Industry, conducted the first last Monday on “Flora of Keweenaw County, Michigan”, and the second by Joseph W. Stack, Professor of Zoology at Michigan State University and Director of the Museum, on “Museum Visual Aids and Techniques.”
May Day Procession Slated for Thursday
Next Thursday is May Day, the Russian national holiday for display of might of arms. Here on the Notre Dame campus May Day will be celebrated with a show of spiritual might. Masses in the hall chapels that morning will be celebrated in honor of the Blessed Virgin. Then in the evening the annual procession to the grotto and display of devotion to Mary will take place.
In charge of the program are Bill Osborne and Jim Barry. Various committees have been set up to handle the arrangements. Publicity is under the YCS and Chairman Andy Bauer. The Third Order of St. Francis, with Bill.
Edwards in charge, is obtaining and distributing the candles.
Arrangements and decorations of the Grotto belong to the' Liturgical Life with Bob Denne, chairman. Charley Spicka for the Knights of Columbus is taking care of organizing the procession.
The procession will begin promptly at 8 p.m. The bells at Sacred Heart Church will be rung about 15 minutes beforehand. Candles will be distributed at the doors of the various halls. Students -will proceed by halls to the grotto, led by two K. of C. men.
The rosary will be recited during the procession and it will be led through a loud speaker system from the grotto.
When all the men haye come together at the grotto, the program will begin with the singing of hymns. This will be followed by a talk by Rev. Thomas Brennan,' C.S.C. Then there will be the Consecration to the Immaculate Heart of Mary and a renewal of Baptismal Promises. Solemn Benediction will close the ceremony.
Debaters Win Second Place. Three Other Awards at Case
On the 3rd, 4th and 5th of this month the Notre Dame debate team of Al DeCrane and Chuck Doherty won second place in the field of debate at the 12th annual Tau Kappa Alpha National Speech Conference held at Case Institute.
Competing against 36 other top schools in the last big debate' tourney of the season, Notre Dame distinguished itself in several other fields as well as debate.
Notre Dame received a plaque for * outstanding work in the Plenary Session of the Student Congress, and Don Dowden was awarded a certificate of merit for his personal efforts in the plenary meetings.
Don Dowden and Bill Hank were each awarded the ranking of “excellent” in discussion.
Al DeCrane won the National Tau Kappa Alpha singles debate championship by gathering the highest point total and the best speaker rating.
In the National Tau Kappa extemp contest DeCrane finished second, only one half point behind the winner, Howard Brock of New Mexico.
Notre Dame, in rounding out a highly successful season, was also singled out in this tournament for distinctive achievement. Of the 36 schools and the more than 120 students entered in	/
the contest, Notre Dame was the only	<
school to be selected for awards in three fields.

12
The Scholastic
9 Universal Celebration Toasts ND Progress
World-wide tribute was paid to the academic, scientific, cultural, patriotic, spiritual and other contributions of the University of Notre Dame by more than 20,000 alumni and their friends throughout the world Monday an 1 throughout the week in the 29th annual observance of Universal Notre Dame Night.
A special tribute was paid this year to the accomplishments during the six-year administration of the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, as Notre Dame alumni and friends in 127 communities gathered together for the annual observance.
Father Cavanaugh was the guest of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Los Angeles at the keynote observance of Universal Notre Dame Night.
Archbishop Lawrence L. Graner, C.S.C., a Notre Dame alumnus, will head the observance of Universal Notre Dame Night in Dacca, India, where a number of Holy Cross Priests and Brothers conduct missions, high schools and a recently-opened college.
Similarly in Rome, priests and Brothers, including Monsignor William Doheny, C.S.C., member of the Sacred Roman Rota, spearheaded an observance, centered around the Holy Cross seminary there and the newly-opened high school for English-speaking students just announced by the Brothers of Holy Cross.
Manila, Tokyo, Mexico City, Havana and Lima are among other Notre _ Dame alumni clubs whose observances " contributed to the universality of the annual celebration.
In the United States many Notre Dame alumni clubs sponsored major events, centered around campus speakers, friends of Notre Dame, or films of the campus.
Piano Concert to Feature Contemporary, Classical Music
Washington Hall will be the scene of a concert of contemporary music next Monday evening, at 8 p.m. Prof. Carl Mathes and Rev. Carl Hager, C.S.C., of the Department of Music have arranged a varied program of piano entertainment.
’Following an introduction by Father Hagerj a selection of pieces by Bela Bartok will be presented, including 15 'W Hungarian peasant songs, Lamentation, and Allegro Barbaro. Third cn
the schedule will be a selection of songs by Octavio Pinto, under the titling of Memories of Childhood. Pictures in Old Geographic will be the theme for a lengthy selection of songs by Father Hager.
Keynote Speech by Dean Schoenherr Opens Engineering Department's Two-Day Exhibition
Dr. Karl E. Schoenherr, dean of Engineering, delivered an address on “Engineering in the Life of the Nation” this afternoon at 2:30 in the Engineering Auditorium to mark the opening of the Engineers’ Open House and a display of shows ranging from 20th century novelty shows to ancient chariot races.
Following Dean Schoenherr’s address, the public was led on tours through the various departments of the Engineering college where several laboratory experiments, performed by students, awaited their inspection. Two hours later the American Telephone and Telegraph Co. presented its scientific novelty show in the Engineering Auditorium.
The doors of the Engineering Building will again be opened to the public and students tomorrow morning at ?. Guided tours will be conducted until noon.
A chariot race will be conducted by the Engineering Advisory Board in
CHARIOT AND FRIENDS
Meeh Engineers Prepare for Open House
Selections of E. Dohnanyi, including Pastarale and Etude in F-Minor will follow, while finishing the musical entertainment for the evening will be Portrait of a Peasant by Professor Mathes. *
front of the Notre Dame Stadium at 1 p.m. Each engineering society has designed and made a chariot to enter in the race, each being driven and pulled by engineers from the various societies. Winners of the race ■will be awarded a prize that evening at the dance, and a prize will also be ■awarded for the best looking chariot. The public is invited.
After the race the Engineering Building will again be opened and the public and students will be shown movies in the engineering auditorium on various phases of engineering.
Festivities will close tomorrow night with a Student Council Dance sponsored by the Engineering Advisory Board.
The purpose of the Open House is to acquaint the public and students with the scope of the engineering profession and to show them the facilities the engineering students have on the Notre Dame campus.
April 25. 1952
13
Featured Dancer Added to Student Musical; High School Student Editors Sneak Rehearsal

A new featured dancer, a special show for the editors of high school newspapers, and the gradual rounding into shape of musical routines were in the news as rehearsals for “Stay Tuned for Addleman” continued this week.
With just a little over a week to go before opening night on Sunday, May 4, the large cast has been working out almost daily under the direction of coauthor Jack Hynes.
Named last week to serve as featured dancer with co-choreographer Leon Silvers was Miss Eleanor Fas-key, a graduate of South Bend’s Central High School, who has been active in local theatrical circles for a number of years.
As a member of the Barnstormers, she has served as the author of revues and has played lead parts for the past three years.
Miss Faskey will be spotlighted, with Silvers, in a dancing routine to the tune of “Delight”, one of the' eleven original musical numbers in the show. She will also serve as a member of the “Stay Tuned for Addleman” chorus.
Another new cast appointment saw the naming of football tackle Fred Poehler to fill the part of Bruno, the burly bodyguard for Granby, the sponsor of disc jockey Addleman’s show.
Last Friday evening, a group of visiting high school editors watched director Hynes put his charges through their theatrical paces. Special guests at a rehearsal of the show, they saw stars Charley Schubert, Nancy Driscoll, and Bill Toohey go through a complete performance of the second act.
The editors were invited to publicize the student musical in their student publications, and to help stimulate the sale of tickets in the local high schools.
Over the past week, the entire show has been rounding into shape. Chore-graphers Tom Powers and Leon Silvers have been integrating theii- chorus routines into the rest of the show, set designer Dick Byrnes’ crew have pretty well finished the major construction of the sets, and Jack Hynes has the dramatic .cast putting the finishing touches on the acting portion of the proceedings.
“It looks as if we’re really going to have a fine show,” says Hynes, “the cast is shaping up even better than was expected and by opening night next week, we' should have a production that will be well worth the seeing.
We’d like to see everyone come out to see the show. We think we can guarantee them a good time.”
The musical will hold its first performance, the traditional dress rehearsal for the clergy, on Sunday afternoon, May 4. The regular run will begin that evening, with the show continuing to hold the Washington Hall spotlight through May 8. The capacity of Washington Hall is just a little over 800 which puts a limit on the audience able to get “Stay Tuned for Addleman” tickets at about 4,000.
Announcement will be made in the Dining Hall on various nights next week that certain hall representatives will have a specified number of half price tickets for sale.
Seats are on sale for “Stay Tuned for Addleman” at three prices, reserved tickets at $1.00 and at $.80 and general admission seats for a half dollar.
Chicago Alumni Give Award to Dr. Gurian
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, chairman of the Committee on International Relations at Notre Dame, was presented the fifth annual Notre Dame Faculty Award of the University of Notre Dame Alumni Club of Chicago Satur-
DR. WALDEMAR GURIAN
Outstanding Contributions . . .
day night at the Chicago observance of Universal Notre Dame Night.
The award, which was inaugurated in 1948, is made annually to a member of the Notre Dame faculty for out
standing contributions in the field of learning. Previous recipients of the award include Professor James A. Rey-niers, Director of LOBUND Institute (1948); Dr. Eugene Guth, Director of the High Polymer Physics Laboratory at Notre Dame (1949) ; Dean Clarence E. Manion, of the Notre Dame College of Law (1950) and Professor Richard T. Sullivan, of the Notre Dame English faculty and widely-known author (1951).
Dr. Gurian, who also is Editor of the Review of Politics published at Notre Dame, generally is recognized as one of the most authoritative commentators on international affairs in the United States today. Born in Leningrad, Russia, in 1902, he has been a member of the faculty at Notre Dame since 1937.
A former editor of the Cologne Volkszeitung, Dr. Gurian is the' author of Hitler and the Christians, Bolshevism: Theory and Practice, The Rise and Decline of Marxism and The Future of Bolshevism.
He recently was appointed to membership on the Committee on Slavic Studies of the American Council cf Learned Societies. As a member of the' Committee, Dr. Gurian also serves on the editorial board of the Current Digest of the Soviet Press, which translates into English all important articles appearing in the Soviet Press.
University Again Sponsors Summer Session in Mexico
The sixth annual University of Notre Dame Summer Sesison in Mexico will be held June 12th to August 28th in Mexico City, according to an announcement by Prof. Walter M. Langford, head of the Department of * Modern Languages.
Conducted in conjunction with Mexico City College, the Notre Dame Summer Session in Mexico is designed as a contribution toward better interAmerican understanding, and as an opportunity for the study of the Spanish language, Spanish and Spanish-American literature, and Spanish-American civilization and culture in the atmosphere of the foreign language.
Professor Langford said that credit for undergraduate work completed during the session will be granted by , Mexico City College and accepted by Notre Dame on the basis of one semester hour of credit for each week of study.
Although the Notre Dame Summer Session in Mexico has been planned primarily for Notre Dame students, > a other qualified students also may attend.
The Scholastic s
14
• ND's Desmond Gets NFCCS Region Post
Marshall Desmond, Notre Dame sophomore, was elected treasurer of the NFCCS Fort Wayne Region at the regional council meeting and annual congress last weekend at Marian College in Indianapolis. He and the other new officers will assume theii-positions at a final regional council meeting here May 11.
In all, eight men represented Notre Dame at the weekend’s meeting. Others besides Junior Delegate Desmond were Regional President John O’Connell, Acting Senior Delegate Don Carbone, Tom Godfrey, Regional Inter-American Action Commission Chairman Charles Crowley, Frank Donovan, Tom Nourie, and Bruce Fox.
9 The council granted full commission status to the regional Forensics Com-
• mittee, chaired by Notre Dame’s Joe Conwell. The new commission was established as a committee less than five months’ ago.
In his keynote speech at the congress, retiring President O’Connell emphasized the importance of forming a concrete program for the comingyear. A second speaker, Fr. Goosens of Indianapolis, discussed the need for Catholic students to spread the Church’s social teaching in the secular world.
The new constitution drawn up by Paul Zalecki, Notre Dame senioi- delegate, was accepted unanimously by the Congress delegates after several amendments had been added to it. This constitution contained several changes from the old one and was intended to V be more in line with the new national constitution.
Carbone, as regional OSP chairman, reported on the results of the 1952 fund-raising drive which, with ND’s expected contribution, should reach its goal of $1700.
A good part of the meeting dealt with commission panels, two of which • were run by Notre Dame men — Crowley as chairman of the IAAC panel and Donovan acting as head of the Forensics meeting.
Senior Ball Preparations Nearly Complete: Tickets Scarce, Aid Asked in Waning Days
The various committees working on the Senior Ball, to be held in the Drill Hall on May 9, are rapidly progressing in their preparations for the dance.
Decorations managers, Jack Daut, George Riverman, Tom Foley, and Tony	Messina, are planning several
new innovations to fit the theme of the Ball,	“Dancing in	the	Clouds,”	and
dance	Co-chairmen	Dick	Stubbing	and
Roger	Fitzsimmons	have	promised	that
this year’s decorations will surpass all previous ones in charm and beauty.
Incidentally, those who might wish to aid with the decorations may do so by contacting any member of the Decoration Committee.
Band Committee chairman Bob Coss-aboon has secured Ray Anthony to provide music for the Ball, while Hank McCormack and Dave Lajoie have the
task of getting hotel rooms for seniors escorting dates from out of town.
Ticket distribution is being handled by Bill Martin and Bill Delaney. Jack Curtin is managing the business end of the affair. Bids to the dance are going- rapidly and it is expected that all available tickets will be sold by tonight.
In addition to the Senior Ball itself, a Communion Breakfast has been arranged for 10:30 Sunday morning. Seniors and their dates will attend the 9 a.m. Mass reserved for them at Sacred Heart Church and then adjourn to the Oliver Hotel where they will dine and hear an address by either the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh or the Rev. John Cavanaugh.
Tickets for the breakfast are S3.00 per couple and may be purchased from members of the ticket committee.
SENIOR BALL COMMITTEE
For ‘Dancing in the Clouds,’ Ray Anthony
ND Artists Display Work At Illinois U. Arts Festival
The Newman Club of the University of Illinois will display the work of two Notre Dame artists in its Third Annual Christocentric Arts Festival beginning Monday, April 21.
Mr. Stanley Sessler, Head of the Department of Art at Notre Dame, will show two paintings in oil, “Old and New” and “Grotto in the Spring, Notre Dame.” Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., professor of sculpture, is showing an oak panel called “Playing Cherubim”.
The Arts Festival will be held at the Newman Foundation of the University, in Champaign, Illinois. Artists throughout the country have been invited to participate in the exhibition of sacred art. The theme and accent will be a.Christian one.
April 25. 1952
15
The Bookmen...
Students of the Arts
One of the few clubs on campus which channels into serious and intelligent discussion energies which are often released only in inter-room disputes is Bookmen, a club which was organized . in the spring semester of last year. The name “Bookmen” is not a new one at Notre Dame. The present club has renewed the activities of a discussion group of the same name which was dissolved in 1946 because of the changed situation on campus during the war.
In its basic structure, the new club follows the simple pattern of the prewar Bookmen. Its officers include a president, who arranges a program for each meeting and presides between discussions; a vice-president, who is in charge of new membership proceedings; and a secretary-librarian, who keeps a record of meetings and arranges for borrowing and lending of books between members. Meetings are
BOOKMEN IN SESSION
. . . and Then a Report on Modern Literature
held twice a month and no regular dues are charged, since members bear the club’s few expenses, such as its bi-annual banquet, individually. Bookmen' also carries on its discussions in a rather informal manner and its province is the same as that of the former organization — “Contemporary Literature and the Allied Arts.”
Freedom of Presentation
In keeping with Bookmen's liberal aims and broad interests the member in charge of presenting material for discussion at a given meeting has a great deal of freedom regarding the method of his presentation. A recent paper treating the art of sculpture by the work of Auguste Rodin was accompanied by plates of Rodin’s figures which were used to illustrate concretely the points brought out in the paper. More commonly, a member simply
FAHEY, HAENDLER, AND CANNON Preparation ...	J
I
reads a paper on his chosen topic which is afterward discussed or initiates a discussion directly and guides it along the various phases he has planned.
The latitude implied in the description of the subject matter discussed by the Bookmen has allowed for a variety of topics. The figures of modem literature who have been discussed include Elizabeth Maddox Roberts, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Erich Marie Remarque and Ignazio Silone. Combining a literary and a philosophical problem, one paper treated of “The Faustian Man in the Novels of Bern-anos and Dostoyevsky.” The only definite restriction as to subject matter is that material for literary discussions must be drawn from writings of the contemporary period (which is roughly outlined as writings from the middle of the Nineteenth Century to the present) and that all other topics must be drawn from the field of the Fine Arts.
New Membership Drive
Since its re-birth last year, Bookmen has enjoyed great success in achieving the ends for which it was designed and in finding that many students are interested in a serious exchange of ideas on modern literature and art. Its membership has grown from the six students who attended its original meeting for organization to a present total of seventeen members. Since many of these' members are seniors who will graduate in June, a forthcoming membership drive will consider applicants for several vacancies. Bulletins will be posted in residence halls stating the exact time new members will be considered and the method of application.
16
The Scholastic
Spring
in the City
Photos by Bob Huddleston
Consider the warm, sunny weather, bringing the wanderlust exemplified by one wayfaring wanderer. He didn’t really intend to roam. He just started to watch pipe-laying operations outside the Morris Inn, followed the pipe southward, and kept on going.
Who, with plenty of time and a beautiful day, could help but turn into Leeper Park and stop along the scenic St. Joseph River, to be alone for a few brief moments, to contemplate, to ponder, to mull, to—being perfectly frank—gain a bit of open-air sack-time? Or pause again at the duck pond?
April 25. 1952
the past; occasionally he stops to
unknown destination.
ABOVE: The city ing motorist with decency burning ports him ever
He has dredged up memories of conjure up dreams of the future.
behind him, a pass-the spark of human in his heart transcloser to his still-
LEFT: There is no season like Spring C to bring back childhood memories. Gee, one might think, I sure had it soft in those days. Nothing to do but slide down slides and swing on swings. And then the gimlet stare of a small neighbor reminds one that those days are gone forever.
LEFT: The childhood memories slip back
into the forgotten post,
and refreshed in spirit and body, our wayfarer continues on his unhurried way. BELOW: Past stores he wanders, past pumping stations and hospitals, drawn ever onward by the lure of the big city.


back.
Another afternoon
begins the patient waiting and long ride of Spring in the City.


ABOVE: And where does he end? In the wilds of Mishawaka, in Potowotami Park, in communion with nature. Animals, they say, instinctively recognize a friend. If such is the case, our wayfarer either possesses tainted saltine crackers or no more than the second friendliest face in the world. Those show-off children again!

BELOW: The string of shut-outs is continued in the lion and monkey houses, principally because the lions were too sleepy to be bothered, and the monkeys too smart. And so the afternoon ends, so


20
The Scholastic
Blood, Sweat, But no Tears
Photos by DICK BENNETT
To prove that blood can be beautiful, Scholastic ventured behind the Red Cross white curtain this week to bring you the entire donation episode from puncture to pinning. The victim is Bill Dudine, Junior from Jasper, Ind., one of the 2000-odd donors who set a national collegiate record for bloodletting (see story on page 9).
He is indoctrinated, questioned, and tested (left) in the extensive Red Cross process which insures both the safety of the donor and the quality of the blood, and has one final nervestiffening shot, of fruit juice (upper right), before the big moment arrives.
Having previously ascertained that he has veins, it only remains for the nurse to find them (right) and then, quicker than he can squeeze the sponge, blood spills (below). It is all over sooner than expected and, feeling surprisingly healthy, he heads for lunch.
In between thoughts that “There’s nothing to it” and “If I don’t stait feeling dizzy soon I won’t have anything to talk about back in the hall,” he is pinned (below right) with the badge of someone who “gave to save a life.”
Yes, he will wear it proudly!
April 25; 1952
21
Tomorrow's Party Politics Confab Terminates Midwestern Poli Science Convention Here
Political scientists from the central Mid-Western states are now in session here in theii- tenth annual meeting. The conference opened last evening ar 8 o’clock, and will close tomorrow at noon. Host to the representatives is Notre Dame’s Department of Political Science, with Dr. Paul Bartholomew acting as chairman of the Local Arrangement Committee.
Basically, the purpose of the annual conference is to discuss the common problems of teaching and have the members put forward ideas which might aid in advancing knowledge of political science. This gathering will also be a preparative meeting for the national conference of the Political Science Association which will meet in Buffalo, N. Y., this summer.
The regional group has met annually since 1935 and this is the second year it has held its conference at Notre Dame. Formerly, the meetings were held in hotels, but ever since 1946, when it met here, the meetings have been held at mid-Western universities. University sites in previous years have included the universities of Wisconsin, Minnesota, and Michigan.
Activities at the conference consist of general sessions, round tables, open conferences, luncheons, and several tours.
Harold M. Vinacke, University of Cincinnati, as presiding officer, opened the conference yesterday evening. The visitors were welcomed to the University by Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of Academic Affairs.
ND Men Speak
Two N. D. men spoke yesterday. Dr. Paul Bartholomew of the Department of Political Science, gave an introductory speech. A graduate of the University, Mr. Walter Trohan, class of ’26, presented a talk on “Newspapers, Professors, and Politics,” following Dr. Bartholomew. Mr. Trohan is at present the Chicago Daily Tribune Washington correspondent.
As a member of a panel discussing “The Present Scene in Central-Eastern Europe,” Dr. Waldemar Gurian spoke on the topic, “State and Church” this morning. This morning’s discussions consisted of round tables on “Methodology in Political Science: Foundations for Systematic Study; the Present Scene in Central-Eastern Europe; Southeast Asia Today; and Current Trends in State and Local Government.” These gatherings were held in
the Faculty Lounge of the Main Bldg., the lounge in Rockne Memorial, Morris Inn, and the Law Auditorium.
At noon today a luncheon was held at St. Mary’s College which was open to Notre Dame students who secured tickets. For those not attending the luncheon, a guided tour through the Studebaker Corporation plant was made available.
A little later an open conference concerning the “Inter-University Case Program” was held. At the same time a tour on chartered busses was taken of South Bend, for those interested.
This evening’s agenda consists of several round tables, “Methodology m Political Science: How Adequate Are Our Foundations; Administrative Responsibility; and Responsibility of Political Scientists in Civic Education.” These discussions are to be held in the Faculty Lounge of the Main Bldg., the Law Auditorium, and Morris Inn’s Parlor B, respectively. They begin at 8 o’clock and are open to all students.
Later in the evening, Drewry’s Limited, and the Department of Political Science here will be hosts to the visitors in a visit to the Rathskeller of Drewry’s Limited.
‘Parties and Politics’
Tomorrow morning’s sole session, the last meeting of the .conference, will be a general session' on “Parties and Politics in 1952.” This gathering will be in the Engineering Building Auditorium at 9:30 o’clock.
Local arrangements for the conference were made by a committee consisting of Chairman Dr. Paul Bartholomew, and Rev. Stanley J. Perry, C.S.C., both of Notre Dame; Sister M. Benedictus, C.S.C., and Bruno P. Schlesinger, of St. Mary’s College; J. K. Kingsbury of Indiana University; Clark F. Norton, DePauw University.
STUDENT COUNCIL DANCE
The Rockne Memorial will be the scene of the second post-Lenten Student Council dance tomorrow evening from 8:30 until 11:30. Gene Hull and his orchestra will provide the music and the usual permissions have been granted. Busses will be available for those taking St. Mary’s students. Tickets will be on sale at the door for the old price of $1.50.
Nationwide Religious * Congress Here Aug. 9
During- the days from August 9 to 13, Notre Dame will be host to the first All-U. S. National Congress of Religious.
Between 500 and 800 men and women religious delegates are expected to attend the Congress, which is to be presided over by Rev. Arcadius Lar-raona, C.M.F. Father Larraona is the Secretary and Acting Prefect of the Sacred Congregation of Religious. Rev? Edward L. Heston, C.S.C., Procurator General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, has been named secretary general for the gathering.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, has been appointed honorary chairman over two national committees—one of the women W representatives, the other formed of the male delegates. These committees ■ will promote and arrange the details of the Congress, and when here, will convene jointly and separately.
They will be headed by Mother Mary Gerald Barry, O.P., Superior General of the Dominican Sisters of Adrian, Mich., and Rev. Adam C. Ellis, S.J., of St. Mary’s, Kans., respectively. Provincials and community leaders will compose the committees.
Like the International Congress of Religious held in the U. S. in 1950, this Congress will devote itself to general discussions and pooling of ideas concerning religious life in present-day circumstances. It is desired that a deepened and strengthened religious, life will result, which will be an aid to the Holy Father in reviving the' world’s Christianity.	' W
General and specialized meetings are scheduled which will completely cover religious life of modern times, especially being concerned with problems of religious formation and the apostolate. Specialized discussions will be devoted to such topics as education, missionaries, parish work, seminary training, novice masters and mistresses, hospital work, schools of various levels, and other similar projects.
This gathering seems to be the first result of the Holy Year International Congress, which itself aroused great interest. It is worthy of note that not only was the International Congress held in the U. S., but also that the first national congress is being held here at Notre Dame. One reason advanced for the selection of the U. S. for both congresses is that this country is still relatively young, and its ideas and viewpoint are still young .	J
I
The Scholastic	i
22
and fresh; the outlook of older countries is considered more fixed and unchangeable.
Another significant fact is that this is the first time that the Secretary of the Congregation of Religious, as such, has visited the U. S., and in a business capacity at that.
The very proposal of such a gathering is significant of a change in the work of the Congregation of Religious, which formerly restricted its scope to religious communities’ legal affairs, such as dispensations, special permissions, faculties, constitution changes, and the like, to now include coordination of religious activities all over the world. This, it is considered, will facilitate community works with the least expenditure of man and womanpower.
Irish Cadets to Go to West Point Exercises
Cadet Second-lieutenants Robert J. Howard and Francis J. Walter have been chosen by the Notre Dame detachment of the Army ROTC to represent Notre Dame at the forthcoming observance of the 150th Anniversary of the Military Academy at West Point.
The Sesquicentennial celebration, to be observed through the month of May, will be attended by cadets from 40 Fifth Army ROTC colleges in this area. -
These cadets were selected by the President of the University at the recommendation of the local unit command on the' basis of academic standing, military bearing and appearance, poise, aptitude, and military interest.
The two officer-cadets will fly to West Point at the expense of the Fifth Anny.
Cadets Howard and Walter, both Sophomores in engineering, have displayed active interest in the Army training program; Cadet Walter is a member of the Army Rifle team, and Cadet Howard last semester gained a 99 average in Military Science.
During their stay at the Point, the visiting cadets will follow completely the daily routine of the Academy, and will thus gain as close a view into the operations of the Academy as possible.
For the length of his visit to West Point, each cadet will be given an individual host to escort him over the Academy, and will attend classes, take his meals, and be given sleeping quarters with the regular Academy cadets.
Thespians Decide ND Has Too Few Plays, Form Dramatics Club to Remedy Situation
Last November 14, an ambitious group of students met and discussed what they claimed has heretofore been a dormant issue on campus, a student drama club.
Although students have produced a number of fine plays during the course of the last few years there has been no organized group to handle these activities. However this small group, headed by Freshman Bill Bleakley and faculty moderator Steve Hauser,
ND Scholarships Available
The Committee on Scholarships has announced that all students who desire to continue their scholarships in the following school year and students beyond the first semester of the freshman year who desire to apply for scholarships in the following school year must signify their intention to the committee in writing not later than May 1.
Scholarship students are required to maintain in each semester a scholastic average of 85 per cent and not have incurred any major disciplinary penalty. Students are selected on the basis of academic record and financial need.
NEW DRAMA CLUB . . . Three Plays Are Too Few
working on the assumption that three plays and one musical are too few for a University of this size, has decided to do something to remedy the situation.
Although there are many students working in this new organization it is not' as yet chartered with the Student Council, nor has it any definite organizational set up. .
Most of the ideas and plans proposed are tentative, but with a little encouragement and cooperation this group hopes to develop into the much discussed student drama society.
Some of the prospective plans are to develop a student workshop and discussion group. The workshop would not only train actors but also technicians such as stage and makeup men. This discussion group would criticize and seek to stimulate dramatic interest.
In addition, plans for an honorary dramatic fraternity are likewise being formed.
The active participants hope to have ready for presentation the play Brother Orchid before the end of this semester. Should" this idea materialize Gerry Godwin will be featured in the title role' and Mr. Hauser will be the director.
April 25. 1952
23
Sorrowful Mother Novena Proves Popular, Successful
A success since it started six weeks ago, the Sorrowful Mother Novena is still proving to be extremely popular at Notre Dame. The services, held every Friday evening at- 6:45, have continued to fill Sacred Heart Church with prayerful suppliants seeking Our Holy Mother’s help—for the conversion of Russia and world peace.
Since the weekly devotion was inaugurated by the Servite Fathers in Chicago in 1937, it has been established in more than 2,000 churches in the United States and Canady, and has been introduced in 31 foreign countries. It was primarily through this Novena that devotion to Our Lady of Fatima was propagated in this country.
Since the first service at Notre Dame, conducted by the Rev. C. M. Brissette, O.S.M., national director of the Perpetual Novena, and broadcast throughout the Chicago area over radio station WCFL, Chicago, the weekly services have been conducted by Rev. R. J. Grimm, C.S.C., and Rev. Joseph A. Barry, C.S.C., the church has been filled at' every service, the inaugural attendance being close to 1500.
These devotions are carried on weekly in prisons, hospitals, convents, seminaries, and colleges. Notre Dame is the first major men’s university to introduce the Novena into its religious activities.
The purpose of the Novena is to realize and heed the requests of the Blessed Mother at Fatima for the conversion of the Russian people. In 1946, the Novena gave national circulation to a special prayer for “the Conversion of Russia and a Lasting Peace.”
Centered around the Seven Sorrows of the Blessed Virgin, the Novena itself consists of six official prayers, a blessing of the sick, the Way of the Sorowful Mother, various hymns, and Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament.
The' Sorrowful Mother Novena is a perpetual Novena, and is held every Friday throughout the year. Nine consecutive Fridays constitute one Novena. Service's will continue at Notre Dame for the remainder of the current semester and during the Summer Session.
In addition, the Novena Notes, a small publication edited by Fr. Brissette, is distributed at each service. Recently, a special issue of the Novena Notes was dedicated to the opening service at Notre Dame, covering the initial service with pictures and articles concerning the University.
WND's 'Kilocycle Quiz' Pot Grows on 3-Weelc Stumper
WND’s special “Kilocycle Quiz,” the first big give-away show ever run over the Student Voice, enters its third week tomorrow night with a jackpot that’s growing by leaps and bounds and still no sign of a winner.
The three-time-a-week WND feature, which gives clues to the identity of a special “mystery subject” is open to both Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students. “Response has been terrific,” reports head quizmaster Jim Gannon, but as yet no one has come close to the subject.
Tomorrow evening on Jim Gannon’s Record Party (WND, 7 until 9 p.m.) another set of musical clues will be given. The contest will continue with more clues and more prizes on Sunday afternoon over Bill Toohey’s Turntable show, and will move into its third weekly program on Wednesday evening at 8:45, when Al Wood emcees a special “Kilocycle Quiz” show.
Prizes are being donated by various WND sponsors and, if the contest continues to run for just two more weeks should reach a total of well over fifty dollars.
To take part in the WND Kilocycle Quiz, any Notre Dame' or St. Mary’s student listening to one of the' programs can take his or her guess at the mystery subject, write it on a postcard and mail it in to QUIZ, care of WND. Any one person may enter as many guesses as he wishes.
'Barrister's Derby* Features Gene Hull's Combo for May 2
On May 2, about 150 future lawyers and their fair companions will dance to the musical strains of Gene Hull’s band. The' South Bend Country Club has been selected as the site of the dance.
Dancing will -be from 10 until 2. As an opening to the evening’s entertainment the co-chairmen and their queens will lead off with the grand march.
Co-chairmen for the dance, which is to be called the “Barrister’s Derby,” are Jack Fena and Bob Enburg. Coqueens of the dance null be' Kaye Fena and Ariis Enburg, the wives of the chairmen.
Decorations in keeping with the theme' will be taken care of by a committee under the chairmanship of Toby Berry.
Programs, publicity for the dance, and transportation arrangements are being taken care' of by Bob McCoy, Ollie Celusta, and Dave Mathews respectively. Tickets may be obtained from Jack Connelly, ticket chairman.
SRT-TV SRT-TV SRT-TV
uevisioN BROADCASTING
Special SUMMER COURSES
6-week intensive professional training to prepare you for a Job in Camera Operation • Direction • Protram Baildint • Production • Film Tech-■iqiies • Video Effects • Copywriting • Sales, etc.
Instruction by outstanding network professionals.
Complete TV station equipment.
Teaching under actual broadcast conditions.
Courses start
JUNE 23 and JULY 21 Also courses in Radio Announcing, limited Enrollment — Write or call for illustrated brochure "Your Future In Television"
DEPARTMENT 21
C A V / /School ol
BW N / Radio Technique) TELEVISION STUDIOS America's Oldest Broadcasting School 316 West 57 St., New York 19, N. Y.
Plaza 7-3211

(A
SRT-TV
AQUINAS Library and
Bookstore
Next to the grace of God a taste for good reading is one of the greatest gifts we can possess.
•
110 EAST LaSALLE
David Kempler
FAY’S
Quality Jewelers
Welcomes Notre Dame students to come in and visit with us.
We carry a large showing of fine
Watches and Jewelry...
We maintain a complete
Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
Ill South Michigan Street
24
The Scholastic
Quantico Marines Face Irish Today
Gridders Scrimmage ,rish DroP Rrst Fi*e G«"es off '52 Season, Under Hot April Sun Then Win Doubleheader From Ohio State
By JACK SAND
With Spring football practice now running into its third week, many a Notre Dame' Student will still have an opportunity to catch a glimpse at what they can expect from the Fighting Irish in the coming fall season.
Last Saturday the Irish returned to the Stadium turf to i'un through a full one hour scrimmage, with the offensive units playing against the defensive platoons on every occasion. Coach Frank Leahy confined his lads to the drilling of the strict fundamentals from the “T”, with off-tackle plays and line bucks dominating the action. Quarterback Ralph Guglielmi did test his accurate right arm though, as he flipped several passes, one a long 30 yard peg of halfback John Lattner.
FIRST BASEMAN DICK ROSENTHAL (19) IN OHIO STATE ACTION
Lose the first five, then take double header from undefeated Buckeyes
By TOM FOOTE
Hunter Moved to End
The only switch in the regular align-ment was the insertion of ends Joe Katchik and Walt Cabral on the starting offensive unit replacing Minnie Mavraides and Don Penza who were both shifted to the second offensive team. Otherwise the line remained intact with Fred Poehler and Joe Bush at the tackles, Tom Seaman and Frank Varrichione at the guards, and Jim Schrader at center. Big Art Hunter, who is undergoing a transformation from center to end, saw action with both the first and second units.
The opening backfield of quarterback Guglielmi, halfbacks Lattner and Joe Heap, and fullback Neil Worden coordinated very well with the line' as it managed to scrape up three touchdowns on a series of successive scrimmage plays beginning at the 45 yard line'. The first of these three scores was recorded by Joe Heap on a four a yard dive through the middle followed up later by an identical run on the (Continued on Page 31)
After a near-disastrous season’s start, Coach Jake Kline’s basebailers will seek to improve their record when they take on the' Quantico Marines this afternoon and again tomorrow on Car-tier Field. Next Wednesday the Irish nine meets Northwestern at Evanston while' Pittsburgh will come here the following Friday and Saturday for a two-game series.
The Irish were plagued by shoddy infielding at times and ineffective hitting as they dropped their first five games, but bounced back to take a double win from Ohio State last Saturday.
Two Games Rained Out
At Camp Breckinridge, Kentucky, April 9 Notre Dame opened the' current season by dropping a 4-1 encounter to the army team. The Irish were held to seven hits, Jim Mutschel-ler singling home the lone run. Camp Breckinridge scored all four runs in the first inning off pitcher Tom Buj-nowski who went the route', twirling
shutout ball the rest of the way. The second game of the two-game series was rained out.
Rain prevented another game when Notre Dame journeyed to Fort Knox for a two-game set April 12-13. The only game played went to the soldiers by a 6-4 count. Stan Konopka went all the way for the Irish, giving up only six hits but dishing out 13 walks and three wild pitches. One bad inning again cost the Irish the game as the military scored five of their runs in the second frame.
Freshman Tom Bujnowski was the pitching victim as the Klinemen bowed to Iowa’s Hawkeyes 7-2 at Iowa City on April 15. Merle Jensen of the Hawkeyes gave up only six hits, allowing the' Irish only three baserunners after they scored twice in the second inning.
Irish Lose Close One
Jim Gibbons, like his predecessors, went all the way on the mound the following day but the Klinemen drop
April 25, 1952
ped a 3-2 decision to the Hawkeyes in the series finale. Gibbons scored one run on a wild pitch and Mutscheller came in on a wild infield throw to knot the count at 2-2, but Iowa came up with a run in the 7th to sew up the game.
Last Friday the Irish returned to Cartier Field to open the home season and dropped an erratic 8-5 affair to Ohio State in the opener of a three-game series. Eighteen bases on balls, three wild pitches, and a hit batsman characterized the pitching activity for the afternoon. Konopka started on the hill for the Irish but gave way to Bob Stefkovitch in the fifth when the Buckeyes scored three times to wrap up the game. With Gibbons triple and Ridge’s double as the big blows, the Irish turned out their biggest run production to date.
Then the Klinemen removed all doubt that Irish followers might be developing by blasting the' Buckeyes in both ends of a twin bill on Saturday afternoon, breaking a 7-game Ohio State win string as well as their own •5-game losing streak.
Pitchers Star
Tom Buj nowski scattered five hits as the Irish won the first one 3-1, and sophomore George Moresco turned in another well-pitched game by allowing only four hits as Notre Dame won the nightcap 4-1. In the opener all three Irish runs came in the third inning. A walk to Farrell, a sacrifice, and singles by Colloton, Mutscheller, and Costigan plus an infield out resulted in two markers in the first inning; the Irish also picked up single tallies in the third and fourth, Moresco driving in the final run with the day’s only extra base hit, a double to left center.
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
Apr. 25—BASEBALL—Quantico Marines here
25-26—TRACK—Drake Relays—Penn Relays
26—BASEBALL—Quantico Marines here
26—TENNIS at Northwestern
26—GOLF at Purdue
26-27—SAILING—Michigan Invitational at Ann Arbor
30—BASEBALL at Northwestern
30—TENNIS—Purdue here
May 1—TENNIS at Indiana
2—BASEBALL at Pittsburgh
Irish Ne+men Oppose NU Squad Tomorrow
By KEN MURPHY
The Notre Dame tennis team, led by captain Tom Overholser", journeys to Evanston, Illinois, tomorrow to take on the Northwestern University squad in what Coach Walter Lang-ford rates as possibly one of the toughest matches of the season. Langford picks six of the clashes on the 11-match schedule as probable toss-ups, and tomorrow's setto is one of them.
TOM OVERHOLSER A better season than last
Langford however, has high hopes of improving on last year’s mediocre 5-6 record, since the present squad has more balance and depth than its predecessor. In fact the ’52 squad “could have been the strongest in this part of the country” in the words of the Irish coach, had it not been for two of his most promising youngsters— freshman Wally Clark and sophomore Jim Farrell—being declared scholastically ineligible. “Now the squad is a question mark,” continues Langford, “and all I can say is that we will not be overpowering.”
The success of the coming season, however, will depend greatly on one other very important factor—the freshman ruling. Freshmen are eligible for varsity competition this season., and while the law won’t help the Irish cause to any great extent, it may very well aid some of Notre Dame’s opponents.
There is one thing to be certain of, though. Last year marked the first v time in his twelve years of tutoring that Coach 'Langford’s netmen had a losing season, and you can bet he doesn’t want to see the feat too readily duplicated.
Angyal in Number One Position
The squad’s big four right now includes senior Overholser and juniors Ken Angyal, Ray Smith, and Matt Tuite. All veterans, these boys should lend the needed balance to the team. Angyal played number one last year and will probably do an encore at that position. , Smith, who played at the number two position last year, will be someplace in the top four with Overholser and Tuite. Tuite’ played in 1950, but has just returned to school after serving a hitch in the navy.
Playing number five at the moment is sophomore Don Crowley. Sophs Chuck Gallagher and Dick Simons are holding down the numbers six and seven spots respectively, while freshman Maurice Reidy is playing eighth.
Next Wednesday, April 30, the Irish host the Purdue racketmen and Thursday, May 1, take on the Hoosiers of Indiana at Bloomington.
Notre Dame Bowlers Lose To Red Hot Blue Demons
Notre Dame’s Intercollegiate bowling forces closed out its season last Sunday in the friendly confines of South Bend’s Bowl-Mor alleys only to lose three out of five matches to a red hot Depaul outfit. The Blue Demons made quick work of the Irish keglers as they copped the first three contests to automatically insure themselves of . the victory.' This win for Depaul averaged a previous setback handed to them at Chicago and also dropped the Irish down to third place in the MIB Conference.
The one consolation gained in the losing cause was Dick Ryal’s sensational pin blasting in which he pounded the maples for a 1045 series, with scores of 180, 194, 204, 238, and 229. As a team the Irish actually didn't lose the series, but instead were beaten by the sizzling Blue Demons, whose three winning series of 919, 911, and 897, were too much to overcome.
Rolling second to Ryal’s Superb five game average of 209 was Neal Murphy, with an 887 series and 210 high, followed by Jerry Sheehan with 851.
Bob Dougherty, Paul Pfohl, and Jerry Ledwidge’ split the remaining ten games between them with Pfohl having a four game total of 719. Dougherty meanwhile compiled a three game series of 501, and Ledwidge a 460 set.
26
The Scholastic
Notre Dame’s Fan Mail
“Dear Notre Dame: It’s true I am a girl and can’t even play football, but I have been a Notre Dame fan from way back and always pray for the Fighting' Irish to win. I keep a scrapbook with material on the football players and would like for you to send me pictures and information on Johnny Lujack and Leon Hart.”
This letter, selected at random, is typical of thousands of such requests received each year by the sports publicity department. Just answering them takes a lot of time out of the lives of Sports Publicity director Charles Callahan, Secretary Maura Mills, and two student assistants, Bud Cloven and Bill Londo. The deluge, most noticeable during the football season, extends over the whole year.
Answer All Requests
It is the policy of the office to answer all queries and comply with all reasonable requests. Only in a few cases has a request gone unfulfilled. Included in these are the ones that border on the fantastic—for example, one person’s demand for a play-by-play account of every football game in Notre Dame’s history. But where only a simple matter of research is in-
By TOM FOOTE
volved, the department is glad to comply.
If anything stands out from all the fan mail, it is the great diversity of information and objects desired. Requests may range from “What are the words to the Victory March?” to “What position did Jerry Groom play” and from “How can I get an autographed program?” to “Where could I purchase a bust of Knute Rockne?” Then there’s always someone who wants to know if Notre Dame beat DePaul 8-0 on New Year’s Day back in 1894 oi' if Notre Dame played College of Pacific between 1941 and 1944. Photographs of the football players are especially in demand, and Miss Mills states Lujack and Hart were and still are tops on the demand list. However, there was one instance in which a photo request was not fulfilled. The picture in demand was one of the lovely Miss Mills herself, which Maura, in true feminine modesty, never got around to answering.
In time certain persons become well known around the office through their
consistent fan mail. Among the most regular “pen pals” of Callahan’s crew are an inmate at a state prison and a high school senior from the Philippine Islands. One writer is already-known as “Quotes” to the staff for his habit of placing quotation marks around various nouns and phrases.
Mail Offers Good Cross-Section
The tenor of fan mail cn the whole is pleasing with few derogatory notes .urning up. And although the busy staff may be slow in answering some of the queries, most of the writers are patient and courteous regarding slow replies. One reception was a persistent chap who wrote five times in less than two months last summer, each time asking for a re-cap on the baseball season and the score of the Old Timers’ Game.
Letters come from all types of people—from hero-worshiping little boys to starry-eyed high school girls; from loving mothers striving to please their football-minded progeny to downtown quarterbacks demanding the lowdown on a disputed play. Each letter usually affers a human interest angle. For instance, there was a little boy who scribbled a note asking for pictures of the football team, not for himself, but for his teacher, a Notre Dame-lov-
April 25, 1952
27
ing nun. When a boy writes for and receives pictures, it is not uncommon for the office to be suddenly buried under similar requests from other small fry from his neighborhood, indicating the competitive spirit and chain reaction among youngsters.
College Term Papers
High school girls are not exceedingly bothersome to the office although an occasional letter or phone call turns up asking for the campus address or telephone number of a football hero. Letters from school girls usually request information for research papers —such as a freshman from an eastern college who was doing a term paper on Johnny Lujack. Then there’s an occasional note asking what has happened to a former high school star and why he is not playing on the first team.
Also high on the list of fan mail are letters from men in the armed forces who request information to disprove erroneous statistics held by their buddies. It is also in letters from service men that the Michigan vs. Notre Dame controversy rages, with information on the comparative merits of the teams being in high demand.
Each letter has a distinctive appeal of its own. One in particular had many typographical errors, offering some difficulty for the reader to understand it. However, in closing, the author apologized for his mistakes, pointing out that he was blind, was using an unfamiliar typewriter, and didn’t want to bother others with correcting his work. Another man lost a lifetime collection of football records, and programs in a fire and requested anything the office could spare in helping him rebuild his collection. Recently a man found on a California ocean beach a sterling silver medal awarded to a high hurdles winner in the Yale-Notre Dame track meet of 1923 and wrote for information concerning the medals’ owner so that he might return- it.
Irish Heroes vs. Cheesecake
Amidst the huge quantities of all this fan mail, the overall popularity and magic name of Notre Dame stands out. For instance, there was the prison chaplain who discovered that photos of Fighting Irish football heroes can replace those of gorgeous girls. He wrote in for pictures, then awarded them to prisoners on condition that they turn in a like number of pinups. Results exceeded his hopes as he suddenly acquired a large collection of discarded cheesecake.
28
JOHN LUJACK New back coach
By Jack Varley
Listen to the Managers
Spring practice hasn’t always been open at Notre Dame. One of the arguments voiced against it was that it was too difficult to keep the spectators out of the way. This year practice has been opened and the best way to assure that it will stay that way and promote the possibility of open practice in the fall is for the spectators to keep off the practice field. The student managers are out there to make sure fans don’t get in the way, so when they ask you to keep back, do as they say. Stand where they tell you.
Lujack Back at Notre Dame
Johnny Lujack, the new backfield coach, should very capably fill the shoes of Bernie Crimmins as a coach of the Irish backs. Besides his
£
spectacular- career as a quarterback for-the Chicago Bears, he was termed at the end of his collegiate days one of the greatest T-formation quarterbacks of all times. In his three years of football at Notre Dame he completed 144 passes out of 280 for a total of 2080 yards and a .514 average. He carried the ball 81 times for 438 yards, an average gain of 5.4 yards.
The high spot of his Notre Dame athletic career came in the Army game of 1943. He was taking over the-quarterback spot vacated the week before as a result of Angelo Bertelli’s going into active service with the Marines. Lujack completed eight out of 15 passes, two for touchdowns, as the Irish rode over Army, 26-0.
After a hitch in the Navy he returned for the ’46 and ’47 seasons and both years Notre Dame was national champs and Lujack won unanimous All-Ameincan honors. In 1947 he won the Heisman Trophy as the “Outstanding player of the year.”
Leslie Sets More Records
Speaking of outstanding players, Leroy Leslie was recently named the most valuable player on the 1952 College All-Star squad that played the Harlem Globetrotters in the recent “World Series of Basketball.” Goose Tatum won the award as the most valuable Globetrotter. In 16 games, Leslie scored 203 points for an average of 12.7 — a new record for the All-Stars. He also set a new single game scoring mark with 27 in a contest at Kansas City, and in the same game his 12 field goals set another new mark. He tied another record with his 79 field goals for the season.
Odds ’n' Ends >
Dick Berry of Michigan State, the Big Ten epee champion, was recently voted the “collegiate fencer of the year” for technical skill and sportsmanship displayed in the NCAA championships at Yale. Berry placed second in the epee division in the nationals. He was tied for first place with but two matches to go. In his next to the last bout he met Notre Dame’s epee representative, Brian Duff, and lost to him and thus lost the epee crown.

The Scholastic
• Hoosier Track Stars Defeat Irish, Purdue
By ROGER FERNANDES
Last Saturday afternoon at Cartier field Alex Wilson’s Notre Dame track-sters amassed a total of 51 points to finish second to Indiana’s 81 in a triangular meet with that school and Purdue University. The Boilermakers were third with 36. That meet was also a tune-up for the Irish runners who will compete in the Drake Relays today and tomorrow.
Since all three Indiana universities were preparing for the Drake Relays there was plenty of stress placed on the baton carrying races in last Saturday’s get together. The Hoosiers of Indiana U., were overpowering as they W raced away with the honors in foui-out of the five relays. They also were tops in both hurdles, the shot put and the broad jump.
Irish Win One Relay
Notre Dame placed first in the only other relay, the mile, and captured the discus and the pole vault events. Once again it was pole vaulter Jim Harrington who led the' Irish point getters. Jim cleared the bar at 13 feet, 9% inches to set a new Irish and field house mark. Because the outdoor pit was not ready for the meet the pole vault and high jump were both held in the N.D. Field House.
The old outdoor mark of 13-9 was set by Jim Miller in 1949 and the field house record of 13 feet, 8%, that has stood since' 1938, was made by Dan Gibbs. Indiana’s White placed second ™ in the pole vault and Harrington’s teammate, Joe Springer, sailed across the bar for the third place spot.
Notre Dame’s lone' victorious relay team was composed of Bob English, George McDonough, Norm Feltes, and Hughes Wilcox. They won the mile with a time of 3:21.1. In the four other relays of the day the Irish split the second place ribbons with the Purdue runners. N.D. was the runner-up to the Hoosiers in the two-mile and 440-yard while the Boilermakers came in second in the four-mile and the 880-yard affairs.
Soranno Takes Discus
John Soranno, of Notre Dame, threw the discus for a distance of 135 feet, 11% inches to win that event.
Notre Dame also had some runners in the -Texas Relays of last April 5. Wilson’s mile relay team placed fourth with a time of 3:17.5 behind Texas
A & M’s first place mark of 3:15.5.
In the pole vault Jim Harrington was tied for second with a vault of 13 feet even. The top mark of 13 feet, six inches was scored by an Oklahoma A & M man. N.D.’s Newquist fell on the fourth hurdle in the 120-yard High Hurdles and failed to finish. SMU’s Walker took that race with a time of :14.5.
Golfers Trip Indiana; Engage Purdue Next
By JACK HEALY
Not wanting to be overshadowed by Notre Dame’s other athletic squads who made the most of a heavy weekend of sport events, the' Irish golfers
TOM MATEY
Victory in the opener
rolled over the linkmen from Indiana university last Saturday by a score of 18% to 8% on the Burke Memorial course at Notre Dame.
This victory of the' Irish might be classified under the heading of sweet revenge since the Hoosiers whipped Notre Dame last year, 15-12, at Bloomington. It also puts Notre Dame ahead in the young series with Indiana, 3-2.
The match was divided into two sections made up of singles and doubles. The doubles matches, three of them, were sent off in the morning while the six singles matches were held for the afternoon.
Nearly a Clean Sweep
In the morning skirmishes, coach Father Holderith’s choices for the
doubles matches proved to be almost perfect. Notre Dame was just a point and a half away from making it a clean sweep. It was in the very first match that the sole mishap occured. Tom Matey (68) and Bob Filipiak (73) split with their opponents, 1%-1%. This first match also produced the best single effort of the day when Bob Filipiak eagled the par five 465-' yard fifth hole.
The other two doubles teams of the Irish, made up of Frank Marzolf and Jim Terry and team captain Bill Fisher and Joe Moresco, had very little trouble in taking all of the remaining six points.
Again, in the afternoon, Father Holderith’s picks were almost faultless. In all but one of the six matches the Irish came out on top over the Hoosiers. Out of a possible 18 points Notre Dame came away with eleven and as a result started off their season with a victory.
Matey Posts Low
Tom Matey posted the lowest score of the day, a 68. Tom, who advanced to the semifinals of the N.C.A.A. last June, accomplished the feat in the very first- of the morning doubles matches.
Tomorrow the Irish linksmen pack up their clubs and make' the trip to Purdue. To all appearances the Boilermakers are loaded with talent. It would seem that they would have to be, since they dropped Wake Forest a week and a half ago and Wake Forest is rated as having one of the top, golf teams in the nation.
Detroit Cops Honors In Kegler Playoffs
By JACK SAND
The Kampus Keglers wound up their 1951-52 bowling season last Sunday with the Blue League playing off against the' Gold in what proved to be some very surprising matches and some extra fine pin smashing. Out of the first ten teams in each loop, the Blue League boys managed to gain a six to four edge over their Gold League rivals.
The most prominent match of the evening was the deciding first place contest between the Irish and the Detroit Club, with the' latter copping two games out of three to take championship honors for the. second straight yearl After the Irishmen had captured the first match by 12 pins, the Motor City lads came' back strong in a clutch finish to win the final two
April 25, 1952
29
Seniors in Civil Engineering
WORK in CALIFORNIA
WITH STATE DIVISION OF HIGHWAYS
Fine professional positions now open. Civil Engineering degree required. Start any time. Wide choice of locations in California.
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY!
State Personnel Board. 1015 L Street
Sacramento 14. California
Please write me at once about (check) :
__Job immediately after graduation.
..Midsummer examination for later appointment.
Name.....................................................
Address..................................................
City......................... College....................
’325 TO START.
games and the total woodfall by 100 pins.
Veteran Jim Shannon paced the Detroiters with a 541 three game set, followed by Jerry Ledwidge and Don Prebenda with 504 and 500 series respectively. Captain Ernie Buckley was top pinner for the Irish with a 445 cluster.
Kansas City Gains Third Place
Third place honors went squarely to the Kansas City Blues who whitewashed the highly rated St. Louis Club in three successive matches. Heading the Blue League keglers was Gene Andrisevic, whose neat 571 series netted top billing for the night, and placed him an unofficial second in the high series department, since the playoffs are not included in the final individual records. Leading the soundly trounced Saints was Bob Hoyenck with a 532 set and 224 high.
Grabbing the fifth place spot in the standings were the Civil Engineers, as they bowled their way to a three out of four point win over the California
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildrool Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
"YOUR HAIR looks as though it’s been in the rein, deer,” a campus Caribou told Sheedy. "If you want to horn in on the sororities, it might behoof a man of your elk to try Wildroot Cream-Oil, America’s Favorite Hair Tonic. Contains soothing Lanolin. Non-alcoholic. Grooms hair neatly and naturally all day long. Relieves annoying dryness. Removes moose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test!” Paul got Wildroot Cream-Oil and now no girl wonders whether he’s man or moose! If your moose is cooked by unruly hair, collect a little doe and take a taxi-dermist to the nearest drug or toilet goods counter for a bottle or tube of Wildroor Cream-Oil. And ask for it on your hair at the barber shop so your deer won’t think you’ve let herd down. (What she’ll say will be moose-ic to your ears!)
Club. Sparking the Civies to this important triumph was Jack Urbain with 490 and Cy Brabenec with 483. High for the losing Californians was Paul Cushing with 465.
Holding down the sixth place spot along with California and two other clubs was the Pittsburgh crew, who blasted the similar placed ASME to gain a three point victory. Bob Jacobs led the winners with a 490 three game series.
Buffalo Club Sets Record
Also tieing up the sixth position was the Buffalo Club as they made a record breaking clean sweep of the AIEE with a five game total of 2837 ® pins. The red hot New Yorkers registered single game totals of 906, 956, and 975, to eclipse the previous high set by the Chicago Club of 2807. The Windy City lads however will cop the trophy, since the playoffs do not count in the official league statistics.
* of151 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
KCCKSMUlt mtnfi
Pacing the Blue Leagers to their four point victory was Jim O’Brien with a nice 567 series and 213 high, followed by Jerry McCabe with 513. Joe Scherer’s 548 series highlighted the Engineers .in their losing cause.
This coming Wednesday evening, April 30, will find the Kampus Keglers in Mishawaka attending their fifth bowling banquet at which trophies will be awarded to the teams and ? individuals concerned. The banquet | will be the grand finale to another outstanding bowling season, and a vote of thanks must be extended to presi-dent Lou Garippo for his fine job in handling the league’s affairs.
Wildroot Company. Inc.. Buffalo 11. N.Y’.
Spring Practice
(Continued from Page 25) part of Fran Paterra. Lattner tallied the final TD on a six yard off tackle plunge.
Defense Is Strong
The defensive line, which suffered most under the hot sun, was on the whole very effective, and definitely showed signs of increasing strength. This was especially true when Sam Palumbo, Jack Alessandrini, Jim Dun-lay, and Dick Szymanski were in there throwing their weight around. End Bob O’Neil, tackle Bob Ready, and linebacker* Jack Lee, also provided a rough time for the offensive stalwarts, as they proved to those onlookers who were present, that hard playing not only characterizes the regular season, but the pre-season scrimmages as well.
Irish Team Sails to Victory In Indiana Regatta at Purdue
The Notre Dame Sailing Team copped the' fifth annual Indiana Championship Regatta held on Schafer Lake at Purdue University, April 5 and 6. The Irish “middies” garnered a total of 37 points to take the event. Purdue finished second with 35 and DePauw was third with 31. Notre Dame’s John Scannell piled up 19 markers to lead all the skippers.
At the' Michigan State Invitational Regatta April 19 and 20 the Irish fared worse, finishing fifth in a field of seven. Ohio State sailed consistently enough to take first place but it was Ed Rodgers, Commodore of the N.D. Team, who ranked as the highest skipper. He finished with a total of 20 points. Though the Irish finished fifth they were only three points out of third place, compiling 46 points to third place Cincinnati’s 49.
Next week the Sailing Team travels to the University of Michigan for the Wolverine’s annual Invitational meet.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	J. M. S. Bldg.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
A 20% DISCOUNT ON ALL CLEANING AND PRESSING FOR NOTRE DAME MEN.
Notre Dame STUDENTS
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. Jefferson On the Bus Line
Welcome to
128 W. Washington St.
SHAPE OR FORM...
HEAD WEIGHT IS CON CENTRATED
WITH A CHOICE OF WEIGHTS AND SHAFT FLEXIBILITIES
YOU CAN GET A CUSTOM-LIKE FIT.... NO MATTER WHAT
■YOUR STYLE.
jhP® POWER TO YOu, BOYS
THE NEW SPALDING CLUBS MAKE IT EASIER FOR YOU TO GROOVE. YOUR SWING TOR LONGER., STRAIGHTER SHOTS...
SPALOIIf®
sets the pace in sports	W7 *
Ml Hi W SPORTS SHOW800K \ of Mullin Cartoons published in this book only. x^'
WRITE TODAY TO SPALDING—DEPT. C-S2 Chicopee, Mass.

April 25z 1952
3T
best undressed men on the veldt
... spark their pelt with a snappy set of boar’s teeth.
Shrink-proof________but they rattle at night on a date.
best dressed men on your campus
Van Hensen
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP.,
NEW YORK 1
...wear Van Heusen button-down oxford shirts. Perfect for class or off-cainpus.
And vou get a new Van Heusen free if yours ever shrinks out of size.
button-down oxfords $4.50
Westernaires Throw < Hayseed Promenade
Square dance addicts will get a chance to promenade their hayseed hops in formal style tomorrow night when the formidable Henry VIII Ballroom at St. Mary’s College will be transformed into a barn—hay, dungarees, and all—for the first annual Hoedown sponsored by the Irish West-ernaires.
The Westernaires, first group of its kind ever established here on campus, has signed up a regular four-piece hillbilly ensemble to provide the hop-and-skip-rhythm for the affair, a group of six first-rate callers, and an attendance of 100 couples.
A special program of two exhibition square dances and two couple dances has also been booked for intermission periods.
Inaugurated because of its sure-fire knack for providing wholesome entertainment and thwarting wallflowers, the 200-member group was originally undertaken as a YCS project last Fall and has since developed into one of the most active groups in this dual-campus area.
Local professional callers from South Bend, including Mrs. Spears and Mrs. Mac Alpin, have donated their services for the past seven practice sessions in preparation for the climax of the club’s activities tomorrow night.
Four different sections comprise the entire membership—two groups of St. Mary’s girls, headed by Patti Denholm and Beverly Smith; a St. Joseph’s Academy group; and another group of Co-hop Club members from downtown South Bend.—Pat Carrico •
Celebrate Solemn High Mass In Byzantine Rite Tomorrow
Make GILBERT'S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o'clock
32
In a tongue somewhat unfamiliar to the' Notre Dame campus, the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass will be offered tomorrow morning according to the Byzantine Slavonic Rite in Sacred Heart Church. The Solemn High Mass, to be said in the Oriental tongue, will begin at 9:30 o’clock.
Three priests of the Eastern rite will officiate at the service, with the Very Most Rev. Alexander Papp, Dean of the Chicago area of the Pittsburgh Diocese of the Byzantine Slavonic Rite, as celebrant.
The most notable privilege of this Mass will be the right of all Communicants to receive under both species of
The Scholastic
bread and wine. This practice is totally unfamiliar to churches of the Western Rite, but is common to churches of the Eastern Rite.
Another feature of the Mass will be the mixed Midwest Byzantine Slavonic Chorus which will be under the direction of Rev. Michail Hrebin. This 100-member group of select voices from the Chicago area will sing a capella in response.
Though the Eastern Rite differs greatly as regards pomp and ceremonial rites, it is, nevertheless, recognized by Rome. In fact, today, there are over one million Catholics who express their Catholic Faith in an approved rite other than ours.
Words of the Most Rev. Daniel Ivancho, Bishop of the Pittsburgh Byzantine-Slavonic Rite Diocese, express the motive for understanding the Eastern Rites: “We feel that the sacred venerability and today’s historical importance of the Eastern Rites merit not only sensory admiration and a simply profane fascination of the curious but there also is needed a love that is based on clear and sympathetic understanding and knowledge of the Eastern Rites.”

Blood Drive
(Continued from Page 9) tion, and will receive a certificate acknowledging his donation.
The Red Cross has announced that all blood which has been given by Notre Dame and other colege students will be put to immediate use. All universal, type “o” blood will be flown directly to our fighting men in Korea, for use within 72 hours after leaving here. The Red Cross has stressed the fact that all donated blood will be used only for military purposes.
The Chairmen, who still wish to remain anonymous would like to thank each and every student who gave his time in making the blood drive the tremendous success which it was. The extraordinary enthusiasm which was shown by those who donated their blood, while being afforded the least of recognition, was definitely the essential factor behind the huge success and the setting of a new collegiate record, the chairmen feel.
Special credit was to given to all students who, through volunteer hall work, enrolled blood pledges during both donation periods. A special mention of thanks went also to those stu dents who helped in promoting the drive and to those who furnished medical assistance.
April 25. 1952
Lowest air fares ever
LOOK!
only
Ideal for students. After 12 days you can bring in $500 worth of purchases duty free.
*300 from Miami
to Lima, Peru on a 17-day, round-trip excursion ticket.
*610 from Miami
takes you ’round South America in 30 days with stops at Brazil, Uruguay, Argentina, Chile, Peru, Ecuador, Panama.
CHICAGO *'■: SAN FRANCISCO KwJWw v.^:-DALLAS
HOUSTON
NCW VOtK
PORT OF SPAIN
Guayaquil
SANTIAGO
Two with
MomwiMO BUENOS ANNI
ber — all of South America vacation .reach, time and travel ways to go. 1. Fly
art
Guatemala ary
PANAMA
*555 from Miami
to Rio de Janeiro on a 30-day, round-trip excursion ticket.
Yes—from May through Octo-
lovely, lively is within your both in travel cost.
the west coast
Pan American-Grace Airways to
Panama (over the route of Pan American World Airways) then on south to Quito, Lima, Santiago and Buenos Aires.
2. Fly the east coast with Pan American World Airways. Stop at Puerto Rico, Trinidad—fly on to Rio, Sao Paulo, Montevideo, “B.A.” Go one way—return the other!
These special fares apply to Tourist Service with giant 4-engine planes.
Pan American is U. S. Sales Agent for Panagra
PANAGRA and PAN AMERICAN
PAN AMERICAN-GRACE AIRWAYS PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS
............free! send for details---------------------------------------
Pan American-Grace Airways, Dept. 38	!
Chrysler Building, New York 17, N. Y.	I
Please mail me complete information about these new excursion fares. 1
Name..............................................................  »
a a-
Address...........................................................  1
*	a
City.........................................   State------------- 1

55
By Bill Riley
' This column is being written immediately after the Monday night meeting of the mock political convention. Because of printing schedules, it must he written before Tuesday noon. And, of course, read on Friday, with the convention fading into the background before such similarly beneficial activities as the Junior Prom and the Senior Ball.
Even so, it seems to me that some comment is in order, beyond the bald statement that it is a good thing to have conventions. It is also a good thing to have Junior Proms and Senior Balls and to eat three squares a day.
What I have in mind is the guest address given by a Mr. Paul Harvey who talked lengthily on Americanism, the pioneer spirit and Lung Kim somebody who ruled and failed in China some thousand or so years ago.
He Was Talking to the Young People
Mr. Harvey said, in beginning his speech, that he could not pretend to speak for his hosts. Let me say here and now that this column does not pretend to speak for his hosts either, only for one student who sat about half-way back on the right and was prepared to listen all night if necessary to find out what he had to say to this particular segment of the young people of America about the direction which this, country is to take in the next four years.
Well, Mr. Harvey didn’t talk all night, only an hour or so. I don’t suppose that it is for this column to go on record as favoring any particularcandidate. There does seem to be some room for an honest concern to hear just what, if anything, is to be said for the candidates, or, since this was a Republican convention, for the Republican party. The same concern would be justified if it were a mock Democratic convention.
Mechanical Refrigerators and a Look in the Eyes
Among other things, Mr. Harvey cited the number of mechanical refrigerators in Kalamazoo, Michigan, the look in the eyes of those who crossed the Western Plains in search of land, and the rule of Diocletian. (Mr. Harvey was “hurrying history to make a point” just then.)
He also said that if he had his way, we’d tell the Russians that the next time they permitted (none of this double-talk about instigating or fomenting, either) any Communist nation to do anything to a non-Commu-nist nation, he would send some B-36’s over and (I can’t remember whether he said kayo or clobber) Minsk, Pinsk, and assorted other cities in which dwell families by the thousands.
Clobber Them!
Now, assuming that the B-36’s would get there and successfully accomplish their clobbering and kayoing, and that the Russians don’t send just as many back to kayo or clobber New York, Chicago and South Bend, I still don’t see that Mr. Harvey has got very far with the problem. Perhaps the outstanding note of his whole speech was its amazing naivete.
And yet, when he asked, in hushed tones, just what we ivere going to do with Russia, his audience leaned forward breathlessly, as if he could present a master plan, right then and there to solve the whole problem, so we could all go back to making so many mechanical refrigerators that not only would there be more of them in Kalamazoo than in England, France, Berlin and Moscow, but in Bolivia, Argentine, Siam and Mexico City as well.
A Cliche Is a Cliche is a . . .
I don’t know, Mr. Harvey, maybe eventually I’ll be able to see all these things in the magnificent black-and-white tones that you paint them, but right now, it seems to me we could use a little more concern and a ilttle rhetoric. And a cliche is still a cliche, no matter how loud you shout when you utter it.
Maybe a convention isn’t a good thing; at least not as good as a Junior Prom, a Senior Ball, or three squares a day. Not unless it produces some tough-minded thinking to go along with the red-white-and-blue phrasing.
EARN $1,000 THIS SUMMER
• Here’s your opportunity for pleasant, profitable summer work with a Marshall Field owned organization. Openings for college men to assist the director of CHILDCRAFT work in your home state. Company representative will conduct personal interviews on campus in Placement Office, Administration Building, on Tuesday, April 29, from 9:00 A. M. until 5:00 P. M.
THE WEEKEND THAT ALMOST WASN’T
%
TYPING:
Experienced typist assures satisfactory work on term papers and theses. Write or phone Scholastic. Extension 255-
OR
WHY SHOULD THE LEOPARD CHANGE THOSE SPOTS, ANYWAY?
Once there was a Sophomore who had mastered Strategy and Tactics.
He could point out,
with diagrams, just where Napoleon had Pulled a Blooper . . . and how the Hundred Years’ War could have been stymied in twenty Minutes, if he had only been consulted.
He didn’t, however, know Women. As he demonstrated by forgetting his girl’s Birthday. She, naturally, was Incensed. Sent him a chilly letter canceling their date for the Spring Weekend, three Days away, and announcing that She was Through. Forever.
Fortunately, he was a Man of Infinite Resource. He waited until Thursday, then hiked to the Western Union office and sent a telegram. Very casual ... to wit: ‘‘Sorry you can't make Weekend. Under circumstances, am dating Eloise Witherspoon. You may have seen her Picture when she was voted Dreamiest Dish on Campus.’’ ■
His Pigeon arrived, breathing Fire, on the first train Friday. After the Air had settled, it turned out to be a Wonderful Weekend.
Even in Less Devious Ways, Telegrams work Wonders. They coax Cash from Home in Moments of Crisis . . . give you a Head Start on competition for Dates . . . make Arrangements and Reservations, quickly and easily. JFhatever you try to Promote, it’s sound Strategy to Make your Pitch by Telegram.
34
The Scholastic

Until Bell Laboratories scientists design an electric mouth that can pucker, the human model is here to stay. But we have built a machine that can imitate human vocal characteristics — from the slate-pencil squeal of a girls’ cheering section to the basso rumble in a men’s dining hall.
Sound being a basic raw material of the Bell System, we have pioneered in the science of speech. Measuring the properties of your voice leads to better and cheaper ways to transmit it.
Keeping the world’s best telephone system growing for our country is a big and challenging job. There are opportunities for college men with the right qualifications not only with Bell’s corps of research scientists, but also in engineering, operations, and administration, with the Bell Telephone Companies and Western Electric, the System’s manufacturing and supply unit.
Your campus placement office will be glad to give you more information.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
April 25, 1952
35
THE MASK IS OFF
IN CIGARETTE ADVERTISING
Chesterfield is first to name
all its ingredients
Chesterfield uses the right combination of the world’s best tobaccos, pre-tested by laboratory instruments for the most desirable smoking qualities.
Chesterfields are kept tasty and fresh by the only tried and tested moistening agents . . . proved by over 40 years of continuous use in U.S.A, tobacco products as entirely safe for use in the mouth . . . pure natural sugars and chemically pure, harmless and far more costly Glycerol . . . nothing else.
You can be glad if you smoke Chesterfields because they give you every advantage known to modern science.
For you that means that Chesterfields are much milder with an extraordinarily good taste and no unpleasant after-taste . . .
All for your smoking pleasure and protection.
They Satisfy Millions.
Chesterfield Has for Your Smoking Pleasure and Protection
Every Advantage Known to Modern Science
_	k	M • - s ; I 25* . . Z Cc.