-Cbc-
Dotre Dame Scholastic
•DISCeQVASI-SempeR-VlCTVRVS- -VIVS^VASbCRAS-MORITVRVS*
Vol. XXXVII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, May 28, 1904.	No. 33
The Unintended.
Charles R. Bowers (Wittenberg College, Ohio).
I
I
HERE is an Eastern fable of three young princes contesting for their father’s kingdom. The youngest, regarded as a weakling, after an apparently poor effort, is unable to find
lis arrow. The elder brothers divide the kingdom, while he is left in ridicule to search for the lost missile. He does so. Traveling many days in the direction of the shot, he comes upon his arrow imbedded in the door of a cavern, whither it had been wafted, mile after mile, by some unseen power. The door opens into, a realm of untold riches; and the youthful archer, now a mighty potentate, returns to receive adulation, when but a short time before he had met with but scorn and ridicule. The story of the princely archer is more than a fable; it is an allegory. The shot from his bow has an unintended and unexpected result. A similar fate has attended man’s efforts in all ages. For it is the universal experience that men aim at one thing and attain another. It has always been thus. Men work and labor and toil, and when it is all over and the work is done, behold! the result is other than that of the original intent. Men build better than they know. So true is this that there would seem to be a law by virtue of which it is characteristic of most of the great and genuine and lasting achievements of man, that they come in an unwonted, unintended and unexpected manner. Great is that which man has sought for and achieved; greater still is that which he has not sought for and has yet achieved. Great is the logic of man; the logic of events is greater. Indirection and unconsciousness — these have attended the fruitful workings of human handi
craft, of human agency, and of human genius..
The great discoveries—how have they come? In their blindness men sought to read their fortunes in the stars, and out of astrology grew the noble science of astronomy. In the black kitchens men spend their lives in the search for the great elixir of life, and out of alchemy, chemistry is born. The fall of an apple and the discovery of a universal law are inseparably linked. In the cathedral at Pisa a verger oils a lamp and. leaves it swinging to and fro;, a youth of eighteen sees it, ponders and conceives the idea of measuring time. Indirection is the law. Men puzzle themselves with problems for years; and then, suddenly and in some unexpected manner, the truth is imparted to some genius, and the world moves on a step. -
New and untried ventures bring forth strange results. Columbus is sure that he is discovering a new route to the East; . the floating seaweed that quells the mutiny on board his ships belongs to a new continent whose discovery, renders his name immortal.
To-day, four hundred years later, the powerful young nation which has grown up upon this continent, has reached the Pacific and is looking beyond, and men stand with bated breath as they see her reaching across the great ocean to the East. The dream of the Genoese .adventurer, after four centuries,. is about to receive semblance of fulfillment in a manner of which he little dreamed. .
The little Mayflower bears a small band of men and women searching for religious freedom. After several centuries we. look back to the spot upon which they landed, little dreaming of their mission,- to : see diverging therefrom the rays of light which, have illuminated our nation ever since. That was Puritan light which made clear the pathway to Bunker Hill, to Yorktown and to Appomattox.	...
The colonies are now full-grown and the
554	RtOTRE . DAME
mother country becomes tyrannical. An unjust Stamp Act is imposed and the colonies resist. The Boston Tea Party registers opposition to taxation without representation. But the colonies are still loyal. Then like a-thunderbolt in a clear sky, a bold spirit, raised to a higher plane than his fellows, and catching the first glimpse of a new dawn, cries, “Give me liberty, or give me death!” The cry . of treason is the reply; but the events of a few swift years prove that he has caught a true vision. Resistance to a petty Stamp Act inspired a revolution, threw off the yoke of oppression, and- laid the foundation for the freest, most enlightened and most powerful republic in history—while men wondered. ■	'
The world’s battles in all times have been fought upon forlorn hopes. Gideon sat by the wine press- when he received his call to arms. His three hundred put to flight the host of the Midianites. Wilberforce in England and Garrison in America go forth, like Hercules of old, to battle with the hydra-headed slave interests. In both continents it is one against a thousand. The one wins and both continents are freed.	-
The worlds schools present a strange picture. England’s greatest preacher was an uneducated school usher. The temperance lecturer is picked out of the gutter. Bunyan was an infidel. Lincoln was born in a slave state. Moses was brought forth in Egypt.
The poet, the artist, he, too, knows the significance of the unintended. He calls it inspiration. Not a substitute for toil, for years of labor; but the final result comes not in the: direct line of . work. The painter in his studio sees his work fruitless for many years; he is almost in despair; and then one night as he is taking, a moment’s rest, in God’s great out-of-doors, perhaps, his. reward comes. Years of toil, of unremitting labor; but at the supreme moment, no effort. Small wonder that Schiller exclaimed, “Since creation began all that mortals have wrought-, all that’s God-like in man, comes—the flash of a thought.”
A scene from our nation’s history: Thirty years of growing bitterness have kindled the flames of national discord, and the fiery characters proclaim that slavery is a crime. But at this, moment the black slave is forgotten. Itisa Federal fort off the Southern coast, and it • has; been: firedupon;; the national troops have: been .attacked;: states > withdraw from the Union ; brother itakes <-up farms ..against
SCHOLASTIC.
brother in the horrors of a civil conflict; anti-slavery is swallowed up in a war for the preservation of-the Union. Two short, swift years of war, and the voice of the commanderin-chief is heard throughout the land. The words he speaks are those of “The Emancipation Proclamation.” The slave is free, and that is accomplished by two years of war for another purpose in which thirty years of direct opposition failed.
But there is no standing still. History is making. It is thirty years later and another crisis is reached. An oppressed people has lifted its appeal to the great American heart, whose pulsations, imperceptible at times, are none the less sure and true. The world’s eyes are directed to Cuba, to the unprecedented spectacle of a great power wielding the sword in a war for the sake of humanity. But while this battle is on, what means this other sound, this note of war from far across the sea? What means these guns and-sounds of fallen masonry? Has the- electric impulse reached from Cuba half-way around the world? Yes! The American flag floats over Manila, and the Philippines are ours. “But hold!” The people cry: “To free Cuba is our- only aim. What have we to do with those far-off islands and a foreign race? New possessions are not a part of our intent.” Intent? If history can teach; if the experience of the past can furnish lessons for the present and the future, this is the very seal and sign and token of the genuineness of your new duty, and by man it was unintended. Then a voice cries, “So be it; America has burst her bonds!” “Imperialism” is the cry and a new-conflict is on. The final arbiter, the sovereign, will of the people, must decide. But who can doubt the result? Stop our country’s growth? Put an end to the national life ? The ballot is cast; the people have echoed, “So be it,” and the seal of ratification, is placed upon another great movement whose inception was unwitnessed by human eyes.
Then.above the conflict of. party and the war of wdrds, one can all but hear the genius of the nation,—"Here, oh! America, is thy duty; whether thou wilt or no, here is thy mission. Thy path is clear. Here or nowhere is thy destiny; work it out therefrom to the end of liberty and humanity, of justice arid order and peace.”	.
And what is the meaning of it all? Is man a creature of blind.chance, his fate determined by every gust of wind that blows? Is history wrought out by luck? Are we to. doubt the poet, doubt that “Through the ages one' increasing: purpose runs?”?Are man’s; works, his years of toil, his planning, his ..foresight,-
KGiRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
his God-given gift of reason,—are all these to go for naught? The onward march of civilization answers “No!” The uplifting and betterment of humanity answers “No!” The ascent of man. answers “No!”	'
The unintended! Unintended by whom? Who intended that the sun should shine by day and the moon by night? Who intended that the earth should yield up her fruits and !	the rain descend from heaven? God intended!
.	While man proposes God disposes. Reason,
plan, method, purpose,—all these, could man, blind man, but see them. Yes, “There’s a Divinity that shapes our ends, rough-hew them how we will.”
It is a dark night at a time of crisis in our nation’s history. The great captain lies dead at Washington by the hand of an assassin. ; In the great city of the commonwealth a mob is gathering and its mutterings are j terrible in their foreboding. Old wounds gap afresh. The suspense is awful; what the morning will bring no one can tell. Suddenly above the uproar of the crowd, like the clear note of the trumpet, a voice is heard. It is a voice of a man of the people. The .words he speaks are few and simple: “Clouds and dark-z	ness are the places of his habitation. He
।	plants his feet upon the waters and rides upon
I the storms; God reigns and the government at Washington still lives.” Like the calming of a great storm upon the waters, the crowd disperses and the dawn ushers, in .a day of ■	peace. May the echo of those words be
j	endless in our country’s career! God grant that
j down her path in times of peaceful well-being, J ’ in times of storms and stress, the. words of >	her inspired patriot may ring in the ears of
!	all her sons, "God reigns.” Yes, at her birth--
• throes He was with her; in the trying times of I * her infancy and youth He guided her; in her < maturity He has blessed her; and now in the - • full plenitude of her powers He has sent her * new missions. May He give her. strength to 4 fulfil them! May He give her people wisdom * and makezher leaders to see the right path! ’j And then as we turn our eyes towards the ■	future, with senses sharpened by patriotic
I	fervor, we may catch a glimpse of her, shining
forth supreme in that glorious company of ,	’ nations when right shall have become might
' and the sense of human brotherhood filled J all men’s souls: and as we strain our ears to j listen we may hear, mingled with the triumphal j	music	of	might and power, and rising	far
|	above	it,	the clear, pure note of	a simple
| entreaty, the voice of the people lifted on I	high with	that of the poet to the	_
I	...	q0(j	of our fathers, known of old—
5	■	’ Lord of our far-flung battle line—
|	■ Beneath whose awful hand we hold
|	; Dominion over palni and pine—
4	•	: Lord God of Hosts, be with us;yet, =-■-
|	: Lest- we forget—lest we forget!	‘
The Public Service of Church and School.
Martin Hegland (St., Olaf College, Minn.).
The permanent success of our government depends upon a rightly educated Christian' citizenship. The structure of state may be reared to a dizzy height and for a moment dazzle mankind with its magnificence; but unless its foundation be laid on the rocks of intelligence and morals, let no one'hope for its stability. With pride we behold the splendor of our own Republic, and we trust in its future. Our boundaries extend to remote parts of the earth; the resources of our land are almost illimitable; throughout its length and breadth is heard the hum of industry, and everywhere are evident the marks of progress. Our political institutions are founded on sound principles, and our history is the narrative of our uninterrupted advance towards international power and prestige. But although our Republic .has all these, if it be lacking in the essential elements of strength which lie in a sturdy citizenship, history and reason predict its doom.	•
Probably no nation in the world is beset by so many dangers and attacked by such powerful evils as our own. She is struggling to-day with industrial, social and governmental problems of gigantic dimensions. Newspaper and magazine, the statesman’s address and the president’s message, teem with discussions of national perils. Most manifest of these and most damaging in its influence is that tendency which would. paralyze the arm of right and justice—we mean the spirit of lawlessness. Statutes are enacted, but not enforced. Public officials fail to do their duty and laws become the laughing-stock of the rabble. In the South the enmity towards the negro, distorting the minds of the people, has besmirched the banner of freedom by deeds of lawless frenzy. Again our attention is arrested by the indifference, to duties of citizenship which has seized like a blight upon the body politic. In this lethargy of the people lies the very stronghold of rings and bosses. It is the most fruitful source of municipal corruption. What a sight is presented to the world in some of our great cities: a surging, stream of crime and vice issuing from rumrshops, wine-rooms and gambling dens; while the police, blinded by gold, stand calmly by making no effort to stem the awful tide.. These deplorable conditions are
1
556
RUTRE DAME SCHOLAS'llC
due to the indifference of the voters, who have resigned the reins of government into the hands of knaves and demagogues. This tyranny of the boss and this rule of Mammon could not be possible if our citizens were of the right stamp. A vast number of immigrants and the congested population of the large cities are totally ignorant of the duties of citizenship and utterly incompetent to exercise the right of suffrage. And even among the better class of citizens there is evident a lack of personal worth,—even among trusted officials, municipal, state and federal, there are men who, yielding honor and. integrity to selfish gain, shamefully disregard public duty.
These prevailing evils indicate an unhealthy state of our citizenship, which, especially at this stage of our Republic’s development,’ gives cause for anxiety.
Ours is an age when the precious inheritance handed down by the founders of the Republic, demands the service of a devoted patriotism. The fires of liberty kindled long centuries ago, have nowhere burned with a clearer flame or shone with a steadier light than in our own beloved land. The light of freedom ascending heavenward illuminates the world; but if the flames be quenched at their source, the gloom of despotism will again begin to enshroud humanity.
To the morbid mind of the pessimist whose squI is unmoved by the emotions of true patriotism, the condition of the Republic appears hopeless. His verdict is - sounded abroad: “Republicanism is a failure. Calamities so innumerable accompany its establishment, that it can not endure.” These are the utterances of despair; but they are not true. Republicanism has not passed its meridian. The problems that beset us are not those of ruin, but of formation. Our industrial development has been so rapid, and our people have been so completely captivated by the spirit of commercialism, that social and economic problems have been allowed to assume dangerous proportions, and government has been left to take care of itself. Moneyed interests have attempted to seize and operate the machinery of government, and so largely has success attended their efforts that government has in many cases ceased to be representative. These are indeed momentous problems that demand our attention; but their solution can not forever baffle the minds and hearts of the American people. -
The numerous attempts to eradicate evils and insure protection to our liberties have produced a chaos of theories. Statesmen would establish our heritage by perfecting the codes of law, and some educators teach that the Utopian stage will be reached by training the citizen to take his place in the governmental machine. Financiers and economists would establish labor and capital on a new basis; while anarchists would fling out before the mob the dread ensign of death and tear down the entire structure "of government. In all these proposed treatments of national problems, undue stress is laid upon the external organizations, on .* the technique of government and the workings of the political • machinery, and too little importance is attached to the character of the propelling force. The status of our national life is directly dependent upon the conscience of the people that constitute the state. This is the power that must ever be alive and active in a republic. The true defense against national perils is a vigilant patriotism and a citizenship that is beyond corruption. “Men are the state; not walls and ships devoid of men.”
From the Indus to the Atlantic the sun looks down upon the crumbling fragments of vast empires. Babylon gloried in her splendor. Persia wallowed in wealth. The empire of Alexander extended over boundless realms. But these are no more. Manly qualities were forgotten; deeds of virtue were replaced by the play of passion. The outward splendor of these states could not for all time conceal their internal depravity. By the force of her all-conquering arms and by her mighty powers of organization, Rome rose to the rulership of the World. Her citizens were masters of state-craft, and her laws even now form the ground-work of constitutions. She rose to incredible heights • of military and imperial glory. But Rome went down in chaotic ruin. When manhood and womanhood had lost their bloom, when virtue was gone and patriotism was dead, then neither military prowess, nor civic grandeur; neither magnificent organizations nor fabulous wealth, could save her. She had sunk too deep to be reached by the powers of redemption. That mighty Rome became the prey of barbaric Goth and Vandal. The stability of nations rests not upon the brilliancy of their achievements, nor bn that surface splendor which dazzles the eye; not in vastness of
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
557
■ territory, not in magnificence of armaments, not in perfection of governmental machinery, not even in the superiority of codes of law; but in the wisdom and devotion of an intelligent citizenship, in the nobility of manhood, lies the true strength and grandeur of states.	.
For the solving of our vast problems we need an educated Christian citizenship, and the training of men for such citizenship constitutes the public service of church and school. In this intensely practical age our system of education tends to emphasize the utilitarian value of every study to the exclusion of its ethical importance. Thus the instruction fails, to correct that false ideal of life, whose motto seems to be: “Every one for himself.” If our citizens shall be raised to a higher plane of thinking and doing, our education must offer a nobler ideal. It must show-that the individual does not stand alone, but that as an ethical being he is bound by obligations to his fellowman and to the state. , When education has enlarged our ideas of duty and has displaced some of the presentday egoism by a. larger element of altruism, it will have rendered the state a great service. For the rearing of its citizens the Republic is largely dependent on the schools of the country, and, for its own preservation, it has a right to demand that education which makes for good citizenship. Since “in a republic every citizen is a sovereign,” the chief concern of all such training must be the development of the individual—the making of men. A good citizen must first of all be a man; for the qualities necessary in exercising the functions of citizenship are essential marks of a strong character. The youth must be trained in obedience and self-restraint, and until these qualities are firmly established as traits of personal character, we can expect no profound regard for law or authority. Wisdom and sound judgment are qualities in the citizen which the problems of each succeeding day make more and more imperative. And when the rank and file of men are governed in all their acts by the dictates of conscience, then only shall ,we have public servants of integrity.
To make the citizen a strong pillar of the. state, he must be trained in moral courage. We need men in whose make-up a sacred respect for law, a clear intelligence, and a spotless integrity are blended with sturdiness of character. We J must have ^citizens , who
dare to do their duty,. who will spurn the proffers of glittering gold, w’ho will stand against the world in the cause of right; citizens who fear no man, but fear their God alone. Our education must be permeated with the sacred ethics of the Divine Teacher; by that code of morals which when embodied in public sentiment demands for each man justice, that countenances no fraud in office, that allows no deadening of the public or private conscience, that demands of the citizen nobler manhood, a higher standard .of citizenship. Our youth must be imbued with the spirit of a true devotion to country; a patriotism that will not only in periods of great martial enthusiasm urge them on to -their country’s service, but that will above all prompt them to a conscientious performance of their duties as citizens; a patriotism that will guard with a jealous eye the blessings of liberty; a patriotism that will heed no sacrifice in its endeavor for clean government; a patriotism that will purge our public offices of their, scandal and fill them with men . of character and worth.	-
Let no one think that because our country’s problems are so threatening and the requisites for national perpetuity are so great, that Americans are not equal to the emergency. On the contrary, America possesses the material for an ideal state. Our people embody strength and vigor. They possess a reserve force, which, when rightly developed and utilized, will be more than sufficient to sweep away all evils that threaten the state. Let those great social factors, the church and the school, unite to produce the intelligent, ths patriotic, the courageous, the Christian citizen. Let all the forces of an enlightened age unite to build up into an enduring structure the accumulated blessings of centuries; a state whose pillars are education and Christianity; a state whose bulwarks are devoted men; a state illumined by the brightly-burning fires of liberty; a state where white-robed Justice sits enthroned. Then will Americans have proven themselves worthy of that sacred heritage, for which countless battlefields have through the ages been drenched with the blood of martyred patriots. Then shall they rejoice to hear rolling down to them across the ocean of time the swelling, triumphant strains of a mighty chorus of voices:
We have fought the long, great battle of the liberty of man, •	.
And only asked a goodly death uncraven in the van; We have journeyed travel-worn	.
Through envy and through scorn,
But the faith that was within us we have stubbornly upbome,
For we saw the perfect structure behind the rough-hewn plan.	.	.
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
• The Awakening; of China and its Significance.
W. D. Goble (Ottawa University, Kansas).
Let the civilized world pause. Let it
turn
aside from its business and pleasures to consider the awakening of ancient China. An event like this involves the destiny of coming centuries, and introduces another crisis in history. China is old. Rome, Greece and Egypt have all toppled down into the dust of eternal forgetfulness, to rise no more; Older than Isreal, more ancient than Babylon,
before Troy or Nineveh, China was. Her will in turn bring back to their native land the
throne is the oldest seat on earth. She is more ancient than the memory of man. Her continuous existence stretches far back . into the unknown centuries. The law of change, absolute and changeless, has left China untouched. The hand of time has turned and overturned nations like a vast kaleidoscope, but China has escaped. “In the western world the chariot wheels of time travel the highways of progress, but in the . Celestial Empire, like a chariot wheel tilted in the air, the rotating years and centuries have made no onward movement.” The worship of a precedent has paralyzed China. Hemmed in by great natural barriers of deserts and ocean, she became a world by herself. Isolated from all external impulse, her civilization has remained at rest.
To-day we hear of the “Far Eastern” problem. The center of this problem is China. She is referred to as' a dying nation and a negligible quantity; but he who takes account of world affairs must reckon with China. With her numbers, her vitality and enduring powers, China is destined to become a tremendous factor in all the future events of the world. Her natural resources are . boundless. Great beds of gold, silver and iron ore await the miner and his pick. She has anthracite coal enough to'furnish the world for a thousand years. In all that vast domain, from its fertile and well - drained valleys to its lofty mountain peaks, are limitless, potential resources and undeveloped capacities. .
But China is awakening from her long world-wide dominion. Her: greed is insatiable sleep of ages. Just how she: is rubbing her: and she. nevert alters her purpose. In her
dreamy eyes, and brushing back the locks .measured march across Asia more than one which time has hung before her vision. She
is beginning to lay aside the conservatism, . which has bound her with; fetters oE iron.
The forces destined to create a new China are already at work on the lives of her people. A progress is in operation which will be without historic parallel. Reorganization of all her interests, social, political and religious, is coming with the swiftness of an oriental dawn.	-
The “Boxer Movements,” representative of the old conservative conditions, are the closing efforts of a hopeless cause. Since the old w’all at Pekin has broken down, colleges throughout the Empire have taken up the study of western thought and learning. Chinese boys are being sent to the west to be educated, who
life and teachings which they have acquired. Indeed, Occidental ideas are crowding into China’s national life. Her government and system of education seek after modern methods. New factories, railroads and mines are being established to develop her boundless wealth. China’s- old religious faiths are no longer satisfying her awakened life, and an entrance for Christianity, the handmaid of civilization, is being effected, which will revolutionize the public conscience. Mission schools, which teach of a world’s Redeemer, are being felt like tender threads of influence throughout that whole vast realm. China awakened—and advancing? What will her destiny be? What does her awakening portend? -Who will guide her new life? Will she be permitted to continue working out her destiny under the beneficent beams of an Anglo-Saxon civilization? Or shall she be dominated by the death-dealing spirit of the Slav, as represented by the iron hand of Russia?
Two great races—the Anglo-Saxon and the Slav—are striving to impress their civilization on the world. They spring from entirely different conceptions of life, and aim for totally different ends. Each is so strong and powerful that any tribe or nation which falls into either disappears like snowflakes falling on the bosom of a river. The Anglo-Saxon . civilization is based on the development of the individual. The Slav depends on the exact opposite, stifling all democracy. Russia is the mightiest exponent of Slav theories. Russia is China’s one menace. Russia dreams of
hundred itribes- and nations have fallen under her dominion; to lose their identity forever. She is steadfastly reaching out her tentacles
HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
for more territory, and never loses hold on any country .which.falls into her destructive grasp. Her civilization rides upon a gun-carriage. Her domination is the car of Juggernaut, leaving behind it the mangled forms of liberty and freedom, prostrate and helpless. She is so subtle that her plans are like sealed books, not known until they are brought to pass. That great country has but one ideal: “Russia. Mistress of the World.” With her resistless force and relentless purpose, Russia would lay violent hands on China, and place on hej the blight of repression and absolutism. Russia is like a mighty glacier, moving down the slopes of Siberia to grind down the independence of China. She intends to appropriate China, with her numbers and resources, that a balance of power may be obtained. Never was a purpose more apparent. Only the united action of the powers can prevent it.
Now, it is not too much to say that whoever controls China will control the world. The future of civilization rests with China. Over her will be decided whether the world is to be Anglo-Saxon or Slav. She is the center of world-wide interests. If Russia succeeds in forcing the Slav civilization on China, the larger hope of humanity will be vastly, lessened. The hands of progress will be turned backward. Russia will stride forward like some giant Colossus. Her population will be so great, her resources so vast, her capacities so enormous, that, from a military and industrial standpoint, she can defy the combined powers of the world. There was a time when the center of the world’s commerce and wealth gathered around the Mediterranean Sea. With the discovery. of America that center was transferred to the Atlantic. It is now destined to pass on to the shores of the Pacific. Upon these shores will be the great arena, where the world’s two greatest races will face each other in a great struggle for supremacy.
Is it to be the Anglo-Saxon or the Slav who shall control the Pacific? China is the key to the situation. Unhampered in her designs, Russia would control all the coast line from upper Asia to lower China. That would mean dominance in China, the mastery of the great Pacific, and therefore the ultimate ruling of the world’s future markets and wealth. Unchecked, Russia would make the Pacific ocean a Russian lake on which would sail her merchant vessels, floating the flag of their land; It is to be a.Titanic struggle, with China as a storm center.- ...	.
559
This unsolved problem involves the interests of the United States. The awakening of China means the comihercial opportunity for the sale of xA.merican goods. China’s four hundred millions are capable of raising her standard of living to thirty times its present condition. Her new life is multiplying her needs enormously. This means much to American commerce. China needs America’s wheat, cotton and manufactured articles. Her awakening is creating a large demand for innumerable things which, she can not herself furnish. The expanding life of. America needs these new markets. China is easy of access to American commerce because the United States possesses Hawaii and the Philippines, and the highway across the Pacific is unequaled. Therefore America must insist on an “open door” for commerce in China, and that the present political and commercial interests there be not disturbed by the encroachments of Russia.
- The united interests of the English-speaking people are involved. If Russia gains control, China will be Slav-for centuries to come. The dark cloud of national ignorance will shadow her unhappy life. Her numbers and resources will but accelerate the triumphing progress of Russia. Under an'Anglo-Saxon civilization, China will prove a large blessing to the world. Such a civilization would serve as a magician’s wand to cast off the shackles of centuries from this sleeping giant. Under its benign influence not alone would perish the custom of bandaged feet, but the bandages would be loosened from the civic and intellectual life. .Under the power of an Anglo-Saxon spirit China would pour its flood of golden wealth into the lap of the waiting world. She would obtain individuality and personal liberty for all time to come. The world would gain a new political and religious regeneration. Literature and art would receive a new impetus, and the entire human race be made infinitely better. China must not be Russianized. Her integrity must be preserved by the English-speaking people. The Anglo-Saxon civilization, with its life-giving spirit and exalted teachings of human liberty must continue there until that whole empire be transformed.	:	_
Not far from this land was found' the cradle of the human race. Just to the west began all . the historic movements of-.time. Around the-Mediterranean Sea were gathered the great events-of the world.- Then. civiliza-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tion forged itself westward until it touched® the Atlantic,, changing and molding into new| life the peoples of all Europe. In the course^ of time civilized man was borne to the virgin^ -shores , of fair America,, where for three” hundred years the most profound happenings h^ye taken place. Beginning on the rockbound coast of rugged New England’s shore, civilization advanced to the south. Gathering force it spread over the rich Mississippi valley and faced the boundless west. It scaled the mountain peaks of the Rockies, crowned with. their eternal snows, and leaped down into the fertile and sun-kissed valleys on the golden Pacific shore. Now civilization looks longingly beyond its western boundaries, and soon it will cross the Pacific Ocean, strike on the ancient coast of China and penetrate her whole interior, thus girdling the globe. There in that ancient land, throbbing and pulsating with its teeming millions^ will take place the greatest moral and civic victories of all history. O China! thou child of a primeval age rocked in the cradle of an ancient world, the dawn of a new day is at hand. Living when other nations have, disappeared forever, stretching back into the unknown centuries, thy awakening has come. The sun of civilization,'which departed on its western course ages ago, now throws its morning rays on thy slumbering life, and “the light of a grander day is falling fair on thy face.”
- ■ -----------------------
The Perpetuity of Our Principles.
I. B. Sutton (University of Colorado, Col.).
Timeworn monuments and sacred relics enable us to trace the history of the people who made and destroyed the great nations of the East. Grand and inspiring are the memorials of their potency that greet our eyes to-day. We realize their greatness .with . awe; and wonder that races with such power, with such genius and skill could lose this power, this genius, this skill; and degenerate as did the Greeks, the Romans, and the great nations of Western Asia. They evidently lacked certain progressive forces and traits of character necessary to the maintenance of supremacy. Therefore, to form an intelligent opinion as to the future of any great , and powerful nation, it is necessary to. take into consideration their racial origin and elements, the influence of the lapse of time, and the enlightenment of Christianity; to compare them with the races which have so conspicuously failed or succeeded in the battle for existence and to determine, their course through the philosophy of history. When subjected to this examination in a minute and careful study, the future of our Republic is prophetic of great things.
The intellectual supremacy of Greece in antiquity was the. foundation of modern civilization. The degree of excellence’ attained by her in history, oratory, and in art, has not been surpassed. Materially, this was not only due to the * careful utilization of the resources of the country and its advantageous situation for the trade of the early world; but to the energy and ability of a patriotic people whose heroism rivals that of any other nation of the world. It is said that the greatness of Greece was due to the variety of states, rivalling each other in importance, and that this was also the cause of her ruin. We find in this the secret of her downfall. Unity is the foundation of strength. Had there been unity, and not rivalry among the principal cities of Greece, she could have extended her colonization, contended successfully with all competitors for the ancient supremacy, and postponed her decadence for centuries.
While the Greek mind was speculative; the Roman was practical. In the Greek we find a taste for philosophy and ethics; in the Roman a desire for law, order, action, and achievement. The principal characteristic of the Greek was his individuality; of the Roman, his subordination to the state. “The history of Rome is the history of the growth Of a village community into a city, the city into an - Italian state, the Italian state into * the then-known world.” Rome extended her colonization, over the barbarians of the West, then incorporated them with laws and institutions that have stood the test of ages. And Rome failed:—but she destroyed herself. She was not conquered by the barbarous invaders from the North, but yielded to the temptations and corruption following in the train of success. She was overwhelmed by a sea of . immorality, luxury and indolence.
Greek civilization and culture, was first felt in Northwestern Europe through Teutonic contact on the Danube; next through the influence of the Greek cities on the western Mediterranean, such as Marseilles and Nar-bonne; later through the revival of learning which reached the uttermost parts of the continent, and nowhere with such leavening power as in the little isles north and west of Europe. Roman law and organization came with Julius Caesar; later through the Germanic nations; then largely through the Norman Conquest and the subsequent relations;
We find that to the British Isles there came in turn Phoenicians, Carthagenians, Greeks, Romans, Danes, Angles, Saxons and Normans, and that each race in turn left a trace of its blood to mix with the Celtic inhabitants and nourish a strong and energetic people. Thus the blood of our forefathers was the embodiment of the racial characteristics of
(Continued on page j6g.)	'
Summary Grades of the Inter-State Oratorical Contest
Notre Dame, Indiana, May 4, 1904
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
CONTESTANTS	THOUGHT AND COMPOSITION									DELIVERY									Total Sum of Grade	|	Total Sum of Rank	| ■	Final Rank
	Shambau'h		Hughes		Th wing		Sum of Grade	Sum of Rank	Rank	Chalmers		Callen		Stevens		Sum of Grade	Sum of Rank	Rank			
	Grade	Rank	Grade	Rank 1	Grade	Rank				Grade	Rank	Grade	Rank	Grade	Rank						
McKay, Mich				92	3	87		95			14	5	85	5	’ 75	9		6		20	8		34	6
''Robert It. Lee”														75							
Newell. Missouri		Sn	5	92	.5	86		267	12	3	84	6	85		76	4						
“Rettibutive Justice in National History"																		3		24	2
Goble, Kansas...				88	6	88	9	77	8		23	7	76	8	77	7	60		213	26			49	■ '
"The Awake ine of Chinn"																					9
McClanahan, Illinois		90	4	93	4	83	4			4	86	4	79	6		9						
"The Prophet of Emancipation"														72			J9	7		3>	4
Wright, Indiana		87	7	96	2						88	2	76		73	8		18	6			
"Our National Crime”																					
Bowers, Ohio		80		nr	6	70		241	27		87	' 3	83		So							
“The Unintended"													4		3					37	7
Neg la nd, Minnesota				86	8	90	7	78	7		22	6	83		82	5	75V&	5			5		39'	S
“The Service ol Church and School"											/						J7				
Clark, Iowa		9.5	1	98		80	5		7		75	9				7		26				
“The Philosophy of the Race Problem”												73		74				9		33	5
Sutton, Colorado		84		89	8	- .	9	248	27	9	71											
"The Perpetuity of Our Principles"														7o			32			59	IO
Schall, Nebraska		85	9	85	I 1	79	6			s	89		87		.82			■ 3				
"Ulysses S. Grant"																				29	, 3
Perris, Wisconsin....		93	2	94	3	84	3		8		72	3	84		Si							
"Savonarola”	,																	15	4		23	
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame Scholastic^usefulness whom changes of politics have - Notre Dame, Indiana, May 28, 1904.	thrown out of employment at a period in
Published every Saturday during Term Time at Notre Dame University.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame. Ind.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Ai tress: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC'
Notre Dame, Indiana..
Board of Editors*
PATRICK J. MacDONOUGH, 1903;
FRANCIS F. DUKETTE, 02 BYRON V. KANALEY, ’04 LOUIS J. CAREY, ’04 MAURICE F. GRIFFIN, ’04 STEPHEN F. RIORDAN, ’04 ROBERT E. PROCTOR, ’04 JOSEPH H. BURKE, ’04 ERNEST A. DAVIS, ’04 ERNEST E. HAMMER, ’04 GEORGE GORMLEY, ’04 DANIEL C. DILLON, 04 WM. M. WIMBERG, ’04
• JOSEPH P. O'
G. A. FARABAUGH, 04 THOMAS D. LYONS, ’04 GEO. J. MACNAMARA, ’04 WALTER M. DALY, ’04 THOMAS P. IRVING, ’04 G. T. STANFORD, ’04 L. M. FETHERSTON, ’04 MICHAEL J. SHEA, ’04 WM. K. GARDINER, ’04 FREDERICK KASPER ’04 JOHN M. QUINLAN, ’04 JAMES R. RECORD, 05
REILLY, ’06.
—Observant readers of the daily press can
not fail to notice the record of many and large donations made by individuals to promote education in the United States. These benefactions are, almost without exception, made by non-Catholics to non-Catholic institutions. When a Catholic college receives a gift of some thousands of dollars the announcement appears in large headlines and the news is trumpeted ad nauseam. Why do
so many Catholic millionaires die without the name of a Catholic college in their wills? The argument that the support of parochial schools imposes a constant drain on the pocket-book does, not apply to them. Are they less generous, or less interested in education than the wealthy of other creeds or is the Catholic college to blame?
, ----------------------_ ■
—In a recent address before the . Law students at Yale the versatile Chauncey M. Depew offered some paternal advice to aspiring youthful politicians. In his opinion the greatest . misfortune . that - can happen to a young man who has only character, education, and no capital for a career, is to accept office. His own saddest experience has been to. try
their lives when nothing could be found for them to do. No money can be legitimately made in public service and therefore no competence can be laid up. The senator’s remarks are stamped with sincerity, and as they proceed from one whose vision has scanned the larger part of a century they deserve consideration. However, it is doubtful if his words should deter .any of his auditors from entering the political arena. The field of politics is strewn with wrecks, but so also are the highways of business and the professions. The chief difference is that the failures in the former case are brought more strikingly before the public.
—Wherever the Catholic Church extends, special devotions in honor of the Blessed Virgin are held in May. The month is appropriately chosen for such a purpose. Fields are green, flowers bloom and the heart is glad. Throughout the greater part of the Christian world it is a period when nature inspires the husbandman with hope for a rich vintage and a fruitful harvest. It recalls
a time in history when peace prevailed and men looked and yearned for the coming of the virgin of whom was to be born “the expectation of ' nations.” To give particular honor to her whom God so much honored, Catholics hold certain religious exercises such as the students here have had the privilege of attending within the past four weeks. The reasonableness and efficacy of devotion
to the Mother of God ought to be better understood and appreciated. Not long ago some non-Catholic visitors who suggested that we conduct them through the Church of the Sacred Heart showed an ignorance on the subject that we could hardly credit. It was news to them that Catholics do not adore the Blessed Virgin, but venerate her and ask her intercession. Again, exception was taken to the Catholic practice of representing her in statues and pictures, and when we asked our friends.if they thought it wrong to keep in their homes photographs or other memorials of ancestors and national heroes, the mist lifted somewhat. Happily such exhibitions of ignorance are growing less frequent and -the-Catholic doctrine concerning the Blessed Virgin is’ gaining wider- acceptance,
$O2XE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
563
• [Continued from page 560.}	.
the conquerors and conquered of this island of Britain,—	•
A combination* and a form indeed Where every god did seem to set his seal, To give the world assurance of a man.
Their hatred of ecclesiastical tyranny led to the founding of Plymouth colony. Their love of freedom, influenced by this wide and beautiful country to which they came, and impressed upon them by the tyrannical measures of a haughty king, led to their final separation from the mother country.
These inherent rights rendered immortal by our heroic ancestors have made the United States the refuge of all who seek religious, political or individual freedom and progress. The assimilation of this new blood by our nation is remarkable. In the second generation these foreign elements are the most patriotic defenders of our institutions.
In addition to this contribution of races, ideals, laws, and institutions every evidence indicates that in the future America will be “first in war.” We have the most effective implements of war in the world. We have a million men ready at the President’s command, and, if necessary, the whole manhood of the nation will respond; not Irishmen fighting for England, but a volunteer army of Americans fighting for America; demonstrating that we have the highest possible ideal of patriotism. Follow Lieutenant Hobson through the sinking of the Merrimac, and comprehend the American spirit on the ocean. By the “Appropriation Bill” passed at a late session of Congress, our navy in a few years will be equal in strength to that of the foremost nations of the globe; in a few more it will surpass them. With such a navy, — with the fearless energy, sturdy determination and comprehensive intellect of the American as a leader,—with such sailors, there can be no doubt as to the future of our nation on the sea.
What are the elements, the intellectual and moral forces, which speak for our permanence and which are comparatively new in the world? Moral purpose, religious toleration, and universal education.
We know that moral degradation preceded the downfall of the great republics and the nations of antiquity. Here also lies our greatest danger. A warm family love, a vigorous social virtue, a high estimate of public conscience and honor, and strong moral convictions are splendid indications of national good health. So long as the mothers of America look with less misgivings upon their sons who fall in the pride and strength of young .manhood in Cuban and Philippine campaigns than upon the moral degeneration that might set in at home, we have every reason -to feel that. America is safe and; the
perpetuity of our institutions secure, because of the moral fiber of our people. There could be no better proof of the existence of a rugged morality than the restraint, forbearance, courage, and humanity manifested by our boys on the coast of China with the allied armies of Europe.
We know what suffering the human race has endured from religious wars and persecutions; and we know the American people are free from all of these troubles and all apprehension of them. The real acceptance of this principle does not date back more than fifty years, and it has been received in the United States more widely and completely than in-any other country. It is said, that because religious toleration has freer play in the United States than it has ever had elsewhere, we have firm ground for believing that our republic will attain a pre-eminence never attained by any other nation.
There is a claim that “ Republican institutions are founded on education,” yet this doctrine is very new in reality. Plato’s teaching was that, the industrial and producing . classes needed no education whatever. The fallacy of this argument has long since been proved. The educational system of the United States is the most effective of its kind in the world. Through its influence child labor is prohibited; the children of the rich and poor receive a primary education which costs them nothing. Thus the American youth is educated by his country until he is old enough and able to enter-life’s battle for himself, where circumstances and his energy determine the results. Universal suffrage is a stimulus to universal education by giving the citizens a desire to read about public questions and reflect on problems . of the day. Thus our educational system produces in all classes the steady cultivation of correct •observation and just reasoning, and does away with a thousand evils heretofore the results of ignorance and superstition.
Ever enriching blood of our forefathers, and adding new from that of the best and most enterprising of the other nations, and being able to absorb and assimilate their progressive forces without losing the American individuality, or affecting our racial elements disastrously; to have a government of the American people by the American people in every sense of the word; to be influenced by a moral purpose, a religious liberty, and a political unity unknown..heretofore in the world; to have universal education and- progress; and to be able to defend each and. every one of our rights by being “first in war,”=—these insure to us the paramount position of the future? .	: "	•
EGTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
' Athletic News.
NOTRE DAME, 2; INDIANA, I.
The second game of the State Championship series was played last Wednesday with the State representatives. Contrary to expectation, the visitors put up an exceptionally strong game in the field, but at the bat they were powerless before the mighty Ruehlbach. Their efforts to connect against his terrific speed and cunning were pitiful. Sixteen men fanned the air, while but two were able to ■ hit safely. “Nig” would have scored a shut out but for a low short throw from catcher to second. Boyle for Indiana also pitched a good steady game, although he was touched up for a double and a triple. Our fellows put up a fast fielding game, but one misplay being charged against them. O’Connor was the star of the afternoon. He drove in our first run with a slashing drive to left for three bases, and, in the. sixth, when Indiana looked rather dangerous, he settled their chances by
GOPHERS OVERWHELMED.
The Minnesota ball tossers were completely outclassed by the Varsity, men in last Saturday’s game. After the first few innings the game was a farce, our men scoring at will. Aiderman pitched the best game of the season, not allowing a single hit.
catching Brunling’s attempt to doubled Boyle at first.
bunt
and -
Notre Dame	. R	H	p	A	E
McNerny, 2b	1	1	0	2	O
Stephan, ib	0	i	8	0	0
Shaughnessy, c. f.	.	0	0	1	0	0
Salmon, r. f.	0	1	0	0	O
Ruehlbach, p.	0	6	1	I	0.
Antoine, c.	•	. .	0	1	IS	I	0
Kanaley, 1. f.	1	0	1	0	'0
O’Connor, 3b	.	0	1	1	I	0
Geoghegan, s. s.	0	0	0	2	I
	Totals—2	5	27	7	I
Indiana	R	H	p	A	E
E. Boyle, 2b	1	I	4	3	0
Brulburger, 3b	0	O	’ 1	4	I
Clevenger, s. s.	0	I	1	1	I
Ross, 1. f.	0	0	1	p	0
Hare, c. f.	0	0	0	0	0
McIntosh, c.	0	O	8	1	0
O’Donnell, r. f.	. 0	O	0	0	0
McFern, ib	.	.	0	O.	9.	0	0
Boyle, p. ’; :	0	0	p	2	I.
	Totals—1	2	24.	II	3
5.6 7 8
£
Notre Dame	R H	P A	E
Shaughnessy, c. f.	3 2	2 0	O
McNerny, 2b	’	1 0	2 3	O
Stephan, ib, capt. '	2 2	4 1	O
Salmon, r. f. •	I I	0 1	O
O’Connor, 3b	2 I	3 1	0
Kanaley, 1. f. *	•	3 2	0 0	0
Geoghegan, s.-s.	’	3 0	0 1	0
Farabaugh, c.	,	1 0	13 2	O
Aiderman, p.	.	..	2 1	0 0	O
Totals-	-18 9	24 9	O
Minnesota	R H	P A	E
Linden, 3b	O O	I 3	2
Varco, s.s.	O O	0 . 2	3
Rogers, r.f.	0 0	I O	1'
Bergh, l.f."	0 0	4 0	I
Tylor, 2b	O 0	0 0	I
Brighan,ib	O O	8 0	2
Labett, c.	O 0	6 1	0
' Bond, p.	I 0	1 2	I
Linehan, c.f.	0 0	0 0	0
Totals-	—I O	21 8	10
'	’	123456	7 8	R H	E
Notre. Dame—0 . 0 21 1.8	6 *=	18 9	O
Minnesota—o - o 0 0 0 1	0 0=	I 0	IO.
Home runs, O’Connor, Kanaley.
* *
PURDUE EASY.
The second game of the State Championship series was played with Purdue last Thursday and resulted in an easy victory for the Varsity. The Boilermakers could do
nothing with Aiderman, while hit hard and often.
Notre Dame r h p a e Purdue
Sh’hnessy, cf. i
i
our fellows
R 1 o o o o
I o o o o
H o o
I o o
E I o 3 o I I o I o o
p
I
A
Cook, 2b Goetze, If. Cohen, ss.
Palmer, ib Ritter, cf.
Wilson, 3b Miller, rf.
Witt, c. Jones, p.
o o o o o o
1 o
3- 3
O’Neill, 2b.
Stephan, ib.
Antoine, c. .
Salmon, rf.
Kanaley, If
O’Connor, 3b Geog’gan, ss. Aiderman, p.
i
i'
i i
o
9
i o
o o o o
I 8
I
I I.
12 o
o 2 O b
o I 0 o I
o
o o o
I O
2 O
’ I I
o o 10
9 R H 0=1	2
, r
.	1 234
Indiana—1 000
Notre Dame—o T 10	_
. Stolen bases, McNerny, 2 ; Salmon’ Base on balls, off:Ruehlbach, 2; off Boyle, 3. Sacrifice.hit, Ruehlbach.
000
000
o o
i
Fennell, p.
o. o o
Passed ball,. McIntosh. Struck out, by Ruehlbach, 16 by Boyle, 8. Umpire, “Jinksy” Ferguson. -•	,
Totals—11 6 27 9 1 . ' Totals—2 3 27 9 7 . ’ Notre Dame—2 1 1 o 4 1 10 1 = 11
Purdue—o-o o
01 00 1
Struck out-— By.Aiderman, 13; by Jones, 4; by Fennell, 5.. Bases on balls—off Alderman, 3; off Jones, -	.	.	...	6; off Fennell, 2. Three-base, hits — Shaughnessy,
‘.‘ Billy - Fleet, one of the1 01 twirlers, is. with O’Connor. Hit by pitcher—Salmon, O’Connor. Passed
the Terre Haute team of the Central League. ball—Antoine. Umpire—Moffatt.	:
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
565
Philadelphia, Pa., April 27.—Mike Powers, the efficient backstop of the Athletics, was in former days a Notre Dame University athlete. His work on the Varsity nine attracted the attention of managers in all parts of the country, but it was Connie Mack who landed, him. He has proved his worth on numerous occasions, being a man upon whom dependence can be placed at all times and in all places. He ranked fifth in the list of American league catchers and batted .227. He is an excellent coach, helping his pitcher at all times, while his base throwing is a thing, to behold.	-
* *
The State Championship in track ^athletics is being decided this afternoon bn Cartier Field.	'	.
■ * - *	-
Last Sunday afternoon Bro. Vital’s team defeated Bro. Finan’s team by the decisive score of 12 to 5. Joy’s wildness helped to make the score so large. The feature of the game was “Iron-man” Heyle’s pitching..
123456789RHE Bro. V.—1 20 '1 700 1 0=12 10 7 Bro. F.—o 0210200’ 5= 545
Batteries, Bro. V.—Heyle and McDermott. Bro. F.— Joy and Clark. Umpire, Jack O’Neill. ’ .
* * *
’ Last Saturday afternoon Carroll defeated Laporte High School in a close and interesting game. Laporte secured. three- runs on three errors and a hit in the second inning. After this Carroll settled down and Laporte was helpless. Carroll secured five runs on as many hits, a base on balls and two errors in the. fifth inning.
.Batteries (C.), Litzelman and Kuhn.
' . * * .
Carroll Hall and Healy’s Colts met last Sunday morning, and after six innings, had been played it was decided to call the game a tie. Louis pitched- for Healy’s Colts and managed to get the ball over (the back stop) two out of every three times he threw.
Batteries, H. C.—Wagner and McDermott. Carroll— Brown, Heyle, Kuhn and McDermott.
■ * ' . . * * ' Captain Bear’s Colts suffered their annual defeat at the hands of'the Minims last Saturday before the largest and most enthusiastic crowd of the season. The score, 19 to 3 or 6, does; not in any way indicate the real struggle.-
The captain worked heroically to stave off defeat,- and between imploring and entreating his men to play ball and talking back to the umpire he managed to make himself known to everyone present. The Captain, although defeated is not disgraced. He says there is another year coming.	_	, _
• ■ * ' • ■ * ■ . • * * . \ .
Carroll Hall has a new tennis court by, the.big gym. A tournament is being arranged among the members of the hall/ . .	3	-
* -* *	...
Carroll Hall forfeited the game to. Brownson Hall last Thursday. This puts Brownson > in first place. . J. P. O’Reilly. .
Senior Law Banquet.
Few class functions in the history of Notre Dame have been carried out with as much eclat as was the banquet of the senior lawyers at the Oliver Hotel- last Wednesday evening.’ At eight o’clock the members of the class took their places at the festive board, ’ delighted to have for their guest the Hon. William Hoynes, LL. D., dean of the law department.
Course followed course of a very select menu, seasoned the while by the sweet and lively strains of the orchestra, and wit and laughter added zest to the enjoyment of a superabundance, of viands. The toasts which followed close on the feast were resonant of good fellowship and appreciation for the pilot, who has guided the class through the sea of legal knowledge.	. :
Mr. Lonergan responded to the toast “Our Dean,” and paid a glowing tribute to the sterling qualities of that soldier, scholar and man, Dean Hoynes. In his response Colonel Hoynes laid aside for the moment the humor with which he had enlivened the feast, and in a speech full of tenderness betrayed that solicitude he has for all under his care. His remarks were greeted with great enthusiasm, * for it is not often that -such a scholarly, entertaining guest graces a class banquet with his presence.	.	‘	!
In glowing words Mr. Hogan reviewed the career. of that student athlete “Our President.” “Happy” were his remarks which voiced the sentiment that the class holds -towards their, leader. “Alma Mater” was the theme that inspired Mr. O’.Phelan’s eloquent
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
566
tribute to Notre>Dame. If all future students are as earnest as the' speaker himself was, and wished others to be, the future which he pictured for Notre Dame will indeed be bright. Afterward came Mr. Furlong’s toast, “The Faculty.” Much was expected of him; nor were we disappointed. He extolled our Very Reverend President, and the other members of the Faculty in no mean phrase, and bound us closer to those priests and laymen. “Lucky Thirteen” was the subject of Mr. Quinlan’s response which was witty and very appropriate.
The “Fairer Sex” from the time of Adam down to our day has seemed a most difficult problem for man to solve. But constant and assiduous devotion to their pursuit gives one an intimate knowledge of their traits of womanliness, and so it is that Mr. Meyers’ toast was • such an eloquent tribute to the ladies. “The Fee” was Mr. McKeever’s subject, and he received the closest attention of any of the speakers. Handling his subject in a fee-Wing manner, he left the impression in our minds that the decision is an important thing, but the fee is the thing. _
Mr. Conboy proved conclusively that “The Honest Lawyer” does exist, that the profession is full of them. His speech was studded with those characteristic sayings for which the “judge” is noted, and he surpassed all his previous efforts in this speech. Afterward came Mr. Proctor’s toast “Our Monogram. Men.” His remarks were well received.
“The Class Seer,” Mr. Neyere, displayed a vision which we thought had died with the Prophets. He was listened to .with rapt attention, as he unravelled the skein of life, and laid the future open before us. The class, it may be well to . mention, is composed of the. following.-thirteen members: Francis J. Lonergan, Harry G. Hogan, John I. O’Phelan, Nicholas . R. Furlong, T. • A. Quinlan, Jr., Thomas A. Toner, Joseph J. Meyers, Eugene J. O’Connor, Francis H. McKeever, Francis J. Conboy, Robert E. Proctor, George L. Neyere, r Francis F. Dukette.	. .	.
To “Auld Lang Syne,” .Mr..Dukette spoke the farewell to our happy days at Notre Dame. . He expressed our deep regret at leaving its sacred confines in words which moved , us to the depths. This concluded the program, and the banqueters adjourned after the . most delightful sociaL session ■ in their many, happy, .years of college .life. . L t;
5 ~Robert; E. Proctor,’o4.
Cuban Students Celebrate.
Friday, May 20, the Cuban students attending Notre. Dame commemorated the second anniversary of their country’s independence by a banquet in the Hotel Oliver, South Bend. Early in the afternoon they went to the city for the purpose of having a group picture taken, and after pleasantly whiling a few hours a.way in visiting the public buildings they assembled in the Oliver at half-past six where a very beautifully arranged table and an exquisite menu awaited them.
When justice had been done to the banquet the feast ’ of eloquence was begun. Sr. Eugenio Rayneri made the opening speech. He congratulated the members on the occasion that brought them together and	,
predicted a useful future for the Cuban	I
Society. The next speaker was Senor Arturo	I
Pino, Peru, who was the guest of the evening.	1
Sr. Pino told his listeners of the pleasure	|
he felt in celebrating under such happy	j
conditions the establishment of Cuban inde-	j
pendence. The Peruvians, he said, sincerely	i
sympathized with the Cubans in their struggle	I
and rejoiced in their success.	g
Patriotic speeches by Srs. Virgilio Rayneri, I Medrano and A. Simon were also delivered.	I
Patriotism, Sr. Simon said, has ever been one	’
of the most potent forces in the life of nations. It is the great power that inspired the Cubans throughout their battle with Spain, . and now that liberty had been won, love of country should burn even stronger in the breasts of all who claimed the “Pearl of the Tropics” for their home. One of the most stirring addresses of the evening was made by little Juan Gallart who said that his' sentiment toward Cuba was that of a child . yearning for an absent but fond mother.
A few appropriate remarks from the chairman concluded the speeches, after which the members attended a play in the Auditorium Theatre. The entire celebration was marked by a high degree of enthusiasm and enjoyment in which all shared. .
The following list includes the names of the Cubans who were present at the banquet, also that of their guest: Senors Eugenio P. Rayneri, Virgilio N. Rayneri, Joaquin H. Medrano, Juan Perez M. de Oca, Jose Gallart,' Miguel T. Marquez, Arturo . Simon, Juan ■ Gallart, . Marcelino J Ga.rcia Rubio, £ Manuel
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Garcia Rubio, Pedro Armas, Arturo ' Pino Taranzo.
Menu
Caviar Canape	Martini
Consomme en Tasse	• ‘
Celery	Radishes	’ Olives
Planked Whitefish, au Buerre Haut. Sauterne Cucumbers .	. Pomme Bordure .
Sweetbread Patties with Mushrooms Green Peas	.
Roast Young Turkey, Cranberry Sauce ■ Ripin New Potatoes	New Asparagus
Cuban Punch
Chicken. Salad	‘
Ice-Cream with Strawberries	.
Assorted Cake Neufchatel Cheese ’	’ Wafers
Coffee
An Interesting Interview.
“The occasion commemorates events of unsurpassed importance,” said Col. William Hoynes, dean of the law department at the University of Notre Dame and one of the most prominent veterans of the civil war in this part of the-west, to a question asked him by the South Bend Tribune relative to the proper observance of Memorial Day. The subject is one in which he is deeply interested, believing that the day should be held more sacred. Col. Hoynes was asked:	•
“Do you not think that Memorial Day should have more of its original spirit and less of the modern idea of a day of recreation’and sports?”	. •
“Yes, I certainly do,” replied Col. Hoynes.. "The occasion commemorates events of unsurpassed importance. It is so solemn in its true significance, so sacred in its cherished reminiscences and so indissolubly associated with love of. country and freedom that it seems hardly less than a desecration to turn it into a day of games, sports , and amusements—a Fourth of July, as it were, instead of a day sacred to the memory df departed comrades.”	'
- “ To what do you ascribe this lamentable, change in the observance of the day?” he was asked. .
“To.the rapid depletion of the membership of the G.'A. R: and an- evident- waning' of interest in the civil war and its results. Many things, too, indicate an almost obtrusive indifference to the claims upon public recognition of those -who shouldered their muskets and went to the front-in the early 6o’s. There is; no .complaint from them, it is true, for. that would not be dignified nor in consonance with the proud spirit of patriotism that animated them at the time, although they have only to look at the other side of the picture to behold the striking spectacle of a common and- enthusiastic impulse to shower civic honors upon the ;survivors of the “men.in gray” in the. South.’ .	. ’	-	-	' '	.
“Look* where you will throughout our own section, and you -will look in vain-for a like exhibition. You will ■ find ordinarily that in this respect” the .young politician'is honored in preference;to the old.soldier. Of . course, such results may often ■ be due * to -‘machine’ ’ politics,’ but ’ it .is ‘nevertheless a ‘shame to the manhood of anyJ community7 to ?be dominated
5^
by ‘machines.’ While it may be admitted that it is more creditable voluntarily to have offered, life,-in. a just war for one’s country than to have held, its offices or discharged its civic functions, yet the evident tendency of ‘machine-made men’ is to' invoke the . sentiment, ‘Virtue is its own reward4: in- settlement of the score.' In view of that state of things we. can* hardly be surprised at manifestations of., degeneracyin the observance of Memorial. Day.” .	.
“Would riot frequent appeals to the patriotism of the people serve to arrest the tendency of which you speak?” Colonel, Hoynes was asked. . .
“Would that it were so. One would,naturally,think that the original spirit of Memorial Day might, thus be revived, and it surely ought to be. When the memory returns to the gloomy years’of deadly strife in the-bitterly contested war for the union, when we recollect that more than 2000 battles and skirmishes were fought in the course of its sanguinary progress, when we reflect that many of the battles were destruct tive enough to have decided international contests and ended wars in other parts of the world, when’ we -remember that 360,000 lives were then yielded- up/for -the perpetuity, of our . free institutions; and the glory of the flag above us, when we know that many of the survivors whom we still meet daily in the civil walks, of toil and trade bear upon their persons the scars of battle or the marks of enfeebling disabilities , consequent upon the incomparable hardships and privations then necessarily' endured, we may well believe that Memorial Day, which peculiarly and above all other days of the year awakens these memories and typifies these things, ought to be observed with becoming gravity and patriotic exercises looking to the welfare. of the nation and teaching that love of country-, is more. honorable and consonant with good citizenship , and manly character than love of self and the accumulated pelf of greed and avarice.”’	’	'■
Personals.
—P. J..Corcoran, LL. M. .’02, has temporarily abandoned Law for a .good position with .a mining; company -in Montana. His .genial disposition, and his athletic achievements as a student, are still well remembered at Notre Dame. We sincerely wish'him well. . . ..
—Dr. J. W. Van Sant, a cousin of Governor Van Sant of Minnesota, is dead at Peoria. ; Two. weeks' ago, he fell down an elevator shaft.—Record-Herald. .. / ’ -
Dr. Van Sant was a valued friend of Notre Dame whose death we deeply, regret.’ His bereaved .family and relatives . share ; our sympathy.	■ ;	‘	.
—Visitors5 Registry:—Sadie: Monier, Champaign, .Ill.; ; Edyth Faltz, Blanche Bulla; Mary E.: Proctor, Elkhart, Irid.; D. T. Matthews San Franciscd;: George Hammond, , C.- -E. Houser; South - Bend; J. Leahy, Mrs. Leahy*, Raton, New-:Mexico;> Miss' Ella .T. Murray; Philadelphiaf Pa.;: George ,E. Medley, Springs
568	ftO'iRE DAMk
field, Ky.; J. F. Daly, Madison, South Dakota; J. W. Rittenger, Supt. of Schools; Anna McDuffee, Howard Hicks, Irene Holman, Grace Hale, Hallie Wykoff, B. Wykoff, Clara Bartmess, Helen Riney, Baraboo, Wis.; Dr. W. F. Wood, Mishawaka; F. A. Miller, Manitowoc, Wis.; J. M. Wall, Toledo, Ohio.
—John L. Corley, Law ’02, enjoys a thriving law practice in St. Louis, where he has established an enviable reputation as a public speaker. The year of his graduation he won the Breen gold medal for oratory and was also a member of the debating team. The news of his success is highly gratifying to his friends at Notre Dame.
—We- congratulate most cordially the Hon. Timothy T. Ansberry (Law, ’94) on his nomination for Congress in the Fifth District of Ohio, which comprises the counties of Defiance, Henry, Paulding, Putnam, Van" Wert and Williams. As a student Mr. Ansberry was faithful, diligent and unassuming. He appreciated fully the educational advantages he had here, was grateful for advice, and never gave utterance to a word of complaint or dissatisfaction. He evinced in everything a strong and manly character — a character certain to secure for him the respect and friendship of those meeting him in-the sphere of social life and daily work. After receiving his law diploma he returned to his home in Defiance and was nominated and elected a few months later to the office of prosecuting attorney. So satisfactorily did he discharge the duties of the office that he was repeatedly re-elected. His nomination for Congress does credit alike to himself .and his District. He will be triumphantly elected, his party in that section being decidedly in the ascendency.
Local Items.
—The Pennsylvania Club has arranged to hold its annual banquet at the Oliver on June 6, and if time permits an outing to Elkhart will follow.
—A number of the seniors took advantage of the excursion conducted by the Grand Trunk to Chicago last Sunday. They returned Monday evening.	-
—Trolley rides to Niles on Sundays seem to be very popular. It is said that on the return trip, some interesting tableaux have been observed in the cars.
—The Philopatrians, accompanied by their director, enjoyed a very pleasant holiday at Barron Lake, Mich., last Thursday. Swim
SCH0LAST1C '
ming- and other out-door sports were indulged in. Through the generosity of the Very Rev. President a palatable lunch was served.
— Several Sorinites intend to become Knights of Columbus next Sunday in South Bend. The experience will prove of ' chief interest to themselves.	’
—Mr. Gardiner thinks that the May visitors this year are unusually numerous and interesting. We await the opinion of other experts who have studied the phenomenon.
—Mass in the church at eight o’clock will precede the rendition of the following programme at the flagstaff, on Decoration Day, May 30:
My Country 'tis of Thee (Sung by Audience). Lincoln's Address at Gettysburg.
Decoration Poem.
Star Spangled Banner (By the Band).
Judge Howard’s Address.
Red, White, and Blue (By the Audience).
Decorating Graves by the Members of the Notre Dame G. A. R. Post.
—The usual serenity that pervades the premises was broken last Saturday when white clouds of smoke began to arise in the vicinity of the shops. A fire alarm was turned in- and the response was immediate. Before many of the students were aware of the blaze the department from No. 7 Engine House came dashing up the avenue ready for action. The men of the local department, however, were already upon the spot and by their timely efforts the fire, which had started in a rubbish pile, was Soon extinguished. The sounding of the fire gong awoke several dreamers from their usual lethargic state ’neath the shades of Sorin Park, but no other serious damage was done. It affords us an assurance of safety to see the promptness with which the fire fighters from down the avenue respond to a call for aid.
—The occupant of Room 38 in Sorin Hall wishes to inform all the operators of the unnatural showers which frequently deluge the front steps of Sorin Hall and any unfortunate who happens to be sitting thereon, that this bad practice must be stopped, or at least the seat of action must be changed to. some other room. The criminal who removed the room-key and left an overturned waterbucket on the carpet, will receive the occupant’s heartfelt gratitude if he will but return the key and take in return his bucket. This water throwing is certainly a reprehensible act, but when it comes to “ducking” a person from his own room, outraged charity cries aloud for vengeance. Several suspects will soon be taken into custody and brought before the moot-court for trial, where the heaviest penalty of the law will be inflicted. Let us hope that all prospective offenders will heed this warning and leave the. control of cloud bursts to the rightful management—mother nature. .