•---——•
NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC
DI5CE QVA5I 5EMPEBVICTVRV5- VIVE’QVA5ICRA5MORITURV5-
Vol. XXXtV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, February 23, 1901.
No. 21.
An Ode.
TO THE LAND OF WASHINGTON.*
MO fairer prospect met the gaze
* Of wandering man in all his time Than thou, thy morning sands ablaze, Seemed to those men of Castile’s clime To whom was given that first sight, And pulsing wonder and delight They must have felt when on thy beach They pressed their foot and heard their speech.
And those tried souls from colder lands, Their blue eyes fill with tears
On looking at thy northern strands;
For to them God appears As holding thee reserved, concealed, For them through all the years;
For them, and seekers of their kind, Who hold the freedom of the mind ’Bove all that wealth can yield.
Here underneath thy friendly skies-Their children on thy bosom grew To love all scenes that met their eyes With that same love their fathers knew;
For naught of thee the human saw, But minded him of freedom’s law: Great rivers sweeping to the seas, The swaying of the giant trees, That restless winds did shake, The waters tumbling from the height, The swooping eagle’s daring flight, The heaving of the lake.
Though sounds were rough and sights were wild,. The red man fierce, the forest fraught
With toils and fears, still reconciled Were men to what their sires had bought;
How well- they prized a conscience free-We thrill to now recall,	.	.
When foreign powers whence they did flee Would make of thee their thrall.
No bugle-blast was needed then To call from valley, hill and glen, , And cry, come forth who would be free!
For the/ were freemen all.
And then upon- the hilltops blazed -The flame that ne’er will out;	. ■
“. And men. in other climes upraised
* Read in Washington Hall,- February 22.
Their voice in song and shout,	,	-
That they, at last, could see-the day ;
When ended king’s and tyrant’s sway; ~ And soon they knew He’d chosen one To guard that flame: great Washington.
The land of Washington.wert.thou;_. .
Is there a change in thee?
A murky cloud looms o’er thee now;
Or do we rightly see?
Has mammon with his. golden bands
Bound fast the eyes that saw
So clear the rights of other-lands: The common human law?
Thy flame that long and brightly shone
• Was seen in other skies;
In other climes ’tis lighting on Our brothers as they rise
To cast their tyrants in the sea, To be as thou, or else not be;
Oh, mother, hast thou eyes!	-
Wipe off the cold sweat from thy brow,
A murky cloud looms o’er thee now.
A paradox- the grim world sees:
Thy gen’rous sons from their fireside
The alien elbows out with ease, . And, then, thou send’st them to bestride
The wakening serfs of eastern isles;
A paradox:—the grim world smiles.
But thou wilt wake and thou wilt throw
Into the heavens all the glow
Of thy bright shining flame;
And distant watchers o’er the main
Will know that thou hast woke again, And shaken off thy shame.	.	.
. And thou who wert the nations’ hope .
. Will’be .their hope once more, Till ocean in his widest scope ’ . : Can touch but freedom’s shore.
Thou hadst a purpose when: this earth
Within the mind of God had birth .	’ jz:
, .' .To. fit a noble plan: -	•	-
! The Builder meant that thou shouldst be .
. The. land in which men first would see
/The brotherhood, of man. -. •
* In thee will. come .the time .when they; Who make will have—as come it. may!
1
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
35o
Then toil’s unceasing prayer will go Incensed to God’s throne,
And then in justice back will flow To each what is his own. .
Alas! for men that this should seem The shadow of a poet’s dream.
“But they prest down with stooping care Forget for aye the Master’s prayer;
Who taught that all great deeds require Is but strong faith: high heaven’s fire. When peace upon thy brow is set
Poesy may return to men, And happy swains here even yet
May fill with pipings vale and glen.
We do not seek a rusting ease
Mid cities’ lure and luxuries:
The forest path again we’d blaze,
The battle fight once more,
The homestead on the prairie raise, As men have done before,
If thou, as is thy destiny,
Were teaching nations to be free As thou began of yore.
Then to our ears the wilds among
The breeze aiid river rushing on
Would hum the never-ceasing song, This is the land of Washington! o
Anthony Brogan, 1901
The Genius of Washington.
WILLIAM J. O’CONNOR, I9OI.
N E hundred years ago the American government was in its infancy. The smoke of the revolution had lifted above the horizon and exposed to the view of the powers a
young republic, which stood forth the champion of liberty and the embodiment of all that is good and true and noble. From the shores of the Atlantic, Columbia raised her youthful and trustful eyes, and fixed her gaze upon that strip of land beyond the ocean’s broad expanse which we have learned to call continental Europe. Separated from the turmoil and strife of the nations by thousands of miles of foam-capped waves, a feeling of security must have come over her.
The mother power, from whose cruel embrace America had recently torn herself, with its fierce engines of war prowling like guardian giants along its coasts, and its massive land guns that point their metallic noses in ominous silence toward her, excited no fears in her breast. The same brave sons that had freed her from British oppression stood ready to reload their muskets in her defense, and, most of all, the memory of the daring exploits of her courageous protector, Washington, who had just passed away, would long remain as a source of inspiration to young Americans.
Washington’s military genius had liberated and protected the young nation, and his masterhand and master-mind had directed her course
with consummate skill through chaos and
uncertainty to a safe harbour of stability. He ^sessions and our high position among the had gone to his reward entrusting to American ^nations to Washington’s genius and indomi-~:	Stable determination is but small exaggeration-
♦ Address delivered in Washington Hall/Feb. ’22, at the pres~K9T_.	<	\ j '	. -	• 1 <
entation of the flag by the Senior Class. -	, ■His remarkable endurance; and admirable
youth and American patriotism the custody of his country as a legacy to be carefully and incessantly guarded.
Faithfully has the trust been fulfilled until our glorious land, of which Washington was truly called the father, stands to-day the grandest and noblest nation of the world. To-day we look upon a thriving and contented people cultivated in the arts of peace as well as in the arts of war. We see on all sides peace and tranquillity and an honest striving for supremacy among her people, and we behold a common and united love for America and American institutions. Under these conditions our-nation, with her gigantic strength and inexhaustible resources, has almost unlimited possibilities. At the present day the outgrowth of that little colony of ill-treated patriots, in view of her achievements and her possibilities, is respected and feared and admired by every nation on the globe. If the progress of the nineteenth century is continued with the same ardour and success during the twentieth century, and we have, begun it most auspiciously, we may look forward to the realization of the prophecy of an enthusiastic citizen who said that when the twenty-first mile-stone in the course of the new era shall have been reached, America’s boundary will be determined by the Aurora Borealis on the north, by the point at which the sun rises on the east, by the southern extremity of the earth on the south, and by chaos and confusion on the west.
’ To say that we owe all our numerous pos-
SCHOLASTIC.	351
NOTRE DAMh
persistency, combined with his keen intellect, alone saved the nation from destruction. Under the most discouraging defeats he. preserved complete composure - and bore up bravely under them. If Washington’s grip on the situation and its requirements had once been loosed we know too well that an English parliament would to-day be laying down laws for its American subjects. Happily such is hot the case.	.	.	.
Here at Notre Dame this occasion has been celebrated for many, years by a presentation of the nation’s flag to the University from the senior class. A'most fitting celebration it is, and one that bears many.good results; for such observances as these recall to us many braye and noble deeds that might be forgot, and engender a spirit of patriotism, and excite a true and needed appreciation of our country. For during the past century, besides the many blessings that have come to us in the shape of improvements and. conveniences, there have been-, fought in our land four stubborn and bloody battles, and we know not when the young man of America may. be called upon to defend his country’s honor and her fame. The encouragement of this custom at Notre Dame shows beyond doubt that the Faculty are fully alive to the. needs and welfare of our country, and are always ready to aid her.
All the classes that have gone forth from the portals of Notre Dame, drenched with her blessings to do battle in the world beyond, have left as a last bequest those flags; those flags whose colours are symbolic of the noblest of qualities—hope, purity, and constancy—as a token of their esteem and an assurance of constant fidelity. We wish to follow their example, and to think of Notre Dame during the coming year of great possibilities to ourselves with the flag she accepted from us floating. from yonder staff. And with that intention, Father Morrissey, and knowing that in paying homage to our intellectual home w.e are showing allegiance to the. memory of Washington and to our country, we present to you, as the representative of the Faculty, a. flag whose original has tossed its folds to the winds in the most dangerous and hazardous moments, whose bearers have always fought for a just and righteous cause, and whose likeness has borne in its wake peace and enlightenment wherever it has gone. May the sons of Notre Dame; always preserve it,: and long may she wave over the land of the; free and the home of the brave!	<
An Estimate of Chafles Reade. ■ T •
J. D. H.-
The Atlantic Monthly for March, 1864, cori? tains an essay on Charles Reade. It can hardly be called a ciiticism on any partof this .author’s work; it is rather an encomium on the man himself. It places Reade’s art as a novelist far above that of Charles Dickens and on a level with-Thackeray. Whether the critic is a stern judge with the courage of his convictions, or the admirer, or vicious opponent of any public man,- it is not my intention to discuss in this paper. Since time, however, is the recognized balance in which true greatness is weighed, let us see if this statement is true. Reade and Dickens were born about'the same time, and were the recognized novelists of their day; Reade seems to. have the prefer--ence, as he was often called the “Browning.of the novelists.” The Atlantic Monthly, however,' is not alone in its praise of Reade. Mr. Walter-Beasant, a critic- of no mean standing, places him at the head of a long list of English writers. Dr. Brownson thinks that his novels should be the recognized models for future generations. Mr. Swinburne says, “He was a; truly great writer of a truly great genius.” - i
These are enviable testimonials of any writer, still how seldom do we hear Reade’s name mentioned! Should we wish to find-the reason of this we must answer this question why do some novels live and others die? Perhaps it is because some are literature" of’ a lower order, others are classics;1 and only classics have life in them. Literature is no longer taken in the restricted sense of one-hundred years ago.. It has lost that-delicate meaning, politeness—better expressed by -the. French belles-lettres. Literature now is-the general term, and classic has become the specific. The classic must express something universal, and be addressed to the common, understanding and common sentiments of all.;
There is a certain attitude of mind common to cultivated men. There is also a -certain: sentiment shared by all men -that -feel. keenly, and - know how to appreciate the good and.-cast aside the bad. It is to these common sentiments and this-universal: mind.that classic? literature is addressed, and it is a classics only., inasmuch as it embodies- or-expresses-theses in its creations. This is why the Iliad, is a classic; this is why Thackeray and Scott,
352	NOTRE DAME
Hawthorne and Dickens have lived, and the contrary is the reason why thousands of others have died. “ David Harum,” “ Richard Carvel,” or any of our popular novels of a few years ago has had a greater edition than these old classics, still that does not make them greater achievements in the artistic world. The feeble candle, lighted afar off on the altar of inspiration, that has attracted the eyes of our great writers, has been as different as the steps it has directed; still it has always been lighted, that great minds may show to the world some fundamental sin of our race, not lighting the way, however, to party fights and petty scandals. It is a pleasure for us to know that we have rid the world of one bad thing, that we have lifted one ounce from our neighbour’s burthen; but let us remember that although renown may taste sweeter than fame, it is not so in .reality, no more than a small fire in the, forest is brighter than a star.
The purpose of the novel is to please, not to censure—I mean it must leave us better men and women than it found us. It must, consequently, be didactic in a certain way; for anything that causes us to lift our eyes from the low and commonplace and fix them firmly on what is high and noble must necessarily educate us. But the novel must not teach us in so far as it is designed to set forth a particular doctrine, system or theory, whether sacred or profane. The form of the novel can never be brought on an equal with those works addressed especially to the understanding. The interest awakened by the novel must rest in the plot or the character, as it may be; hence the interest of the story must be essentially. diverse to the interest excited by a logical discussion. The one requires action and movement, is impatient of delay, and hurries on to the end; the other requires quiet and repose, and suffers only the intellect to be active. It is an impossibility to employ both in one and preserve its unity.
Let us see if Reade’s novels will satisfy us in these two requirements. Do they please us; do they lay the naked truth before us, and make us better men and women? In “Very Hard Cash,” for instance, we see nothing extraordinary. The characters are well sustained, but they are not far removed from the common; they have no extraordinary merits or demerits; they are not extravagantly good nor very bad. Mrs. Dodd is a well-born woman; a sensible, high-bred, affectionate old lady, with a slight touch of primness even-
SCHOLASTIC.
tempered. She dearly loves her husband, and seeks no other pleasure than the affection of her family. She is deeply religious, firm in her own belief, never as happy as when she is doing some one a benefit. It is her nature to fuss and worry over little things, completely forgetting herself when others are in trouble. Julia is a beautiful, sparkling, impulsive little thing, full of life, feeling and good sense, always with a good intention, and able to appreciate genius and admire heroism, though not heroic herself. Edward can excel in anything that does not require brains or too much close and continued thought. He is born for action, and better with his hands and arms and heels than with his head. He has many qualitiesJn.common.with his mother. He has a high sense of honor; he is generous and unselfish, attached to his family and his friends. Captain Dodd is a good man, a better sailor, but an excellent skipper. He is a brave man too, and has saved fourteen hundred pounds. He loses his reason when he loses his money; he is sent to a private mad-house; he escapes; he goes to sea; he is supposed to be drowned; he is about to be cast into the sea; he is hauled on board after the funeral service is over; he is embalmed and sent home; it is found he is only in a fit; he soon recovers, finds his reason and his money; he is happy and so is his wife.
There is no warmth in the characterization by Charles Reade, while his narrative is undoubtedly among the strongest and most graphic of its kind in the language. The dramatic and picturesque element of some of his situations, such as the turning of the picture in “Roby Hall” and the SnowStorm in “Put Yourself in His Place,” are unrivalled by anything in Scott or Thackeray. Had he only taken half their pains in making his people show themselves, he would undoubtedly have taken a higher place on the ladder of fame than he holds to-day.
Even at its best, description will soon tire us. We want to see human nature under this and that phase of life; we want to see it acting and acted upon, but we do not want men with their night-caps on, or women employed in their scullery routine. I do not charge Charles Reade with all this; he is not capable of this coarseness; but here and there we notice a tendency to a slight vulgarity. We need not be surprised, however, for we find traces of this in Scott, Thackeray , and Dickens. With, those it began to show itself in the male characters, but in the present day it has found: its coun-

NOTRE DAME
terpart in the females of “ Trilby ” and the “ Heavenly Twins.” There are two ways of looking at life, one by exposing the material surface and giving us the glaring facts in all their truth and nakedness; the other goes down deeper than all this and concerns-itself with what is' ultimate and everlasting. The former we have seen in our French and cheap English “trash,” the latter we have seen in the “Scarlet Letter” of Hawthorne. “Adam Bede” and the “Scarlet Letter” are both written of sin, but nobody is scandalized at them. Both reveal, with splendid certainty, the beauty of holiness. But there are others written and have fair prestige among us and at the same time have worked ruin among our young people. A book to be true, whether a novel, a history, or a biography, must be true not only to this or that phase of life, but to the whole of life. It must not show base things as though all the world were base; or the false thing as though all men were liars, or all the silly things as though we were a race of fools.
We can not condemn a novel because it treats of this or that subject, but because it places it in this or that light before us. Why do we revolt against Realism? Simply because it is untrue. Why does the Iliad still live among us? Because it is so deeply true; because it is as organic as the hills, as fundamental as the everlasting seas. What is our little life in comparison with the world. of truth that is around us! Think of our life here, a minute flash from the Eternal Flame; our faint threads of thought like slight gossamers in the autumn woods. Think of our helpless obedience to the hidden forces of nature; think how we are carried on our whirling world, whithersoever the Eternal Law leads us, through dreadful spaces, glittering with the dust of systems infinitely vaster than our own; and see how low we stoop, even to pessimism and untruth!
It seems paradoxical that we should seek truth in fiction. We know that the battlefields on our stages are painted canvas, that the soldier’s wounds and the deserted girl’s tears are mere shams; still we are lost in the heat of battle, dur sympathies are with the deserted heroine; but as soon as some bad acting or ill-directed stage setting forces the fact upon us, we lose all interest.
I must admit that Reade allows the unreality of his scenes peep through occasionally. He endeavors to correct some crying abuse in
SCHOLASTIC.	353
social life, consequently he must make the character suit the occasion. Now He depicts the horrors and cruelties of prison life, as in “Never too Late to Merid”; again we see him advocating woman’s rights as in a “Woman Hater,” or in showing the destructive element of the Sheffield cutlers in times of strikes, as in “Put Yourself in His Place.”
Dickens made himself famous where Reade failed. He too tried to remedy the growing tendencies of his time; but his keen sense of humour and his powerful originality will keep him forever in the heart of the English language. English men and women will forever laugh at the salient wit of Sam Weller, or pity the sorrows of Little Nell; arid how many thousands have rejoiced at the eccentricities of Mr. Micawber and Mrs. Gamp, or shuddered at the ghastly horror of Jonas Chuzzlewit? Throughout, his overrun-, ning humour is not of the stiff, inflexible kind that we are accustomed to receive from Englishmen. Reade’s humour is certainly of the pure English style. Very seldom do we meet any of it, but good examples are shown in the account of Mrs. Dodd’s suitors, or how Mr. Hardie cooked his accounts.
Reade was too serious, and, if I am allowed to say so, too religious in his opinions to correct the evils of his time in this manner. He was a keen observer, still he saw nothing but the hard side of life. He wrote for suffering humanity in the prison houses and sweat shops and mad houses, but he never gave a ray of hope to their miserable people. Dickens worked in the same material, but he had the knack of seeing men in their peculiarities, and in painting these he distorts and misrepresents their unpeculiar qualities. He saw the Yankees and he satarized our national qualities; for this some of us are angry with him still. We should forget this however, for Dickens could not do otherwise: it was one of his “ prerogatives ” to exaggerate every character he created. This, perhaps, is the main reason, why Dickens still lives; his people are all original, and he himself is our dearest friend. Through his books he is our companion; “He belongs among the intimates of every pleasant-tempered and large-hearted person.”	. .
The prophecy of the Atlantic Monthly of forty years ago has not yet come true, arid we may rightly suppose it never will coriie true. Reade was then at the zenith of his fame; he and Wilkie Collins and Anthony
NOTRE DAME SCHOLAS'llC.
.Trollope were the great sensational writers of the day. Even now they have a claim to our recognition. Their novels exhibit a lot of power, a rich imagination, masculine thought and masculine passions too, but they are based' on some special phaze of life that occupied men’s minds in their own day, but is no longer thought of. And indeed too often they were based on an error; the truth on which they rested was too often denied by the philosophy that seemed to prop them up.
- Charles' Reade has given us no strikingly original creations. He has kept himself within the limit of common life and placed us among everyday people. Perhaps his great merit lies in the fact that he has. been able to invest these everyday people with an atmosphere of romance without exaggerating or transforming their characters. The works of Reade and Dickens have long since passed their flowering time, -the brilliancy of both has acquired an unchanging hue. Years have placed each in its own niche, and allow their relative values to .be correctly estimated. New men, like new books and new things, bear with them a sort of charm that fades with their strangeness, but still, while it exists, wards off the desecrating hands of the critic. Time has given each his proper place, and if the reviewer of forty years ago should return now to any of our public libraries, he would certainly find everything that Dickens wrote—^tattered and thumbed—upon the shelves, while one small book, the “Cloister and Hearth,” attests that Charles Reade had ever lived, everything else is forgotten on the wayside.
Example.
JOHN II. LILLY, I9OI.
How far that little candle throws its beams: . , -	‘
So shines a good deed in a naughty world.—Shakspere.
Example is the first and most. powerful instructor, and. the home the most important school of moral training. At home we imbibe those, principles that are to mould our character and-direct our conduct during life. In childhood the heart is opened and our habits formed. Thus before we have acquired the power of speech-example-has been at work, and those remembrances of boyhood always last longest. Then the mind is soft-as wax to . receive impressions and hard / as, marble to . retain1 them, and the germs of virtue or vice
' implanted in childhood are seldom, if • ever, wholly obliterated.
Good example is, therefore, of the greatest importance in the formation of the child’s character, and if we wish to rear noble, manly, upright men, we must furnish the child with good examples and elevating models. Place • a noble man in continuous contact with vice and he will, sooner or later, become vicious. How much more will bad example affect the child that does not know its deadly effects? The home is the nucleus of society and the embryo of the nation, hence the importance of early training, for what the home has been the man and nation will be.
Many of our great men owe their success to a loving mother, or to a devoted sister. Charles Lamb owed many of his most beautiful compositions to the suggestions of his sister. Wordsworth calls his sister “The joy of his life and the comfort of his old age.”
The education received at home never wholly ceases, though after a time its influence is diminished by that of the school and companions, that continue by their example the formation of our character.
Man at every stage of life can not help but imitate those with-whom he associates. “Example is the school of mankind, and they will learn at no other.” Plence to associate with persons of low character invariably leads to degradation, whereas the- companionship of persons better, wiser. and more experienced than ourselves is always beneficial. A new direction and a stimulus toward good may be given to a young man by a happy suggestion, a timely warning, or the kindly advice of an honest friend.	-
It is a solemn thought that, every word uttered, or action performed has its effect for good or for evil upon those around us; the deed lives and has a.direct influence on our lives and the. lives of our associates; and although man will die, his deeds are immortal, and their influence will be felt for many generations, either through the books -he has written or through^ his biography.
Books are our greatest- examples . and are the only-, lasting products of man’s genius. Temples, statues and, pictures decay and crumble into ruin,. but books. are immortal. Thoughts that were, uttered centuries, and centuries ago still, live, and are as fresh and invigorating .to-day ■ as .when first conceived, and their,thinker has.long,passed into oblivion. The only effect that time has had on books is
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
to preserve the good and to get rid of the bad, for only what is good, beautiful and true can have a long life. Thus the good and great men still live in their books and continue to direct our actions and mould our thoughts by bringing us into contact with the good, and giving us noble examples to imitate.
The dead but sceptred sorrows, who still rule Our spirits from their urns.
Shakspere although buried, since 1616 still lives, and exercises a more vital influence over our minds than over the minds of his own age.
The chief use of biography is to furnish us with examples, and al] books may be reduced to this class. What is a novel? A fictitious biography. What is a drama ? An actual biography. Poetry expresses' the thoughts, feelings and emotions of the soul, and in so doing, reveals the character of the writer, and when we know a man’s character we know his life.
“The great book of the world,” says Phillip Brooks, “is the story of a life. The New Testament is a biography. Make it a mere book of dogmas and its vitality is gone; make it a book of laws and it grows hard and untimely; make it a biography and it is a true book of life; make it the history of Jesus of Nazareth and the world holds it in its breast forever.” The reward of a good life purifies our hearts, fills our breasts with new hope, and stimulates our ambition. Who has ever studied the character of Iago without having a’ greater love for virtue and a corresponding hatred for vice? Often a character bad in itself if rightly treated will give us a better example than a good character. Who has read Irving’s life of Washington without feeling his best resolves strengthened and his ambition stirred up , by the noble deeds of the great general and statesman?
The example of the ■ brave is an encouragement to the weak and a reproach- to the cowardly. How many battles have been won by the courage of one .man held up as an example to the others. Every man, whether in the highest or lowest station, is affected by example. Good advice is very well, but unless strengthened by example it is of little value. The old adage, “ Do as I say, not as I do,” is usually reversed in practical life. .	.
Do not, as.some ungracious pastors do, Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven; Whilst like puff’d and reckless libertine, . Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads,
Varsity Verse.
WASHINGTON.
T ET now be heard inspired voice and pen
In hymns of praise to move the tongues of menl Let strains celestial swell our country’s songs, And fill with pride the heart of every son
In this broad land—the fruit of tyrant’s wrongs— To wake and laud the name of Washington!
The land and sea hide tales we’ll never know .
Of noble deeds which helped to make life grow.
His combats were not waged on hill or plain Alone—our annals paint such battles fought. .
Unknown to all, in secret shall remain ‘ Those struggles in his breast for freedom wrought.
He hoped, and aid came from a foreign strand.
His soul a beacon in this strife-wrecked land,
Which kept alive the patriotic flame.
How from each hearth and heart there fled despair;
How swelled the ranks in independence’s name, • When his small army crossed the Delaware!
At Valley Forge, beside the camp-fire’s glow, ' _ Among the wood that winter wrapped in snow, : .
In his mind’s balance hiing the nation’s fate.
To him the cause was just, so at his call
. They followed,, loved him. Why? From dawn till late “ He watched, he wept, he prayed and felt for all.”
For him ambition set her charms in vain;
He claimed the foeman’s sword—his country’s bane;
For this he lived and fought and dared to die, -Till—joys of peace then crowned the bitter strife— “Cornwallis has surrendered,” came the cry , That filled the sleeping city’s streets with life.
Ye loyal sons of other nations fair,
In wonder at your own great heroes stare;
But pause a while in turning history’s page.
Where’er you turn, in vain can you find one. In peace and war, a nobler, greater sage Than our much-honored Father—Washington. • <
The wonders of antiquity may stand,
As do the pyramids in Egypt’s sand.	:
Their makers slumber in the forgotten past;-.
Their fames are dimmed by others just begun;
But e’er, until the nation dies, will last
Revered in each one’s heart—our Washington. .
J. 6.- C.. .
WINTER HOURS.	.
In winter hours a sombre sky ;
Hangs o’er the earth, and bleak winds hie. ..
From northern climes. While cold and gray
The naked landscapes' stretch away,
Till leaf-stript backgrounds lose the eye. „ - ■
Life’s- lost colours seem to die,	...
While lowland plain and hilltop high
Are cold and drear where snowflakes play / In winter hours.	-*	- . ; '
And gazing thus the lonely day 7	-
Seems filled with sadness, yet there may	-x
Be joy in this; where snow-fields, lie , .	.. .\
Spring flowers will bloom and song-birds fly,
Made brighter by the ling’ring stay	'
'	Of winter hours. .	J L.<C,7-
35^	NOTRE DAME
The Emancipated Roman Slave.
JOHN H. DRACHBAR.
During pre-historic times those who were taken prisoners in battle were invariably put to death. Then as time rolled on it occurred to the captors of those who had been so unfortunate as to fall into their hands that it would be better both for the captor and the captive that those taken prisoners should be reduced to the condition of servitude rather than be wantonly slain. Hence, in the early Egyptian and Babylonian times it was deemed an act of mercy and generosity on the part of the conqueror to make slaves of the conquered. This was indeed true at the time; but as men became more civilized, and their notion of justice more in conformity with the divine law, slavery began to be looked upon as an unjust practice by many of the Persians after the time of Constantine.
Accordingly as soon as Christianity exercised its influence during the last stages of the tottering Roman Empire and the ages of turmoil and confusion which followed its downfall, the more liberal and charitable notions of the times with the solid foundation of Christian truths and principles were gradually discountenancing and undermining the Roman practice of slavery. Those slaves that were emancipated were called libertini as a class, but in relation to their former master, liberti, i. e., liberati.	'
Slaves were emancipated formally or informally. There were four kinds of formal emancipation. The first was by,manumissio vin-di^, according to which the master brought the^-slave before the praetor, and declared in open court his intention of giving the slave his freedom. Then the praetor’s lictor laying holc^of the slave with one hand and taking a rod in the other, touched him with the rod. ^nd declared him a freedman by reciting the following formula: 11 Hine ego hominem ex jure quiritium liberum esse aio I Then followed the pronuniio of the praetor or magistrate: “ Quandoque numerius rigidius non contra vindicat hinc egd. hominem ex jure .quiritium liberum esse dico;" a.ssecond form was by the manumissio censu, byCwhich the master. formally enrolled his slaved in the official lists of the citizens. Another method was by manumissio testamento, when the master, gave the slave his freedom by will {testainentum), or ordained before he
SCHOLASTIC.
died- that the slave should be emancipated by those who.should succeed him as master of that slave. . During and after the reign of Constantine the Great slaves were emancipated in church before the congregation {manumissio in ecclesid). The slave was informally emancipated by a verbal statement of the master in. the-, presence of friends {inanumissio inter amicos), by letter {per epistolam), or by inviting the slave to dinner {in convivio), to show his equality in certain respects to his former master.
After the slave had become formally emancipated he immediately became a Roman citzen, and a member of the city tribes of the lowest classes in the centurice, with full right of voting. He was not, however, allowed to serve in the army or to hold public offices, because none but freeborn citizens were elegible for such honors. During the imperial era freedmen obtained these rights, and also their descendants, since they were freeborn {ingenui), were admitted into the tribes; after the second or third generation they obtained the right of holding public office. Those who were only informally emancipated received only practical freedom without any civic rights. Although the slaves who were freed informally received the right of acquiring and transferring property {commercium), they were given no power to convey their possessions by will or testament to their heirs. On the contrary, their property was given to their former master or liberator. In spite of this law the wife or children of the deceased freeman could obtain a legal claim to his property by having him formally emancipated after death by his patron or master, which was permitted by the Roman law.
Masters were, however, not allowed to free their slaves at pleasure, as one might think, on the contrary the right of manumission was limited in several respects during the reign of Augustus. For instance, if a slave under thirty years was to be manumitted by vindicta liberator, the master was compelled to give good reasons for what he was about to do. Besides some other restrictions, a man was not allowed to liberate more than a certain proportion of his slaves by-testament, and in no case was the number of slaves freed to exceed one hundred. The Roman emperors had good reasons for restricting excessive liberation of slaves: since there were more slaves in Rome at the time of Augustus than freemen, it can easily^be seen what a power. these new citizens
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
might acquire even though they held only the right to vote. The relationship existing between master and slave prior to emancipation could not be entirely removed by that action. A mutual obligation continued to exist between the freedman and his patron. This was based on the fact that all freemen belonged to the family of his patron. On this account the freedman almost always bore the nomen and prcenomen of his patron.
Since the patron was bound on his part to care for his freedman, in consequence of this he retained him in his home or service, or gave him a farm with the necessary capital to make it productive and profitable. Upon the death of a freedman his body was buried in the family tomb of the patron, who also took charge of the heirs of the deceased man. On the other hand, the freedman was obliged to reciprocate this attitude of the patron, arid was bound if necessary to support him out of his own resources. If a freedman neglected his duty to his patron he was liable to severe punishment and could be deprived of his freedom again by the master if that one so wished. The wives and children of a freedman always retained the rights and obligations of their dead sire whether he had been formally emancipated or not, although they lost the right to his property if he had been only informally freed. As the different nations of Europe became more and more imbued with the spirit of Christianity and Christian democracy, slaves received all the privileges of freeborn citizens, or, at least, the stigma of servitude was almost entirely wiped out.
—<—----***---------
Ancient and Modern Sirens.
JOHN J. COONEY, ’oi.
Before Ulysses of old approached the land of the Sirens with his strong ships, he ordered the sailors to pour wax into their ears, and to lash himself firmly to a mast so that , he |	could not possibly liberate himself. Now the
music from the harps of these half-human creatures was so appealing and entrancing that everyone who . heard it would endeavor to reach them immediately, and probably meet the inevitable fate of all—death , by drowning. Ulysses:bade his .men not to heed his orders k no matter <what he might say or threaten under the spell of the Sirens’magic melodies. When his ships sailed by the Sirens his
357
precautions served him well. Those beautiful creatures played such enchanting strains that he tore and raved like a madman vainly endeavoring to free himself and issuing harsh threats to the sailors, while the direful maidens pleaded with him eloquently to remain. The sailors heard him not, and when they were at a safe distance from the Sirens, they cut the bonds that held their master, and he thanked them for obeying the commands of his sober mind.	'
The ancients are not alone in possession of enchantresses and musicians who could petrify the hearts and souls of men. Here in this modern era of human existence, in the “Athens of the West,” we hear nightly concerts and Sunday matinees thatstir our emotions beyond control. At times, when weare racking our brains with great- problems of sociology and philosophy, heavenly strains of music creep into our ears. The modern instrument of music is not an aeolian harp; it is a secondhand violin or an ill-used banjo. The style of modern music is not altogether classical. I myself am a great lover of the beautiful, so whenever these unexpected celestial notes strike upon my tympanum, I raise the curtain and let the moonlight stream through my window and carry my fancies to “ the undiscovered bourne beyond this mortal sphere.” Oftentimes my reveries are disturbed by an abrupt cry of, “Hold me back!” or “Cut that out!” from several adjoining rooms. Then I love to imagine that the roaming spirit of Ulysses has returned and is struggling to reach our modern sirens. It would be truthful to say that I did often wickedly desire that the author of these violent ejaculations could get at the sirens just to see what might happen. While I am uncertain of the result, I am disposed to think that the sirens would suffer in this advanced age. This is only a conjecture, however, and my sensitive nature would vastly prefer that sirens kindly inform us when they get an inspiration, so that we might put wax in our ears. For who would like to see them hurt?	.
---------------------
A Triolet.
I thought love’s language understood - Where’re the lover pressed his claim, I did not show the style I should; . I thought love’s language understood.
. My rhet’ric too was far from good;
. , I horrified this Boston dame;
I thought love’s language understood, Where’re the lover pressed his claim. P. McE.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
HAMP	A5TI^ K^een "improved” by some editor who had
H w I I ■■■ WMi’Ibi wwllwaiAw I Itoi ^never cleverly written an incident in his life. Notre Dame, February 23, 1901.	^Yet it appears the practice of “correcting”
Published every Saturday during Term Time at Notre Dame University.
the work of good writers by those who can not write at all is common. The editor’s aim
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame. Ind_
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Board of Editors.
ANTHONY
HARRY P. BARRY, I9OI JOS EPH J. SULLIVAN, IgOI
J-
BROGAN, IgOI WILLIAM J. O’CONNOR,
1901
WILLIAM H. TIERNEY, I9OI
is to make a story conform to the style of his magazine, regardless of the author’s style or feelings. Every blue pencil wielder has a number of elegancies that he thinks distinguishes his magazine from all other periodicals; so we come to have the Smart Set style, the Harper style, the Munsey style, and so on. This, of course, eliminates an author’s individuality, and gives rise to a kind of democracy in the literary world we do not want. •
OHN P. HAYES, I9OI FRANCIS DUKETTE, I9O2 LEO J. HEISER, I902 HENRY7 E. BROYVN, lgO2 PATRICK M’DONOUGH, ’03 JOHN L. CORLEY, Ig02
JOHN M . LILLY, I g O I GEORGE YV. BURKITT, IgO2 FRANCIS SCHYVAB, IgO2 JOHN J. HENNESSY, lg02 EDYVARD A. RUMLEY, IgO2 JOHN P. O’HARA, IgO2
JOSEPH P. O’REILLY, IgO3 JOHN P. CURRY, IgOI ROBERT E. LYNCH, lgO3‘ FRANK J. BARRY, lgO3
}> Reporters.
—Those students xvho Yvish to enter the oratorical contest should hand a typewritten copy of their orations to John Lane O’Connor, not later than April 30. This gives two months time for preparation, and we hope to see a goodly number of contestants appear. Each should remember that whatever his talents are nothing- short of hard work can assure him of success. Time and again only one or two points stood between the winner' and the second competitor. Everything goes to show that this year will not. be an exception. The improvement in elocution, debating ;and oratory at Notre Dame during the last few years is phenomenal. So aspirants for honours along these lines should be conscious that what was good enough a few seasons ago will not do now.
; —-Some of our best writers of English are exceedingly.wroth with magazine editors, and justly so. They protest because the editors have of late years developed a fondness for using the blue pencil. Men like Mr. Barry now affirm that an author can scarcely recognize his own production, after it passes through the hands of the modern editor. We pan easily imagine how indignant a story-teller like Mr. Stockton might be to find a tale of his had
• —The deeds of the active total abstainers and bar smashers may be in vain; perhaps injurious, for it seems after all, they are opposing a law of nature. Mr. Dexter, a New York scientist, has by great labor and elaborate figures shown that the weather has a great deal to do with man’s desire for intoxicating liquors. According to his statistics the number of disorderly drunks in Manhattan Island is forty-one percentum greater in Dec. than in July. This he attributes to the weather. It is certainly gratifying to learn that the craving for that which sets the soul afire, is not at all in the mind or stomach of man but in a high-barometer, low temperature or high wind.
Mr. Dexter can only get a line^Q.n the disorderly drunks, and it is also to be noted that Christmas comes in December when pledges run out. But then, on the other hand, the glorious Fourth comes in July when good patriots celebrate, so that these two counterbalance each other. For the scientist’s argument they do more, since Christmas is a time of peace, and the Fourth is a day on which a man’s fighting blood runs warmer than usual. Of course, the fact that more men are out of employment during the winter months than in summer, and that the ordinary man has no place of amusement but the saloon, can have nothing to do with the increased percentage of drunks. It is, indeed, a relief to know that natural forces may be held responsible for impelling citizens to unseemly acts. Mr. Dexter and his brother scientist who, a few months ago, demonstrated that sun spots are accountable for, industrial depressions, should get together and form a new school of philosophy, • ; :	f
4
iWTRE DaMR SCHOLASTIC.
Observance of Washington’s Birthday.
The observance of Washington’s birthday =	at Notre was of the usual fitting and enthu-
j:	siastic type. A general suspension of work
I	brought ease and enjoyment, and afforded the
|	sober-minded an opportunity to reflect upon
£	the life of a genuine and indomitable patriot.
|	The formal exercises were held in Washington
SHall during the course of the afternoon. An excellent programme which had been arranged .	was well rendered. After an overture by the
g University band, the audience joined in singing | the “Star Spangled Banner.”	.
I'	Tbe next number was the presentation of
the flag. In behalf of the “’oi ” class, Mr. W. J. O’Connor presented it to the Rev. President, as a token of esteem toward their Alma Mater.
A selection by the male quartette followed, which was very well received. After this number, Father Morrissey, in a speech of acceptance, congratulated the members of the graduating class on their loyalty to the University. In the course of his speech, he |	dwelt upon the subject of authority saying
“that the recognition of authority was the surest guarantee of the permanency of a government, or any other institution.” Here at Notre Dame this first requisite of good citizenship: namely, respect for lawfully constituted authority, is instilled into the minds of the students. And hence it follows they must respect and revere any well - ordered government under which they may live. And the public deeds of those who have left our halls are living witnesses to the words of our Very Reverend President. .
. The next selection was an overture by the University Orchestra which brought forth great, applause? The success of the musical i portion of the programme was due chiefly to the efforts of the instructor.
i	Mr. Anthony . Brogan followed with the
; reading of a poem, which he had composed in honor of the day.	.
The exercise closed with a lecture on “The Twentieth Century Citizen” by the Reverend F. Z. Rooker, D. D., of Washington, D. C. The speaker began by pointing out the strict . sense of duty that exists in all men. These obligations increase as society progresses. He > defined patriotism as an unfailing love and ! zeal for one’s fellow-citizen—-a love that impels men to action, and does not cease at the end . of an inflated Fourth of July oration. The.-.
359
next point taken up by the speaker was the sacred character of the ballot. He said that every man at an election should be impelled by one motive: the furthera.nce of the best interests of the country.
A pithy sentence of the lecturer was that every man is bound to be a true citizen somewhere, else he can never be a true citizen of heaven. In speaking of morality in modern industrial life, he remarked that the civil law. does not prohibit all actions that are morally wrong; nor can a man conscientiously do all those things of which the civil law' takes no account. We must above all refrain from infringing on the rights of our fellowman. No man by virtue of superior talent has the right to turn that into his own pocket, which in all honesty should go into the pocket of his neighbor; what is rightly due to him: namely, the product of his individual labor. Civilization, said the speaker, never advances where one class of men is tyrannized over, and this is surely the case where the product of. a man’s labor is taken from him and nothing given in return. True advancement can come only by doing justice to all. The amassing of great wealth at the expense of the community has never aided civilization an inch, though some may assert that it has. The essence of slavery is that one man is forced to work for the benefit of another and for him only.
In conclusion, he spoke of the advantages held out to the students of a university: the. opportunity to learn and to know. He said that these advantages imposed a new obligation: that of teaching those who. had not the opportunities. We possess what those who lack higher graining need. We can know, and ought to, fufill our duties toward our. fellow-citizens. He remarked that one of the characteristics of youth was the pure intention by which they are impelled, not the conservatism and selfishness that seem to come with. age. The speaker did not aim to beget., a useless sentiment in his young, hearers,.but rather appealed to their intellects. His object, was to have them reflect upon the vital and. ever-present, questions that arise in all states,, and become more complicated as civilization advances. This, he affirmed, was the duty of young men who were blessed with unusual -opportunities. The close attention given..to Dr. Rooker’s words throughout- his ; lecture showed .that the lofty ideals that, he outlined* appealed to his youthful.hearers, J. P. H.
36°
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Exchanges.
The Yankee Regular.
Of the new additions to our exchange table The Occident is the most worthy of consideration. The stories show careful observation, and deal principally with college incidents. This is commendable and worthy of imitation. We might expect more verse from a co-educational university. The editorial maintaining that universities should be supported by the state is a Concise, well-worded argument, in which the writer thoroughly establishes his position.
* * *
We always anticipate real pleasure in reviewing the Georgetown Journal, one of the most unique and literary exchanges that come to our table. “In the Breaker” is an interesting and well-written story that excites deep pity, but the relaxation is most pleasurable. The odes to “ Virgil and Maecenas ” are praiseworthy; we find no Latin idioms that are so difficult to avoid and so frequent in many translations.
*
* #
To a member of the University of Chicago the Weekly may appear interesting, but to an outsider the.paper is dull and not particularly ' literary. The history of the Illinois “Beta of Phi Kappa Psi,” is a well-written article, but its proper place is in the second part of the paper, and we see no reason why it should usurp the space that should be allotted to literary matter. The article on “Fraternities” shows little originality, and if we wish to read Mr. Dooley we have only to turn to “In Peace and War,” The editors may have a reason for excluding essays and short stories, but from a literary view point the reason is unintelligible.
* *
“Variety is the Spice of life,” and the new form of “ The St. Edwards College Echo is an improvement over its former awkward appearance. The editorials and exchange column show deep thought and excellent English, far superior to that in any other part of the paper. Why do not the editors put in practice the apt suggestions of the ex-man? “A college paper should not be dull.” Yet the first article, “ Evolutionary Theories,” has the decided air of the class-room: As a scientific treatise that embraces Evolutionary theories the essay is broad and laudable, but the advice of the ex-man tells us that we should exclude it from a college paper. \ G. W, B,
In reply to an article which appeared in a recent issue of the Scholastic, Mr., J. J. Abercrombie of Chicago writes Us an interesting letter. The article in question was a summary of Father Kelley’s lecture on “The Yankee Volunteer.” The opening sentence of the letter shows that the writer is deeply interested in the students here, and his criticism is done in a friendly spirit. He seems to think that the distinction made between the regular and the volunteer soldier was unfounded and unjust. We can not do better than to quote his letter in part:
Dep’t of the Interior, U. S. Pension Agency, Chicago, III., February 16, 1901.
My Dear Boys of the Board of Editors:
All the boys are dear to me now and my interest is with them and for them. In the Scholastic (9th) I read a note on Father Kelley’s lecture. I was a volunteer, and I agree with the Rev. Father in all that he says that is good about them. But in the closing paragraph comes a statement calculated to leave a false impression and perhaps create prejudice against the regular soldier. Comparing the volunteer and the regular you .state: “One fights for honor and native land, the other for hire.” In this great Yankee Nation all soldiers are volunteers. The difference, and the only difference, between the term regular (U. S. troops) and volunteer being that the regular is accredited to the country at large and the volunteer to his individual state. The regular is simply the average American citizen plus a training which makes him an effective servant of a popular government. The regular enlists for a specified time; the volunteer enlists for a term “ endurin the wah ” (as our Southerners used to say). Both must volunteer before acceptance. They are paid • the same hire; they wear the same uniform, and receive the same allowance of rations. The volunteer frequently becomes the regular should the campaign last longer than his original term of enlistment (ordinarily three years).
It was a thin blue line of regulars that stretched ever between the enemy and the band of pioneer settlers that made this great country a possibility; they ever kept the further outposts of civilization a tangible reality without further reward than a consciousness of a duty well done. From early childhood I have been in this westward march and know whereof I speak. I have also been a volunteer during the .Nation’s darkest days and know their failings.
Very sincerely yours,
J. J. Abercrombie.
Anyone that heard Father Kelley’s lecture understood fully the distinction he made between the two types of soldiers. The regular, as described by Mr. Abercrombie, is in reality a volunteer, one who enters the army as a volunteer, and after prolonged service becomes a regular soldier. This class of regular, soldiers
NOTKE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
assuredly deserve all the praise that has been given to the volunteer, because they are-actuated by the same worthy motives. A man that enters the army in time of war is a true soldier, whether volunteer or regular, and has at heart the one supreme motive—the preservation of- his country’s honor and name. The reason that the volunteer is conspicuous is that he offers his services only in time of war.
Notre Dame’s Men in Milwaukee Meet.
A try-out to decide who would be the men to be taken to Milwaukee on the ninth of March was held in the new gymnasium last Saturday afternoon. All the candidates for the -team could not be taken, and the management concluded that a series of trials would be the best way to pick the men that would go. The fellows that performed best and consequently will represent Notre Dame in the big meet are the following:
75 yard dash—Gorcoran and Glynn.
880 yard run—Uffendall.
440 yard run—Corcoran, Hebert, Glynn, Gearin and Murphy.
40 yard hurdles—Herbert and Hoover.
2 mile run—Uffendall.
Shot put—Powers and Eggeman
High jump—Powers and Glynn.
Pole bault—Kearney and Powers.
Relay race—Herbert, Glynn, Gearin, Corcoran, Murphy and Uffendall.
* *
On March 23 Manager Eggeman announces a meet with a team picked from all St. Louis to be held at St. Louis. In this meet Notre Dame will have five men entered not including the Manager himself who will also compete. The events in which our fellows will try conclusions with tfie St. Louisans are: the fifty yard dash, half-mile run, pole vault, high jump and relay race. Capt. Powers and Big John will give an exhibition of putting the shot.
Baseball Team.
!
The baseball men continue to practise hard every day and signs of improvement are very evident. Our chances for filling the places left vacant by some of last year’s men are good, and even at this early day we can predict a season of games that will be interesting.. We will not boast that our team will defeat all of its competitors, but we can say positively that
it will furnish some very exciting games before the season is over. The other Western teams will not come up to the standard of their last year teams, and even if we do miss Gibbie and our other stars we can hold our own among them.
Carroll Hall Defeats High School Boys.
A track meet between Carroll Hall and a squad from the South Bend High School was * held in the new gymnasium on last Saturday afternoon. The Preps sustained the reputation of Carroll Hall in field and track athletics by walloping sadly the South Bend boys. In nearly every event the Preps took two or more places, and in all but two events captured first place. The High School boys were outclassed and outpointed in the dashes and runs, but showed to better advantage in the field events. Dolph showed very good form in the high . jump, and Staley in the pole vault. The Carroll Hall men who did the best work were Strong in the half-mile run, Dolan in the quarter-mile run, Quinlan in the broad jump and Riley in the dashes. Elred, from South Bend, gave Strong a pretty race in the half mile, but he had stayed back too long, and although he made a very strong finish he was a few feet behjnd at the tape. The relay race came easy. Order of events:
40 yard dash—Riley, first; Dolph, second; Reichardt, third. Time, 5 seconds.
880 yard run—Strong, first; Elred, second; Williams, third. Time, 2 minutes 27 seconds.
Running high jump—Dolph, first; Crowley, second; Boedmus, third. Height, 5 feet.
Shot put—McCormick, first; Dolan, second; Boedmus, third. Distance, 38 feet 7 inches.
220 yard dash—Riley, first; Quinlan, second; France, third. Time, 26 3-5 seconds.
Pole vault—Staley, first; Crowley, second; Farabaugh and Boedmus, third. Height, 8 feet.
440 yard run —Dolan, first; McCormick, second; Zahnle, third. Time, 61 2-5 seconds.
Running broad jump—Quinlan, first; Crowley, second; Zahnle, third. Distance, 18 feet 2 inches.
880 yard relay race — Dolan, Crowley, Strong and; Quinlan, first. Time, 2 minutes 10 seconds.
* * *
Sorin vs. Carroll
Sorin Hall basket-ball team broke the hoodo last Thursday afternoon and defeated, the Carrollites in a fast game by a score of 17 to 14. The Carrollites did not display their: usual good team work, and seemed to put no life into their efforts. Donahoe and Cornell played the best ball for Sorin' Donahoe throw
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ing six goals. “Butch” Campbell, although a new one at the game, also showed up very well.
The attendance at the game was very poor. This does not show up very well for the patriotism of the different Halls. As has been announced before, these games have been arranged for the purpose of obtaining a sufficient sum to replace the banners and trophies which were destroyed in the fire last fall. The price of admission at each game is but ten cents. Certainly no one can say that he can not afford that much. It would be a disgrace to the student body of 1901 to leave this matter drop now. A new gymnasium, a splendid track team, and the brightest prospects we have had in years in every branch of athletics, ought to be sufficient inducement to those who take a pride in the work of their Alma Mater to at least do this much for the cause. So come now, gentlemen, awake from your long sleep. Let us see those banners gracing the walls of the new gymnasium before another month has passed
away.
Carroll
THE LINE UP
Sorin
Uckotter, Crowley	F’s
Quinlan (Capt.)	C
Farabaugh, Geraghty r._
Medley
Donahoe, Cornell
Campbell •
Krug, Warder
Goals from field—Donahoe, 6; Cornell, 2; Quinlan, 2;
Farragher, 2; Uckotter, 2; Crowley, 1. Fouls, Cornell, 1. Groogan, Referee. Higgins, Umpire.
The Forty Hours’ Devotion.
The Forty Hours’ Devotion began with High Mass last Sunday. The Rev. President earnestly exhorted the students to avail themselves of the opportunities given during this special and beautiful devotion. The interest aroused and- the many visits paid to the Blessed Sacrament showed his words had effect. The “forty hours” closed Tuesday evening with a solemn procession and Benediction.
Local Items.
—Church ought to leave her picture alone, and take some recreation.
—Feeney says that if his; cousin does not write to Him he’ll start writing to some girls. His mail must be dwindling.
, —Antoine is at a loss to know what he should do on ,Wednesday nights and Sunday
afternoons. I don’t see that pink paper. and blue envelope any more, nor that “ twice-a-week” smile on his face. I guess that-------- has forgotten him. o
—Kelly has been reading that same letter for a week. Smiles; changes of countenance, and joy must make up his abode.
■ —Dubbs is still sick. He says he imagines that President Kruger would be a great bore to McKinley were he to visit this country.
—There is an “Onion Organization” in Brownson Hall, better known as the “Oderif-erous Contingent.” Application for membership should be made to Jennings or Groogan.
—The “Hair on You Club” has disorganized. The club was in good standing till Ballington Booth Walsh, the “wedge of organizations,” was allowed to force his way into the membership.
—Meyers is inhaling philosophical air these days. He is so rapt up in Plato and Aristotle that he forgets where he is. Some one asked him where he was yesterday? “Down with Aristotle and Plato, you dummy.”	■
—A society for the suppression of skiving is to be organized in Sorin Hall. A meeting is called for next Thursday afternoon at Judge John Lavelle’s office. Full report of the meeting and list of officers will be published in next week’s issue.
—Notice to Sorinites.—D. K. O’Malley of the third flat and John Pick of the second flat go to the well every night for drinking water. Now as the weather is very cold these nights, not to say anything about the snow, these young men wish to inform their many friends on the respective flats that they will furnish “Carrie Nation Cocktails” every night from now on free of charge. They make one request, however, and that is, do not all come in-a bunch.	.
—The Sorin Hall Orchestra was organized last Sunday afternoon. Mr. “Teddy” Gilbert, the well-known musician, was elected leader and drum-major. Mr. Harry P. Barry, professional clog-dancer, plays second fiddle, while Messrs. Petritz and Steiner will blow themselves on the clarinet and cornet respectively. Mr. O’Grady is the soloist and also looks after the first fiddle. The orchestra is open for engagements to play at banquets, rough-houses and the like. Orders can be left at the office of Lins and Corcoran, the German-Gaelic News Dealers.	:	.
—Pointed Sayings by Philosopher Yockey.— He.who can see the difference between a rake and a hoe at one glance is a genius. I have often taken the man .with a rake, for the “man with the hoe.”	. ,	. •
Some one of the Ancients, Nebuchadnezzar I think it was, .said that7 one humorist could not appreciate the efforts of another. I often drop .funny remarks in Moot-Court, but my
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
colleagues never even smile. Is it because they are humorists themselves?
“Brevity is the soul of wit,” says some one. When I am questioned in Philosophy I.am very brief.	.
—The Law Debating Society met in the law room last Saturday evening. Colonel Hoynes presided at the meeting. The following question was discussed: “Resolved, That trust combinations exercise a beneficial influence in stimulating commercial enterprise and promoting prosperity.” The speakers for the affirmative were Harry P. Barry and Joseph J. Sullivan; for the negative, William Baldwin and Philip O’Neill. The judges were E. P. Gallagher, Leo Cleary and George H. Kelly. The decision was given in favor of the affirmative.
—Hints on Social Standing.— No gentleman indiscreetly speaks of the ladies he knows in the city, unless he wants everyone to know what he said.	.	‘
It is not necessary that one should come back from the city in a carriage so as to hold his social standing unless it is very close to ten at night.
No gentleman will obstruct another in the corridor of the third flat, more especially when the other is escaping from the watchman.
No gentleman licks his fingers after eating fudges.
The greatest sign of culture is that a young man have the interests of his fellows at heart. A good way to show this interest is to have a supply of drinking water for one’s friends on a cold night.
Any young man may easily learn how to attain to these perfections by observing the behavior of certain gentlemen.
—A hero of old had seven superhuman tasks assigned him by his lady-love. One of them was to swing a three-year-old heifer by the tail around his head, as Big John does the hammer, and cast her over the Euxine Sea at its widest part; another was to take the temple of Vesta and throw it over Mount Parnassus and then run around the base and have a foundation prepared for it by the time it fell, and five other deeds more difficult still. He performed all of them, married the girl, and then found she had no fortune.	’
But our friend J. J. in these practical days has taken upon himself tasks harder even than those performed by the ancient hero. His, however, are all in the intellectual line. He may have assumed them; for the same old reason, or he may be doing them for- his further development, as he is a great admirer of the “fuller life.”	.	•
But be that as it may, he undertook and successfully performed the task of explaining a transcendent philosophy that has to do with only the other side of the moon. He has now
on his hands the task of answering a set of riddles that we dare say Duns Scotus himself could not solve. All success to you, J. J.; and your lofty aspirations! We’ll inform our readers as the other tasks come on. .
. —The Grand Ball - given by the Whisker Club on the eve of Washington’s birthday was a great success. The guests began to arrive as early as seven o’clock and were immediately turned over to the tender mercies of the vigilance committee. The music was furnished by the celebrated Hop - Scotch Orchestra, recently imported from South Africa. The orchestra consists of Sir Richon, 1st piano; Frau Walsh, 2d piano; Mr. Murp Hee, 5th megaphone and the piano. In the words of Mr. Farragher, “the music was illigant.” Several times during the course of the evening the dancers were compelled to cease and gaze on the orchestra in wonder and amazement.
Between halves the dancers were entertained by several of the Whisker Club’s stars. Master Q. Flat Stubs sang “In My old Kentucky Home ” with more fervor and less sweetness than a more accomplished singer could possibly put into it. However, the crowd did not seem to appreciate his effort, but they , can . hardly be blamed for this as. the song, or rather the air, was a new one on them. Ritchie Emershion next delighted the crowd with a recitation entitled, “Johnny, Get Your Gun.” Richie put his whole soul into the piece, and when he came to the part where the villain enters and demands Johnny’s life, he depicted the scene so vividly that several of the spectators grabbed for chairs and other implements of war to soak the villain. With his deep, rolling, thunder-like, basso voice, clear-cut gestures and almost commanding, stage front, Emershion ought to become one of our best elocutionists. Taken all in all, the affair was a grand success, and the promoters are to be lauded for their untiring zeal and cool nerve in bringing it. about.
—The debate*, Resolved, That the Exemption Laws in the states should be abolished, was fiercely contested before the Literary, Parliamentary and Debating, Society on last Wednesday, afternoon. Logical arguments .were propounded most copiously by Messrs. Fortin and Pick who opened for the affirmative and negative respectively. A narration of facts by Messrs. Kelly and Lavelle was indulged in. The assembly awaited impatiently the arrival of Messrs. Cooney and . Dinnen. When these orators of renown and men di^ni oratoris nomine entered there was vociferous applause. Eloquence and the philosophical trains of thought leading up to many a sub-climax and finally to the climax permeated the parliamentarian atmosphere. A call for a decision found the assembly: a neutral one. The decision was left to the chair, but so
364	NOTRE DAML
closely was the debate contested, and so esoteric the arguments that the chair could not decide. This debate is the only one on record here.
—Cupid has again drawn his bow, and has plunged his fatal arrow into another throbbing heart. Tuesday morning witnessed the marriage of Mr. Daniel V. Casey to Miss Pauline E. Sullivan, both of Notre Dame. The wedding was the social event of the month and was second to none in grandeur. The costumes of the bride and groom were remarkably attractive, the pretty blushing face of the bride being set off by her bright red dress, while the stately form of the groom was all but majestic in his well-fitting seersucker coat and checkered trousers. Mr. Frank P. Vogt and Miss Mary Zeiger served as groomsman and bridesmaid, and Rev. George P. O’Connor officiated. The bride and groom will take a tour to South Bend and will be at home to friends March 17.
—Last Sunday evening Senator Henry Clay Jaerger and ex-pugilist, James J. Corbett; had a very interesting argument in the “rec” room at St. Joe Hall. It seems that Senator Jaerger had, in one of his speeches, used the exclamation “Give me liberty, or give me death!” and Jim, being an accommodating sort of fellow, and not being able to give the Senator liberty, he tried to give him the alternative. The Senator tried to explain to the ex-pugilist that the exclamation was purely sentimental on his part, and that it meant nothing; but Jim seemed bent on giving the Senator what he had called for, so’ it was not long before the Senator tasted one of Jim’s gloves, which was probably loaded with death. The argument by rounds was as follows:
Round 1: Corbett leads off with a sophism, and draws an illogical conclusion on the Senator’s left ear. Jaerger follows by intuition, but falls short. They spar awhile by deduction, then Corbett refutes by reductio ad absurduni and lays his opponent out. Referee Furlong calls time. Jaerger appears fagged out.
Round 2: Jaerger lands an exordium, by means Of his foot, on Corbett’s kidneys and follows quickly by a syllogism on Corbett’s nose, followed by a peroration from Corbett into Jaerger’s bread box—time. Jaerger is greatly excited.
Round 3: Corbett leads off by persuasion on Jaerger’s right eye and by repetition gains a good lot of points. Jaerger makes a few simple propositions on Corbett’s right ear, and concludes the argument by analogy all over Corbett’s anatomy.
Although Jaerger held the burden of proof, the decision was given to Corbett.
—Who’s the Man in the House?—Last Sunday night the watchman had a dream. He dreamt he was awake, and he awoke and found out that he was asleep. In the meantime the
SCHOLASTIC.
thermometer was thirty-two miles below zero and the clock had gone on a strike at twelve. He dreamt, when he thought he was awake, that he saw a “piker” stealing stealthily along over the beautiful white, cold, dreary; damp snow in the direction of Sorin Hall.
“Ah!’ I spy. This skiver will I catch and show the Sorinites how smooth I am.”
He crept up behind the “skiver,” shoved his “blunderbuss” in the piker’s pocket, his lantern in his face, and cried:
“Halt! you’re a skiver, and I’ve got you.” “Go on! your mind is wandering; I’m Dad Moulton No. 2.”
“Yes, you have worked that racket two times too often. Come into the hall to the rector and we will find out.”
“He’s easy,” thought the skiver; “I am safe.”
Into the hall they went and to the prefect’s door. Gently rapping upon the door with his foot, the watchman cried:
“Get up! get up! a skiver I have got”—
“To get,” answered the skiver, as he disappeared up the stairs.
“And get I will!” shouted the watchman as after him he went.
Chief Kinney wrapt in sleepy slumbers, dreaming on his bum ear of the prairie fires he had fought and the brave rescues he had made of chipmunks, gophers, badgers, skunks and rattlesnakes, was awakened by the racket, and thought the house was on fire. He jumped out of bed, put on his helmet, red shirt and belt and bolted for the door.
Down the hallway rushed the chief at a second-flat gait, meeting the watchman in a head-on collison as he turned the corner he sent him through Bill Shea’s door. Extracting his helmet from the watchman’s solar plexus and telling Shea not to jump out the window as the place wasn’t burnt down yet, Kinney asked the watchman where the fire was.
“There is no fire. There’s a man in the house.”
“The dickens there is! I think there are a hundred in the house,” said the chief in disgust, as he .went back to bed. By this time all the animals in the. zoo were awake, and everyone wanted to know “who the man in the house” was. A searching party was formed and thby visited the different rooms. They found Mullin snoring so loud that he kept Hay and Jones awake, Lavelle preparing his debate on exemption laws (to exempt Cleary from getting down to prayer); Jose Hernandez writing love-letters; the editor, editorials and the reporter, jokes; Baldwin thinking whether he would.borrow his next plug from the Judge or Hanhauser; the twins together as usual; Laden singing psalms; Sedgie making fudges; Krost deciding to take a bath for a change, and everyone else at their bedpost. So the great mystery—“who.the man.in the house”, was remains unsolved.