

05news 08 Talking the Talk 
JULIA STEINER 
The history, execution and impact of the God 
Debate.· 
1 0 c11lt11re 
In Trying. Times· 
KATIE Fusco
14 
.The Notre Dame Haiti Program works to eliminate disease and rebuild the impoverished nation. 

Dishonoring the Family Name 
KATHLEEN TOOHILL
16 
The short-lived run of You Look Like I Need a 
Drink in the Bookstore Basketball Tournament. 

24 sports 
A Season to Remember
28 
MADELINE STONE 
A look at the women's basketball team's journey 
to the NCAA championship game. 

31 humor 
The Walk Across Campus 
35 
RACHEL KALINOSKI 
Decoding the thoughts of the strange creatures 
known as Notre Dame students. 


cover 18 
Faces of Faith 
ALYSSA MORONES 
Scholastic takes an in-depth look at the lives ofnon­Catholic Notre Dame students. 
~~he important thing is that we welcome students of all faiths here, give them a place to practice their religion ... we are all cherished members ofthe Notre Dame famit'rh. 
-Rm~ Theodore Hesbm·gh, c.s.c. ?7 
28 APRIL 2011 ISCHOLASTIC I 1 


EDNOTES 
When I woke up on March 31, I expected to pick up a glossy new issue of Scholastic next to the stacks of The Obsei-ver in South Dining Hall. Instead, the deities of the publishing pantheon let us know, in a series of once-a-decade printer disasters, that the "Sarcastic" issue would have to wait. 
While it was no one's fault -thanks to Ave Maria Press, our publisher, for fixing the problems as soon as possible -the delay of last month's issue reminded me yet again that nothing's perfect -everything can be improved. 
Room for Improvement 
In that spirit, this month's issue of Scholastic highlights some areas on campus and around the world ready for improvement. 
Julia Steiner's story "Talking the Talk," about the recent God Debate, shows how scholars are working to improve the dialogue between the secular and the religious (p. 8), while Managing Editor Clara Ritger's "So You Think You're a Vampire?" piece explores how sleep can make a world of difference (p. 17). Katie Fusco's "In Trying Times" highlights a Notre Dame program working toward a better future for a town ravaged by the earthquake in Haiti (p. 14-15). 
Finally, News Editor Alyssa Morones' cover story "Faces of Faith" shows us that while we attend a Catholic school, we are by no means exclusively Catholic (p. 18­23). The sons and daughters of Notre Dame come from a world of beliefs -it's about time we took notice. 
Mo.re to Come 
The Scholastic staff, too, recognizes the need for some improvements of our own. 
If everything works out, Scholastic will look radically different when you return in the fall. The magazine's design is well worn, and the staff and I think it's time to give it new life. 
Meanwhile, our website, unchanged since 2008, is being redesigned. We hope that these changes and more will result in a higher quality magazine paired with a sleek, user-friendly online experience. 
Until then, the Scholastic staff hopes you have a great summer. It goes by quickly, so enjoy it -and follow us on Twitter and Face book while you're at it. 
HAGS (check your elementary school yearbooks), 

Chris Milazzo 
Editor-in-Chief 
Cornctions: In the March 3 issue's "Exit Interview," we misspelled Architec.ture Professor Lucien Steil's name in the headline. Also, in my March 31 article "Irish Eyes Are Crying," I mistakenly said that Irish men's basketball never moved past the Elite Eight round in the NCAA tournament. They did, in fact, in 1978. The staff and I apologize for these errors. 
2 I SCHOLASTIC I 28 APRIL 2011 

Withjoy and thanksgiving... 
The Congregation of Holy Cross invites you to celebrate the ordination to the priesthood of John Britto Antony, C.S.C. and Paul M. Ybarra, C.S.C. by The Most Rev. Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C., Bishop of Peoria, Illinois. 
Saturday, April 30, 2011 
2:00 p.m. EDT Basilica of the Sacred Heart 




the stories we live 
28 APRIL 2011 I SCHOLASTIC I 5 

·. Tradition :=--· We'd like to challenge the new library · bag check policy. 
=-•-::::::::::=Will Ferrell replaces Steve Carell 
=We're just waiting for the Chrisnnas ~~~·=·==episode. · 
._ . Scholastic gets a Twitter ­-= =-_-@NDscholastic ~· #hashtagthat,Observer. 
. -· LA, NY Times win Pulitzer Prizes -= =-We presume the trophies were sold ·. to pay salaries. 
====Chinese government criticizes =the U.S. for abusing human rights 
i=====Opposites Day! 
6 ISCHOLASTIC I28 APRIL 2011 
How to Take Advantage of the Warm Spring Weather 
TOMMASINA 00MEL 
It's that time of year again. As we trade in the seemingly endless winter for the much-anticipated arrival of spring, we eagerly swap our cold weather wardrobes for shorts, sunglasses and flip-flops. Scholastic shows you other ways to maximize your enjoyment of the lovely weather. ~ Go to a baseball game. We all love football season -the hype LJ surrounding the first game, Saturday mornings tailgating and the triumphant nights out following Irish victories. But let's face it, football games can be just as stressful as exciting, and the requirement to stand the whole game -come on, you know you only do it because everyone else does -is tiring. Baseball games, on the other hand, are free and offer a much more mellow way to enjoy a spring day. And who doesn't love America's pastime, especially when the Irish are playing? 9:) Take a bike ride. Each day we shuffle from our.dorms to DeBartolo,& passing by South Quad or the Main Building without a second glance. We become numb to our beautiful campus after living here for so long, and we only notice its grandeur when we see the captivated tour groups enthusiastically taking pictures. So borrow a friend's bike, and take a ride around the lakes. Unlike the joggers you will pass, it will give you the chance to enjoy the beauty ofthe lakes without getting a real workout. As an added bonus, there is no partner requirement like the ring-by-spring couple walk. · ?) Enjoy a day on the quad. It is nearly impossible to stay inside on the ;;J!) beautiful days ofspring semes~er, so why fig~t it? Grab a b~anket, your i~od · and maybe even your homework to make It an academically productive day. (Yeah, right.) This is the perfect opportunity for those ofus who didn't go somewhere exotic for spring break to catch some pre-summer rays and recover from that winter-induced pastiness. Ju Play an outdoor sport. With swimsuit season imminent, another great ~ way to get in shape is to get a group of friends together and get some ·, exercise. Wiffle ball, soccer, football, lacrosse and basketball (especially for those whose bookstore teams didn't make 'it P:'!St the first round) are some possibilities. We all know the restlessness that comes after being trapped inside all winter, and while it's necessary to spend ~t least one day lazing ,l!_bout on the quad, mix in a game of catch for the perfect blend on a sunny spring afternoon. 5 Grab some fro-yo. After working up a sweatfi;-om a day on the quad and a ride ~round the lakes, grab dinner at your local dining hall and, on the · " · way out, get a cup of fro-yo to cool down. Invite a friend to do the same, claim a bench outside and enjoy your after-dinner treat together before you hit the books for the night. //. 


The System 
Opportunities for American Education 
ALYSSA MORONES 
On Wednesday, April 13, Notre Dame hosted Michelle Rhee, Howard Fuller, Sara Martinez Tucker and John Dilulio -four prominent fig­ures in education -for a panel discussion on the importance and op­portunity of education in the United States' public schools. Titled "The Sys­tem: Opportunity, Crisis, and Obligation in K-12 Education," this discussion examined the intricacies of problems plaguing the nation's schools and the role each person plays in rebuilding an effective structure that grants students true opportunities to learn. While this panel discussion acts as a vehicle for propelling next year's Notre Dame Forum on education, the planning for the event began at the beginning of last semester before the theme was even announced. John Schoenig, director of the Notre Dame Program for K-12 Education Access, was one of the faculty members responsible for organizing the event. "The university was very receptive to the idea," Schoenig says. "Everyone involved saw this as an opportunity to do something special about where the university should be and how it should be playing its part in this issue." Over the course of last semester, the speakers were chosen, and by the end of last semester, the panel members were confirmed. "All the speakers were eager to be a part of this," Schoenig says, and, apparently, the Notre Dame community was excited to host them -all of the tickets were distributed in a matter of hours. The discussion focused on the United States' education crisis and the in­justice it imposes on students. Rhee, the founder and CEO of the education reform organization StudentsFirst, said that because there is a large amount of attention being paid to school reform, there is an opportunity to fix the broken system. Martinez Tucker, the U.S. Department of Education's Undersecretary of Education, presented the university with a challenge to take on a larger role·in education reform. "I want Notre Dame to be a game changer," she said. "I want this university to accept the challenge to create hope." "In Chinese, the character for 'crisis' is the same character as that used for 'opportunity,"' Schoenig says. "This is where we are at in K-12 education. We have all these problems in education, but at the same time we have unbelievable and exciting opportunities to fix them." 0 


A Student Protest -#SaveBoandTom 

St. Patrick's Day 

An outlet in the Library 

t? 
~ O.A.R. 
t:::::fJ 
28 APRIL 2011 ISCHOLASTIC I7 


TALKING THE TALK 
lrlh111§ 1\'cerour'§ CG'r<O)<dl JD)ce1b)rol1tce tallrn<dl HcO>\w ll1t CC:rollnrnce 1t<O) ll33ce 
JULIA STEINER 
The second annual God Debate addressed questions of God, religion and morality. The debate pitted Christian apologist and author William Craig against atheist author and neuroscientist Sam Harris, who debated the relationship between God and objective morality. 
Four years ago, Joseph Stanfiel, an Assistant Dean in the College of Arts and Letters, conceived the idea of the God Debate. "When Christopher Hitchens' book, 'God is Not Great,' came out, I remember Hitchens saying that he would debate anyone, anywhere on this topic. I -thought, 'What better place than Notre Dame.' About two years ago, I mentioned the idea at a meeting of the Dean's Fellows, and Daniel O'Duffy showed a lot of interest.'' 
O'Duffy, who transferred to Yale at the beginning of the fall semester, approached junior political science major Malcolm Phelan about pursuing the idea. "Daniel and I just thought it would be really fascinating, so we started going from department to department gathering support and fundraising," Phelan says. 
"It wasn't until we went to Fr. Hesburgh that things really started to pick up because he loved the idea. He gave us $1000 of his own money and told us, 'If any department has a problem with this, you send them to me,"' Phelan says. 
"The next thing I knew, Daniel and Malcolm had raised all of the funds we needed," Stanfiel says. 
The First Annual God Debate featured atheist author Christopher Hitchens and Christian writer and speaker Dinesh D'Souza. "I regarded the first debate as an enormous success because it got students talking," Stanfiel says. The questions at the heart oflast year's debate was "Is religion the problem?" 
This year, however, Craig and Harris discussed whether good comes from God. From Craig's description of God as "the greatest conceivable being," to Harris' mention of the same God as "Yahweh, the invisible monster," the debate had no shortage of dramatic disagreement. "This debate was more focused than last year's, and this time, the atheist was put on the defensive," Stanfiel says. 
"It made for a great show," Phelan says. 
The debate concluded with a Q&A section. Stanfiel says this was important. "Notre Dame students truly engage in debates going on in the larger culture. And I think they are perfect for that because they are extremely sophisticated in terms of exposure to theological and philosophical thinking. Hopefully, in the future, we can design the debate in a way that will allow for more questions from the students." 
As for the future ofthis event, Phelan says, "I hope that this becomes a Notre Dame tradition and a more nationally seen thing. We want to be on the cutting edge of these conversations. 
Also, we are hopefully going to organize a smaller event in the fall, with some kind of speaker." 
Stan:fiel says he wants to engage students more directly. "In the future, I would like to work more with faculty to have them include t:I-i.e issues in their classes, if they're relevant. Also, if students have topics they would like to see in the debate, my door is always open," he says. 
"From this community, very few people are going to go on to be academics, but every person will go on to be an intellectually involved member of society," Stanfiel says. "Everyone does and will continue to struggle with these issues. They're never settled. Every day you get more data of your own experience. I felt like our students would really respond to something like the first God Debate, and they did.'' 
After two sold-out events and over 260,000 views on· YouTube, the first two God Debate!l_ have given people iri the Notre Dame community and around the country a platform to think and talk about God. 
Phelan says .the positive responses have been gratifying. "The coolest thing that came out of this for me was walking down the hall in O'Shaughnessy one day and hearing people on the ,stairs talking about the debate, debating the issues in the halls of the university on the way to class. That, to me, is why we're doing this and why we're not going to stop." 






the thi.ngs we do 
28 APRIL 2011 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 
CULTURE 
MAY 
Need something to do this month? Check out a few ofthese events! 

: ... ·. ,.'Check out Project Fresh inl, Stepan Center at 7 p.m. 
:························8® . ········· 
... 
Last day of classes! 
: ........•..................... ··. 
The Undergraduate Scholars Conference takes place from 12 to 5 p.m. Undergraduates can present research and creative works, including senior theses. 
12 j SCHOLASTIC I 28 APRIL 2011 
iJ 
Catch DPAC's screening of Angelus Award Winning Short Films. The award celebrates student filmmakers highlighting the dignity ofthe human person. 
SUB Presents: Come enjoy .······
8.. 
some stress relievers in the Lafortune Ballroom from 7-~ p.m. 
First day of 
... ~ 
ftnols. Good · luckf-··················i 
'@-... 
.........:.................. _ 
······,···. The National Chamber Music Association brin,~1the. F}s1hoff 
C9mpetJt1,07 to 
DPAC!kis the
1:-1:-. 
largest ~hamo,e~ music corftpet1t1oi111l the world. 

. 20 
Commencement wee.l<end begins. 

Have 

a good summer! 

KATIE Fusco n 1993, Fr. Thomas Streit, C.S.C.'s postdoctoral work in Haiti 
led to the creation ofNotre Dame's Haiti Program (NDHP), an
I 
outreach program dedicated to the elimination of the diseases that are part of daily life in the Caribbean nation. Focusing on lymphatic filariasis (LF) in particular, NDHP works in conjunction with the Haitian government and the International Medical Alliance to help the 10 percent of Haitians affected by LF. 
"[NDHP director Fr. Streit's work] really got the ball rolling in terms of mapping out the disease and finding funding," NDHP Program Manager Sarah Craig says. Even though the mosquito­borne disease's effects are irreversible for the majority of people infected, the World Health Council classified LF as potentially "eliminable" in 1997. While it is not necessarily fatal, LF does cause elephantiasis disfiguration, which prevents many of the people affected from working. 
In 1999, NDHP received a grant from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to fight the disease and provide relief for the Haitian people. The program has also received increasing support from Hopital Sainte Croix (Holy Cross Hospital) and its developing 


training and research center in Leogane. 
A seaside town 18 miles west of capital city Port-au-Prince, 
Leogane, where disease transmission is highest, became the center 
ofNDHP's efforts. The Gates Foundation grant, along with Center 
for Disease Control allocations, allowed Notre Dame to start a pilot 
program in Leogane in 2000. 
In the program's first year, the NDHP team treated over 100,000 
people -more than 70 percent of Leogane's infected population. 
Violence in 2003 underminded this success, however, and many 
donors withdrew their. financ:ial support for the program. By 2007, 
infection rates had slipped back to 20()3 levels. 
When the earthquake struck ~-Iaiti on January 12, 2010, Haiti's 
problems grew and the scope; of NDHP's efforts expanded to 
include disaster relief. · 
"Until January, when the earthquake hit, our focus was solely 
on disease elimination," Craig says. "We already had a presence in 
Leogane, with four buildings in Haiti ... that all survived the quake. 
We felt it was our moral obligation to use such a presence for the · purpose of immediate relief from the earthquake's devastation.'' 
She says NDHP was able. to join the relief effort immediately. 
The program's team decided to.cop.centrate on Leogane because the 
area "had more damage than Port:;u-Prince, and there were already 
141 SCHOLASTIC I 28 APRIL 2011 


CULTURE 

more organizations helping out in Port-au-Prince." 
In addition to the expertise of medical professors and alumni, the Notre Dame community provided resources such as medical supplies. Teams of physicians were ~tationed in Leogane for weeks at a time, and 500 people worked seven days a week for over 90 days to bring relief to the local people. ByJuly 31, NDHP had set up a tent hospital that employed 30 to 50 people and housed as many as 80 people, despite having only 28 beds. 
The program, however, ultimately aimed to transition from continuous earthquake relief back to disease elimination and to help Haitians become self-sufficient in their recovery. To that end, NDHP members and other professionals traveled to Haiti to develop a "master plan" to rebuild Leogane. From March 15 to 18, NDHP held a series of workshops to generate rebuilding strategies. The majority ofattendees were Haitian. 
"We wanted the Haitians' input because, in the end, it's their solution, not ours," NDHP member Dustin Mix, a first-year graduate student and Notre Dame alumnus, says. 
The nine workshop divisions included Roads; Water, Storm Water & Sewer; Electricity & Communications; Education, Housing; Planning & Zoning; Downtown Development; City-
their temporary tent houses on the foundations of their devastated houses." Mix says, "Haiti's situation is the worst scenario for recovery because ofits lack offunds, education and [effective] government." 
The team members wanted to take a "non-imperialist" approach to improving housing, Mix says. They assessed rebuilding progress and learned about Haitian living habits. He says the team spoke to internally displaced persons and distributed a questionnaire and rubric, asking the local people for their opinions. They found that security was a priority for most Haitians, Kavanagh says. 
Ultjmately, NDHP wants the Haitian community to take over the rebuilding process, and Mix says that outside aid alone cannot solve the problems in Haiti. "[If] you don't understand the history, the solution won't make sense," he says. 
Still, many of the University's departments have participated in the program's relief efforts in Haiti. Dr. Karen Richman, a professor of anthropology, worked with NDHP since the early 2000s. A published author and Haiti expert, Richman mentors Notre Dame students who plan to volunteer in Haiti. 
"I became increasingly aware of Fr. Streit's efforts, [and] in 2004, students began to come to me for input and advice before they went 


Wide Development; Public Sources; Health and Medical Care and Human Cultural & Capital. 
Craig says the goal was to bring together the more than 10,000 non-governmental organizations (NGOs) working to provide humanitarian relief and sustainable recovery in the Leogane area. 
"As a team, we strive to better facilitate communication between these NGOs and to merely be drivers of a master plan," Craig says. "By the time we left Haiti [in March], the NGOs were finally starting to work with the Haitian government to discuss matters of improving infrastructure." 
One workshop team -including Mix, Dr. Tracy K.ijewski­Correa, Dr. Alex Taflanidis and Ryan Kavanagh -wanted to create a sustainable and culturally appropriate housing system. The earthquake had affected about 90 percent of the housing stock, a problem that had barely been addressed. "Engineers went to assess the situation at the request of doctors and involved alumni," Correa says. The engineers discovered that the root of the problem was insufficient infrastructure. 
Kavanagh, a junior who did engineering research in Leogane last summer, confirmed their findings. "The people of Leogane were living in impoverished, self-made house constructions," he says. "There hadn't been much recovery, as they would just build to volunteer in Haiti," Richman says. "I advised [them] on making bed nets to prevent mosquito· bites and taught [them] about family l.ife and the sleeping habits of Haitian families." She also gives lessons in Creole, a prominent language in Haiti, and translates NDHP's meetings. 
"My role is to better immerse the volunteers into the Haitian community so that they can get a more intimate feel of the lives of [the people] they are trying to help," she says. 
As a member of the Human and Cultural Capital group, Richman and her colleagues developed culturally appropriate strategies for the relief effort during the NDHP workshops. Her team discussed Leogane's social structure and religious landscape to determine what was most important to the Haitian people. They recommended building a multipurpose center for sports, music and theatre and developing an arts and craft cooperative. They also suggested rebuilding structures to house cultural festivals such as the "Rara," a celebration comparable to Mardi Gras. Their presentation emphasized that cultural sustainability is crucial for empowering Haitians to take ownership ofNDHP's "master plan." Still, both Correa and Richman note that their March trip will not be their last. 0 
28 APRIL 20111 SCHOLASTIC 115 


CULTURE 
Campus Chal:t:er 
DISHONORING THE FAMILY NAME 
Macri's Deli won Notre Dame's Bookstore Basketball Tournament two years in a row, 1983 and 1984. My dad was part of this team as a Notre Dame Law student. I participated in Bookstore Basketball for the first time this year, and my team took fourth place -in the team name competition. I think the accomplishments are pretty even. My friend's brother thought of our team's name, You Look Like I Need a Drink. The reasoning behind the choice was twofold: 1) to intimidate our opponents and 2) to give us an excuse to drink beforehand. vVhen I mentioned to my 1110111 that I was taking part in Bookstore Basketball for the first time, she was thrilled. She asked whether I had the right gear and whether our team was planning to practice. I laughed and explained that we were actually planning on wearing costumes and that many teams drank before their games, never mind skipping the whole practicing thing. She actually started coughing because she was so shocked -she might have been muttering something about me being taken out of the will. I thought of an elaborate costume scheme the week beforehand that involved each of our seven team members dressing up as a different brand of alcohol: Captain Morgan, Jose Cuervo, Grey Goose, etc. Brilliant in theory, but it never actually came together. The girls on our team spent the Sunday of our first game emailing back and forth to figure out a last minute costume scheme. I finally suggested that we all wear sunglasses and bright colors. Easy enough. Plus, since it was raining that day, wearing sunglasses would be funny. The sunglasses definitely earned me some strange looks during the walk from NDH to Lyons courts. Once our costumes were figured out, however, we faced the minor problem of finding a basketball. After another round of emailing, we determined that no one on our team actually had one. Luckily, one of the guys on the other team did. That should have been our first sign that the game was not going to encl well for us. vVe showed up to the Lyons courts for our 8 p.m. game and met the other team, a group of tall, athletic-looking guys who promptly took off their sweatpants and began stretching. On the court next to us, some players were wearing Sumo wrestling suits and others were taking breaks in the middle of the game to lie down on the court. But no, we had been matched up with the future Kobe Bryants and Lebron Jameses of the National Basketball League. Or Association. Whatever. Knowing the situation was futile, we decided to adopt a strategy that we hoped would make things a little less embarrassing for us: act drunk. At least we'd have an excuse for gettin!LR,ul\ierizecl. 
16 I SCHOLASTIC I 28 APRIL 2011 

0 0 7 
z 
~ 
<{ 
I 
The game was a whirlwind of running up and down the court trying to keep up with our opponents as they ran actual plays and shot layups. The guys on my team were great sports, nice enough not to mind that they significantly lowered their chances of advancing to the next round by playing with four girls who weren't taking the game too seriously. 
Our team managed to score seven or eight points before the other team got to 21. We escaped the ordeal relatively unscathed, with only a few minor incidents. One of the players on the other team mistook my leg for the basket at one point and hurled the ball straight into my thigh. 
One of the players on our team started going the wrong way at one point, a practice that I think is not too uncommon in the Bookstore tournament. A team a few years ago named themselves the Twelve Apostles, and one of the players would pass the ball to the other team and shoot at the wrong basket. He was supposed to be, in an example of Catholic humor that's so Notre Dame, Judas. 
My team may have been defeated, but not in spirit. We'll be back on the courts next spring, and maybe we'll actually get some practice in between now and then-.that is if anyone of us can manage to· get a hold of a basketball. 
-Kathleen Toohill 
The views of this autho1· are not necessm·i!y the views of Scholastic Magazine. 

Tips for Students Who Think Sleep is for Wimps 
CLARA RITGER 
The "coolest" college students are the ones who pull all-nighters at LaFun, walk around clutching coffee cups, fall asleep in class and take shots of 5-Hour Energy to wake themselves up. Sure, they may look like they have conquered the need to sleep, but they're suffering the consequences oftheir actions: low grades and unhealthy bodies. And no, they don't get glittery skin. College students need seven to nine hours of sleep each night. Lack of sleep affects students' mood, attention, concentration, relationships and daily performance. "Ifyou want to perform the best in your classes, the last thing you should do is curtail your sleep," says Psychology Professor Jessica Payne, who conducts a sleep research lab on campus. Decreased time under the covers also prevents your body from reaching REM, or rapid eye movement, sleep, which is the sleep stage in which you experience dreams and full-body recharging. Without this revitalization, you experience muscle fatigue and decreased precision ofthe motor skills. The amount of sleep you get directly correlates with in-class performance. Sleep increases memory and information retention -and also keeps you from nodding off in class while your professor is imparting crucial information. "There is a cultural misunderstanding that in order to work hard you have to work· longer," Payne says. "In fact, we've proven that it is more cognitively beneficial to get sleep and refresh your body." So how do you improve your sleep habits? 
Exercise. The best formula for boosting your sleep is to exercise for 30 minutes in the morning or in the early afternoon. People who regularly exercise experience more REM stages and fall asleep faster than people who do not. 
Stop drit'lki"g coffee at least six hours before your expected bedtime. Caffeine in your system disrupts your heart rate, which needs to slow down to regulate sleep. Also, try consuming small amounts of caffeine periodically throughout the day. Caffeine works by blockingthe action of sleep hormones in the brain, and unlike timed­release medication, caffeine stops working after a few hours. 
Fi"ish eati"g two to three hours before your bedtime. Still .looking for that bedtime snack? Try cereal with milk, peanut butter on toast or cheese and crackers. Carbohydrates make tryptophan, an amino acid that causes sleepiness, more available to the brain. When carbohydrates are paired with protein, the building blocks of truitophan, your body becomes drowsy. 
l ry to avoid scheduli"g classes arou"d 2:00 p.m. Your body's biological clock generates natural sleepiness during this time of day -it's why the Italians have extended lunch breaks and why the Spanish created the siesta. __ .,.... 
Wa"t frie"ds1 --..­
.,,,.
Just get more sleep. 11 Studies show that sleep 
11 loss is related to an II ~­inability to control, I inhibit or change emotional responses. \ Lack of sleep also increases and heightens I feelings of depression 
ani jfrhssirh e Ke d I 
~ull. Energy drinks I 
are counterproductive because they combine I 
high amounts of caffeine 
and sugar. ·while they \ 
give you an initial rush, 
they also increase the \ 
frequency of "crashing," 
which will decrease your \ 
dailr productivity. 
rhit'lk you ca" make I 
up for your sleep o" the weeket1d1 Think again. I 
Inconsistent sleep patterns 
affect your circadian rhythm, 
I 
which can lead to less productive 
sleep throughout the week. It \ 
also affects your grades. 
"When I conducted research I at Harvard, we were able to prove that the more variability I in sleep students had, the worse their overall performance was in \ 
L. 
.....,
QU\·clf_ __ \PS FOR THE Nsorv, ,
"-. N14c ­
> ·· 
~Skip the sleepi"g pills. 
~ They'll keep you up in the long run since, like caffeine, they create dependency. Even melatonin supplements, which are supposed to facilitate the release of this natural sleep hormone, have not been proven effective. 
~Uevelop a relaxi"g pre-bedti ~ routi"e. 
Engaging in stimulating activiti 
watching TV, working out or 
web before going to bed can hu 
to fall asleep. 
I 
an environment conducive to ' 
recommend that your room and 72 degrees. Your body need feeling to kick into sleep mode. ' 
I 
~~uy earplugs a"d a" eye m 
~ Even if you are the kind of person who can I fall asleep in the middle of LaFun, your shut-eye is most effective in a dark, quiet 
' ; 
environment. ' 
Data compiled from the National Sleep Fo1111datio11. For more 
infor1J1ntio11, visit www.sleepfomul11t.io11.org. 

classes," Payne says. "Try to balance your 
schedule out. It is important for your body 
and mind to have consistency." 
Use your summer to develop good sleep 
habits. Establishing a regular bed time and 
wake up time will train your body to get 
tired and then re-energize at certain times 
ofclay, which will help you get a good night's 
rest and be ready for your day.
falk to your doctor about your sleep 
habits at your next checkup. Your doctor 
knows your medical history better than you 
do, and he or she might be able to figure out 
a regimen that will help you be a healthier 
d~tt 0 
...,.. · ·""""' """' · """"'· __ ..,,.,, ----,, __ ...._ 


'T I 

COVER 
. ! " . . -·: . -' -. . ' ~· . /, . . ' . 
,I ' • • 

COVER 

ALYSSA MORONES 
Notre Dame's identity is character­ized by an integration of faith into learning, learning into faith and a community based on the cultivation of this essential spirit. The celebration of the university's Catholic identity can make it easy to forget that Notre Dame is home to a variety, if minority, of religious cul­tures. The undergraduate student popu­lation at Notre Dame is approximately 80 percent Catholic, and the university's character is decidedly Catholic. So what role does the other 20 percent play? "We are a church that is open to the whole world," Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. says. "The important thing is that we welcome students of all faiths here, give them a place to practice their religion here and have respect for their beliefs, be­cause we are all cherished members of the Notre Dame Family." An integral part of Notre Dame's de­votion to its students includes educating the mind and the soul. "The University of Notre Dame and 'the Congregation of Holy Cross believe firmly that the spiritual growth of our students is just as important as the academic growth that would naturally take place in a university setting," Campus Nlinister and Program Manager Brett Perkins says. "As Blessed Father Basil Moreau put it, 'the mind will not be cultivated at the expense of the heart."' 
Of course, the hearts that Notre Dame seeks to educate are not limited to Cath­olic ones. For this reason, Notre Dame strives to provide universal spiritual care either through individual guidance or participation in religious student groups or organizations. 
The university also provides services to allow students to continue the active practice of their faith. Campus Nlinistry offers interdenominational opportuni­ties for prayer and fellowship. There are prayer resources in the Coleman-Niorse Center, including a Muslim prayer room and a Zen meditation room. Campus Nlinistry also helps students locate places of worship within the South Bend com­munity and helps arrange for student transportation. 
28 APRIL 2011 ISCHOLASTIC I 19 
Moreover, Campus Ministry seeks to help students better understand the Catholic faith to fully integrate each student into the Notre Dame community. Perkins, who works with non-Catholic, Christian students, says a large part of his work includes meeting with students "to help facilitate [their] entry into the Notre Dame community and faith life, whether by helping the students in their understanding of how to participate in the Catholic Mass they find in th.e residence halls or Basilica or by answering questions they might have regarding the Catholic faith." 
One of the services Campus Ministry pro­vides is Iron Sharpens Iron, an interdenomi­national weekly fellowship that "offers praise and worship, student reflections and oppor­tunities for students ofvarious Christian tra­ditions to pray together," Perkins says. 
A large portion of a student's practice of his or her religion at Notre Dame depends on the student's past religious practices. "If a student had been very involved in their non-Catholic, Christian faith tradition prior to arriving at Notre Dame, after a bit of an adjustment they will almost assuredly thrive in this environment where faith is so prized," Perkins says. 
Priscilla Wong, associate director for Ad­ministration and Cross Cultural Ministry, works at Campus Ministry to foster a bet­ter understanding across cultures and faiths. Wong and her colleagues created a series of prayer experiences called Prayer from Around the World, which offers authentic prayer settings for a variety of religions. She says that the goal of this event is "to help people to want to learn and experience -to open the door to other religions. 
"This is a wonderful way for people to ap­
20 I SCHOLASTIC I 28 APRIL 2011 · 
preciate prayer," Wong says. "It makes us feels warm and comfortable here -it's more better at our own prayer when we have the welcoming." chance to appreciate what others are doing." While many of the students who choose Attendance at Prayer for Around the World, to practice meditation do not consider them­however, is not very high, with sometimes as selves Buddhists, "the opportunity to explore few as 15 people participating. meditation is open to them. That's huge," 
Byrnes says./ Al,, Ben Finan, a freshman economics major ..&~It's both impressive and and practicing Jewish student, appreciates 
unexpected, the degree ~e university's strong religious ~o~mu,~i~. to wtiich Catholicism is a Notre D~!11e helps foster all r~bgions, Fi­touchstone for a very large n~ says. Theres :in emphasis placed on 
. , f d :.J ~ trymg to better all faiths." 
maJOnty O Un ergrauuates A child of an interfaith marriage, Finan followed in his father's footsteps in attend­-TZVI NOVICK, ing Notre Dame. He has found the Jewish PROFESSOR OF THEOLOGY AND faculty very welcoming and the overall en­JEWISH STUDENT CLUB ADVISOR vironment conducive to integration with his faith and daily life. "The way I live at home is ,the way it works here," Finan says. "Most of the morals I live by are included in Catholic Give and Take teaching." While Notre Dame's spiritual atmosphere As Catholicism permeates the classroom can help cultivate minority religious prac­and community life, its presence influences tice, its Catholic identity can make it harder the practice of other religions on campus as for non-Catholic students to continue prac­well. ticing in a religious community different "It's both impressive and unexpected, the from what they are used to. degree to which Catholicism is a touchstone .. "Notre Dame is still very different from a for a very large majority ofundergraduates," typical campus in Chicago or the Northeast Tzvi Novick, professor of theology and advi­with Jewish communities that will host'Sab­sor for the Jewish student club, says. bath dinners; lunches, services or other so-The presence is both tangible and intan­-cial activities," Novick says. "Many Jews are gible; tucked away in a corner of the Cole­not necessarily interested in practicing in the man-Morse Center is a Buddhist meditation fully traditional sense. But for those who are, room, and on the center. wall hangs a cruci­community is quite important." fix. This is not, however, necessarily an im­Notre Dame has a Jewish Club, but, pediment to other faiths, business professor Novick explains, the club is not very active. ~nlpracticing Buddhist Sondra Byrnes says. The majority of its members are not Jewish "Because this is a faith-based institution, it themselves, but have Jewish family members 
.. / 

or a general interest in the religion. 
Novick says that, particularly for Ortho­dox Jews, upholding strict Jewish practice can get in the way of fully experiencing Notre Dame student life -especially with such a large portion of this experience cen­tering around football. OrthodoxJews honor the period from Friday night to Saturday night as a time of rest in celebration of the Sabbath. "I'm very much looking forward to the USC game at night next year," Novick says. 
Finan says that he does miss out on some of the community and brotherhood associ­ated with dorm life by not attending Mass, where announcements are made that are not distributed by email. "My rector is helpful, but it doesn't cross his mind that I wasn't at Mass," he says. 
While Finan expected the strong Catho­lic und~rtones of a Notre Dame education, he says that "sometimes professors assume things when teaching. For example, when they teach the New Testament, they assume [students have] a certain level of knowledge about it." 
Law student and Co-President of Notre Dame's Muslim Student Association (MSA) Akmal Niyazmatov says one of the biggest challenges in attending a Catholic university is the lack of Muslim students, especially for undergraduates. 
"Because we have such a small Muslim presence on campus, it is difficult to incorpo­rate our faith into our daily lives," Niyazma­tov says. The MSA attempts to remedy this by reaching out to the Islamic Society ofMi­chiana. "The Muslim community of South Bend usually invites students to their hous­es for different holidays. This is especially widespread during the month of Ramadan." 
General misunderstanding of minority religions also impedes the practice of non­Catholic religions on campus. When Finan wears his yarmulke on campus, he usually wears a hat over it "just because it's easier," he says. He removes his hat in the dining hall as a personal policy. "Occasionally I'll hear someone say something behind my back, which can be disheartening," he says. 
Overall, though, Finan says he feels rela­tively accepted. "Very rarely do I run into someone saying I'm gding to go to hell," he says. "But it does happen." 
Regarding Muslim students, Niyazma­tov says, "I think feelings are mixed and confused. Those students who have never been exposed to Muslim culture or Islam in general seem to have some prejudices toward Mus­lims. Conversely, those stu­dents who have taken some courses related to Mus­lims or the Middle East are more informed and thus less prone to preju­dices." 
Niyazmatov says a joint effort is necessary to achieve a better understand­ing between religions and that it would be helpful if Muslim students orga­nized more cam­pus events related to their history and culture. 
"If we change, we can expect changes in 
our lives at Notre Dame to follow," he says. "Despite our limited numbers, we need to get · together more often and discuss how we can work together with other groups of denomi­national or non-denominational character on various projects. This would be an excellent opportunity for Muslims to learn about other faiths and cultures on campus, as well as to 

COVER 

share our own beliefs with others." , 
The university has made a concerted ef­fort to make Muslims feel welcome. The law school opened a room, referred to as a meditation room, wher~ Muslim students can pray after a number of Muslim law students approached Dean NeU Jessup Newton with a request for a room to pray. "Dean Newton dealt with the issue right away," Niyazmatov says. "We had a room to pray in the follow­ing days." , 
Additionally, a prayer room was built in the Coleman-Morse Center to accommodate Muslim needs. "It was Father Hes burgh's ini­tiative to make representatives of all religions comfortable in Cole.man-Morse," Niyazma­tov says. 
Hesburgh says, "I've never looked into the [Muslim prayer rooms] without seeing sets of shoes in the first room and praying in the sec­ond. And that's a good thing." 
Hesburgh is a frequent guest of MSA ac­tivities, Niyazmatov says. "He always empha­sizes that Notre Dame welcomes us and is ready to work with us to accommodate us in the best possible manner." 
A Variety of Experiences 
Still, some students have experienced re­ligious misunderstandings and prejudices. Sophomore environmental science and Japa­nese major Caroline Dikibo says that being a Jehovah's Witness on a Catholic campus is difficult. 
Dikibo maintains her spirituality by attend­ing Mass. She says that she incorporates her faith into everyday life "just by being spiritual -keeping to the values that I have and keep­ing my promises to my mother." 
She opted not to join a Jehovah's Witness community in South Bend. "I didn't want to get involved because I knew I would have to do a lot of extra stuff, such as going door-to­door," Dikibo says. "If I went door-to-door 
. in the dorms,-! would be socially ridiculed." · She says her time at Notre Dame has been plagued .by misunderstanding and disrespect for her religion. During her freshman year, she says some people were unfriendly toward· her. 
"I've had people say I'm anti-Pope. And apparently I'm not Christian as well, even though [Jehovah's Witnesses] have a Bible, and I believe in Jesus," Dikibo says. "It got to the pofot where I wanted to switch schools freshman year." 
One of the biggest misconceptions about the Jehovah's Witness religion is the percep­_tion of door-to-door evangelism. "We're not all anno~g in real life. We're just trying to spread the message of God like the Apostles did," Dikibo says. . 
The experience of living at a Catholic uni­versity is also different for Hindu students and professors. Professor of Experimental Nuclear Physk~mesh Garg says that Hin­


COVER 
duism is not a community religion. There is no formal structure that guides a Hindu's religious experience; instead, it is about a per­sonal connection to God. 
"Hinduism is much more open-mi1;ded. We ultimately believe there is more than one way to God, and each way is equally valid," Garg says. "This allows us to be in a Catho­lic university and not be intimidated or over­whelmed." 
One misunderstanding about Hinduism is the belief that Hindus worship a multitude of gods or participate in idol worship, Garg says. "Because it's our personal religion with God, we find God in many manifestations," he says. "We find many manifestations or be­ings which have a portion of the divinity." He says that it is similar to the presence of saints in Catholicism. On the whole, though, Garg says he finds Notre Dame's religious atmo­sphere to be "very positive." 
An Inextricable Link 
While the religious community at Notre Dame is predominantly Catholic, the univer­sity's various religious communities are inex­tricably linked. 
"Most religions have a huge number of commonalities," says Garg. "Ghandi incor­porated a lot of things from Christianity into his own philosophy, but he was also a very staunch Hindu." 
Finan says, "There's so much crossover between Christianity and Judaism. Christian . belief is Judaism. They aren't different reli­gions with a whole different set of teachings." 
Byrnes says the spiritual nature of Notre Dame helps foster the practice of many re­ligions. "The environment at Notre Dame invites the thoughtful consideration of faith," she says. "The warm relationships we've formed -practicing meditation together ev­ery week at Coleman-Morse -is such a good expression of what it means to be at Notre Dame." 
Garg says, "The major difference between the Hindu and Catholic religions comes in the structure. We are not a structured reli­gion. We don't have a Bible or a Pope. But in terms of what we believe, tl1ere's no signifi­cant difference on a general level. 
"As Hindus, we believe the best way to be­come closer to God is to be good. Like Ca­tholicism, we share messages ofuniversal love and brotherhood," he says. 
Niyazmatov says tl1e common element between Islam and Catholicism is the call to do good. "I think followers of both faiths are very committed to making tlus world a better place for everyone. The difference is in the level of organization and scale," he says. "In this sense, I am convinced that Muslims can learn a lot from Catholics and that should be one of the learning objectives for every Mus­lim student on campus." 
Coexisting in an institution that strives to foster many faiths and that places value on the integration offers Notre Dame students an opportunity to examine the world from a unique perspective. 
"It is time for us to shift from simply learning from each other to building strong and long term bridges between us," Niyazmatov says. "We should not focus on differences among us and let those differences stand between us. There are count­less common grounds that bring us all together that can serve as a valuable point of convergence to start work­ing on pressing global prob­lems." 
Hesburgh also em­phasizes the con­nections between Ca tholi­cism and the other religions practiced at Notre Dame. "As a Catholic university, we should be in continual dialogue," he says. "We are a lot closer to each other than we realize." 0 
24 I SCHOLASTIC I 28 APRIL 2011 

the games we p:lay 
28 APRIL 2011 I SCHOLASTIC I 25 

SPORTS 




lrishEyesCOuRTNEY HURLEY 

LAURA KRAEGELThe Irish fencing team won the 2011 NCAA Championship in late March for the eighth time in the program's history. This time, they defeated Penn State by six points. Junior Courtney Hurley, a Film, Television and Theatre and computer applications major from San Antonio, Texas, contributed to the victory with her individual gold medal in women's epee. This gave Hurley her first NCAA gold after having placed third the previous two seasons and marked the first time the Irish have won multiple titles since 2008, when Hurley's sister, Kelley, was named NCAA Champion. She plans to take her senior year off to train and qualify for the 2012 Summer Olympics in London. 
What was the championship like? Itwas pretty stressful. This year, there was more pressure to win because Penn State had only qualified 11 people, not 12. So even though everyone was confident, there was a lot ofpressure. The first day-we play four days, two for women and two for men -wasn't great. We didn't kill as hard as we wanted to. But I always felt we would come ·out on top. I never really doubted thatwe would do well. For the personal gold medal, I wanted to win really badly for myself and for the entire team. [I had competed in the same individual event] the last two years too, and I'd gotten third place both times. This year, though, I was ready to break the curse, and I won 19 matches out of 23. 
Your event is the epee. How would you describe it, and how does it compare to other fencing events? It's the best! I fence epee, but there are foil and sabre events too. Epee is fully body target, and you hit with the point of the weapon. Sabre hits with the side of the blade in a swiping motion, and you target the waist and above. For foil, you hit with the point too, butyou just target the chest and the back. Foil and sabre have more complicated judging and scoring, but with epee there are fewer rules, and I like it that way.. I started with foil when I was around eight years old. I have a fencing family -my parents fenced and my sister fences. She graduated last year from Notre Dame. So all kids basically start with foil, but I'm from an epee family. 
What frame ofmind do you get into before you fence? 
My frame of mind is really about cutting off the audience and that pressure so that I can just fence. When everyone in the audience is waving big banners and screaming atyou, it changes the way you fence. Some people thrive off of the audience's reactions, but that's not me. For me, it's about boxing myself off from the crowd and listening to my coach. 
What was it like growing up in a fencing family? 
When I was young, I didn't really know what I was doing. I was just playing around with fencing. But my parents saw I had a talent, or -whatever you want to call it, and I started fencing more. At the time, there were more youth fencing programs getting off the ground too, which helped, because before that, fencing was mostly for adults. There hadn't been a lot ofyouth fencing or even big college fencing programs. 
26 ISCHOLASTIC I28 APRIL 2011 
You've traveled all over the world for competitions. What have been the highlights? 
I love Australia, Sydney especially, and Athens, Greece. Those are definitely my two favorite places. They're so beautiful, and I love the weather. When I go to Budapest, Hungary just_ about every year, it's always winter weather, which I don't really like. Coming from Notre Dame, weather affects me a lot. But with traveling, honestly, I get tired ofit. It was great when I first started, and I was always excited to travel to these amazing countries, but it's just so many hours on the plane. It really does get tiresome. Still, I'll be traveling to Brazil, Cuba and probably China later this year. 
With all of that travel, how do you balance your fencing and schooling? 
It's very hard, and it was even harder during my freshman and sophomore years when I was doing Junior World Cup events. I'd be traveling a lot for world cups first semester and doing a lot of senior level fencing, college fencing and school during second semester. It was really tough, but it's getting better now, because I'm too old for junior level fencing. I was in Paris for two weeks last semester, but I haven't even missed a whole week of class this semester. It's getting easier. It's all about talking to your professors, because they'll really help you out. 

What plans do you have for next year and for fencing in the future? 
I'm taking my senior year off to qualify for the Olympics in London, which I've been planning to do since I came to college. It's really hard to train as much as I want to while I'm in school. I didn't qualify for the last Olympics, but my sister did -she went to Beijing, and I was the alternate. It's more likely that I'll qualify this time, though, because there will be four people from the U.S. instead ofone like there was at Beijing. Hopefully, for London, it'll be me, my sister and two other U.S. girls. So I'll be taking next year off, going to London in the summer and then coming back for my senior year after that. Hopefully, that will be a less hectic year with a little less fencing. But who knows? I know I want to keep fencing for a while .:. probably for as long as I can. 0 





SPORTS 
Survey Says ... 
KATHERINE Fusco 
!, 
I 
iI, 
i 
i :I
Jordan 
!1 
ii
j Father 
l
STUMPH j Tanning on the 
!
j Hesburgh's Monday Pop Buzz Lightyear Reading minds. 
Men's Track j quad. 
: office. 
& Field 
Andrew 
jMymath Wednesday-HENDRIX : professors jPlaying golf. no one likes ! Pop j Jackie Chan j Reading minds. j office hours. Wednesday.
Football 
Time Travel 
CAUE MOHAMED 
April 30, 2000 
0 n April 30, the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team was ranked No. 12 in the country. In their final regular season game, the Irish beat Harvard to earn their tenth win of the season and move on to the NCAA men's lacrosse tournament, where they lost to Johns Hopkins in the quarterfinals. In the game against Harvard, the Irish had to fight for their trip to the playoffs, coming from behind to defeat the Crimson 11-10. The contest beganwithaCrimsongoal,towhichtheFightinglrishquicklyrespondedwith a goal by midfielder Steve Bishko. With 1:00 left in the first quarter, a goal by attackerJon Harvey put the Irish up 2-1. Notre Dame did not hold the lead for long, though. A Crimson counterattackproduced back-to-back goals in the final seconds of the first quarter, leaving Notre Dame trailing by a goal. Early in the second quarter, the Crimson scored again. Now down 4-2, the Irish regrouped. Midfielder Devin Ryan and midfielderJohn Flandina both scored to tie up the game at 4-4with only a few minutes leftin the second quarter. By halftime, though, Harvard was back on top, havingregained the lead on a goal by midfielder Matt Primm, his third of the game). Early in the second half, Harvard increased its lead to 8-4 with goals by midfielders Doug Logigian, Roger Buttles and Primm, . The Irish finally broke their scoreless funk with 4:22 left in the third quarter. Seven consecutive goals later, the third quarter was over and the Irish were up 9-8. The rally continued in the final quarter of the contest, with two goals by Flandina. Harvard scored back-to-backgoals with4:54leftin the game, but the efforts oflrish goalkeeperKirkHowell in the remaining minutes kept Notre Dame on top. Howell finished with 10 saves, and Notre Dame pulled off a win, earning a place in the NCAA tournament@ 






28 APRIL 2011 I SCHOLASTIC I 31 
The Core Council for Ga _. Lesbian,_8is_~xual ~_Q_y~~_±LQ.ttiog_-5tu.d~_ot_s________ _ Provides information,_educatjon, QJ'.l.d__c_e_s..9_Ut:.c_e_s______
11------+------~-~-~~ ContQct-Sr. Su&_J)JJ_()_l')J_J).E_,_cl_~DD""'Q_4@n__d_._e_cl__u_,_l:_~f.5I>.0..·----~-· .·---------· ... ___ 11-----+-------__,o.r:. lo.ch,/ Wo.Shiny+on rwo.shin1.8'd..e.d.u. ------·-· t"--··--­
-·•· .'~---···-··-·-­
1:}f:~-~:t.IBm~n_oo~~;w~ ~H~•;
' ·:.:-\.:-,~-~:ill{])@ffi:lB&1 /'.,'.' . -·___:,:··.-·,\_:->---y: --~(.<. :·: ', ':.:?\. -___· 
~::·t1:~i\fi~l!:ti1 

Bonjour, mes petites fleurs! fiAs the springtime sun melts the ice caps (while our polar bear friends wring their paws), we encounter yet another holiday about a large, jolly creature that sneaks into our homes in the middle of the night and leaves things for us. Yes, it's Easter in the Bend, and students can stop pretending that giving up chocolate makes them and Jesus happy. But let's lay off the jelly beans and look at a few students who got some Easter egg on their faces. 
My first tale begins in a fair female dorm. Imagine it for yourselves -the wind whispers gently through the leaves, iridescent hues (certainly not byproducts from the chemical plant down the road) color the horizon and the strains of the Rudy soundtrack float through tl1e air. Raise the curtain, cue the lights and enter tl1e Apocalypse: a freshman floozie with an attitude the size of Kazakhstan (for the geographically illiterate, check Sporcle) and a heart that is perhaps, like that of our green Christmas friend, two sizes too small. But be still, my soul! for where one has blazed the trail, three more appear! Now, our quad wanted minions, so this herd grew to magnificent proportions -maintaining, .of course, their "fob four" moniker (let's hope none are math majors). And in case you were wondering, they wear pink on Wednesdays. 
In a spectacular instance of college-level critical thinking, these classy ladies decided to pay homage to an ancient civilization that spawned reason, enlightenment and a bi-yearly sports competition in which nations judge one another based on the accomplishments of 15-year-old gymnasts. Yes, my readers, like Shakira's hips, the Gipp don't lie: it was Sigmas and Alphas and Betas, oh my! Our delightful dames went Greek, and thus was born Tappa Toga Alpha Delta Nu. 
Now, while yours truly was trawling the oceans ofstudent stupidity, this curious rumor reached my ears, needing to be seen to be believed. Doubting Thomas that I was, the Gipp was heartily amused when 
· these whispers were confirmed by Truth, that flippant and mysterious madam. It was a sight to behold, my precious innocents: tl1e TTADNs have begun to rush. Get your Big, girls, it's gonna be so fetch! I can only wonder when Reality ,vill give them its symbolic (or maybe literal) slap in the face. Help me, ResLife, you're my only hope! 
But we must leave these sorority sisters and journey onward, for the road goes ever on and on, down from the dorm where it began. A short while back, the Domer community gathered together to reach back to our pagan roots and celebrate the Festival of the Swine ­in a non-rowdy, peaceful, sober fashion, of course. Though this little celebration was a menagerie of student mischievousness, we shall follow the exploits of one merry band of friends, determined to make the most of their brief time outside tl1e bubble. 
Weaving around the fairgrounds of frivolity, one member of this gregarious group decided to bask in Bacchic bliss for, we can say now in the cold, unflattering light of the next morning, too long. She was buzzed, she was bombed, she was befuddled beyond belief, she was -guilty? Yes, our sloshed sweetheart had Jiminy Cricket whispering sweet nothings in her ear, suggesting she ought to turn herself in to tl1e Boys in Blue for her sloppy shenanigans. Mercifully, her friends halted her stumbling steps ·as she looked for South Bend's finest. 
While tl1is instance of self-policing was occurring, another member of our troupe bought tl1e farm. No, don't worry -she had merely encountered one dashing Domer dressed as a member of the bovine family, capering around the pastures of Patron with blissful abandon. Now, this luscious lass found herself in a strange position: sipping on her Red Bull (though alas, she had no wings), and staring into the big brown eyes of her new friend (how now, Brown Cow?), she felt a twinge of regret, a tugging at her heartstrings. What sort ofselfish girl was she, giving all her attention to one stud whilst ignoring another? The problem was easily solved -amidst cheering crowds -by grabbing the bull by tl1e horns (literally) and engaging in some lip­lock. Ah, eternity was in their lips and eyes! I do wonder, though, if any of them considered the contagious nature of Mad Cow Disease before their tongue tango. 
And now, a few last words: syzygy, ergonomics, dastardly and rapscallion (make the librarians proud and visit the OED for once). 
Love, 
The Gipper 

T;PTHeg;PP 
e o 0 © at gipper@nd.edu 
28 APRIL 2011 I SCHOLASTIC I 33 
r• HUMOR 






BREAKING NEWS: 
STUDENTS TRAMPLE FLOWERS 
JACQUELINE PATZ 
Since the snow melted on campus, in­creasing numbers of students are choosing to use the grass as a shortcut to class. Rather than follow the paved walk­ways, students say they prefer a more direct route. "I mean, even animals can figure out that the quickest way to get somewhere is a straight line," one frustrated student says. "It's like that one old math guy Euclid said in his triangle proof. It's, like, the one where he shows that two sides are longer than the other side. Whatever, geometry is awful." "I think she means Proposition 47," a more knowledgeable student says. "I have to take a protractor with me if I want to get from Lewis to DeBartolo. I thought we left those behind in high school." Whether or not students have mathemat­ical proof to back up their claims, there is a general consensus that it is more efficient to walk directly toward something than to overshoot the goal and double back in a zig­zag line. "The landscape designers of this won­derful university appear to have ignored all reason when making the walking routes," a particularly passionate architecture stu­dent says. "Apparently, when Notre Dame was designed, someone in charge thought, 'Hey, you know what will really mess with people's heads? If we make few to no direct walbvays to buildings and instead construct a crazy crisscross pattern!' And tl1en later, someone realized that this design looked good on TV during those scenic, bird's-eye­view shots during football broadcasts. Most likely, administrators patted one another on tl1e back, pleased with the 'wisdom' of tl1eir predecessors." 
Even if they don't subscribe to similar conspiracy theories, students will not take this . detour-inducing design lying down. Though some rectresses chastise students for cutting across the grass, one student in­sists that efficiency is not a sin. 
"It's invigorating," the student says. "People glare at me like I'm committing some heinous crime. But I know what's up. They're the ones who are really suffering." Unsurprisingly, this statement was followed by a maniacal cackle. 
Another student took great pleasure in describing his personal experience with the grass-walking taboo. "Well, I live on Mod Quad, and there's this path that everyone likes to cut through," the gentleman says. 
Apparently displeased with the trampled grass, an eyesore for donors and apparel­buying fans, landscapers covered the path with expensive flowers and a strategically placed rock. "That didn't stop us!" the stu­dent says, gleefully. He and his cohorts sim­ply altered the course of tl1eir path to curve around the side of tl1e rock. 

"[It was] an ingenious plan, evidently un­foreseen by the landscapers," tl1e student says. "They want to buy expensive flowers? Fine, we'll just trample those instead of the grass! Well played, designers!" 
Although some attempts by the landscap­ers to fight back have failed, others have been successful. "In front of Decio, tl1ere used to be a trampled path where those from the handicapped parking lot would cross. Eventually, flowers were planted to prevent this occurrence," a professor says. 
"Simply superb, landscapers!" the archi­tecture student says. "Clearly, in tl1e design world, aesthetics are preferable to conve­nience, particularly where innocent, handi­capped individuals are concerned -not!" 
Opponents of the oppressive sidewalk structure are unable to provide a viable so­lution to this unbearable imposition. "Like, maybe we could just pave over all of the grass and flowers and make one giant con­crete slab?" a pensive student says. 
Other students take a more positive view on the situation. "Well, I know it's not very time-efficient, but at least the longer dis­tance gives us a chance for more exercise!" suggested one cheery jogger, just back her 
. run to Michigan. When approached for an interview on the subject of sidewalk design, many ND administrator.s gave a quick, "No comment, 
· God bless." One finally consented, explain­ing, ''Well, this _way we could say that we were on to the technological benefits of triangulation way before tl1ose GPS guys." When told tha:t there is nothing technologi­cal about walking on a sidewalk, the admin­:istrator said, "Tell that to the radioactive squirrels." Another administrator says he is ~nsure as to tl1e_cause of the errant paths. "I thought :we just nie~sed up and decided not to fix it. That way, we could use the money we would h~ve _spent on repairs to throw parties for alumni in tl1e stadium's press _box/' Despite tl1e difficulty of the situation, there is one definitive positive in this design disaster: unlimited opportunities for stu­dents to practic5fl1eir parkour skills. 

HUMOR 
The Walk Across Campus: 1)1~(~()1)1~1)
.. 
. Spring can be a confusing time for students. As the weather warms, many find themselves on quads filled with ... people. To help you in your interactions with these strange creatures, Scholastic gives you a glimpse into their thoughts. RACHEL KALINOSKI 
Girl checking her phone:  Girl and Boy walking together:  
Hmm, why did I send a text to "definitely.winning?" 21-year old boy: This chick is cute. I'll  21-year old girl: It was John? No,  
probably ask her what she's doing this  Sean! No, no, that's not right. Pat?  
weekend and invite her to pregame off- Chris? Why do I talk to boys?  
Student with clinking backpack:  campus with us. What ifwe hook up? We  
will probably hook up. That'd be good.  
Ifthey search my bag, I'll just tell them  Do I have to take her to breakfast in the  
the Hesburgh Challenge is tradition, and  morning? Girls can be clingy ...  Student at 2 a.m.:  
tradition never graduates. Wait, that's a bad  This pizza tastes like Franzia!  
way to put it.  How is this even possible?  
Kid riding bike:  
Get out ofmy way! Why in the Girl dressed up on Friday morning:  
Freshman walking or jogging who  world are there no bike lanes on  
appears to either have a limp or needs  these paths? Really? Do you really The last time I play survivor flip cup off­ 
to use the restroom:  need to walk seven people across to campus. That's it ­I'm carrying my heels.  
have this conversation about d_ining  
I'm late! Should I run? Maybe jog. No, my  hall muffins? Fine, I'm gonna clip  
backpack's hitting me in the back ofthe head. I'll  this kid on the shoulder when I ride  Recently ResLife'd Student:  
just walk fast. Shouldn't have stayed up 'til four  past him.  What else was I supposed to do? I  
working on that Contemporary Topics paper.  really had to use the restroom, and  
the Reflecting Pool was right there.  

Boy wearing shorts: 
How much farther to LaFun? I have to keep a casual stride so I look like I'm in no hurry ­feels warm to me. At least some ofthe snow's starting to melt. 

ND Athlete: 
IfI casually sling my official Notre Dame backpack 
over one shoulder, my athletic tag will hang offmore. There we go -got to make sure it's facing the right way. Okay, my jacket's unzipped so you can see my Notre Dame Athlete shirt, you can read the emblem on my sweats and I'm rocking my Beats by Dr. Dre. Why aren't more girls looking at me? 

Student in ROTC garb: 
Left. Right. Left. Right. Must. Keep. 
Walking. Must. Stand. Up. Straight. Must. Carry. Bag. In. Hand. Must ... I · could really use a bike right now. 


Professor Ghada Bualuan 
LAURA KRAEGEL . 

Ghada Bualuan is a professor in the Prog~am of Arabic Language and Culture and the Director of Undergracluate Mediterranean and Middle East Studies. Originally from Lebanon, she studied at the American University of Beruit before earning her M.B.A. at Lebanese American University. She teaches courses in Arabic and Arab culture, conducts research on colloquial Arabic education and produces the annual Arabic Culture Night. 
What is Lebanon like, and h011J does it differ from other Arab co11ntries? 
People say "the Arab world," but it's not quite right to combine all these different countries because they are different. Theyare united by language, history and culture, butit's like saying Canada and America are the same place. I've lived all my life in Lebanon -it's an Arab country on the Mediterranean, and it's quite different from other Arab countries. It's the only Arab countrywith no oil and no desert. It's very small, and the tourist sector is very important to the economy. And even though Lebanon has no oil, because ofits strategic geographical location, oil plays a part. I've survived many wars, unfortunately. But at the same time, I learned love, peace and tolerance in Lebanon from a very early age. The American media has a lot ofnegative stereotypes of Arabs, but I've had a totally different experience living in Beirut. The culture is very diverse and enriching. 
Why is it worthwhile for 1mdergrad11ates to study Arabic? 
I love Arabic. It's my passion, and I'm so proud ofour program in the Department of Classics. Arabic is the first language of 280 million people and the second language for 250 million people. It's the official language of25 countries, and it's the fifth most widely spoken language in-the world. So Arabic is both an ancient and modern language. It's the sacred language ofthe Qur'an for Muslims, butit's also a language of culture, politics and business. For the Arabic students I've known at Notre Dame, the beauty ofArabic is that it bridges the gap to this · other part of the world: It's not just a skill for communication -it connects them to another culture. Our students are really in touch with international news and culture, and the language is ~ekey to this other culture. And with the career opportunities and the importance of foreign language as .a foundation for the liberal arts, the study of 
Arabic has been growing and will continue to grow. 
.What are your opinions on the citrrent political situations ofEgypt, Libya and the other Middle Eastern nations that have been in the news recently? 
Please be aware that I'm not a political science expert. I can answer because I'm_an Arab, and I've lived most ofmy life in the Arab world. I identify with these demonstrations·and what's going on, but it's my personal opinion. I think that these are positive [events] where the people unite, find their voices and say "no" to dictatorship. They're voicing their dissatisfaction with rulers, social injustice, unemployment, poverty -all the ills of their society. It says a lot about what peaceful, collaborative action can accomplish, and itshows that the Arab world is something [beyond negative stereotypes]. We're human like everyone else. We share a common· humanity and we cherish peace and dignity. I think change will come although it may take a long time, and it will be costly. And even though I'm against using force because I believe violence only creates more violence, I'm proud that the United States is helping these people. But I believe that intervention is best when it's quick and decisive. Let's do it and be done with it. 
What do you studyJo,,your research in colloquialArabic? 
The linguistics situation in the Arab world is characterized by diglossia, which means there are two forms ofthe language. One is the classical 
. form·and the other is thevernacula;r, the:dialect or the spoken language. So there is classical Arabic, the language ofthe Qur'an and Scripture, and then there is the Syrian dialecf~nd the Iraqi colloquial and so on. My research covers how these differences undermine the appeal ofArabic as a learnable foreign lanITTJ.age and weaken the effectiveness of teaching Arabic. S6 at Notre. Dame, we're working to adopt an integrated program whei:e we incorporate the colloquial with the classical Arabic. I do research here and.at myalma mater, the American University of Beirut's Center for Arab and Middle Eastern Studies, in the summers. · 
How didyou come to teach at Notre Dame? 
My husband [Ramzi Bualuan] is,[an alumnus]. We met in Lebanon, and he is now a professor in' thepepartment ofc;:omputer Science and Engineering. We moved here;"alid there was a_vacancy in the Arabic program, so I applied. I wasn't sure I would be happy living here because _I had·never lived outsid·e ofLebanon, but I'm so grateful and honored to be here at Notre Dame. When people in Lebanon ask where I live, I say "the University ofNotre Dame," because that is my home. It's a special place, and itmeans a lot to _me and my family. It has made a big difference jn my life. • / -· · 8 

C OM ~LS 
$2.50 COMBOS 
Ham, Egg & Cheese Muffin or Biscuit + Coffee or ·soda ­Bacon, Egg & Cheese Muffin or Biscuit + Coffee or Soda Sausage, Egg & Cheese Muffin or Biscuit + Coffee or Soda 

$3.00 C MBO 
611 Ham, Egg & Cheese + Coffee or Soda 611 Bacon, Egg & Cheese+ Coffee or Soda 611 Sausage, Egg & Cheese + Coffee or Soda 
BREA FASTI 
,LJ TIL 11 M­






