

This is a real ad 

-1 f t a-. I_
1
.:,cuc112nc. o. v12rnrinznL 

\ 
Student Government is now accepting applications for the Student Body Assistant Treasurer. Applicants should be sophomore business majors who enjoy working with people and managing money. Duties include: 
*Assisting the Student Body Treasurer in keeping an accurate record of all finances of the Student Government, Student Activities Board, Hall President's Council, Off-Campus Commissions, Judicial Board and all the clubs and organizations on campus. 
*Serving for a period of one year in a learning capacity in order to assume the responsibilities of the Student Body Treasurer during their senior year. These responsibilities include: 
-disbursing all funds generated by the Student Activity Fee and insuring that groups adhere to their budgets. 
-serving as a member of the Student Senate and as chairman of the Student Senate Budget and Finance Committee. 
-maintaining a record of all fiscal policies established by the Student Senate and providing all necessary financial information to the Senate. · 
-serving as a member of the Student Activities Board Steering Committee which determines policy of the SAB. 
Applications are available in the Treasurer's office, 2nd floor LaFortune between 12-4:30 pm. and are due on Tuesday, April 7th at 
4:30 pm. Any questions, contact Chris Grandpre at 239-7417. 

~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -clllllll2ll!!D ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
t tIAnother Saturday ight In The 'Brar? I t t t ' 
t t 

t -= t 
t -t t t t t 
I We Can Help. . I 
t. Michiana weather got you down? t 
Excessive homework causing you to lose touch with reality? t
t 
Tired of football players who go to class and not bowl games?
t Does a relationship with someone tan and blond seem out of reach? t 
t There Is ASolution: t 

I Transfer I 
t 
' For more information write: ' Department of Admissions t. 
University of Miami
t Miami, Florida t 


Gospel 
-----------------------------------------------------.. -------~---------------------­
::i m \·••i ;::;;:•.·······•••·< .... .. . .•.·•i 




11i1~~im~,~1~1t 
·r,~i:¥f··•-&.rig1.6Herschel,••·.·.•...(]eez:•.•.•. xoddij
ith ti crectfr···carcL··•F:frstit.'s·>browser rlfby/
.faricY shpei And with.her bad Case of' ,· 
..·•·.· But•·.•·th~FJt:g1~~i4ixth6: J6ihfkwr1i c~'i;.t:tkki·'•1t·:aKyaf;j• 
ari.other.:r~Jlll.y gi-eatYgroup :fi-onr-m.eeting•··•on: camp~s;;a~ 
..11~f!1w~il1ifllllt{tll~t:;:1W· .· ·····••·· 

i•>\·.:.'(; ~01~1lJosa · ecause weve• 
. Ha,iH_a.__ 
... , .... 
. B 
,, lobedi 

;;>:::· -·. Ym:. 1.••··•··J~.u.1_·•_·~.•·..~•·.. ··.i.:gm 
;·,}. :·. :·· 
April 1, 1987 



Letters 

Sarcastic 
Welcome Back 
Muchos Beratus From Sarcasticus, Mes Amis 

This special issue is only a joke. Repeat: only a joke. Had this been a real issue, you would have been informed where to send complaints, death threats and letter bombs. This not being the case, we hope everyone can take a joke. 
Contributors to Sarcastic were Matt Bradley, Patricia Brienza, Larry Burke, Catherine Coffey, Greg DeFilippo, Mark Dillon, Jim Doerfler, Mike Farnan, Hannes Hacker, Keith Harrison, Sara Harty, Tim Healy, Ed Jordanich, Steffanie Keller, Allan Lim, Frank Lipo, Kris Malaker, Kathleen McKernan, Maher Mouasher, Emmet Murphy, Maria Murphy, Mike Murphy, Mike Napierkowski, Andy Saal, Sue Serrato, Aimee Storin, Amy Weber. You got a problem,pick a fight with one of them. Beware, though, they will all ridicule you in public next year. 
Sarcastic magazine is published once a _ 
ear, usually on or about April 1 or when 

we feel like it, at Notre Dame, IN ~6556 
and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, 
IN 46542. The subscription rate, if you 
really want to get this crap, is $1.00/ye~r 
and collectors' edition back issues are avail­
able at $18.75/issue. ·The opinions 
expressed in Sarcastic are merely the brain­
storms of the authors and editors and do 
not even come close to representing the 
opinions of the entire editorial b~ard .of 
Sarcastic and definitely not the Umvers1ty 
of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty 
or student body. The editorial represents 
the opinion of whoever happened to be left 
in the office before we sent it to the printer. 
All unsolicited material gets laughed at and 
thrown away. Sarcastic is represented 
nationally by a ficticious advertising 
agency that has never sent us anything. 
1987 Sarcastic magazine. All rights 

denied. Reproduction in whole or in part 
without permission is fine by us. 
April 1, 1987 
Dear Editor, 
Thought you got rid of me, didn't you? Well, I signed up for MBA school and I'll be back next fall. And I'll be running for stu­dent body president to boot. If Richard Nixon can make a come­back, so can I. 
Will Mealy '86, '89 
Sarcastic Sucks Dear Editor, 
I was shocked and disgusted by your decision to print porno­graphic art to accompany a recent news story. As a newsman, I am aware of the unique challenges that a college publication faces. No one is more concerned about edi­torial independence than I; how­ever, the suspension of Sarcastic did not come as a surprise to me. 
Whenever hotheaded young editors of questionable moral char­acter latch onto some subject which is better left alone, it's sure to spell trouble. I was talking to my good friend Joe Kissamee yes­terday and he assured me that the administration was perfectly justi­fied in their actions. 
Even if your rag were to reopen (after much punishment and penance) I doubt that the editors of Sarcastic have the moral back­bone to print a letter like mine, which is so critical. 
I on the other hand, believe in an ' editorial policy which encourages free discussion of all viewpoints. My newsletter, er newspaper will print letters from anyone. Well, almost anyone. Because we have to defend com­munity standards. We have to dou­ble and triple check every letter so that noth~ng that's not nice gets in print. 
Speaking of letters, I just wanted to take this opportunity to respond to the mean way that the new rag, Uncommon Nonsense, treated me. They implied that I don't print letters that are critical of me. That's not true at all. We wanted to print the letter in ques­tion. But what happened was . . . it was . . . lost. Yeah, that's the ticket. It was lost. Yeah, lost. 
But that's besides the point. If the readers of your rag want to avoid having their tender sensibil­ities offended, I would suggest they only read our fine student publication, where we print only NICE things. 
Have a good week. 
Joe McCarthy Former Obscurer Editor-in-Cheese 

See Above Dear Editor, 
Yeah, me too. 

Crass Boulder . Former Obscurer· second banana 
Burnt Cookie Dear Editor, 
I'm Pete-a-Cookie, Pete-a-Cookie, I don't drink I'm real good friends with Leery Fink. 
I got busted at a party celebrat­ing my win, Now I don't drink · because it's a sin. 
Pete (Sugar) Cookie Candy Land 


Let fe rs· 
Notre Dame's Annual Scandal Sheet 
· Think you have all.the answers? Got an inflated opinion .of yourself? Regret the day you ever set foot in South 
· Bend? · ·· · · 
.·. Then join us! · 
. . . 
•· Sarcastic is now .. looking for angry young men and women to berate everything. the administration does during the next year. · Sound like fun? You bet it is . 
. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student who got a "D" or better in · their freshman 'writing course and gets ·a kick out of seeing their name in pri~t is eligible. · 
Help Us Carry Our EGOS 
From An Angry God 
Dear Editor, 
Please forward the following 

message_ to your readers: I'm not 
lonely, and I get enough mail 
without ·having to deal with 
weekly letters from ANYONE. 
Remember, I'm God, and I know. 
everything. 
The Almighty 
Heaven 

Comfy Chair 
Dear Editor, 

I'd just like to thank Ted and the whole University for the chair they honored me with last week: 
It's a very comfy chair, with wheels and a padded back rest. 


Sarcastic 
. It's a truly wonderful piece of fur­niture. I just know it will go well with the chaise and couch I got 
.last year. 
Father Jed Joystick Executive Vice President 
Here's To Me Dear Editor, 
I'd just like to thank myself for giving me the Leotard Medal. 
I know things might look a lit­
. tle fishy, what with me, that guy who donated the bucks for Steffan Center and a former head of our Bored of Trusting Old Fogeys winning this aw.ud in the last cou­ple of years. But really, this award is for the outstanding Catholic work in the entire country. 

Just because a lot of the past few winners have come from 'Nother Dime doesn't mean that this a ward has become some kind of cheap University public rela­tions gimmick. But, come to think of it, that MisFortune guy would be a great candidate for next year's award. Or what about that guy from Coke? He's on our Bored, too. Hmmm. 
Father Theodud Cheeseburger 
The Big Cheese 
Sarcastic 




'Cheerfal lowers' Take Top Honors 
The ND cheering rquad won the NCAA 
championships in Daytor a today, beating out peren­nial powers NC State and Miami. ND fielded the only non-scholarship team, and also the only team that did not perform any pyramids or complex acts. The Irish relied on their time-proven walking hand­stands and "girls moving out of sync" routine. The judges lauded the team for 'an innovation that ND fans have come to expect: waiting for the audience to start a cheer before joining in. It is a move the ND squad has pcrfected, and cheering officials believe the "checrfollowing" could perhaps revolutionize the sport. 
"It's an incredibly successful way to create the illusion of leading cheers when actually relying on the fans' ingenuity. It does away with the need for intelligence or initiative on the part of the squad members. That way, appearance can truly be all that matters in cheering, as it should be," said part-time NCAA official and former cheerleader Phallus Schlepply. 

lnane-igans toured Southern California 
during Spring Break, causing street riots and general pandemonium. The announcement of the Southern California tour was greeted by a rush of students in. the U.C. and Cal-State systems to ticket distribution centers. National Guard and Reserve units were called in after police determined they could not quell the rioting students. Students cited· "perky smiles" and "just the way they make us feel good inside" as reasons for the stir. Included .on the. tour was the much-heralded "Tribute to the Wonderful World of Disney" number. 

Michael Corleone, former Southern 
Presbyterian University football coach who resigned after his team was suspended by the NCAA for recruiting violations, has reportedly taken a job at UNLV. Corleone, who is fondly known as ."the Godfather of rule violation," said in a recent press conference that he intends to rebuild the UNLV football program if it means recruiting from every prison on the West Coast. UNLV basketball coach Jury Turkanindian, whose Runnin' Rebels lost to Indiana by four on Saturday, had some words of advice for Corleone: "Remember, it doesn't matter 
, . ·, . whether you win or lose, as long as you bea~· the spread." 

Omdudsman chairman Dim Goulash 
held a ·press confere nee yesterday to discuss the future of ODUD in the wake of his decision that the organization will no longer run student government elections. Goulash withstood heated questioning from ace reporter Murk Popcornski and repeatedly insisted that ODUD would soon become one of the most powerful organizations on campus. 
"Just because we're not running elections, that doesn't mean that we're going become a vaporous student group or anything. That's not the ODUD tradition," Goulash said. "We do a lot more than just count votes, ya know. We have a lot of big plans. We're going to ... uhh, have mote Gripe Nights in the dining hall. Yeah, those Gripe Nights are great. I think we'll do them every week. Now that's impor­tant." · 

The.. Lumberin' Irish left Neutered Dome 
today on the first leg of their "Thighs Across The World" worldwide tour. A specially fitted widebody 747 will hoist them across the country and then to 
· ];:thiopia where they will demonstrate the effects of overeating to the underfed women of_ Africa. There is little fear that the Lumberin' Irish might be kid­napped even though they will fly over several inter­national spots. A state · department spokesman remarked "Even if they are kidnapped, they cer­tainly· can't be hidden." A Neutered Dame spokes­man was less sympathetic. "Take them, ·please" was all he had to say. 

The University of Nervous Dome has 
announced plans to annex Lee's Barbecue Ribs as a permanent fixture on campus. Administrative offi­cials· hope to gain increased revenues by holding occasional raids at' the new establishment. Lee's will 
· be moved to the North Quad where it will fit neatly into the architectual niotif of that part of campus. 
Senior Bore regulars arc ecstatic about the move as one was heard to say "Finally -a real bar on campus!" South Bend Police are attempting to block the move arguing "Why should ND Insecurity have all the fun bullying students." To resolve the issue, Nervous Dome Insecurity Department spokesman John Goldfink said that Insecurity, in a gesture of good will toward,:thc:;: SBPD, may foclude them in illi~ c,it robm ·se'~rchef irid'gatk p~tfol duty. ' 


Muckraking 



Straight As An 
By Emmet Murphy, Greg DeFilippo and Tim Healy 
A heterosexual group at Odor Doom and Soon Married's seeks recognition amid questions about what is best for hetero students 
"= 
~

I t is a sad commentary on our j society that in this day and ~ age two young lovers must j 
hide their affection for one~ another. But unfortunately this is the scenario at the University of Odor Doom. "Poindexter;, and "Ernestine" (whose real names are Joe Beller and Molly McHealy) are your typical heterosexual couple. 
Poindexter first realized that he was a "hetero" in junior high school. He vividly recalls his first real encounter with a woman. "I really thought my eighth grade math teacher, Mrs. Chambers, was the cat's meow. I think she could sense my lust for her. One day she told me to stay after class for some extra help in geometry. But it was really chemistry that was on our minds. Before I knew it she appeared before me dressed in a leather jumpsuit, chained me 
to the desk and forced me to call her 'Roxanne.' The rest is history. Thirteen years of latent heterosex­uality finally erupted. I knew then that I was different from all the other guys." 

Ernestine also had a traumatic As far back as the 1950's, heterosexuals have had to hold their socialexperience in junior high. "Like 
gatherings in secret, such as this dance held at an undisclosed locaHon. Sucastic 


Farce 


Poindexter I knew I was diff.~rent. Every day all the other girls would head to the local soda shop with their girlfriends. But I would head straight home and frantically search through the encyclopedia . for the diagram of the male ana­tomy. I knew I couldn't reveal my desire to others . . . that is, until I met Poindexter. He convinced me to stop living a lie and come out of the closet" 
It's been a long and rocky road 

for the two young lovers but they've finally learned to accept themselves for what they are, not as how others on campus would like them to be. They're heterosexuals and proud of it. Poindexter admits that there have been rough times, "In the begin­ning, it was difficult to endure th_e slanderous remarks and constant chastising. But our love has only grown stronger because of them." 
Ernestine recalls a time when she and Poindexter were not so secure, "Remember, honey, the day we strolled past the dining hall and were met with chants of "Go home, hetero." 
Poindexter and Ernestine are typical of-the growing heterosex­ual community on campus. The community hopes to make their views known by bonding together in a group calling itself HADSMCOD (Heterosexual Atti­tudes Declared at Soon Married's College/Odor Doom). According to Poindexter, "We've tried to make our views known but tlie administration has banned us from advertising in The Obscurer. We've had to meet in places as diverse as the steam tunnels beneath the campus and Motel Six. 
"Quite frankly, we're tired of sneaking around. We dream of the day we will be able to meet on campus to openly discuss the prob­lems of the heterosexual commun­ity," he said. As it stands now the 
April 1, 1987 

~ ~ 
only place where heterosexuals can gather openly is at the Odor Doom Lacrosse games. But even this social outlet will no longer be available. Poindexter said, "The last time we were out at a lacrosse game we were chased away by one of the players. When asked for a reaction, lacrosse player Trash Falling said, "Yeah, I hate those heterosexuals. Those guys are always looking at the chicks, instead of us real men on the field." 
With this type of attitude, it is small wonder. that the group cal­ling itself HADSMCOD would like to hold dances and mixers of their own in some of the buildings on campus. But the administration won't hear of it. Even the student body president, Mike Eyetic, cast the deciding vote against them after the group proposed their platform to student government. 
Even Vance Walnuts, the manager of Club Ted, refu~ed to allow members of the group into his club.. When questioned about his stance he said "We are a Catholic school, the administration has divine rights from God, what they say, we do. We don't break any rules, we don't have any fun, that's why we have Club Ted." 


It is interesting to note that, although collectively the adminis­tration officially rejects the group, individual members of the administration hold a wide range of views on the issue. Although Father Ted Huddleburger was uncharacteristically away from the University, Sarcastic did manage to reach a number of prominent campus figures. Swill Pickey, director of food services, said, "I love the heterosexuals, they're the 


Yellow Journal ism 


only ones who eat the quiche." Pickey recently proposed having a "quiche night" at the dining hall, but administrators shot it down for fear it might be perceived by out­siders as a group-calling-itself-HA DSMCOD event. 
John Ghoultwit, associate vice-president for residence life, does not agree. Ghoultwit said, "Heterosexuals are the cancer of the University. Their growth must 
, -..------~ ~ .. ~ -----­
T --. ' ~ ~ ' • • 

be stopped." Father Save Bison commented that heterosexuals on campus "dressed nicely and should be allowed to open a boutique in LaFortune." 
Father Andry Le Fancy Name, head of campus ministry said "Heterosexuality is a disease, they have only to come to me and I shall rebuke the demons from their soul, the Lord has commis­sioned me to heal my lost flock, 
-. 
\ < • • • -­
they arc in need and I shall be there for them, they arc lost and I shall find them, I am Father Andry and my all-purpose sermon shall lead them to the path of the Lord". 
Spike Schreder and Tootsie Backer are another admitted heterosexual couple on campus. According to Schreder, "We feel that heterosexuality should be encouraged and promoted. But even if our movement is a failure 

0 
::,-on campus, we will continue to ""
.... 
ii, openly express our heterosexual­"' 
t/l ity." 
n 
... 
"' 
'C 
"' 

Sophomore P.C. Hacker claims he has computerized proof that "heteros have severely damaged the fine reputation of the Univer­sity. They're a nemesis that should be deleted." Arthur Anderson, an Odor Doom MBA student, says, "Even though Knute Rockne was rumored to be heterosexual, I per­sonally cannot condone their activity." 
The debate will continue for years to come, but one thing is for certain -heterosexuals are for real. They're here to stay, even though -for some -that may be hard to 
swallow. ¦ 
Sarcastic 

----• • -~ -• -" ~• • 
Gossip 



Hey, Hey 
e's 
Monkee 
By Casey Cutesum 

Father 'Monk' Mulloy realizes his lifelong musical dream and is named new fourth r:nember of the Monkees 
Ahush came over the humid 
Morris Inn press room. The 

200 journalists in attendance salivated -at last, the Big Story. For months they had tracked the selection process. One by one the contenders had been eliminated. Now, only one remained. All of America looked toward South Bend. Big shoes were about to be filled. 
Music mogul and all-around hip guy Don Krus.hner smiled He was momentarily blinded by the flash of cameras. He was closely followed by Father Tweedledee Hasbeen. Although the retiring president of the University of Nosta Damus was considered an early contender for the position because of his 35 years in the public eye, he had bowed out of the race early. He had plans for his own national tour, with Executive Vice President Eddie Joyride doing backup vocals. 
Then polite applause began. Krushner announced that after months of deliberation and tryouts, Father Edwin "Monk" Mulloy had been unanimously chosen to replace Michael Nesmith and become the fourth Monkee. He was joined on the platform by Davey Jones, Peter Tork and Mickey Dolenz. 
"I'm humbled," said Mulloy. wh,!t th,g h~-{:¥9' rrtt llllso H~i'~ hr:::; !'s ;;1, 2:;_r::::!:,;s-,:_" 
:r,~•:rurt~JJt Ii¥~ the :re~=)rt;=,;::r:~: a :5K;,"!~n"'~Y-•'"li .,..;i" Whilil~ fr@d the 


Slander 
rock world, making certain to emphasize that he was no one's stepping stone. Mulloy said his first love was the guitar. As a youth he spent hours dreaming what it would be like to be able to play like his idols: Chuck Berry and Buddy Holly. He practiced every day. 
Then came his big chance. It was the mid 60s and Variety car­ried an ad for auditions for the 
American Beatles. He joined the thousands of other applicants. 
"I'm a believer. I guess you might say I'm a daydream beli­ever," he said at the time. "I wanna be free to listen to the band, take the last train to Clarks­ville, enjoy a Pleasant Valley Sun­day once in a while, you know what I mean?" 
He made all the early cuts. He made the top 50. The top 25. The top 10. And then came the turning point. It was between him and Michael Nesmith for the last spot. Smart money was on Mulloy, but Naismith won. The daydream was deferred. 
Then, Mulloy explained, he picked himself up and worked on his spiritual life. He joined the priesthood and came to the University of Nostra Damus. 
The strategy worked to perfec­tion. He loved his school. But in the· back of his mind was his love of music. He practiced late at night by St. Mary's Lake. Yet all that remained from his childhood hopes was a nickname. 
That is, until the three Monkees reunited. Their American tour sparked new interest in the group. They decided to search for a new Monkee, and Monk's practice paid off. 
Mulloy said that he would tour with the Monkecs by train this summer and still would be able to assume his duties as Nostra Damus' president in the fall.II 




Nasty Rumors 


Tuesday 

8:57 p.m. -I'm walking back from the 'Brar when t'.VO burly thugs grab me and ask me what time it is. I lie and tell them I didn't have a watch. But the glow of my digital watch gives me away. One of them puts me in a half Nelson while the other grabs my wrist and looks at my watch. Then they throw me onto the ground and yell, "See ya later, geek." I end up with a bruise on my elbow and a grass stain on my new jeans. They even broke my glasses and my calculator. I think about reporting the attack to the police, but that can OQlY lead to more trouble. You don't want to provoke thugs like that. 

Wednesday 

7:'38 p.m. -I'm thinking about calling that cute lit­tle blonde in my physics class and asking her to the SYR. I look up her phone number and reach for the phone. My throat gets dry. I break out in a cold sweat. Oh, God, I'm going to panic. What if she says 
10? What will I do? I'll die of embarrassment Uhh, maybe I should wait a while and call later tonight. Yeah, she's probably not even home right now. That's what I'll do. 

9:13 p.m. -Yes, this is definitely a better time to call her. I'm relaxed now. She'll say yes, no doubt about it. I'll just call her and say ... "Hey, babe, howzabout you and me paint the town red?" No! That won't work. God, I'm such a geek sometimes. I need to say something like, "Umm, I know this is a really stupid question, but will you go out with me?" No, no, no. She'll never go out with me if I sound like such a nerd. I need to spend a little time thinking about how to say this, so I can c·ome across really 
,-cool. I'll just think about that for a few minutes and then call her right up. 

April 1, 1987 

11:41 p.m. -Well, would you look at that. Here I am all ready with some smooth talking, and it's too darn late to call. I wouldn't want to wake her up, after all. Only a real loser would do that. I think that instead I'll just sit back and open up an icy can of Old Mil' and watch Letterman. Guess the phone call to my babe will just have t0 wait until tomorrow: 


Thursday 

6:53 p.m. -Great. I wasted all my time on that girl 
· last night, and now I'm completely unprepared for tomorrow's Emil. I really need to ace that, too. One more four like I had last week and there goes my shot at the dean's list. Geez, I can't believe I missed three questions last week. What am I, stupid? Is that the best I can do? My parents will kill me if I end up on academic probation, But what if I get kicked out? I can't work in a construction yard. I get hives when I sweat too much. 

Friday 

2:37 a.m. -Oh, God. Only eight hours until the quiz and I still don't understand any of this stuff about crystalline structures. I'm ruined. Help! 

Saturday 

4:14 p.m. -What a terrible week. First I fall asleep during that chemistry quiz and have to guess on every questiori. Now tonight is the SYR and I don't have a date. All the other guys are getting ready for a great time and I'll just end up in the 'Brar again. Well, at least I'll get a jump on studying for next week's EmiL That's not too bad. Unless ... the guys in the section start wondering why I don't have a date. Oh, God. They're all going to think I'm gay. Aaarghh! 
11 
Sheer Nonsense 





Drugstore Basketbal I 


By Charles Scarpa 
ii 
'I 
i1 
;, 
12 
The An Tosta! Executive Committee announced today that in addition to censoring "naughty" team names, the Office of Internal Censorship will be supervising mandatory drug testing for all teams in the· Bookstore Basketball Tournament; An inside source with the committee said that the testing was an "effort to cut down on chemical abuse'; by the players. Due to the limited budget of the An Tosta! Committee and the outrageous lab costs involved, the standard urine tests will not be given.. Rather, a standardized multiple-choice drug test will be administered. A facsimile of the exam has been circulating among team members who are frantically "cramming" in hopes of surviving this unexpected academic prerequisite to the annual sports tradition. 

SI ime 

~*************~******************************************~ 
Construction work on the 1987 AnTostal mudpits is mucking along nicely, according t0 to Campus Metaphy­sical Pla_1t Director Don DeeDeeRick. The new pits should be completed sometime around Easter, well in advance of the annual April anarchy. 
According to DeeDeeRick, the old mudpits could not handle the vast crowds of recent years. Extra space was required to accommo­date the ever-increasing weight ratio of chicks to guys on campus. 
The new pits feature state-of­the-art design and equipment. A twelve story waterslide will highlight the new sports complex. Two, five and ten-meter diving boards are being installed for those strong of heart and weak of com­mon sense. 




In The Pits 

By Dee Patrick 
Although University Food Ser­to kill the kids," he said, "we only 
vices offered to fill the pits with want to maim them." Resident 
chocolate pudding, DeeDeeRick geologists say that few would have 
refused the help. "We don't want noticed the difference anyhow. II I 
~ 
g 
§­oi 
i:i.. 




Lies 


The Cramming 's OverBy Pass Overhead 
Students at the University are up in arms about the new 
Caffeine Policy, while administrators say: "Shut up" 
A handful of disgruntled seniors rallied the under­classmen last week in yet another protest on the steps of the Administration Building. Like the Alcohol Policy protests almost exactly three years ago, there were banners, speeches and condemna­tions. But instead of cans of Old Milwaukee anq Stroh's, these pro­testers guzzled Jolt and Mountain Dew. The backlash against the new University Caffeine Policy, which bans caffeine from campus, has begun and students weren't about to lie down on their couches arid take this latest administrative decision. 
"There's a bitter bile in my throat," said Ed "Sleepy" Dwarf, a senior Howard Hall resident. "First they take away our dorm parties, then they cancel senior final exam exemptions and kick guys out of Howard, and now this. Next thing you know, they're going to cancel our SYRs and the Senior Formal. You've gotta fight for your right to caffeine," he 
·added. 
"I'm steamed," said Tim E. Tograduate. "I've been here for four years and never have I seen such a boneheaded move. I've got the CPA coming up and I need my caffeine. What will I do . . . What will I do?" 
The report of the Committee on Responsible Late Night Study, a subcommittee of the Committee for the Prevention of Student Fun in Any Way, Shape or Form, was issued Thursday in a surprise move just one week before final exams. The report, ti tied "As Of Right Now, You Are Not Allowed to Drink or Eat Anything That Has Caffeine in It," came as a shock to many campus observers, who had not noticed that the abuse of caffeine was a big problem on campus. But some administrators said the policy was a long time 
brewing. 
Father Billy Boochump, head of the committee, said, "We've 




Utter Garbage 

,q,,.q,,q,,q,~<Q><q,~~~,q,,.q,,q,.g,~~~~~ 
learned from our mistakes. BYU ~ 
:;;;
recently won a national champion-.S 
....
ship. Why? No caffcine . . . Actu-i:i:i ally, we really care for our kids ~ and don't want to see them abuse ] vile caffeine. 0 
"I don't sec how anyone can deny that there's a problem on this campus. Go into the dining halls during any exam period if you don't trust me. There they sit. Hundreds of students g'ulping steaming cups of java or loading their trays with five, six or seven cups of Diet Coke. What's worse, some students even drink regular Coke. All that sugar. It's so bad for your teeth. In fact, I wouldn't be surprised to see a Sugar Policy instituted one of these exam periods. Damn kids. 
"Besides," added Boochump, "it only starts with Coke and cof­fee. Pretty soon they're up to Mountain Dew and Jolt. Next Johnny Goldilocks, associate move off-campus. Who cares thing you know, they need a fix of vice president in charge of nasty about them?" He-would not make 
No-Doz.'' ' rules, is supervising the implemen­any further comment. tation of this policy. Immediately
Father Thaddeus Students obviously ignored this Huddleburger, caught at Michiana after it was released he issued a directive during their assault on 
Regional Airport on his way to a directive confining students to the Ad Building. Other directives, their dorms for the next two
tour of the remote islands of Kon which called for lights out at 10 Tiki in the South Mongol penin­months. Explained Goldilocks: p.m. and mandatory 6 a.m. cal­sula, would not comment on the "Students will be less likely to isthenics also met with resistance. 
abuse this policy when they can't
p9licy itself, but he shared this bit "Ten o'clock. Geez. At home, 
of wisdom: "Travelling around leave their dorms. After all, how Mom lets me stay up until 11 p.m. much Coke can they possible
the world in search of peace leads on a school night," said Ira Frosh. hoard? Besides, residentiality is
me to ponder the eternal questions Goldilocks said, "Early to bed, what separates our fine University
that we as mere mortals are not fit early to rise, makes a man healthy,
from the rest of the other nasty
to deal with. As I said in my wealthy and wise." 
schools out there. This directive
recent conversation with Bob Dole "This will just make people
should help build dorm spirit."
at the Senate steps where he was pull closet all-nighters," said I.M.
meeting with my friend Jesse 

Goldilocks added that this part 
Righteous, a noted campusHelms on the way from which I 

of the policy was "negotiable." 
psychologist. "This sidesteps thehad seen two of my good friends 

"The students can conceivably get 
real issue of the responsible use ofTed Kennedy. and Jim Wright, 

a couple of hours knocked off the 
caffeine. When students graduate,.(who is a very swell guy and all 

confinement period if they 
they're going to have to face cof­that), we are just travellers on this 

cool:)erate," he said. When ques­
fee and cola. Let's face it, it's notbig, blue marble we call Earth. In 

tioned about whether the students 
a decaffeinated world out there."
any case, I'm sure you see my 

might be hurt academically by
point as a member of the Neuter missing two months of classes, Father Bison, vice president for Diem famHy. If we all continue to Goldilocks said, "Classes, Bah." nasty student affairs could not be BE Notre Dame, I'm sure we will reached for comment. The other
Off-campus students were not 
pass through this minor crisis. I 10 members of the committee
affected by this directive. "Theyremember back in the '60s ..." chose to reject our family and could not be reached for comment. Ill 
15 April 1, 1987 



Sensationalism 




The starting five of the Weevils proved to be all that the Eyewash could handle. 
Sarcastic 


touted playmakcr Freeman "High As A" Kite, who was 20-for-21 from three-point range. 
But Knutcr Dome also had to overcome a hostile Weevil crowd. The capacity crowd arrived at the game early to discover a baby boll weevil on each seat. After the first Weevil basket, hundreds of the poor defenseless bugs were hurled onto the floor. Coach Yelps, who is said. to have a particular fond­ness for small creatures, (and his own voice) grabbed the scoring table microphone. After effusively blowing kisses towards the stands, he said "Show some class. ·we do. We're Knuter Dome." 
Eyewash playmaker Rave Shivers took the ball down on the next Eyewash possession. He pulled up at half court for a three-point shot. After that amaz­ing shot, referee Joe "Shmoe" Shmoe (ND '58) allowed him to sho-ot from anywhere on the court until he missed. Shivers racked up an amazing 36 points before miss­ing a turn-around reverse alley­oop. Said Yelps later, "Shivers is God." Teammate Snott Sticks disagreed, saying, "Actually, I've always pictured God as being taller ... " 
Play resumed after a standing ovation for playmaker Shivers. Kite and Shivers traded three­point shots for the rest of the half. The other players, bored by the display, looked sluggish. Players frequently wandered off the court to sit in with the band for a few bars. With about three minutes until the end of the ·first half, Weevil playmaker Curt Short nod­ded off at mid-court. The referees arbitrarily ended the half then, and Eyewash toymaker Ronald Doyle playfully grabbed the mike (in true Yelps fashion) and hushed the audience in order to awaken Weevil coffeemaker Short with a rousing rendition of Bob Dylan's 



April 1, 1987 
"Like a Rolling Stone." 
In the final seconds, mer­rymaker Sean Connery came off the bench and set up a game of Scrabble at the Eyewash key. The Weevils were attempting a seven­letter word on a "triple letter score" but were called for a three-second violation. Arguing that they could not commit that violation on their own end, the Weevils threatened to beat the crap out of the refe~·ees, who then promptly awarded them three points. The score was knotted 60­60 at the half. 


ing ovation following his 15 hand­stand laps around the court. All was not great though. The Eyewash mascot was taken to the hospital after a run-in with the giant six-foot furry weevil. 
The play resumed with the Eyewash and the Weevils trading baskets. But then tragedy struck for the Eyewash. Shivers sprained his back while performing a blind-folded double-backward twist behind the back pass. He was replaced by walk-on Crass "14 seconds" Nononi who was unable to keep up the breakneck pace. The Weevils jumped ahead to a 15-point lead. Time was running out. 
In their darkest moment, Coach Yelps saved the Eyewash. He grabbed the microphone once again and silenced the crowd with the ominous words: "It's not over yet. I feel a Knuter Dome moment coming on. Sit down and shut up." 
Ronald Doyle used the shift in momentum to get really serious. He took off his crown and cape, put aside his scepter and showed them thar pesky bugs who was boss. His sterling inside play and the defense of Sticks brought the Eyewash within one 'with two seconds left. But the Weevils had the ball under their own basket. .It seemed like the miracle comeback was just not enough. 
But then a nasty, mean, unsportsmanlike Weevil fan ruined everything for the home team by celebrating too early. He had saved his weevil for a final toss. When the cotton-loving beast landed on the floor, the Eyewash were given two foul shots. Doyle calmly sank both. 
After the shocking victory Yelps was heard to mutter, "Wow, we did it again. Bring on UNLV." 


Scorebored 

IIIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIll Ill IIIIIIIIllIll Ill IIllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllIllIlllllllllllllllll lllll IIIIIllIIIIIIIIIIllIll Ill IIIIIllIIIIIllIIIIIIIIIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII II II IIIIIIIIIIllIIIllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
A roundup of the week in sports 
,11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
HACKY-SACK -The Purple Tic-Dyes beat the Pink Tic-Dyes in the season opener for both teams yesterday on the South Quad. 
The Purple Tie-Dyes' 18-4 victory was the result of the match being moved to the con­crete area in front of the bookstore. Pink Tic-Dye star MACK RAMA Y was injured when he went face first onto the concrete attempting a double-flip back kick. The loss of Ramay opened the floodgates for the Pur­ple Tie-Dyes and captain ROSS TAMANN. Tamann's seven sacks were a team high in the match. 
PROFESSIONAL FOOTBALL -Controver~" erupted in the eighth annual NFL Wives Cook-Off Championship held last weekend in New Orleans. The contest, won by MRS. DAVE BUTZ, was tainted by the positive cocaii:ie and anabolic steroid test results of MRS. DAN MARINO. 

Judges ordered the tests after susp1c1on arose over the entry of Mrs. Marino. The wife of the Dolphins' quarterback prepared a seven-course dinner complete with a 20­pound turkey, yams, stuffing, and cherry pie in one minute and fourteen seconds. 
Mrs. Marino claims the test results were altered, but recent gossip columns linking her with former Oklahoma linebacker BRIAN BOSWORTH may provide a plausible expla­nation. 
PILFERING -Sophomore BILL MYDAD set a new record in the South Dining Hall last Friday when he escaped the campus cafeteria with eight drumsticks, twelve popsiclcs and an entire bin of cereal. 

The plastic carton of CAPTAIN CRUNCH was the deciding factor in Mydad's new mark. The previous record of six oranges, four apples, and four doughnuts, set by OTTO LUCK last November was stricken from the record books after•Luck was "busted" in a similar attempt last week. Pilfering rules state that any competitor caught in the act of food removal must have all previous records disallowed. 
HORSE RACING -Following the 34th run­ning of the Sirloin Stakes last Saturday, MINUS TWO, a gelding owned by singer MICHAEL JACKSON, appears to be the front runner for this year's Kentucky Derby. 
Minus Two squeaked out a victory in the Stakes over a thoroughbred owned by the ELVIS PRESLEY family, ALL COKED UP. Garnering the show position in the race was a filly trained in the stables of recently deceased entertainer LIB~RA~E. The colt, named CHEAP CONDOM, trailed the pack for almost the entire race before a strong :; surge at the finish. ::! 
ROAD TRIPPING -Sophomore TOMMY ] GUNN received last week's award for longest :l: off campus journey by virtue of his 75-hour drive to Nicaragua last weekend. 
Gunn, who left the DI parking lot late last Wednesday night and arrived back in South Bend early this morning, seemingly had some mistaken preconceptions about his travels. 
"I heard their they really partied down there," said Gunn, "but I had no idea how radical they were. Making me do beer-bongs at gunpoint was a little frightening. After the first couple, though, we all got along really well. I'm sure I'll get down to Managua again soon. They're going to use their next aid package for a wild spring festival." 
SOAPING -Not only has HERMAN ROYDS taken over the all-time lead by not missing DAYS OF OUR LIVES since mid-September, but the 350-pound junior has added a threat to GENERAL . HOSPITAL leader, AMY TRIPTOLENE. 
Royds apparently will lose his title in late April however, when D.O,O.L. lovebirds. BO (Peter Rcckcll) and HOPE (Kristina Alfonso) leave the show. 
"It just wouldn't be · the same for me anymore," said Royds. "Those two have been my favorites since Bo rescued Hope from that crooked politician, took her away on his Harley-Davidson, and married her in that beautiful Welsh church. Their passionate honeymoon on that southern plantation was something I'll never forget." 
VENDING -Following a strenuous and noteworthy academic career at Notre Dame, coupled with a storybook stint at University Food Services, a former student has resur­faced in a position sure to serve current Irish students well for the years to come. 
Former American Studies major RON DcCOUCHE has become the new C.E.O. and g<;neral chairman of The Great American Hotdog Stand and Hosiery Outlet located behind popular student bar, Midget Big Guyers. 
DcCouchc left Notre Dame as one of the finest "slop line" workers and "runners" in Food Service history. His new appointment comes after previous employment at the Waterbcds, Watcrbcds, Watcrbcds, and Waterbeds snack bar, and the Hoosier Dome where DeCouchc sold candy apples during Colts' games. 
u----------------­
ATHLETE O' THE WEAK 


THE LEPERCHAUN 

The Mighty Boll Weevils.. of Nevada University of Mixology were not the only losers in last night's one-point squeaker at Cottonbalc Arena in Las Vegas. Although it was a Fightin' Eyewash triumph over the Weevils on the court, along the sidelines the Eyewash mascot once again suffered a drub-. bing at the hands of the opposing team's. 
This defeat extended the Lcpcrchaun's personal losing streak to a record-setting 432 in consecutive outings. Mocked by opponents and disgusted Notre Dame fans alike, it is commonly believed that the Lcpcr­chaun h_as just about sunken beneath con­tempt. 
"It's not easy, getting beaten up every few days," he said earlier this season. "No one wants to be seen with me on campus. Even the chcerfollowcrs won't talk to me, and they never shut up." A previous encounter with Fluke University's Blue Blob from Hell (pic­tured here) proved an especially menacing opponent for the Lcpcrchaun, effectively putting him out of c_ommision for a lengthy mid-season stretch. · 
Following last night's thrashing by "Cot­tonmouth," the Lepcrchaun is listed in stable condition at St. Joseph Hospit;il, suffering 
from a concussion and · minor abrasions. Eyewash fans have littli: sympathy. "It's bad · · enough he "dresses ·up as a little green guy with pointy shoes, but when a little bug can put him in the hospital, well, that's pretty pathetic," complained Charles Scarpa, very average ND student. 
Sarcastic 
-

·----~--~----------~-­

Page o· Truth 

K~~X•~•2-~ll:~~bx:>..WA%C~~<).A.C{~~~'Y#..a?'~~;;~~ge 
Sometimes Truth Is Stranger 
The University of Akron Zips· recently changed its fight song to accommodate the spirit brought to the football program by former Irish coach Gerry Faust. 
We cheer the Akron Blue and Gold, We cheer as the colors unfold. We pledge anew, We're all for you, As the team goes crashing through, Fight! Fight! We cheer the Akron warriors bold, For a fightthat's a sight to behold. So we stand up! And cheer and shout! For the Akron Blue and Gold. 

·e cu ... 
ti) 



Than. Fiction 
Chorus: 
Zzzzzz-Zip! Zip go the Zippers. Zzzzzz-Zipf Zip go the Zippers. Akro1i U, Gold and Blue, All for you, And the Zippers tool 
That muckraking r~g 
Scholastic reported in its December 11 issue that "a group called CA USA USA has begun cir­culating petitions on campuses across the nation in recent weeks. 
By Cuspid 
Students at the schools involved . . . have complained that CA USA members belatedly inform them they're followers of the Rev. Sun Myung Moon. CAUSA officials deny any tics to \/loon or the Unificat-ion Church, but Ronald Hilton, a professor emeritus at Stanford and editor of World Affairs Report, contends CA USA is a Moon organization." 
Guess what's been sighted on bulletin boards all across campus? Yup, that is the Student Activities stamp on the lower left corner ... 


NO FOOLING! 

~\ We need your help! 
·a0,1 Buy books and gifts at 
·. • the Little Professor Book Center (Univer­sity Commons near Kroger) and support the ND/SMC Scholarship Fund Drive. A percen­tage of your purchase will be donated to the drive. 
Ullle Profe.-lloolcCentw ~ 
6305 Universit.v Uo-o)
Commons }-... _./ Place sales slips in box at store. Sponsored by adies of ND SMC 


Misfortune Lax. It gets you going. 
Ano+he:f' (°t\(>...{'i'A_~~ibO s~uci.en. r 

Sez.n°"+e. 5e S5 ion?. 
~ 
.

'D ; cl ¾ h €. o.ol:it~ ; f'l. \ 5 --\, C" O;..-+ aOf..,_ bl bC. ·,< 0\ 1"""'t. o~-~ Q.-r 5r-e·-~-~ _ p~~optiSO\I? . Ever;;, 4' Stvd~~\. jt>Vt2r-z-..Meoi-i 5, s+CI\.H ~o\.) "fOV c-.\.;;:.n+ h,c,...Ve +o b~ 


Before After ·· 

Amessage from The Irregular Gu s. 
ND Is Hell 

©1'/87B~ 
MV""i 
CoMPLAl~HNb 
CltAPTER 

xv: 9 OF DOMERS 
FU>M xu,A.L.S "H:) 
-PotN06lMPHIC. PHC)"T"D'::,, IF,r·~ ~la.IA!.. I ·n-us SWME: WI"'-"PRINI IT IN 1"Ha NE.V~-a-J])IM! l:il>GST fol<. 
·n-u.:. e,16 ~P. IDCl-5 1 '808 Gi~OI.JE, 'Ja.j'SZ.T!,ll.A2t:OCH. 


""11-IE \J'JfA:l"HER., Do IAC ,.WD ~LAS1r::€; 1'HE I..U;.!E'. os= TI-IG ~OI-DEN J)0}..1.£ wAs
,.;u•,;r 1R2E:S1ST,Z),?,,L..E..lt>OLS : ~cc.t:,...u;:,HF-SBIJ~G,t-1 
E 
I 
C.1-A 
u 
I 0,A"P). 

l.l) HAVE; SOl..'P Hi!> WTTLe-
\ SPEClAL ~ ~Ollil::e Tt> (£r INT"C> ~ pijAE" a,r-11{<\-T" I-IOP(;t£~A9,-SHOE5/>NDAU.
•c... ~ IN (:iEOM~ ~ IN HIS So'PHDM~ G\ICC licrrlZF-~E ~"TOO~ •'IEl>lLWM> HIS°J:ONNl;A..U-. IH~~HE.~"11-¼T~ 

N 

Q)OLS: 11:>0 i>f.>JU.OSIONED jZ) 1-lA.IJE flt..l'I IVOLS: 1-\IMSE\..F m?I-S• 1)1~ ~,WiATT E:ARf' 
Distributed by Reptiles Syndicate, Inc. 








-
rr
' 
~·Z 
' 
l}l 0 
9 ... ""I 
fl) fl)-I-'­
a:: 

:iY?i U.S. 31 f (I.)
i:w;· 
I'.!) 
"'I 
'<! s· 
.....
en 
'C/1~
!""' 
>

3rd St. l:l 
Cltl 

2nd St. ;-fl) 
H.I.'s 

Front St./U.S. 31 
' 
-


NO COVER 





