

Vol. Lill.	December 13, 1919	No. 12

1
the Hocre Same Scholastic AaCeptisemenES
Right training wins the race.
DIXON
ELdoradO
That’s as true in life as on the cinders.
Dixon’s Eldorado is
’s greatest engineers. It should be yours novo.
121XON
Made in 17 leads, one for every need or preference.
EYES EXAMINED
Glasses Pitted at Moderate Price* SdlKfactiM Gaaraateed
DR. J. BURKE & CO., OnoicsmsTs and Manufactuming Otticianb 23o S. Michigan St
MAKE THIS YOUR MEETING PLACE JIMMIE & GOATS "WHERE THE CARS LEAVE" . - . - - — —+
The Ellsworth Store
ALL KINDS OF FURNITURE AND ROOM FUR'	NISH INGS AT. SPECIAL PRICES FOR
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS
J. J. KREUZBERGER
MERCHANT TAILOR
aid W. Jefletaon Blvd	Arnold Building
———————■ ■ ■■— —— 4
N. V. P. TRUNKS
Made by the maker* of "Jadotracto" and (tiling at a moderate price. Luggage section—and Soar
GEO. WYMAN & CO.
National Grocer Company
WHOLESALE GROCERS
402-S South St. Joseph Street. South Bend, Indiana ' "LIGHT HOUSE BRANDS" ; ;
t	’
—■—■■■■——————i—♦
Frank Mayr & Sons
JEWELERS
113 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET

the Nocpe Same Scholastic AdC^pcisemencs
SPECIAL NOTICE
_ The Athletic Store will be open starting Monday, Dec. 15th, from 9 A. M., till 5 P. M., to accommodate our many customers at Notre Dame, who desire to shop for Xmas with us.
XMAS SUGGESTIONS
Notre Dame Jewelry:—Notre Dame seal or monogram rings, pins, combination sets, with pearls, cuff links, rosaries with cases, La Vallieres, brooch pins, knives, fobs, ever sharp pencils with seal, card cases, Waldemar chains; mostly any article of jewelery mounted with the Notre -
• Dame seal or monogram.
Notre Dame leather or felt goods:—Notre Dame seal or monogram, pennants, blankets, pillow covers, or table covers. In leather: pillow covers, whole hides, with embossed seal or monograms.
X	.
Memory Books:—Leather covers with monogram or seal; also four other styles of memory and photo books.
Our stock of silk shirts, knitted and silk neckwear, and other furnishings, is very extensive. Call and look over the “new things,** and relieve your mind of that worry of “what shall 1 buy for “her” or “him.**
ADLER BROTHERS
107—109 So. Michigan St.	108 W. Washington Ave.
Conductors of
. The Athletic Store
On the Campus Hany E. Poulin., Mgr.
7
the Notre Same Scholastic Advertisements
t—------:--------------------------r-f
I Dr. Walter A. Hager
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT
X	Telephone Bell 52
N. W. Cor. Lafayette St.	_	, _	, _ .
and Washington Ave.	South Bend, Ind.
——- - - - - ------ —— - .. -4
Mike’s Restaurant and Lunch Room	I
H. E. GROSS & SON. Props.	I
105 E- Jefferson Ave., South Bend	Home Phone 6183 I
. - - — - - -■-»
- - - - , - - ■ ■ - - -	" - "t
Nobile’s College Inn
HEADQUARTERS FOR CANDIES FRUITS AND ICE CREAM
STUDENTS9 ORDERS FILLED PROMPTLY
108 South Michigan Street
* Phones: Bell, 602; Home, 965
<►--— —- ------------------	----. .
— — —— ■------------------~
“WALK-OVERS” I
THE.STUDENT'S SHOE I
WALK-OVER BOOT SHOP [
’	X15 S. Michigan St.	1
1 noorm J Home Phone, 5789	Res Bell 1162
1 VFFicE | BeU phoaet 68g
DR. R. F. LUCAS
|	DENTIST
1	611-612 J. M. S. Bldg.
I Cor. Main St. and Wash. Ave.	South Bend, Ind.
♦—- — - - - - -- ——---------------- —4
I.	, ■ - - - ■ - , ■ ■ - ■ — - - - . - ,
Office:	PHONES Residence:
Bell 886. Home. 5842.	, Bell, 3561. Home, 5702
DR. JOHN A. STOECKLEY
DENTIST	.
No. 511, Corner Suite	Wash. Ave. and Main St.
J.	M. S. Building	South Bend, Ind.
------ .
DR. F. W. VAUGHN
SURGEON DENTIST	I
and ORTHODONTIST	|
608 J. M. S. Building	South	Bend, Ind. |
"—- --------------------—
JJk MOOLE Prop!	R&T
jjitgL-,	«ount noio^tD. Mir
Bell Phone 581	Will call al University
Home Phone 2451	• •" by appointment
Chiropodist
L. L. ROBERTS
Office and Residence, 222 S. Taylor Street, South Bend, Ind.
’ With the Largest and Best Equipped Printing Plant in Northern Indiana, and the most skillful workmen, we are prepared to meet your most exacting requirements.
L P. HARDY CO.
417-423 S. St. Joseph St.	x South Bend, Indiana
. .. - —. , - .. ■ ■■ - - - - - - - ,
Klingel & Kuehn
SHOES OF QUALITY
Between Oliver Opera House and J. M. S. Bldg.
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
■ ■ ■ - ■	- ■ 4
T*>»	. 1 at Reasonable Prices. Special attention
fMCVCI£S given to students. Branch Repair Shop, st. Edward HaU, Notre Dame.
Anderson Brothers & Bultinck
109 West Colfax Avenue	South Bend, Indiana
.w ■■ — - ■ ■ - — -
I THE LIGHT OF THE VISION
I	By CHRISTIAN REID
I .	362 pp.—Price $125
I THE AVE MARIA - NOTRE DAME. IND.
♦——■ - — - — -—“—-—-
DISCE- QUASI- SEMPER- VICTVRVS- VIVE QUASI- CW- MORITVRVS
Vou LUI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, December 13, 1919.	No. 12.
For Christmas. —
£ [[fFRANCIS JENNINGS VURPILLAT, ’20.
ANTICIPATING now her guileless Lord, The earth puts on heir white of purity, Ordains that gracious Nature shall accord
Unseemliness a fair obscurity:
Her brawling brooks with jewelled filigree
She binds; and mantles o’er.each crag and scar;
Snow-garlanded the faithful cedar tree;
Snow-carpeted the furrowed fields afar;
Each woodland lake an eager mirror for His Star.
1 The snow-faced steeple jclock tells out its chimes To grace the patient beadsmen’s orison,
Who faithful keeps the shepherds’ watch betimes To hail the coming of the Master’s Son.
The bells their deep-toned tidings have begun To summon up the slumb’ring countrysides
To rise to greet the long awaited One,	.
To hear the age-old song whose word betides The Christmas Peace of heart where’er Good
' Will abides. •
Good Will and Peace—this is the Star that beams To dungeoned hearts, if only for a day:
Old Fagin sets to thinking honest schemes;
Each Judas swears he’ll ne’er again betray;
Good Dives welcomes Lazarus to stay ;
Hard Shylock finds his purse an exit had;
And Ananias vows the truth to say;
The Magdalen sees lilies and is sad,
White simple Pippa woos her mirror and is glad.
Good Will would useless menial strife forego, Extends the giving not the taking hand
To bring the spark of truer things to glow;
To bring to fact this Christmas fairyland— A world of give and thank and understand,
• A world more sensible than sensitive;
To swell the numbers of the happy band
Who serving live to love and love to live, Forgetting petty faults, whole-hearted to forgive.
Ye men who erstwhile wassail held in Gaul, And with the battled warriors’ humble fare . Drank deep the cup of victory, recall .
Who were not there our earthly peace to share.
God’s Peace be theirs, we ask in simple prayer;
Our “Buddies,” they who felt their all their best And gave;’ God’s victor laurels may they bear
Who bore their cross, and bearing fell to rest -
Snow-Calvaried to lie, God’s Legionsfromthe West.
The Christmas Crib.
BY FRANCIS S. FARRINGTON, ’20.
IN the Christmas Crib, found in practically all the Catholic churches of the world at Christmas time, we have the solitary vestige of the Mystery plays of the Middle Ages, of the centuries which witnessed the rise and fall of the most remarkable religious drama in history. Most people do not realize, when the crib is seen on the day of the Nativity, what a wealth of fascinating legend lies behind that representation. It is one of the oldest traditions of Christmas that has survived, much more ancient than the Christmas tree or the legend of Kriss Kringle, both sacred to the memory of childhood. That the Crib remains long after other dramatic legends of the same period have been forgotten is evidence that the minds and. hearts of men are unchanged. The spectacle of the infant Saviour makes a universal appeal, whether it be to the unlettered worshippers of the tenth century or to the more sophisticated people of the twentieth.	.
A proper understanding and appreciation of such dramatic growth as the Miracle plays, which extended from about the tenth century to the fourteenth, is impossible without some knowledge of the people of that time. The childlike simplicity of the dramas must have touched a correspondingly childlike Faith in the hearts of the people who came to worship, and whose, souls were stirred by visible enactment of the dramatic scenes in the life of our Lord. The chroniclers of the time show that such religious plays came into being about the tenth century, being given in the churches by the clergy, the dialogue being in Latin, as might be expected. Their primary purpose was to make the mysteries of religion more intelligible, hence the name, Mystery plays.	'
The earliest representation of the play of the Shepherds was taken almost entirely from the
186
Moure dome Sdwlasdc
antiphoned parts of the Mass itself, and was enacted in the choir of the church. There was no attempt at dramatic action; a simple recital of the birth of the Saviour and the subsequent adoration of the Shepherds was thought sufficient to bring to the minds of the people the wonderful mysteries of the Nativity. The liturgical directions for the play given during the Mass in the cathedral of Rouen are as follows: “Be the crib established behind the altar, and be the image of the Blessed Virgin placed there. First, a child, from before the choir and on a. raised platform, representing an angel, will announce the birth of the Saviour to five canons or their vicars of the second rank; the shepherds must come in by the great gate of the choir. ... As they near the crib they sing the “Pax in Terris.” Two priests of the first rank, wearing a dalmatic, will represent the midwives standing by the crib.”
It is easy to picture the simplicity of the preceding scene. Here was the drama at its beginning, but unlike most new dramatic forms it had the scenery and costumes prepared for it. The first was furnished by the architectural beauties of the choir of the church, the other by the robes of the clergy, who were always ready to furnish costumes belonging to them. As in the other mediaeval dramas, there was no attempt to reproduce the dress of the past ages. To the spectators, the actual performance was much more important than the dress of the ancients, about which they had but a very vague conception.	-
Though the change from such a naive representation to the complete cycle of the Miracle plays of Coventry, York, Chester, and Townsley was the work of some centuries, it can be summed up in a few words. Prose was substituted for verse; the vernacular English took the place of Latin; the scene of production was changed from the nave of the church to the open air; actors taken from the guilds succeeded the clergy in the roles of the plays, and young men regularly took the parts of women in the dramas.
These religious plays centered around two main feasts of the Church, just as the ecclesiastical year imour day is determined in its detail mainly by the Nativity and the Resurrection. The entire Old Testament was grouped around the Christmas feast, just as the New-Testament was grouped around Easter.. In this way cycles were developed, representing in two parts the
religious history of mankind from Creation to the Last Judgment. In the separation of the religious dramas from the Church they naturally lost more or less of their religious character, and were often for one reason or another given on other than the feast-days to which they really belonged, as, for instance, to honor some important visitor.
That the aims of the Miracle plays were lofty is seen from the reply to an attack on them by a critic. It was said that “thei playen these myraclis in the worchip of God”; they lead men to think and meditate; devils are seen there carrying the wicked away into hell; the sufferings of Christ are represented, and the hardest are touched, they are seen weeping for pity; for people wept and laughed at the representations, openly and noisily, “wepynge bitere teris.”
Many of these dramas have come down to us in the collections made by particular towns or guilds by which they were produced.. To us of the modern age they may seem childish, but to the men of that earlier day they were the means of relieving the monotony of life and getting a better understanding of the mysteries of religion. Such entertainments were no more haphazard affairs than are the plays of the present. The occasion was a solemn one, the preparations thorough, much time and thought being given to the training of the actors and to the making of the costumes. After emerging from the church the dramas had the entire town in which to display themselves. It is certain that they made the most of the opportunity, and the little towns of the Mediaeval Ages must have taken on a dramatic atmosphere, just as New Orleans develops its carnival spirit at the Mardi Gras. Scaffolds or pageants were built, and from these raised platforms placed at the street corners the successive plays of the cycle were given.
Little attention was paid by the authors of the Miracles to the classic Unities. The most distant localities and times were represented in one day. To such arbitrary practice the spectators offered no objection; imagination and the speeches of the actors supplied what was lacking as to the unities or the scenery. Some attempts at scenery were made, but they were crude enough. It was not until the time following the Elizabethans that much thought was given to scene-painting, one of the most important adjuncts of the modem stage. It
Moure dame Scholastic
seems that much more attention was given to machinery: we find, for example, many references to ships and other curious devices for producing startling effects, calculated to excite the wonder or awe of the spectators.
These Christian dramas, remodelled from' time to time, were for four centuries played before admiring crowds, whose love for them was traditional. Such a long period in the life of a single dramatic form is without parallel in history. Some of the reasons have been noted. Certainly the desire to witness the dramatic . spectacle was keen and then the spectatorsjwere naturally much interested in these illustrations of the miracles of religion. The joys of paradise, the torments of hell, the courts of monarchs,— all that was so far above attainment by the common people of the time—was of fascinating appeal to them. The religious dramas were indeed a part of the life of the time. Religion in being dramatized on a stage before the eyes of the spectators was made concrete and human.
Unhappily, of all this tradition and mass of dramatic lore few vestiges remain. The Christian crib is the reminder of the period in the lives of our ancestors when religion was taught from the stage as well as from the pulpit, a period which witnessed a great revival of learning, the building of most of the great cathedrals of Europe, and a steady growth from the semidarkness into the civilization of the modern world.	.
An Ex-Tempore Aviatrix.
BY BROTHER ERNEST, C. S. C., ’23.
■ High up on the side of the Rocky Mountains is perched the home of Jack Davis, the aviator. • Anyone passing below and seeing his plane " light on the plateau, would imagine it to be an eagle stopping to take a rest after a long flight. Nearly every day last year the airman and his wife, Molly Davis, were wont to go for a ride to enjoy the cool mountain air. Mrs. Davis had never driven the plane alone, and although she watched with great interest the expert control of her husband, and thought she could do nearly ) as well, she had never once asked to run the machine.
One. day Jack became seriously sick. There was no way of getting a doctor to attend him, as the nearest, village, was more than ten miles
187
distant. The wife watched anxiously her husband’s condition as every hour brought him lower and lower. What was she to do? Should she make her way down the mountain pass? This would delay the aid which her bushand needed quickly. She thought of the plane, but could not make up her mind to try to run it. Then she saw her husband losing consciousness and knew that he could not hear her start the engine. She hurriedly put on her riding suit, and in a few minutes glided off the cliff in -the plane.
No part of the mechanism seemed strange to her, and within a few minutes she was seen flying over the little village in search of a place to land. She reached for the lever to turn the guiding plane downward. In doing this she was unsuccessful, for the machine made a violent turn and for a moment Molly began to lose her courage. She put on more speed, gained a higher altitude, and once more prepared to descend. This time she was more successful, and in a few minutes she had brought the machine lightly to the earth. She hurried to the doctor’s office, informed him of her mission, and asked him to accompany her.
“Are you a good driver?” he inquired.
“Yes, sir, I landed here with my eyes shut.” “Very well, then, I’ll go with you.”
Molly lost no time in strapping the somewhat nervous doctor to the seat in front of hers.
“Hold your hands over your ears for a while, t and do not look down. I’ll tell you when I am ready.”	i
After turning the propeller to start the engine, Molly jumped into her seat and was soon flirting with the clouds.	.
“I see you’re quite nervous, Doctor?”
‘ ‘ N-o-t so v-ery much. I’m getting use to it.” “Sit still, now, we’re going down.”
\This time Molly showed more skill in guiding the machine, and soon she and the doctor were standing beside the sick man. His wife was quite surprised to find her husband asleep, and, thinking at first he might be dead, she seized his arm and shook him.
“O Jack, I thought you were dead! I’ve brought the doctor to you.”
“The doctor? Where did he come from?” “I got him, Jack. I—I went for him.” The doctor stayed for two days, watching the changes in the fever, and when Jack was again strong and well, Molly told him of her wonderful trip and her narrow escape. .
'Sfie Nocre Same Seholascic
188
Varsity Verse.
Consolation.
I take the book of memory And read its pages o’er Till eyes grow dim and fail to see The good I’ve done before.
But in this hazy view of life I find in words of gold Those hours of long and steady strife That won a hundredfold.
O consolation! sweeter thou Than perfume faint from flowers;
When death-dews gather on my brow, My thoughts shall claim these hours.—b. j.
Little Things.	'
■ Just a little microbe, . Breathed in purest air, . .. Leads to pain and torment That we cannot bear.
Just a little action, Repeated now and then, Goes to carve the character And destiny of men.—j. T. b. ’
..	Mother.
. Thou art old! thy hands are wrinkled— Hands that long have toiled for me. Thou art old! thy hair is snowy ’ White, but gold it used to be.
Mother, thou wert never weary
When thy work for me was long—
Still for me thou wouldst be toiling,	~
Toiling with a joyous song.—j. F. t
. "Home and You.”
When it’s moonlight on the water, When the world is clothed in sleep, When the dew is on the flowers, ■ And the shadows round me creep, When the candle light is burning And the night-bird trills his song, The thoughts of home and you, dear, Fill the air and round me throng.—w. j. n.
Lullaby.
Bye, baby, bye;	.
Sleep is in your eye,	.
Heed not the night wind’s sigh But on the pillow lie—	’
Bye, baby, bye!	‘
Sleep, darling, sleep,	:
The flames no longer leap, And now the fairies peep, A watch on. you they’ll keep—	■	.
Sleep, darling, sleep!
Bye, baby, bye, Fear not the night owl’s cry, Your guardian’s on high, '	’	‘
' An angel in the sky—	.
Bye, baby, bye.—R. E. o’H.
“About Right Is Wrong.”
BY WILLIAM C. HAVEY, *20.
“My story is concerned with the fallibility of the law. I may get my legal terminology a bit entangled, but you, legal'gentlemen, fresh from Blackstone, must excuse my inaccuracies for the sake of the story. I am, like the Eugene Aram of Bulwer-Lytton, going to show that ‘no rational inference of the death of a person can be drawn from disappearance, and that the strongest of circumstantial evidence is often very fallacious.’ First, will somebody please give me a light?”	,
The speaker was Quentin Macklin, just returned to the East after several years in California. It was the custom at the “Freres Club” for a group of six or eight to gather on winter evenings in the spacious lounging-room and, Jike the Canterbury pilgrims of Chaucer, regale one another, with personal experiences and other stories of interest. Macklin, a genial fellow, was always most welcome in these fire-side gatherings.^ Like the Marquis d’Arville he “talked with a certain poetry of style, somewhat high-sounding but full of effect” and he must have often repeated the present tale, judging from the fluence with which he told it. His cigar lighted, he leaned back luxuriously in the deep-cushioned chair, fidgeted into his habitual pose, and continued.	.
“The scene was a court-room of a Pacific coast town. The hesitant voice of the witness, , interrupted at intervals by the incisive tones of an attorney, was not too low to be heard throughout the trial-chamber by those who leaned forward tensely to catch every word. ‘I was standing,’ said the deponent, ‘on the left bank of the stream, fishing, when suddenly a high-powered, low-slung motor car swung into sight and came to a stop directly before the farther side of the bridge. Three persons climbed out of the tonneau and two of them went to the middle of the bridge. I was too far away to distinguish their features, but near enough to see from their garb that one was a . woman. They were walking rather slowly and very dose to each other. I curiously watched the movements erf. the pair and was horrified, to see the man without warning snatch .up the woman and after a brief struggle throw her into the stream.’	. - .	.
“Here the witness paused,* visibly moved by
'Sfie Moure dameSchokreric
the recollection of the scene. ‘Did you hear any screams?’ petulantly rasped out the prosecutor.’
“‘None.’
“‘Goon.’ ,
“ ‘After a short struggle—’
“‘You were so transfixed with terror you made no effort either by word or action to prevent the crime?’ grated another lawyer.
“The witness was plainly perplexed. ‘I was too far off to reach them in time and my voice— ’
“‘Failed to function. Goon.’
“ ‘Well, I saw the woman hurled off the bridge, and the man ran back (to the car, clambered in, and was whisked from my sight in the wink of an eye. I dove into the water and swam to the spot where the body had sunk, but it never came to the surface.’
“‘Where was the third person who was with the couple on the bridge?’	.
“‘I can’t say with certainty, but I think he was standling beside the auto. What he was doing I don’t know. My attention was focused on the other two. I think when he stepped out of the car he was carrying a big, black box.’
“ ‘A big black box. How big was it?’
“ ‘About the size of a suitcase, I guess.’
“That, gentlemen, was the crux of the case. If as later developments made apparent, and lawyersand sleuths had been as keenly inquisitive about the matter of the ‘box’ as they, were of lesser details, I wouldn’t be telling you this story.
“The principal witness left the stand, and minor witnesses were summoned. Their statements, substantially at least, accorded with the testimony of the first deponent, and the circumstantial evidence piled up overwhelmingly against the prisoner. He sat in the culprit’s chair, a little, inoffensive-looking fellow, sallow of appearance, with an oddly sensitive mouth, and deep dark eyes brimming with a dumb bewilderment-. At first he had, it seems, stoutly maintained his innocence, but under the . thunderous threats of the domineering prosecutor he had often given compromising and confused answers to the lawyers’ queries, and the evidence for his conviction was looming with each new witness. He was dully beginning to perceive the enormity of the evidence, as every fact pointed to him, and the futility of fighting ■ what seemed to be his fate made him spiritlessly await the inevitable.	.
x “The accused was an artist named Emmett
189
Puvin. His wife, with whom he had quarrelled many times in the hearing of a housemaid and a chauffeur,—the attestations of these servants, reluctantly given, for they seemed not in sympathy with the woman in the case, had made his reasons for the crime appear entirely plausible and probable—had disappeared on the very afternoon when the prisoner had been seen near the river-front and the deed had been done. In the beginning of the trial Pudvin had protested that he knew nothing regarding his wife’s whereabouts, and had explained his presence near the scene of the slaying on the grounds that he was then on a search for local color among wharf-habitants for a series of magazine illustrations. It did not help his case a great deal when it was brought out that no editor had recently contracted with him for a series of such drawings, and the fact that he was ‘mnemonically irresponsible,’ brought out later by his counsel to counteract this bit of evidence, counted naught in his favor with the jurymen or the general public. His wife, fitful, frivolous, foreign, with the temperament of a Russian radical and the aspirations of the spouse of a munition-made millionaire, had made his life miserable ever since their marriage. That they were an ill-mated couple was common knowledge in bourgeois circles of metropolitan society, and acquaintances as well as confidants of Pudvin often declared that some day the patience of the meek little artist would reach the snapping point and that dire calamity for the fire-eating female and scandal for himself would , ensue. And now the gossip-mongers confidently believed that their predictions had been verified to the letter. It was found out later, however, that Mrs. Pudvin was at the time of the trial aboard a steamer bound for the Baltic in the company of an unshorn socialist, altogether heedless of her husband’s peril.
“‘Aboard a boat in the Baltic with a Bolshevist and utterly regardless of the, plight of her husband? How the plot coagulates!’ exclaimed ‘Baron’ De Kalb, an old school-mate of the narrator, expecially susceptible to Macklin’s narrative mesmerism.
“ Well, at length, all the incriminating evidence was in, and the lawyers made their final pleas to the jury. The prisoner on being asked ‘if he had anything to say in his own behalf,’ falteringly reiterated what he had declared in the beginning, and the judge instructed the twelve in their momentous duty. The jurymen
1
190	Nocre dome ©diokwric
filed out of their benches into the chamber, from ghastliness of his countenance and the quivering
which was to come the decision which meant life or death to the frail prisoner. As was expected, the verdict was delivered without much delay, and as the foreman rose to announce the result of the jury’s deliberations, the condemnation of the accused was read in his face by every spectator in the court-room before a word had left his mouth.
“‘The gentlemen of the jury find Emmett Pudvin guilty of murder in the first degree.’ The words which spelled the doom of the prisoner rang out impressively in the silent trial-chamber. The spectators, watching with the smugness of persons off-stage a living drama going on before them, turned curious eyes on the victim to see how the sentence would affect him. Would he break down and sob, would he manifest an arrogant stoicism in keeping with the recent fashion, or would he tear his hair and be dragged screaming, half-mad beyond the mysterious door at the side of the room? The fact was that he kept on biting his finger nails. Even when the judge pronounced the death sentence, the only sign he gave of its effect was a slightly increasing pallor. At the muttered behest of an officer he rose and meekly preceded his guard through the narrow corridor off the court-room.
“Two months passed and the date of the electrocution of Pudvin was drawing near. The newspapers concocted a voluminous rehash of the whole affair. The condemned in the few interviews which he gave, still persistently declared no knowledge of the crime for which he was sentenced to die. In his cell at the penitentiary he maintained an inscrutable tranquillity and endured with equanimity that ‘worst of tortures, the gaze of curious visitors on distress.’ He passed the days before the one set for his death in making beautiful sketches of flowers and forests and mountains and rivers, and sometimes a woman’s face.
“At last the day of execution came’ and the condemned man with the usual escort was marched out of his cell and along' the cold corridor to the death chamber. There, the monotone of the chaplain reading prayers from a black hand-book, the unfeeling dispatch of the prison attendants putting everything in readiness for the snuffing out of a human life, the doctor in white uniform taking test instruments out of a case and depositing them on a stand before him, the bleakness of the half-lighted room, the * staring, protruding eyes of the condemned, the
of his limbs,—all had an indescribably depressing effect. Finally the black hood was drawn over the prisoner’s head, he was conducted to the death chair, and his body made fast with straps. The warden raised his. hand and gave the signal for the release of the current. The executioner threw the switch and the men in the room watched for the swift convulsion of the figure, which meant the end of their work. No response to the electric stimulus was manifested. The executioner, sensing that something was wrong, made a quick investigation of his apparatus and then in hushed, halting tones announced to the warden that the current was stopped. The telephone also was out of order, so the electrician went in person to the power plant to find the cause of the trouble. After what seemed an interminable wait to the men closeted in the execution chamber, a message was handed to the warden from the electrician, which "read: ‘A “dummy” woman with the indelible tag reading “Property of the Marvel Moving Picture Studios, Inc.” was clogging the wheel in the mill race. Have removed it and will have the dynamo going in a little while.—(signed) Wrigley.’ ”	'
“And the man—was he released or did, did—” broke in several of the club-members as Macklin stopped to relight his cigar.
“A short while afterwards the biggest movie corporation in the western hemisphere had a damage suit for fifty thousand dollars awarded against it for being the direct cause of ‘bringing unwarranted hardship, humiliation, and permanent nervous disorder’ upon a man who had gone into the valley of the shadow and come out again,” concluded Macklin.
A Task for the College Student
The feature press of the day, the magazine, and the hovel have led many to believe that the theology of old is crumbling under the influence of the recent findings in the world of science. The people are being told, by writers who have little more than the gift of a pleasing ^tyle, that almost all of the old beliefs are wrong.
The scribes are either graduates of the presentday secular school, in which the philosophy is destructive of religion' or they are penmen who have a very slight knowledge of science, but who are quick to take advantage of every theory that may be made to serve their purposes. Every day

'SfieNocre fcomeSchokretic	191
they are doing their best to turn the old world upside down and to establish new principles and new ideas.	■ t
Someone has said that you can prove anything. A man who can write rhetorical sophistry and by using it in enlarging on the discoveries of scientists, can make the ordinary man believe that what he says is true. In reality these writers know very little of real science and have perverted the theories of innumerable scientists. Even Darwin before he died was obliged to protest that many of the discoveries and theories attributed to him were not his at all.
■ The field of refutation presents great opportunities to the young Catholic student who is anxious to defend his faith. Great things can be accomplished if the college graduates of this generation will take up their pen in the defense of truth and right thinking. To do this the young man or the young woman must delve deep into the questions of science. He must make himself familiar with chemistry, biology, zoology, astronomy, economics, philosophy, sociology, theology and many other sciences if he is to be elective in helping to save truth and right. It would be an almost impossible task for the writer to make himself thoroughly familiar with a great many of these subjects, but he can go far into a few of them. He can do much to restore the belief of the people in the established faith.—h. w. Flannery, ’23.
. ------------------.
Perverse Rose Marie.
“Now, Rose Marie, ” scolded the little mother with threatening finger, “you knew that it was wrong to do that, didn’t you?”
Rose Marie did not answer. Even the expression on her face changed not in the least. One might have expected Rose Marie to burst into tears and throw herself into the mother’s arms at such a rebuke—but not Rose Marie! She was made of sterner stuff.
“Pay attention to me, Rose Marie!” Mother was evidently losing her patience. She looked sternly on her stubborn child as she again snapped out, “You knew that was wrong, didn’t you?”
Still there was no response.	_
“Answer me, Rose Marie!” And the pink bow in the mother’s hair quivered as she stamped her foot on the sidewalk. “ If you don’t answer
_ me right away, I’ll spank you good!”
But Rose Marie was set in her ways. She did
not whimper, as most children would, or even raise her eyes from the spot where they had been fastened that last five .minutes.
Bound to her threat, the little mother picked up the doll and spanked soundly its unfeeling flesh.	.
'“ There! ” she exclaimed as she put Rose Marie back into the carriage, “quit yer cryin’ er I’ll give yer some more!”—A. b. hope, ’20.
Thoughts.
BY JUNIORS.
Many facile tongues falter at truth.
Unselfishness is the test of friendship.
Why not call the League one of fascinations?	. _
Popularity prepareth a fool for a great fall.
We are all architects—at work on our air-castles.
A proud man’s stumbling block is his own head.	;
Travel teaches us much we cannot learn at home.
You can’t lose your temper and keep it to yourself.
Soldiering is not the only occupation that requires courage.	—	.
The man who takes life as a joke is himself the . grimmest joke.	.
Most of us try to write our names in the Hall of
Fame with a dry pen.	<
Unwritten poetry is the torch that lighteth the way to true greatness.
Clothes may not make the man, but nowadays we owe our tailors a great deal.
Religion is the light guarding our ship of life from the rocky reefs of ruin.	.	,
The autocracy of mob rule is worse than any we	.
can conceive in. czar or kaiser.	<
Some wives live for their husbands and families,	<
others for society and the newspapers.	-
The results of one’s labor are as a rule but the	j <
reflection of the effort put forth. '	/
Conscientious statesmanship is often a wrench ‘ in the cogs of the modern political machine.	.
The Latin “Populus vult dedpi” has evolved
into the, American “The public be damned”. ;	5*;
_	-	■	- -'-7?^
An artic attitude here in regard to religion may . -become distinctly tropical in the hereafter. -	?
■	' -	' - v/’f-W-
J
192
Noure fomeSchoIasrie
||otpe]||arne^
DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER-V1CTURUS -VIVE- QUASI- CRASMORITVRVS
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
VOL. LIII.	DECEMBER 13. i9t9- NO. 12.
Board of Editors.
Francis Farrington. ’20
William C. Havey, ’20 Charles A. Grimes, ’20 Cornelius Palmer, ’20 Thomas H. Beacom, ’20 Alfred N. Slaggert, ’21 Arthur B. Hope, ’20
William Robinson, ’20
Walter M. O’Keefe, ’21
'	Edward W.
Robert E. O’Hara, ’20 Paul Scofield, ’20
Thomas J. Tobin, ’20 J. Sinnott Meyers, ’20 Paul R. Conaghan, ’20 Leo L. Ward, ’20 Jennings Vurpillat, ’20 M. Joseph Tierney, ’21
Gould, ’23.
; . GREETINGS. TO. YOU . .
- With this last issue of the SCHOLASTIC : before the holidays, we wish you, ’ dearreader—student, alumnus, or friend of Notre Dame—a merry Christmas and a most happy New Year. May the priceless Peace of the Christ-Child and the Christmas joy of His holy Mother be yours in the jullest measure during this blessed dime and always.
—The Editors.
Before the great war the poisonous nostrums of godless philosophies were gulped wholesale by a world mad for novelties. The many sought only to get arid forgot Post-Bellum Culture, to give. False standards and ignoble ideals obscured the really worth-while in life. The culmination of it all was the World War, with its collapse of international law and disregard of individual right.’ Now in the disenchantment of the aftermath men of vision are striving to replace the culture that so fitly failed. True culture means above all tine education in which man is taught how to liye as well as how to make a
living. Of' the very essence of such instruction is religion. Such is the consistent contention of the Catholic educator. Hence he has earnestly fought against the folly that would drive God out of the schools because, forsooth, religion has become obsolete. Although his fight has ' been, sad to say, a losing one, the deplorable morals of to-day vindicate his position. Realizing that this period of reconstruction oilers great opportunity for the Truth, a group of English Catholic educators, devoted and unselfish, have brought into being “The Sower,” a monthly journal of Catholic education. The first number, the high standard of which will, let us hope, be maintained, declares its purpose to be the defense of “religious education for freedom.” It has furthermore a laudable ambition to furnish a medium through which all Catholic opinion may get a fair publication, to the end that the fruitful ideas of any one educator may not be confined to his narrow sphere. Especially does the new periodical • hope to make Catholics realize that there can be no true schooling for their children apart- from the Faith. In view of these most worthy aims and the vigorous zeal with which they■ are; prosecuted, let us pray that “The -Sower” may spread far and wide the seeds of ‘truth so sadly needed.' in a world long grown , wild in all tjie varied weeds of untruth.—w. jh. r.
• ’	■ * • •	■■ ' - • - ’
Out of the shock of war has come, along with many other momentous changes, the awakening of an invaluable power for our country, the long-dormant mental vision of
The New Farmer, the American farmer.
The vast virgin fields for advancement in American agriculture have been laid open to his mental view, and thus the birth of a great long-latent factor in progress, the enthusiasm of vision, has been the happy result. The farmer’s dose contact during the war with the United States Department of Agriculture has allayed much of the traditional suspicion, almost superstition, with which he has in the past looked upon “college farming”. In this awakening the farmer has developed, almost overnight, an enthusiastic interest, a new pleasure in thinking, _ He has learned that the mind can do more than ' the hand. With this new avocation of thinking to stimulate and devdop the farmer’s newborn vision and with his unexcelled faculty of common sense to guide his awakened imagination, what may we not hope for the future of American agriculture?—l. l. w.	; r
^fie Nocre dame Scholastic
i93
The New Residence Hall.
When the surveyors'set the stakes outlining the site for a new building south of the postoffice at Notre Dame, the final steps in preparation for the erection of Old Students Hall were taken. The project inaugurated three years ago at a reunion of the old boys of Notre Dame will see fulfilment in September, when the largest residence hall on the campus will be ready for students. It will be the gift of the old boys to Alma Mater and will be named for them “Old Students Hall.”
The work of gathering funds for the building was discontinued when our country entered the world war and was renewed only when the
More than two hundred left before classes began, when they found they could not live on the campus. More than two hundred others are living in the city, attending classes as day students. The erection of Old Students Hall and another residence hall to be built from • University funds will find Notre Dame fully prepared for the large enrollment expected next September.
Old Students Hall will have rooms for two hundred college men. It will consist of a main body and two wings. The north wing containing eighteen private rooms will be entirely separate from the main structure and will be reserved for old students visiting Alma Mater. On the center axis of the main part of the
PROPOSED OLD STUDENTS HALL: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME William Gibbons Uffendell. Architect
government no longer felt the need of conducting public campaigns for money for the war and the re-construction that followed. Now the canvass for funds for Old Students Hall will be vigorously renewed, and the old boys will be called on to testify their loyalty to their old college in the first big gift ever made by them as a body.
The cost of the building will exceed two hundred and fifty thousand dollars. . The work of soliciting subscriptions has been entrusted to the Alumni Association. A ready response has followed the renewed appeal for subscriptions and it is hoped that the entire amount will be collected by September.
Never was such a building more urgently needed at Notre Daine. The unexpected and unprecedentedly large registration of students this year found the University without sufficiently suitable accommodations for them.
building, in a projecting wing, will be a large chapel, a memorial of the Reverend Timothy O’Sullivan of the Class of ’65.
The building Committee made fortunate selection of the architect when they chose an alumnus, William Gibbons Uffendell, ’02, whose architectural work in Chicago has merited high praise. He is best known in Notre Dame history as “Billy” Uffendell, a quarter-mile runner on the cinder path, whose track records form a brilliant part of Notre Dame athletic history. He was a member of the famous mile-relay team which defeated the best of the Eastern teams in the indoor games in Washington, 1902. He is devoting special attention to the,designs for Old Students Hall, and his preliminary sketches promise a solid and artistic structure. He has entered on his work with enthusiastic interest.
The building will be Tudor Gothic in design,
194
None dome Schokwtic
a style of architecture especially adapted to college buildings. It will be of brick face, with trimmings and carvings of Bedford cut stone. Fire-proof construction will prevail throughout the structure, all walls being of brick with .	reinforced concrete floors. Each room will be
i	furnished with hot and cold water. Shower
■	baths will be placed at two points on each
i	floor. An up-to-date system of vacuum cleaning
will be installed. Everthing, in a word, will be s	thoroughly modern in convenience as well as in
x construction.
In the old students’ wing there will be private baths for the living rooms. On the ground floor will be a large lounge and reception room for reunions of old students and for meetings of ]	the undergraduate classes throughout the year,
i	On this floor, also, will be found a ladies’ parlor
and reception room.
The ground floor will be devoted to recreation j	rooms, bowling alleys, and billiard halls. It will
■	also contain a large entertainment hall where
|	vaudeville performances and other varieties of
'	entertainment will be given by those residing
j	in the Hall.	.
;	Old Students Hall will mark a new era in the
j	relation of the old boys to Notre Dame, drawing
i	them closer to the University and its work. The
i - largest reunion in the history of the University ■	is looked for at the commencement next June
!	at which time the dedication of the building will
I	be held.
Memorial for War Nuns.
:	Obituary.
r	Rev. Thomas McNamara.
’	On December 2nd, Rev. Thomas McNamara,
•'	professor of literature at Notre Dame during the
.	eighties and nineties and a pulpit orator of wide
i	reputation, succumbed to an attack of apoplexy
j	at Detroit. Father McNamara was bom in
j	Dexter, Michigan, in i860, entered Notre Dame
I	at the age of fourteen, and was ordained to the
|	. priesthood in 1882. In 1900 he entered the
I	Paulist order. After years of strenuous service
in the mission field of the South, he finally had i '	to retire on account of bad health, from which
|	he never fully recovered. A pontifical Mass was
’	.	celebrated for the deceased priest by Bishop
|	Gallagher, of Detroit, on the 6th of December.
To the bereaved brother and sister of Father McNamara, his Alma Mater proffers heartfelt ’ sympathy and assures them of many prayers for his repose. R. I. P.
It was fitting that the termination of a struggle for the - official recognition of the Catholic nuns who served in the wars of America should be celebrated by a solemnity such as occurred at St. Mary’s Academy on Sunday, November 30th. Pontifical Mass was celebrated at 10 :oo o’clock by the Right Reverend Michael Gallagher, Bishop of Detroit. The Seminary choir of Notre Dame under the direction of'Father Marshall sang the Mass. Father Cavanaugh came from Washington to be present at the exercises and to preach the sermon, in which he paid most proper tribute to the holy women who spent their first days in religion on the battlefield. A large number of service men from Notre Dame attended, contributing to the occasion the military atmosphere. It was much to be regretted that the inclemency of the day prevented the outdoor, program that had been intended.
In the afternoon, the students and visitors gathered in St. Angela’s Hall for the memorial program. Mrs. Ellen Ryan Jolly, former president of the Ladies’ Auxiliary of the Ancient Order of Hibernians, and the one who has been most instrumental in procuring from the government this belated recognition of the service of the nuns, presided and introduced the speakers of the afternoon. The principal address was delivered by Monsignor John P. Chidwick, chaplain on the battleship Maine at the time of its disaster. Others on the program were Rev. Charles O’Donnell, C. S. C., who read a poem written for the occasion, Rt. Rev. Bishop Gallagher, Rev. Philip O’Donnell, representative of Cardinal O’Connell, of Boston, Miss Katherine Gannon, Historian of the Ancient Order of Hibernians and Judge James E. Deery, (LL. B. 1911), of Indianapolis, National President of the Ancient Order.	-
After these exercises, the audience preceded by the Notre Dame Band and a military detachment, marched to the cemetery for the formal unveiling of the markers set up to the memory of fifty-seven Sister-nurses of Holy Cross, who rendered such valiaht service, to the country in the Civil War or in the war with Spain. This touching ceremony closed the day of commemoration by which the good Sisters of Holy Cross were officially honored by a grateful nation.
•	.	—a. b. H.
< * -

A
'SfeNcxFe&nne Scholastic
i95
Book Reviews.
St. Joan of Arc, by the Reverend Denis Lynch, S. J. Benziger Brothers, New York City. Price $2.50 net. Joan of Arc has always been a popular heroine, and the interest in the warrior saint became more intense during the recent World War and in consequence of her recent canonization by the Church. Father Denis Lynch, S. J. has written the life-story of this Maid of Orleans, peasant shepherdess, great military leader, martyr, and saint. He observes well that the trans. formation of the humble Joan is unique. “From a simple peasant maid, she becomes at the age of seven-ceen years an accomplished captain of resistless leadership, a perfect horsewoman, an intrepid soldier, a consummate general, inspiring the foe with terror. She performs magnificent exploits, with, as becomes a great commnader, lightning rapidity. Armies flee, castles fall, cities open their gates.” The biography is carefully and well written, sincere, natural, and interesting. In addition to its biographical value the volume is a good history of France during the eventful time of the heroine. There will, no doubt, be for the book the wide demand that it deserves.
Talks to Parents, by the Rev. Joseph P. Conroy, S. J.
Bengizer. Price, $1.25 net.
Who is not acquainted with parents to whom he would like to make a few suggestions as to the management of their children but hesitates to do so for fear -of losing their friendship or hurting their feelings in consequence? In “Talks to Parents” Father Joseph P. Conroy, S. J., has put into the most acceptable form just the advice that is usually needed. The author portrays some types of parents, as pathetically amusing as they are realistic. Every reader will. recognize them readily. The book will make a most serviceable holiday present for the parent-friend who may need badly just the suggestions offered, and would most likely effect without offence the good desired. Indeed the subject-matter and the manner of presentation are such as to make the book of interest to any serious reader.
Eunice, by Isabel C. Clark, Benziger. Price, $1.75 net; by mail, 15 cents extra.
Not long ago we noted here in some detail the characteristics and merits of the fiction of Isabel C. Clark, the intrinsic interest of her stories, her originality of plot, her art of characterization, her entertaining style, and especially her ability to do the worthwhile Catholic novel. Miss Clark’s eleventh novel “Eunice” is now on the shelves of the publisher. It is another illustration of the qualities so delightful in* her earlier productions.
Facing Danger, by the Reverend E. J. Finn, S. J.
Benziger Brothers. Price $1.25 postpaid.
Any boy who has tead some of the books of Father Finn always welcomes a new story from his engaging pen, and he will not be disappointed in the author’s latest offering, “Facing Danger.” For young readers
of fiction there is hardly a better author than Father Finn. The noble inspiration and inherent Catholicity of his stories cannot but be an influence for good upon the developing character. “Facing Danger” will be of special interest to those who have delighted in “Tom Playfair.” Here we find the admirable qualities of the youthful hero developed, as we should expect, into the still more admirable qualities of young manhood. He is still the ten-year-old Tom in all that should be saved from the years of boyhood. The narrative is in Father Finn’s manner of telling a story— with the usual plot, mystery, “pep,” and thrill.
Manna of the Soul, by the Reverend F. X. Lasance.
Benziger Brothers. Vest-pocket and large-type editions, in various binding, ranging in price from $1.25 to $5.00.
We reviewed in these columns some time ago the prayerbook, “Manna of the Soul,” by Father Lasance, observing as its chief merit the fine selection of prayers from the Missal and other liturgical sources. In answer to numerous requests, the compiler-has added * in a new edition the Epistles and Gospels for the Sundays and holydays of the year. This addition completes the manual and makes of it for those who find difficulty in reading small type and for those who do not wish to be bothered with cumbersome religious articles an ideal prayerbook.
The Finding of Tony, by Mary T. Waggaman. Benziger. Price, $1.25, postpaid.
Held in the Everglades, by the Reverend H. S. Spalding, S. J., Benziger. Price, $1.25.	.
Ont to Win, by Reverend Joseph P. Conroy, S. J.
Benziger. Price, $1.25 net.
As the season of Christmas approaches many a person wonders just what he can get as a suitable gift for a junior friend. As a rule, nothing pleases a young person more than a good, interesting story book. The three books of juvenile fiction whose titles are given above are ones that any Catholic boy or girl would be "tickled to get for Christmas.”—Mary T. Wagge-man has long ago established herself as a favorite among young readers with such delightful stories as “Billy Boy” and “The White Eagle,” and her latest, “The Finding of Tony,” will not be less liked than her earlier v stories. The author always has a story to tell and the art of telling it to advantage, and her appeal is always to the best in her young admirers.—"Held in the ' Everglades” by Father-Spalding makes its appeal
-to the boy’s love for the heroic. It is an engaging story of the manner in which a young orphan lad unwittingly renders to his country during the-War a great service in the capture of some slackers who are dodging the draft. Its vivid pictures of woodcraft, Indian adventure, and of the life in the impenetrable everglades of Florida are sources of interest.—“Out to
' Win ” is a series of talks to boys. The author’s natural, chatty, and interesting manner, together with the arrangement of the chapters, gives to these talks something'of the interest of a story. The book is calculated to appeal effectively to the youngster and to help him acquire in character and conduct the things that count.—B. b. c.	‘	.


-J
g>S;

196	'Sne Nocre Some ©chokrecic
Local News.,
—There will be no moving pictures in Washington Hall until the present coal shortage is over.
—An effort is being made by the Chicago students in Badin Hall to secure for the trip home next week a special train over the South Shore Electric. Messrs. Hess and Reynolds are in charge of the arrangement.
—Badinites will enjoy their second smoker of the year on next Monday night. The Freshman are taking considerable pains to make this a memorable event. A quartette and Davis’ Jazz Orchestra have been obtained for the affair.
—The New England Club expects to have two special Pullman cars on the New England Express for its members on their trip home for the Christmas vacation, leaving South Bend on the afternoon of December 16th. The Rochester Club is considering a similar plan.
—The Notre Dame students and alumni of Rochester are planning an informal dinner-dance at the Hotel Seneca, in Rochester, sometime within the holidays. “The Flower City” has long been the Eastern stronghold of the “Gold and Blue,” and present indications are that the coming social event will add greatly to the prestige already enjoyed there by the University.
—The Varsity and the Freshman football squads, the coaches, and the faculty athletic advisors will attend the annual football banquet at the Oliver Hotel tomorrow evening. The program will include music and speeches and the introduction of the man who will be elected as captain to lead the Gold, and Blue through the campaign of 1920, which bids fair to be the most strenuous in Notre Dame’s athletic history.
—The principal speakers at the Chamber of Commerce banquet at Mishawaka -this afternoon are Col. P. Callahan, president of the Louisville Varnish Company, who will address the Chamber on “Industrial Reorganization,” and Mr. Paul A. Brown, editor of America at Work, who will speak on “The Coal Crises.” Both of these talks will doubtless be as interesting as they are sure to be authoritative. -
—The Christmas vacation will begin at noon on Friday, December 19th, and will end at noon on Tuesday, January 6th. A quiz worth 10% of the next quarterly bulletin will be given in every collegiate and preparatory class at the last class period before the holidays. Students
absent from these examinations will be penalized in the regular way—that is, in addition to the loss of the 10% quiz, they will suffer the 5% penalty inflicted for. missing class on that day.
—The “ 1919 Football Review,” edited by George Breslin and Joseph Heimann, will make its appearance on the campus on December 17th. The “Review” will cover the Varsity, Freshman, and Interhall football for the past season and .will contain individual write-ups of th,e players. The past history of the gridiron sport at Notre Dame is also given due space. Cuts of the players, past and present, add interest to the text and the entire booklet is enlivened with campus wit and humor.
—On Sunday evening last more than one hundred and fifty enthusiastic Brownsonites congregated in their recreation room to enjoy pugilistic and wrestling contests, cider, long black cigars, and other incidentals of an orthodox smoker. The program began with an interesting talk by Brother Alphonsus on “A Gentleman.” This was followed by the efforts of a half-dozen embryo Dempseys and Zybyskos. Musical numbers were furnished by Messrs. Cassasanta, Biano, and Link. The Brownsonites declarethat a better “smoker” is yet to be given on the campus.	1	-
On the evening of December 4th the student engineers of Notre Dame organized themselves into a Section of the American Association of Engineers. The following officers were elected to serve for one year: honorary chairman, Professor McCue; chairman, A. Millet; vicechairman, J. Meersman; _ secretary-treasurer, J. Heuther; board of directors, F. Kelley, H. Grabner, and I. Hallet. Talks were given by Professor McCue and Mr. Calif, president of the South Bend Section of the A. A. E. The organization is open to all engineers of the school irrespective of their connection with other societies. r
—In a program ranging from the “jazziest” of popular “hits” to the gems of opera, the Orpheus Four achieved a distinct triumph in Washington Hall last Saturday evening. Their harmony is of the finished type, attained only through long experience together, and the execution was all that could be desired. Opening ■ their program with an old favorite of gleie clubs, “By the Fire,” characterized by fine harmony,' they alternated groups of popular songs with those of a higher merit. Of the latter
Notre dameSdiokwdc
i97
class, “On the Sea,” by Bucks, was received with much applause, as was also the quartet arrangement pf the Sextette from Lucia. “Jerusalem Mom,” a negro song, was one of the best of the popular numbers; other good ones were, “I’m Forever Blowing Bubbles,” “By the Camp-Fire,” “How You Goin’ to Keep ’em Down on the Farm,” and some Hawaiian songs. By their long association with the soldiers during the war-time, the Orpheus Four has learned the art of singing the songs that young men like. Though this is the second appearance of the quartette here within a year, they are assured of a hearty welcome and a full house as soon as they can come again.
—GOULD-TIERNEY.
Athletic Notes.
Basketball Prospects.
Athletic Director Rockne announces the following basketball schedule as arranged to the present date:
Dec. 17.—Purdue at Lafayette. '
Dec. 18.—Fort Wayne K. of C. at Fort Wayne.
Jan. 14.—Kalamazoo at Notre Dame.
Jan. 17.—Western Normal at Notre Dame.
Jan. 23.—Western Normal at Kalamazoo.
Jan. 24.—Michigan Aggies at East Lansing.
Jan. 31.—Marquette at Notre Dame, (tentative.) Feb. 7.—Wabash at Notre Dame.
Feb. 9.—Michigan Aggies at Notre Dame.
Feb. 14.—Univ, of Detroit at Notre Dame.
Feb. 17.—Depauw at Notre Dame.
Feb. 19.—Dubuque at Dubuque.
Feb. 20.—Nebraska at Lincoln.
Feb. 21.—Nebraska at Lincoln.
Feb. 24.—Depauw at Greencastle.
Feb. 25.—Wabash at Crawfordsville.
Thus Notre Dame opens her fourteenth season in intercollegiate basketball at Lafayette in the annual clash with the Purdue huskies on the 17th of December. For the following night the team is slated to meet the Fort Wayne K. of C. quintet at Fort Wayne, which contest will be the last before the holidays. Beginning . in the middle of January, Coach Dorais starts his. men on <a schedule that will carry them north, south, east and west. More than half . the games of the .schedule call for trips. The sixteen contests form the stiffest program faced by a Gold-and-Blue squad in years, and as Coach Dorais has an entirely new. team to ' build it cannot be said that .the outlook is any too promising. Material is not plentiful and the late start in drill necessitated by the length of
the football season are drawbacks. Still there is no doubt that we may rely upon the Notre Dame way of improving such prospects.
A squad of more than twenty men have been out for several days and are showing up as well as could be expected. Not one of last year’s regulars is on the court, though five of the monogram men of 1918 are at school—study and injury from football season having thus far prevented them from appearing. The team of this year will be built around the men from last year’s Freshman team, which was of Varsity calibre. The men out for places on Coach, Dorais’s “rqmbling five” include Trafton, Kiley, Maher, Coughlin, Granfield, Vohs, Murphy, Kennedy, Weiss, Sanford, Castenelli, Higgins, Martin, Goldcamp, Wittried, Ward, Gilmore, Van Dyke, Foran, and Grinager.
• All-Hall Football Teams.
The all-hall selection in interhall football was made at two meetings of the interhall coaches held last week. Each coach was invited and agreed to vote on the selections offered by the others. All of the resulting choices received four out of five possible votes, and most of them a unanimous vote.
FIRST TEAM Walsh (Brownson)	End	SECOND TEAM Smith (Walsh)
Blivernicht (Corby)	. End	Monroe - (Badin)
Sargent (Walsh)	Tackle	Ryan (Badin)
Conway (Corby)	Tackle	Hallet (Sorin)
Owens (Sorin)	Guard Meehan (Brownson)	
Martin (Corby)	Guard	Ward (Corby)
Mixon (Badin)	Center	Atkinson (Corby)
Murphy (Sorin)	Quarter	Sexton (Corby)
Miles (Sorin)	•	Halfback	Driscoll (Walsh)
Shea (Badin)	Halfback	Smith (Brownson)
Desch -(Corby)	Fullback	Farwick (Badin)
Ten other men z who received honorable	. ;
mention were: Ends—Haranahan (Sorin) and	:
Riley (Walsh); Tackles—Hegenbath (Walsh);
Guards—Heinman (Brownson) and Flynn (Badin);	Center—Cleary (Sorin); Quarter-	-
back—McPherson (Walsh); Halfbacks—Kinney	. -
(Badin) and Ficks (Corby); Full back—Me-
Guire (Walsh).	, M
. .	»*♦	1	-	- • .
Cross-Counrty Race.	. \
Notre Dame’s “harriers” loped across the
finish-line second in the State cross-country . ; M meet held at Crawfordsville last Saturday,	. \
trailing the Purdue squad captained by the fleet Furnas, who established a new State record of 15:23. Captain “Eddie” Meehan turned
)
Nocre dome SchdaKcic
in the best time for the Gold and Blue with
Mythical Football Elevens.
a mark of 15:48. The rest of Rockne’s men finished: Burke, 15:57; Sweeney, 17:24; Baumer, 17:48; Murphy, 17:53; Culhane, 19:34. De Pauw took third place with sixty-nine points, Wabash fourth with ninety-nine points, and Indiana fifth with one hundred points. The stellar exhibition of Furnas clipped three minutes off the former record.	■
*** ■
Comparative Scores and Championships.
The following lines of comparison in football scores do not make it quite clear just why Walter Camp found no place for any Notre Dame man on his All-American teams: Notre Dame, 12—Army, 9; The Army, 13—Boston College, o; Boston College, 6—Yale, 3, giv-
All-Indiana.	.
First Team.	Second Team.
ENDS
Kirk, (Notre Dame) E. Anderson, (Notre Dame)
Stasand, (Wabash)	’ Etter, (Wabash)
TACKLES
Birk, (Purdue)	Risley, (Indiana)
Neal, (Wabash) .	Standau, (Rose Poly)
GUARDS
Sanders, (Butler)	Jones,	(Franklin)
Smith, (Notre Dame)	Johnson,	(Earlham)
CENTERS
Pearse, (Indiana)	Ogden,	(Depauw)
QUARTERBACK
Mathys, (Indiana)	Kingsolver, (Franklin)
HALFBACKS
Gipp, (Notre Dame)	Gallaway, (Depauw)
Bergman, (Notre Dame) Englehard, (Rose Poly) FULLBACK
Huffine, (Purdue)	Burton, (Depauw)
ing Notre Dame a margin of 19 points over Yale, 15 over Princeton, and the same number over Harvard.	.
Notre Dame, 16—Indiana, 3; Center College, 12—Indiana, 3—leaving Notre Dame a 4-point margin over Center, the vanquishers of West Virginia, who defeated the Princeton eleven badly and trampled all over Washington and Jefferson. Princeton tied Harvard, etc.
Recall also that Notre Dame’s i6-to-3 victory over Indiana starts another line of significance, in that Indiana, with three of her stars on the bench, drubbed the “invincible” giants of Syracuse, 12 to 6, after Syracuse had defeated Brown, Pittsburg, Colgate, and West Point. And if we may trust the papers, Syracuse also faired badly at the hands of Nebraska, who early in the season went down, before the attack of the Gold and Blue—and yet we are being served again to the same old stereotyped story about Eastern supremacy in football.
Finally, Illinois, acclaimed champions in ths Big-Ten Conference, barely won from Iowa, was defeated by Wisconsin, took the deciding game from Ohio by a drop-kick merely, and by hard struggle won over Purdue by a score of i4-to-7—whereas Notre Dame defeated Purdue 33-10-13. The 13-point margin of Notre Dame’s undefeated team over the once-defeated Illinois should be of some consideration in the award of the Western title.	'
If comparative scores mean something at least, what school has from the indications a clearer title-than Notre Dame to the championship of the football world?
,	—E. M. STARRETT.
Honorable Mention: Ends: Donavon, Pope, (Indiana) ; Strobl and Pruitt, (Franklin); Ralph Bruner, (Butler); Bookout, (Earlham). Tackles: Miller, (Purdue); Coughlin, (Notre Dame); Leonard, (Indiana); Hall, (Earlham); Gray, (Rose Poly). Guards: Wineland, and M. Guild, (Depauw); Mumby ' and McCaw, (Indiana); H. Anderson, (Notre Dame). Centers: Stanwood and Mitchell, (Purdue); Kirchevall, (Wabash); Lorensen, (Hanover). Quarterbacks: Faust, (Indiana); Brandy and Bahan, (Notre Dame); Halfbacks: Collins and Henshaw, (Earlham); Bausec and Williams, (Indiana); Knee, (Wabash); Daley, Wagner and Meeker, (Purdue); Perkins, (Butler). Fullbacks: Slackford, (Notre Dame), Nabor, (Wabash) —(From the Indianapolis News.)	.
Eckersall’s All-Western Teams.
First Team.
Meyers, (Wisconsin) Higgins, (Chicago) Barker, (Ames) .Depler, (Illinois) ' Applegran, (Illinois) Slater, (Iowa) Belding, (Iowa) Stinchcomb, (Ohio) Harley, (Ohio) (Capt. Gipp, (Notre Dame) Lohman, (Iowa)
Second Team.
L. E.	Weston, (Wisconsin
L. T.	Ingwersen, (Illinois')
L. G.	McCaw, (Indiana)
C. Carpenter (Wisconsin)
R. Gc Smith (Notre Dame) R- T.	Goetz, (Michigan)
R- E. Carney, (Illinois) Q- B.	Robert (Fletcher)
) ■ R. H. B. Oss, (Minnesota)
L.H.B. Wahlquist (Illinois) F./B. Hammes, (M.A.C.)
Gf the non-Conference teams, Notre Dame comes in for most consideration, for the simple reason that it completed its schedule without a defeat, and is * entitled to championship consideration along with Illinois, the Conference champion. Unfortunately, Notre Dame met only two conference elevens, Indiana arid Purdue. The South Bend eleven won both games , . handily and in,addition defeated Nebraska, the Anny, and Michigan Aggies in other struggles of note. The team was slow , to round into form, but at the dose of the season had as powerful a forwatd-pass attack . as any deven in the country. •	•
Not only was the deven strong in open' play, but
i S'.
/5fie Nocre dame Scholastic
i99
it possessed a ground-gaining close attack. The line was strong enough to give the backs the proper support and the ball-carriers were quick to take advantage of openings. The shift-attack, poorly timed at the beginning of the season, was perfected at the close of the year when the proper rhythm was attained and the play executed without the infliction of a penalty following the backs 'in motion before the ball was snapped. . . . Gipp of Notre Dame is selected for a back position on the first all-Western eleven because ■ of his general all-round value all season. He was a factor in all the Hoosiers’ victories and is equally valuable on offense and-defense. The Notre Dame back is one of the hardest running ball-carriers seen this year. He gathers his speed quickly, and if the interference is so adjusted as not to be in bis way he generally makes ground either off the tackles or by cutting through the line on attempted end-runs. He can drive through the line for good results and is a valuable interferer.	■
In forward-pa'ssing, Gipp would be an ideal running mate for Harley. Like the Buckeye leader, Gipp possesses football instinct. He knows when to throw the oval or when to run with it. He can hurl the ball half the distance of the gridiron with a marked degree of accuracy, and he is the main cog in the Notre Dame forward-pass attack. Aside from these sterling qualifications, Gipp is a kicker nearly the equal of Harley. He can punt the ball for an average of forty-five to fifty yards with accuracy, while his field-goal kicking ability makes him a dangerous man any place inside the forty-yard line. ,
. . . . Smith of Notre Dame, one of the most versatile forwards of the non-Conference teams, is placed at guard on the second team. Although he did not have the opportunities to carry the oval, / he made the gains of the Notre Dame backs possible by either opening holes or swinging around in the interference. It was a common occurrence for him to break through to take off th^ secondary defense on certain plays sent off the other side of the line. , . . Bergman. . . . was a fast, shifty player,"who generally crossed the goal line once he got in the open. He handled the ball cleanly and caught punts with unerring accuracy. . . . Kirk, of Notre Dame, and E. Etter, of Wabash, were two good ends who played high-class football all season.—(By Walter Eckersall, in the Chicago Tribune, Sunday, December 7, i9I9-)
**♦
In the all-Westem selection by H. 0. (Pat) Page, published by the -Chicago Herald and Examiner on December 7th, Coughlin was given the position at left .tackle on the first team,, and Gipp that of right halfback. In the comment accompanying the selection were the following bits:	.	.
Not only has the Western Conference, known as the . Big Ten, furnished many high-class players, who are. really worthy of “allrAmerican” recognition, but teams in the Missouri-Valley and those playing free
lance in the Middle West also are deserving of all-. South Bend Irishmen climbed to their fame as Western star .recognition; Foremost among these elevens - champions. . . . Eastern critics are coming slowly-, are Notre Dame, most ably coached by Knute Rockne; to realize the pre-eminence of Western coaches. Knute
Nebraska, that met the hardest kind of a schedule, and Missouri, winner in its section. . . . The most active and powerful big men in the Middle West are Higgins, of Chicago, Coughlin, of Notre Dame, Pixley, of Ohio State, and Slater, of Iowa. These line-men could work at guard or tackle equally well and meet the requirements to withstand any close attack. . . . The most successful field generals were Bob Fletcher, of Illinois, and Brandy, of Notre Dame, who piloted winners. . . . Huffine, of Purdue, Lohman, of Iowa, Slackford, of Notre Dame, and Harmes, of Michigan Aggies, survived a hard season without injury. . . . As running mates to Harley and Devine, Gipp, of Notre Dame, and Captain Dobson, of Nebraska, who defeated Syracuse, are in the all-Western class. Gipp is a hard and clever passer, and open plays were Coach Rockne’s best asset.
r
On the all-American elevens selected by Charles E- Parker, for the Boston American of December 1st, Kirk is assigned to an end position on the second team, and Coughlin to a place at tackle on the third team; Smith is given honorable mention as guard and Gipp as halfback. In his comment are the following sentences concerning the Notre Dame men.
Kirk, of Notre Dame, is a strong rival for 'the wing position. . . . Coughlin, of Notre Dame, and Herrick, of West Virginia, both figured conspicuously in the successes of their great teams, and are the runners-up in the all-American tackle fight. . . . Smith, of Notre Dame, perhaps the lightest guard of the season, as he weighs but 159 pounds, has outplayed every guard who opposed him, and nairowly misses out. .
On the all-Western elevens, published by the Sunday State Journal, of Lincoln, Nebraska, on December 1st, the following Notre Dame men were given places: Bahan, at quarterback on the first team; on the second team, Coughlin at left tackle, Madigan at center, and Kirk at end, and Gipp at left half on the third team. Bergman was given honorable mention among the halfbacks. - In its comment upon the best players of the country, the Journal says concerning the Notre Dame team and particular . members of the team:
In the entire nation, of the hundred or more major football teams who took part, but two continued throughout the season undefeated. These were Harvard University of/ Cambridge, Mass., and the University of Notre Dame, of - South Bend, Indiana. . . . With Notre Dame,' it was different.' The Catholics, true to custom, fared forth and dared to meet the cream of football teams in every section./ Victorious over the Army, Indiana, and Nebraska,' leaders in their sections, are the steps on which the' -




/
200
Isfie Nocre dome Schokrscic
K. Rockne, of Notre Dame and Henry F. Schulte, of Nebraska, are perhaps the best examples of Western coaching talent. . . Notre Dame successfully baffled the Nebraska team with a “criss-cross” on kick-off—a play as old as time—scoring a touchdown. . . . Kirk, of Notre Dame, and Carney, of Illinois, claim the major portion of compliments in western circles. Kirk, the man to whom Gipp and Bahan passed so many balls that were good for 30 or 40 yard gains, is perhaps the most brilliant end in the country. . . . Here another comparison - with the Notre Dame champions, using one Madigan, center, as nucleus, brought out the dominating characteristics that make Carpenter, of Wisconsin, the best pivot man in the West. Madigan, of course, is second selection. The noted Irish pivot showed his greatest form against Day of Nebraska in the Notre Dame-Nebraska game. Day has the reputation of being the best defensive center in the West, and though Madigan had a difficult time he was an important charger in the Catholic offense. . . . An Irishman usually wins his battles by an instinct for fighting. This is especially true of Bahan, the heady Catholic quarterback. It takes an exceptionally fast man to handle such speed demons as Gipp and Bergman, and this Bahan is the goods. There is no second in the West. ... It was said during the season that a football personage who can ■ average 50 yards in an official punting duel, is some ' punter- and has the making of a backfield general. Both Gipp of Notre Dame and Dobson of Nebraska accomplished this little stunt on an icy field, which developed serious complications. . . .
’ ***
The first all-American team chosen by the Rochester (N. Y.) Herald:
Nominations for the mythical all-American team are beginning to come in. Just to keep the pot boiling and the babel at top speed, we suggest the following for consideration: Ends—Higgins, (Penn. State); Heinie Miller, (Penn.); Brown, (Syracuse); Kirk, (Notre Dame); Blake, (Army). Tackles—Henry (Washington & Jefferson), West, (Colgate), Sparta, (Lehigh), Little, (Penn). Guards—Youngstron, (Dartmouth), Smith, (Notre Dame), Vogel, (Army). Centers —H. Robertson, (Syracuse), Callahan, (Yale), Heaphy, (Boston). Quarterbacks—Strubing, (Princeton), Herrington, (Lehigh), Boynton, (Williams). Halfbacks,— Davies, (Pittsburg), Weldom, (Lafayette), "Way, (Penn State), Casey, (Harvard). Fullbacks—Rodgers, (W. Virginia), Light, (Penn), Gillo, (Colgate), Hastings, (Pittsburg), J. Robertson, (Dartmouth).
Press Comments on Notre Dame Football.
The Morningside College football team of 1919 will go down in history as one of the greatest gridiron machines ever conceived in Northwest Iowa, because of their performance on Bass Field Thanksgiving Day, when they held the great Notre Dame , aggregation to two touchdowns and succeeded in annexing one them- selves. The score after sixty minutes of terrible battling was 14 to 6 for Notre Dame. Although a defeat for the Maroons as far as the score was concerned, the fact that only one other team in the entire
United States—the Army—has held the Catholics to ’ such a score and succeeded in putting across a touchdown themselves, is worthy of note. The Maroon warriors did themselves proud through every minute of the game. Every man gave his best for the glory of the Maroon and M. C.—(From the Collegian Reporter, of Morningside College, December 5, 1919.)
*% '
They get little space in the papers, And the critics won’t give them a hand,
Yet in pulling of forward-pass capers, They wallop the best in the land. •	-
They tie up with teams highly rated And the finish is ever the same—
Some near-champs are humiliated By the warriors from old Notre Dame.
When Walter Camp frames his “eleven,” He overlooks Notre Dame’s squad,
And the joke of it soars to high heaven And comes echoing back to earth’s sod.
But even if critics have passed them Their record has heightened their fame, - For this year no team has surpassed them
At playing the football game.
—(By John W. Head, in the Indianapolis Star.) * . * * .
Year after year Notre Dame University has been in the habit of turning out football teams that have been uniformly successful. This season the most notable triumph of the Irish was the victory over the Army. They also added to the prevailing gloom around Michigan A. C. Then, to make it unanimous, they decisively defeated Indiana and Nebraska, teams that found it comparatively easy to whip Syracuse, conquerors of Pittsburgh and Colgate. Not once did Notre Dame lose and it .wound up a long, hard schedule by whipping Morningside on Thanksgiving day, after, on the previous Saturday, having overwhelmed Purdue. Nor is this an unusual record. - It simply is one that reiterates Notre Dame’s gridiron superiority over many other colleges .that are more favorably considered by the “experts,” east and west.
The Irish have tried, on numerous occasions— only to be snubbed,' as have the Michigan Aggies—to enter that more or less holy of holies, the Western Conference. Athletics'are kept clean at Notre Dame, for scholastic standing is required of athletes, the freshman rule is observed, and everything the Big Ten requites within its circle also is obligatory at the South Bend institution.
It is time to pay some attention to Notre Dame. —(From the “Mixin’-’Em-Up” column, by Ralston Goss, in the Detroit Free Press, December 3rd.)
**♦
Boston College wades into Yale. Notre Dame slams West Point. Georgetown ’ makes the Navy eat out of its hand. Yet Callahans, Tim and Mike, are respectively at Yale and Princeton. For why? Let him answer who knows. But Callahans, from Lawrence, Mass., belong not in Princeton, or Yale, but in some Catholic college. . .. And that’s where Charles Brickley, Catholic, daily communicant, Everett High and Harvard drop-kicking star, belongs. What’s the answer?-—(From the Brooklyn Tablet.)	'
the Notre Same Scholastic AdCer&isemenCs
Yellow Taxi Cab and Transfer Co. Main Office, Cor. Mich, and Colfax Ave.
BELL 514 HOME 5515
CAB AND BAGGAGE SERVICE
One or two passengers, - - -	$1.00
Each additional passenger, * - -	.50
Special trip for Baggage, - - - - $1.00 Each additional Trunk, ----- .50 Suit Case, - -- -- -- -	.25
The Oliver Hotel
( European Plan
BEST IN THE WEST
300 Rooms	Fireproof
THIS HOTEL OPERATES PERFECTLY APPOINTED
CAFES ' CIGAR AND NEWS STAND BILLARD HALL BAKE SHOP BARBER SHOP
HAIR DRESSING AND MANICURING PARLORS
CARS FOR ALL OCCASIONS 7-passenger cars for parties, touring, etc. RATES REASONABLE
SELF SERVICE DINING ROOM OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Waiter service after 9 o’clock P. M. if desired.
Auditorium Hotel CHICAGO
On the corner of Michigan Boulevard and Congress Street, in the theatre and business center.
Special attention shown students and alumni of Notre Dame.
•	1	‘
JOHN J. CALVEV, Manager
•	t	■
Che Notre Same Scholastic Advertisements
No. 126
The First National Bank
South Bend, Indiana (Oliver Hotel Building)
Capital, $ 105,000 Surplus and Profit, $ 145,000
Mechanics Tools	Draughtman’s Tools
G. E. Meyer & Son
. Hardware Merchants
115-117 West Jefferson Boulevard
(Opposite Postoffice)
Fine Cutlery	South BBnd, Ind.
A. L- HUBBARD, President.
J. M. STUDEBAKER, JR., Vice-Prest.
C. L. ZIGLER, Cashier.	*
C. J. WHITMER, Ass’t Cashier.
safety deposit boxes for RENT AT REASONABLE PRICES
Wb Ibsub FOREIGN EXCHANGE at Lowest
MaKKBT RaTBS AND LBTTBRS OF CrBDIT Payable Throughout the World
Try Our Traveler’s Cheques
The Dome
Official Portrait Photographer
McDonald
211 South Main St.
Or*. Pact Office
South Bend, Ind.
Spalding
Foot Ball Goods
BALLS, GOALS, GUARDS, PADS, SHOES, ETC
In addition of course—
. Spalding Equipment for every other Athletic Sport
SEND FOR CATALOGUE
A. G. SPALDING & BROS,
axx STATE STREET, CHICAGO
Ideal Laundry Company
“Get the Ideal Habit"
Three collections a week at Notre Dame. Leave your packages at the \
Notre Dame News Stand
Cox Sons & Vining 72 Madison Ave., New York CAPS AND GOWNS
Silk Faculty Gowns and. Hoods. Lowest Prices. Best Workmanship. Gowns for Judiciary, Pulpit and Choir
Schuler, Kilngel & Co. Wholesale Fruits and Produce 4U*40B South St. Jemph St. South Bond, InMaim .
•BOMB BUTZBACH, Bmmv .
Citizens National Bank and Trust Co*
112-14 W. Jefferson Blvd.	South Bend, Ind.

m

□
4
^t. JlSarp’s College anti acabemp
3 S g CO 5 jp
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Academy
Church
College
Gymnasium
8
Q
E
(
Recognition by the Indiana State Board of Education
College—Standard; Normal Department—Accredited; Academy (High School)—Commissioned;
Credits accepted by the leading Universities	.	.
An institution where your daughter is assured of all the benefits of an exclusive school, while surrounded with all the comforts and protection of home life. St. Mary’s is devoted to the development of the highest type of womanhood in the girls entrusted to her care.	-
Many features of this school of high ideals, its broad campus and well equipped commodious buildings, cannot be touched upon in the limited space of this announcement. The President, therefore, cordially invites correspondence from parents having daughters to educate, and will take pleasure in mailing an illustrated catalog and descriptive literature. Address the President. ~
ST. MARY’S COLLEGE AND ACADEMY
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY
NOTRE DAME P. O.. INDIANA
□

y

7
7 7
Unibcrsitv of J^otre ©atne
a
7
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
College of girts anti 'Letters.
Departments of Ancient Classics, Modem Literature, History, Political Economy, Sociology, Domestic Commerce, Foreign Commerce, Journalism, Library Science.
College of Science.
Departments of Chemistry, Physics, Biology, Pharmacy, Agriculture.
y
College of Srcfjiterture.
Departments of Construction, Design.
College of engineering.
Departments of Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Mining Engineering, Industrial Engineering.
College of IGato.
College of jfine girts.
Departments of Artistic Drawing, Painting, Cartooning, Instrumental Music, Vocal Music.
Preparatory ^r^ooL Variant Courses.,
&t. CMoarb HaU.
For Young Boys.
I

Notre'Dame is recognized by all educators, by the press and by the public as a college whose work is of the same grade as that of the most highly endowed colleges or die best state universities. Its atmosphere is strongly Catholic and no, young mail who has ever attended the University of Notre Dame can escape its influence in after life.
J

The discipline is paternal, andaims at giving young men the fullest liberty consistant with earnest study and manly Christian character. Rooms at reasonable rates. Catalogue sent on application.
51
Address:	'
THE REGISTRAR
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
/
ooceecoceoco